Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/punishmentsinfliOOIond 



PUNISHMENTS 



INFLICTED UNDER THE 



APPRENTICESHIP SYSTEM; 

Extracted from the Appendix to a Eeport recently/ Pullished 

BY THE 

COMMITTEE OF THE LONDON ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

ON 

NEGRO APPRENTICESHIP 



BRITISH COLONIES. 



LONDON: 

Published at the Office of the London Anti- Slavery Society, 
18, Aldermanbury ; John Hatchard and Son, 187, Piccadilly ; - 
J. AND A. Arch, 61, Cohnhill ; and Darton, Harvey, 
AND Darton, 55, Graceciiurcu Street. 

7 — ~ 

MDcccxxxvm. 



EDITORIAL NOTICE. 



Tgis Publication is merely an extract from the Apj^endix now 
preparing by the Anti-Slavery Committee, to their recent Pamphlet 
on " Negro Apprenticeship." That Appendix, it may be observed, 
does not pretend to give the v^^hole of the evidence on the subjects 
to v\^hich it refers, but merely to explain and substantiate the state- 
ments made in the w^ork to which it belongs. In reading the present 
production it will be seen, indeed, that the most revolting portion of 
the subject of punishments, namely the outrageous treatment of 
females, is not included, — that subject being specially reserved for 
consideration in a separate division of the Appendix. But unfore- 
seen circumstances having unfortuinately delayed the execution of 
the whole design, for a longer period than was at first contemplated, 
it has been deemed expedient to pubHsh certain portions already 
completed, in their present form. It is but just to observe, that 
since the printing of this portion of the Appendix, a fresh number 
of the Parliamentary Papers on the Abolition of Slavery, Part IV, 
(1.) has appeared, the contents of which have not yet been duly 
examined. The official despatches and returns, however, for the 
period included in this publication, were intended to be, and deserve 
to be, considered alone; and unless the Editor is much mistaken, 
they wiU lead to the conviction expressed in the Appendix, that any 
future arguments in favour of the Apprenticeship System, derived 
from such inaccurate sources, are little likely to prove satisfactory. 
< — Editor. 



LONDON: 

Johnston & Barrett, Printers, 13, Mark Lane. 



PUNISHMENTS. 

Extracts of Despatches from Secretaries of State, contain- 
ing principles in regard to the infliction of Punishments, 
the violation of which, is now complained of. 

Extract of a Despatch from Mr. Secretary Spring Rice, to the Governor of 
Trinidad, dated 8th October, 1834. — Vide Parliamentary Papers, Sess. 
1835, JVo. 278—11. p. 205. 

" To adopt the extreme remedies of coercion, and punishment in every state of 
things short of an extreme case of violence and of crime, is no less reprehensible 
than it is dangerous. A government in thus misapplying the means at its com- 
mand, by such ill-judged anticipation, deprives those ultimate powers and sanc- 
tions of their full force and authority, when their application becomes absolutely 
necessary." 

Extract of a Despatch from Lord Glenelg to the Marquis of Sligo, ISth 
June, 1835.— Fide Pari. Pap., 2/8—1, p. 17. 

" The judicial punishment of females by whipping, whatever may be their ages, 
is repugnant to the plain language of the Act of Parliament." 

Extract of a Despatch from Lord Glenelg to the Governor of Mauritius, 
dated 7th December, 1835. Pari. Pap. Sess. 1836. No. 166—11. p. 
211. 

" His Majest)- cannot admit the propriety of any distinction being made by law 
in respect to the punishment of offences by apprenticed labourers, and by other 
persons, when such offences do not relate to the duties owing by the apprentices 
to their employers. The local legislature cannot have too distinctly impressed upon 
them the great principle of the legal equality of all classes of the King's subjects 
in Mauritius, and the necessity of observing the practical consequences resulting 
from that principle." 

Extract of a Despatch from Lord Glenelg to the Governor Sir Lionel Smitht 
dated, 12th October, 1835.— Par/. Pap. Sess. 1836, No. 166—11. 

" It appears to me, that there are not wanting objections of conclusive weight 
against the exercise of this discretionary power (flogging on the tread-mill) by the 
superintendant of the tread-mill. 

" These objections apply with peculiar force to the West Indies, where the dis- 
use of the whip to coerce labour on the plantations is so recent as to have still left 
a peculiar and just dread of that power on the one side, with perhaps more than 
common temptation to abuse it on the other." 

Extract of a Despatch from Lord Glenelg to the Governor of the BahamaSy 
dated Ist December, 1835. Vide Pari. Pap. Sess. 1836, No. 166—11. 
p. 536. 

" That clause," (20th clause of the Abolition Act), " it is true, provides that 
during the period of seven years after the apprenticeship, a labourer may be com- 
pelled to atone to his employer for the time which he may have subtracted from 
iiis service by any illegal absence, and for wliicli he may not have made up by- 
labour performed during his own leisure; but between the future adjustment of 
this final account between the i)arties, and tlie imposition of a prolonged api)ren- 
ticeship as a jienalty for crime, there is an essential distinction ; and unless you 
are in possession of some conclusive argument in favour of the lawfulness of such 
punishments, you will immediately remit all such as have been already imposed, 
aud admonish the special magistrates to abstain from a repetition of tlio piactice. 



I need hardly observe, that no such argument can be drawn from language con- 
tained in the Colonial Statute, which "of course cannot supersede or contravene 
the provisions of the Act of Parliament." 

The following despatch, although addressed to the Governor of Antigua, recog- 
nises principles which are equally applicable to a Colony under Apprenticeship 
law. 

Extract of a Despatch from the Earl of Aberdeen to Sir E. M. M'Grregor, 
dated 28th February, 1835.— Vide Pari. Pap. Sess. 1835. No. 278—1. 
p. 34. 

" But while thus assenting to the general principle, I cannot concur in some of 
the details of these enactments. A whole day's wages of a labourer in husbandry 
are to be forfeited, if he shall absent himself for ' half, or any smaller proportion 
of a day.' Thus, according to the plain and inevitable construction of the words, the 
offence of loitering for a minute might deprive a man of the maintenance of himself 
and his family for twenty-four hours, a punishment which in so extreme a case 
would be obviously unjust, and prejudicial to the real interests of the employer, 
as well as to that of his servant. 

^ -X- 45" ^ 

" But under the same head, the crime of drunkenness is classed as an offence, 
the extreme punishment of which, may be imprisonment with hard labour for three 
months. This, indeed, is the maximum. But not only is such a penalty quite 
out of proportion to any mischief which society at large can sustain from a single 
act of intoxication, and at variance with the prevailing tone of moral sentiment 
on the subject, but it is also a punishment, which, if justlv due in the case of 
labourers under special contracts, cannot be unmerited in other cases. The cir- 
cumstance that a man has engaged himself to perform agricultural or manufactur- 
ing labour, does not render his drunkenness more injurious to society at large, than 
if he were devoted to any other species of industry, manual or intellectual." 

Extract of a Despatch from Lord Glenelg, to Sir Lionel Smith, dated lOth 
June, 1835.— Vide Pari. Pap. Sess. 1835. 278—11. p. 85. 

" By the 22nd section of the Act No. 89, whatever time an apprentice passes 
in prison, will render him a debtor to his employer for a double amount, just as 
though the absence had been voluntary. 1 consider this twofold punishment ob- 
jectionable, both as unjust in itself, and as giving to the employer a direct interest 
in the misconduct of his apprentice." 

The following Extract from a circular, addressed by Sir Lionel Smith to 
the Special Justices of Jamaica, dated IQth May, 1837, will serve to show 
the severity with which punishments are inflicted in that extensive colony. 

" The Governor, having, in some instances, observed the severe effects of 
corpornl punishments upon apprenticed labourers, (not in consequence of the 
illegality of the amount of punishment awarded, but of its application to offenders 
who had been subjected to previous flogging), I am directed by his Excellency to 
repeat the injunction, which has been so strongly urged upon the special magis- 
tracy, from the very commencement of the apprenticeship system, and pointedly 
impressed upon them in numerous individual instances, by his Excellency him- 
self, that the use of corporal punishment should be restricted as much as pos- 
sible, and, in fact, rigidly confined to offences of a disgraceful or highly aggravated 
nature. I am turther to desire, that it may, on no account, be inflicted on offen- 
ders who are not entirely recovered from tlae effect of previous punishment, and 
that you take care, that in all cases, the apprentices are perfectly cured before 
they are removed from the hospital, and required to resume their work." 

Comparison of Punishments at different periods. 

It seems to be generally admitted, that the aggregate of punishments during 
the first year of die apprenticeship system was " sufiiciently frightful ;" but it 
has been since alleged, that the severity of the.systemhas been gradually mitigated, 



and that puuisbments are jiow comparatively lenient and rare. In proof of this 
official despatches and returns have been confidently quoted, more especially those 
of British Guiana, in which the success of the apprenticeship has been represented 
to be complete. It will be desirable to ascertain the correctness of these allega- 
tions by reference to the despatches and returns themselves, which have been 
selected and printed for that purpose in the Parliamentaiy Papers, beginning- with 
the much vaunted colony of 

BRITISH GUIANA— A Crown Colony, 

The first returns from this colony, which contains a population of about 70,000 
apprentices, extend from the 1st August, 1834, to the 3lst July, 1835, and 
present a total of 8152 punishments, of which 2177 were corporal, and the 
remaining 5975 were punisliments of other descriptions. 

This large amount of punishment, is to a certain degree explained by the 
Governor, who, referring to this period, in despatches dated respectively 4th 
March, 1835, (Pari, pap., sess. 1835, p. ii. p. 173,) and 13th November, 1835, 
(Pari. pap. sess. 1836, p. iii. (2) p. 99,) observes, that the greater number of com- 
plaints against the apprentices originated in fraudulent attempts of the employers to 
compel an unreasonable amount of labour ; and that by cruel and oppressive acts 
of various descriptions, the employers had justly forfeited all claim to the con- 
fidence of the apprentices, and excited an angry and discontented feeling. 

The removal of these causes of irritation and disobedience, which the Governor 
aimounces in his latter despatch, prepares the reader of course for corresponding- 
announcements of mitigated punishment ; and accordingly, a series of despatches 
written during the six months following- the 1st August, 1835, represent a gradual 
decrease of punishment, dwindling at length almost to nothing, while the content- 
ment of the negroes, and the general prosperity of the colony, during the same 
period, is stated to have advanced in like proportion. In order to ascertain the 
accuracy of these representations, it maybe well to compare the despatches them- 
selves with the official returns of corresponding periods, as follows : — 

The aggregate of the year ending 3lsi July, 1835, is already stated to have 
been 8152 punishments ; an amount which is in part explained by, and in part 
also explains, the irritation and discontent which at that time is admitted to have 
existed among the apprentices. 

On the 26th September, 1835, a despatch (Pari, pap., sess. 1836, p. iii. (2) p. 
50) announces the most perfect tranquillity, happiness, and industry, throughout 
the colony, the consequence, as it is inferred, of a milder system. Yet the 
official returns of punishments in this and the preceding month taken together, 
amount to 1906 cases, shewing an increasing ratio over the monthly average of 
the past year of more than one-third. 

On the 13th November, 1835, a despatch already alluded to, affirms that 
the good conduct, industry, and subordination of the labourers throughout the 
whole of the province, cannot be "exceeded by the same number of people 
in any p-art of the world ;" and this state of things is quoted as " irrefragable 
proof of the complete superiority and tiiumph of mild measures over the harsh, 
degrading, and revolting conduct formerly judged indispensable. Yet the official 
returns of punishments for this and the preceding month f.iken together, amount 
to 1742, shewing an increasing ratio over the monthly average of the past year of 
more than one-fourth. 

On the 12th December, 1835, a despatch (Pari. pap. p. iii. (2) p. 105) 
announces, that the dissatisfaction of the planters at the late change is fast wearing 
away ; that punishment is decreasing, and that the good conduct and industry of 
the apjjrenticed labouiers universally, exceeds the expectations of their best 
friends ; that the affairs of the colony (in short) cannot be going on better. \et 
the official return of ihe preceding month, to which the Governor refers, amounts to 
7U7 cases, which, taken as the average of the wiiole year, would still make an 
increase of 1412 punishments over the aggregate of the past year. 

On the l!Jth March, 1836, a desjjatch, written in order to dejjrecafe t!i<' abandon- 
ment of the apprenticeship system, (Pari. pap. p. iii. (2) p. 161) affirms, that " no 
act of tyranny, of cruelty, and of oppression, can take place without the speeily 



detection, exposure and punishment of the 'person so offending ;" and that the 
result as seen in the " happiness and tranquillity of the labourers," and " the 
immense additional quantity of produce," ought to satisfy the most sceptical. Yet 
the official returns of this and the preceding two months taken together, amount 
to 2493 cases, still shewing an increase, of more than one-eighth, over the 
average of the past year, during which, severity, oppression, and discontent are 
admitted to have prevailed. 

In a word, the official returns of punishments during the supposed happy 
period of ten months, immediately succeeding the first year of admitted severity, 
oppression and excitement, amounts to 8078 cases, being only seventy-four cases 
below the entire aggregate of the past year, and shewing an increasing ratio of 
punishment upon the whole of the year, of more than one-sixth. 

In the mean time, a steady increase in the produce of the great staple commo- 
dities of this colony, actually gives, for the year 1835, not merely a surplus of 
one-twelfth over the entire produce of the year 1833, when avowed slavery 
existed, but of one-fifth over the produce of the preceding year of the apprentice- 
ship system, a surplus which will be seen to correspond very nearly with the 
increase of punishments during the latter period ; and this result is now quoted as 
proof sufficient to convince the most sceptical that the apprentices have during 
this period of commercial prosperity been treated with greater kindness, and 
satisfactorily remunerated for their extra exertions. 

In what then, it may be asked, does this boasted mitigation of punishment, 
producing such supposed happy results to the negro consist ? It has been shewn 
that during the period in question, so far from there having been a diminution in 
the sum total of punishments, there has been an alarming increase. The mitigation, 
therefore, if at all, must have been in the nature, and not in the amount of punish- 
ment. A change has undoubtedly taken place, and one which will certainly, to 
a great extent, explain the admitted increase of produce. 

It consists merely, however, in a general substitution of penal labour in the 
master's service, for corporal punishments, which were more commonly inflicted 
during the first year of the apprenticeship ; and it admits of this explanation. 

The large proportion of punishments by flogging, observable in the first year's 
returns, was found to present evidence too palpable and conclusive of the 
cruelty of the apprenticeship system. Flogging had already accomplished its 
purpose of inspiring terror, and more dispassionate consideration naturally sug- 
gesfed, that a method less repulsive to the public, and at the same time, more 
profitable to the planter, though in reality, more permanently injurious to the negro, 
would combine the convenient qualities of greater apparent lenity towards the 
one, with additional advantage and security towards the other. Hence, the general 
appropriaiion of penal labour to the employer, with all its tendencies to multipli- 
cation of punishments — and hence, likewise, to a great extent, the admitted increase 
of produce. Yet this change, and these consequences, are now quoted as irre- 
fragable proofs of the mutual contentment of apprentices and employers, and of 
the successful working of the apprenticeship system ! ! 

A more complete refutation, however, of such an error, cannot perhaps be ima- 
gined, than that which is furnished by Sir J. Carmichael Smyth himself, in a despatch 
of the 20th of June, 1835, which may now be applied to the aggregate of punish- 
ments under consideration. In that despatch, adverting to the amount of punish- 
ments inflicted upon the negroes of a particular estate, under a system of avowed 
slavery, he observes, — " It is clear, that if the slaves deserved this dreadful 
amount of punishment, they must have been a very bad and worthless set. If they 
did not merit such treatment, the system under which they were managed cannot 
be deemed otherwise, than to have been most cruel and oppressive." The actual 
increase of punishments under the apprenticeship system over a previous aggregate, 
confessedly severe, is now the question. And Sir J. C. Smyth's own alternative, 
must be quoted as decisive against himself, — for throughout the whole of this 
period, he invariably eulogises the conduct of the negroes, as being not only per- 
fectly satisfactory to himself, but " as far exceeding the expectations of their best 
friends ;" the inevitable conclusion therefore is, that the apprenticeship system, 
which he, nevertheless, represents as being equally necessary and advantageous 
to both parties, — as completely accomplishing its object, — and the abandonment of 



which he so earnestly deprecates, — must in reality, be a "most cruel" and "oppres- 
sive" system, unworthy of the sanction and support which has been bestowed upon it. 

JAMAICA. 

A reference to the official despatches and returns of this colony will present 
similar results. But it may be remarked, that the Marquis of Sligo, whose 
views of the favourable working- of the apprenticeship system are understood to 
have subsequently changed, never appears to have entertained that sanguine 
confidence of the result, which was constantly expressed by the governor of 
British Guiana. 

The a^^-gregate of punishments in this colon)'-, between the 1st of August, 1834, 
and the 1st of August, 1835, is stated to have been 2o,395, of which, 7,125 were 
bv flogging, and tlie lemainiug 18,270 were punishments of other descriptions. 
(Parhpap. p. iii. (1) p. 219.) 

This amount of punishment. Lord Sligo, in his despatch, of the 22nd January, 
1836, (Pari. pap. p. iii. (1) p. 218.) attributes, in some degree, to a general 
ignorance of the new law, and to the irritation of the planters, during the first year 
after the adoption of the apprenticeship system. 

A series of despatches during the succeeding ten months, for which period tlie 
returns of puaisliment have been printed, intimates a progressive improvement in 
the working of the system, leading to the supposition, that the aggregate of 
punishment would have diminished in a like proportion. It will be sufficient to 
refer generally to these documents. A despatch, however, of the 13th December, 
1835, (Pari. pap. p. iii. (1) p. 150.), is too important to be omitted. In that 
despatch, his lordship observes, as follows : — " The more agreeable part of this 
report must be the extraordinary revolution which has taken place all over the 
island, with particular exceptions, in the mutual feeling of master and apprentice." 
" There lias sprung up a spirit of confidence, which I hope, may be nurtured, 
and I think it will." And again, in a despatch, dated the 1st of January, 1836, 
(Pari. pap. p. iii, (1) p. 161.), his lordship, referring to the impression produced 
in his own mind, ever since the last summer, by the official reports from different 
parts of the island, of a gradual improvement, observes as follows : — " I also 
rejoice in the present state of things, because I am persuaded, that the planters 
have become aware of the perilous consequences of harshness : they have lost their 
former habits of dominion, and I think, I am not deceived in saying, that with a 
few very obstinate exceptions, a totally difiVrent manner of treatment of the 
apprentices, which promises the happiest result, has been adopted. However 
ignorant are the apprentices, they are perfectly sensible to their altered condition, 
and were so from the commencement. Finding now, that they are effectually 
protected, they are not so anxious to maintain in all their strictness, their newly 
acquired riglits, and very few complaints indeed, are made by them against their 
masters. In like manner, they know that the law will be enforced against them, 
and they give but few causes of serious complaint in comparison to what they did 
at the commencement of the new system." 

The favourable opinion thus formed in the mind of Lord Sligo from the im- 
proved feeling of the planters, conveniently assumed by them at a period im- 
mediatelv preceding the Parliamentary Inquiry into the Apprenticeship System, 
appears to have been sufficiently dispelled by the circumstances which afterwards 
occasioned his resignation : and his opinion is now i-eferred to, only for the 
purpose of shewing the small degree of reliance that can be placed on official 
despatclies of this description. Tliis will be best seen by reference to the official 
moiiflily returns of punishment during the period in question ; from which it will 
appear, that during tlie first two months of the second year of the apprenticeship, 
(vide Pari, pap., p. 3 (ii.) p. 408) the number of punishments was 9,824, shewing 
ati increasing ratio of recorded punishment over the monthly average of the past 
year of more than double its amount. And the lowest monthly record of punish- 
ments during tliis [leriod is 2.321, which, taken as the average of tiie whole year, 
would still make an increase of 211).) jninishments over the aggregate of tlio pastyear. 
While the sum total of punishments for the ten months in question, amounts to 
.33,022, being 7(j27 cases above the entire aggregate of the j ast yi>ar. Showing 
an increasing ratio of punishment upon the wiioic! of tlie year, of more than one 
half. And yet these returns are now fjuoted as indications of a totally different 



8 

manner of treatment of tbe apprentices, promising the happiest results ; and as 
proofs of their efficient protection. May they not be rather adduced as instances 
of the practical operation of the following erroneous instruction, contemporaneously 
issued by the Governor to Special Magistrates, namely : 

" As corporal punishment has much diminished in this island, so much so, aa 
indeed to render it probable that ere long it will be possible, without injury, to 
dispense with it entirely, as has been done in oUier islands, you will substitute for 
It, m every possible case, other description of punishments ; you will, in all cases, 
give the estates, when possible, the advantage of it, inasmuch as the offence is in 
general to its detriment." * 

BARBADOES. 

The official return of punishments in this Colony, from the 1st August, 1834, 
to the 31st July, 1835, amounts to 7786, of which, 1742 were corporal, and the 
remaming 6044 were punishments of other descriptions. 

In a despatch from the Governor, dated 21st August, 1835, (Pari. pap. p. 3 (2) 
p. 1.) which accompanied this return, he remarks, that the amount is " sufficiently 
frightful ;" but pledges his unceasing exertions to the abolition, as far as possible, 
of that system of coercion. 

This frightful amount of punishment, however, so far from being diminished in 
the next succeeding ten months, over which the printed returns extend, becomes 
much more excessive : the aggregate for this period being 10,264, or 2478 more 
than the entire aggregate of the past year, and shewing a nearly double ratio of 
punishment for the second year. 

MONTSERRAT. 

The official return of punishments in this small Colony, from the 5th August, 
1834, to the 20th August, 1835, amounts to 1034, being about one in five of the 
entire negro population (Pari, pap. p. 3 (2) p. 311.) And, although in the official 
returns for the six months occurring between 1st November, 1835, and 31st 
May, 1836, evidence of a gradual decrease within that period appears, yet 
the aggregate of that period still amounts to 532 cases, which is more than half 
the sum total of the preceding year. 

ST, CHRISTOPHERS. 

In this Colony, symptoms having been exhibited by the negroes of an intention 
not to work without wages, the island was placed for a short time under martial 
law. It is probably on this account, and in consequence of the severities which 
followed, that the returns of punishment for the first year are not printed with 
those of the other Colonies. 

The official return, however, from 1st September, 1835, to 31st May, 1836, 
appears in the Pari. pap. p. 3 (2) p. 331 ; and may be supposed to present the most 
favourable period in regard to punishment. It amounts to 3314 cases, beino- 
about one in four of the whole negro population ; and that, in the short space of 
about nine months. If the aggregate of the past year exceeded this proportion, it 
may be presumed, that very few apprentices in the whole island can have 
escaped punishment. This, however, is now to be considered a satisfactory pro- 
gress, 

NEVIS. 

The printed returns of punishment in this Colony (Pari. pap. p. 3 (2) p. 423) 
as in St. Christophers, extend only from the 1st September, 1835, to 31st 
May, 1836, and allow of no comparison between the aggregate of the two first 
years of the apprenticeship. 

VIRGIN ISLANDS. 

The official returns of punishment in this small Colony (Pari, pap, p. 3 (2) pp. 347 
— 352) not only suppose a comparatively lenient administration there ; but shew 
an actual decrease during the first eight months of the second year of the ap- 
prenticeship. 

DOMINICA. 

The official returns of punishments in this Colony are too incomplete to allow 
of a comparison between the aggregates of different periods. 

* Vide Appendix to Report on Negro Apprenticeship, p. 231, 



9 

It may, however, be remarked, that on one estate in this colony, on which there 
are only fifty-seven apprentices, no less than sixty-three punishments were injiicied m 
one month.* Governor Darling-, in endeavouring to account for this enormous 
amount of punishment, attributes it to the bad conduct of the manager ; thus it 
would appear, that in this case, (and it may be feared in a large proportion of the 
apprenticeship punishments throughout the colonies) the ill-conduct of a manager 
IS visited by heav}' inJlicaous of punishment on the wretched apprentices. 

ST. VINCENT. 

The official return of punishments in this Colony from the 1st. August, 1834, 
to the 1st August, 1835. (Par), pap. part iii. (2) p. 370,) amounts to 2764 cases. 

Ditto for nine following months, (p. 386.) . . . .- 3882. 

Exhibiting a double amount of punishment over a corresponding period of the 
preceding year. 

GRENADA. 

The official return of punishments in this Colony from the 1st August, 1834, 
to the 31st July, 1835, (Pari. pap. part iii. (2) p. 395.) amounts to 2166 cases. 

Ditto for nine following months, beginning with September, (p. 397) 2696. 

Exhibiting- nearly double the amount of punishment over a corresponding pe- 
riod of the past year. An increase which is attempted to be explained by an 
alledged necessity of punishing in some instances whole gangs together. 

TOBAGO. 

The official return of punishments in this Colony from the 1st August, 1834, to 
the 30th June, 1835, a period of eleven months, (Pari. pap. part iii. (I) p. 413.) 
amounts to .......... . 880 cases. 

Ditto, but incomplete, from 1st August, 1835, to 31st May, 1836, 
a period of only ten months, (p. 432.) 1583. 

Shewing a double amount of punishment over a corresponding period of the 
preceding year. 

BAHAMAS. 

The official return of punishments in this Colony from the 31st July, 1834, 
to the 1st October, 1835, (Pari. pap. part iii. (2) p. 530) amounts to 768 cases 

Ditto from 1st October, 1835, to 1st April, 1836, (p. 547.) . 222. 

Shewing a decrease of punishments in the latter period. 
HONDURAS. 

The official return of punishments in this anomalous Colony is very incom- 
plete ; but an inference may be drawn that they are on the decrease. The punish- 
ments, however, which are chiefly, as in other Colonies, for disobedience, appear 
to be very severe. 

TRINIDAD, (a crown colony.) 

The official returns of punishments in this Colony are too incomplete to allow of 
any accurate comparison between the aggregates of the first and second year of 
the apprenticeship. 

ST. LUCIA, (a crown colony.) 

The official returns of punishments in this Colony from the 1st of August, 

1834, to the 31st July, 1835, (Pari. pap. part. iii. (2) p. 478.) amount to 

, 778 cases. 

Ditto from 1st August, 1835, to 31st May, 1836, a period of only 

10 months, (p. 497.) 1103. 

Exhibiting a nealy double amount of punishment in the second year. 

CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, (a crown colony.) 
The official returns of punishments in this Colony have been printed only for 
the first year of the apprenticeship. Some i'ew specimens of apprenticeship 
offences, with their respective punishments, will be seen hereafter. 

MAURITIUS, (A cnowN colony.) 
The rebellious conduct of this Colony, naturally suggested the probability 
that il3 laws would exhibit the most flagrant violations of the Imperial Act ; and 
that the practical operation of the apprenticesliip system there, would be propor- 
tionally oppressive. 

* See parliauieiiUry paiitrs, pari iii.C'i p. 118. 



10 

In point of fact, the laws of this island have been so objectionable as for the most 
part to occasion their disallowance by the Home Government. But it would not 
be uninstructive, did space permit, to examine the various documents which have 
been published in the Parliamentary Papers on this subject, for the purpose of 
shewing- how undisguisedly the selfish principles of colonial cultivators have been 
disclosed by the bolder or less politic planters of this Colony. 

On the working of the apprenticeship system, and the amount of punishment in 
this Colony, a few extracts from the despatches of Sir William jNicolay, the Go- 
vernor, may be quoted. 

In a despatch, dated the ord July, 1835, (Pari. pap. part, iii. (2) p. 21G.) he 
observes, that " the complaints preferred by apprentices against their masters, 
have been very few indeed ; and the cases of insubordination and misconduct on 
the part of the apprentices, appear even fewer than was to have been expected, 
considerino- the notion entertained by many of them, that when slavery was 
declared to be extinct, they were not obliged to work any longer." 

In a despatch, however, dated the 23rd April, 1836, (Pari. pap. part iii. (2) 
p. 251.) referring to the official return of punishments for the past year, (pre- 
viously sent, but which in fact comprises only eleven months), he admits the 
largeness of that amount, and attempts to explain it, by stating, that it was in part 
owing to the incorrigible character of certain hardened offenders, who had been 
repeatedly punished. 

The official return in question, p. 243, which extends from the last day of Januarv, 
1835. to the 1st of January, 1836, — amounts to 13,039 cases, of which 6769 
were punishments by flogging, the apprentice population consisting of something 
more than 60,000 persons. From which it appears, that an aggregate of punish- 
ments, equal to more than a fourth of the whole apprentice population had 
been inflicted in that short period ; and moreover, that above one half of those 
punishments had been by flogging-. 

The cause of this enormous amount of punishment, may perhaps be partly found 
in the general instructions issued by the governor to the special magistrates, at the 
commencement of the apprenticeship system ; wherein, after affirming that idleness, 
drunkenness, and theft are the conspicuous defects of negro character, he incul- 
cates on the special magistrates the necessity of " the most prompt and energetic 
repression of all disposition to idleness ;" and emphatically recommends the 
practice of commuting imprisonment by extra labour in the service of the employer 
for the purpose, among other things, of encouraging habits of industry. 

Yet frightful as the amount of punishments appears for the first eleven months 
of the apprenticeship in this colony, the return of the next succeeding month 
(namely January, 1836), the only subsequent return yet printed, exhibits an 
increasing ratio. The return for that month, being- 1382 cases, whereas the average 
monthly return of the preceding period was only 1185. And if the January 
return be taken as an average of the whole of the following year, an aggregate 
will be presented of 15,984 cases, being very nearly in the proportion of one in 
three of the entire apprentice population as stated in the last return. 

The nature of the official returns of punishment from the various colonies, sub- 
sequent to the periods above quoted, is riot known ; but assuredly, so far as the 
extracts already selected and published by the Colonial Office, furnish evidence 
on the subject ; no satisfactory proof of a mitigation and softening of spirit 
on the part of the planters, as was assumed by the Parliamentary Committee, can be 
discovered. On the contrary, with the exception of two or three small colonies 
only, the official returns of punishment, which, even during the first year of the 
apprenticeship, were thought " sufficiently frightful," exhibit, during the second 
year, an appalling increase. To what then can the public attribute the rumours 
of improvement which of late have been so generally circulated, but to the anxious 
desii-e of interested parties to shield the apprenticeship system from an odium 
and a condemnation which properly belong to it. 

In the meantime the preceding- extracts sufficiently manifest what slight cre- 
dence is to be given to the opinions and statements of Colonial functionaries 
on the lenient operation of the present system ; contradicted as those statements 
and opinions have almost uniformly been during the first two years of the appren- 
ticeship, by the official returns, they themselves have furnished. 



11 



f^ 



o 

H 
O 
I— I 

w 

t—t 
S^ 

§^ 

H^ 
H^ 

aw 

p^ 

12; 

I— I 

H 

1^ 



e* 


__-3 2 


t>. i^ -ri o - 


^ Ico 


CO -:■! CO 


I^O^S^C-JOOOC^CO C5 


"0 


r^ 




Tf 00 O 0-. CO 1 — 


O GO O 


CO 'O 3^ O CO ^ Ct CJ Tti 


o 


%-. 


c 5j="« 


COOiO— ^'-'_ 1 ^ 


Ci (^^ -* 1 


0_ T-.__ ri4_ -rt ^ Tf CO O O 




O .jj 


^1=1 


i>r t'f co" TT T-T 1 c^f 


<?f CO ' 


C-" T-T (?f th" tH 


<?( 


•^" 


•^ 3 


■* T-l T-l 


00 






(M 


o 


.2 S 


< a. 




1 




, 




■^ 




o • 


'O -ri o o 60 \ <y> 


«q CO f>l 


'^-^CTirHlOCOOC^ 'O 


"0 


»— p^ 


— r ^ a3 


3-1 O ;3 ^ 0> 1 t^ 


r-H O C^ 


«-( C^ O O^ CI O O (T' O 


t^ 


C3 


5 =J3 


« C- C3 -* - 


t o 


O_C0 '^ I 


tH_iOtH^00t-t}<G^-h O 


rH 


CO S 

TO a 


^p 


(m" O TO jo" -* 1 C5 


»o ^" o* ' 


"o'co'o" co" o" t>r T-T o" 


■*" 


•^ CO o th T-i -n 


■t-t 


CO (N C-« 


r-f 


i^ 


< 


<M 


1 --^ 






1 '^ 


O 


th aj 
















- S 


V o 














t^. a 




-i|« «!-! 




«IN 


^*N ^l(N -'« -'« -l« 






es -^ 


£ i ^ 


5-1 ■* O O CTi 


tH CO (M 1 


COOlOOC^OtODG^t-. 




S rt 


>s'5 


(?» tH 0« (N rt 


<-l tH (X 1 


rl -rt rt (N rH 0« rH 






t4^ Ch 


<=^73 














fa 


5^ 




























CO O 


bo 














c';;^ 
■^"S 


^c 


O N. 00 ■N t- 


^ 


CO -■ CO 


Tf<CO)>COOCOCO-' 05 


&» 


tio 


t^ CO O f- 'd 


h CM 


•r; CO C- 


C^OOCOiO'-COCO S-) 


lO 


to 


t- ■* ;3 CO r- 


CO 


CO s-i ^ 


CO. CO C_ (>1 t^ CO tH 'O 


cn 


-a -2 






I 








s 

CQ 


O 3^ 0^ 


t^ 




k' r-T 


tH 


CO 


if 

,- o 




" 






" 


a 


Si 




C^ C O C> r- 


■1 o 


Tj4 CO 3-) o 


'-ICO-r-ii.oODi.OCOCi Ic^ 


t~ 


S 


,^ 


rH O GO -O 01 


D -> 


rt -1< GO TT 


i^O^COOOCOCOO 


5 ^ 


■o 


tH ', 


rt 


T}< o (3-> o: a 


3 -^i 


C0__ lO 00. ---i 


CO. iq O. n CD -r-. ^ O 1 CO 


C-l 




Jo 














"to *" 


00 CO CO ■* T 


^" c£ 


TO CO" T-i' 


-*" -A Co" G-r 3-)" rt 1 -^ 


-* 




C"! 


O -rt vH 


C5 




rH 


CO 


CO 


^ '"^ 
















OD " 












1 




3 S 




»_ 


th o Ci "O {- 


G-1 


00 CO — ' 'O 


«-o»<coot--*(?ico I"* 


^ 


-a 


S 


00 3-> CO Cii <^ 


3 O 


t^ th ^O 3^ 


Ss(0<00030i'0<) -O 


'O 


'o^ 


2J 


'-; 


oo_ — lO^ -<__ ^ 


lO 


L-^s-jco.coTfco'Ortu^oosi-* |T^ 


CJl 


















^ * 


.2 


s 


G-f 00 00 (?l 


C-> 


tH t-I 


CO T-t 


3^ 


•* 


% .> 


c 




S-* 


'^ 






rH 


IQ 


Q 


a 


^ 














S S 




"o o T-i c» 'S 


< CO 


^r> o i-H ■* 


'O'^COTlrHr-lTH^O CO 


^ 


+^ r^ 


,j2 


tn 


60 CO 03 O 1- 


4 GO 


CO CO CM Tl 


rrOl4COCl>-Hr7l !0 


o 


S 2 


5 


^ 


lO cr> vo ^o r- 


A 05 


lO GO O CD 


C^ CS Cr>. •* C?}. lO. -o GO 


CO 


















O [/. 


>— 1 


O Cy> i> C-! T- 


<o 


Ti e^ 


O th" rn" rn" 


3<) 


erf" 


"Ig 


^ 


CO 


«0 




'"' 


©< 


i^ 


^ £ 


-3 










1 




o a, 


fc4 S "5 


o o o o c 


O 


o o o 


ooococoo 'o 


o 


""^ 
.^ ■" 


3 .Si (^ 


o o o o c 


O 


o c o : 


ooo»ooooo UO 


o 




o o_ O O ir: 


O 


o c-i_ CO ; 


o. c. 00 '-q &-». o oo. s» o 


U3. 


-2-° 


<£ ryi -^ rt c 


•^2" 


go' ■■£ 03 • 


Tj< lo" (o t4 ■*" 3o' oC o" e^" 


o" 




CO -o t> o« T- 


GO 


»— 1 rH 


»0 l-H I-H rH lO 


00 


a - 


s-i 


" 






r 


lO 


• - <u 






1 










ll 




m 




to m 


CO M to to 












^ rfl 


-a ^ -a ^ 






a o 


w" 


's 2 2 S i 




a 2 2 a 


2a22aea2 






o .5 .S .ts ? 
S 'w -3 -O 't: 






.■s P -s .t: o o o s 

-ua-a-Tssae^ 






~) 




C5 G-} 


« o c ■-< 






'o o 




a-) 




"-I 


^ ,- oi o» 






O J 
























































m <- 




























•S: - 




























f^ '", 










• . a. 


















t-. J3 










. . o 

: :!^ 
















"S 


<-C \^ 


"A 


; ; c ; 






• -73 
















o 


2 w" 


O 

i-I 


; w 3 : 






: a. 9 


• « • 














1^ 2 


o 
o 


" ~ ~ ^ i 
i-r OD 2D o -?; 




•2 •■ 2 -if 
■S ,^ .3 o 

V) 55 w O 


M 2 CO • 

2 S3 ^ i «• 

« c-g o S 
SP^H3i-H 


C3 

a^ 

Q F-H 


CO 

03 




a 
O 



NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS. 

* Females Punished. — In Jamiiica and Barbadoes, tlie women as well as the 
men are sentenced to the Treadmill, are flofjged with the C-'at, and it is believed, 
that in several of tho smaller Colonies the same practice is also followed. In 
Barbadoes, St. Kitt's, and IJominica, women have been sentenced to whipping. 

t Otiikh Punisiimknts. — Such as Hard Labour — Penal Gang-, and to be worked 
ill Iron (!ollarsand Chains — Extra Labour to Estates — Tread-mill — Stocks — Dark 
Cells — Imprisonment — Solitary Confinement — Imj)risonment at night — Fines, &c. 
&c., and, in _a multitude of cases, several of these various modes of punishment 
accumulated on the same individual for one offence. , 

Barhadof.s. — Not less than ninetron whole gangs in one district in this Colony 
have been sentenced to extra labour at the same time ! and some of the sentences 



12 



of imprisonment extend to six months and thirty-nine lashes. In several smaller 
Colonies the same practice prevails. 

British Guiana. — Many offences committed by apprenticed labourers of a petty 
character, instead of being- adjudicated by special justices are sent before the 
inferior criminal court, where the almost invariable punishment ordered to be 
inflicted, is flogging. These do not appear in the foregoing table. 

Grenada. — In this Colony, as well as in Barbadoes, vfhole gangs have been 
sentenced to extra labour. 

St. Lucia. — The Pillory, in addition to other modes of punishment, is called 
into action in this Colony, and apprenticed labourers are sentenced to it for four, 
five, or six hours per diem, for several successive days. 

Nevis. — During the first year of the apprenticeship, there were 107 men and 
178 women punished, but the returns for that period are not given with sufficient 
accuracy to proportion the corporeal punishment ; they are, therefore, left out of 
the above list. 

St. Vincents. — In addition to the number of punishments inserted above, there 
were 1477 men and 1287 women punished during the first year of the appren- 
ticeship, but as their punishments are not specified they cannot be given in the table. 

Cape of Good Hope. — The returns from this Colony are so defective, that no 
further information can be given from them, than that the 1140 cases noticed 
received punishment by whipping, imprisonment, hard labour, stocks, &c. 

Montskrrat. — There are no returns of the amount of punishment inflicted in 
this Colony for the months of August, September, October, and December, 1835. 

Trinidad. — It appears that the records of punishment afiecting four judicial 
districts, comprising a population of 8510 apprenticed labourers, are lost; in the 
returns for the three months which are given, eighty-five negroes were punished 
with the lash, and 102 negroes in other ways. 

Dominica. — For ten months of the above period returns of punishments were 
made from two special justices only, although they were during the other months 
usually made by six ; it follows, therefore, that the amount of punishments inserted 
in the above table for this Colony is very much below that which was inflicted. 

Tobago. — During two months of the above period, the fourth special justice 
made no return. 

N.B. — No return of lashes inflicted on the treadmill is included in this statement. 

Comparison of Punishments on Employers and Apprentices. 

The returns of fines inflicted on owners and managers, are extremely incom" 
plete ; in fact, from the commencement of the apprenticeship system up to the 
present time, the only complete returns laid before Parliament on this subject, are 
for the first five months of 1836 — and these from Jamaica onlv — but scanty as 
they are, they will serve to substantiate the complaints made of the utter want 
of reciprocity in the punishments inflicted on the apprentice and on the em- 
ployer under the apprenticeship law. The following, is 
''An Abstract of the fines inflicted on the owners or managers of estates 

in Jamaica for the first five months of 1836." '"' The fines are reckoned 

in currency, being three-fifths of the sum sterling; they go entirely into 

the Public Treasury. 

„ , . Number 

Complaints. Fined 



Illegal imprisonment in 
dark cells.f rom twenty -four 
hours to six days 

Assaults combined with 
false imprisonment, beat- 
ing, switching, maliciously 
killing stock, &c. 

Withholding allowances, 
neglect in sickness, non- 
performance of cotnract,not 
allowing days, clothing, 
and grounds. Working il- 
legal hours. Cruelty and 
oppression, &c.+ 



y -26 



Amount of Fines. 



lOs. to 20s. 



£1 to £5 



£1 to £5. 



Total amount of fines, currency £400 19 
j Or less than £250 sterling. 

Vide Parliamentary Papers, sess. ]8o6, No. 165—11. ]>. 
1 ['ariiMmenlary Paiitri-., SC55. !83rp, Nn. Ill— 11, pp. 230, 258, 349, 373, 393. 



. 13 

Want of room prevents our giving a statement in detail of the above com- 
plaints and fines, but by way of specimen we subjoin the few extracts following, 
viz.. Punishments on Overseers, &c. 

Currency. 
1836. £ ,. ,/. 

January 15. For Beating an apprentice who had neglected his work .10 
I'he aggrieved apprentice was at the same time sen- 
tenced to a switcliing and to a iceek on the tread-mill. 

18. Inattention to a female in a hot-house (particulars not 

stated, but doubtless extraordinary.) 5 

21. Shooting apprentice's hog, and appropriating the body .10 

The fine was in this instance paid to the apprentice, 
this, however, must have been with the consent of 
the offender. 

23. Imprisoning a female beyond twenty-four hours, and after- 

wards confining her in a cell ; period not mentioned . 2 10 

29. Administering physic with violence 2 

February 1. Illegallv confining a female in a house of correction ..100 
The discipline of these places is well known. 

10. Locking up a married woman without cause, period not 

mentioned , 200 

19. Refusing to send assistance to a woman in child-birth .200 

A charge of imprisonment was made at the same time, 
but not established. 

22. Continually working gang after four o'clock . . . .0100 

24. Switching an apprentice by a master without the magis- 

trate's sanction '..200 

Is the magistrate's sanction ever given in such cases? 

March 3. Not giving proper allowance 2 dollars. 

— . Imposing task-work, the complainants, (two women) who 
were compelled to labour from Thursday morning to 
ten A.M. on Saturday, through the day and night, 
carrying trash while the mill was about .... 3 
If tas/c-jwr/chad not been inflicted or cr«e/tiy proved, this 
extension of labour would not have been punishable 
at all. 
6. Beating a female, and not giving her clothing, house or 

grounds, &c 500 

24. Switching an apprentice 10 

29. Neglecting an apprentice when locked up 10 

April 1. Not providing medical aid 10 

6. Working gang beyond time 10 

12. Neglect during sickness 2 2 8^ 

(Probably the doctor's bill.) 

13. Destruction of property, (value not stated.) ...-200 
in. Beating with a stick 10 

IMay 10. Refusal to allow days, and false imprisonment, ('period not 

stated) 1 10 

11. Refusal to pay a ttee/c's wages for extra labour, the ap- 

prentice a female, being charged with insolence and 

absence 10 

The woman was at the same time sentenced to six 
days' hard labour, whether under the discipline of 
the tread-mill, or for the hoiiefit of the master, is 
not stated ! ! ! 

Any comments on such trivial punishments, for gross violations of the Imperial 
Act, appear to be needless. But it must be added that the remaining hoj)e of the 
aggrieved parties obtaining compensation, by an apjjeal to the Supreme Courts of 
Jamaica, has jiroved to be utterly futile. Even the application of a special justice 
to tl)e Sujfreme Courts on their behalf, as will be afterwards seen, has been deemed 
■■1 that colony to bo a " nuisance."^ 



J 4 



We will uow compare the offences of owners and manngers, and tbeir slight 
punishment3, — witli the offences and punishments of the apprentices. 

For this purpose it would have been more satisfactory had we been able 
to furnish a list from each Colony: — but the returns printed in the Parlia- 
mentary Papers in general, give only the total amount or the average of punish- 
ments, omitting the specific offences for whicli they have been inflicted ; fortunately, 
however, for the purpose of illustration, the Returns from the Cape of Good Hope 
and Honduras are exceptions to the general practice, and they furnish us with 
some specific statements, as to these particulars. — From these returns, we are 
consequently enabled to make a few selections, which may be presumed to 
exhibit a fair specimen of ajiprenticeship offences and punishments throughout 
the Colonies. They are as follows : 

Cape of Good Hope. 

Vide Parliamentary Papers, Sess. 1836, No. 166- — II, pp. 549, 653. 

Men 10 to 30 lashes, occasionally with 
the stocks. 

Women 7 to 30 days imprisonment, and oc- 
casionally the stocks. 

Men 6 days confinement — One month's 
hard labour, 10 to 30 lashes, and 
stocks. 

Women 7 to 30 days imprisonment. 

Men 15 to 30 lashes — One month's hard 

labour and 30 lashes. 

Women 7 to 30 days imprisonment. 

Men 10 to 30 lashes — One month impri- 
sonment with liard labour and 30 
lashes. 

Women 7 to SO days imprisonment. 

JO to 30 lashes — 7 to 30 days con- 
finement with hard labour and 25 
to 30 lashes. 

Women 7 to 30 days imprisonment and 
stocks. 

]\Ien 15 lashes. 

. 1 month's imprisonment and hard 

labour, and 30 lashes. 
. 15 lashes. 
. 3 days confinement. 



For Insolence 



Drunkennes 



Disobedience 



Negligence 



Making unfounded complaints . Men 



Connivance at waste of Property 
Losing property 

Endangering property 
Filtliiness in cooking 



Feigning sickness and exciting disobedience 26 days imprisonment with hard la- 
bour, and 25 lashes. 

Honduras. 

Parliamentary Papers, Sess. 1836, No. 166 — II, pp. 497, 499. 

Drunkenness .... Men 1 week's imprisonment, 15 stripes. 

^V'omen 7 days imprisonment on plantains 
and water. One week imprison- 
ment and stocks. 

Disobedience .... Rlen 14 days to 1 month's imprisonment 

and stocks — Or one week's impri- 
sonment and 15 to 30 stripes, and 
fed on plantains and water. 
Women 3 days to 1 month's imprisonment, 
bread and water. One month's 
solitary confinement, and 12 times 
in the stocks, 2 hoiirs each time. 

Contumacious ditto . . . Men One month's imprisonment and twice 

24 stripes. 
Women One month's imprisonment and six 
times six hours in the stocks. 



15 

Insubordination . . . Men 2 months' imprisonment and 24 

stripes. 
A'^agabondism ...... 3 weeks imprisonment and 15 stripes. 

The proportion which ofl'ences of these kinds bear to the aggregate of offences 
punished, -vrill be inferred from the abstract of returns in Jamaica, from which it 
will be seen, that during the first year of the apprenticeship in that colony, there 
were no fewer than 2,552 punishments inflicted for complaints of insolence^— 6,024 
for disobedience, and 11,855 punishments for neglect of duty. And, great as 
these numbers are, and enormous as is the total amount of punishments shewn in 
the general table on a preceding page, it must be borne in mind, that the appren- 
tice is still amenable to the general law of the Colony, for any offence of a trraver 
character ; a responsibility which, in the case of apprentices, the supreme courts 
have shown no indisposition to enforce. 

The penalties inflicted on employers, under the Slave system, will be seen by the 
following extract from the Analysis of the Jamaica Acts. Vide Appendix to Report 
of the Parliamentary Committee on Negro Apprenticeship, as follows : "A comparison 
of the provisions of thfs clause, with the Stave Code, will show the inferiority of the 
present law, in respect to penalties and s'^curities. The Slave Code, sec. 12, awarded 
a certain penalty of £5, for neglect of clothing ; sec. 13, compelled the master to 
make oath once a year, that he had supplied suflicient clothing, provision grounds, 
and time, or ample provision in lieu thereof, under a penalty of £i?0 for refusino- the 
oath, or neglecting the duty ; sec. 14, 15. gave a summary remedy, to the extent 
of £25, for abstraction, by the master, of the slaves' property ; sec. 30, inflicted 
a fine of £100, or twelve months' imprisonment, for cruelly whipping, impriboning, 
or maltreating a slave, in addition to damages at law ; and in atrocious cases, the 
slave was to be liberated, and £10 per annum for life, allowed him by the parish ; 
and sec. 31, 33, enacted that prosecutions, and actions, ui such cases, should be at 
the expense of the parish ; and, in the mean time, the slave was to be removed 
from the custody of the master." 

" If such punishments as these, when the master had a more permanent interest 
in the services of the negroes, proved insufiScient," the Commentator observes, "it 
cannot be imagined that the slight and uncertain penalties ordinarily inflicted 
under the apprenticeship laws, will be of much avail." 

Prison Discipline. 

The evidence from Jamaica on this subject is very important. By an Act 
passed in that Colony immediately before the coming into operation of the Aboli- 
tion Act, and made commensurate with the apprenticeship system, the unjson- 
trolled and exclusive jurisdiction of gaols, houses of correction, hospitals, ar.a 
asylums is vested in the local magistrates, who not only possess a specific power 
of inflicting personal correction on the inmates of these places, but likewise dei)iite 
or connive at the exercise of the same power by superiors and other oflScl^iis, 
under pretext of breach of prison discipline, and as a stimulus to prison labour. By 
the 22nd section of the second Jamaica Abolition Act, again, a power is o-iyen to 
the special magistrate to commit an apprentice, for any apprenticeship offence 
whatever, to the house of correction. 

It is a singular fact, connected with this part of tlie apprenticeship law and with 
the different appropriation of these places of confinement, " that the 19th section 
of the Act regulating gaols and workhouses, gives a summary power of punish- 
ing or removing a gaoler who shall have been convicted of improper conduct ; but 
does not extend it to keepers of workhouses. Now, in the former — the gaol — no 
prisoners are ever confined except by sentence of a superior court: while, to the 
other — the workhouse — all apprentices, or persons suspected of being so, are sent 
either for detention or punishment. Thus, it appears, that in the latter case, where 
alone there is reference to ajjprenticeshij), no provision is made to punish cruelty 
and oppression, except through the intervention of an expensive process," whicli 
experience has shown, after all, to be utterly unavailing. It will not be matter of 
surprise, that virtually irresponsible power thus intrusted to the lowest menials 
should have been greatly abused. 

These places have, in fact, been clearly proved to be dens of pollution, outrage, 
and cruelty. It appears from the evidence of Mr. lliissell, confidential ck'rk 
to Lord Sligo, (vide question &'20y), that so far back as the year 10,!6, tho 



16 

enormities practised in many of these houses of correction had been officially 
repOTfed to the Governor, who was, nevertheless, wholly precluded from interfer- 
ing by the exclusive authority reserved, as already stated, to tlie local magistracy. 

It appears, moreover, that the official Act of seeking legal redress for these 
enormities was construed to be, and was actually presented ^by one of the grand 
juries of Jamaica, (whose presentment was afterwards approved by tbe supreme 
court,) as a public nuisance. (Vide Pari. Pap. part iv, p. 136.) 

And it further appears, that the most urgent appeals of the Governor to the 
House of Assembly, for the purpose of procuring the amendment of a law which 
connives at and tolerates these shameful proceedings has altogether failed of 
effect. (Vide Parliamentary Papers in explanation, &c. p. 31.) 

For the details of these outrages, reference must be again made to the Report 
on Negro Apprenticeship. (Vide .Tonkin's case in question 5544 et seq. and to the 
Parliamentary Papers, vide interalia part iv. p. 123, et seq.) 

It may be seated, however, as a specimen of the abominations practised in the 
workhouse of St. .John's, discovered by Mr. E. D. Baynes, the special justice, 
that the prisoners in that case were half starved by the supervisor : and that 
excessive cruelties took place in chaining sick people ; it was sworn, moreover, 
that a poor apprentice was actually flogged on an open ulcerated sore in order to 
make his sufferings greater. The bills in these cases, nevertheless, were thrown 
out by the Jamaica Grand Jury ! ! 

The atrocious and degrading treatment of females in houses of correction will 
be considered under a subsequent division. 

But this note cannot conclude without more particular reference to the great 
instrument of torture in these places of confinement — namely, the tread-mill — a 
horrible machine which is unsparingly applied to both sexes ; and, in many cases, 
without ^ the slightest regard to age, sickness, or infirmity. The following is a 
description of an instrument of this kind, as given by an eye-witness. 

" The treadmill, also, is a machine of dreadful construction. It is so great a 
height from the ground, that the prisoners ascend a rude ladder to a sort of plat- 
form, from which they step on the mill. They are then strapped to the beam 
above the mill, and the platform is removed. If they are unable to keep the step, 
they hang by the wrists, and are liable to sustain the most serious injuries from 
the mill revolving against their breasts and legs. There was no machinery to 
regulate its speed. 

* * * -X- 

" The treadmill at this workhouse is a cylinder about eight feet in diameter, 
with broad steps. The handrail above it has eight pair of straps fastened to it, 
with which the wrists of the prisoners are always secured. The board under the 
'•ail descends perpendicularly, and not in a sloping direction, towards the mill, 
and does not, therefore, afford them the slightest protection when they lose the 
step, and hang by the wrists. In that case, the sharp steps of the mill, which 
project twelve er fifteen inches from the cylinder, must revolve against the bodies 
and legs of the prisoners with torturing effect. Such are the faults in the con- 
struction of the mill, and the results are such as may have been anticipated. 
Every step is stained with blood, both recent and old ; the former being that of 
the poor old woman whom the deputy mentioned to us. It had been shed so 
profusely, that even the sand on the floor was thickly sprinkled with it. 

" Two mixed gangs of men and women were put upon it during our stay ; the 
latter had no suitable dress, and were, therefore, liable to be indecently exposed. 
The tever, by which the speed of the wheel is regulated, was held the whole 
time by the driver, who sometimes relaxed his hold for a few seconds, whicli 
made it revolve with such rapidity, as to throw all the prisonera off. It is thus 
evident, that the punishment may be increased beyond endurance at his caprice. 
Nearly all the prisoners were dreadfully exhausted at the endof fifteen minutes."* 

* The West Indies in 1837 ; Journal of a Visit, &LC, by Jogeph Sturge nnri Thomas Ilavvey. 
Published by Hamilton and Co., Paternoster Row. 



Johnston & Barrett, Printers, 13, Mark J^ane. 



