
TainuJ, T>u Henry JI&/&; 



JZnqravecl ~by J. 2, BiZU . 



Instructing a Native .African. 



Etlxiopia sliaH soon stretck outlier lipoids unto God.'. 

IsalmlXTm.Jl. 
Go ... teach, all Nations.' 

Matthew TDTHL19. 



■ . ,', - .-. . , 



<sl B kiJ 



sira Affi<o&svs<t>irx8Y* 



OR RECORD OF THE 



NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



EDITED BY A COMMITTEE 



BOSTON: 

PRINTED Bl 7 GARRISON & KJNAPP 

1833. 



1^1 



res, $S7£.$s 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/abolitionist1833newe 



THE ABOLITIONIST 



VOL. I.] 



JANUARY, 183 3. 



[NO. I. 



THE ABOLITIONIST. 

The object of the Abolitionist, as its name 
indicates, is to promote the abolition of sla- 
very, and also to improve the condition of the 
free people of color in the United States. 
The work will be under the editorial super- 
vision of a Committee of the New-England 
Anti-Slavery Society. 

We believe that very unsound opinions and 
unchristian feelings, in regard to slavery, pre- 
vail throughout our country. Even in the 
states in which slavery is not tolerated, the 
great majority of the people are its apologists 
and supporters. Many, while they acknowl- 
edge that slavery is an evil, seem quite un- 
conscious that to keep men in bondage is a 
sin. They pity the unfortunate slaveholder, 
but have no sympathy for the wretched slave. 
While they lament that a large portion of our- 
country should have its morals corrupted, its 
wealth and strength impaired, and its future 
prospects shrouded in gloom, by the institu- 
tion of slavery, they with the greatest incon- 
sistency brand every one as an unprincipled 
incendiary, who attempts to point out any 
remedy for these present and future evils. 

We contend that slavery is as proper a sub- 
ject of discussion, as any other topic in which 
large numbers of men are concerned ; and 
no good reason can be shown for restraining 
the liberty of the press on this subject, which 
will not apply to many others. Bonaparte, 
and other despotic rulers, have thought that 
no measures of government ought to be freely 
canvassed in the public prints. If it be once 
admitted that there is any one topic in which 
the public is concerned, on which the press 
may not speak freely, there is no principle on 
which the freedom of the press can be de- 
fended. 

While, however, we advocate the unre- 
strained right of expressing opinion, we are 
far from recommending the publication of any 
thing designed to excite the slaves to insur- 
rection. Pieces with such an object will find 

VOL. I. 



no admission in the Abolitionist, and will re- 
ceive from it nothing but reprobation. 

We shall address ourselves to the reason 
and humanity of our countrymen. We see 
among us a large proportion of our population 
distinguished from the rest only in color and 
features, who are yet, on account of this dis- 
tinction, made the victims of an inveterate 
and unchristian prejudice. Knowing that our 
countrymen are men, and that the great ma- 
jority of them are Christians, we shall endea- 
vor to show that this prejudice is not sanction- 
ed either by reason, religion, or humanity. 
We shall, therefore, call on every individual, 
who feels convinced of this truth, to exert 
himself to impress it upon his neighbors. 
Believing in a superintending Providence, we 
cannot doubt that truth and justice will finally 
prevail. 

We shall advocate Immediate Abolition. 
Let not our readers startle at the words. We 
shall show by abundant facts before the year 
is out, that wherever the experiment of imme- 
diate abolition has been tried, it has been suc- 
cessful. Even the history of Hayti, which has 
been so much misunderstood and misrepre- 
sented, affords unanswerable evidence of this 
truth. 

We shall recommend the moral and intel- 
lectual education of the people of color in 
our country, both bond and free. Even cor- 
poreal liberty is of little comparative value to 
its possessors, while their minds remain en- 
enslaved to ignorance, sloth and sensual- 
ity. 

We cannot, in the course of these brief in- 
troductory remarks, present our readers with 
all our opinions on the momentous subjects 
which will be discussed in our publication. 
All that we can promise is, hearts devoted to 
the great cause in which we are engaged. If 
our publication shall in some degree, however 
small, promote it, our labors will not be in 
vain. 



New-England Anti-Slavery Society. 



NEW-ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY SO- 
CIETY. 

The First Annual Meeting of this Society- 
takes place on the second Wednesday of Jan- 
uary, instant, on which occasion a general in- 
vitation is given by its Managers to all the 
friends of the colored race in New-England to 
be present. A particular account of the pro- 
ceedings (which are expected to be of an in- 
teresting character) will be given in the Abo- 
litionist for February. 

This Society was formed on the first of 
January, 1832. The second article of its 
Constitution explains the purposes of its or- 
ganization : 

' Article 2. The objects of the Society shall be to en- 
deavor, by all means sanctioned by law, humanity and 
religion, to effect the abolition of slavery in the United 
States, to improve the character and condition of the 
free people of color, to inform and correct public opin- 
ion in relation to their situation and rights, and obtain 
for them equal civil and political rights and privileges 
with the whites.' 

We think it may be truly said, that no so- 
ciety, commencing under such adverse cir- 
cumstances and possessing such limited 
means, has ever risen so rapidly in import- 
ance, or so widely operated upon public sen- 
timent, or at the expiration of its first year 
given so much promise of usefulness, as the 
Anti- Slavery Society. It is true, extraordi- 
nary efforts have been made to crush it, by 
the enemies of full and immediate restitution 
to the slaves ; hideous caricatures of its fea- 
tures have been held up to the public view ; 
its claims for the victims of southern oppres- 
sion, although graduated by the lowest scale 
of justice, have created in various quarters 
alarming apprehensions, simply because they 
have been misinterpreted by ignorance, or ex- 
aggerated by prejudice :— but, in despite of 
the opposition of a rival, well-disciplined and 
powerful association, and of these various 
hindrances, the Anti-Slavery Society has ac- 
complished much for the cause of liberty and 
justice, by a wide dissemination of its princi- 
ples, and the employment of a zealous and 
intelligent Agent. Probably, through its in- 
strumentality, more public addresses on the 
subject of slavery, and appeals in behalf of 
the contemned free people of color, have been 
made in New-England, during the past year, 
than were elicited for forty years prior to its 
organization. These efforts have excited a 
spirit of inquiry, and a vigorous discussion in 
the community ; the hearts of multitudes have 
been touched with a flame of sympathy ; Jight 



has been shed where all was obscure, thougfa 
in some instances the darkness ' comprehend- 
ed it not' 

The Society commences its operations for 
another year, with a rich accumulation of ex- 
perience, hope and zeal. Cheered by the 
promises of Him who cannot lie, relying upon 
His gracious assistance, and Avarmed. by a love 
toward all classes of men which many waters' 
cannot quench, it resolves to persevere in its 
benevolent enterprise, through evil as well as 
good report, whether men will hear, or wheth- 
er they will forbear. May all its measures 
be such as to commend themselves to all who- 
sincerely desire the welfare of their fellow 
men, and be acceptable in the sight of the 
Most High God, ' who has made of one blood 
all nations of men to dwell upon all the face 
of the earth ' — who regards the cries of the 
prisoner, and has given us his word that he 
' will maintain the cause of the afflicted and 
the right of the poor ' ! 

Whatever differences of opinion may pre- 
vail, respecting the best mode of attacking the 
slave-system, there is one object cherished by 
the Anti-Slavery Society, for the promotion 
of which all parties and denominations should 
coalesce— namely, 'to improve the character 
and condition of the free people of color.' 
How many more of this unfortunate class are 
we determined to scorn, and proscribe, and 
ruin ? Do we not owe them an immense debt,, 
for years of suffering, infamy and oppression ? 
— Public odium, like the atmosphere, sur- 
rounds them. A sense of inferiority is made 
to press upon them with a mighty weight 
With what face can we, who are persecuting 
our colored brethren here, assail southern op- 
pressors ? If we are unwilling to do justly by 
them, how shall we plead for justice toward 
the slaves? If we refuse to educate their 
children, and leave them in their degradation, 
how shall we dare arraign the people of the 
south for keeping their slaves in a similarly 
ignorant condition? Before New-England can 
go forward boldly and efficiently in the cause 
of emancipation, she must elevate her colored 
population, and rank them with the rest of her 
children. Reform, not partial but entire — 

not in the letter but the spirit must first 

commence at home. Philanthropists and Chris- 
tians ! come forth, then, to sustain by your con- 
tributions the Anti-Slavery Society in this be- 
nevolent work, and the blessings of many shall 
rest upon your heads. 



American Colonization Society. 



AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 

Our reasons for vigorously opposing this 
mighty combination will be stated, from time 
to time, in the pages of the Abolitionist. Some 
of them are forcibly expressed in the follow- 
ing extracts from a Circular, put forth in Eng- 
land by Charles Stuart, Esq. a gentleman 
who, by his zeal and activity, now occupies a 
high rank among the philanthropists of that 
country. 

' The American Colonization Society direct- 
ly supports the false and cruel idea that the 
native country of the colored people of the 
United States is not their native country, and 
that they never can be happy until they either 
exile themselves, or are exiled ; and thus pow- 
erfully conduces to extinguish in them all 
those delightful hopes, and to prevent all that 
glorious exertion, which would make them a 
blessing to their country. In this particular, 
the American Colonization Society takes up a 
falsehood, as cruel to the colored people, as it 
is disgraceful to themselves ; dwells upon it, 
as if it were an irrefragable truth ; urges it, as 
such, upon others ; and thus endeavors with 
all its force, to make that practically true, 
which is one of the greatest stains in the 
American character; which is one of the 
greatest scourges that could possibly afflict 
the free colored people ; and which, in itself, 
is essentially and unalterably false. For be 
the pertinacity of prejudice what it may, in 
asserting that the blacks of America never 
can be amalgamated, in all respects, in equal 
brotherhood with the whites, it will not the 
less remain an everlasting truth, that the wick- 
edness which produced and perpetuates the 
assertion, is the only ground of the difficulty, 
and that all that is requisite to remove the 
whole evil, is the relenting in love of the proud 
and cruel spirit which produced it. Could the 
American Colonization Society succeed in es- 
tablishing their views on this subject, as being 
really true of the people of the United States, 
it would only prove that the people of the 
United States were past repentance ; that they 
were given over, through their obstinacy in 
sin, finally to believe a lie ; to harden them- 
selves, and to perish in their iniquity. But 
they have not succeeded in establishing this 
fearful fact against themselves ; and as long 
as they continue capable of repentance, it 
never can be true, that the proud and baneful 
prejudices which now so cruelly alienate them 
from their colored brethren, may not, will not, 
must not, yield to the sword of the Spirit, to 
the Word of God, to the blessed weapons of 
truth and love.' 

'The American Colonization Society looks 
abroad over its own country, and it finds a 
mass of its brethren, whom God has been 
pleased to clothe with a darker skin. It finds 
one portion of these free ; another enslaved ! 



It finds a cruel prejudice, as dark and false as 
sin can make it, reigning with a most tyran- 
nous sway against both. It finds this preju- 
dice respecting the free, declaring without a 
blush, ' We are too wicked ever to love them 
as God commands us to do — we are so reso- 
lute in our wickedness as not even to desire 
to do so — and we are so proud in our iniquity 
that we will hate and revile whoever disturbs 
us in it — We want, like the devils of old, to be 
let alone in our sin — We are unalterably de- 
termined, and neither God nor man shall move 
us from this resolution, that our free colored 
fellow subjects never shall be happy in their 
native land.' The American Colonization So- 
ciety, I say, finds this most base and cruel 
prejudice, and lets it alone ; nay more, it di- 
rectly and powerfully supports it. 

' The American Colonization Society finds 
2,000,000 of its fellow subjects most iniqui- 
tously enslaved — and it finds a resolution as 
proud and wicked as the very spirit of the pit 
can make it against obeying God and letting 
them go free in their native land. It lets this 
perfectly infernal resolution alone, nay more, it 
powerfully supports it ; for it in fact says, as 
a fond and feeble father might say to some 
overgrown baby before whose obstinate Avick- 
edness he quailed, ' Never mind, my dear, I 
don't want to prevent your beating and abu- 
sing your brothers and sisters — let that be — 
but here is a box of sugar plums — do pray 
give them one or two now and then.' The 
American Colonization Society says practical- 
ly to the slaveholders and the slave party in 
the United States, ' We dont want to prevent 
your plundering 2,000,000 of our fellow sub- 
jects of their liberty and of the fruits of their 
toil ; although we know that by every princi- 
ple of law which does not utterly disgrace us 
by assimilating us to pirates, that they have 
as good and as true a right to the equal pro- 
tection of the law as we have ; and although 
we ourselves stand prepared to die, rather than 
submit even to a fragment of the intolerable 
load of oppression to which we are subjecting 
them — yet never mind — let that be — they have 
grown old in suffering, and we in iniquity — 
and we have nothing to do now but to speak 
peace, peace, to one another in our sins. But 
if any of their masters, whether from benevo- 
lence, an awakened conscience, or political or 
personal fear, should emancipate any, let us 
send them to Liberia — that is, in fact, let us 
give a sugar plum here and there to a few, 
while the many are living and dying unredress- 
ed— and while we are thus countenancing the 
atrocious iniquity beneath which they are* per- 
ishing.' In this aspect I find the American 
Colonization Society declaring itself a substi- 
tute for emancipation, and it is in this aspect 
that I contend with it, and that I proclaim it, 
as far as it has this character, no farther, a 
bane to the colored people, whether enslaved or 
free, and a snare and a disgrace to its country.' 



Prayer for Deliverance.— Eloquent Extract 



PRAYER FOR DELIVERANCE. 

The heart of every good man, whose eye 
meets this petition, will unite in its spirit and 
desires. We find it at the close of an impres- 
sive sermon on 'The guilt of forbearing to 
deliver British Colonial Slaves,' by Daniel 
Wilson, M. A. Vicar of Islington. 

' Do Thou be pleased, O God of mercy, to 
look upon us as a nation ! Do Thou move the 
heart of the people as the heart of one man ! 
Do Thou touch us with compunction! Do 
Thou permit us to repair this mighty injustice, 
before Thou smitest us for our refusal to do 
so ! Do Thou permit and enable us to break 
the chains of bondage, ere Thou burst them 
in thine indignation ! Do Thou assist us to 
rise above all difficulties and to resist all temp- 
tations to delay, and to set a pattern of justice 
at length to that world, which we have been 
injuring by our example of selfishness and 
cruelty ! Do Thou enable us to make what 
compensation we can to the oppressed negro 
race, for the wrongs we have done them ! 

' Suffer us not to go on in our provocations 
of thy divine Majesty ! Give us not over, as 
thou justly mightest, to hardness of heart. 
Let us not refuse, like Pharaoh of old, 
to let the people go, till thy vengeance is 
uplifted against us, till thou sendest confusion 
into our councils, a blight upon all our pros- 
perity, war in our borders, ruin in our national 
concerns, despair and death in our land ! 

' Let us yet, — O let us, by thy mercy, be 
still the people of Thy pasture ! Let truth and 
righteousness abound among us ! Let us set 
the captives free, and nobly trust to Thee in 
following the path of duty ! Let Thy gospel 
yet flourish among us ! 

'Let our nation be still the glory of the re- 
formed countries, the herald of liberty and 
peace and social order and religion, to the 
neighboring states ; the messenger of grace 
to the Jew and Gentile ; the dispenser of hap- 
piness and salvation to mankind! And then to 
thy name, thy mercy, thy long-suffering, thy 
power, thy grace, shall be the praise for ever 
and ever, through Jesus Christ our Lord.' 



ELOQUENT EXTRACT. 

As a specimen of the doctrines which are 
advocated by the English abolitionists, and 
the manner in which they are received by the 
people, we present the following extract from 
a powerful speech delivered at Edinburgh, 
Oct. 19, 1830, by Andrew Thomson, D. D. 
Of a truth, it contains ' thoughts that breathe 
and words that burn.' 

'I do not deny, Sir, notwithstanding what I 
have now said, that the evils of practical sla- 
very may be lessened. By parliamentary en- 
actments, by colonial arrangements, by ap- 
peals to the judgment and feelings of plant- 



ers, and by various other means, a certain de- 
gree of melioration may be secured. But I 
say, in the first place, that, with all that you 
can accomplish, or reasonably expect of miti- 
gation, you cannot alter the nature of slavery 
itself. With every improvement you have su- 
perinduced upon it, you have not made it less 
debasing, less cruel, less destructive in its es* 
sential character. The black man is still the 
property of the white man. And that one cir- 
cumstance not only implies in it the trans- 
gression of inalienable right and everlasting 
justice, but is the fruitful and necessary source 
of numberless mischiefs, the very thought of 
which harrows up the soul, and the infliction 
of which no superintendence of any govern- 
ment can either prevent or control. Mitigate 
and keep down the evil as much as you can, 
still it is there in all its native virulence, and 
still it will do its malignant work in spite of 
you. The improvements you have made are 
merely superficial. You have not reached the 
seat and vital spring of the mischief. You 
have only concealed in some measure, and 
for a time, its inherent enormity. Its essence 
remains unchanged and untouched, and is 
ready to unfold itself whenever a convenient 
season arrives, notwithstanding all your pre- 
caution, and all your vigilance, in those mani- 
fold acts of injustice and inhumanity, which 
are its genuine and its invariable fruits. You 
may white-wash the sepulchre — you may put 
upon it every adornment that fancy can sug- 
gest, — you may cover it over with all the 
flowers and evergreens that the garden or the 
fields can furnish, so that it will appear beau- 
tiful outwardly unto men. But it is a sepul- 
chre still, — full of dead men's bones and of all 
uncleanness. [Great cheering.) Disguise sla- 
very as you will, — put into the cup all the 
pleasing and palatable ingredients which you 
can discover in the wide range of nature and 
of art, — still it is a bitter, bitter, bitter draught, 
from which the understanding and the heart 
of every man, in whom nature works unso- 
phisticated and unbiassed, recoils with unut- 
terable aversion and abhorrence. [Immense 
cheering.) Why, Sir, slavery is the very Upas 
tree of the moral world, beneath whose pes- 
tiferous shade all intellect languishes, and all 
virtue dies. [Reiterated cheering.) And if you 
would get quit of the evil, you must go more 
thoroughly and effectually to work than you 
can ever do by any or by all of those pallia- 
tives, which are included under the term " mi- 
tigation." The foul sepulchre must be taken 
away. The cup of oppression must be dash- 
ed to pieces on the ground. The pestifer- 
ous tree must be cut down and eradicated ; 
it must be, root and branch of it, cast into the 
consuming fire, and its ashes scattered to the 
four winds of heaven. [Loud and long contin- 
ued cheering.) It is thus that you must deal 
with slavery. You must annihilate it, — anni- 
hilate it now, — and annihilate it for ever.' 



Safely of Immediate Abolition. 



IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. No. I. 

The idea of the immediate emancipation of the slaves 
is invariably associated, in the minds of many individ- 
uals, with rapine and slaughter. To a diseased imag- 
ination, it appears a monster, huge and infuriate, who, 
on breaking the chains that bind him, would rush 
through the land, crushing beneath his feet the bodies 
of men, women and children, and drinking their blood 
like water. Nothing can be more ridiculous. Were 
the proposition to liberate all the slaves, deprive them 
of all employment and instruction, persecute them with 
new rigor, and let them roam lawlessly about the coun- 
try, surely these effects might naturally be supposed to 
follow its adoption. But it neither means nor implies 
any such thing ; but simply that the slaves who are 
without the protection of law shall have that protection 
—that all property of man in man shalll instantly cease 
— and that a fair recompense shall be given to the 
slaves as free laborers. 

We propose to show, in a series of numbers, taken 
from a pamphlet recently published in England, facts 
proving the good conduct and prosperity of emanci- 
pated slaves, and the entire safety of immediately abol- 
ishing slavery in the United States. 

' Of the many persons who declare them- 
selves averse to slavery and yet afraid to join 
in measures for its abolition, some perhaps 
have not paid much attention to the instances 
of emancipation that have already taken place. 
If any such will take the trouble to read the 
following account of the effects of emancipa- 
tion as far as it has hitherto been tried, they 
will perhaps see that their fears on the subject 
are not justified by experience. 

' The History of Hayti when separated from 
the accidental circumstances attending it, fur- 
nishes irrefragable evidence of the safety and 
advantage of immediate emancipation. It is 
true that much blood was shed there during 
the French revolution ; but this was not ow- 
ing to the emancipation of the slaves, but was 
the consequence either of the * civil war 
which preceded the act of emancipation ; or 
of the atrocious attempt to restore slavery. 

' In September, 1793, Polvirel, one of the 
Commissioners sent to St. Domingo by the 
National Convention, issued a proclamation 
declaring the whole of the slaves in the island 
free. Colonel Malenfant, a slave proprietor, 
resident at the time in the island, thus de- 
scribes the effects of this sudden measure.f 
" After this public act of emancipation, the 
Negroes remained quiet both in the south and 
in the west, and they continued to work upon 
all the plantations. There were estates which 
had neither owners nor managers resident 
upon them, yet upon these estates, though 
abandoned, the negroes continued their labors 
where there were any even inferior agents 
to guide them, and on those estates where no 



* See this point fully proved inClarkson's Thoughts 
on the necessity of improving the Condition of the 
Slaves, &c. pp. 19 to 29. — Hatchard. 

t Memoire Historique et Politique des Colonies, &c. 
p. 62. 



white men were left to direct them, they be- 
took themselves to the planting of provisions ; 
but upon all the plantations where the whites 
resided, the blacks continued to labor as qui- 
etly as before." Colonel Malenfant says,* 
that when many of his neighbors, proprietors 
or managers, were in prison, the negroes of 
their plantations came to him to beg him to di- 
rect them in their work. " Iff you will take 
care not to talk to them of the restoration of 
slavery, but talk to them of freedom, you may 
with this word chain them down to their la- 
bor. How did Toussaint succeed ?-— How did 
I succeed before his time in the plain of the 
Culde-Sae on the plantation Gouraud, during 
more than eight months after liberty had been 
granted to the slaves ? Let those who knew 
me at that time, let the blacks themselves, be 
asked: they will all reply that not a single 
negro upon that plantation, consisting of more 
than four hundred and fifty laborers, refused 
to work : and yet this plantation was thought 
to be under the worst discipline and the slaves 
the most idle of any in the plain. I inspired 
the same activity into three other plantations 
of which I had the management. If all the 
negroes had come from Africa within six 
months, if they had the love of independence 
that the Indians have, I should own that force 
must be employed ; but ninety-nine out of a 
hundred of the blacks are aware that without 
labor they cannot procure the things that are 
necessary for them ; that there is no other 
method of satisfying their wants and their 
tastes. They know that they must work, they 
wish to do so, and they will do so." 

' Such was the conduct of the negroes for 
the first nine months after their liberation, or 
up to the middle of 1794. In the latter part 
of 1796, Malenfant says, " The colony was 
flourishing under Toussaint, the whites lived 
happily and in peace upon their estates, and 
the negroes continued to work for them." 
General Lecroix who published his " Memoirs 
for a History of St. Domingo" in 1819, says 
that in 1797 the most wonderful progress had 
been made in agriculture. " The Colony," 
says he, "marched as by enchantment to- 
wards its ancient splendor : cultivation pros- 
pered ; every day produced perceptible proof 
of its progress." General Vincent,! who was 
a general of brigade of artillery in St. Do- 
mingo and a proprietor of estates in the island, 
was sent by Toussaint to Paris in 1801 to lay 
before the Directory the new constitution 
which had been agreed upon in St. Domingo. 
He arrived in France just at the moment of 
the peace of Amiens, and found that Bona- 
parte was preparing an armament for the pur- 
pose of restoring slavery in St. Domingo. 
He remonstrated against the expedition ; he 
stated that it was totally unnecessary and 



* Memoire p. 307. 
t Memoire p. 125. 
X Clarkson's Thoughts p. 2. 



6 



Safety of Immediate Abolition. 



therefore criminal, for that every thing was 
g'oing on well in St. Domingo. The proprie- 
tors were in peaceable possession of their es- 
tates ; cultivation was making rapid pro- 
gress ; the blacks were industrious and beyond 
example happy. He conjured him, therefore, 
not to reverse this beautiful state of things ; 
but his efforts were ineffectual, and the expe- 
dition arrived upon the shores of St. Domin- 
go. At length, however, the French were 
driven from the island. Till that time the 
planters had retained their property, and then 
it was, and not tdl then, that they lost their all. 
In 1804 Dessalines was proclaimed Emperor; 
in process of time a great part of the black 
troops were disbanded, and returned to culti- 
vation again. From that time to this, there 
has been no want of subordination or indus- 
try among them. 

' The following account of the character 
and condition of the negroes of Hayti, at a 
later period, is taken from " Sketches of Hay- 
ti " by Mr. Harvey, who during the latter part 
of the reign of Christophe spent a considera- 
ble time at Cape Francois, the capital of his 
dominions. "The cultivators who formed the 
great mass of the population, resided on or 
near the plantations on which they were ap- 
pointed to labor. A great proportion of them 
were engaged in cultivating the estates of 
the king; if soldiers, they were fed and clothed 
.at his expense ; if regular cultivators, they re- 
ceived such a share of the produce as was 
fully adequate to yield them a competent 
maintenance. Others were in the employ of 
the nobles and officers, who received either 
stated wages or such a portion of the article 
.they cultivated as was deemed a sufficient re- 
ward for their industry, were equally supplied 
with whatever could contribute to their com- 
fort. And those who by their exertions and 
.economy were enabled to procure small spots 
■of land of their own or to hold the smaller 
plantations at an annual rent, were ddigently 
engaged in cultivating coffee, sugar, and other 
articles, which they disposed of to the inhab- 
itants of the adjacent towns and villages. It 
was an interesting sight to behold this class 
•of the Haytians, now in possession of their 
freedom, coming in groups to the market near- 
est which they resided, bringing the produce 
of their industry for sale ; and afterwards re- 
turning, carrying back the necessary articles 
of living which the disposal of their commo- 
dities had enabled them to purchase ; all evi- 
dently cheerful and happy. Nor could it fail 
to occur to the mind that their present condi- 
tion furnished the most satisfactory answer to 
that objection to the general emancipation of 
-slaves, founded on their alleged unfitness to 
value and improve the benefits of liberty. 

'Though of the same race and possessing 
the same general traits of character as the 
negroes of the other West India islands, they 
are already distinguished from them by habits 



of industry and activity such as slaves are 
seldom known to exhibit. As they would not 
suffer, so they do not require, the attendance 
of one acting in the capacity of a driver with 
the instrument of punishment in his hand. As 
far as I had an opportunity of ascertaining 
from what fell under my own observation, and 
from what I gathered from other European 
residents, I am persuaded of one general fact 
which on account of its importance I shall 
state in the most explicit terms, viz. : that the 
Haytians employed in cultivating the planta- 
tions, as well as the rest of the population, per- 
form as much work in a given time as they 
were accustomed to do during their subjection 
to the French. And if we may judge of their 
future improvement by the change which has 
been already effected, it may be reasonably 
anticipated that Hayti will ere long contain a 
population not inferior in their industry to that 
of any civdized nation in the world. 

' While the interior of the island was in 
this improving state, and its inhabitants were 
peaceful and industrious, Cape Francois and 
other towns presented scenes of the utmost 
order and activity : the great majority of the 
inhabitants of Cape Francois consisted of 
trades-people and mechanics, the former of 
whom were supplied by the resident mer- 
chants with cloths, linens, silks and other man- 
ufactures, which they sold to the natives in 
small quantities. Their business was seldom 
so great as to enable them to amass fortunes, 
but it afforded them ample means of support. 
Towards strangers who entered their shops, 
whether for the purpose of making purchases 
or not, they were invariably and remarkably 
civil ; a trait in the character of Christophe's 
subjects which I believe to have been uni- 
versal. The mechanics, though many of them 
were deficient in skill from having been im- 
perfectly instructed, were all enabled by their 
industry to gain a competent maintenance. 
On the whole, the scene which Cape Francois 
presented was as interesting as it was in 
many respects surprising. In few places of 
commerce could there be seen greater regu- 
larity in the despatch of business, greater 
ddigence displayed by those engaged in it, or 
more evident marks of a prosperous state of 
things. Every man had some calling to occu- 
py his attention; instances of idleness or in- 
temperance were of rare occurrence, the most 
perfect subordination prevailed, and all ap- 
peared contented and happy. A foreigner 
would have found it difficult to persuade him- 
self on his first entering the place, that the 
people he now beheld so submissive, industri- 
ous and contented, were the same people who 
a few years before had escaped from the 
shackles of slavery." 

' A gentleman who had been for upwards of 
twenty years past a general merchant in 
Hayti, frequently crossing to Europe and 
America, gave the following account of the 



Letters from James Cropper. 



condition of the Haytians to Captain Stuart 
at Belfast last winter. The present popula- 
tion he supposes consists of at least seven 
hundred thousand. He said that there was 
very universal happiness amongst them, — 
and that though their conduct was not unex- 
ceptionable, yet there was a less proportion of 
such crimes as disturb the public peace in 
Hayti, and less distress, than in any other 
country of his knowledge. That they ob- 
tained abundance by their own labor. There 
were no paupers except the decrepid and 
aged: that the people were very charitable, 
hospitable and kind, very respectful to Euro- 
peans, temperate, grateful, faithful, orderly 
and submissive, easily governable, lively and 
contented, good mechanics, and that no cor- 
poral punishments are allowed. 



LETTERS FROM JAMES CROPPER. 

In 1831, the American Colonization Society 
deputed an Agent to England, to secure the 
charities of her philanthropists for the promo- 
tion of its Utopian scheme. As the Friends 
in that country are numerous, affluent and in- 
fluential, it was an artful stroke of policy, on 
the part of the Society, in selecting an indi- 
vidual for this agency belonging to this re- 
spectable body, named Elliott Cresson. For 
nearly two years he has been actively engag- 
ed in England, and has succeeded in obtain- 
ing a large amount of money. To those who 
are familiar with the sentiments of our trans- 
atlantic brethren on the subject of emancipa- 
tion, it is well known that the Colonization 
Society deprecates the prevalence of those 
sentiments in this country as subversive of the 
public peace and safety ; and that the princi- 
ples of the Society, as promulgated among 
us, are held in abhorrence by the British abo- 
litionists. How, then, shall we account for 
the success of Mr. Cresson ? The reason is 
obvious — he has triumphed, it pains us to state, 
by a bold deception! Many of the state- 
ments which he has put forth in England, are 
not true. Take, for example, his monstrous 
fabrication, that the colony at Liberia con- 
sisted of twenty-five thousand settlers, of 
whom hventy-five hundred were emancipated 
slaves! and that, for every £7,10, contributed 
to the Society, one slave would lose his fet- 
ters ! He has represented the Colonization 
Society as aiming directly at the overthrow 
of slavery ! Thus it is that he has found fa- 
vor in the eyes of the noble-hearted aboli- 
tionists of England. Relying on his decep- 
tive assurances, they have manifested a spirit 
of liberality worthy of those who hold no com- 
promise with oppression. 



In the fiftieth number of the Liberator, for 
December 15th, 1832, the following interest- 
ing and important Letters are published, from 
James Cropper, of Liverpool, one of the most 
distinguished Friends and Philanthropists in 
Great Britain. His opinions are entitled to 
great consideration, as expressed below. 

Buxton, 8 mo. 31, 1832. 

William Lloyd Garrison : 

Esteemed Friend — I have thy letter of the 
7th May, which was highly acceptable. The 
state of my health, which required that I 
should abstain as much as possible from writ- 
ing or thinking on deeply interesting subjects, 
has induced me to be chiefly from home for 
several months past, not only for the benefit 
of the Waters, but also a change of air, and 
also quiet, which I could not have had at 
home : and this thou wilt accept as my apolo- 
gy for not writing sooner. 

I have been aware of thy unwearied efforts 
to promote the best interests of the African 
race, and feel much obliged by the proofs af- 
forded in the writings sent to me, with which I 
agree in sentiment ; and I trust the time is fast 
approaching,when the real friends of the Negro 
race will be undeceived, and see, in its naked 
deformity, that most abominable attempt to per- 
petuate slavery, under the title of the American 
Colonization Society. The real good done by 
an establishment of free civilized men on the 
coast of Africa, has deceived many real friends- 
of humanity — whilst the real intention of the 
plan was concealed. But men must be shal- 
low indeed, who can much longer be deceived 
by such a scheme as the sending of your 
whole black population to the coast of Africa.. 
It is quite plain to every man of discernment, 
that to whatever extent the slave population 
might be reduced, it would render those wha 
remained more valuable. Slave owners know 
that slavery can only exist where men are- 
scarce ; for it would be impossible, where they 
are as plentiful as in Ireland, to establish sla- 
very, even if allowed by law. In our Colo- 
nies, this scarcity is kept up, by destroying 
their lives by cruelty and oppression. In yours, 
it is proposed to transport them. I trust thy 
writings will contribute to arouse, more and 
more, the energies of your free black popula- 
tion to a due sense of their interests and du- 
ties ; for, assuredly, slavery cannot last in the 
United States, when their civilization and im- 
provement are farther advanced. They feel 
an attachment to their native land, and I trust 
they will remain in it, in spite of the efforts of 
these enemies of the human race, and prove 
the best means of breaking asunder the chains 
of their brethren in slavery. But on this sub- 
ject, I enclose an extract of a letter I have 
just written to Arnold Buffum. 

All are coming round here to the simple and 
plain ground of immediate abolition. Go 
on, then, with your unwearied efforts, and you 



Letter to Thomas Clarksoil. 



will soon follow in our train ; which is the sin- 
cere and ardent wish of 

Thy friend, 

JAMES CROPPER. 
For some time past, the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety have had Agents delivering- Lectures in 
different parts of the country, preparatory to 
our next Election, and great success has at- 
tended them. The West Indians are em- 
ploying an Agent to answer our Lecturer in 
Liverpool and Manchester. All this is doing 
good, by exciting an increased interest; and 
when people can be brought to hear, truth and 
justice must gain ground. j. c. 



Extract of a letter from, James Cropper to 
Arnold Buff am. 
' I did indeed feel it as a cordial to my heart 
to see a Society established within the United 
States, advocating the immediate and entire 
abolition of Slavery. I have for some time 
deeply lamented the chilling influence, on 
the minds even of the real friends of the Ne- 
gro, of the American Colonization Society. 
An estaVishment on the coast of Africa of 
those blacks who really go there from their 
own free choice, is what every friend of hu- 
manity must approve, and must rejoice in its 
•success. This has served as a lure, and many 
of the real friends of humanity have thereby 
been led into the support of a scheme the 
most diabolical that ever entered into the heart 
of man to devise ; but such delusions have 
"but their day, and I rejoice in believing that 
its frightful iniquity is becoming evident, and 
that the friends of humanity will soon has- 
ten to disavow all connexion Avith it. Hap- 
pily, however, the weakness and folly of the 
shallow pretext, that it is to remove all the 
African race to the soil of their ancestors, and 
to give them freedom, cannot long deceive 
any one. I am of opinion it would cost more 
than £150,000,000 sterling to purchase and 
Temove the whole black population, (even if 
done at once) — and if delayed while they in- 
crease, it would cost much more. But even 
if this were done, let it never be forgotten 
that if these cultivators of the soil were sent 
away, the land they cultivate would be en- 
tirely worthless, and this would not be less 
loss to the country than £100,000,000 more. 
Was ever such an act of national suicide be- 
fore proposed? The American people must 
remove from their minds the unchristian preju- 
dices against the color of these their fellow men. 
They must make them free at once : let them 
then become their tenants and the independ- 
ent cultivators of the soil, and I feel no ques- 
tion that the land rents from the Blacks will 
soon be far greater than their revenues from 
the land and slaves together. Then they may 
rest assured of the peace of their own homes, 
resting on the solid foundation of the happi- 
ness of their emancipated tenantry. In this 
country, the wickedness and folly of the sys- 



tem of slavery are becoming more and more 
known and abhorred, and all seem to be rap- 
idly coming round to advocate immediate abo- 
lition ; and I trust you will not be very long 
behind us. 

' The proposal of gradual abolition, which 
was but gradually returning to justice, had a 
chilling influence on our exertions, so that 
there was no difference but in degree between 
the most inveterate advocate of slavery and 
the gradual abolitionist, for all condemned 
slavery in the abstract. But now this delu- 
sion is gone, this partnership in crime has 
ended, and we are pursuing a direct, straight 
forward course. 

' My mind has been turned to writing an ar- 
ticle against the schemes of the Colonization 
Society, and I should have done it before this 
(probably) if my health had permitted — but I 
rejoice in believing it will not be wanted. My 
zealous and devoted friend Capt. Stuart has 
published an excellent pamphlet, entitled 
' Remarks on the Colony of Liberia, and the 
American Colonization Society,' which very 
ably exposes this scheme.' 



LETTER TO THOMAS CLARKSON. 

Boston, (New-England,) 12 mo. 20, 1832. 
My dear friend : 

A deep sense of duty to the cause in which 
thou hast been so long, so ardently, and so 
successfully engaged, prompts me to address 
thee, in relation to thy letter of Dec. 1, 1831, 
addressed to Elliott Cresson, on the subject of 
the American Colonization Society. That 
letter has been published in a garbled form in 
the African Repository of last month. Those 
parts in which thou expressest thy views of 
the designs of the Society, as represented to 
thee by one, who, it seems, is a fit Agent for 
a Society which can succeed only by strata- 
gem and deception, are omitted, and the place 
supplied by editorial statements, calculated to 
produce the impression that thou approvest 
the wicked devices of that institution ; and 
thus thy name is used in support of a scheme 
for banishing three hundred thousand of the 
free citizens of the United States to Africa, 
who form the connecting link in the chain of 
human society in this country, between the 
free white citizens and the slaves, and serve 
as conductors to the minds of the slaves of the 
spirit of freedom and the principles of human 
rights. 

In the first paragraph in thy letter, thou 
hast stated that the object of the society seems 
to be, ' first, to assist in the emancipation of all 
the slaves now in the United States.' Taking 
this view of the design of the Society, it is 
not surprising that thou shouldest so far ap- 
prove its object as thou hast expressed in said 
letter. But if this was really its design, why 
did not the Secretary of the Colonization So- 
ciety, when he published this letter, give thy 
views of it in thy own words ? Surely he 



Letter to Thomas Clarkson. 



could find no language more appropriate or 
explicit ; but this, it seems, would not answer 
his purpose — this would have shown what were 
the principles and measures which thou 
wouldst approve, which are widely different 
from the principles and measures of that So- 
ciety of slaveholders. The Editor of the Re- 
pository has, therefore, substituted his own 
views of the Society's design, and then given 
such parts only of thy letter as suited his pur- 
pose, to lead the public mind into a belief that 
thou didst approve that design. 

Omitting the first paragraph of thy letter, he 
has stated, in an editorial introduction, that 
thou dost 'consider the object of the Society 
two-fold ; first, to promote the voluntary emi- 
gration to Africa of the colored population of 
the United States.' Why is this deceptive 
representation of a plan which thou wouldst 
approve, now published in the African Repos- 
itory, almost a year after the date of thy let- 
ter? Is it not because the Editor has recently 
learned that the persecuting spirit of that in- 
stitution, and its design and tendency to 
strengthen and perpetuate the slave system, 
have been -detected by that noble band of 
Christian philanthropists, who, in your coun- 
try, are engaged in pleading the cause of the 
oppressed ? Had thy letter to E. Cresson been 
judged favorable to the cause of colonization, 
as understood and practised by the American 
Colonization Society, is it not reasonable to 
suppose that it would have been published en- 
tire in the Repository when it first made its 
appearance ? 

It is perfectly evident to any one who un- 
derstands the true character of that Society, 
that thy letter gives no support to its princi- 
ples and measures ; but, on the contrary, that 
it breathes a spirit of Christian philanthropy 
in behalf of the suffering slave, which enters 
not into the designs of that institution. Be- 
sides, the Editor of the Repository was un- 
doubtedly well aware that it would not do to 
publish, in this country, the other representa- 
tions, which, it seems, had been made to thee, 
in order to procure thy name for the promotion 
of the unhallowed designs of the colonization 
scheme. Thy statement, therefore, of the 
representation, that for every £7,10, a slave 
would receive his freedom, and be colonized, 
is entirely omitted in the Repository — a rep- 
resentation, which, for unblushing audacity, 
has rarely been equalled by any man who had 
any regard for his own reputation, and which 
is sufficiently answered by a reference to the 
Constitution of the Society, which declares 
that 'the object to which its attention shall be 
exclusively directed shall be to promote a 
plan for colonizing (with their consent) the 
free people of color residing in this country, 
on the coast of Africa, or at such other place 
as Congress shall deem most expedient.' And 
also by a reference to the fact, that with all 
their resources up to the last Annual Report, 
VOL. I. 



only three hundred and eighty-eight persons, 
who had ever been slaves, had been emanci- 
pated and carried to Liberia ; and it is believ- 
ed that but a very small part of these were 
emancipated through the influence of the Col- 
onization Society. It is no part of the plan 
of the Society to promote emancipations : on 
the contrary, 'they maintain that individual 
freedom and individual happiness are properly 
subordinate to the public good.' And again, 
' that no slave ought to receive his freedom, 
except on condition of being excluded, not 
merely from the State which sets him loose, 
but from the country.' Again, 'they regard 
slavery as a legitimate system, which they 
have neither inclination, interest, nor ability 
to disturb.' The object of the Society is most 
clearly set forth in the speech of the Hon. 
Mr. Archer, of Virginia, as published in the 
last Annual Report, which, he says, 'is to pro- 
vide and keep open a drain for the excess of 
increase beyond the occasions of profitable 
employment' — to prevent the depreciation in 
the value of the slaves, which must otherwise 
inevitably follow their disproportionate multi- 
plication, being, in the slave states, double 
that of the whites. I feel the most perfect 
confidence that no man in England, and es- 
pecially that none of those who have so nobly 
espoused the negro's cause, will give their 
names in support of such a scheme. 

When, too, we look at the simple facts in 
relation to the progress of the colony in Libe- 
ria, our hearts sicken at the thought that good 
men have been deceived and led to contribute 
to the establishment of a colony there for 
supplying the natives with ardent spirits, and 
for making war with them on the slightest 
pretences, murdering the people, and burning 
their towns. We cannot see, in such meas- 
ures, any ground for hope that the cause of 
civilization and Christianity will be thereby 
promoted. Indeed, judging the future by the 
past, we see no reason why the colonists them- 
selves are not as likely as any other people on 
the face of the earth to engage in the African 
slave trade. When they see the most prom- 
inent men in the Society which sent them 
thither making a business of buying and sell- 
ing men, women and children in the United 
States, why should not they follow the exam- 
ple, and supply the ships which visit that coast 
for the purpose of obtaining slaves ? Is it ra- 
tional to suppose that a Society, which de- 
clares that it has no inclination to disturb a 
system under which one sixth part of the peo- 
ple of the American States are regarded as 
property ; and as articles of commerce, are 
bought and sold like dumb beasts, and are de- 
prived of every right and privilege which 
Heaven in mercy designed for the children of 
men, can have any desire from oth^r than in- 
terested motives to suppress the African slave 
trade ? It is net known that an individual mem- 
ber of the Colonization Society hag ever 
2 



Census of the United States. — Why and Because. 



emancipated a single slave to go to the colo- 
ny, although it is somewhat extraordinary that 
they have not done so for the sake of appear- 
ances. 

My object, in making this communication, 
is, to obtain from thy hand a statement of thy 
views of the colonization scheme, not as pre- 
sented by interested agents, but as exhibited 
in the authentic publications of the Society. 
I would particularly refer to the two last Re- 
ports of the Society, and to an article publish- 
ed in the North American Review for July, 
1832 — a copy of which I send with this letter 
to our dear friend James Cropper. 

With the best wishes for the continuance 
of thy useful life, accompanied with the bless- 
ing of health, and that happiness which is the 
reward of a life devoted to the cause of jus- 
tice and humanity, I have the pleasure to sub- 
scribe myself, thy friend, and I hope a humble 
coadjutor in the cause of emancipation. 

ARNOLD BUFFUM. 



CENSUS OF THE COLORED POPULA- 
TION OF THE U. S. 



Vermont, 


SLAVES. 




FREE BLACKS 

881 


Massachusetts, 





7,045 


New-Hampshire, 





602 


Maine, 





1,171 


Ohio, 





9,657 


New- York, 


00 


44,869 


Indiana, 


4 


3,629 


Rhode Island, 


14 


3,564 


Michigan Territory, 32 


261 


Connecticut, 


25 


8,047 


Illinois, 


747 


1,637 


Pennsylvania, 


403 


37,930 


New-Jersey, 


2,254 


18,303 


Delaware, 


3,292 


15,855 


Arkansas Territory, 4,576 


141 


District of Columb 


la, 6,119 


6,152 


Florida Territory, 


15,501 


844 


Missouri, 


25,091 


569 


Mississippi, 


65,659 


519 


Maryland, 


102,994 


52,938 


Louisiana, 


109,588 


16,710 


Alabama, 


117,549 


1,572 


Tennessee, 


*41,603 


4,555 


Kentucky, 


165,213 


4,917 


Georgia, 


217,531 


2,486 


North Carolina, 


245,601 


19,543 


South Carolina, 


315,401 


7,921 


Virginia, 


469,757 


47,348 



2,010,629 319,666 

[fJP By the census of 1830, 4 slaves are reported in 
Massachusetts, 5 in New Hampshire, 6 in Maine, 6 
in Ohio, and 76 in New York. But as no slaves 
were reported in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, 
Maine, and Ohio, by the census of 1820, and it is 
admitted on all hands that slavery cannot legally exist 
in any one of these states, we have thought it would be 
a misrepresentation to report any slaves as existing 
in them. In New-York it is well known that sla- 
very was totally abolished since the census of 1820, 



therefore there can be no slave there now. The slaves 
reported in Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan, are held 
contrary to the laws of the United Slates, and aie 
therefore free. 



CENSUS OF 


1830. 






FREE WHITE PERSONS. 






Males' — under 5 years of age, 


972,194 






of 5 and under 10, 


782,637 






of 10 


' 15, 


671,688 






of 15 


' 20, 


575,614 






of 20 


' 30, 


951,902 






of 30 


< 40, 


592,596 






of 40 


' 50, 


369,370 






of 50 


' 60, 


230,500 






of 60 


< 70, 


134,910 






of 70 


' 80, 


58,136 






of 80 


' 90, 


15,945 






of 90 


< 100, 


1,993 






of 100 and upwards, 


274- 


—5,358,759 




Females — under 5 years of age 


920,104 






of 5 and under 10, 


751,649 






of 10 


' 15, 


639,063 






of 15 


' 20, 


597,713 






of 20 


' 30, 


915,662 






of 30 


' 40, 


555,565 






of 40 


' 50, 


355,425 






of 50 


1 60, 


225,928 






of 60 


70, 


130,866 






of 70 


' 80, 


58,034 






of 80 


' 90, 


17,372 






of 90 


100, 


2,484 






of 100 and upwards, 


234- 


-^5,167,299 




Total number of Free Whites . . . 


10,526,058 




SLAVES. 








Males — under 10 years of age, 


353,845 






of 10 and under 24, 


313,676 






of 24 " 36, - 


185,654 






of 36 " 55, 


118,996 






of 55 " 100, 


41,456 






of 100 and upwards, 


718- 


—1,014,345 




Females under 10 years, 


347,566 






of 10 and under 24, 


308,793 






of 24 " 36, 


186,082 






of 36 " 55, 


111,753 






of 55 " 100, 


41,422 






of 100 and upwards, 


668 


QQ6 984. 










Total number of Slaves 




2,010,629 


f 


FREE COLORED PERSONS. 






Males — under 10 years, 


48,737 






of 10 and under 24, 


43,126 






of 24 " 36, 


27,629 






of 36 " 55, 


22,262 






of 55 " 100, 
of 100 and upwards, 
Females under 10 years, 


11,375 

266- 


1 « AQIj 




47,347 


l— " XtJOjXij'J 




of 10 and under 24, 


48,125 






of 24 " 36, 


32,504 






of 36 " 55, 


24,266 






of 55 " 100, 


13,369 






of 100 and upwards, 


361- 

'ersons, 


165,962 




Total number of Free Colored 1 


319,467 




Total aggregate 


)f the United States, 


12,856,154 





WHY AND BECAUSE, 

APPLIED TO SOUTHERN SLAVERY. 

The following little article is modified from 
a trans-atlantic publication : 

JfTiy is the condition of the Black popula- 
tion at the South so much brought under the 
view of the public at this time ? 



Plain Questions to Plain Men. — Letter to George Washington. 



Because this Black population, 2,000,000 in 
number, are equal in the eye of the Creator, 
and in the eye of the law, with the White 
population of our country. 

Why is the condition of the Black popula- 
tion in the south worse than that of the labor- 
ing population in Europe ? 

Because the Black is a slave. 

The White is a freeman. 

The Black works without pay, and is often 
worked most when he is worst provided for. 

The more the White is worked, the more 
he is paid. 

The Black is driven at his work with the 
cart-whip. 

The White can rest his limbs when he 
likes. 

The Black at crop or harvest time is made 
to work not only all the day, but half the 
night also. 

The White at harvest time Avorks harder, 
and gets better paid. 

The Black's master may flog him at pleas- 
ure, for a fault or no fault. 

The White's master dare not raise his hand 
against him. 

The Black may at any time be sold like an 
ox or an ass. 

The White can sell his master as easily as 
his master can him. 

The Black's child is the absolute property 
of his master, and may be torn from home for 
ever to pay his master's debts. 

The White man's home can never be in- 
vaded. 

Why are planters void of humanity towards 
their slaves, while towards White people they 
shew no want of courtesy ? 

Because they consider the Black as a thing, 
and not as a human being. — He came into 
their hands by violence and robbery ; and be- 
ing stowed on shipboard as goods, the planter 
still believes him to be such. 



A FEW PLAIN QUESTIONS TO 
PLAIN MEN. 

The following pithy questions, although pro- 
pounded by the British abolitionists to the 
people of Great Britain, are worthy of consid- 
eration by the American people : 

Can a slave marry without his owner's con- 
sent ? If so, quote the law : give chapter and 
verse. 

Can a slave prevent the sale of his wife if 
the owner pleases ? If so, quote the law. 

Can a slave prevent the sale of his own 
child, if his owner pleases ? If so, quote the 
law. 

Can a slave with impunity refuse to flog his 
wife, with her person all exposed, if his own- 
er pleases to command him ? If so, quote the 
law. 

Can a slave obtain redress if his master de- 
prives him of his goods ? If so, quote the law. 



Can a slave attend either public or private 
worship, without the risk of punishment, if his 
master forbids him ? If so, quote the law. 

These are plain questions, which every 
slave-owner knows can only be truly answer- 
ed in one way. 

When then any individual gets up to tell 
you how well the slaves are treated, or how 
happy under such circumstances slaves may 
be, tell him that he insults your understand- 
ing, that he outrages your republican feeling, 
and that he dishonors God. 

A Husband and a Father. 



EXPOSTULATORY LETTER TO GEO. 
WASHINGTON. 

'The errors of great men,' says an eloquent 
writer, ' are doubly enormous : enormous as 
they contradict the tenor of their lives — and 
enormous by the force of example and the 
species of palliation which they afford to vul- 
gar criminals, whose vices are unredeemed 
by one single virtue.' 

Unhappily, these errors, owing to a crim- 
inal timidity or fear of plain dealing, are too 
often suffered to pass without rebuke ; until 
they become almost sacred as virtues in the 
estimation of loose moralists, and so are in- 
cluded among the privileges of human action. 
He who imitates the prophet Nathan, in his 
faithful conduct towards the erring David, and 
tells the great transgressor of his crimes, sub- 
jects himself to the charge ' of impudence, 
malice, or slander. Nevertheless, 'faithful 
are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of 
an enemy are deceitful.' 

The following Letter was written in 1796, 
by an eminent philanthropist in Liverpool. 
Although it was silently returned, may we not 
hope that its pungent truths (associated, how- 
ever, with the most liberal concessions) sunk 
too deeply into the heart of the 'Father of his 
Country ' to be eradicated, and induced him, 
on his decease three years afterwards, to 
manumit nearly all his slaves ? 

In July last, the following Letter was trans- 
mitted to the person to whom it was address- 
ed, and a few weeks ago it was returned un- 
der cover without a syllable in reply. As 
children that are crammed with confectionary, 
have no relish for plain food"; so men in pow- 
er, who are seldom addressed but in the sweet 
tones of adulation, are apt to be disgusted 
with the plain and salutary language of truth. 
To offend was not the intention of the wri- 
ter ; yet the President has evidently been ir- 
ritated : this, however, is not a bad symptom 
— for irritation, causelessly excited, will fre- 



.* 



Letter to George Washington, 



quently subside into shame ; and to use the 
language of the moralist, ' Where thera is 
yet shame, there may in time be virtue.' 
Liverpool, February 20, 1797. 

I/ETTER TO GEORGE WASHINGTON. 

It will generally be admitted, Sir, and per- 
haps with justice, that the great family ol 
mankind- were never more benefitted by the 
military abilities of any individual, than by 
those which you displayed during the memor- 
able American contest. Your country was 
injured, your services were called for, you im- 
mediately arose, and after performing the most 
conspicuous part in that blood-stained trage- 
dy, you again became a private citizen, and 
unambitiously retired to your farm. There 
was more of true greatness in this procedure 
than the modern world, at least, had ever be- 
held ; and while public virtue is venerated by 
your countrymen, a conduct so exalted will 
not be forgotten. The effects which your re- 
volution will have upon the world are incalcu- 
lable. By the flame which you have kindled, 
every oppressed nation will be enabled to per- 
ceive its fetters ; and when man once knows 
that he is enslaved, the business of emancipa- 
tion is half performed. France has already 
burst her shackles, neighboring nations will 
in time prepare, and another half century may 
behold the present besotted Europe without a 
Peer, without a Hierarchy, and without a 
Despot. If men were enlightened, revolutions 
would be bloodless ; but how are men to be 
enlightened, when it is the interest of gover- 
nors to keep the governed in ignorance ? 'To 
enlighten men,' says your old correspondent, 
Arthur Young, 'is to make them bad subjects.' 
Hurricanes spread devastation; yet hurricanes 
are not only transient, but give salubrity to 
the torrid regions, and are quickly followed by 
azure skies and calm sunshine. Revolutions, 
too, for a time, may produce turbulence ; yet 
revolutions clear the political atmosphere, and 
contribute greatly to the comfort and happi- 
ness of the human race. What you yourself 
have lived to witness in the United States, is 
sufficient to elucidate my position. In your 
rides along the banks of your favorite Poto- 
mac, in your frequent excursions through your 
own extensive grounds, how gratifying must 
be your sensations on beholding the animated 
scenery around you, and how pleasurable 
must be your feelings, on reflecting that your 
country is now an asylum for mankind : that 
her commerce, her agriculture, and her popu- 
lation, are greater than at any former period : 
and that this prosperity is the natural result of 
those rights which you defended against an 
abandoned cabinet, with all that ability which 
men, who unsheathe the sword in the cause 
<of 'human nature, will, I trust, ever display. 
Where Liberty is, there man walks erect, and 
puts forth all his powers ; while Slavery, like a 
iotipego, benumbs the finest energies of the 



soul. But it is not to the Commander ill 
Chief of the American forces, nor to the Pres- 
ident of the United States, that I have aught 
to address ; my business is with George Wash- 
ington, of Mount Vernon, in Virginia, a man 
who, notwithstanding his hatred of oppres- 
sion and his ardent love of liberty, holds at 
this moment hundreds of his fellow beings in 
a state of abject bondage. Yes, you, who 
conquered under the banners of freedom — 
you, who are now the first magistrate of a free 
people, are (strange to relate) a slaveholder. 
That a Liverpool merchant should endeavor 
to enrich himself by such a business, is not a 
matter of surprise ; but that you, an enlight- 
ened character, strongly enamored of your 
own freedom — you, who, if the British forces 
had succeeded in the Eastern States, would 
have retired, with a few congenial spirits, to 
the rude fastnesses of the Western wilder- 
ness, there to have enjoyed that blessing, with- 
out which a Paradise would be disgusting, and 
with which the most savage region is not with- 
out its charms ; that you, I say, should con- 
tinue a slaveholder, a proprietor of human 
flesh and blood, creates in many of your Brit- 
ish friends both astonishment and regret. You 
are a republican, an advocate for the dissem- 
ination of knowledge, and for universal jus- 
tice : — where then are the arguments by which 
this shameless dereliction of principle can be 
supported ? Your friend Jefferson has endeav- 
ored to show that the negroes are an inferior 
order of beings ; but surely you will not have 
recourse to such a subterfuge. Your slaves, 
it may be urged, are well treated. That I 
deny — man can never be well treated who is 
deprived of his rights. They are well cloth- 
ed, well lodged, &c. Feed me with ambro- 
sia, and wash it down with nectar ; yet what 
are these, if Liberty be wanting ? You took 
up arms in defence of the rights of man. Your 
negroes are men : — where then are the rights 
of your negroes ? They have been inured to 
slavery, and are not fit for freedom. Thus it 
was said of the French ; but where is the 
man of unbiassed common sense, who will as- 
sert that the French republicans of the pres- 
sent day are not fit for freedom ? It has been 
said too by your apologists, that your feelings 
are inimical to slavery, that you are induced 
to acquiesce in it at present, merely from mo- 
tives of policy. The only true policy is jus- 
tice ; and he who regards the consequences 
of an act, rather than the justice of it, gives 
no very exalted proof of the g-reatness of his 
character. But if your feelings be actually 
repugnant to slavery, then are you more cul- 
pable than the callous-hearted planter, who 
iaughs at what he calls the pitiful whining of 
the abolitionists, because he believes slavery 
to be justifiable : while you persevere in a 
system which your conscience tells you to be 
wrong. If we call the man obdurate, who 
cannot perceive the atrociousness of slavery, 



Letter to George Washington. 



what epithets does he deserve, who, while he 
does perceive its atrociousness, continues to 
be a proprietor of" slaves ? Nor is it likely 
that your own unfortunate negroes are the 
only sufferers by your adhering to this nefa- 
rious business ; consider the force of an ex- 
ample like yours, consider how many of the 
sable race may now be pining in bondage, 
merely, forsooth, because the President of the 
United States, Avho has the character of a 
wise and good man, does not see cause to dis- 
continue the long established practice. Of all 
the slaveholders under heaven, those of the 
United States appear to me the most repre- 
hensible ; for man is never so truly odious as 
when he inflicts upon others that which he 
himself abominates. 

When the cup of Slavery was presented to 
your countrymen, they rejected it with dis- 
dain, and appealed to the world in justifica- 
tion of their conduct ; yet such is the incon- 
sistency of man, that thousands upon thous- 
ands of those very people, with yourself a- 
mongst the number, are now sedulously em- 
ployed in holding the self-same bitter draught 
to the lips of their sable brethren. From men 
who are strongly attached to their own rights, 
and who have suffered much in their defence, 
one might have expected a scrupulous atten- 
tion to the rights of others ; did not experi- 
ence show, that when we ourselves are op- 
pressed, we perceive it with a lynx's eye ; but 
when we become the oppressors, no noon-tide 
bats are blinder. Prosperity perhaps may 
make nations as well as individuals forget the 
distresses of other times ; yet surely the cit- 
izens of America cannot so soon have forgot- 
ten the variety and extent of their own suf- 
ferings. When your country lay bruised by 
the iron hand of despotism, and you were 
compelled to retreat through the Jerseys with 
a handful of half naked followers, — when the 
bayonet of the mercenary glistened at your 
back, and Liberty seemed about to expire, — 
when your farms were laid waste, your toAvns 
reduced to ashes, and your plains and woods 
were strewed with the mangled bodies of your 
brave defenders ; when these events were 
taking place, every breast could feel, and 
every tongue could execrate the sanguinary 
proceedings of Britain ; yet what the British 
were at that period, you are in a great degree 
at this — you are boastful of your own rights 
— you are violators of the rights of others, and 
you are stimulated by an insatiable rapacity, 
to a cruel and relentless oppression. If the 
wrongs which you now inflict be not so se- 
vere as those which were inflicted upon you, 
it is not because you are less inhuman than 
the British, but because the unhappy objects 
of your tyranny have not the power of resist- 
ance. In defending your own liberties, you 
undoubtedly suffered much ; yet if your ne- 
groes, emulating the spirited example of their 
masters, were to throw off the galling yoke, 
and, retiring peaceably to some uninhabited 



part of the western region, were to resolve on 
Liberty or Death, what would be the conduct 
of southern planters on such an occasion? 
Nay, what would be your conduct ? You who 
were ' born in a land of liberty,' who ' early 
learned its value,' you, who ' engaged in a 
perilous conflict to defend it,' you who, ' in a 
word, devoted the best years of your life to 
secure its permanent establishment in your 
own country, and whose anxious recollections, 
whose sympathetic feelings, and whose best 
wishes are irresistibly excited whensoever in 
any country, you see an oppressed nation un- 
furl the banners of freedom,'* possessed of 
these energetic sentiments, what would be 
your conduct ? Would you have the virtue to 
applaud so just and animating a movement as 
a revolt of your southern negroes ? No ! I 
fear both you and your countrymen would 
rather imitate the cold blooded British Cabi- 
net, and to gratify your own sordid views, 
would scatter among an unoffending people, 
terror, desolation, and death. Harsh as this 
conclusion may appear, it is warranted by your 
present practice ; for the man who can boast 
of his own rights, yet hold two or three hun- 
dred of his fellow beings in slavery, would not 
hesitate, in case of a revolt, to employ the 
most sanguinary means in his power, rather 
than forego that which the truly republican 
laws of his country are pleased to call his 
property. Shame ! shame ! that man should 
be deemed the property of man, or that the 
name of Washington should be found among 
the list of such proprietors. Should these 
strictures be deemed severe or unmerited on 
your part, how comes it, that while in the 
northern and middle states, the exertions of 
the virtuous Quakers, and other philanthro- , 
pists, have produced such regulations as must 
speedily eradicate every trace of slavery in 
that quarter; how comes it, that from you 
these humane efforts have never received the 
least countenance ? If your mind have not 
sufficient firmness to do away that which is 
wrong the moment you perceive it to be such, 
one might have expected that a plan for ame- 
liorating the evil would have met with your 
warmest support; but no such thing. The 
just example of a majority of the States has 
had no visible effect upon you ; and as to the 
men of Maryland, of Virginia, of the two Ca- 
rolinas, of Georgia, and of Kentucky, they 
smile contemptuously at the idea of negro 
emancipation, and, with the State Constitu-'' 
tions in one hand, and the cow-skin in the 
other, exhibit to the world such a spectacle, 
as every real friend to Liberty must from his 
soul abominate. 

' Then what is man, and what man seeing this, 
And having- human feelings, does not blush 
And hang his head to think himself a man 1 ' 



* See the answer of the President of the United 
States to the address of the Minister Plenipotentiary 
of the French Republic, on presenting the colors of 
France to the United States. 



A Negro's Soliloquy on the Ten Commandments. 



Man does not readily perceive defects in 
what he has been accustomed to venerate ; 
hence it is that you have escaped those ani- 
madversions which your slave proprietorship 
has so long merited. For seven years you 
bravely fought the battles of your country, 
and contributed greatly to the establishment 
of her liberties ; yet you are a slaveholder ! 
You have been raised by your fellow-citizens 
to one of the most exalted situations upon 
earth, the first magistrate of a free people ; 
yet you are a slaveholder ! A majority of your 
countrymen have recently discovered that sla- 
very is injustice, and are gradually abolishing 
the wrong ; yet you continue to be a slave- 
holder! — You are a firm believer, too, and 
your letters and speeches are replete with 
pious reflections on the Divine Being, Provi- 
dence, &c. ; yet you are a slaveholder ! Oh ! 
Washington, 'ages to come will read with 
astonishment ' that the man who was foremost 
to wrench the rights of America from the ty- 
rannical grasp of Britain, was among the last 
to relinquish his own oppressive hold of poor 
and unoffending negroes. 

In the name of justice, what can induce 
you to tarnish your own well earned celebri- 
ty, and to impair the fair features of Ameri- 
can liberty with so foul and indelible a blot ? 
Avarice is said to be the vice of age. Your 
slaves, old and young, male and female, father, 
mother and child, might, in the estimation of a 
Virginia planter, be worth from fifteen to 
twenty thousand pounds. Now, Sir, are you 
sure that the unwillingness which you have 
shewn to liberate your negroes, does not pro- 
ceed from some lurking pecuniary considera- 
tions ? If this be the case, and there are those 
who firmly believe it is, then there is no flesh 
left in your heart ; and present reputation, 
future fame, and all that is estimable among 
the virtuous, are, for a few thousand pieces of 
paltry yellow dirt, irremediably renounced. 
EDWARD RUSHTON. 



SLAVERY A VIOLATION OF ALL 
THE COMMANDMENTS. 
A more simple or affecting illustration of 
the moral turpitude of slavery, by its violation 
of all the Commandments, than is contained 
in the following ' Soliloquy,'' cannot be drawn. 
We extract it from Saunder's News-Letter of 
Oct. 30, 1832, printed at Dublin. Reader, 
art thou indeed a Christian, and canst thou 
apologize for a system like this, or believe 
that its instant and utter abolition would be 
injurious to the masters or to the slaves ? If 
so, listen to 

a negro's soliloquy on the ten com- 
mandments. 
What dis? good preacher-man gave me 
dis, — told me learn it ; massa no ever shew it 



me: good buckra-man say it God's worda. 
What be dese Ten Commandments ? who 
God speak 'em to ? perhaps only to white man. 
Bad white man no mind what God say ; per- 
haps God speak 'em to poor black man ; me 
spell 'em — me no able read well. 

' I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the 
land of Egypt.' 

Where Egypt? me stolen from Africa, — 
perhaps that ; — oh no ! white man do that — 
not God. Me now remember, good preacher 
one time say, Jews slaves in Egypt ;— good God 
did bring 'em out ; — me suppose white man den 
master in Egypt ; — Jews like poor black man ; 
— me slave here — me in Egypt. Oh, Lord my 
God, bring me out! Me den obey God. 

I. ' Thou shalt have none other gods, but me.' 
What that mean ? Oh, Lord my God, how 

glad poor negro be, he had no other God be- 
fore thee ; but his massa no let him have you ; 
— his massa make him work all day, den no 
let teacher come at night to teach him — what 
can poor negro do ? massa no let him go. 
Where shall poor negro find him's God? — 
What can it mean ? my massa make me too 
much 'fraid ; he tell me negro must 'bey him 
first ; — den he same like first God to me. But 
God tell me, I must 'bey him first. What sal 
I do ? God very good : perhaps He forgive 
poor negro, if him obey his massa first ; massa 
no forgive me, if I 'bey God first. Oh, Lord 
my God, forgive me, I not first obey you : me 
too much afraid my massa ; my massa no for- 
give me, like you. Oh, Lord God, how good 
dat be for poor negro, when he have no oder 
God before dee. 

II. ' Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven im- 
age, nor the likeness of any thing, that is in Heaven 
above, or in the earth beneath, or in the water under 
the earth ; thou shalt not bow down to them, nor wor- 
ship them ; for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, 
and visit the sins of the fathers upon the children, unto 
the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, 
and shew mercy unto thousands of them that love me, 
and keep my commandments.' 

Me no understand how dat ; — in my own 
country my priests make many Gods, some 
stone, some wood, some gold ; like men, like 
beast, like fish ; my king worship all ; he kind 
to me ; my priest kind to me too, — me happy 
there ; — black man live long there, with 
old grandfather ; — they no beat me, — they let 
me work for myself; — here, white man say, 
but one God, and he no see him, and he good 
God ; — but white massa no love him ; — white 
massa no love me ; — yet massa merry, massa 
rich, massa happy ; — me sad, — my child sad ; 
— black man always slave, — black child al- 
ways slave ; — why dat ? perhaps no God ! — ■ 
But good preacher man say, dere is one God 
in Heaven ; — he good man, — he love me, — he 
speak truth ; — me believe him ; — God speak, 
me believe him most. 

III. ' Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy 
God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless, 
that taketh His name in vain.' 



A Negro's Soliloquy on the Ten Commandments. 



How can me learn dat ? — my massa swear, 
— my driver swear, — my mississ swear ; — all 
round me swear ; — Suppose I no swear, dey 
all curse me. — Oh my Lord, tell my massa, 
not swear so ; — tell my mississ not be so an- 
gry ; — tell my driver not lick poor negro so 
much ; — den me can stop swear ; — Oh Lord, 
forgive poor negro, — how can he stop swear ? 
dey all swear and curse poor negro so. 

IV. ' Remember, that thou keep holy the Sabbath 
day ; six days shalt thou labor, and do all that thou 
hast to do ; but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the 
Lord thy God, — in it thou shalt do no manner of work ; 
thou and thy son and thy daughter ; thy man-servant 
and thy maid-servant ; thy cattle ; and the stranger, 
that is within thy gates ; for in six days the Lord made 
heaven and earth, the sea and all that in them is, and 
rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed the 
seventh clay and hallowed it.' 

Oh massa God ! when will dey let me keep 
holy de Sabbath day ? — But no rest for poor 
negro, — all six days long him mus work for 
his massa ; — seven day him mus work for him- 
self, or him's wife and hint's pickaninny must 
starve wid him ; massa no keep Sabbath day 
holy ; — massa go shoot ; — massa go sleep, — 
massa no go worship ; — driver angry, — driver 
flog ; — oh Lord my God, tell my massa give 
poor negro time, oder day, work for himself; 
so him can rest on Sabbath day ; — tell massa, 
not let driver flog poor negro so, make him 
work on dy holy day. 

V. ' Honor thy father and thy mother ; that thy 
days may be long in the land, which the Lord thy God 
giveth thee.' 

Who dey be ? where negro's fader an mod- 
er ? how can him honor dem ? — suppose him 
see driver flog his fader, what can he do ? — 
suppose him see driver throw down his moder, 
flog her, lick her ; — she cry — she bleed ; — ne- 
gro say one word, he too be throw down ; — 
driver curse him — driver lick him ; — he go tell 
massa ; — massa lick him 'gain ; — he go tell 
magistrate ; magistrate call him ' black rascal ;' 
■ — send him to work-house, — order him be 
flog ; — then send back to his massa ; — his mas- 
sa flog him ; — send him to driver ; — driver flog 
him; — put him in stocks, — drive him, — lick 
him, — may be kill him ; — What for ? 'cause 
negro tell him, not make his poor moder bleed 
so : — Oh Lord, tell his massa, let poor negro 
alone, to honor his fader and moder; — Oh 
Lord my God, what land gave thou me ? gave 
all land to massa ; — he live long, — me die 
soon. 

VI. ' Thou shalt do no murder.' 

De good buckra man tell me, — Angry in 
heart, dat same like murder ; — de bad buckra 
man, he make me angry all de day ; — Oh what 
sal I do ? me believe good buckra man ; den 
me know, great God angry wid me ; — dat very 
bad ; me no believe him, den me like kill de 
bad buckra man : — he flog him so, — he so an- 
gry, — he take him wife — him child ; — he no 
hear, — me say one word, he mad ; den no 



body can help de poor negro : his massa same 
like devil to him ; — nobody can come between 
'em ; — his massa do just what he like ; — King 
forget poor negro — buckra man in England no 
can help him ; — good misshunary man, no can 
help him ; — all white men murder him. — Oh 
Lord God, tell 'em no treat poor negro so bad, 
— den he not so angry in his heart, — den he 
no more can do so much murder. — Oh help de 
good buckra man, come soon help him. 

VII. ' Thou shalt not commit adultery.' 

How can me help dat ? They no let me 
marry in church ; — ine marry in house ; some- 
times de wicked buckra massa, more time dri- 
ver take away my wife ; take away my child ; 
— den me ready to kill 'em ; — that same like 
murder ; — what good for me to marry ? — sup- 
pose I get preacher marry me ; den I commit 
more murder, in my heart ; den God more an- 
gry wid me ; — Oh Lord God, tell him massa 
not take away negro's wife — not take away 
negro's child, — no let oders take 'em away, — 
not sell 'em, — not separate 'em from me ; — not 
flog 'em — let 'em stay home take care of ne- 
gro's pickaninny ; — den negro can have one 
wife, — den negro can no commit adultery — 
Oh den, negro work too much for such kind 
massa. 

VIII. ' Thou shalt not steal.' 

Lord my God ! dey steal me, — dey no let 
me go ; — they starve me, — I no get 'nough 
eat; — my wife cry, — my pickaninny hungry, 
— I look 'bout ; — no bread — no yam ; — no 
nothing ; me go out, — me most mad, — me 
'fraid ; — den my poor little pickaninny cry 
'gain ; — den me no more tink 'bout any thing ; 
— only go get something for my child eat ; — 
how can me help dat ? Me must steal : — tell 
my massa let me go ; — tell my massa pay me 
fair ; — tell my massa no steal no more, my 
time, my sweat, my work, my wages ; — den 
me no more steal his cane ; — den me get cane 
my own ; — den me give massa some my cane, 
not leave him starve, not come steal it. 

IX. ' Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy 
neighbor.' 

O Lord my God, dey bear false witness 
'gainst me ; — they say I slave ; — God say, I 
no slave ; — I man ; — they say I steal from 
them, — but dey steal great deal more from 
me, and no shamed ; — they say king must pay 
them, if king make us free ; — but what for 
king must pay them ? King must pay me : — 
we no owe massa any thing, massa owe us too 
much ; massa no buy us, do us good ; massa 
no buy us, do King good ; massa buy us, same 
like buy pig, do himself good ; — so long we 
work for massa, he eat all our work; — he drink 
our sweat; — he shed our blood ; — he bear too 
much false witness against us : — how glad we 
be, if massa at last tell truth about poor ne- 
gro, and say same about him, as God say, he 
man ; — and same as good buckra man says, he 
have right be free, same any oder Englishman. 



Song of the Angels. — Child's Evening Hymn. — The Slave's Appeal. 



X. ' Thou slialt not covet thy neighbor's house ;— 
thou shalt not covet U13' neighbor's wife ; — nor his ser- 
vant, nor his maid, nor his ox ; nor his ass 5 — nor any 
thing that is his.' 

My massa got Bible ; — what make him 
covet my little hut, — my wife, — my child ; — 
perhaps he no read ; — Oh how much he 
covet poor negro ; — he covet negro's body ; 
— suppose poor negro got soul, he covet 
negro's soul too ; — he covet negro's time, — 
he no give negro rest ; — he no give negro 
no time learn read Bible ; — he not care 
'bout read Bible himself; so he tink perhaps 
me not care too : — he covet negro's work ; he 
no let negro work for himself, — for his wife, 
for his little pickaninny ; — he covet negro 
wages ; — he take all negro's money 'way, an 
call it his own ; — Oh he be great thief, how he 
steal from poor negro ; — he all covet ; then 
suppose poor negro too hungry ; — suppose 
him wife, him child, too hungry ; — he take bit 
sugar cane, suck, give his child to suck — carry 
to his wife say, here, see little bit sugar cane, 
you suck that ; then you not be so hungry no 
more ; massa find out ; he call negro thief; 
that is lie ; massa thief ; massa great thief; 
massa covet all negro got ; massa steal all ne- 
gro got ; massa no let negro get any thing ; 
then call poor negro thief; dat too bad ! — Oh 
Lord, tell de buckra man not covet negro so 
much, not covet negro's wife ; negro's child ; 
negro's time ; negro's work ; negro's wages ; 
negro's soul ; negro's all ; — so den negro can 
learn too, not covet ; den negro can learn love 
buckra man ; negro now love de good buckra 
man ; some time he see de good buckra man 
cry for him, 'cause he no can help poor negro. 
Oh Lord, bless de good buckra man ; forgive 
the bad buckra man ! Oh Lord, turn his 
heart ; tell him not covet, not steal, not 'buse 
poor negro so. Oh Lord, help poor negro 
himself not covet. 

Amen! amen! so may it be, and soon! oh 
Lord! [ 

[For the Abolitionist.] 
THE SONG OF THE ANGELS. 
Hark ! the glad news the angels bring, 
And to the listening shepherds sing : 
' Peace on earth to man be given/ 
And earth repeats the sound to heaven. 

Scarce had the angels reached the sky, 
When earth was heard to heave a sigh 3 
O'er Afric's sons a chain is cast, 
And man now binds his brother fast. 

The sun for years through heaven has shone, 
And still poor Afric's left to groan ; 
While all things else in earth and sea, 
That feel his warmth, are bright and free. 

To heaven, poor slave, address thy prayer, 
And it shall find acceptance there ; 
For thou hast surely said, oh God, 
That thou wilt break th' oppressor's rod. 

Welcome the hour when war shall cease, 
And man with man shall live in peace, 
Then Etbiop's sons shall be restor'd, 
And live the freemen of the Lord. 



Then shall arrive that blessed time, 
AVhen all who dwell in Afric's clime, 
Shall hear with joy those happy strains, 
The angels sung on Bethlehem's plains. 



[From the Liberator.] 

THE CHILD'S EVENING HYMN. 

Father, while the daylight dies, 
Hear our grateful voices rise ! 
For the blessings that we share, 
For thy kindness and thy care, 
For the joy that fills our breast, 
And the iove that makes us blest, 

We thank thee, Father ! 

For an earthly father's arm, 
Shielding us from wrong and harm j 
For a mother's watchful cares, 
Mingled with her many prayers ; 
For the happy kindred band, 
Midst whose peaceful links we stand,— 

We thank thee, Father ! 

Yet, while 'neath the evening skies, 
Thus we bid our thanks arise, 
Father ! still we think of those, 
Who are bowed with many woes ; 
Whom no earthly parent's arm 
Can protect from wrong and harm, — 

The poor slaves, Father ! 

Ah ! while we are richly blest, 
They are wretched and distrest ! 
Outcasts in their native land, 
Crush'd beneath oppression's hand, 
Scarcely knowing even thee, 
Mighty Lord of earth and sea ! 

Oh save them, Father ! 

Touch the flinty hearts that long 
Have remorseless done them wrong j 
Ope the eyes that long have been 
Blinded to each guilty scene; 
That the slave — a slave no more — 
Grateful thanks to thee may pour, 

And bless thee, Father ! 



[From the Genius of Universal Emancipation.] 
THE SLAVE'S APPEAL. 

Christian mother, when thy prayer 
Trembles on the twilight air, 
And thou askest God to keep, 
In their waking and their sleep, 
Those whose love is more to thee 
Than the wealth of land or sea, 
Think of those who wildly mourn 
For the loved ones from them torn ! 

Christian daughter, sister, wife ! 
Ye who wear a guarded life — 
Ye whose bliss hangs not, like mine, 
On a tyrant's word or sign, 
Will ye hear, with careless eye, 
Of the wild despairing cry, 
Rising up from human hearts, 
As their latest bliss departs 1 

Blest ones ! whom no hands on earth, 
Dare to wrench from home and hearth, 
Ye whose hearts are sheltered well 
By affection's holy spell, 
Oh forget not those, for whom 
Life is nought but changeless gloom, 
O'er whose days of cheerless sorrow, 
Hope may paint no brighter morrow ! 

Agnes. 



