Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/preliminaryrepor1839mass 



/ffri in// ^%^^/C/ 



SENATE No. 21 



PRELIMINARY REPORT 



COMMISSIONERS 



CRIMINAL LAW. 



\ 









HJh^.'bS 



Feb. 1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 



MESSAGE 



To the Senate, and 

House of Representatives : 

I transmit to the Legislature, a letter from the chair- 
man of the Commissioners appointed in virtue of a re- 
solve of the 10th of March, 1837, "to reduce so much 
of the Common Law of Massachusetts, as relates to 
crimes and punishments, and the incidents thereof to a 
written and systematic code," accompanied with a pre- 
liminary report of the Commissioners, setting forth the 
principles and method pursued by them in executing 
their important trust, and presenting a specimen of the 
work. 

Owing to the length of this report, it is transmitted 
in the original to the Senate, with the respectful re- 
quest, that it may be communicated to the other branch 
of the Legislature. 

EDWARD EVERETT. 

Council Chamber, 4th Feb. 1839. 



REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 



Boston, February 1, 1839. 

To His Excellency, Edward Everett, 

Sir : — I herewith transmit to your Excellency the 
Preliminary Report of the Commissioners for reducing 
so much of the Common Law as relates to crimes and 
punishments, and the incidents thereof, to a written and 
systematic code. 

In behalf of the Commissioners, 

I am, very respectfully, 

Your obedient servant, 
WILLARD PHILLIPS. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives of the Common- 
wealth of Massachusetts, in General Court assembled : 

The commissioners, appointed " to reduce so much of 
the common law of Massachusetts, as relates to 
crimes and punishments, and the incidents thereof, 
to a written and systematic code," submit the follow- 
ing preliminary 



REPORT: 

The commissioners applied themselves to the work 
committed to them, early after their appointment, and 
have continued to devote themselves to it as assiduously 
as they have found it practicable to do ; and recently 
have been able to bestow upon it more of their attention, 
and more effectively, than in the early stages of their 
labors. They deemed a preliminary examination of the 
criminal law, generally, to be absolutely essential to the 
forming of a plan which should meet the views of the 
legislature. In this part, they found their labors more 
difficult, and felt the responsibility to be the more press- 
ing, since among the codes and systems of criminal law 
that have been published, they did not find any one that 
was satisfactory to them, as a model, or that seemed to 
them to correspond to the intentions of the legislature, 



6 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

or that was sufficiently well adapted to the condition of 
our jurisprudence and the habits of our community. 
The precise form they have adopted, they will explain 
more particularly in a subsequent part of this report. 
When they had substantially agreed on the form to be 
adopted for the code, and proceeded to construct parts 
of it, many subordinate questions arose, which required 
much discussion and consideration, and which must be 
settled as they arose, since otherwise the different mem- 
bers could not work in concert, and the results of their 
labors would not be of a homogeneous character. Be- 
sides the difficulties and the labor of the work itself, the 
legislature will readily suppose, that the commission- 
ers found other hindrances to their progress in private 
duties and engagements and circumstances, which it was 
quite out of their power to avoid. And though it is in- 
comparably more material what shall be reported, than 
whether it shall be reported at a little earlier or later 
period, still the commissioners consider themselves to 
be pledged to keep the important work entrusted to 
them constantly in view, and to use their utmost en- 
deavors to bring it to a completion, as rapidly as the 
great labor and difficulties it involves, and the inciden- 
tal interruptions and delays, which cannot be avoided, 
will permit. 

It will be apparent that the work is of a nature, which 
does not admit of the completion of any part, until the 
whole ground has been explored, and, at least, the mate- 
rials collected and arranged for every other ; since each 
part must be framed in reference, and be adapted to 
the others. The code will consist of, first, the provis- 
ions relating to crimes and punishments generally ; sec- 
ondly, the definition and description of particular crimes 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 7 

and their punishment ; thirdly, procedure ; fourthly, 
pleadings, and fifthly, evidence. The part, naturally 
first in order in the execution of the work, is the defini- 
tion and description of crimes ; in digesting and preparing 
the different titles of which, however, it is also requisite 
to collect and arrange the materials for the other parts 
of the code relating to these same titles, since the mate- 
rials for the different parts of the code, in relation to 
any particular subject, are more or less connected and 
blended together in the books. The more important, 
extensive, and difficult titles have been first underta- 
ken ; such as treason, homicide, burglary, robbery, 
larceny, perjury, libel and arson, most of which have 
been written out, and much progress has been made 
in the others. 

These titles, it will be seen, on reference to the 
books, occupy a proportionally great space in the body 
of the criminal law ; and, in preparing these, the com- 
missioners have incidentally done much towards the 
others. Still, until the whole ground has been gone 
over, it is not possible to estimate what proportional 
part of the labor has been accomplished ; nor even 
then, until, by comparison of opinions and deliberate 
discussion, by the whole board, upon each proposition, 
successively, in some of the articles, it shall appear 
how great will probably be the labor of finishing the 
various parts, and putting them in a state, in which the 
commissioners shall deem them worthy to be submitted 
to the legislature. For these reasons, they cannot, at 
present, fix upon a time when the code may probably 
be reported. 

The object of the present report is, to submit a spe- 
cimen of the plan, and to state what the commissioners 



8 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

understand to be the leading objects in view in provid- 
ing for the proposed work. And, in so doing, they will 
necessarily at the same time state the leading principles 
upon which they are proceeding in its execution, that 
the legislature may thus have the means of forming an 
opinion of the proposed plan of the work ; and of cor- 
recting any misapprehension, into which the commis- 
sioners may have fallen ; and may give them any further 
instructions respecting it, that may be deemed expe- 
dient. 

The resolve, under which the commission is consti- 
tuted, directs the commissioners " to reduce so much 
of the common law of Massachusetts, as relates to crimes 
and punishments and the incidents thereof, to a written 
and systematic code, specifying separately such altera- 
tions and amendments therein as they may deem expe- 
dient." 

By the description " common law," the commission- 
ers understand to be intended the unwritten law, in the 
broadest sense of the expression, as distinguished from 
written or statute law. To ascertain, then, how much 
of the entire law of crimes and punishments is to be 
reduced to a code, it is necessary, first, to ascertain to 
what extent each title of the criminal law has been cov- 
ered by the statutes. And, in doing this, the revised 
statutes afford very great assistance ; since if the statute 
law had remained in the state in which it was before its 
revision, in 1836, the first step for the commissioners 
would have been the laborious process of collecting, 
digesting, and arranging the scattered provisions of the 
statutes, and embodying them in a form like that in 
which they are now presented.. 

On examining the statutes, it will readily appear that 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 9 

they contain provisions respecting the greater part of 
the offences known to our jurisprudence, but not all of 
them ; for, there are some classes of offences now pun- 
ishable in this commonwealth, which are no where 
mentioned in the statutes. And, in relation to those 
which are so introduced, the provisions are much more 
full in respect to some than in respect to others. If we 
may suppose the whole law, then, statute as well as 
common, to be represented by a chart, similar to the 
historical charts often met with, the statute law occu- 
pying one side, and the common law the other, we 
should see some break in the statutory part, where a 
class of offences is wholly omitted, as, for instance, 
conspiracy ; and, in others, we should see chasms, 
where some particular species or variety of a class is 
wanting ; and the statutory portion would in some 
titles extend a very little breadth, and, in others, a 
much wider breadth, in comparison with the common 
law, so that the two would be divided by a very irregu- 
lar boundary. 

Again, in some cases, the statutory provisions are 
comparatively concise ; and though they may cover the 
whole breadth of the offence, as known to the unwrit- 
ten law, or be so worded as to exclude any wider ex- 
tension of the offence beyond the provisions of the stat- 
utes ; yet they are so general in their terms, as in fact 
to leave every thing within their limits to be settled by 
the unwritten law. Thus, when the statute law forbids 
" murder," it is necessary to resort to the common law 
to ascertain the meaning of the prohibition. And where 
an act is forbidden, if done " feloniously," we cannot 
know distinctly what act is thus prohibited, until we 
2 



10 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

ascertain from the common law the meaning of the word 
" feloniously." 

We resort to the common law, then, for two distinct 
purposes ; the one to find prohibitions and rules inde- 
pendent of the statutes, the other to find definitions, 
expositions, and illustrations of the language and provis- 
ions of the statutes. The unwritten law thus consists 
of portions that are quite distinguishable from each 
other in this respect, and the distinction needs to be 
borne in mind in discussions and theories respecting 
written and unwritten law ; for, the question, whether 
it is expedient that the written law should define a par- 
ticular crime and assign its punishment at all, or leave 
it to the unwritten law, and the other question, how 
particular and precise the definition should be made, 
are very different, and the reasons for or against, in re- 
gard to one, do not apply in the same way, and with 
the same force, in respect to the other. This distinc- 
tion is the more particularly noticed, as it has a bearing 
in relation to the proposed plan of the code. 

The question then arises, of what does the common 
law of this commonwealth consist ? And the answer 
will present a cogent argument in favor of reducing it 
to a written law, and give some idea of the labor and 
difficulties attending the undertaking. 

The constitution* provides, that "all the laws which 
have been adopted, used, and approved in the province, 
colony, or state of Massachusetts Bay, and usually 
practised on in the courts of law, shall still remain and 
be in force, until altered or repealed by the legisla- 
•ure ; such parts only excepted, as are repugnant to 

* Chap. 6th, art. 6th. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 11 

the rights and liberties contained in this constitution." 
What then were the laws, which had been theretofore 
adopted, used, approved, and practised on in the courts 
of law ? As far as the English law is concerned, it has 
been held by the supreme court,* that the early emi- 
grants to this country brought with them " the common 
law of their native country, as it was amended and al- 
tered by the English statutes in force at the time of 
their emigration," " except such parts as were judged 
inapplicable to their new state and condition." 

Now, as very many of the English acts of parliament 
in relation to crimes and punishments were amend- 
ments of the common law, the result is that the mass 
of the written and unwritten criminal law of England 
was, by the above article of the constitution, adopted in 
Massachusetts, except those parts which were inappli- 
cable to the condition of the country, and those which 
had ^een superseded by our own legislation or were 
repugnant to the constitution. To ascertain, then, what 
our unwritten law of crimes and punishments is, we 
have to ascertain what was the written and unwritten 
law of England, in the early part of the seventeenth 
century. And, to do this, we must resort to English 
publications down to the present time, as there has ne- 
ver been any legislative declaration, or any publication 
in this commonwealth, distinguishing through all the 
branches of the English criminal law what part of it is 
in force in this state. 

But, though the statute laws of England down to the 

* Commonwealth v. Knowlton, 2 Mass. Reports, 534 ; Commonwealth v. 
Leach and others, 1 Mass. Reports, 61 ; Sacket v. Sacket, 8 Pickering's Rep. 
59 ; Report of the Commissioners on the practicability and expediency of 
codifying the common law, 1836. 



12 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

period of emigration, in amendment of the common law 
of crimes and punishments, as far as they were appli- 
cable and have not been superseded by the constitu- 
tion or by legislation, are thus considered to be a part 
of the unwritten law of the state, yet those statutes 
have, on the whole, occupied but little space in our 
jurisprudence, as far as relates to the description of 
crimes and designation of punishments, having, in these 
respects, been mostly superseded ; still it cannot be 
said with confidence, that no such part of the criminal 
law of this commonwealth does not now, through the 
provision of the constitution cited above, depend di- 
rectly and solely upon some act of parliament, which 
has been repealed in England more than two centuries; 
because it is not easy to say, what law might or might 
not be adjudged to be applicable to the condition of the 
country. A forfeiture of land on account of waste, as 
has been adjudged,* was liable to be incurred on an 
English statute, dating more than four centuries back, 
and which was not known to have been, previously, 
actually adopted and acted upon in our jurisprudence. 
It is presumed, however, that in stating the existing 
unwritten criminal law of this commonwealth, it is not 
requisite to explore the obscure recesses of the English 
statutes at large, previous to the seventeenth century, 
to find what odd sections and shreds of them have not 
been superseded or are not applicable ; but that they 
may be passed by, except in cases, where the common 
manuals and digests may point them out as subjects of 
consideration. And if there is danger of any obsolete 
unknown law, not mentioned in them, springing up from 

* Sacket v. Sacket, 8 Pickering's Reports, 59. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 13 

the mists of antiquity, the better way would seem to 
be to provide against it by a legislative act, abrogating 
such laws, when not supported by actual adoption in 
our jurisprudence or by other authority. 

Accordingly, as far as the English law is concerned, 
the principal labor in the work in hand is to produce 
in a distinct form so much of the unwritten part of it, 
as is also part of the common law of Massachusetts. 
And the inquiry necessarily arises, what constitutes the 
common law of England. Sir William Blackstone says,* 
that the unwritten law of England " includes not only 
general customs or the common law so called, but also 
the particular customs of certain parts of the kingdom, 
and likewise those particular laws, that are by custom 
observed only in certain courts and jurisdictions." And 
he proceeds : " The monuments and evidences of our 
legal customs are contained in the records of the seve- 
ral courts of justice, in books of reports and judicial 
decisions, and in the treatises of learned sages of the 
profession, preserved and handed down to us from 
times of the highest antiquity. These maxims and cus- 
toms are of higher antiquity than memory or history 
can reach." And he cites Sir Mathew Hale's remark, 
" that the original of the common law, is as undiscov- 
erable as the head of the Nile."f As to the evidence 
by which this law is to be shown and identified, he says,J 
" the only method of proving that this or that maxim 
is a rule of the common law is by showing that it hath 
always been the custom to observe it." But this doc- 
trine, taken literally, would evidently be quite imprac- 

* Commentaries, vol. i. p. 63, 67. f History of Common Law, 55. 

t 1 Com. 67. 



14 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

ticable ; and he accordingly proceeds to explain it and 
says, " A material question arises ; how are these cus- 
toms and maxims to be known, and by whom is their 
validity to be determined ? The answer is, by the 
judges. They are the depositories of the law, the liv- 
ing oracles, who must decide all cases of doubt, and 
who are bound by their oath to decide according to the 
law of the land." 

The result of this view of the common law is, that 
the decision by a competent tribunal is proof that the 
point decided has been a part of the common law, 
from an antiquity " higher than memory or history can 
reach." And this is the reason of another doctrine 
laid down by the same author,* namely : "It is an es- 
tablished rule to abide by former precedents, where 
the same points come again in litigation." Yet he 
adds, " this rule admits of an exception, where the for- 
mer determination is most evidently contrary to reason, 
much more if it be clearly contrary to the divine law. 
But yet, the subsequent judges do not pretend to make 
a new law, but to vindicate the old one from misrepre- 
sentation. For if it be found that the former decision be 
manifestly absurd or unjust, it is declared, not that such 
a sentence was bad law, but that it M^as not law. That 
is, that it was not the established custom of the realm, 
as has been erroneously determined." He however 
adds, that nothing once established as law should be 
overruled, unless it be "flatly contradictory to reason. "f 
But Mr. Christian, the learned and able commentator 
upon Blackstone, says, J that precedents, when once 
clearly established, must be followed, though they are 

* 1 Com. vol. i. p. 69. f Commentaries, vol. i. p. 70. 

\ Blk, Com. vol. i. p. 70, note. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 15 

" flatly contradictory to reason," and gives an example 
which fully bears him out. For as jurisprudence rests 
upon precedent merely, the court cannot overrule one 
precedent established by competent authority, except 
upon the ground of another precedent of a still higher 
authority. Accordingly, a distinguished writer of our 
own country says,* " that a solemn decision upon a 
point of law becomes an authority, and the judges are 
bound to follow that decision, " unless it can be shown 
that the law was misunderstood or misapplied." And that 
it may be sometimes misunderstood or misapplied, he 
illustrates by the fact, that about one thousand cases 
in the English and American books have been over- 
ruled, doubted, or limited in their application ; and it 
is apprehended, that the number very much exceeds 
this estimate.! 

Such are the foundations of the unwritten law, and 
such the principles of decision, from which it evidently 
appears, that in its nature and essential character it re- 
sists change. It is indeed one of its excellencies that 
it does so, for if facility of change were admitted, there 
would cease to be any law of this description, and dis- 
cretion and caprice would be substituted in its place. 
This shows the importance and necessity of occasional 
legislative interference, since the affairs of the world 
are subject to change, — and, unless the laws can be 
modified accordingly, they become inconvenient and 
burthensome : — and this is, to say the least, not less 
true, in regard to crimes and punishments, than in re- 
gard to any other subjects of jurisprudence. 

* Kent's Com. vol. i. p. 477. 

f See also Report of the Commissioners on the practicability and expe- 
diency of codifying Ihe common law, J 836. 



16 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

So true is this, that even the common law, notwith- 
standing the rigid and permanent character with which 
it should seem to be invested, by its very constitution 
and fundamental principles, is yet acknowledged to have 
yielded, in some degree, to the imperious exigencies of 
society. Thus, Sir William Blackstone says,* " Tradi- 
tional laws being accommodated to the exigencies of the 
times, suffer by degrees insensible variations in prac- 
tice, so that though upon comparison, we plainly discern 
the alteration of the law from what it was five hundred 
years ago, yet it is impossible to define the precise pe- 
riod, in which that alteration accrued any more than we 
can discern the changes of the bed of a river, which va- 
ries its shores by continual decreases and alluvions." 

This language is not literally consistent with that 
above quoted from the same distinguished author. But 
the expressions there used were undoubtedly too strong, 
for the history of jurisprudence shows, what no one in- 
deed would think of doubting, that some customs and 
doctrines, which may have been very convenient, rea- 
sonable, and expedient five centuries ago, being adapted 
to the state of things at that time, have, in consequence 
of the changes that have taken place in the mean time, 
become, in reference to the present condition of society, 
" flatly contradictory to reason," and "manifestly ab- 
surd." In such cases, if a rule of law, the reasons and 
grounds of which have thus become obsolete, is so defi- 
nitively and authoritatively settled by precedent, that 
the courts are absolutely bound by it, (as in the case 
mentioned by Mr. Christian, of the rule of the common 
law, that every legislative act becomes obligatory from 

* Commentaries, vol. iv. p. 409. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 17 

the first day of the session, unless it expressly provides 
otherwise, and is thus in effect an ex post facto law,) 
then the only remedy is by legislative interference. 

The commissioners would not be understood as 
speaking in disparagement of the common law, which is 
fraught with sound maxims and principles,- and is in 
general, particularly characterized by its jealous vindi- 
cation of personal liberty. But all systems of law and 
civil policy and social institutions, however excellent, 
have their untoward biases and tendencies, — and the 
common law is not exempt from these ; and they ought 
to be understood, since an examination of the princi- 
ples and characteristic operation of a system is the first 
step in making a fair exposition of the system itself, as 
well as in pointing out its errors and perfections. 

The fundamental principles and binding authority of 
the common law are generally accepted as laid down 
by the authors above cited, and so they are understood 
by the commissioners to have been stated by the former 
commission, in 1836, in their report to the legislature 
on the subject of the practicability and expediency of 
codifying the common law. It ought to be mentioned, 
however, that a different view has been entertained by 
some on this subject. A respectable writer on the his- 
tory of the common law* lays down the doctrine, that 
it consists of a collection of customs and maxims, which 
derive their binding power and the force of laws from 
long and immemorial usage, coupled with the express 
or tacit consent of the legislature." Others express 
the same doctrine in a different form, by saying that 
these customs and maxims derive their force, as laws, 

* Crabb's Hist. Com. Law, p. 1. 



18 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

solely from the express consent of the legislature, that 
is, from acts of parliament, the records of some of which 
remain on the statute book, while those of the others, 
dating from an early antiquity, have been lost. This 
theory has the recommendation, that it refers the com- 
mon law to the proper source of law, namely, the le- 
gislative or law-making power. But it is open to the 
objection, that, as far as the supposed tacit consent of 
the legislature, or instead of it the unknown lost re- 
cords of antiquity are concerned, it seems to be a mere 
fiction. In reference to some particular rules, there 
may be some evidence more or less satisfactory, that 
they did originate in the code of king Alfred or of Ed- 
ward the confessor, or in some other legislative act, and 
have been transmitted to the present times, through 
express legislative enactments, of which the records are 
lost, or that they have been implicitly recognised by 
this or that act of parliament. But in respect to a great 
mass of the common law, having reference to matters, 
that were not known in such remote times, and have not 
been alluded to in the statutes, this theory is plainly a 
fictitious assumption. And though it is a maxim of the 
common law, that a fiction of law shall never work any 
wrong, yet it would be evidently dangerous, to make it 
the only basis of a law designating crimes and assign- 
ing punishments. Another objection to the same theory 
is, that it supposes the courts either to contravene or 
to repeal and enact statutes ; for, in the thousand de- 
cisions of the courts already overruled, doubted or mod- 
ified, this theory supposes some six or seven hundred 
acts of the legislature, more or less, to be involved, and 
if all these decisions, while they remained unimpeached> 
were demonstrative evidence of the existence of so 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 19 

many statutes, then the courts have by overruling 
them in effect repealed so many statutes, and enacted 
others in their stead, or if, according to the doctrine of 
Sir William Blackstone above quoted, the overruling 
decisions are proof that those overruled were " not 
law," and that the rules embodied in the overruling de- 
cisions were and always have been law, unless these 
shall be overruled in their turn, it follows, necessarily, 
that from the earliest antiquity down to the time of pro- 
nouncing the overruling decisions, the courts had been 
contravening the statute law. In this case, as in many 
others, a fiction in law is the prelude to a dilemma. 
The position, then, that the rules and maxims of the 
common law are a body of statutes, ought to be aban- 
doned, and we must stop at the position of Sir William 
Blackstone, who states what is the prevailing doctrine 
on this subject. This doctrine is not that the legisla- 
ture assents universally to the rules and precedents of 
the common law, and puts them on the footing of stat- 
utes, but that it invests the courts or consents to their 
being invested with authority, within certain limits and 
subject to certain restrictions, to determine the law. 
In case of a statute, the courts must necessarily deter- 
mine its construction ; so in respect to the unwritten 
law, they must determine on the existence of a custom ; 
but this is not the same in effect, as if the legislature 
had itself used the very language adopted by the courts 
in announcing their determinations. 

The inquiries, whence does the common law derive 
its authority, and what are its constituent parts, and its 
limits, though they have an intimate bearing upon our 
own jurisprudence, as well as that of England, yet do not 
bear to the same extent, and in exactly the same way, 



20 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

in the two cases. The difference arises from the cir- 
cumstance, that the constitution of this commonwealth, 
in the article already cited, gives an express sanction to, 
and explicitly adopts, the common law as a part of the 
law of this state. So that in regard to our own juris- 
prudence, we are at no loss' to find whence the common 
law derives its authority. But when we come to the in- 
quiry, in what respects, to what extent, and with what 
exceptions and modifications the common law of Eng- 
land has been adopted, we are necessarily led into an 
investigation of the foundations, principles, constituent 
parts, and limits of the common law of England, in order, 
when it has been ascertained of what it consists, to se- 
lect that part of it which has been so adopted by our 
constitution. 

In making such selection, the constitution gives no 
other designation of what has been so adopted, than the 
general description, "All the laws which have been 
adopted, used and approved in the province, colony, or 
state of Massachusetts Bay, and usually practised on in 
the courts of law, such parts only excepted as are re- 
pugnant to the rights and liberties contained in this con- 
stitution." As there are no regular reports of our juris- 
prudence further back than from a period of about twenty 
years after the adoption of the constitution, we have no 
direct contemporary evidence of the law so adopted, ap- 
proved and usually practised upon in the courts, except- 
ing the known practice of the courts in 1780, the rec- 
ords of the courts previous to this time, and some few 
written memoranda and oral traditions. Nor has it ever 
in our subsequent jurisprudence under the constitution 
been deemed necessary, when a question has arisen 
at common law, to go back and show, by some historical 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 21 

evidence, that the rule in question had in fact been spe- 
cifically adopted, approved or practised on in the courts, 
before the date of the constitution, the construction put 
upon the constitutional provision in question being as 
i.bove stated, that the common law of England gener- 
ally, as far as it was applicable to our constitution, and 
iiad not been superseded by the constitution and legisla- 
tion of the commonwealth, was thus made a part of its 
laws. So that to ascertain this part of the unwritten 
law, it is necessary, first, to ascertain that of England ; 
then to see how much of it that is applicable in this 
commonwealth has been superseded by the constitution 
and statutes. 

An extensive mass of materials is thus presented for 
examination and analysis, Numerous digests, treatises, 
and volumes of reports, are occupied wholly with the 
jurisprudence in relation to crimes and punishments ; all 
of which must be examined, though they are necessarily 
to a greater or less extent, repetitions of the same doc- 
trines. And as far as they coincide and agree in the 
statement and construction of those doctrines, the mass 
of materials to be wrought up is thereby in effect dimin- 
ished, but as far as they differ, the labor is increased in 
proportion to the number. It is necessary, also, to ex- 
amine the decisions in this branch of jurisprudence, scat- 
tered through our own reports, and the English reports ; 
and also through those of other states, where the points 
decided are applicable in our own jurisprudence. The 
commissioners also consider it to be their duty to consult 
the penal codes of greatest reputation ; for though 
these are not direct authority for what is our common 
law, yet being the results of the experience of other civ- 
ilized communities, and of the laborious study of learned 



22 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

men, they afford essential assistance in analyzing our 
own law on the same subjects, and especially in sug- 
gesting amendments. A digest of the penal laws of 
other states or other countries, particularly of those of 
Scotland, may be useful in the same way. 

As the constitution only adopts the common law in 
force in 1780, the query may be suggested, whether 
any English report or treatises subsequent to that pe- 
riod need to be examined. That they should be con- 
sulted, there can be no doubt, since they are evidence 
as we have seen of what the common law of England 
was, as well before as since that period. Indeed, ac- 
cording to the description of that law already quoted, 
the latest report of a decided case upon any point is 
the best evidence of what the law has been from the 
beginning. Whether this be so or not, such a report is 
undoubtedly often evidence of what the law has been 
for a long period. So an act of the British parliament, 
subsequent to 1780, declaratory of the common law, 
has been considered by our supreme court as evidence 
of more or less weight to show what was the common 
law.* 

The part of the common law of England, thus adopt- 
ed by the constitution, does not constitute the whole of 
the common law of this commonwealth, in the broad 
sense of that expression as comprehending all the un- 
written law, or in other words all that is not the statute 
law. It has been said, that " the usage of the country 
establishes and makes the law of the country. "f This 
proposition is unquestionably true in the qualified sense, 
in which it was no doubt intended. This will be evident 

* Bull v. Loveland, 10 Pickering's Reports, p. 13. 

f Commonwealth v. Deack and others, Mass. Reports, vol. i, p. 61. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 23 

in the example of one of our own statutes upon a sub- 
ject entirely unknown to the English law. For to give 
it any effect it must be expounded ; some construction 
must be put upon its language ; and for this purpose, 
as far as the statute itself or some other one does not 
afford the means of interpretation, the common use of 
language must be resorted to, not merely to fix the 
meaning of particular words, but often to determine 
the sense of entire clauses and provisions. This is a 
species of unwritten law, which must exist in all com- 
munities, and no less in civil than in criminal jurispru- 
dence. For instance, a statute passed in England 
about a century after the first emigration to this state, 
establishing the negotiability of promissory notes, was 
practically adopted into our jurisprudence, previously 
to the date of the constitution, and thus became a part 
of our unwritten law. The few statutory provisions 
in this commonwealth, in relation to this commercial 
contract, and the few words, in which the contract it- 
self is usually expressed, constitute the written law as 
between the parties to it. And yet to find out all that 
such a contract imports, it is necessary to read through 
a large volume. So a penal statute fixes the relations 
and obligations existing between the parties to it, 
namely the community on one side, and each citizen 
of the state on the other, and to find out all the rela- 
tions and obligations thus created, much must be learned 
which the statute itself, though it may suggest, does 
not, and ordinarily cannot, fully express. 

Another extensive branch of unwritten law is includ- 
ed under the title of practice, that is, the rules and 
forms of proceedings and usages of the courts, which 
in all their details are never attempted to be laid down 



24 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

in any code, though their outlines and general princi- 
ples may be given by the written law. 

The unwritten law, then, on the subject of crimes 
and punishments, presents a very extensive mass of 
materials, very widely dispersed, out of which the code 
is to be constructed ; nor is the task of constructing a 
symmetrical system, out of these materials, by any 
means free from difficulties. For the most part, the 
rules, which constitute this branch of law, must be 
traced back to and be extracted from adjudged cases. 
And, as has been remarked by Mr. Livingston, to en- 
hance the difficulty of this process, the cases on the 
penal law have been reported much less satisfactorily 
than those arising in civil jurisprudence ; so that in 
many of them, it is not easy to learn what was the 
rule of decision. Sometimes the case being stated, 
several distinct grounds of the decision are given, but 
whether any one of those was considered a sufficient 
one, on which to rest the decision, or, two or more 
were considered to be requisite, does not appear by the 
report. Sometimes where the case has come before a 
court consisting of numerous judges, it is said that 
some of them were governed by one reason, others by 
another, in concurring in the decision, but how many 
were governed by this or that reason is not stated, and 
consequently, though the case was solemnly adjudicated 
upon and formally reported, it is not an authority to any 
rule whatever. 

In other instances, a mass of facts is given, and the 
decision stated for or against the accused, but no reason, 
no doctrine, is precisely laid down; nor can it always 
be satisfactorily deduced from the facts stated, taken in 
connection with the judgment rendered, since the facts 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 25 

are often defectively stated, and there are instances not 
a few, in which a report, of a case, having been acqui- 
esced in for some years as correct, has on resorting to 
the record been found to be erroneous. These were 
instances of errors which the record supplied the means 
of correcting, but every thing material to the decision 
does not always appear on the record, and an error or 
omission in regard to any matter which does not so ap- 
pear can be corrected or supplied only by resorting to 
the minutes of the judge, before whom the case was 
tried, or to some other report of the case. 

The history of this branch of jurisprudence supplies 
numerous instances of errors in the reports of cases 
which have been thus corrected. In regard to defects 
of either of these descriptions, in any report of an Eng- 
lish case, which cannot be remedied by resort to some 
other published report, the commissioners cannot, at 
this distance from the place where the proceedings were 
had, ascertain either the true state of the facts, or the 
precise rule of the decision ; and the labor, perplexity, 
and uncertainty of the search, though not enhanced by 
distance of place, are sufficient discouragements to un- 
dertaking it, excepting in those cases where the most 
important questions are involved in the investigation. 
The only safe course, at this distance, seems to be, to 
pass by, and reject the authority of cases, the reports 
of which are evidently defective, in some material par- 
ticular, or of the accuracy of which there is reason to 
doubt. 

Where the case is accurately reported, and the rule 

of decision distinctly appears, then the question arises, 

whether it is sufficient evidence of that rule being a part 

of the common law. For though the decision of the 

4 



26 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

courts are the most authentic evidence of the common 
law, it does not follow that all of them are equal evi- 
dence, and that every one of them is a demonstration 
of some point of the common law, whether given by a 
superior court, or a subordinate one, by one judge or 
many judges, by a unanimous voice, or a bare majority; 
and whether pronounced in haste on a first impression 
at the trial, or on solemn deliberation by the assembled 
judges. There is such a thing as the weight of evidence 
in matters of law, as well as in matters of fact, and as the 
testimony of some witnesses is very slight proof, while 
that of others is very strong proof, of the facts stated 
by them, so some decisions of courts are very inconsid- 
erable evidence, while others are very cogent evidence 
of the law. And then the number of decisions to any 
point of law is to be considered, no less than that of the 
witnesses to any matter of fact. Thus, Mr. Christian 
says, and truly, that the number, and authority of the 
decisions concurring in the same doctrine, may be so 
great, as to establish as law what is flatly absurd and 
unjust. 

But no one will attribute this efficacy to all prece- 
dents indiscriminately. In extracting the rules of the 
unwritten law from the great mass of decisions through 
which they are scattered, it is necessary to consider, in 
each case, the weight of the authorities by which they 
are supported, and even sometimes, whether they are 
supported by an authority entitled to any weight what- 
ever. Particularly in case of discrepancies it is neces- 
sary to compare the weight of authorities on the two 
sides of a question. This comparison is to be made, 
not only between different cases, but sometimes in the 
same one, where the judges were divided, and where 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 27 

the ruling of one judge is, on the case being reserved, 
overruled by a small majority of all the judges. And 
in making this analysis, though there are instances of 
doctrines so firmly established, that their binding au- 
thority cannot be called in question, however anoma- 
lous or unreasonable they may be, yet in very many 
precedents, at least, (what proportion of the whole it is 
not easy to say,) their mere naked authority, independ- 
ently of their reasonableness, and their conformity to 
acknowledged general principles, is by no means con- 
clusive, so as to preclude all examination or question. 

Such are understood by the commissioners to be the 
extent, and the component parts, and such the deposi- 
tories of the unwritten law, which the legislature pro- 
pose to reduce to a systematic code, and such the pro- 
cess to be gone through, in order to extract the rules 
and propositions, of which such a code must consist. 

The commissioners had hoped, that in one part of 
their labors, namely, that of settling what is the com- 
mon law of England, they should have been able to 
avail themselves of the final report of a board of commis- 
sioners, appointed under an act of the British parlia- 
ment, in 1833, for the purpose of collecting and ar- 
ranging the doctrines of that law. It does not, however, 
appear, that they have as yet brought their labors to a 
conclusion. 

A question of no little difficulty and importance, in 
preparing the proposed code, relates to the minuteness 
and particularity, to which it is expedient to carry the 
codification. For a code covering precisely the same 
extent of subjects, may be very short, or may be expand- 
ed into a great bulk. For instance, the written law 
may either provide, that whoever commits murder, shall 



28 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

suffer death, or instead of this concise enactment, it 
may define what is meant by murder, and having given 
this description, may go still further, and explain and 
illustrate it. And yet in either case, the code will 
cover precisely the same extent of subjects. 

It appears to the commissioners, that the codification 
of the criminal law should only stop at that limit, by 
going beyond which, the law cannot be made more 
plain, precise, and definite. For where the law re- 
quires the citizen to do or abstain from certain things, 
under a penalty, and invests officers with authority to 
use coercion and inflict pain, and stamp ignominy, it 
seems that it cannot be too explicit in laying down the 
rules to be observed. To determine whether the crim- 
inal laws of this commonwealth answer this description, 
and whether they admit of any improvement, it seems 
to be sufficient to refer to the sources to which it is 
necessary to resort in order to find them, and the labori- 
ous examination by which alone, they can with any 
probable certainty be ascertained, as already described 
in the former part of this report. 

In proceeding to the performance of the duties of the 
commission, another material question arose, as to the 
form in which the code should be prepared, as distin- 
guished from the matter or provisions of which it should 
consist, for these were prescribed, namely, those of the 
common law, but they might be framed into codes dif- 
fering from each other very much in form, and yet em- 
bracing substantially the same laws. Upon this ques- 
tion, the commissioners were at the commencement of 
their labors in much doubt, and they found amongst 
themselves, very considerable diversity of opinion. It 
was evidently necessary to settle this question in the 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 29 

outset, since they could not otherwise pursue the work 
in concert. After long and repeated discussions, it was 
finally proposed, that each one should attempt the exe- 
cution of some title, in such form as he might think 
best. Repeated specimens of this description were 
successively produced and compared, from which it ap- 
peared, that they were gradually converging towards the 
same plan. In these discussions and tentative speci- 
mens, the commissioners had the benefit of the great 
learning and experience of the former chairman, until 
he announced to the board, that the state of his health 
rendered it necessary for him to vacate his place in the 
commission. 

The form subsequently adopted will appear by the an- 
nexed specimen, which it is one of the principal objects 
of the present report to exhibit to the legislature, with 
the leading reasons for its adoption. The specimen 
will show that the commissioners do not understand it 
to have been the intention of the legislature, that they 
should prepare a digest of the common law like those of 
Hawkins, East, Russell, and Deacon, nor commentaries 
after the model of those of Sir William Blackstone, 
which the legislature, after having revised and corrected 
it, might approve by some collateral enactments, as be- 
ing of paramount authority, and as far as it should go 
superseding the authority of the common law prece- 
dents ; but that they were to report a set of rules and 
propositions, expressed in a language which might with- 
out impropriety be assumed by the legislature. Ac- 
cordingly, all expressions of mere opinion, of supposi- 
tion, of doubt, of probability, of inclination to one or 
the other side of a question, and formal statements of 
grounds and reasons of the propositions laid down were 



30 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

to be avoided, and a direct assertion of what the legis- 
lature declared the law to be scrupulously adhered to 
in every part of the code ; which would thus have the 
character of an act declaratory of the common law ; this 
being the character which it was supposed the legisla- 
ture intended to give to the work. 

At first the commissioners entertained serious doubts, 
whether the mass of materials before them could possi- 
bly be wrought into this form, without too much strait- 
ening and embarrassing the practical application of the 
rules so constituting the unwritten law, and destroying 
its elastic and expansible character, and rendering it too 
rigid and unflexible. But, upon the whole, they are 
well satisfied, upon experiment in the reduction of dif- 
ferent titles to this form of expression, that the work 
may be so executed, and yet not be liable to such ob- 
jection. The particular phraseology used in any part 
of the code might of course render it liable to the defect 
in question ; but this, it is apprehended, would be owing 
to an injudicious and unskilful manner of executing the 
plan in any particular part, and not to any necessary re- 
sult of the plan itself. It is true, that the propositions 
thus laid down as law must thereafter be taken to be 
the law, until it shall be otherwise determined by the 
legislature. In this respect, it will be precisely like 
those parts of the existing common law, which, as has 
been shown, must remain to be the law of the land until 
it shall be otherwise declared by the legislature. This 
is only saying, that they would be law, for a rule that is 
subject to be changed, without notice, is not a law, but 
merely the ground of a greater or less degree of proba- 
bility of what may be law. It does not appear, that in 
any other respect, the proposed plan of the work, will 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 31 

necessarily render it liable to the objection above men- 
tioned. This form of executing the work necessarily 
involves the not unfrequently clearing up, by legislative 
authority, the doubts, and ambiguities, and of settling 
the discrepances, and the conflicts of doctrine and au- 
thorities, presented in the books. It results in a revision 
of the common law by the legislature to the extent of 
the codification, and this is one object in view, as ap- 
pears by their resolve. 

In determining on the form of the code, a considera- 
tion already mentioned had much weight, namely, that 
in some parts the common law supplies both the text, 
the inferences, and the comments ; in other parts, the 
existing statutes form the text, and the common law is 
the comment. As far as any offence, or any variety or 
subdivision of an offence now punishable, is omitted in 
the written law, so far the unwritten law must supply 
the whole materials of the code. Now, as it is not con- 
templated by the legislature to change the provisions of 
the existing statute law, these must remain, and as far 
as they go, constitute the law under each title, and to 
these must be adapted, in a systematic form, the doc- 
trines of the common law, relating to the same subjects. 
The statutes of the criminal law are in the form of de- 
crees, commands and prohibitions. This is the appro- 
priateform, where crimes are forbidden, and punishments 
assigned, or the duty of magistrates and officers pre- 
scribed. Whereas, an act declaratory of the common 
law has a different form of enunciation. Now as the com- 
mon law proposed for codification consists partly of what 
are in effect, and practical administration, commands 
and prohibitions, and the resolve under which the com- 
mission is constituted, proposes the preparation of a 



32 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

" systematic code," and as such a code can be framed, 
only by adapting the common law to the existing statute 
law, in such manner, that they may, taken together, be- 
ing in fact only different parts of the same thing, form 
the entire systematic body of the criminal law, there 
seemed to be but two methods, in which the work could 
be executed. One method would be to reduce the com- 
mon law to the ordinary statutory phraseology, and thus 
expand the existing statute law, so as to make it com- 
mensurate with the common law. The other method 
would be, to mould those parts of the common law, 
which are homogeneous with the provisions of the ex- 
isting statutes generally, into a similar form of phrase- 
ology, and enactment ; and to cast the rest of the com- 
mon law, consisting of deductions, expositions and illus- 
trations, in the form of a general declaratory act. This 
does not involve the necessity of two distinct statutes, 
for the same statute may be declaratory in part, and in 
part mandatory, and prohibitory. The commissioners 
had no hesitation in adopting the latter of the two meth- 
ods. They propose accordingly to fill the breaks and 
chasms of the present statutes, by introducing the appro- 
priate parts of the common law in a similar form of 
phraseology. It is true, that those parts of the com- 
mon law, which only fill up chasms in the provisions of 
the existing statutes, might be all thrown together into 
a distinct additional act, but this would render it ne- 
cessary to repeat many of the provisions of the present 
statutes, and would extend the additional act to a cum- 
brous magnitude, and make it of a very miscellaneous 
and wholly unsystematic and confused character, and 
render the revision of the work by the legislature ex- 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 33 

ceedingly perplexing, by reason of the separation of the 
different parts of each subject matter. 

Even if it should be deemed expedient eventually to 
throw those parts of the common law into a distinct ad- 
ditional statute, the decidedly best mode of presenting 
them to the legislature would seem to be, to present 
them in combination with those parts of the existing 
statutes with which they are connected, that it may 
more obviously appear how the whole law will read, 
when thus reduced to a written form. The commis- 
sioners would not be understood as intimating any doubt 
of the expediency of permanently connecting together, 
as above explained, all the law on each subject, both 
the existing written law, and that which is proposed to 
be made such, and do not see how the work when com- 
pleted can otherwise be considered a systematic code ; 
for the common law as already suggested being when 
wholly collected and arranged only a part or fragment 
of the subject, (where the existing statutes have cover- 
ed any part of a title, as they do of most titles,) cannot 
of itself constitute a system ; it is only as connected 
with the existing written law, that it can be rendered 
systematic ; and the work would lose its symmetrical 
character by severing its parts, and disjoining and dis- 
tributing their fragments in different places. 

In regard to amendments of the common law, the 
commissioners do not understand it to be contemplated 
by the legislature, that they shall studiously seek to 
make them, but to confine themselves in this respect to 
such amendments as seem to be essential to the consis- 
tency and symmetry of the system, and such as may be 
forced upon their attention, by the plainest reasons. 
It will be obvious, on the reading of any title, that the 



34 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

work of codifying the common law, and forming it into 
a system, could not proceed to any useful purpose, with- 
out making amendments in those parts, which, when 
brought together, are found to present incongruities, 
and without the exercise of discretion in stating what 
is proposed to be considered the law on numerous 
doubtful points, instead of undertaking the all but hope- 
less task of nicely balancing conflicting authorities, and 
stating what it now is. Wherever an amendment is 
proposed, it will be mentioned in the notes, and the 
reasons given, unless they seem to be sufficiently ob- 
vious on the face of the amendment itself. 

Though the commissioners understand it not to be 
their duty under their commission to propose changes 
in the provisions of the existing statute law, and the 
difficulties and labor and responsibility of preparing the 
work will, without such addition, be quite as great as 
they desire, still this will not prevent them from occa- 
sionally suggesting to the legislature a modification of the 
provisions of the existing statute law, when it seems to 
be recommended by urgent considerations, and espe- 
cially when it appears to be essential to the harmony 
and symmetry of our laws and jurisprudence. A case 
of this description appears to them to occur in the title 
of homicide, in respect to the distinguishing of murder 
into degrees, according to the greater or less atrocity 
of the crime, as will appear in the specimen accompa- 
nying this report. 

Upon this plan when completed, the entire body of the 
written criminal law will consist of two component parts, 
one comprising the mandatory, prohibitory, and penal 
provisions, and the leading and fundamental principles 
of the law ; the other, of expositions, inferences and il- 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 35 

lustrations The law now consists of these parts, and 
every body of laws must be so composed, whether ex- 
isting in the form of written or unwritten law, or of 
both those descriptions, and in whatever proportions. 
The difference in form, between the plan proposed and 
the other codes, that have come under the observation 
of the commissioners, is, that in those codes, these two 
component parts are put together, in a continued text, 
though they generally contain but little beyond the pro- 
visions of the class first above mentioned ; whereas, in 
the proposed work, the different portions of the exposi- 
tory, illustrative part will be appended to and accom- 
pany those provisions of the other part, to which they re- 
spectively relate, and thus be placed in the most inti- 
mate connexion with them, without, at the same time, 
interrupting the continuity of the main and leading and 
what may be called the integral part, consisting of the 
provisions of the existing statutes and such additions to 
them as the common law may supply, as already ex- 
plained. This form was in a manner forced upon the 
commissioners, by the circumstance, that the provisions 
of the existing statutes were to be retained, and those of 
the common law must therefore be framed and adapted 
to them. But on the whole, upon experiment, they are 
inclined to the opinion, that it is the best form and the one 
they should choose were it left entirely to their discre- 
tion. It appears to them to be more simple, systematic, 
intelligible and convenient to read or consult, than the 
form usually followed. 

For instance, one essential circumstance in the defini- 
tion of robbery is the taking of a thing from another. 
If the written law goes farther and explains what is 
meant by a " taking" in this application of the term, it 



36 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

seems to be quite as symmetrical, to append this expla- 
nation, by reference, as to insert it in a subsequent part 
of what may be called, for the present purpose, the 
text. Wherever it is placed, it does not purport to add 
to or subtract from the section to which it relates, and 
so is not properly preliminary to it, or a continuation of 
it. It is essentially collateral and subsidiary, and seems 
to be most appropriately so presented. 

In order to facilitate the revision of the code, by the 
legislature, it is proposed to refer to the authorities, 
from which each part of it is drawn, or where the same 
subject is treated ; for where the law in its present state 
appears to be ambiguous or obscure, as it must be con- 
fessed is too often the case, though it may suggest pro- 
visions for the code, it can hardly be considered as an 
authority for such provisions. Where the commission- 
ers doubt whether the authorities fully bear out the pro- 
posed written law, the attention of the legislature will 
be called to the circumstance, in the notes accompany- 
ing the code. 

In another respect, also, they propose to depart from 
the usual practice in other codes, as will appear from 
the specimen, namely, in giving concise illustrations 
from adjudged cases. They at first doubted whether 
such illustrations would with propriety be assumed by 
the legislature, but upon experiment, their doubts upon 
this point have been entirely removed. It appears to 
them, that this method is attended with very material 
advantages. It renders the law more intelligible and 
clear than it could otherwise be made. It exhibits the 
construction, spirit, and scope of the law, illustrated in 
the most impressive manner. It adduces directly the 
essential authoritative evidence of the unwritten law. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 37 

It serves to guard the commissioners from mistakes in 
framing the code, and affords great facility to the legis- 
lature in detecting mistakes, when such may occur. 

In regard to the language to be adopted, it is not, as 
the commissioners apprehend, expedient to attempt to 
discard all technical terms, since many of these have a 
well-defined meaning in legal phraseology, which cannot 
be conveniently expressed in each particular case, by 
the substitution of definitions. The occasional use of 
such terms will make the phraseology more concise, and 
since they are to be explained in a glossary, forming a 
part of the code, their meaning can be readily ascer- 
tained. 

The commissioners respectfully submit their prelimi- 
nary report, with the accompanying specimen, to the 
legislature. , 

WILLARD PHILLIPS, 
JOHN GRAY ROGERS, 
LUTHER S. GUSHING, 
SAMUEL B. WALCOTT, 
JAMES C. ALVORD. 

Boston, February 1, 1839. 



SPECIMEN. 



PRELIMINARY NOTE. 

The specimen, which is in accordance with the general plan of the 
commissioners, as developed in their report, consists of a portion of 
their executed work upon the law of murder. It is presented in three 
parts, viz. (1st) the statute, (2d) the exposition, and (3d) notes. The 
amended statute, which is recommended to the consideration of the 
legislature, is in three sections, containing the definition and provisions 
for the punishment of murder. This embraces, generally, the whole 
law upon the subject ; as, if it should be adopted, no one could be 
convicted of murder, unless on account of a crime, coming within 
the definition in the first section ; or be punished in any other manner 
than is provided in the second and third sections. 

The " exposition" is not intended to have nor can it have the effect 
to make any different or additional law : but only to explain and illus- 
trate the rules contained in the statute, by various cases, and principles 
of construction and application, which are scattered through the books 
of jurisprudence. Nor does the exposition pretend to exhibit all the 
instances under the law, which may exist, or which may possibly arise 
hereafter, but such only as have been adjudged, and such as are neces- 
sary to render plain and definite the practical application, to show the 
scope and limits of the rule, and to settle questions of construction, 
which are often of great difficulty, not only on account of their in- 
herent character, but the present form of the common law, and the 
various and conflicting opinions, which have been entertained and 
pronounced upon them. 

The " notes" will form properly no part of the code, when adopted, 
but are reported with the text, to aid in examining the sources, and, in 
some measure, the reasons of the opinions of the commissioners, and 
to afford facilities for correcting any error, into which they may have 
been led by an inconsiderate or mistaken judgment. 



AMENDMENTS. 

The commissioners have recommended few substantial amendments 
to the law in this part of their work. They propose none indeed, 
which may not properly be considered as merely formal, excepting 
that very important one, which they recommend in the establishment 
of degrees in murder, in order to regulate the punishment, according 



40 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

to its greater or less atrocity. They had some hesitation in deciding 
to propose this amendment, not from any doubt as to its inherent pro- 
priety ; but lest, in doing so, they might overstep the limits, which 
after much consideration and in view of the resolve under which the 
commission was constituted, they have assigned to themselves, and 
for which they have given their reasons in their report. They suppose 
that the recommendation of any fundamental change in the policy of 
the state would be without these limits. Many ardent friends of re- 
form, and among them men of great excellence of character, have at- 
tacked the whole system of capital punishments, as wrong in principle 
and injurious in practice. The commissioners do not however con- 
sider the decision or the discussion of that question as within the 
powers delegated to them ; and have not therefore even compared 
their own views upon the subject. That there shall be the punish- 
ment of death, applicable however to the very highest grade of offences 
only, they consider as, for the present at least, the settled policy of this 
commonwealth, a policy, which, if they had the disposition, they have 
not the power to disturb. It is a question too, it may be added, more 
perhaps of fact, depending upon the practical operation and effect 
of the system, than of principle, derived from the inherent rights of 
man, or the abstract powers of human government; and such ques- 
tions, it belongs peculiarly to the immediate representatives of the 
people to originate and decide. 

But the adaptation of established punishments to various offences, 
is a question of a different nature, depending upon widely different 
considerations. Upon nothing perhaps does the symmetry, as well as 
the general perfection of a penal code, more essentially depend than 
upon preserving, on known principles, a due proportion between 
crimes and punishments; and any code, which should neglect this ob- 
vious consideration and fail to preserve the relation of one to the 
other, and of both to the whole, if it should be a " systematic code," 
would be so only by reason of an artificial connexion, and not from 
any natural harmony of its parts. 

If the punishment of death can be rightfully applied to any offence, 
it surely should be to that of wilful, deliberate, premeditated murder, 
for this is the most fearful, as well as the most atrocious, of all individ- 
ual crimes. But, by the gradually extended meaning which has been 
given by the common law to the word " malice" as one of the ingredi- 
ents of murder, it has been made to include many cases of unintention- 
al killing, and a great variety of offences terminating accidentally in 
death, which have hardly a shade of the dark and deep malignity of the 
original crime, and which cannot, without great injustice and an entire 
disregard of the principles governing the wise adaptation of laws, be 
classed with it, as of the same grade, and deserving of the same pun- 
ishment. 

It is, for instance, a well established principle of the common law, 
that if one engaged in the perpetration of any "felony," [a word of 
wide and somewhat doubtful interpretation,] shall kill another, though 
accidentally, and where the offender could not have foreseen the con- 
sequence, he is guilty of murder. " As if," says Lord Coke, (3d Inst., 



1839.] 



SENATE— No. 21. 41 



56,) " A, meaning to steal a deer in the park of B, by the glance of 
the arrow killeth a boy that is hidden in a bush, this is murder, al- 
though A. had no intent to hurt the boy, nor knew of him." Or, to 
take a case more applicable here, from other authors, (1 East, 255 and 
231 ; Foster, 253 ; 1 Hawkins, ch. 29, § 11.) " Where A. shoots at 
the poultry of B., and by accident kills a man ; if his intent were to 
steal the poultry, which must be collected from the circumstances, it 
will be murder by reason of the felonious intent." This principle, 
which is in force with us, confounds very different degrees of crimes, 
both as to the depravity which they indicate, and the terror which they 
are calculated to spread through society. In the case just quoted, A. 
has not the guilt of murder or any similar guilt in his heart, and is not 
before God or man, in its true and original sense, a murderer. He 
was, to be sure, voluntarily engaged in the perpetration of a mean and 
detestable crime, but a crime vastly less than murder ; and it is acci- 
dent only, which has connected with it in any degree, the responsibil- 
ity for the blood of a fellow creature. Undoubtedly, regard is to be had 
in the punishment to the consequences of crimes as well as the mutives, 
which prompt to them ; but this is only true, in its full extent, when the 
consequences might be foreseen and guarded against, and so enter in some 
measure into the guilt of the original design ; and the principle cannot 
be justly extended, so far as it has been, to mere collateral consequences. 

The commissioners would not indeed go to the length, which the 
" British commissioners for forming a penal code for India," have, in 
recommending, that "when a person engaged in the commission of an 
offence, causes death by pure accident, he shall suffer only the punish- 
ment of the offence, without any addition on account of such acciden- 
tal death," but they would mark broadly the distinction between such 
a killing, occurring incidentally in the commission of an inferior crime, 
and that by the deliberate assassin. 

They extract from the report of the India commissioners, the brief 
defence of their opinions. " To punish as a murderer every man, who, 
while committing a heinous offence, causes death by pure misadven- 
ture, is a course, which evidently adds nothing to the security of hu- 
man life. No man can so conduct himself as to make it absolutely 
certain, that he shall not be so unfortunate as to cause the death of a 
fellow creature. The utmost that he can do, is to abstain from every 
thing, which is at all likely to cause death. No fear of punishment 
can make him do more than this, and therefore to punish a man who 
has done this can add nothing to the security of human life. The only 
good effect, which such punishment can produce, will be to deter peo- 
ple from committing any of those offences, which turn into murders 
what are in themselves mere accidents. It is in fact an addition to the 
punishment of those offences, and it is an addition made in the very 
worst way. For example, hundreds of persons in some great cities are 
in the habit of picking pockets. They know that they are guilty of a 
great offence. But it has never occurred to any one of them, nor would 
it occur to any rational man, that they are guilty of an offence which 
endangers life. Unhappily one of those hundred attempts to take the 
purse of a gentleman, who has a loaded pistol in his pocket; the 
thief touches the trigger by accident ; the pistol goes off; the gen- 

6 



42 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

tleman is shot dead. To treat the case of this pickpocket differently 
from that of the numerous pickpockets, who steal under exactly the 
same circumstances, with exactly the same intentions, with no less 
risk of causing death, with no greater care to avoid causing death, 
to send them to the work-house as thieves, and him to the gallows as a 
murderer, — appears to us an unreasonable course. If the punishment 
for stealing from the person be too light, let it be increased, and let the 
increase fall alike on all the offenders. Surely the worst mode of in- 
creasing the punishment of an offence is to provide, that, besides the 
ordinary punishment, every offender shall run an exceedingly small risk 
of being hanged. The more nearly the amount of punishment can be 
reduced to certainty, the better. But if chance is to be admitted, there 
are better ways of admitting it. It would be a less capricious, and 
therefore a more salutary course, to provide that every fiftieth or every 
hundredth thief selected by lot should be hanged, than to provide that 
every thief should be hanged, who, while engaged in stealing, should 
meet with an unforeseen accident, such as might have befallen the most 
virtuous man, while performing the most virtuous action." — (Report, 
Note M., pp. 64-5.) 

See also the remarks of Haus upon the provision of the revised code 
of Belgium, making murder more or less aggravated, as it should or 
should not be connected with the commission of another crime. 
(Haus's observations &c. p. 202.) Also the remarks of Mr. Livings- 
ton on this subject in the preliminary notes to his code (pp. 182-187.) 

It is very obvious, that this indiscriminate application of the punish- 
ment of death to all cases of either actual or implied malice, is much 
more out of place in our system than that of England, — for their code, 
in its theory at least, is more sanguinary than our own. There, accord- 
ing to the theory of the common law, every felony involved a forfeiture 
of the lands and goods of him, who committed it, and was almost uni- 
formly punishable with death, with or without the benefit of clergy. 
Every crime indeed, which was made a "felony" by statute, and for 
which there was no special provision, drew after it, as of course, this 
punishment. Where then the malicious purpose to commit one felony 
was transferred by the law to another, which resulted, though incident- 
ally, in the execution of such purpose, little violence was done to their 
system. But here, where, a felony has no such necessary consequen- 
ces, — where its commission involves no forfeiture, and is in a few in- 
stances only punished with death, the disregard of the degree, in the 
malignity of the actual purpose, is at war with our general principles 
of punishment. The common law of England, in this respect, is 
adapted to a system wholly unlike our own, and is not " suitable to our 
circumstances, and the general spirit of our institutions." 

It is another familiar principle of the common law, that every killing 
shall be presumed to be with malice and therefore murder, unless the 
contrary appear ; and although manslaughter is defined to be " the 
killing of another unlawfully and in the fury of one's mind," yet it 
has been often decided that passion is not sufficient to reduce the kill- 
ing to this grade of crime, if the provocation, which excited it, were by 
words only and not by any actual bodily violence. The law has here 
its indulgences for pain of the body, but none for pain of the mind. 



1839.] 



SENATE— No. 21. 



And yet who does not know, that the provocation may be as great, as 
adequate to induce, at the moment, a dangerous blow, in the one case 
as the other? Upon some temperaments, indeed, and those sometimes 
possessed by men not of the most debased nature, the effect might be 
even stronger and more irritating in the first case than in the last ; and 
yet the law allows no mitigation, no apology for a human infirmity, 
which is wrought upon by derision or insult of word or gesture, 
however provoking ; and thus, where there is only the moral guilt of man- 
slaughter, the offender pays the penalty of legal murder with his life. 

Such cases are not uufrequent. In a case before the Supreme Judi- 
cial Court, Hampden, Sept. T. 1837, the defendant was tried on an in- 
dictment for the murder of Jones. It appeared that he was sitting by the 
fire in company with several others, when the deceased entered the 
room, and addressed him in language of the most cruelly insulting and 
irritating character, which he withstood for a while with a remon- 
strance : when, upon its being repeated in a new and still more aggra- 
vated form, in a phrensy of passion produced by it, he seized the 
tongs which were by his side, and struck the deceased a blow, which 
caused his death. Here there was clearly no intention to kill and no 
settled malignant purpose whatever. The offence was committed in 
the sudden heat of passion, — "the fury of the mind," — produced by a 
provocation, as adequate to excite it as any bodily injury ; and fell far 
short of the deep guiltiness of the deliberate assassin. An undoubted 
case of murder, as it was, under our laws, one jury would not agree 
to a verdict of conviction, but the second rendered a verdict of guilty, 
and sentence of death was pronounced upon the prisoner : but jury, 
and court, and prosecuting officer, joined in recommending him 
to the mercy of the executive, and his punishment was commuted. 
But the laws themselves ought to make these natural distinctions, and 
not leave the criminal code, so that it shall require the executive pre- 
rogative, given for widely different purposes, to soften and harmonize 
its features. 

A criminal code, which sends sucli a man to the gallows, while it 
only condemns to imprisonment him, who knowingly swears away his 
neighbor's life, and has the double guilt of wilful perjury and deliber- 
ate murder upon his soul, cannot commend itself to that universal love 
of justice, which is the best support of law. 

The commissioners propose, that there be established two degrees of 
murder : the one, punishable with death, including all cases of wilful 
and premeditated killing, (indicated in our law by the words " express 
malice aforethought,") and those cases also where the killing occurs 
in the perpetration of a crime, itself punishable capitally, and where 
therefore the intent may properly be transferred to the act ; — the other, 
punishable with imprisonment for life or a term of years, including all 
other cases of murder, where the malice is " implied" contrary to 
the fact, from the general or particular presumptions of law. 

This proposition has not certainly any merit for its originality, as 
such degrees, with nearly the same limits, are now established in sev- 
eral of the United States, as well as more or less extensively in nearly 
every foreign country on the globe. 

The statute of New Hampshire, (act January 13, 1837,) provides 
that " All murder hereafter committed by poison, starving, torture or 



44 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

other premeditated and deliberate killing, (these terms are equivalent 
to killing with ' express malice' 1 ) or which shall be committed in the 
perpetration or attempt to perpetrate rape, robbery or burglary, may 
be murder of the first degree; and all other murder shall be murder of 
the second degree," and provides the punishment of death for the first, 
and imprisonment for the last. 

The laws of several other states are upon this point similar to those 
of New Hampshire, as in Pennsylvania, (Act March 9th, 1814,) Ma- 
ryland (Act 1809, ch. .138, §3,) Virginia, (Act March 6, 1819, 1 Rev. 
Code 616-17,) Ohio, (Act Feb. 26, 1824, 22 vol. of Laws 158,) and 
Missouri (Rev. Stat, of 1835, pp. 167-8.) 

It ought also in fairness to be stated that such was the law of Rhode 
Island from 1798 to 1814, when the doctrine of the common law was 
restored by legislation. 

The provisions in the laws of these different states are somewhat 
variant, though in all founded upon the same general principle. In 
Ohio, for instance, the first degree is similar to that in New Hamp- 
shire : the second, punishable by imprisonment for life, is " where any 
one purposely, but without deliberate and premeditated malice, kills 
another," while all other cases of killing, with " implied malice," are 
reduced to the grade of manslaughter. 

In other states, of which New York is an eminent instance, much 
has been done by alterations in the statute law, giving a more limited 
effect to the definition of murder or reducing to the class of misde- 
meanors what were felonies at the common law, (so as to exclude the 
idea of malice in the case of killing accidentally in the commission of 
simple larceny, for instance,) to restrain within reasonable limits this 
wide extended implication of malice, and to punish as manslaughter 
only, what the common law denominates and punishes as murder. 

(2 Rev. Stat, of N. Y. ch. 56, § 4, § 5 § 9, and amendment 3 R. S. 
app. 158, §58.) 

See also remarks of chancellor Walworth, as to the object of these 
provisions ; Enoch's C. 13 Wendell, 175. 

The commissioners have examined with great care the codes and 
treatises upon the criminal law of foreign countries ; and believe that 
they can state confidently, that in no civilized community, (excepting 
such as derive their institutions of punishment from the common law 
of England,) even where their codes are the most sanguinary, is there 
provided the punishment of death for any other killing, than that 
which is wilful and premeditated. Most of these indeed have many 
degrees of culpable homicide, less than murder, according to the cir- 
cumstances, as has also Mr. Livingston in his code; a course, which 
indeed justice and policy would alike require here, were it not for the 
wide discretion as to the duration of the punishment of imprisonment, 
which the general course of our legislation has entrusted to our courts, 
and which the commissioners have, in accordance with general usage, 
made use of here ; leaving the extent of the punishment in cases of 
killing with implied malice in each case to be determined by the 
courts according to its circumstances. 

With this brief exposition of the reasons of their opinion, the com- 
missioners commend the subject anew to the careful examination and 
considerate decision of the legislature. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 45 



HOMICIDE 



I. MURDER. 

Section I. Whoever shall unlawfully kill any hu- 
man being, with malice aforethought either express or 
implied, shall be deemed guilty of murder, (a) 

Section II. Whoever shall commit murder, with 
express malice 'aforethought, or in the perpetration or 
attempt to perpetrate any other crime punishable with 
death, shall be deemed guilty of murder in the first 
degree, and shall be punished with death, (b) 

Section III. Whoever shall commit murder other- 
wise than as set forth in the last preceding section, shall 
be deemed guilty of murder in the second degree, and 
shall be punished by confinement in the state prison 
for life, or for any number of years, (b) 

NOTES. 

(a) The commissioners propose, in the first section, to place the gen- 
eral definition of murder in the common statutory form, for the rea- 
sons stated in their general report. They refer, for the varying 
definitions of murder, at different periods of the common law, to 
Wilkins's Laws of the Anglo-Saxons, 480; Glanv. L 14, ch. 31 ; 
Home's Mirror, 46; Dalt. ch. 95; St. 14, E. 3, ch. 4; Bracton L.3, 
ch. 4, § 1 ; Britt. ch. 6, § 1 ; Fleta L 1, ch. 30 ; Kelhatn's Norman 
Diet., "Murder"; Cowell's Diet., "Murder"; Blounts Law Diet, 
"Murder"; Cowell's L. Diet., "Murder"; 3 Inst 47; Staund. B. 1, 
ch. 10 ; 1 Hale, 424-5 ; 1 Hawk. ch. 31, § 3 ; Vin. Abr. " M urder," A. 
1; 2McNally,553; Foster, 256; 4 Blk. Com. 198; 1 East, ch. 5, § 2 ; 
Bac. Abr. "Murder," A.; Jacob's Law Diet, "Murder"; 2 Ld. 



46 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb 

Raym. 1487; Kelynge, 121-127; 3d Chitty, 723 ; 3 Starkie, 513; 
1 Russell, (ed. 183],) 421 ; Archbold, 818 ; 2 Deacon, 896 ; Ros- 
coe, 562 ; Davis, J. 309 ; Davis, Cr. L. 92 ; C. J. Parsons's def. 
(Selfridge's Tr. 3); Brockenborougfa, J. in 6 Randolph's Va. R. 7^3 ; 
6 Mass. R. 139; 7 Dane, Abr. eh. 212; Halsted's R 242; Piatt, 
J., 1 Wheeler's C. C. 274; Prince's Digest of Laws of Geo. 346, 
(1st ed.) 622, (2d ed.); Rev. L. of Indiana, (1831,) 180; Rev. L. of 
Illinois, (1833,) J 33. 

It will be seen, that, for many centuries, " murder" has been used 
to signify the highest grade of culpable homicide, and the general 
definitions of different authors are substantially the same. 

The definition of lord Coke, (3 Inst. 47,) as modified by Mr. 
Justice Blackstone, (4 Com. 198,) is the most celebrated for its 
fulness and accuracy, and has been copied by nearly all the sub- 
sequent writers upon the subject, and adopted, with slight changes, 
by the courts, and into the statutes of several of the United States. 
It is : " Murder is where a person, of sound memory and discretion, 
unlawfully kiileth any reasonable creature in being under the 
king's peace, with malice aforethought, expressed or implied." 

The words, "of sound memory and discretion" are omitted in our 
definition, because the rules governing exemption from punishment 
for want of capacity, are general, applying as well and in the same 
manner to other offences as this, and therefore belonging to another 
part of the code. 

We omit also the words "in the king's peace" or "in the peace of 
the state" (as in the definition of Davis, and in the statutes of Geor- 
gia, Indiana, and Illinois,) because they are not only unnecessary, but 
calculated to mislead. For it maybe murder to kill a person at the 
time engaged in the perpetration of a crime, or even an alien ene- 
my, "unless it be in the actual heat and exercise of war;" (1 Hale, 
433 ; Archbold, 320;) in which case, the idea of murder is excluded 
by other parts of the definition, for then the killing would not be 
"unlaivful" or "with malice." These words are unnecessary in 
an indictment. (3 Chitty, 75 ; 1 East, 345.) 

We have substituted "any human being" for "any reasonable 
creature in being," because the former expression is more simple, 
and less liable-to misapprehension ; for, in a popular sense, an idiot 
is not a reasonable creature, and yet he may as well be the subject 
of murder as any other human being. 

The word " malice" is here used in a peculiar sense, differing 
from its more obvious and popular meaning, yet it has been so 
wrought into the law of murder, and has obtained, in this applica- 
tion, so precise and peculiar a signification, that the substitution of 
any other word would lead to much doubtful interpretation. With 
the use of any substitute, indeed, we could not be sure that we had 
accurately stated the law. 

As will be seen more fully hereafter, "express malice" means 
generally, malice proved to have existed in fact — " implied malice" 
such as the law presumes, often contrary to the fact. 

(b) The second and third sections are proposed as a substitute for § 1, 
ch. 125, of Part 4 of Rev. Stat., which is as follows, (pp. 716): 
" Every person, ivho shall commit the crime of murder, shall suffer the 
punishment of death for the same" 

The reasons for this proposition are fully stated in the prelimi- 
nary note. The slight change in the procedure, which it will 
occasion, is provided for in another part of the code. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 47 



EXPOSITION. 



In order to constitute the crime of murder, as above defined : 

1st. There must be a killing ; 

2d. The killing must be of a human being ; 

3d. It must be unlawful ; 

4th. It must be with malice. 

And all these elements must be combined in every case of this of- 
fence. For, if there be not the first, or only the first, it is no 
homicide ; if there be the first and second only, without the others, 
it is "justifiable or excusable homicide ;"(«) if there be the first, 
second and third, without the fourth, it is u manslaughter" (b) only ; 
but where all concur, it is murder. 

(a) In England, there has been a material distinction between "justifi- 
able homicide" and " excusable homicide ;" and many cases of the 
killing of a human being by misadventure, or in self-defence, were 
of the latter class. The term " excusable homicide" imported some 
fault, but of a nature so trifling that the law did not stamp it with 
the guilt of felony. In theory, it was punished with a forfeiture 
of goods, but in early times the jury finding the fact specially, a 
general pardon was always granted, under the statute of Gloucester, 
(6 Ed. 1. ch. 9,) which saved the forfeiture. Afterwards, the judges 
permitted a general verdict of " not guilty" to be rendered, though 
for some time, it would seem, without any authority of law. The 
statute 9 Geo 4, ch. 31, § 10, put an end to the theory, and sanc- 
tioned the practice of acquittal, by enacting, that "no punishment 
or forfeiture shall be incurred by any person, who shall kill another 
by misfortune or in his own defence, or in any other manner, with- 
out felony ;" but the old terms, though they import no legal dis- 
tinction, are still preserved in the English books for convenience. 
With us, where the doctrine of forfeiture never took root, and is 
prohibited by the constitution, there was never any punishment for 
excusable homicide, nor other difference as to the legal effect be- 
tween that and justifiable homicide ; but if a case belonged to either 
class, the defendant was entitled to a general acquittal. See upon 
this subject, 3d Inst. 148 ; 4 Blk. Com. 188 ; 1 Hawk. ch. 28, § 1 & 
22 ; ch. ^9, § 30 et seq. ; 1 East, ch. 6, § 8 & 36 ; Foster, 282-8 ; 1 
Russell, 538-552 ; Roscoe, 464 ; Parker, J., Selfridge's Trial, 159. 
We use both terms in the course of the chapter, because the one is 
sometimes more appropriate than the other, regard being had to 
the natural and customary import of the words, and not to mark 
any discrimination as to legal consequences. 

(6) For the law of manslaughter, see the next chapter. 



48 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

1. There must be a killing. 

Killing is causing the extinction of life by means of some bodily 
injury, (c) 

A killing may be by direct violence, as by striking, (cZ) stab- 
bing, (e) shooting, (/) drowning, (g) strangling ; (h) or it may be 
the indirect consequence of an act done, as in killing — by poison- 
ing, (£) starving, (j) corrupting the air, (fc) communicating infection, (Z) 
laying a trap or pit all, (m) letting loose a dangerous animal, (n) or 
generally by any other act, the consequence of which may be, and 
eventually is, death, (o) 

(c) Liv. 4 ; Starkie's Ev. 513, (n. r.); 1 Hale, 429, and notes infra. 

{d) Thompson's C, 1 R. and M., 139 ; Kelley's C, ibid. 113 ; White's 
C, 6 Binney's R. 181. 

(e) Thurston's C., 1 Lev. 91 ; 1 Keble, 454-5, Edwards' C. 6 C. 
and P. 401 ; Goodwin's C. 

(/) Hughes's C, 5C and P. 126; Towle's C, 3 Price, 145; Self- 
ridge's C. 

(g) Dyson's C, R. & R. 523 ; Green's C, 2 St. Tr. 214 ; (Harg. Ed.) 

(h) Tyson's C, R & R., 345 ; Huggin's C., 3 C. & P. 414 ; Caulkin's 
C, 5 C. & P. 121. 

(i) Saunder's C, Plowd, 474 ; Gove's C , 9 Rep., 81 ; Anon. Kely. 52 ; 
Vaux's C , 4 Rep , 44 a. The killing by poison has been esteemed 
more criminal than any other species of murder. The stat, 28, 
Henry, 8, ch. 9, declared it to be high treason, and its punishment 
boiling to death ; and under that statute, several persons in fact 
suffered this punishment. But the act was repealed by 1 Edw. 6 
ch. 12. 

(j) Beal's C, 1 Leon, 327 ; Squire's C , 1 Russell, 426. 

(k) 1 Hale, 431-2; Paris & Fonblanque, (Med. Juris. Ill,) question 
whether death can be produced in this way. However this may 
be as to the external atmosphere, it is undoubtedly true, that death 
may be caused by noxious gases, under many circumstances. 

(I) Castile's C. Stra. 856; Huggin's C. Stra. 882 ; Bantridge's C.9 Har. 
St.Tr. 146 (folio,) 17, 452 ^(quarto ;) Paris & F. Med. Jur. 115. 

(m) 4 Bl'k. Com. 35 ; 1 Russell, 617. 

In) Palmer, 545; 4 Bl'k. 197; 1 Russell, 622; Roscoe, 571 ; 1 Hale, 
430. 

(o) 3 Inst. 48 ; 4 Bl'k. Com. 196 ; 1 Hawk. ch. 31, § 4 ; 1 Hale, 428.— 
Foster, 322; 1 Russell, 425 ; Archbold, 319; Roscoe, 570; 2 Dea- 
con, 900; Davis, C. L. 93 ; Holloway's C , W. 1. 198; Greg's C, 
Kely. 64-134; Honneyman's C, Addison's R, 148 ; Martin's C. 3 
C. &P.211.] 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 49 

So compelling a person to do an act, which is likely to produce, 
and does produce death, is a killing ;(p) and this though the com- 
pulsion be by threats only, (q) or the command of one having au- 
thority, (r) 

(p) 1 Russell, 425—6 ; Archbold, 319 ; Roscoe, 571. 

{q) Evans' C, O. B. Sept. 1812, MS. Bayley, J. in 1 Russell, 425. 

(r) Freeman's C, 4 Mason's R. 505. Here the deft., the master of a 
ship, compelled a seaman in a state of great exhaustion and debility, 
known to the master, to go aloft, and the seaman fell from the mast 
and was drowned. The master was convicted of manslaughter. 

So where a parent, guardian, master, or other person, having the 
custody of a child, apprentice or servant of tender years, or of a 
sick man," insane man, or idiot, exposes him to a situation of manifest 
danger to life, or is guilty of gross neglect or cruelty towards him, 
and death ensue in consequence, it is a killing, (s) 

As where a parent places a helpless infant in a hog-stye, where it 
is devoured ; — (t) or on a rock at sea, where it is washed away ; (w) 
or leaves it in a remote field, where it is destroyed by wild beasts or 
birds of prey, or trodden upon by cattle ;(v) or exposes it, where 
it may perish with cold or famine, or want of care ; (x) or a parent, 
master, or guardian refuses to furnish a child or apprentice of tender 
years or infirm health, to whom he owes support, with sufficient or 
proper sustenance, or lodgings or -clothing ; — (y) or town officers, 
to avoid a charge, shift a child from town to town, without sufficient 
food, or clothing, or other care ; — (z) or one carries his sick father, 
against his will, abroad in an inclement season, (4*); — in each case, 
if the duty violated be plain, and the danger apparent, and death 
ensue in consequence of the act or neglect, it is a killing. 

(s) 1 Hale, 431, et seq.; 1 East, ch. 5 ; 3 Inst. 53; Kely. 56; 1 Russell, 
426 ; Archbold, 319; 1 Hume, 279, and other authorities, infra. 

(*) 1 East, ch. 5, § 13. 

(«) Helen Wilson's C. 1 Hume, 278. 

(v) 1 Hale, 431 ; 1 Hawk, ch. 31, §5. 

(x) BeaPs C. 1 Leon. 327 ; Margaret Smith's C. 1 Hume, 279. 

{y) Squire's C. 1 Russell, 426, note (n); Self's C. 1 Leach, 127; Gould's 
C. Salk. 381 ; Ridley's C. 2 Camp. 250 ; Elizabeth King's C. 1 
Hume, 279. 

7 



50 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Pebt 

(z) Palmer, 545 ; Holloway's C. 1 Russell, 425. 
(&■) 1 Hawk, ch, 31, § 5 ; 1 Hale, 431-2. 

So where a jailer confines a prisoner in the same cell with an 
outrageous madman unbound ; or with a person, dying of a malignant 
or contagious disease ; or thrusts him into a loathsome and pestilen- 
tial dungeon, knowing the danger, and death follows in consequence,, 
it is a killing by the jailer, (a) 

(a) The words in the text are taken almost literally from the work of 
an eminent writer upon the Scotch criminal law, to which we have 
been much indebted, especially for illustrations, (1 Hume, 281,) but 
the doctrine is undoubtedly that of the English common law. 
Britt. C. 11 §9; Staunf. 36; 3 Inst. 52; Palmer 548; 1 Hale, 466; 
1 Hawk. ch. 31 § 10, note; Foster, 322; Huggins's C. 2d. L'd. R. 
1574 ; 2 Stra. 882 ; Caster v. Bambridge, 2 Stra. 856 ; 1 East, ch 5, 
§ 92 ; 1 Russell, 459 ; Bac. Abr. Murder A. See the cases of Hug- 
gins, Bambridge and Acton, as reported at length in the State 
Trials, (Hargrave,) 17 vol. (quarto,) 31 0-452, et seq. (folio,) 9 vol. 107, 
146, 182, et seq. 

It is not a killing, in any case, to give false testimony against the 
defendant in a capital trial, though he be, on this testimony, con- 
victed and executed ;(&) nor to occasion death by the operation of 
words or signs upon the imagination or passions, (c) 

But if words or signs are used, inducing to an act, which causes 
death ; as if a blind man be directed to a precipice, or a deadly drug 
be recommended, and death ensue in consequence, it is a killing. (d) 

(.6) The early writers laid down the law to be, that it was a killing to 
take away the life of another, by swearing deliberately falsely in a 
capital trial. Mirror, ch. 1, § 9 ; Britt. ch. 52 ; Bract. B. 3 ch. 4, and 
see 1 Hawk. ch. 31, § 10. But lord Coke says, (3 Inst. 48.) "It is 
not holden for murder at this day," and such seems now to be 
the weight of authority. The only case we find is that of McDan- 
iel and others, reported in Foster, 132, and 1 Leach, 44. The 
defendants were convicted, but judgment was respited, in order 
that the question of law might be fully considered. But the attor- 
ney general declined to prosecute the case further, and the priso- 
ners were discharged from the indictment. The opinion of Sir 
Michael Foster was against the indictment. Sir William Black- 
stone, however, says, (4 Com. 196,) that the attorney general did 
not press the point on account of prudential reasons, and not from 
any apprehension that it was not maintainable, and in East's P. C. 
50, it is added, that lord Mansfield had said, that the opinions 
of several judges, including himself, were strongly in favor 
of the indictment. Most of the more recent writers, however,, 
seem to incline against holding it to be a killing. (4 Blk. Com. 
196-7,) Chitty's note, 1 Russell, 427 ; 3 Chitty, 726 ; Archbold, 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 51 

319 ; Roscoe, 573 ; 10 Am. Jurist. 261 ; and see Staundf. 36. By our 
Revised Statutes, (p. 732) a particular punishment is provided for 
perjury in a capital trial. The Gothic laws punished this offence 
with death, 4 Blk. Com. 196, quotes Steirnh. de jure Goth. L. 3, 
ch. 3. See also, D. 48, 8, 1 ; and Pothier's Pandects, 48, 8, No. 3, 
by which it. would seem that in the Roman law, the judge also, if 
he were bribed, aud under the influence of the bribe, improperly 
condemned a man who suffered death in consequence, was guilty 
of murder. 

(c) This seems to be the well established doctrine of the Common law. 
The distinction between destroying life by mechanical means or 
bodily injury, and by operating upon the fears or passions, appears 
not to be derived from any difference in the criminal nature of the 
acts, for the latter in many cases may show the deeper design and 
darker malignity, but from the difficulty in the latter, of the proof 
connecting the act with the result, and the dangerous latitude of 
the opposite principle. 1 Hale, 429 ; 1 East, 225 ; 3 Chitty, 726 ; 
1 Russell, 425 ; 4 Starkie's Ev. 514 ; Roscoe, 570. See P. & F. 
Med. Juris. 110, note (a.) Mr. Livingston recommends the same 
provision in his project of a code, (p. 437;) and Mr. Hume, (1 
Hume, 267,) states it to be the law of Scotland, and quotes the case 
of Wm. Duff, of Braco, and others, who terrified a woman in child- 
birth, so that she died, but were yet acquitted of homicide. The 
British commissioners propose the opposite principle for the code 
of India, (ch. 18, § 294, illustration (b) ), and in a note, (App. pp. 
67. 8,) defend their opinion, and attack the doctrine of Mr. Livings- 
ton, without mentioning that it is also that of the common law, in 
an able and elaborate argument. We give a short extract. " There 
will be, indeed, few homicides of this sort. It appears to us that a 
conviction or even a trial in such a case, would be an event of 
extremely rare occurrence. There would not probably be one 
such trial in a century. It would be most difficult to prove, to any 
court, that death had really been the effect of excitement produced 
by words. It would be still more difficult to prove, that the person, 
who spoke the words, anticipated from them an effect, which, ex- 
cept under very peculiar circumstances and upon very peculiar 
constitutions, words would not produce. Still, it seems to us that 
these points might be made out by overwhelming evidence ; and, 
supposing them to be made out, we are unable to perceive' any 
distinction between the case of him, who voluntarily causes death 
in this manner, and the case of him, who voluntarily causes death 
by means of a pistol, or a sword ;" and they put many supposed 
cases in illustration. 

(d) Davis's Cr. Law, 94; Liv. 437; and see Evans's C. and Freeman's C. 
above cited. The illustrations here are borrowed from Mr. Liv- 
ingston. 

So where one counsels or assists another to commit suicide, and 
he does commit it, it is a killing by him who thus counsels or 
assists, (e) 

(c) Vaux's C., 4 Repts. 44, (6) ; 1 Hale, 431 ; 1 Russell, 424-29 ; 4 Blk. 
Com. 188 ; 1 Chitty, 726 ; Dyson's C, R. & R. 523. Bowen's C, 13 
Mass. R. 356. The annotator in Wheeler's C. C. 231, appears to 



52 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Teh, 

doubt this principle, but, it would seem, without any ground 
in reason or authority. Bowen's case is at any rate decisive as to 
the common law of this commonwealth. In New York, the ad- 
viser is guilty of manslaughter only, (2 R. S. 661 § 7). In most of 
the foreign codes, he 16 punished as guilty of an offence less than 
murder. 

Where the hurt done is of a dangerous character, and the efficient 
cause of death, although there be a predisposing habit or condition 
of body, without which it would not have been fatal, it is, neverthe- 
less, a killing by means of such hurt. (/) 

As if one, infirm from age or sickness, die of blows which would 
have done little injury to another of ordinary strength or health, it is 
a killing by him who gave the blows. (g) 

(/) Martin's C, 5 C. & P. 128 ; Ramsay's C, 1 Hume, 183 ; 1 Hale, 128 s 
where lord Hale says that he has often heard that wise and learned 
judge, Mr. Justice Rolle, so direct; 1 Russell, 429 ; Archbold, 319 ;■ 
Roscoe, 544-6, quotes Alison, 149 ; Davis's Cr. Law, 94. The 
ruling of Hallock, B. in the case of Johnson, at nisiprius, York Ass. 
1827, of which there is a meagre report in Lewrn's Crown Cases, 
164, would seem to be in conflict with this principle. There the 
defendant was indicted for killing the deceased while in a state of 
intoxication by a blow, which the physician testified might not have 
produced death if the party had been sober. Hallock, B. directed 
an acquittal, observing, that "where the death was occasioned 
partly by a blow, and partly by a predisposing cause, it was impos- 
sible to apportion the operations of the several causes, so as to be 
able to say with certainty that the death was immediately occa- 
sioned by any one of them in particular." The commissioners 
believe, that the doctrine thus laid down and applied to the case 
then on trial, cannot be the law. It is entirely at variance with the 
principle established by the previous authorities, and stated in the 
text ; for it would be as applicable to any other predisposing cause, 
the infirmity of age and sickness, for instance, as that of intoxica- 
tion. Roscoe questions the correctness of the decision, and it has 
no where, that the commissioners can see, any support in reason 
or authority. A case, involving the same question, was before the 
S. J. C. of this commonwealth, (Suffolk, Jan. 1817,) but the report 
of it (in pamphlet,) does not enable us to state very precisely, the 
opinion of the court. Phillips, the deft, was indicted for the mur- 
der of Denegri, by striking him on the head with a logger-head, 
which produced an inflammation of the brain, of which he died. 
The physicians agreed in their testimony, that the blow was the 
immediate cause of the inflammation, which resulted in death ; but 
that this inflammation was much increased, and perhaps rendered 
fatal, by the deceased 's intoxication, at the time of the blow, and 
his subsequent exposure. The court seems to have ruled, (see 
charge of Parker, C.J. p. 16,) that upon these facts, there was a 
sufficient killing, and the deft, was convicted and executed. 

This question has been much discussed in other countries, and at 
different periods, and the doctrine of the text has been almost univer- 
sally supported. — Such was the Aquilian law as to what should be 



J 839.] 



SENATE— No. 21. 53 



deemed a killing, D. 9, 2, 7, § 5 ; Pothier's Pund. 9, 2, No. 4 ; for 
" that may be fatal to one, which is not so to another," and it is suf- 
ficient, if the injury be mortal in the particular case, — so in Titt- 
man's Compendium of the common criminal law of Germany, 
(published in German, 1822,) it is said, " wounds may be mortal, 
either, first, generally, or secondly, only in the particular instance, 
according as they would always produce death, upon every human 
being, or only do so, in consequence of the peculiar bodily condi- 
tion of the individual ; as where the imperfection or peculiar condi- 
tion of the body, gives to the wound a greater opportunity to be- 
come fatal. As for example, where there is an unnatural organization 
or defective structure of the body : or a particular weakness of any in- 
ternal or external part, as of the heart or skull ; or where the fluids 
of the body are corrupted ; or where there are particular states of the 
body, as where the deceased is sick or pregnant, or of an advanced or 
tender age, or the stomach is unduly distended or the like ;" and it 
is held to be equally a killing, whether the wound be such as pro- 
duces death in the particular case, or such as would always and 
necessarily be fatal to all. See also Feuerbach's Compendium of the 
common penal law of Germany, (12th ed. 18:J1,) 208, pp. 194, and 
note (6) by Mittermaier. Similar provisions exist in most of the foreign 
codes. Thus, in that of Saxony, (promulgated March 30, 1838,) it is 
provided, (ch„ iv. art. 120,) — " In reference to the crime of killing, it is 
of no consequence to the legal adjudication of the mortality of the 
injury, whether a similar injury might not in other cases be 
cured by the aid of skill ; whether the fatal event might not have 
been averted by the timely application of proper means ; — whether 
the injury was such as would have been, in general, mortal, or oc- 
casioned death in the particular instance, only by the peculiar state of 
the body of the deceased." So in the project of' a code for the Grand 
Duchy of Baden, (by Mittermaier, 1838) part ii. title 10, § 178. "Every 
injury is to be considered mortal, which has as the acting cause in the 
particular case produced death, without any distinction as to whether 
the fatal result might not have been, in other cases, averted by the 
help of art ; whether even in the present proper means would not have 
prevented it; whether the injury, immediately, or through other in- 
tervening causes growing naturally out of it, has produced the 
death ; whether the injury would have been, in general, mortal, or 
was so in the particular instance only, on account of the peculiar bod- 
ily condition of the individual, or the accidental circumstances, under 
which it ivas committed upon him" The same principle is contained 
in the Revised Penal Code of Bavaria, (1827.) ch. xiv. art. 204; 
Criminal Code of the Canton of Basle, (1835,) title iii. A. § 118; pro- 
ject of Criminal Code of Norway, (1835,) ch. xiv. § 28; of" Wurtem- 
burg, (1836,) title ii. ch. 1, art. 223 j of the kingdom of Hanover, 
( 1830,) § 224 ; of the Grand Duchy of Hesse, title 32, art. 21(5, and in 
several others. 

(g) Ramsay's C. ; Martin's C, above cited. 

Where the hurt done is adequate to and does produce death, it is 
a killing by him who caused the hurt, although it appear, that, by the 
use of proper care, or more skilful means, a recovery might have 
been effected, (h) 

Thus if a wound be given, which opens an artery, and the man 



54 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

die from the loss of blood, it is a killing by means of the wound, 
though by ordinary diligence in procuring a surgeon, the wound 
might have been staunched and life preserved, (i) 

And this is so, though the hurt be not directly, if it be naturally 
and efficiently, the cause of death. 

As if a wound, though from neglect, turn to gangrene or induce 
fever, which is the immediate cause of death, it is a killing by him, 
who gave the wound. (J) 

(h) Reeve's C. Kely, 26; Edgar's C. Roscoe, 573; quotes Alison, 149; 
1 Burnett, 551 ; 1 Hale, 428; 4 Blk. Com. 197, note 30; 1 Hawk, 
119; 1 East, 344; 3 Chitty, 726; 1 Russell, 428; Archbold, 319 ; 
1 Hume, 184 ; 4 Starkie's Ev. 1 ; Wheeler, C. C. 264 ; Greene's C. 
Ashmead's R. 289 ; Davis, Cr. L. 94 ; Liv. 437. 

(i) 1 Hume, 184, Edgar's C. above cited; Roscoe, 575. 

(j) 1 Hale, 428 ; Reeves's C. above cited ; 1 Russell, 428 ; Archbold, 319. 

But where the hurt done is not, in itself, either directly or me- 
diately the efficient cause of death, but other positive and substantive 
agencies intervene ; — 

as where an injury, not adequate in itself to produce death, is 
made the occasion of death by means of injurious treatment or nox- 
ious medicines, it is not a killing by him, who caused the hurt.(fc) 

Thus where one by violence dislocates the arm of another, and an 
ignorant pretender operates upon the arm for several days, and a 
white swelling ensues, in consequence of the operation, which proves 
fatal, it is not a killing by means of the first violence. (/) 

(k) See citations in note, (ft) supra. This part of the principle is some- 
what ambiguously stated by the different authors and judges, and 
with many variations in phraseology. We have not followed 
either of them literally, but have endeavored to extract from a 
consideration of all, the true doctrine of the law, having regard 
as well to the reasonableness of the rule, as the authority by which 
it may appear to be supported. 

(I) Macowan's C. Roscoe 573. 

So if death be owing to any incidental and supervening misfortune, 
which could not have been foreseen, having an accidental and remote 
connexion only with the hurt, it is not a killing by means of such 
hurt.(m) 

Thus where one, on account of n wound given, is sent to a hos- 



1839.] senate—No. 21 55 

pital, where he takes the erysipelas by infection and dies of it ; — 
here, though he would not have gone to the hospital, and so taken 
the erysipelas, but for the first injury, yet it is no killing by him, who 
gave the wound. (n) 

So where one strikes another, injuring him seriously but not mor- 
tally, and the latter is in consequence placed upon a table or stool 
for examination, and he accidentally falls from the table or stool, and 
dies in consequence of the fall, it is not a killing by the first, (o) 

(m) Wrigley's C. Lew. C. C. 171 ; Campbell's C. Roscoe, 575 ; quotes 
Alison, 347. 

(n) Campbell's C. above cited. 

(o) Wrigley's C. above cited. 

But where no agency, excepting such as occurs in the natural 
course of things, and has its efficacy by reason of the hurt, or the 
act of him, who gave it, intervenes between the hurt and the death, 
it is otherwise : — 

as where robbers give a wound to one, not mortal under common 
circumstances, and leave him disabled from the injury by the road- 
side, exposed to the cold, and the wound is thus made fatal, it is a 
killing by the robbers. (p) 

(p) Caldwell's C, Burnett, 552, in Roscoe, 576. 

No person can be adjudged, by any act or omission, to have 
killed another, unless death ensue within a year and a day from the 
hurt done ; in the computation of which period of time, the whole 
of the day, on which the hurt was done, is included, (r) 

(r) 3 Inst. 53 ; 1 Hawk, ch. 31, § 9 ; 1 East, 343-4 ; 1 Russell, 428 ; 4 Elk. 
Com. 197; 3 Chitty, 726; 2 Deacon, 899; Davis, Cr. L. 95. Tbe 
reason of this rule arises from the danger of connecting, as cause 
and effect, events, remote from each other in point of time. 

The commissioners have not thought it necessary, either here or 
in any other part of the code, to introduce any particular rule, as 
to the proof of what is called the corpus delicti, i. e., the proof of the 
fact of the killing. The law fixes the rules, as to the competency of 
evidence, bnt what ought to be considered sufficient proof in any 
given case, is generally matter of fact to be decided by the jury, in 
each instance, on its own circumstances, rather than of positive, 
legal, regulation. Some writers suppose that the finding of the 
body of the deceased, is the only sufficient evidence of the fact of 
the killing. 



56 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

Lord Hale, with that humanity which is one of the best elements 
of his truly great character, and which nobly distinguishes him 
among the great criminal lawyers of England, says, (2 Hale, 290,) 
" I never would convict any person of murder or manslaughter, 
unless the fact were proved, or at least the body found" and he cites 
two cases of persons convicted on circumstantial evidence, of the 
murder of others, who were supposed to be dead, but afterwards 
proved to have been living. The case of the Bournes, of Manches- 
ter, Vt., convicted on circumstantial evidence and their own de- 
liberate confession, of the murder of Colvin, who it is said was 
proved to have been living, (Bennington county, Oct. 1819,) is of 
the same character, and has often been referred to, in illustration 
of the danger of such convictions. The passage from lord Hale, 
is copied without remarks by Blackstone, 4 Com. 358; Deacon 
(1 vol. 442,) and Chitty speaks of it (1 Chitty, 563,) as "a good 
general rule." Russell quotes it, and adds, (1 Russell, 473,) "But 
this rule it seems must be taken with some qualifications; and cir- 
cumstances may be sufficiently strong to show the fact of the mur- 
der, though the body has never been found." See also Archbold, 
124. 

In Hindmarshe's case, (2 Leach, 571,) the prisoner, a sailor, was 
charged with having killed his captain with a club, and thrown 
him overboard, at sea. Garrow, for the prisoner, claimed his ac- 
quittal, on the ground that there was no proof of the death of the 
captain, and mentioned a case as having been tried before Mr. J. 
Gould, where the two prisoners were seen to strip a child and 
throw it into the dock, and its body was not afterwards seen. 
The learned judge observed, that it was possible "the tide might 
have carried out the living child," and the jury upon this ground 
acquitted the prisoners. 

The court in Hindmarshe's case admitted the general rule stated 
by Garrow, but according to the report, left it to the jury to find 
whether the deceased was not dead, before his body was cast into 
the sea. They convicted the prisoner, and all the judges approving 
the conviction, he was executed. 

The opinion of Gould, J., in the case stated by Garrow, (and 
his statement is the only authority for the case) might have been 
influenced by the allegations of the indictment, as to the place and 
manner of the death ; for the judge does not intimate that there 
was not evidence of the death of the child, to go to the jury, but the 
ground seems to have been that there was not sufficient evidence 
that it died " in the dock," (as the allegation probably was,) " as the 
tide, which ebbed and flowed there, might have carried out the liv- 
ing infant." — (See 1 Russell, 473, note 1.) In the other case, also, 
the ruling might have depended upon the pleadings. In neither is 
any general doctrine so laid down in the report, that much reliance 
can be placed upon it. 

There have been three cases certainly before the circuit court of 
the U. S, for the district of Massachusetts, of trials for murders on 
the high seas, where this supposed principle has been disregarded 
or denied by the court. (The case of Williams and others, tried 
Dec. 1818, and reported in pamphlet; Freeman's C. 4 Mason's R. 
505; and the very recent case of Gibert and others, (the pirates,) 
2 Sumner's Reports, 19.) 

In the last mentioned case, Mr. Justice Story said, " This propo- 
sition" (that a conviction cannot take place, where the body is not 
found) '• cannot be admitted as correct, in point of common reason, 
or of law, unless courts of justice are to establish a positive rule to 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 57 

screen persons from punishment, who may be guilty of the most 
flagitious crimes. In the case of murders committed on the high 
seas, the body is rarely, if ever, found : and a more complete en- 
couragement and protection for the worst offences of this sort could 
not be invented than a rule of this strictness. It would amount to 
a universal condonation of all murders committed on the high 
seas." The same reasoning would apply, where the murderer burnt 
or otherwise destroyed the body. 

Starkie says, (4 Starkie, 944,) "Although it be certain, that no 
conviction ought to take place, unless there be most full and deci- 
sive evidence as to the death ; yet it seems that actual proof of the 
finding of the body is not absolutely essential, and it is evident, 
that to lay down a strict rule to that extent might be productive of 
the most horrible consequences." 

Professor Davis, also, in his work on the criminal law of Virginia, 
(p. 92,) bears most decided testimony against the rule. 

Upon the whole, the commissioners are of opinion, that the pro- 
position of lord Hale, certainly as it has been generally understood, 
has not been established as an inflexible principle of law, and that 
it would be unsafe to adopt a rule as applicable to all cases, which 
is fitted only for a class of them, however large, and which would 
exempt from punishment every murderer, who should conceal or 
destroy the murdered body. Undoubtedly, in many cases, the fact, 
that the body has not been found, would have and ought to have a 
decisive influence ; in others, as where one already rendered help- 
less, but still living, is thrown into the sea, it would have, probably, 
little weight; but in all, the question of what is sufficient evidence 
to prove the death, (and it must be established beyond all reasona- 
ble doubt,) should be left, without the restraint of artificial rules, to 
the understandings and consciences of the jury. 



2. The killing must be of a human being. 

Any one, belonging to the human species, alive and in being, of 
whatever age or condition, may be the subject of murder, (a) though 
he be an idiot or insane person, (b) an alien enemy, (c) convicted of 
a capital crime, (d) or struck with a mortal disease, (e) 

(a) 1 Hale, 428; Archb. 319; 3 Inst. 49; Feuerbach's Comp. (12 edit. 
1836,) §207. 

(b) Daft Jamie's C. 1 Hume, 275. 

(c) 1 Hale, 433 ; Inglis's C. 1 Hume, 275 ; Maxwell's C, ibid. 

(d) Bowen's C. 13 Mass. R. 356; in this case the deceased was to 
have been hung the next day. Vin. Abr. Murder, B. 3. 

(e) Martin's C, 5 C. & P., 128 ; Jean Ramsay's C, 1 Hume, 267.] 

The life, which is destroyed, must be complete by the birth of 
the person deprived of it.(/) 
8 



58 REPORT ON CRIMINAL LAW. [Feb. 

A child, in its mother's womb, is not in being, nor is it born, so 
as to be the subject of murder, (g) until its whole body is brought 
into the world, (h) and it has an independent circulation, (i) 

But if a child be born alive and then die, in consequence of po- 
tions administered, or violence done before its birth, or during its 
birth, it is the killing of a human being, (j) 

{/) Liv.346; 1 Hale, 433; Roscoe, 565; Davis Cr. Law, 97, and au- 
thorities, infra. 

(g) The law was formerly otherwise. Bracton said that it was mur- 
der, to destroy a child in the womb of the mother, if it was formed, 
and especially if it had quickened there ; and the contemporary 
writers support the same opinion, (Bracton 1. 3 f ; Fleta, B. 1, ch. 
23, § 10, 11, 12,) although the contrary is now well settled in con- 
formity with the statement in the text. (See citations in note f.) 
The question seems to have been much discussed by the philoso- 
phers and lawyers of Rome, (Poth. Pand. 48, 8, No. 5,) as it has also 
been by the writers of the common law of the continent of Eu- 
rope. Tittman's Compendium, § 145. And the better opinion 
would seem to have been, with both, that the destruction of a child 
in the mother's womb, after it had quickened there, was the killing 
of a human being. 

(h) Enoch's C. 5 C. & P. 329 ; Brain's C. 6 C. & P. 344. 

{i) Pulley's C. 5 C. & P. 539. 

(j) The commissioners have here stated the eommon law as they 
believe it to exist. There are no cases in the American, and but 
two, which they find in the English books upon the subject. The 
earliest is a case before Sir G. Scrope reported in the Year books, 
(1 Edw. 3, 23, pi. 18.) See it in full, 24 Eng. C. L. Repts. 447, 
note,(a.) There the defendant had beaten a woman, pregnant 
with two children. One of them was dead born ; the other was 
born alive, and baptized, but died two days after the injury, in con- 
sequence (as was charged,) of the beating of its mother before its 
birth. The judges held that the defendant was not guilty of a 
felony, (murder or any homicide,) but of a misdemeanor only. 

The doctrine of this case is maintained by lord Hale, (] Hale, 
443,) and Sir Geo. Staundford, (Staund. 21.) But lord Coke de- 
nied it to be the law, and insisted " if a child be born alive, and 
dieth of the potion, battery or other cause, which happened before 
its birth, it may be murder," (3 Inst. 50-1,) and quotes Bracton, 
who goes, as we have seen, much further, (see note g,) he main- 
taining that it may be murder to destroy a formed child in the 
mother's womb, certainly if it have quickened there. In Gould, 1 76, 
pi. 110 Coke, Fenner and Popham, Js. are said to have ruled, that 
if one " beat a woman great with child, and after the child is born 
living, but hath signs and bruises on his body, received by the said 
battery, and after die thereof this is murder (homicide,) and the 
difference is where the child is born dead, and where it is born 
living, for if it be dead born, it is no murder (homicide,) for non 
constat, whether the child were living at the time of the battery or 
not, or if the battery was the cause of the death." 



1839.] SENATE— No. 21. 59 

The opinion of lord Coke has been followed, by nearly all the 
later writers upon the criminal law, and the authority of the case 
in the Year-books, has been for a long time much impaired, if not 
entirely overthrown. 1 Hawk. ch. 31. § K>; 4 Blk. Com. 198; 
1 East, ch. 50, § 14 ; 3 Chitty, 727 ; Archbold, 320 ; 1 Russell, 424, 
and note ; 3 Chitty, 727 ; Koscoe, 5(i5 ; Davis's J.. 31 1. 

A very recent case in England has removed all doubt as to the 
common law of that country.— (Senior's C, Moody's C. C. 344.) 
Joseph Senior was convicted of manslaughter (homicide) before 
Holland, B. at the Chester spring assizes, 1832, for inflicting a wound 
upon a child, during its birth, hut before it had breathed, and while 
it was still in ventre sa mere. The case was afterwards submitted to 
the twelve judges, who unanimously held the conviction right. 

The commissioners find that child-murder, and especially the 
killing of illegitimate children, has been the subject of particular 
provisions in many of the foreign codes, the killing during birth, 
and within twenty-four hours afterwards, being put on the same 
ground and punished as an offence less than murder. They do not 
find, however, any provision as to the death of a child, after birth or 
twenty-four hours after birth, on account of an injury previously re- 
ceived. 

The books of the Scottish law, so abundant in illustration of 
most of the principles relating to murder, contain, so far as the 
commissioners know, no cases upon this point. Hume quotes the 
doctrine from Hawkins, and adds, " but it is difficult to imagine 
(and no more needs be said in such a case,) that in these circum- 
stances, a decisive proof can be obtained of the true cause of the 
death of the child." It will be seen also, that the difficulty of proof 
had great weight with Lord Hale and Sir George Staundford. 



3. The killing must be unlawful. 
Every killing of a human being, which, &c. 

To ascertain what constitutes murder, it remains to be explained 
what is an " unlawful," and what a " malicious" killing. 



ERRATA. 

Page 6, line 17, after " what," read " code.'" 
" 9, " 12, for "break," read "'breaks." 
" 20, " 29, for "this," read "that" 
" 21, " 6, for "constitution," read "condition. 
" 22, " 8, for " report," read " reports." 
" 30, •' 13, for "unflexible," read " inflexible. ,; 



