AN 



EXPOSITION 



OF 



DIFFICULTIES IN WEST. BROOKFIELIX 

CONNECTED WITH 

AJYTI-SLAVERY OPERATIONS. 



-==& 






'm^< 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/expositionofdiff1844west 



AN 



EXPOSITION OF 



DIFFICULTIES IN WEST BUOOKFIELD, 



CONNECTED WITH 



ANTI-SLAVERY OPERATIONS, 



TOGETHER WITH A 



REPLY TO SOME STATEMENTS IN A PAMPHLET PUT FORTH BY 

" MOSES CHASE, PASTOR OF THE CHURCH," 



PURPORTING TO BE A 



" STATEMENT OF FACTS IN THE CASE OF DEACON HENSHAW." 



BY THE BOARD OF MANAGERS OF THE W. B. ANTI-SLAVERY fOCI 



WEST BROOKFIELD, MASS. 
PUBLISHED BY THE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
1844. 

0. S. COOKE, FRl.Nri.,. 



0. 3. COOKE, PHIISTi:: 



5 JJOKE, PfU.NTKR, 



EXPOSITION OF DIFFICULTIES. 



At the last monthly meeting of our society, it was voted, that the 
Board of Managers be requested to take into consideration the proprie- 
ty of making some reply to a pamphlet recently published by Rev. Mo- 
ses Chase concerning the action of the Church in this place in the case 
of Dea. Henshaw, and also to make such other statements concerning 
the doings of our Society, and matters connected therewith as shall en- 
able the community to judge understandingly, of the merits of the 
Anti-slavery controversy, as demonstrated by occurrences for the last 
few years in our midst. 

The Board deem it their duty to make an effort to gather up the 
history of the past, and make it subservient to the advancement of 
truth and righteousness for the future. 

It is however with a degree of reluctance that we enter upon this 
duty, well knowing that faithfulness will require of us, to disregard in 
some measure, the reputation and good will of individuals, and jeopar- 
dize our own credit for veracity; — and even to encroach upon forbidden 
ground by bringing up to review the transactions of some who sleep, and 
of others of whom it may be said, that their places here shall be known 
no more forever. 

In order to a more correct understanding of the whole subject, 
we will commence with the organization of our Society, which took 
place in July 1837. — A few individuals having become interested in 
the subject of the abolition of slavery, proposed a meeting for the for- 
mation of an Anti-slavery Society, at which meeting a Constitution was 
proposed and adopted by twenty-two male members, all legal voters in 
state affairs — all but three, members of the Church in this place, in 
in good and regular standing — -and mosjly all of them men of mature 
years. 

The Constitution is unexceptionable in its principles and its phraseo- 
logy, excepting to slave-holders and the advocates of slavery. — It ab- 
jures resort to violence, or physical force, to accomplish its ends, and 
binds its members to a faithful discharge of their duties to mankind and 
to God, and to contend with active vigilance for the liberty and equal 
rights of all men in these United States. It is probable that this was 
the first society, professedly philanthropic, ever formed in this place 
without the aid or co-operation of the minister. That circumstance 
occasioned no great inconvenience at the outset, as a conviction seem- 
ed to have taken fast hold of mens' minds that slavery was a great sin and 
a great curse, and that it devolved upon them as citizens and as chris- 
tians to remonstrate loudly against it. The inconveniences which have 
been experienced in consequence of this circumstance subsequent to 



the formation of our Society, have been'somewhat serious, and the re- 
lation of them will form an important part of this pamphlet. 

The Rev. Francis Horton was at that time the minister in this place 
— he was avowedly a colonizationist, in theory at least, and in fact sure- 
ly, if hostility to abolition is a main ingredient in the composition of one of 
that profession. Mr. Horton was warmly solicited to espouse our cause, 
for it was the universal idea that a religious enterprize could no more 
succeed without a clergyman at the helm, than could a farmer break up 
his fallow ground without a yoke of oxen. — But for any aid received 
from him in furtherance of this cause, we have no acknowledgments to 
make; he never blessed our meetings with his presence but twice, and 
then he never dropped one word of cheer, or invoked God's blessing 
on our enterprize, as his profession are proverbially tenacious of doing 
publicly for all associations and assemblies whose objects they can con- 
scientiously tolerate, though they may not participate in them. Yet we 
would not be understood that Mr. Horton was not professedly an Anti- 
slavery man — that is, so much so as to deprecate slavery as an evil, and 
stoutly and eloquently to invoke God in his Sabbath-day performances 
to terminate it; — further than that he said not, nor did not, — neither 
encouraged others to do. 

The Society made strenuous efforts to obtain lecturers, and were 
particularly desirous to get such as should commend themselves to the 
respect and good will of the Church and society by their good reputa- 
tion, and general popularity. As almost every subject of a moral and 
religious nature reached the peoples' ear through the minister and through 
the pulpit, it was desirable that the people should hear upon this sub- 
ject through the same channels. But it was not till after individuals of 
some prominence in the Church had exhibited a determination to incor- 
porate this object into their system of benevolent operations, and had also 
shown some impatience at the restraints the minister was disposed to 
impose upon them, that an arrangement could be made with Mr. Hor- 
ton to admit this subject into the pulpit through other individuals. 

At a stated monthly religious meeting, the subject of slavery was in- 
cidentally introduced by a stranger, (Daniel Chamberlain of Westbo- 
rough, formerly connected with the missionary corps at the Sandwich 
Islands) which excited the ire of Mr. Horton to a high degree. He 
resolutely protested against allusion to that subject in meetings under his 
control. It had become, he said, a very common practice to drag this 
subject into the exercises of religious meetings, and he would no lon- 
ger submit to it. — He was opposed to slavery as much as any body, and 
had been from his childhood — that he drank in the principles of human 
liberty with his mother's milk, &c. &c. — The fact was, that slavery had 
been alluded to in religious meetings but a very few times, but being an 
unwelcome subject, those few instances were greatly multiplied in the 
recollection of those who so much dreaded its consideration. Two of 
Mr. Horton's deacons took very independent ground at this time, in 
giving the minister and meeting to understand that they could not con- 
sent to be restrained from expressing their convictions upon this subject, 



and also of making it the subject of prayer, wherever they were per- 
mitted to meet God's people and to participate in the exercises. From 
this time, the services of these meetings were more generally performed 
by Mr. Horton himself, without the assistance of other individuals. 

In process of time, Mr. Horton did consent to make exchanges with 
certain clergymen, holding different views upon the subject of Abolition, 
but, with the explicit understanding that they introduced Anti-slavery 
upon their own responsibility. In the course of four years, exchanges 
were made with Rev. Mr. Backus, Rev. Doct. Osgood, and Rev. 
Sumner Lincoln, and they each preached upon slavery, and made as 
much impression upon their audiences as could have been expected 
from the state of the public mind at that time. The temperature of 
their reception may be fairly judged of by this one incident. — When 
Mr. Lincoln arrived at Mr. Horton's on Sabbath morning, and had re- 
mained a suitable length of time under cover of his great coat, the 
hour of meeting fast approaching, he found it necessary to repair to the 
tavern to make provision for his horse. 

In the spring of 1840, a meeting of the Church was held to see what 
action it would take upon the subject of slavery. — The minister was op- 
posed to calling the meeting, and also every member not belonging to the 
Anti-slavery Society; but as it would happen, a vote was obtained to 
have the meeting. The meeting came, and a resolution condemnatory of 
slavery was offered. Allen Newell spoke to the resolution, and com- 
mended it warmly — it spoke his sentiments, and he presumed the sen- 
timents of every member of the whole Church. — It was responded to 
in like manner by various individuals, and was likely to be passed, when 
Ebenezer Merriam expressed his opposition to its passage, because if 
adopted, the Church would be called upon to pass others, — which was 
admitted by the mover, and other resolutions withdrawing fellowship 
from slaveholders were read, which it would be proper to pass, provid- 
ed the first be true. 

Allen Newell, (who speaks the mind of the minister, and the major- 
ity, as well perhaps as any one,) said, that slavery in his estimation, 
was so great a sin, and that it was so abhorrent to his feelings, that he 
should never think of communing with a slave-holder, or of listening to 
a minister who was a slave-holder, and he believed the idea was so re- 
volting to all the members of the Church, that it was unnecessary to 
adopt such resolutions; nevertheless, he had no objection to them. 

The propriety of taking some definite action in order to have our in- 
fluence felt, and to relieve ourselves from possible embarrassments, was 
urged upon the other side — but all to no effect; it was admitted on all 
hands, that slavery was a great evil, and it was sufficient for the major- 
ity to know that God could and would in his own good time terminate 
it; — we ourselves had nothing to do with the subject — we were clear of 
the guilt, and it would only make trouble in the church to meddle with 
it. — Ebenezer Merriam remarked that this action was premature, and 
moved an indefinite postponement of the whole subject, which passed 
by a fair majority. 





Our Society plodded on its way, having occasional lectures, and 
preaching for the most part to plebians, publicans, and sinners, and 
laboring somewhat diligently in getting up petitions to the state and 
national authorities, to press the subject to the "extreme verge of the 
constitution," and thus making somewhat of a formidable display of op- 
sition to the patriarchal institution, on paper. 

In less than one year after the attempt to pass resolutions in the 
church, the Rev. Mr. Horton asked to be excused from the fur- 
ther charge of his flock, and commending them to the watchful care of 
the Great Shepherd and Bishop of souls, took an excursion to the 
south. From Mobile a member of his family wrote back a lengthy 
epistle, for general circulation undoubtedly, as it received such, eulo- 
gizing the country and its social institutions and congratulating herself 
upon her escape from a place where so much of her time was absorbed 
in domestic cares, to a place where she was quite relieved from those 
cares by a superabundance of domestics, of a very pious cast, and was 
enabled to devote her whole time to benevolent and religious occupa- 
tions. 

In the fall of 1841, the Church and Society through their pulpit com- 
mittee made application to the President of Amherst College for in- 
formation where they might obtain a minister adapted to the wants of 
this place, and he recommended the Rev. Moses Chase, then of Whate- 
ly, as a minister adapted to any community. Some of the committee, 
bitterly hostile to Anti-slavery operations, made application to mem- 
bers of his society to know if he might be depended on as a man of 
" moral courage," — to which query the most positive assurance was 
received in the affirmative. 

It was well understood that there were two sets of minds in the place 
for a minister to cater for, if he would please all. 

Three of the four Deacons in the Church thought they had been 
converted to Anti-slavery principles, and indulged a faint hope. The 
fourth, did not wish to be converted; he was impregnable to all at- 
tempts to pursuade him to mingle Temperance or Anti-slavery with 
his religion. — His religion was of the pure sabba-day, meeting-house 
kind, unmingled with any thing of a political cast, — yet he was a strong 
politician in the proper place. 

Mr. Chase was faithfully interrogated by individuals in his parochial 
visits, as to his views upon the subject of slavery, and the new converts 
in particular were overjoyed to find him sound in his Anti-slavery faith; 
and he gave some evidence too by coming into our monthly prayer meet- 
ing, and assuming the command deemed appropriate for ministers in re- 
ligious convocations. This, too, was very encouraging to both old and 
young converts, as we had never had the assistance of a clergyman in 
conducting them, and we had been under the necessity of carrying them 
on in a kind of farmer like way;— it gave a zest to the performances, 
being more in harmony with the doings of other meetings they were ac- 
customed to attend. There is something decidedly vulgar in the ap- 
pearance of a company of laymen and women, attempting to carry on a 



religious meeting in the common parlance of worldly affairs; — this de- 
fect was now remedied. 

Then again it seemed there could be no mistake in Mr. Chase's 
Anti-slaver}' ; — he had resided at the South, and he related incidents 
coming under his observation much more horrifying than we were ac- 
customed to hear, and his abhorrence of the institution was decided 
and confirmed. 

The situation of his affairs was such that it was necessary that he 
should know the result of the public mind upon his competency to be 
their minister, and he being somewhat of a working man, matters were 
brought to a crisis very soon; — in about six weeks from his introduction 
to the place a bargain was concluded between him and the parish very 
much to their satisfaction, as will appear by the fact that they volunta- 
rily advanced his salary $150, above what they had previously paid. 
At the second monthly Anti-slavery meeting at which Mr. Chase pre- 
sided, which was subsequent to his settlement, it was suspected by some 
that he had nearly exhausted his Anti-slavery capital at the first meet- 
ing, as he seemed inclined to shift the specific charge of national guilt 
in oppressing, from the Negroes to the Indians. — Nor would we object 
that this sympathy for the Indians is undeserved ; — nor that it is not 
kindred to slavery, and part and parcel of the same ; but it looked 
very much like Gov. Morton's attempt to turn all the sympathies of 
the abolitionists over to the Marshpee Indians. — And, again, it made 
way for our opponents to be captious, inasmuch as it is not admissible 
for a true Abolitionist to entertain two ideas at one time, and this look- 
ed like attempting it. — Another circumstance strengthened the suspicion. 
■ — It happened necessary for us at this second meeting to do some bu- 
siness by way of making preparation for circulating petitions which evi- 
dently appeared to disconcert the minister; and it subsequently appeared 
that the considered it a desecration of the holy Sabbath evening to talk 
and labor after that fashion.- — This was the last of our society prayer 
meetings but one, which Mr. Chase attended, and of which an account 
was given to the public near the time of its occurrence.* 



* It will appear in the progress of this narration that Mr Chase instituted a prayer meeting 
in opposition to the one alluded to, with the evident intention of superceding the necessity 
of the first, and bringing all the meetings under his direction and control. To this end he 
run his appointment into the time for the regular meeting of the Anti-slavery Society ; and 
was particular to be prompt at his post, to pray and preach to them, and tell them what to 
sing. But the Society were there with considerable business on hand, and it seemed very 
doubtful for a time, whether the praying and singing (which the parson was careful to 
institute in unison with the opening of the Society's meeting) should drown out 
the business, or whether the business should take the precedence. The minister was his 
own chorister; and in his haste to give us a concert, he mis-metered his subject and tune, 
and very soon run afoul of some semiquavers which brought him and his choir to a stand. 
We have said who the chorister was. The choir was made up of a good widow, who 
reads music very well, but writes petitions in behalf of ministers better, and whose first 
effort to assist the clergy in their unfortunate manoeuvres was not now. This catastro- 
phe put a stop to proceedings on all sides, as the pastor was determined that no other one 
should get into his " castle." The way was now open for a fair debatewhich extend- 
ed two hours beyond the usual time of holding the meeting, and which we verily believ 
contributed to open all eye3 which were not hermetrically sealed with evangelical seal- 
ing wax. 



8 

We now come to the proper place to notice the first paragraph in 
Mr Chase's pamphlet, entitled " A statement of Facts, &c." Under 
the head of " Origin of Difficulties" this statement occurs, 

" This was long before the settlement of the present Incumbent. He was Installed 
Jan. 12th 1842. On the last Sabbath in February following, Col John M. Fisk rose in the 
congregation, just after the Pastor had given notice of his first preparatory Lecture, and said 
' I now give notice that I shall introduce a Resolution at the preparatory Lecture, instruct- 
ing the Pastor what invitation to give to occasional Communicants.' The resolution was 
accordingly introduced, and the intention openly avowed and defended, to instruct the 
Pastor to form his invitation so as to include ' Unitarians and Universalists.' This ef- 
fort to break down the long established barriers of the communion table, was resisted by 
the Church, and the Pastor sustained." 

We shall notice this first paragraph the more particularly as it is in- 
dicative of the whole character of the pamphlet, and shows by what 
trifling distortions the appearance of a transaction will be changed, and 
an erroneous impression conveyed. 

Mr. Chase administered the sacrament to the Church the second or 
third Sabbath after his arrival in the place. — He gave the invitation to 
members of other churches to sit and commune, exclusively to evan- 
gelical denominations, whereas it had been the custom from time imme- 
morial in this church to extend the invitation to " Christians of what- 
ever name or denomination, who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sin- 
cerity and truth, and who are in regular standing in their own churches." 
John M. Fisk notified Mr. Chase immediately after meeting, of the 
variation in the invitation extended, to which he replied, that it was 
after the common form, and further, be particular to note, that he had 
received his information from one of the Deacons that it was the 
proper one to give here. — He however signified his disposition to con- 
form to the customary usage, the discrepancy having been pointed out. 
At the return of another communion season he gave the invitation cor- 
responding with the first. — On the approach of a third communion sea- 
son an appointment of a church meeting for business was given out by 
the Pastor on some day of the current week, on which occasion John 
M. Fisk, not "just after the Pastor had given notice of his first pre- 
paratory Lecture" but just after he had pronounced the benediction, 
did not " rise in the congregation" but being upon his feet with the 
rest of the congregation, did not say, " I now give notice that I shall 
introduce a Resolution at the preparatory lecture," but, I give notice 
that at the church meeting for business this day appointed 1 shall pro- 
pose to the church, &c. Now, it is very possible that he might have 
said that he should propose to the church to instruct the Pastor ; it 
matters not; he frankly admits, that it would amount to instructing 
him, and why not? was he hired to come here and dictate to the church 
with whom they should commune, and with whom only? or did the 
Lord station him in this part of his vineyard for that purpose? Then 
why in the name of all logic did he apply to the Dea. for informa- 
tion upon this point? 

Instruct ! Ah ! there's the rub. What, a church instruct their 
minister — and a private member propose it — in the great congregation 
too — and an abolitionist too — and a very obnoxious one moreover ? 



9 

preposterous! Where is the Pope and his minions? asleep? no, wide 
awake, be assured the sequel will show. 

We will make no attempt to justify a member of our society 
for outraging the feelings of the Church and the minister by such 
a presumptuous proposition; he did it on his own responsibility 
alone;- — we shall admit the charge that he did propose to instruct the 
pastor. — But the said Fisk, though not disposed to quibble upon the 
phraseology of this sentence, is inclined to the opinion that he gave the 
notice as follows: " that at the church meeting he would propose to 
the Church to fix the terms and adopt a form of invitation to be given 
by the Pastor to members of other churches providentially with us at 
communion seasons." For the following reasons he believes this to 
have been the notice. — 1st, because he cannot arrange the objectiona- 
ble phrase with other language which he is confident he did use, and, 
2nd, because it was his object then, as it would be now to give it in 
the least offensive manner, both to minister and people, which he was 
capable of. 

The probability is that there is not one idea in the passage under re- 
view, unless it be the date, which is strictly true and which does not 
convey an erroneous impression; and yet it is a fair specimen of the 
whole pamphlet, leaving out some facts about which there is no chance 
for discrepanc}/. Presuming however that this assertion merely will 
be considered as begging the question if we leave it here, we shall can- 
vass other points, after giving the result of the Church meeting above 
alluded to. 

The meeting came, and after disposing of other business, J. M. Fisk 
did propose that the Pastor be instructed to give the invitation to tran- 
sient communicants according to the long standing form of this Church. 
There was hardly time for the mover to finish, before the whole body 
guard of the minister were upon their feet. One member, ( Wm. Thomp- 
son) wished to know of the moderator by what authority Col. Fisk 
gave notice on the Sabbath of bringing up such a subject; for his part 
he trusted that we had got a minister who knew who were fit candidates 
for Heaven and who were not, without any advice or instructions. — He 
was pronounced rather fast by the moderator, but there were so many 
waiting to unburden their minds of similar uncomfortable feelings, that 
there was hardly time to get him in order, — the aspect of affairs was 
truly deplorable, — more wrath and bitterness could not have been ex- 
hibited without resort to personal violence. The moderator Mr. Chase, 
seemed to be more self-possessed and calm than those who thought 
him personally insulted. He signified to the meeting that he thought 
the subject would admit of calm deliberation, whereupon the mover 
was called upon to state the form of invitation which had been used, 
and he gave the form already quoted, and after considerable doubt and 
discussion he was corroborated by some of the oldest members present 
(Ex Dea. Ross and Capt. Smith,) although it is possible that some 
credit might be due to their old age for making the admission, as none 
of the younger members could distinctly remember the oft repeated 
sentence. 

2 



10 

He was then called upon to interpret the extent of the invitation; — - 
to which he replied that the invitation was broad and plain, and needed 
no interpretation. — He was called upon to say whether Unitarians and 
Universalists were to be included;- — he again replied that he supposed 
that all who deemed themselves christians, and were united wiih chris- 
tian denominations, and walked worthy of their profession were includ- 
ed. It was very apparent from the remarks of Mr. Chase, the main 
body of the Church sustaining him, that no regard was to be paid to 
christian character or conscientiousness, providing they were without 
the pale of evangelical denominations. — Mr. Chase and others, assert- 
ed that they did not consider Unitarians or Universalists to be christian 
denominations. — They were desired to name them, but declined. Great 
horror prevailed that such a profane attempt should be made, — and a 
profound ignorance existed that they had ever mingled around the table 
of our Lord with individuals of either of the denominations named, al- 
though it was not unfrequent. The party resisting the proposed con- 
tinuance of this long established and somewhat liberal invitation, were 
much the same if not the identical party, which a year before had re- 
fused to pass resolutions against slavery and withdraw fellowship from 
slaveholders; and they expressed the same dread of fellowshiping slave- 
holders that they now did of these unchristian denominations. The 
sequel was plain; they were willing to exclude ever so perfect chris- 
tians, because they did not belong to their sect; on the other hand they 
were unwilling to disfellowsbip any of their sect, be they ever so vile. 
Against the contingency of a slaveholder coming to their communion 
or mounting their rostrum to preach Christianity, they were-decidedly 
opposed to taking any precaution, and against the possibility of a fol- 
lower of Jesus who believed in but one God, or who believed in the 
ultimate salvation of all men, they were unwilling to leave an invitation 
of doubtful interpretation, lest he should get in. 

Mr. Chase admitted that the Church had a right to fix their own 
terms of communion, but about instructing their minister he more than 
hinted, that it would be uncongenial to his feelings, but he hardly knew 
what was customary with congregational usage, he having been connect- 
ed with the Presbeterians, &c. — and it being quite a tumultuous assem- 
bly, for reasons best known to himself declared his intention of vacat- 
ing the chair and abruptly left. An effort to place some one in the 
chair was made, when after non-acceptance by a number of individuals 
Ebenezer Merriam was chosen, and forthwilh repaired to the desk, and 
upon a motion of his own for an indefinite postponement of the whole 
subject, put the vote and declared it carried without any regard to the 
vote, or to the remonstrances against its being a vote, and left the meet- 
ing together with all other persons in the interest of the pastor, as they 
were wont to believe themselves to be. 

The meeting terminated in a most tumultuous and unbecoming man- 
ner for a religious body; and if the reader cannot see sufficient cause 
of alarm in the proposition offered to the meeting to cause such disor- 
derly proceedings, he must look to other sources for the real cause. 

"This was supposed to be a Garrison measure" says Mr. Chase, 



11 

That remark should be noticed particularly. Because an abolitionist 
made the proposition they were justified in supposing it to be a Garri- 
son measure. And because it was a Garrison measure they justify 
themselves in scouting the proposition from consideration. But the 
proposal had no connection with, or eye to any abolition movement, or 
Garrison measures. 

A few weeks subsequent to this affair said Fisk publicly withdrew 
from the Church and gave his reasons for so doing. Whether he can 
be justified for such a step, is not so much our present purpose to dis- 
cuss, as to set forth the conduct of Mr. Chase in the transaction. 

As Mr. Chase had pronounced his conduct disorderly in giving the 
notice for the church meeting, and had virtually forbidden all persons 
giving notices on the Sabbath, said Fisk gave him a notice to read to 
the Church of his intention to withdraw his relation therefrom, and noti- 
fying them that in two weeks from that day he would publicly give his 
reasons for so doing. Mr. Chase neglected to give the notice, when, 
after the benediction said Fisk called the attention of the assembly to 
hear the notice from him. Mr. Chase commanded silence, and pro- 
nounced it disorderly and ordered him to desist, but he not complying, 
Mr. Chase called for the peace officers, and vociferously commanded 
order: — those of the congregation that were not mad were evidently 
frightened, and great confusion ensued; — failing in his attempt to pre- 
vent the notice being given, he succeeded in coaxing a majority of 
the assembly out of the house. The notice was given to those re 
maining. 

At the time appointed for a public withdrawal, the congregation re- 
ceived their instructions in the prayer of the minister, and accordingly 
mostly left the house. The cumnrinication was made to those who re- 
mained. 

This struggle to become emancipated from the Church and its minis- 
ter, required all the effort necessary for a chattel slave to release him- 
self from the grapple of his master, with a faithful driver to assist him. 
Subsequently the Church through their minister, performed the farce 
of excommunicating said Fisk; — depriving him not only of all the privi- 
leges of the church, but of social life and friendly intercourse with the 
world, heaping terrible denunciations upon his head. Common report 
says that the anathemas pronounced upon him, were not unlike those 
threatened upon a Royal Arch Mason who should violate his vows of 
secrecy. 

The next event in order was the visit of Abby Kelley to this place, 
to give Anti-slavery lectures. — This was a most terrible catastrophe in 
Mr. Chase's estimation; — consequently it was greatly deplored and 
deprecated by all the minister loving people. For more reasons than 
one, Mr. Chase dreaded this visit. 1st. He dreaded the agitation of 
the subject of slavery. 2nd. He had once met Abby Kelley, and heard 
her express her sentiments, and had given her to understand, that it 
was not permitted to women to speak in public, neither to lecture cler- 
gymen in a stage coach, and it would be unpleasant to have his orders 
disobeyed. 3rd. He feared that the Sabbath would be annihilated and 
the church demolished; and lastly, he probably feared that he should 



12 

oe out of business ; and as the sequel will show his fears were not alto- 
gether unfounded. Having came to the thermopylae of the difficul- 
ties we will be particular to note their progress. The pamphlet says: — 

(i At this time there was a promising Revival of Religion in progress: more than 30 per- 
sons attended the inquiry meeting. Some were rejoicing in hope ; a day of fastin<* and 
prayer was profitably observed and the prospect of a general Revival welcomed by the 
friends of Zion. : ' 

The information here intended to be conveyed is palpaple. But 
instead of " a promising revival of religion" there was a revival of the 
most malignant and wicked feelings to which the human heart is prone. 
It was a revival of the spirit which tarred and feathered Lunsford Lane 
at Raleigh, which scourged Amos Dresser at Nashville, which shot 
Lovejov at Alton, and which hung Jesus Christ upon the cross a; 
Calvary ; and could the designs of Moses Chase and bis followers 
have been consummated, the moans and sufferings of the famished 
bondman would have gone unheeded by every christian in the land. 
A full investigation of this paragraph and what stands in connection 
with it ought to convince any reasonable mind of the truth of this as- 
sertion, which may seem uncharitable and severe. Not that all the in-, 
dividuals who lent their countenance and support to this attempt to 
" get up a revival" were involved in all the guilt which attaches to the 
transaction. Many there might be, and many there were if " more 
than SO persons attended the inquiry meeting," whose guilt will be 
found in the skirts of other people. Of the persons engaged in carry- 
ing on this revival, the leaders, were the bitter enemies to Anti-slavery 
movements, with Mr. Chase at their head, — some superannuated pro- 
fessors, — some pro-slavery sinners, seeking admittance to a pro-slavery 
church, that they might enjoy her indulgences, and finally reach Heaven, 
together with a class who always follow the influences of reputed Godly 
men, and are not morally accountable for their actions. It was a revi- 
val of opposition to Anti-slavery. — It was an effort to drown the plea 
of the bondman which was being poured into the ears of the people. 
If it was anything else, the Anti-slavery people with the assistance ol 
Abby Kelley did destroy it. There has been no visible fruit of such 
a revival as Mr. Chase would have it understood " was in progress." 
There has been no additions to the Church since Mr. Chase's mission 
here, save one lad about a dozen years of age. And though multitudes 
should have joined, that circumstance would be no evidence to us of 
their conversion from sin. But of those inquirers after heaven with 
whom we are acquainted, none of them have found it, or embraced the 
truth as it is in Jesus Christ, or turned from their wicked ways to serve 
the Lord, in the judgment of unbounded charity. Their opposition to 
Anti-slavery doctrine, which is the doctrine of the Bible, the surest 
test of conversion to Christianity, is still unmitigated. 

We will see how near the truth the conductor of this revival will 

come in his next paragraph; be says 

" On the the very evening of the day of fasting, above alluded to, he (Dea. Henshaw) 
brought Miss Kelley to Lecture in the Meeting House. From this tune for three weeks he 
retained her in his family, aiding and assisting her in holding public Lectures in this and 
the neighboring towns, almost every evening." 



13 

We could almost wish this statement were truth, though we could 
not divine where friend Chase, with his sacerdotal robes would have 
been at this time, could she have had access to the ears of the people. 
Miss Kelley came lo this place on Thursday, and left town on the fol- 
lowing Thursday. — Time must have passed slowly with Mr. Chase 
and his body guard surely, to have made such bad reckoning. The 
circumstances of her coining were as follows. Mr. Chase had excited 
the fears of some timid members of our society that Garrisonism was 
likely to overthrow the church and desolate the world of righteousness. 
At the annual meeting of the society, those members came forward 
with a proposition to make it auxiliary to the Mass. Abolition So- 
ciety, or to dissolve it. We had hitherto been independent of any 
auxiliaryship, but had encouraged the circulation of the Liberator 
and the Lectures of the Mass. Anti-slavery Society's agents, as also 
the Abolition Society agents, but had made our contributions mainly to 
the old society, and were disposed to prosecute the enterprise rather 
as a moral than a political one. To save the church and the ministry 
from merited rebuke, and leave them in possession of all the piety and 
moral purity in the world, this high handed proposition to annihilate 
our society, or make it over to the Mass. Third Parly political Aboli- 
tion Society, was made. The sayings and resolutions offered by Abby 
Kelley were introduced among the most obnoxious things to be found 
in order to shew the baneful effects of Garrisonism. Whereupon it was 
proposed, and voted that Abby Kelley be invited to lecture before our 
society before we decided its fate. The invitation was given, and it 
was publicly known for six weeks that she was expected. — In this 
interim, though but a short time before her arrival, this revival was put 
to brewing. On the Sabbath preceding her arrival, notices were up of 
a lecture to be given en Thursday evening, and Mr. Chase was per- 
sonally notified of the fact that Abby Kelley, was to be the speaker. 
In this situation of affairs a fast was concocted on that day to be held 
on the Thursday above mentioned of which the first notice was given 
after meeting and which notice crowded out a notice of Abby Kelley's 
lecture. And now Mr. Chase has the impudence to charge Dea. 
Henshaw with intentionally introducing Miss Kelley into his Meeting 
House, on the holy evening of a day of fasting and prayer, which 
Fast was specially appointed to meet the exigency and to draw ofF at- 
tention from the subject of her mission. 

Nor did the efforts to draw off" attention from her lecture close with 
the waning of the day. — The minister was exceedingly anxious that the 
evening should be devoted to more prayer, and that too in the very 
place wanted for the lecture; but that could not be had. None of the 
deacons but the invincible 4th advised, or assented to the proposition. 
Another plan was adopted, which was for the women to start an evening 
prayer meeting. So it will be seen the place was nearly inundated with 
prayers. This is no carricature of the "promising revival" Mr. Chase 
writes about; — and the interest in the revival did not abate for the whole 
week during her stay in the place. Morning prayer meetings were reg- 
ularly held, and were as " profitable" for aught we know, as the " day 



14 

of fasting and prayer." But with the departure of Miss Kelley, de- 
parted the zeal for the upbuilding of Zion. The morning prayer meet- 
ings were not continued longer than would be considered decent and pro- 
per to keep the remains of a dear friend, after the spirit had taken its 
flight. 

That pro-slavery church which would have a revival, and have it 
lasting, can infer surely what will be the best method to obtain one, 
and keep it alive. 

We beg leave to quote one more sentence from the " Statement of 
Facts"— 

" There seemed no alternative left, but to yield the ground to the Vandal spirit of the 
Garrison party, or to attempt resistance by the farther exercise of discipline, &c. — Ac- 
cordingly, after prayer and consultation, it was agreed that a labor should be commenced 
with Dea. Henshaw; and brother Uriel Spooner was requested to undertake the painful 
but necessary duty." 

Now it will be observed, that there is no date in the above, whereby 
to determine when this consultation was had, and labor agreed upon; 
but this much is certain, that it was right in the midst of the revival, for 
Uriel Spooner commenced the labor before Miss Kelley left town. — 
On the day of her arrival, the Church fasted, and on the day of her de- 
parture, commenced the labor with Dea. Henshaw, and it is susceptible 
of proof, that it was the intention of the " resistants" to make a short 
labor of it, and throw the deacon overboard long before she left, if she 
had stopped her " three weeks" out. Uriel Spooner had the modesty 
to ask the Dea. to accept of his visit as a fulfillment of the Scripture 
injunction, in the case of calling an offending brother to account; — in 
other words, to consent to forego the ceremony of a second visit, in 
order that the Church, being in session that day, might act upon his 
case. But surely, the events of the future are shrouded in great un- 
certainty; — for instead of despatching the Dea. that day, it took 8 months 
hard labor; and Uriel Spooner, who it seems, partly from the above, 
and conclusively from other evidence, was a mere agent in the transac- 
tion, became exceedingly exhausted and weary. But brother Uriel 
Spooner would fain have it understood, that the complaint originated 
with himself,- — that it was a matter of personal grievance, that the Dea. 
should offend so many other of the brethren, and that he had instituted 
this religious prosecution without dictation from the minister, or any body 
of men. And the above concession that the affair was concerted in se- 
cret conclave of the minister and others was not made, until it was fairly 
proved before the council. But when he had got his complaint before 
the Church, and they had voted to entertain it, the complainant was 
called upon to make out his specifications of conduct by which he was 
aggrieved, and his christian fellowship alienated, and he declined doing 
any thing further about it; — he had done his part of the labor, and the 
Church must look up somebody else to make out a specification of his 
grievances. 

There was a vast deal of Parliamentary etiquette in disciplining the 
Deacon. — The Rev. Moderator went by parliamentary rules and mili- 
tary customs in all his proceedings. We give a synopsis of a part only 
of his decisions. 



15 

After the complaint had been received by the Church, Dea. Hen- 
shaw was about making some remarks on other matters than his own 
case, when Uriel Spooner objected to his taking part in the debate, and 
Mr. Chase sustained the objection, for the reason, that it was contrary 
to custom to permit criminals to enjoy such privileges after arrest, and 
cited military usages as in point. He also decided that a member com- 
plained of was to be considered guilty until he proved himself innocent. 

Rodney Dennis made a motion, which the moderator decided could 
not be entertained without a suspension of the business before the 
meeting, when the person who had been speaking proceeded with his 
remarks, and was called to order by the chair, for the reason he said, that 
he was waiting for some one to move a suspension of the regular busi- 
ness, in order for Mr. Dennis to introduce his resolution; this happened 
to be a iavorite step of the pastor. 

The specifications to Uriel Spooner's complaint, were after great 
'' labor" brought forth, and were as follows: — 

1st. A resolution introduced by F. W.Douglass, (a self-emancipated slave) at the Wor- 
cester Co. S. D A. S. S. in the following words, to wit, " Resolved, that the sectarian or- 
ganizations of this country called churches, are, in supporting slavery, upholding a system 
of theft, adultery, and murder; and it is the duty of abolitionists to expose their true cha- 
racter before the public." 

Also another resolution introduced by Abby Kelley, at the same meeting, as follows: — 

" Whereas the professions of the popular Bible, Tract and Missionary societies of this 
country, of a desire to promote the cause of righteousness and Christianity are false and 
hypocritical, inasmuch as they consent to hold millions of their countrymen in a heathen 
condition, and in many respects worse than heathen condition, therefore, Resolved, that it 
is our duty henceforth to withdraw all support from these societies, and bestow it in pro- 
moting Christianity. ' ' Dea. Henshaw presiding and thereby giving countenance to these 
resolutions, not having expressed his dissent. 

2d. That Dea. Henshaw gave countenance to Abby Kelley by entertaining her at hi3 
house, and carrying her to the neighboring societies for the sole purpose of enabling her to 
lecture, the influence of which was to bring into disrepute the church and the ministry. 

3d. That Dea. Henshaw is a member of a society whose apparent object it is to strip 
the church, the clergy and the Sabbath of their sanctity; a society whose members profess 
to believe the church, the clergy, and the Sabbath are all of the devil. 

4th. That Dea. Henshaw interfered with the duties of the pastoral office, and encroach- 
ed upon the sacredness of the Sabbath, by giving a notice at a 3d meeting of the Church 
April 30th, which he knew the pastor considered improper, it being virtually for a business 
meeting of the Anti-slavery society on the Sabbath, the Anti-slavery society of which Dea. 
Henshaw is^president, is accustomed to make adjournments for business at the time and the 
place of the regular church meetings, without consulting the pastor or the church, or duly 
regarding the Lord's day. 

We are desirous of giving these resolutions and specifications the 
widest circulation possible. They contain such vital truths, together 
with a summary of the tyrannical usurpations and hypocritical preten- 
tions of an incumbent of the pastoral office, that we are constrained to 
believe that they will eventually work out a dispassionate decision of 
the public mind upon the subjects brought under consideration. Who 
dares dispute the truth of the first resolution, setting aside the assump- 
tion therein contained that the churches do support slavery? will any 
one pretend that it is not upholding, and upbuilding too, an organised 
system of theft, adultery and murder, to uphold slavery? or will any 
one deny that it is not the duty of all abolitionists, and all other persons 
to set forth the true character of the church before the public; if pure 
and holy and instrumental of great good in relieving the world of 



16 

wretchedness to declare it— if base and hypocritical and imposing un- 
wieldly and oppressive burdens on mankind, to expose it. But who 
comes forward to deny the assumption, that these organizations are 
supporting slavery? are not some members of all of them, obnoxious to 
the charge of holding slaves, of buying and selling men, women and 
children, and doing all the acts pertaining to slavery, by robbing men 
of their rights and imbruting them 

Now Dea. Henshavv is arraigned as a criminal for belonging to a so- 
ciety, " whose members (some of them, it is pretended, not proved) 
profess to believe that the church, the clergy and the Sabbath are all 
of the Devil, and the apparent object of the society is to strip the 
church, the clergy and the sabbath of their sanctity." 

Now how is it with the great mass of professing christians who be- 
long to organizations whose members, some of whom not apparently 
merely, not doubtfully at all, but positively and undeniably uphold a. 
system of theft, adultery and murder, " the vilest the sun ever saw" 
as Wesley stigmatizes American slavery. Can Dea. Henshavv be 
criminal for belonging to a society (whose definite object is a good 
one all will admit,) because some wicked members in it revile the 
churches and Sabbath, and the great body of these sectarian organiza- 
tions called churches, not be equally criminal for belonging to socie- 
ties whose members some of them are not merely horse thieves and 
swindlers, but kidnappers, and menstealers — known as such, and toler- 
ated as such by the whole church, and also be virtually entitled to the 
charge of upholding slavery as "an organization, called a church." 

But the comparison is an unjust one; and Dea. Henshavv may be 
innocent for belonging to an Anti-slavery Society holding such wicked 
members as described in the 3d specification, while the member of a 
church organization may be criminal for adhering to a church which 
tolerates within its pale thieves, adulterers and murderers, or what will 
be more intelligible, a class of men, who are upbuilding, and sustaining 
a system of operations, productive of those specific crimes, beyond 
all computation, and which no benefits of a church organization can pal- 
liate or compensate for. 

Dea. Henshaw belongs to a society whose specific and only object 
is the overthrow of slavery, and he holds communion with its members 
upon that subject only. The member of a church unites himself to a 
society which goes into all the details of christian duty, and each mem- 
ber endorses the acts of every other member, or holds him amenable 
to the censure of the church. 

Dea. Henshaw does not come in with the plea that he is not account- 
able to Uriel Spooner and to the Church, for grieving them by circu- 
lating Resolutions and Newspapers, and public Lectures, inconsistent 
with and subversive of the Articles and Covenant of the church and for 
giving shelter to Abby Kelley, and transporting her from one place to 
another and for giving a notice at a 3d meeting on the Sabbath, (long 
after Uriel Spooner filed in his grievances) without leave of the min- 
ister, thus violating the Lord's day. 

To all these charges he holds himself ready to respond and does 



17 

respond that Uriel Spooner came to him with a lie in his right hand. 
That they are not grieved that his conduct is inconsistent with and 
subversive of the articles and covenant of this Church, but that his 
conduct is in accordance with the letter and the spirit of the articles 
and covenant of this Church, — and that they are mad, that his conduct 
tends to expose the corruptions of the Church and the ministry, and that 
they fear their overthrow if the truth is known. — That it is a conspira- 
cy set on foot by the pastor, to screen himself from disgrace, and to 
protect the Church in her sloth and criminality, and offers to prove it. 
But they will not let him. He must take it for granted, that Uriel 
Spooner was honest, that he was grieved; — he must not impeach the 
character of the church, nor of the minister for they were not on trial; — 
he must not bring any counsel into court to assist him; — he must bring 
no evidence out of the church; — in fine he must prove it in the way they 
dictate, and in their own time; and because he could not make rapid 
progress, with all these hindrances thrown around him in exculpating 
himself from guilt, the Church voted that he should prove himself in- 
nocent, (for remember that he was to be considered guilty until he did 
do it,) by answering such questions as they might put to him. 

But let us go back to the specifications. Who wants any further 
proof of the truth of the resolution introduced by Abby Kelley than is 
stamped upon the face of it? Who does not know that the Bible soci- 
ety take no cognizance of slaves? That in their vote to supply every 
destitute family in the land with a bible they entirely pass by twenty- 
five hundred thousand slaves? And by what contrivance can they do 
that and be consistent with their declaration? It is the simplest thing 
imaginable. Slavery sunders the marriage tie, and virtually annihilates 
the family relation, — there fora the Bible society tell you that slaves 
can have no families, and it is the only reason that they attempt to give 
for passing them by. And it is familiarly known to almost all, that a 
missionary in New Orleans but a kw years ago was arraigned for giv- 
ing a bible to a slave, and narrowly escaped punishment, by pleading 
ignorance of the law, and apologizing heartily for the deed, and pledg- 
ing himself to sin no more. 

And who ever saw a " religious" tract, from the tract mint, number- 
ed any where from No. 1 to No. 5000 expatiating upon the sin of sla- 
very or even hinting at it. 

Or what missionary has ever been sent by the Missionary Society 
to shew to the benighted slave the way of life. 

Then, if the Bible, Tract, and Missionary Societies have each and 
aU compassed sea and land, the Globe over, to perform their appro- 
priate work, and have passed by the destitute millions of slaves in our 
own land, without even rebuking the slaveholder who has hedged up 
the way perhaps, what will you denominate them? name it if you 
please. Can you believe that these mammoth institutions, are managed 
and guided by men who hope to christianize the world while this great 
curse to mankind is cherished in its bosom ? That a portion of the 
world in the heart of the Christian Church can be isolated from the 
rest, and be cut ofl from all the benevolent and humane operations of 



18 

God's people while the rest of the world is converted to God? Is this 
possible ? Is it possible that those who control these societies think 
it possible? if it is, then it was wrong in the Worcester Co. S. D. A. 
S. S. to charge them with hypocrisy and resolve "that it was their duty 
henceforth to withdraw all support from these societies, and bestow it 
in promoting Christianity." — And it might be proper for the church to 
discipline Dea. Henshaw for not resigning his post as chairman of the 
meeting, and for not striking his name from the list of members, or for- 
mally filing his protest to the promulgation of such irreverent declara- 
tions. 

Be it remembered, that Dea. Henshaw admitted the facts set forth 
in all the specifications, save that of belonging "to a society whose ap- 
parent object is to strip the church, the clergy and the Sabbath of 
their sanctity, and whose members profess to believe that the church, 
the clergy and the Sabbath are all of the devil." — It is possible that he 
might at this time be under the necessity of admitting that some mem- 
bers of the society to which he belongs, do believe some considerable 
part of that 3d specification. However that may be, the society took 
action upon that charge against them, and through their secretary, in- 
formed Mr. Chase, that the} 7 disclaimed any such motives as he imput- 
ed to them as a society, or any such belief as he represented them to 
hold as individuals, and requested him to lay the same before his church 
and to retract the charge they had made. — But Mr. Chase declined to 
comply with this request. It was his pleasure that it should be under- 
stood that they held to such sentiments, whether they did or not. But 
Dea. Henshaw ever denied the inferences deducted from the facts, the 
substance of which was, that his conduct in these matters was a viola- 
tion of his covenant vows. 

The subject matter of the 4th specification we will simplify. 
It will be noticed that the matters complained of in this clause 
took place a month after Uriel Spooner's complaint to Deacon Hen- 
shaw. And at a meeting at which Mr. Spooner was not present and 
could have known but little about; and that it is in toto, a grievance of 
the Pastor. Nevertheless it comes in as a specification to Mr. Spoon- 
er's complaint, and as properly as any of the others, we frankly admit. 
Mr. Chase in his great zeal to head Garrisonism, as he would call it, — 
to prevent the further progress of Anti-slavery principles, we should 
call it, found it necessary to substitute something to attract the attention 
and the attendance of his devotees and all the fearful ones, from our 
Anti-slavery prayer meeting which was held monthly. So he institutes 
one of his own an hour previous, and called it an Anti-slavery prayer 
meeting, the first of which was held a month previous, while Abby 
Kelley was in the place. — The last of the series we believe was the 
meeting now under consideration. At this meeting Dea. Henshaw, 
from motives of curiosity probably, quite as much as devotion, happened 
to be present, and at the close of the meeting he gave notice of the 
regular meeting of the society which was shortly to follow ; and that 
too, without Mr. Chase's permission, and probably knowing beyond a 
reasonable doubt, that Mr. Chase would consider it highly improper 



19 

to notify the meeting, or to hold it, when they had all had an opportu- 
nity to come to his Anti-slavery prayer meeting, and hear him perform 
to their heart's content. This "was interfering with the duties of the 
pastoral office, and encroaching upon the sacredness of the Sabbath." 

But more than all it was a " business meeting of the Anti-slavery 
Society." Very true, it was. Our Society had become quite disgusted 
with the conduct of Mr. Chase, and his attempts to cheat and befool 
the people with his prayers. 

Mr. Chase commenced with attending our meetings — but after he 
abandoned them he continued to give the notice of them, and they in- 
terfered with no church meetings, or other meetings, because they were 
permanent meetings, and no other meeting had been attempted to be 
held for years on the afternoon or evening of our meeting. — But the 
regular time for our meeting a month previous happened while Abby 
Kelly was here, and he neglected to appoint ours, and then instituted 
his new Anti-slavery prayer meeting, to conflict with ours, and destroy 
it if possible. And one of the grossest offences against the dignity of 
our Pastor, was the giving the notice of our meeting by the secretary 
after the benediction at that time. 

Our society fearing that there would be more smoke than fire from 
such an abundance of Anti-slavery prayers as were likely to be~ofFer- 
ed, did adopt a resolution to this purport, That henceforth our meeting 
should be denominated " The Anti-slavery concert of prayer and ac- 
tion meeting; that we would fearlessly examine the influences which 
have a tendency to perpetuate the evils of slavery — whether in church, 
or state, and we would faithfully expose hypocrisy wherever we found 
it, and that we would substitute for the mere oblation of long prayers 
and psalm-singing, contributions of our earthly substance for the pro- 
motion of the cause of universal liberty, and use our influence to se- 
cure a more faithful preaching of the word of God and the gospel of 
his Son, as it pertains to the duties of his followers and the rights of 
all mankind." 

The special business which is alluded to, as a desecration of the 
Sabbath, was the contributing money, and formally adjourning the 
meeting. The charge of adjourning our meeting to the time of the 
regular church meetings is a base fabrication; a double geared false- 
hood, as will appear from the fact that he got up a meeting to conflict 
with ours, but had not dared, as yet, to appoint it so near as to clash: — 
that we adjourned to the place where the church usually held their 
meetings we do not object. 

With the foregoing Complaint and Specifications the church began 
and continued to labour with Deacon Henshaw from time to time, 
through the summer. The first step was to try to deprive him of tak- 
ing any part in the discussions of the church, and stop his mouth. 
The next was to relieve him of the duties of his office, together with 
the privileges of communion. — But in fair, open fight this could not 
be done — too many members of the church, that were disposed to put 
implicit confidence in what the minister should say, could not under- 
stand that Deacon Henshaw was guilty of any conduct that should 



20 

deprive him of these blessed privileges. It was a new thing to them, 
to be sure, to have one of the officers of their church preside at a 
County Anti-slavery Meeting, — and to be President of one in their 
own society — and to introduce a Woman to the place to preach — and 
consent to her going into Mr. Chase's pulpit, — and all the while know- 
ing that these things did not please Mr. Chase, and that if he had gone 
to Mr. Chase to get his consent, he could not possibly have obtained 
it. And others beside Mr. Thompson probably believed that they 
had a minister who knew, or ought to know, certainly, " who were fit 
candidates for heaven and proper persons to be admitted to the com- 
munion." 

There was a confusion of ideas upon the subject as there always 
must be among men taught to believe that adherence to their sect, and 
obedience to their minister is the substance of religion. 

The teachers in the sabbath school had been peremptorily instructed 
by Mr. Chase that it was their duty to teach the doctrines of the 
church only. 

And when Sylvester Holmes of New Bedford came into church 
meeting to help Mr. Chase train his flock, he told them that the voice 
of the church for the time being, was the voice of God to them, 
whether it were right or wrong. We suppose that he meant that they 
were to take it for granted that the church (or the sectarian body call- 
ed a church) must be right until they had time to satisfy themselves 
that she was in an error: — this did not relieve the difficulty aimed at, — 
for those restless spirits whom he wished to quiet by this injunction, 
had already become satisfied that the church was in error. 

Deacon Henshavv was denied the privilege of bringing counsel into 
the church to assist him in "proving himself innocent." 

On the other hand, Mr. Chase and his squadron had another able 
clergyman to assist him ; the Rev. Rodney G. Dennis, was a tempo- 
rary resident in the place, and upon women's rights and Garrisonism 
he was quite as orthodox as Mr. Chase. He moved into the place 
about the time of the commencement of labour with Deacon Henshaw 
by the church, and he immediately offered his credentials to the church, 
and was constituted a member, and forthwith entered into the contest 
against Deacon Henshaw. Some complaint was made that he should 
take so officious a part, in a case of discipline, in a church of which 
he was but a novitiate. But he said "he always wished to have his inte- 
rest identified with the church in whatever place he resided, and hav- 
ing removed his connection and become a member of this church, it 
was incumbent upon him to discharge his duty." — No other member of 
the church, however, insisted upon the business being dispatched with 
such velocity as Mr. Dennis, for the reason that his time was very 
precious and valuable, and he could not consent to have so much of it 
absorbed in this trial, gratuitously supposing that the church could not 
dispense with his valuable services in the case. But it subsequently 
appeared, and did appear at this time, though unobserved, that he had 
just removed from Somers, where he had resided for three years as a 
private individual, or more properly, perhaps, as an ex-minister, and 



21 

that he had not been connected with the church in that place for the 
whole time, and that his membership was removed from Topsfield, 
his former place of residence. 

Notwithstanding his- strong asseverations that it was his duty to do 
all in his power for the support of Christ's church, he never became a 
member of the society here — nor contributed to the support of the 
minister, nor towards the expenses of the society, nor even paid for 
the use of a pew which he rented of the society. 

After having had four church meetings, at which Deacon Henshaw's 
case had been brought up, they had progressed so far as to obtain the 
specifications to Uriel Spooner's complaint, and fix a day for the trial. 

When the day for trial came, William Thompson appeared as sub- 
stitute for Uriel Spooner, the complainant. He demanded of Deacon 
Henshaw " whether he admitted this to be a church of Jesus Christ." 
To this question the Deacon demurred as being irrelevant, and object- 
ed to giving an answer. The new complainant insisted upon the posi- 
tive necessity of it, and was supported by Mr. Dennis and the pastor, 
and finally the church voted that he must answer it ; — still he objected, 
and no further progress was made at that meeting. — The prosecutors 
coming to the conclusion that this case was not to be disposed of so 
expeditiously as was at first apprehended; at their next meeting, ob- 
tained a majority of the church to suspend him from all the privileges 
of a member, and then adjourned action thereon for six weeks, it being 
too busy a season of the year to call the church together to relieve 
Deacon Henshaw from the disgrace he was lying under. He strenu- 
ously objected to the delay, and requested a speedy trial. — This step 
of suspension was a very artful device of the leaders in the prosecu- 
tion, and enabled them to obtain, ^step by step, what they could not 
by fair open propositions in the outset. We will refer the reader to 
the paragraph from the " statement of facts" upon this point. 

" No step in the progress of this trial has been so often misunderstood and so much 
complained of as this, but without any good reason as it seems to me. This is not, 
nor was it intended to be a censure ; it was merely debarring him from communion 
and other privileges of the church not necessary for his defence until the trial was 
brought to a close. I find in the published rules of one of the churches composing 
the council (and it may be so in all) "that in case of gross offences the member 
complained of shall be debarred from communion when the first step is taken, and in all 
other cases when the complaint is entertained by the church." Such we were informed 
by ministers of the first respectability " was the uniform custom of congregational 
churches. Such is well known to be the rule in all presbyterian churches. This ac- 
cords also with civil processes. An officer in the civil, military, or naval departments 
is at once suspended from official duties and privileges on being put upon trial for 
alleged offences : nay, sometimes deprived of personal libertv, before he is proved 
guilty ; many considerations clearly justify and require such a procedure." 

There is more specious plausibility about this passage than any one 
that has come under review. In our opinion there could be no broad- 
er caricature of Logic and Christianity than it comprises. — We shall 
review it backwards. " Accords with the usages in the military and 
naval departments. " Indeed. And is this the rule which Jesus 
Christ and his apostles left as a guide to their disciples for their gov- 
ernment through all coming time ? to suspend and arrest and imprison 
their members, as they do such things in the army and navy ? Where 



22 

did this minister of Jesus find his instructions to preach this gospel ? 
and^admitting that he has found such, where is the analogy between 
his treatment of Deacon Henshaw and the treatment an officer in the 
army or navy receives for alleged misdemeanors ? The object of be- 
longing to the church is to be admitted into communion with the saints ; 
and is it no disgrace to be cut off from this communion, and put under 
the condemnation of " guilty ?" But the object of belonging to the 
army or navy is the emoluments arising therefrom — and they go upon 
the principle that an officer or private is to be considered innocent until 
he is proved guilty, — the reverse of the principle the church (Mr. 
Chase's) acts upon, therefore it is no disgrace to a member of the 
army or navy to lie under impeachment more than necessarily arises 
from the suspicions engendered. They do not deprive such impeach- 
ed member of the emoluments of his office, (the object of his con- 
nection with the department) until after he is tried and found guilty. 
On the other hand, he is relieved from any labors or duties required 
of him when unimpeached, yet he is entitled to, and he receives his 
full pay and rations. If there is any parallel between suspending an 
officer of the church from communion with the church before proved 
guilty, and suspending a military officer from command, while under 
impeachment, we are unable to see it. In one case the man's sword 
is taken from him, and all his privileges and perquisites granted him — 
in the other, his privileges and perquisites taken from him } and he left 
to prove that he is an innocent and injured man. 

Moreover, Mr. Chase finds "that it is a rule in one neighboring 
church to debar a member from communion in the case of gross of- 
fences, when the first step is taken, and in all other cases, when the 
complaint is entertained by the church." — Now it is probable that this 
church took the gospel instructions of the New Testament for their 
guide when they adopted this rule, rather than the customs of the 
army and navy. 

Admitting that Jesus Christ taught the necessity of church organi- 
zations, for the purpose among other good reasons of training his chil- 
dren to a knowledge of their duty, and excommunicating from within 
the pale of the visible church all such as transgressed his precepts and 
commands, we do admit that the rule of the church abovenamed may 
be correct if interpreted by the instructions of our Lord in Matthew 
18th, which Mr. Chase pretends to take for his guide. It does not 
appear by that passage that Jesus Christ anticipated a case of doubt- 
ful character; — but so plain and clear was the transgression, that it was 
a positive trespass against a brother which admitted of neither doubt 
or evasion, nor needed any arbitration to determine. Accordingly, 
the rule of the neighboring church, and the instructions in the 18th of 
Matthew would be in harmony with justice; — no complaint would be 
entertained by a church against a brother which was not a positive of- 
fence of an immoral character, — and the entertainment of a complaint 
against a brother was in full view of his guilt, and his determined re- 
fusal to listen to the individual or to the church. — It was such a case 
that Christ seemed to contemplate, as are nine out of ten of the cases 



23 

which occur in churches ordinarily free from a persecuting spirit — 
where the individual complained of is callous to any feelings of moral 
accountability, and where he refuses to reason the case, either with 
the individual complaining, or with the church; — where he submits that 
he is in the wrong, and the church may do what they please about it. 
It is a mistaken notion in our opinion, that the gospel sanctions the 
principle that a man is to be considered guilty of a charge an enemy 
may choose to prefer, until he proves himself innocent of it. And 
the assertion in the above extract, that no censure was intended, in 
suspending Deacon Henshaw from the ordinances of the church will 
be made clear, we think, and it will appear that it was not intended 
for a censure merely, but, as a punishment also, for his contumacious 
obstinacy in withstanding the minister, and also an entering wedge to 
his final expulsion. 

On the renewal of the trial, the prosecution commenced with read- 
ing documents from old newspapers, such, for instance, as the Wor- 
cester Palladium, which were, for the most part, caricatures of Anti- 
slavery meetings with which Deacon Henshaw had no connection. — 
He requested to know the points to be proved by such documents; 
when it appeared that no charges against him were expected to be 
proved thereby, but the general character of the Anti-slavery society 
disparaged. — He objected to the documents being read, as wholly 
irrelevant, and coming from sources bitterly hostile to all good princi- 
ples, and having no connection with the complaint against himself. — 
The complainants were, however, sustained by the pastor, who said 
u that the prosecutors must have the privilege of producing any evi- 
dence which they thought would throw light upon the subject," (though 
in fact it should tend to the reverse, and dispel what little light there 
was in many minds.) In order to obviate the objections of Deacon 
Henshaw, he was promised the privilege of producing whatever of 
evidence he chose when he took up his defence, " even to the reading 
of Webster's old Spelling Book." The statement of facts says, 

" From this time to September 14th the church held seven half day sessions in 
hearing the case : two of which were occupied by the complainants; and five by Dea- 
con Henshaw in making his defence." 

That the prosecuting officer, William Thompson, declared at the 
end of the second session that he should there rest the evidence of the 
prosecution, we admit. But that he came into court the third session 
and went right forward in examining his witnesses, and occupied one 
half the session in so doing, we affirm. Deacon Henshaw was then 
permitted to enter upon his defence, and one of Mr. Chase's "facts" 
states that 

" No other restriction was imposed than keeping to the point in hand." 

This general statement pertaining to restriction, looks very well 
upon paper, but was very incommodious to Deacon Henshaw, as it 
prevented him from offering any witnesses whatever. Another "jfaci" 
too, looks equally well, but conveys a very erroneous impression — -it 
is as follows : — 



24 

" No testimony was refused but in one instance, and that was to prove " the insin- 
cerity of Mr. Spooner," in commencing this labour ; this witness was ruled out by 
the church on the ground that they were to judge of facts and not of motives." 

It will be recollected that Deacon Henshaw admitted the facts set 
forth in the complaint, mainly, but denied the inferences drawn from, 
them. Now it will be seen that the prosecution had no facts to sub- 
stantiate by witnesses, if they were governed by the usages of civil tri- 
bunals, as they pretended to be ; — but they would confine themselves 
to the complaint. Now what could they have been examining wit- 
nesses about for two and a half church meetings ? Why, it was to 
prove that Deacon Henshaw was a perfectionist, or that he had made 
declarations in the hearing of various individuals that savored of that 
doctrine : — and also that he had expressed an opinion that it was not 
an indispensable qualification, in order to preach the gospel, to receive 
ordination from an ecclesiastical body, and other such like charges not 
included in the specifications. 

When Deacon Henshaw enters upon his defence and comes for- 
ward with his witnesses, objection is made that they are not professors, 
and all such evidence is inadmissible. But inquiry is made, if the 
Worcester Palladium and other like documents which were offered on 
the other side, were professors of religion. The reply was, that they 
were documentary evidence, and no such objection could lie against 
them. Then the inquiry was made, if the affidavits of these individuals 
would be admitted; to which objection could not well be made, and 
leave was granted. The affidavits being obtained and presented, at a 
subsequent meeting, inquiry was made, what was intended to be prov- 
ed by them; — reply was made by Deacon Henshaw that he expected 
to be able to show by unguarded expressions of Mr. Spooner and 
others that the true object was not to reclaim Deacon Henshaw from 
his course and his error, but to excommunicate him and many others 
with him for the heretical opinions they were supposed to hold. But 
it was ruled by the Court, that is, the Bench, and not by " the 
church," as set forth in " the statement of facts," that no such evi- 
dence could be admitted, as that would be impeaching Mr. Spooner's 
sincerity, and that could not be permitted, as " they were to judge of 
facts and not of motives." But Deacon Henshaw had admitted all 
the facts, and the prosecution had spent two and a half meetings in 
proving what ? Why, just what they chose, " that would throw any 
light upon the subject" in their estimation, and bringing forward such 
documents and newspapers and witnesses as they saw fit : and remem- 
ber, the Deacon had been promised the same privilege, but when his 
turn come, every whit of testimony offered by him was rejected, and 
then it is put forth in the "statement of facts" that "No testimony 
was refused but in one instance," and that one instance comprised 
some half dozen witnesses Deacon Henshaw proposed to offer, and as 
many affidavits. 

While difficulties were pending, Mr. Chase sought a private in- 
terview with Deacon Henshaw; — and when the trial came on, the 
court took the stand and gave in his evidence, relating to said con- 



25 

versation. Deacon Henshaw pronounced his testimony a plump mis- 
representation at the time. — We should not complain that the judge 
turned witness, had he not been one of the parties, virtually, and more 
than all, been the jury, not only through his high privilege to instruct 
the jury, but in his absolute power to control a majority of them. It 
did not look well, certainly, to the person on trial, to see judge, jury, 
witness and antagonist, all blended in one man. It was not in accord- 
ance with civil or military proceedings. 

" After hearing the defendant for almost the entire time for five sessions, and gain- 
ing no new light, nor seeing any prospect of an end, the church sustained a motion, 
" to hear the remainder of the trial by question and answer." 

The " almost entire time of five sessions," which Deacon Henshaw 
is charged with occupying, was spent as follows : a good part of the 
first session, by the prosecution, in examining their own witnesses ; 
the remainder, in a fruitless attempt by Deacon Henshaw in offering 
his witnesses. — One whole session was spent in correcting the records, 
as it was found that the clerk had a way peculiar to himself in such 
matters, and that the records of the church were no indication of what 
had taken place in the meetings. — As an instance we will mention, 
that at the meeting of the church for considering- the question of adopt- 
ing a form of invitation to transient communicants, and other business, 
a clerk pro tern, was appointed, who made a brief record of the whole 
transaction, and transmitted it to Allen Newell, the permanent clerk ; 
but he having doubts of its correctness, submitted it to his own partic- 
ular friend who was present at the meeting, who substantiated the 
record ; — nevertheless, he boldly affirmed that such a record should 
not go on the book, nor has it, excepting so much of it as suited his 
caprice; — notwithstanding, too, that the records of the clerk pro tern, 
were subsequently submitted to a committee of the church, who re- 
ported that his record ought to go upon the book. 

Another instance we will give. At a time when Deacon Henshaw 
had made a statement before the church, he ascertained that some 
members had misapprehended his language, and he feared it might be 
the case with the clerk also ; as the statement was a matter of rec- 
ord, Deacon Henshaw requested the clerk to read his minutes; he ab- 
solutely declined to do so, and declared it to be an imposition, and in- 
sult to request him to do it, and it was with difficulty that he could be 
persuaded to read it as a matter of mere courtesy. 

And yet another. — In the fore part of the trial the propriety of Dea- 
con Henshaw's taking part in the deliberations of the church, being 
questioned by Uriel Spooner, Thompson and Dennis, more particularly, 
a resolution was brought forward to settle the Deacon's privileges in the 
church in all particulars. The resolution was adopted, " That Dea- 
con Henshaw enjoy all the privileges of the church, the same as other 
members." 

At a subsequent communion of the church, Mr. Chase framed his 
invitation in such shape as to cut off Deacon Henshaw from the com- 
munion ; when Deacon Henshaw, being in his proper place at the 

4 



26 

table, deemed it proper to remark to the church, that a vote had been 
adopted by the church, allowing him all the privileges of a member ; 
in accordance with that vote, he had come forward to unite with them 
in that celebration, and unless the church should see fit to reverse that 
decision he should feel justified in occupying his place as a member at 
that time. (These are the improper remarks of Deacon Henshaw 
alluded to by Mr. Chase, and for which he was subsequently cut off 
from all the privileges of a member, excepting so much as was neces- 
sary for his defence, and which must mean the privilege of coming into 
the church meetings to defend himself.) It became a subject of inqui- 
ry, what that vote of the church was, and the records were resorted to, 
to ascertain, and no vote of the kind was to be found, and the clerk 
declared that no such vote was passed. His memory, however, was 
refreshed by the Pastor, (at his place of business, and in the presence 
of a witness) that a vote was passed, granting unto Deacon Henshaw 
all the privileges of a member in the discussion of the church, and 
which vote now appears upon the church records, interlined for want 
of room to insert it in the proper place, and now under the date, and 
with the records of another meeting. There will be no difficulty in 
proving the falsity of this record, if the circumstances in the case are 
not sufficient to do it ; the mover of the resolution, well knows his ob- 
ject in moving it, and the whole purport of it, and his testimony will 
not be impeached by the clerk himself. 

Another instance will show the necessity of keeping an eye to the 
record. Deacon Henshaw had been informed that a certain decision 
of the chair was not to be reversed, except by an appeal from the 
chair to the church, when Deacon Henshaw remarked that he might 
as well appeal to a cotton factory, as to the church, after they knew 
the decision of the chair, as passed transactions had fully shown, and 
as his experience had too often satisfied him. The record is made, 
that " he said he would as soon appeal to a cotton factory as to this 
church," omitting all the qualifications, and evidently intending to con- 
vey the idea that Deacon Henshaw had no occasion for making the 
remark, except to bring the church into contempt. 

We will spare the clerk a more extended notice as these items will 
sufficiently indicate the way the West Brookfield church has of keep- 
ing its records. We think the next generation will be enabled to 
gather about the same amount of true information from these records, 
that the present generation is to gather from the Hieroglyphics, to be 
found in the ruins of ancient Egypt. 

One session in trying to correct the records, accomplished little or 
nothing, except to expose their incorrectness. Another whole ses- 
sion was spent in debating a resolution of Ebenezer Merriam, to limit 
the time Deacon Henshaw should have in making his defence. A 
great portion of the remainder of the five sessions was spent in throw- 
ing obstacles in the way of Deacon Henshaw's making any defence, 
and raising objections, and protecting the church and ministry from 
aspersion — so that, in fact, Deacon Henshaw had occupied less than 
two sessions of the church, instead of " almost the entire time for five 



21 

sessions," as set forth in "the statement of facts." " No new light," 
had been gained, they say ; and for a very good reason. They resist- 
ed with all their ingenuity, every attempt to throw light upon the sub- 
ject, and " would not come to the light," knowing " That their evil 
deeds would be reproved." And " seeing no prospect of an end," 
Deacon Henshaw was called upon to stop and give way for the Rev. 
Rodney G. Dennis, to oiler a resolution " That the remainder of the 
trial be heard by question and answer" and this resolution was adopted, 
and the trial of course closed, as Deacon Henshaw knew of no 
rule, in civil, military or ecclesiastical proceedings in justification of 
such a course, he declined lending any aid in criminating himself. 

" And the next day, one o'clock was appointed for the church to give in their decis- 
ion on the case ; when the church decided that the charges are sustained, and Deacon 
Henshaw is not justified." 

So it seems matters were brought to a focus speedily, when the 
church could manage things to their own liking. But the case was 
not terminated quite as briefly as the " statement of facts," denotes. 
That brevity was necessary, in order to foreclose the public mind to 
a correct understanding of the affair. Deacon Henshaw protested 
against the adoption of such a course, as depriving him of a trial, and 
gave notice that if the decision of the church should be unsatisfactory 
to him, he should appeal from their decision to an ecclesiastical council. 

The Pastor had planned the work so that every one would not read- 
ily discover that they were being led in a round about way to come to 
a result, which would be too barefaced to come at openly and honestly. 
There is a flagrant misrepresentation in the above extract, from the state- 
ment of facts that " the church decided that the charges are sustained." 
No such question was ever put, and no such decision would have been 
voted, as the sequel will show. The question was to be taken as the 
Pastor would have it, not, are the charges in the complaint against Dea- 
con Henshaw sustained, not, is Deacon Henshaw guilty, and entitled 
to censure or expulsion, but " is Deacon Henshaw justified." What 
mere school boy cannot see the utter absurdity of such a proposition ? 
not only on account of its indirectness, but who had any right to ex- 
pect that he was justified by any demonstrations which had been had 
in the case ? the Pastor and the prosecution had occupied more than 
five out of seven sessions of the church in showing that he ought not 
to be justified, and in preventing him from showing to the contrary. 
Could he have had the remaining part of the seven sessions in pro- 
ducing " such evidence as he thought would throw light upon the sub- 
ject," which was promised him in the commencement, the church 
might have been prepared to vote upon that proposition, or upon one 
more tangible and more in accordance with " the rules of the army or 
navy." And more : The church voted that the question " Is he 
justified, or is he not" should be taken by yeas and nays, and that the 
members should be permitted to give the reasons for their voting as 
they did, or for not voting at all. And the clerk has recorded upon 
the church book, that the question was taken by yeas and nays, but 



28 

has neglected to state any thing more than the simple fact, that " the 
church voted that Deacon Henshaw is not justified." 

The church pretend to adhere to parliamentary usages, as well as 
military. And we understand the custom to be in all deliberative 
bodies, when the Yeas and Nays are taken, universally to record each 
vote separately and individually. Upon the question "is Deacon 
Henshaw justified," the result of the vote was as follows ; Eighteen 
voted Nay, One voted Yea, and Nineteen were not prepared to vote, 
and for the most part, gave as a reason, that there had been no trial of 
the case. 

There is one thing worthy of remark in this place. Mr. Chase 
found, after he had got to fighting abolitionists for their Anti-slavery 
measures, that it was necessary for him to keep up his own pretensions 
to Anti-slavery principles ; and having decoyed some few of the mem- 
bers of our society, and put them into communion with other individu- 
als, quite pro-slavery, he started an abolition society on his own hook, 
and made it auxiliary to the new organization. The member who 
voted Yea, that Deacon Henshaw is justified, gave as a reason for his 
vote, that he considered it a war upon the old organization merely, as 
Mr. Chase and his friends, some of them, belonged to a society hold- 
ing quite as severe language towards the church and clergy, as the so- 
ciety of which Deacon Henshaw was a member ; and in proof of this 
assertion, he cited the official paper of their society, from which he 
read copious extracts. The Rev. Rodney G. Dennis and others 
returned thanks to God that they were not members of any Anti-sla- 
very society in the land, if this was a fair description of their senti- 
ments. The society itself was about making a move to take up its 
auxiliaryship — but the Bantling died a premature death. 

The next step was to admonish Deacon Henshaw, through the pas- 
tor, in the name of a committee of the church, by a long letter, which 
we will not denominate any thing, for fear we may be considered blas- 
phemous. — We refer the reader to the pamphlet containing it, and 
fearing it may not be at hand, we will merely give the requirements it 
contains, in order that Deacon Henshaw may enjoy the fellowship of 
the church. 

" 1st. That you disclaim fellowship and support of all resolutions, and doings of so- 
cieties, conventions and individuals, that deny or call in question the divine appoint- 
ment of the ministry, the church or sabbath, as understood by this church, and the 
Christian churches generally. 

2nd. That you declare that you solemnly believe this to be a church of Jesus 
Christ, and that its covenant and articles are in accordance with the word of God, 
and that the Sabbath, ministry and church organizations are of divine appointment. 

3d. That you acknowledge that it was unwise and wrong, and a sufficient cause of 
grief to the brethren, that you aided and countenanced Miss Kelley in her visits to 
this and the neighboring towns, last spring ; also the impropriety of giving notices at 
the close of public worship, over the heads of the pastor and the church. 

In fine, that in these, things you confess that you have done wrong, and now ask 
forgiveness of God and this church, intending in future to give no just occasion of 
complaint or grief to the church of God." 

Deacon Henshaw paid no regard to this admonitory letter, nor to 
the requirements it contained. It was put in his possession, Sept. 22, 



29 

1842, and he had from that time to Jan. 12th, following, to make his 
acknowledgments. That was the first anniversary of Mr. Chase's in- 
stallation in this place, and he seemed to deem it meet to offer a sacri- 
fice on the occasion. But he did not come forward and recommend 
nor advise that Deacon Henshaw be excommunicated, — No, not at all — 
But the church being convened and ready for business, the pastor 
read the following paper, which resolution, he said, had been handed 
in to the chair. 

" Whereas, Deacon Josiah Henshaw has " neglected to hear the church" by not 
returning any answer to the final decision of the church. — And whereas, the course of 
conduct pursued by him during the trial, and subsequent thereto, has aggravated the 
cause of grievance in the minds of the brethren : Therefore resolved, that unless 
Deacon Josiah Henshaw make satisfaction to the church, within two weeks from this 
date, by lodging with the clerk, a written acknowledgment, as required and specified in 
the above named communication, that the clerk enter on the records of the church, 
this Preamble and Resolution, together with the final decision of the church, passed 
Sept. 22, 1842, which shall terminate his connection with the church in this place." 

A. NEWELL, Clerk. 

"Whether "A. Newell, Clerk," was attached to this document 
when offered, as it now stands in the " statement of facts," we are at 
a loss to determine. But we are sure the paper was all fitted and pre- 
pared to go upon the church book and to accomplish its design. 

Inquiry was made from what source the resolution sprang. — But the 
pastor was unable to give any further information than that one of the 
brethren handed it to him, and that brother said that another brother 
requested him to hand it in, he did not know any thing at all about it 
himself; — and the last named brother was not present to trace it any 
further, but he subsequently gave in his testimony in writing, to the 
council, that he wrote it at Mr. Chase's request. 

So it will be seen that it was thought best, at this late day, after 
having so nearly accomplished the job, to proceed with great caution. 
Not propose to excommunicate and cut off the Deacon, as had been 
done with other sinners who had committed flagrant acts, — but pro- 
pose to "terminate his connection with the church of Christ in this 
place," if he did not comply with the pastor's demand within two 
weeks ; — So the resolution was adopted, and the Deacon having been 
all but executed before this, scarcely gave an expiring gasp. It was 
so gradual, that the death struggle was scarcely perceptible, and occa- 
sioned no uncommon solemnity among the lookers on ; for in fact the 
sentence was not fully executed under two weeks, and then it executed 
itself without further effort ; — and again there was a contingency about 
it that took off the edge. 

It is worthy of remark, too, that there was quite an effort by the 
pastor to stir up the members to be out at this meeting to do their 
duty ; — two members, at least, were present, who had never attended 
a meeting of the church during the trial, and were entirely ignorant of 
the circumstances in the case, and voted for the Deacon's expulsion. 

But Deacon Henshaw had, long before this, filed in his protest to 
the action of the church, and appealed the case to a mutual council. 
From the " statement of facts" it would appear that Deacon Hen- 



30 

shaw's appeal to a council was immediately acceeded to by the church. 
Far different from this was the case. No notice was taken of his re- 
quest for a council, by Mr. Chase, and consequently, not by the 
church. Deacon Henshaw filed his protest to the proceedings of the 
church, and his request for a council Sept. 22nd, and used strenu- 
ous but ineffectual efforts to bring it before the church, from that 
time to Dec. 1st, when by perseverance the church were made to 
hear it. He had repeatedly solicited the pastor to call a meet- 
ing of the church to consider this request, and so had various other 
individuals been to him on the same errand ; but he evidently was 
very reluctant to have the subject agitated, and neglected to do any 
thing about it. Mr. Chase had so arranged his matters, that it 
was very difficult to bring any business before the church. There 
was a weekly prayer meeting at which business might be done, 
provided notice be given of such business the Sabbath previous ; as 
Deacon Henshaw could not get Mr. Chase to give notice, he gave no- 
tice himself, after the close of meeting, that at the next meeting of the 
church, he should propose to them to unite with him in calling an 
ecclesiastical council. At the church meeting, Mr. Chase came to 
Deacon Henshaw and persuaded him to omit bringing up his business 
at this meeting, as they wished to make it a special prayer meeting, 
and get into a better state of feeling ; — he did it by promising to notify 
the business for the next meeting and then attend to it. . When he 
gave the notice for the next meeting, he neglected to notify Deacon 
Henshaw's business, whereupon, Deacon Henshaw inquired from his 
pew if it was expected that his request would be brought up at that 
lime, and Mr. Chase, instead of deigning a reply, spread forth his 
hands and craved the blessing of our " Lord Jesus Christ" upon the 
congregation. After the benediction, Deacon Henshaw again gave 
notice that he should present his business at the church meeting. But 
when the meeting came, Mr. Chase pronounced it disorderly to pro- 
pose the business and ordered the Deacon to desist. — This was not 
the only instance in which Mr. Chase forfeited his word and disap- 
pointed the expectations of Deacon Henshaw and his friends, by re- 
fusing to appoint a meeting, or notify the business of a meeting. 

At the meeting above named, however, the business was forced be- 
fore the church, and a resolution offered " that the church unite with 
Deacon Henshaw in calling a mutual council," to which the minister 
opposed his influence, and repeatedly asserted that it was inexpedient 
to call for a council till the church had completed her action in the 
case. 

An amendment was offered to the resolution " that if the church did 
unite with Deacon Henshaw in a council, it should be taken from with- 
in this association," and the amendment was adopted. Deacon Hen- 
shaw objected to this limitation, as it would not then be mutual. But 
the church did not vote that they would adopt the resolution as amend- 
ed, and so the matter rested until Jan. 12th, when the church took 
final action. Deacon Henshaw then (after his time of probation had 
expired) renewed his application for a mutual council, and Mr. Chase, 



31 

though he had plead the impropriety of such a step before the final 
action of the church, was still as unwilling as ever to give his consent 
to such a measure, — and discouraged the church from entering into 
such an arrangement. No subsequent efforts were successful in per- 
suading Mr. Chase and his party to unite in a mutual council. 

But the church had obtained the credit of having offered a council 
from within this association from the circumstance of having adopted 
such an amendment to the resolution, when in fact they had made no 
offer, and were unwilling to have any kind of a council. 

It was through accident or by mistake of Mr. Chase, that a council 
was finally obtained. He was willing that it should be understood 
that the church had offered a council, and that he and they were still 
willing to grant one. But when Deacon Henshaw had abandoned all 
hopes of procuring a mutual council, he concluded to accept of any 
council the church would grant, and accordingly signified his wish to 
Mr. Chase to call a meeting for that purpose — and other individuals 
applied to Mr. Chase, and urged the necessity of the step. As an 
evidence of the difficulty which was experienced in bringing it about, 
and to give a clue to the duplicity displayed, we shall here insert a let- 
ter of Mr. Chase to some of the brethren who had interested them- 
selves in procuring a council : although he had given these brethren to 
understand that he was perfectly willing to acquiesce in a council, he 
writes as follows : 

Brothers Putnam fy S N. White 

If you are dissatisfied and grieved with the whole course of the 
church in the case of Deacon Henshaw, it is perhaps unnecessary you 
should specify. But as the object of laying your grievances before 
the chh is first to settle the matter without a council if possible, 
but if we cannot then submit the points where we differ to the advice 
of friends. 

If however you are dissatisfied with the whole course of the church, 
and do justify the Deacon's whole course, there is not much reason for 
a council. For the minds of the church as they have expressed them, 
are made up and satisfied in the main that they are right and Deacon 
Henshaw is wrong, and if your minds are equally made up in the mal- 
ter, why ask advice of a mutual council ? It is not thought respectful 
to make up our minds and then ask advice 

If I understand the usages of Congregational churches, an excom- 
municated member cannot be a party in calling a council, nor can he 
be admitted to appear before them. The church has no connection 
with an excommunicated member, nor can mutual councils if I am 
rightly informed. If you usk my advice as to the proper course for 
the aggrieved members of the chh to pursue it is for them to state 
their case or views fully before the chh ; 1 . What there is in the 
conduct or sentiments of the excommunicated member they disapprove 
of if any thing and 2nd, what in the doings of the chh they are 
grieved with. And if a council must be called, it must be called 
in the name of the aggrieved and of the church, and the aggrieved 



32 

and not the excommunicated person must appear before the coun- 
cil to state and defend their complaint. 

Yours Respectfully M. CHASE 

To J Putnam and S N White, Brethren 

This letter was received February Sth, nearly a month after Deacon 
Henshavv's expulsion. It will be recollected that before the final de- 
cision of the church, Deacon Henshaw's application for a council was 
set aside on the ground that it would be the more suitable time after 
the decision of the church, and now that is done, he cannot be heard 
at all, and the responsibility and labour must all be thrown upon those 
interested in his behalf. 

There was no possibility in bringing about a council by Deacon 
Henshaw's intercessions with the pastor, or of those who sympathized 
with him. But the Deacon had appealed to the sympathies of some 
of Mr. Chase's friends who could not understand why he should not 
have a hearing before a council of such men as the church had intimat- 
ed they would grant him, (by their amendment to the resolution) and 
through their influence, a petition was got up, to Mr. Chase, and sign- 
ed by Mr. Chase's particular friends, to call " a special meeting of the 
church to grant Deacon Henshaw a council of not less than eight cler- 
gymen, with their delegates, from within the Brookfield association, 
providing he and his friends were willing to pay the whole expense." 

Deacon Henshaw was enabled by this move to obtain a council with 
the limitation expressed, that it should be taken from within the bounds 
of this association ; that was the restriction of the church, and amount- 
ed to virtually the same thing as submitting the whole selection to Mr. 
Chase and his friends. The church selected their part of the council 
where it best suited them, and compelled Deacon Henshaw to select 
his from within the Brookfield association. It was mutual so far as 
the assent of the parties was concerned, and no farther, though it 
should be understood that it was also mutually agreed that Deacon 
Henshaw was to bear the whole expense. It will be seen by the Let- 
ters Missive sent out by Mr. Chase alone, that Deacon Henshaw was 
to be a party before them — that they were to be a mutual council to 
advise the parlies. 

The council met, March 14th ; and Deacon Henshaw appeared be- 
fore them as plaintiff in the case, with counsel of his own selecting ; 
and after the reading of the records of the church, and presenting their 
doings with their final action, Deacon Henshaw, by his counsel, offer- 
ed the following plea as the ground of his complaint : viz. 

We shall contend that the difficulty between the church and Deacon 
Henshaw originated in a conspiracy between a few individuals, to put 
a stop to Anti-slavery movements in this place, for the reason that said 
individuals were apprehensive that if they were continued, the minister 
would lose his authority and influence, and also his place. 

That the pastor was the projector of the movement — that it was 
carried on by his direction, and terminated in conformity with his 
wishes. 



33 

2nd. That the complaint is fictitious and has no real foundation in 
fact — as may be shown by the following positive and circumstantial evi- 
dence, viz. 1st. That the nominal complainant is not the real one. 
2nd. That it was not his object to reclaim the offending brother from 
any heretical opinions, or to reform him in his practical life ; but to 
bring him to submit to the dictation of the church, or to leave the 
church with her anathemas on his head. 

3d. That the church took false issue upon the complaint made 
against the accused, and did not try him upon the complaint, but upon 
charges not contained in the complaint — some of which had not trans- 
pired when the complaint was served — all of which were irrelevant to 
the original charges. 

4th. That the proceedings of the church during the trial, although 
predicated upon gospel authority, ecclesiastical usage and parliamentary 
rules, were, in fact, a palpable and outrageous disregard of them all, 
and a caricature and burlesque upon righteousness, justice and equity, 
as may be proved by the following items. 1st. An unwarrantable as- 
sumption of authority by the moderator in determining the order of 
proceedings, and proscribing the accused and all who offered argu- 
ments in his defence or in opposition to those who were operating 
against him, and in the repeated violation of rules and decisions sug- 
gested and adopted by himself. 2nd. The unfaithfulness of the clerk 
in keeping the records of the proceedings of the church, and his un- 
fairness in refusing to conform them to the understanding and approval 
of those most interested, by refusing to read them. 

5th. That the pastor dishonored his sacred office by demanding of 
the accused, submission, and conformity to rules and usages of the 
church in contradistinction to obedience to the revealed will of God — 
And also by nurturing a partizan feeling in the church, in becoming the 
leader of a party — by forestalling the understanding and judgment of 
members of the church, and by exerting his whole influence to con- 
trol the decisions of the church and to put down such as opposed 
themselves to his wishes. 

6th. That the church is chargeable as a body with maladministra- 
tion in its judicial capacity, by countenancing and encouraging and en- 
tertaining a complaint brought forward under the sanctity of a personal 
desire, by the complainant, to promote the best interests of the accus- 
ed, and to discharge his own duty, when the introduction of said com- 
plaint was under circumstances indicative of selfish and unholy pur- 
poses — was prosecuted in an unchristian and unfair manner, and 
brought to a close in palpable violation of the repeated assurances of 
the moderator, that the accused should have ample opportunity and fa- 
cilities for adducing evidence and making his defence : And in com- 
pletely frustrating the attempt of the accused to dispel the erroneous 
opinion existing with some of the members of the church that the in- 
fluences resulting from his course were unfavourable and detrimental to 
the interests of true religion. 

Deacon Henshaw, by his counsel, proposed to substantiate, this 
statement of facts, by calling upon the complainant and individuals 
5 



34 

associated with him, and such other witnesses as could be obtained, who 
were knowing to the facts in the case. 

At this stage of the proceedings, the committee of the chnrch to 
manage the case in their behalf, did as the " statement of facts," says, 
" enter a formal" verbal " protest against going into a defence of the 
church of Christ with excommunicated persons, and the open and 
avowed enemies of the institutions of the gospel." This they did 
through the champion of their committee, the Rev. Rodney G. Dennis, 
who most eloquently poured a most uncontrolable torrent of denuncia- 
tion upon the heads — the characters and prospects of the " Foreign- 
ers and Infidels" whom the Deacon had employed as his counsel, to- 
gether with the Deacon himself, and also a young man who had taken 
some notes during the trial, and whom the statement of facts denomi- 
nates one of the Deacons " assistant counsel." 

The committee of the church consisted of the Pastor, the Rev. 
Rodney G. Dennis, the complainant Uriel Spooner, William Thomp- 
son, 'and Allen Newell. Mr. Spooner did not deem the case of suffi- 
cient importance to him to be present — and Mr. Newell was sick, and 
necessarily absent; — many other persons who had taken a deep inte- 
rest in Deacon Henshaw's trial so far as to dislodge him from the 
church, were not present ; — notices were sent to them to appear as 
witnesses; but it was not until the council had passed a resolve, " That 
this council deem it important for them to state, that in their opinion, 
members of this church who are invited to appear before them as wit- 
nesses, ought to feel themselves bound in duty thus to appear and give 
in their testimony, "that they could be obtained. Said resolution being 
attested by the scribe and served upon the members, they were pre- 
vailed upon to come forward, though w'uh apparent reluctance. 

Deacon Henshaw proposed to) call upon Mr. Chase to testify with 
regard to the origin of the complaint. — He did not exhibit any strong 
relish for being a witness and the council decided that Mr. Chase 
and Deacon Henshaw should both be excused from testifying. 

He next proposed to offer the complainant, Uriel Spooner, who was 
present. It was proposed to put the witnesses upon their oaths. The 
council voted that each witness might be requested to be put under 
oath. — Mr. Spooner declined being put upon oath. He was reques- 
ted to give his reasons for being unwilling to be put upon his oath — 
but refused to give any — and remarked, that he was not under obli- 
gations to give his reasons. He was inquired of if he had conscien- 
tious scruples against taking an oath, to which he replied that he had 
not, but that he could tell the truth as well without being sworn, as 
with. He positively refused to be put upon his oath upon any consid- 
erations whatever, and as positively assevered that he could tell the 
truth as well without an oath as with, and that if we could not believe 
him without an oath we could not with. Mr. Dennis was also vehe- 
mently opposed to members of a church of Christ, being put under 
oath by such men, and entered his protest again. Deacon Henshaw 
had no power to compel him to swear and of course was under the 
necessity of submitting to Mr. Spooner's inflexibility. So he proceed- 



35 

ed to propound the same questions which he would if Mr. Spooner 
had been upon oath : — but Mr. Spooner having listened to Mr. 
Dennis's castigation of Deacon Henshaw's counsel, on account of their 
infamous principles, declined being put into communication with them — 
he would not condescend to contaminate himself by replying to their 
questions. He said that he was a member of Christ's church, and he 
wished to know if the persons who were to question him believed in 
the existence of the Christian church. The council slated to him 
that the merits of Deacon Henshaw's case could in no way depend 
upon the character of his council, that he had a right to come forward 
with good, bad, or indifferent as he chose, and that he, Mr. Spooner, 
was in duty bound to answer the questions they might propose — but 
he could not assent to it. The questions proposed to Mr. Spooner 
were calculated to draw from him the origin of the complaint, &c. — to 
these questions he not only objected to answering the "Deacon's attor- 
neys" but also objected to answering the questions either to them or to 
the council. Mr. Chase at this stage also objected to the asking wit- 
nesses personal questions. Nothing could be drawn from Mr. Spooner 
with regard to the origin of the complaint. Be consented to say that 
he wrote it, but refused to answer whether he were the author. — He 
admitted that he did not hear Abby Kelley lecture — that he did not 
hear the Deacon give the notice mentioned in the fourth specifica- 
tion — that he did not know whether it was before or after the com- 
plaint ; — he admitted that he did belong to an Anti- Slavery Society a 
short time, but did not now. He refused to answer whether he ever 
heard an Anti-slavery lecture, or whether slavery in his opinion was a 
Bible institution. 

Although this witness refused to be put under oath, and refused to 
answer the most important questions put to him, he was after all appre- 
ciated as as a very efficient instrument in disclosing the source from 
whence the complaint originated, and Deacon Henshaw was per- 
fectly satisfied to submit that part of the case without further testi- 
mony. So evident was the fact that Mr. Spooner did not originate 
the complaint, that subsequently when the Pastor made his plea, he 
thought it would appear, the better part of valor to confess what we 
have quoted from " the statement" that at some time and place un- 
known, " after prayer and consultation" " it was agreed to commence 
a labor with Deacon Henshaw." 

Mr. William Thompson, the complainant's assistant, volunteered 
his services to throw light upon the subject which was being investigated 
before the council. — He was requested to receive the oath but peremp- 
torily declined, and as peremptorily declined giving any reasons; but 
admitted that he had not any conscientious scruples in being sworn. 

It was very remarkable to see these opponents of Nonresistance, re- 
fuse to comply with their own darling system and refusing to give any 
reasons therefor ; and the only intelligible conclusion that could be 
come at, we humbly believe to be, that had they solemnly bound them- 
selves by an oath, they would not only have been under obligations to 
tell the truth, but to tell the ichole truth, which in their unsworn state 
they could tell or let alone as best suited their convenience. 



36 

Numerous other witnesses from each of the parties were called upon 
as witnesses, who made no objections to being sworn to tell the whole 
truth. We trust that we shall not be understood as complaining that 
any witness did not tell the truth, but as merely suggesting, that some 
might have told more truth if they had been so disposed. 

The testimony before the council it is unnecessary here to recapitu- 
late, and it would be tedious and volumnious. No witnesses were 
called upon the other side to set aside the evidence or to establish 
other facts. The counsel for the church however took an active in- 
terest in cross-examining the witnesses brought forward. 

"Thus four days, (says the "Statement of Facts,") and large portions of the 
nights were consumed in hearing Dea. Henshaw's advocates prove that the Pastor 
of this church was & tyrant and hypocrite — the clerk of the church a liar, and the 
church the mere tools of the " foul plotting" pastor." 

This is a statement which modesty would here forbid our making, 
but as the pastor has made it and procured the sanction of the church 
to the truth of it, we do not feel called upon to contradict it. The 
next sentence however, that 

" Not only the official acts but the private character of the pastor was permitted to 
be shown up, though in vain as to truth, yet not as to effect, to substantiate the great- 
est crimes charged upon him by these devouring wolves, not disguised in sheep's 
clothing," 

we shall pronounce an unblushing falsehood, which he has not the shad- 
ow of an excuse for making and for suborning the church to attest to. 
There was no imputation against the private character of Mr. Chase in a 
single transaction or remark, and no investigation had been or attempted 
to be had concerning it, nor any permission granted by the council to 
do it. We presume that Dea. Henshaw's counsel will feel obliged 
to the author of the " Statement of Facts" for exonerating them 
from the suspicion which attaches to some characters of being " dis- 
guised in sheep's clothing." 

At the close of the third day as the " statement" says, Mr. Chase 
occupied somewhat more than one hour in an eloquent plea in defence 
of the course pursued by the church. He represented that infidelity 
was stalking abroad under the convoy of Anti-slavery professions, and 
making disastrous havoc with the morals of society, and sowing the 
seeds of moral death in the minds of the young. That the unprinci- 
pled, the intemperate and the dissolute were the patrons if not the 
leaders of the Anti-slavery cause in this place. That the Bar-room 
was the favorite resort for the conclave to meet to espouse their cause, 
and to ridicule and blaspheme the church and her ministers and ordi- 
nances and all that was sacred. And he made a most felicitous appeal 
to the sympathies of the council in behalf of our bleeding zion, and 
besought them to consider well whether they could justify the transac- 
tions which had been spread out before them, and the doings of which 
they had been eye witnesses. 

In the evening James Boyle addressed the council in behalf of 
Deacon Henshaw. He made no attempt to apologise for the acts 
charged upon him, but went into a minute investigation of the Worces- 



37 

ter resolutions, and endeavoured lo show their validity. He analized 
the specifications throughout, and argued their emptiness and utter ab- 
surdity, and made a close and scorching application of the evidence 
adduced. 

On the following day J. M. Fisk made some remarks before the 
council upon the same side of the question, and with a few additional 
remarks from Mr. Chase, the council took possession of the case, and 
in the evening delivered the following result. 

RESULT OF COUNCIL. 

" The council, — having given a long and patient hearing to the case, 
submitted to their investigation and advice, to the full satisfaction of all 
concerned, find the proceedings in the premises to have been such, 
that they have come to the following Result ; 

"It is the unanimous opinion of this council in view of all the facts 
and circumstances of the case, that this church ought to remove all 
censures, under which Deacon Josiah Henshaw lies, and receive him 
again into their fellowship and communion. 

" And it is our unanimous opinion, that Deacon Henshaw, when so 
received, ought to give his brethren, when asked, all such explanations 
respecting his views and sentiments, as may tend to remove from their 
minds any grievances or misapprehensions they may entertain respecting 
him ; and that Deacon Henshaw, and all the members of the church 
ought to adopt all conciliatory measures calculated to effect an entire 
reconciliation." 

And now for the " astonishment" and " amazement" which has 
developed itself in Mr Chase's " statement of facts" some six or 
eight months after the Result was given. Mr. Chase and his church 
having neglected to comply with the recommendations of the council, 
deem it necessary to throw dust in the eyes of the people and try to 
fill their own also. We shall take the liberty to review some of the 
"remarks" which are "respectfully submitted to the members of the 
council and all others who shall feel interest sufficient to read them," 
in the Statement of Facts. It says, 

" A work of acknowledged authority says, " The business of councils is not to pass 
decrees, but to give light." — " They are considered by the churches, as expositors of 
what is right ; expediency and duty, in particular cases, submitted to them." "This 
result tells us clearly enough, what the parties " ought" to do, but this is mere dicta- 
tion." — " No sentence from the Vatican or the Star Chamber was ever more emphati- 
cally by "authority" than this result." — " A decision without reasons or explana- 
tion!" "a summary decree ! sent to a pastor and a church, in the land of the Pil- 
grims." — This result, by its silence and by its supposed justification of the accused, 
sustains the defence set up by the Deacon's attorneys." 

Indeed it does ! Now let us look at this mighty and overwhelming 
argument " respectfully submitted to the council and all others," in 
" The statement of Facts." 

Mr. Chase and his friends had the control of selecting a council to 
suit themselves : — they would not permit Deacon Henshaw to go out 
of the bounds of the Brookfield association for his part of the council, 



38 

for fear be should bring in some Garrison clergymen, with their dele- 
gates, if they were to be found elsewhere. It was certain that no such 
ministers were to be found within these limits. — With a council select- 
ed under such restrictions; with the leading clergyman in the association 
and in the council, in full fellowship and communion with Mr. Chase 
himself, upon Garrisonism and Perfectionism and Women's rights, and 
all such outlandish notions; having himself had a sprinkling of Abby 
Kelley's infidel denunciations in his own society and from under his 
own pulpit; and there being but one clergyman at the board professing 
Anti-slavery principles, and not more than two of the delegates, and 
neither of these three, Garrisonians, but all belonging to the same order 
of Abolitionists to which Mr. Chase professed to belong, (new organ- 
izationists) it would seem that he had secured a most favorable posi- 
tion for a triumphant result. And it was so understood by Deacon 
Henshaw, and his friends, that they had. — He had contended against 
submitting it to such an exparte tribunal as this in fact would be, till 
he found there was no other alternative but to take that, or call an ex- 
parte one himself; — so he chose to submit to this. 

Now let us see what was the business of this council, and how they 
were called ; we copy from the " statement of facts." 

"To the Congregational Church in North Erookfield, the Congregational Church in 
West Brookfiield, — sendeth Greeting. 

Brethren ; — In accordance with a vote of this church, granting unto Deacon Josiah 
Henshaw a mutual council ; I hereby invite you to meet in council, by your Rev. 
Pastor and Delegate, at the meeting house in this place, March 14th, 10 A. M. to con- 
sider and advise us in regard to the difhculties existing between this church and Dea- 
con Henshaw, and others. Respectfully Yours, M. CHASE, Pastor. 

Now let us recur to the decision of the council and see if they ap- 
pear to understand what the proper business of a council is. They say, 
" having given a long and patient hearing to the case submitted to their 
investigation and advice, It is the unanimous opinion of the council, in 
view of the facts and circumstances in the case, that this church ought 
so remove all censures under which Deacon Henshaw now lies, and 
receive him again into their fellowship and communion." And this is 
said by the '^statement of facts" to be " a summary decree ! sent to a 
pastor and church in the land of the Pilgrims" — " this is mere dicta- 
tion" — " it tells clearly enough what the parties " ought" to do". 
But it dont advise us. "No light is given; neither the understand- 
ing, nor consciences of the church are addressed." " Their business 
is to give Light." 

But in casting about for some crevice to creep out from under such 
a burdensome decision as this was, it seems Mr. Chase got a clue at 
something that would shelter him from the astounding result in some 
degree. 

" The words (in the result) 'proceedings, premises, facts and circumstances' 
lead some to conjecture that the trial was irregular" 

(in some trifling informalities, probably) and but for that, Deacon 
Henshaw's doom would have been confirmed by the council. But that 
would not work, for " it leaked out" (the statement of facts says) that 



39 

the council were almost unanimously of the opinion that the trial was 
regular. Now they seem to be involved in " profound darkness" for 
the want of some reason from the council why they gave such a result. 
The idea that the council should tell the church that "they ought to 
restore Deacon Henshaw" and assign no other reason for so doin°- 
than that it was their unanimous opinion, is very unsatisfactory. 
"Your unanimous opinion !" As though that was any reason why we 
should restore him. 

Another difficulty complained of is, 

" That this result is inconsistent with itself. By it Deacon Henshaw is acquitted 
and not acquitted at the same time." ' 

This is a terrible calamity. " This is putting the cart before the 
horse." Why? why because when Deacon Henshaw was arraigned 
before the church for certain misdemeanors, and put upon trial, he re- 
fused to tell them whether he believed this to be a church of Jesus 
Christ or not, for the reason that that was not one of the charges pre- 
ferred against him and had nothing to do with the trial ; and the coun- 
cil advise him, not command him, that when he is received to his for- 
mer standing ' ' he ought to give to his brethren when asked all such 
explanations respecting his views and sentiments, as may tend to remove 
any grievances or misapprehensions they may entertain respecting 
him." They clearly mean to be understood, that it'is not necessary 
or proper that it should be made a condition of his being received 
back, for he has not been regularly complained of for such a denial, 
and it is highly improper to call upon a man to criminate himself — and 
moreover it may not be a crime to believe this is not a church of Jesus 
Christ, and though he deny that it is, he may be enabled to give them 
such explanations respecting it, if they are Christians, and zealous 
for the glory of God, rather than for sectarian organizations, as entirely 
to relieve their minds. 

This does not look to us as though the council partially acquitted 
the Deacon and left him as the " statement of facts" expresses it 

"With a rope round his neck, in the hands of those he regards as his enemies" nor 
that it was a device by which the council meant to throw off the responsibility, of 
meeting the case." 

But that it is a sheer cavil of Mr. Chase because he could not find 
some intimation of a ceusure for Deacon Henshaw in the result of the 
council. This is sufficiently evident from the fact that Mr. Chase in 
his " respectful remarks" deeply laments, that this result by its silence 
and by its supposed justification of the accused, sustains the defence 
set up by the " Deacon's Attorneys." 

" The trial being regular and the issue from the premises just," (as Mr. Chase 
would have it, and not the council) " on what could this result be based but the mer- 
its of the case ?" 

Why, nothing to be sure, if you mean the result of the council. 
The council based their decision upon the merits or the case, and de- 
cided that the church based their decision upon any thing else but the 



40 

merits of the case, and it is no marvel at all as the " Statement of 
facts" would make it appear, that 

" all the enemies of religion and every infidel in West Brookfield understands it so." 

Mr. Chase and his own church understand it so, and cannot possibly 
help it, and make every shift and turn possible to get rid of the con- 
clusion that this council, selected for the especial purpose of confirm- 
ing the decision of this church, have in direct violation of the well 
known opinions and sympathies of its members with Mr. Chase against 
Garrisonism and all other hateful isms, justified Deacon Henshaw, 
and left an indirect censure upon Mr. Chase and his church. 

But how unkind and severe it is in Mr. Chase to insist upon these 
Brethren in the Ministry who were in the same category with himself 
as regards Garrisonism, &c, — giving their reasons in detail for their 
decision. He evidently understands that these old friends of his have 
actually exposed themselves to all the encroachments of Deacon Hen- 
shaw and Abby Kelly, which he has been suffering under ; for he tells 
the churches under the care of these nine ministers, that " if they sus- 
tain the doings of their Pastors and delegates," they must look out for 
breakers. And " if the Church in West Brookfield is to receive 
Dea. Henshaw into fellowship, they must to be consistent restore 
Col. Fisk and J. A. Howland." (That is a mistake, it does not 
follow that if they restore one they must the other two — for the two 
last named left of their own accord, they were not pushed out.) But, 
says the " Statement of facts," 

" Dea. Henshaw has but to present this result at the door of any of the nine 
churches, to gain ready admission," 

"and you must take him with his whole company and submit to all the 
annoyances to which I have." Certainly, this is correct reasoning, and 
we have no doubt that every member of the council understood, that 
under the same circumstances, Deacon Henshaw would have the same 
right to do the same things in their societies, that he had done in West 
Brookfield, and not be chargable with any criminality. — Why attempt 
to frighten the members of these nine Churches ? 

These considerations seem to be an insuperable obstacle in the 
mind of Mr. Chase to coming to the conclusion that the council 
meant what they said ; and yet he cannot possibly persuade himself 
that they did not mean to be understood to say, that they could not 
discover by the evidence in the case, that Deacon Henshaw had done 
any thing worthy of bonds or excommunication from the church, and 
that they were of opinion that the church had missed a figure in fol- 
lowing the dictation of the minister ; for he would fain persuade him- 
self at least, that 

" they did not understand the case. Had they, they could not have come to such a 
result." 

But he might as well try to make himself believe that statement, as 
the next one he penned, viz. That 

" the church did not appear before the council," 



41 

when he himself and his second right hand man, William Thompson, 
were in diligent attendance. The Rev. Mr. Dennis, his first right 
hand man was there and labored with such energy as to excite much 
merriment in the audience, and with such unflinching determina- 
tion to set the council right, as almost to dissolve it ; and having com- 
pletely exhausted himself and resigned his commission as committee of 
the church, because the council behaved so, he called upon the 
spectators to fill the vacancy occasioned by his resignation. His first 
left hand man Uriel Spooner did not seem to want to be there at first, 
as he was wanted as a witness, but after the examination he was there 
pretty constantly. His second left, Capt. Newell, was unwell and 
could be there but a small part of the time. — The first intimation that 
was ever given that the church was not there by their committee to 
attend to the case in behalf of the church was in the " Statement of 
Facts," and we presume that was the first knowledge the council had 
of the fact. 

But, to return, — This subterfuge, " that the council did not under- 
stand the case," does not answer the purpose of a dernier resort — for 
it probably occurs to the writer of the "statement of facts" that he 
and his assistants had ample opportunity to make them understand it. 
And moreover, the council reported that they had " given a long and 
patient hearing to the case, submitted to their investigation and advice, 
to the full satisfaction of all concerned;" and they neglected to demur 
that they had not been heard to their full satisfaction. And again the 
urgency to be heard more at length than the council were wont to deem 
necessary, was altogether upon the other side. The Deacon and his 
" attornies" were fearful the council might not understand the case, 
and advocated a lengthy and full investigation. 

But the dernier resort of Mr. Chase with his flock is a very remark- 
able one, taken in connection with his admissions and all the circum- 
stances in the case. 

Mr. Chase admits that when the council gave in their result, he 
" was strongly inclined, at first, to accede to this opinion," which he 
in another place calls " a summary decree," and declares it not a whit 
behind a " sentence from the Vatican." And may it not be that his 
judgment was clearer, and that he had more "light" when he was 
" strongly inclined" to submit, than he had six months afterwards, 
when he concocted the " statement of facts." Is it not possible that 
when the case was all spread out before Mr. Chase and his church, a 
great part of whom were present, that the council were conscious that 
they possessed light sufficient to understand what would be right for 
them to do, and that the " simple opinion of the council," of what 
" they ought" to do, accompanied with a full exhibition of the case, 
would supersede the necessity of giving the whys and wherefores at 
full length at every point. And it is sufficiently evident that Mr. Chase 
comprehends the answers that would have fallen upon his ears, had his 
fearful list of interrogatories been answered in detail. Instead of being 
denied the privilege of putting the following very significant questions, 
he had no occasion for it; neither could he bring his own mind to the 
6 



42 

absurd position of proposing them until six months had elapsed and he 
had succeeded in mystifying his own mind and others also, by raising 
groundless surmises and subterfuges, and then he comes forward with 
his knock down arguments. 

"May we not ask on what grounds the council issued the case? No. That the 
proceedings in the case were regular, has leaked out ; but the result does not inform 
us." 

What a poser this for Moses Chase to put. Is it any advantage to his 
argument if the council did decide that the proceedings of the church 
in point of legality, were regular ? We think not. For Deacon Hen- 
shaw believed that in submitting his case to the judgment of a pro- 
slavery council, as he had reason to suppose that it would be, that 
though they might be disposed to acquiesce in the decision of Mr. 
Chase and his church, yet their better judgment would prevent their 
stamping their approbation upon the ridiculous proceedings of that body 
in coming to that result, and thereby something might be gained to the 
cause of justice. 

But according to Mr. Chase's declaration, that they decided " that 
the trial was regular, or at least so regular so as not to vitiate the result" 
there remains no occasion for asking the question " on what grounds 
they issued this case." It is conclusive that they come right up to 
the merits of the case and decided that Deacon Henshaw had done 
nothing censurable under the circumstances, and that the action of the 
church, though " regular," was totally subversive of justice, equity 
and impartiality in its final decision. It is the last question that we 
should have supposed that Mr. Chase would have put forth, expecting 
to have an answer. And those following, are in the same caiegory 
with the above ; 

" May we not ask whether the Garrison defence set up and argued four days, was 
approved or disapproved." 

Instead of being responded to, "No," as he would have it, he 
would have been replied to that he had taken an ample part of those 
"four days" in warning the council against the heresies of Garrison- 
ism, and that the council decided with a full understanding on that sub- 
ject, and that the " Garrison defence" was approved. 

"May we not ask whether the church had any just grounds of complaint against 
Deacon Henshaw, who has waged a continual war against the church, and employed 
the known and sworn enemies of the Sabbath, and the church, ' to curse us !' No ;" 

Who says you may not ask such a question if it will be any gratifi- 
cation to you, but yourself? And the reply would come, " My Dear 
Sir, you must understand that we not only decided that the church had 
no just ground of complaint against Deacon Henshaw, but that Dea- 
con Henshaw had just ground of complaint against the church, and we 
were unanimously of opinion that you ought to restore him to his for- 
mer good standing." 

" May we not ask whether the rejection of testimony to prove the " insincerity" of 
the complainant, of which so much has been said, was justifiable? No. May we 



43 

not ask whether we are authorized, in the opinion of the council, in debarring the ac- 
cused from communion while on trial ? No." 

If it would have been any consolation to Mr. Chase to have known 
more officially the opinion of the council upon the regularity of the 
trial than the "leak out" evidence he has picked up, we should have 
been much gratified to have had him asked the questions in the proper 
time, though the counsel might have corroborated what has " leaked 
out." 

"May we not ask whether the pastor is bound to give all notices thrust into his 
hands, and whether, if he declines, any one may do it? No." 

Now, really, Mr. Chase, you may ask this compound question, and 
we would have been much obliged to you if you had asked it before, 
and obtained a response to it from the council ; for we feel interested 
ourselves, in the reply you might obtain, though whatever it might 
have been, we should not have received it as a " summary decree 
from the Vatican," but as advice from an ecclesiastical council, select- 
ed by a pro-slavery church, whether it was admissible for a private in- 
dividual to give notice of some meeting for a benevolent purpose after 
the minister declined giving it. It is a very pertinent question; and 
you would done well to have asked it before the council was called, 
or before there was any occasion for calling one. 

"May we not ask whether the church ought to open her doors to the Garrison Lec- 
turers Deacon Henshaw is continually crowding upon us?" 

Though you say no, we say yes, ask it ; and do not remember to 
forget to tell whoever you ask, that the " doors of the church" belong 
to the parish, and it may be the parish will be willing to have the gos- 
pel of salvation preached therein, if the church is not ; see what the 
council "decree" about that if you please. 

" And finally, May we not ask any reasons or explanation of the sentence passed 
upon us ?" 

It is too bad, indeed, to be put off with nothing but the " unanimous 
opinion" of the council after setting down to an investigation of " four 
days" to the full " satisfaction of all concerned." 

"It is 'our unanimous opinion!' that is all the light or reason we give;" 

so says Mr. Chase of the result of the council. We really wish that this 
demand for " more light" had come a little earlier. It would have given 
the friends of Dea. Henshaw great pleasure in contributing what they 
might of " light," and they would have been greatly rejoiced if the 
council had been permitted to pull open the eyelids of Mr. Chase and 
his friends a little more. They undoubtedly were mistaken in suppos- 
ing that light enough had been shed upon their minds in the investiga- 
tion, to render superfluous any very nice performance in anatomizing 
this subject. They ought to have been more particular, and requested 
of Mr. Chase that he proceed with them, as he was w r ont to with 
Deacon Henshaw, in the question and answer style, and then proba- 
bly Mr. Chase would not have been under the necessity of writing a 
book to warn the constituents of these clergymen to beware lest Dea- 



con Henshaw and Abby Kelley break into the inclosure of their 
churches, as their pastors had let the bars down. 

In bringing our review of the " statement of facts" to a close, we 
will notice some few of the remarkable admissions and assertions 
therein contained. 

1st. That the "council was distinguished for age, experience, and weight of charac- 
ter" and " we love our brethren, and have confidence in them but we believe they did 
not understand the case." " We desire to know and do our duly" and "we are sin- 
ners" and esteem that man or council, our best friend, who will point out our sins and 
lead us to see and feel our guilt. " Far be it from me to intimate that the council as 
a council, or as individuals generally, have the least fellowship, or favor for such radi- 
cal and destructive positions" and "yet the result spreads its broad shield" overall 
the Deacon's acts and takes him into fellowship with themselves and their churches, 
"and virtually censures the church for having testified their abhorrence of these doc- 
trines and measures, and for being grieved with a brother who fully sustains, and 
adopts the whole." " The main ground of the defence was the truth and righteous- 
ness of the charges alleged against the Deacon, and admitted by him to be true," and 
"on what could this result be based but the merits of the case." " And it was as one 
member said it would be, the result would astonish us all." And yet " the result 
specifies nothing ; it covers up the whole in such general terms, that nothing definite 
can be known, only by conjecture." " In what we have done in this matter we have 
been prompted by a sense of duty. We have done it conscientiously. We feel no ill 
will, or prejudice. It is a matter of conscience, whether we fellowship Garrisonism." 
And now " shall we reverse our decisions, and change our conscientious judgments on 
the unanimous opinion of a council." " Councils possess only advisory powers," yet 
" No sentence from the Vatican, or the Star chamber, was more emphatically by "au- 
thority" than this result. " The decision sustains the defence of the Deacon's attor- 
nies," " We desire to recognise the hand of God on this trying occasion" but " an 
unreserved reference of matters of conscience, say the standards, to another person 
or body of persons, is repugnant to the scriptures, which make our consciences amen- 
able to God alone." 

And could we be permitted to ask a question or two, it would be 
after this fashion. — Mr. Chase have you not changed your creed since 
you began to discipline Deacon Henshaw ? since you required of sab- 
bath School Teachers, to teach the doctrines of the church and noth- 
ing else ? And were you of the same opinion as now, when you 
would have Deacon Henshaw submit to the voice of the church, and 
accept it as the voice of God ? If the local church to which he is 
amenable is the voice of God to him, what earthly tribunal is the voice 
of God to you ? or do you have immediate access, where other sin- 
ners may not approach ? You confess for yourself and your friends 
that you are sinners in general terms, though you "specify nothing." 
Do you take it patiently when your advisers " specify" that you are 
sinners in this matter plain enough ? You are understood to say in your 
" statement of facts," that the council decided that it was no sin or 
fault in a member to deny the Christian name and character to all 
the evangelical churches in the land which are like your own church, 
and to denounce them as hypocrites. Do you really believe that these 
nine Clergymen, whom you duly appreciate for their " experience and 
weight of character," with their delegates have really gone over to the 
enemy, and now demand your strongest efforts to counteract the des- 
tructive influences which they are exerting to overthrow the evangeli- 
cal churches. We are happy to be advised of this circumstance in 
the " statement of facts." It is an omen for good if a council of your 



4.5 

own selection has been convened, who have proclaimed it through 
you to the world, that sinners against God, truth, civil and religious 
liberty, can no longer shelter themselves from merited rebuke, by as- 
suming the sanctimonious title of evangelical churches and Christians. 

2nd. Mr. Chase has made some very palpable misstatements in his 
" statement of facts," which in themselves are of no great moment, 
but which deserve a passing notice. — He very well knew who Deacon 
Henshaw announced to the court as his counsel, and yet he takes the 
liberty to add two more to the list who were in no sense engaged or 
employed as such. — He evidently wishes to showofTan array of coun- 
cil that will nearly equal that of the church for numbers. 

Of one of Deacon Henshaw's council he says " Who is James 
Boyle ? and before he answered the question, he would have done 
well to have informed himself. 

" Common fame (he says) declares him to be a Foreigner, and once a Roman Cath- 
olic, who obtained ordination by Oneida Presbytery, and was by them deposed from 
the ministry for heresy." 

James Boyle may be a Foreigner and once a Roman Catholic, and 
have been ordained by Oneida Presbytery for ought we know, and 
we cannot see that any stigma would affix to his character thereby — 
we have never inquired his origin, and know not whether he was born 
in Europe or America, nor whether he is entitled to citizenship, in 
this realm or not : — we know him only as a minister of Jesus Christ, 
to all climes, and conditions and complexions; — we know not that he 
was ever a Roman Catholic, but we know that he renounces Popery 
now, and Protestantism too, as far as it is inconsistent with the princi- 
ples of Christianity. — We know too that he would rejoice at being de- 
posed from the ministry for heresy by any sect in Christendom, bear- 
ing any semblance, to the Roman Catholic, and count it an honor to 
suffer shame from the enemies of Christ for preaching his doctrine — but 
we do not know that he does enjoy the honor of being deposed. 

Of the other of Deacon Henshaw's counsel, Mr. Chase says, 

tt Col. J. M. Fisk, the son of Rev. John Fisk, is well known in this community. He 
was recently excommunicated from this church for substantially the same offences as 
were charged upon Deacon Henshaw ; he is a Garrison Abolitionist of the first water, 
the High Priest of Comeouters in this region, who came out and denounced the church 
of Christ in the true S. S. Foster style." 

It requires but little sagacity to discover that here is some truth told 
that was not intended ; — " recently excommunicated from this church," 
for what ? for being a "comeouter." The story would have been 
more intelligibly told, had he said — That the scapegoat broke out of 
the fold, and the church " put up the bars" to prevent his breaking in 
again. 

But the statement is not all truth, nor intended to be, though thrown 
into the market as such : — said Fisk never " denounced the church of 
Christ" nor renounced it ; he only removed his connection from the 
sectarian corporation of which Mr. Chase is general agent, to the 
church of the living God. But Mr. Chase is pleased to put a feather 
in his cap which he declines wearing ; he is not entitled to that honor. 



The honor of being " the High Priest of Comeouters in this region" 
certainly belongs to another — to a stripling in years compared with 
himself, who walked unceremoniously out of this " sectarian organiza- 
tion called a church" six months before he was prepared to let go his 
hold upon this supposed "ark of safety." 

As to the other charge of being "a Garrison Abolitionist of the 
first water" he makes no objection. He will make no effort to shake 
off the opprobrium which attaches to him from having his name asso- 
ciated with Garrison or any other man infinitely below him in reputa- 
tion, who advocates true principles with a moiety of his devotion. If 
he may be permitted to select for himself of the honors which this 
world proffers, it will be to enjoy the honor of " suffering shame" 
with Garrisonians for the adoption of those principles which Jesus 
Christ proclaimed and which ever have received contempt and ridicule 
from Scribes and Pharisees, from priests and parasites of the ungodly 
to the present time. 

But to what a distressing dilemma must Mr. Chase have been driven 
to be under the necessity of bringing under review, the characters of 
Deacon Henshavv's counsel, together with spectators sympathizing 
with him, in order to make out a " statement of facts" connected with 
the trial of Deacon Henshaw. The petty fling of " the Deacon's at- 
torneys" is surely amusing — and then the inimitable description — one 
a broken down Catholic Priest, and the other an insignificant Come- 
outer. As though one of his excommunicated Deacons might not, 
after being debarred any counsel before the church, employ "attornies" 
before the council if he chose. And whom did this reverend Divine 
employ, after periling his own standing by rejecting the advice of the 
council, when he had occasion to appear before a subsequent council 
to shew cause why he should not be dismissed from the church under 
his charge. Did he employ an attorney ? — and was that attorney a 
Christian ? If Unitarians are Christians, he might have been. But 
Mr. Chase says Unitarians are not Christians, — and now this man who 
sneers at the " Deacon's attornies," and refuses to hold communion 
with Unitarians, gets a Unitarian Lawyer to advocate his case and 
plead for his right to lord it over the Churchand Parish this year out at 
least. — Not that we would be understood to reflect upon his judgment 
in this case, or upon his " attorney" in the slightest degree, but mere- 
ly to show up this pink of consistency do we allude to these things. 

The remark which Mr. Chase imputes to Wra. B. Earl of Leices- 
ter, as having been made at his house in the presence of his family, 

" That if you must have it, I must say, that I am of those who believe that the 
Sabbath is of the Devil," 

Mr Earl pronounces to be false, and is sustained in that assertion by 
two competent witnesses who were present at the time. 
Mr. Chase sheds some crocodile tears when he says, that 

" Sorrow hath taken up her abode in some parental hearts, over children ruined and 
reckless, or on the borders of it. The most painful anxieties agonize the Christian 
heart to see the barriers of the Sabbath, the ministry of the gospel, reverence for reli- 
gion, and the counsels of the aged, and respect for civil laws rudely assailed and de« 
stroyed." 



47 

This doleful description .has allusion to the parents of one young man 
only, instead of half or two thirds of the parish as some may infer. 
Joseph A. Howland, whom Mr. Chase denominates one of the Dea- 
con's assistant counsel was present before the council, with notes taken 
at the Deacon's church trial, and might be more properly spoken of as 
a witness than as counsel — He is the one and the only one alluded to 
as having almost broken the hearts of his parents. But could the truth 
be known, it would appear that these broken hearted parents have more 
respect for, and confidence in the principles and conduct of their de- 
luded son, than they have in Mr. Chase or those who worship at his 
shrine. 

We have been thus particular in alluding to transactions which have 
taken place in connection with the operations of our society, and in 
explanations of remarks and allusions in the " statement of facts" from 
the circumstance that such a confusion of ideas generally prevails upon 
the principles by which we are actuated in our organized capacity as a 
society, and also from the prevalent predisposition of the community 
to judge of our priciples and measures from the favor they may receive 
from the clergy, and from such as hang on to their skirts. — We are 
fully aware of the impracticability of surmounting this difficulty, — of 
removing this stumbling stone out of the way by any argument we may 
make : — nevertheless, we must let the truth do its work — upon our 
lives, and not upon our professions or our theories, depends the gene- 
ral adoption of our principles. 

Through the operations of the Anti-Slavery, enterprise, and through 
the operations of our own society, however insignificant they may ap- 
pear to others, important principles have been developed, and disclo- 
sures made, which would have shocked our sensibilities before we had 
been made acquainted with the delusions which had fastened upon 
our own minds in connection with the prevailing theology. It is 
an impulse which we have received from the Anti-Slavery discussion 
which impels us to disregard our former veneration to the sacred office, 
and the rites and ceremonies of a church whose pretensions to be the 
true church of God rest not upon any inherent evidence in her works 
or her influence, but in her power to compel her high assumption to be 
respected. — Every step we have advanced in vindication of the rights 
of man has disclosed some new link in the chain which binds men to 
custom, and to the traditions of the church, and makes them mere ap- 
pendages to the colossal sects which fill Christendom. 

Mr. Chase is careful in the outset of his remarks to rid himself of 
the responsibility of originating the commotions which have unsettled 
him and rent his church in twain. If he has any fears upon that point 
we feel able to relieve him. — He had forerunners who prepared his 
way ; he is chargeable only with touching the torch to the ordnance 
which others loaded, and loaded so heavily that it has done admirable 
execution both front and rear. 

Mr. Chase, be it known is not the man for whom we have less respect 
as a professed minister of Christ, than others who have cast their influence 
around us. He is by no means a singular instance of clerical audaci- 



48 

ty within the circumference of our knowledge ; — he may have less 
prudence and less artfulness than others, but he has more boldness and 
perseverance to counterbalance those deficiences. 

West Brookfield has been peculiarly blessed with what have 
been termed revivals of religion for more than thirty years ; and 
it had become so proverbial, that a minister from abroad never 
lifted up his hands in prayer when he arrived in this place, 
without blessing God for the wonderful works he had wrought here. 
That the laudable efforts of ministers and private Christians to turn 
sinners from their evil ways to serve the Lord were fully blessed, we 
have not a doubt; but we as firmly believe on the other hand, that with 
this desire to convert sinners and to magnify the Lord, was mixed a 
desire to magnify the church and to intrench the minister within so for- 
midable a phalanx as to be able to withstand all opposition. — This dis- 
position would necessarily lead to " teaching for doctrines the com- 
mandments of men," and the effect must ultimately be an explosion, as 
we have witnessed. — While the church could be lulled to repose, in the 
enjoyment of peace and harmony with the ungodly within and without, 
she would be complimented on all hands as a peaceable, orderly, 
quiet, spiritual body ; but when her soundness come to be probed by 
the application of some vital principle, it might be expected that she 
would writhe and squirm and inflate with the consciousness of her own 
dignity and importance, and finally explode. 

Mr. Chase had a prototype precede him in the ministry in this place, 
in the person of the Rev. Joseph Ives Foot. It will be unnecessary, 
and undesirable on our part to go into his history at much length ; — suf- 
fice it to say, that the same desire to subject every thing to his will, and 
to bring the church to bow to his mandate, was manifested by him 
that has been by Mr. Chase, and similar results followed. — And it is 
the false position which professing christians were made to take at that 
time which has terminated in sundering them wide apart ; not on ac- 
count of any christian principle on either side, but for the lack of it 
on both : — they followed the instructions given them, and cherished 
any thing but the cultivation of christian principles. 

Mr. Foot became disaffected with all four of his Deacons, and took 
a notion into his head that the welfare of Zion and the purity of the 
church, as well as his own interest demanded that they be cashiered. 
To effect this, instead of making a cat's paw of Uriel Spooner, he 
appoints a church meeting and brings forward a petition from the four 
oldest members of the church, to the effect that the church would 
displace the Deacons. These four petitioners were all superanuated — 
incapable of attending upon the ordinances of the sanctuary, and just 
ready to go to their final resting places. — Three of these very soon 
completed their pilgrimage, and the fourth survived a few years longer 
to add his testimony to thousands before him, that they were years of 
" labor and sorrow." 

And while we pen these lines as a history of the past, we can 
write almost the same thing of the present : — Although this church is 
rent in twain, and is destitute of a shepherd; at the demand of Mr. 



49 

Chase she now musters but one Deacon, and that one retains his office 
only by virtue of his fidelity to his pastor, and not by virtue of any 
high pretensions to moral principle, or claims to practical godliness. — 
The process by which these two clergymen attempted to effect their 
purposes was somewhat different, as well as the circumstances pre- 
ceding ; but their purposes and aims were one, — the effect upon their 
pupils the same, and the ultimate inglorious defeat of the one, will 
probably be the same as the other. And if vital piety makes any 
progress within the jurisdiction of such Pretenders, it must be more 
in consequence of the exhibition of the antagonist principle, than the 
tendency of any christian precept or example which comes from those 
who are looked upon as the exponents of practical religion by multi- 
tudes around them. 

We are constrained to say that we believe the cause of the present 
distracted state of this church to be in consequence of a misapprehen- 
sion of the nature of true religion, not only on the part of private 
members of the church, for they have embraced the very religion 
which has been taught them, but on the part of those who have set 
themselves up, and hired themselves out as religious teachers. The 
religion of Jesus holds out no prospects of quiet and harmony to his 
followers in any compromises they may make with his enemies ; — 
they have an unending warfare with all such, and it will be a religion 
from some other source that will reconcile them; — it will be a religion 
that might as well trample under foot every vestige of Christianity, as 
one of the fundamental principles of it. We believe such to be the 
character of the religion now prevalent here, which is striving to bring 
together the conflicting elements that now distract the church, and 
make them harmonize. 

We verily believe that the present animosity and hatred existing in 
this church, are the legitimate fruits of the religion they possess : and 
we sincerely rejoice that the time has come when its " true character" 
shall be exposed. We rejoice at it, not for the pain it gives — or for 
the injury it does to any — but for the hope it inspires that a better era 
is drawing nigh. 

We now beseech the reader to take a retrospective view of this 
whole subject, and spread it out in clear perspective before his own mind. 

A large and reputedly devout church is suddenly shivered and dis- 
persed to the four winds. How is it done ? Simply by the introduc- 
tion, and application of a Bible principle, yea, of the Christian princi- 
ple that God has made of one blood all the nations of the earth, and 
commanded mankind mutually to respect each others rights, and inter- 
dicted any partiality, or the adoption of any course whereby a viola- 
tion of this principle would ensue : — and as an infallible security to 
test our position, he has commanded to do unto others as we would 
that they should do unto us. This is all. The application of this 
principle the church could not bear, nor would not. It matters not 
that a Deacon of the church presided at a meeting which denounced 
the church and her benevolent operations, or that a woman preached 
this doctrine and held the church and the ministry up to the gaze of the 
7 



50 

multitude ; — these are mere incidents. The whole substance of the 
matter is contained in the fact that the church could not tolerate this 
doctrine which Jesus Christ left the bosom of the Father to come and 
proclaim. — They repudiated it, and cast out of their synagogue, all 
who maintained it. 

It is not the Anti-slavery principle in the church which has dismem- 
bered it; they have thrust that all out, and now float high and dry 
above its polluted waters, and are left with nothing to contend about 
but their own pro-slavery predilections. All their attention is now di- 
rected to the all-absorbing topic of how they shall repair their Juger- 
naut and put it in the condition that this fanatical notion that a Negro 
is a man, and he who enslaves and imbrutes him is a sinner against 
High Heaven, found it ; in a condition to do equal execution with that 
other Jugernaut which crushes its victims with such celerity beneath 
its ponderous wheels. 

One faction demands that the minister resign ; the other that the 
Deacons resign ; and a compromise is set on foot that they have a 
Priest who shall be sovereign, and hold himself the keys of the Pago- 
da, and lock out every thing which is offensive to their idol, and sup- 
press all notices of Anti-slavery discussions and convocations — and 
sweep out from the conference room the subject of slavery or any 
other subject not purely religious. And who, think you, is arbiter to 
arrange this bargain? A Bramin ? Ah No! It is an evangelical 
Doctor of Divinity near at hand. God grant that the day be far dis- 
tant when another compact shall be consummated in this place which 
shall swallow up another generation in such a vortex of delusions. 

To show to our neighbors that we are not censorious beyond what 
is demanded, we call their attention to the fact that since the first in- 
troduction of resolutions into the church three years ago, to purge it 
from all its connection with the peculiar institution, not an adhering 
member has made an effort, or lifted his voice to have the church right 
themselves upon this subject. And since the decision of the " mutual 
council" so called, that the decision of the church in the case of 
Deacon Henshaw was arbitrary and unjust, not a voice has been raised 
in any quarter in vindication of that decision, or in behalf of Deacon 
Henshaw, as a persecuted man. If this is not sufficient to satisfy the 
most captious, that we are not querulous in this matter, without reason 
for it, we can go further and state that not a private member from ei- 
ther party has extended to Deacon Henshaw the right hand of fellow- 
ship, or espoused his principles which have drawn out this church ac- 
tion, and which the " mutual council" could not gainsay, and as Mr. 
Chase says, have stamped their approbation upon, and thereby com- 
pletely immersed him and his flock in Egyptian darkness. 

That there was a strong sympathy in the minds of many members 
of the church in the commencement of, and during the progress of the 
difficulties of the church, for Anti-slavery principles, we are happy to 
admit. But we have been permitted to be witnesses of the solution of 
the problem, whether the mass belonging to a " sectarian organization 
called a church" would prefer that slavery stand and their organiza- 



51 

tion remain unimpaired, or that slavery fall and all else that contributes 
to the enslavement and degradation of mankind fall with it. The 
transactions of the last year in our own midst have confirmed our 
minds in the belief that there is no delusion and superstition the world 
over, more formidable to the progress of Anti-slavery principles than 
that bigoted belief that the church is to be protected and defended and 
sustained and perpetuated at the expense of, and in violation of the 
most sacred principle of God's government. — To come out from the 
church and renounce its Phariseeisms is most revolting to the great 
mass ; — no exigency can demand it, — no circumstances can palliate or 
atone for it. The evil and guilt of enslaving two and a half millions 
of human beings in our own land bears no comparison with it. Even 
the oracle of Oberlin (Professor Finney) has given out his fiat that 
" of all the reformers who need reforming, there is none this side of 
hell who so much need it as ' Comeouters ;' " meaning those who re- 
nounce the church for her faithlessness. 

But whether or no, this " organization called the church," is to 
stand ; — and if Moses Chase, and the present Deacons cannot keep it 
together and make it draw at theword given, we must have somebody 
that can and will. That is the upshot of the story with Christians 
whose Christianity is all made subservient to the interests of a body 
which they can make out to be " a church of Jesus Christ" only by 
their own vote, and scarcely by that. And the clergy who are di- 
vinely appointed of Heaven to control and guide this infallible cor- 
poration receive their due proportion of veneration and homage. 

Among the individuals now connected with the church in this place, 
are numbers who are members of our society, and who have once be- 
fore, not only given comfort and aid to the enemy, but have formally 
resigned their membership. — When trouble and persecution arose, 
they forsook Jesus and fled. But when reason and their better judg- 
ment had resumed the throne, and when they could look upon their 
advisers, and the cause they had abandoned without the interposition 
of evangelical goggles, they voluntarily returned; fully persuaded that 
they had deceived themselves, with a little assistance from others. 
These individuals and many more with them who profess Anti-slavery 
principles, are throwing all their influence against the progress of the 
cause of human rights. They do it unawares, and in consequence of 
the dominion which bigotry and superstition exercise over them in their 
theological thraldom. We feel confident that in due time they will 
return, many, if not all, to the post which Christianity has assigned to 
her votaries. It may not be till after a long night of darkness and of 
doubt. We know they are now wending their way where the sun of 
righteousness shineth not, and to the same point from whence Mr. 
Chase and his flock send forth their mournful lamentations, that they 
cannot decypher " the hand of God on this trying occasion." 

" We sought (say they) to humble ourselves by prayer and fasting before the coun- 
cil was convened, as the pious Jews did at the River Ahavah " that the Lord would 
grant a way for ourselves and our little ones." 

But it seems the Lord did not grant a way to suit them although he 



5-2 

did to ihe Jews : and they confess themselves surrounded bv darkness 
impenetrable, and bare compiled a lamentation from the writings of 
David and Jeremiah as applicable to their own condition. 

hre ieeer::: :: Zie~ is err ::;i -rre sr: - eere:h s::e in :he - :hr:. er_i her :eers 
are oq her cheeks : all her friends lire dealt treacherously with her ; they are be 
come her enenies ; she dwelleth among the heathen : she nndeth no rest. The ways 
:: Sod moorn, all her gates are desolate ; her jr.es ts sigh, her Tirgins are afflicted; 
and she is in : ::err_e;s ; he: adrersaries ere ehiefj her enemies prosper : her children 
are S9»£ m£» coptidtw fefsre He aumw, oar enemies langh among themselves, they say. 
err aha so — e —;rle hare it : .he lord hath forsaken them, let us persecute and 

The last expression in the quotation seems to hare fired them with 
zeal to prolong the contest, and there are not a few indications that 
they may come on victorious : and subdue all their enemies, especially 
three who cling to the church as their life-boat to save themselves from 
the torments of a prospective purgatory. 

In the above compilation of detached passages to make out a lam- 
entation applicable to their case, -Mr. Chase seems intentionally to 
have left out a sentence which, in the Lamentations of Jeremiah, you 
will find stands thus, ;; her enemies prosper : for the Lord hath afflict- 
ed her for the multitude of her transgressions : her children are gone 
into captivity. &c." This makes better sense to our minds, and forci- 
bly iDnstraies ;he cause of her depressed condition. 

But though we anticipate this backsliding of members from truth and 
duty, what we write and what we do is with a view to accelerate the 
dav when we shall see eye to eye with those brethren who are now 
- ---ing with their prejudices in favor of a corrupt Priesihood, and 
who are living yet to learn, we trust, that their devotion to a man-made 
religion is entirely cast into the shade by the fidelity of the Papist, 
the If jhammedan or the Hindoo to their various systems, which we be- 
lieve Christianity will place net far out of line with a pro-slavery prot- 
ectant church. It may be thought by some friends and by many ioes, 
llial e have taken too unwearied pains to spread this subject on paper. 
We are inclined to believe, ourselves, that we have been too prolix 
and tedious : our occupation does not qualify us to condense and ar- 
ranse within proper limits, a narration of this affair. We leel how- 
ever, the propriety of exposing the whole transaction. What we do, 
shall not be done in a corner — and what our opponents do in secret or 
-elsewhere, we feel at liberty to proclaim upon the house tops. Our 
motto will be " Without Concealment — Without Compromise. : ' 

In conclusion, we exhort all, both male and female to look at. and 
examine the principles which our ancestors put forth to the world as 
the basis of their freedom and independence, and which our generation 
also adopts and claims to make their governing rule of action ; and to 
decide in their own minds whether there is not a responsibility resting 
upon each individual in the nation to contribute their influence and aid 
to redeem our common country from the disgrace which she is now 
suffering under in consequence of our national disregard of human 
rizhts, and the plain violation of the doctrine upon which we assume 
to be free and independent, and scorn to be the slaves individually or 



:0 

collective!*-, of any earthly power which mar interpose itself between 
the authority of God and the M inalienable" rights of man. 

Especially to professing christians do we appeal for their aid and 
co-operation in removinz this political evil and : ~i : i i. And so 
lonz as you profess the christian name, whatever may be your divis- 
ions and broils and discords and perplexities, we shall not cease to 
implore you to consult the charter from whence yon draw all your 
authoritv for assuming the title with which the followers of the great 
expounder of human rights were first baptized at Antioch. We 
shall point you to the defection of your religious sects and of 
your political parties while you continue to associate and co-operate 
with diem in trampling under foot, practically, the essential truths of 
Christianity and republicanism. 

And may God give us wisdom to administer all needful rebuke, 
and fortitude to resist the temptations to relax our determination to 
persevere in contending for the dissemination of universal freedom, 
and the deliverance of our fellow men from the shackles imposed by 
a corrupt and wicked policy, connived at and sustained by the exist- 
ing religious sects. 

We feel sanguine, that the acquisition of correct vie - s open ike 
subject of human brotherhood, would greatly allay the angry feeliiiS 
now existing between brethren in this re.:z:~zs ::~n_z .~. e~i reccz- 
cile to one another all the friends of Jesus, and destroy their present 
vocation of contending with each other about the empty forms and 
ceremonies and shadowy substances which are now palmed upon them 
for the essence of practical godliness : and from warring with one 
another, thev would turn upon the common enemy of God and man 
with united zeal, and glory in brandishing the bloodless weapons of 
truth and love, till our land shall be free from the foul stain of sia- 
verv. and its mtermmableconsequezifs averted. 

If the disclosures here made relating lo die impeachment, trial, and 
expulsion of Deacon Henshaw, fngefnei with other incidental doings 
of the church, do not tend to expose a wrong s:z:5 of feeling and of 
heart ia Mr. Cbsse. and the mass of those co-operating with him ; 
generated we believe bv adhering to an approved system of theology, 
which we conceive to be a spurious system of Christianity, that as- 
pires to no higher motive than to keep the present organizations of 
society from going to pieces, and of necessity contends against the, 
introduction of reforms indispensable to the removal of existing evfls, 
and to the regeneration of the world, with £ eoDserfabsm plainly : s- 
countenanced by true Christianity; ±en may our conclusions be wholly 
untenable and worthless. If what we have written shall not have the 
effect to convict our opponents of maintaining a false position, it will 
surelv have the opposite enect to expose a false position in oarselres. 
We are willing to come to the light, that if our deeds are evil they 
mav be reproved. We are more than willing to expose ourselves to 
the criticisms and rebuke of the wise and the good. Rebuke from 
the timeserving:, obsequious and sycophantic, we expect to receive 
if our faces are but heavenward. We will studv 10 disc rimin ate between 



54 

the sources from which approbation or censure may issue, without in- 
dulging in an over-weeningh-egard to our own infallibility, or our capac- 
ities for comprehending and appreciating the truth. 

In behalf of the Board of Managers of the West Brookfield Anti- 
Slavery Society. 

JOHN M. FTSK. 

West Brookfield, Jan. 20, 1844, 



APPENDIX. 



For the information of the curious, it may not be amiss to state, that 
the decision of the council in regard to Deacon Henshaw, instead of 
reconciling the conflicting minds, has resulted in a temporary division 
of the church and society. Mr. Chase having received his discharge 
from the society, and his pastoral relation with the church being forci- 
bly terminated by an exparte council, has retired from the majority of 
the society, with that portion of the church and society partial to him, 
and provided themselves with a Hall in which they worship " the 
Great Spirit." It has been reported that they were likely to get the 
start of the other society in passing resolutions to exclude slaveholders 
from their communion. 

The other portion retain the meetinghouse and have taken unwearied 
pains to procure a better Driver. The last one they discharged, was 
obtained from the Far West, at an expense of eighty dollars passage 
money, for the purpose of having a pure Anti-slavery minister. He 
came strongly recommended as such, and evidently thought himself so. 
About his last performance was to decline giving notice of an Anti- 
slavery concert, because they did not have prayers enough, and yet 
he never showed his face there to offer up his petitions, or let scarcely 
any of his forces come. 

It is very difficult to ascertain just what degree of Anti-slavery a 
minister must have to suit this society. But for the information of can- 
didates, we offer it as our opinion that they want just enough to super- 
sede Mr. Chase's Anti-slavery, and not quite enough to restore Dea- 
con Henshaw to their fellowship. We feel warranted in this opinion 
from the fact that they have entertained the following propositions made 
to them by Mr. Chase's society for a re-union, at not less than two, if 
not three meetings of the church ; thereby exhibiting a strong propen- 
sity for consolidating their orthodox forces. The great negotiator in 
this case is the Rev. Doctor Snell of North Brookfield ;* it is under- 
stood that the propositions, in their present form, are as they came 
from his hand revised. Here they follow, with a few notes appended. 

To the members of the first church of Christ in Brookfield, who wor- 
ship at the Meeting House. 

Dear Brethren. 

Understanding that it would be desirable on your part to have us 
return and worship with you, and that you wish us to make some over- 
tures respecting the matter, we hereby comply with your wishes, pleased 

# The place from whence the " Brookfield Bull," so called, emanated. 



56 

with the thought of again enjoying together the ordinances of the Gos- 
pel in the House our Fathers built for God. See note (a) 

You will allow us to be frank, and yet we mean to be both candid 
and kind, for otherwise if we come together again our union will be 
short lived. 

One declaration we make in the outset, viz. if Deacon Henshaw as 
he stands before the church is to be restored, we cannot think of re- 
turning — we had rather never return. — It is necessary that that matter 
be decisively settled, (b) 

Hoping that your views of this subject correspond with our own, 
we proceed to state what would meet our wishes and afford us satis- 
faction. 

1st. In future we wish it may be left discretionary with the Pastor 
of the Church to give notices of the meetings to the assembly on the 
Sabbath without having the assembly disturbed by such notices being 
given by others. (c) 

2nd. We wish to have it left to the Pastor of the church to regulate 
his own exchanges, and withhold or extend his invitations to what min- 
isters he pleases to occupy his pulpit. (d) 

3d. We wish you to say that you consider this church in its organ- 
ized capacity to be a church of Christ, to whose government you 
are in duty bound to be in subjection, and that you will not belong to 
any society who deny this, (e) 

4th. We wish to be assured that you will not disturb our conference 
meetings by introducing the subject of Slavery, or any other subject 
for remark foreign to the object of the meeting. (/) 

5th. For the sake of greater peace and more general satisfaction in 
the church, it is our desire that Dea. White and Spooner will vacate 
their office by resignation, that others may be chosen in their stead, (g) 

6th. We wish to he assured that according to the long established 
usage of the orthodox churches in Massachusetts, you will maintain the 
right of the church as a body distinct from the Parish in first moving 
in the settlement and dismission of the Pastor, and then request the 
Parish to concur, (h) 

7ih. We wish to have the Articles of Faith and church Covenant 
which have been adopted in almost all of the churches in this vicinity, 
adopted also by the first church in Brookfield in lieu of those we now 
have, (i) 

8th. We wish to be assured that if the church shall vote to hold 
their business meetings with closed doors, they may peaceably do 

so.(fc) 



57 

9th. We wish you to say whether it is right for any of the Brethren 
having grievances supposed to be created by the pastor, before making 
such grievances known first to their Brethren, to form an alliance with 
the Parish and avail themselves of their strength, and voting with them 
to dissolve the connexion with the Parish and the pastor and proceed to 
enforce such action by compelling the church to call a council to dis- 
solve the relation between the pastor and church against the known 
wishes of the majority of their Brethren. (I) 

10th. It is our request that you erase from the church Records that 
part of the Letter Missive by which the late ex-parte Council was 
convoked, which has a serious bearing on the character of the Pastor 
and is in these words — " And whereas his ministerial and moral conduct 
has been such as to destroy confidence in him as a worthy minister and 
an upright man," — " That they lay before that Council facts affecting 
the ministerial and moral character of the Pastor," — and that you 
give notice of the erasure to the churches composing said Council, (m) 

Now Brethren, we claim no power or right of dictation what you 
shall consent to in order for a reunion ; but since you have desired to 
know what overtures for this purpose we were disposed to make, we 
have hereby complied with your request, and now wait the time when 
you shall communicate to us officially the result of your consultation. 

EBENEZER MERRIAM, 

Chairman of Committee, (n) 

IOTES. 

(a) Whoever the House may have been originally built by, or whom for, matters 
not, as it has quite recently been thoroughly rebuilt and reconsecrated. Hubbard 
"Winslow, (a family connection of Ebenezer Merriam and Uriel Spooner) consecrated 
it to the "will of the brotherhood," and almost the first act of the brotherhood was to 
decline to abjure the vile principle of slaveholding ; — and very soon after to purge 
their body of such as did abjure it for themselves individually. 

(5) This amounts to no more nor less than setting aside the recommendations of the 
council and pronouncing it unrighteous judgment. It may appear to some, remarka- 
ble that one of the leading members of the council should consent to be the bearer of 
such a pious proposal ; but would it not be the more remarkable if it should be made 
to appear that the proposition in its present form is the production of his pen ? 

(c) As mere spectators in this scene we may be permitted we trust, to feel some 
curiosity to know how this proposition shall be terminated. "We supposed that it al- 
ways had been left discretionary with the Pastor to give notices, or not give them, as 
best suited his taste. — But who is going to be responsible that the assembly shall not 
be disturbed by some one else giving them, provided the Pastor chooses not to give 
them, is what we are curious to know. "Will any of our orthodox Anti-slavery breth- 
ren sign that bond ? 

(d) Have Mr. Chase's exchanges been intermeddled with ? or does this refer to Mr. 
Horton's consenting to exchange with Kev. Doctor Osgood and others for the gratifi- 
cation of some of his supporters ? "We cannot understand that this request if con- 
firmed, will prevent any person from interceding with the Pastor about his exchanges, 
though it leaves him perfectly free to regulate them himself, as he always has been. 
Nevertheless, it gives him absolute control of the pulpit. Catholic Priests are said 
to withhold the Bible from their subjects because they do not know how to read it right, 



58 

But it seems that these Protestants doubt their own competency to select an occupant 
for their pulpit and make a committee of the pastor do it for them. 

(e) But Christ's government in this place must surely be in a prostrate condition if 
it is embodied in the organized church, one wing of which holds forth in Mr. Prich- 
ard's Hall with a deposed Pastor for their guide, and the other wing musters at the 
meeting house with not so much as one Deacon to call the roll. What say you, breth- 
ren? Do you confess this to be a church of Christ to whose government you are 
bound to be in subjection? and do you promise, that you will not belong to the Anti- 
slavery Society — for Mr. Chase cannot get it or any of its members to confess that it 
is a church of Jesus Christ, and that he is Governor General over it. 

(/) It seems by this that you have been rather disorderl} r children when you were 
once members in Christ's family. — You ought to have known better than introduce 
the subject of slavery into a religious meeting. It is very foreign to the object. A 
religious meeting is not for such objects. It is to pray for the heathen — for the Hin- 
doos and the benighted kingdoms of the world ; and that the Lord would open the 
hearts of the people to pour more money into his treasury to print tracts, and make 
more ministers and send more missionaries ; " How beautiful are the feet of them 
that bring glad tidings." And they sing too at religious meetings, and the minister 
preaches. You should not talk about slavery. If you say any thing, you must talk 
about religion and not introduce foreign subjects. If you can give us some assurance 
that you will behave yourselves, you may come into the family again. — That is the 
fourth condition. 

(g) There is quite a number expecting some reward for their fidelity to the minis- 
ter, and for ousting Deacon Henshaw ; and it has taken so much time and labor that 
his vacancy will be nothing but a bone of contention between the faithful. Therefore 
" for the sake of peace" the two Anti-slavery Deacons will resign and give us a chance 
to bestow the patronage of " Christ's church" on our numerous proslavery expectants. 
If these " righteous" brethren are to be " recompensed in the earth" now is the pro- 
per time ; and they will give more general satisfaction undoubtedly than the old ones ; 
they, may go over to the " comeouters" if they want office. 

(h) Mr. Chase had a bare majority of friends in the church ; therefore it was of no 
avail for his non-admirers to move in the matter of his dismission. But the parish 
had made the contract with him for his services, subject to termination at any time 
•when a majority of the parish should vote it ; and the parish took advantage of this 
proviso, and mustered a majority to terminate the connection, which left the church 
with a pastor on their hands, but no parish to pay him. Friend Chase does not call 
upon his customers to " come, buy wine and milk without money and without price." 
Not he. 

(i) This requirement is probably put in to make out a variety ; for they required 
not only that Deacon Henshaw " declare, that he solemnly believed this to be a 
church of Jesus Christ," but " that its covenant and articles are in accordance with 
the word of God." If this is true why change it? Have you any new revelation gen- 
tlemen ? Or do you think you can keep the new one better than you did the old one ? 

(k) Mr. Chase is determined to hold the Anti-slavery members responsible for all 
the lawless depredations committed against the church. When Deacon Henshaw's 
trial was going on, his prosecutors thought to hold the court in secret, with closed 
doors. This move created a wonderful curiosity to look in upon the Sanhedrim ; and 
some of the lawless of the world's folk would not consent to be bolted out, and very 
much annoyed the pastor and his friends by their presence. Who will be security for 
their not doing the same again, under the same circumstances, is more than we can 
predict. 

(I) This is a mere continuation of the 6th proposition. It is a very tender point 
and will not bear to be borne down upon too hard in one spot. The fact was, that 
Mr. Chase was determined from the beginning of the question, whether he should stay 
or go, that he would unite in no council whatever, unless the parish would be a party 
to it, and the question of compensation should be submitted to their arbitration. But 
the parish were aware that they settled that point when they made the bargain, and 
they declined to have any concern with a council. They knew that many a minister 
had feathered his nest out of such councils, and they did not want even the sugges- 



59 

lion "that it was expected of them that they would be very honorable in adjusting 
pecuniary matters with their pastor who was about removing to another field of labor 
in the providence of God." They had enjoyed some experience of that sort. 

(rri) With regard to the 10th proposition, we have little to say. It refers to a council 
called by the church in October last, to dissolve, and which did dissolve the pastoral 
relation between it and Mr. Chase. Our "astonishment" is no less than was Mr. 
Chase's after he had digested the result of the mutual council. That the clerk of the 
church should permit any thing to go upon the records that should implicate the moral 
character and fidelity of the pastor, is the cause of our surprise. Even, since the re- 
sult of the mutual council, this officer has pledged himself to stand by Mr. Chase till 
his last enemy was vanquished. How he came to turn such a summerset, we know not. 
Certain we are that the wind has shifted ; or such a record would never have gone on 
the church book. When you erase this record from the book, Mr. Clerk, please to 
draw some black lines round those other records alluded to in the " exposition," but 
do not erase them ; that would be " unparliamentary." 

(n) Although this document comes out under the flag of the colonized church 
with the veteran advocate for nonintercourse with all " Nigger subjects" in the 
church, as chairman; it will be understood that Mr. Chase is still the presiding genius 
of the concern ; and that they are undoubtedly indebted to him for the original draft 
of these modest proposals. The venerable bearer of this dispatch may be entitled to 
some credit for improving upon it — that is more than we know. But we say, " honor, 
to whom honor is due." We would not pluck a single laurel from the brow of any 
man who had a hand in the composition of it, were it to keep us from freezing. 



