PROPERTY OFTHE 










The guilt of forbearing to deliver our British 
Colonial Slaves. 



A SERMON 



PREACHED AT 



THE PARISH CHURCH OF CHELTENHAM, 

GLOUCESTERSHIRE, 
ON WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7th ; 



PARISH CHURCH OF ST. MARY, ISLINGTON, 

ON WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28th; 

AND AT 

ST. JOHN'S CHAPEL, BEDFORD ROW, LONDON, 
ON SUNDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1830. 



BY DANIEL WILSON, M. A. 

VICAR OF ISLINGTON. 



LONDON : 
GEORGE WILSON, ESSEX STREET, STRAND. 

1830. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/guiltofforbearinOOwils 



SERMON, 



Proverbs xxiv. 11, 12. 

If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those 
that are ready to be slain ; If thou say est, Behold, we knew it not ; 
doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it ? and he that 
keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it ; and shall not he render to 
every man according to his works ? 

There are occasions when the minister of Christ must speak like 
the prophets of old. His duty, indeed, generally is to expound the 
doctrines and precepts of the gospel, and thus to lay the foundation 
of improvement as to all the indirect evils of civil society. But if 
some one national obliquity directly violates the first laws of justice, 
humanity, and religion, he must step out of his ordinary course — he 
cannot innocently be silent. If this evil has been long connived at 
and forgotten, if it affects the present and future welfare of a whole 
race of his fellow-creatures— inoffending, helpless, misrepresented, 
degraded, oppressed — his duty becomes more imperative. If after 
thirty or forty years of public discussion and delay, a crisis should 
arrive when an united and determined effort might break their bonds 
and vindicate them into liberty, he is the more solemnly called on 
not to be wanting to the occasion. If nothing appears to oppose 
their deliverance but ignorance of the real facts, hidden selfishness, 
apprehensions of possible consequences, the flimsy excuses of an 
alleged expediency, his silence would be treachery to his conscience, 
his ministry, his God. To him the Almighty, under such circum- 
stances, seems to say, as to his servant Isaiah, " Cry aloud, spare 
hot, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show my people their trans- 
gression, and the house of Jacob their sins." 

Such is the case, I am deeply persuaded, with regard to British 
colonial slavery. The crisis is arrived. The Christian minister is 
bound to look the evil full in the face, and to detect that selfishness 
of the human heart, which leads a great nation to shrink from the 
trouble and inconvenience of doing justice to the oppressed. There 
is no form of selfishness more delusive than this. It suggests dif- 
ficulties, it chills our best affections, it leads us to decline taking 
pains to learn the true bearings of the case, and it contents itself 
with a tame and barren acquiescence. Thus the prodigious magni- 
tude of the evil is hidden, and then the conscience pacified on the 
plea that we know little or nothing of the matter — whilst, in fact, 
Ave neglect the positive duty of aiding to the utmost of our power 

a 2 



the unfortunate, and forget the radiance of that piercing eye which 
reads the secrets of our hearts, and which will render to every man at 
last, not according to his excuses, but according to his works. That 
is, we incur the very charge advanced in my text, " We forbear to 
deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to 
be slain ; we say, Behold, we knew it not," forgetting the penetrating 
remonstrance, " Doth not he thatpondereth the heart consider it ; and 
he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? and shall not he ren- 
der to every man according to his works ?" 

Suffer me, then — I am compelled — I am penetrated with the con- 
viction of my duty — to attempt to rend asunder the veil which hides 
from the eyes of so many of my countrymen, the guilt we are con- 
tracting by FORBEARING TO DELIVER OUR AFRICAN FELLOW- 
SUBJECTS. Suffer me to expose to the glare of day, the excuses by 
which this neglect is palliated or denied. Suffer me to appeal to that 
all-seeing eye of God, which may teach us to detect and silence, 
ere it be too late, these excuses, and to rise to the performance of an 
imperious and paramount duty. 

I charge the British nation with apathy to the miseries of the friend- 
less slave. 

I dissipate the pleas by which this apathy is concealed. 

I urge the duty of rescuing the oppressed, by the present om- 
niscience of God, and the future solemnities of his judgment-bar. 

Allow me your candid attention : — I am connected with no party; 
I intermeddle with no human politics ; I accuse no individuals. I ad- 
mit the humanity and piety of many, many persons connected unhap- 
pily with this system of injustice. I cherish no ill will to the interests, 
and much less to the persons, of the Colonial proprietors. I confine 
myself to the strict line of my duty as the minister of the Gospel, 
under the extraordinary circumstances of the case. It is a common 
cause which I advocate — the cause of degraded humanity ; the cause 
of neglected and forgotten religion ; the cause of the " poor and 
needy, and those who have no helper ;" the cause of our national 
Christianity, fame, security ; — the cause, in short, of all the parties 
implicated in the enormous evil, if they knew their own best interests, 
and would listen to the voice of righteousness and truth. And do 
thou vouchsafe, O Father of mercies, to aid this our attempt ! 
The selfishness of man is too subtle, too powerful for any human 
arm to overthrow. But Thou hast given us thine own Son to die for 
the whole world ! Thou hast established a dispensation of infinite 
love and grace, from which no differences of colour, or rank, or out- 
ward advantages exclude thy creatures. Do Thou vouchsafe to us 
thy help ! Do Thou dispose the hearts of this nation, by the secret 
influences of thy Spirit, to perform the great duty of justice and 
mercy to which Thou now callest them, and to repair, so far as it is 
possible, the injuries which they have so long been criminally in- 
flicting ! 

I. We charge, then, the British nation with neglect towards the 
miseries of the injured slave. 



We have " forbom, and are now forbearing-, to deliver them that 
are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain." We are 
restraining those sympathies, and withholding that active aid, which 
the magnitude of the calamity, the number of those who are suffering 
it, and our own relations to them, demand. 

Can any terms describe more graphically the condition of our 
colonial slaves? They are seized and dragged away to punishments 
which are the precursors of death ; they are oppressed continually ; 
they are silently, but systematically, worn down by a slow and linger- 
ing exhaustion, which too often ends in a premature grave. Their 
condition is inconsistent with any due regard to their well-being either 
here or hereafter. The principles of animal, rational, domestic, 
spiritual happiness wither. The laws of eternal justice are reversed ; 
the moral government of rational beings is exchanged for force and 
terror; the light and grace of Christianity are almost utterly ex- 
cluded ; our brethren, nearly a million of our brethren, are " drawn 
unto death, and ready to be slain." The waste of human life is going 
on by sure and unerring laws, under a servitude founded in injustice, 
embittered with scorn, and working with the fatal, though insidious, 
weapons of over-labour, disease, insufficient food, licentiousness, and 
the other fatal effects of oppression and despair. 

The calamity is extreme, is urgent, ought not to be for an instant 
neglected. Individual cases of humanity deduct little from the mass 
of evil — slight and local improvements in subordinate points tell 
nothing against the aggregate amount — the more slow and silent pro- 
gress of the poison in certain spots, is unobserved amidst the general 
moral pestilence. Unjust slavery with its deadly touch blights the 
hope of man, shortens human existence, embitters social enjoyments, 
imposes a burden which man cannot, and ought not, to sustain, places 
him at the arbitrary will of his fellow. 

Are many words necessary to recall to your memory, the facts on 
which this charge rests, or to establish our criminality in forbearing to 
put a stop to them? I speak of no doubtful case. I take the facts 
avowed by friends and by foes. I go to the evidence published by or- 
der of Parliament. I take the history and apology of the colonists 
themselves. I appeal to the journals appearing daily in the islands. 
I state only the necessary fruits of such a system, considering what 
human nature is, and what all experience has proved it to be. Yes, such 
a system, under such circumstances, operating on a friendless race, 
at a distance from the mother country, must produce such kind of 
effects. 

1. The British colonial slavery, then, is an unjust yoke imposed 

UPON THE INNOCENT AGAINST THE FUNDAMENTAL LAWS OF THE 

almighty. I speak not of other species of bondage, in other ages, 
and under dispensations of religion, or forms of heathenism which 
place them in totally different circumstances. I enter not upon the 
abstract question whether all personal bondage be, under all modes of 
government, a violation of natural justice. That it is in all cases, ex- 
cept as the punishment of crime, contrary to the spirit of Christianity, 
is self-evident. But with this we are not now concerned. The mild, 



domestic, servitude tolerated among the Jews, and terminated every 
seventh year by the law of release, and again vindicated at every fif- 
tieth, by the trump of Jubilee, has no analogy with our present sub- 
ject. As little has the Greek and Roman servitude which Christianity 
at its first promulgation found established by the laws, and growing 
out of the vices, of heathenism, and which she effectually succeeded 
in extinguishing, as her mild and merciful dictates were obeyed. 

I speak now of a yoke imposed by Britons in the sixteenth and se- 
venteenth centuries ; after ages of religious light and in the full glare 
of reformed protestant Christianity — imposed upon an unoffending 
people for the avowed purpose of sordid gain, and for none other: 
imposed not upon a people inhabiting the Western isles, but on a na- 
tion dwelling on the distant shores of Africa; sought for, robbed, 
seized, and kidnapped ; transported across the sea in the horrible holds 
ef slave-ships, and consigned to the doom of perpetual captivity. I 
say, that such a kind of slavery, imposed without a plea of justice, 
nay, in defiance of all the claims of natural right and international 
usage — such a yoke invented by the mere cupidity of gain, sixteen 
hundred years after the illumination of the gospel — such a yoke is 
per se evil, unjust, a sin against God, a violation of the fundamental 
laws of human society, both in its first imposition and in every hour of 
its continuance. Our poor negroes, are indeed " drawn unto death 
and ready to be slain." 

2. What begins in injustice must be carried on in crime, till the 
first injury be repaired — or all the laws of God's moral government 
fail. It is thus with our colonial slavery. It has involved from its com- 
mencement, aud involves now, a constant tenor of oppression, 

AREITRARY POWER AND CRUELTY, ARISING FROM ITS VERY NA- 
TURE, AND INCAPABLE OF EFFECTIVE IMPROVEMENT WHILST IT 

continues. It is made up of these evils : they are the elements of its 
existence ; they form the definition of colonial slavery. Man, urged 
by his fellow-man to the utmost efforts which despotic power and a 
cool calculation of immediate interest may dictate — man, forced 
to labour by the arbitrary will of his fellow, without compensa- 
tion for his toil, without adequate protection for his person, without 
an impartial justice to determine upon his crimes or their punishment. 
— man, the sport of the selfishness, caprice, irritated passions, blunted 
feelings of his fellow — man, handed over from his first proprietor, to 
attorneys, and managers, and overseers, and drivers, with the same 
despotism delegated to the hired employers — man, leased out and 
farmed with the estate on which he vegetates, to the first adventurer 
— man, bought and sold in the market with the horse, and ox, and 
sheep, and farming utensils, amongst which he is classed ; seized, le- 
vied upon, sold, bequeathed as other goods and chattels; liable to be 
forced into a jobbing gang, or condemned to a prison called a work- 
house, at the will of his lord — man, in short, placed at the mercy of 
man for food, for clothing, for labour, for medicine, for abode, for 
domestic comfort, for religious instruction, for all the primary ne- 
cessities of his being;— and all this machinery of injustice set in mo- 
tion by a base, degrading, and adventuring spirit of merchandize, 



which must bring out an amount of profit in an inverse ratio with 
the comforts and just rights of the slave — What — what is all this, 
but a system of oppression, of cruelties more or less severe, of a secret 
waste of human life? And what is sugar island slavery but all this? 
Divested, indeed, of its torture, and mutilation, and chains, and first 
atrocities, by the force of British influence and the voice of the 
British Government — but remaining still the same in its essential pro- 
perties, and working all its essential mischiefs. Such a state of things 
is unjust, irreconcileable with the fundamental relations in which God 
has placed man with man, a perversion of all moral government. A 
thousand instances of individual humanity may be alleged. I turn 
to the system. I say, no humanity deserves the name which does not 
break the yoke, and deliver man from the arbitrary will of his fellow. 
A thousand good intentions, may be alleged. I turn to the facts of the 
case, and read in the decrease of population the irrefragable evidence 
of what is going on upon the whole. Alas ! the poor Africans are 
" drawn unto death, and ready to be slain." Instead of doubling 
their numbers in twenty or five-and-twenty years, as they do when un- 
oppressed, they waste away at a ratio, which in less than sixty years 
from the present time would annihilate the race. 

3. But this is far from being the whole or the worst part of the case. 
These are symptoms only, as might be expected from a system which 
reverses God's order of moral government amongst his creatures. Co- 
lonial slavery GOES TO DEGRADE AND DEBASE THE UNHAPPY AFRI- 
CAN, TO SINK HIM IN THE INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL SCALE OF 
BEING, AND EXPOSE HIM TO ALL THE EFFECTS OF HABITUAL CON- 
TEMPT and scorn. A persuasion of innate superiority in the white 
master, a comparative indifference for the comfort and happiness of 
the inferior race, false notions of what is humane and reasonable en- 
gendered in this vicious atmosphere, a course of silent, wearing de- 
pression, founded on this contempt — these are the bitter roots of colo- 
nial maxims, colonial law, colonial practice. The system rests upon 
it, and would disappear if the negro were really accounted as equal 
in his rights, before God and before the laws of his country, with bis 
oppressor. But slavery knows no such justice ; there is one law for 
the white, and another for the black man. The difference of colour 
changes the immutable foundations of right and wrong. The slave 
exists not in the eye of the law, his evidence is not received, his pro- 
perty not secured, his domestic affections not regarded, his rights not 
protected, his injuries not redressed — his existence not recognized 
as a member of civil society and as living amongst fellow-men.* 

Thus debased and degraded from the port and bearing of man, the 
poor slave is impelled, not by moral motives as God designed him to 
be, whilst the terrors of punishment are reserved for the culprit — but 
by wretched fear and brute force — the irrational domestic animal and 

* The order in council of February last partially amends, in point of law, many 
of those evils as to the crown colonies, containing about one-third only of the 
colonial slaves. In practice it will, to judge from all past experience, do little or 
nothing. 



the rational and immortal fellow-creature are placed in the same rank, 
urged by the same cart-whip, branded with the same marks, (if brute 
creatures indeed, even in the colonies, are thus stigmatized,) sold in the 
same market, and registered as part of the same goods and chattels. 

There is our African brother, brutalized, disinherited of his noblest 
birth- right! There he toils, a slave without hope, without the spring 
of effort which God had ordained for his consolation, treated as a 
thing, not as a person, labouring without the prospect of bettering his 
condition ; and having no pleasures but the gross indulgence of ap- 
petite, the vacant stare of ignorance, the bauble amusements of a 
debased and neglected intellectual existence. There he is with the 
springs of moral being snapped and broken asunder, and worked by 
the mere instincts of a brute, or the passions and fears of a savage. 

It is this degradation which exhibits the slavery of our colonies in 
one of its darkest features, and which renders the mere sleekness of 
a negro's form, his occasional bursts of joy, his babyish contentment, 
his tame acquiescence in his state, only symptoms and evidences of 
the moral disease which blights all the glory of man. His feelings 
blunted, his mind sunk, he knows nothing of the elevated capa- 
cities of his nature ; the immortal principle is almost extinguished — 
and then it is vaunted that the creature is satisfied and happy — and 
he is compared with the English peasant, who in every essential re- 
spect is in precisely opposite circumstances. ! No — the poor slave 
is "drawn unto death, and ready to be slain." All the food and 
clothing and petty boons he may receive, and all his savage vices 
and joys, are only the chains to bind him as a mute sacrifice on the 
altar of degradation and woe. 

4. And this leads me to notice the last fatal step in the climax of 
misery — this poor friendless creature, unjustly enslaved, oppressed, 
degraded, is excluded from the consolations of religion, 

AND PREVENTED FROM RECEIVING ANY EFFECTIVE INSTRUCTION 

in the truths and duties of Christianity. The system is in- 
compatible with the general diffusion of the religion of love and 
purity. Its injustice cannot bear that light — its oppression would turn 
pale before that revelation of grace — its debasing degradation would 
only appear more odious before the universal mercy of the lowly 
Jesus. A form of religion may be admitted — some instances of the 
extraordinary grace of God (especially amongst the domestic slaves, 
and those in towns) may appear — a partial care of religious instruc- 
tion may be forced on the planters. But any adequate, cordial, 
effective inculcation of real Christianity amongst a slave population 
such as that of our colonies, is incompatible with the whole system. 
The field negroes, who form the immense majority, remain in heathen 
darkness, vice, misery. They are " drawn unto death, and are ready 
to be slain," in a spiritual as well as literal sense. We might expect 
this from the preceding facts. All holds together in such a case. A 
system of oppression can never lead to a religion of love. For 
who are to be the poor negro's tutors ? — his task-masters, or those 
whom his task-masters permit. What example of Christianity is set 
him by his imperious oppressors? — carelessness, irreligion, unsub- 



9 

dued passions,, arbitrary will, concubinage, blunted and extinguished 
human feelings, hatred, and even persecution of all sincere and 
heart-felt piety. This is the general example of the white man. Ex- 
ceptions are found to this picture ; but the reaction of colonial sla- 
very on the masters, degrades them, as a class, in all their moral 
principles, just as its direct operation debases the negro. 

What religious instruction can flourish under such a system, with 
an enmity to the whole attempt in the breast of the white, and a con- 
viction that the introduction of Christianity would subvert his unjust 
dominion ? What success can it have, when the time and labour of 
the slave are exacted to the last moment ? What success can it have, 
when the old vices of heathenism are aggravated by the licentious 
lives of professed Christians, and new vices are generated in rapid 
profusion by slavery itself? How can the hand which continues to 
inflict the disease, be, at the same time, really administering the cure? 
Go to the tomb of the martyred missionary, and estimate the hatred 
of the slave-owner to vital Christianity ! 

Accordingly, in one of the most improved parishes in all the West 
Indian islands, where religious education has been most successful, 
out of one hundred properties, forty-six, containing upwards of eleven 
thousand slaves, refuse admission altogether to the minister of 
religion ; and in the remaining fifty-four, only one half hour a week is 
allowed for school, during the dinner-time of the negroes, when 
from weariness few of those near at hand can avail themselves of the 
benefit, whilst the rest, from their distance, cannot do so at all.* 
The religious instruction is thus little more than a pretence, which 
deceives and hoodwinks the people of England. Even the education 
which is given, is not extended to reading, but is merely an oral in- 
struction in the Church Catechism. In towns, indeed, and amongst 
the free blacks, education is making some way ; but the mass of 
your field slaves are now in a worse moral and religious state than 
they and their parents were on the coast of heathen Africa. 

But even supposing religion were taught in theory, what can it be 
in practice? Will slavery allow the developement of its holy prin- 
ciples? You teach the slave Christianity; but will you allow him 
to keep either the first table of the law, or the second ? Can he live 
in the love of God and man ? No. You forbid him the fourth com- 
mandment; and you leave him to live in the violation of the seventh. 
Where is the Holy Sabbath for the rest, and celebration of the 
worship, of God? Where the law of marriage for the culti- 
vation of the domestic virtues and the bringing up of the next gene- 
ration in the fear of God ? You deny him both — you compel him to 
work on the Lord's day — you open the Sunday market — you offer 
him the profanation of the Sabbath or starvation. Thus you make 
the first table of the law impossible by blotting out the day of holiness, 
of repose, of intellectual improvement, of religious meditation, of 
the public and private worship of God. And next you discourage 
the sacred institution of marriage, the spring and fountain of the 

* St. Thomas in the East, Jamaica. 



10 

virtuous affections, the bond of the second table of the law, the 
barrier against licentiousness with all its consequent vices. And you 
call this meagre, detruncated carcase of religion, Christianity. 

No : this, this is the consummation of the misery of the colonial 
slave. He is barred out from the hopes and elevation of that blessed 
gospel which is as much his birth-right as it is ours. Slavery is a 
barrier against spiritual improvement. It is the ban and condemna- 
tion of the soul of man. You begin with the body, you end with 
the immortal spirit of your fellow-creature. You oppress his animal 
frame, you crush his social affections, you rob him of his liberty, his 
peace, his time, his intellectual nature, you degrade and debase him 
below the brute ; and then, in order that you may keep him there, you 
deny him the light and grace of that revelation which would assuage 
his present sufferings, and teach him to look forward to an eternity of 
purity and joy. The soul of our fellow-man chained down in igno- 
rance, resigned to moral darkness, bound and tied in the fetters of 
sin and corruption, given over to more than heathen vices, mocked 
with a form of Christianity — the bad passions fomented by the 
goadings of injustice, the good nipped by the deprivation of hope — 
this is colonial slavery — thus is man " drawn unto death, and ready to 
be slain." 

If these, then, are the facts as to our African population, I ask, are 
we not, as a nation, guilty in neglecting to rescue them from their 
miseries ? Have we not withheld and forborn that active and strenu- 
ous aid which might long ago have effected their deliverance ? Yes, 

I CHARGE THE BRITISH NATION WITH A GUILTY CONNIVANCE 

and apathy. " Every man," Bishop Sanderson well observes on 
our text, " according to his place and power, but especially those 
that, being in place of magistracy and judicature, are armed with pub- 
lic authority for it, are both in charity and justice obliged to use the 
utmost of their power, to lay hold on all fit opportunities of lawful 
means, to help those to right that suffer wrong, to stand by their 
poorer brethren and neighbours in the day of their calamities and dis- 
tress, and to set. in for them thoroughly and stoutly in their righteous 
causes; to protect them from injury, to deliver them from the bonds 
of them that are too mighty, or too crafty for them, and seek by vio- 
lence or cunning to deprive them either of their lives or livelihoods." 

Alas, two hundred years have elapsed since the commencement of 
this frightful system, and it continues in one entire division of its 
evils, to the present hour. One branch, indeed, the trade in slaves, 
has been abolished. We have ceased, since the year !807, to seize 
and tear our fellow-creatures from the coasts of Africa ; but the 
slavery itself — the source of that felonious traffic — remains ; the un- 
happy men whom we now detain in bondage, are themselves the 
victims, as their parents were before them, of that first direful and 
cruel injustice. And yet we still forbear to deliver them. Our 
princes, our governors, our legislators, our magistrates, our clergy, 
our commonalty, are " verily guilty," in different degrees, " con- 
cerning their brethren," — it is their neglect, their silence, their 



11 

cowardice, their selfishness, which has tolerated for twenty-three long 
years this large half of the fatal system. 

The first burst, indeed, of honest indignation, when the horrors of 
the colonial slave-trade and slavery were displayed in their origin, 
progress, and consummation, before the eyes of the nation forty 
years since, was deep and sincere ; one feeling penetrated the 
houses of parliament, and the general mass of the community. All 
but those immediately engaged in the evil itself, rose up as one man 
to put down the mighty oppression. But delay was interposed ; 
hardy denials of the facts were adventured ; expediency was suggested 
against principle and duty ; the warmth of men's minds cooled. We 
forbore, we hesitated, we closed our eyes and ears to the truth. Cal- 
culation of base interest, prepossessions in powerful quarters ; sloth, 
fear of giving offence, dislike of trouble and inconvenience inter- 
posed, and years were consumed in obtaining even one branch of the 
act of reparation. In order to this, it was found necessary, in 1791 
and 1792, to separate the questions of the Slave Trade and Slavery. 
Even after this concession, the traffic was defended, pleaded for, 
maintained with so much pertinacity, that the partial victory was not 
gained till after twenty wearisome years of conflict. 

Our remissness then returned. We forbore once again to deliver 
et them that were drawn unto death," and whom we had confessed 
to have been obtained by a crime justly branded as piracy. Had we 
followed out at once the dictates of those feelings which pro- 
cured for us the abolition of the traffic ; had we pursued the triumph 
with due perseverance, into its consequences in the West India 
islands, colonial slavery would long ago have ceased, our bondmen 
would have been free and happy labourers, and our islands would 
have become what, by their natural beauties they are calculated for, 
the garden of the empire. 

But the case was remote. It was not Englishmen who were suffer- 
ing. Had a single British family been discovered in an adjoining isle, 
kidnapped from our shores, and held in unjust and cruel bondage — 
driven by the whip to excessive toil, degraded and depressed by 
neglect and scorn, deprived of the rest of the Sabbath, the rights of 
marriage, and the privilege of religion— ^had Africa committed one 
Such act of atrocity upon England, the whole nation would have joined 
in the cry of detestation. Not only the first seizure, but the conti- 
nued detention would have been reprobated with horror ; the captives, 
with their households, would have been instantly set free, and the se- 
verest punishment would have been inflicted on the odious slave-owners. 
But because it is Englishmen who have inflicted the crime upon Afri- 
cans; because the scene is distant; because the cries of misery do not 
actually ring in our ears ; because the gains of the iniquity are supposed 
to be great; because the oppressors say they are now ameliorating the 
condition of their victims ; because party and political contentions 
have mingled with the question ; — therefore we hesitate, we are silent, 
we delay. Other topics rouse the attention of parliament, this does 
not. Other topics animate the breasts of statesmen, nobles, magi- 
strates ; this wearies them. Other national sins fill the mouths of the 
ministers of religion ; this dies upon their lips. Even an incorporated 



12 

society for propagating the gospel has possessed, with but little actual 
improvement, a slave estate for more than a century. All is death-like 
silence. The advocate for the poor blacks, in or out of parliament, 
is heard with suspicion. Few will go so far as to deny the facts of 
the case, but all shrink from the duty of repairing them ; all wish 
to defer the act of justice ; all content themselves with vapid genera- 
lities and ineffective resolutions. The miserable traveller lies before 
us — his unjust and cruel sufferings plead for pity — his wounds are unas- 
suaged — he is half dead ; we come up to the place where he is ; but in- 
stead of having compassion on him as the good Samaritan, and bind- 
ing up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and taking care of him — 
we pass by, with the Priest and Levite, on the other side. 

II. And what can be the excuses by which this neglect 
is concealed and palliated ? This is the next question. Our 
text intimates that this is the secret operation going on in the breast. 
" If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not;'' if thou calmest the scru- 
ples of conscience by whispering to thy heart, or saying to others, "J 
was not aware of the circumstances ; I knew not the aggravation of 
the case ; I did not think I could do any material service ; I did not 
judge it was my duty to intermeddle; I waited for further informa- 
tion ; I could not see my way ; I was as well disposed as possible to- 
wards the cause, but I knew not how to act." 

By such arts of self-delusion has man, ever since the fall of our first 
parents, hidden truth from himself. The process especially goes on in 
cases where the inclinations and fears are on one side, and the duty on 
the other — where the difficulties, apparent or real, are near at hand, and 
the duty affects persons or a race of men at a great distance ; — where 
numbers in authority, princes, legislators, are unwilling to be dis- 
turbed ; and where lapse of time and copiousness of debate have 
chilled the sympathies, and irritated the passions of disputants. 

The minister of religion, then, must come forward at such a crisis ; 
he must rend aside the veil ; he must lay open the human heart; he 
must drag into the blaze of day the hidden sophisms of the ill-inform- 
ed and torpid conscience. He must show, that if the plea of igno- 
rance might have been plausibly urged before the case had been fully 
developed, it cannot be fairly urged now ; — that if it be still pleaded, 
the plea is our accusation ; that, at all events, it shall no longer be 
in the power of those who will listen to his statements, to allege it 
another instant. 

1. If the excuse of ignorance could ever have been plausibly urged, 
it must have been thirty or forty years since, before the full develope- 
ment of the facts had been made. Yes, the commencements of the bar- 
barous iniquity towards the close of the 16th and the beginning 
of the 17th century, were studiously concealed. Our Queen Eli- 
zabeth declared to Sir John Hawkins, That if the labourers were 
taken from Africa without their free consent, the vengeance of the 
Almighty would fall upon him. Till the year 1787, the real case was 
never understood. A culpable negligence this in the immediate ser- 
vants of government both at home and in the islands ; but leaving 
undoubtedly the great body of the nation in ignorance of the truth. 



13 

As a people represented and acting by our rulers, and princes, and 
parliament, we were doubtless guilty before the Almighty of forbear- 
ing to deliver our injured brethren ; but the mass of Englishmen were 
individually unacquainted with the facts. Still these would have come 
out — the narratives of our captains and mariners would have spread ; 
the return of our adventurers, and settlers, and merchants, and slave- 
owners, would have proclaimed the mighty injustice, had we been duly 
alive to the duties of humanity. The plea, therefore, was never 
wholly good in conscience. 

2. But the time when this could be pleaded at all has long passed. 
For more than forty years have the facts been accumulating in a de- 
gree to which there perhaps never was a parallel. Evidence taken 
before the Privy Council ; debates in the British Parliament ; admis- 
sions by the most eager advocates of the system ; the books and his- 
tories of the West Indian slave-owners ; the various enactments of 
amelioration, (however inefficient in practice,) which have proceeded 
on the supposition of pre-existing evils ; the daily progress of events, 
as attested by eye-witnesses, men of all parties, clergymen and mis- 
sionaries of undoubted piety, travellers, officers under government — 
the publications which profess to answer particular charges ; the un- 
impeachable evidence deducible from the waste of human life ; every 
kind of proof converges to pour light into that dark and wretched 
dungeon where we retain our ill-gotten captives. It is impossible for 
any one, in the least acquainted with the history of his country, to 
say, " Behold, we know not" the original injustice in which the sys- 
tem of colonial slavery was founded ; we know not the terror and op- 
pression and cruelty, and overworking, in which it consists ; we know 
not the degradation of man below the intellectual and moral des- 
tinies of an immortal creature which it entails ; we know not the 
barrier it erects against all effectual means of evangelizing and saving 
our brother. Nothing of this can be said with any show of reason ; the 
colonial slave-owners have no case. 

They may allege, indeed, that they differ in opinion with us, as to 
the evil of slavery: as to the import of the words justice anH huma- 
nity ; as to the idea of what is reasonable in conduct and behaviour 
towards the slave ; as to the degree of sin against God which the sys- 
tem involves. No doubt, all this may be said ; as like things are said 
concerning every dictate of justice and religion in this country. But 
truth is truth ; the ten commandments are the ten commandments ; 
robbery and cruelty and oppression, do not lose their properties ; jus- 
tice and humanity are terms well understood. And we may safely 
leave to the religious and moral feelings of Englishmen, the determi- 
nation of these questions, the real facts being admitted. -All we want 
is to detect the flimsy excuse, " Behold, we knew it not." If the at- 
tention can now be firmly fixed upon the case, every thing else must 
follow. No one can fairly urge ignorance. We know enough. Al- 
most any part of the evidence now before the world is sufficient for 
our cause. A single Jamaica newspaper ; a single West India pamphlet 
contains more admissions than we require. In truth, the difficulty is 



14 

in the multitude, not the detect, of evidence. Wc are lost in 
the multiplicity and variety of proofs. I may truly say as to myself, 
that though 1 have attended to the question for more than thirty 
years, and have read lately almost every thing- of consequence that has 
come in my way, I am conscious 1 do not know a hundredth part of 
the whole evils of the system. Memory fails — the heait sickens — 
the repetition weakens the impression, if we attempt to follow out the 
details of the enormous mischief. But enough is known, or may be 
known, bv every one. for all practicable purposes. 

3. Where, then, are our excuses ? where our pretensions of igno- 
rance? If we allege them, the very plea becomes our accusation. 
For, why are we so torpid, so unfeeling as to remain uninformed, when 
all England is ringing with the complaints of injured Africa? What 
but our torpor can account for a slate of ignorance, which, instead of 
excusing, aggravates our guilt? Aud yet 1 fear it may be tmly said, 

THAT NINE-TENTHS OF THE PEOPLE OF ENGLAND ARE AT THIS 
MOMENT UNACQUAINTED WITH THE BEARINGS OF A SYSTEM WHICH 

theiu apathy upnoLDs and continues. Yes, I admit the igno- 
rance on which your plea rests; but I reject the plea built upon it : 
1 allow you may be superficially informed — I allow that once you 
mav have felt warmly, but you teel so no longer; that you just had 
your first emotions of humanity awakened, but that they have sunk 
into a death-like stillness ; and that now nothing arouses your atten- 
tion : you take up with the first excuse that occurs to your mind ; 
you say, yon have done all you can; you know little of late; you 
believe ameliorations have taken place; you think the question has 
become a party and political one : you are weary of it. I allow your 
plea — but I found on it my accusation. .1 arraign you for this very 
ignorance on one of the greatest moral questions which the cause of 
insulted justice ever brought before a religious nation. Out. of your 
own mouth may you be judged. It is such pieas which constitute the 
guilt of neglecting your oppressed brother. You are the very best 
friends of colonial slavery ; you allow the crime, yet defend it; you 
admit truth* and vet palliate and delay; you profess, and yet hesitate 
and restrain ; — in a word, you " forbear to deliver those that are 
drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain ;" you say, 
**. Behold, we knew it not." 

4. But I will not allow this excuse to be pleaded, so far as I am con- 
cerned, an instant longer. If you are ignorant, you shall be so no more. 
You are now in the temple of the Almighty ; and whether you will hear or 
whether you will forbear, you shall learn if you will grant me your atten- 
tion, the whole truth : you shall see the present position of the question. 

Know, then, that after forty years no material ameliorations, how- 
ever loudly promised, have been effected. The colonial slavery now is, 
substantially, what it was when the first cry of surprise and indigna- 
tion burst from the House of Parliament in 17S9 and 1790. The 
recommendations of the warmest friends of the \Yest Indian system 
have not been followed; the dictates of obvious self-interest have not 
heen listened to; the hopes of the abolitionists of the traffic in 1807 
have been bitterly disappointed ; the warnings of nearly half a century 



1.5 

have been in vain. All remains as it was, an unjust, oppressive, cruel, 
brutalizing, heathenish, and more than heathenish bondage. Even 
if many of the proposed ameliorations had been honestly attempted, 
they would have fallen far short of effectually healing the evil. Sla- 
very cannot be amended without ceasing to be slavery. Abolish the 
cart-whip, limit the hours of labour, restrain the despotic power of 
man over his fellow, put an end to arbitrary punishments, open the 
door of manumission, give the slave the just compensation for his 
toil, grant him food and raiment and impartial justice and the bless- 
ings of religion, and he is no longer a slave. In these consists the 
essence of the degradation by which man is transformed into the brute 
and the machine; and all these evils continue, and will and must con- 
tinue, whilst the system is persevered in. 

But know, again, that all hope of deliverance of our injured brethren 
from the colonial assemblies and the West India slave-farmers and 
proprietors, is vain. It is not in the nature of a vicious system to cure 
itself. The very habits of arbitrary power incapacitate the task- 
masters from commiserating and rescuing his captive. This is to let 
the lion legislate for the lamb. There is no executory power, as 
Mr. Burke long since observed. The colonists have neither the will 
nor the instruments, for ameliorating the system. It works its direful 
effects by the immutable laws of God's judicial government. Founded 
in crime, sustained by the continued violation of the fundamental 
rules of justice, nothing can amend it. And least of all can those 
who are inflicting the injury, repair it. There is an infatuation which 
is the invariable result of arbitrary power of contempt of our brother, 
of cruelty, licentiousness and lust of gain, when long continued in and 
wrought into the habit, which spreads a contagion around the slave- 
property and the slave-owner, and, like the jaundiced eye, prevents 
any just view from being taken of the object immediately before it. 
We might as well expect the pope to make Spain protestant, as the 
West Indians to make the slaves happy and free. 

Know, further, that the crisis is now arrived in the circumstances 
of the question to which I have morp than once adverted. This » 
what generally happens in cases of great injustice. Some favourable 
moments present themselves. The crisis in the present instance is 
this. The resolutions of the Government of England, solemnly passed 
in the British Parliament in 1823, have been rejected by the colonial 
assemblies. Instead of being received and acted upon, as their chief 
friends in this country undertook they should, and declared they 
ought, they have been scorned and mocked at. An open contumacy 
has been manifested. In the mean time, their adherents in England 
have turned round upon the Government, and abetted this contumacy, 
and declared that the colonies had done every thing that was humane 
and practicable. Thus the great question is cast again upon 
the Government and Parliament of Great Britain — that is, upon 
the feelings and sentiments of the country at large, which that 
Government and Parliament represent. The evil remains unre- 
dressed — all pretence of expectation from the slave-master is void 
— it remains to be seen whether this Protestant and religious na- 



16 

tion will support their King and Parliament in delivering the op- 
pressed, or whether, obdurate and infatuated, they will " refuse to 
let them go." 

In order to the right and vigorous exertion of our moral influence 
at this conjuncture, the minister of religion comes forward. He 
awakens the voice of conscience. He dissipates the pleas of igno- 
rance. He calls on the nation to repent of their past negligence, 
and to return to God, by " undoing the heavy burden and letting the 
oppressed go free, and breaking every yoke." Or rather, he looks up 
to Almighty God to produce these salutary effects. He knows that 
the corruption and selfishness of man are too deeply seated to yield 
to any force of argument, unless aided by a divine power; and there- 
fore he appeals — 

'roms 

III. To THAT ALL-SEEING EYE OF GoD WHICH DETECTS AND 
OVERRULES OUR EXCUSES, AND WHICH SHOULD LEAD US INSTANTLY 
TO RISE UP TO THE DISCHARGE OF OUR PARAMOUNT DUTY TO- 
WARDS OUR FRIENDLESS AFRICAN BROTHER. 

For the sacred writer appeals to the Almighty in the closing words 
of the text — " Doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it ? and 
he that keepeth thy soul, doth he not know it? And shall not he 
render to every man according to his works?" What an affecting 
and penetrating address! What a contrast between the pleas and 
excuses of man and the unerring judgment of God ! Yes, nothing 
will move a great nation to an effective act of justice, after a lon£ 
guilty forbearance and delay, but the instant voice of religion. Ex- 
cuses must not be answered, but silenced. It is the heart, not the 
intellectual faculty which is in fault. Mark, then, my fellowcountry- 
men, the penetrating knowledge of the Judge who is here appealed to 
— the benefits he is constantly bestowing on us — the last dread tri- 
bunal to which he will summon us. 

1. You hesitate to " deliver those that are drawn unto death, and 
those that are ready to be slain ; you say, Behold, we knew it not ;" 
but recollect thf. penetrating knowledge of that all-seeing 
God who calls you to the duty. He knows all the secret windings of 
the heart — he " considers the ways of man" — he " pondereth all his 
goings" — " every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the 
Lord pondereth the heart." His all-seeing eye is brighter than ten 
thousand suns — it enters the soul — it searches out our motives — it 
pervades the darkest recesses of the conscience. 

And has not that all-seeing God commanded you to " love your 
neighbour as yourself?" Has he not commanded you "to do unto 
others as you would they should do unto you ?" Has he not said, 
" Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness and his 
chambers by wrong, that useth his neighbour's service without wages, 
and giveth him not for his work?" Has he not said, " Defend the 
poor and fatherless, do justice to the afflicted and needy ; deliver the 
needy and poor, rid them out of the hand of the oppressor ?" 

And what are your excuses of ignorance, and good intention, and 
future resolutions, in the face of these plain and unbending truths of 



17 

eternal righteousness? What are your delays and hesitations in a 
case of downright justice and mercy to a whole race of injured fellow- 
creatures? "Doth not he that pondereth thine heart, consider" the 
real selfishness, which is the spring of thy torpor; doth not he know 
the secret motives which govern thy indifference? Doth he not 
see through these vain pretensions, and record the guilt of those who 
allege them ? 

2. But this is not all. " He that pondereth thy heart," sustains thee 
also in life every moment, and preserves thee and blesses thee by 
night and by day. " He that keepeth thy soul, shall he not know 
it?" Remember his constant benefits. Consider God as "up- 
holding thine own soul in life;" as " preserving thy spirit by his con- 
stant visitation ;" as being thy " keeper and guardian ;" as " neither 
slumbering nor sleeping" in his care over thee. And wilt thou not, 
keep and guard others? Wilt thou say with Cain, " Am 1 my bro- 
ther's keeper?" — when thou hast first robbed him from his native land, 
and then imprisoned him in hopeless bondage, and then oppressed 
and degraded him by thy contempt and scorn, and then denied him 
the common rights of natural justice, and then delayed forty years 
and more to repair his wrongs, though the facts stare thee in the face, 
and thy brother's cries pierce the ears of eternal mercy ? Wilt thou 
not, at length, deliver him and let him go free, when God is keeping 
thee daily, when he can withdraw his protection at any moment from 
thy person, thy family, thy merchandize, thy concerns ; and infix in 
thy bosom those pangs of remorse which nothing can appease? And 
is not this all-seeing God, in his righteous providence, able to keep 
thee in body and soul, if thou returnest to thy duty, and performest 
the act of justice which thou hast so long delayed ? Shall not thy 
property, thy commerce, thy general prosperity, be better kept by the 
favour of the Almighty, than by the narrow, paltry views of a worldly 
selfishness? 

' 3. And look forward to the last solemn sentence of God's 
judgment-seat, when " he will render to every man according to 
his works." Yes, every cry of anguish, every groan and tear of the 
oppressed African, every sigh which bursts from his broken heart, all 
his degradation, his woe, his unrighteous oppression, are recorded 
•on high — together with thy hardness of heart, thy forbearing to de- 
liver him, thy vain excuses, thy withholding and " shutting up thy 
bowels of compassion" from him. 

Yes, that just and holy God will not always leave the disparities 
and inequalities of his moral government, unredressed. The time of 
retribution will come. He will " arise in his anger; he will lift up 
himself, because of the rage of his enemies ; he will awake to the 
judgment which he has commanded." 

Human laws cannot always detect these neglects, this indifference, 
this coldness of heart, these omissions; but divine can, and will. 
Human judges cannot pretend to dive into the heart and scrutinize the 
motives ; but the all-seeing Judge can, and will. Human tribunals 
cannot determine with certainty the exact means of information 
afforded to each individual, and the degree of guilt incurred; the 

B 



18 

divine tribunal can, and will. Human laws cannot insure the ob- 
servation of their precepts, nor discover all the miseries flowing from 
their violation ; divine can, and will. Human jurisprudence cannot 
always escape delusion, art, chicane ; cannot execute its own decrees ; 
cannot compel acts of restitution to be performed, when the culprits 
are numerous and powerful : divine jurisprudence can accomplish 
all these, and every other end of righteousness and truth. 

Even in this world a retributive justice is more frequently exercised 
than we are apt to believe, though it take a long and secret course. 
If we knew all the hidden effects of British colonial slavery during 
the sad and mournful period of its continuance, we should be able to 
trace the judicial inflictions of the Almighty — in the demoralized state 
of the white masters ; in the decay of prosperity and derangement of 
mercantile adventure ; in the blight on moral and domestic happiness ; 
in the bankrupt state of much of the property concerned ; in the in- 
fatuation which seems to reject all counsel, and blind men to their 
plainest duty. 

And national judgments are now stalking abroad to avenge the 
cause of the helpless, if we repent not. God glories in being "the 
Father of the fatherless," and the " Judge of the widow." Nor is it 
in vain that he hath said, " If thou oppress the fatherless, it shall come 
to pass, that when he crieth unto me, that I will hear; for I am 
gracious." 

But it is in the last final account that the most solemn import of my 
text will be fulfilled. And it is surely most remarkable that in our 
Lord's sublime description of that day, the condemnation of the wicked 
is mainly placed on their refusing that aid to the calamitous which 
they might have afforded. " For I was hungered," will the King say 
to them on his left hand, " and ye gave me no meat ; I was thirsty, 
and ye gave me no drink ; I was a stranger, and ye took me not in ; 
I was naked, and ye clothed me not; sick and in prison, and ye 
visited me not;" — that is, " Ye forbore to deliver them that were 
drawn unto death, and those that were ready to be slain." And when 
the wicked allege the excuse, " Lord, when saw we thee an hungered 
or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not 
minister unto thee;" — that is, " Behold, we knew it not;'' — the King 
is described as saying, " Forasmuch as ye did it not to one of the 
least of these, my brethren, ye did it not unto me;" that is, " Doth 
not he that pondereth the heart, consider it? And he that keepeth 
thy soul, doth not he know it? — and shall not he render to every man 
according to his works ?" 

Awake, then, my Christian brethren, to this great act of national 
and individual justice, each in his station, and according to his 
natural influence. We have delayed too long. Now, at length, let us 
" set in stoutly and thoroughly," as Bishop Sanderson expresses it, 
in behalf of our brother. A conjuncture has now arrived. The open 
rejection of all design of liberating their captives has been avowed 
by the colonial assemblies. The whole question is thus cast upon 
our national sense of justice, our national conscience, our national 



19 

fear of God. There is not a word to be said in defence of the system. 
The oppression of negro slavery is, in its origin, unjust; in its de- 
tails, debasing and cruel ; in its continuance, the most daring affront 
to the eternal majesty of Heaven, which, perhaps, was ever offered by 
an enlightened, humane, and religious people. The inconsistency is 
as glaring, as the crime itself is atrocious. It cannot bear the light. 
Let England once arouse herself, and understand the facts and bear- 
ings of the system, and she will suffer it to exist no longer. 

Forbear not, then, by apathy and indifference, from " delivering 
those that are drawn unto death." Forbear not, ye ministers of 

THE RELIGION OF THE TENDER AND COMPASSIONATE JESUS. Imi- 
tate the boldness of your Redeemer, who never spoke with so much 
energy as when exposing the excuses, and condemning the oppression 
of the Scribes and Pharisees. Imitate the holy prophets of old, who 
spared not the national iniquities, but publicly denounced every great 
instance of the violation of God's law, and most especially the cruel- 
ties of the powerful against the helpless. Say not, this is a political 
question : the times when it could be called such are passed. It is 
now a moral question, a religious question, a question of national 
feeling, and imperious national duty. 

The minister of Christ who is now silent, cannot be innocent; he 
becomes an accessory to all the misery he might possibly prevent. The 
magnitude of the evil, the length of time that it has endured, the 
overwhelming evidence which proves it, make it the duty of every one 
to use his utmost power, and strain every nerve, to arouse the general 
conscience. 

And if this voice of mine could be supposed capable of fixing the 
attention of the venerable bishops and pastors of the church, 
I would venture to say, that never would the national church appear 
more truly in character, than by its dignitaries rising in their 
own house of Parliament, and taking the lead in this measure. 
Never could the example of Porteus,and Barrington, and Horsley, and 
Burgess, be so well followed, as at a crisis like the present, when the 
Christian bishop should be heard protesting openly against the con- 
tinuance of a slavery which outrages religion, wounds and afflicts hu- 
manity, disgraces Christendom, and bars out the conversion and sal- 
vation of nearly a million of injured fellow-subjects. 

And if the preacher might be permitted to address the legisla- 
tors, AND MINISTERS OF STATE, AND NOBLES of his COUntry, he 

would venture to sound aloud in their ears, that " Righteousness exalt- 
eth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people." He would venture 
to assert that the blessing of God on our national councils can never 
be expected, if we longer forbear — now that the case is thrown upon 
us — to deliver our afflicted brother. Justice and honesty are the best 
policy. Nothing can be so wise, so prudent, so politic, as to obey 
God, and leave the consequences. And what will these consequences 
be, if we frankly follow the voice of duty ? Let the minister of religion 
be allowed to say, That never were the consequences of doing a great 
act of justice to be compared, in point of actual evil, to the conse- 
quences of persevering in the crime. Look the thing boldly in the 



20 

face, grapple with the enormous iniquity, resolve, without delay, to 
enter on the measures necessary for its abolition, and all will be com- 
paratively easy ; difficulties will vanish — God will help and bless. 

But if we hesitate, if we forbear, if we tamper with conscience, if 
we listen to tales of expediency, if we consult petty and subordinate 
interests— which can never be arranged before hand, but which fall 
afterwards into their place — if we shrink from the fair and main and 
commanding duty, other help may be raised up for the poor negro ; 
other means may be devised by the divine Judge of the world ; and 
we may read, when too late, our folly in our punishment. The act of 
abolition once resolved on by a noble effort of religious patriotism, the 
details will soon be adjusted — compensation soon adjusted — the time 
and manner of giving full effect to the general act of mercy adjusted. 
Awake, then, legislators, statesmen, religious princes and senators. 
Act upon your principles as Christians. Resolve to be just and 
righteous. Say to the African, Be free ! 

But I may hope, with yet more boldness, to address the religious 
and thoughtful class or my countrymen — unperverted by party 
feeling — the strength and stay of our government — the loyal and af- 
fectionate subjects of our beloved Monarch. It is upon you, at last, 
that the success of the question, under God's blessing, reposes. You 
are the voice of England. You speak by your petitions. You act by 
your representatives. Be united in a wise and temperate and loyal, 
but firm and resolute expression of your feelings on this enormous 
iniquity, and it will soon cease ; government will be enabled to carry 
the measure ; Parliament will know they have the nation with them. 
You have encouraged, by your silence, your indifference, your apathy, 
the mass of evil. You have been too tame, too lukewarm. Your ru- 
lers have copied your example.. Now forbear no longer. Now put 
away from you this great transgression. Now by air peaceful and 
loyal methods resolve to deliver your brother. Never was the crisis 
so important. You might have said at any former period, " Mea- 
sures are in train — hopes may be entertained — the colonial assemblies 
may possibly act — the government may be able to do all that is neces- 
sary." But you cannot say it now: if you forbear, all is hopeless — 
you rivet upon the slave his fetters, till Almighty justice burst them 
as with a thunder-storm, and involve you in the ruin. At this mo- 
ment all is easy. You may yet undo the evil. Say not you are not 
prepared with the details of a measure complete in all its parts. 
This is not your business. Government and Parliament can only do 
this. Your duty is plain. Express your feelings on the moral question ; 
say, African oppression shall cease; say, you will support your rulers, 
and stand by them as a nation, in accomplishing this. This is what 
is wanting. The selfishness, cowardice, dread of possible conse- 
quences, proneness to delay common to all human governments, will 
never be overruled, but by your manly a*nd determined representa- 
tions. 

Consider how much is now expected of you. Remember the ori- 
ginal HORRORS OF THE TRADE AND THE MIDDLE PASSAGE, the 

robbery and murder of a barbarous people, and the violation of all 



21 

equity and justice on which the present colonial system rests. I have, 
already adverted to this, but I urge it once more. It is only twenty - 
two or twenty-three short years since you ceased perpetrating these 
atrocities. You had no more right to commit them on Africa, than 
Africa would have had to commit them on you; or than some Irish 
had to commit them, as we are told they did in the twelfth century, 
on the inhabitants of Bristol. Nature shudders at colonial slavery, in 
its birth and growth and maturity. 

Consider, also, that you owe this act of reparation and justice as 
an example to Europe. England is the centre of this fearful arch 
of injustice and cruelty. She holds together, by her persevering in- 
ertness, the system which desolates Africa and blights our western he- 
misphere. It is in vain for her to talk of having made the slave traffic 
piracy ; of having attempted to ameliorate the condition of her slaves, 
France and Spain and Portugal know too well the facts. Let Eng- 
land, then, forbear no longer this paramount duty. Let her abolish 
slavery, and she may hope to conciliate all the European powers in an 
effective resolution to copy her righteous conduct. 

But, lastly, let us remember the high religious advantages 
which we enjoy in this favoured country, and let these bind upon 
us the motives which I have developed from the text. It is not merely 
the all-seeing eye of God — it is not merely the future judgment of the 
last day which I would appeal to, to dissipate your excuses and move 
you to this act of deliverance of the slave. It is rather on the mer- 
cies of the gospel that I would dwell — it is upon the religious light 
and privileges of Englishmen that I would rest my cause — it is upon 
the mercy of God in redemption, upon the gift of pardon, the pro- 
mises of; grace, the hopes of heaven, that I would repose. Our Pro- 
testant reformed creed, our churches, our ministers, our sacraments, 
our Bibles, our schools, our missions, our various schemes of benevo- 
lence, are all so many additional arguments for our not forbearing longer 
the act of mercy, which we have already forborn too long. The 
brighter the effulgence of grace and truth in our land, the deeper that 
gloom which hovers over our colonial islands. The more resplendent 
and glorious our religious and civil liberty, the more odious that in- 
consistency which reserves a dungeon for our injured brethren. Yes, 
it is in vain to attempt to drown the cries of anguish which arise from 
that dungeon, by shouts of applause at the success of missions, and 
voices of mutual congratulation at our religious activity. Let the 
oppressed first go free. Be just to your poor slaves, before you are 
generous to foreign captives. Convert your heathen brethren, before 
you boast of converting distant nations. Thus shall the " blessings 
of them that are ready to perish come upon you. " Thus shall your 
home and foreign objects of benevolence be doubly successful. Thus 
shall you recover your station as a Christian nation. Thus shall fu- 
ture ages say, England was at last true to her character — she arose at 
the cry of oppression — she broke off the chains of the captive — she 
ventured all consequences in doing her primary duty — she delivered 
them " that were drawn unto death, and those that were ready to be 



22 

slain," relying on the blessing of that God who "pondereth the heart, 
and who will render to every man according to his works." 

And do Thou be pleased, O God of mercy, to look upon us as a na- 
tion ! Do Thou move the heart of the people as the heart of one man ! 
Do Thou touch us with compunction ! Do Thou permit us to repair this 
mighty injustice, before Thou smitest us for our refusal to do so ! Do 
Thou permit and enable us to break the chains of bondage, ere Thou 
burst them in thine indignation ! Do Thou assist us to rise above all 
difficulties and to resist all temptations to delay, and to set a pattern 
of justice at length to that world, which we have been injuring by our 
example of selfishness and cruelty ! Do Thou enable us to make what 
compensation we can to the oppressed negro race, for the long wrongs 
we have done them ! 

Suffer us not to go on in our provocations of thy divine Majesty ! 
Give us not over, as thou justly mightest, to hardness of heart. Let 

US NOT REFUSE, LIKE PHARAOH OF OLD, TO LET THE PEOPLE GO, 

till thy vengeance is uplifted against us, till thou sendest confusion 
into our councils, a blight upon all our prosperity, war in our borders, 
ruin in our national concerns, despair and death in our land ! 

Let us yet, — O let us, by Thy mercy, be still the people of Thy pas 
ture ! Let truth and righteousness abound among us ! Let us set the 
captives free, and nobly trust to Thee in following the path of duty ! 
Let Thy gospel yet flourish among us ! Let our church enjoy thy be- 
nediction ! 

Let our nation be still the glory of the reformed countries, the herald 
of liberty and peace and social order and religion, to the neighbour- 
ing states; the messenger of grace to the Jew and the Gentile; the dis- 
penser of happiness and salvation to mankind ! And then to Thy 
name, thy mercy, thy long-suffering, thy power, thy grace, shall be the 
praise for ever and ever, through Jesus Christ our Lord. 



LONDON 

IBOTSON AND PALMER, PRINTERS, SAVOY STREET STRAND. 



