AN 

TO THE 

ABOLITIONISTS of MASSACHUSETTS, 

ON THE SUBJECT OF 

POLITICAL ACTION. 



Ey the Board of Managers of the Mass. A. S. Society'. 



To the Abolitionists of Massachv setts — 

The Board of Managers of the Massachusetts 
Anti-Slavery Society, desire to offer you a few- 
suggestions, on the course recommended to you 
by duty and a wise policy, in relation to the ex- 
ercise of your political privileges. 

The uncompromising character of the early 
adherents to our cause, compelled the respect of 
the conscientious and reflecting part of the com- 
munity. They stood firm, announcing the most 
thorough principles, not yielding one jot to the 
most plausible or popular prejudices. Men at 
first were startled by the boldness of their posi- 
tion, but they had at length the satisfaction of 
seeing public sentiment slowly turn in their fa- 
vor. The mighty re-action is felt, and we are 
now going forward with wind and tide. The 
grandeur of the principles developed, — the con- 
stancy with which they were maintained, 
through odium and danger, — the magnitude of 
the interests contended for, — these things ap- 



fCS", 65'7<¥.S3 ^0. t 



pealed to every man in the land, who had a 
spark of heroism or heavenly enthusiasm in his 
nature. Our cause has gathered into its ranks 
in the short space of seven years, its hundreds 
of thousands; and numbers, among its friends, 
the most fearless, and God-devoted spirits in the 
land. 

We mention these things, not as an idle boast, 
but that you may lay to heart the responsibili- 
ties, that grow out of your present posiiion. 
Your duty, as citizens of the State, more than 
ever demands your serious attention and thought. 
We pray you to consider what we shall say to 
you on this subject. 

There are those who disapprove of every form 
of political action, on the part of abolitionists. 
They contend that our cause should be present- 
ed exclusively under its religious and philan- 
thropic aspect; that it will be degraded and en- 
feebled at the North, by connecting it with po- 
litics, — while, at the South, our political efforts 
will rouse a more united and determined resist- 
ance to our objects. 

We cannot yield to this reasoning. It pro- 
ceeds, we think, upon a narrow view of the sub- 
ject. Politics, rightly considered, is a branch of 
morals, and cannot be deserted innocently. Our 
moral convictions must follow us to the ballot- 
box. They are not less imperative on us as cit- 
izens, than as members of the church, or fathers 
of families. In each, we have nothing to do, 
hut to carry out our highest idea, simply and 
fearlessly. If the public mind is misled or vi- 
tiated on the subject of politics, — if politics has 
come to be considered as a game played by the 
desperate and unprincipled for power or emolu- 
ment, it must not therefore be abandoned to 
them. The worldly and corrupt would like no- 
thing better, than that the good should retire, in 



fear or disgust, from this wide sphere of action. 
It seems to be oar mission to substitute, in the 
minds of men, a new set of associations with the 
subject of politics. We believe that the tenden- 
cy of the abolition efforts has, visibly, been to 
infuse more comprehensive principles into polit- 
ical bodies, and suggest to them purer moiives 
of action, than have prevailed heretofore. Look 
at the dignified tone of the Reports and Resolves 
on Slavery and the Right of Petition, in several 
of the State Legislatures. Mark the high reli- 
gious and moral stand assumed by Adams, Slade, 
Morris and others, in Congress. It is worth 
noting that the abolitionists form the only great 
party, in our age, who, aiming at a wide so- 
cial reform, and operating on and through social 
institutions, yet rest their efforts and their hopes 
professedly on religious ground; — on faith in 
God, and faith in the God-like in man. That 
slavery is a sin against God, has been our ral- 
lying-cry from the beginning; heard not merely 
from the pulpit, but in the courts of justice, the 
popular assembly, and the halls of goverriment. 
Our strength lies, and we well know it, in the 
religious sentimentof men, recognizing a Chris- 
tian'' brother in the crushed slave, and at once 
stimulating, emboldening and sanctifying the ef- 
forts for his deliverance. 

To think of purposely keeping such a ques- 
tion—a question of essentially moral and reli- 
gious character, but having important public 
bearings,— out of politics, is like the view some 
persons have, that religion belongs to the tem- 
ple and the Sabbath, but is out of place in week- 
day life. Religion runs the risk of being sadly 
profaned, adulterated, caricatured, counterfeited, 
in encountering or mixing with the common bu- 
siness or amusements of men ; but we never- 
theless press it in among them. This is, after 



all, but a question of time. The subject of sla- 
very must, obviously, sooner or later, enter deep- 
ly, into general politics. Slavery is itself the 
creature of law, that is of political action. It can 
only be finally destroyed, by the same power 
that gave it being. 

We, however, value political action, chiefly as 
a means of agitating the subject. The great 
support of slavery, — without which it could not 
stand in the United States, two years, — is a cor- 
rupt public sentiment, among those who are not 
slaveholders. The current doctrine of the North 
is, that slavery is, indeed, an evil, and if south- 
ern society were to be reconstructed, slavery 
should, by no means, be introduced as an ele- 
ment ; but that in present circumstances, and 
with a view to probable consequences, it cannot 
reasonably be expected of slaveholders to give 
up their slaves. Tiiis is what we suppose to be 
meant, by people's being opposed to slavery ' in 
the abstract.' 

Now, our first object is to replace these views, 
by an earnest conviction, embracing the heart 
and understanding of every man, woman and 
child we can reach, that duty and interest do 
now require of every slaveholder, the immedi- 
ate emancipation of his slaves. We would 
make the public bentiment of the North a tonic, 
instead of an opiate to southern conscience ; we 

would unite and concentrate it, until it shall tell, 
in a manner perfectly irresistible.upon the sense 
of right, the pride of social standing and char- 
acter, even upon the interest of the slaveholder; 
until it shall help to make real to his mind, and 
he shall feel, in the air around him, the guilt, 

he danger, the deep disgrace, the ruinous im- 
policy of the relaiion he sustains. We believe 

this course to be enjoined by Christianity, free 
from all constitutional objections, and consecra- 



•ted by the example of our elder abolitionists, 
Franklin, Jay, Rush, and other revered foun- 
ders of the Republic. Such have, indeed, ever 
been the appointed means for the removal of 
great social abuses. These means will not lack 
their accustomed power, in a country whose in- 
stitutions are so emphatically the exponents of 
the popular will. 

Another objection originating in a less friend- 
ly spirit, but resting on political grounds, is 
gravely put forth. We are told that^our feeling 
for our fellow man, (at least if he be colored,) 
must be defined by geographical lines ; that we 
have no right to plead for an oppressed brother 
if he stands outside of our own political enclo- 
sure. To this is added the certainly novel the- 
ory, that it is the nature of sin to reform itself, 
and that the oppression of the slaveholder would 
soon c€ase, if we would only withdraw all open 
sympathy from the injured, to bestow it on the 
oppressor. Hovv^ever absurd and revolting these 
sophisms may appear to you, they are reiterat- 
ed witk great confidence and frequency. To 
state them distinctly seems all that is necessa- 
ry to expose them to the contempt they merit. 

All v/e need for the overthrow of slavery is to 
gain the ear of the people. This is done by agi- 
tation ; and never is agitation so thorough and 
effectual, as when it begins in the halls of leg- 
islation. We laugh to scorn the pomp and cir- 
cumstance with which Mr. Calhoun, or Mr. 
Clay, or some other great slaveholding states- 
man, annually proclaims a final victory over 
fanaticism. Do they not see that our very de- 
feats are triumphs to us? Have they yet to 
learn that revolutions never roll backwards? 
That our opposers are but erecting paper-ram- 
parts, against the surges of an insv/elling Allan- 
tic ? That their resolutions are but words ? 



6 

That a breath unmalres them, as a breath has 
made ? They are only doing our work. The 
country has learned more of the dangerous ten- 
dencies of slavery, and of the desperate charac- 
ter and designs of its supporters, by the discus- 
sions in Congress, than we could have instilled 
directly for years. Again, in the mere process 
of signing a petition, — the simplest form of po- 
litical action, — strength and clearness are added 
to the convictions of thousands. So much force 
and definiteness do our principles and feelings 
acquire, by expression ; so much moral vigor 
does a man gain, by openly taking his side. 

We cannot be justified in abandoning any 
wide field of action, be it moral, social, religious 
or political. There can be no vantage ground 
for the wrong side. The slavery question can- 
not, and ought not, we think, to be kept wholly 
disjoined from politics. It should not be made 
a mere political question, but the religious and 
moral sense of the people must speak out, on 
the subject, with precision arid authority, to their 
political representatives. 

Unquestionably that voice is to go forth, com- 
manding the use of all moral, lawful and con- 
stitutional means to overthrow slavery. We 
believe the question of abolition is one, perhaps 
the only one, on which the North can be brought 
to unite. Our cause is, we think, destined to 
increase so rapidly, as to threaten political ex- 
tinction to every public man here, who arrays 
himself against it. Instructions will go forth 
from the constituent bodies, that will command 
the obedience ofnorthern representatives in Con- 
gress. When this is done, slavery m.ust cease 
in the metropolis of the nation, and slavery in 
the States cannot long survive. Wedonbt not, 
before five years are gone, it will be the South, 
instead of the North, that will be disunited and 



vacillating. It does not belong to the character 
of their cause, or of the age and country we 
live in, that the South can long keep their ranks 
unbroken. Even now, there is no real unity of 
interest or opinion, between the farming and 
planting slave States. 

Political action doubtless brings temptations 
and hazards ; but so does any successful action. 
Success is itself dangerous. What then ? shall 
we not aim at success ? Shall a man seclude 
himself from the world, lest the world prove too 
strong for his virtue? As practical men we 
cannot proceed on these scruples. We cannot 
consent to forego the power to do good, from the 
apprehension that its possession may tempt us 
to use it for evil. 

Is it then our purpose to recommend to abo- 
litionists the formation of a distinct political par- 
ty? So far from this, we think such a policy 
would be in the highest degree dangerous, if 
not fatal to the efficiency of our organization. — 
Our most intelligent friends, throughout the 
country, deprecate our assuming the character 
of a third political party. Such a course would 
be opposed to the well settled policy and wise 
example of the English abolitionists, who have 
always kept the political aspect of their cause 
subordinate to the religious. Eemember that 
abolition was carried in England, mainly as a 
religious question. 

If we were a political party, the struggle for 
places of power and emolument would render 
our motives suspected, even if it did not prove 
too strong a temptation to our integrity. 

Make our cause m.ainly political, and it would 
be at once excluded from nearly every pulpit in 
the land. 

If we were a distinct party, every mem- 
ber of it must vote for its candidates, however 



8 



he might disagree with them on other important 
points of public policy. This would involve two 
great evils. The sacrifice thus demanded, be- 
ing greater than we can reasonably expect most 
men to make, accessions to our party would be 
greatly retarded ; — and, what is a more serious 
difficulty, divisions would inevitably arise a- 
mong ourselves, growing out of the struggles of 
different sections of our own party, to secure the 
nomination of candidates of their peculiar senti- 
ments. Whig abolitionists would ask for a 
whig candidate: the democrats of our party 
would insist on our nominating a democrat. 

Experience seems to show, that under a free 
government, there cannot be at one time, more 
than tw^o powerful political parties. The parties 
that now divide the country are active, zealous 
and strong. Years must elapse, if we should 
organize politically, before we could be any 
thing but an uninfluential minority. 

Our position, as a small minority party in pol- 
itics would be hazardous and perplexing. 
There is danger that low considerations of 
expediency would intrude upon our sense of 
eternal right. 

Political adventurers, loud in their profes- 
sions, unscrupulous in their means, would at- 
tach themselves to us. Disappointed men, who 
have been disowned by other parties, would 
come among us to use us as tools for their per- 
sonal advancement, to disgrace us by their in- 
consistency, to lower our hitherto high stand- 
ard of principle, and perhaps sacrifice us in the 
day of trial. 

Belonging, as we now do, to the various po- 
litical parties, wecan readily work our principles 
in, among them. Our present political ties and 
sympathies give us a strong hold over our po- 
# litical associates. We should lose all this mode 



9 

of influence, by withdrawing from them. Our 
withdrawal would be held equivalent to a dec- 
laration of war. 

A new political organization would have, of 
course, the combined hostility of the old parties. 
It is now the interest of each to conciliate us, 
for the sake of our votes. Were those votes 
pledged lo our own candidates, the other parties 
would have a common interest in crushing us. 

To form a political party, on anti-slavery 
grounds, would involve a needless abandon- 
ment of our other political preferences, and 
therefore would imply, not merely that abo- 
lition is ihejirst, but that it is the only public 
object, in which abolitionists feel interested. 
This is not true, and to produce such a state of 
feeling is as undesirable, as it would be imprac- 
ticable 

To conclude this part of the subject, our true 
policy is not to turn party politicians, but in 
politics as elsewhere to stand firm by our prin- 
ciples, and let the politicians come to us. 

Of each of the three forms of political action, 
petitioning, the interrogating of candidates for 
office, and suffi-age, we have a few words to ad- 
dress to you. 

We pray you not to weary in the work of pe- 
titioning the national and state legislatures. It 
is the anti-slavery petitions, mainly, that have 
unlocked the lips of our legislatures, on the sub- 
ject of abolition, and slowly compelled the nevvs- 
paper-press to recognize, and unwillingly to aid, 
our movements. The agitation, caused by the 
rejection of our petitions, has spread into every 
village. This simple mode of action marks our 
growing strength; indicates, definitely the peo- 
ple's will; enlightens our adversaries with the 
knowledge of our numbers ; and is felt, by our 



10 



representatives, as a great support in the dis- 
charge of their duty. Depend upon it, the 
time has cotne when the members of Congress, 
from this State, feel relieved, under their great 
responsibility, b}^ their constituents holding a 
decided — aye, even a peremptory tone, on the 
subject of slavery. 

We hope women will pour in their petitions 
to Congress, at its next session, in redoubled, 
numbers. Let them thank God, and take new 
courage, for they have done great good. We 
feel deeply the value of the earnest labours of 
women, in our cause. All admit slavery is to 
be overthrown by a reformed public opinion; 
but public opinion is not composed of the opi.iion 
of either sex exclusively. In every christiaa 
and civih"zed community, self-devoted, i.itel- 
ligent women are among the most impoi'tant 
sources of moral and religious influence. Grie- 
vously do they err, who deem lightly of the 
fact, that in the moral strife between frc( dom 
and slavery,- the women of the North are with 
the abolitionists. 

Your representatives in the next State Leg- 
islature, and for the Congress of 1839, are la be 
chosen the coming autumn. They should be sea- 
sonably interrogated, as to their opinions on the 
the most important matters connected with our 
cause, on which they may probably be called to 
act. After some consideration, the Board have 
concluded to recommend, that the interrogatories 
to candidates be limited, for the present year, 
to the two following subjects : — The immediate 
abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia ; 
and the admission of new States into the union, 
whose Constitutions tolerate slavery. 

Our Legislature, at its last session, resolved 
* that Congress ought to take measures for the 
abolition of slavery, in the District.' This 



11 



vague language can satisfy no one. When 
ought Congress to take these ' measures ' ? — 
what are the ' measures ' that Congress ought to 
take ? and how long a time are these ' mea- 
sures ' to occupy, before the slave is to be free ? 
Eeraember, that the Senate and the House 
both refused to assert that Congress ought to 
immediately abolish slavery in the District, 
though this proposition was moved as an amend- 
ment. The resolution of the Legislature, as 
passed, would be accorded to, even by some 
slaveholders. It may mean nj prenticeship, — 
it may import colonization. 1 His State owes 
it to herself to speak out distil. ctly, that none 
may misunderstand or gainsay. She will be 
shorn of a portion of her moral power, till this 
is done. 

The application of Florida, to be admitted 
as a slaveholding member of the Union is to be 
acted on, at no distant day — probably at the next 
session of Congress. You ought, therefore, to 
see to it that remonstrances against its admis- 
sion as a slaveholding State, are presented early 
in the session. Our northern statesmen should 
be seasonably taught, that they must not in fu- 
ture misrepresent and betray the rights and 
principles of New England, as was done in the 
recent admission of Arkansas, 

We request the officers of County Societies, 
within their respective limits, to see that the 
candidates for Congress and for the State Sen- 
ate and House of Representatives are duly in- 
terrogated and their answers published in the 
local newspapers. 

The questions should, of course, be in writing; 
and it seems better that they should be written 
and signed, not by 'the officers of societies 
as suck, but, as far as practicable, by individual 
electors, political friends of the candidate inter- 

n 



12 

rogated. It is not advisable to ask any pledge 
from the candidate, but simply to inquire his 
present opinions. The questions to the State 
candidate may be, substantially, thus : 

'Are you in favor of the passage of a resolution, 
by the State Legislature, declaring that Con- 
gress ought immediately to abolish slavery, in 
the District of Columbia ? 

' Are you in favor of the passage of a resolu- 
tion, declaring that no new State ought to be 
admitted into the Union, whose Constitution 
tolerates slavery ? ' 

The questions to candidates for Congress 
should run thus : 

' Are you in favor of the passage of an act of 
Congress for the immediate abolition of slavery, 
in the District of Columbia ? 

' Are you opposed to the admission of any 
new State into the Union, whose Constitution 
tolerates slavery? ' 

A large school in politics, both in Great 
Britain and America, deny the right of instruc- 
tion ; principally on the ground, that if carried 
out, it would destroy the deliberative charac- 
ter of the representative body, and convert it 
into a mere instrument to register the edicts of 
the people. The practice, of exacting pledges 
from candidates, maybe considered liable to 
similar objections. It is, however, sufficient to 
advert to the fact, that the presidential electors 
of all parties are uniformly chosen under an ex- 
press pledge to vote for particular condidates, in 
order to shew, that no party has, in practice, 
scrupled to pledge its candidates. But in order 
to avoid any doubt or cavil on this point, we 
think it best to confine your inquiries, as we 
have already intimated, to the mere opinion for 
the time being, of the candidate. This you 



13 

have a right to know ; as without such know- 
ledge ii may often happen, that you cnnnot ex- 
ercise intelligently your right of suffrage. It 
may be said, that a simple expression of opinion 
would, under the circumstances, be equivalent to 
a pledge. We deny that such is the fact, or that 
the thing is so understood. A pledge binds in all 
events. A previous expression of present opin- 
ion is not incompatible with keeping the mind 
still open to conviction, on listening to the op- 
posing arguments. It is true, that a represent- 
ative who should vote contrary to his previous 
professions, would find it necessary, before the 
next election, to satisfy his constituents that he 
came honestly by his new opinions; but this is 
certainly a very wholesome obligation, and one 
from which no honest man would desire ex- 
emption. 

If it be objected, that these interrogatories 
may tempt candidates to belie their consciences 
for the sake of gaining votes, we reply, that to 
men of this easy virtue the whole action of so- 
ciety is full of temptation, but it cannot be sus- 
pended for their sakes. If the further objection 
be urged, that there is an indecorum in submit- 
ting to be thus questioned on the eve of an elec- 
tion, it is enough to reply, first, that as candi- 
dates are not usually nominated until the eve of 
an election, inquiries can be made at no other 
time; and, secondly, that inquiries of this na- 
ture, as they clearly imply confidence and not 
distrust, must be regarded rather as complimen- 
tary, than as derogatory to the candidate. We 
address him as an honest, straight-forward citi- 
zen, and no man of genuine dignity of charac- 
ter will feel himself degraded, either in public 
or private life, by giving a plain answer to a 
plain question, where the inquirer has a right 
to the information asked. As to the fear of in- 



14 



decorum, like most overstrained modesty, it will 
be usually found symptomatic of conscious cor- 
ruption within. Suppose you were about to en- 
gage a commander for your ship, a superintend- 
ent of your farm, an agent for your factory, and 
were to inquire his views as to the principles or 
details of the employment he was to "undertake. 
Would you endure his insolence if he were to 
reply, ' I consider it undignified and improper to 
satisfy you on these points. You are at liberty 
to gain what information you can of my history 
and reputation, and then^a to infer what are my 
views on the matter in question V You would 
think, and probably but too justly, that he meant 
to cheat you. Will you bear such language 
from your political servants ? No public man 
in this country is strong enough to sustain him- 
self long, in this mode of defying the popular 
will. No party can do it. The right of the elect- 
ors, to call for a frank disclosure of the opinions 
of candidates, on all subjects which may come 
within the scope of their official duties, has been 
expressly admitted by Martin Van Buren, Hen- 
ry Clay, William H. Harrison, William Wirt, 
Edward Everett, and Marcus Morton, and by a 
host of other eminent statesmen. It is too late 
to question its validity. No man of plain integ- 
rity would shrink from the ordeal. The prac- 
tice is eminently republican and useful. It is 
calculated to promote political honesty and open 
dealing, and to put an end to that double-faced 
and non-committal policy, by which politicians, 
of inferior abilities and low arts, sometimes crawl 
into power. 

Your duties as voters are mainly negative. 
Vote for no man, however estimable from general 
character and acquirements, loho is not prepared 
to give a prompt, explicit, and satisfactory an- 
swer on the topics tve have mentioned. Be uncom- 



15 

promising on points of principle. Have no respect 
'0 persons. It is the secret of your strenoth,hither- 
to. Shew by your firmness, whether your heart is 
in vour cause. Letnot the fervor of political zeal, 
or the warmth of personal attachment, lead you to 
forfeit your character for resolution and consist- 
ency. Whoso loves father, or brother, or friend 
better than the truth, is not worthy of it. _ 

We pray you to take no part, as abolitionists ^ 
in the nomination of candidates. Do not even 
vote, hy concert, for candidates already in nomi- 
nation. Let the act of voting be an individual 
act, but performed, by each voter, under a deep 
sense of responsibility. We are aware, that in 
many towns and districts, where you have con- 
siderable numerical strength, aud where the an- 
swers of the regular political candidates may not 
be satisfactory, the temptation will be strong, to 
unite your forces upon a candidate of your own. 
We entreat you not to do this. Your example 
will be a dangerous one. On the other hand, 
do not stay away from the polls. Go, rather ; 
and scatter your votes. This is the true way to 
make yourselves felt. Every scattering vote 
you cast, counts against the candidates of the 
parties ; and will serve as an effectual admoni- 
tion to them, to nominate the next time, men 
whom you can conscientiously support. 

The candidates presented to your choice will, 
of course, be nominated either by the whigs or 
democrats. The most prominent individual of 
the whig party, and probably their next candi- 
date for the presidency, is a slave-holder, presi- 
dent of that stupendous imposture, the Coloniza- 
tion Society, author of the fatal Missouri 'com- 
promise,' and of the slavish resolutions against 
the abolitionists, lately passed by ilie Senate of 
the United States. On the other hand, ihe lead- 
er of the democratic party, ' the northern presi- 



16 



dent with southern principles,' has deeply insult- 
ed this nation, by avowing his determination to 
veto any bill for the abolition of slavery in the 
District of Columbia, which may be passed by a 
majority of the people, in opposition to the wish- 
es of the slave States. 

No consistent abolitionist can vote for either 
of these individuals. It does not however fol- 
low, that he cannot vote for candidates for State 
offices or for Congress, who may be their friends 
and supporters. If the candidate before you be 
honest, capable, and true to your principles, we 
think you may fairly vote for him, without con- 
sidering too curioasly, whether his success might 
not have an indirect bearing on the interests of 
Mr. Clay or Mr. Van Buren. It is a golden 
maxim, ' Do the duty that lies nearest thee.' 
Vote for each man by himself, and on his own 
merits. If you attempt to make your rule more 
pomplicated, so as to include distant contingen- 
cies and consequences, it will be found perplex- 
ing and impracticable. 

The independent course in politics, which we 
have recommended, supposes great prudence, 
disinterestedness, energy of purpose, and self- 
control, in those who are to adopt it. May you 
justify our confidence in you. Do your duty. 
'Come out, in your strength, to the polls. Refuse 
to support any public man who trims, or equivo- 
cates, or conceals his opinions. Beware of half 
way abolitionists ; and of men, who are aboli- 
tionists but once a year. Prove that you do not 
require the machinery of party discipline, to vote 
strictly according to your professed principles. 
Do this, and you will rapidly acquire a deserv- 
ed influence. ' Such a party,' as Mr. Webster 
justly said, in speaking oftke abolitionists, 'will 
assuredly cause itself to be respected.' Within 
the next two years, the friends of freedom might 



17 



iiold the balance of power, in every free State m 
the Union ; and no man could ascend the pres- 
idential seat, against their will. 

Our cause demands of us entire disinterested- 
ness. We are not to desire power, for power's 
sake. Our prayers, and toil, and tears are not 
our own, but the slave's. We need circumspec- 
tion. The attacks, that were formerly made on 
our principles and measures, are now turned 
upon our motives and personal characters. The 
corrupt and bitter portion of the newspaper press 
are beginning to discover, that the facts and argu- 
ments, in favor of our great doctrine of immedi- 
ate emancipation, are irresistible, and are carry- 
ing conviction to almost every well informed 
and reflecting mind ; and they are now trying 
to distort our motives, and blacken our reputa- 
tions. This is making a false issue, but let it 
not too much disturb us. The true question for 
the public evidently is, Do we speak the truth ? 
The inquiry, whether we are actuated by a right 
spirit, is, in reality, of very little comparative 
importance. The principle is all; the men 
nothing. Let God be true, and every man a 
liar. 

Beware of forming alliances with any party. 
Enter into no stipulations in advance, for the 
disposition of a single vote. The party, or the 
press, or the poliiician that courts you most 
warmly to-day, will perhaps shew most malig- 
nance and treachery toward you, to-morrow. 
We have reason to be grateful to Heaven, that, 
thus far, we have so little to thank either of the 
great parties for. The leading presses on both 
sides, have done their best to outrage and insult 
us. There has been an eager competition be- 
tween them, to purchase southern votes, by sac- 
rificing the rights, and aspersing the character 
of the abolitionsts. Even now, though it is 
2 



13 



seen by all persons of common sagacity, and Is 
even generally admitted in private conversation, 
that our ultimate success is certain, the same 
treatment is, to a considerable extent continued. 
The class of trading politicians take no far-sight- 
ed views even for themselves, still less for their 
party, — least of all, for iheir country. They 
cannot wait for the slow returns of an hon- 
est and liberal policy. Their object is to 
meet the exigency of the moment, to carry 
the present point; like prodigals lavishing the 
resources of the future upon the passing hour; 
like gamblers trusting to chance or trick, to ex- 
tricate them from the embarrassments they are 
aware must, by and bye, come. 

This competition for southern votes, has saved 
us from the too dangerous friendship of either 
of the political parties. The President of the 
United States, had, (in his first message to 
Congress,) avowed himself the suppliant tool of 
the southern slaveholders, when the Whig 
merchants of New-York, determined not to be 
outbid, took occasion, in their address to the na- 
tion, to assure their southern brethren, that they 
were men, who ' thought the possession of prop- 
erty [not its honest acquisitioii\ was evidence of 
merit ! ' and that persons of such sentiments, 
would be the last to disturb ' the peculiar prop- 
erty ' of the south. 

By counteracting forces like these, have we 
been providentially preserved from being ab- 
sorbed by either of the political parties. With 
the fundamental principles of those parties, 
when properly understood, abolitionism has 
strong aflinities. The idea of the whig party 
in this country is order, the supremacy of law, 
the sacredness of the person, the inviolability of 
property. Who has a stronger interest in these 
things than we? Who have suffered more 



19 



than we, from anarchy and misrule ? Who 
have pleaded more earnestly, for the right 
of every man to that which he produces by his 
own labor; — a right which is at the foundation 
of all property ? — On the other hand, the great 
Democratic idea is Liberty, Reform, Progress, 
Equal Rights ; — and are not these our very 
breath of life? 

We are far from asserting, that these noble 
principles are actually embodied, in the leaders 
of either of our political parties. So far from 
this, the principles are in danger of being them- 
selves brought into disgrace, by the selfish and 
inconsistent men, who pretend to represent 
them. Still, while these principles are, how- 
ever imperfectly, represented in the struggle of 
the adverse parties, it is natural and right, that 
individual abolitionists should range themselves, 
in these struggles, according as their political 
theories may incline them to take one or the 
other set of views. This must, however, be 
done in strict subordination to the interests of 
that hallowed cause, to which we have pledged 
our character and influence. Be assured, that 
not one man, in the very first ranks of the polit 
ical parties, has any sincere attachment to your 
principles. Therefore, as you have little to 
hope for the abolition cause, from the sincere 
good will of the parties, as such, do not be driv- 
en to act with the one, or renounce the oth- 
er, merely because, for some temporary pur- 
pose, the one side or the other happens, to-day, 
to treat you with unaccustomed consideration, 
or to heap upon you peculiar outrage and abuse. 
Circumstances may, for a while, induce the 
presses, of one or the other party, to conciliate 
you; but, depend upon it, there is, at bottom, 
but very little to choose between them. There 
is certainly no reason, thus far, why you shoald 



'20 



5S a body, ally yourselves exclusively with 
either, but many and urgent reasons against it; 

There is much, in the aspect of the times, to 
cheer us, in our political efforts. The danger 
of the admission of Texas is, probably, past. 
Thanl'is to the abolitionists, the free States have 
been ioused. to the disgrace and ruin of becom- 
ing a partner, in the crimes of that bloody and 
slave-trading Republic. Slavery in the United 
States, and slavery in Texas, will not be suffer- 
ed to double their strength, by union. The 
gag resolution in Congress, has received its 
death blow,from the intrepid, illustrious and 
venerable Adams. The subject of slavery will 
henceforth be an open one, in that body. 
Y/ithin three years, we shall probably have a 
favorable report on slavery in the District, and 
in less than five, we have little doubt of wit- 
nessing its peaceful abolition. 

Slavery once abolished in the District, what 
a vast accession of moral power is gained, both 
in the process, and from the result ! Friends 
animated, — oppressors disheartened, — all con- 
sciences awakened ! It is a gain to the cause 
of virtue every where. The spiritual atmos- 
phere is purified. Each man draws freer 
breath into his soul. The Lord is seen indeed 
to reign. The testimony of the nation is thence- 
forth added to the general reprobation of slave- 
Ty, and will help to shame it out of existence. 
Another illustrious proof is given, of the possi" 
tility of the highest public virtue. 

Instead of caUing on you to descend froni 
these heights, from a fear that the elevation 
may make you giddy, we say to you, your on- 
ly danger is in looking down. Keep your 
aims ever upwards, and there is no fear that 
your footing will not be firm. 

FRANCIS JACKSON, President. 

Amos A. Phelps, Secretary^ 



