PROPERTY 



OFTHE >^5'\\Jf,$ 










***«l^ 



THREE MONTHS IN JAMAICA, 



IN 1832: 



COMPRISING 



A RESIDENCE OF SEVEN WEEKS ON A 
SUGAR PLANTATION. 



By henry WHITELEY. 



LONDON : 
PUBLISHED BY J. HATCHARD AND SON, 187, PICCADILLY. 

1833. 



LONDON : 
PRINTED BY SAMUEL BAGSTER, JUN. 

14, Bartholomew Close. 






THREE MONTHS IN JAMAICA. 



The reasons that have induced me, after mature reflection, to lay 
before the public the following account of what I witnessed in Jamaica, 
during my late visit, are briefly these. 1st. I feel it due to my own 
character, unimportant as is my station in society, to detail, for the 
information of many friends who have kindly interested themselves in 
my welfare, the circumstances that led to my return home so unex- 
pectedly, and after so short a residence. 2ndly. I feel it due to my 
fellow-men — to my countrymen in England, and to their fellow-sub- 
jects in Jamaica — to state, without reserve and without exaggeration, 
the facts which there fell under my observation. Lastly, I feel it to 
be a religious duty — a duty to God as well as to man (since Provi- 
dence, by means so unforeseen, and at so eventful a juncture, has 
placed me in circumstances that render my humble testimony of some 
immediate value), to give my plain and deliberate testimony respect- 
ing the character of the system which I found in operation in that 
colony. In performing this task, I am aware that I shall inevitably 
give some oiFence, and awaken some hostility ; but, constrained as I 
am by considerations which I dare not disregard, and avoiding, as I 
shall carefully do, all disclosures but such as are requisite to authen- 
ticate the facts and develope the system, I will not flinch from what- 
ever responsibility the performance of my duty involves, however pain- 
ful in some instances it may be to others as well as to myself. 



I arrived in Jamaica on the 3rd of September, 1832. I was sent 
out by a respectable West India house in London, under the patronage 
of a relative of mine, who is a partner in that house ; being furnished 
with a recommendation to their acting attorney in the island, with a 
view to be employed either in a store, or as a book-keeper upon a 
plantation. 



Previously to my arrival in Jamaica, I had no clear conception of 
the nature of Colonial Slavery ; and my anticipations in regard to the 
treatment and condition of the slaves were favourable rather than 
otherwise. It so happened, that, excepting what I had seen in news- 
papers, I had never read a single publication against Colonial 
Slavery, and had never either attended a public meeting, or heard a 
lecture delivered on the subject. I was, in fact, one of those indi- 
viduals who believe that there is more real slavery in England than 
in any of her colonies. Many a time I had blamed such gentlemen 
as Mr. Buxton, Dr. Lushington, and others, for making so much ado 
in Parliament about Colonial Slavery, and neglecting (as I conceived) 
the slavery of the poor factory children at home, with whose condition 
I was well acquainted, having been all my life resident in a manufac- 
turing district, and concerned, with some of my relatives, in the 
blanket business, at Heckmondwike, near Leeds. What tended to 
confirm me much in these views was the perusal of the last Order in 
Council for the Amelioration of Slavery, which I understood to have 
been sent out for adoption in all our slave colonies. A copy of this 
document had been sent by a member of parliament to the Central 
Committee at Leeds on tlie Factory System, of which I was a member, 
in order to enable us to judge whether the condition of the West 
India slaves or that of the factory children was preferable ; and the 
conclusion which I came to upon its perusal, and under the persua- 
sion that it had been generally adopted, was this — that, all things 
considered, the condition of the negro slave was much preferable 
to that of the factory child. And with these impressions I landed 
at St. Ann's Bay, in Jamaica. 

The day that I landed I was informed, by a clerk of the manager's, 
that a horse would be sent down from New Ground estate for me next 
morning ; and that I would have to remain on that estate till I heard 
from the manager, or attorney of the proprietors, who was then at his 
own property, about sixteen miles from the Bay. 

The same day I dined at St. Ann's Bay, on board the vessel I 
arrived in, in company with several colonists, among whom was 
Mr. Hamilton Brown, representative for the parish of St. Ann, 
in the Colonial Assembly. Some reference having been made 
to the new Order in Council, I was rather startled to hear that 
gentleman swear by his Maker that that Order should never be adopted 



in Jamaica ; nor would the planters of Jamaica, he said, permit the 
interference of the Home Government with their slaves in any shape. 
A great deal was said by him and others present about the happiness 
and comfort enjoyed by the slaves, and of the many advantages pos- 
sessed by them of which the poor in England were destitute. Among 
other circumstances mentioned in proof of this, Mr. Robinson, a 
wharfinger, ' stated that a slave in that town had sent out printed 
cards to invite a party of his negro acquaintance to a supper party. 

One of these cards was handed to Mr. Hamilton Brown, who said he 
would present it to the Governor, as a proof of the comfortable condi- 
tion of the slave population. This, and other circumstances then 
mentioned, tended to conform the notions I had brought from Eng- 
land respecting slavery in Jamaica ; and, although I was somewhat 
shocked and staggered by seeing the same day the Methodist chapel 
at St. Ann's Bay lying in ruins, as it had been destroyed by the 
whites six months before, and by learning that the Missionaries were 
no longer permitted to preach in that parish, I nevertheless left the 
place next morning with my favourable impressions respecting the 
condition of the slaves not materially abated. These impressions, 
however, I was not permitted long to indulge. 

I proceeded on horseback to New Ground estate the next day. 
On my way thither I saw much majestic and beautiful scenery, and en- 
joyed the prospect exceedingly, until I came in sight of a gang of 
negroes at work. Most of them were females ; and they were superin- 
tended by a driver, with the cart-whip in his hand. Just as I rode past, 
the driver cracked his whip and cried out, "Work! work!" They 
were manuring the canes, and carrying the manure in baskets on 
their heads. It appeared to me disgustingly dirty work ; for the 
moisture from the manure was dripping through the baskets, and 
running down the bodies of the negroes. This sight annoyed me 
considerably, and raised some doubts as to the preferable condition 
of West India slaves to factory children. The enchanting scenery 
and beautiful humming birds no longer amused me ; and the thun- 
dering crack of the cart-whip, sounding in my ears as I rode along, 
excited feelings of a very unpleasing description. 

On reaching the estate I was received in the most friendly manner 
by the overseer, and entertained with West Indian hospitality. This 
gentleman, after some enquiries as to the state of things in England, 



began to enlarge on the comfortable condition of the slaves ; and, 
pointing to some negro coopers who were working in the yard, asked 
if I could perceive any difference between the condition of these 
slaves and that of English labourers. I owned I could not : they 
seemed to work with great regularity and apparent good humour. 

Immediately afterwards the overseer called out, in a very authori- 
tative tone, " Blow shell." A large conch shell was then blown by 
one of the domestic slaves, and in a few minutes four negro drivers 
made their appearance in front of the house, accompanied by six 
common negroes. The drivers had each a long staff in his hand, 
and a large cart- whip coiled round his shoulders. They appeared to 
be very stout athletic men. They stood before the hall door, and 
the overseer put on his hat and went out to them, while I sat at the 
open window and observed the scene which followed, — having been 
informed that the other six negroes were to be punished. 

When the overseer went out, the four drivers gave him an account, 
on notched tallies, of their half day's work, and received fresh orders. 
The overseer then asked a few questions of the drivers respecting the 
offences of the six slaves brought up for punishment. No question 
was asked of the culprits themselves, nor was any explanation waited 
for. Sentence was instantly pronounced, and instantly carried into 
execution. 

The first was a man of about thirty-five years of age. He was what 
is called a pen-keeper, or cattle herd ; and his offence was having 
suffered a mule to go astray. At the command of the overseer he pro- 
ceeded to strip off part of his clothes, and laid himself flat on his 
belly, his back and buttocks being uncovered. One of the drivers 
then commenced flogging him with the cart- whip. This whip is about 
ten feet long, with a short stout handle, and is an instrument of ter- 
rible power. It is whirled by the operator round his head, and then 
brought down with a rapid motion of the arm upon the recumbent 
victim, causing the blood to spring at every stroke. When I saw this 
spectacle, now for the first time exhibited before my eyes, with all 
its revolting accompaniments, and saw the degraded and mangled 
victim writhing and groaning under the infliction, I felt horror-struck. 
I trembled, and turned sick : but being determined to see the whole 
to an end, I kept my station at the window. The sufferer, writhing 
like a wounded worm, every time the lash cut across his body cried 



Out, "Lord! Lord! Lord!" When he had received about twenty 
lashes, the driver stopped to pull up the poor man's shirt (or rather 
smock frock), which had worked down upon his galled posteriors. 
The sufferer then cried, "Think me no man? think me no man?" 
By that exclamation I understood him to say " Think you I have not 
the feelings of a man ?" The flogging was instantly recommenced and 
continued; the negro continuing to cry "Lord! Lord! Lord!" till 
thirty-nine lashes had been inflicted. When the man rose up from 
the ground, I perceived the blood oozing out from the lacerated and 
tumefied parts where he had been flogged ; and he appeared greatly 
exhausted. But he was instantly ordered off" to his usual occupation. 

The next was a young man apparently about eighteen or nineteen 
years of age. He was forced to uncover himself and lie down in the 
same mode as the former, and was held down by the hands and feet 
by four slaves, one of whom was a young man who was himself to 
be flogged next. This latter was a mulatto — the offspring, as I un- 
derstood, of some European formerly on the estate by a negro woman, 
and consequently born to slavery. These two youths were flogged 
exactly in the mode already described, and writhed and groaned under 
the lash, as if enduring great agony. The mulatto bled most, and ap- 
peared to suffer most acutely. They received each thirty-nine lashes. 
Their offence was some deficiency in the performance of the task 
prescribed to them. They were both ordered to join their gang as 
usual in the afternoon at cane-cutting. 

Two young women of about the same age were, one after the other, 
then laid down and held by four men, their back parts most indecently 
uncovered, and thirty-nine lashes of the blood-stained whip inflicted 
upon each poor creature's posteriors. Their exclamation likewise was 
" Lord ! Lord ! Lord !" They seemed also to suffer acutely, and were 
apparently a good deal lacerated. Another woman (the sixth offender) 
was also laid down and uncovered for the lash ; but at the intercession 
of one of the drivers she was reprieved. The offence of these three 
women was similar to that of the two young men — some defalcation in 
the amount of labour. 

The overseer stood by and witnessed the whole of this cruel opera- 
tion, with as much seeming indifference as if he had been paying them 
their wages. I was meanwhile perfectly unmanned by mingled 
horror and pity . Yet I have no reason to believe that the natural 



6 

feelings of this young man (whose age did not exceed twenty-four 
years) were less humane or sensitive than my own. But such is the 
callousness which constant familiarity with scenes of cruelty en- 
genders. He had been a book-keeper for four years previously, on 
another estate belonging to the same proprietors, and had been ap- 
pointed overseer on this estate only a few months before. His recep- 
tion of me when I arrived was so kind, frank, and cordial, that I 
could not have believed him, had I not seen it with my own eyes, 
to be capable of inflicting such cruelty on a fellow-creature. 

As soon as this scene was over, the overseer came into the hall, and 
asked me to drink some rum and water with him. I told him I was 
sick, and could taste nothing : that I was in fact overwhelmed with 
horror at the scene I had just witnessed. He said it was not a 
pleasant duty certainly, but it was an indispensable one ; and that I 
would soon get used, as others did, to such spectacles. I asked if he 
found it necessary to inflict such punishments frequently. He replied 
it was uncertain ; " I may not," he said, " have to do it again this 
month, or I may have to do it to-morrow." 

This, my first full view of West India Slavery, occurred on the 
4th of September, 1832, between twelve and two o'clock, being the 
day after my landing in the island, and within an hour after my arrival 
on the plantation. 

I resided on New Ground estate, from the time of my arrival in the 
beginning of September, and exclusive of some occasional absences, 
altogether fully seven weeks ; and, during that period, I witnessed 
with my own eyes the regular flogging of upwards of twenty negroes. 
I heard also of many other negroes being flogged by order of the 
overseer and book-keepers in the field, while I resided on the planta- 
tion, besides the cases which came under my own personal observation. 
Neither do I include in this account the slighter floggings inflicted 
by the drivers in superintending the working gangs, — ^which I shall 
notice afterwards. 

The following are additional cases of which I have a distinct recol- 
lection. But I have retained the precise date of only one of these 
cases (the 12th) from having found it necessary to destroy almost all 
my papers, in consequence of the threats of the Colonial Unionists. 

1st. A slave employed in the boiling-house. He was a very stout 
negro, and uncommonly well dressed for a slave. He was laid down 



on the ground, held by two men, and flogged on the naked breech in 
the mode I have described, receiving 39 lashes. I was afterwards 
assured by one of the book-keepers that this negro had really com- 
mitted no offence, but that the overseer had him punished to spite a 
book-keeper under whose charge this slave was at the time, and with 
whom he had a difference ; and, as he could not flog the book-keeper, 
he flogged the slave. Such at least was the account I received from 
a third party, another book-keeper. I could scarcely have given credit 
to such an allegation, had I not heard of similar cases on other plan- 
tations, on authority I had no cause to doubt. 

2nd & 3rd. Two young women. This punishment took place one 
evening on the barbecue, where pimento is dried. Mr. M'Lean, the 
overseer, and I, were sitting in the window seat of his hall ; and I was just 
remarking to him that I observed the drivers took great pride in being 
able to crack their whips loud and well. While we were thus con- 
versing, the gang of young slaves, employed in plucking pimento, 
came in with their basket-loads. The head book-keeper as usual pro- 
ceeded to examine the baskets, to ascertain that each slave had duly 
performed the task allotted. The baskets of two poor girls were pro- 
nounced deficient ; and the book-keeper immediately ordered them to 
be flogged. The overseer did not interfere, nor ask a single question, 
the matter not being deemed of sufficient importance to require his 
interference, though this took place within a few yards of the open 
window where we were sitting. One of the girls was instantly laid 
down, her back parts uncovered in the usual brutal and indecent 
manner, and the driver commenced flogging — every stroke upon her 
flesh giving a loud crack, and the wretched creature at the same time 
calling out in agony, "Lord! Lord! Lord!" "That," said the 
overseer, turning to me, with a chuckling laugh, " that is the best 
cracking, by G — d !" * The other female was then flogged also on the 
bare posteriors, but not quite so severely. They received, as usual, 
each 39 lashes. 

4th & 5th. On another occasion I saw two girls from 10 to 13 years 
of age, flogged by order of the overseer. They belonged to the second 

* The cart-whip, when wielded by a vigorous arm, gives forth a loud report, 
which, without any exaggeration, may be likened to the report of a small pistol. 
I have oflen heard it distinctly at two miles' distance in the open air. 



gang, employed in cane-weeding, and were accused of having been 
idle that morning. Two other girls of the same age were brought up 
to hold them down. They got each 39. 

6th & 7th. After this I saw two young men flogged (very severely) 
in the cooper's yard. I did not learn their offence. 

8th. On another occasion, a man in the road leading from New Ground 
to Golden Spring. We met this man while riding out, and for some 
offence which I did not learn (for by that time I had found my 
enquiries on such points had become offensive), the overseer called a 
driver from the field and ordered him 39 on the spot. 

9th & 10th. Two young men before breakfast, for having slept too 
long. They were mule-drivers, and it being then crop time, they had 
been two days and a night previously at work without sleep. As the 
overseer and I were going out at day-break (the sun was not yet up), 
we found them only putting the harness on their mules. They ought, 
according to the regulations then prescribed on the plantation, to have 
been out half an hour sooner ; and for this offence they received a 
very severe flogging. 

11th. A girl who had been missing for some days, having absconded 
from the plantation for fear of punishment. 

I shall mention only other two cases which particularly excited my 
sympathy ; for, after a few weeks, although my moral abhorrence of 
slavery continued to increase, my sensibility to the sight of physical 
suffering was so greatly abated, that a common flogging no longer 
affected me to the very painful degree that I at first experienced. 

12th. The first of these two cases was that of a married woman, 
the mother of several children. She was brought up to the overseer's 
door one morning ; and one of the drivers who came with her accused 
her of having stolen a fowl. Some feathers, said to have been found 
in her hut, were exhibited as evidence of her guilt. The overseer asked 
her if she would pay for the fowl. She said something in reply which 
I did not clearly understand. The question was repeated, and a 
similar reply again given. The overseer then said, " Put her down." 
On this the woman set up a shriek, and rent the air with her cries of 
terror. Her countenance grew quite ghastly, and her lips became pale 
and livid. I was close to her and particularly noticed her remarkable 
aspect and expression of countenance. The overseer swore fearfully, 
and repeated his order — " Put her down !" The woman then craved pei' 



9 

mission to tie some covering round her nakedness, which she was 
allowed to do. She was then extended on the ground, and held down 
by two negroes. Her gown and shift were literally torn from her 
back, and, thus brutally exposed, she was subjected to the cart-whip. 
The punishment inflicted on this poor creature was inhuinanly severe. 
She was a woman somewhat plump in her person, and the whip being 
wielded with great vigour, every stroke cut deep into the flesh. She 
writhed and twisted her body violently under the infliction — moaning 
loudly, but uttering no exclamation in words, except once when she 
cried out, entreating that her nakedness (her parts of shame) might 
not be indecently exposed, — appearing to suffer, from matronly mo- 
desty, even more acutely on account of her indecent exposure than the 
cruel laceration of her body. But the overseer only noticed her appeal 
by a brutal reply (too gross to be repeated), and the flogging con- 
tinued. Disgusted as I was, I witnessed the whole to a close. I 
numbered the lashes, stroke by stroke, and counted fifty, — thus ex- 
ceeding by eleven the number allowed by the Colonial law to be 
inflicted at the arbitrary will of the master or manager. This was the 
only occasion on which I saw the legal number of 39 lashes exceeded, 
but I never knew the overseer or head book-keeper give less than 39. 
This poor victim was shockingly lacerated. When permitted to rise, 
she again shrieked violently. The overseer swore roughly, and threat- 
ened, if she was not quiet, to put her down again. He then ordered 
her to be taken to the hot-house or hospital, and put in the stocks. 
She was to be confined in the stocks for several nights, while she 
worked in the yard during the day at light work. She was too se- 
verely mangled to be able to go to the field for some days. This 
flogging took place on the 27th of September. 

13th. The flogging of an old man, about 60 years of age, is the last 
case I shall mention. He was the third driver upon the estate, — there 
being five altogether, whose sole employment was literally driving, or 
coercing by the whip, the negro population to labour. With this old man 
I had Viad some conversation, and felt particularly interested in him, 
for his silvery locks and something in his aspect reminded me power- 
fully of my aged father, whom I had left in England. He had been 
upon the estate a great number of years. He told me that not one 
of the negroes belonging to the gang he wrought in when he first 
came to New Ground was now alive. He came up to the overseer's 



10 

door at shell-blow one day, and gave in, as is the practice, on a tally or 
bit of notched stick, his account of the half day's work of the gang he 
superintended. The overseer was dissatisfied — said it was insufficient 
— and ordered him to get a flogging. The old man said, " Well, 
Busha, me could have done no better, had you been standing by." 
Then, groaning deeply, he laid down his staff and whip, unloosed his 
clothes, and lay quietly down to be flogged without being held. One 
of the other drivers, who had been called forward, appeared very re- 
luctant to perform the office ; but, on the overseer swearing a rough 
oath or two, he proceeded to inflict the usual punishment of 39 lashes. 
The old man, looking up in the overseer's face imploringly, cried out 
after every stroke for several minutes, ^' Busha ! Busha ! Busha !" 
but seeing no signs of relenting, he ceased to call on him, expressing 
his feelings only by groans. I was deeply affected by the sight, and 
felt at the moment that these groans were an awful appeal to the 
judgment seat of Him who heareth the cry of the oppressed. When 
the punishment was over, and the poor man arose, the other drivers 
looked at each other and shook their heads, but uttered not a word. 
They dared not. 

In conversing with the overseer about these floggings, I had more 
than once expressed the pain and horror I felt at seeing that negro 
slavery was accompanied by so much suffering. The overseer en- 
deavoured to persuade me, contrary to the evidence of my own senses, 
that the punishments were not severe, and assured me that there were, 
moreover, negroes who had never been flogged in their lives. I after- 
wards questioned the head book-keeper, Mr. Burrows, on this point; 
and asked him if he could point out a single working negro on the 
estate, male or female, single or married, who had not been flogged ? 
After some reflection he replied, that he could not specify a single one 
who had not been punished with the cart-whip. Now there were 277 
slaves on that estate, of whom a very small proportion were children, 
and yet a man who had been among them for only two years did not 
know of one (with the exception of mere children) who had not been 
once or oftener subjected to this cruel, degrading, and revolting 
punishment. 

After these conversations I made every exertion to ascertain this 
fact, by making enquiries among the slaves themselves, as opportunities 
occurred. The general reply to such interrogations was — " Ah i 



11 

Massa, me been flog many a time by Busha." On putting the ques- 
tion to an aged negro who had formerly been employed to take care 
of the sheep, but was now in the stable, he said he had been flogged 
many a time. " And what were you flogged for ?" I enquired. 
^' When sheep go stray — ^when sheep sick — ^when sheep die — then," 
said he, " Busha put me down and flog me till me bleed." " And 
how many lashes," I asked, " did Busha ever give you V " Ah ! 
Massa," said the poor old man, " when me down na ground, and dey 
flog me till me bleed, me someting else to do den for count de lashes." 
This same man, as he was saddling my horse on the day I finally left 
the estate, made a rernark that struck me. " Now, Massa," said he, 
"" you see how poor negro be 'pressed (oppressed). We no mind de 
work — but dey 'press us too too bad." 

I asked another negro, a married man and the father of a family, 
if either he or his wife had ever been flogged. He replied, that both 
he and his wife had been flogged frequently : and further remarked, 
that it was very disheartening that after trying " to be good negro," 
they could not escape the lash any more than the worst slaves on the 
estate. This man was a Baptist — a very religious and exemplary man. 
He had been a member of the Baptist chapel at St. Ann's Bay, which 
I saw lying in ruins. He could read a little, and I gave him a hymn 
book. 

This last mentioned slave was a carpenter. I therefore asked the 
head carpenter (a Scotchman, named Walden), if he had ever flogged 
this man. He replied that he had, and added, that he was obliged to 
flog all the slaves under his charge. He never took them out with 
him into the wood, he said, without the cart-whip, so that if any of 
them did not please him he might put him down and give him a 
flogging. 

I asked others similar questions, and received, in every instance, 
answers to the same effect — all proving the truth of the head book- 
keeper's statement that he knew not a single working slave on the 
estate who had not been flogged. 

I may here mention that on meeting with a slave of the name of 
Johnstone, belonging to the neighbouring estate of Green Park, I 
asked him if he had ever been flogged. He replied — " Yes, Massa, 
me been flog, and been work in chains three months and three days." 
On enquiring further, I found this man's offence was going to the 



12 

Methodist chapel (Mr. Whitehouse's) ; and that for this offence he 
had been cruelly flogged by order of his owner, Mr. Hurlock (not by 
the overseer), and worked in chains for three months. 

During my residence at New Ground, the St. Ann's workhouse 
gang (of convict slaves) was employed in digging cane-holes on the 
plantation. I had thus frequent opportunities of seeing and con- 
versing with them. I shall never forget the impression I received from 
the first near view of these wretched people. The son of the captain, 
or superintendent of the workhouse (a person named Drake), accom- 
panied me to the field the first day I went out to see this gang ; and, 
as we went along, he remarked that I should probably be somewhat 
shocked by their appearance, but ought to bear in mind that these 
negroes were convicted malefactors — rebels, thieves, and felons. On 
approaching the spot I witnessed indeed a most affecting and appal- 
ling spectacle. The gang, consisting of forty-five negroes, male and 
female, were all chained by the necks in couples ; and in one 
instance I observed a man and a woman chained together. Two stout 
drivers were standing over them, each armed both with a cart-whip 
and a cat-o'-nine tails. Nearly the whole gang were working without 
any covering on the upper part of their bodies ; and on going up to 
them, with a view to closer inspection, I found that their backs, from 
the shoulders to the buttocks, were scarred and lacerated in all directions, 
by the frequent application of the cat and the cart-whip, which the 
drivers used at discretion, independently of severer floggings by order 
of the superintendent. I could not find a single one who did not bear 
on his body evident marks of this savage discipline. Some were 
marked with large weals, and with what in Yorkshire we should call 
wrethes, or ridges of flesh healed over. Others were crossed with 
long scabbed scars across the buttocks ; on others, again, the gashes 
were raw and recent. Altogether it was the most horrid sight that ever 
my eyes beheld. One of them had on a coarse shirt or smock frock, 
which was actually dyed red with his blood. The drivers struck some 
of them severely while I was present for falling behind the rank in their 
work. 

I asked one of the drivers what were the offences for which these 
people had been condemned. He replied that some of them were con- 
victs from Trelawney parish, who had been concerned in the late re- 
bellion ; others were thieves and runaways; and, pointing out three 



13 

individuals (two men and a woman), he added that these had been 
taken up while martial law was in force— /or praying. I asked if I 
might be permitted to speak to these three persons; and, meeting with 
no objection, I went forward and conversed with them. One of them, 
whose name was Rogers, in reply to my enquiries, informed me that 
he had been condemned to the workhouse gang for meeting with other 
negroes for prayer. The other man, whose name I have forgot, told 
me that this was the second time that he had been sent to work in 
chains solely for this offence — namely, joining with some of his friends 
and relatives in social prayer to his Maker and Redeemer ! In order 
to assure myself further of the truth of this extraordinary fact, I made 
enquiry respecting it of some of the most intelligent negroes on New 
Ground estate, to whom the particulars connected with these people's 
condemnation were known, and received such full corroboration of 
their statement as left me no doubt whatever of its truth. Indeed I 
soon found good reason to believe that on many estates there are few 
offences for which the unhappy slaves are punished with more certainty 
or severity than praying. 

Drake, the superintendent of this workhouse gang, came frequently 
to New Ground, while they were employed there, to see that they did 
sufficient work (for it was paid for by the piece) ; and one day he was 
invited by the overseer to dine with us. After dinner, while he and I 
were standing at the door, he proceeded to abuse the friends of negro 
emancipation in England in very violent terms, and added, that if ever 
I uttered a word unfriendly to them (the slave holders), he would have 
great pleasure in cutting my head off. Then, extending his arm, and 
pointing to his miserable gang, who were at work, full in view, at no 
great distance, he uttered a tremendous oath, and said — " Oh ! if I 
had but Buxton and Lushington chained by the necks in yonder gang, 
I would cure them — that would I, by G — ! We would be all right," 
he added, " if these devils would but let us alone." — ^This man, 
Drake, as I was told by the overseer, has a salary of £500 currency. 

I may here notice a few other particulars illustrative of the Jamaica 
plantation system, which fell under my observation. 

On New Ground estate there were about fifteen or sixteen religious 
negroes who became personally known to me, and I heard that there 
were others. Those that I knew were Baptists and Wesleyans. After 
they found they might have confidence in me, they often expressed 



14 

their deep regret for the banishment of the missionaries. While I 
was there they durst not be found praying together. If they had, they 
would have been sure of a flogging. One of the proprietors in England 
(my relative) had told me that I might preach to the slaves on the 
estate, and attend to their religious instruction ; but I soon found 
that this would not be permitted by their own Colonial agents. Indeed 
the attorney, at our very first interview, expressly prohibited me so 
much as to mention religion to the negroes. 

On Sunday there was no religious observance whatever on the 
estate, nor did I see or hear of any religious observance on any estate 
in that parish. The whites usually occupy Sunday in visits to their 
brother overseers and book-keepers on other estates ; or if at home, in 
playing at draughts and quoits. The negroes were all at work on their 
provision grounds, or in carrying their provisions to market, except the 
cooper's gang, who were at work for the estate, but for wages on that 
day, as the overseer assured me. The negroes receive only a few salt 
herrings from the estate, and must necessarily employ the Sundays in 
cultivating their provision grounds. The law allows them only twenty- 
six week-days in the year for this necessary work. 

In week-days the negroes always went to their work before daylight 
in the morning ; on an average about five o'clock or a quarter past 
five. They left off" after dusk, or from a quarter to half-past six in 
the evening. They had half an hour for breakfast, and sometimes an 
hour for dinner, but generally not a full hour. During crop, which 
was proceeding while I was there, they worked in spells the whole of 
every alternate night ; that is to say, the spell that commenced on 
Monday morning got no sleep till Tuesday night, working all day in 
the field and all night in the boiling-house. 

The sufferings of the slaves from this hard and continuous labour, 
and from the continual floggings of the drivers to exact it, are severe 
beyond description. When they are digging cane holes, they gene- 
rally work all in a row ; and it frequently happens that the strong 
negroes outstrip the weaker ones. Then it is that the drivers (who 
stand in fi-ont of the gang in holeing, but behind in cane-cutting,) 
march up to those who have fallen back in their work, and flog them 
on to further exertion ; the drivers being themselves liable to be 
flogged, if the prescribed work is not duly executed by their gang. 
I have seen the drivers put down slaves in the field, and inflict at 



15 

their own discretion, from six to twelve lashes with the cart-whip. I 
have seen them order females to stand at a convenient distance, and 
ffog them as long as they saw fit. I have frequently seen the boat- 
swain (as the driver at the boiling-house is called) flog old and young, 
male and female, in this manner. One night I saw this driver flog a 
female slave very severely, and one blow which struck her in the face 
caused her to scream out violently. Upon enquiry I found that this 
woman had a child in the hot-house (or hospital), and she had 
ventured to leave her work a little earlier than usual to see her sick 
child. For this she received the punishment. On another occasion, 
I saw this same boatswain put down a very handsome brown girl, and 
give her ten lashes. The overseer was with me at the time, and looked 
on, without making any remark. Another time I saw the head driver, 
a very powerful man, give a tremendous cut with the cart-whip to a 
female about fifty years of age, who was cutting canes with the great 
gang. The overseer and one of the book-keepers were standing by 
with me, but neither took the least notice. In fact, these floggings were 
taking place incessantly upon the working negroes ; insomuch that I 
came to this conclusion, after some observation, — that the slaves suffered 
more in the aggregate from the driving in the field than from the 
severer regular punishments inflicted by order of the overseer and 
book-keepers. The drivers invariably flog negroes severely who 
happen to be too late in coming out in the morning ; and it frequently 
happens, that when they oversleep their time, the negroes, for fear of 
punishment, run away for days or weeks from the estate. When 
they do return, as they generally do after a short space, it is with the 
certainty of encountering a tremendous flogging from the overseer, 
and being condemned to sleep every night in the stocks for weeks 
running. I have frequently seen six or seven of these runaways 
turned out of the stocks in a morning, taken to the field to cut canes, 
and then brought back at night to be again locked into the stocks. 
The fear of punishment, I was told, was the ordinary cause of their 
becoming runaways. 

The tyrannical severity of the system may be aptly illustrated by 
another little incident which I shall here mention. One Sunday after- 
noon, while I was sitting, as usual, with the overseer at the open 
window of the hall, an old negro woman, apparently upwards of sixty 
years of age, came forward, and begged leave to tell her story to 



16 

" Busha." She proceeded to state that she was now old and stiff; that 
she had some infirmity in her knees, which she bared to exhibit to 
him; that she was no longer able to stand the field labour; and under 
these circumstances she pleaded to be allowed to "sit down" — that is, 
to be released from the regular labour of the estate. The overseer refused 
her suit, ordered her two or three times to be gone, and said "she talked 
English too well." At length, on the old woman still continuing her 
importunity, he lost patience, called one of the domestic slaves, and 
ordered him to put the supplicant in the stocks. To the stocks 
accordingly she was instantly taken, and confined in them every night 
for a week ; continuing to work as usual in the field by day. At length 
on the following Sunday, she was begged off by the head driver, and 
came to return thanks, in my presence, to the overseer for her release. 
And thus was quashed her supplication for mitigation of hard labour, 
and other supplicants intimidated from appearing. 

On conversing with Mr. M'Lean, (as I frequently did when I 
first went to New Ground) respecting the extreme severity of the 
system pursued on that estate, he assured me that he was far from 
being a harder task-master than other overseers on sugar plantations ; 
and to convince me of this he told me of " severities" (or rather 
atrocities) exercised on other estates in the same parish, far beyond 
any which I witnessed on New Ground. I also heard of extraordinary 
instances of cruelty from others ; and I was told, by a resident in St. 
Andrew's parish, that the floggings there were more severe than in St. 
Ann's ; switches of the prickly ebony being frequently used after the 
cart- whip. But I shall not attempt to detail what I learned only by 
hearsay, although on the evidence of persons implicated in supporting 
the system. I can only vouch, of course, for what I myself witnessed ; 
and that most assuredly I have rather softened than exaggerated. 

The open and avowed licentiousness of the plantation whites dis- 
gusted me almost as much as the cruelty of the system. At New 
Ground, the overseer, book-keepers, and head carpenter, all lived in 
the habitual practice of gross and unblushing profligacy. The tre- 
mendous moral tyranny that may be, and unquestionably often is, 
exercised in the uncontrolled indulgence of this brutalizing vice, 
is as obvious as it is appalling. One of the book-keepers vo- 
luntarily mentioned to me, that he had had twelve " negro wives" 
within six months. I saw another of the whites on this estate give 



17 

his " housekeeper" (concubine), a cruel beating with a supplejack 
while she was in a state of pregnancy, and for a very trifling fault. 
For refusing to degrade myself by complying with " the custom of 
the country," as it was lightly termed, in this point, I was looked 
upon, as I soon perceived, with mingled contempt and suspicion by 
the plantation whites generally. 

I shall now mention the circumstances which led to my abandon- 
ment of the views I had in going out to Jamaica, and obliged me to 
return to England, after so short a residence. 

After I had been about a week on New Ground estate, I had an 
interview at St. Ann's Bay with the attorney or agent of the pro- 
prietors, to whose patronage I had been recommended by my relative 
in England. I told him that from what I had seen of a planter's life 
I felt myself to be but ill adapted for that profession, and that I had 
resolved to abandon all thoughts of it ; but, as I had neither friend 
nor acquaintance save himself in that part of the island, I should feel 
much indebted to him if he would allow me to remain, as a resident 
merely, on the estate until I could hear from a correspondent in 
Kingston, to whom I had written, requesting him to make every 
possible exertion to procure me employment in a store, or any 
other creditable occupation, by which I might earn a livelihood un- 
connected with the plantation system. The attorney asked the name 
of the gentleman to whom I had written. I told him it was Mr. 
Pennock, the Wesleyan missionary ; and informed him that I was a 
member of that Society myself, and had occasionally officiated as a 
local preacher before I left England. The attorney seemed a good 
deal disconcerted by this information. He assured me that Mr. Pen- 
nock could do nothing to assist me ; and added, that such was the feel- 
ing of the inhabitants of Jamaica against the sectarians, that he him- 
self, though he was the man of the greatest influence in that parish, 
would be exposed to great odium — perhaps peril — if the planters 
knew that he was patronizing a person of my character. "They 
would think nothing," he said, pointing to the sea, " of throwing me 
in there for that, and for no other offence." As, however, I had been 
sent out to him by the proprietors, he added, that he would do the 
best he could to promote my interests. Meanwhile he advised me to 
remain on the estate, where, he said, as I disliked the system, I should 
have nothing to do with it ; but charged me to let no person know 

D 



18 

that I was a Methodist ; and, (as I have already mentioned) he strictly 
prohibited me from attempting to instruct the negroes, or to say a 
single word to them about religion. In other respects he appeared 
friendly, and promised to give me a letter to Mr. Whitehorn, an 
attorney at Kingston, a relative of his, with a view to find me some 
other occupation. 

About a week after this, I was informed by a neighbouring book- 
keeper that it had been discovered by the address of my letter to Mr. 
Pennock, that I was in correspondence with the sectarians ; and that 
some gentlemen at St. Ann's Bay had formed a plan to tar and feather 
me, if they could find a convenient opportunity. This information I 
communicated by letter to the attorney, who resided on a property of 
his own, about twenty miles distant from New Ground. He imme- 
diately sent for me to come to him, warning me not to travel by the 
bay, for fear of the Colonial Unionists, but to come round by the 
mountain road. I went accordingly, and remained a night with him. 
I then proceeded to Kingston in search of employment, and saw Mr. 
Pennock, and other persons who were very desirous to promote my 
views ; but meeting with no success, I was obliged to return to New 
Ground. I subsequently made another journey to Kingston, but 
with no better result. 

At another interview which I soon afterwards had with the attorney, 
I told him I thought it very hard, that after having been at so much 
expense in coming out to Jamaica, I could obtain no situation in the 
island merely because I was a Methodist. He then spoke of another 
charge he had in view for me; and mentioned also, that Mr. Hamilton 
Brown was desirous of giving me employment, but that he was so much 
intimidated by the threats that were held out against all who favoured 
Sectarians, that he durst not venture to do it. 

He further assured me, that unless I would agree to enrol myself 
as a member of the Colonial Church Union, and renounce " even the 
very appearance of sectarianism," he saw no likelihood of my being- 
enabled to obtain or hold any situation in the colony ; adding em- 
phatically, that unless I did this, he could not guarantee any thing in 
regard to me — no, not even life itself. On this occasion I expressed 
my surprise, that the planters should be so outrageously partial to 
Churchmen in opposition to the Sectarians, when they could not be 
ignorant that many eminent ministers and members of the Church of 



i 



19 

. ■; ; ; abolition of Slavery with not less zeal 

attorney replied significantly, 

ociae a ^.xcssion on me) "It is an opinion 

!'■. v/iuch we do not wish to acknowledge or to be 

-vu slavery and knowledge are incompatible." These were this 

5entleinan's own words — a man of whom I would not willingly speak 

unkindly, for I was always hospitably received, and otherwise kindly 

treated by him ;* but as respects his unscrupulous support of the 

Colonial system, I leave the reader to judge for himself. 

On this and other occasions I thought it my duty to acquaint the 
attorney with my observations and my feelings, in regard to the cruel 
floggings and severe treatment generally, which I had witnessed at 
New Ground. He admitted the facts, but said that plantation work 
could not be carried on without the cart-whip. He moreover 
laboured hard to convince me that the flogging did not injure the 
health of the negroes. 

I also told him of the exceeding immorality and licentiousness 
which I had witnessed; mentioning, in substance, the facts previously 
detailed. He replied, that that was a thing which they (the attorneys) 
must " wink at." He said he had but two married overseers under 
him upon the several properties he managed, and he intended never 
to have another ; for (he remarked) the overseers, book-keepers, and 
head carpenters, generally took for their mistresses the sisters or 
daughters of the drivers or carpenters ; by which means, if any plot 
was hatching amongst the slaves, some intimation of it was almost 
certain to be conveyed by these channels to the whites upon the plan- 
tation. And for the sake of such a wretched security, this gentle- 
man, in the true spirit of the system (though in other respects ap- 

* I have not given this gentleman's name, from a reluctance to hurt the feelings 
of an individual whose hospitality I have enjoyed ; but I cannot conscientiously 
suppress his opinions, which serve so well to illustrate the colonial system. If a 
man, in manners so much the gentleman, and in other respects so estimable, 
is, as a supporter of that system, necessarily led to countenance, or to " wink at," 
the enormities I have feebly attempted to describe, what, I ask, is to be expected 
from its subordinate administrators, who are continually exposed to all the 
demoralizing influences of slavery ? What, indeed, but the frightful wickedness 
and cruelty which are its actual fruits ! 



20 

parently a benevolent and honourable man) wasr/Jit^i^rW " wink at" 
the wickedness. 

Soon after this, a person of my acquaintance one up from 
St. Ann's Bay, and advised me to leave New Ground eac^ .. 
without delay, because the members of the Colonial Church Union 
down at the Bay were determined to do me some mischief. I 
felt somewhat alarmed on receiving this intimation, and expressed 
my apprehensions to the overseer. He replied, that there was no 
occasion for me to leave the estate — that I need not be at all 
afraid, for (as he vehemently swore) he would sooner lose his own life 
than deliver me up to my enemies. How far Mr. M'Lean was sin- 
cere in his assurances and professions I shall not pretend positively 
to determine. I subsequently thought I saw good cause to believe 
him not averse to any scheme that would lead to my removal quietly 
from New Ground estate ; — of nothing worse, as regards myself, have 
I the least reason to suspect him. But, at the period I now advert to, 
I did not entertain even the suspicion I have now expressed ; and, 
moreover, I was at a great loss what course to adopt, for if I left the 
estate, I knew not well where else to betake myself. 

About a fortnight after my return from my last visit to the attorney, 
a deputation from St. Ann's Colonial Church Union waited upon me. 
This took place on one of the militia muster days. I observed that 
day that a number of overseers and book-keepers called at New 
Ground estate, as they returned from muster, and I noticed a great 
deal of whispering among them. Just at dusk two persons, under the 
character of a deputation from the Colonial Church Union, made their 
appearance, and demanded an interview with me. The overseer in- 
troduced them — a Mr. Dicken and a Mr. Brown. The former I had 
previously met with, but to my salutation he now made no response. 
Mr. Brown was spokesman, and commenced by informing me that 
they came as a deputation from more than a hundred gentlemen at 
St. Ann's Bay, to state to me,— 1st. That they had heard I had been 
leading the minds of the slaves astray by holding forth doctrines of a 
tendency to make them discontented with their present condition, 
2ndly. That I was a Methodist, and that my relative who had sent 

me to Jamaica was a d d Methodist. And, 3rdly. That they had 

a barrel of tar down at the Bay to tar and feather me, as I well de- 
served, and that they "would do so, by G — d." 



21 

In reply, I acknowledged that I was undoubtedly a Methodist ; but 
added, mildly, that I was altogether unconscious of any act, since I 
arrived in the island, whereby I could have given any reasonable 
offence to the planters or any other class of men ; and I begged them 
to specify my offences. Mr. Brown than stated, that in the first 
place, I had written a letter to the Rev. Thomas Pennock, Wesleyan 

Missionary, 2ndly. That in a letter I had written to Mr. , 

the attorney, I had said, " The Lord reward you for the kindnesses 
you have shewn me, and grant you in health and wealth long to 
live." 3rdly. That I had said to a slave who had opened a gate to me 
at a certain place, " The Lord bless you." 4thly. That I had asked 
the drivers of the workhouse gang questions respecting the offences of 
the negroes of that gang. 5thly. That I had made private remarks 
about the way in which I had seen Mr, M'Lean, the overseer, treat 
the slaves. (Here Dicken, who was an overseer at Winsor, a neigh- 
bouring plantation, told me he had two negroes at that moment in 
the stocks, and added, with a brutal oath,* if I would come over in the 
morning he would let me see them properly flogged.) 6thly, That I 
had preached to a hundred and fifty slaves at one time. — ^To all these 
charges I pleaded guilty, except the last, which was without founda- 
tion — without even a shadow of truth ; though, if it had been true, 
it would have been difficult for me to admit its criminality. Dicken 
then drew his hand across my throat, and swore by his Maker that he 
would be the first man to cut it if I should dare to talk to the slaves 
in the same way again. He then pulled out a pistol, which he 
cocked, and held out (but did not point it at my person) ; saying, 
that if he was to fire it off, there would be twenty men in the house 
in one minute, ready to do whatever they chose with me, Mr. 
M'Lean, the overseer, here spoke up, and said, with considerable 
vehemence, that before he would see me abused he would rather have 
a ball through his own breast. 

I then told them that there was no occasion for violence ; that I 
was quite willing, under the circumstances in which I found myself, 
to leave the island by the very first conveyance ; and should be glad 



* The planters of all ranks, with very rare exceptions, are shocking swearers ; 
the more vulgar sort interlarding tlieir profaneness with the most revolting ob- 
scenity. 



22 

if they and their friends would only permit me to do so quietly. They 
promised to report this reply to their Society, the Colonial Church 
Union, and so departed. 

It was agreed that I should sail in the ship "Huskisson," and that 
I might remain on the estate till that vessel was ready ; but having 
been seen conversing with Mr. Watkis, a Wesleyan, and a brother of 
the member of the Colonial Assembly of that name, the attorney was 
informed of this (no other fault was alleged), and he sent word to the 
overseer to enforce my departure immediately . I was hurried off 
accordingly ; and, in my way from St. Ann's to Annotto Bay, I saw 
the attorney once more. He then told me that it was necessary, for 
both his sake and mine, that I should leave the country ; and apologized 
for his hurrying my departure by stating that he had recently received 
many violent letters on my account from the Colonial Unionists, 
threatening to pull his house about his ears, as other houses had been 
pulled about the ears of the owners, on similar grounds elsewhere. 

I proceeded from St. Ann's to Annotto Bay to await the sailing of 
the vessel ; and, while thus detained, I had a pretty severe attack of 
the country fever, which confined me for ten days. On the 8th of 
December I sailed from Jamaica, having been just three months and 
six days on the island. 

I leave the facts thus plainly related, as they fell under my ob- 
servation during this short residence, to the reader's calm reflection. 
They will sufficiently display the character of Negro Slavery, as it 
now exists in Jamaica, without any comment of mine. But as I have 
mentioned that I left England with a persuasion that the general con- 
dition of the West India slaves was, on the whole, much preferable to 
that of the children in our factories, it is proper to state the conviction 
with which I have returned, — ^which is this. The condition of the factory 
children is certainly very deplorable, and calls loudly for amelioration ; 
and I shall most cordially rejoice to see the friends of Negro Emanci- 
pation co-operating with the friends of Factory Regulation, in carry- 
ing the Ten Hours' Bill speedily through Parliament. But between the 
cases of the factory child and the plantation slave there can be no 
just comparision. The former is very bad : the latter is infinitely 

WORSE. 



APPENDIX. 



London, March 28, 1833. 
Some of Mr. Whiteley's friends, whom he has consulted in regard to this 
publication, being of opinion that a few testimonials may be usefully appended 
to it, in order to give it due weight with readers unacquainted wtth the writer's 
character, he has been induced to place at their disposal a few letters and cer- 
tificates, fi-om which they have selected the following. The originals are left in 
the hands of the publishers (Messrs. Hatchard), and may be freely perused by 
any person who desires to see them. 

I. Extract of a letter from Richard Oastler, Esq., of Fixby Hall, near Hudders- 
field, to the Rev. Mr. Ellis, Moravian Minister, Fairfield, Jamaica. 

" London, July 8, 1832. 

"My Dear Sir, 

" I have this day called in Fetter Lane, hoping to find my old friend, 
Peter Latrobe, but unfortunately he was not at home. I intended that he should 
introduce my friend, the bearer of this, to you ; but as that may not be, receive 
Mr. Henry Whiteley in love from an old friend. He is a young man whom I 
much admire ; he has been working with me in forwarding the emancipation of 
the factory slaves here ; and now his lot is cast among the poor blacks. Well — 
he is a Methodist local preacher, and he intends to preach the gospel to the 
slaves ; and, being of opinion that you would be glad to give him your advice 
and help, I felt particularly wishful to place him under your direction. May 
our dear Saviour make him useful. 

(Signed) "Richard Oastler." 

" Tell your poor slaves to pray for the poor factory children in England, and 
to petition for their emancipation. R. O." 



II. Extract of a letter from the Rev. John Kingdon, Baptist Missionary, to 
John Elliott, Esq., Denmark Hill, near London. 

" Kingston, Jamaica, November 27, 1832. 
"My Dear Christian Brother, 

"The bearer of this, Mr. Whiteley, is about to return to England, 
should his Heavenly Father restore him from the severe fever he is now labouring 
under; and as he appears to be a very pious man, of your own denomination, 
and one who has endured well ' a great fight of afflictions' for the sake of Jesus 
Christ, I know not to whom in town I could more appropriately introduce him 
in his present difficulties. A few months since he came out with the view of 



24 APPENDIX. 

taking the situation of book-keeper, on a property in St. Ann's parish, which a 
relative is interested in ; all the while hoping to be permitted to ' preach the 
unsearchable riches of Christ' to the poor dear negroes. If he could have 
smothered the flame from heaven which glowed vsithin, he might have quietly 
pursued the former project; but because the love of Christ constrained him to 
shun or reprove the wicked, he was at once denounced as a ' sectarian,' and 
treated with barbarity, as you will hear firom himself. Thus is he compelled to 
return to England, after sustaining serious expenses. ***** 

" I expect my brother, who takes this to Mr. Whiteley, to go this evening. 

" I remain, &c. 
(Signed) "John Kingdon." 



III. 

" Heckmondwike, March 23, 1833. 
" We, the undersigTied, hereby certify, that the bearer, Mr. Henry Whiteley, 
a native of this place, and resident here, until his departure for Jamaica, in July 
last, is, in our opinion, a highly respectable young man, of unimpeachable in- 
tegrity as a man and as a Christian : — 

(Signed) " C. Etherington, merchant, Heckmondwike. 

" Henry Oates, ditto ditto. 

" John Royle, wine merchant, ditto. 

" Rawson Webster, surgeon, ditto. 

"Thomas Hirst, woolstapler, ditto. 

" G. Thompson, minister, ditto. 

" Henry Bean, minister, ditto. 

"Jonathan Popplewell, grocer, ditto. 

" Robert Martin, minister, ditto. 

" Joseph M'Creery, minister, ditto. 



"The bearer, Mr. Henry Whiteley, is not personally known to me, but I have 
for many years known his father, and several of the merchants and others, 
whose signatures are given above, as persons of respectability and highly worthy 
of credit. (Signed) " Hammond Robertson, 

" Incumbent of (the adjacent church) Liveredge." 



" I have not known the bearer, Mr, Henry Whiteley, but can testify to the 
respectability of the persons who have signed their names to the above character. 
(Signed) "Benjamin Hutchinson, Curate." 



London : S. Bagster, Juii., Printer, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



