I 



fl 



RIGHT AND WRONG 



IN 



BOSTON, 



IN 



1836. 



Let us make man in OUR image. 

Whose image and superscription is THIS 1 — ' Render unto Csesar 
the things that are Ceesar'sJ but unto God the things which are 
God's.' — Jesus Christ. 



-iZ.V'i 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/annualreportofbo1836bost 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOSTON FEMALE 

ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY; 

BEING A CONCISE HISTORY OF THE CASES OF 

THE SLAVE CHILD, MED, 

AND OF THE 

WOMEN DEMANDED AS SLAVES 

OF THE 

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MASS. 

WITH ALL THE OTHER 
PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY. 



BOSTON: 

PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY. 

ISAAC KNAPP, PRINTER. 

1836. 



e? ~ / s - :> / ^i^is , z 



REPORT, &c. 



As all that we have seen and experienced dur- 
ing the past year, has increased our attachment to 
the impartial principles of love and truth, and 
strengthened our conviction that the measures are 
effectual by vi^hich we have sought to promulgate 
them, it seems good to us to record our observa- 
tion and our experience — not only for the benefit 
of those whom our example is to educate, but that 
we may ourselves be confirmed for the future, by 
a review of the past. 

We would not willingly lose the remembrance 
of even the most minute particulars of the scenes 
in which we have been engaged, since we ac- 
knowledged the justice and necessity of immediate 
emancipation. Should our lives be spared a few 
years, to behold with the bodily eye the consum- 
mation of our glorious hopes, with what satisfaction 
shall we relate to our children, with the aid of 
1* 



these and similar annals, a multitude of incidents, 
which, unrecorded, would be driven from our minds 
by the rapid succession of like events, insignificant, 
it is true, in themselves, but mighty in their ten- 
dencies ; — the unperceived hinges on which the 
massive prison doors must move open. 

After the annual sale for the benefit of the 
treasury, which was undisturbed and productive, 
and after the quarterly meeting of Jan. 13th, held 
at 46, Washington-street, without molestation, we 
find nothing of particular interest upon our jour- 
nals, until the memorable pleadings before the Leg- 
islature, in the month of March. A large number 
of our society were present on those occasions, 
listening to the prodeedings with an intensity of 
feeling with which none can sympathise, who have 
not like us watched those dearest to them, the 
noble and true-hearted, rushing fearlessly between 
the pestilence and the people, that so the plague 
might be stayed. Those who thus presented them- 
selves, as hving sacrifices it might be, were our 
husbands, our brethren, and our friends. The 
Legislatures of five slave states, had united to de- 
mand that they, and we with them, should be 
made to suffer under laws ^ highly penal,' lest sla- 
very should be brought into discredit by our ex- 
posure of its spirit and tendencies. Our own chief 



magistrate had also intimated in his inaugural ad- 
dress, that, as abolitionists, we might be indicted at 
common law. What wonder that we Waited with 
indescribable anxiety, the result of these inter- 
views. We had admitted into our minds the ap- 
prehension that resolutions of censure might be 
passed, and had endeavored to fortify ourselves for 
the dreadful and inevitable consequences. But 
we had not looked to see contempt poured upon 
any appeal to the legislature of Massachusetts, 
made * in the strong names of God and liberty.' 
We were mistaken indeed. How meanly subser- 
vient may a freeman become, who for pohtical 
considerations, yields the direction of his conduct 
to the masters of slaves ? We saw amid the throng 
that stood listening round, the unfriendly faces of 
some who have both hated and beUeved ; and our 
apprehensions gained the mastery of our hopes. 

We were styled by the newspapers on this oc- 
casion, ' an array of beauty and fashion ; ' but how 
little could the few ladies present, merely from 
motives of curiosity, (and by whose means we 
were thus exempted from the customary editorial 
notices,) comprehend the anxiety that filled our 
minds ? How could they enter into the horrible 
reality of our apprehensions ? They have never 
been obliged to send their infants from their houses 



8 

by night, under threats of popular fury. They 
had never been driven homeless by respectable 
persons, from ' the most religious city in the world,' 
for asserting that with God there is no respect of 
persons at all. To us, it was a question involving 
more than than the interests of this life only — to 
them, it was but the amusement of an idle hour. 

Our ho'pes preponderated, while Messrs. May, 
Sewall, and Loring, so calmly and yet so forcibly 
presented some of the grounds of remonstrance 
against legislative proscription — and while Mr, 
Garrison dwelt on the aggressions of the slave 
states upon the lives and liberties of northern citi- 
zens. When Dr. FoUen spoke of the inevitable 
results of legislative action, and, though interrupt- 
ed and insulted at every step, persisted in illumin- 
ating the future by the experience of the past, our 
fears gained the ascendency. It seemed for the 
moment, as if the last defence of freedom must 
give way, and the abolitionists be added to the list 
of the victims of oppression. But when William 
Goodell exposed the deep laid conspiracy against 
the rights of the laborer, and raised the all-pre- 
vailing cry, ^ for God and the people ! ' — every 
heart thrilled to the sound. An irrepressible re- 
sponse went up from the assembly. We felt that 
liberty was safe ; that many a righteous heart stood 



9 



between us and sentence of outlawry ; and we 
could have cried in deep emotion, as Washington 
is once said to have done, when, as he vainly strove 
to rally his broken van, a northern division sprung 
forward at his voice — * God bless the yeomanry of 
Massachusetts.'* 

Our next meeting was rendered animating and 
interesting by the presence of ladies from New 
Hampshire and New York. One hundred and 
thirty dollars were subscribed to our funds, and a 
resolution unanimously adopted to sustain, both by 
purchase and contribution, the annual sale, propos- 
ed to be held this year in the month of Decem- 
ber. 

On the 25th of May, we met, with the New- 
England Anti-Slavery Convention in the Salem- 
street church. As the Rev. Mr. Blagden, the 
pastor of that society, had so strenuously opposed 
the opening of the house to the Convention, it 
was generally supposed that some popular tumult 
might ensue.f The more experienced watchers 

* This circumstance was related by a revolutionary officer, 
Lieut. Loring of Braintree, as having fallen under his observation 
during the war of the revolution. 

f * All that is said about their urging the slaves to rise and cut 
their masters' throats must be true, or our minister would not be 
*o anxious to hinder them from having the meeting-house;' is the 
lijference ftaturally drawn by multitudes of observers. We have 



10 



of the signs of the times, did not, however, partic- 
ipate in this apprehension. The force of spiritual 
despotism, though it arouses and sets in motion the 
elements of misrule, needs the presence of actual 
slaveholders to combine and direct it. Till these 
leave their homes and come among us, the oppo- 
sition seldom breaks,out in scenes of outrage and 
violence. 

The Convention was a noble body. Clear- 
headed and steadfast-hearted, the men who com- 
posed it interchanged ideas and formed plans, and 
raised money to carry them into execution, with 
freedom, sagacity and liberality. Our southern 
brethren, who sneer at the ' cheap charity' of ab- 
olitionists, and demand that we should bargain with 
them for the rights of the bondman, as a proof of 
our disinterestedness, need but examine the ac- 
counts of the treasurers of Anti-Slavery Societies. 
It would appear from them, that abolitionists now 
pay far more than would be their probable propor- 
tion of a general assessment for compensation, 
supposing the public mind here ready for such a 
project. These, be it remembered, are for the 
most part, the laborers of the north, who give of 

beard it in ionumerable instances, The clergy are not theniselvea 
fiware, in some instances, at least, of the dreadfully pernicious io* 
fluence tbey bftve e^ierted in rousing mobs and outrage. 



11 

the fruit of their toil so freely, for the love they 
bear to liberty: — the working classes, whose con- 
dition is asserted to be less happy than that of the 
southern slave. Our Society was then pledged to 
pay $1000 to the cause during the present year. 
Had our ability been equal to our wishes, we 
should not have named so small a sum. In 
other good causes in which we are engaged, men 
pour gifts into our treasuries with what may be 
termed the gallantry of alms-giving. But this, 
which demands the remembrance of what they so 
much wish to forget, — the wrongs done to their 
brother, before they offer their gift — this is a cause 
for the support of which we must learn self-denial, 
industry and economy. Twenty life-members 
were added to our association during the session of 
the Convention. Towards the close of its last 
meeting, the following resolution was presented to 
the consideration of all present : 

Resolved, That regarding a surrender of our right 
of Free Discussion upon the altar of southern sla- 
very, as involving, on our part, the commission of 
moral suicide — treacher}' to the cause of civil liberty 
and of humanity — and guilt before high Heaven ; we 
hereby pledge ourselves to one another — to the oppres- 
sor and the oppressed — to our country and our God — 
that, undeterred by threats of prosecution at common 
law,' whether in the messages of our Governors, the 
pages of our theological reviews, or the reports of 



12 

Legislative Committees, come what may — gag law of 
lynch law — we will never cease from its exercise, 
full, free, and undimished, until the last fetter shall 
be broken, and slavery and prejudice shall be buried 
in one common grave. 

*We know not,' said he who sustained this reso- 
lution, ' how soon it may be made lawful to assail 
and drag us, men and women, to prison, for speak- 
ing in the name of freedom. It is a deep respon- 
sibility we assume by this vote, taken in the pres- 
ence of God and of one another. Are we pre- 
pared to suffer, even unto death, if it shall be ne- 
cessary, to carry out this pledge ? Do we duly re- 
gard its solemnity ?' The members of the Boston 
Female Anti-Slavery Society who were present, 
with a multitude of women from all parts of New 
England, whose hearts are as the heart of one in 
the cause of Christian Freedom, rose with their 
husbands and friends in unanimous support of the 
resolution, whh the deliberate solemnity of self- 
dedication to the God of truth and love and free- 
dom. Often during the coming eventful years of 
struggle and danger, may our hearts be cheered 
and strengthened, and our courage and our hopes 
made high, by going up with such a multitude in 
lofty and invigorating communion ! 

Much interest was excited by this Convention 
in the rjiinds of our enquiring friends, and after is 



13 

was dissolved, so many expressed a wish to listen 
to an exposition of our principles from some elo- 
quent and able advocate, that we resolved to meet 
in Congress Hall, for the purpose of hearing an 
address from Mr. H. B. Stanton, than whom few 
have been more devoted and successful. Our 
friends are attendants on the public services of 
every church in town, and we pursued our usual 
course, (the course of all benevolent societies,) of 
sending notices of the meeting they wished to at- 
tend, to be read from the pulpits. 

It is necessary to glance backward on the His- 
tory of Religious association, in order to under- 
stand how an action in itself so trifling, could be 
in reality of importance to the cause of Christian 
freedom. 

In past years, the influential among that part of 
the community which may be called the religious 
public, avrare of the increase of power derived 
from combination, have made efforts to extend and 
strengthen the denominational unions between the 
North and the South ; Baptists with Baptists, 
Methodists with Methodists, Presbyterians with 
Presbyterians, according as their several sects' 
names were. Tiiis was a misnamed Christian 
union for it was effected by a compromise of Chris- 
tian Truth ; — a disregard of the plainest princi- 
2 



14 

pies laid down by Christ ; — an utter forgetfulness 
of the slave. 

The distinguishing feature of every variety of 
Congregationalism, the independence of the church- 
es, having become nearly effaced by extensive as- 
sociations of the Congregational Clergy, that sect 
was no less entangled than others. All were 
doubly fettered by their connection with the Colo- 
nization Society, by whose protean doctrines they 
were deceived before the Anti-Slavery movement 
commenced. 

Any decided opposition to slavery being 
an infraction of the terms on which all these 
Associations existed, and no one being willing to 
incur the odium of interrupting their harmony, 
this subject came to be considered an interdicted 
one. The Northern members of Baptist triennial 
conventions, Presbyterian general assemblies, and 
Methodist general conferences, felt obliged, for 
consistency's sake, to keep silence even at the 
North ; and naturally enough, undertook to sup- 
press every voice whose earnest pleading for the 
slave, implied a condemnation of tlie course they 
had adopted : till at length, in conference, mission- 
ary and church meetings, the subject was tahuj 
and even prayer was expected to be ' strictly non- 
committal.' In this city in particular, the Eccle- 



J5 

slastical don-iinailon had become so entire during 
the years 1835 — 6, that not only were the church- 
es closed against the pleader for the oppressed, but 
orders were issued to the sextons of most of them 
that notices of anti-slavery meetings should be 
handed to some one, by whom they would be ef- 
fectually suppressed. 

Thus it was that the rights of the proprietors of 
pews, as well as that time-honored relic of the 
customs of the pilgrim fathers — the free old ptac- 
tice of giving notices from the pulpit, were sacri- 
ficed to the demands of the spirit of slavery. 
These notices derive an importance not their own, 
from the information which a watchful eye obtains 
from them. They serve as moral thermometers. 
They indicate unerringly the state of the atmos- 
phere into which they are introduced. They show 
the different degrees in which free men and women 
merge their duties to 2,500,000 of their country- 
men who are slaves, in their subserviency to 250,- 
000 who are slaveholders. 

There are but iew Christians of the Unitarian 
denomination at the South and consequently there 
was less field for tliis sort of religious union among 
their societies. 

Though their ministers are generally inimical to 
freedom of speech, yet their church government 



16 

is less consolidated than that of other sects. Their 
leading influences emanate less from ' Consocia- 
tions ' than from counting houses, and their oppo- 
sition assumes the form of a mercantile and busi- 
ness transaction. 

The following extracts from the columns of the 
Centinel & Gazette, will illustrate these remarks : 

The congregation worshipping at Dr. Channing's 
church were again thrown into an unpleasant state 
of excitement, yesterday forenoon, by the trickery of 
a prominent member of the Abolition Society. We 
have received several communications on the subject, 
two of which we subjoin : — 

Messrs. Editors — As a member of the Federal 
street Society, I was sJiochcd yesterday, at the con- 
clusion of the morning service, by the reading of an 
invitation of the Abolitionists to attend one of their 
meetings, to be held this week. The ordinance of 
the Lord's Supper was to be celebrated immediately 
after the reading of this shameful invitation. It was 
a firebrand thrown into a christian church ; was in- 
tended as an offence to a large majority of the wor- 
shippers of that society, and calculated to arouse ir- 
ritable feelings. A discourse had been delivered, of 
a most catholic spirit, by a stranger — a gentleman of 
fine talents and character: and advantage was taken 
of his being a stranger, to thrust the notice into his 
hands. This is the second time such an outrage has 
been attempted. I should have thought, after their- 
ritated feelings lohich have been excited hy the late 
meeting at 3Ir. Slagden's church, that a sense of pro- 
pruty and delicacy y to say nothing of christian prin- 



17 

cipfes, toould have preventtd this insult to thh 
CHURCH. (!!!!) A Member. 

Messrs. Editors: — We have heard so much of late 
of the rights of persons lawfully to assemble for free 
discussion that I am led to inquire, whether those 
opposed to the Anti-Slavery Society have not rights 
also, but whether the house of God is to be meanly 
invaded ; the absence of the regular clergyman taken 
advantage of, and the feelings of a congregation out- 
raged, by the reading of notices for their meetings. 

For the second time this trick (for I can use no 
more proper term) was played in one of our church- 
es yesterday, and it is high time that the standing 
committee, whose duty it is to supply the pulpit in 
the absence of the pastors, should take some notice 
of the subject. For one^ I would not oppose this 
Society by force, but when some of its members are 
so lost to all sense of decency as to thrust notices of 
their meetings into the pulpit, and avail themselves 
of the presence of a stranger to have them read, it 
is proper that some measures should be taken to save 
the feelings of those who attend church for a relig' 
ions purpose. 

An Attendant of Dr. Channing's Church. 

[From the Daily Advertiser.] 

Mr. Editor. — Last evening I read in the Centi- 
nel and Gazette of Monday, two communications 
stated by the Editors to be part of several received, 
and purporting to be from members of the Federal 
Street Society, complaining of a notice read at the 
close of the morning service on Sunday, inviting all 
persons to attend a meeting of the Female Anti-Sla- 
very Society. I am also an attendant on the worship 
of that church, and was present when the notice was 
2* 



18 

read, and in common with, (I believe) most of tJiosc 
around me, greatly regretted the circumstance, as one 
which, though trivicd and harmless in itself, was ex- 
tremehj indiscreet and uncourtcous in those icho caus- 
ed it, in view of its relation to a subject on which so 
much puerile irritabilitij has been exhibited by a com- 
munity remarkable for liberal rationality on every 
other ; and in recollection of a strong sensation pro- 
duced in the same Society last year, by a similar 
measure. Bat it appears to me, that the very worst 
possible method of redressing such an imagined 
grievance, is by bringing it before the public in the 
newspapers ; because its natural tendency is to im- 
press the public mind, that the Federal Street Socie- 
ty is composed of two opposing classes of persons, 
one of which is disposed to intrude abolition senti- 
ments and notices on the attention of the other, in 
utter disregard of the sanctity of the time and place, 
and the feelings of their opponents, and the other, 
possessed of such childish irritability that they can- 
not hear a simple invitation to a Society meeting, 
without being ' shocked,' and considering it ' a fire- 
brand thrown into a christian church,' intended as an 
offence to the worshippers, and even gravely crying 
out that their ' rights are invaded.' Now sir, I have 
a strong attachment to the Federal Street Society — 
personally to its members — and generally, as the 
field where my holiest and sweetest impressions have 
sprung up, and where they are most nurtured and 
sustained, and I have a pride (I hope an honest one) 
in it too, in the belief that it is second to none in chris- 
tian liberality, and I humbly trust, in exalted piety, 
and I have a deep anxiety that it should not appear 
before the public in the degraded aspect in which it 
is represented. That there are a few persons in it, 



19 

of both the classes I have described, is now unhap- 
pily made too apparent to the public by these injudi- 
cious communications, to be longer denied ; but I 
have the strongest reason for believing that both to- 
gether, form a very small portion of the Society ; and 
that by far the greatest part of its members, while 
they have no sympathy with the abolitionists, as such, 
and no desire to attend their meetings, are raised by 
their Christian tuition entirely above any pusillani- 
mous irritation at an invitation to them ; and would 
be ashamed of any interruption of good feeling to- 
wards their weaker brethren, who exhibit such a de- 
ficiency of Christian forbearance. I know not wheth- 
er I shall be credited in this representation, but it 
may serve to prevent the hasty formation of injurious 
opinions, and any one who will take the trouble to 
investigate the character and sentiments of the So- 
ciety, will I trust, find it substantiated. I leave my 
name with you, which is at the service of any mem- 
ber of the Society. 

One of the Federal Street Society. 
June 8th, 1836. 

' They are at their last year's tricks again,' — 
exclaimed the field mice, when the field was about 
to be ploughed up for the reception of fresh seed 
— ' see how they aim to irritate and insult us ! ' 

The gentlemen who penned these articles, fol- 
lowed out their suggestion of a censorship of no- 
tices ; and thus, to borrow the expressive figure of 
an eloquent speaker, • the cartwhip is thrust over 
Mason and Dixon's line,' and the scourge hangs 
conspicuous over northern pulpits. 



We learn, from this portion of the history of the 
year how a word may sometimes be a deed ; and 
how a single one, at the right time and place, may 
convey ^ doctrine, reproof, correction and instruction 
in righteousness.' This dread of light on the part 
of some, is a proof that they perceive the hearts of 
others to be impressible. It is a proof that the 
hearts of many are pleading with them for the 
truth, for the bondman, for the abolitionist, for 
* liberal rationality,' for pure religion and undefiled 
before God and the father. 

The meeting took place according to notice and 
was very fully attended by those who wish to know 
for themselves, whether we are guilty of listening 
to orators who express opinions ' in favor of cruel 
vengeance on the part of the slaves.'* 

That they were satisfied that the peaceful and 
forgiving principles of the Gospel of Christ, form 
the basis of our faith and practice, is proved by 
their becoming members of our association in large 

* This endorsement of the Andover charge against Mr. Thomp- 
son, quoted triumphantly by the pro-slavery party, has never been 
retracted by Dr. Channing. When convinced of its falsity he mere- 
ly ceases to reiterate it. 

Throughout the New Testament as much stress is laid on confes- 
$ion as on repentance. Whoever received the truth was com- 
manded to do it openly. * Believe Rndhe baptised.^ Dr. Channing 
believea, but he avoids the baptism. 



21 



numbers. We had no reporter present, and there- 
fore can present no sketch of Mr. Stanton's elo- 
quent and convincing address, or of the appropriate 
remarks of Mr. May. 

Rev. Mr. Snovvden presented the case of Mary 
Smith, a destitute young person, recently deliver- 
ed from slavery into which she had fallen from the 
circumstance of having been shipwrecked on the 
southern coast. Through the means of a repre- 
sentation obtained from the Governor of Massa- 
chusetts to the Governor of North Carolina, she 
■was restored by the individual who claimed her. 
On her arrival, it appeared that, though originally 
from this city, and shi'pwrecl^ed into slavery, she 
is not the Mary Smith specified in the Governor's 
letter. That Mary Smith yet remains in bondage. 

Let us claim for our country no precedence, on 
this point, over Algerines or Arabs, while a young 
girl, innocent and unfortunate, a Bostonian and 
free born, is subjected, on the coast of chivalrous 
Carolina, to the usages respecting flotsam and jet- 
sam. A subscription was immediately opened for 
her benefit. 

The following letter from the Hon. Mrs. Ers« 
kine, in behalf of ladies of Edinburgh, was then 
read : 



22 

Edinburgh, Feb. 22, 1836. 
Dear Madam — 

I am requested by my colleagues in 'The Edin- 
burgh Ladies Emancipation Society,' to express the 
warm admiration and esteem we feel for the Ladies 
of Boston, who have so nobly, amidst dangers and 
contumely, united their efforts to effect the liberty of 
millions of their fellow creatures, and to open the 
way for them to become members of the Church of 
Christ and heirs of immortal glory. We, with all 
our hearts and minds, wish you God speed — we 
cheer you on by bidding you remember, that you are 
engaged in the cause of humanity, of justice, of re- 
ligion, and of God : — We would tell you that we 
have fought the same battle, but how different was 
our situation ! we had only to contend with a little 
ridicule and contempt, whilst you are surrounded 
with difficulty and danger. In this we truly sympa- 
thize with you. From our excellent friend, Mr. 
Thompson, we have heard of your heroic, your chris- 
tian conduct in your hour of trial. Nothing but the 
firmest trust in the Arm of Omnipotence could have 
supported and strengthened you. Your Sisters in 
Edinburgh pray that our gracious and all powerful 
God may ever be your defence and your shield. We 
rejoiced most truly in the safe return of Mr. Thomp- 
son, although we feel that you have sustained an irre- 
parable loss. A time, we fervently trust, is coming 
when your Nation, profiting by the good seed he has 
sown, and enlightened by the Mittle band' he has 
left behind, will not only solicit his return, but will 
hail it as a boon granted by that God whose King- 
dom he has endeavored to set up. 

Our Society has resolved to continue their labors, 
humble though they are, and to endeavor to keep 



28 



alive, in this country, the interest at present felt for 
yours. Mr. Thorapson, whilst he has depicted, in 
its true colors, the sin of the United States in their 
cruel, oppressive, and unjust conduct to their darker 
brethren, has dwelt with peculiar pleasure, in many 
of his public Lectures on redeeming qualities, such 
as the Education of the ivJiite population and the no- 
ble and Christian stand made for the morality of the 
people in the support given to Temperance. Oh, 
that as nations we could mutually act as Monitors to 
each other. 

At any time when opportunities occur, our Com- 
mittee will feel honored in receiving any communi- 
cation from you, and we shall be happy to know that 
our sympathy and good will are acceptable. 
I remain, dear madam, 
With respect and esteem, 
Your obedient servant, 
MARY ANNE ERSKINE, Sec'y, 

To this letter, our Secretary was instructed to 
give a speedy reply, which was done as follows : 

Boston, July 26, 1835. 
Dear Madam, 

Your kind and feeling expression of the sympathy 
and esteem of the Ladies of Edinburgh, is received 
by the Boston Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society with 
grateful emotion. Our numbers are comparatively 
ie^ ; but though one labored single-handed, to make 
all men free and just, he would not be alone, for the 
God and Father of all men would be with him. 
This consideration only has sustained our weakness, 
and enabled us to obey the commands of immutable 
duty, while we reject the suggestions of what has 
been well called the disgusting doctrine of expedien- 
cy. 



24 



It is not now for the slave alone that the friends of 
Emancipation in the United States, are laboring. It 
is also for the menaced institutions of the free ; — it is 
for Christianity and law, alike contemned and cast 
aside, as often as they command justice and forbid 
oppression. It is for a nation in peril — for their be- 
loved country, humbled in the dust before the indig- 
nant gaze of Christendom, that they throw their 
whole spirit into the demand they make of Freedom 
for the human race. 

Our Statesmen strive in vain to account for the 
anarchy into which the country is fidling ; in vain do 
our Clergy wander among the subtleties of theology, 
or lose themselves in Philosophical speculations; 
searching for the causes of the alarming declension 
of Morals throughout the land, and the strife and 
dissension which convulse the church. In vain do 
the casual observers, and half-thinkers, whom recent 
events have compelled to blush for their country, try 
to persuade themselves that the nation is not respon- 
sible, — 'that the church is not responsible, — that in- 
dividuals are not responsible ; all such endeavors are 
idle. The real state of the North American Re- 
public is painfully apparent to all who love truth and 
justice. ' We are verily guilty concerning our broth- 
er ! — therefore is this distress come upon us.' 

How earnestly do we hope that the abolitionists 
have not been too late in coming to the rescue ! How 
fervently do we pray that this Gospel of Christ, (not 
Sine2o commandment, but the old, that men love one 
another) may overcome hate and oppression. Our 
hearts are ready ; though the sacrifice of our proper- 
ty, our reputation, our life, should be among the 
means ordained of God to this eifect. 

We rejoice that we are not called to sacrifice all 



25 



liuman approbation. Deeply and gratefully do rve 
appreciate the strengthening sympathy of which 
your letter assures us. We knew it would be so. 
We felt that the Liberators of the British West In- 
dies — the descendants of the assertors of religions 
freedom in days gone by, would be with us. From 
the conflict with falsehood and enmity, we look to 
Covenanted Scotland ; and are strengthened and 
consoled by the thought that her daughters are watch- 
i-ng with deep solicitude, and forwarding by prayer 
the ' magnificent and awful cause/ in which we are 
engaged. 

It would afford us very great satisfaction to hear 
from you as often as opportunities offer. Valuable 
ideas will doubtless occur to you, being spectators^ 
which might not so readily suggest themselves to lis. 
The unparalleled success of Mr. Thompson's labors 
js a continual memento of the good which may be ef- 
fected in one country by m.oral influence from anoth- 
er ; his fearless but affectionate exposition of truth is 
even now working in the hearts of his enemies, and 
we confidently anticipate the time when those who 
so madly and so blindly heaped injuries on Jdm be- 
cause they hated the truth, will be anxious for his re- 
turn, that they may express their penitence and their 
thanks. 

I am, dear madam, with grateful regard, 
Yours faithfully, 
MARIA W. CHAPMAN, Sec'jj. 

We select the following accoimt of the meeting 
from the Boston Courier : 

To the Editor of the Courier : 

Hearing yesterday, as I passed Congress Hall, the 
screams of one who appeared to be in distress, I 
3 



26 



went up to see what could be the matter; when I 
found several hundred females of all occupations 
and colors, gazing and quivering at a spectacle of 
the most writhing agony. A miserable young man, 
expelled not long since, for disorderly conduct, from 
Lane Seminary ,"* was endeavoring to avenge himself 
on slaveholders ; declaring, in a foam of anger, that 
not only he, but the Almighty, would hurl at ihem 
chain-lightning ! The women sat watching each 
agonislical twist and dying contortion, as if it were 
a luxury. Verily, if we must have gladiatorial exhi- 
bitions, let us have the ball and done with it, and 
not set a poor phrenzied wretch fighting with a 
phantom that exists on the other side of the Poto- 
mac. If the women, such as composed this mot- 
ley assembly, cannot find sufficient to do in taking 
care of their ragged children, then let some employ- 
ment be given them, in which they may at least be 
saved from disgracing their sex; or if they must 
have a spectacle, let them put the halter at once 
around the neck of this martyr to revenge, witness 
his swinging fidgets, and then go home. C. W. 

At our quarterly meeting on the 14th of July, 
it was determined to present the subject of sla- 
very in the District of Columbiajf to the consid- 

*^ The facility of Lane Seminary would no doubt be ' ready to 
bear melancholy testimony to the talents and piety of this individual.' 

•j- It has been objected In past years, tlmt our power to effect any 
change was so little, that it was absurd to exercise it. We an- 
swered then, that it was much to have absolved ourselves, and 
maintained consistency, by so easy a process as the act of signature 
to a petition for the extinction of slavery in the District of Colum- 



27 

eration of the women of Massachusetts. Four- 
teen persons volunteered to perform this service, 

bia. It is now objected that oiir power is so great, tliat it is dan- 
gerous to exercise it. That the slaveholders will be angry ! — and 
where are we then 1 — disunion, division of the church, civil war, 
&c. &c. We reply, that there is something of more consequence 
than man's impotent wrath. The revealed command to ' come out 
on the Lord's side,' must be obeyed, and the civil war, disunion, 
and division of the churches, left at his Almighty disposal. Even 
the light of nature is sufficient to chase away the pestilential doc- 
trine of expediency. 

' If there be a God he must delight in virtue, 
And that which he delights in must be happy.' 
Happy in its consequences — most happy lor the minds that receive 
it. If we are not enough grieved at the existence of slavery, to ask 
that it may be abolished in the ten miles square, over which Con' 
gress possesses exclusive jurisdiction, we may rest assured that we 
are slaveholders in heart, and indeed under the endurance of the. 
penalty which selfishness inflicts — the slow but certain death of the 
sou I. 

We sometimes, but not often, hear it said — ' It is such an odd, 
unladylike thing to do.' We concede that the human soul, in 
the full exercise of its most God-like power of self-denial and 
exertion for the good of others, is, emphatically, a very 
unladylike thing. We have never heard this objection, but 
from that sort of a woman who is dead while she lives, or 
to be pitied as the victim of domestic tyranny. The woman 
who makes it, is generally one who has struggled from child- 
hood up to womanhood, through a process of spiritual suffocation. 
Her infancy was passed in serving as a convenience for the display 
of elegant baby linen. Her youth, in training for a more public 
display ol braiding the hair, and wearing of gold, and putting on of 
apparel; while ' the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, the hid- 
den man of the heart,^ is not deemed worthy the attainment. Her 
summers fly away in changes of air and water; her winters in 
changes of flimsy garments, in inhaling lamp-smokej jvnd drinking 



28 

by lodging a copy of a form of petition, with an 
earnest entreaty to circulate the same in the hands 
of at least one person in every town throughout 
the Commonwealth. Extracts were then read 
from letters of a lady in Alabama to one of our 
Society, which corroborate the testimony respect- 
ing slavery, given by those of our members who 
have resided at the south. 

The following address and form of petition were 
adopted : 

ADDRESS OF THE BOSTON FEMALE ANTI-SLAVERY 

SOCIETY. 

TO THE WOMEN OF MASSACHUSETTS. 

Sisters and Friends : 

As immortal souls, created by God to know and 
love him with all our hearts, and our neighbor as 

eliampagne at midnlglit with tlie most dl:?sipatecl men in the cona- 
munity. This is the woman who tells us it is unladylike to ask 
that children may no longex- be sold away from their parents, or wives 
from their husbands, in the District of Columbia, and adds, ' they 
ought to be mobbed who ask it.' We present her the only argument 
she can comprehend — the fact that 80,000 of the noblest among the 
raatronage of England, have annually entreated of their government, 
to do all in its power for the extinction of slavery, till they prevail- 
ed. The case of such a woman, is the case that makes us feel the 
powerlessness of mere human effort for the conversion of the sinner. 
Nothing but the spirit of God can elevate that debased mind, or 
give true life and joy to that ossified heart. Oh, how painful is the 
contemplation of the ruins of a nature, a little lower than the an- 
gels ! let the reflection, that it is only by the grace of God that we 
differ, keep us humble, and fill our minds with continued supplica- 
tion and forgiveness. 



29 

ourselves, we owe immediate obedience to his com- 
mands, respecting the sinful system of Slavery, be- 
neath which 2,500,000 of our fellow-immortals, chil- 
dren of the same country, are crushed, soul and body, 
in the extremity of degradation and agony. 

As wumeM, it is incumbent upon us, instantly and 
always, to labor to increase the knowledge and the 
love of God, that such concentrated hatred of his 
character and laws may no longer be go intrenched 
in meii's business and bosoms, that they dare not 
condemn and renounce it. 

As icives and ?nothers, b.s sisters and daugliters, we 
are deeply responsible for the influence we have on 
the human race. We are bound to exert it ; we are 
bound to urge men to cease to do evil, and learn to 
do well. We are bound to urge them to regain, de- 
fend, and preserve inviolate the rights of all, espec- 
ially those whom they have most deeply wronged. 
We are bound to the constant exercise of the only 
right we ourselves enjoy — the right which our phys- 
ical weakness renders peculiarly appropriate — the 
right of petition. We are bound to try how much it 
can accomplish in the District of Columbia, or we 
are as verily guilty touching slavery as our brethren 
and sisters in the slaveholding States : for Congress 
possesses power ' to exercise exclusive legislation 
over the District of Columbia in all cases whatsoev- 
er,' by a provision of the Constitution ; and by an 
act of the First Congress, the right of petition was 
secured to us. 

By a resolution of the Last Congress, that no pe- 
tition respecting slavery, shall be printed for the in- 
formation of the members, and that no vote shall be 
taken on it, by which we may know whether the 
men we call our representatives are truly such, the 

3* 



30 



whole nation is made to feel the slaveholder's scourge. 
The best and noblest of our countrymen, thus see- 
ing, and thus feeling these things, have spoken and 
acted like freemen — Oh, let us aid them to rouse the 
slumbering manhood of the rest ! Let us rise in 
the moral power of womanhood ; and give utterance 
to the voice of outraged mercy, and insulted justice, 
and eternal truth, and mighty love, and holy free- 
dom ; in the name and for the sake of our Saviour ; 
and in the mountain-moving faith, that we can do 
all things, Christ strengthening us. 

Let us petition : — petition, till, even for our impor- 
tunity, we cannot be denied. Let us know no rest 
till we have done our utmost to convince the mind, 
and to obtain the testimony of every woman, in ev- 
ery town, in every county of our Commonwealth, 
against the horrible slave-traffic, which makes the 
District of Columbia a disgrace to the earth, and ex- 
hibits in the centre of a Christian country, an unre- 
buked wickedness, for which, no other spot on earth 
affords a parallel. 

To facilitate this, we annex a form of petition, 
and entreat the aid of every woman whose hand it 
reaches, to circulate it (or a better,) rapidly, faith- 
fully and thoroughly, and to transmit the signatures, 
as soon as possible, to 46 Washington Street, Boston, 
addressed to the person whose name, as a member 
of our Executive Committee, shall be affixed to this 
adddress. 

A detail of the mere physical particulars involved 
in the arrangements of a single slave-dealer, would 
show the abolition of Slavery in the ten miles square, 
to be 'a cause worth dying for : ' but while our 
whole country, by deliberately sanctioning such 
atrocities, stands before God and the world, as the 



31 



strong hold of Slavery, while the institution of the 
free are daily breakincr down under the operation of 
the Slave system ; while in the best regulated parts 
of our country, the lives of the free are endangered 
by an avowal of the principles of the Declaration of 
Independence ; and freedom itself embittered be- 
cause honorable and dignifying industry is stigmatiz- 
ed as slavish — while these things are, we must de- 
vote ourselves to avert the fearful crisis to which 
these things are leading. Weak and wicked is the 
idea, that union in oppression is possible. Every 
nation that attempts it, ' God beholds, and drives 
asunder ; ' and has done from the foundation of the 
world. 

Christian friends, again we conjure you, by all 
that woman holds dear and holy, to labor as woman 
has never yet done, in view of the unutterable de- 
struction which waits visibly round about, to make 
our land a perpetual desolation, unless the people 
repent. 

Leave no energy unemployed, no righteous means 
untried. Grudge no expense — yield to no opposi- 
tion — forget fatigue — till, by th-e strength of prayer 
and sacrifice, the spirit of love shall have overcome 
sectional jealousy, political rivalry, prejudice against* 
color, cowardly concession of principle, wicked 
compromise with sin, devotion to gain, and spiritual 
despotism, which now bear with a mountain's weight 
upon the Slave. Let but each woman in the land do 
a Christian woman's duty, and the result cannot fail 
to be his instant, peaceful, unconditional deliverance 
Thus, and thus only can we hope to deliver our owi 
souls. Only in thus doing, can we hope to hear ; is- 
voice of Jesus, saying unto us, * Come, ye blessed of 



my Father ! — Inasmuch as ye have done it unto tlie 
least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me 1 ' 
By order of the Boston Female A. S. Society, 
M. W. CHAPMAN, ) ^^ c. , • 
M. AMMIDON, j ^''- '^^^^'^^«^-^^^- 
July 13, 183G. 

PETITION. 
To the Honorable Senate and House of Represen- 
tatives in Congress assembled: 
The undersigned, women of deeply 

convinced of the sinfulness of Slavery, and keenly 
aggrieved by its existence in a part of our country 
over which Congress possesses exclusive jurisdiction 
in all cases whatsoever, do most earnestly petition 
your honorable body, immediately to abolish Slavery 
in the District of Columbia, and to declare every 
human being free, who sets foot upon its soil. 

We also respectfully announce our intention, to 
present the same petition, yearly, before your honor- 
able body, that it may at least be a ' memorial of us,' 
that in the holy cause of Human Freedom, ' We 
have done what we could.' 

We subjoin the following ' opinions of the 
press : ' 

[From the Boston Recorder, Aug. 19.] 

RIGHTS ! RIGHTS ! ! RIGHTS ! ! ! 

What is the moral tendency of thinking and talk- 
ing and reading all the time about Rights ? What 
kind of Christians shall we be, if our religious char- 
acter is formed by perpetual lectures on Rights ? 
What if the doctrine of giving to every one just what 
he has a Right to receive, were made the supreme 
law of the universe ? Why, the whole human race 



33 



would be turned into hell at once and forever. If 
every intelligent being should act on the principle of 
exercising all his undoubted Rights, woe to the 
world of sinners ! The ' Father's throne ' would be 
only a ^ seat of dreadful wrath,' and shoot ' devour- 
ing flame.' Is it proper or profitable for us to talk 
and act as if our characters were formed by the con- 
templation of such a God ? The Bible, we are sure, 
invites us to contemplate a God who is ' merciful and 
gracious, slow unto anger, abundant in goodness, 
forgiving iniquity, transgression and sin ; ' to catch 
his spirit and imitate his example; and not to form 
ourselves on the model of one who is evermore in- 
sisting upon all his Rights. 

'All! But we are talking about the legal and 
constitutional rights of men, which are good, and 
should be held firmly, against the encroachments of 
■men.' 

Be it so. Did you gel that spirit, of holding 
Rights firmly, by imitating God? In what part of 
his life did Christ set you such an example? In 
what part of his word has he left you such a pre- 
cept ! 

What do you think of the man, who insists on all 
his legal and constitutional Rights ? He has a legal 
and constitutional right to be a miser ; to keep back 
every cent of his property from every generous pur- 
pose ; to enforce the collection of principle and in- 
terest, to the uttermost farthing, from the unfortu- 
nate; to hear their tale of suffering unmoved, or to 
refuse to hear it at all. 

Dea. Giles has a legal and a constitutional Right 
to work his distillery, and every body who can get a 
license has such a Right to make as many drunkards 
as he can : disregarding entirely the tears of broken- 



34 



hearted wives, and the starvation of abused children, 
warnings from the prison and the gallows, from tlie 
cell of the maniac, and the grave of the suicide. — 
Will not a universal clamor for Rights — Rights — 
Rights — streiigthen their consciences to do it? 

Any impudent teJlow has a legal and constitution- 
al Right to ' discuss ' any subject whatever, as im- 
pudently as he pleases. Tho^e who are as impudent 
as himself have the same Right to hear him. He 
has a Right to call them blockheads, liars, hypocrites, 
knaves, and whatever else he pleases. Their Right 
to disgrace themselves by impudence is as undoubted 
as his ; and as he teaches them, by example and 
precept both, to insist on Rights, they will probably 
use it ; demanding and having their half of the ' free 
discussion,' and filling up their part of the time with 
hisses, howls, groans, interjections, and verbs in the 
imperative mood. There is no law against this, — 
unless indeed the orator bargained for the place, on 
the express condition that the ' discussion ' should 
be ' free ' on his side only. 

* But certainly, he has no right to call them knaves, 
unless they are so.' Certainly, that is a great mis- 
take. He has a legal and constitutional right to tell 
as many lies as he pleases ; only taking care to avoid 
about five classes of ' words actionable in them- 
selves,' and to tell no lie about any individual, which 
can be proved in court to work pecuniary injury. 
Liberty of speech, pushed as far as law and consti- 
tution will permit, includes the liberty of telling all 
other kinds of lies without restraint. 

* Women have rights, too, and must not be brow- 
beaten out of them by public opinion. They must 
use their rights, let people say what they will, or ere 
long men will deny that they have them.' Good, 



85 

One of their legal and constitutional rights is, to get 
married, if they can. If any unmarried woman can 
think of any man, whose duty it is to marry her, she 
has an undoubted legal and constitutional right to go 
to him and tell him so, and argue the case with him, 
if he will listen, and convince him, if she be able. 
Ought not seme of them to be exercising this right, 
lest its very existence should be denied? Indeed, 
how can they innocently do otherwise? Is not the 
neglect of duty a sin? And may they 'suffer sin 
upon a brother,' without rebuking him ? If they do, 
are they not partakers of his guilt? If they are 
afraid of blushing, a few lectures against ' false deli- 
cacy ' may prepare them for the undertaking. As 
to refraining from the exercise of their rights out of 
respect to public sentiment, somebody says that some 
of them are ' made of sterner stuff,' than to do that. 

If any persons find fault with these remarks, so be 
it. They have an undoubted legal and constitution- 
al right, to be as displeased as it pleases them to be, 
and to express all the displeasure they feel, and more 
too; and that, whether they are displeased for good 
reasons, or bad reasons, or without any reason at all. 

N. B. We have thought very gravely on this sub- 
ject ; and perhaps we shall write gravely upon it at 
some other time. We exhibit it in this way now, 
just to gain attention to it ;— which we suppose we 
have a legal and constitutional Right to do. Mean- 
while, we think our readers uould do well to think of 
it a great deal, and very soberly. The moral char- 
acter of our country and the character o^ our relig- 
ion is suffering severely from the error which we 
have endeavored to expose. 

[From tile Boston Commercial Gazette of Aug. 16.] 

We are sorry to perceive that the Salem Register 
appears to be about to join the Abolition incendia- 



m 



ries. We had a better opinion of so respectable a 
paper. The last Register contains a silly address of 
a parcel of sillier women, who style themselves ' the 
Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society/ which address 
is a tissue of absurdities and falsehoods from begin- 
ning to end. For instance, in the first paragraph 
these petticoat politicians speak of ' the sinful sys- 
tem of slavery, beneath which, 2,500,000 of our fel- 
low immortals, children of the same country, are 
crushed, soul and body, in the cxircmity of degra- 
dation and agony. ^ Now we should like to enquire- 
if these simpletons who make such wholesale asser- 
tions, ever saw a slave in their lives, or know any 
thing of their character or condition, other than 
what they have gathered second or third handed from' 
the jaundiced eyes of prejudiced individuals. We 
happen to know something of the condition of slaves 
both in this country and elsewhere, not from hear- 
say, but from personal observation, and we positively 
declare, from our own personal knowledge, that these 
assertions respecting the * degradation and agony ' 
of the slaves is utterly unfounded and false ; and it 
gives us pain to see a paper edited with so much- 
talent and ability as the Essex Register, aiding in 
the circulation of such an infamous address as that 
set forth by ' the Boston Female Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety,' whose main object seems to be to ' lead cap- 
tive silly women,' who would be much more usefully 
and proEtably employed at home attending to their 
household affairs, than prowling about stirring up 
discord and dissension, preaching upon a subject 
about which they know no more than the man in the 
moon. And to cap the climax of impudence, they 
Mave the modesty to talk of Christian Charity, as if 
St were an act of Christiaa Charity to stir uj^ scdi- 



37 

tion and rehelUon, and urge the blacks to commit muv" 
dcr hy cuttiug their masters'' throats, and to solicit 
signatures to a foolish petition to Congress, which if 
ever sent on to Washington, will probably shar^ tiie 
the fate of former ones on that subject. We are surpris- 
ed that any sensible or considerate Editor, as we con- 
sider the Editor of the Essex Register to be, should 
give place to such an infamous and seditious address. 
The following is the testimony of Angelina E. 
Grimke,* on this subject, in her noble appeal to 
the Christian W^oraen of the south : 

But I will now say a few words on the subject of 
Abolitionism. Doubtless you have all heard Anti- 
Slavery Societies denounced as insurrectionary and 
mischievous, fanatical and dangerous. It has been 
said they publish the most abominable untruths, and 
that they are endeavoring to excite rebellions at the 
South. Have you believed these reports, my friends? 
have you also been deceived by these false asser- 
tions ? Listen to me, then, whilst I endeavor to 
wipe from the fair character of Abolitionism such 
unfounded accusations. You know that / am a 
Southerner ; you know that my dearest relatives are 
now in a slave State. Can you for a moment be- 
lieve I would prove so recreant to the feelings of a 
daughter and a sister, as to join a society which was 
seeking to overthrow slavery by falsehood, bloodshed, 
and murder? I appeal to you who have known and 
loved me in days that are passed, cnuyou believe it ? 
No! my friends. As a Carolinian, 1 was peculiarly 
jealous of any movements on this subject; and be- 
fore I would join an Anti-Slavery Society, I took the 

* Sister of the Hon. Thos. S. Grimke, l&te of S. Carolina. 

4 



38 

precaution of becoming acquainted with some of the 
leading Abolitionists, of reading their publications 
and attending their meetings, at which 1 heard ad- 
dresses both from colored and white men ; and it 
was not until I was fully convinced that their princi- 
ples were cntirchj pacijic^ and their efforts mill/ 
moral, that I gave my name as a member lo the Fe- 
male Anti-Slavery Society of Philadelphia. Sine© 
that time, I have regularly taken the Liberator, and 
read many Anti-Slavery pamphlets and papers and 
books, and can asj^ure you 1 never have seen a single 
insurrectionary paragraph, and never read any ac- 
count of cruelty which I could not believe. South- 
erners may deny the truth of these accounts, but why 
do they not p?'Oi;e them to be false ? Their violent 
expressions of horror at such accounts being believ- 
ed, may deceive some, but they cannot deceive? me, 
for I lived too long in the midst of slavery, not to 
know what slavery is. When / speak of this sys- 
tem, ' 1 speak that I do know/ and I am not at all 
afraid to assert, that Anti-Slavery publications have 
not overdrawn the monstrous features of slavery at 
all. And many a Southerner knows ih'is as well as I 
do. A lady in North Carolina remarked to a friend 
of mine, about eighteen months since, ' Northerners 
know nothing at all about slavery ; they think it is 
perpetual bondage only ; but of the depth of degra- 
dation that word involves, they have no conception ; 
if they had, they would never cease their efforts until 
so AornftZe a system was overthrown.' She did not 
know how faithfully some Northern men and North- 
ern women had studied this subject; how diligently 
they had searched out the cause of ' him who had 
none to help him,' and how fearlessly they had told 
the story of the negro's wrongs. Yes; Northerners 
know ivery thing about slavery now. This monster 



39 



of iniquity has been unveiled to the world, her fright- 
ful features unmasked, and soon, very soon, will she 
be regarded with no more complacency by the Amer- 
ican republic than is the idol of Juggernaut, rolling 
its bloody wheels over the crushed bodies of its pros- 
trate victims. 

***** 

JVe knoiv that the papers of which the Charleston 
mail was robbed, were not insurrectionary, and that 
they were iiot sent to the colored people as was re- 
ported. We hiow that Amos Dresser was no insur- 
recti4inist tlitough he was accused of being so, and 
on this false accusation was publicly whipped at 
Nashville, in the midst of a crowd of infuriated 
slaveholders. Was that young man disgraced by this 
infliction of corporal punishment ? No more than 
was the great apostle of the Gentiles who five times 
received forty stripes, save one. Like him, he might 
have said, ' henceforth I bear in my body the marks 
of the Lord Jesus,' for it was for the truth's sake, he 
si/ffered, as much as did the Apostle Paul. Are 
Nelson, and Garrett, and Williams, and other Aboli- 
tionists who have recently been banished from Mis- 
souri, insurrectionists ? We hnoio they are noty 
whatever slaveholders may choose to call them. 
The spirit which now asperses the character of the 
Abolitionists, is the very same which dressed up the 
Christians of Spain in the skins of wild beasts and 
pictures of devils when they were led to execution as 
heretics. Before we condemn individuals, it is nec- 
essary, even in a wicked community, to accuse them 
of some crime ; hence, when Jezebel wished to 
compass the death of Naboth, men of Belial were 
suborned to bear false witness against him, and so 
it was with Stephen, and so it ever has been, and 



40 



ever will be, as long as there is any virtue to suffer 
on the rack, or on the gallows. False witnesses 
must appear against Abolitionists before they can be 
condemned. 

The warm season had now arrived, and with it 
canae as usual, the summer sojourners from the 
south. Year after year they have visited New- 
England, and found preachers and editors becom- 
ing more and more obsequious, all allusions to the 
condition of the wronged and insulted slave, studi- 
ously avoided in the domestic circle, and the north- 
ern conscience becoming familiarized with the 
crime of slaveholding. They have found nothing 
to quicken their moral sense, or enlighten their 
mental darkness. Their pictures of the excellen- 
cies of the system began to be looked on with fa- 
vor, even by those whose boasted knowledge of 
the philosophy of mind and the laws of moral be- 
ing, should have enabled them to detect the false 
coloring. The knowledge and reverence of right- 
eousness, — the life giving spirit of a community, 
as well as the soul of an individual, was well nigh 
lost. From the moment we were aroused to the 
perception of all this, we resolved in our fee- 
ble measure, to make a direct application of the 
first principles of Christianity, to the cases of such 
slaves as were brought w^ithin the sphere of our 
observation by their masters. This year it seemed 



41 

to us that the numbers of such were greater than 
usual. At the Tremont, the Maverick, and the 
Norfolk houses, in the suburbs and throughout the 
city, we were continually reminded of duty by 
their presence. They came with every fresh ar- 
rival by the rail-roads and steamboats. No pre- 
judice against color ever being exhibited by the 
north, though free women of color, of high mor- 
al and intellectual character and cultivation, and of 
those strong powers which no prejudice can en- 
tirely crush, have been refused the accommodation 
of public conveyances, out of deference to the 
prejudice of the south against freedom. Among 
those who have received our aid, the case of L. 
T. is peculiarly interesting and a few memoranda 
respecting it are subjoined. She possesses un- 
common vigor of thought and power of expression 
and is of a temperament which would as ill brook 
the necessary and inseparable distresses of a slave, 
and has probably been as unprofitable as such, as 
the most aristocratic woman of the land. 

After her escape from the Tremont house, she 
was visited by one of our number, who shook 
hands with her, cordially welcoming her to Free- 
dom, and sketched a plan for her security and 
maintenance. Lucille distinctly declined this ar- 
4* 



4.2 

rangement. She said, the persons who then shel- 
tered her, were the first who had ever offered her 
a home, and from attachment and gratitude she 
should prefer remaining with them. 

Question. Where have you resided ? 

Answer, I was born and lived some years in 
Virginia, where we were sold, my mother, myself, 
and her other children, and removed to Natches. 

Q. Which yjlace did you prefer ? 

A. Virginia ; the slave is not treated so cruel- 
ly there as farther south. 

Q. Can you read ? 

A. Read ! — no ma'am — it would have been as 
much as my life was worth to have been seen try- 
ing to learn to read. 

Q. Should you like to learn ? 

A. Very much. 

Q. Have you had religious instruction ? 

A, No. 

Q. Have you not been allowed rest on the 
Sabbath ? 

A. The Planters pretend that the slaves shall 
have that day to themselves, but how do they have 
it ? they are obliged, say, to empty all the bask- 
ets of cotton, and spread the cotton in _the loft, 
and do many other things, and are seldom dismiss- 
ed till late. 



43 

Q. Have you ever worked in the fields ? 

A. Never; I have been entirely devoted to 
sewing. ^ 

Q. If you never have received instruction, how 
have you acquired the power of expressing your-' 
self so correctly ? 

A. I have always sat whh my Mistress and 
her family and visitors, and learnt their language. 

Q. Did you ever hear them talk about Anti- 
Slavery Societies ? 

A. Never — they were too cunning for that ; 
they thought we should understand what Anti- 
Slavery meant — they talked a great deal about 
Abolition, we understood, but we did not let them 
know that we understood. They used to have 
papers that told all about it — sometimes we 
were so eager to hear, that we would look off of 
our work, when Mistress would say — so my Mad- 
am, you are listening, are you — take that ! and then 
would strike us. 

Q. Did you and the other colored people talk 
about it when you were together ? 

A, Yes — for we always have thought it very 
hard, that we should do all the work, and earn all 
the money, for a parcel of people to live idle, 
spend the money, and abuse us. 



44 



Q. You speak of abuse — were you ever treat- 
ed cruelly ? 

A. The bouse servants are always treated bet- 
ter than the field hands. You must go into the 
field if you would know all about it. I always 
had enough to eat, had a good mattrass, and good 
bed and curtainSj was well dressed — my Mistress 
would have been ashamed, you know, not to have 
the house servants appear well. 

Q. What had you then to complain of? were 
you ever beaten ? 

A. Ever beaten! [Lucille then showed the 
marks of the whip — and her breast had the deep 
scar of a wound received from the latch of a door, 
against which her Mistress forced her, when in an- 
ger.] 

Q. Do you know Mrs. B. of Natches ? 

A. An old wretch ! my Mistress is bad enough, 
but she is worse — much worse. She has a room 
with stocks all around it — she will order a slave 
that has troubled her, to be put in the stocks, and 
left there all night — ^not a wink of sleep can be had 
there, and the musquitoes give them no rest. 
When it comes morning. Madam will say ^ John, 
see that such a one is taken from the stocks, and 
has thirty -nine well laid on, and then see that he 
goes to work.' 



45 

Q^ How are these blows given ? 

A. The slave is put on the floor naked, bis 
hands and feet fastened down, and the lash is then 
struck on his back and thighs. If you wish to see 
my body, I will show it to you, you will then see 
what I have suffered. [This was declined.] 

Q. Have you ever known a slave put to death 
on the plantations ? 

A. I have known three since I have been at 
Natches, and the gang of slaves, and the house 
slaves were all obliged to be present. 

Q. What had these slaves done ? 

A. Nothing. They were suspected of a de- 
sign to rise and get their freedom. 

Q. Should you not be willing to return ? 

A. Never ! I should be put to death, as an 
example to the rest, as soon as they got me back. 
I will never go back alive« 

Q. Do you think you can maintain yourself? 

A. Maintain myself 1 why not? We can all 
of us maintain ourselves. Who maintains all the 
family in idleness but the slaves ? it would be 
strange if we had not the7n to support; if we could 
not support ourselves. 

Q. Did not your mistress ever work ? 

A. 1 will tell you it was not well for me when 



46 

she worked. Sometimes when perhaps there were 
a great many handkerchiefs to hem, she would 
hem bne, and then she would taunt rae that she 
had to help me do my work. 

Q. How came your Mistress to bring you to a 
free state ? 

A. My Master told her not to, for if she did, 
the Abolitionists would get her away. My Mis- 
tress then said, let Lucille look to it ! if she dares 
to run away and 1 catch her, I will be the death 
of her. This she often repeated to me. 

Q. How could you then tell the lady who ask- 
ed you at the Tremont house if you were well 
treated, that your Mistress was very good ? 

A. I should have been whipped as soon as I 
was alone with her you may think. As it was, she 
struck me over the mouth, only because the lady 
asked the question. 

We wall make no comments on the keen sense 
of injustice here manifested, or on the evident des- 
titution of rehgious instruction, which, had it been 
afforded, would have softened her mind towards 
her oppressors, and have caused her to feel that 
however they might regard their relation to her, 
they were alike members of the great human fam- 
ily, children of God, heirs of the same salvation, 
and entitled to her full and perfect forgiveness. 



47 

We will only add, that a heart more accessible 
to kindness, or a more grateful disposition, has sel- 
dom been exhibited to us. A reward was oftered, 
and a vigorous search kept up for many days. She 
was in great terror at the idea of being taken, and 
was compelled to change her quarters frequently 
to avoid discovery. At length, her reason gave 
way under the dreadful excitement, and in this 
condition she v;as hunted from one part of the 
city to another. While we were listening to the 
report of the American Union for the relief and 
improvement of the colored race, on the evening 
of July — , and learning that it proposed to do 
something to arrest the ybrei^7i slave-hunter, the 
distressing intelligence wasbrought us, that a search 
was tlireatened in Belknap-street ; and that the 
alarm and indignation of the inhabitants of that 
part of the town were extreme ; as the ruffians who 
conducted it declared tliat they would seize and 
carry off any colored woman they could find.^ 

* Oh that our friends of the * Anierican Union,' ceasing ' to teach 
for doctrines the cominandments of men,' would seek to remove the 
cause of distresses hi\e these ! They are like the pilgrims who 
feared to travel iu the strait road to the celestial city, because of 
the lions. Would that some Great-heart would rise among them, 
and say to the ' backer ' of the lions: ' these are going on pilgrimage 
— and this is the way they must go; and go it they shall, in spite 
of thee and thy liuns.' — Pilgrim's Progress. 



48 



It was at that moment, while penetrated with 
sympathy for the sufferers, and with grief and 
shame at the supineness of the community gener- 
ally in view of such occurrences, that we resolved 
to disinter the law of Massachusetts. How pain- 
fully we felt at that moment, that it was buried in 
oblivion, notwithstanding the public thanksgiving 
of the year, that 'our soil is unpressed by the 
footsteps of a slave.'* 

The next circumstances which particularly ex- 
cited our attention, were those which filled the 
newspapers, not only in this city, but throughout 
this region of the country, during the month of 
August. The following is a faithful statement of 
them. 

On Saturday, July 80th, a brig was observed to 
come to one of the wharves, and suddenly to put 
back, in consequence, it seemed, of something said 
to the captain by a man who was waiting his ar- 
rival. Some men of color, who observed these 
proceedings, took a boat with the intention of go- 
ing on board. They were ordered off; but on 
rowing round the vessel, they discovered it to be 

* Vide Armstrong's thanksgiving pi-oclamation. 



49 

the Chickasaw, m the Baltimore trade,* and on 
further examination, perceived two women mak- 
ing signals of distress to them from the cabin win- 
dows. They instantly obtained a writ of habeas 
corpus, by which the women were taken from the 
custody of the Captain, and conveyed to Leverett 
Street jail ; where they were ministered unto by 
a few who had not forgotten to * maintain the cause 
of the innocent,' nor shrunk from the visitation of 
prisoners, nor neglected the fatherless in their af- 
fliction : — and who felt the humiliating contrast 
between what men do, and what men ought to do : 
— between the reception they give those who come 
to them from the South, destitute and distressed, 
and those who come * clothed in gay apparel, whh 
gold rings,' standing in no need of their services. 
We will not sneeringly aftirm of these garment 
fanciers, that ^ there is no flesh in their obdurate 
hearts,' — we hope it would be more just, as it cer- 
tainly would be less painful, to say that their views 
of hfe, and duty, and God, and humanity, and re- 
ligion, and salvation, are partial, feeble and con- 
tracted. 

* Consigned to the Messrs. Lombard— one of whom, Mr. E. K. 
Lombard, is the man who accompanied Mr. Adams of Baltimore, 
to Mr. Sewali's office, and stood by while Mr. Adams attacked Mr. 
Sewall with a southern weapon. ' What lias the North to do with 
slavery 1 ' 

5 



50 

Would that by any sacrifice of ours, they might 
know the happiness of a more enlarged and just 
sphere of vision. At present, well may the man 
of color, and the abolitionist manacled with him, 
exclaim — 

Tlipre are humane amongst them 1 how humane 1 
Humane to free and happy — rich and powerful ; 
Humane to such as ive 1 believe it not. 
Their Excellencies, to do each other kindness. 
Would canter over acres of our bodies ! 
And this is their humanity. And such 
Is man's humanity the wide world through. 
Men's hearts you'll find on one side, soft as silk. 
And hard as nether millstone on the other. 

Knowing SO many painful facts respecting the seiz- 
ure of free persons of color as slaves, we felt great 
sympathy with these women, and determined to 
give them at the trial, whatever comfort our pres- 
ence might afford. We recollected that the same 
hall had been thronged with ladies to listen to the 
pleadings of Mr. Wirt and Mr. Webster ; and that 
many ladies had even travelled to Salem, to hear 
sentence of death pronounced upon the Knapps ; 
and, therefore, we were under no temptation to 
omit any attention or kindness to these women, on 
the ground that the manner of it w^as nnusua^l, or 
considered improper. Five members of our So- 
ciety entered the Court Room about 9 o'clock on 
Monday morning, and found the prisoners already 



51 



there, in consultation with their counsel. After 
the entrance of Judge Shaw, the business com- 
menced with a statement from the counsel for the 
claimant, that these women were the property (! !) 
of John B. Morris, of Baltimore ; that the Con- 
stitution contained a provision by which they must 
be returned to him, (! ! !) and that he (the coun- 
sel) demanded a reasonable construction of the 
Constitution. (!!! !) Mr. Sewall, the prisoners' 
counsel, argued in opposition, that in the Bill of 
Rights it was laid down as the basis of the practice 
of courts of law in Massachusetts, that all are 
born FREE, and have the right of enjoying and de- 
fending their liberties. This elicited slight ap- 
plause from the audience, w^ho w^ere principally 
persons of color, which they instantly suppressed 
on finding it was not in order. Judge Shaw arose 
to give his decision. He observed that he had, 
as courtesy demanded, listened to the arguments 
of both gentlemen, though he did not think them 
applicable to the present case — the question being 
simply this : Has the Captain of the brig Chicka- 
saw a right to convert his vessel into a prison ? — 
[Here a flurried consultation took place between 
the agent of the claimant and his counsel ; and one 
of our members, who, from being also one of the 
Society of Friends, has had abundant opportunity 



52 



to observe the course taken by slave hunters, in 
cases like the present, beckoned to the person 
who sat nearest to the prisoners, and requested 
him to tell them to wait for notliing after they 
should be discharged ; — to listen for their dis- 
charge, and depart as soon as they received it ; as 
but an instant would intervene, before some other 
means would be resorted to, to detain them.*] 
All this occupied but a moment — the messenger 
walked quietly back to his seat by the prisoners ; 
all parties listened breathlessly for the decision ; 
the Judge still continuing his speech. Our blood 
stood siill as he went on — and the time seemed 
interminable. ' Whence it appears,' he said, at 
length, ^ that the prisoners must be discharged.' 
All rose at the word — the prisoners — the colored 
women who surrounded them — the counsel on both 
sides. The agent extended his hand to seize them. 
A spell seemed to hold them in the same position, 
one deeply exciting instant. The next, and the 
room was empty. A single voice among the 
crowd said. Go! Go ! There was no other noise, 
but the sound of feet, and a slight shriek from one 
of the women who fainted in the lobby, and was 
carried down stairs. 

* The usual course is to detain on charge of theft. 



53 

Most grateful were we for their safety, nor has 
our satisfaction ever been alloyed onr etrospection. 
There can be no claim of sanctity for earthly place 
or presence, though it were ^ ten-fold consecrate,' 
to check the retreat of an innocent woman, accus- 
ed of no crime, when violent seizure of her per- 
son is threatened by a slave-hunter. We see no 
other course which it would have been right for 
us, or for these women to pursue. We think that 
^ had they been detained on another process, great 
reproach would have rested somewhere ;' and that 
had we done otherwise than as we did, great re- 
proach would have rested on us. Were all the 
circumstances again to occur, we should not, as 
Christian women, dare to do otherwise than we 
have done. 

We sat till the Judge and the officers of the 
Court had departed, leaving the hall almost emp- 
ty, and then rose to go out. One of our number, 
deeply impressed with a sense of the duty of re- 
buke, which every inhabitant of the free States 
owes to every slaveholder, (and which is so entire- 
ly neglected, that Southern ministers and church 
members have declared, that if abolitionists really 
believed their traffic sinful, they would not be so 
backward in pungently reproving it,) addressed the 
5* 



54 



agent, who was standing where we must necessa-^ 
rily pass him. We preserved the dialogue. 
Friend, Thy prey hath escaped thee. 
Mr. Turner. Madam, you are very rude to a 
stranger. 

Friend. What then art thou, who comest here 
to kidnap women? 

Mr. Turner. I am a member of the Metho- 
dist Church, and presume I give much more to 
the Colonization Society, than all of you together. 
Friend. Why art thou here then, hunting for 
those who have colonized themselves ? I despise 
thy conduct and thy Colonization Society alike. 

We left this man, whose life passes in the un- 
checked, nay, authorized commission of a crime, 
which, in another hemisphere, our laws punish 
with death, evidently greatly enraged and astonish- 
ed, that woman should so deeply sympathize with 
wronged and suffering woman. May the reproof 
be fastened on his heart, till by the blessing of the 
God of the oppressed, he is roused to thought and 
repentance. He will then thank us for the pain- 
ful awakening. 

These oppressed and afflicted ones were treat- 
ed by the members of our Society according to 
the commands of Christ. They were ^ in prison 
and we visited them ; naked, and w^e clothed 
them ; strangers, and we took them in,* 



55 



Accept our imperfect obedience, blessed Sa- 
vior, for we did it as unto thee ! 

The following minutes of a conversation with 
one of them are worth preserving. She said, 
(speaking of the Agent,) ' I was surprised to find 
they called him Turner, in court ; for he told me 
on board the vessel, that his name was William 
Wilson ; and William Wilson I knew was a Meth- 
odist Minister in Maryland, but I had never seen 
him, and did not know but this man was he. He 
asked to see my free papers, and as soon as he 
got them he destroyed them. He said I ought to 
be ashamed to do as I had done. I told him 
No ; for I had done nothing wrong. He said he 
knew that ; but what could I want more than I 
had always had. Told me that it was but little 
we wanted here below, for life was short.' 

Question. Were you ever a slave ? 

Answer. Yes. 

Q. Were you happy in slavery ? 

A. No. 

Q. Had you a kind master? 

A. Yes ; I never was whipped since I was a 
woman grown. 

Q. Why were you not happy then ? 

A. Could you Hve always in horror, and be 
happy ! Master used to say he never would sell 



56 

us ; but the jDi'ice of us is rising every day — peo- 
ple got round him making offers. The Georgia 
houses were near — Master did'nt talk as he used 
to do about never selling us. Oh, there is noth- 
ing but horror to look forward to in slavery. 
* * * # * 

Q. Why did you come to the north ? 

A. I thought I should not be in danger of fall- 
ing into slavery again, if I could but get to the free 
states. 1 did not expect to meet such troubles the 
moment I got here : — nor to meet such friends to 
care for me, either. 

Q. Did you never hear of Abolitionists ? 

A. [As if the word was one she did not un- 
derstand] Abolitionists ? No. 

Q. Did you ever hear of Colonizationists ? 

A. Yes ; they always come round us as soon 
as we get free and are doing well, to persuade us 
to go to Liberia. But they are found out now. 
They will not deceive many more so. 

Q. Can you read ? 

A. A little. 

Q. Were you ever on a plantation ? 

A. Oh my God, yes ; but only on a visit. I 
never could tell you w^hat they suffer. Most of 
the slaves that I know are pious. They often 
meet to pray. Two or three will sometimes get 



57 

together privately and pray all nigbt for deliver- 
ance. 

Q. But if they do not know that there are any 
at the north laboring and praying for them, how do 
they think it is to come ? 

A. They are waiting to see God do it for them 
in some wonderful manner, as he did for the Isra- 
elites. No human power can do it. We pray to 
him and have faith in him only : for the whole 
world seems to have forgotten us. 
Q. Did you use to go to Church ? 
A. Yes. 1 am a member of the Methodist 
Church. 

Q. Do you think that all slaves ought to be 
free ^ 

A. (Much surprised) Yes ; certainly. 
Q. Would there not be danger of the bad 
tempered ones killing their masters for having kept 
them so long in slavery ? 

A. (In extreme astonishment.) Why, no in- 
deed 1 Why should they ? All they want is to go 
free. They are willing to work ; they don't want 
any thing wrong. Kill their masters, for doing 
right by them ! 

Q. But is this opinion that they ought to be 
free, a common one among the slaves ? 

A. (Very solemnly.) Yes. Of course they 
all know it is wrong to keep them in slavery. 



58 



Q. What makes them think so ? 

A. 0[ course they think so. It stands to reason. 

Q. Did not it distress you to leave your friends? 

A. Yes, it was a trying thing ; but I had rath- 
er die than go back. 

Q. Would not every thing go to wreck and 
ruin, if the slaves were all made free ? Would 
they not be lazy and miserable? 

A. Would not they work better if they had 
something to show for it '^ Just think how it 
would be with yourself: — except when people get 
very old — oh if you would only take it home to 
yourself and think what you should suffer to see 
your old mother obliged to work to the last minute ! 
It does seem as if when people get quite worn out, 
they ought not work. 

In many conversations we had an opportunity 
of witnessing the nice moral sense and the ardent 
piety of this woman. We showed her some of 
the Anti-Slavery publications, and she seemed 
surprised at the correctness of the description of 
the condition of slaves. ' Only,' she added ' it is 
impossible to put such dreadful sufferings properly 
into print.' 

Here was the testimony of what American Sla- 
very is in its mildest form. When we speak of the 
two millions and a half, how apt are we to forget 



59 

that every one of them has a history which it would 
shock a christian to hear related ; whether it were 
of the dancing, singing, degraded slave, degraded 
into contentment with his condition, whose great- 
est failure in duty appears, according to slavehold- 
ing morals, in running away, and whose highest 
virtue lies in reverencing as gods, the men who 
live by his unrequited toil ; — the higher spirited 
and higher gifted being who is crushed or driven 
to frenzy by the attempts to make him like the 
first ;— or the mild and intelligent slave, from whom 
education and the bible have not been entirely 
withheld, and whose suffering lies chiefly in appre- 
hension. 

These are painful details ; — but it is either the 
sickly sentimentalist or the base denier of human 
brotherhood that would see only the fair-seeming 
garment v/ith which slaveholders invest their sys- 
tem, nor look beneath to mark how ^ the iron en- 
ters into the soul,' in order the better to devise the 
means to effect its removal. 

The meeting of the Massachusetts Society to 
celebrate the 1st of August, was prevented by the 
dread of a mob, whicl^took possession of the mind 
of Mr. Allen, of Congress Hall, at which place a 
meeting had been appointed ; and our members, 
finding the door locked, finished their celebration 
at another place. 



6a 

A few of the newspaper commentaries are sub- 
joined, because they help to display more clearly 
the character of the opposition. They will be his- 
torically useful, as proofs of the existence of a spir- 
it, in the pro-slavery party at the north in 1836, 
which, after the abolition shall have taken place, 
will be strenuously denied ; — so incredible will it 
then seem. 

Two or three of the members of the Femalb 
Anti-Slavery Society were in tlie Court room, giving 
their countenance to the blacks in their outrage upon 
the Court. — Courier. 

Little doubt that the rescuers with their aiders 
and abettors, of both colors and sexes, will be prop- 
erly punished. — Courier. 

That above all, oar females should have come forth 
from their retirement — from the holiness of the fire- 
side, the protection of their household goods — to 
mingle in scenes like this? We will not mention 
names, but there is one, who some time since called 
one of our elergymcn to account (! ! ! !) for a sermon 
he delivered, and who on Monday was seen, ' aiding 
and abetting' the mischievous and the vile. I ask 
again, can it be ? I was on Monday absent from our 
city. I left it with the feeling that, in this city, at 
least, there was yet protection for life and property ; 
that the little which I possessed, worth guarding, 
was still safe. T have returned — and find myself in 
another state of being, our highest court giving way, 
defenceless and naked, to a mob; our ministers of 
justice obliged to quail before its force ; females, who 
should be unsullied as * the untrodden snow ' — I 
cannot find words strong enough to finish the sen- 
tence. 



61 



It is, it must be, but a dream. Oh deliver me 
from its agony. (! ! ! ! ! !) — Courier, Aug. 3. 

We learn that, in the Court room, the disgusting 
spectacle was exhibited of white abolitionists, ac- 
companied by females, white and black, giving aid 
and countenance to violence on the part of the ne- 
groes. They all merit the interposition of the pros- 
ecuting officer, and we trust that the outrage will be 
immediately presented to the Grand Jury. II the 
negroes of the city and their degraded abettors are 
to embody and subvert the tribunals of justice, it is 
high time the loyal citizens should come to the res- 
cue. 

Since the above was written, we learn that a meet- 
ing of professed abolitionists, of all colors and char- 
acters, which had been previously advertised to meet 
at Julien Hall, was prevented by the positive inter- 
diction of the owners of that Hall. Among the 
principal actors in this attempt to disturb the peace, 
were a parcel of silly women, whose fondness for no- 
toriety has repeatedly led them into scenes of com- 
motion and riot. They deserve straight petticoats, 
as do their husbands, fathers and guardians, who al- 
low them to excite commotion in the city. — Cen- 
tinel and Gazette, Aug. 2. 

It is really surprising that men and women, who 
set themselves up as models of meekness, religion 
and morality, should have the hardihood, not only to 
trample on the Constitution and laws, and the public 
tribunals, but to run a Quixotick tilt against the well 
known public opinion. (! ! !) As to consorting with 
negroes, it is altogether a matter of taste, and it may 
be as a general principle, that those who seek such 
associates aim at their proper element ; nobody 
6 



62 



would object to their course, if they would onl}' leave 
others to their own preferences, and avoid disturbing 
the public peace. As to the silly women who partic- 
ipate in these outrages, for the purpose of notoriety, 
they ought to be taught obedience to the laws by 
their husbands and guardians. — Centinel S^ Gazette. 

The mortifying spectacle of seeing women, those 
who enjoy the reputation of being considered decent 
and respectable, and of possessing a modicum of 
that modesty and delicacy with which nature is sup- 
posed to endow their sex, in the midst of a melee, 
and participating in the affray, we hope, for the cred- 
it of Boston, will never ag-^in be witnessed here.* — 
Blorning Post. 

As to the indecency of the conduct of certain 
white women on this occasion, members of the A. S. 
Society, we forbear to enlarge. There is but one 
feeling of disgust in regard to it. The blacks, in 
our opinion, are far more excusable. The whole 
outrage ought probably, in reason, to be attributed to 

* The Moriiifg Post also gave the names of two of our number, 
with the assertion that they dechired to Mr. Turner that he 'ought 
to be killed.' Mr. Greene is not probably aware that he exposes 
to assassination any one to whom he attributes such a horrible sen- 
timent. The assertion that the abolitionists 'advocate cruel ven- 
geance on the part of the slaves,' is the circumstance that has put 
their lives and property in peril from the commencement of the 
cause. The fallowing is a specimen of the communications for 
which Mr. Greene's charge was the signal : 
******* 

Madam — I write to inform you that personal violence is Intend- 
ed on you and your husband this evening. 

Yours in haste, ' AN ABOLITIONIST. 

Beware of 9 o'clock. 
Roxbury, Aug. 3d. 



63 



these delicate adepts in the science of brawling. — 
Transanpt. 

* That respectable females should have played a 
part in such a scene of violence and disorder, is 
hardly credible.' — Atlas. 

The African Repository, after noticing the de- 
struction of Mr. Birney's printing press, and the at- 
tendant outrages in Cincinnati, observes that, anti- 
republican and repugnant as it is to any regular gov- 
ernment, it is exceeded in atrocity by this. (!!!) 

After the excitement produced by this affair had 
subsided, the Daily Advertiser* published an ad- 
vertisement, for the apprehension of a slave, es- 
caped from his master. We were forcibly reminded 
by it, of our former resolve to seize the first op- 
portunity to test the validity of the Bill of 
Rights. It had ahvays been our impression that 
the laws of Massachusetts would shelter the slave 
brought within their local limits by his master ; 
but we found a different idea the prevailing one in 
the surrounding community, and the popular voice 
was confirmed to us, by nine members of the Bos- 
ton bar. In Hilliard's ' Elements of Law, a 
summary of American Civil Jurisprudence, for the 
use of Students, men of business and general read- 
ers,' we found it laid down, that ^ a slave, bought 
in one state, acquires no kights as a freeman b^^ 



64 

being brought into another ; ' and our minds were 
more deeply than ever convinced of the necessi- 
ty of immediately trying to counteract this gen- 
eral idea so dishonorable to Massachusetts. 

It was at a meeting of the Board, held August 
11th, that we were informed by the Vice Presi- 
dent of our Society, that a family in the city, re- 
cently from the south, had a child in their keeping, 
presumed to be a slave : and knowing that it was 
their intention to return with it to the south, our 
unanimous opinion was, that it was the duty of 
those who had come to the knowledge of these 
facts, to prevent, if possible, such a violation of 
the rights of the child. We learned that the 
mother was alive, in New Orleans, and this cir- 
cumstance admonished us to do nothing which 
should interfere with the paramount claims of ma- 
ternal love. We are mothers, and felt their sa- 
credness. But on consideration, it appeared that 
the grand difference of opinion between us and the 
slaveholder is, that he denies any such claim. He 
asserts that the child is his^ and not the mother's ; 
and sets up a claim of absolute ownership ^ to all 
intents, constructions and purposes whatsoever.' 
He contends for the right to sell the child away 
from the mother, whenever or wherever it shall 
please him so to do. He contends that the earn- 



65 

ings of the child are bis and not the mother's. 
That it is for him, and not for the mother, to pun- 
ish her in case of misbehavior ; that it is for him 
to decide what is misbehavior. Contends also for 
right to determine the manner and degree of pun- 
ishment, whether by beating whh a horse-whip, 
cowskin, switch or small stick, putting in irons or 
imprisonment. Contends that though this child 
should die under such inflictions, they shall be 
termed -moderate correction.' Contends that 
neither the evidence of its mother, or any other 
person, shall be received against him. Claims 

THE RIGHT OF ABSOLUTE DISPOSAL OF HER PER- 
SON. Claims that these conditions shall be perpet- 
ual ; and that they shall extend to her unborn 
posterity forever. 

This is slavery. For all this he contends, when 
he claims her as his slave. True, he may be in 
a sort humane : he may forbear to exercise all the 
power he claims. But he has no power in case 
his affairs become involved, to prevent her being 
sold into the hands of any notoriously barbarous 
man who may happen to be his creditor ; and 
when he dies she is at the disposal of legatees. 
His power, while he upholds the system, is small 
to do her good. While he is the advocate of sla- 
verv, he has no power of himself to manumit her. 
6* 



66 



He may 'perhaps obtain permission of the legal au- 
thorities, but even then, her instruction is prohib- 
ited under heavy penalties.* One power he has. 
He can at any time unite the mother and child, by 
sending the mother to Massachusetts. If he be 
humane, he will do it. If his feelings should not 
dictate such a course, it is a sufficient proof of un- 
fitness to possess the tremendous power given by 
the slave codes. 

Here were motives for exertion. If we should 
fail, the condition of the child would remain but 
where it was ; while if we should succeed, a de- 
cision would be obtained of greater importance 
than any within the last half century. 

We decided to claim for her the protection of 
the laws of Massachusetts, and applied to Ellis 
Gray Loring, Esq., for his professional aid, Levin 
Harris acting as promoter of the suit. The plea 
for the Commonwealth, was conducted at the first 
hearing, by Messrs. Loring and Sewall, and at the 
second, by Messrs. Loring and Choate. For their 
admirable arguments, we refer to ' the case of the 
slave child Med,' — a pamphlet containing the pro- 
ceedings on both sides, and the decision of the 
court. 

* The bondage of the slaveholder Is not less pitiable than that of 
the slave : nor the less so because he hugs his chains. 



67 



At the request of one of our number; who was 
most active in bringing the case to notice, the httle 
child is called Maria Sommersett. The time is at 
hand, when even the south, will honor the names 
of Ellis Gray Loring and Chief Justice Shaw, as 
they are now honored by all who reverence the 
worthy memories of Granville Sharpe and of Lord 
Mansfield. 

[From the Boston Transcript.] 

Who will answer for the ' deep damnation ' of the 
sin which separated — nay stole, a child, an infant in 
mind and in law, without the power of choosing be- 
tween freedom and slavery under any circumstances, 
from its mother in the South, that she might be called 
free in the North ? Who shall answer — not here only, 
but hereafter, for keeping the little affectionate girl 
— the little slave — brought here as a companion, rath- 
er than a servant, by Mrs. Slater — separate — at re- 
mote distance from her doating and distracted moth- 
er at New Orleans 1 Separate mother and child in 
the name of Freedom 1 What fanaticism is this ! 
[From the New York Courier and Enquirer.] 

The wanton cruelty in the case of the little slave 
child, recently wrested frtDm the protection of its mis- 
tress in Boston, is enough to curdle colder blood than 
ours towards those miserable— more than miserable 
— fanatics, the abolitionists. We have only to hope 
most fervently that the Supreme Court of the United 
States will yet take this child from the fangs of the 
rabid fanaticism that has clutched it, and that the 
abolitionists will yet be made to feel some portion of 
the retribution they deserve. They can never fully 
expiate their crimes, until offences such as theirs are 
punished by imprisonment at hard labor for life. 



68 



CORRESPONDENCE. 

Boston, Aug. 30, 1836. 

Ellis G. Loring, Esq. 

Dear Sir — The successful termination of the 
slave case, in which you took a principal part, must 
delight all good hearts. Those who simply are mov- 
ed with pity for the poor child, will rejoice that she 
is unfettered and may drink freely of the fountain of 
Life. A more enlarged philanthropy will see in this 
event the safety and freedom, of all colored persons, 
who may hereafter be brought hither by slaveholders, 
and their joy will be unspeakable. Slaves will not 
again, we presume, be retained in bondage, for 
years, in the midst of our city. They will not again 
be told, as they were recently, when claiming their 
liberty and wages, that they belonged to a master in 
Carolina. The Patriot should henceforth keep the 
26th of August as a holiday. A law of mercy be- 
longed to Massachusetts, and until that day, she was 
ignorant of it. It was dead, but is now alive. It 
was lost, but is now found. Eight years since, a 
lady, wishing to aid a colored girl, brought here by 
her mistress from Florida, and who was determined 
to have liberty or death, applied to six of the Boston 
Bar for advice in her behalf: five of the six returned 
the same answer. (Two of the five are now learned 
Judges.) The lady was assured, that whoever se- 
creted the girl, would be fined five hundred dollars, 
if detected, and that the law would give up the girl 
to he- cruel master. Mr. S, E. Sewall, your friend, 
was the lionorable minority. His answer has been 
remembered for its learning and integrity. Mr. 
SewaU replied, that the girl had a right to her free- 
dom by the law of the State. 



69 



The Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society may be 
excused for their rejoicing at this event. They re- 
joice for the poor child, for their colored brethren and 
sisters, for Massachusetts, for themselves, and last 
but not least, for you Sir, who have won this victory 
for them, as their counsel, chosen from a knowledge 
of your character, of your heart, and of your zeal in 
the cause of immediate emancipation. FeariugGod 
and fearing him only, you have gone forward bold 
and strong in the right ; and the blessings of the 
poor, the approval of your own conscience, and the 
approbation of your great Master, must be your re- 
ward. The Board of Managers request you to ac- 
cept their thanks for the time and talent that you 
have devoted to this important case, and will thank 
you to make their acknowledgments to Mr. Sewall 
and Mr. Choate, as due. You will confer an addi- 
tional obligation upon the Boston Female Anti-Slave- 
ry Society, if you will allow them to assume as their 
own, any expenses you may have incurred. 
In behalf of the B. F. A. S. Society. 
Henrietta Sargent, \ 
CM. Sullivan, > Committee, 

T. SoUTHWiCK, j 

ANSWER. 

Boston, Oct. S, 1836. 
My dear and esteemed friend : 

It was my intention, on receiving the kind and af- 
fecting letter of the Committee of the Female Anti- 
Slavery Society, to express to them fully by letter, 
how deeply I was gratified and touched by it. The 
cares and labors of business, which press on me too 
severely for recreation and I may say for health, have 
prevented my doing this ; and 1 now wish, in an in- 



70 



formal manner, to apprize you and the ladies asso- 
ciated with you, that I have not been insensible to 
the great and unmerited kindness with which they 
have treated me. I have certainly done what I could 
for the good of the little girl and the advancement of 
our inspiring cause, — but I speak soberly and unaf- 
fectedly when 1 say that, had I no other cause for 
joy, in the result of the trial, I should he] myself 
much more than repaid by the affectionate sympathy 
expressed in your letter. 

It is a very interesting consideration, that a decis- 
ion not exceeded in interest or real moment by any 
decision made within the last half century, should 
be obtained through female agency. It ought to be 
a strong argument with the females of our land to 
unite in societies, gathering, as they may from union, 
a moral strength adequate to such important results. 
I have never doubted that the Female Anti-Slavery 
Societies were a very valuable addition of power to 
us, — but it is a very pleasant assurance to see, year 
after year, tangible proofs of it. 

The promotor of Med's case, is not, to my knowl- 
edge an Abolitionist. I do not know that he was in- 
duced to petition, from any party bias whatever, — 
even the best : and I have so stated in my argument 
to the Court. Still, the less prominent, but more 
useful part of obtaining knowledge of the facts, and 
by communicating them in the right quarter, giving 
the first impulse to the matter, is a credit due to fe- 
male courage and energy alone^ fostered by abolition 
principles. 

You have been kind enough to allude to the ex- 
penses incurred by me. I should decline receiving 
any reimbursement of any part of them, were I not 
satisfied that it would be a true gratification to you^ 



71 



that the Counsel fee in Med SommersetVs Case should 
be paid by the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society. 
I do heartily sympathize in this honest satisfaction, 
and I therefore consent to receive what I paid our 
senior Counsel. His charge v^^as much less than the 
sum now paid him ; — but I thought his liberal feel- 
ings were doing him injustice, and I insisted upon 
enlarging his bill. 

Believe me, with great esteem 
for yourself and my other friends 
of the Society, your and their 
friend and brother, 

ELLIS GRAY LORING. 
Miss Henrietta Sargent. 

The grounds of the decision are, that slavery 
having been abolished, by the adoption of the Bill 
of Rights, every person in Massachusetts must be 
free. The inhabitant of another country, coming 
to Massachusetts, is under the law of Massachu- 
setts, for the laws of each nation are binding 
only within its own local limits and on the high 
seas, which are common to all nations. 

The Constitution of the LTnlted States, takes 
from under this general rule of \di\Y ^s\<ives escajjing 
from other states. 

To throw so much light on the public conscience, 
as to cause a couse of legislative and judicial pro- 
ceedings, based on this construction of the consti- 
tution, to be considered as a proper subject of le- 



72 

gal and quiet cliange, is the future labor of aboli- 
tionists. 

The following letter in bebalf of tbe Portage 
County Ladies Society, is frotn the daughter of 
the venerable Ehzur Wright, sister of Ehzur 
Wright, Jun., so well known and loved by aboli- 
tionists : 

Tallmadge, Ohio, Aug. II, 1S36. 
Beloved Sisters in the cause of Hummi Rights : 

The knowledge of your glowing ardor in behalf of 
the oppressed, and patient endurance of outrages 
and insult, has excited in us feelings of admiration 
and respect; nay more, of gratitude to God, that his 
sustaining grace girded your souls with strength, and 
carried you with firmness through the conflict. We 
feel bound to you by the strongest ties ; the bands of 
christian fellowship in a glorious cause. 

May we not then be indulged in the interchange 
of kiridred sentiments, and enjoy the consolation 
that nuitual sympathy and counsel can impart. Our 
hopes, and fears, and aims, are one. Wliat an ob- 
ject is ours ! The deliverance of more than two 
million human beings from slavery. Those bodies 
from the iniiuman lash, and tliose glorious minds, 
from degradation that had w^ell nigh blotted them 
from existence, and left a blank in God's intelligent 
universe. Do not our hearts kindle within us, and 
glow continually with increasing zeal in the holy 
enterprize % Shall aught turn aside the current of 
onr souls, and dry up those streams of christian love, 
that have begun to flow? No. For lam persuaded 
* that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor princi- 
palities, nor power, nor things present, nor things to 



73 

come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, 
shall be able to separate us from the love of God, 
which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.' What was this 
love? Behold that Holy One, laying aside the daz- 
zling glories of the Godhead, assuming a veil of fee- 
ble clay, to labor and to die, for beings infinitely 
more vile in his sight, than these poor slaves in ours. 
For these same little ones too he shed his precious 
blood. Let us take heed that we despise them not. 
We may well hide our heads with shame, that we 
have so long forgotten our brother in bonds. We 
are called upon as christian females, to engage in 
other benevolent enterprises of the day ; yet here we 
are met by the sentiment, ' Out of your sphere.' Is 
not this a glaring inconsistency ? When the sympa- 
thies have been awakened, and an impulse given to 
all the benevolent affections, shall they then be for- 
bid to flow ? If woman may not be known out of 
the circle of her intimate acquaintance, why were 
their names recorded in holy writ, as helpers in the 
Lord? No doubt this is a device of f^atan. That 
arch enemy knew full well the power of woman's 
pleadings, when he framed his subtle arts for man's 
destruction. He still wishes to keep her his tool, or 
at least prevent the enlargement of her sphere of op- 
position to his cause. 

No wonder he comes out in great wrath against 
the opposers of slavery, for, that, is his peculiar de- 
light. ■ While he looks on, and cheers human tyrants 
in their work, he makes fast his bands to drag them 
to his dark domains. But courage sisters, in this 
moral conflict. Though there be many against us, 
stronger is He that is on our side. Though tena- 
cious self-interest, and cold, cruel prejudice lift their 
brazen front, yet shall they be melted away before 

7 ^ ~ 



the blaze of Almighty Truth. The events of the 
past year clearly demonstrate tiiat God is the friend 
of the oppressed. Though the enemy lias raged, lie 
has not triumplied. Freedom of speech and of the 
press has not yet been taken a\v;jy, and the hope 
lingers, that our country may still be saved. Hope, 
that the Hen righteous wiil }et be found to save the 
ciiy.' Have we not our Garrison, Tappan, Weld 
and Birney, (God crown them with continual bene- 
diction,) who cry aloud and spare not, and are there 
not a host of others, rising with talents and devotion 
to plead the cause? Truly the Lord hath not cast 
off his people. Let us rejoice, and put our trust in 
him. How blessed, when the waves of popular fury 
beat around, to rise above in communion with the 
Mighty One that controls the storm. Oh, that the 
church, with one. united voice, would testify against 
iniquity, and rid her skirts of the blood of souls. 
But what shall we say for our brethren who partake 
in this sin? May the God of mercy open their eyes, 
and grant his forgiving grace. Let us not suffer ab- 
horrence of the sin, to shut out compassion for the 
sinner, but let us weep for them in secret places, and 
plead earnestly in their behalf, that so, wickedness 
may be put away from among us, and the church be- 
come indeed * a living epistle, known and read of all 
men.' 

You will doubtless be gratified to hear of the suc- 
cess of the cause in this region. Wc think we can 
safely say its course is steadily onward. It was 
greatly promoted through the agency of lecturers last 
\\ inter, and the meeting of the State Society \v,\s a 
mo.st solemn and interesting one. Again the heralds 
of liberty, and deliverance to the captives, like their 
blessed master, were ' cradled in a manger, and had 



75 



their dwelling with the beasts of the stall.'* Ar- 
rangements are making to circulate among the la- 
dies in the State, a petition to Congress to abolish 
slavery in the District of Columbia, that so our unit- 
ed prayer may go up to the rulers of our nation. 

Our County Society was organized in February 
last with 37, now increased to 390 members. We 
trust we shall be able to do something to advance the 
cause. Our first annual meeting is to be held the 
7th of September. We should be much gratified, if 
a letter from you could reach us before that time, as 
we are so scattered that we cannot often be together. 
May the Lord help and strengthen you. 
In behalf of the Portage Co. Female A. S. Society. 
LUCY M. WRIGHT, Secretary. 

In reviewing the history of the past year, as it 
relates to our cause, grateful astonishment at its 
progress, is the prevailing emotion. How many 
can bear witness, that its power extends even to 
the conversion of the heart. ' Love the Lord thy 
God with all thy heart,' — give to his righteous 
character of love and truth, an undivided wor- 
ship — Behold him manifest in the flesh, and in- 
stantly follow the perfect example of impartial love 
— most active where most needed, in behalf of the 
weak, oppressed by the strong : — these are the 
principles of the abolitionists. What wonder that 

* The meeting of the State Society was held in a barn ; owing to 
the iUiberality and cowardice of the proprietors of buildings. 



on adopting them, the character should be regene- 
rated ? How many mistakes in religion, in poli- 
tics, in opinion on all subjects do they rectify ! 
how many of feeble abilities and' scanty opportu- 
nities, do they illuminate and strengthen, by their 
wisdom, which is from above. They teach us to 
do justly to all : to remember that a man is not 
the less our brother because he is our enemy : to 
hate nothing but sin, and to see in every apologist 
of slavery, one who may yet, in the good provi- 
dence of God, be most dear to us as a defender of 
our lofty faith. They teach us, how to avoid that 
spurious charity, which would efface moral dis- 
tinctions ; and that our duty to the sinner is, not 
to palliate but to pardon ; — not to excuse but to 
forgive ;— freely — fully — as we hope to be for- 
given. 

It is with regret that we report the loss we must 
hereafter sustain, by the absence of one of our 
most efficient members ; — one who has helped our 
counsels and our prayers, from the first organiza- 
tion of the Society. We are consoled by the 
thought that ^ the field is the world ; ' and that 
■while she is devoted to the promulgation of 'glad 
tidings' in Greece, she has but changed the scene, 
without changing the ohject of her labors. 



77 

Among the gratifying circumstances of the pres- 
ent year, is Mr. Lundy's publication of the works 
of the lamented Elizabeth M. Chandler. We 
earnestly commend them to the perusal of all La- 
dies, to whom this cause seems a political one. By 
their union of power and tenderness, of firmness 
and gentleness, they are a fit memorial of their au- 
thor. Would that this character might become 
the general one of American women, and not of 
American women only, but of American men, and 
of all men. 

The plan of contracting and modifying the hu- 
man soul in one sex, to gratify the perverted taste 
of the other, is akin to the Chinese treatment of 
the body, in compliance with similar views. It is 
happy that in both instances — as regards the feet 
of their women and the understandings of ours, 
the mischief is confined to the wealthy. 

Such harem notions, the relics of barbarous 
ages, will not be entirely extinguished while sla- 
very exists, for they are only manifestations of its 
spirit. Meanwhile we call on all who would pos- 
sess the love of good men, or be the mothers of a 
noble race, — to walk worthily in the sphere ap- 
pointed them of God ; and not to degenerate into 
the frivolous one, prescribed by the tyrannical vo- 
luptuaries of both sexes. 
7*# 



78 



We rejoice at the heart-stirring appeal of Ange- 
lina E. Grimke. If we had never loved the south 
and its sons and daughters before, we should love 
them now, for her sake. It is written for southern 
women, but from South to North it will touch the 
heart of man and woman alike. Our quarterly- 
distribution of tracts has always been productive 
of great good, and we may hope still more, from 
a wide circulation of this pamphlet, which is so 
admirably adapted to this crisis of the cause. 

Our Secretaries and their Assistant Committee 
of Correspondence, have communicated with 20 
Female Anti-Slavery Societies in Massachusetts, 
and with some friend of the cause in each town 
throughout the state. The letters they daily re- 
ceive, are a constant source of joy. We find that 
in every village in Massachusetts, there are faith- 
ful hearts watching for opportunities to aid the 
cause, with continual supplication in its behalf. 
We have learned much with respect to modes of 
operation, from our correspondence with the La- 
dies' Anti-Slavery Societies in New York, Phila- 
delphia, Providence, Concord, N. H., Pittsburgh, 
Pa., and the Ladies' County Societies in Ohio. 
The New York City Society have published an 
address to the Christian Women of America which 
should be in the hands of every one. The Phi- 



79 

ladelphia Ladies' Society have re-published the 
work of Elizabeth Heyrick, who originated that 
idea of immediate emancipation, which was adopt- 
ed by Wilberforce and the English Abolitionists, 
as the only effective one, and to which must be 
attributed the wonderful progress of the cause in 
the United States.* It has given a vigorous inspi- 
ration to the minds of the humblest individuals of 
the most obscure societies. It carries a sense of 
power with it, which is felt in the most remote re- 
gion. ^ Now — is the accepted time ! ' and ^ io-day 
if ye will hear ! ' are awakening sounds ; and when 
they ring through a land, a million voices cry ' the 
hour and the men are both come ! ' There is no 
power in gradualism to stir the depths of the spir- 
it. Hope deferred makes even the true heart sick. 

To-morrow ! 
Go to ! I will not hear of it — to-morrow ! 

No ! stay the present instant 

Like the good old patriarch upon record, 
Hold the fleet angel fast> until he bless thee. 

In view of the events of the past year and of 
the encouraging results of our efforts, we resolve 
to be more and more faithful to the cause. 

The course pursued towards us by its opposers, 
has placed us in a more conspicuous position than 
we ever dreamed of occupying, but this is only an 

* 'The Kingdom of Heaven is like leaven, which a xooman hid 
in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.' 



80 



additional motive to act worthily, with calmness of 
judgment and energy of will. 

While we resolve to improve to the utmost, 
every future opportunity of promoting this cause 
of Christ, we feel humble confidence that our past 
sins in respect to it, of neglect, weakness, and 
omission, which are many, will be forgiven ; for 
we have loved it much.' 

Friends and sisters throughout New England ' 
You, with whom we are bound to follow the truth 
whithersoever it leads, in full confidence of its sav- 
ing power ! Let us remember that deeds not 
words, are the test of our devotion to God's will; 
nor deem he will accept the cold acknowledge- 
ment that slavery is evil, while our hearts are de- 
vising pretences, to withhold our influence from 
the side of Freedom. To act in the love of our 
God and our neighbors — this is our great duty : 
and if we say to our neighbors, according as their 
several states need, be ye just and true, or be ye 
free and happy, and present not truth and justice 
for their consideration, and freedom and happiness 
for their acceptance, how dwelleth the love of God 
in us ? 

In a narrower view of the subject, it is apparent 
to the most short-sighted, where our appropriate 
field of duty lies. There can be no doubt, while 
one million of our sex are held in American bond- 



81 



age, and woman stands by to uphold and bless the 
deed ! 

Let us never cease to exercise for them to the 
utmost the right to do good. It is limited only by 
the boundaries of our power. Let us allow no 
opportunity to escape us, of, doing and suffering 
the good pleasure of God. Nothing is more ac- 
ceptable to him, than to see in his children, a 'joy- 
ful and ready agreement to profit by pain.' Let 
us not attempt to pass the .cup from us by altering 
one feature of truth, lest it should offend, or be 
seized on as the occasion of injury to us and ours. 
There is an exceeding great reward in faithful 
obedience ; — the clearer and deeper views of duty 
it gives ; — the greater love of God and man — the 
deliverance from fear and constraint — the less ap- 
prehension of suffering — ^the more freedom to 
die.' Enjoying these^ may we never look for any 
reward less spiritual and enduring. We pray, for 
the sake of the oppressed, that God will aid us to 
banish from our hearts every vestige of selfishness ; 
for in proportion to our disinterestedness, will be 
our moral power for their deliverance. Not until 
our mount of sacrifice overtops the mountain of 
southern transgression, should we dare to ask the 
slaveholder to give up his bondsman. We should 
not dare to bid him relinquish what he (however 



82 



erroneously) thinks his living, till we have first 
cast into the treasury our own. How dare we ex- 
pect him to incur the displeasure of Ms friends 
and neighbors, till we have exhausted every form 
of representation and entreaty with ours ; till we 
have finally said in the plainness of Christian re- 
proof, to his stumbling block, the steady opposer 
of righteousness at the North, — ' The slaveholder 
goes up to his house justified rather than thou ! ' 

The experience of the past, not only shows that 
emancipation must come, but also the manner of 
its coming. Our national confederacy is but just 
beginning to unite, on the only true principle of 
union — to give and not to receive. Jf we of the 
North persevere, at every sacrifice to ourselves, in 
giving the truth, which alone can save the country 
from the alternations of anarchy, insurrection, and 
despotism, doubt not that there are multitudes at 
the South, who will receive it gladly, at a far no- 
bler sacrifice. The sublime example of such as 
Birney, and Thome, and Nelson, and Allen, and 
Angelina E. Grimke, will not be given in vain. A 
few more years of danger and intense exertion, 
and the South and the North will unite in reading 
the Constitution by the light from above, thrown 
on it from the Declaration of Independence, and 
not by the horrible glare of the slave-code. The 



83 



cause of Freedom will ere long become the pop- 
ular one ; and a voice of regret will be heard 
throughout the land, from those who will have for- 
gotten these days of misrepresentation and danger 
— ' Why was not I among the early Abolitionists ! ' 

Let us be deeply grateful that we are among the 
early-called. Let us pray God to forgive the men 
who would deface every feature of a Christian 
community, by making it personally dangerous to 
fulfil a Christian woman's duty. — To forgive the 
man who sneers at the sympathy for the oppress- 
ed, implanted by the spirit of God, in the heart of 
the mother that bore and cherished his infancy — 
of the wife that helps his manhood — and of the 
daughter, whom that same quality of womanly de- 
votedness, w^ould lead to shield his grey head with 
her own bosom ! 

Let us never forget through these unquiet years, 
whereunto we are called. 

• The first In shame and agony, 
The meanest in tlie lowest task — 
This must we be ! '-^- 

• — the stepping stone by which the wealthy, the 
gifted, and the influential, are to pass unharmed, 
through the roar of waters, to the right side. 

Let us remember the words of Jesus Christ ; 
how he said of those who do not shrink from his 



84 



service of suffering, ^tliey shall sit on my right 
hand and on my left in my kingdom.' 

Then, though our property and even our means 
of life are taken away. — though our earthly friends 
forsake us, — though our blood be shed as water in 
the conflict with despotism, 

' Even though our blood make hut the thousandth part 
Of this great ransom, let us count it joy ! ' 



OFFICERS FOR THE ENSUING YEAR. 

President. 

Miss MARY S. PARKER. 

Vice President. 

Miss C. M. SULLIVAN. 

Recording Secretary. 

Miss M. V. BALL. 

Domestic Corresponding Secretary. 

Miss ANNE WARREN WESTON. 

Foreign Corresponding Secretary, 

Mrs. H. G. CHAPMAN. 

Treasurer. 
Miss LUCY xM. BALL, 
Counsellors. 
Mrs. T. SOUTHWICK, 
- Mrs. R0BL\S0N, 
Miss SUSAN PAUL, 
Miss ANN G. CHAPMAN, 
Miss HENRIETTA SARGENT, 



ab 





sss::::;isas rs'trss H 


- 




Cash 
count 
agenc 

our pi 

Almai 
Jacks 
of Mr 

by the 

matjon 

sustai 

acts 

H.B. 

lition; 
of 100 
sett's 
papers 
age of 






pard Massachusetts Society on ac 

of tkeir subscription to the s;enera 
y.^ f 

" |pr makin^r glass shovv case, . 

^ for eleven groce A. S. Hdkfs. 
to Am. A. S. Soc. on account o 
edg-e, 

" for two hundred and fifty A. g 
nacks 

" Mass Soc. to constitute Messis 
oil and Chapman lile members, , 

' towards defraying tlie expense 
s. 1 liompson previous to her depar 

' (or a Bible presented to Mrs.Cliilci 

1 Society, 

to Wm. L. Garrison, for the loss hi 
"fid by the hands of the mob, - 

.1. Knapp for printinufand variou 
r Kindness lor the Society, . . . 

for the use ofConsjress Hall fo 
'^'t^nton & others fo address the Soc 
^, for Dickeys sold at the fair, . 

f. Knapp for printmi? circulars, pe 
3 and inserlion of notices. 

Mass. Soc. on acct. of our pledgi 
J dollars at the Convention, . . 

Counsel fee, in Med Sommer- 

" fo'' Books," Stationary, ' and po'st 


TR 

Boston Female A. S 




• t?5 




.-<;•• ra 1 ; - w ro — ■ w . r- r^ — c 


O2 p> 


^ 


1^ 


^ c^ 


i 


c.' ^ ^ 1 g ^o g g ^ ^ n ^M Big i 




'^ 


S S i 1 8 gS S S S 5 S g8 88 § 




^ ?d 








9 W ^ S 


^ ^ 




2- ■o 3 to 


Cj 




r r • <^ 





— 






s^Ess"-- rK 


^ H 




o>.0 5^^<^p=a 


5 ^ 






alanco in 
sh rccciv 
lavery Fa 
ails of art 
e of Anti- 
of Right 
ofMr.T 
ash for tw 
' toward t 
nnual ass 
(joationa. 










i 








• ^ o 


^30 


(R • 


'^^ 






' . 35- 












• §• 




C9 








: • i. 




>• 


g 










= , 


1 






Cfe 






n 


<» 1 


^ 




ii 







21 




5SS8S 


ss« 


^ B 


■< 



86 



[From the Liberator.] 

TO THE MEMORY OF CHARLES B. STORRS, 

Late President of Western Reserve College. 

BY JOHN CRKENLEAF WHITTIER. 

* He fell a martyr to the interests of his colored brethren. For 
many months did that mighty man of God apply his discriminating 
and gigantic mind to the subject of Slavery and its Remedy : and, 
when his soul could no longer contain his holy indignation against 
the upholders and apologists of this unrighteous system, he gave 
vent to his aching heart, and poured forth his clear thoughts and 
holy feelings in such deep and soul-entrancing eloquence, that other 
men, vi'hom he would fain in his humble modesty acknowledge his 
superiors, sat at his feet and looked up as children to a parent.' — 
Correspondent of the <■ Liberator; 16th of llth Mo. 1833. 

Thou hast fallen in thine armor — 

Thou m.artyr of the Lord ! — 
With thy last breath crying — ' Onward ' ! 

And thy hand upon the sword. 
The haughty heart derideth. 

And the sinful lip reviles. 
But the blessing of the perishing 

Around thy pillow smiles ! 

When to our cup of trembling 

The added drop is given — 
And the long-suspended thunder 

Falls terribly from Heaven, — 
When a new and fearful freedom 

Is proffered of the Lord 
To the slow-consuming famine — 

The Pestilence and Sword !^- 

When the refuges of Falsehood 

Shall be swept away in wrath. 
And the temple shall be shaken 

With its idol to the earth, — 
Shall not thy words of warning 

Be all remembered then 1 — 
And thy now unheeded message 

Burn in the hearts of men 1 — 



87 

Oppression's hand may scatter 

Its nettles on thy tomb. 
And even Christian bosoms 

Deny thy memory room — > 
For lying lips shall torture 

Thy mercy into crime, 
And the slanderer shall flourish 

As the bay-tree for a time» 

But, where the South-wind lingers 

On Carolina's pines— 
Or, falls the careless sunbeam 

Down Georgia's golden mines— 
Where now beneath his burthen 

The toiling slave is driven, — 
Where now a tyrant's mockery 

Is offered unto Heaven, — 

Where Mammon hath its altars 

Wet o'er with human blood. 
And Pride and Lust debases 

The workmanship of God — ■ 
There shall thy praise be spoken. 

Redeemed from falsehood's ban. 
When the fetters shall be broken. 

And the slave shall be a man ! 

Joy to thy spirit, brother ! — 

A thousand hearts are warm— 
A thousand kindred bosoms 

Are baring to the storm. 
What though red-handed Violence 

With secret Fraud combine. 
The wall of fire is round us — 

Our Present Help was thine ! 

Lo— the waking up of nationss 
From Slavery's fatal sleep 



The murmur of a universe — 

Deep calling unto deep ! — 
Joy to tliy spirit, brother ! — 

On every wind ol" Heaven 
The onward cheer and summons 

Of Freedom's soul is given ! 

Glory to God forever ! — 

Beyond the despot's will 
The soul of Freedom liveth 

Imperishable still, 
The words which thou hast uttered 

Are of that soul a part. 
And the good seed thou hast scattered 

Is springing from the heart. 

In the evil days before us, 

And the trials yet to come — 
In the shadow of the prison, 

Or the cruel martyrdom — 
We will think of thee, O, Brother ! 

And thy sainted name shall be 
In the blessing of the captive, 

And the anthem of the free. 

[From the Haverhill Gazette.] 

CLERICAL OPPRESSORS. 

In the Report of the celebrated Pro-Slavery Meeting in Charles- 
ton, S. C. on the 4th of the 9th month, 1835, published in the 
Courier of that city, it is stated, ' The CLERGY of all denomi- 
nations attended in a body, lending their sanction to the prO" 
ceedings ; and adding by their presence to the impressive character 
of the scene ! ' 

Just God ! — and these are they 
Who minister at Thine altar, God of Right ! 
Men who their hands with prayer and blessing lay 
On Israel's Ark of light ! 

What ! preach and kidnap men 1 
Give thanks; and rob Thy own afflicted poor V- 



89 

Talk of Thy glorious liberty, and then 
Bolt hard the captive's door 1 

What ! — servants of Thy own 
Merciful Son, who came to seek and save 
The homeless and the outcast, fettering down 
Tlie tasked and plundered slave ! 

Pilate and Herod, friends ! 
Chief priest and lulers as of old, combine ! 
Just God and holy ! — is that Church which lends 

Strength to the spoiler, Thine 1 

Paid hypocrites, who turn 
Judgment aside, and rob the Holy Book 
Of those high words of truth which search and burn 

In warning and rebuke. 

Feed fat ye locusts, feed ! 
And, in your tasselled pulpits thank the Lord 
That, from the toiling bondman's utter need 

Ye pile jour own full board. 

How long, oh Lord ! — how long, 
Shall such a Priesthood barter Truth away. 
And, in Thy name, for robbery and wrong 

At thy own altars pray ! 

Is not Thy hand stretched forth 
Visildy in the heavens to awe and smite ! — 
Shall not the Living God of all the earth, 

And Heaven above, do right 1 

Wo, then, to all who grind 
Their brethren of a Common Father down ! 
To all who plunder from the immortal mind 

Its bright and glorious crown ! 

Wo — to the Priesthood ! — wo 
To those whose hire is with ihe price of blood — 
Perverting, darkening, changing as they go 

The searching truths of God ! 



90 

Their glory and their might 
Shall perish ; and their very names shall be 
Vile before all the people, in the light ^ 

Of A world's liberty. 

Oh ! speed the moment on 
When Wrong shall cease, and Liberty and Love 
And Truth and Right throughout the earth are known 

As in their home above. 



TRUTH. 
Oh Truth ! immortal Truth I on what wild ground 

Still hast thou trod through this unspiritual sphere ! 
The strong, the brutish, and the vile surround 

Thy presence, lest thy streaming glory cheer 
The poor, the many, without price or bound ! 

Drowning thy voice, they fill the popular ear. 
In thy high name, with canons, creeds and laws, 
Feigning to save, that they may mar thy cause. 

And the great multitude doth crouch, and bear 

The burden of the selfish. That emprize, 
That lofty spirit of virtue, which can dare 

To rend the bands of Error from all eyes; 
And from the freed soul pluck each sensual care. 

To them is but a fable. Therefore lies 
Darkness upon the mental desert still; 
And wolves devour, and robbers walk at will. 

Yet ever and inon, from thy bright quiver. 
The flaming arrows of thy might are strown ; 

And rushing forth, thy dauntless children shiver 
The strength of foes who press too near thy throne. 

Then, like the sun, or thy Almighty Giver, 

Thy light is through the startled nations shown ; 

And generous indignation tramples down 

The sophist's web and the oppressor's crown. 

William ^' Mary Howitt. 



