b 



A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 

ADDRESSED TO ALL 
PROFESSING CHRISTIANS W AMERICA, 



Reader, will you permit me to plead with you for 
a few moments in behalf of two siillions of slaves ? 
They are of the same blood with you, they breathe with 
you the air of the same Christian America, they are in- 
vited by the same crucified Saviour to a place in his bo- 
som and his heaven, they are hastening to the same 
judgment bar to receive with you the retributions of eter- 
nity. They are in every important sense your brethren. 
Yet they are bought and sold and possessed by irrespon- 
sible masters as if they were beasts. By the very neces- 
sity of their condition they are deprived of all those 
influences which tend to elevate man as a moral being. 
They are divested of all ennobling responsibilities. The 
American slave can call nothing his own ; neither house 
nor land, wife nor children, body nor limbs, nor even his 
very soul, for that must direct his muscles at the bidding 
of another. If he enjoys any of these things by the suf- 
ferance of his master, it is but a mockery. The sword 
hangs over him, by a thread, which may sunder his very 
heart strings at any moment. To-day, under a mildly 
administered despotism, he may be surrounded by a family 
that might make him happy, but for the ever present 
thought, that to-morrow he may see his wife and babes 
under the hammer of the brutal auctioneer. The law 
under which he is held knows no mercy. Its inexorable 
mandate makes him a mere " chattel," and for the safet)- 
of that " species of property," it denies him the knowledge 
of letters, the Bible, and the privilege of worshipping God 
when and where he pleases. The law withholds its pro- 
tection from his person by refusing to hear the testimony 



2 A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. /ID ( 

of any black man in the case of any white one. In some 
States it even expressly sanctions all possible cruelty by 
granting to the masters impunity when they kill " by 
moderate correction /" It is in vain to say that in their 
general actual practice the slaveholders do not go to the 
extent of these iniquitous laws. The laws in any State 
are a good index of the popular will. If a majority of the 
masters were mild and humane they would not have pub- 
lished their own shame on the pages of their own statute 
books. In human despotism cruelty of practice is always 
wont to go beyond cruelty of law. If we do not believe 
this in regard to the slaves, it must be because we have 
received the testimony of the masters only. But if we 
will carefully examine even the testimony of the masters, 
we shall find that the whole system is one of unchecked 
cruelty, lust, and blood. But I will not insult your 
understanding by attempting to prove, by holding up its 
atrocities in detail, the wickedness of a system which sets 
out by making transferable property of the human body 
and soul! 

Now, how comes it, that the worst system of slavery 
the world ever saw, exists in the nineteenth century, 
in Republican America, a land full of Bibles and the 
strong hold of Reformed Christianity 1 

Let me assign one or two reasons, and show how they 
affect your moral obligations. 

I. The Christian Church has made a compromise 
with this sin. She has broken up the very foundation 
of Christian morals in favor of slaveholding ! She has 
given the cruel system all needful support ! 

Be not startled, Christian reader, but look at the proof. 
God has said, Thou shalt not steal ! He who retains 
in involuntary servitude a fellow man, as property, takes 
without the owner's consent not only the products of his 
industry, but the very producer. He steals, not merely 
what a man possesses, but all of which he consists. He 
is therefore guilty of consummate theft. Yet the Chris- 
tian Church receives him to her fellowship. This she has 
done till a very large part of her members are slave- 
holders. In this state of things, what can you do for the 
victim of oppression 1 The moment you declare the ten- 
ure by which he is held to be fraud, it is exclaimed, 



A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 



3 



"You denounce good men!" "How can slaveholding 
be essentially wrong while so many Christians are slave- 
holders ?" Thus these Christian slaveholders, these breth- 
ren of the Church are held up as a shield behind which 
the whole system of tyranny is safe. Reader, would you 
hesitate for a moment to call slaveholding fraud, oppres- 
sion, man-stealing, if none were involved in it but notori- 
ously wicked men 1 No, this you grant by acknowledging 
that slavery is wrong in the abstract. You never exten- 
uate by apologies the guilt of the abandoned profligate. 
Then this very fact that so many otherwise good Church 
members are slaveholders presents to your mind the 
strongest argument in favor of the system. And by thus 
warding off from it the blows of truth, these " good men" 
do more to perpetuate the sin, than if they were bad. 
They throw all their sanctity on the side of Satan ! Thus 
has the Church, by receiving slaveholders to her bosom, 
given her whole weight to that philosophy which legislates 
for God, and makes its own view of "expediency" the 
basis of virtue — a doctrine which can sanctify any system 
of sin. Thus has she thrust men into the place of Gob. 

" But, after all, are not many slaveholders really good 
men ? and do they not really think it their duty to hold 
slaves ?" Whether they are really good men or not, is 
not for us to decide, but for Him who will not fail to de- 
cide it according to truth at the Judgment Day. But that 
their slaveholding is no part of their goodness we certainly 
can decide. For their thinking it to be their duty to hold 
slaves, no more makes it so, than did Paul's thinking he 
ought to persecute the Church, make it his duty to drag 
men and women to slaughter. We are left therefore to 
decide on the conduct by the law of God, and if by that 
law there is any such thing as stealing, then slaveholding 
is the highest kind of theft. Whether such a thief, or any 
other, may not, " after all," be a good man, is not the 
question for us to decide, but we must decide that he is a 
thief, a man-stealer, and treat him accordingly. 

Again, it is said, slaveholding cannot be always wrong, 
for the Holy Scriptures recognize the right of the master 
when they enjoin obedience upon the servant. Do the 
Scriptures recognize the right of all " the powers that be" 
when they enjoin obedience to them ? Do they recognize 



4 A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 

the right of the smiter when they require to turn the other 
cheek ? Christianity enjoins sufferance of wrong, patience 
under injuries, for the sake of the Gospel. 

In regard to a multitude of wicked customs the Scrip- 
tures say nothing expressly. They lay down general 
principles or rules which conscience is to apply to specific 
cases. They make every man responsible for his exam- 
ple. Now if there exists a system of slavery, which, by 
making property of them, subjects the great mass of its 
victims to the greatest possible injury, then does the Gos- 
pel forbid all participation in that system. Even those 
who treat their slaves the most kindly uphold the system 
by their example. They prevent even non-slaveholders 
from reprobating it in unqualified terms, how much more 
then do they quiet the consciences of their fellow slave- 
holders. We may apply to the kind slaveholder the lan- 
guage of the Saviour, "Wo to that man by whom the 
offence cometh. It were better that a millstone were 
hanged about his neck, and he cast into the depth of 
the sea." 

But let the Christian slaveholder remember that the 
Gospel condemns his practice not merely on the ground 
of example. With God there is no respect of persons. 
He has said, the laborer is worthy of his hire. He has 
said that in Christ Jesus there is neither bond nor free. 
How can this be if one Christian can hold another as 
property ? Think you that the slaveholders who were 
converted on the day of Pentecost still regarded their 
slaves as property ? If so, then they sold their brethren, 
who had perhaps been converted under the same sermon, 
and laid down the price of hones and sinews, and souls 
too, at the apostles' feet. No, the man who should have 
offered this insult to the Holy Ghost then, would have 
been buried with Annanias and Sapphira. It has been 
left for Christians of these days to profane the treasury 
of the Lord with the price of blood ! And it may be, that 
not a few of them owe their lives to the cessation of 
miracles. 

Here then is one of the reasons why one sixth part of 
our population are slaves. Christians have made such a 
compromise with sin that the horrible system does not 
stand out before the world in its true light — they have 



A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. O 

even perverted the book of God by drawing from it the 
defence of slavery, — thus preaching tyranny from the 
charter of the world's liberty. 

II. TWO MILLIONS of persons are slaves in 
this Christian land because there is a cruel pre- 
judice against their COLOR. A single fact furnishes 
ample proof of the existence of such a prejudice. A So- 
ciety has arisen within the last seventeen years, embracing 
the most distinguished men of every denomination, which 
proposes to remove the entire colored population across 
the Atlantic ; assigning as a principal reason that there 
is a prejudice against them which will forever prevent 
their rising here. How strong this prejudice is, may be 
judged from the fact that the place preferred to the United 
States for elevating the condition of the colored people is 
a spot on the coast of Africa — a heathen land, which by 
the long practice of the slave trade is polluted with every 
influence unfavorable to Christianity. To say nothing of 
its tropical climate, it is one of the most difficult missionary 
fields on the globe. How bitter and cruel must be that 
prejudice which can thus counteract all our boasts of 
freedom and humanity, and make these United States 
worse than the darkest habitation of cruelty for the pur- 
pose of restoring liberty and communicating equality to 
the victims of our own oppression ! Is this prejudice con- 
fined to one particular set of men ? Are those, who are 
so generously offering to carry the colored people beyond 
its reach, themselves free from it ? If they are, they have 
influence enough to overcome it here. Let them but 
plead the cause of the poor slave, with a consistent exam- 
pie, and this prejudice will vanish like the mists of the 
morning. 

This foolish prejudice against color, prevents our sym- 
pathy with the slave. It prevents us from welcoming 
those escaped from cruel bondage and cheering them on 
in a course of honest industry. It prevents us from im- 
parting to the natural friend of the slave that education 
which would give him an incalculable moral influence 
against the system. Let the free colored men of the 
North be well educated, let them number among them- 
selves men of the highest . moral worth and intellectual 
strength, and slavery would totter to its downfall. 



b A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 

Now if it be true that these two causes do fortify the 
system of slavery, can it ever be removed till an entire 
moral reformation has taken place ? Does not the cause 
of the oppressed cry aloud that every man, woman, and 
child should think and speak and act on the principle that 
man can have no right of property in man ? — that slave- 
holding is the worst kind of robbery ? Must not all wel- 
come the truth, that ** God has made of one blood all 
nations;" and that distinction of color has no right to 
sever the bonds of Christian brotherhood, and that, there- 
fore, black and white ought to dwell together as good 
friends, neighbors, and fallow citizens ? Ought we not to 
throw all the disgrace of oppression, not on the oppressed, 
but on the unrelenting oppressor 7 Yes ; had the pro* 
fessecl followers of Christ in this land always done so, 
there would not now be in this vast house of bondage 
two millions of groaning slaves ; — they must do so be- 
fore these slaves can be free. Here, reader, is your re- 
sponsibility ; your influence is needed ; your prayers are 
needed. 

" But no slave labors for me. Why come to me, with 
this appeal ?" If this be true, I rejoice to hear it. It 
shows that you are careful not to consume the products 
of slave labor, and that you do not in any way justify or 
palliate the crime. But more than this is required. If 
your own mother's son were smarting beneath the lash of 
an " overseer," a mere chattel, would you not reprobate 
the crime of holding him 1 Would you not often speak 
of his case to your neighbors ? Would you not arouse 
sympathy in his behalf far and near ? You would not 
set down, would you, and say, " Nothing can be done ; 
if I meddle with this subject I shall exasperate the plant- 
ers and dissolve the Union ?" No. Nor would you sym- 
pathize with the planter and believe him when he said 
that he would liberate as soon as it could be done safely, 
and that he wished for the liberation of your brother as 
much as you yourself could ! No, you would cry aloud 
without sparing, you would call mightily upon God and 
give the oppressor no rest till he had liberated your bro- 
ther. And who is the poor, oppressed, down-trodden 
slave but your brother, by a tie that swallows up all other 
ties? 



A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 7 

But here comes the grand objection : " Bad as slavery 
is, an immediate emancipation of all the slaves would be 
still worse, both for the master and the slave. It would 
break up the whole system of social order, and set afloat 
upon the community an idle and vicious population — a 
curse to themselvs and to the whites." 

As the objector is one who judges of right and wrong 
by the apprehended consequences of action, let us attend 
to the consequences of his objection. It is founded on the 
alleged unfitness of the slaves for liberty under law. They 
are so ignorant and degraded that the only safe govern- 
ment for them is the worst kind of despotism. This sort 
of government therefore must be maintained till they are 
prepared for a better. But the preparation for a better, 
according to the testimony of the planters themselves, is 
utterly incompatible with this form of government, and 
must lead to its violent overthrow. Therefore they are 
to be kept under despotism because they are too ignorant 
for freedom, and they are to be kept in ignorance because 
knowledge is incompatible with despotism. Or, in other 
words, they are to be held as property till they are fit to 
exercise certain " inalienable " rights, but they must not 
be fitted to exercise these rights because the first step in 
the process would teach them that these rights are justly 
theirs, after which it would be difficult to hold them as 
property. So it appears that rather than give them their 
rights at once, the slaves are either to be kept in perpe- 
tual bondage, or subjected to a course of preparation 
which will immediately excite them to right, themselves ! 

Again the objector would have the slaves freed, if at 
all, only so fast as they become prepared to enjoy liberty 
with benefit to themselves and the community. But who 
is to be judge of the fitness of the slaves for liberty? The 
master of course ; otherwise there would be an invasion 
of his " right of property." But how can he judge of 
this fitness from consequences which he can never know 
till this very judgment has been passed ? Consequently, 
since he can never know that his slaves will be better off 
than under his own mild sway, for no man thinks himself 
a tyrant, how can we expect him ever to free them on 
account of any preparation they may have acquired ? 

But let us look again at the objection, — "immediate 
emancipation would be worse than continued slavery." 



8 A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 

Then if a majority of the slaveholders were convinced 
that slavery ought to be abolished to-day, at all hazards, 
— that their fellow men ought no longer to be considered 
as property, exposed to the hammer of the auctioneer, but 
as free moral agents, subject to equitable law, they must 
not abolish it, — that would be a fatal mistake. Slavery 
is wrong, most wickedly wrong, but you must not per- 
suade slaveholders that they ought to abolish it at once, 
for it is their duty to continue in the wrong till their vic- 
tims can enjoy liberty without injury to themselves and 
the community ! 

Are there any facts in support of the objection ? Has 
immediate emancipation ever produced evil consequences ? 
We are pointed to the free blacks of the South — they are 
worse oft than the slaves, it is said. Evidently they do 
not think themselves so ; for we never hear of their sell- 
ing themselves into bondage, which they might easily do. 
" But they are more indolent and vicious than the slaves." 
So are the masters of slaves, as a general fact ; are the 
masters, then, worse off than their own slaves ? " But 
the free blacks are very poor." Not so poor as the 
slave, for he owns less than nothing, he is himself a mere 
piece of property. We can hardly say that he is even 
fed and clothed, for it is not his own body that is fed and 
clothed, but another man's ! In consistency with the 
rules of good English, if we admit the right of property, 
we must say of a slave it is fed and clothed — an assertion 
which in point of fact is to a lamentable extent untrue. 

But for the sake of the argument let us grant that the 
free blacks at the South are worse off than the slaves. 
Does liberty make them so ? No, surely ; it may be 
proved from the slaveholders' own lips that they oppress 
the free blacks for the sake of retaining their slaves the 
more easily. The objector infers, that if all the slaves 
should be given up at once, they would be no better off 
than the free blacks are now ! Excellent logic ! 

Facts on the other side are not wanting. Five hun- 
dred thousand slaves were emancipated at once in St. 
Domingo, and the act restored peace and tranquillity to 
the island, which was not disturbed till the whites attempt- 
ed to re-enslave them. Slavery has been abolished in 
Mexico, Peru, Colombia, the island of Java, at the Cape 
of Good Hope, &c. &c. without any evil consequence. 



A PLEA FOE THE SLAVE. 9 

Reader, will you harbor to the injury of two millions 
of unoffending countrymen, the monstrous doctrine that 
justice and mercy are less safe and beneficial to all par- 
ties than tyranny and oppression ? that it is dangerous to 
let men enjoy their unforfeited, unalienable rights because 
they happen to be poor and unlettered 1 If you will, be 
assured that all tyrants will regard you with brotherly 
complacency. That the great body of slaves may need 
some preparation to qualify them to be judges and legis- 
lators, or even voters, I do not deny. In this respect let 
the same rules be applied to them, as are applied to white 
men in their respective States. Equality is all we con- 
tend for. But that they need any preparation to be the 
free subjects of equitable laws, not as property, but as per- 
sons capable of holding property, I count a most mis- 
chievous absurdity, for it is an injurious denial of a " self 
evident truth." 

Some are so much deceived as to supoose slavery only 
an extension of family government. The slaves, being 
unable to provide for themselves, say they, stand to their 
masters in the relation of children to parents, consequently 
it would be wrong to turn them off to shift for themselves, 
or yield to their foolish desire for liberty. Does the in- 
stitution of family government give a man a right to tell 
a child, whether his own by birth or adoption ? Does it 
give him the right of restraining the child beyond the 
specified age of majority ? Does the institution of family 
government give the parent the power of preventing the 
child's having a family of his own ? The institution of 
slavery does. It virtually breaks up one sixth part of the 
families in the United States. Are slaveholders to be 
sustained in the plea, that because they have a right to 
the services of their children, apprentices and wards, 
during minority, on the ground of God's institution, they 
have therefore a right of property in whole families of 
other people, men, women and children, in perpetuity ? 

It is in vain to attempt to whitewash this system of sin. 
Even slaveholders feel it to be so. But immense mischief 
is done by pleading palliations and excuses, while we ad- 
mit it to be an enormous wickedness, — by granting that 
the Scriptures may mean to sanction the relation of mas- 
ter and slave, that they do give some color to the slave. 



10 A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 

holder's plea. This is all that any slaveholder asks, — it 
is sufficient to support the system, so far as opinion can 
do it. We do not allow ourselves to palliate any sin that 
we are in earnest to remove. 

Here this subject swells beyond the importance of the 
mere abolition of slavery. It is a question of general 
principles, — a sort of trial question in regard to the con- 
version of the world. This baleful hatred of the black 
man must be overcome before we can have any part in 
bringing the world under the influence of the Gospel. 
The greater part of mankind are colored. Do we sup- 
pose that the American Church can Christianize the col- 
ored world while it harbors such a prejudice against the 
colored people in its own bosom — a prejudice which 
almost entirely prevents it from making any effort in be- 
half of two millions of slaves ? Can it clear the vision of 
six hundred millions while a beam is in its own eye ? 
Can it sever the chains of Hindoo caste while it cherishes 
caste at home ? No, says honesty, this tyrannous respect 
of persons, at war with the precepts of the Gospel, must 
be abolished here, before with clean hands we can bear 
the vessels of the Lord ! 

Be not deceived with the scheme of removing slavery 
by transporting the free. A physical remedy cannot 
cure a moral evil. If the whites as a body hate the 
blacks so that they will not live in the same community 
with them on terms of equality, how can it be expected 
that white slaveholders, as a body, should give up their 
slaves any faster than is sufficient to hold the rest in 
safety. Benevolence, when it can help it, does not thrust 
its object away from it. Every man who sends a slave 
into exile, and claims the merit of benevolence for the act, 
must be able to say, that, so far as he is concerned, the 
slave might stay here as a free man and be happy. He 
must charge upon the community around him an uncon- 
trollable force of wicked prejudge, to make exile from this 
land of plenty a blessing. Now, can the whole mass of 
slaveholders exile their slaves on this plea 1 If so, what 
has become of the prejudice ? It must be a public pre- 
judice in which no individual participates ! An omni- 
present phantom, at home nowhere ! Either, then, there 
is no prejudice which can justify the few who now exile 



A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 11 

their slaves, or, it is in vain to expect the entire mass to 
imitate these few any faster than individual prejudice 
yields to truth and reason. Now which is the surest way 
to make this prejudice yield to truth and reason ?— to 
gratify it, by exiling the poor blacks, or, to show its 
wickedness and resist it by all peaceable means ? Look 
more clearly at the slaveholder. He can live with the 
black man as a slave, but not as an equal neighbor. If 
you transport your freed man, this prejudice of his is gra- 
tified, and the profit of his own slaves is augmented in 
proportion to the diminution of the supply of labor. Is 
there any tendency here to persuade him to emancipate ? 
Is there as much as there would be, if, freeing and ele- 
vating your slaves on the soil, you should show him prac- 
tically the foolishness of his prejudice and the unprofita- 
bleness of his oppression ? And, again, can any sane man 
expect ever to remove slavery by carrying off those whom 
the masters may spontaneously liberate, while they are 
told by men of the highest character that their rights are 
held sacred, and that it is not their, duty to emancipate 
any faster than it can be done with safety to themselves 
and their slaves ? No, an appeal must be made to the 
consciences of slaveholders louder than seven thunders. 
The stern voice of eternal rectitude must be made to ring 
in their ears, till they are ashamed of their pretended 
right of property in human flesh, and till they feel slave- 
holding to be a sure introduction to disgrace, infamy, and 
deep damnation, whatsoever may happen to be the super- 
ficial tinge of their victims. 

And what if the laws do stand opposed to emancipation 
On the soil ? Is this any thing more than to say that the 
majority of slaveholders are now determined not to let the 
captive go free ? Does it prove that they ought not to do 
so ? Can human laws annul the laws of God ? Where 
then is liberty of conscience ? And what if the Federal 
Constitution upholds slavery? Is even that of Divine 
authority ? Is it unalterable 1 If the framers of it had no 
right to guarantee the enslavement of the hundreds of 
thousands of slaves that then were, have we a right to 
continue the same iniquitous guarantee in regard to the 
millions that are in bondage now ? If the Union of these 
States is not strong enough to bear rectifying in regard to 



12 A PLEA FOE THE SLAVE. 

a vital point of justice, then it must be a Union to do 
wickedly : — the sooner it goes to pieces, the better. The 
blame will rest not upon the rectifiers but upon the wrong 
doers. What honor, I beg to be told, is done to the 
American Union by giving out that it would never have 
been formed if Hen eighteenths of the people had not 
pledged themselves to assistive eighteenths in keeping the 
remaining three eighteenths in the most abject bondage ? 
or that it will be dissolved if 7,000,000 of northern free- 
men now withdraw this pledge from the 3,800,000 whites 
in the slaveholding States who have now in their grasp 
2,000,000 of slaves ? The plain fact is that a large ma- 
jority of this nation has given up one part of the minority 
to the absolute control of the other part, and according to 
these profound sages of expediency, the wrong cannot be 
rectified without destroying the Union, and therefore 
ought not to be attempted. Patriots, how long do you 
expect the Union to last if the slavery question is left at 
rest? The immutable principles of justice are not to be 
given up because they endanger the existence of some 
human compact. The pillars of heaven are in safer keep, 
ing than ours, and we may be assured that if we will fear- 
lessly speak the truth, all will be safe on earth that ought 
to be. 

Do not be indifferent to slavery because it is said to be 
a political question. It is eminently a religious one, and 
cannot be safely neglected by any who would cultivate 
" pure religion and undefiled before God," whatever may 
be the effect of its agitation upon the politics of the coun- 
try. If it become a party question, the mischief will lie 
at the door of those who take the side of oppression. 
God, the Maker of both rich and poor, has a party in re- 
gard to slavery, and if that party be given up for the sake 
of peace with the wrong doers, it will hasten that right- 
eous retribution which lies in store for this enormous sin. 

Look at the conduct of Britain. Is the Christian pub- 
lic of Britain "mad," "fanatical," "frantic?" Or, is 
the voice which cries " break every yoke," " let the op- 
pressed go free," the voice of mere justice ? Shall it be »& 
said of Republican Christian America that she not only ^ 
lacks the strong arm of power which might put down 

* See the Census of 1790 and of 1830. j: 



A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 13 

slavery with a dash of the pen, but that even her Chris- 
tian people lack the disposition to say to the slaveholders 
that it is their duty to set every slave free now ? What ! 
shall the poor slave have to say, " Were these States 
British colonies I might now enjoy my "inalienable" 
rights, but because they are free and independent I must 
still groan a slave in sight of liberty ?" Tell it not among 
the nations, that while king-trod Britain purges her terri- 
tories from the foul sin, free America sides with the op- 
pressors, and holds its victims with a firmer grasp ! — 
There is no sincerity in our plea, that the Constitution 
prevents us from acting on this subject, while the District 
of Columbia remains as foul a slave mart as disgraces the 
Coast of Africa, and no voice is raised against it. Let us 
not be prevented by the combination of the tyrannous and 
the timid, from pleading for the poor and defenceless, and 
making plain truth the means of banishing from the earth 
the cruel and monstrous pretense of property in man. 

The shallow arts of temporizers have been tried in all 
their changes, and tried long enough. The evil laughs 
at them, and would laugh them out, of countenance but 
that just now the scourge of truth has scared it into a de- 
cent gravity. Let us have any thing, say the slavehold- 
ers, from the pious Divines down to the most profane of 
the laity, rather than this wild fanaticism of immediate 
emancipation. Why, rather than have this incendiary 
doctrine prevail, we will seriously admit that you may 
remove slavery by removing the free ; that you may arouse 
conscience by letting it alone ; that- you may kill preju- 
dice by feeding it; and that you may empty the ocean 
with a ladle ! If we have not parted with every relic of 
sanity let us give these physical expedients to the winds ; 
they make us contemptible in the sight of both worlds, and 
are not less cruel than ridiculous. While we are so sed- 
ulously engaged in winning the good graces of the slave- 
holders, and showing them how they may rid themselves 
of the unpleasant results of their iniquity without repent- 
ing of it, or abolishing any of their wicked laws against 
emancipation, the cry of abused millions is waxing loud- 
er. If, as I supposed just now, your own brother was in 
the hands of a cruel task master who was crushing body 
and soul together, and had been for years, while every 
2 



14 A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE, 

mild form of supplication had been tried in vain, would 
you still say, " Kind sir, I beseech you to liberate my 
brother, as soon as you can do it safely — if his presence 
should be disagreeable in this neighborhood, I will see 
that he is exiled' to the other side of the Ocean, — I grant 
your right, Sir, but I appeal to your generosity ?" Would 
you not rather, in a firm and erect position, utter an ap- 
peal to the conscience of the oppressor, so penetrating, 
that not to feel it would prove him a demon ? Would you 
not spread the case before the moral sense of the world, 
to the eternal infamy of one, who, under the name of a 
Christian man could continue to hold in his felonious 
clutches your unoffending brother ? 

"But the slave-holders too are our brethren." Then 
let us deal faithfully with them. They have engrafted 
their own sin upon the abomination planted by their fa- 
thers. Shall we water the poisonous tree? Shall we 
extenuate their guilt by pleading that which really en- 
hances its enormity ? Shall we concede to them that it 
would be unsafe now to abolish property in human jlesh ? 
Shall we swim along in that malignant doctrine of expe- 
diency which can magnify crime into righteousness, white- 
wash rottenness and pollution, and clothe devils in the 
robes of Heaven ? Because we too have wronged our 
brother in harboring against him a mean and cruel preju- 
dice, shall we sit in silence while our neighbor does him 
a worse injury? No, we are the men whose * feet have 
well nigh slipped," and it becomes us to raise our loudest 
note of warning to those who are pressing on, encouraged 
by our past example, to the verge of a retribution so tre- 
mendous. 

The turning of human beings into property has shroud- 
ed in darkness the light of two millions of minds, and 
on account of this, the slavery apologists plead for the 
slaveholders that they may hold their victims a little 
longer, till they are elevated and prepared for freedom ! 
And this while the experience of all ages has proved that 
making property of men tends only and in all circum- 
stances to degrade them. Just as if the right way to ele- 
vate men was not at once to take away the cause which 
has depressed them ! Can a brotherly regard for infatu- 
ated oppressors require us to assent to such monstrous 



A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 15 

absurdity, and ransack the tomes of Jesuitical casuistry 
to find other like apologies in their favor ? 

The evil is approaching its crisis with fearful celerity. 
There is but one remedy, and it must be prescribed, cost 
what it will. It is the entire abandonment of the wicked 
pretense of property in human beings, and the yielding to 
every one his "inalienable" rights on the soil where he 
stands. To -borrow all but one word of a forcible sen- 
tence : * " It were better that another deluge should over- 
whelm our land, leaving desolation from one end of it to 
the other, than to draw down on ourselves the wrath of 
the Most High, by continuing to counteract him in legally 
consigning over to littleness, inaction, and debasement, 
millions of minds which he made to expand and strengthen 
and rise to glory and honor and immortality." 



God hath made of one blood all nations of men for to 
dwell on all the face of the earth. — Apostle Paul. 

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men 
are created equal ; that they are endowed by their 
Creator with certain unalienable rights ; that among these 
are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. — American 
Congress of 1776. 

These rights (natural rights) may be reduced to three 
primary articles, the right of personal security, the right 
of personal liberty, and the right of private property. 

Judge Blacksione. 

I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is 
just, and that his justice cannot sleep forever. The Al- 
mighty has no attribute which can take sides with us in 
this unrighteous work. — Jefferson. 

Slavery " is not useful, either to the master or to the 
slave ; to the latter, because he can do nothing by virtue ; 
to the former, because he contracts with his slaves all 
sorts of evil habits, inures himself insensibly to neglect 
every moral virtue, and becomes proud, passionate, hard- 
hearted, violent, voluptuous, and cruel. — Montesquieu. 

* See article on the Abuse of Mind in the American Quarterly 
Register. 



16 A PLEA FOR THE SLAVE. 

Liberty and property form the basis of abundance and 
good agriculture. I never observed it flourish, where 
these rights of mankind were not firmly established. 
The earth which multiplies her productions with profusion 
under the hands of the free-born laborer, seems to shrink 
into barrenness, under the sweat of the slave. 

he Poivore. 

If a man be found stealing any of his brethren — and 
maketh merchandize of him, or selleth him, the thief shall 
die. — Bible. 

And he that stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be 
found in his hands, he shall surely be put to death. — II. 

Man to be possessed by man ! — man to be made prop- 
erty of !— the image of the Deity to be put under the 
yoke ! Let these usurpers show us their title deeds ! 

Simon Bolivar. 

While I am indulging in my views of American pros- 
pects, and American liberty, it is mortifying to be told 
that in that very country a large portion of the people are 
slaves ! It is a dark spot on the face of the nation. Such 
a state of things cannot always exist. — Lafayette. 

Man is the property of man in about one half of the 
American States ! Let them not therefore dare to prate 
of their institutions, of their national freedom, while they 
hold their fellow-man in bondage ! 

Daniel O'Connell. 

Dr. Franklin's opinion was, that the effect of slavery 
was the luxury, imbecility, and diminution of the whites. 

President Jefferson, though a slaveholder, gave it as 
his opinion, that the blacks will ultimately (in spite of all 
attempts to keep them ignorant) be the sole possessors of 
the low country, and the whites be obliged to migrate to 
other regions. 



This pamphlet is printed on linen paper, as the publisher cannot 
conscientiously use paper made, wholly or in part, of cotton rags — 
the product of slave labor. If the friends of Abolition everywhere 
will practise "total abstinence" with respect to all slave-labor pro- 
ductions — articles of food — wearing apparel, &c. &c. — slavery 
will speedily come to an end. With reference to such articles I 
say then, " Touch not — taste not — handle not," 



