
ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOSTON FEMALE 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



PRESENTED OCTOBER 13, 1841 . 



Moutont 

PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY, 
25 CORNHILL, 

1841, 



^mi 



EIGHTH 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOSTOj^f FEMALE 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



PRESENTED OCTOBER 13, 1841. 



PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY, 

25 CORNHILL. 

1841. 



OFFXOISRS OP THE SOCIETY. 



President. 
THANKFUL SOUTHWICK. 

Vice-President. 
Caroline Weston. 

Domestic Corresponding Secretary. 

Henrietta Sargent. 



Foreign Corresponding Seer 
Maria Weston Chapman. 

Recording Secretary. 
Sarah Southwice. 

Treasurer. 
Eliza Merriam. 

Counsellors. 
Mary Himes, 
Caroline Williams, 
Louisa Loring, 
Anne W. Weston, 
Margaret Scarlet, 
Hannah Tufts. 



Dow & Jackson, Printersj 

14 Devonshire Street, Boston. 



® 



This day completes the eighth year of the exist- 
ence of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Soci- 
ety ; and its return demands of us the customary 
glance of retrospection, by Avhich we have ever been 
able to cheer and strengthen each other for the fu- 
ture. 

Never was the contemplation of the past so en- 
couraging. Experience has taught us how to inter- 
pret its lessons, so that events, which once looked 
hostile to the cause of Freedom, now seem the fit- 
ting preparation for her advancing steps. We seem 
to behold all the discordant elements of society 
working together unconsciously for the liberation of 
the American slave. Is the church the bulwark of 
slavery .^ The very fixedness of her position, as 
such, is awakening her most excellent members to 
the necessity of disuniting their honor from her as- 
sembly. Her denial of the applicability of her prin- 
ciples to the question of slavery breaks the charm 
of moral perfection, that made her powerful in the 
hearts of man. Deserted of that which gives her 
the character of a true church, her crumbling walls 
will soon cease to encumber the path of reform. 
Are the ministry — ^^the leaders of the church — zeal-^ 



ous in proclaiming their fraternity with man-steal- 
ers ? Every soul that becomes deeply penetrated 
with the love of freedom, and the determination to 
impart it to the enslaved, is obliged to go forth to 
the work, overcoming the binding sense of human 
authority ; and thus gains, at the outset, its fitting 
discipline. Are our statesmen on the watch to 
strengthen slavery at the expense of the rights of 
the free ? The free are thereby aroused to the per- 
ception, that ' all liberties are united — all despotisms 
are one ; ' and self-love unites with social, for the 
extinction of slavery. Thus all things are working 
tbgether for good to those who love Freedom, and 
are laboring to give her blessings to the slave. 

We suffer no remorseful pain, in view of the little 
we have been able to accomplish the past year, 
either as individuals or as an association. It is all 
we could : and experience has taught us to wait pa- 
tiently for the results of our labors, as knowing that 
no labor is in vain in the Lord. How often, even 
after a long interval, have we seen even our feeble 
exertions mightily prospered, because they flowed 
in with the ever onward course of God's providence! 
The seed sown one year almost despairingly, springs 
up in triumph and in joy the next ; and now we go 
every year to the seed-field with assured hope. 

How few, how trifling seem our most important 
efforts in the enumeration ! Here are two and a 
half millions, held as slaves ; and sixteen millions of 
freemen, so debased in soul by finding apologies for 
the deed, that the demands of justice, the claims of 
generosity, the tears of mercy, the principles of re- 
publicanism, and the teachings of Christianity} 



which all so powerfully second the pleading's of the 
abolitionist, come to their hearts in vain. What are 
are we able to do — what have we last year done, to 
relieve all this suffering, to rectify all this error, to 
enlighten all this ignorance, to rebuke all this wick- 
edness, and to awaken in all these hearts the slum- 
bering principles of freedom and philanthropy that 
ought to reign in them ? 

We have but scattered a few books, held a few 
meetings, signed and circulated a few forms of pe- 
tition, sustained and sent forth newspapers, and 
raised a little money by the sale of the products of 
our ingenuity and industry. But if we have done 
what we could — ^if we have bent our whole spirits to 
the sower's toil, we need not be discouraged by 
this recapitulation. It is merely through the dark- 
ness of the general heart, and the perverseness of 
the general will, that slaves are held in the United 
States ; and it is with that heart and Avill that we 
have been busy, through our various sniall instru- 
mentalities as an association. We have but to labor 
to increase them. Our hearts are more deeply than 
ever moved with what the times demand of us, both 
of exertion and sacrifice. But it is no mere spasm 
of benevolent feeling, to die away, and be forgotten, 
when this day's sun has set. The love of freedom, 
and the wish to impart it, have become the breath 
of our life. With every sun that rises, we send our 
spirits abroad to devise plans for securing the sym- 
pathy of others, which we use the day to execute ; 
and thus by example more than precept, we plant 
our cause in the hearts of the advancing generation. 

Our experience confutes the assertion of Dr. 



6 

Channing, that organization weakens individual 
energy, cramps the freedom of the individual mind^ 
and confines it to the contemplation of one idea, tilJ 
its judgment of the relative importance of things is 
impaired. It is not so with the anti-slavery asso- 
ciations. In proof of its tendency to strengthen and 
help the individual, we need but point to those of 
bur members who are best known by the publicity 
of their labors, and therefore the fittest exemplifica- 
tions. It is with heart-stirring admiration that we 
look at Abby Kelley and Lydia Maria Child ; and 
while we rejoice in the fresh strength, renewed ac- 
tivity, broader views, and freer action that have 
been ours ever since we knew them, we feel confi- 
dent that their usefulness has been no way impaired 
by association with us. If a subtle distinction be 
attempted between associated and organized aclion, 
we can declare ourselves unable to discern where the 
difl:erence obtains. The man who asks his neighbor 
for help to lift a weight too great for the strength 
of one, and says, ' Raise you this side of it, while I 
lift the other,' is acting in organi2?ed association, 
as truly as are the Anti-Slavery Societies ; and 
finds, like them, that the strength of each becomes 
the strength of all. 

For the idea that individual freedom is infnnged 
upon, we see not the smallest foundation ; for so 
long as all are of the one mind that brought them 
into association, there is no I'oorn for an effort to im- 
pair freedom ; and when the minds of any become 
changed, no effort can' retain them in it. The as- 
sociation has no power of excommunication : it is 
merely a union for a business-purpose, by those who 



wish that business done, liable to no inconveniences 
but those inseparable from human nature, and which 
find a place in every form of social life. 

With regard to the often expressed fear, that the 
mind becomes narrowed by the contemplation of 
one subject, we reply, not if that subject be con- 
nected with moral truth. Upon the line of that 
great circle, whoever steps is led onward and on- 
ward forever, still ascending. To the Anti-Slavery 
cause we owe an enlargement of heart, a training 
of intellect, and a flow of general sympathy, which 
we never knew before we made that cause our own, 
and which is fitting us for all the other labors and 
duties of life. Having thus our own experience to 
justify us, we hesitate not to entreat all who love the 
cause of freedom, and would fain serve it, to unite 
with us ; giving and receiving aid. They will find 
that such associations as ours carry, in themselves, 
the antidote to the evils apprehended. We have 
found that the indolent, the ambitious and tyranni- 
cal, the wilfully narrow-minded, will not remain in 
them, so powerful is the rebuke their activity, equal- 
ity and enlarging tendency continually administer. 

If a general survey of the cause, during the past 
year, is cheering, the examination of the particulars 
which go to make up the scene is not less inspiring. 

With much labor, inconvenience and sacrifice, we 
helped to established the ' National Anti-Slave- 
ry Standard.' The good it does in the cause out- 
goes our most sanguine hopes, Its circulation aP 
ready equals that of any other anti-slavery paper, 
while its excellence gives promise of a more exten- 
sive one than our former national organ, the Eman- 



B 

cipator, ever enjoyed. May it ever be borne, as 
now, spotless in front of the anti-slavery host; and in 
every hour of peril or of pain, may we throng 
round it the closer in love of its adherence to princi- 
pie, as the ranks of those who read it merely for its 
rare literary ability, fall away. 

Another most cheering token of the times is the 
decay of New Organization. That device of the 
enemy is now seen in its true colors, and ' to be 
hated needs but to be seen.' It has, in Massachu- 
setts, resolved itself into its original elements, pro- 
slavery, indifference, sectarism, disappointed ambi- 
tion, and personal ill-will. Its last efforts of malig- 
nity, made in England, will but show our friends in 
Great-Britain with what character of mirid, in Amer- 
ica, the members of the London Committee most 
readily assimilate. The leading members of that 
"^Committee are seen of us in the attitude of circula- 
ting, with joyful diligence, the most unfounded as- 
persions against the American Society and its mem- 
bers. For the more complete information of ali our 
members, of the character displayed by the members 
of the London Committee, we refer them to the 
speech of George Thompson at Glasgow, and to those 
of Wendell Phillips and John A. Collins on their re- 
turn from Great Britain. As the latter have never 
heen published, we preserve the following report 
made at the time for the information of such of our 
members as were not present on that occasion. It 
is a deep disappointment to be made to see, thus 
painfully, the real character of the London Commit- 
tee, but the feelings it excites are not new. We 
have before felt what it was to meet the thrust of 



9 



selfishness, Avhere we looked for the irradiating 
presence of a noble disinterestedness ; to see treach- 
ery scowl in the faces that once looked bright with 
truth. If there are those among the London Com- 
mittee who are guiltless of participating in the un- 
manly and unchristian conduct of which we speak, 
how gladly shall we receive the knowledge of it I — 
for contempt is an emotion we most unwillingly ad- 
mit to our minds, although it is the one most 
readily called forth by this co-operation of the mem- 
bers of the London Committee with New Organiza- 
tion for the destruction of the American Society. We 
cherish feelings of pity and forgiveness for all, how- 
ever despisable and wicked their conduct ; but we 
trifle with our own moral sense to characterize such 
conduct as otherwise than despisable and wicked. 

At a recent meeting of abolitionists, in the Char- 
don-street Chapel, to welcome home those friends 
who had been so long abroad, Mr, Collins gave a 
short sketch of the incidents of his absence. In the 
course of his remarks, he spoke of the conduct of Jo- 
seph Sturge, in circulating through Great Britain 
slanders against Mr. Garrison and himself, for the 
purpose of depriving the American Society of the 
sympathy and aid of British abolitionists. ' I met 
Joseph Sturge afterwards,' continued Mr. Collins, 
* at the house of his cousin, Thomas Sturge, with 
whom I was breakfasting. ' Joseph, I am glad to 
see thee,' said Thomas, when he entered. ' Now, 
thou and John A. Collins can talk this whole mat- 
ter over.' What did Mr. Joseph Sturge do ? It 
may be thought he would say, ' Friend Collins, I am 
glad to see thee ; for I received not the best accounts 



10 



of thee from America, which I immediately circii-- 
lated all over the kingdom, fearing lest abolitionists 
might be imposed upon. Now, if these statements 
can be disproved, of course I wshall rejoice to coun- 
teract them ; and, of course, as a just man, shall re- 
joice to hear both sides, that I may be prepared to 
act justly.' That is what might be expected of a 
man professing to love justice and the anti-slavery 
cause. But what did he say, actually ? He put his 
hands out against the table before him, as if to keep 
me oiF — turned pale, and red, and all manner of col- 
ors, and declared that he must leave the house, if 
this subject were entered upon !' 

Mr. Phillips succeeded Mr. Collins as follows ? 
' In connection Avith what my brother Collins has 
remarked of the character of the abolition he was 
obliged to encounter, I agree with him exactly. I 
can form no judgment different from his own, with 
regard to the letters circulated hy it from this coun- 
try. When Nathaniel Colver sent those letters, he 
knew that if, instead of stating what he did to the 
Q,uaker to whom he sent them, he had said that 
there had been a Convention sitting to inquire into 
the nature and claims of the Sabbath, Church, and 
Ministry, as at present existing, he knew that Qua- 
ker would have been bound, by his Quaker princi- 
ples, to think all the more highly of those whom he 
represented as instituting the inquiry. He would 
have been bound to welcome the intelligence ; but 
Nathaniel Colver knew that by the use of the word 
infidel^ he could touch a string which the true state* 
ment of the case would by no means cause to vi- 
brate. If he had informed those gentlemen of th^ 



11 



London Committee, of the /ads respecting the Con- 
vention, — no matter what his opinions had been re- 
specting its character, — they would have been re- 
ceived as the natural results of the prejudices of a 
fee'd priest. But he called it an infidel Convention, 
without giving the facts respecting it ; and he knew 
that he should thereby awaken all the petty preju- 
dices that the true statement would have left un- 
touched. 

Let me tell the friends what use was made of 
these letters. They were taken to a public copyist 
— the same employed to copy all the official docu- 
ments of the British and Foreign Society — caused to 
be copied in the same manner as its official docu- 
ments are copied — done up with the same envelope 
with them — sealed with one of the signets of the 
Committee, and dispersed all over the country. 
They knew that, by so doing, they gave them all 
the credence of an official paper. They kpew that 
every man received them as such. When the Dub- 
lin Society sent to demand of them why they circu- 
lated such unfounded assertions, they refused all 
explanation ; they knew they could make none. 
They were afraid to attempt to make any. There 
never was an act that gave so deadly a stab to the 
anti-slavery cause in America, as that course of 
theirs. Nothing that can operate towards exonera- 
ting the American Society from the charges they 
put forth against it, is permitted to appear in their 
paper ; while every effi^rt, both open and secret, is 
made to deepen the false impression they wish to 
produce. Their paper is utterly sealed to any thing 
that can correct this false impression, yet they claim 



12 



to be the channel through which information is to 
flow to the British public ! One instance, let me 
give, of the course they adopt. Certain resolutions 
against Buxton's African civilization scheme ap- 
peared in their paper, which gave offence to some 
of their friends; and they expressed their disappro- 
bation to the Committee. Their answer was, ' We 
are not responsible ; for, in order to sustain the pa- 
per, we promised, at the beginning, to receive all 
paid advertisements.' Within a month or two ar- 
rived the resolutions of a great meeting in Palmyra, 
New- York, contradicting the slanders they had put 
in circulation. They were sent to them for inser- 
tion as advertisements ; and they were refused ! 
{base ! base ! from the meeting.) Can such a Com- 
mittee deserve the confidence of abolitionists ? (No ! 
no ! from the meeting.) Do they deserve any lon- 
ger the high place they have occupied in my mind? 
Mr. President, it is a pain to me to be undeceived 
in such a case as this — it was so grateful to my 
feelings to yield esteem and honor. I reverenced 
the names of Joseph Sturge and John Scoble, and 
the London Committee. But little as ■ was the time 
I was there, I was compelled to feel that they had 
forfeited the esteem of abolitionists. They have 
not dared to meet the crisis that presented itself to 
them. When asked why they had slandered the 
American Society, and its members and representa- 
tive, they made no answer. They owed it to Garri- 
son — they owed it to all the absent — they owed it 
to the American Society — they owed it to the cause 
— they owed it to themselves : — but they made no 
answer. 



13 



I cannot sit down, Mr. President, without express- 
ing my contempt — my indignation, at the baseness 
and the wickedness of this attack of Mr. Colver, Mr. 
Torrey and others — but I have not Avords to express 
them fully. I cannot believe in the sincerity of that 
philanthropy which uses such means as these. How- 
ever broad the circle of anti-slavery sympathy, I do 
not see how it can take in such men as these. Ho- 
race says that he would not put to sea with a scoun- 
drel. Sir, I agree with Horace. There are men, 
whom, if about to make a voyage, I would not go 
on board with.' [Strong and continued expressions 
of applause.] 

It is doubly grateful to turn from such a specta- 
cle of meanness as is here unveiled, to the friends 
to whom we owe it that such machinations are de- 
tected and condemned. Our dear and well remem- 
bered friend George Thompson is unwillingly 
obliged by these developements to stand in opposi- 
tion to those whom he could not have suspected of 
such turpitude. The British and Foreign Commit- 
tee have at length made him know them. 

To Elizabeth Pease, Elizabeth Ashurst of London, 
Jane Wigham and Harriet Gardiner of Edinburgh 
Anne Knight and Harriet Martineau — to the women ~^ 
of Dublin,and to the women of Glasgow* in particular^ 
whose animated address to the women of Great Bri- 
tain has brought a multitude into co-operation with 
us, we present our assurances of grateful sympathy 
for the cause's sake. May God bless all those 
whose hearts no obloquy or proscription can sunder 
from us, while we continue faithful. We wish not 
to pass with them as either Orthodox or Heterodox, 
2 



14 



Calvinists or Unitarians. We inquire not whether 
tJiey are christians or infidels. It is enough for us, 
as abolitionistSjif the same mind be in them that was 
also in Christ Jesus, that all men should be free. It 
is one of the most blessed influences of the anti- 
slavery cause, that, in the exercise of the powers it 
calls out, and in the fulfilment of the duties it pre- 
sents, all desire to build up theological divisions 
dies away. It is proof enough against the sincerity 
of any man's abolition, that he asks, in an invidious 
spirit, Avhat his fellow-laborer believes. We each 
lament what we consider to be error in our neigh- 
bors ; but when we have obtained their help for the 
anti-slavery cause, we consider them as doing the 
will that ivill show them the doctrine ; and it is not at 
the moment when the Jew and Gentile unite to raise 
a wounded brother, that they will be sounding the 
great theological gulf between them. As aboli- 
tionists, we take our places with all whose alle- 
giance is to freedom — in whose souls is no place for 
wrath or doubting — -and who are anxious that all di- 
visions of heart, occasioned by more or less love of 
freedom, and in which less is seen treacherously 
stabbing more because it is more, should be brought 
to an open issue. Then all are compelled by their 
sympathies to take their true position, as at a final 
judgment-seat, and each man pronounces the doom 
of his own judgment. However trying, however 
painful, however hated the position, let us never fait 
to be found on the right hand ; and may God 
strengthen us for the most severe service evermore. 
Amongst the things unfavorable to the progress 
of the cause, we look upon the third political party 



15 



as most unfavorable. We observe its effects on the 
minds most interested in it, and we see that they 
are greatly to be deprecated. We are as truly 
aware of the strength of the tem.ptation it presents, 
as though we ourselves possessed the elective fran- 
chise. Though onlij tvome7i,yve have 'all one hu- 
man heart,' and see how indolence is cheered by the 
hope that the party will do its work — how ambition 
is flushed with the hope of dominion which it means 
to use aright, but which the nature of ambition never 
yet permitted. We witness the very process, by 
which a holy zeal becomes a bitter party-spirit, and 
substitutes the political advancement of men for the 
work of promulgating principles. We see that the 
process, by which a man rises to office, unfits him for 
its duties. A most striking instance of this we have 
in the case of the Presidential candidate of the third 
party. He stabbed at the vitality and integrity of 
the cause to procure a nomination, offered up the 
American Society as a propitiation to public senti- 
ment, and bartered away his own integrity to pre- 
serve its organ, the Emancipator, in his political 
service. Such is the power of party to efface the 
distinctions between right and wrong in men's minds, 
that men who saw clearly how the cause was periled 
by the action of such a man as one of their anti-sla- 
very committee, can hope that he may yet be made 
a useful tool of in a political campaign. Our strug- 
gle is with the moral sentiment of the community; 
and how much do we elevate it when, we set up for 
its suffrage, a man whose claims our own moral 
sense rejects, because he has descended so near the 
level of the community as to excite a hope that he 



16 



may become available'? Men lona: for a visible 
standard, round which to throng: all they gain by 
its being visible, they lose by its being moveable, as 
this deteriorating measure of independent nomina- 
tions has shown us. It is only the unseen that is 
eternal : and he who would succeed in moving this 
world, must plant his standard in the other. Read 
the noble strains of the Scriptures to the man, and 
you stir up his moral nature to the work of convert- 
ing the world. 'A thousand hearts are great within 
his bosom,' and no temptation, no violence, can se- 
duce or drive him from the work he loves. Appeal 
to his self-interest — his love of victory — his dislike 
to being alone — his terror of being an abstraction — 
show him the cause in the light of Colb urn's Arith- 
metic, and you have withered up his strength. 
What he first adopted as a means, at length becomes 
an end. His soul is dragged earthward, and de- 
prived of its most precious energy by that smallness 
of its predominant idea, the inauguration of a presi- 
dent. His voice becomes a shout, and is no longer 
a prayer. While, on the contrary, the regeneration 
of a race, the redemption of a people, is a thought 
that continually enlarges and strengthens the soul, 
and braces and cheers it for labor and for sacrifice 
in its promulgation. That powerful idea can seize 
on the men who chance to occupy presidential and 
congressional seats : it will do so, long before the 
candidates of the third party have climbed into them, 
and then, too late, men will regret the political la- 
bor they wasted. 

' Give a grand object if tliou wilt upstir 
The deep foundations of humanity j 



17 

A narrow sphere doth narrow in the soul } 

A larger prospect makes more large the sense.' 

Is it said that a caucus of the third party is only 
an anti-slavery meeting? Why, then, is not an 
anti-slavery meeting as good as a caucus ? It were 
so indeed, if men's minds had not descended to the 
idea of force, instead of freedom, at the sacrifice of 
strength. When they have done that, they can no 
longer perceive the great truth, that this kind of 
effort, instead of reviving the principle of liberty, 
merely strengthens the principle of authority. 

We urge on the American and the State Socie- 
ties, as a most important consideration, to keep in ad- 
vance of this movement, nor suffer it to drag them, 
backward by the skirts. But for them even that low- 
form of the anti-slavery principles never could have 
existed ; and while they keep onward in their ap- 
propriate work, they will enable the numbers who 
follow, to pass safely through this quagmire, to 
hi'gher ground. All who have a spark of the real 
love of liberty in their hearts, will in process of time 
see that political drilling has nothing reformatory in 
its tendency ; and that abolitionists, by stopping to 
undergo it, are really blocking the way of the ad- 
vancing people, by taking the very position they &ve 
coming up to occupy. Tt is with a pure satisfaction 
that we say within ourselves, as we pay over the 
money we raise for the Massachusetts and the 
American Societies, 'no widow's mite of all the sum 
will be expended in paying intriguing politicians ' 
to ' manufacture notoriety' for unknown candidates^ 
No infant's oflTering at the shrine of humanity will 
be squandered in miserable caucussing: but every 



18 

fraction will be expended in the promulgation of 
those pure principles of freedom and philanthropy, 
which constrain all who adopt them to act aright in 
every relation of life, without requiring them to 
bend their necks to the despotism of party. 

There is an evident increase of good feeling to- 
wards the cause, in the hearts of many. An increase 
of numbers is a most cheering, though not the most 
cheering thing in a cause whose strength lies not in 
the array of numbers, but in the truth, the devoted- 
ness of the few. But we are greatly rejoiced, for 
their own sakes, when we see men and women, who 
have been hitherto mere clergymen, lawyers or liter- 
ati — mere mechanics or merchants — mere gentle- 
men and ladies — beginning to awaken to the exer- 
cise of their highest functions as lovers of freedom 
and humanity. 

May we be pardoned, if, after so long a struggle 
unaided and alone, we rejoice to see a disposition 
in others to share the labors incident to such a cause 
as ours, and which would wear heavily upon the 
flesh, were it not that the ' inner man is renewed 
day by day,' by every labor of love ? We entreat of 
all whose minds are just awaking to the claims of 
Freedom, to aid the small instrumentalities we are 
putting in operation for the promulgation of her prin- 
ciples. Meet us where we are : and if our measures 
are good, though small in your estimation, lead us 
on from them to more enlarged and enlarging ones. 
We only require light. ' Give us to see ' — and it is 
all we ask. Perhaps in process of aiding us, you 
will perceive that the humblest means are often the 
most effectual, and that where the hearts of men are 



19 



steeled and guarded, it is by some small crevice 
that our principles can best pass, to effect a lodge- 
ment. 

Our seventh annual Pair now occupies our atten- 
tion. We urge upon all our members, scattered 
over the Union as they are, each to remember and 
aid it. Let those who have money spend, and those 
who have ingenuity and taste be spent ; and let all 
remember that labors, which would be trifling and 
frivolous if performed for ourselves, when done for 
others, are ennobled and sanctified. Let the assist- 
ance and encouragement we receive from devoted 
friends of the cause in England, Scotland and Ire- 
land, stimulate us to fresh exertion. 

The petitions, as usua>, demand our care and ex- 
ertion. 

We have secured suitable forms of petition by 
conferring with the Board of Managers of the Mas- 
sachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. We earnestly urge 
up5n the anti-slavery women throughout the State, 
the importance of procuring signatures to these 
forms. A new question is this year raised. The 
Legislature will bo called to say, at the coming ses- 
sion, whether, in its grants to rail-road corporations, 
it contemplated the possibility of outrages on the 
rights and persons of the citizens. 

The petition to Congress for such amendment of 
THE Constitution as shall either abolish slavery, 
or explicitly exonerate the people from all obliga 
tion to sustain it, is one involving many considera- 
tions, and therefore cannot be set aside so easily as 
the others have been. 

The petition for the repeal of the law prohibiting 



20 



the intermarriages of persons of different colors 
should not be allowed to fail this third year, if wo- 
men's signatures are of any avail. While the doc- 
trine of the equality of man is dear, or the virtue and 
purity of man is desirable, we are bound to labor for 
the abrogation of a statute which tends to demoral- 
ize and degrade any portion of our fellow-crea- 
tures.' 

in the petition for the recognition of the republic 
of Haiti, by the establishment of the customary 
commercial and diplomatic relations, it has not 
seemed wrong to us to appeal to considerations of a 
pecuniary nature, in aid of our grand reason for ask- 
ing it, that it is wrong to make a difference in color 
a reason for treating a whole nation with indignity. 
Let us look, for a moment, at the cost at which our 
absurd prejudices are indulged. We consider 

First, that the United States, being the only na- 
tion which is not placed on a footing of reciprocity 
with that Republic, we are therefore obliged to pay 
a duty on imports of 10 per cent, and 9 per cente 
additional tonnage duty. 

Second, that Ave imported more from Haiti in 1837, 
than from either Prussia, Sweden, Norway, Den- 
mark, Belgium, Portugal, Sicily, Austria, Turkey, 
Morocco, Greece, Chili, Peru, or Buenos Ayres — in 
all of which countries we have Consuls, and in some 
an expensive embassage. 

Third, that the trade of Haiti is of greater pro- 
portionate value to us, being chiefly carried on by 
our own shipping ; thus adding the profits of the car- 
rying trade to those of ordinary mercantile exchan- 
ges. 



21 



Fourth^ that we could then come into the market 
with the domestic products from the eastern States, 
such as Codfish, Mackerel, Herring, Oil, Soap, Can- 
dles and Lumber ; — from the western States, with 
Pork, Lard, Flour ; — from the middle States, with 
Cornmeal and Flour — and undersell the British 
merchants who now undersell us Avith a very inferi- 
or article ; and even in the sale of East India goods, 
we could at least compete with other nations. 

Fifth, that the fact that our vessels can carry 
thither the produce of foreign countries, and be ad- 
mitted to an entry from any foreign port, besides 
getting return cargoes, which, from the English Is- 
lands, is for the most part impracticable, renders this 
trade peculiarly desirable. 

Sixth, that the increase of the population ofHaitij 
since 1804, from 400,000 to 900,000, and the yearly 
increase in the productions and exports of that is- 
land, authorises the inference that this trade will 
continue to increase in importance. 

We suggest to abolitionists the idea of making 
every meeting, whether of town, state or county so- 
ciety, a medium for obtaining signatures. Let 
speakers devote part of the time to the appeals and 
explanations that the case demands — let plenty of 
pens and ink be in readiness, and abundance of the 
forms of petition be prepared, so that persons, who 
pass in and out, may sign without inconvenience ; 
and thus many weary footsteps (which are never 
grudged when necessary) may be spared. There 
are, possibly, congregations in the State, whose ser- 
vices would not be disturbed by such an effort to 
raise their hrethren ' out of a pit on the Sabbath day. 



22 



Let all professedly religious congregations consider, 
whether such an effort would not make those servi- 
ces more pleasing to Him to whom they are an 
abomination, if the hands that offer them are sus- 
taining slavery. Wherever no anti-slavery meet- 
ings are regularly held, make these forms of peti- 
tion the occasion of calling them. In every public 
place, ordinarily used for such a purpose, let the pe- 
titions be laid down ; and in neighborhoods where 
only personal explanation and effort will avail, let 
them be carried from door. 

Our hearts go forth with them, and sympathise 
with this and all other anti-slavery labors, deter- 
mining to act as we would do were our own chil- 
dren numbered -among the two and a half millions 
in slavery. 

But our most efScacious means is free speech. 
Wherever we know the cause to be a stumbling- 
block and a cause of offence, there is the place 
that needs its reforming influence, and there, at 
whatever peril to ourselves, are Ave bound to intro- 
duce its consideration, with all meekness and long- 
suffering, yet as remembering that earnestness and 
^evotedness are our only means of making the im- 
pression we desire in its behalf. Those who are 
blind to the force of our arguments, must needs feel 
the warmth of our zeal; and there .is that in every 
human heart, which acknowledges that it is good to 
be zealously affected in a good thing. 

As the nature and importance of our cause be- 
gin to be comprehended, fewer words are needed, 
in the shape of reports. There is less need of self- 
defence, for we have lived down calumny. Our 



23 

principles, having in this region of country over- 
come outward obstacles, leave fewer traces to record 
in outward events. It is with spiritual obstacles 
that they are now in conflict, and it is a conflict 
that is as yet invisible to the outward eye. It is 
going on in every church organization, and its end 
will be the destruction of every church organization 
which harbors the spirit of slavery. 

It is only when the terrors of some, and the 
treachery of others, dispose them to yield ground, 
that our host is thrown into disorder, and that reca- 
pitulation and explanation make many words neces- 
sary. At the present moinent, it is only necessary 
to remind each other, that Clerical Appeal and 
New Organization were but the yielding of the fee- 
ble to the assaults of the corrupted religious senti- 
ment of the country, which selfishly shelters slavery, 
and throws its influence against the oppressed. This 
corrupted religious sentiment, which worships the 
shrine instead of the Deity, and denies the Deity to 
preserve the deserted shrine, is what we have to 
battle with. Let us not suffer the host to be a third 
time turned back by any pretences, however subtle 
or speciousa 

The most recent pretence is an old one revived, 
that, in this cause, the many are used by the few, 
and that 'Mr. Garrison wants to be a leader.' Six 
years since, this was the cry that was raised to stay 
the march of the cause ; but it has ever proved in- 
effectual. God gives to some men the gift of influ- 
ence. Let not those who have other gifts envy 
those who have this ; but if they covet a responsi- 
bility so weighty, let them strive to attain it in the 



24 

only way, in which, in the anti-slavery cause, it is 
attained — by the completeness of their self-sacrifice. 
Finally, dear friends, let us go on as .we have be- 
gun, in unshaken -resolve, and unfailing compas- 
sion, with a single eye to the triumph of our princi- 
ples in the hearts of all with whom we are in com- 
munication. Let us, by speech and by life conjoin- 
ed, recommend them to all, and leave the result to 
God. 



