REVIEW 



THAT PORTION OF THE NINTH SECTION 



OP 



PRESIDENT WAYLAND'S 



VALUABLE TREATISE ON THE LIMITATIONS OP HUMAN RESPONSIBILITY '. IN 

WHICH HE GIVES HIS VIEWS OF OUR DUTY AS CITIZENS OP 

THE UNITED STATES, IN RELATION TO THE 



SLAVERY QUESTION, 



BY MODERATUS, 



irobinence, &, fc t ; 
1840, 



'res- yfzs:?* **>W. 



REVIEW. 



I cannot but feel some respect for my own judgment, on finding myself 
an admirer of Dr. Wayland as a writer. I think him distinguished, a- 
mong the writers of our country, for depth of thought and a happy style 
of expression. As a firm friend to the prosperity of our University it is 
gratifying to me to see a man of his calibre at the head of it. 

I have attentively and repeatedly read his Limitations of Human Re- 
sponsibility with much pleasure, and, I hope some profit. 1 think it a 
valuable treatise, because it has thrown light upon a branch of ethics, a 
knowledge of which has a direct and practical application to the daily du- 
ties of life. I assent to the soundness of the principles here laid down 
and the limitations of them here pointed out, with scarcely an exception, 
or even hesitation. But when the author comes to make his application 
of these principles and their limitations to us and our duty, as citizens of 
the U. States, in relation to slavery in this country, I find myself unable 
to see the entire correctness of his application, and beg leave to offer 
some reasons for this inability. It is my intention to do this without any 
feelings or expressions inconsistent with the highest personal esteem and 
respect. 

Those abolitionists who condemn this treatise in toto, stand, I think, 
much in their own light, and injure their own cause. Those injure it 
still more who affect to ridicule the book, or impute to its author improp- 
er motives ; because, to use these weapons against a work of such eleva- 
ted decorum and freedom from personalties a? this, seems an admission 
that it cannot be otherwise answered. 

" I think it evident, (says Dr- Wayland, page 169,) that, as citizens of 
the United States, we have no power whatever to abolish slavery in the 
Southern States, or to do any thing of which the direct intention is to a- 
bolishit." 

I cannot assent to these propositions. I admit that, aa citizens of the 
United States, in the strict sense of those terms, we derive all our powers 
of national action, by our official agents, from the Federal Constitution. 
But I maintain that the Constitution has expressly conferred upon us, "as 
citizens of the United States, the power to abolish slavery in the South- 
ern States," by direct national action in one instance, and to do much to- 
wards abolishing it in those states by indirect national action in several 
instances. 

The fifth article of the Constitution empowers Congress to propose an. 
amendment abolishing slavery in all the States. Such an amendment,, 
when ratified by three-fourths of the States, would become a part of the 
Constitution. At the last session of Congress, John Q. Adams proposed 
an amendment,, which provides for the gradual abolition of slavery in eve- 
ry slave State, as well as territory, in the Union. Should, a few of the 
more northerly and westerly slave-holding States abolish* the system, a 



4 REVIEW. 

small addition of free States would make this proposed amendment an ar- 
ticle of the constitution against the will of one quarter of the States, how- 
ever large and populous. 

With these facts before us, what shall we say to the remarks that " The 
abolition of slavery being a power not conferred by the Constitution, it 
does not exist. Whatever power we may have over slavery as citizens of 
the several States, within our own limits respectively, we have none as 
citizens of the United States. The majority of the people in the United 
States, have, in this respect, no power over the minority ; for the minority 
has never conceded to them this power. Should all the States in the Un- 
ion but one, and that one the very smallest, abolish slavery ; should a major- 
ity of one hundred to one of the people of the United States be in favor of 
its abolition, still it would not alter the case. That one State would be 
as free to abolish it or not to abolish it, as it is now. This is a question 
which has never been submitted to the majority of the citizens of these 
United States, and, therefore, the citizens of the United Slates as Citizens, 
have nothing to do with it." 

The constitution has conferred upon us as citizens of the United States , 
the power to do much towards abolishing slavery in thej slave-holding 
States, by indirect national action. 

There is an article of the constitution, which provides for prohibiting 
the importation of slaves into the United States after the year 1808. Can 
it be doubted that the framersof the constitution believed that this article 
would have a strong bearing towards the abolition of slavery in the slave- 
holding States, considering the general belief at that time, that a slave 
population must run out unless replenished by the slave trade ? 

Have not Congress, under the authority of this article passed a law,, 
declaring the importation of slaves into our country piracy, and punishing 
it with death 1 Does not this severe law tend to render the system which 
makes it a necessary law odious, and thus indirectly operate to the aboli- 
tion Of that system in the slave-holding States ? 

The constitution expressly empowers Congress " to regulate commerce 
among the several States." It is notorious that slaves are bought in 
some States and carried into others and there sold. This operation Mr. 
Clay Calls "the rentoral of slaves from one slave-State to another slave- 
State," leaving out of his definition the commercial features of purchase 
and sale. Can it be doubted that this power " to regulate commerce a- 
ihbng the several States," authorizes Congress to prohibit the traffic in 
some particular article of this commerce 1 

But Mr. Clay says prohibitum is not regulation, and therefore the pro- 
hibiting of one article of this eommerce is not an act regulating the com- 
merce itself. He might as well have said, every merchant, it is true, has 
a right to regulate the business of his counting room ; but prohibition is 
not regulation ; therefore prohibiting the further use of a particular ledg- 
er is not an act regulating his business. If then Congress has power to 
prohibit a portion of this commerce, it has the power to prohibit the in- 
ternal slave-trade. The opposition of the slave-holding States to the ex- 
ercise of this power is pretty good evidence that it would have a strong, 
though indirect operation towards the abolition of slavery in these States. 

The same section also empowers Congress " to provide for calling forth 



REVIEW. 5 

the militia to suppress insurrections." Now, supposing a majority in 
Congress should happen to define the word " insurrection," as here used 
to mean a rising of some portion of the free people of the United States 
in opposition to the government of their choice, and not the rising of a 
wrongfully enslaved people to regain those unalienable rights with which 
all men are endowed by their Creator, and of which no man has a right 
to deprive them ; a rising fully justified by the principles asserted in our 
Declaration of Independence, and avowedly adopted as the foundation of 
our government. Can the right of a majority in Congress to act upon 
this clause of the Constitution as they understand it, be questioned. If 
not, suppose such a majority should refuse to provide for calling forth the 
militia to suppress a slave insurrection, which the slave holding States 
themselves were unable to suppress, would not this operate, at least, indi- 
rectly to abolish slavery in these States? 

There is another clause oi the Constitution which empowers us, as cit- 
izens of the United States, to act indirectly for the abolition of slavery in 
the slave holding States. It is, " The president shall from time to time 
recommend to the Congress such measures as he shall judge necessary 
and expedient." It cannot be denied that these executive recommenda- 
tions have greatj influence upon the legislation of Congress. Suppose 
we should elect a President who would recommend not only abolition in 
the District of Columbia, but a prohibition of the siave trade among the 
several States, the admission of no new slave States into the Union, and 
an amendment of the constitution providing for the abolition ot slavery 
throughout the Union, can it be doubted that such recommendation* 
would tend indirectly to abolition in the slave holding States? The 
last session of Congress furnishes some evidence that, if Mr. Adams were 
President he would recommend such an amendment. 

The constitution also empowers the citizens of the United States to re- 
fuse, through their representatives in Congress, to admit any more new 
States in which slavery is tolerated. The contests upon this subject have 
been too recent, and our anti-slavery representation in Congress has come 
too near succeeding, to leave the reality and extent of our constitutional 
power over slavery, as citizens of the United States, at all doubtful. 

It is true, the operation of our power under this, as well as the other 
articles of the constitution mentioned, is indirect, — but if successful, sure ; 
for if ever the free States become a large majority, and perhaps long be- 
fore, an amendment of the constitution will relieve our country from this 
standing reproach among the civilized nations of the earth. 

It thus appears that a considerable power of indirect action for the ab- 
olition of slavery in the slave holding States, is directly conferred upon 
us as citizens of the United States by the constitution. 

How then can it be said that " the citizens of the United States, as cit- 
izens have nothing to do with the abolition of slavery in the slave holding 
States?" 

But the constitution has not only conferred upon us, as citizens of the 
United States, this power to abolish slavery in the slave holding states, by 
indirect action upon it, but it has expressly prohibited the abridgement 
of certain powers by the exercise of which as freemen, as friends of hu- 
manity, as citizens of the several states as well as citizens of the United 
States, we may abolish slavery by other indirect action. 



Q REVIEW. 

The first article of amendments to the constitution, declares that " Con- 
gress shall make no law prohibiting the free exercise of religion ; or a- 
bridcrincr the freedom of speech or of the press ; or the right of the people 
to petition the government for the redress of grievances." 

President Wayland, in his Elements of Moral Science, page 211, has 
shown conclusively, that " The moral precepts of the Bible are diametri- 
cally opposed to slavery. They are," says he, " ' Thou shalt love thy 
neighbor as thyself; and 'all things whatsoever ye would that men should 
do unto you, do ye even so unto them.' The application of these princi- 
ples is universal. Our neighbor is every one whom we may benefit. The 
obligation respects all things whatsover. The precept then manifestly 
extends to men, as men, or men in every condition : and if to all things 
whatsoever, certainly to a thing so important as the right of personal lib- 
erty. By this precept, it is made our duty to cherish as tender and deli- 
cate a respect for the right which the meanest individual possesses over 
the means of happiness bestowed upon him by God, as we cherish for our 
rifht over our means of happiness, or as we desire any other individual 
to°cherish for it. Now, were this precept obeyed, it is manifest that sla- 
very could not in fact exist for a single instant. The principle of the 
precept is absolutely subversive of the principle of slavery. Do the precepts 
and spirit of the Gospel allow me to derive my support from a system, 
which extorts labor from my fellow men, without allowing them any voice 
in the equivalent which they shall receive ; and which can only be sus- 
tained by keeping them in a state of mental degradation, and shutting 
them out in a great degree from the means of salvation ? 

Would the master be willing that another person should subject him to 
slavery for the same means and on the same grounds, that he holds his 
slave in bondage ? 

Would the Gospel allow us, if it were in our power, to reduce our fel- 
low-citizens of our own color to slavery ? The Gospel makes no distinc- 
tion between men on the ground of color or of race." 

Are not these principles a part of the religion of every christian citizen 
of the free States 1 Does " the free exercise of religion" consist wholly 
in the right of holding principles as mere abstractions, or performing de- 
votional exercises? Does it not consist partly in the right to propagate 
these principle ? And if so, has not every christain citizen a right to con- 
sider it his duty to propagate them and to perform this duty by all lawful 
means ? Does not the above quoted article of the constitution secure to 
every?such citizen the right " freely to exercise" this part of his religion^ 
by speaking to his christian brethren and fellow-citizens of the South, or 
by addressing them through the press on the subject, and endeavoring to- 
bring them over to these sentiments and induce them to liberate all their 
slaves by law ? Does not that article secure to every humane citizen the 
right to speak, and write, and print for this purpose ? Does it not also, 
secure to every such citizen the right to petition Congress to abolish sla- 
very in all places where the constitutitonal right of Congress to abolish it 
is unquestionable? These rights of the citizens of the United States, en- 
able them to do much indirectly towards abolishing slavery in the slave 
holding States. That the slave holders so understand it, is evident from 
the violence which has been urged against speaking and printing on the 



REVIEW. 7 

mibject, and from the late proeeedings of Congress upon all petitions and 
memorials in relation to it. 

If, then, the constitution has conferred upon us, as citizens of the Uni- 
ted States, the power to abolish slavery in the slave holding States, by 
direct national action, in one instance, and has conferred upon us, or se- 
cured to us the power to do much towards abolishing it in those States, 
by indirect national action in several instances, does not this power nec- 
essarily include hi it the liberty to form the direct intention to abolish it 
in those states ? Must not every intention be, in its nature, direct ? If 
not direct, can it be any intention at all t Can the words indirect inten- 
tion possibly convey any other meaning than this : a direct intention to- 
be carried into effect by indirect means ? As every man is supposed to 
intend what he does indirectly, as well as what he does directly, could 
the Constitution suppose otherwise ? Has it given the power to act di- 
rectly, and, at the same time, withheld the power of intending so to act ? 
Besides, what has the Constitution to do with " intentions" and motives ? 
The Constitution has given me the power to vote for my representative in 
Congress. Now, suppose 1 vote with the intention, not only to abolish sla- 
very, but to abolish liberty, or civilized society, can that intention take a> 
way my right to vote ? 

I am thus brought to the conclusion that, as citizens of the United 
States, we have power to act directly and indirectly, both to abolish sla- 
very in the slave holding States, and to do many things, of which the di- 
rect intention is to abolish it in those States, 

Dr. Wayland, after further illustrating the positions which I have al- 
ready considered, proceeds to state the result of the whole, and draw from- 
it an unavoidable inference in these words : " As we have, therefore, as> 
citizens, no power over this subject, we have, as citizens, no responsibility. 
The guilt, if guilt exists, will not rest upon us as citizens of the United 
States." 

I am not disposed to take liberties with the language of such a writer ; 
yet in order to accommodate this statement and inference to my premises, 
I must say, as we have, therefore, as citizens, some power over this sub- 
ject, we have, as citizens, some responsibility. It will follow that the 
guilt, if guilt exists, for continuing slavery, will rest upon us, as citizens 
of the United States to the extent of our power and responsibility. 

But it is said that, " as citizens of the United States, we have solemnly 
promised to let it alone." 

Where have we promised to let it alone ? In what part of the Consti- 
tution ? Is not slavery one of the reserved State powers ? If, " as citi- 
zens of the United States we have nothing to do with it," what have we 
to do with solemnly promising to lei it alone ? Of what value is such a 
promise ? The States possessed the thing promised before the supposed 
promise was made. It would be then without consideration — nudum 
pactum. 

But Dr. Wayland does not mean an actual promise. All he intends is, 
that we have virtually promised not to meddle with reserved powers. I 
agree we have virtually, because the reserved powers are not delegated to 
the United States by the Constitution. But I have endeavored to show 
that some powers of acting upon the institution of slavery, even in the 



b REVIEW. 

slave holding States, are either expressly delegated to the United States, 
or secured to private citizens by the Constitution. It is true, all the pow- 
ers not delegated are reserved. But it it is equally true, that we have not 
virtually promised to let any thing alone but the reserved powers. My 
doctrine, is, therefore, that, as citizens of the United States, we are bound 
to let slavery alone, so far as it is reserved, and equally bound not to let it 
alone, so far as it is delegated to us. 

I understand this to be substantially the abolition doctrines. Their so- 
cieties, so far as I can learn, profess to act from conscientious motives and 
to confine their action strictly within constitutional limits. The constitu- 
tions of these societies declare this. The character and conduct of a vast 
majority of their members show that this profession is sincere and is prac- 
ticaly regarded. 1 admit that some of their editors and writers have said 
extravagant and injudicious things enough to give our first orators, when 
a little vexed with their arguments, an opportunity to call them fanatics, 
designing horrible bloodshed and mischief, and a dissolution of the Union 
at the point of the bayonet ; but as no evidence is produced to support 
these charges, I think the Abolitionists have no occasion at all to expend 
any of their fanatical zeal against these gentlemen. 

It is said we cannot interfere with slavery in the slave holding States 
without violating the constitutional compact. But what is interfering with 
it? This expression seems to me to be so indefinite as, without some 
care, to mislead us. It applies to modestly saying or printing that slavery 
is against the interest of the slave holding States, It equally applies \otli& 
passing a law of Congress abolishing slavery in all those States. Neither 
of these acts would be letting it alone ; but the former, and a thousand 
others, are perfectly constitutional ; and the fact that they may indirectly 
bring about the abolition of slavery in the slave holding States, does not 
make them the less so, while the latter is as clearly unconstitutional. 

It is said, " a compact is binding in its spirit as well as in the letter." 
This, I should think, would depend very much upon the nature of the 
compact itself. Shylock was, very properly, I think, held strictly to the 
letter. A compact to withhold from our fellow men their unalienable 
rights by force should not be enlarged by resorting to the spirit of it in 
giving it a construction. Contracts contra bonas mores have, I believe, 
been overturned by courts of law without much ceremony, both letter and 
spirit 

If the word, spirit in distinction from letter, is used in the same sense 
here as on the 170th page, viz : Some meaning or intention which one 
of the parties might have had when the compact was made, not inserted in 
it, nor proposed to be inserted in it, but which, had it been inserted, would 
have materially limited the meaning of it, I hold that a compact is not 
binding in its spirit as well as in its letter. Would not such a latitude of 
construction defeat every compact and every treaty that was ever ratified, 
at the will of either of the parties to it? Take the present case : We 
have seen that the letter of the constitutional compact secures to the citi- 
zens of the United States power to do indirectly many things to abolish 
slavery even in the slave holding States, without the consent of their mas- 
ters, and many others things with their consent. But the slave holders 
say "the spirit of the compact," (that is their unwritten meaning or m- 



eeview. y 

tention) " imposes upon us the obligation not to do any thing for the pur- 
pose of changing the relation of master and slave except with the consent 
of the master," so that Congress can propose no' amendment to the Con- 
stitution, and can pass no law tending to abolition, and the citizens of 
the United States can neither speak, write, print, preach, argue, invite, 
persuade, nor " do any thing," not even conceive il the purpose" of chang- 
ing the relation of master and slave except with the consent of the master. 
This is equal to the old doctrine of treason by imagining the death of the 
King. I admit the master is not obliged to read or regard abolition com- 
munications, but cannot abolitionists write, print and publish them without 
his consent ? 

And why all this restriction upon constitutional liberty ? Does the 
Constitution impose it ? No ; it secures us against it. Its words are 
well chosen, and convey the precise meaning of the contracting parties. 
There is no doubt, no obscurity about them. There is no occasion there- 
fore to refer to the spirit of the compact, even in the true sense of that 
term. But if one of the contracting parties puts a meaning upon the 
compact, not only different from, but contrary to the clear letter of it, un- 
der the name of the spirit, and by this means deprives the other party of 
his liberty of speech and of the press, we must reverse the scripture doc- 
trine in this case, and say " the spirit killeth, but the letter giveth life." 

Why I ask again, all this restriction ? What is the necessity of it?— 
The abolitionists caunot convert the slave holders against their will. Do 
not all " errors cease to be dangerous when it is permitted freely to con- 
tradict them 1" That the abolitionists address the slaves, is a slander 
which confutes itself. 

President Wayland truly says, " I have no right to declare the abolition 
of slavery in another State." He gives the precise reason, " I have con- 
ceded that this is to be left to the free choice of the citizens of that State." 
This I admit, with the exception of the constitutional action of the general 
government and of individual citizens, which I have so much insisted 
on. 

He then says, " t have no right to do any thing to interfere with that 
free choice." My premises compel me to admit or deny this according 
as more or less is intended by interference. Direct interference, except 
in one instance, I deem unconstitutional ; almost every other interference, 
constitutional. 

Dr. Wayland then draws this inference : " I have, therefore, no right 
to excite such a state of feeling among the slaves, that the master shall 
be obliged, from physical necessity, to liberate his slaves, whether he be- 
lieves it to be right and wise, or whether he believes the contrary.'' 

I hardly know what to say to a statement that imputes to men conse- 
quences beyond human control, as their motives of action. 

Might I not say that a certain temperance lecturer had no right to ex- 
cite such a state of feeling among the slaves of intemperate habits, that 
they broke the meeting house windows, and frightened the grocers who- 
enslaved them from the house against their will 1 The Constitution has 
secured to the lecturer freedom of speech. If he abused that freedom, 
the law is open to every injured person. If his motive was, by exciting 
the mob without, to destroy the meeting house windows, his motive was 



10 REVIEW. 

morally wrong ; but to impute such a motive without evidence is equally 
wrong The lecturer had not addressed the mob. They were too much 
enslaved by liquor to have understood the lecture had they heard it. He 
addressed volunteer hearers only. To charge him with an intention to 
do mischief, unless proved, is slander. It is equally slander in Mr. Clay 
or any body else, to charge the abolitionists with similar motives, without 
proving any thing in support of the charge. 

Upon this ground, might not the question be asked, what right had 
Paul to excite such a state of feeling among theJews at Thesssalonica that 
the rulers of the city " were obliged from physical necessity," to witness 
a great riot and assault upon the house of Jason, " whether they believed 
it right and wise or not?" I take leave to say here, that there is not a par- 
ticle more evidence that the abolition societies, design to excite the slaves 
to violence against their masters, than there is that the Apostles designed 
to excite their hearers to insubordination to their laws and magistrates. 
The abolitionists are currently charged with " turning the world upside 
down and stirring up the people" for evil purposes, in the same gene- 
ral vague manner the apostles were, under the modern phraseology of 
"making an excitement upon a very excitable subject." In truth all the 
violence, breaking presses, burning buildings and shedding blood has 
come upon, not from the abolitionists. What have they done to deserve 
this treatment 1 Nothing more than exercise their constitutional right on 
the subject of slavery from a sense of duty (as they say,) and there is no 
evidence that they assign a false motive for their conduct. 

It is very true, that one neighbor has no right to force another neighbor 
to educate his children in a manner which he disapproves. But he cer- 
tainly has a right to converse with him frequently on the subject, point 
out the supposed errors of his system, the advantages of a change, and to 
urge that change upon him. This is all friendly in itself, and should be 
done in a friendly manner. Now if these neighbors are brothers, have 
married sisters, and have agreed to allow each other every liberty short of 
direct control on the subject of education, the right is still clearer and 
stronger. 

President Wayland fully admits that the Constitution has conferred up- 
on Congress the power to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, but 
thinks that Congress has not at present, a moral right to exercise that pow- 
power. 

The first reason he gives for this opinion, is, that the object of exercis- 
ing it, is not merely to abolish slavery in the District, which he considers 
a Constitutional object, but by that means to " create such a state of 
things in the slave-holding States, that the citizens of those States will be 
obliged, whether they approve of it or not, to abolish slavery." This he 
considers " an unconstitutional object," " because we have, by the spirit 
of the compact, bound ourselves to leave it to their own free will." — 
" That free will" he says " we have no right, either by ourselves or by 
others, to control ; and we have no right to use our power either of one 
kind or another for this purpose." 

I do not see how human laws can reach objects, designs, motives, un- 
til they are ripened into acts. Was a man ever convicted of designing 
to cast a fraudulent vote ? I clearlv understand how an object, design, 



REVIEW. 11 

or motive may be morally right or wrong, — but not how ft can be either 
constitutional or unconstitutional, before it becomes an act. 

Suppose the object of abolishing slavery in the District were, to show the 
evil consequences of abolition and to create such a state of opinion and 
feeling in the slave-holding States, that the citizens of those States would 
be obliged to continue slavery there, whether they approved of it or not. 
Some might consider this a wrong object or motive, others a right one. 

Some might consider it a more, others a less constitutional object than 
that of abolition ; but whether a right or wrong object; whether more or 
less constitutional in its nature or tendency, the act itself would be equal- 
ly constitutional either way. Suppose a majority in Congress should vole 
to abolish slavery in the District with the object of destroying the Union 
by that measure, how could even such a motive render the vote or the law 
unconstitutional, or at all effect it in that respect? 

An object, then, whatever may be its morality or tendency, cannot bo 
properly termed constitutional or otherwise, till it is carried into effect, 
and thus becomes a subject of constitutional cognizance. The object then 
of indirectly and ultimately abolishing slavery in the slave-holding States 
is as constitutional, as the object of pepetuating it in those States, or any 
other object. 

Admitting then, that the abolitionists have this object in view as their 
ultimate object, they have the same constitutional right to have it in view, 
as to have in view the object of converting both masters and slaves to 
Christianity. They profess to consider these as kindred, benevolent, ob- 
jects, calculated to promote the best interests of both masters and slaves. 
To deny this and charge them with malevolent objects, is to insult them, 
not to reason with them. 

Why is it that this object of effecting the abolition of slavery through- 
out the Union must be treated as an enormity in itself, originating in the 
worst possible motives, and designed to be affected by the worst possible 
means 1 Why is it that the constitution must be treated not as a nation- 
al compact to leave the direct management of slavery to State legislation 
but as a compact to suppress every act and every influence, however indi- 
rect, which tends to disturb the perpetuity of slavery in the United States ? 

How can the mere object of abolishing slavery in the District interfere 
with the free will of the slave holders in the slave holding states upon this 
subject. The mere object of obstructing the high way in any man's mind, 
does not interfere with my freely travelling over it. After he has actually 
obstructed it, his object is quite immaterial. Whether this obstruction is 
legal or not depends on circumstances. If it is but the incidental conse- 
quence of the exercise of a right; as unquestionable as my right to travel 
the highway, it is legal, and 1 have no cause of complaint. Complaint in 
that case, would be assuming an inequality of rights grossly insulting. — 
Abolishing slavery in the District would be an act as undoubtedly con- 
stitutional, as continuing it in the slave holding States ; and whatever 
state of things such abolition might incidentally produce in those States, 
the act would not be chargeable with any unwarrantable interferance with 
the free will of the citizens of those States, even if it should tend to hast- 
en so deplorable a catastrophe as the freedom and just compensation of 
the slaves, the security and profit of their masters and the moral improve- 
ment and happiness of both, 



12 REVIEW. 

If abolishing slavery in the district, would not be an unwarrantable in- 
terferance with the free will of the citizens of the slave holding States, 
much less would it be a " control"-over their free will. Has abolishing 
slavery in those States which border upon the slave holding States con- 
trolled, or even interferred with their free will to continue the system. — 
This example addressed motives to slave holders for their free will to act 
freely upon, instead of controlling, or interfering with it. 

This free will argument reminds one of the farmer who complained 
that his neighbors compelled him to purchase all their land adjoining him 
in order to keep his own pigs upon his own farm. 

It cannot be denied that abolishing slavery in the District might have 
some influence upon the wills of the citizens of the slave holding States ; 
but there is a mighty difference between influencing and forcing the will. 

My conclusion is, therefore, that we have a right to exercise this con- 
stitutional power of abolishing slavery in the district with a view to bring 
about abolition in the slave holding States also. 

The second reason given for the opinion that Congress has not a mor- 
al right to exercise its constitutional power to abolish slavery in the Dis- 
trict is, that the slave holding States when they became parties to the 
constitution, did not suppose that this power would ever be exercised. — 
This supposed supposition of one of the parties to the constitution is call- 
ed the spirit of the instrument in distinction from " the power to exercise 
exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over the District," which is 
called the letter of it. We are told that this spirit is a thing out of the 
contract. We are further told that to disappoint the slave holding Stales, 
by sacrificing the spirit to the letter of the contract in this particular with- 
out their consent, would be unjust and dishonorable. 

By the spirit of a contract I understand the mind of the contract (if I 
may be allowed the expression) or in other words the ?neaning of the con- 
tract. By the letter of a contract I understand the words by which that 
meaning is supposed to be conveyed. The words of all contracts, espec- 
ially those drawn with care, and ratified after full consideration, are sup- 
posed to convey the whole meaning of the parties, or spirit of the instru- 
ment, as the parties understood and meant to convey that meaning by 
their own words mutually agreed upon, as the sole medium of convey- 
ance. I understand it to be an invariable rule of construction, that the 
words of the parties shall betaken in their plain,ordinary and usual sense, 
and, if there is no ambiguity in the words, they shall be the only criterion 
of the intention of the parties. By virtue of this rule it is admitted that 
the words "Congress shall have power to exercise exclusive legislation in 
all cases whatsoever over the District," includes the power to abolish sla- 
very there. But we are told it is not right, just and honorable to exer- 
cise this power. Why not? Because it would be contrary to the spirit 
of the contract, a ' thing out of the contract.' As I understand it, the 
spirit of a contract can no more be a ' thing out of a contract' than the 
soul of a living man can be a thing out of his body. Where there is am- 
biguity in some of the terms of the contract, resort is often had to the 
whole contract taken together to ascertain the spirit or true meaning, or 
drift of it, but not to any thing out of the contract. 

But admitting, for argument's sake that resort may here be had to some- 



REVIEW. 13 

thing out of the contract to show that either or both the parlies really in- 
tended that abolition in the District should be an exception to the words 
" legislation in all cases whatsoever." Do either of the acts of cession 
contain such an exception ? Neither of them. They both expressly 
yield the District up to the whole power given Congress by the clause a- 
bove quoted. They both, from abundant caution except the right of pri- 
vate property in the soil, make no exception at all of the right of private 
property in slaves, or any other personal thing. Did Maryland, Virginia, 
or any other slave holding state, do any act about the time of the cession, 
going to show that they expected such an exception ? None at all. — 
Both these States, before the cession claimed the power either to continue 
or abolish slavery at their option. They knew that they conveyed all 
their power over this subject to Congress. They saw Congress immedi- 
ately exercise the power they had just parted with by re-enacting their 
state laws, and thus establishing and continuing slavery in the District.. 
They must have believed what is said on page 180 of this treatise, to be 
strictly true, viz : " Congress has the same right to abolish as to establish 
slavery in the District," yet they never suggested any limitation of this 
right, or any expectation to that effect. Directly the reverse. A few 
years before the cession of the District of Columbia, Virginia had made 
a cession in similar terms to the United States, of the vast North Western 
Territory. Virginia, Maryland, and the other slave holding States, had not 
only seen Congress, soon after the cession of this territory, abolish slavery 
without any compensation to the slave holders, throughout the whole ex- 
tent of it, by an almost unanimous vote, but had joined in that vote them- 
selves, by their own representatives in Congress. If therefore the slave 
holding States supposed that Congress would never exercise this power, 
they had no reason for such a supposition, but every reason to suppose the 
contrary. 

There are several reasons for exercising this power over the District 
which do not apply to the then North Western Territory. Abolition in 
the District would render Congress and the national archives more safe, 
would remove the spectacle of a slave market, shocking and disgusting 
to the moral feeling of the members of Congress and people from the free 
States, as well as of foreign resident functionaries, and not particularly 
pleasing, one would think, to the members and people from the slave hold- 
ing States, and would remove, in some measure a national disgrace, " a 
stain" which we " feel like a wound." 

This supposed supposition, then so far from being entitled to be called 
the spirit of the contract, is not only " a thing out of the contract," but out 
of all probability. But if probable, it is no more probable from the facts, 
than the contrary supposition, and therefore completely balleuced by it. 

If I make a contract with my neighbor, and he conveys to me in clear 
language, which his conduct at the time shows was perfectly understood 
by him, that for which I have conveyed to him a fair equivalent, can he 
limit his conveyance to me under the plea of an unexpressed intention to 
have conveyed less than he has conveyed ? Can I not, as an honorable 
man, avail myself of the whole conveyance? Would doing so be " kna- 
very," especially if the conveyance were in favor of humanity and justice 
towards third persons ? 



14 REVIEW, 

If it is asked, " was the power over the District of Columbia ceded 
to Congress for the purpose'" of abolishing slavery there ? I think the 
question may be pertinently answered by asking, was it ceded for the pur- 
pose of continuing slavery there? Our general government is a limited 
government. It has no powers not conferred on it by the constitution. 
We have seen that the acts of cession transferred to Congress all the 
State jurisdiction over the district which it is within the limited powers 
of Congress to receive and exercise. Is the power to establish or continue 
slavery one of those limited powers ? Is it a " power delegated to the 
United States by the constitution I" Is it " a power prohibited by the 
constitution to the States V Is it not " a power reserved to the States 
respectively I" Is the power to establish or continue slavery in any part 
of the Union a power necessary or conducive to the attainment of ei- 
ther of the enumerated objects of the constitution, viz : (i To form a more 
perfect union, to establish justice, to ensure domestic tranquility, to pro- 
vide for the common defence, to promote the general welfare, and to se- 
cure the blessings of liberty? 5 ' I ask again, is not the power to estab- 
lish or continue slavery a power reserved to the States respectively ? If 
so, is not the re-action, by Congress, of the slave laws of Maryland and 
Virginia null and void ? and if so, was not every slave within the district, 
dejure, free, the moment Congress accepted the cession ? 

However this may be, have not the free States, at least, as much rea- 
son to say the district was not ceded for the purpose of continuing slave- 
ry there, as the slave holding States have to say that it was ceded for that 
purpose ? and that abolishing siavery there would defeat that purpose of 
continuing it there, and that therefore it was not ceded for the purpose 
of abolishing slavery there ? Why should the purposes of one party to the 
contract limit and control the powers of Congress more than the purposes 
of the other party to it, both purposes being " things out of the contract?" 
Is the purpose of continuing slavery in the district more agreeable in it- 
self to the spirit of the compact, the enumerated objects of it or to the great 
national design of the cession, than abolishing it? 

I do not believe that the power over the District of Columbia, " in all 
cases whatsoever," was ceded to Congress for the purpose either of con- 
tinuing or abolishing slavery, but for the purpose of providing a safe con- 
venient, agreeable, and respectable seat of the general government. — 
W hether continuing or abolishing slavery and the slave-market in the dis- 
trict will best conduce to this grand purpose, the reader will judge. 

The position that Congress has not a moral right to exercise their pow- 
er to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, is further fortified by the 
following argument, viz : 

" The power to abolish and the power to establish slavery are the same. 
Congress possesses precisely the same power over the United States navy 
yards, fortifications, arsenals, &c. ceded by and lying within the free 
States, that it possesses over the District of Columbia. Congress has pre- 
cisely the same power to establish slavery in all these as it has to abolish 
it in the District. But to establish slavery in all these would not be a just 
fit and proper exercise of this power. Therefore to abolish slavery in the 
District would not be a just, fit and proper exercise of it; nor an exercise 
of it either honorable or consistent with the spirit of constitutional com- 
pact." 



REVIEW. 15 

I Rwree that the power to aholish and to establish slavery in the slave 
holding States is the same because it has no power to do either in tl>ose 
States. I also agree that the power in a general sense, that is, the phys- 
ical force of a legislature as well as of an individual to commit or encourage 
the grossest crimes may be the same to forbid and punisb them. Id this 
sense I agree that Congress had in ISO I, the same power to establish or 
continue as they have now to abolish slavery in the District. 

In this sense I might perhaps agree that Congress has the power to 
make slaves of all the free blacks in the district and all free whites too. 

But President Wayland is here speaking of rightful, constitutional pow- 
er ; and I agree if the constitution has conferred upon Congress tbe pow- 
er to hold blacks within the district, still in slavery by re-enacting the 
state slave laws by which they were formerly held in slavery, it has con- 
ferred upon Congress the power of holding these blacks still in slavery by 
force of new law, enacted by Congress itself; and if Congress has power 
to enact laws holding in slavery persons who were formerly slaves, they 
have the power to enslave a large portion of the free blacks in the district 
and throughout the United States territories. 

The constitution has indeed conferred upon Congress " the power to 
exercise exclusive legislation over the district in all cases whatsoever." — 
This, I admit, is very broad language, and designed to convey very exten- 
sive powers for the important national purpose of giving Congress a proper 
independence of State influence. Still I contend, that even this language 
has it limits. It cannot empower Congress to violate the first principles 
of all free governments. It cannot, it has not empowered Congress 
to withhold from and deprive men guilty of no offence against the 
laws, of those unalienable rights which all governments are professedly 
instituted to secure, neither has it empowered Congress to sanction and 
confirm by law, such a previous deprivation. What is slavery. It is no- 
thing less than withholding from innocent men by force, against right, 
their " unalienable right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness." 

It orginates in the worst kind of robbery, accompanied with much cru- 
elty and murder. This is encouraged by the slave-holder who purchases 
the " goods" knowing them to have been stolen. He therefore gains no just 
title to them, — consequently he can convey none to any purchaser. Eve- 
ry purchaser of a negro slave knows the defect of the original title, and 
that it can never be any better to the remotest generation ; because pre- 
scription or limitation supposes power in the slave to enforce his right to 
himself and his negelect to do so. Slavery, therefore, is against national 
right, against unalienable right, against moral obligation, and against com- 
mon law. Every statute enforcing it is a gross and wicked violation of 
all these. It is a mere arbitrary edict, empowering men to exercise usur- 
pation, and to hold and use stolen property by force. What is called 
" the right to slave property," is neither more nor less than the force of 
such an edict. Now if Congress is empowered by the above clause to 
pass or continue such an edict as this in the District of Columbia, it may, 
by the same authority, hold in bondage all the free colored persons in trie 
district, and for aught I see, all the whites ; for color can make no differ- 
ence. 

Thus we see what the power to continue, which is essentially the same 
thing, as the power to establish slavery in the district really is. 



JO REVIEW. 

But if this power is conferred on Congress, it follows that the power to 
■abolish slavery in the district is equally conferred. Which power it fs 
most just, fit, proper, right, honorable and agreeable to the spirit of the 
■constitution to exercise, I leave the reader to decide for himself. 

If, on the other hand, this power to enact and continue slavery in the 
district is not conferred, then it is not only the power, but the duty of 
Congress to set all the slaves in the district at liberty immediately. If so, 
Congress has not the same power to establish as to abolish slavery in the 
district. 

But admitting that Congress has the same power \o do the one as the 
other in the district, it has not the same power in Navy yards, fortifica- 
tions, arsenals, &c. 

These have not been ceded to the United States in such language as 
the district was, viz. : " in full and absolute and exclusive jurisdiction 
as well of soil as of persons, residing or to reside thereon pursuant to the 
tenor and effect of the eighth section of the first article of the constitution 
of the government of the United States." 

On the contrary, the State acts, ceding to the United States these navy 
yards. &c, have all made special reservations of State sovereignty over 
these places, which recognize them as still portions of the States for cer- 
tain purposes. 

The establishment of slavery in these places therefore, would hardly be 
consistent with these reservations, and the acts of the free States on the 
subject of slavery. 

The act of Rhode Island, for instance, declares, " That, for the future 
no negro, mulatto or Indian slave shall be brought into this State ; and if 
any slave shall hereafter be brought in, he or she shall be and hereby is, 
rendered immediately free, so far as respects personal freedom and- the 
enjoyment of private property." 

I cannot agree, therefore, that Congress has precisely the same power 
to establish slavery in all these places as it has to abolish it in the District 
of Columbia. 1 readily admit, that to " establish slavery in all" or any 
" of these places would not be a just, fit, and proper exercise of Congres- 
sional power," but 1 cannot admit the inference, that to abolish slavery 
in the District of Columbia would not be a just, fit, proper and honora- 
ble exercise of that power, perfectly consistent with both the spirit and 
letter of the Constitutional compact. 

It is said that Congress cannot rightfully exercise the power to abolish 
slavery in the District of Columbia, till the southern States agree to it. 
As an offset to this, it may be said that Congress cannot rightfully refuse 
this power till the northern States agree to the refusal. For slavery and 
the slave market at Washington is quite as contrary to the expectations, 
and quite as annoying to the northern States, as the removal of these evils 
can be to the southern States. And the continuation of a gross moral 
wrong, out of mere deference to the wishes, or supposed interests of one 
of those parties than of the other, seems very much like partial legisla- 
tion. 

It is said, further, that Congress cannot rightfully exercise this power 
until Maryland and Virginia, or either of them, shall abolish slavery. 

This opinion is undoubtedly founded upon the idea that these States 



REVIEW. 17 

bad reason to believe tbat Congress never would exercise this power with- 
out their consent, and that the exercise of it would make the slaves of 
those States more uneasy than they now are, and afford them a conven- 
ient place of escape.* 

I have endeavored to show that these States had no reason for that be- 
lief; and if they had some reason for it, still it was their own negligence 
to confer on Congress, by express words of the constitution, powers which 
they never intended should be exercised, and then trust to chance wheth- 
er they ever were exercised. Still I allow there would be weight in these 
reasons in ordinary cases. Although, for instance, strong reasons might 
exist for discharging all the indented apprentices in the District of Co- 
lumbia, it would be an objection of some weight that the bordering States 
never expected a measure would be adopted, calculated to render their 
apprentices uneasy, and induce them to run away from their lawful mas- 
ters. But there is a mighty difference between discharging apprentices 
and freeing slaves The former are held by legal right, the latter are 
held by statute force, in violation of natural, moral and legal right. 

Suppose half the horses in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Co- 
lumbia, were stolen from the Canadians, and purchased by the present 
holders, who all knew them to be stolen property. Suppose these two 
States, in the exercise of their reserved sovereign powers, had passed 
what they call laws, declaring the title of every one of these horseholders 
good, valid and indefeasible, both in law and equity. Suppose Congress 
had passed similar laws for the District of Columbia. The Canadians 
could never recover their horses under the laws of those States. They 
had recovered a few only that strayed into other States. It would be in 
vain for them to petition Congress to restore to them their horses, held in 
Maryland and Virginia. With the horse laws of those States, Congress 
has no concern ; over them it has no control. But suppose the Canadi- 
ans should petition Congress to repeal its own horse laws, and restore all 
the stolen horses within the District to their owners ; and suppose Cong- 
ress should be flooded with petitions from the free States to the same ef- 
fect, would it be a good objection to such repeal and restoration, that 
Maryland and Virginia never expected it — that it would serve to facilitate 
the object of the Canadians — and be, perhaps one step toward their e- 
ventually regaining all their property? 

Who does not see that every slave has as good a right to himself and 
his earnings, as the Canadians would have to their horses? Who does 
not see that waiting for Maryland and Virginia in this case would be a 
delay of justice, and, in all probability, an utter denial of it? 

One thing seems to me almost irreconcilable. We are told that ¥ a 
few years since, the bonds of the slave were falling off in Virginia, and but 
for the abolition excitement, Maryland would by this time have nearly 
freed herself from the evils of slavery ; and in the same breath we are also 
told that the abolition of slavery in the district of Columbia will endanger 
the perpetuity of it in Maryland and Virginia." 

This reminds one of the honest Dutchman, who said he was on the point 

*A slave escaping into the district would be reclaimed at once by a law of the dis- 
trict. 



18 REVIEW. 

of restoring his neighbor's property which he had unjustly taken from him 
but because his wife was more earnest with him upon the subject than he 
liked, declared he never would restore it. 

It is said by some that because slaves are property held by force of 
statute law, the holders are, therefore entitled 10 receive the full value of 
their slaves if manumitted by statute law. 

i The soundness of this opinion may be fairly tested by the case of hors- 
es. As soon as the force of the statute is removed by repeal, the Cana- 
dians recover their own horses. These horse holders have had the use 
and income of property which was never their own ; their title to which, 
both at its commencement and in its continuance was knowingly fraudu- 
lent, — a mere statute title ; and now these holders, instead of paying to 
the Canadians the damages to which they are entitled, demand from some 
quarter or other remuneration for their own wrong. 

This reminds one of Dr. Franklin's story of the man who demanded 
pay for his trouble and expense of heating the poker to burn his neighbor 
with. Whence ought this remuneration to come ? The Canadians sure- 
ly would not be bound to pay for their own horses. The legislature has 
bestowed the income of other people's property upon these horse holders 
quite long enough without giving them any thing in addition. According 
to Mr. Clay, these horse holders would be justly entitled to the value of 
the horses because they have held them by statute law ; and the petition- 
ers from the free States ought in justice to pay them this value. He 
seems to think with the Irish Justice, that, the defendant having the law 
on his side, the bystanders ought to pay the cost. 

On page 182 is a note containing an argument in the following words: 

1. " It is an elementary principle of the Constitution of the United 
States, that every free citizen must be represented, and that the legisla- 
tor derives all his power from the will of his constituents. 

2. This being an elementary principle, it is to be considered as the 
basis of all compacts and all legislation. It is not necessary that it be as- 
serted, but may always be taken for granted. 

3. When the cession of the district was made, it was made under this 
condition and with this understanding. Nay more, it was expressly as- 
serted in both the acts of cession. The act of cession by Maryland, after 
granting exclusive jurisdiction, adds, " provided that nothing herein con- 
tained shall be so construed, as to vest in the United States any right to 
property in the soil, so as to affect the rights of individuals therein; other- 
wise than the same shall or may be transferred by such individuals 
to the United States." The act of Virginia declares that the United 
States have exclusive jurisdiction, as well of soil as of persons, residing or 
to reside thereon, pursuant to the tenor and effect of the 8th section of the 
1st article of the Constitution of the United States, " Provided, That noth- 
ing herein contained shall be construed to vest in the United States any 
right of property in the soil, so as to affect the rights of individuals there- 
in, otherwise than the same shall or may be transferred by such individ- 
uals of the United States." 

4. Now as every citizen must be represented, these citizens are rep- 
resented. Their legislature is the Congress of the United States. Cong- 
ress stands in the same relation to them, that a Stale Legislature does to 



REVIEW. 19 

the people of a State. Congress has therefore a two fold relation ; first 
ae the representatives of the whole nation and secondly as the local legis- 
lature of this particular district. 

5. As such, Congress is bound, in its acts affecting merely this terri- 
tory, to be governed by the will of the people of the district, in the same 
way as the legislature of a whole State is bound to obey the will of the 
whole people of that State ; and to impose no burden upon them but by 
their own consent. Unless, therefore, the people of the district consent, 
Congress has no right to abolish slavery in the district. 

To me, I must confess the argument appears conclusive." 

To me, 1 am obliged in frankness to say, the argument appears very in- 
conclusive. 

The chief fallacy of it seems to me to be that from a general proposi- 
tion it infers a universal one. It is, indeed, an elementary principle and 
almost universally true of our whole republic " that every free citizen 
must be represented, and, that the legislator derives all his powers from 
the will of his constituents," but the government of the District of Colum- 
bia is a special exception arising from its peculiar relation to the Union 
as the seat of the General Government. Not being one of the United 
States, nor one of the territories, it elects and sends no representative 
to Congress. It is not true therefore of this district as it is of the states 
and territories, that " every free citizen must be represented, and that the 
legislator derives all his power from the will of his constituents ;" for the 
free citizens of the District of Columbia are not represented in Congress 
at all and not being constituents of the members of Congress, the members 
do not derive any of their power from them. It does not follow, there- 
fore, that " because every citizen" elsewhere, must be represented, these 
citizens " (of Columbia) are represented." Nor is the assertion true that 
" Congress stands in the same relation to the citizens of Columbia, that 
a state legislature does to the people of a State." 

True, Congress is the Legislature, or law-making power for this dis- 
trict, specially appointed by the constitution, " to exercise exclusive leg- 
islation over it in all cases whatsoever," but the citizens of the district 
are not the constituents of any representative in Congress, so that Cong- 
ress derives any portion of its power from their will. 

The conclusion then does not follow from true premises, that " Cong- 
ress is bound, in its acts affecting merely this territory, to be governed by' 
the will of the people of the district, in the same way as a legislature of the 
whole State is bound to obey the will of the whole people of that State, — 
and to impose no burden upon them but by their own consent/' I am 
obliged, therefore, to reverse the conclusion of this vote, that " unless 
the people of the district consent, Congress has no right to abolish slavery 
in the district" and say, that whether the people of the district consent 
or not, Congress has the right to abolish slavery in the district. 

The District of Columbia is not the only exception to this elementary 
principle. The very first article of the constitution itself, furnishes one. 
Does not the principle that " every free citizen must be represented and 
obeyed" include in it the principle that slaves, having no will of their 
own, must not be represented and obeyed ? 

That representation and taxation are reciprocal, and that representa* 



./ 



20 , REVIEW. 

tion should be in the ratio of population, are two elementary principles of 
both our general and State government, — yet Rhode Island affords a spec- 
ial exception to both these; for many citizens of that State pay taxes on per- 
sonal property who have no voice at all either in their town, city, or State 
legislation, and the representation is there so unequal, that one living vo- 
ter in some parts of the State, has the same weight in the legislature as 
fifteen voters living in other parts. 

It is not true, therefore, that because these elementary principles are 
to be considered as the general " basis of all legislation," their actual prac- 
tical existence " may always be taken for granted" without exception. 

There is another fallacy contained within the argument of this note as 
an accessory to the main one. The fact is shown that the acts of cession, 
both of Maryland and Virginia, each contains a proviso declaratory of the 
right ot the citizens of the district to their private property in the soil, un- 
less conveyed by them to the United States. Thence is inferred the 
right of those citizens, to elect and control their own representatives in 
Congress. This is inferring a right which is not reserved in the proviso, 
from a right which is reserved, but no way connected with the other. 

Though Congress has a perfect right to abolish slavery in the District 
of Columbia if they think the interest of the Union requires it, without the 
consent of the people of the district, still there would be a propriety in 
consulting and regarding their wishes. But as the people of the district 
are themselves divided on the subject, one portion of them having peti- 
tioned Congress to abolish, and another portion to continue slavery there, 
Congress are left to act upon their own moral and national views. 

President Wayland's eloquent appeal to the patriotism of the South, is 
well adapted to the peculiar temperament of our Southern brethren, and 
almost too persuasive to be resisted by a mind of generous impulses. No 
benevolent man can read it without hoping it may produce the happy ef- 
fects designed by the writer. 

I am happy to understand Dr. Wayland as admitting that "it is our du- 
ty'arising from our relations as men, to attempt the removal of slavery." 
All I have designed to contend for beyond this, is, that our duty on this sub- 
ject as men, is not limited by our relations as citizens of the United States 
except in the case of direct national legislation and executive action up- 
on slavery in the slave holding States. 



