i 



stack 6 

He sG I've 



*^^-f^6 



"Bn 




.6 






y4 



■'^^''^ 



3^ 






DKSIGNP.n TO EXHIBIT THIS 



REAL CHARACTER AND TENDENCY 



AMERICAN 



IE' 



BY CLERICUS. 



■ FIAT .TUSTITIA, RUAT CCELCM." 



LIVERPOOL : 

PRINTED AND SOLD BY EGERTON SMITH AND CO.. LORD STREET 

SOLD ALSO BY J, & A. ARCH, CORKKILL; AND IIATCIIARD, 

AND SON, PICADILLY, LONDON. 



1833. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Lib/ary / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/factsdesignedtoeOOsmit 



FACTS, &c. 



Within the last few years the attention of all parties has 
been increasingly directed to the subjectof Negro Slavery, and 
the certainty of its speedy abolition in our ci>lonies has either 
been cheerfully welcomed, or reluctantly admitted. Those 
humane persons who commenced their career of benevolence 
by seeking the amelioration and gradual extinction of slavery, 
have been so thoroughly convinced of its incorrigible nature 
and of the claims of the negro, as now to demand nothing short 
of the total annihilation of the system at the earliest period 
compatible with the safety of all parties concerned; while 
those who, a few years since, deprecated the slightest interfer- 
ence with their property and vested rights, and loudly con- 
tended that the slaves were contented and happy, now acknow- 
ledge that slavery is an evil, and plead not for its perpetuity, 
but for its gradual termination. Hence, many schemes have 
been devised, and many ameliorating measures have been dis- 
cussed, the adoption of which are recommended with a view 
to the ultimate abolition of Colonial slavery. A somewhat 
similar movement has been made in the United States; — 
a slave population, rapidly increasing, and at present amount- 
ing to more than two millions, has awakened the fears, if it has 
not appealed to the justice, of the slave-holders, and the con- 
viction has gradually attained possession of their minds, that 
the victims of their cupidity cannot long be retained in their 
present unnatural position with safety to the commonwealth. 
The evil under which America groans is broadly admitted, 
and a remedy has been loudly called for ; anti-slavery efforts 
have been made to some extent, and within the last few years the 



American Colonization Society has stood forward to ofter a 
remedy, or, at least, to perform some act of justice or humanity 
to the degraded sons of Africa. The avowed object of this 
society " is exclusively directed to promote and execute a plan 
for colonizing, with their own consent, the free people of 
colour," and its ultimate design, as avowed by its friends, is 
the removal of the entire free and enslaved negro population 
to the shores of Africa. The society was formed in 1817, it 
has established a colony called Liberia, and has now located 
about 3,000 persons in that settlement. It proposes to carry 
forward its future operations on a more extended scale, and 
for the promotion of this object, one of its agents is now in 
Great Britain soliciting pecuniary aid from the benevolent and 
religious public. 

This society commends itself to the countenance and sup- 
port of philanthropic minds by a declaration of its humane 
intentions and benevolent effects. It is clearly the duty of 
every person thus appealed to, carefully to examine, and 
rigidly to scrutinize its claims ; to see how far its pretensions 
are borne out by facts, and to ascertain its probable influence 
on the destinies of the coloured population of the United 
States, It is alleged that emancipation could not be safe or 
practicable in that country without such a valve as that now 
supplied by the society ; that the free coloured people are a 
degraded race, and can never stand on equal ground with their 
white brethren; that the removal of this population will 
civilize and evangelize Africa, and effectually stop the pro- 
gress of the slave trade. There is some inconsistency in these 
statements, if not palpable contradictions, and a careful 
examination of the pretensions of this society must go far to 
convince every candid and impartial mind of the unsoundness 
of its constitution. Invidious as it may appear to entertain a 
doubt of the excellency of a scheme patronized by men of 
character and fame, lorofessing, as it does, to aim at the welfare 
of the African, it is, unquestionably, right to judge it by its 
own acts and words, and if found contrary to religion and 
justice, to denounce it as unworthy of being supported by 
humane men. It will be the object of these pages to unfold 
the real character of the American Colonization Society by an 



appeal to its own accredited and published documents, and 
then to judge of its worth by the principles of humanity, 
justice, and religion. 

This course, in part, has been objected to by its advocates 
in this country and in America. On quotations being printed 
from the speeches made at its annual meetings, and published 
with its reports, the plea has been set up that it is unfair to 
judge the society by the opinions of the speakers on its an- 
nual assemblings. But we ask where lies the unfairness of this 
procedure ? Would the Bible, or Missionary, or Anti-slavery 
Societies of Great Britain feel themselves aggrieved by a re- 
ference to the speeches made at their public meetings, as 
developing the views which they entertained, or the motives 
by which they are actuated ? Certainly not ! For though on 
some minor points connected with the workings of their ma- 
chinery a diversity of opinion may be tolerated, yet on all 
that vitally affected the interests and objects of their different 
institutions, unanimity of opinion would pervade the minds of 
their advocates. The Colonization Society, by publishing the 
speeches of its speakers with their annual reports, become re- 
sponsible for the opinions thus set forth, and evidently mani- 
fest their approval of these sentiments by this act, especially 
as nothing in the shape of disapprobation is issued by the 
managers to warn the public of the dangerous and monstrous 
notions thus advocated. Moreover, these speakers are the 
warmest friends of the society ; by the labours of some of them 
the society was originated, and they are found on its com- 
mittee, and direct its movements. The meanness and Jesuitism 
of shifting the grave charges brought against the society by 
pleading that it is not responsible for the views of its advocates 
are obvious, and it is to be hoped that this device will no longer 
serve the purposes for which it has been resorted to. 

Specious as the plan of colonization appears, it is one to 
be deprecated and opposed by all the friends of the African 
race. It originated in the fears of slave-holders, and is the off- 
spring of the Legislature of Virginia, its simple object being 
to colonize the fi-ee people of colour " either in Africa, or such 
other place as Congress shall deem most expedient." It was no 
part of its plan to abolish slavery, to suppress the slave trade. 



6 

or to promote civilization or Christianity in Africa. Convenient 
as it may be in this country to represent these things as objects 
which it embraces, its simple design was and is, to get rid of 
the free coloured people, who are regarded in the slave-holding 
states as the filth and ofFscouring of all things. Their in- 
fluence is obviously dreaded, and their increasing numbers 
looked upon with the greatest horror and alarm. This is 
proved by the following quotations from the African Repository, 
an avowed organ of the Colonization Society: — "The free 
blacks are a greater nuisance than even the slaves themselves." 
— " Their freedom is licentiousness, and to many, restraint 
would prove a blessing : the increase of a free black population 
among us has been regarded as a greater evil than the increase 
of slaves; of all the descriptions of our population, and of 
either portion of the African race, the free people of colour are 
by far, as a class, the most corrupt, depraved, and abandoned." 
— " What, but sorrow, can we feel at the misguided piety 
which has set free so many of them !" Passing over this 
wickedly pathetic lamentation at acts of obedience to the 
Divine law, we are struck with the deep-rooted antipathy the 
society manifests toward their coloured brethren, and the 
deception practised, if the above statements be true, when these 
same parties represent this people, once landed on the shores 
of Africa, as amply prepared to civilize and convert that con- 
tinent. Indisputable facts prove that these representations of 
the free coloured people are gross exaggerations, and literally 
untrue. This antipathy is founded, principally, on the dread 
of the free blacks interesting themselves in behalf of the slaves, 
and awakening in their minds the desire of liberty. Hence, 
the former are denominated " walking mirrors, who reflect the 
light of freedom into the dark bosoms of the slaves.'' Let the 
views of the American Colonisation Society be fully realized, 
and the last hope of liberty for their bondmen will be extin- 
guished. This fear is confirmed by the unblushing statements 
of the society's reports. " What is the free black to the slave ? 
— A standing perpetual excitement to discontent; the slave 
would have little excitement to discontent but for the free 
black." — -IQth Annual Report. The objects of the society 
" are, in the first place, to aid ourselves by relieving us from a 



species of population pregnant with future danger and present 
inconvenience."' — 1th Report. In the exuberance of its charity, 
the society thus denounces the men who fought their battles, 
who have contributed to their amount of national dignity and 
importance : — " Let these 300,000 men be banished, and the 
security of the slaveholder will never be broken by the uplifted 
voice of freedom contending for equal rights," 

The policy which originated this society is further seen in 
its dread of the increase of the slave population. In an 
appendix to the Fifteenth Annual Report, page 40, a calcula- 
tion, addressed to the fears of the slave-holders, is made of the 
increase of the slaves during the last forty years. From this 
it appears that in 1790 the total number of coloured people, 
free and slaves, in the United States, was 757,098, and that in 
1830 they amounted to 2,230,039. It is argued that, at the 
same ratio of increase as took place in the last ten years, 
this population, in 1870, will number 7,491,737. In South 
Carolina the coloured population already exceed the whites, 
and from these appalling facts an argument is drawn for the 
colonizing of at least 50,000 annually. Let this be effected, 
and the remaining victims of oppression will still be manage- 
able ; but suffer them to multiply by a natural yearly increase, 
and the legislators must, ultimately, from a regard to national 
safety, adopt measures for the abolition of slavery, and raise 
the proscribed sons of Africa to the dignity and privileges of 
citizens and freemen. Every cargo of coloured men wafted 
from the shores of America, tends to postpone the day when 
slavery shall terminate, and goes to rivet more firmly the 
chains and fetters by which the slaves are bound. This is 
broadly avowed by the friends of the society : the Hon. Mr- 
Archer of Virginia, at its last annual meeting, said of the slaves, 
" If none were drained away they would become inevitably 
and speedily redundant ; when this stage had been reached, 
what course or remedy remained ? — was open butchery to be 
resorted to, as among the Spartans with the helots ? or, general 
emancipation and incorporation, as in South America ? Either 
of these was a deplorable catastrophe; could they be avoided ? 
and if they could, how ? — There was but one way, and that 
might be made effectual, fortunately ! — It was to provide and 



8 

keep open a drain for the excess of increase beyond the occasions 
0/ projitahle employment. This might be done eifectually by 
an extension of the plan of the society ; the drain was already 
opened, and all that was necessary would be to provide for the 
enlargement of the channel, as occasion might demand." In 
this sentence, which the society has printed in italics, its inten- 
tion is honestly avowed ; how barefaced then must be the 
impudence, and how repulsive the quackery which would 
palm the society on the credulity of Englishmen as a benevolent 
scheme, aiming only at the benefit of the African race ! But 
there is no hesitation about such assertions in America, however 
the real object may be disguised in this country; witness the 
following extracts selected from different journals advocating the 
society : — " The object of the Colonization Society commends 
itself lo every class of society ; the landed proprietor may 
enhance the value of his property by assisting the enterprise. 
The tendency of the scheme and one of its objects is to secure 
slave-holders and the whole southern country; it will render 
the slave who remains in America more obedient, more faithful^ 
more honest, and more useful to his mastei'." — African Reposi- 
tory. "None are obliged to follow our example, and those 
who do not will find the value of their negroes increased by 
the departure of ours." — Western Luminary. "By this the 
value of the slave will be enhanced." — A more wicked appeal to 
the cupidity of the human heart could not be made than that 
contained in these quotations, and never were the friends of 
the negro in this country so completely misled as when they 
thought well of this scheme as one that would at least promote 
the views of the abolitionists. Diminish the number of the 
slaves, and those remaining become more valuable, and their 
gradual emancipation becomes impracticable. 

It is said that the society does not interfere with the ques- 
tion of slavery. This we have already seen is a fallacy ; it 
interferes for its support. It is an enemy to immediate aboli- 
tion, and opposes every instance of emancipation, unless ac- 
companied with banishment. One of its friends says, " No 
scheme of abolition will meet my support that leaves the 
emancipated blacks among us." *' It would be as humane to 
throw them from the decks in the middle passage as to set 



9 

iheni free in our country." — African Repositorrj. "-They will 
annex the condition that the emancipated shall leave the coun- 
try," is the official announcement of the society in its second 
annual report. Thus, these deluded men are resolved never to 
let the oppressed go free, unless the Atlantic billows heave 
their everlasting barriers between them and the victims of 
their cruelty. They do not for a moment regard slavery as a 
crime, but, on the contrary, plead for it. B B. Thatcher, of 
Boston, one of the warmest friends and ablest champions of 
the society, drenv up an article on its history and principles, 
which was published in the North American Review for July^ 
1832. In this he declares that " slavery is regarded by the 
society as a legitimate system, which they have no inclination 
to disturb," and that " individual freedom and happiness are 
properly subordinate to the public good." It recognises slaves 
as property, and deprecates the least interference with it. The 
Hon. Henry Clay, at its first annual meeting, declared that 
' he was himself a slave-holder; and he considered that kind 
of property as inviolable as any other in the country." " The 
society has at all times recognised the constitutional and legi- 
timate existence of slavery." — Tenth Annual Report. It is, in 
fact, impossible to look through any of its reports or organs of 
opinion, without finding repeated apologies for slavery and 
slaveholders. Its first President was a slave-holder, and many 
of its most powerful advocates are of the same class. No 
wonder, then, that though in the commencement of its career 
it met with the decided opposition of the slave-owners, who 
were too short-sighted to discern its ultimate eflfect, yet now, 
understanding more clearly its design, they rally round its 
standard, and trumpet forth its fame. " It is a gratifying cir- 
cumstance," says the Rev. B. Dickinson, in a sermon before 
an auxiliary colonization society, " that the society has ob- 
tained its most decided and efficient support from the slave- 
holding states." This fact is sufficient to demonstrate the real 
character of the enterprise, and the amount of patronage it 
deserves from the anti-slavery party in this country. 

One powerful objection to the society is found in the cir- 
cumstance, that just in proportion as its principles prevail 
the affections of the benevolent are alienated from the coloured 



10 

population, and anti-slavery efforts are checked and neutral- 
ized. It calls off the attention of the Christian public from 
the great and solemn duty of seeking to unloose every burden, 
and to let the oppressed go free ; it lulls the consciences of 
men to slumber, and deludes them into the belief that they 
are engaged in doing all that their position allows for the 
benefit of the negro. The free coloured people of New York 
have published an address, in which they declare " the Friends 
have been the last to aid the system pursued ; and in propor- 
tion as they become colonizationists, they become less active» 
and less friendly to our welfare as citizens of the United 
States." A letter from Arnold Buffum, president of the New 
England A.nti-Slavery Society, recently received by a distin- 
guished philanthropist in this country, contains the following 
melancholy declaration : "We have had anti-slavery societies 
in this country upwards of forty years ; and we now see 
upwards of 300,000 persons enjoying freedom and gospel 
privileges, the result of anti-slavery principles and measures, 
which were producing a constant succession of emancipations, 
until the Colonization Society was organized. But now we 
have to mourn that these principles have been nearly para- 
lyzed, and that emancipations have almost ceased, through 
tlie withering influence of that scheme. By establishing the 
principle that blacks are not to be free in this country, they 
reconcile the slave to his bondage ; by exciting unholy preju- 
dices against free blacks, they reconcile the Christian commu- 
nity to the continuance of slavery, and thus put a stop to anti- 
slavery efforts. The press and the pulpit have been almost 
unanimously enlisted in the unholy crusade against the free 
coloured people ; and the poor black or brown American 
children have been for the last ten years almost deserted by 
the sympathies of human nature : scarcely a tongue was heard 
to lisp an accent in their behalf." Such are the fruits, and 
what can be the character of the tree ! Do men gather grapes 
of thorns, or figs of thistles ? Every good tree bringeth forth 
good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. Can 
the same fountain send forth bitter water and sweet ? Judging 
of this society from its consequences, it deserves unqualified 
disapprobation, and so far from claiming the support of Chris" 



11 

tian men, it should meet with their decided, united, and ^jerse- 
vering opposition. 

It is well worthy of observation, that the colonizing scheme 
was originated and carried into effect without the slightest 
regard to the wishes and feelings of the people upon whom it 
was destined immediately to act. It never became a question 
with its advocates, whether the free people were willing to be 
exiled; their prejudices or inclinations were never for a 
moment consulted ; and it is now well known that they are 
decidedly opposed to the banishment proposed. This is fully 
admitted in the Fifteenth Annual Report of the Society, 
page 9. " When the society is spoken of as an institution 
which is to relieve us of a present and pressing evil, and which 
may relieve the country of a prospective, and, perhaps, not 
distant danger ; when such views are strongly urged upon the 
self-interest of the nation, the people of colour are not igno- 
rant of this aspect of the subject : they read — they hear — and 
when they are spoken of as a nuisance to be got rid of, they 
prove themselves men, men of like passions with us, by re- 
senting it. Their prej udices are roused : they stand aloof from 
the design. And the fact is not to be concealed, that the free 
people of colour, taken as a conununltij, look on our undertaking 
with disaffection." Still this is not to be regarded ; it is not 
suffered to retard the operation of the plan ; and tiolens volens 
the free coloured people must be colonized, because the society 
denounces them as an incubus on the energies and prosperity 
of its enlightened republic. They have publicly met in New 
York, in Boston, in Philadelphia, and in all the principal cities 
of the Union, and protested, in affecting and imploring terms, 
against the iniquity of banishing them from the land of their 
fathers. They say, justly, "We are not strangers; we are 
American citizens : our fathers were among the first that 
peopled this country ; many of them fought, and bled, and 
died for the gaining of her liberties ; and shall we forsake their 
tombs and flee to an unknown land ? No ! let us remain over 
them, and weep, until the day arrive when Ethiopia shall 
stretch forth her hand unto God." At Philadelphia they 
resolved " We will never separate ourselves voluntarily from 
the slave popolation in this country ; they are our brethren 



12 

by the ties of consiinguinity, of suffering, and of wrong ; and 
we feel that there is more virtue in suffering privations with 
them than in fancied advantages for a season." These pathetic 
appeals and noble determinations are lost on the benevolent 
supporters of the Colonization Society. Their avowed reso- 
lution is to transport them tvith their oivn consent. But how 
is this to be obtained ? The society is doing it effectually. Its 
operations widen the breach between this people and the whites 
by increasing the prejudices of the latter a hundred-fold; and 
to this may be traced the recent enactment of the most cruel 
and persecuting laws. Louisiana has just passed a law pro- 
hibiting Sunday schools for the instruction of blacks, on a 
penalty of five hundred dollars for the first offence, and death 
for the second ! It was also enacted that whosoever shall make 
use of language in public or private, or make use of signs or 
actions having a tendency to produce discontent among the 
coloured population, shall suffer imprisonment at hard labour, 
— not less than three years, nor more than twenty-one years, 
or death, at the discretion of the court ! The States of Ohio, 
Georgia, North Carolina, Tenessee, and several others, have 
passed laws of a most iniquitous and rigorous nature, aiming 
at the expulsion and persecution of the free coloured people. 
By the aid of such zealous coadjutors the design of the society 
may be accomplished. The miserable victims of such cruel 
oppression may in time give their consent to leave the land of 
their birth, and be located far from the haunts of persecuting 
white men. The legislators who have made these unrighteous 
laws are in their individual and collective capacity advocates 
of the Colonization Society. 

All this is justified by the fallacious assumption that Africa 
is their native land, and in this lying pretext they are to be 
sent to the pestilential shores of a barbarous and heathen 
country. " Africa," says the society, " is the black man^s 
home physically ; morally he should aspire for a residence 
within her boundaries ; -Liberia is the birthplace of the black 
man, to which his constitution is peculiarly adapted." The 
ignorance displayed in this assertion would be highly amusing 
but for the painful effects which result from its adoption as 
an undoubted truth. Is Africa the birthplace of the man 



13 

born in America ? — is it more the birthplace of the coloured 
than of the white American ? The notion is preposterous. 
And yet on this stupid assumption the Colonization Society 
argues the justice of banishing the coloured people, and ap- 
peals to the ineificiency of Christianity for support to the act. 
Hear its language at page 17 of the Fifteenth Annual Report: 
"The mayiagers consider it clear that causes exist, and are 
operating to prevent their improvement and elevation to any 
considerable extent as a class in this country, which are fixed 
not only beyond the control of the friends of humanity, but 
of any human power. Christianity cannot do for them here 
what it will do for them in Africa. This is not the fault of the 
coloured man, nor of the white man, nor of Christianity, but 
an ordination of Providence, and no more to be changed than 
the laws of nature." The impiety of this reasoning is pain- 
fully obvious ; it is an attempt to charge that God who is no 
respecter of persons, and who has made of one blood all na- 
tions of men, with the crimes perpetrated by the haughty 
whites against their weak and unoffending coloured brethren. 
But why are they degraded ? and where lies the impossibility 
of their mental and moral elevation ? Not in physical incapacity, 
as is plainly shown by numerous instances in which the result 
has been accomplished, but simply in tlie prejudices and 
hatred of the whites, which the scheme of colonizing is nourish- 
ing and deepening. What must be thought of the men who 
use all means to depress and keep in ignorance the coloured 
people, and then make that ignorance and depression a plea 
for their expulsion ? In the year 1831 it was proposed to 
establish a college, for the education of coloured youth, to be 
located at New Haven, Connecticut. This project, so far 
from being acceptable to the philanthropists of that city, 
awakened their alarm and indignation, and several public 
meetings were called to oppose the measure: these men of 
nobler blood resolved to "resist the establishment of the 
college by every lawful means," fearing it would " propagate 
sentiments favourable to the immediate emancipation of the 
slaves." This occurred not in a slave-holding state, but in 
one free from that abomination, and distinguished for its 
enlightened liberality. " If they do these things in the green 
tree, what will be done in the dry ?" 



14 

It is impossible to read the proceedings, and to study the 
opinions of the friends of colonization, without a full con- 
viction that the Colonization Society is instrumental in nur- 
turing the unhallowed prejudices which fearfully alienate the 
affections of the white population from their sable brethren. 
One of its advocates asserts that " God has put a mark upon 
the black man : the God of nature intended they should be a 
distinct, free, and independent community." Then why frus- 
trate the Divine intention by holding them in bondage ? But 
this is not the inference the Americans are disposed to deduce 
from this position ; nature, they say, has fixed an inseparable 
barrier to an amalgamation of the two races ; they never can 
unite; a fraternal feeling never can exist between them. 
Hence a coloured man, however intelligent, wealthy, or 
respectable, is not allowed to sit at table, or enter a public 
lecture-room with white people. This exclusion extends to 
the sanctuary of God. Coloured persons must not sit down 
with them at the table of the Lord, nor even remain in a house 
of prayer, except in the particular quarter set apart for their 
use, and this is generally in the most remote and worst 
situation ; and, as if the distinction were to be perpetuated 
for ever, their very bodies are denied the right of sepulture in 
the burying-places of the white. This occurs in the land of 
liberty and of Christianity : this is done by people who prize 
the former too highly to see it cheapened, and thrown away 
upon the blacks ; and who monopolize the latter, lest its value 
should be deteriorated by its extension to the sons of Ham ! 
Well would it be if the insurmountable barrier indicated by 
these acts really existed ; then no mulattoes, no slaves, would 
be found in the United States, whose skin is not many shades 
darker than that of their masters. Facts give the lie to the 
infamous distinction. That noble-minded and much-perse- 
cuted man, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, says on this point : — 
" In truth, it is so often difficult in the slave states to distin- 
guish between the fruits of mixed intercouse and the children 
of white parents, that wihiesses are summoned at court to solve 
the problem ! Talk of the barriers of nature, when the land 
swarms with living refutations of the statements ! Happy, 
indeed, would it be for many a female slave, if such a barrier 



15 

could exist."* This witness is true, and receives ample con- 
firmation from a work entitled, " Three Years in North 
America. By James Stuart, Esq." The author states that 
in a conversation, at which he was present, " it turned out 
that the planter was frequently waited upon at table by his 
own children, and had actually sent some of them to the public 
market, to be sold as slaves." It is not intended to charge the 
society in question as the originators of this foul prejudice, 
founded, as it is, on a perversion of existing circumstances; 
but it is intended distinctly to accuse them as its powerful 
auxiliary, inasmuch as they plead the supposed impossibility 
of elevating the coloured population to an equality with the 
whites, as a powerful reason for colonizing the people whose 
only crime is the colour of their skin. Justice, humanity, and 
religion would lead them to contend against the monstrous 
opinion, and shelter the coloured people from the attacks of 
ignorance and avarice, instead of which they apologize for the 
unhallowed antipathy of the whites, and declare that '' those 
persons of colour who have been emancipated are only nomi- 
nally free, and the whole race, so long as they remain among 
us, must necessarily be kept in a condition full of wretchedness 
to them, and full of danger to the whites." — Second Annual 
Report of New York State Colonization Society. 

A strong objection to the operations of the society is found 
in the fearful waste of human life attendant on the removal of 
persons from America to the pestiferous shores of Africa. 
Much has been said on the salubrity of Liberia, and there is 
reason to fear more than can be borne out by facts. The 
admission of Captain Weaver, in his letter to the managers, 
published in the Appendix to the Fifteenth Annual Report, 
confirms this suspicion. He refers to the extensive mortality 
among the emigrants who were sent out in the Carolinian, 
and says, — " Nature seems to have ordained, that on a removal 
from a temperate clime to the torrid zone of Africa, in order 
to become acclimated, it is necessary, in most cases, to pass 
through the ordeal of fever." The friends of humanity have 

* Vide " Thoughts on African Colonization," p. 1 45, — a work which contains 
a mass of evidence by which the Colonization Society is judged and con- 
demned out of its own mouth. 



16 

a right to ask why the coloured people should be exposed to 
this ordeal, and why their lives should be placed in jeopardy ? 
Is there not territory sufficient for them in the United States ? 
Have they not as g-reat a right to the peaceable possession of 
that land as white men have ? Have not the decendants of 
Africans as indisputable a claim to a residence there as the 
descendants of Englishmen ? The laws of reason and reve- 
lation decide in the affirmative ; the fears, cupidity, and 
savage antipathy of slave-holders reverse the sentence, and 
declare that the sable hue of the race is a crime only to be 
expiated by exile for ever. 

If there be any advantage connected with the colony of 
Liberia, it is in the promise itholds out of checking the African 
slave trade. But even this is sadly over-rated. The only way 
to put a period to this nefarious traffic is by the total abolition 
of slavery throughout the world. Let negro slavery be ex- 
tinguished in our colonies and in the United States, and 
the example will be imitated speedily over the face of the 
globe. The supply will be always equal to the demand, and 
the puny efforts of single colonies, unless they lined the 
whole coast of Africa, would be altogether insufficient to 
terminate the evil. The attention of the society might, 
however, be profitably directed, in endeavouring to terminate 
the internal slave trade carried on in its own country, and to 
stop the smuggling of negroes into the Southern States from 
Africa; and this can be done without any waste of human 
life, and without the immense expenditure of money required 
by its present schemes. 

There is something like inconsistency in the notion that 
Africa is to be civilized and led to embrace Christianity by 
colonization. It should be remembered that the colony was 
founded in blood; by a murdering war against the natives, 
in which they were conquered by the superior skill of the 
emigrants in the use of fire arms. The Rev. Mr. Ashmun, the 
first agent, who unhappily fell a victim to the climate, thus 
describes the effect of their warfare : — " Eight hundred men 
were pressed shoulder to shoulder, in a compact form, and all 
exposed to a gun of great power, raised on a platform, at only 
thirty to sixty yards distance ! Every shot literally spent its 



17 

force in a solid mass of living human flesh"* If such proceed- 
ings should never produce a war of retaliation, yet how is a po- 
pulation described by the advocates of the society as the most 
vicious, degraded, and dangerous in the world, to enlighten 
and convert the savages of Africa ? If thus wretched in the 
land of privileges, is there no danger of their becoming worse 
in a heathen land ? A letter from a highly respected coloured 
emigrant, the Rev. G. M. Erskine, dated " Caldwell, Liberia, 
Aprils, 1830," gives some reason for this apprehension. After 
adverting to the ignorance of the emigrants, and asserting that 
the only school in the colony is a remnant of one at the Cape, 
he adds, — " This people is planted in the midst, and are daily 
conversant with a people that are not only heathen, but 
extremely partial in favour of their grovelling superstition. 
This being the case, whether is it probable that they will come 
over to us, or we go down to them ? To me the latter is most 
likely, as it is the very essence of human nature to seek the 
lowest depth of degradation ?"-}• But it is confidently predicted 
that this " degraded people" will, on breathing their " native 
air,^' be metamorphosed into all that is lovely and virtuous. Let 
this be answered in the words of the Rev. Peter Williams, a 
coloured clergyman. " We are to be improved by being sent 
far from civilized society. This is a novel mode of improve- 
ment. What is there in the burning sun, the arid plains, and 
barbarous customs of Africa, that is so peculiarly favourable 
to our improvement ? What hinders our improving here, 
where schools and colleges abound, where the gospel is 
preached at every corner, and where all the arts and sciences 
are verging fast to perfection ? Nothing, nothing but pre- 
judice. It requires no large expenditure, no hazardous 
enterprise to raise the people of colour in the United States 
to as highly improved a state as any class of the community. 
All that is necessary is, that those who profess to be anxious 
for it should lay aside their prejudices, and act toward them 
as they do by others." If the society wish to improve th e 
condition of this people, they may do it more effectually than 
by sending them to Africa ; and if they wish to evangelize 
that country, let them send out enlightened and devoted 

* African Repository, Vol. ii. p. 179. f Ihid, Vol. vi. p. 121 . 



18 

missionaries of the Cross. A few of these men would do more 
towards this end than twenty thousand ignorant colonists. 
But the fact is, this object forms no part of their plan as 
embraced in their constitution, though many individuals 
pledged to its support may look for such a result from its 
operation. 

It is confidently asserted that slave-owners in the southern 
states are willing to emancipate a hundred thousand slaves, so 
soon as the means are found of conveying them to Liberia, and 
on this ground an appeal is made for pecuniary aid to the 
British public. These slaves are regarded as worth from £60 
to £80 each ; and the cost of transporting them is said to be 
£7 10s. If a most interested class of men are willing to sacri- 
fice so much property, as they deem it, at the shrine of bene- 
volence, is it not passing strr^nge that the whole of the free 
states, with the benevolent persons not interested in slavery in 
the slave states, should be unable or unwilling to raise an eighth 
or a tenth of the amount that slave-owners are willing to give 
up ? There is something in this view of the subject that 
awakens suspicion as to the correctness of the assertions, or as 
to the favour the society obtains in America. Why send an 
agent from a country every way prosperous and freed from debt 
to collect money from one depressed and struggling with 
poverty, for an object which, however good, may be easily 
accomplished by their own resources ? The secret may lie 
here, — that as its real character is better known, the support it 
formerly derived from the northern states is in a way of gradual 
withdrawment, and the aid of Englishmen is implored to assist 
the plans of the interested southern states. 

There is something imposing and specious in the scheme as 
exhibited by its fiiends, and hence it is by no means surprising 
that the partial approbation of some distinguished philanthro- 
pists has been obtained for it. This has been made the most 
of; the names of Clarkson and Wilberforce have been em- 
ployed in its behalf; it must, however, be remembered, that 
their favourable opinion of it was expressed before both sides of 
the question were heard in this country. The venerable 
Clarkson, however, from the beginning protested against it as 
a substitute for abolition, and refused the sanction of his name 



19 

as a Vice-president of the society, and declined contributing to 
its funds ; of late he has withdrawn all countenance from it, 
though he hesitates to become its avowed opponent. It cannot 
be doubted that many worthy men have supported the Coloni- 
zation Society from the purest motives; even this is to be 
lamented, for " it effectually seals up the lips of a vast number 
of influential and pious men, who, for fear of giving offence to 
those slave-holders with whom they associate, and thereby 
leading to a dissolution of the compact, dare not expose the 
flagrant enormities of the system of slavery, nor denounce the 
crime of holding human beings in bondage."* It is cheering 
to the real friends of the negro to find that the most pious and 
enlightened of the American citizens are shaken in their attach- 
ment to the society. The tide of public opinion has begun to 
ebb ; Arnold BuiFom, whose sentiments are already quoted in 
this pamphlet, says, in reference to anti-slavery efforts, " We 
are encouraged beyond our most sanguine expectations, by the 
change which has already taken place in public opinion ; 
clergymen, and editors of periodicals are beginning to see that 
they have been deluded ; our cause is evidently advancing, and 
will eventually triumph over all the powers of darkness- 
When once we get colonization out of the way, anti-slavery 
principles will assume a prominent position in the benevolent 
enterprises of the age; the day will soon arrive when the pro- 
tection of the constitution and laws of our country will be 
extended equally to all classes of the people, and the united 
aspirations of a nation's joy will ascend in grateful orisons to 
the throne of Heaven, and receive the approbation and blessing 
of the supreme Euler of the universe." If the foregoing 
reasonings, founded upon the published declarations of the 
society, be correct, then is it the high and solemn duty of every 
man who ardently desires the hastening of this period, to oppose, 
determinately and perseveringly, the American Colonization 
Society, till its name and memorial shall have perished from 
the earth. 

* Garrison's Thoughts, p. 19. 



EGERTON S3IITH AND CO. PRINTERS, IITERPOOL. 



