Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reviewofreasonsgOOIond 



/- 



REVIEW 



OF THE 

REASONS GIVEN FOR ESTABLISHING A 

REGISTRY OF SLAVES 

IN THE BRITISH COLONIES 

IN A 

REPORT OF A COMMITTEE OF THE AFRICAN INSTITUTION, 

ENTITLED 

" REASONS," &c. &c* 



It is much to be wished that some 
persons competent to the task 
would write a full and impartial 
history of the Abolition of the Slave 
Trade. No single event is more 
curious or important. The same 
generation of men heard the first 
promulgation and have witnessed 
the final triumph, of the great prin-^ 
eiples of mercy and justice which 
form the charter of freedom to the 
unnumbered nations of Africa. 
Sentiments which;, in the recollec- 
tion of every man of mature age, 
were derided, even in the sanctuary 
of liberty and science, as the visions 
of fanatics, have now been solemn- 
ly adopted into the great code of 
National Law by all the states of 
the civilized world. Never was a 
contest more arduous, nor a vic- 
tory more complete. Yet when the 
historian of this great revolution 
had, in the course of his narrative, 
arrived at the present period, he 



would close his volume with a 
strange union of exultation and 
alarm. After recording successes 
surpassing the hopes of the most 
sanguine, he would perceive that 
the final deliverance of Africa had 
not yet been accomplished. — Two 
nations in the centre of the Chris- 
tian world still sanction a system 
which they have concurred to re- 
probate as merciless and inhuman. 
— In the Western Hemisphere every 
maritime state of Europe yet holds 
in bondage the natives of Africa or 
their descendants. The colonies, 
which have so long been the dis- 
grace of one continent, and the 
bane of the other, remain without a 
reformation or even a visible change 
in their domestic system. Whatever 
motives once prompted the pro- 
prietors of land in those settle- 
ments to encourage the desolation 
of Africa, still operate with undi- 
minished force. Prohibitory laws 



* Published by Hatchard, 190, Piccadilly. 



2 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves.'* 
may have abridged the resources of tions merely by the words used to 



XM 



guilt, but they have not destroyed 
the inducement to the commission 
of it. With such a scene before 
him, the writer whom we have 
imagined would doubtless close his 
labours with an earnest warning 
against a premature and indolent 
security. Whilst the Slave Trade 
is either publicly tolerated, or pri- 
vately carried on; while any means 
of openly resisting, or secretly 
evading this great law of nations 
are yet unobstructed ; while the 
temptation or the power to violate 
it exists; so long the hopes of hu- 
manity are unfulfilled, and its la- 
bours unfinished. 

It has been the peculiar advan- 
tage of the Abolitionists, that the 
leaders in their controversy have 
bee*n eminently fitted for that high 
station. They have been accom- 
plished statesmen, learned in the 
theory and practised in the arts 
of government. Men of this class 
are distinguished by nothing more 
than their aversion to equivocation 
in the statement of their principles, 
and to compromise and half mea- 
sures in their course of conduct. 
From the first day of that ever- 
memorable contest, Mr. Wilber- 
force in this spirit declared, that he 
aimed at nothing short of the utter 
extinction of the Slave Trade. The 
abolition of it, by an Act of the 
British Parliament, was proposed 
as the first, in time and in import- 
ance, of the measures which he 
contemplated ; but, assuredly, it 
was never for an instant represent- 
ed by that eminent character as 
the single end of his efforts. After 
many a hard-fought day, this great 
act of national justice was per- 
formed. But the leader in that 
conflict was too well acquainted 
with the world to be ignorant of 
the general inefficacy of penalties 
and mere legal prohibitions. What 
the British Parliament had forbid- 
den to be done, he therefore next 
endeavoured to render impractica- 
ble. Knowing that multitudes es- 
timate the moral character of ac- 



describe them, the Abolitionists 
procured the enactment of a law v 
declaring the trade in slaves to be 
a felony. Apprehending that, un- 
der the protection of foreign flags, 
the West-Indian seas would still 
be covered with African traders, 
they laboured with unwearied dili- 
gence to procure the concurrence 
of other States in the condemna- 
tion of that traffic. Not content, 
however, with these precautions, 
they now propose to take a further 
security against the same dreadful 
evil. The plan which, in its pre- 
sent Report, the African Institu- 
tion has submitted to the public, is 
only, as is well known to those 
Who have attended to these discus- 
sions, one of that series of mea- 
sures which has long been con- 
templated for the same general 
purpose — the entire suppression of 
the trade in African Negroes. 

But is not this danger imagi- 
nary 1 Is it possible to shew either 
that an illicit importation of slaves 
actually exists at present, or will 
probably exist hereafter? In an- 
swering this inquiry, the natural 
course seems to be, first, to con- 
sider what is probably true, and 
then to ascertain what is positively 
attested. A very little direct evi- 
dence, in support of any assertion 
which is in itself easily credible, 
will be sufficient to induce the- 
most perfect conviction of it* 
truth. On the contrary, testimony 
the most distinct, consistent, and 
circumstantial will seldom enforce 
belief when advanced in support 
of any very improbable narrative. 
On which side, then, does the pre- 
sumption of truth lie in the present 
case 1 Is it or is it not reasonable 
to believe, that since the Abolition 
of the Slave Trade any considera- 
ble number of African Negroes 
have been imported into our West- 
Indian islands 1 

From that period, nine years 
have elapsed, and in the interval 
there has scarcely been a State in 
Europe whose flag would not have 



Review of " Reasons for eseablisking a Registry of Slaves' 



fforded a legal protection to a 
slave cargo. If any person, there- 
fore, wished to evade the law, his 
intentions would not have been 
defeated from the want of fit and 
ready instruments. A ship under 
the colours of Spain, with a crew 
and supercargo of the same nation, 
might on any day, since the year 
1807, have been fitted out on Bri- 
tish account at Cadiz, for a voyage 
to the African Coast and the West 
Indies, with scarcely the possibility 
of detection. On her arrival in 
Africa, no hindrance would arise 
to obstruct the operations of slav- 
ing. The cessation of the direct 
British trade would give to such 
an adventurer a sort of monopoly 
in the African market, and his pur- 
chases would therefore be made 
with unusual economy and dispatch. 
In the subsequent voyage of the 
same ship to Cuba, or Porto Rico 
(lawful ports of deslination), she 
would still encounter no impedi- 
ment. The course of her voyage 
would bring her within hail of the 
shores of our colonies, at many 
points accessible by boats, remote 
from the habitations of public func- 
tionaries, and frequented only by 
the planter and his gang. Here 
then is a market, in which, with 
little risk, a slave trader may sell 
his human cargo. Now, is it at all 
improbable that he will seek a mar- 
ket so apparently inviting? Does 
it require much evidence to prove 
that a merchant will eagerly traffic 
in a commodity which, with a very 
slight danger of loss, he can buy in 
one country where its price has 
fallen, and sell in another where its 
value has largely increased ? 

In such a transaction, the Spanish 
trader, and the purchaser in the 
West Indies, if not also the British 
merchant, must concur. The two 
last of these would violate the re- 
cent and solemn laws of their coun- 
try, would expose themselves to the 
risk of heavy penalties, and commit 
an act which all men would now 
concur to reprobate as barbarous 
and unchristian. Is not, then, the 



apprehension of these consequence 
sufficient to deter the most daring 
from the commission of the offence? 
That the terror of punishment and 
infamy will often restrain those who 
know no other fear, is unquestion- 
ably true. If it were not so, hu- 
man legislation would be an idle 
mockery. Yet the efficacy of penal 
laws, upon the conduct of those 
who acknowledge no higher and 
more generous obligation, is by no 
means certain. Now, with respect 
to the crime of slave trading, one 
thing is quite clear, that not only 
the great mass of society in the 
West Indies, but a large number 
of persons in this country, consi- 
der it as no crime at all. Nine 
years have not elapsed since they 
proclaimed this opinion loudly and 
earnestly. In the Parliament of 
Great Britain this doctrine was 
supported by advocates of high 
rank and great public considera- 
tion. In the Colonial Assemblies 
not a solitary voice was raised to op- 
pose it. In addresses, in speeches, 
in votes and resolutions, the Slave 
Trade was there justified, nay, ap- 
plauded, as an excellent scheme for 
mitigating the horrors of African 
bondage; The same things are not 
said now, it is true. No man who 
should adopt, and promulgate as his 
own, the opinions of Ihe late Coun- 
cil and Assembly of Jamaica on this 
subject, would find admittance into 
decent society. But why suppose 
this silence the result of conviction? 
For what reason are those, who, 
under the constraining power of an 
Act of Parliament, and the no-less- 
constraining force of public opi- 
nion, depart from the profession of 
faith of the West-Indian legislatures, 
entitled to unreserved credit ? Has 
any argument been advanced since 
the yearl806, which had not been re- 
iterated befote ? Have any new facts 
been discovered, or has any new light 
broken in on them, since that time? 
If we give these men credit for the 
sincerity of their past professions, 
what motive, except the dread of 
punishment can now prevent their 



4 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves. 1 * 



continuance of the practice they so 
lately defended and extolled 1 How 
far, then, is this fear likely to ope- 
rate 1 Just so far as the law can be 
enforced with vigilance and rigour. 
Like any other felon, the slave 
trader will calculate the means of 
detection and his chance of escape, 
and will act accordingly. Now, in 
the transaction we have supposed, 
there may be two parties to the 
offence ; the British owner, and the 
West-Indian importer. 

The first of these persons must 
be a moderate proficient indeed in 
the base arts of simulating papers, 
if he suffers a fragment to appear in 
the ship's documents to betray his 
interest in the cargo. To the mas- 
ter and mariners of the vessel it 
would perhaps be unnecessary to 
divulge so important a secret : but 
even if it were not, the commerce 
of our country was, alas ! so long 
degraded by a system of audacious 
perjury, that they who can stoop 
to such practices will now never 
want inventions to conceal, and 
fit instruments to perpetrate, the 
most extensive schemes of illegal 
profit. 

In the West Indies the chance of 
detection or of punishment is still 
more remote. So long as the tes- 
timony of Slaves is rejected (under 
what pretext of law we know not) 
in the colonial courts, felonies and 
crimes of every order may be com- 
mitted by White Men, in their pre- 
sence, with impunity. So long as 
the presumption of slavery attaches 
to every Negro who does not carry 
with him the evidences of his free- 
dom, the wretched African captive 
himself will labour under all the 
fatal consequences of that presump- 
tion. Even could he find an oppor- 
tunity in which to state his wrongs, 
a magistrate to hear, or language 
to express them ; yet, as a slave, he 
would be unable to maintain an 
action for the recovery of his free- 
dom, or to give evidence in any 
criminal prosecution which might 
be instituted against the person by 
whom he had been purchased. 



Consider also by whom the sup- 
posed offender, if discovered and 
accused, is to be tried. By judges 
and a jury of his brother-colonists — ■ 
men who, as usually happens in 
those small communities, are con- 
nected with himself by family ties 
or by local interests ; men, also, 
who have so lately united to defend 
in public the very practice which 
constitutes the offence of the sup- 
posed culprit, and who may too 
often be subject to the suspicion of 
similar delinquency. In this situa- 
tion, is the chance of detection, of 
accusation, or of conviction, very 
formidable? Is it sufficiently so to 
restrain men who, by their own re- 
peated avowal, acknowledge on this 
subject no restraint of conscience! 
So far, therefore, it does not ap- 
pear that an illegal importation of 
slaves into the West-Indian islands 
is an event highly improbable in 
itself. The same conclusion will 
not less clearly follow from a short 
review of the interior condition of 
those settlements. 

There is no state of society which 
forms so perfect an anomaly among 
civilized nations, as that which ex- 
ists in the West Indies. The rela- 
tion of master and slave, as it ob- 
tains there, was never known in 
modern Europe, nor in any part of 
the continent of Asia: the forms 
and principles of their internal 
government resemble nothing with 
which history has made us ac- 
quainted. The character of the 
White population, the political and 
moral condition of the free People 
of Colour, the mode of husbandry, 
the nature of the interest which the 
occupier holds in the soil, and the 
corpus of written and unwritten law 
promulgated or recognised by their 
legislatures, are all utterly unpre- 
cedented. Whether they have done 
wisely in thus departing from the 
beaten paths of law and policy, or 
whether the habits of thought and 
action which they have struck out 
for themselves are more or less pru-> 
dent and generous than those of their 
European ancestry and kindred, few 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves. 



amongst us know or care to inquire. 
The manners, the polity, the arts 
of New Zealand, of Cairo, of Peters- 
burgh, of Philadelphia, who cannot 
describe? But where is the man 
who could give, or the audience 
who would listen to, any account of 
the state of Barbadoes, Surinam, or 
St. Vincent? Nothing certainly 
can be more natural than this. 
There is no one, profound or frivo- 
lous,who is not eager to extend his 
knowledge of the character of his 
fellow-men. In a faithful delinea- 
tion of the manners of a Parisian, 
or a Hottentot, a few will find mat- 
ter for deep reflection, and every 
one a source of amusement and in- 
terest. There is one link only in 
the chain which excites no atten- 
tion : man in a state of absolute 
domestic slavery is, to those who 
devote their days to amusement or 
to speculation, quite uninteresting. 
With nothing to hope, and there- 
fore with little to fear ; governed 
neither by interest, by passion, by 
ambition, nor by affection ; exhibit- 
ing neither the lawless daring of 
savage life, nor the amenity and 
grace of polished society ; the 
slave is an object of curiosity with 
two classes of persons only — those 
who seek to mitigate his misfor- 
tunes, and such as are led by their 
avocations to study the market- 
prices of their fellow-creatures. 

A state of ignorance thus natural 
would be a matter of little concern, 
if we considered only the interests 
of science. But when it is remem- 
bered how fatally this general 
darkness protects the abuses neces- 
sarily inherent in any system of 
domestic slavery, no humane man 
will think it a slight evil. It is the 
glory of the age, and especially of 
the country, in which we live, that 
no considerable innovation can take 
place, without the concurrence of 
the great body of the people. But 
this benefit is not enjoyed without 
some important compensations. 
Too often fundamental principles 
are to be taught, when the period 
for applying tluem to practice has 



arrived; and reasoning the most 
cogent fails to convince, because 
men have few grounds in common, 
from which to deduce their argu- 
ments. In all discussions which 
relate to the condition of our slave 
colonies, this inconvenience is very 
sensibly felt. Men reason respect- 
ing them upon analogies which 
have no foundation in truth, and 
therefore give an easy credit to as- 
sertions the most fallacious. A 
greater service could not be ren- 
dered to humanity, than to exhibit 
to the world a minute picture of 
the slate of the Negro population 
of the West-Indian islands, of their 
legal disabilities and actual condi- 
tion. But there is perhaps only 
one man in this country, who, from 
an union of professional studies and 
personal experience, is in possession 
of the materials from which such a 
delineatkm.could be made. 

It is no^considerable advance in 
any controversy, when the dispu- 
tants on either side have arrived 
at any one common conclusion of 
fact. In the abolition-question, 
there was one such ground of argu- 
ment which, as far as we remember, 
was conceded on all sides : no 
one doubted that the stock of 
slaves was not regularly maintain- 
ed by natural increase. Very dif- 
ferent solutions of the cause of this 
deviation from the ordinary course 
of nature were advanced, and prac- 
tical inferences the most opposite 
were deduced from it. The fact 
itself, however, was loudly pro- 
claimed by the West-Indian party. 
They asserted, that,from inevitable 
causes, a very great inequality 
existed, amongst their Negroes, be- 
tween the number of the sexes ; 
that the females were compara- 
tively few, and the births conse- 
quently very rare in proportion to 
the extent of the adult population ; 
and they inferred the necessity of 
a continued importation to sup- 
ply the waste of the existing stock. 
Mr. Wilberforce and his followers, 
on the other hand, advanced a dif- 
ferent solution of the same phaeno- 



6 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 

They contended, that the cumber himself with the youn 

the aged, or the decrepid. 



menon 

numerical inequality of the sexes 
was greatly exaggerated ; that the 
Negro race, like all other inhabi- 
tants of tropical climates, was na- 
turally proline to a great degree ; 
that their decrease in the West 
Indies was to be ascribed to the 
disuse of marriage, to the conse- 
quent profligacy of manners, to 
inattention to the health of preg- 
nant women, to insufficient food, 
and to extreme and murderous 
agricultural labour. They insisted 
that all these abuses afforded an 
adequate explanation of the con- 
tinual diminution in the numbers 
of slaves ; that the facility with 
which a planter could supply by 
importation the waste of his gang 
exposed him to a continual temp- 
tation to commit those enormities 
by which their numbers were re- 
duced ; and that as long as buying 
continued to be a cheaper means of 
recruiting the stock than breeding, 
so long the slaves would be pre- 
maturely worn down to the grave. 

The conclusion they drew from 
these premises was, that measures 
should be adopted by Parliament 
for the effectual prevention of the 
external supply ; and, as the first 
and chief of these measures, that 
the Slave Trade should be declared 
illegal. Nothing, we think, can 
be more just than this reasoning ; 
yet, without some attention, the 
accuracy of it will not be fully 
perceived. In a state of domestic 
servitude, men have never been 
known to maintain their numbers, 
so long as their loss could be 
supplied by foreign importation. 
Every one who .cultivates land by 
the manual labour of others must 
maintain on his estate such a num- 
ber of able-bodied labourers as 
may be sufficient for the various 
purposes of agriculture. If he 
hires freemen, he will engage with 
such only as are strong and active. 
If he purchases slaves, he will, for 
the same reason, select men in full 
health and in the prime of life. In 
neither case will he wish to eu- 



The 

master of slaves is not, however, 
at liberty wholly to decline these 
burdens. As he assumes to him- 
self all the rights, so he incurs 
many of the natural obligations, 
of his bondman, and among them 
the duty of supporting his infirm 
parent or helpless offspring. His 
obvious policy, therefore, is to 
avoid these burdens as far as 
possible : in other words, it is his 
interest that the females on his 
estate should not bear children, 
and that the active labourers should 
not, by the progress of years, be- 
come helpless supernumeraries. If 
his humanity forbids him to pre- 
vent the propagation and longevity 
of his slaves, his interest forbids 
him to promote it. He may per- 
haps abstain from murderous se- 
verities, but he will hardly exert 
any tender or watchful care to 
create or keep alive incumbrances 
on his own property. 

" The comparison is shocking 
between the management of hu- 
man creatures and that of cattle ; 
but being extremely just, when ap- 
plied to the present subject, it may 
be proper to trace the consequences 
of it. At the capital, near all great 
cities, in all populous, rich, indus- 
trious provinces, few cattle are 
bred. Provisions, lodgings, atten- 
dance, labour, are there dear ; and 
men find their account better in 
buying the cattle, after they come 
to a certain age, from the remoter 
and cheaper countries. These are 
consequently the only breeding 
countries for cattle ; and, by a 
parity of reason, for men too, when 
the latter are put on the same foot- 
ing with the former. To rear a 
child in London, till he could be 
serviceable, would cost much 
dearer than to buy ne of the 
same age from Scotland or Ireland, 
where he had been bred in a cot- 
tage, covered with rags, and fed on 
oatmeal and potatoes. Those who 
had slaves, therefore, in all the 
richer and more populous coun- 



Review of ", Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves. 



tries, would discourage the preg- 
nancy of the females, and either 
prevent or destroy the birth. The 
human species would perish in those 
places where it ought to increase 
the fastest ; and a perpetual recruit 
be wanted from the poorer and de- 
sert provinces. Such a continued 
drain would tend mightily to de- 
populate the state, and render great 
cities ten times more destructive 
than with us ; where every man is 
master of himself, and provides for 
his children from the powerful in- 
stinct of nature, not the calculations 
of sordid interest. If London, at 
present, without much increasing, 
needs a yearly recruit from the 
country of 5000 people, as is usual- 
ly computed, what must it require, 
if the greater part of the tradesmen 
and common people were slaves, 
and were hindered from breeding 
by their avaricious masters V — ' 
Hume's Essays, vol. I. pp. 405, 406. 

Such is the general history of po- 
pulation, in a country where manual 
labour is usually performed by 
slaves. This reasoning applies with 
peculiar force to the state of the 
West-Indian colonies. 

Of all the sources of private re- 
venue in this country, the profits of 
agriculture are the least precarious. 
No man can calculate with so much 
reason, on a regular and permanent 
income, as the proprietor of land. 
In the West Indies, the case is very 
different: the culture of the soil is 
there a commercial speculation 
more hazardous, probably, than 
any of the other countless forms 
of adventure which the trading 
spirit of this great mercantile em- 
pire has devised. A sugar planta- 
tion is an establishment of great 
magnitude, and of a very costly na- 
ture : of this the Negroes form the 
most valuable part. But it is also 
provided with cattle, implements of 
husbandry, mills, and other build- 
ings, which, from the destructive 
effects of the climate, must fre- 1 
quently be renewed or repaired at 
a heavy expense. For this pur- 
pose, mechanics of every descrip- 



tion are maintained on the estate : 
to these are to be added medical 
attendants, drivers, white overseers 
or book-keepers, and a manager. 
The cultivator has not to pay the 
wages of labour, but he is compel- 
led to import from foreign markets 
provision and clothing for his 
slaves ; and he must erect and 
maintain huts for their residence. 
For every species of manufacture, 
down to the meanest utensil of com- 
mon life, he is dependent on other 
countries, and he therefore con- 
sumes them at a price enhanced by 
the freight, and other incidental ex- 
penses of carriage and importation. 
The soil which he cultivates is emi- 
nently capricious. It demands un- 
remitting vigilance, and great ex- 
perience and skill. But after all 
that art can accomplish, many suc- 
cessive seasons often pass away 
without producing a crop sufficient 
to replace the expenses of cultiva- 
tion. The population of the West- 
Indian islands themselves, consume 
only a very inconsiderable propor- 
tion of their own staple commodity. 
The real market is in Great Britain; 
and the planter, therefore, in addi- 
tion to his other burdens, has to 
pay the freight, and charges of ship- 
ping his sugars, to this country. 
When arrived at their place of des- 
tination, his produce has still to'in- 
cur the risks of a market incessant- 
ly fluctuating, and must frequently 
be warehoused for a long period of 
time, in the prospect of a future 
advantageous sale. 

For ail these reasons no man can 
engage in the business of planting, 
who has not at command a large 
ready-money capital. Without such 
a resource, he could neither stock 
his estate, manufacture his sugars, 
nor maintain himself during the 
long period which must often elapse 
before he receives any returns from 
Europe. But as men of large ca- 
pital seldom care to quit the com- 
forts of residence in, England, to 
pursue a toilsome occupation under 
a pestilential climate, they who en- 
gage their fortunes in these spo^- 



8 Revieiff of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves!' 

culations very rarely superintend 
tbem in person. The proprietors 
of an immense majority of the West- 
Indian plantations cultivate them 
on funds borrowed from the mer- 
chants of Bristol, Glasgow, Liver- 
pool, or London. These loans are 
secured by mortgages of their lands 
and Negroes ; and as an additional 
consideration for such advances, 
the borrower engages to consign 
the produce of his estates to the 
person by whose capital they are 
maintained. If the planter is unfor- 
tunate, or his lands unproductive, 
the merchant is often forced gradu- 
ally to extend his supplies till they 
have equalled or exceeded the whole 
value of the pledge. A contest 
then commences for the possession 
of the estate, and this dispute not 
seldom issues in the .bankruptcy 
of both of the contending parties. 
The plantation and slaves are then 
sold under a judicial process to 
some new adventurer, who, in his 
turn, runs the same course of bor- 
rowing, insolvency, and ruin. This 
is the ordinary history of these 
transactions. There are, however, 
some exceptions: occasionally, and 
under very favourable circum- 
stances, a West-Indian plantation 
repays its expenses with the most 
usurious interest ; and a few abun- 
dant crops have sometimes created 
fortunes which princes might envy. 
These are the prizes in the lottery. 
Every man is playing a game full of 
interest and hazard. Ruin and per- 
petual banishment from his native 
country on the one hand, and 
princely magnificence on the other, 
are the alternatives before him. In 
the smaller islands at least, the 
planter considers himself as in a 
state of voluntary exile, for which he 
is to be hereafter indemnified by a life 
of affluence and splendour in Eng- 
land. Sober industry, and the patient 
accumulation of regular profits, form 
no part of his system of conduct. 
He is a debtor involved in embar- 
rassments, and an adventurer im- 
mersed in speculations. He lives 
in an e,n$uess vicissitude of hopes 



and fears, of financial expedients* 
and legal chicanery. 

There is no code of morale 
however lax, which does not re- 
probate the character of a game- 
ster. All men admit, that his ha- 
bits tend to harden and brutalize 
the heart. Now, if the practice 
of braving desperate risks of for- 
tune is alone sufficient to create 
these propensities, need it be 
doubted that a more determined 
ferocity of mind will be cherished 
by him whose hazardous pursuit of 
wealth can succeed only by exacting 
incessant labour from his fellow- 
men. He who, under the pressure 
of pecuniary difficulties, rigidly 
respects the rights of others, has 
no lesson of self-denial more ar- 
duous to learn. But to expect 
that such forbearance should be 
shewn to those who are wholly at 
our mercy, and by the oppression 
of whom we have a prospect of 
escape from our difficulties, is 
much more than ordinary experi- 
ence of human virtue will justify* 
Now the West-Indian (we speak 
generally ; there aredoubtless many 
exceptions, especially in the larger 
islands), is at once a gamester 
and insolvent. If his gains can be 
secured, or his distresses avoided, 
by the sufferings of his slaves, he 
acts only as other men in similar 
situations act, by inflicting those 
sufferings upon them. It is no un- 
charitable imputation to suspect 
that if his interests are opposed to 
theirs, he will pursue his own. 
There is no reason why very strong 
temptation should not have the same 
power over him as over other men. 

From this view of the course of 
West-Indian agriculture, the fol- 
lowing inferences appear to fol- 
low : first, that they who engage 
in it are seldom in circumstances 
sufficiently prosperous to afford 
their slaves the maintenance neces- 
sary for their health and comfor- 
table support; secondly, that the 
planter's scheme of life frequently 
requires a great sacrifice of future 
benefit, iu the hope of present 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 9 
thirdly, that this sacrifice supply of slaves from Africa, than 



gams 

must frequently be made at the ex- 
pense of the strength and lives of 
the Negroes on his estate ; and 
lastly, that in the view of such ad- 
venturers, the importation of the 
necessary number of full-grown 
field-labourers will obviously be 
preferable to the slow and less 
certain supply arising from their 
natural increase. The general con- 
clusion is, that the great body of 
West-Indian planters are exposed 
to a constant temptation to dis- 
courage the natural propagation of 
their slaves, by insufficient food and 
excessive labour, and to supply the 
waste by importations from Africa. 

We recur then to our former 
general position, the probability of 
the growth of an illegal Slave Trade. 
The case is shortly this. In the 
colonies, and in this country, there 
is a large body of persons, plan- 
ters, merchants, ship-owners, and 
mariners, who conceive they have 
a deep and permanent interest in 
the continuance of this traffic ; 
who by their own avowal are with- 
held by no scruples of conscience 
from embarking in it; who can be 
restrained from such speculations 
by nothing but the fear of detection ; 
and who, by artifices that are ob- 
vious and easy of execution, may 
evade that danger. 

The apprehension of an exten- 
sive violation of the existing law, 
under such circumstances, is surely 
no idle or um-easonable fear. 

Presumptive evidence, however, 
it may be argued, is often an unsafe 
guide. We proceed, therefore, to 
consider the nature and amount of 
the positive testimony which is of- 
fered in proof of the existence of 
an illegal Slave Trade. But while 
we do this, we are far from admit- 
ting that the strength of our cause 
depends on the amount of the evi- 
dence by which an actual importa- 
tion of slaves into the colonies may 
be substantiated. The measure 
of a Registry Bill is imperiously 
called for, no less by the necessity 
of cutting off all hope of a future 



by that of preventing present vio- 
lations of the abolition laws. 

The clearest proof of the fact of 
illicit importation would, doubtless, 
be the judicial conviction of the 
smugglers. A lower, though still a 
very convincing, evidence would 
be the open, though extra-judicial 
testimony of the White residents in 
the West-Indian islands, in legis- 
lative or other public acts. A similar 
declaration by theNegro population, 
or by the imported captives them- 
selves, would also supply a proof of 
great weight. — Now we admit that 
we can produce no such evidence. 

The want of judicial convictions 
and of public statements of the 
practice, either by the White, or 
the Coloured, population of the 
islands, we conceive, however, to 
be perfectly consistent with the 
open, notorious, and frequent vio- 
lation of the Abolition Laws. To 
illustrate this, let it be supposed 
that a cargo of African Negroes 
were put on shore at the island of 
Nevis. In that colony, the num- 
ber of slaves is stated* to be 9326 ; 
the number of White inhabitants, 
men, women, and children, only 
501. Only one person in nineteen, 
therefore, even if we assume the 
whole 500 to be adults, is competent 
to give evidence in a court of justice. 
The slave-trader is consequently 
exempt from all risk of convic- 
tion from the evidence of the great 
mass of the population of the co- 
lony. Besides this, Nevis containsf 
16,720 square acres of land; and 
in this extent of country, the smug- 
gler must be inexpert indeed, if he 
does not carry on his trade out of 
sight of the privileged five hun- 
dred. Suppose, however, the fact 
to be otherwise, and that he should 
land his cargo in the very harbour 
of Charlestown, the capital of the 
settlement, he would find the mass 
even of the White population dispos- 
ed to favour his attempt, rather than 

* See House of Commons papers, 
printed 12th immmry, 1815, p.4#G, 
t Ibid. ojts/ts /&4 



B 



fy 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 



10 

to prevent and punish it. — But some 
reliance, it will be said, may be 
placed on the public functionaries 
of the island. Who then is the 
collector of the customs, by whom 
the offender is to be prosecuted ? 
The Rev. Lockhart Gordon, well 
known in this country as the chief 
actor in the tragical story of the 
unfortunate Mrs. Leigh. Before 
whatjudges would the offender be 
tried 1 Before the assessors of the 
same Rev. gentleman, who himself 
graces the bench of the supreme 
•civil and criminal courts of that 
island. Such is the judicial esta- 
blishment of Nevis : and since the 
acquittal of Mr. Huggins, the tem- 
per of the juries of that settlement 
has not been wholly unknown in 
England. That convictions of slave 
traders in due course of law 
should not have taken place there, 
may therefore be readily accounted 
for) without supposing a perfect 
absence of guilt. Their impunity, 
indeed, assured as we are that 
numerous importations have ac- 
tually taken place, is one strong 
ground of passing the present bill. 
; — The Council and Assembly would, 
however, it may be thought, enter 
a solemn and public protest against 
so shameless an inactivity in the 
officers of public justice. If there 
are any who entertain such an 
opinion, they probably have not 
been informed that, within a few 
years, an act was passed by this 
legislature imposing a tax of 500/. 
currency on the emancipation of a 
slave ; that since the date of the 
acquittal of Huggins, several of the 
^ury who pronounced that verdict, 
have been elected into the colonial 
assembly, so as to form an actual 
majority of its members ; and that 
the same well-known character 
possesses, in the election of that 
body, an authority precisely ana- 
logous to that exercised by the 
dukes of Norfolk in the nomination 
of burgesses for the independent 
borough of Arundel. Such is the 
aristocracy of t)j£ island. The 
lower ranks are composed of such 



persons as overseers, huckstersi 
clerks, retailers of spirits, &c. who 
in Nevis, as in other places, are 
dependent on their superiors, adopt 
their feelings, and labour to con- 
ciliate their kindness. It is not 
then, we think, reasonable to ex- 
pect from such a society any loud 
or earnest denunciation of an 
illegal Slave Trade, or even to 
hope that the majority of those 
who compose it should not actively 
co-operate in the crime. 

That the party aggrieved, or 
those of his own complexion, should 
not make their complaints heard 
by the world, is still less strange. 
To whom are such representations 
to be addressed ? In what manner 
are these poor beings, confined to 
their owners' estates, ignorant of 
European languages, trembling un- 
der the cart-whip, and watched with 
sleepless jealousy, to unite in com- 
plaints against their oppressors'? 
And even if they could, it would not 
avail. The testimony of a slave, or 
even of an alleged slave, would not 
be heard in any West-Indian court. 
We quote Nevis merely as an 
example. Its constitution and its 
policy, its laws and society, are not 
to be distinguished, but by slight and 
immaterial shades, from those of the 
neighbouring islands. The absence, 
in such communities, of convictions 
and public avowals of an illegal 
Slave Trade, allowing it to esist, may 
therefore be satisfactorily explained. 
The Report before us furnishes 
an illustration of this remark, which 
is too apposite to be omitted. 

" About thirty years ago, a man was 
bold enough to inform, in one of the 
most important and most polished of the 
Leeward Islands, in a case of prohibited 
importation. He was immediately seiz- 
ed, tried publicly by a self-constituted 
court, convicted of the foul offence of 
being an informer, and sentenced to 
tarring and feathering, and perpetual 
banishment. Accordingly, in contempt 
of his privileges as a White Man, he was 
stripped to the skin, covered with tar 
and feathers, and carried, with a drum 
beating the Rogue's March, at mid-day, 
through all the streets of the town; no ma- 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 11 

eaten some biscuit Which he found 
in his master's house. The jury, ne- 
vertheless, acquitted the prisoner; 
and Dr. Hamilton, the prosecutor, 
was compelled, by threats of tar- 
ring and feathering, and even of 
assassination, precipitately to quit 
the island in which he had become 
an established resident*. 

Secondly, In a newspaper pub- 
lished in the island of St. Croix, 
several years ago, an advertisement 
will be found with the signature of 
Mr. Du Bois, the collector of cus- 
toms in that island, (then under the 
British government), stating as a 
notorious fact, that a large number 
of slaves had been illegally import- 
ed, and offering rewards for the 
discovery of the offenders. 

The African Institution, in their 
present Report, refer to documents 
in their own possession, as contain- 
ing evidence of various recent ille- 
gal importations. We have thought 
it our duty carefully to inspect 
those papers, with the perusal of 
which we have been favoured. It is 
unfortunate that, without a violation 
of good faith towards the writers, 
their authority cannot at present be 
publicly quoted. They are men, 
however, whose names would add 
great weight to their testimony ; 
who have enjoyed, in the West 
Indies, singular opportunities of 
observation; and who are them- 
selves well known in the societies 
in which they reside as men of rare 
sagacity, uprightness, and learning. 
In these importations, Nevis, the 
island we have already cited as our 
example, has had her full share. 

This documentary evidence, we 
trust, will, ere long, be communi- 
cated to the world. In the mean 
time, we pledge our own veracity 
to our readers, in full corrobora- 
tion of the statement made on 
this subject in the Report. The 
letters which we have inspected 
contain proofs the most ample, 
precise, and convincing, that within 

* The papers containing the statement 
of this case are in the possession of the 
African Institution. 



gistrateor peace-officer daring or choos- 
ing to interfere. He was next put on board 
an American ship then passing the har- 
bour, and carried off as a convict to the 
distant island of Jamaica, from whence 
he could not return to his home without 
going first to North America. He had 
the hardihood, nevertheless, in a few 
months to return ; called on the govern- 
ment for redress ; and the Attorney- 
general was ordered to prosecute the 
judge of the mock tribunal, and the 
immediate executioners of the sentence. 
He did so,withmuch zeal, for the honour 
of the government; but to no effect. Not 
a witness but the prosecutor himself 
could be found to depose to facts which 
one half of the free population of the 
island had seen ; and the jury, some of 
whom could probably have confirmed 
him as eye-witnesses, chose to disbelieve 
him, and found a verdict of not guilty. 
The man who had been kept in gaol for 
his security during the prosecution, was 
glad at the end of it to become a volun- 
tary exile for life. After such an exam- 
ple, it will hardly be thought that prose- 
cutors are easily found in a West-Indian 
island, upon lawg so unpopular there, 
as the acts for the Abolition of the Slave 
Trade." p. 24. 

In this unavoidable absence of 
the highest kind of evidence of the 
fact of an illegal Slave Trade, we 
revert to that inferior kind of testi- 
mony of which we are in possession. 
The first case we shall state, is 
that of Charles, a Negro-boy, who, 
in the year 1814, was smuggled 
into the island of St. Christophers. 
By the humane exertions of Dr. 
Hamilton, a physician, who had 
recently come to reside in that 
island, the boy was discovered and 
liberated, after a servitude of several 
months. The purchaser of the lad 
was then indicted for felony, before 
the Court of King's Bench and 
Common Pleas of the colony, un- 
der Mr. Brougham's Act. The 
illegal importation was distinctly 
established, but it was justified on 
the plea that the importer had been 
actuated solely by a humane solici- 
tude for the boys hapjriness. It 
■was proved, however, that this phi- 
lanthropist had punished the ob- 
ject of his tender mercy with fifty 
lushes of the cart-whip, for having 



1*2 Revieiv of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves. 
the last four years, and especially 
in the year 1814, the practice of 
smuggling Negroes has been car- 
ried on to a considerable extent in 
several islands. That there have been 
no convictions for such offences, 
under Mr. Brougham's Act, is 
true. This phenomenon, however, 
is not very strange, in Nevis for ex- 
ample, where Mr. Huggins rules the 
Assembly, and Mr. Lockhart Gor- 
don presides on the Bench ; nor in 
St. Christophers, where the pur- 
chaser of the Negro Charles was 
acquitted; nor in Antigua, where, 
at the bidding of his master, a slave 
is, in the face of day, subjected to 
the tortures of the chain gang, and 
that for years even without the 
form of a judicial inquiry; and 
where a regulation has been lately 
adopted by the corporation of the 
capital of the island, forbidding 
the burial of free persons of Colour 
in consecrated ground, and setting 
apart a place of interment for 
felons and free Negroes. 

Not only the temper of White 
judges and juries, however, but 
the particular mode of this illegal 
traffic protects those who engage in 
it from legal punishment. This 
system is accurately detailed in 
the Report before us. The direct 
African trader unships his victims 
in some foreign colony, frequently 
in the Swedish island of St. Bar- 
tholomew. From this depot, as 
occasion offers, they are removed 
by night in droghers, or small coast- 
ing vessels, to the neighbouring 
British colonies. Here they are 
put on shore in districts the most 
remote from the two or three towns 
which these settlements contain, 
and immediately placed in the 
gang of some secluded plantation. 
If landed in other places, they are 
disguised as sailors or passengers, 
and are soon absorbed into the 
mass of the Black population*. 
There is in Nevis a man who is well 

* These precautions are adopted more 
with a view to elude the vigilance of 
our cruizers, than from any danger of 
interruption, from the colonists. 



known to act as a general consig- 
nee to such adventurers, and who is 
growing rich by the commissions he 
receives on these felonious tran- 
sactions. 

These however, it may be said, 
are insulated cases. The slaves 
introduced may be few in number, 
and bear an imperceptible propor- 
tion to the existing stock. Any 
fact shewing a frequent and copious 
introduction of African Negroes 
would much more conclusively 
prove the necessity of further 
prohibitory regulations. — Fortu- 
nately for the argument, the Re- 
port before us furnishes an answer 
to this objection also. 

" There is a colony in which the 
copious actual introduction of slaves, 
by contraband means, is not only re- 
ported on good authority, but may be 
demonstrated from public facts, offici- 
ally attested, more conclusively than by 
many convictions. 

" In Trinidad, by the last official re- 
turns prior to the Abolition of the Slave 
Trade, the number of slaves did not 
exceed 20,000, being but a small in- 
crease from 1805, when their numbers 
are stated by Sir Wm. Young, from re- 
turns of that date, to have been 19,709. 
The intermediate loss by an excess of 
deaths beyond births must have nearly 
equalled the whole numbers imported, 
though there can be no doubt that these 
in 1806 and 1S07, had been unusually 
large. Nevertheless, from the 1st of 
Jan. 1808, when legal importation from 
Africa ceased, the slave-population 
there appears to have rapidly increas- 
ed. The returns of 1810, being 20,729, 
and for 1811, 21,288. 

" In the following year preparations 
were made by his Majesty's Govern- 
ment for registering, in public books of 
record, the names and descriptions of 
all the slaves in the island, for the 
important purposes of precluding the 
illicit increase of their numbers. An 
Order of the King in Council for esta- 
blishing such a registry was passed on 
the 26th of March 1812, and in the year 
1813 blank books for containing the re- 
gistry were prepared in this country, 
and transmitted to the island; it having 
been found that books proper for the 
purpose could not be procured on the 
spot. From inattention to the returns 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 13 

cipations which fill the bosom of 
the latter with anxiety will produce 
a very different effect on the mind 
of the former. If excessive labours 
should wear clown his gang, or if 
insufficient food more slowly un- 
dermine their strength, there is a 
resource open to him by which he 
may hereafter recruit his stock. If 
to secure the fruits of a season un- 
usually abundant, extreme and per- 
nicious exertion, night work, and 
Sabbath-day labours become ne- 
cessary, the planter perceives that 
he can pursue his hazardous voca- 
tion without the risk of a loss 
quite irreparable. When an Ame- 
rican war raises the price of food, 
or a bad sugar-market diminishes 
his ability to purchase it, the con- 
sequent waste of life is not an 
evil which admits of no remedy. 
Africa, he trusts, will in future, as 
in times past, supply the consump- 
tion of the West-Indies; and he, 
therefore, in pursuance of his an- 
cient system, prefers the importa- 
tion of active men from that de- 
voted continent, to the expense of 
rearing at home helpless and un- 
profitable infants. 

A settled conviction, in the mind 
of the master, that no supply of la- 
bourers can possibly be procured, 
is the foundation of all real ame- 
lioration in the condition of slaves, 
in whatever country slaves are em- 
ployed. 

Such are some of the many cala- 
mities which a contraband trade in 
African Negroes, or even the hope 
of such a supply, would inflict on 
the present stock of slaves in our 
colonies. But what language can 
describe the endless forms of 
wretchedness with which the mise- 
rable captives themselves would be 
visited 1 The trade which was for- 
merly carried on in the face of day 
afforded its victims some slight 
mitigation of the horrors of their 
condition. The dealer in slaves 
then frequented the society of other 
men without infamy, if not without 
reproach. He had still some repu- 



of tiie latter years, or from their not 
having then been received by Govern- 
ment, it was at that time computed that 
the numbers to be registered would not 
exceed 17,000 or 18,000, and the regis- 
ter books were therefore fitted to con- 
tain not more than 20,000 names and 
descriptions of slaves. Long after their 
arrival, and when the returns were for 
the most part made, the registrar, an in- 
telligent gentleman, long resident in the 
island, supposed that the numbers would 
not exceed that amount, and that his 
books would consequently contain 
them. 

" What was the result ? The books 
were found insufficient ; new delays 
were consequently incurred ; additional 
books were sent from England ; and by 
the month of December 1813, when the 
original registration was completed ; no 
less than twenty-five thousand seven 
hundred and seventeen slaves were 
found to be returned on oath, with their 
names and descriptions, as owned and 
resident in Trinidad, and were register- 
ed accordingly." p. 27. 

From all these premises we think 
that we are intitled to infer the 
reality of a large importation of 
Negroes into the West - Indian 
Islands since the Abolition of the 
Slave Trade. But in submitting to 
Parliament a measure for rendering 
such an evasion of the law imprac- 
ticable, we by no means think that 
it is necessary to establish that fact. 
Legislatures act, to prevent as well 
as to remedy evils, — to obviate an 
apparent danger, not less than to 
cure a present mischief. If, there- 
fore, we can at present shew that a 
contraband Slave Trade is likely to 
arise hereafter, we are entitled to 
demand of our lawgivers some 
adequate security against a mischief 
so formidable. It is a supine inac- 
tivity, and not a prudent hesitation, 
to omit, on such a subject, any rea- 
sonable precaution. Even the mere 
probability of a future violation of 
the Abolition Acts might be shewn 
to be an enormous present evil. 
Such a prospect is unveiled to the 
eyes of the West-Indian planter 
quite as distinctly as to those of an 
English legislator. But the anti- 



14 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 
tation to forfeit, and had not wholly the Seventh Annual Report of this 



ceased to respect himself. The 
vessels sent to Africa were fitted 
out by men of large capital, who 
had the means of providing what- 
ever was necessary to support the 
lives of their Negroes, and the bru- 
tality of the masters of ships, as 
well as the avarice of their owners, 
was in some degree restrained by 
parliamentary enactments. Yet still 
the history of a passage to the West 
Indies was a tale at which the 
heart of every man who heard it 
revolted. With what a dreadful 
addition, then, of calamity must not 
the same voyage be attended, when 
smuggling slave ships cross the At- 
lantic ! An African smuggling ves- 
sel, conducted by a band of needy 
ruffians, scorning alike the laws of 
God and the opinions of men, with 
neither property to maintain nor 
hearts to pity their victims, Would 
exhibit a spectacle over which de- 
mons might exult. Still, however, 
there is a far wider field, which 
an illicit Slave Trade would over- 
spread with horrors. The unnum- 
bered tribes which people the con- 
tinent of Africa would again become 
a prey to the miseries from which 
they have in a degree been rescued. 
Treachery in its most terrific 
shape, savage and unpitying wars, 
pillage, rapine,and slaughter — every 
malignant passion, and every form 
of wickedness, would again desolate 
that unhappy land. For such hor- 
rors who would not wish to see an 
adequate cure 1 Against such risks 
who would not desire to take a suf- 
ficient security 1 How far the re- 
medy which the African Institution 
has proposed to the consideration 
of the Legislature will, if adopted, 
attain these objects, we now pro- 
ceed to inquire. 

On the 20th of March 1812, an 
Order in Council was passed for 
the establishment, in the island of 
Trinidad, of a general Registry of 
Slaves. The details of this mea- 
sure, which are very voluminous, 
will he found in the Appendix to 



Society. Nothing beyond the ge- 
neral outline of it need be stated 
in this place. 

Within one year from the pro- 
mulgation of the order, every 
proprietor in the island was re- 
quired to make, on the same day, 
to a public office created for the 
purpose, a full return of the num- 
ber of his slaves; in which the 
names, ages, and stature of each 
were to be specified. These were 
denominated the original returns, 
and the record of them the original 
Registry. An exact compliance 
with these regulations would, it is 
evident, furnish a perfect enumera- 
tion and description of all the per- 
sons within the colony, who, at the 
time at which it might be made, 
were in a servile condition. Deaths 
and births, enfranchisements, and 
importations from other British 
settlements, would, however, conti- 
nually be changing the numbers of 
this class of society, and the origi- 
nal Registry would consequently be- 
come erroneous. Annual returns, 
therefore, were directed to be made 
by all the proprietors, specifying, 
upon oath, with similar minute- 
ness of description, every slave who 
had been added to their stock 
since the latest return ; and certi- 
fying in what manner every dimi- 
nution in their numbers had taken 
place. 

The Registry, when completed, 
was to form the sole evidence, in 
all judicial proceedings, of the ser- 
vile condition of persons resident in 
Trinidad, or of the right of pro- 
perty in a slave. On every ques- 
tion of slave or free, the produc- 
tion of an extract from the Regis- 
try, certified under the hands of 
the proper officer, was made to 
be essential to the proof of the 
master's title. The absence of 
such an entry was declared to be 
conclusive evidence of the freedom 
of the asserted slave. 

Provisions were introduced for 
remedying involuntary errors in the 



Review of" Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 15 



return; to protect the rights of in- 
fants, lunatics, and married women, 
and of persons claiming a future 
or reversionary interest in a slave. 
It was obviously equitable that they 
should not suffer by neglects in 
completing the Registry which they 
were unable to prevent. 

Exact duplicates were to be 
transmitted to the Colonial Office 
in England of all returns, whether 
original or annual. 

The Registrar himself was not 
allowed to possess any slave. 

No suit, instituted under that 
order by any person claiming his 
liberty against a pretended owner, 
was to be barred on the ground of 
the alleged servile condition of the 
plaintiff or prosecutor ; and the 
evidence of indifferent persons, 
being or alleged to be slaves, was 
to be admitted in all actions or 
prosecutions commenced under the 
Order in Council, subject, however, 
to all just exceptions to their 
credit. 

Such was the general substance 
of the Trinidad Order. By subse- 
quent orders of the king in coun- 
cil, the same system was extended 
to St. Lucie and to the Isle of 
France. The African Institution 
now proposes to establish, by an 
Act of Parliament, similar Registries 
in every dependency of the British 
Crown in which there exists any 
slave population. For this purpose 
a bill was brought into Parliament 
by Mr. Wilberforce at the close of 
the last session. 

How such a measure is adapted 
to correct the evils we have noticed 
is therefore the first subject for 
consideration. 

The efficacy of the law will depend, 
of course, upon the accuracy with 
which it may be carried into execu- 
tion. No regulation, however, we 
conceive, could have been more 
skilfully framed to avoid the danger 
of fraudulent or careless deficien- 
cies. In the first place, the Regis- 
trar himself, whose emoluments will 
be derived from fees payable on the 
returns, and which are proportion- 



ed to the number then found in 
them, has a motive to scrutiny and 
exact investigation on which con- 
siderable reliance may be placed. 
But further, as the law would give 
to every person omitted in the Re- 
gistry, a right of action for the re- 
covery of his freedom, and as the 
Registry would in that action fur- 
nish the plaintiff with conclusive 
evidence in favour of his demand, 
no reasonable doubt seems to exist 
of the general punctual observance 
of the order. 

Suppose, then, an illegal Slave- 
Trade to be carried on with an 
island in which a Registry has been 
established — The imported Ne- 
groes, if omitted in the annual re- 
turn, would, by that omission, 
acquire the means of asserting 
and obtaining theirdeliverance ; and 
the smuggler would have violated 
the law, not only without advan- 
tage, but with the most extreme 
risk of detection. Or should the 
asserted owner tender to the Regi- 
strar for insertion the name of the 
Africans he had illegally purchased, 
he must accompany his return 
with a specification, on oath, of the 
manner in which his title had ari- 
sen. Now there are two modes 
only in which a right to a slave can, 
without a violation of Mr. Broug- 
ham's Felony Act, be acquired ; 
namely, by purchase within the 
same island, or by importation from 
some other British colony. If the 
former title was asserted, the want 
of a corresponding return from the 
pretended seller would at once de- 
tect the fraud. If the title by im- 
portation was insisted on, the ab- 
sence of an entry in the books of the 
custom-house would, with no less 
certainty, convict the offender. A 
planter, therefore, holding in bond- 
age a new African Negro, would be 
equally unable, with safety, either 
to omit or to insert his name in 
the annual returns. In other words, 
the Negro would become a dan- 
gerous and useless incumbrance. 
Smuggling, therefore, would cease, 
not only because it might lead to 



16 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 



punishment, but because it would 
produce no substantial advantage. 

The planter, however, it may be 
thought, would evade the difficulty 
by detaining his victim in bondage 
without attempting to register his 
name, and continue in quiet pos- 
session, from the slave's want of 
language or opportunity to assert 
his freedom. The sagacity of the 
framer of the bill has anticipated 
this danger. Free men, as the law 
now stands, may possess the most 
absolute right of property in a slave 
by prescription, or by any of the va- 
rious titles under which other real 
estate or chattels are held. But in 
Trinidad no species of title is suf- 
ficient to establish the right of the 
owner, unless the name of his slave 
appears in the public Registry. The 
proprietor of an unregistered slave, 
therefore, could neither sell nor de- 
vise his bondsman ; for of course 
no purchaser would be satisfied 
with any title not confirmed by the 
Registry. A planter, therefore, who 
should import illegally an African 
slave, would not only expose him- 
self, as we have shewn, to the ex- 
treme risk of detection and con- 
sequent punishment and loss, but 
he would actually pay his money 
for the purchase of a property in 
which he never could acquire any 
transferable or transmissible in- 
terest. Such transactions need not 
be much apprehended. 

The greater number of West- 
Indian estates, it is also to be ob- 
served, are managed by agents 
and attornies, the owner residing 
in England. Persons of that de- 
scription, if accessary to the 
violation of the existing laws, 
are, as we have shewn, very 
much out of the reach of disco- 
very, and may, not unreasonably, 
be supposed frequently to concur 
in such practices to gratify the 
avarice of an employer. But by 
the proposed Act they are required 
to make the return in their own 
person; and they, as well as their 
principals, are to be visited with all 
the penalties of fraudulent state- 



ments. Now, in the first place, it 
is probable that the proprietor of 
an estate, however pliable his own 
conscience, will hesitate in trusting 
his property to the management of 
a man whom he could bribe to com- 
mit so gross a perjury : andsecond- 
ry, it may be presumed, that few 
agents would, for the benefit of any 
principal, involve themselves in a 
system of felony, perjury, and 
fraud, so intricate and so easily de- 
tected. 

For all these reasons we confi- 
dently anticipate the total cessation 
of contraband slave- trading in our 
colonies, whenever the system of 
registration shall have been fully 
established. Great indeed would be 
that blessing: we should then have a 
better hope that civilization might ad- 
vance in Africa, unobstructed by the 
malignant influencewhich has so long 
impeded its progress. In the West 
Indies, an amelioration, substantial 
and permanent, would mitigate the 
horrors of a slavery more severe 
and oppressive than any which has 
ever disgraced the history of man- 
kind. Selfish interest would then 
become the ally of humanity, in- 
stead of its fatal enemy ; and men 
would learn that the humane care 
of their slaves was an essential pre- 
caution against their own irrepar- 
able ruin. 

This is the first and principal 
advantage which the advocates of 
the present measure contemplate. 
Others of less magnitude, indeed, 
though of no slight moment, re- 
main to be stated. 

1. The British slave-colonies con- 
tain, on a moderate computation, 
little short of one million of the na- 
tives of Africa or their descendants, 
Of these persons, an immense ma- 
jority are in a state of absolute sla%. 
very. They possess no civil rights,* 
They have not, in the case of the 
most extreme and cruel injury which 
may be inflicted on their character 
or their persons, the power of main- 
taining any suit for the redress of 
their wrongs. Property, the most 
inconsiderable, they cannot acquire 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a "Registry of Slaves." 17 
under any title which secures, for ous, vigilant, suspicious, scrutiny. 



an hour, its inviolability. They 
have no legal protection against 
an eternal separation, whenever the 
necessities or the caprice of their 
owners require it, from their homes, 
their wives, their husbaijis, their 
parents, or their children. A fa- 



Is it in England, where the remotest 
apprehension of danger to our po- 
litical freedom animates millions to 
resistance, that they who exercise 
an uncontrolled tyranny, civil and 
domestic, are to pass for men 
above suspicion and reproach? Do 



ther may mourn over the birth of we "start with indignation," if but 



his offspring ; for he can give them 
no other inheritance than his own 
sad condition of ceaseless bondage. 
A husband cannot enjoy the sacred 
luxury of conjugal affection ; for a 
legal execution may separate him 



a passing breath in Parliament 
seem to invade the liberty of the 
subject, yet lavish our courtesy 
upon a legislature of slave-drivers? 
Such are not our feelings, and we 
plainly profess to rejoice in the 



for ever from the chosen friend of prospect of any regulation, which, 



his bosom. Every relation of life 
is rendered insecure, and every ge- 
nerous emotion extinguished. Pu- 
nishments the most severe and hu- 
miliating are, by solemn legislative 
enactments, provided for the slight- 
est offences of this degraded caste. 
Their evidence, in all judicial pro- 
ceedings, is not only uncredited 
but inadmissible. Their complexion 
raises against them the presumption 
of a servile condition. For their 
daily pittance of food and raiment, 
they depend wholly on the justice 
and resources of their master. From 
this dreadful condition they can 
never be emancipated, without the 
payment of an enormous tax ; and 
life presents to them no better 
hope than a refuge in that last sanc- 
tuary where the wicked cease from 
troubling and the weary are at rest. 
Over these wretched captives, a 
few Europeans exercise an unlimit- 
ed authority, legislative and domes- 
tic. To such beings as Huggins at 
Nevis, and Hodge the murderer at 
Tortola; and toWhite Men, in whose 
society these, and such as these, 
have ever found a courteous and 



if it will not render cruelty and op- 
pression impracticable, will at least, 
by the continual exposure of the 
state of the slave gangs, augment 
the means of detection and punish- 
ment. 

2. It is among the many opprobri- 
ous per uliarities of the West-Indian 
system, that it has created a legal 
presumption in favour of slavery ; 
so that every person in the islands, 
who does not boast a pure European 
descent, is, in all judicial proceed- 
ings, assumed to be a slave, until 
he can prove himself to be a free- 
man. When the importations of 
African Negroes into our colonies 
commenced, and for some years 
after that period, it was doubtless 
the fact, that a Black complexion 
was the certain indication of* a ser- 
vile condition. It was then pro- 
bably true, without one exception, 
that every African who was found 
in a British settlement, had been 
previously reduced by violence to a 
state of bondage. — The West In- 
dies possess a written and an uiit 
written law. Their statute-book 
contains the former: usajje of an 



easy admission, have the people of origin comparatively modern is the 

Oj^at Britain, the zealots and cham- sole foundation of the colonial lex 

"3f, -, *4 of freedom, confided the per- non scripta. English lawyers would, 

\Jb and the lives of this unprotect- we apprehend, vehemently dispute 

ed race of men. Let the lovers of the validity of this whole body of 

compliment- eulogize these slave- traditionary West-Indian law ; but 



masters as they will ; for ourselves, 
we trust the day will never arrive, 
when their proceedings will cease 
to be watched with the most jeal- 



difficulties of this kind are not much 
regarded in the supreme courts of 
Jamaica or Barbadoes. Relying on 
customs which have had their birth 
C 



J 8 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 



far within the date of legal memory, 
it is the doctrine of those tribunals, 
that the offspring of a femaie slave 
necessarily inherit the terrible con- 
dition of their mother. In the ear- 
lier times of our colonial history, 
it was, after this principle had been 
once established, probably true, 
that Mulattoes, as well as Negroes, 
were really in a state of slavery. 
The mixture of European with Af- 
rican blood could not vary their 
condition, for that they derived ex 
parte maternd, and a White mother 
of Mulatto children was probably 
never seen in the West-Indian 
islands. If, therefore, manumis- 
sions had never been introduced 
into our colonies, or if free Blacks 
had never migrated thither from 
Great Britain or other countries, or 
if a time had never arrived when the 
importation of the natives of Africa 
was declared illegal, it would have 
been strictly true, that a Negro and 
his remotest posterity were neces- 
sarily slaves, and the legal presump- 
tion of the servile condition of such 
persons would have been fairly sup- 
ported by the real state of the case. 
But the emancipations by pur- 
chase, by grant, and by will, have 
been in use from a time little pos- 
terior to the origin of the Slave 
Trade ; and though, during the last 
nine years, it is the admitted fact 
that large numbers of African Ne- 
groes have been liberated in our 
colonies by the operation of the 
Abolition Laws, yet, strange to say, 
the courts of justice of every one 
of the islands continue to act on 
this cruel legal presumption, with 
as little attention to the case of 
manumitted and free Negroes, as if 
such a class of society had not 
existed. As the law at present 
stands, if a White person asserts a 
right to hold his fellow-creature in 
perpetual slavery, the burden of 
proof lies, not on the asserted 
owner, but on the alleged bonds- 
man. He is required, at the peril 
of the most severe personal afflic- 
tion to which men can be subjected 
in this world, to prove a negative ; 



to shew that he is not a slave. In 
making this proof he is, by another 
most iniquitous principle of law, 
excluded from producing, as evi- 
dence in his favour, the testimony 
of any of that class of society, the 
Black or Coloured slave population, 
to whom alone his right to freedom 
and the grounds of it may often be 
known. In Barbadoes, and till the 
last two years in Jamaica also, he 
was even unable to summon as wit- 
nesses, the free persons of his own 
complexion with whom alone he 
can ever associate, and on his de- 
scent from whom his title to liberty 
frequently depends. If manumitted 
in the colonies, the loss of the deed 
of enfranchisement would destroy 
the only evidence by which his 
claim could be substantiated. Or 
should he be among the number of 
those recently imported from Af- 
rica, and restored by the Abolition 
Acts to freedom, his ignorance of 
the language of the country to which 
he has been removed would, of it- 
self, prevent his asserting his right 
to that inestimable blessing : nay, 
even if he were born in this happy 
island, and had the unhappiness to 
visit our West-Indian colonies, he 
would be liable to be seized as 
a runaway, and sold into perpetual 
bondage, for want of a deed of 
manumission which, under the cir- 
cumstances of his birth, he could 
never have possessed. He may 
have been born, as we have already 
intimated, in England, where, thank 
God, no documentary evidence is 
required to prove a man's right to 
freedom, whatever be his colour : 
he may have served the king and 
bled in his cause. All this will 
nothing avail him. His very com- 
plexion has doomed him to cease- 
less servitude; to toil under the 
merciless lash of a driver, or to dig 
in the Spanish mines, for the resi- 
due of his days. 

Such is the law, and such also is 
the daily practice of British colo- 
nies. It is not merely the indivi- 
dual European claimant, but the 
state itself, the Crown of Great Bri- 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 19 



tain as represented by the executive 
government of its colonies, which 
continually holds the miserable de- 
scendants of Africa to this dreadful 
probation. Let any man take in 
his hands a file of Jamaica news- 
papers, one will scarcely be found 
without one or more advertisements 
to the following effect: Whereas 

■ , a Man of Colour, who asserts 

himself to be free, has been com- 
mitted to the public gaol of this 
island under the Vagrant Act: no- 
tice is hereby given, that unless 

within days the said 

shall satisfactorily prove his title 
to freedom, or shall be claimed by 
his lawful owner, he will, at the ex- 
piration of that time, be sold for the 
benefit of the public. This we as- 
sert to be the exact substance of 
advertisements which frequently 
appear in the West- Indian Ga- 
zettes ; and any man who will take 
the trouble of looking into them, 
may satisfy himself of the fact. 
Nor is this shameless public insult 
on national justice unsanctioned by 
law. There is not an island in 
which this course of proceeding 
is not expressly authorized in the 
case of persons taken up and com- 
mitted on suspicion of being runa- 
way slaves ; persons, that is to say, 
who are found in any of the colonies 
without a master, and without the 
legal proofs of their freedom. 

Nor let it be imagined that such 
cases are merely supposititious,or of 
infrequent occurrence. The Royal 
Gazette of Jamaica itself, the island 
whose pretensions to the character 
of justice and mercy, in its legisla- 
tive acts, are sounded so loudly 
in our ears, need only to be opened 
in order to furnish numerous cases 
of the most aggravated description. 
We have now before us the file 
of that paper for 1815; and we 
will give a specimen or two of the 
evidence which it furnishes. In that 
of the 20th May, 1815, we find the 
following specification of persons 
confined in the common gaols of 
the island as run-aways : — 

" George Thomas, an American; 



says he is free, but has no docu- 
ment thereof." 

" Samuel Menderson, a Portu- 
guese Creole, (no mark, &c.); says 
he is free, but has no document 
thereof." 

" Joseph, a native of St. Domin- 
go, (no brand mark, &c); says he 
is free : to be detained until he 
proves his freedom." 

" William Kelly, a Creole ; says 
he is free : to be detained until his 
freedom is proved." 

" John Francis; says he is a na- 
tive of Curacoa,and that he is free, 
but can shew no document thereof. 
There are marks of flogging on his 
back, which he says he got on 
board the Hebe frigate." 

" Thomas Hall; says he is free." 

" Antonio Belfour, a Sambo; says 
he is an American, and that he is 
free." 

" David Barrow, a Sambo; says 
he was born at Barbadoes, and 
that he is free." 

" Alexander Antonio ; says he is 
a Spaniard, and that he is free." 

" John Rose, an American Sambo, 
a sailor; says he is free." 

" Antonio Moralles, a Creole, of 
the island of St. Thomas; says he 
is free, but has no document there- 
of: came here as carpenter of the 
schooner Sparrow." 

In the very last paper which 
arrived from Jamaica, that of the 
18th November, 1815, we find the 
following insertions in the gaol 
lists ; viz. — 

" John Dixon, a Creole; says he 
is free, but has no document 
thereof." 

" John Messar; says he is free, 
but has no document thereof." 

" Edward Brian Wardins, a Mu- 
latto Creole; says he is free, but 
has no other document than a pass, 
signed John Wardins, who says that 
he is his son, and was born free." 

"William Bennett, aCreole; says 
he is free, but has no document 
thereof." 

The Gazette of each week ex- 
hibits similar, and not less nume- 
rous, instances. 



20 Revieiv of u Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 



Here let it be recollected, that 
all the individuals in the above list 
(aud these form probably not 
a lithe of the cases of precisely the 
same nature which have appeared 
in the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, 
during the last year alone), allege 
that they are free. There is no 
contrary allegation: they are not 
claimed by any one as slaves. And 
yet because they cannot produce 
documentary evidence of their free- 
dom, a species of evidence which 
perhaps they never could have pos- 
sessed, or may have lost, they are, 
after a certain time, by the fiat of the 
Jamaica Legislature, to be sold to 
the best bidder, precisely as stray- 
ed horses or mules who have been 
impounded but not claimed would 
be sold ; and the proceeds of this 
sale, (the price of blood!), after 
defraying the gaol expenses, are to 
be paid into the treasury of the 
island. Is it possible for an English- 
man to contemplate such a state of 
things as this without horror : and 
are we not bound, in the sight of 
God and man, to provide an ade- 
quate remedy? 

Now, for this enormous evil, the 
Registry Bill has provided an ade- 
quate remedy. By ascertaining the 
servile condition of every man who 
is really a slave, it will protect from 
illegal bondage every man who is 
not so. No other evidence will 
hereafter be necessary or admissi- 
ble, but the certificate of the Regi- 
strar, in any question of slave or free ; 
and that evidence, from the nature 
of the case itself, will, it is plain, 
be liable to no uncertainty or error. 
If this measure accomplished no 
other object, it would be no slight 
gain to the colonists, and to our 
common country, that a scheme 
was found of abolishing a practice 
so revolting to every feeling of 
our nature, and so repugnant to 
every principle of humanity and 
justice. 

3. To descend to a much lower, 
though not an unimportant consi- 
deration, let the benefit be next 
estimated which the absent proprie- 



tors and mortgagees of West-Indian 
estates will derive, from a system 
which provides the greatest possi- 
ble security against the fraudulent 
abduction of their property or their 
pledge. In this country, a debtor 
in possession of his estates, or an 
agent entrusted with real property, 
is restrained from the practice of 
any very ruinous frauds, by the im- 
moveable quality of the property 
itself. Land may be injured by 
neglect, but is secure from destruc- 
tion. But in the West Indies, the 
planter, or manager, is necessarily 
intrusted with the sole direction of 
the slaves, who form the most valu- 
able part of the estate. They are 
at the absolute mercy of his bru- 
tality or avarice. They may be 
depreciated by insufficient or un- 
wholesome diet, or may be removed 
from the plantation for the purpose 
of sale in some foreign colony. Of 
this gradual but destructive loss, 
the resident in Great Britain may 
remain ignorant until it has become 
irremediable. This danger, it may 
be thought, is imaginary : of its 
reality and extent, let the following 
fact be taken as an example : — 

In the year 1788, M. de Chacon, 
at that time the Spanish Governor 
of the island of Trinidad, published 
a proclamation, offering to all who 
would settle within the limits of his 
government, grants of land, and an 
indemnity against the claims of 
their creditors. The consequence, 
as is perfectly notorious, was, that 
a large body of British planters 
quickly transplanted themselves 
and their Negroes to the asylum 
thus thrown open to them. A large 
body of the present European in- 
habitants of the island is consti- 
tuted of these bankrupts, who at 
this day have all become honoura- 
ble men, and worthy colonists of 
the island of Trinidad. 

We certainly do not expect, even 
from the representatives of Ferdi- 
nand, any future proceeding quite 
so profligate as this ; but it is no 
unreasonable strain of suspicion to 
think, that the planters who sought 



Revieiv of" Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves 



and obtained this shelter from their 
creditors left behind them, in the 
British colonies, others whose no- 
tions of integrity were not much 
more rigid than their own. Against 
such perils, the Registry Act will 
afford a great protection. The 
merchant or proprietor, in England, 
will be able, by application at the 
General Office to be established in 
London, to learn,with perfect accu- 
racy, the state of the gang. Any 
unusual diminution of their num- 
bers will awaken suspicion and in- 
quiry ; and the depreciation of his 
property will not take place without 
an immediate investigation of its 
cause. 

4. Connected with this security to 
the owners of estates, is an impor- 
tant additional protection to the 
slaves. Absentees from the West 
Indies are often utterly ignorant 
of the real state of those colonies. 
Among them are many men eminent 
for active humanity, and zealous 
friends of the African race. They 
have inherited property which they 
have never seen, and have adopted 
the opinions of the agents to whom 
the management of their plantations 
is confided. Nothing can be more 
important than to provide such 
persons with official returns, speci- 
fying, with precision, the annual 
fluctuations in the number of their 
Negroes, and the causes to which 
any decrease is aseribed. We 
could mention several estates in the 
Leeward Islands on which, during 
the last few years, a diminution in 
the stock of slaves has taken place, 
for which the ordinary course of 
human life affords no satisfactory 
solution. Englishmen happily are 
not often of a temper to tolerate 
these things; and we are persuaded 
that nothing but a lamentable igno- 
rance of the real condition of the 
Negroes, from whose labours their 
incomes have been drawn, has in- 
duced the great body of English 
absentee proprietors to tolerate 
them so long. 

Hitherto we have noticed only 
Uie general outlines of the project 



21 

presented to the world, by the 
African Institution. For a further 
developement of these views, we 
must refer to the Report itself. 
On one or two points in the pro- 
posed Bill, we beg to offer a few 
suggestions. This, however, we 
do with great diffidence. A measure 
which has been concerted with so 
much care has usually a dependence 
of parts which may be endangered 
by subsequent alterations, however 
apparently judicious. 

In the first place, then, it appears 
to us, that there is one case in 
which the emancipation of the 
slave, in consequence of his omis- 
sion in the Registry, may be attend- 
ed with much inconvenience. A 
Negro labouring under any inve- 
terate complaint, or who is disabled 
by age or infirmity from engaging 
iii field labours, is an incumbrance 
on the estate of his owner. His 
manumission is to his master a be- 
nefit rather than a loss ; because, 
with the cessation of his servitude, 
the legal obligation of supporting 
him expires. Such a Nes;ro, there- 
fore, might be intentionally omitted, 
in order to deliver the plantation 
from so useless a supernumerary. 
The justice of this suspicion some 
may be disposed to dispute. No 
planter, it will be said, is so totally 
devoid of humanity as to dismiss a 
fellow-creature, who, without any 
wages or recompence, has spent 
his days in incessant labours, to 
starve in his old age, or amidst 
incurable infirmities : a horse or 
a dog deserves and usually receives 
a better fate. Such a doubt sounds 
plausibly enough : but what is the 
fact 1 We answer, that without any 
one exception, every legislature in 
the West Indies has passed laws, 
reciting the frequency of the cus- 
tom of either abandoning or eman- 
cipating such persons, and provid- 
ing against it by compelling ihe 
master not only to provide for his 
worn-out slaves, whom he might 
otherwise turn adrift ; but in case 
of his emancipating them, to pay in 
some islands lOOl, and in Nevis and 



22 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves'* 



St-Christophers 500/. currency to the 
treasury, as a fine on emancipation. 
These laws, indeed, as far as they 
limit the power of manumission, we 
quote not to commend them. As 
they are made to apply not merely 
to the case of masters, who, from 
sordid motives, would emancipate 
their useless bondsmen, but to 
all who, under any circumstances, 
would emancipate a slave, they 
prove an enormous and cruel tax on 
manumission, and manifestly have 
their origin in the poor and base 
policy of preventing the increase 
of the free Coloured population. 
That they are not really framed with 
the honest purpose of providing for 
the support of the mrjiutnittedNegro, 
is clear from hence, that they direct 
the payment of the money into the 
public treasury, and, except in two 
or three islands, contain no provi- 
sion for appropriating any part of 
the fund to his maintenance, in case 
of his inability to provide for him- 
self. But still the recital proves, 
that manumissions for the purpose 
of avoiding the cost of maintaining 
disabled slaves were and would be 
frequent ; for there is certainly no 
ground for imputing to these legis- 
latures any habit of calumniating 
themselves or their constituents. 
Now the Registry Act, as it is at 
present drawn, provides the means 
of such manumissions without the 
payment of this tax, and affords to a 
master, what assuredly the framers 
of it did not intend, an opportunity 
of gratifying his hard-hearted and 
avaricious propensity. Perhaps, 
therefore, it would be an useful 
addition to the Bill to impose a 
pecuniary penalty on a master omit- 
ting to return any slave in an infirm 
or disabled state; the money to 
be paid to the treasurer or some 
other officer of the island, for the 
benefit of the Negro omitted. 

The insertion of the lists of per- 
sonal and plantation slaves, in dis- 
tinct and separate books, appears 
to us to be liable to some objection. 
At the opening of the Registry, a 
master of slaves might not be in 



possession of an estate ; but, as is 
a very usual practice, might live 
upon the profit made by jobbing 
them, a term familiarly applied to 
horses in England, but in the West 
Indies to human beings, let out to 
hire. After the completion of the 
returns, the jobber might become 
a planter. Now in this case, the 
original return, which would be 
that of personal slaves, would not 
rightly specify the real condition 
of the slaves. It must therefore be 
corrected, and a new list of them 
opened under the head of planta- 
tion slaves ; and a similar change 
from one book to another must be 
made as often as a similar change 
in their condition occurred. Great 
confusion might thus be created. 

Still more effectually to obviate 
the danger to be apprehended, of 
substituting new captives of the 
same age and appearance, in the 
place of such as might die, it might 
be prudent to require, from the 
medical practitioners attending the 
slaves, an annual certificate, on 
oath, of the deaths which had oc- 
curred during the preceding year, 
with the times and the occasions of 
them. Such a statement would not 
only serve as a check on the accu- 
racy of the planters' annual return, 
but would obviously answer many 
other most important purposes. 

Some degree of inquisitorial au- 
thority also might properly be con- 
fided to the Registrar ; we mean, 
that he should be required to take 
the examination, on oath, of every 
person alleging himself, or repre- 
sented to be held in illegal slavery. 
Perhaps even a personal inspection, 
by this officer, of the different slave 
gangs in the colony, on a circuit 
to be made for that purpose, would 
not be unnecessary or impractica- 
ble. The great danger is not that 
an illegal importation would escape 
detection, where a complaint was 
made, but that the sufferer might 
languish in a remote district, with- 
out the opportunity of stating his 
grievances. 

Our readers will observe, that 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a "Registry of Slaves 



we have not hitherto noticed the 
objections which have been made 
to this measure. They, doubtless, 
deserve attention ; and we should 
ill discharge the duty we have un- 
dertaken, if we omitted the consi- 
deration of them. At the same 
time, we think there are one or two 
of the most sounding to which ri- 
dicule may be far more fitly applied, 
than any serious refutation. 

" The West- Indian islands will 
rebel. The American war will be 
repeated on a new theatre, and 
with renewed horrors." 

A rebellion is, doubtless, a very 
formidable thing; and so thought 
the nation of Lilliput, when over- 
shadowed by the figure of the sage 
Lemuel Gulliver. But that great 
traveller, taking up a handful of 
the rebels, found means to put a 
speedy end to the sedition. Mr. 
Huggins certainly is a formidable 
man with his cart-whip in his hand, 
in the market-place at Nevis ; but 
will that illustrious legislator, and 
his 500 White brethren, put them- 
selves in array against the battalions 
who fought at Waterloo, or even 
against a single West Indian regi- 
ment? Will the associates of 
Wellington tremble before the 583 
White inhabitants of Tobago*? or, 
are the 683f Europeans, in Gre- 
nada, ruling as they do over 30,096 
slaves, likely long to resist the arms 
of Great Britain?—" But the dan- 
ger," we are told, " is from Jamaica. 
There is to be found there a formid- 
able population,powerful,and,as the 
resolutions of their Assembly shew, 
resolute, to resist." Strange indeed 
is the effrontery of such a declara- 
tion ! In that island there arel 
319,912 slaves, and about 12,000 
White inhabitants, men, women, 
and children. The whole military 
force which they could possibly 
raise, would not amount to 2,000 
men. Is such a puny multitude to 
intimidate this great nation from 
the pursuit of any fit and laudable 

* See House of Commons papers. 
t Ibid. $ Ibid. 



23 

design? Or, if they had the lu- 
dicrous daring to make the attempt, 
would their bondsmen lose so fair 
an occasion of breaking their gall- 
ing chains? Is it from Jamaica, 
whose slave-masters, but for our 
daily protection, would have the 
knife at their throats to-morrow, 
that we are seriously to dread 
resistance? In the case of Ame- 
rica, we had the whole resident 
population firmly opposed to our 
claims. Here we have nine-tenths, 
or rather nineteen-twentieths, of 
the population imploring our mer- 
ciful interference. Besides, with 
whom would the contest be carried 
on? With the planters, or their 
mortgagees, most of whom are resi- 
dent in England ? With the Beck- 
fords, and Dawkinses, and Hibberts, 
and Mannings, &c. &c. &c. whose 
vassals and dependants in the 
West Indies wait only the motion 
of their hand to acquiesce in the 
measure when once adopted ? But 
it is idle to pursue this point fur- 
ther. 

The weakness of these little com- 
munities will not, however, alone 
justify an interference in their do- 
mestic government. Our right to 
legislate for them must be founded 
on some other basis than our un- 
questionable power to enforce the 
execution of our laws. Now, the 
existence of such a right is a very 
grave question of constitutional 
law; and, like every similar question, 
must be decided by recurring to 
the fontes juris, from which all 
constitutional law has been de- 
rived. 

The right of the British Parlia- 
ment to legislate for every part of 
the dominions of the Crown, actual- 
ly represented in Parliament, no one 
has ever controverted. 

That this is not a right arising 
out of any positive convention, is 
plain. In the American Common- 
wealth, there was a real formal 
contract to submit to such laws as 
should be passed by Congress, 
to which every free man in that 
country became, for himself and 



24 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves.* 

his posterity, a party. This is a 
single case in history. In the Bri- 
tish, as in every other empire, an- 
cient and modern, the great social 
compact of which our forefathers 
spoke at the Revolution, is a tacif 
and implied agreement. It is not 
reduced to distinct and formal sti- 
pulations; nor can any fundamental 
charter of government be quoted, 
in which its provisions are to be 
found. The right to govern rests, 
it may be, upon that contract; 
but the extent and limitations of 
that right can only be ascertained 
by usage and prescription. No 
other evidence of the terms of the 
original agreement can be found. 
What has been the habitual practice 
of the constitution in times past, 
may therefore be legally continued in 
timestocome. The usage itself is the 
best possible proof which could be 
given, that our ancestors had recog- 
nized the legality of such acts in the 
original compact of government. 

An exception of bad times is 
indeed, in some cases, and with 
much caution, admitted. In days 
of usurpation and violence, the 
will of the strongest usurps upon 
the settled course of law, and the 
acts of such days may not there- 
fore be quoted as precedents. Thus 
the proceedings of the Long Parlia- 
ment would afford no vindication 
t& any similar irregularities at pre- 
sent. But generally it may be 
stated as a settled rule, that what- 
ever can be shewn to be the habit 
of the constitution, is the law of 
the constitution. 

The question, therefore, of the 
right of the British Parliament to 
legislate for the colonies, is reduc- 
ed to a narrow compass. Has such 
a right, or has it not, been asserted 
and acted upon in former times'? 
The answer to this inquiry will 
solve the doubt. 

We assert then, and are prepar- 
ed to shew, that the Parliament of 
Great Britain has, in many cases, 
and during a long succession of 
years, passed laws for the regula- 
tion of the internal government of 



the Plantations dependent on the 
British Crown ; and that those laws 
have been received, and are now 
acted upon, without complaint or 
remonstrance. 

The Acts of Navigation are 
the earliest in the statute- book 
which contain any express regula- 
tions as to the interior government 

of the foreign colonies of this kinjr- 
i ° 

(torn. 

The two first of these Acts* were 
passed in the 12th and 15th years 
of the reign of Charles II., and not 
long after the settlement of Ja- 
maica. Though too long to be 
conveniently abridged or abstract- 
ed in this place, they will be found, 
on a reference to them, to contain 
very minute directions as to the 
import or export of goods in the 
Plantations, and numerous provi- 
sions for enforcing within the co- 
lonies the due observance of those 
directions. 

These Acts have been sincef fre- 
quently recognised and modified, 
as to the colonies, by a great num- 
ber of subsequent statutes; and in 
all of these later Acts, the principle 
of intervention with the internal 
legislature, for the purpose of carry- 
ing the laws into effect, has been 
uniformly asserted. 

In the 7th and 8th of William 
III., c.22, an Act was passed " for 
preventing frauds and regulating 
abuses in the Plantation trade/' 
The general purpose of this statute 
is to render the Navigation Acts 
more effectual, by the enactment of 
numerous provisions for that pur- 
pose, to be executed within the 
colonies. Some of the clauses of 
this statute are, however, impor- 
tant, as shewing the views which 
were at that time entertained as to 
the general right of legislating for 
our colonies, in cases not merely 

* See 12 Car. II. c. 18 ; and 15 Car. 
II. c. 7. 

t 3 and 4 Anne, c. 5, sec. 12 ; 8 Geo. 
I. c. S, sec. 22 ; 5 Geo. III., c. 30, sec. 
5; 37 Geo. III. c. 97, sec. 1,22.; 4S 
Geo. III. c. 153. &c. &c. &c» 



Review of" Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves,* 



commercial. The 9th section is 
in these terms : — 

" And it is further enacted and 
declared by the authority aforesaid, 
that all laws, bye-laws, usages, or 
customs, at this time or which 
hereafter shall be in practice, or 
endeavoured, or pretended to 
be in force or practice, in any 
of the said Plantations, which 
are in anywise repugnant to the 
before-mentioned laws, or any of 
them, so far as they do relate to the 
said Plantations or any of them, or 
which are in any ways repugnant 
to this present Act, or to any other 
law hereafter to be made in this 
kingdom, so far as such laws shall 



from England equivalent in their 
courts to a viva voce examination of 
witnesses between the parties. This 
Act also provided, that lands and 
other real estate, andNegroes, in the 
colonies, should be liable to the 
simple contract-debts of the owner ; 
but as to the part which respected 
Negroes, it was repealed by 37 
George III., c. 119. 

By the 24th, George II., c. 53, 
an Apt was passed to regulate and 
restrain paper bills of credit in his 
Majesty's colonies or Plantations 
therein named, and to prevent the 
same being legal tenders in pay- 
ment of money. 

By the 4th George III., c. 15, 



relate to and mention the said Plan- sec. 41, certain penalties thereby 

tations, are illegal, null, and void, imposed, for the violation of the 

to all intents and purposes whatso- provisions of that Act, are to be re- 

ever." covered in any Court of Record or 

The 12th section is as follows : — Vice-Admiralty within the colony 

" Provided always, that all or Plantation where the forfeiture 



places of trust in the courts of law, 
or what relates to the treasury of 
the said islands, shall, from the 
making of this Act, be in the hands 
of the native-born subjects of Eng- 
land, or of the said islands." 



may have happened. 

This Act, as to this part of it, 
adopted in the Kith section of the 
47th George III., c. 46, the Slave 
Trade Abolition Act ; and by the 
49th George III., c. 107 ; is ex- 



The next law of similar import tended so as to enable the prosecu- 

which should be mentioned, is that tor to sue for the penalties in any 

of the 6th of Anne, c. 30, which is Court of Record or Vice-Admi- 

entitled " An Act for ascertaining ralty, near to the colony in which 

the rates of foreign coins in her such forfeiture shall accrue. 

Majesty's Plantations of America, Shortly after this Act of the 4th 

the paying or receiving silver coins George III., the several Tax Acts 

at a higher rate than that fixed by wer e imposed to which the origin of 

this statute." the American war is to be ascribed. 

The Act of the 4th of George I., la the year 1766, Mr. Grenville 

cap.lt, " for the further prevent- brought into Parliament the Act 

ing of robbery and other crimes," (6th George III., c. 12) which has 



is by the 9th section " extended 
to all his Majesty's Plantations in 
America." 

In the reign of George II,, the 
right of interference in the govern- 
ment of the colonies, even in mat- 



been usually quoted by his name, or 
as " the Declaratory Act." The lan- 
guage of that statute was as follows: 

" Be it declared, &c. that the co- 
lonies and plantations in America have 
been, are, and of right ought to be, 



ters not commercial, was strictly subordinate unto and dependent upon 



maintained. 

The Act passed in the 5th year 
of that reign, c. 7, entitled " An 
Act for the more easy recovery 
of debts in his Majesty's Planta- 
tions and colonies in America, 



the Imperial Crown and Parliament of 
Great Britain : and that the King's Ma- 
jesty, by and with the advice and con- 
seut of the Lords Spiritual and Tempo- 
ral, and Commons of Great Britain in 
Parliament assembled, had, hath, and of 
right ought to have, full power and 



makes an ex-parte affidavit sent authority to make laws and statutes of 

D 



26 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves" 
sufficient force and validity to bind the concerns of the colonies ; but that, 
colonies and people of America, sub- on the contrary, that right was even 
jects of the Crown of Great Britain, in t |j ei]j as to oue very material point, 
all cases whatsoever." expressly asserted. Nothing there- 
The Acts of the British Parliament, fore, it should seem, can be col- 
duriug the American war cannot, lected from the statute-book to 
perhaps, be quoted as authorities as shew that at the time of the Ameri- 
to the right of this kingdom to le- can war the claim in question was 
gislate for her colonies. It will be in any degree abandoned. 
more material to consider in what Since that time instances of in- 
terms that right was limited, at the terference have been very nume- 
period when it was the policy of rous. See Lord Liverpool's Regis- 
Great Britain to conciliate the co- ter Act, 26 George III., c. 60, and 



especially section 21. In the 43d 
section of this Act there is a sweep- 
ing confirmation of all the Acts 
therein recited, most of which con- 
tain provisions to be executed with- 
in the colonies, and, inter alia, the 
statute 7 and 8 William III., c. 22, 
of the ninth section of which we 
have already given an abstract. 
See also the General Free-Port Act, 
45 George III., c. 57, and the 
various Acts thereby consolidated ; 
also the various Acts for regulating 
the trade between the West Indies 
and the United States. 

As Parliament has rarely had 
any motive to make laws for the 
interior government of the colonies, 
except in cases relative to naviga- 
tion or trade, the instances of Acts 
extending to them in other cases 
are not so numerous, nor indeed so 
easy to find, because particular Acts 
have been extended to them, in 
some cases of mere municipal po- 
licy, by a section, of which no no- 
tice is taken in the ijeneral indexes 



lonists by the most ample conces- 
sions which she could make con- 
sistently with her claim of sove- 
reign authority. 

The 18th George III., c. 12, 
which was introduced for this pur- 
pose, is thus expressed : — 

" It is hereby declared and enacted, 
that, from and after the passing of this 
Act, the King and Parliament of Great 
Britain will not impose any duty, tax, 
or assessment whatever, payable in any 
of his Majesty's colonies, provinces,and 
plantations in North America, or in the 
"West Indies, except only such duties 
as it may be expedient to impose for 
the regulation of commerce; the net 
produce of such duties to be always 
paid and applied to and for the use of 
the colony, province, or plantation in 
which the same shall be respectively 
levied, in such manner as other duties 
collected by the authority of the re- 
spective courts or general assemblies of 
such colonies, provinces, or plantations, 
are ordinarily paid and applied," p. 105. 

By the 31st George III., c. 31, 
sec. 46, commonly called the Que- 
bec Bill, a similar saving is made of to the statutes, 
the right of imposing duties within The following instances, how- 
the colonies for the regulation of ever, may be given. By the 13th 
commerce. Geo. III. c. 14, mortgages of lands 

It appears from the above state- in the colonies to foreigners are 

ment, that the Declaratory Act of made valid, under certain restric- 

the 6th George III. remains un- tions, notwithstanding the mort- 

repealed, except so far as respects gagees may be aliens ; and in the 

the claim of the right of taxation, 12 Geo. III. c. 20, as to persons 



which was partially abandoned by 
the statute of the 18th George III., 
C. 12. 

It appears also that, even at the 
moment of concession, the British 
Parliament did not disclaim the 



standing mute on their arraign- 
ment for felony, there is a like ex- 
press extension. 

If, then, precedent can ascertain 
constitutional law, the legislative 
right of the mother- country over 



right of interfering in the interior her colonies, with respect to every 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 27 



subject of legislation, is unquestion- 
able. But a system of government 
may have grown up so oppressive 
and tyrannical as that no usage can 
justify it. The particular practice 
may violate the great essential prin- 
ciples of the constitution. Men are 
bound to conform to the laws of 
their country, and for that reason 
to resist any custom, however sanc- 
tioned by time, repugnant to such 
of those laws as we justly consider 
tobe fundamental. Thus, it is stated 
by the colonists to be one of the 
inviolable principles of Ihe English 
Constitution, that no persons shall 
be subject to a law not allowed by 
their representatives in Parliament ; 
and they quote the American war 
as a conclusive proof at once of the 
existence of the rule and of the 
danger of infringing it. 

If this reasoning is accurate, by 
whom, we would ask, are laws to 
be made for the government of the 
Negro population of Jamaica] Of 
every twenty-five persons in that 
country, twenty-four are of this 
condition. The Assembly of the 
island is, in fact, the representative 
body of one twenty-fifth part only of 
its inhabitants. The rest are, by an 
eternal proscription, excluded from 
all share in the insular legislature, 
and from all right of voting for its 
members. In England, he who has 
no vote to-day may acquire a free- 
hold and exercise his franchise to- 
morrow. The Catholic, against 
whom the doors of Parliament are 
now closed, may at least vote at 
elections, and, by disavowing a pro- 
fession of faith which the constitu- 
tion regards as hostile to the state, 
may, at some future time, be num- 
bered among the legislators of his 
country. A Negro and his poste- 
rity are alone, and for ever, ex- 
cluded. Parliaments in England, 
if not elected by the whole body of 
the people, are at least chosen by 
those who may themselves be con- 
sidered as a fair representation of 
the whole. A West-Indian Assem- 
bly has no connection of sympathy 
or interest the most remote with an 



immense majority of those who re- 
side under its controul. The White 
inhabitants of Jamaica are incom- 
parably better represented in the 
British Parliament than are the 
Slaves and free People of Colour in 
the Colonial Assembly. No man, 
we are told, may be governed but 
by his representatives ; but the 
Creolejurists have not yet informed 
ushoWjConsistentlywith their axiom, 
they assume the right of legislating 
for free men of a complexion dif- 
ferent from their own. Their slaves, 
indeed, have no civil rights — a 
shocking and disgraceful truth! — 
and therefore no representatives are 
wanting to protect privileges which 
have no existence. A fit inference 
for a tribe of slave-drivers ! But is 
this great empire to adopt such 
logic as this from a petty band of 
two hundred, or five hundred, or a 
thousand, or two thousand, over- 
seers, carpenters, sugar-boilers,and 
clerks, headed by such men as 
Huggins or Hodge 1 On what le- 
gislative body, then, does the duty 
of protecting the interests of this 
class of society devolve? Parlia- 
ment is the supreme council of the 
empire, exercising, not by mere 
prescriptive usage, but by obvious 
necessity, a presiding authority over 
all the dominions and dependencies 
of the British Crown. To this au- 
thority there is, in most of the co- 
lonies, a limitation co-extensive with 
the rights of the legislatures esta- 
blished in those settlements. From 
their own premises it is shewn, that 
the legislative powers of those bo- 
dies cannot constitutionally extend 
over the proscribed class of free 
and enslaved Negroes. The conclu- 
sion is inevitable, that the authority 
of Parliament is, as to that part of 
the population of the islands, en- 
tire ; and that it may be exercised 
in the establishment of a system 
of registration, or of any other sys- 
tem fit and necessary for their pro- 
tection. 

The five hundred White men, 
women, aud children in Nevis, or 
the twelve thousand in Jamaica, 



28 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves " 



have not, so far as we know, as- 
sumed the style of distinct and in- 
dependent kingdoms. Some right 
of controul, for some purposes, they 
seem to concede to the Imperial 
Parliament. The extent of that 
right, it is true, they have not de- 
fined ; but to deny it wholly would 
be absurd, so long as they claim 
to form a part of the empire of 
Great Britain. Between the dif- 
ferent parts of the same political 
system the connection is merely 
nominal, if a power does not reside 
somewhere to enforce such general 
laws as the common good may re- 
quire to be established, at the same 
time, and with similar restrictions, 
in all the various dominions com- 
prised within its local boundaries. 
The King of Great Britain is also 
the King of Hanover ; but there 
is no political union between those 
parts of his dominions. In the 
establishment, therefore, of any 
common regulations, the States 
of the one country must concur 
with the Parliament of the other. 
England, Jamaica, and Barbadoes, 
are constituent parts of the same 
empire. The supreme council com- 
mon to each, though locally situated 
in England, imposes therefore, by 
its sole authority, whatever laws are 
necessary for the common benefit. 
Its functions, in this respect, are 
not dissimilar to those of the Ame- 
rican Congress, which regulates the 
common interests of the union, 
leaving to the legislature of each 
state a controul over the local con- 
cerns of its own particular consti- 
tuents. If this were not so, the 
agents of our sugar-islands must be 
invested with the character of am- 
bassadors, and the King, Lords, and 
Commons suspend their delibera- 
tions till they had negotiated for 
the acquiescence of the fifteen 
subordinate legislatures of our co- 
lonies. The same body which, on 
that supposition, might have re- 
fused its consent, might, of course, 
revoke it when granted. In other 
words, the fundamental laws of the 
state would be at the mercy of fif- 



teen remote and separate colonial 
assemblies. 

Navigation and trade are, emi- 
nently, subjects of legislation, with 
respect to which a common system 
must be adopted throughout all the 
dependencies of a maritime state. 
The Plantation-trade has, indeed, 
from the earliest period of modern 
European history, been the subject 
of most anxious solicitude to every 
nation which has possessed foreign 
settlements ; and one system of po- 
licy has been common to them all. 
France, Spain, Holland, Portugal, 
Denmark, and Great Britain, have 
concurred in the establishment of a 
monopoly of the commerce of their 
colonies. Our own statute-book 
abounds with Acts regulating every 
branch of this system. It forms, 
indeed, one of the most voluminous 
and intricate of all the titles of the 
law of England. In the " Treatise 
of the Law of Shipping and Naviga- 
tion," published by Mr. Reeves in 
the year 1807, that very able and 
accurate writer has, at great length, 
detailed the various provisions of 
those statutes. Any man who 
peruses the second chapter of his 
work will be satisfied, not only that 
the British Parliament has uniform- 
ly asserted, but that the colonial 
legislatures have repeatedly, and 
in the most formal manner, admit- 
ted, this right. So clear, indeed, is 
this, that the Council and Assem- 
bly of Jamaica, and of all the West- 
Indian and North-American Colo- 
nies, down to the year J 815, have 
annually passed laws founded upon, 
and giving effect to, these statutes. 

Now the trade in slaves, not less 
than any other species of commerce, 
is under the controul of Parliament. 
In the most extreme violence of the 
Abolition-controversy, the West- 
Indian Assemblies never denied the 
competency of Great Britain to re- 
gulate this trade, or to prevent its 
continuance. The Act by which it 
was declared illegal, contained nu- 
merous provisions which were to be 
executed in the colonies. Those 
regulations, as we have shewn, have 



Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves'' 29 



been insufficient to accomplish their 
object. Let the Assembly of Ja- 
maica.then, explain whyParliament, 
which could legally enforce the 
provisions of the AbolitionAct, may 
not, without a violation of law, 
establish the only system which can 
ensure its observance; — why, be- 
ing competent to decree the abo- 
lition of the trade, they are incom- 
petent to abolish it effectually. 

We are reminded, however, of 
the American contest and its fatal 
result; and history, it is said, is 
written to no purpose, and philoso- 
phy has commented on it in vain, 
if each successive generation of 
men repeat the errors of their fa- 
thers, and rush with open eyes into 
their disasters. No doubt : and 
we shall be among the first to 
expostulate against any measure 
which may be shewn to be at all 
parallel to those which alienated 
the American Colonies. Perhaps, 
however, it would be impossible to 
imagine any dispute between Great 
Britain and her Colonies, on the 
extent of her legislative rights, 
which has less analogy than the pre- 
sent to the American controversy. 
The states of Massachussets andCon- 
necticut were inhabited by free men, 
duly represented in the colonial 
assemblies : theWest-Indian islands 
are peopled by slaves, with only a 
small body, in each, of White 
managers and planters, who alone 
have any share in the legislature, 
either as members or constituents. 
We asserted against the one, the 
absurd pretension of disfranchising 
a whole people : we claim against 
the other, the right to protect an 
immense majority of the popula- 
tion, who have no other protectors. 
In the American war, we fought to 
impose upon a dependent nation 
an internal tax, for the support of 
the mother-country ; to take by 
violence pecuniary supplies, which 
the constitution forbids the sove- 
reign to claim but by the free grant 
of his people. This was the sub- 
stantial and single grievance. The 
legislative authority of Great Bri- 



tain, in all matters of trade and 
navigation, and in every subject of 
general national policy, was never 
questioned by the colonists, and 
even in the moment of concession 
was solemnly asserted by Parlia- 
ment. But what the millions of 
America did not venture to demand, 
a handful of planters, forgetful or 
ignorant of the usages of centuries 
and of their own legislative acts, have 
the arrogance to claim. The ves- 
try of a parish of the lowest scale, 
in England, usually represents a 
larger body of constituents than 
the aggregate White population of 
St. Christopher, Tobago, Nevis, 
Montserrat, or St. Vincent. So 
much, however, are men in bondage 
to a name, that because half a score 
persons in each of those petty com- 
munities are invested with the style 
of Parliaments, and have forsooth 
their Speaker with his mace, and 
are permitted to exhibit a sort of 
burlesque parody on the stately 
forms of imperial legislature, a few 
slave-drivers and store-keepers, 
with scarcely literature enough to 
conduct the concerns of a benefit- 
club, are allowed to beard the 
King, Lords, and Commons of 
Great Britain, in the exercise of a 
right coeval with the constitution 
of our country. Reasoning, come 
whence it may, must at all times 
influence the conduct of reason- 
able beings ; but dogmas and au- 
thoritative decisions are valuable 
or ridiculous according to the 
character of their authors. It is 
time that we should learn what 
measure of weight is due to the 
opinions of these mimics of legis- 
lation *. 

* A treatise published in the year 
1789, by the Solicitor-General of the 
Bahama Islands, affords a curious view 
of the interior of a colonial assembly. 
The number of the members was, in 
that year, seventeen ; of whom four were 
planters, one the port-master of the 
islands, one a shop-keeper, one de- 
scribed as judge of petty courts, one 
the master of a small trading vessel, 
two whose means of life could not be 
ascertained at all, and five wreckers. 



30 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves." 



We have said thus much upon 
the constitutional question, which, 
though far too important to be 
wholly omitted, is yet too extensive 
to be discussed with sufficient ful- 
ness in this place. They who wish 
to pursue this inquiry further, will 
receive much information from this 
Report, and from a pamphlet pub- 
lished by Hat chard, in the year 
1802, and entitled " The Crisis of 
the Sugar Colonies*." 

A further objection to the law 
under consideration, has already 



but as inferior beings. The want 
of personal observation may, in 
some measure, be supplied by tes- 
timony; but what compensation 
can be found for the absence of 
impartiality and candour? 

But whatever means the colonial 
assemblies may possess of forming 
a right judgment, their disposition 
to act rightly towards their slaves 
no man but West-Indians, or their 
dupes, we imagine, will admit*. 
Slavery has been known in other 
times and nations : and wher- 



been stated by the Assembly of ever man has possessed unlimited 

Jamaica, and will, we doubt not, be power he has abused it. But 

made a very common ground of we speak the sober, measured, 

argument in the parliamentary dis- language of truth, when we say 

cussions of the Bill. It is, that that a slavery so merciless, a slave 



whatever measure may be necessa- 
ry to prevent the further importa- 
tion of slaves, or to remedy their 
present condition, the colonial as- 
semblies are, from local knowledge, 
best qualified to consider; and 
their will, it is added, seconds 
their ability. — We doubt the first, 
and utterly disbelieve the second, 
of these opinions. Prejudice may 
darken the understanding no less 
frequently than ignorance. The 
Parliament of Great Britain, we 
think, is not less competent to 



code so oppressive, legislative acts 
and recitals so disgraceful to our 
common nature, were never wit- 
nessed in the darkest hour of Greek 
or Roman tyranny, as have been 
established, in this our meridian 
glory of freedom, knowledge, and 
religion, by our own countrymen, 
in our own settlements. This, no 
doubt, is easily said : we know well 
that it is not difficult to prove. For 
the present, however, our narrow- 
ing limits forbid our engaging in an 
inquiry so extensive. An early 



legislate wisely for slaves whom opportunity, we trust, will be found 
they never beheld, than a tribe of of verifying to the letter every 
planters who never beheld them 
In the many narrow passages of the 



Bahamas, wrecks are extremely fre- 
quent ; and a wrecker is a person who 
lives by breaking up and selling the 
wrecks of vessels cast away on the 
shores of the island. This trade is well 
known on the coast of Cornwall. Of 
such persons, the most numerous class 
was formed in one of those assemblies 
which, during the Abolition-controversy, 
were pompous in asserting their legis- 
lative rights, and dictated constitutional 
laws ex cathedra. Yet the Bahamas cer- 
tainly contained rather a more opu- 
lent and respectable community than 
such as are commonly found in the Lee- 
ward Islands ; and the Solicitor-Gene- 
ral writes with no purpose of lowering 
the popular estimation of colonial legis- 
latures. 

* See a Review of this work in our 
vol. for 1802, p. 305. 



thing that we have said on this sub- 
ject. One suggestion, however, 
connected with this topic, we beg 

* There is something very peculiar 
in the views which some of our senators 
have been disposed to maintain, with 
respect to the competency of West- 
Indian planters, to exercise the exclu- 
sive and uncontrolled right of legislating 
for their wretched slaves. We might as 
well have left it to the slave-merchants 
of Liverpool and London, and to the mas- 
ters and mates of slave ships, to frame 
the slave-carrying bill. We might as 
well now leave it to the masters of our 
cotton manufactories to regulate, with- 
out controul, the condition of their ap- 
prentices. We might as well entrust it 
to the owners of illegal stills to frame; 
the regulations by which their own in- 
fractions of the law of the laud should, 
be checked. 



Review of" Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves? 31 

preserve the memory of the inde- 
pendence of his fathers. That un- 
happy people have been swept 
from the face of the earth ; and 
man has execrated, and God lias 
punished, the inhuman cruelty of 
their oppressors. 

In the same islands, the same 
awful tragedy has not yet been 
concluded ; not because a waste of 
life equally terrific has not been 
committed, but because the wretch- 
ed victims of the Slave Trade have 
hitherto supplied the demands 
which the deaths of their brethren 
in the West Indies have created. 
That resource is now partially, at 
least, destroyed; and to the present 
generation of Englishmen, the aw- 
ful duty is confided of impeding 
the further progress of this murder- 
ous system. 

For this purpose, a remedy is 
now proposed ; we think a suf- 
ficient remedy ; it may be a defec- 
tive one. Of this, however, we are 
sure that the importance of the 



leave to submit to the African In- 
stitution. Hitherto all the evi- 
dence given to the public on the 
interior condition of the slave- 
colonies has been derived from 
the White population — from those 
against whom the charge of oppres- 
sion is advanced. But there will 
be found in the islands a large num- 
ber of Persons of Colour, whose 
liberal education and extensive ac- 
quaintance with the state of West- 
Indian society, eminently fit them 
to assist in forming an accurate 
delineation of it. If a fund were 
raised for bringing over to England 
a few witnesses of this class, from 
each of our slave-colonies, a body 
of testimony might be collected, of 
incalculable value. There are at 
present in this country more per- 
sons than one of this number, from 
whom we have received communi- 
cations, as to the recent proceed- 
ings of the White colonists, to 
which it is impossible to listen 
without horror and indignation. 

History affords one, and, as far 
as we know, only one, example of a 
system of slavery at all resembling 
that now existing in our West-In- 
dian settlements. After the disco- 
very of America, the Spaniards took 
possession of nearly all the islands 
now subject to the dominion of 
Great Britain. The aboriginal in- 
habitants were reduced to a state of 
domestic slavery. They were penu- 
riously fed, and subjected to severe 
labours ; but their subsistence was 
not less abundant, and their toils far 
less severe, than those of the Negroes 
who now cultivate the same soil. 
They were visited with no desolat- 
ing diseases, and with no sudden 
and overwhelming calamities. But 
under the sway of their avari- 
cious tyrants, they gradually sunk 
with a silent and rapid decay. 
Fifty years had not passed after 
the commencement of their servi- 
tude, when, through the whole of 
these fertile regions, scarcely one 
Charib Indian remained to mourn 
the extinction of his kindred, or to 



question can hardly be over-rated. 
We solemnly implore every man 
who reads our pages, to lay these 
things to heart. It is with an 
anxiety painful and oppressive, 
that we request our countrymen, 
at least to consider this subject. 
We may turn away our eyes from 
these scenes of slavery and oppres- 
sion. But the eye of the Omni- 
scient rests upon them. In this day 
of our glory, they are a stain on our 
well-earned fame. In this day of 
religious zeal, they degrade us from 
the high station of the patrons arid 
benefactors of mankind. A refor- 
mation, radical and effective, in the 
whole of our colonial system must 
be made, or the day of retribution 
is not, cannot be, remote. Even 
now a Negro Empire is rising in the 
Charibbean Seas, in fearful strength 
and energy. The slave-drivers of 
Jamaica may yet strut their hour 
as legislators, aud publish their 
childish boasts of independence ; 
but they have in King Christophe, 
aud President Petion, near neigh- 



32 Review of " Reasons for establishing a Registry of Slaves.' 

hours, who may ere long, if they 
heed not the calls of mercy and 
justice, address these blusterers in 
a style yet more peremptory than 
their own. 

Hitherto we have said nothing 
of the work which gives the title to 
our present article. On a question of 
such magnitude as that before us, a 
critic may perhaps be pardoned, if 
he forgets a little the proper duties 
of his calling. It remains, how- 
ever, to be stated, that in this Re- 
port of the African Institution will 
be found a developement of the 
views which we have attempted to 
explain, far more copious and ac- 



curate than our own. — Much dis- 
cussion has lately taken place re- 
specting the claims of this Society 
to public support. Of its clamor- 
ous assailants,we wish to say nothing 
in this place. Peace be to their 
pamphlets and to themselves ; — 
such peace as that man can find, 
who views pre-eminent virtue only 
to calumniate it, and who inter- 
poses in works of mercy only to 
obstruct them. The Institution, so 
long as it presents to the world 
such works as that before us, will, 
we are confident, never want the 
cordial aid of all who venerate 
learning, genius, and chanty, 



Ellertou and Henderson, Printers, 
Johnson's Court, London. 



