FREEDOMS GIFT 



OR 




S K N T .1 M F. i\ T 3 



V f L 



i H E 1 R E E. 







; 


1 

HARTFORD: 


PUBLISHED 


BY S. S. 


C W L 1 9 


No. 7, 


Asylum 


St. 




18 40. 


j 

• 

Q 



, V) >/. £ £ //. ^ // 





FREEDOM'S GIFT 



FREEDOM'S GIFT 



OB 



SENTIMENTS OF THE FREE 



•> ■ i 



HARTFORD: 

PUBLISHED BY S. S. COWLE3 

No. 7, Asylum St. 
18 40. 

e/ 



tiio 



EXCHANGE FROW 
MESSRS. C. F. LI3BIE & C 

FEB 4 1907 




ARTFORD, \ * " * .*'« ! 

Printed by L. Skinner./' .*•; /■ £ 






• • • « *«' 






•y 



'"••"-' •ecorti^to Ah of Cong**, i„ „„. V( ,„. 1H4() |)y 
, , B. S. COWLES. 

««**Ctefk' 8 Office of the Dirtrirt Court of C, 



ouiierlicut. 



EXCHANGE FROHI 
MESSRS. C. F. LI8BIE & C 

FEB 4 1907 



V 



Hartford, 
Printed by L. Skinner 



* • •• • * «• 

• • • * •« : 

•• •• • • » e ••• 

• • • • e • e 

C. *• * 



•::•. 



e « • c • « • 
•* *e* • 



PREFACE. 

The character and design of this unassuming volume may be 
easily discovered, by a slight examination of its contents. However, 
in accordance with established custom, we preface a few words, as an 
introduction to the public. The work is unobtrusive in its character, 
prepared for the sole purpose of utility. It makes no pretensions to 
peculiar literary merit. We have not been ambitious to decorate its 
pages with the ornaments of rhetoric, or the higher beauties of 
poetry. We have preferred to utter our sentiments in clear, deci- 
ded, yet simple language. The object which has induced the publi- 
cation of this small volume, is the fond hope that it may prove instru- 
mental in allaying prejudice towards the cause of emancipation — in 
arousing the slumbering nation, from its death-like stupidity, on the 
subject of slavery— in exciting the sympathy and benevolence of the 
followers of the Savior— in urging on the feeble and the faltering 
in their arduous struggle for the Rights of Man. Praying that the 
blessing of Heaven, may attend this feeble effort for the advance- 
ment of the cause of truth and liberty, it is, like the widow's mite, 
affectionately tendered to the free in the place of a more liberal 
offering. 

Wesleyan University, May 2d, 1840. 



PREFACE. 

The character and design of this unassuming volume may be 
easily discovered, by a slight examination of its contents. However, 
in accordance with established custom, we preface a few words, as an 
introduction to the public. The work is unobtrusive in its character, 
prepared for the sole purpose of utility. It makes no pretensions to 
peculiar literary merit. We have not been ambitious to decorate its 
pages with the ornaments of rhetoric, or the higher beauties of 
poetry. We have preferred to utter our sentiments in clear, deci- 
ded, yet simple language. The object which has induced the publi- 
cation of this small volume, is the fond hope that it may prove instru- 
mental in allaying prejudice towards the cause of emancipation — in 
arousing the slumbering nation, from its death-like stupidity, on the 
subject of slavery — in exciting the sympathy and benevolence of the 
followers of the Savior — in urging on the feeble and the faltering 
in their arduous struggle for the Rights of Man. Praying that the 
blessing of Heaven, may attend this feeble effort for the advance- 
ment of the cause of truth and liberty, it is, like the widow's mite, 
affectionately tendered to the free in the place of a more liberal 
offering. 

Wesleyan University, May 2d, 1840. 






4V 

Entered according tn \nt „(■/■ 

► s 8. ( < >\\ | i.v 

in . u ci^s U( H,, ,„,!,,„„„,;, •;.;„ lrl .... 



otJiiHrticut. 



EXCHANGE fRCHW 

MESSRS. C. f. LI3BIE 4 U 

FEB 4 1907 



HERTFORD, 

Printed by L. Skinner./* /", /< C 



• • « 



PREFACE. 

The character and design of this unassuming volume may be 
easily discovered, by a slight examination of its contents. However, 
in accordance with established custom, we preface a few words, as an 
introduction to the public. The work is unobtrusive in its character, 
prepared for the sole purpose of utility. It makes no pretensions to 
peculiar literary merit. We have not been ambitious to decorate its 
pages with the ornaments of rhetoric, or the higher beauties of 
poetry. We have preferred to utter our sentiments in clear, deci- 
ded, yet simple language. The object which has induced the publi- 
cation of this small volume, is the fond hope that it may prove instru- 
mental in allaying prejudice towards the cause of emancipation — in 
arousing the slumbering nation, from its death-like stupidity, on the 
subject of slavery — in exciting the sympathy and benevolence of the 
followers of the Savior — in urging on the feeble and the faltering 
in their arduous struggle for the Rights of Man. Praying that the 
blessing of Heaven, may attend this feeble effort for the advance- 
ment of the cause of truth and liberty, it is, like the widow's mite, 
affectionately tendered to the free in the place of a more liberal 
offering. 

Wesley an University, May 2d, 1840. 



4k 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



TAGK. 

The Fugitive, 9 

To the Ladies of Connecticut, 15 

A Voice from the Heathen, 18 

To the South, 25 

Genius of Philanthropy, 27 

Go preach my Gospel, 31 

Guilt of the North— The National Compact, .... 34 

Slave-holders speaking of Northern dough-faces, . . 41 

The Bloody Banner, 43 

The Slave's Lament, 45 

The Triumph of Freedom, 48 

" We are verily guilty cone eming our brother," . . 52 

Prayer, 54 

Connecticut, 56 

The Patient Sufferer, 58 

Fasts, 61 

An Appeal to Christian Freemen in behalf of the Slave, . 63 

Morn of Liberty dawning, 65 

To Liberty turned Slave-holder, 68 

Ahmed and Zayda, 69 

The Slave Mother, 72 

The Victory won, 75 

The Genius of America, 76 

The Warriors of Truth, 73 

IS * 6 



viii CONTENTS. 

A Motto, 80 

The Banner of Freedom, 82 

Wilberforce, 84 

Petitions, 87 

The Contract 89 

The Gospel opposed to Slavery, 93 

Ode for July 4th, 1840, 97 

Slavery hostile to Religion, 99 

The Anti-Slavery Enterprise — its objects and aims, . . 103 

Liberty! Liberty! 107 



FREEDOM'S GIFT. 



THE FUGITIVE. 



BY J. T. NORTON. 



About two years since, whilst on board of one of the 
Connecticut River Steam Boats, I observed a young well 
dressed colored man, whose appearance and manners 
particularly attracted my attention. There was some- 
thing unusual in his whole bearing, and had a favorable 
opportunity offered, I should have made inquiries re- 
specting him. We soon reached Hartford, however, 
and I thought no more of him. 

A few months after the above occurrence, whilst at- 
tending a meeting at the office of the Connecticut Anti- 
Slavery Society in H , a respectable gentleman of 

that city came to the door, evidently in haste and some- 
what agitated, and enquired for Mr. B. After a short 
absence Mr. B. returned, and stated that the gentleman 
who had called him out, was under great anxiety on 
account of a young colored man who had been in his 
employ about three months, and who had just come to 
him in the deepest distress, confessing that he was a 
runaway slave, and stating that he had that moment seen 
his master and a noted slave dealer pass by, evidently in 
2 



10 freedom's gift. 

search of him and suspecting his residence. The gen- 
tleman and his family had become much interested in 
the young man, and were distressed at the thought of 
his being carried back into slavery. No time was to be 
lost, as Charles, (the name of the young man,) was 
confident he had been seen by his master. Directions 
were given, that he should go immediately, aud as pri- 
vately as possible, to a house designated in the outskirts 
of the city, and a gentleman present undertook to take 
him to F without delay. 

I saw Charles for a few moments before he lcft,H , 

and when my eye first fell on him, I recognised the 
young man who had attracted my observation on board 
the Steam Boat. My interest in him was now greatly 
increased. Then, my attention had been attracted 
towards him as one whom his Maker had stamped ex- 
ternally with the marks of superiority — in whose coun- 
tenance were evidences of intelligence, and whose gene- 
ral bearing indicated proper self-respect, though he 
belonged to a despised and oppressed race. Now, when 
I knew that he was a slave, that one, who I could not 
but feel was endowed by his Maker with qualities, (to 
say the least) equal to any that I myself possessed, that 
such an one should, in this land of boasted freedom, 
and in Connecticut too, be claimed as a slave, and be 
compelled to flee before his fellow man, though guilty 
of no crime, this greatly increased my interest, and I felt 
that there was a law, infinitely superior to any human 
laws, that called upon me to assist him in this his ex- 
tremity. 

The friend who had undertaken to convey him to a 
place of safety, was not long in keeping his appointment; 
and, all whose interest had been excited, breathed more 
easily when assured that Charles was, for a time certain- 



freedom's gift. 11 

ly, out of danger. They were soon convinced too that 
promptness had probably saved him, as an officer was 
searching that vicinity in a few minutes after his de- 
parture. 

The next morning I went with a friend to Charles' 
place of concealment, and learned his history. He was 
brought lip, or raised, in a highly respectable family 
in Virginia, and indeed his whole look and manner was 
that of a Virginia gentleman. Tall, slender, graceful, 
generally self-possessed, but bearing the marks of strong 
feeling, and evidently capable of exerting much energy. 
On the death of his master, whose son he probably was, 
he was sold, and in a gang of about eighty, taken to 
Natchez, where he was again sold for fifteen hundred 
dollars, to a gentleman of Vicksburgh. He was at first 
treated harshly, and indeed whipped several times, in 
order, as was said, to break him. He had always been 
a house servant in Virginia — he was now placed on a 
plantation a few miles from Vicksburgh, from which for 
several nights in succession he ran away and went di- 
rectly to his master's residence, stating his inability to 
work in the field, and promising to serve him faithfully 
in the house. After a time his master took him into his 
family, and he was soon made a body servant, and in 
this capacity traveled through several of the northern 
states and into Canada. He would not have left his 
master, had he not overheard him whilst at Cincinnati 
on his return from his northern tour, offering, or ex- 
pressing his intention to sell all his slaves and remove to 
Illinois. Charles took immediate measures to find 
friends in Cincinnati, and the next morning was on the 
road to Lake Erie, intending to go to Canada. Before 
reaching the Lake, he met a gentleman from Philadelphia, 
into whose employ he entered, and went to that city. The 



12 freedom's gift. 

much respected Dr. Parish, lately deceased, there he- 
came his friend. lie married a young woman hrought 
up, I think, in the Doctor's family, and here he lived in 
peace and prosperity for two years. 

But alas, poor Charles, though the son of a freeman, 
and born in this land of " equal rights" yet his mother 
was created with a dark skin, and was a slave, and he 
had no rights — none to himself, none to his wife, none to 
happiness. His master gained a clue to his residence in 
consequence of efforts made by Dr. Parish and others to 
purchase his freedom, and it was by the Doctor's advice 
that he came to New-England. But even here the man 
hunters found him, and here too the rights of man are 
so little understood or so little regarded, that these hunt- 
ers of human flesh found no difficulty in obtaining the 
services of others to aid them in again throwing the 
chains around one thus struggling for his rights. 

Charles had one day's rest in F , when Mr. B. 

came from H in great haste, and advised that he be 

immediately removed to some other place, as large re- 
wards were offered for his apprehension, and search 
would no doubt be made here. I shall not soon forget 
Charles' quivering lip nor his expression of eye, when 
told that he could not remain here ; that the pursuers 
were on his track. Had the baying of bloodhounds 
fallen upon his ear, his spirit could not have sunk more 
within him. This feeling, however, was but for a mo- 
ment. A rigidity of muscle, and a determined expres- 
sion soon followed, and no one could for an instant 
suppose that it was an idle threat, when he said, " I will 
die rather than go back to slavery." 

Charles' trunk had been sent to my care, and at about 
ten o'clock, one of our most respectable citizens, with a 
worthy colored man, a resident of the town, called for 



freedom's gift. 13 

the trunk with Charles. The tones of his voice, and the 
pressure of his hand, as I bade him " good bye," touched 
my heart ; and it was also affecting to see the disinter- 
ested benevolence of those, who had undertaken on a 
night of almost pitchy darkness to guide this poor stran- 
ger to a place of safety. They found a willing friend in 
a secluded part of the town, who secreted him for a few 
days, when another devoted friend of the slave, rode 
forty miles, between nine o'clock in the evening and 
day-light the next morning, placing the poor fellow en- 
tirely out of danger. He remained in this last place 
some weeks, whilst negotiations were pending between 
Dr. Parish and the master ; which, however, did not 
result successfully, and poor Charles was obliged to 
leave his country for Canada, where he arrived in safety. 
Queen Victoria has thereby gained a valuable subject, 
and we have lost one, besides adding to the long list of 
wrong and oppression, which already disgraces us in the 
eyes of the civilized world, and which cries to Heaven 
for vengeance. 

Charles' image often comes up in my memory, and 
when I think of him, and when I see others of his suffer- 
ing brethren, as I have seen many within a few years, 
I cannot but think that He, who was emphatically " the 
man of sorrows," would, were he on earth, especially 
sympathize with such ; and I have felt, in a peculiar 
manner, that His blessing will certainly attend all suit- 
able efforts to help these persecuted ones. Certain I am 
that the little aid it has been in my power to give them, 
has afforded me a satisfaction such as I have rarely 
enjoyed from any other efforts to do good. A free color- 
ed man always excites my sympathies, let his circum- 
stances be what they may. If he has succeeded in any 
degree in elevating himself amidst so many difficulties, 
2* 



14 



FREEDOM S GIFT. 



I look upon him as probably possessing rare merit; and 
if he is ignorant, brutal, and vicious, I attribute much of 
it to the depressing and discouraging circumstances by 
which he is surrounded. But a slave, and especially 
one struggling to obtain his birth-right, Liberty, I look 
upon as one entitled peculiarly to the sympathies of all 
who profess to be governed by the law of love. Which- 
ever way such an one turns, he meets the frowns of his 
fellow man. On the side of the oppressor too " there 
is power ;" and whether in the slave states or the free it 
matters but little. Here he is ready to start at any 
sound, even the rustling of a leaf; for he knows full 
well that there are numbers around him who hate him 
for his color's sake. He sees and feels this hatred of 
color, or caste, whichever it be, even here. How natural 
then when the colored man meets the eye of kindness 
and feels the hand of friendship, that he should yield 
that grateful emotion which all who have ever realized 
it, will well know how to estimate. In addition to this 
reward which the colored man's friend reaps here, may 
it not be expected that for every act of kindness and 
justice rendered to this oppressed class, the grateful 
plaudit will hereafter fall upon his soul, " Inasmuch as 
ye have done it unto the least of these ye have done it 
unto me." And may not he who refuses or neglects to 
do for his oppressed colored brethren all that love and 
justice demand though he were not colored, may he not 
with good reason fear that the Lord will say, u Verily I 
say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of the 
least of these, ye did it not to me. 
Farmington, April 20, 1640. 



TO THE LADIES OF CONNECTICUT, 



BY E. W. SOUTHWICK. 



We call for the aid of Connecticut's daughters 

To cheer on the strife in the Bondwoman's cause ; — 

The might of its fair, be it free as its waters, 

Float on the Free Rights and sustain the Free Laws. 

For womanly power is so movingly given, 

It ever must claim irresistible sway : 
The storm-clouds of wo are thus distantly driven, 

Or spread their deep gloom in appalling display. 

But she striveth not with that vigorous action, 
Which many in manhood so sternly approve ; 

Nor is she allied to the boisterous faction, 
But moveth by sympathy, quelleth by love. 

But these may alike be imparted to cherish 

The demons of Wrong, or the angels of Right, 

Bid Liberty flourish and Slavery perish, 
As woman directeth her vanquishing might. 

Then welcome the voice of the Sisterhood pleading 
So worthily bold for their sisters in bonds : 

O, speak for the rescue of Innocence bleeding, 

And wave o'er its Spoilers your shame-dealing wands. 

Let Italy's fair boast their rapturous graces, 
Or E ngland's proud dames chant the song of their pride ; 

Give Freedom and Truth your most zealous embraces, 
Connecticut's fair can be never outvied. 



16 freedom's gift. 

Ye claim that the brightest who roam o'er yourmountans, 
"Who walk by your streamlets, who dwell in your vales, 

Who pluck of your flowers, and sip from your fountains, 
Are fair as the fairest New-England empales. 

And ye will not say, the firm zeal that alleges 
The Right and the Truth in its cherishing glow, 

The loftiest, tenderest, faithfullest pledges, 

Are more than your worth can abundantly show. 

Then list for the Right — that zeal deeply waken ! — 
O give a sweet pledge to support the pure light, 

Which sheds its bright rays to rejoice the forsaken, 
And gives a free day for Captivity's night. 

Hear not ye the voices of pitiful grieving ? 

See not the sad tears, which unceasingly flow? 
And will ye not purchase the balm for relieving 

These mothers and daughters from merciless wo ? 

Ye never would yield to the Tyrant's subjection, 
Your daughters, to serve in the bonds of the Slave; 

Though darkly, or lightly, be tinged the complexion, 
Which Infinite Wisdom impartially gave. 

These claims for your own, plead ye loudly for others, 
And scorn the reproaches of Liberty's foes : 

Be ye to the Bondmaid as sisters and mothers, 

And breathe a kind love, where the Hate-tempest blows. 

Shall Albion's fair cast their look of derision 
At you, for the boast that your Nation is free ? 

And Erin's bold daughters, in righteous decision, 
Hang shame on your Slave-shading Liberty Tree? 

No ! Plead for the Right with the warmth of a Crandall — 
Hail Liberty's foes with her soul-stirring tone : 

Deliver the Captive from Slavery's vandal ! 

Both Albion's and Erin's bright worth is outshone. 



freedom's gift. 17 

Greece, Greece cries to you, from her slumbering ashes, 
And tells you to cherish the freedom she lost — 

To save your oppressed from their wo-twining lashes, 
To calm the dark billows Oppression has tossed! 

And Greece, ruined Greece, by her few daughters living, 
In tears for the kindness by which she is free, 

Now asks your assistance, in zealously giving 
Your effort to answer the Bondwoman's plea. 

Then ply the brisk needle, with diligent ringers, 
To furnish your Fairs of the worthiest fair ; 

And strive against Bondage, as long as there lingers 
A Woman with us, our oppression to bear ! 

Drink deep of the waters at Freedom's rich fountains, 
And chant the loud song of the Truth and the Right, 

Amid your rich vales and along your bright mountains, 
Enlightened forever by Liberty's light ! 



A VOICE FROM THE HEATHEN. 

• Physician, hud thyself:'' Luke iv. 23. 

BY JOSIAH BREWER, 

Missionary to the Mediterranean. 

Mv Greek Testament was open in my hand, and I 
had been dwelling on the passage, " Go ye into all the 
world and preach the gospel to every creature." I 
thought of the wondrous love of Him who gave that fare- 
well command to his disciples ; — the priceless ransom 
then freshly paid for the deliverance of self enslaved and 
guilty man. The obligations of His redeemed people 
next rose before my mind, to live, not henceforth unto 
themselves, but unto Him who loved them and who died 
for them. Then passed in long review the wide realms 
of pagan and Mahommedan darkness; India, Burmah, 
China, Persia, Turkey and Africa, until at length I 
insensibly fell back in my chair and was buried in sleep. 

Instead of the quiet village of my temporary sojourn 
by the banks of the free rolling waters of the Connecti- 
cut, where I had been proclaiming the gospel liberty to 
the unhappy captives of vice and crime, I now fancied 
myself on the busy wharves of the metropolis of New 
England. Methought ; it had been decided to send a 
bold and self denying mission, to plead the cause of the 
late martyred Christians, before the persecuting rulers of 
Madagascar. Our instructions had been received, and 
the vessel was already under weigh, which had been 
chartered to land me and my devoted associates on that 
great African Isle. The voyage was soon accomplish- 



freedom's gift. 19 

ed, and under the countenance of our national flag, we 
found introduction to the court of the monarch. Among 
his attendants were some youths who had been trained 
in Britain, so that we met with no difficulty in holding 
communication. As ambassadors for the King of kings, 
we sought and obtained an audience. A full council was 
convened, before which we fearlessly yet meekly and 
tenderly, spread out our errand. In humble imitation 
of Peter and John, we endeavored to convince them of 
their exceeding guilt, in condemning and executing by 
a cruel death, Raferavy and the other Christian mar- 
tyrs, of whom accounts had reached us. We were 
heard with great patience and occasionally a falling tear 
from some of the courtiers. Our message being deliver- 
ed, we were requested to go aside out of the council, to 
which again, after a long deliberation, we were summon- 
ed to receive the following answer, pronounced by the 
king in person. 

" Missionaries of Christ ! much that you have said to 
us is well. But in the sacred Book which you profess 
to follow, it is written, ' Physician, heal thyself' My 
subjects are four millions of people, whom you would 
fain persuade to embrace the faith of your crucified 
Lord. The bodies of some few of these who were active 
in teaching the Christian Scriptures, have indeed been 
tortured; but if the doctrines which they held be true, 
they have thereby only found a shorter path to Paradise. 
Their souls we could not hurt ; and as to what the body 
suffers, that it matters little, 1 infer, from the treatment 
to which almost as many millions of the same complexion 
as ourselves are exposed, on your Christian soil. Besides, 
it cannot be a more grievous sin to hinder a Madagascar 
peasant than an American slave, from reading the white 
man's Bible." Saying this, he held up before us, a 



20 freedom's gift. 

pamphlet of a hundred or more pages, on which, to our 
amazement, we read the title, " Slavery as it is !" 

We stammered out a lame apology and withdrew from 
the hall of audience. Before however the assembly 
broke up, a decree was issued, in biting mockery of our 
slave code, that if these American missionaries or any 
other persons should attempt to teach the people to read, 
they should be liable to six months imprisonment. 

Disheartened by such a reception, we returned to our 
vessel, and after spending a season in prayer and con- 
sultation decided unanimously not to forsake the mis- 
sionary work, but to proceed forward and join our breth- 
ren, who were so successfully proclaiming the gospel in 
the favored Sandwich Isles, 

Again our willing canvass was spread to the breeze ; 
the stormy cape was doubled, and ere long the lofty 
summit of Mouna Keah was rising to view. We eagerly 
landed and hastened to greet " brethren" with whom in 
years past, we had taken sweet counsel together, espe- 
cially on the missionary work. Gazing on their blanch- 
ing brows and toil worn countenances, we saw affecting- 
ly mirrored to us, the passing measure of our own days. 
Better, however, we thought, to wear out in the service 
of Christ than in the slavery of man ; laboring to bring 
others as well as ourselves, to the welcome rest that re- 
maineth for the people of God. 

Providentially we found the brethren assembled in 
their annual convention, as were also all the principal 
chiefs at the quarters of the king. We listened with the 
deepest interest to a review of the history of the mission 
from its beginning, and especially to the recent displays 
of the converting grace of God. The language had 
been acquired and reduced to writing; the Bible trans- 
lated, and portions of it with other useful books printed; 



freedom's gift. 21 

thousands of pupils had been taught to read ; churches 
erected and more than ten thousand converts gathered 
into church fellowship. In view of these and similar 
details, we could not but exclaim with wonder, u What 
hath God wrought]" After long discussions on the 
present state of the mission, intermingled with frequent 
devotional exercises, the missionaries united in opinion 
that notwithstanding some recent adverse occurrences, 
there was on the whole a steady progress of the gospel. 
The greatest obstacle in the way of the civilization of the 
people, and of their rising at no distant day to the rank 
of an enlightened and Christian nation, all were agreed 
arose from the absolute right which the king claimed 
over the entire soil and native population of the islands. 
After much prayerful consideration, it was resolved that 
the brethren and sisters should go in a body, and with 
all becoming respect and Christian earnestness, beseech 
him to relinquish his claim. 

We were permitted to join in the procession, and seldom 
had we witnessed a more moving scene. These precious 
brethren and sisters, some of whom had been permitted 
to cast into this prepared soil, the first smallest seed of 
the kingdom of heaven, and had watched and witnessed 
its gradual progress until it had become the present 
great tree, urged their suit by the most conclusive argu- 
ments and the most melting prayers and tears. They 
showed the immense advantage in point of revenue, 
from assigning small portions of land to each family in 
fee simple, and taking off all restraints upon industry. 

The king was evidently moved by their intreaties, but 
undisciplined as was his mind, he could not be persua- 
ded that he should become richer by giving away all his 
territory and granting freedom to all his subjects. His 
treatment of the missionaries was kind and respectful, 
3 



22 freedom's gift. 

but he met their appeal to Bible principles, by talking of 
u the Patriarchal Institution," reading extracts from 
" Slavery as it is," and appealing to the arguments and 
examples of many professing Christians in the goodly 
land from which and by some ofichom the gospel had 
been sent to them. As we retired in mournful silence to 
the dwellings of the missionaries, I whispered in the ear 
of one of the brethren who had accompanied me from 
America, " Physician, heal thyself" 

Happily for our world of trial and our imperfect na- 
ture, hope is a principle which springs up continually in 
the human breast, like a fountain of living water. Dis- 
couraging as was the king's response, and lessened as 
was thereby the demand for additional laborers, we re- 
membered that we were but a short distance from the 
inviting shores of the Oregon Territory. Taking an 
affectionate leave of these brethren of the Congregation- 
al and Presbyterian denominations, acting, as is well 
known, under the direction of the American Board, we 
embraced the earliest opportunity of a whale ship touch- 
ing at the mouth of the Columbia, to join our Methodist 
brethren already established west of the Rocky Moun- 
tains. With deep emotion I set foot on the soil, where, 
in my earlier missionary schemes, standing on the Ply- 
mouth rock, I had fondly hoped to find its counterpart. 

We were gratified to learn that the large reinforce- 
ment which had sailed some months before us, had all 
arrived in safety. Enlarged as was now their self deny- 
ing band, the dear brethren here felt called on to length- 
en the cords and strengthen the stakes of their establish- 
ment. For this purpose they had invited a general 
meeting of all the tribes along the Multnomah, the great 
southern branch of the Columbia and its tributary streams, 
in order to the planting of several new missionary sta- 



freedom's gift. 23 

tions. Of course we did not fail to be present in what 
had so often filled our imaginations, an Indian Council. 
These men of God who had taken their lives in their 
hands and circumnavigated half the globe, to preach the 
cross of Christ to the last unbroken remnant of the 
American aborigines, spake of a Saviour's dying love to 
this group of red men, in melting strains. They un- 
folded the general objects of their mission, and referred 
to other like benevolent efforts of the body with which 
they were connected. In conclusion, they invited such 
of the tribes as were desirous of being taught the word of 
God, to express their wishes. From the manner in 
which their words had been listened to, I was expecting 
an universal in treaty to take home some one of the new 
teachers with them. And such would probably have 
been the case, had not an aged chief arisen and stretch- 
ing forth his hand to a younger individual, began as fol- 
lows. " Tell me, you who accompanied our delegation 
beyond the mountains towards the rising sun, have any 
of those millions who are there held in bondage, mas- 
ters called Christian, and of the same denomination as 
these before US'?" The young man nodded assent. 
"And did you tell me, that among those slaves, were 
many of as light a hue as ourselves'?" On being an- 
swered again in the affirmative, he began a most impas- 
sioned harangue in the highest style of Indian eloquence, 
of which the following is the substance. The Great 
Spirit has given to the red man, the freedom of the for- 
est, and permitted him as unrestrained as the wild beast 
which prowls there, to pursue his game. Fair indeed 
are the professions of these teachers, but who can tell 
but theirs is some deep laid scheme gradually to bring 
us into the same bondage with the black and olive race. 
By their love of freedom, therefore, he conjured them to 



24 freedom's gift. 



¥ 



stand aloof from these messengers of a slave holding 
community. The assembly then broke up in great 
agitation and marked dissatisfaction, while I inwardly 
groaned, "Physician, heal thyself" We now found 
ourselves entirely at a stand. Retiring to the log dwell- 
ing of one of the brethren, a multitude of half despairing 
plans were proposed. One recommended that we should 
undertake a mission to the long oppressed Jews, another 
to the slave supplying regions of Western Africa, and a 
third to the Greek and Armenian rajahs, who had just 
been enfranchised by the Haiti Sheriff, or new Consti- 
tution of the young Sultan of Turkey. But these and 
similar proposals were effectually silenced by what had 
now become a melancholy proverb, "Physician, heal 
thyself" so that fetching a deep sigh, I was awaked from 
my dream. 



4 



TO THE SOUTH. 

BY H. H. SMITH. 

A curse is on jour mountains, 

Wo, wo, on every plain, 
Your rivulets and fountains 

Pour forth a wailing strain. 

Down from the breezy highlands, 
Out from the mead and lawn, 

Up from the dank sea-islands, 
A wild lament is gone. 

Must all throughout your borders 
The marks of sorrow wear ; 

The breeze that bears rich odors, 
The groans of bondage bear? 

'Tis Slavery that defaces 

Your blooming orange-bowers, 

Mars all your pleasant places, 

Your beauteous shrubs and flowers. 

The clods that nurse these blossoms, 
That form the valley's pride, 

Within their fearful bosoms, 
The murdered bondmen hide. 

The plague and pest of slavery, 
Stamps dale and dell and wood ; 

'Tis there your boasted bravery 
Is hunting guiltless blood. 
3* 



26 freedom's gift. 

Your land, ah what can save her? 

To moral worth deny'd, 
The slave and the enslaver, 

Alike are brutify'd. 

My soul as thou abhorrest, 
The outrage, sin and shame, 

That stain her fields and forests, 
Do thou her guilt proclaim. 

Glastenbury, April. 



GENIUS OF PHILANTHROPY. 

Our country is the world — our countrymen are all mankind. 

WM. L. GARRISON. 

No element of human nature so clearly reflects the 
lineaments of the Divine Character, as philanthropy. 
This is the richest, choicest flower in the garden of the 
soul. It is love — love towards the human race, a ray 
beaming forth from the great source of light, a stream 
gushing from the perennial fountain of benevolence. It 
does not confine itself to any specific clime or rank, but 
diffuses its genial influence over all. It is the golden 
chain that encircles and unites the different branches of 
the human family in one common brotherhood. It 
hovers alike around the scenes of dissipation; the abodes 
of misery; and the dens of vice. When on its errand 
of mercy, it heeds not the chilling blast of the tempest ; 
the tumbling billows of the angry deep ; nor the noxious 
fumes of the raging pestilence. Misery clothed in all its 
sad realities, finds a pillow of repose on the bosom of 
philanthropy — a refuge from the withering scorn of a 
cheerless world. Philanthropy is diffusive as the at- 
mosphere ; it penetrates the most expansive deserts ; 
crosses the broadest oceans; and scales the loftiest 
mountains. Its horizon is not merely the circumference 
of a petti/ state or territory, but of the vast universe. It 
cannot be confined to sectional or national limits, its 
elastic influence surmounts the most formidable barriers ; 



28 freedom's gift. 

though the)' toiver among the clouds. The heart of the 
philanthropist gushes as freely for those who inhabit the 
home of eternal frosts and snoivs, as for those who recline 
on the lap of luxury and ease, amid the ever verdant and 
spicy groves of the south. His bosom throbs with as 
deep emotion for the inhabitants of that region, which 
catches the first golden beams of the Sun, as for their 
far distant neighbors, on whom flashes his receding rays. 
It is impossible to contemplate this noble principle of 
human nature, without its exciting in our bosoms the 
emotions of sublimity; and to him, whose soul is not 
dead, and callous to every generous sentiment, the 
claims of philanthropy, speak in a voice, silent, indeed to 
the ear, but audible to the heart. When the man is 
merged in the philanthropist, then the loftiest height of 
human greatness is attained. If there be aught of earth, 
capable of exciting the ennobling emotions of sublimity, 
it is the contemplation of the philanthropist, with the 
rays of heaven's unchanging light reflecting from his 
brow, putting forth all the energy of his nature, in exer- 
tions to elevate the human race ; to dry up the bitter 
fountains of anguish; and to destroy the malignant ene- 
mies of our common humanity. Not even a sigh of an- 
guish escapes the grief-torn bosom of the criminal, in- 
carcerated in the damp cells of the dismal dungeon ; 
nor an expiring groan of the care-worn soldier, welter- 
ing in gore on the battle field; nor a heart-rending sob 
of the captive pining away in brokenness of spirit, under 
the insatiable demon of oppression, without melting into 
tenderness the philanthropist's heart. He scans with 
intense interest every thing which pertains to the weal 
or woe of the human family, and his bosom dilates with 
inexpressible rapture, when the humblest child of sorrow 
ceases to mourn. Philanthropy, 



freedom's gift. 29 

" Sun of the soul ! Sweet soother of all woe ! 
Balm-shaded fount where rills perpetual flow! 
Your healing dews, with life's harsh waters blend, 
Till he who lives a stranger, looks a friend. 
This hath been seen on earth's unbounded plains; 
This hath been felt, as wide as misery reigns; 
This shall be known when God's majestic car, 
Hath crushed the broods of Slavery and War, 
One realm of peace the Universe become, 
Mankind a brotherhood and Earth a Homey 

The maxim of the modern politician that honesty is 
excellent only in theory, but that policy is preferable in 
practice, has no affinity with the principles of philanthro- 
py. Such a sentiment, is the essence of selfishness, the 
inveterate foe of human happiness. This selfish princi- 
ple has long essayed to pluck the bright gem of philan- 
thropy from the crown of human nature, and quench its 
glowing rays, but its efforts have proved unsuccessful; 
it still beams with unabated brilliancy ; not like the lurid 
gleams of the lightning, which occasionally flash through 
the heavens at midnight, but like the Sun, pouring a 
ceaseless flood of light and warmth upon all around. 
The philanthropist strives not to wreath a crown of ter- 
restrial fame around his brow, or to perpetuate his noble 
deeds by monuments or statues; his record is in heaven, 
and in the world's great harvest day, when monumental 
marble has mouldered to dust, and the trump of worldly 
fame has blown its final blast, that record shall glow with 
transcendant brilliancy. Let the ambitious votaries of 
earth, pause, in their infatuated career, and for a mo- 
ment gaze upon the enrapturing bliss that clusters 
around the path of the Christian philanthropist, and 
while viewing this transporting sight, do they not sicken 
at their scrambles, for a mere bubble of human applause, 



freedom's gift. 



which the least blast of disapprobation dissipates, and 
whelms their aspirants in mortification and despair. 
Let others delve the mine, and tempt the briny deep, 
and amass possessions; they shall burn in the final con- 
flagration; let others entwine the victor's laurel, it shall 
fade and icithcr on their brows ; let others be celebrated 
by oppression and blood, they shall perish, and their 
names shall be consigned to perpetual infamy; but let 
me follow in the footsteps of Howard, Wilberforce, or the 
Divine Philanthropist of the human race, and I ask no 
more. A stupendous work of reform invokes the assist- 
ance of philanthropy. The world lying in sin and wick- 
edness must be redeemed — the dark clouds of heathen- 
ism which envelop so much of earth must be dissipated — 
the troubled ocean of intemperance must cease to roll 
its scathing surges over human hopes and happiness — 
the shrill blasts of war, and the dying moans of the van- 
quished must be hushed — the blighting, soul-crushing 
influence of cruel prejudice must be annihilated — the 
deep agony of bleeding humanity must be assuaged — 
the bloody fabric of American oppression, with all its de- 
testable appendages must be crumbled to ruins. " The 
harvest is plenteous but the laborers are few." Philan- 
thropists, Christians, in the name of Israel's God, be 
entreated to consecrate your energy and influence to 
this benevolent work, and let the tears of your sympathy 
flow until there shall accumulate one vast ocean, whose 
bright waters shall reflect the beams of philanthropy and 
irradiate the world with the light and love of Heaven. 

R. S. Rust. 
Wesleyan University. 



GO PREACH MY GOSPEL. 



BY Iff. V. BALL. 



11 Go preach my gospel" to the hardened Jew, 

Said the Redeemer to his chosen few, 

44 Go preach my gospel" wheresoe'er is found 

A form of clay with God-like image crown'd ; 

Go to all nations, kindreds, tongues and tribes, 

To Sadduceean caste and haughty Scribes, 

Go tell the Greek 'tis heaven's supreme decree, 

His mighty wisdom shall confounded be ; 

That none shall glory, saving in the name, 

Of him who from the root of Jesse came ! 

Go haste to Ind where flowery palm trees bloom, 

And bid the Hindoo cast away the gloom, 

That o'er his soul is spread by Nicban's dreams, 

Or freezing hills, or darkly burning streams ; 

Haste ye to Greenland's snow-clad mountaineer, 

Where reigns the iceberg through the wasting year, 

Where scarce is seen the cheering light of day, 

And man in error gropes his downward way ; 

High lift the cross, the cross whose heavenly light, 

Shall joy diffuse, and quickly put to flight, 

Illusions vain, that cloud the 'wildered mind, 

Of him who seeks a God and heaven to find. 

Go, my disciples, with you to the end 
I'll constant be, a true, unwavering friend, 
Throughout all years till time shall be complete, 
And earth and sky scroll-like together meet. 



3*2 freedom's gift. 

Thus spake the Saviour, and in living light, 
The God ascended from their wondering sight, 
Heaven opened wide its gates of burnished gold, 
And minist'ring angels all the tale unfold ! 

And hath the Church fulfilled the high command, 

And gospel light illumined every land ; 

Say hath she cast her gold and silver forth, 

To bless the South, the East, the West, and North, 

Hath pagan nations caught the gladsome word, 

And ransom'd myriads flock'd to meet their Lord ? 

Hath the lone captive left his cankering chain, 

And hasted forth, rejoicing, that from pain, 

And servitude, and ignominious toil, 

He now is free, on fair Columbia's soil? 

Hath the slave mother 'neath Floridian skies, 

Wiped the salt tear-drop from her fading eyes, 

Say, can she clasp her babe in rapture sweet, 

Delighted, that at evening's close she '11 meet, 

The partner of her lot, safe home returned, 

To share the joys sweet Freedom hath confirmed? 

Say, hath the gospel trump of silvery strain, 

Waked to new life the exile on the plain, 

Who worn with journeying, spent with hopeless grief, 

Petitions heaven for death to give relief, 

And end the sad remembrance of that day, 

That tore him from his wife and babes away. 

Answer ye Watchmen on fair Zion's wall, 
Ye who the Church, the Lord's anointed call, 
Answer, if ye that silvery trump have blown, 
And to His people their transgressions shown ; 
Answer, if ye at morning and at noon, 
By the way side, beneath the quiet moon, 



freedom's gift. 33 

Have preached deliverancje to the captive soul, 
Long sunk in sin, debased by earth's control ? 

Answer, ye Christians, who beneath your vines, 
And fig trees fair, and lovely Sabbath chimes, 
Have dwelt at ease, not heeding the deep groans, 
Of souls entombed, whose bitter swelling moans, 
Heavenward have fled, and reached his holy ears, 
Who bore for man a life of grief and tears ! 

Answer ye priestesses, who daily stand, 

Beside home's altars in our favored land, 

Answer, if ye the poor man's cause sustain, 

When priest and Levite, and the giddy train, 

In cold contempt pass heedlessly away, 

Nor wait to bind his wounds, nor weep, nor watch, nor 

pray! 
O, ever may ye like that woman band, 
Who dwelt in Palestina's sacred land, 
Be found sustaining him, who, spent with grief, 
Sues with sad looks, for comfort and relief; 
For know ye, that when he who gave command, 
" Go preach my gospel" unto every land, 
Know, that when he in flaming clouds shall rise, 
And call his chosen to ascend the skies, 
They, and they only, shall his glory see, 
They, and they only, join heaven's minstrelsy ! 

Boston, May, 1840. 



«* 



GUILT OF THE NORTH — THE 
NATIONAL COMPACT. 

BY WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 

The American Slaveholder is without excuse, and 
the whole nation stands justly condemned in the pres- 
ence of an assembled universe. I say the whole nation — 
for the North is scarcely less guilty than the South. It 
is in vain that we pour out the vials of our indignation 
upon the Southern portion of our land, while the North- 
ern section is equally committed to do evil. If any man 
demand of me why I do not go to the South, this is my. 
answer : Not that I am unwilling to encounter peril, or 
suffer death, in the propagation of truth, if it be the will 
of God ; but that there is a great work to be done at 
home, before any reformation can be effected in the 
slaveholding regions. When I remember that there is 
not one foot of ground in all New-England, upon which 
a fugitive slave can stand in safety from his pursuers — 
not one city of refuge into which he can flee when fam- 
ished, lacerated, and tortured to madness; — when I 
reflect that the people of the free States, in their sove- 
reign capacity, readily agree to recapture, and send 
back to his enraged master^ the unhappy creature who 
has surmounted the perils of the wilderness, and esca- 
ped from the jaws of keen-scented, swift-footed blood- 
hounds ; — when I think of these things, my mind is 
filled with horror — a righteous indignation inflames my 
spirit — my brain grows unsteady through excitement. 



35 

I feel as if no other reason were necessary, why I do 
not go to the South. There are some among us, I 
know, who would sooner die at the stake than stain their 
hands with blood, in aiding or abetting the prowling kid- 
napper, or his agent, to recover his self-emancipated 
bondmen. This spirit ought to be universal. The man 
who is devoid of it shows that he has " no flesh in his 
obdurate heart" — that he has the spirit of Satan, and 
not of Christ. People of New-England! I have a mes- 
sage to you from the Lord — that you publicly clear 
yourselves from all participation in this slave-catching 
business. Until you do so, "though you wash your- 
selves with nitre, and use much soap, yet your iniquity 
is marked before me, saith the Lord." — "For how can 
ye say, We are not polluted, we have not gone after 
Baalim V 9 — " Wash you, make you clean ; put away 
the evil of your doings ; seek judgment, relieve the op- 
pressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow." 
Proclaim in all your public assemblies that, as soon as a 
slave touches your sacred soil, or breathes its air, " that 
moment he is free." 

If I am asked, whether I am not aware of the com- 
pact which has been made — or, more truly, which is 
assumed to have been made — between the North and 
the South, in regard to this very thing, my reply is — / 
am. If, then, I am asked, whether I mean to counsel 
you to trample that part of the compact under your feet, 
as an unholy thing, my answer is — I do. And for two 
reasons: " We ought to obey God, rather than man." — 
" Whether it be righi, in the sight of God, to hearken 
unto men more than unto God, judge ye." As for my- 
self, if in any sense, or in any manner, I have been a 
party to the compact between Northern liberty and South- 
ern slavery, I now proclaim a dissolution between that 



36 freedom's gift. 

compact and myself. I will neither politically nor reli- 
giously consent to a union with felons of the worst grade, 
with tyrants, with men-stealers. There is no law of 
the land that can justly bind me to such an alliance: 
there is no law of God, that allows me to recognize it as 
of any rightful authority. 

I fear, I greatly fear that this nation is doomed to de- 
struction, though a remnant shall surely be saved. The 
progress of the Anti-Slavery cause has been, indeed, 
surprising — and so far there is ground for hope ; but, 
oh ! what a change yet remains to be wrought in public 
sentiment, before we shall be in a condition to receive 
the forgiveness of heaven ! Will the Lord of hosts pro- 
long our day of probation ? Is not this the prospect be- 
fore us, that "through his wrath the land shall be dark- 
ened, and the people be as the fuel of the fire ? No man 
shall spare his brother !" 

Alas ! alas! the leaders of the people, in Church and 
State, cause them to err ; and they that are led of them 
are destroyed. The damning sin of idolatry is prevalent 
in the land. The American people know not God, nei- 
ther will they listen to the voice of his Son. They have 
made unto themselves an idol, which they exalt above 
all that is called God. It is not an idol of wood or stone, 
like unto Juggernaut — but a deity which they call the 
Union, the ponderous wheels of whose car are rolling 
over the bodies of millions of the inhabitants, so that the 
soil is red with human blood. It is a golden image 
which they have set up; and whoso speaketh against it, 
or falleth not down and worshippeth it, must be prepared 
to be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace! 
" The Union must be preserved !" — though it be at the 
sacrifice of humanity, justice, righteousness ! " It must 
be preserved!" — though it is based upon the sand of 



freedom's gift* 37 

expediency, and not upon the rock of principle ; and 
though it is cemented with blood, and upheld by vio- 
lence! But how is this possible? Can a house, divi- 
ded against itself, stand ? " Say ye not, a confederacy, 
to all them to whom this people shall say, A confedera- 
cy ; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid." " Where- 
fore, hear the word of the Lord, ye scornful men that 
rule this people. Because ye have said, We have made 
a covenant with death, and with hell are we at agree- 
ment; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, 
it shall not come unto us: for we have made lies our 
refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves. 
Therefore, thus saith the Lord, Judgment will I lay to 
the line, and righteousness to the plummet ; and the 
hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the waters 
shall overflow the hiding place. And your covenant 
with death shall be disannulled, and your agreement 
with hell shall not stand ; when the overflowing scourge 
shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it." 
"United, we stand — divided, we fall." United? 
United in what? In doing evil, that good may come ? 
In striking hands with thieves, and consenting with 
adulterers? In pledging the physical force of twelve 
millions of the inhabitants of the land, to keep in chains 
and slavery two millions and a half? In allowing the 
worst of tyrants to sit in both houses of Congress, as 
legislators to make laws for freemen and Christians, giv- 
ing them, in addition, all the political power which be- 
longs to their slaves? In providing that no runaway 
slave shall find a resting-place for the sole of his foot in 
any part of the republic? In seeking to exterminate, 
even with blood-hounds, the feeble remnants of the red 
men of our wilderness? In grinding the faces, and 
scorning the very sight of the emancipated people of 
4* 



38 freedom's gift, 

color? Truly, in all those things we are united — and 
shall we therefore be able to stand ? 

" Divided, we fall." Then, I fear, our fall is cer- 
tain ; for our boasted union is but a rope of sand, which 
shall be broken by the first wave of God's retributive 
justice. " Be not deceived : God is not mocked : for 
whatsoever a people sow, that shall they also reap." 
Citizens ! exercise your own good sense, and decide. 
Can the Genius of Liberty and the Demon of Oppres- 
sion belong to the same league? Is there any such 
thing as a union of right and wrong — of virtue and 
vice — of honor and infamy ? Surely, in order to bring 
it to pass, right must be no longer right, virtue no longer 
virtue, honor no longer honor. We are united, in form, 
it is true ; but we are not, we never have been, we never 
can be, united in spirit, so long as slavery is tolerated in 
the land. Fire and water can never coalesce ; neither 
can freedom and tyranny enter into equal co-partner- 
ship. It is true, to a superficial observer, the American 
Union is, outwardly, very beautiful ; but, on examina- 
tion, he will find it, inwardly, full of dead men's bones 
and of all uncleanness. The Union ! Of what value is 
it to me, to any man who is an abolitionist? — i. e. the 
friend of universal liberty. Fellow-citizens! know you 
not that you will be treated as outlaws in the slave-hold- 
ing regions, if you shall dare to express your abhorrence 
of slavery, and, in the name of justice and humanity, 
demand its immediate abolition ? Was it for such a 
Union as this, that our revolutionary sires poured out 
their blood like water ? Awake to a sense of your dan- 
ger, and behold your real condition ! All that keeps 
this Union together is the cord of selfishness — and what 
can be more brittle ? Be admonished ! Utterly futile 
will be every attempt to perpetuate it by external re- 



freedom's gift. 39 

straints, or legislative enactments, or judicial penalties; 
or by any military forces, or political checks and balan- 
ces, or democratic creeds and forms. All these can 
never be a substitute for righteousness, which alone can 
exalt, and preserve, and unite a nation. The only 
union that can stand in the day of visitation, is the union 
of our souls to God, and to his Son Jesus Christ — a 
union of hearts in love — a love which " worketh no ill 
to his neighbor," and is the fulfilling of the law : for it 
is is the sole prerogative of the God of heaven to set up 
a kingdom, and make a covenant that shall never be 
destroyed. "Cursed are all they who trust in man, or 
who make flesh their arm." 

Reader, by whose side are you resolved henceforth to 
be found — the bound and bleeding slave's, or his tyran- 
nical master's ? Do you say that you should sympa- 
thize with them both ? I grant that you may not hate 
any man, however guilty he may be : but I ask, where 
in all the Bible do you find any command to sympathize 
with the oppressor ? or any palliations for his conduct 1 
or any intimations that he may not be sharply reproved ? 
Read what awful judgments God has pronounced against 
him by the mouth of his faithful prophets, Isaiah, Jere- 
miah and Ezekiel. Observe, too, how just in propor- 
tion as Jehovah flames with holy indignation against 
the oppressor, he pours out the infinite fulness of his soul 
in yearning sympathy over the oppressed ! To the for- 
mer, he is a consuming fire ; to the latter, all tenderness 
and compassion. Now, " be ye perfect, even as your 
Father who is in heaven is perfect." Imitate him in 
his views and feelings, as you contemplate the horrors 
of slavery. If, hitherto, you have attempted to shield 
the slaveholder from condemnation, do so no more, at 
the peril of your soul ; for he is utterly inexcusable. Cry 



40 freedom's gift. 

aloud — but not in his defence. " Open thy mouth for 
the dumb, in the cause of all such as are appointed to 
destruction." And who arc they, if they be not your en- 
slaved and imbruted countrymen at the South ? Unite 
with those who are endeavoring to save the nation from 
ruin, by undoing the heavy burdens, and letting the op- 
pressed go free ; and consecrate a just portion of your 
time, your talents, your influence, your property, your 
labors and prayers, to the support of this holy enter- 
prise. The Lord ever works by instrumentalities, and 
let him find in you a loving mind to do his will. So 
shall you glorify his name, and the blessings of those 
who are ready to perish, shall rest upon your head ! 



* 









SLAVEHOLDERS SPEAKING OF 
NORTHERN DOUGH-FACES. 



BY H. H. SMITH. 



What paltry fools they are to fear 

The threats and swaggering of the South; 

At our clenched fists away they steer, 
And if we say, shut up your mouth, 

They mind us, with a soul no bigger 

Than if each were a dumb white nigger. 

We have given them a good seasoning, 
Well disciplined, in Southern mode; 

They believe in all our reasoning, 
And think the District was bestowed, 

To be a mart for human chattels 

As well as fighting Congress battles. 

Think they their laws were made for slavery ? 

That they to us are bowing down ? 
Or do they fear our Southern bravery ! 

They dare not say their soul 's their own ; 
They tremble to gainsay slave-holders, 
Lest all their heads should leave their shoulders. 

And how we shame them — Abolition 

Is a word they will disclaim, 
As if it would be their perdition 

To be suspected of the name; 
Thus they begin — " I must insist 
I am no abolitionist." 



42 freedom's gift. 

Our gag is copied wondrous well 
In every Northern country town ; 

Discussion stopped by shout and yell, 
And their own laws are clamor'd down, 

As if they had been taking lessons 

Of Waddy Thompsons, Bynums, Prestons, 
Glastonbury. April 1840. 



THE BLOODY BANNER. 

BY LAURILLA ALEROYLA. 

What banner floats on yonder sea ? Its silken folds 
seem tinged with gold. The royal purple hue is there, 
with crimson red, imperial blue and scarlet rays, bright 
as the flame of sunset glow. It is a splendid banner. 
What valiant nation owns it 1 Proudly it bears its radi- 
ant colors to the sky, and fearlessly and joyfully it 
dances o'er the mighty deep. But stay — that is no 
Tyrian die — no sunset ray. That banner's glowing hue 
is blood ! The purple stream of life is flowing there ! 
See, oh see, the reeking gore has crimsoned even ocean's 
wave. 

What nation's banner may that be ? Is it England's 
Lion bold? Oh no! No Lion there ; not that the flag 
of Albion's sons. What ! see you not that soaring Eagle? 
Know you not those brilliant stripes'? It is the far- 
famed, star-gilt banner of America. America ! That 
is a noble nation. Well I know her gallant story. She 
was taxed by kingly power — abused by kingly pride — 
and she revolted. She would not bear oppression. She 
led her youthful troops, unarmed, undisciplined, against 
a monarch's veteran bands, and fought for liberty. She 
dared even England's power, and bravely won her Inde- 
pendence. Well may the towering Eagle deck her ban- 
ner. Well may the stars of heaven glitter there, and 
well may rainbow stripes adorn it ; for she gave liberty, 
peace, happiness, and equal rights to all her people. 



44 freedom's gift. 

But ichy is the banner of America still wet with blood? 
What battle has she fought — what victory won 1 With 
what bold nation is she now at war? With none. On 
every breeze her flag is freely borne ; it waves in peace 
o'er every sea. In peace ! Why streams that banner 
then with blood ? 

America has shorn her beauteous flag of all its honors. 
Oh, she has drenched that lofty banner in the gore of 
guiltless Africa. Not in the gore of " mighty chieftain" — 
not in the gore of " sable warrior armed for fight," but 
IS the gore of unresisting millions, chained and stricken 
to the earth. Oh, she has dipt her noble banner in the 
blood of the defenceless mother — in the blood of helpless 
children and of shrieking babes ! ! Avaunt thou cursed 
banner ! Pestilence is in thy stars — treachery in thy 
coward Eagle ! murder in thy stripes ! ! Oh, bring to 
me the flag of Europe's despot-kings; even the Sultan's 
crescent bring — Mahomet's standard bear — but take, oh 
take away the Bloody Banner of America ! ! 



THE SLAVE'S LAMENT. 

BY GEORGE STEARNS. 

I rambled alone on a southern shore, 
Where the vine encircles the sycamore ; 
Where sometimes in a December day 
The skies are as mild as a northern May ; 
But where, when Sirius joins the sun, 
There 's fever and thirst for the shelterless one. 

'T was the time when the vine its rich clusters doth shed, 
When the ivy hangs out its gay tresses of red, 
When its winding-sheet the chrysalis weaves, 
And the sickle is heard 'mid the falling of sheaves ; 
Yet flowers were there, which had just begun 
To dye themselves in the autumn sun. 

I sat in the shade of a myrtle tree, 
And a bounteous view delighted me : 
The orange limb bended with golden weight, 
The air was scented with melon and date, 
And a winding stream would the eye entice, 
To a cany brake, through fields of rice. 

A dream-like thought came over me there, 
Which was of the Author of all things fair, 
While Phoebus was soft'ning his westerly glow, 
Till Dian had hung up her silvery bow, 
And left me unconscious that evening was near, 
Till the plaint of a sorrower wakened my ear : — 
5 



46 freedom's gift. 

"Welcome, evening ! with the day 
Now the sultry hours away, 
And the lengthning shadows cast 
Sweet oblivion on the past, 
When, beneath the fainting heat, 
Time has gone on sluggish feet, 
And the tasker's eye would chide 
Human hope and manly pride, 
Till the aching heart would sigh 
For a respite, or to die. 

11 Now the stars are looking bright 
From their home of chrysolite ; 
Freeborn swains are whistling shrill 
To the song of whip-poor-will ; 
And the lover's seranade 
Woos the ear -of lily maid ; 
While the cricket's song of glee 
Tells how joyous are the free : 
But the slave of low distress, 
Where 's the sight or sound can bless ? 

"From the freeman's lighted hall 
Comes the voice of festival; 
By the gorgeous chandelier 
Tapestry and board appear, 
And the savory dishes, where 
Group the smiling and the fair : 
Mine a scanty meal of corn, — 
Let me drown in sleep till morn, 
And my burden then shall be, 
That I wake not to be free. 

14 1 have wife, and children too, 
Dear as freeman ever knew ; 



freedom's gift. 47 



But, alas ! oppression's hand 
Severed wide the nuptial band ; 
And, for many a lingering year, 
Love has cherished sorrow's tear. 
I shall never see them more, 
Till my dreary days are o'er, 
Till we meet beyond the grave, 
Where Oxe careth for the slave !" 

My feet the sorrower's way forsook, 
But my burdened soul his wo partook, 
Which could my nation's heart have felt, 
How would the chains of slavery melt; 
And Afric's sons, no more to wail, 
Would the blest dawn of Freedom hail ! 
Weston, Mass.. April 16, 1840. 



THE TRIUMPH OF FREEDOM. 



BY D. PLUMB. 



The present is an era of important events. The light 
of science and religion is spreading with a rapidity un- 
paralleled in the world's history. The true notion of 
civil government is becoming more fully developed, as 
being an institution of human happiness, and not an in- 
strument of despotic power ; while the diffusion of virtue 
and knowledge is seen, more than ever, to be the only 
safeguard of its purity and permanence. The establish- 
ment of correct principles of moral action ; the distinct 
recognition of fundamental and inalienable rights, and 
a mutual adherence among men to the law of love, are 
beginning to be every where acknowledged as the three- 
fold bond of human society, without which it cannot long 
continue in happy and harmonious operation. 

Hence the patriot, the philanthropist, and the Chris- 
tian have begun to cast about them for the means of 
gathering in those who are cast without the pale of hu- 
manity, and of elevating them to their true position 
among men. Plans of the most enlarged benevolence 
have been originated and carried into successful opera- 
tion for the accomplishment of these ends; among 
which stands pre-eminently forth the Anti-Slavery cause, 
throwing its glory across the dark heavens that curtain 
the home of the slave, and resuscitating within his bosom 
the languishing hopes that have so long been mocked by 
the illusive dreams of redemption. Yes, in the depart- 



freedom's gift. 49 

meats of civil and natural liberty a glorious era has 
dawned upon the world. Principles and instrumentali- 
ties are now at work which must shake the nations until 
every system of oppression is thrown down. The spirit 
of reform is pervading the dynasties of Europe, and soon 
it will sweep the last tyrant from his already tottering 
throne, and vindicate and establish for the Old World 
that long-forgotten truth, that Liberty is the inalienable 
right of every man. 

Slavery is beginning to be condemned, not only in 
word, but in fact and in practice, by the whole civilized 
world. France, Spain, Portugal, Denmark, Sweden, 
Austria, Prussia and Germany have all, at different 
times, put their hands to the work of emancipation ; and 
England, especially, has lately marched nobly up to the 
land-marks of freedom. The wailings of her slaves, in 
her colonial isles, have been borne by the moaning 
winds to her shores, and they have not been heard in 
vain. Those wailings have ceased ; her bondmen are 
free; and the songs of redeemed thousands roll along 
her valleys, and fill her free air with jubilant sounds. 

France is about preparing to strike a final blow at the 
system of oppression in her realms, and soon not a yoke 
nor a chain will be seen in all her domains, except for 
the lawless and ungovernable. Even the Pope has 
uttered his anathemas against the hellish traffic in the 
" bodies and souls of men," and has called upon the 
Catholic fraternity concerned, to cease from the un- 
righteous commerce and end their deeds of oppression 
and wrong. When Popes and absolute monarchs begin 
to plead for the rights of humanity, then may the op- 
pressed subject and the toil-worn captive lift their heads 
and throw their down-cast eyes aloft to catch the first 
glimmerings of the day-dawn of their redemption. 
5* 



50 freedom's gift. 

And not only do the signs of the bondman's deliver- 
ance multiply upon the eastern continent, but the star of 
American liberty, that rose in the stormy times of the 
revolution, but which has hitherto shone but dimly in 
our national horizon, and with partial radiations, is 
destined, ere long, to burst forth from the clouds that at 
present obscure it, and pour its mild, and steady, and 
life-giving beams on all the inhabitants of the land. 
Yes, the day of redemption for the slaves of our country 
draws nigh. The means are in operation which, under 
God, shall accomplish the glorious work. In vain will 
be the opposition of the tyrant and his abettors. The 
deed is demanded in the name of God, "who has made 
of one blood all nations," and u who executeth judgment 
for all that are oppressed" It is demanded in the name 
of humanity, whose gushing benevolence can never 
cease to flow so long as there remains one wo to assuage, 
or one tear to wipe away from the cheek of suffering 
man. It is demanded in the name of Liberty, who sits 
sad and with veiled face in our midst, while she waits to 
confer the priceless boon of freedom upon millions from 
whom it has been unrighteously plundered. 

And shall not this trio call be regarded 1 Shall it not 
be successful ? It shall. The justice of the nation is 
not yet powerless that it should not act. The heart of 
the nation is not yet a stone that it should not move. 
The benevolence of the nation is not yet frozen up that 
it should not flow; but justice and mercy shall shortly 
meet together, rejoicing over emancipated millions in 
our land. Already is liberty, like a mighty conqueror, 
advancing in glorious triumph, and dragging at the 
wheels of his car, as the trophies of conquest, manacles, 
and chains, and yokes, and fragments of the demolished 
thrones of scepter-bearing tyrants and oppressors. Soon 



freedom's gift. 51 

shall the voice of Jehovah be heard saying, " Proclaim 
Liberty throughout all the land unto all the in- 
habitants thereof ;" and Omnipotence shall be there 
to render efficient the fiat, and the work shall be done. 
Then shall the principle of love " that worketh no ill to 
our neighbor," bind together the different branches of 
the family of man in the bonds of a common brother- 
hood. Then shall the " Sun of Righteousness," blend- 
ing Ins rays with the orb of Liberty, illumine every por- 
tion of the moral heavens, and irradiate every land with 
noon-day effulgence. Then shall "wars cease under 
the whole heaven," and the olive-branch of peace wave 
triumphantly over a quiet and harmonious world; and 
the sighings of the prisoners and the groanings of the 
oppressed shall no longer mingle with the passing 
breeze, but the song of universal Jubilee shall swell and 
fill the world. 






"WE ARE VERILY GUILTY CONCERN- 
ING OUR BROTHER." 



BY HENRY GREW. 



Guilty ! Just God, 'tis even so. On thy 
Fair brow Columbia, by heaven's signet stamp'd, 
The charge is fixed, deep and indelible, 
Till penitence shall wash the stain away. 

Guilty: for we, O Lord, have known thy law 
Of everlasting right. " Even as thyself 
Thy neighbor love." Afar we sent it forth, 
That despots all might learn and tyrants know, 
God ne'er made man to be the slave of man. 
O mockery! Back in the teachers' teeth 
The keen retort is flung, "teach first thyself." 

Guilty! But who shall tell the direful tale 
Or count the woes which avarice has poured 
Into our brother's soul] Oppression vile ! 
No human right thy reckless hand will spare ! 
Far more than "pound of flesh" it doth require: 
Blood ! Blood ! against us crieth from the ground. 

On to his unpaid toil, behold thy brother driven, 
His quivering, tortured flesh, with cruel stripes is riven ; 
Children, and wife more dear, for love of filthy gold, 
With mockery of his tears, are in the market sold : 
The mind, the godlike soul, sustains severer blight; 
To blind to sense of wrong, 'tis robbed of heaven's own 
light; 



freedom^ gift. 53 

Its every opening power, crushed in its embryo state, 
And then the impious wrong charged to eternal fate. 

Guilty ! Yet mercy holdeth back awhile 
Thy thunderbolts, O Lord. Nations less vile, 
In Heaven's estimate, like potter's vase, 
To pieces have been dashed. Yet is the sword un- 
sheathed, 
And on its fiery blade, in living light, 
Mark well the charge eternal justice brings; 
"Ye know your duty but ye do it not." 
O now thy day of " visitation" know, 
And ere the gathering storm of vengeance burst, 
Enter the port of penitence and peace. 

Philadelphia, April 4th ; 1840. 



PRAYER. 

When kneeling at the shrine of prayer, 

Rich blessings we implore ; 
The slave should be remembered there, 

'Till all his toils are o'er. 

Much has been written, said and done, to release the 
slave from his chains, but a weapon more powerful than 
the pen or tongue is needed, to demolish the strong tower 
of oppression, which stands guarded by the pride and 
avarice of man. This weapon is prayer, fervent, effect- 
ual prayer. It is too often suffered to lie useless, while 
other means are resorted to, which, in comparison with 
this, are powerless. When the friends of the slave learn 
the full value of this spiritual weapon, and how to use it 
aright, they may then expect to see the mighty Babel of 
iniquity, against which their shafts are directed, crumble 
and fall. When they go to the mercy-seat with their 
hearts bleeding for the wrongs of their injured brother, 
and make his case their own, their petitions will not be 
in vain, if presented for the sake of Him, who takes de- 
light in loosening the chains of the captive, and giving 
the weary rest. 

Some of the most glorious displays of the power and 
mercy of God in this world of sin, have been made in 
answer to prayer. Humbje, fervent prayer ascends to 
the heights of heaven, penetrates the clouds and dark- 
ness which surround the throne of the Almighty, enters 
his listening ear, and causes him to pour down his 
blessings in transforming and purifying showers, upon 



freedom's gift. 55 

a guilty world. Let the whole band of Christians, 
with one heart, send up their supplications to heaven in 
an unbroken column of incense, until their largest de- 
sires shall be fulfilled; until the oppressor and his 
wretched victim bow together at the feet of Jesus, and 
the sinful relation which now exists between them, be 
exchanged for the holy union of Christian fraternity. 

Philadelphia. 



CONNECTICUT. 

The arms of this State are three vines, with the motto — Qui trans- 

tulet, sustinet. 

BY M. W. CHAPMAN. 

Come, toil-worn, and care-worn, and battle-worn friends! 

Ye bound with the bondman, till tyranny ends! 

From the glimmer of dawn on the waves of the sea, 

To the shadows of sunset, wherever ye be, 

Take courage and comfort! Our land of bright streams 

And beautiful valleys, awakes from her dreams, 

At the sound of your voices, and calls from its grave, 

The Spirit of Freedom, to shelter the slave. 

Our rocks bear a record that rouses the blood: 

11 Resistance to tyrants is duty to God!" 

And the conflict of Spirit is kindling afar, 

And mothers are girding their sons for the war ! 

Be glad! for the land of the vine and the oalz, 

The slumbers that bound her hath joyously broke ; 

Our people, — they gather their forests among — 

They throng to their temples, with prayer and with song, 

Our mountains are ringing -with Freedom's Refrain — 

" The land of the Charter shall shiver the chain!" 

Well is it, ye sons of the puritan stock, 

That your slumbers no longer your forefathers mock! 

The vine that they cherished, yet richly shall yield, 

Its clusters of fruitage, empurpling the field: 

For the people that twine it their armor around, 

In token of faith in the promise which crowned 



freedom's gift, 57 

The day of its planting, no longer forget 
The Slave ! and a blessing shall rest on them yet, 
As they sing in its shadow their joyous refrain — 
" The God who transplanted, shall ever sustain !" 
Boston, April, 1840. 



THE PATIENT SUFFERER. 

A LEAF FROM A PASTOR'S ALBUM. 

How kindly constituted to every exigency of our 
lonely life, is our blessed faith ! Like an angel of mercy, 
it comes to us in all our sorrow, making srrief almost 
coveted, by its kindly solacings. For every tear it bears 
a precious recompense; each sigh wakens a responsive 
tone of sympathy ; into the stricken bosom it pours an 
ocean of generous comfort; the humble dwelling-place 
of poverty, becomes radiant with the hues of heaven, and 
perishing want abounds with priceless riches. "I give 
thee to God, sweet babe" — and the faithful mother kisses 
the cold brow of her heart's idol, a holy smile beaming 
through the tears that nature sheds. "The passing 
seraph's wing is there." " I leave thee, helpless one, in 
thy Savior's bosom. He shall be to thee " a father to 
the fatherless," and guard thee with all a mother's 
gentleness" — and again, nature's trembling reed is 
bruised, not broken. 

These seeming paradoxes, so chastening in their in- 
fluence, meet us, at every step; and the simple recital I 
now give, is but the daily experience of many of Christ's 
suffering children. 

One cold, bleak, November evening, I knocked at the 
door of a miserable block, in one of the darkest lanes 
in the city, and enquiring for the person of whom I was 
in pursuit, was directed up, story after story, till reach- 
ing the attic, an emaciated colored female answered my 



freedom's gift. 59 

summons, and welcomed, with the most grateful ac- 
knowledgements, my visit to her desolate home. 

There were a few expiring embers upon the hearth, 
over which two small children sat shivering. The fur- 
niture of the room consisted of a broken chair, an old 
chest, a straw pallet in one corner, and a much used 
family Bible. The possessor of this small inventory, 
was indeed a child of sorrow. Born a slave, in the 
fair, though sullied land of the orange blossom ; although 
placed under circumstances a thousand times happier 
than many of her groaning sisters, yet she had experi- 
enced deeply its withering curse. Parents, and brothers, 
and sister, she had none; for she had seen them, one 
after another, worn out with toil, die in their galling 
servitude. 

Her husband, by incessant laboring, had purchased 
her freedom, and his own; and awhile, together, they 
had enjoyed this heaven-given boon. But lately provi- 
dence had stricken her again with the loss of her hus- 
band. Unknown and friendless in the wide city, she 
had struggled on without one murmur or repining wish, 
solacing her aching heart, with the blessed assurance, 
that " the Lord had done it, and He doeth all things 
well." The sad vacancy in the heart, produced by the 
loss of friends, was richly supplied by the chosen com- 
munion of her Heavenly Father; and as the sparrow 
wanteth not, she trusted humbly that her trembling 
babes would yet be fed by him. It was a luxury to con- 
verse with her, and listen to the sweet resignation with 
which she met her sufferings ; but it was truly soul- 
# subduing, when, with the deepest gratitude, she spoke 
of the abundance of her earthly comforts. 

I saw that I had interrupted her evening meal, and 
requested her to proceed without noticing me. She 



60 freedom's gift. 

gathered her little ones around the old chest, and brought 
a plate, containing a few crusts of bread, as their in- 
tended repast. 

As she sat down, awhile, she remained lost in thought, 
now and then a tear dropping down upon her cheek ; 
then raising her eyes to heaven, and clasping her hands, 
she burst forth, with heart-subduing pathos, "All these 
blessings, Lord, and Christ too?" As I left that humble 
paradise, I thought I had discovered the essence of that 
command, "Whether ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever 
ye do, do all to the glory of God," R. 

Wesleyan University. 



FASTS. 

Isaiah, 58 . 

BY J. E. SMITH. 

Cry out, loud as the trumpet's sounds, 

To tell the land wherein 
Its great iniquity abounds, 

What its most heinous sin. 
And does this nation seek the Lord, 

Delight to know his way, 
And as a nation love his word, 

Esteem it, or obey? 

But wherefore do we fast, say they, 

Thou dost not see it more, 
While ye find pleasure on that day 

Exacting labor of the poor. 
Ye fast for strife and for debate, 

And with unholy hands ye smite. 
And shall ye fast through wrong and hate, 

In angry tone and call it right ? 

Is this a fast that I should heed, 

When ye are down as for reward ? 
Wilt thou call this a fast indeed, 

A day accepted of the Lord 1 
Is not this the fast I choose, 

To ease the burdens which ye lay, 
The bands of wickedness to loose, 

And let the oppressed go free away 1 
6* 



62 freedom's gift. 

And that ye break each yoke in twain, 

And to the hungry deal thy bread, 
The suffering poor that thou sustain, 

Bring them — in kindness be they led 
From whence ye drove them sad and lone ; 

Aid them, and comfort, and refresh, 
And cover ye the naked one : 

Hide not thyself from thine own flesh. 

Then light upon thy soul shall break, 

The Lord will hear when thou shah pray, 
If from the midst of thee thou take 

The galling yoke away. 
If thy repenting soul incline 

To soothe the afflicted one — that light 
Shall o'er thy land of darkness shine, 
And be as noon-day bright. 



AN APPEAL TO CHRISTIAN FREEMEN 
IN BEHALF OF THE SLAVE. 



BY C. T. ERVING. 



Hark ! a voice, it comes with sadness, 

From yon fair and sunny land, 
From those hearts unused to gladness, 

And from Afric's sultry strand, — 
Hearts, which beat with sad emotion, 

As they cast a tearful eye, 
O'er Atlantic's foaming ocean, 

Where their friends and kindred he. 

Hark ! a voice, it comes with wailing, 

From old ocean's rugged waves, 
Where yon guilty barque is sailing, 

Stored with wretched captive slaves ; 
Oft its echo comes to greet us, 

In this boasted land, and free ; 
Ah! how will their groanings meet us, 

When before the Deity? 

Hark, a voice, it comes with anguish, 

Borne upon the southern air, 
Where the sons of bondage languish, 

Hear ye not the captive's prayer ? 
Yes, it comes in sorrow stealing 

On the wings of every breeze, 
List ye, those of honest feeling, 

Say, what trembling sighs are these? 



64 freedom's gift. 

Hark, the voice is rising higher — 

Louder — deeper, coming near, 
If some token ye require, 

Need ye but to look, and hear? 
Hear the prayer of those in fetters, 

Where the spangled banner floats, 
Wrongs, imprinted in those letters, 

Which the great Jehovah notes. 

Can ye, 'round the altar bending, 

In the act of fervent prayer, 
When thy thoughts are upward tending, 

Let not those in bondage share, — 
Share the freeman's richest blessing, 

Tokens of this favor'd land? 
If the gifts are worth possessing, 

Spread them with a liberal hand. 

Christians, when in sweet communion, 

Can ye think of those around, 
Whom ye fellowship in union, 

But, alas! in fetters bound? 
Can ye think how Christ has freed you, 

When beneath death's cruel chain? 
Ah ! methinks I hear you pleading, 

For blest Liberty's pure reign. 



MORN OF LIBERTY DAWNING. 

BY ERASMUS D. HUDSON. 

The joyful sun of liberty is rising. The horizon is 
colored with his bright beams and golden tints. The 
dark, sullen and gloomy cloud of despotism which has 
long been brooding on the south, sending forth its with- 
ering, palsying death-chill into the souls of men, and 
shadowing forth over our land its pestilential and blight- 
ing influences, desolating the heritage of our fathers, 
and destroying the precious boon of God to men, is 
now breaking, and fleeing before the glorious light of 
liberty's dawn. 

The tyrant too, on his throne of human bones, be- 
holds, with pallid, quivering lips, and trembling limbs, 
the harbinger of better, happier days, for the enslaved 
sons of God ; and while the shout of liberty and joy, 
comes across the main, like the ■ voice of many waters,' 
his soul sinks within him, and with a dull, death-rattle, 
he curses Christ, who is restoring liberty to man. 

Hope, liberty and joy enter the captive soul, with 
their animating and healing powers. The living, latent 
power to be free, is enkindled, expanding and preparing 
the enslaved soul to burst its bonds. Christ's trumpet 
melting sound, proclaiming liberty on earth, good will 
to men, is bursting the chains of the slave, and causing 
the welkin to ring with joyous shouts of liberty, love, 
and glory to God. 



66 freedom's gift. 

And while the zephyr wafts the blessed sound from 
heaven to earth, and its re-echoings, the enchanting 
notes are caught by the tyrant's ear; his hard and un- 
feeling heart, touched by the truth is transmuted into 
flesh, and filled with tenderness and love, raises its 
rapturous song of praise to God and 'liberty to all man- 
kind.' Brethren, hear ye not freedom's heavenly music 
going up from the disenthralled host in our land, led on 
by the Birneys, Nelsons and Brisbanes, who have washed 
their gory hands and blood stained garments, and made 
them white in Christ's fountain of love? Hear them 
cheering the weary heart-strings of the depressed, broken- 
hearted captive, calling them brethren and saying to 
them, ye belong to God our Father, and to Christ our 
Master. 

Then lift up your heads, ye glorious band — ye chosen, 
happy few. Cheer on, ye despised and persecuted, who 
have sworn at the foot of the cross, to live or die for 
your brethren in bonds. Behold liberty emblazoning 
the sky. Hear Christ proclaiming it to you and all 
mankind. Though a host of Pharaohs threaten you, 
and the elements rage before you, behold Christ your 
leader and fear not. 

Would you transmit to your children, your country 
and the church, liberty! not chains, rods and famine ! 
then think not of lawless violence, loss of property and 
reputation, of stripes and imprisonments; think not of 
being branded by an evil world, by a corrupt church, as 
"evil doers, and of being made to suffer even unto 
bonds." What are all these ? For justice and liberty, 
will ye not endure far sorer trials ! Though kings, 
potentates, false prophets, and corrupt, pro-slavery 
churches, filled with hate even unto ' expatriation' con- 
spire against us ; though many who have run with us, 



freedom's gift. 67 

turn back and play the Judas, let us march boldly on, 
fighting the good fight of liberty, and the oppressed shall 
go free ! 

The trump of jubilee is sounding long and loud — the 
world is moving and congregating — kings issuing their 
decrees, and popes sending forth their bulls, and pro- 
claiming liberty to the captive — yea, the whole earth is 
groaning, and preparing to make a mighty convulsive 
effort to emancipate herself from chains and slavery, 
and to proclaim liberty to all the inhabitants thereof. 
Then ye " who weep with those who weep shall rejoice 
with those who rejoice" — yea, king David like, we will 
dance mightily and sing! We will weep for joy, and 
laugh : clap our hands, and clasp each other in our 
free arms : and above all, send up a mighty shout — 
Glory to God! liberty on earth, and good will to men. 



TO LIBERTY TURNED SLAVE- 
HOLDER. 



BY H. H. SMITH. 



Thou wert, when Ignorance ruled the world, 

Exiled by queens and kings, 
Thou wert from modern Europe hurled, 

(Though now they tell us better things,) 
Then, goddess, thy arrival here, 

Was hailed with loud acclaim, 
And Slavery, as it would appear, 

Was viewed with grief and shame. 

And in our compact 'twas abhorred, 

For all were conscience-smitten ; 
Our fathers dared not write the word, 

And it was never written ; 
The accursed thing was soon to end, 

And every fetter riven, 
So did those fathers comprehend, 

Or no concessions had been given. 

Then thou wert staunch and would not bow, 

For sorely hadst thou striven ; 
But oh ! how art thou fallen now, 

Like Lucifer from heaven ; 
Now lost to all thy former fame, 

Grown vile as thou grow'st older, 
And glorying in thy sin and shame, 

Thou art a rank slave-holder. 
Glastenbury, April. 



AHMED AND ZAYDA. 



BY A. LEWIS. 



Their parting hour was come. The rolling wave, 

That bore them, fettered, from their native land, 

Was pouring on their ears a heavy sound, 

The mockery of freedom ! Once that voice 

Was joyous, as the song of mother's love 

Over her sleeping child. Once the glad swell 

Of waters, and of ocean winds, that struck 

The cliffs and reedy fringes of their shore, 

Gave out a voice of liberty. But now 

Those weeping waters told that they were slaves ! 

Oh, what a world of wretchedness is cooped 

Within the limits of that little word — 

A slave ! The ills of earth are numerous — 

Pain, sickness, sorrow, poverty, and wrong, 

Dark calumny, heartless neglect, the pang 

Of broken friendship, crushed affection, sense 

Of pleasure flitted from the grasp 

Of hope's recall — but what are these, or all 

That poetry may image, or the heart 

Of human anguish suffer, to the deep, 

Dark, desolate, immedicable wo 

Of slavery, bound on the soul, for life! 

They felt that they were slaves ! — for how 
Could they but feel, when round their shrinking limbs 
The driver's lash was curling! — every stroke 

7 



70 freedom's gift. 

Followed by blood, which down the soft, fair limbs 
Of female innocence, that never knew 
The taste of tears, till severed from her home, 
Flowed in red courses to the greedy sand ! 

Yes, they were slaves ; but still their very woes 
Made them but dearer to each other's heart. 
They thought upon the days, when joyously 
They wandered in Dahomey's happy groves, 
And listened, in the red morn's glowing hour, 
To the cicala's song ; or heard the gush 
Of rippling waters, and of cooling winds, 
While from the bosom of the glittering sea, 
The bright round moon went up. O there was joy, 
And peace and innocence. But now the hand 
Of chartered tyranny had wrenched their hearts 
From all they loved — from all but from themselves, 
And they must now be severed ! 

What must be 
The anguish of the heart, when all its joys, 
And hopes, and fears, and fondest memories, 
And burning expectations of delight, 
Are all concentred in one living form, 
One life, one thought, one breath ! — and then to think, 
To know, to feel, the sad reality, 
That that must part — forever ! 

Such the grief 
That rent young Ahmed's heart, when round the neck 
Of Zayda, for the last, lastiime, he threw 
The manly arm, that in the wood had torn 
The tiger's jaws, and saved her from his rage ! 
But vain was now that sinewy arm to keep 
The lash from circling round the tender form 



freedom's gift. 71 

He loved far more than life. He bore it long, 

Resolved to linger in that last embrace 

Till hope could breathe no more. Each way he turned, 

To save her from unfeeling, tyrant rage, 

Which could not spare one little fleeting hour 

Of parting, from their murdered life of love ! 

The driver's voice was loud, and faster fell 

The heavy blows, till he could bear no more ; 

He turned, and threw one pleading look to heaven, 

Another of defiance at the wretch 

Clad in a human form, resolved to move 

No more from the last thing on earth he loved. 

A blow down sweeping from the loaded whip, 

Came on his throbbing temple, and he sunk 

Stunned, bleeding, lifeless, at his Zayda's feet. 

She stood — but moved not — shrieked not — gazing down 

Into the eyes she loved, until she fell 

Across his bleeding form — heart-broken — dead ! 



THE SLAVE MOTHER. 

B Y A. LEWIS. 

The following ballad is founded on an incident which happened in 
Kentucky, in 1831. 

— " May none these marks efface,. 
For they appeal from tyranny to God." 

Byron. 

The day had not begun to dawn, 

The sun behind the hills 
Had far to journey, ere his rays 

Should gild the mountain rills. 

A woman, with three little ones, 

Came from a lowly shed, 
And out upon a lonely path, 

Those little ones she led. 



She led her darling babes along, 

And not a word she said, 
They seemed, as they were passing on, 

Like shadows of the dead ! 

The eldest was a little boy, 
Some six warm summers old, 

And doubtless to a mother's sight, 
Was lovely toJbehold. 

The others were two little girls ; 

Just old enough were they, 
Led by their mother's helping hand, 

To walk along the way. 






freedom's gift. 73 

"Where are we going, mother, now!" 

The little brother spoke; 
" Oh, I was dreaming a sweet dream, 

Just as we all awoke !" 

" We 're going but a little way ; 

Come, children, come along ; 
You cannot think a mother's hand 

Would lead her loved ones wrong ! 

" When I was old as you, my son, 

I can remember well, 
How I was brought across the sea, 

With cruel men to dwell. 

" They tore me from my mother's arms, 

And brought me here to toil ; 
And every day my tears and blood, 

Have dewed this hated soil. 

u Last evening I was beat again, 

Though faint as I could be, 
No, children, such a wretched fate, 

You shall not live to see !" 

They stopped beside a crystal spring, 

That in the meadow flowed, 
Just as the first red gleams of dawn, 

Along the valley glowed. 

The morning showed those little ones 

Were like the sable night ; 
But well the wretched mother thought 

Their little souls were white. 

7* 



74 freedom's gift. 

She took her little darling babes T 
And put them in the spring ! — 

It would have grieved a human heart, 
To see so sad a thing ! 

She held her helpless children there, 

Until they all were dead ! 
But though her soul was wrenched outright, 

Yet not a tear she shed. 

Let none who know not suffering, 

That mother cruel call ; 
It was that she had felt so much, 

She did not feel at all. 

She took her little darling babes, 

And laid them side by side ; 
'Twas there beside the meadow spring, 

Where those dear children died. 

She laid her little infants there, 
Three children cold as clay ; 

And long beside the meadow spring, 
She kissed them where they lay. 

The wretched mother turned away, 
With none her griefs to heed ; 

Then down the valley she returned, 
Again to toil and bleed. 



THE VICTORY WON. 

BY MARIA W. CHAPMAN. 

The Legislature of Massachusetts has enacted resolutions, calling 
upon Congress to interpose for the immediate suppression of 
slavery and the slave-trade in the District of Columbia. In this 
State, God be praised ! the victory is won." 

Liberator, March '27, 1840. 

What sound, among the shaken hills, 

Rolls awful as the tempest's voice, 
And tyranny with terror fills, 

And bids the trembling slave rejoice? 
It is the thronging of the free 
'Round thy high places, Liberty ! 
By truth, and love, and Freedom led, 
Till the land trembles to their tread ! 

What shout, through all the region sent, 

So sharply cleaves the startled air, 
And shakes the hollow firmament, 

As if the Judgment trump were there ? 
'Tis the strong watch-word of the North — 
That earthquake voice that thunders forth ! 
By every stream, and hill, and wave, 
It cries, "Deliverance for the Slave!" 



THE GENIUS OF AMERICA. 

AN ODE. 

Hark! glad and cheering sounds salute the ear, 

Trumpets, and drums, and joyous shouts we hear, 

Swift they approach, and near — they draw more near. 

Behold ! a stately form is seen advancing, 

Triumph and pride are from her bright eye glancing. 

Hail! 'tis the Sovereign Genius of our land; 

A splendid banner waves in her right hand, 

Bedecked with many brilliant stars of gold ; 

And as the light and graceful curls unfold, 

We see emblazoned, as it floats on high, 

The glorious words of Freedom ! Liberty ! 

A noisy multitude her steps attend, 

Joyful, tumultuous shouts on high ascend — 

Triumphant acclamations rend the sky, 

Thousands of voices echo loud the cry 

Of Freedom! Freedom! Liberty! 

Listen ! far different sounds fall on the ear, — 
At intervals discordant tones me hear : 
A melancholy wail of dread and fear ! 
Deep stifled sighs, lone plaintive, piteous moans, 
Loud piercing shrieks — dismal, despairing groans ! 
And now, our eyes to the dark side we turn, 
Where, deep in shadow, clearly we discern 
The left hand holds a strong and heavy chain, 
Attached to which, is dragged a lengthened train 



freedom's gift. 77 

Of wretched beings, doomed for life to sigh, 
And raise to Heaven the sad and bitter cry 
Of Bondage ! Bondage ! Slavery ! 

Alas ! what pity! and what grievous shame, 
So deep a stain should blot thy boasted fame ! 
So dark a stigma rest upon thy name ! 
We would not mar the beauty of thy form, 
We would not mutilate thy powerful arm ; 
But rather supplicating, bend the knee, 
Beg thee to drop the chain, and set the captive free, 
Then would the mighty Genius of our land, 
In full and glorious perfection stand, — 
Then might the States United, all combine 
And offer praise and incense at thy shrine ; 
Then raise the glad, the cheering shout on high, 
And join th' exulting, universal cry 
Of Freedom ! Freedom ! Liberty ! H. 

Hartford, April, 1840. 




THE WARRIORS OF TRUTH. 

BY N. E. JOHNSON. 

Great, glorious Truth ! in realms of light enthroned, 
Through whom, the Boundless One, forever shines ! 

All worlds, all minds, shall jet thy glory own, 
Which now Emmanuel, in himself combines ! 

Thine empire is creation. Thy deep mines 
Of power and worth Eternity explores — 

Beings and objects, wraped in large designs — 
Orbs of the mind, whose far extended shores, 
Are all reserved for him, who muses, and adores. 

Vesture eternal, of The Eternal, thou ! 

Form of revealed Almighty! Lo, thy sway 
Is o'er the giant races, as they bow 

In multitudinous worlds — away — away ! 
Space and Duration, ope the gates of day, 

Thine own bright presence, ever welcoming! 
So thou thy treasures may'st to them display, 

While to thy words enraptured millions cling, 

And learn, with eager joy the glory of their King. 

Wake then, ye Warriors of the Truth ! Awake 
All, who for endless right, with fervent zeal, 

Stand in your hearts committed ! Ne'er forsake 
That struggle, which hereafter shall reveal 

Wonders, which startled worlds shall see, and feel ! 
Hark ! for ten thousand voices on ye call, 



freedom's gift. 79 

Bursting from yonder cloud in one appeal ! 

That Witness-cloud, which once encompassed Paul, 
Who now walks gloriously, a prince among them all ! 

Gaze on that cloud, Satan, thou fiend accurs'd! 

See, in each glowing fold the chariot shine, 
In which each martyred spirit, as it burst 

From pain, and sin, and every wile of thine, 
Rode to its lofty home, — its life divine! 

Shame ! Thou that stoopest to the serpent's form — 
Thou, that inhabitest the maddened swine — 

Thou, that couldst haunt and madden e'en the swarm 

Of famished wolves, and tigers fierce, when the wild 
storm 
Of persecution, with its whirlwinds rush'd 

Around the homes and altars of the saints ; 
Thou, that wert joyous when the life-blood gush'd ! 

Thou, that hast feasted on their sore complaints ! 
Look ! for the hand of Truth their triumph paints, 

And images their glory on the sky! 
Archangel fallen! Thou, that ne'er regain'st 

Thine ancient seats of majesty on high, 
Hark ! from those very seats, they shout the victory ! 



A MOTTO. 



BY E. W. SODTHWICK. 



The hopes of the bondman and freeman are blending, 
And justice has uttered her solemn decree ; 

The wrongs of oppression shall quickly be ending, 
The motto is sounding, the slave shall be free. 

Ye foemen to bondage, while heaven is aiding, 
Let motto and action in firmness agree, 

To banish a bondage so basely degrading, 

While loudly proclaiming the slave shall be free. 

The slave, with the fetter and lash, is still aching, 
And slavers, blood-laden still traverse the sea ; 

But cease not the contest, till fetters are breaking, 
Still bravely maintaining the slave shall be free. 

Disdain to be daunted by foes in your striving, 

But rather be fearful from duty to flee, 
And tyrants, now heartless, who joy in depriving, 

Will welcome the motto, the slave shall be free. 

To thee, thou down-trodden, this motto expressing 
The promise of freedom, so often thy plea, 

Should seem as a treasure, should sound as a blessing ; 
Then gladly proclaim it, the slave shall be free. 



freedom's gift. 81 

When cruelly beaten — when toil-worn and grieving, 
Let this be a solace most grateful to thee ; 

Be patient in labor — rest calmly believing 

The promise so welcome, the slave shall be free. 

Soon freedom's pure vine shall be verdantly twining 
Its clusters around the true liberty tree : 

The fruit is for thee — be no longer repining, 
But hopefully cherish the slave shall be free. 

Thy Father in Heaven implore for the blessing, 
While bending before Him with suppliant knee ; 

For He will attend to thy sorrows distressing, 
Fulfilling the promise, the slave shall be free! 



6 



THE BANNER OF FREEDOM. 



BY E. W. SOUTH WICK. 



The pride of the nation, the " Flag of the Free !" 
Is spreading its folds o'er the land and the sea; 
And thousands rejoice, as they move in the throng, 
Where brightly its stripes and its stars float along. 

The eagle broods o'er it ; whose gilt talons hold, 
The motto, 'E pluribus unum,' in gold — 
The rich and the poor both cheer the array : 
Both statesman and warrior applaud the display. 

The child even boasts of the flag of the free, 

And shouts of its glory in merriest glee — 

He can tell of the pride, which it bears on the wave — 

He can tell of the joy, which it yields to the brave. 

But list, while the banner is waving on high, 
What meaneth that moan and that pitiful cry 1 
'Tis the sighing of grief — 'tis the wail of despair — 
Will no one give aid to the sufferer there ? 

An innocent captive is galled by the chain, 
And none can deliver from sorrow and pain ! 
This land, where the banners of liberty wave, 
Is the land of oppression — the land of the slave ! 

Shame, shame, on that people, whose praises shall flow, 
For banners of freedom, whose sons toil in wo ! 
Shame, shame on those banners, bespangled with gold, 
While under their brightness the captive is sold ! 



freedom's gift. 83 

Contempt for those stars which so mockingly shine, 
And the stripes, while beneath them the slave shall repine, 
Contempt for the eagle, true freedom's proud bird, 
While under his wings the slave's fetters are heard. 

Vain, vain is the boast of the flag of the free ; 

Its joy to the brave, and its pride on the sea : 

And vain is the glory such banners declare, 

To the soul of the nation whose bondage they bear! 

Zeal, zeal to the freemen, whom justice has bless'd, 
That the flag of the free may soon cheer the oppress'd ; 
What though for a moment dire troubles arise, 
So the vapors will creep o'er the sun in the skies. 

But the warmth of his brightness will drive them away, 
And let him ride on, the bright king of the day ; 
So the dark mists of error shall quickly have past, 
And the pure light of freedom shall beam forth at last. 



WILBERFORCE. 



BY FRANCIS GILLETTE. 



The latter part of the eighteenth century forms a dis- 
tinct epoch in the history of the world. Whether con- 
sidered in relation to the magnitude and importance of 
its events, or the greatness and glory of its chief actors, 
it is fraught with a powerful interest and awakes the 
highest admiration. Events the most extraordinary, 
and characters the most illustrious, stamp that age as 
one of the most important in the annals of time. During 
its general advancement, in whatever could contribute 
to raise and adorn the human character, the cause of 
suffering humanity was not overlooked. Numerous and 
powerful were the champions who contended earnestly 
for the rights of man ; and though met by a formidable 
array of opposition* they won many signal victories, and 
greatly ameliorated the condition of our race. 

But among this illustrious assemblage of philanthro- 
pists, there was one, who stood pre-eminent. Survey- 
ing our world with an eye of philanthropy, he beheld 
one portion of the globe overshadowed by the darkest 
gloom and wrapped in wretchedness. He saw one entire 
quarter of the world devoted to the avarice and cupidity 
of all Christendom, and scourged by one of the direst 
woes that ever distressed the human family. He looked 
around upon his own country and saw it stained and 
deeply implicated in this work of blood : he looked 
abroad to other lands, and beheld the sufferings of the 



freedom's gift. 85 

captive : — 'his heart was touched, his sympathies were 
moved, his determination was formed. He resolved 
forthwith to consecrate his powers to the noble work of 
redeeming a continent from rapine and bloodshed, and 
cleansing his country from implicated guilt. He arose 
in the power of his moving eloquence and put forth his 
mighty energies. He embraced the pillars which sup- 
ported this huge pile of iniquity, and the vast structure 
tottered and crumbled. Self-interest took alarm, a 
fierce and formidable opposition arose, and the council- 
chamber rang with alternate bursts of impassioned and 
thrilling eloquence. Long and doubtful was the con- 
flict; calm and resolute was the onset, hot and foaming 
the resistance. With a resolution undaunted, a courage 
undismayed, and a benevolence unfaltering, he perse- 
vered, despite of persecution and obloquy, for twenty 
years, until, with the aid of kindred spirits, he succeeded 
in exciting the abhorrence of a nation against the odious 
custom, and washed from his country's vestments the 
red stains of its pollution. This man was Wilberforce ; 
that continent was Africa. 

In the character of this noble man are exhibited the 
loveliest and sublimest traits, True independence, high 
moral courage, incorruptible virtue — the faculties of hi3 
mind, and the virtue of his heart seem to have rivalled 
each other; and both shed their blended influences upon 
the moral world, irradiating and vivifying it, as sun and 
showers the physical. How glorious and radiant was 
his career ! He was a bright star amid that galaxy in 
which shone Pitt, Fox, Burke, Sheridan, and Canning, 
beaming with a steady luster, and reflecting upon this 
dark world, the light and love of Heaven. 

11 High was his fame : for senates oft had heard 
With wonder that harmonious eloquence ; 

8* 



* 



P6 FREEDOM r S GIFT. 

And injured Africa had caught the word — 

Her chains had burst beneath its influence : 
And her dark sons now learn to breathe the name 
Of him who thought of them, when sunk in guilt and shame." 

But, alas ! the great work to which a Wilberforce de- 
voted the vigor of his days remains yet unfinished. The 
unfortunate race, for which he pleaded so long and elo- 
quently, is still miserable and bleeding. Africa is now 
weeping and disconsolate, for her children are in captiv- 
ity and sigh for deliverance. Her sorrows are still too 
great for humanity. She is peeled and wo-worn ; and 
though her great advocate and benefactor has gone down 
to the grave — though Wilberforce is dead, thanks to 
God, his spirit lives, and is still inspiring the breasts of 
men — it burns and glows in the bosoms of thousands in 
Europe and America, and the pure flame will wax in- 
tenser and higher and broader until slavery shall be no 
more. His voice comes "thrilling to our hearts" from 
the grave, inspiring us with fresh hopes, and cheering 
us onward to victory. His bright example of martyr- 
like devotion to truth, and dignified forbearance under 
provocation, is before us for imitation. Let the follow- 
ing sentiment be no less applicable to ourselves than to 
him: 

"Wilberforce, thy zeal for man below 
Was more than earth-born love of human kind ; 

And souls that kindled in thy burning glow, 
Felt 'twas the Saviour's sunlight on the mind." 

Bloomfield, Conn. 



J&r 



,a«* 



PETITIONS. 

Ladies of Connecticut : 

I call your attention, or those of you who have 
hearts to feel for suffering humanity, to the importance 
of petitions. Here is a field in which a woman may do 
an incalculable amount of good to the poor and the per- 
ishing. The first suggestion for immediate emancipa- 
tion in England, was made by a woman, who roused the 
attention of thousands, nay millions, to petition Parlia- 
ment for the abolition of slavery ; until at length, the 
work was accomplished, so that now not a slave is to be 
found in her Majesty's dominions. Every one who has 
been out on these thankless errands, knows it requires 
much moral courage, and self-control. We must feel 
within, a spirit to do good, that charity which faileth not, 
which will enable one when opposed and reviled, to an- 
swer in terms of kindness and humility. To stimulate 
us to perseverance, let us continually bear in mind the 
unnuhibered woes of the poor slaves, wretched victims, 
forced to drink the galling cup of human misery to the 
dregs ; the most helpless and hopeless sufferers in our 
land. What can support human nature through the 
trying vicisitudes of this world, but the animating prin- 
ciple of hope? But what is the hope of the slave? Can 
he, by contrasting the past with the present, have any 
hope of the future? Some few of them, whose burdens 
are the lightest, may hope that their condition will never 
be changed ; but they must be fearfully apprehensive of 



88 freedom's gift. 

being severed from every kindred tie ; sold and driven to 
the plantations, where no eye can pity them, no one re- 
port or plead their sufferings; crushed to the level of 
brutes, and kept in heathenish ignorance. Their op- 
pressors have decreed that not a ray of heavenly light 
shall gleam across their dark path-way to the grave. 
Thus are they doomed to utter wretchedness in this 
world, with little knowledge of another. Oh, those 
plantations, those sinks of pollution, those black prisons 
of despair, where many a foul and murderous deed is 
committed which can never be revealed in this world, yet 
is chronicled in that Book, where all the deeds of 
guilty man are recorded, to be revealed on their trial at 
the last day. 

It is to be hoped, there may be found, in every town, 
some friends of this cause, who will be aroused to ac- 
tion, whenever the season comes round for the work. 
Circulating petitions opens a way to spread information 
among the female part of the community. Many are so 
situated, that they never hear or read any thing upon 
the subject of slavery, and hardly know that it exist, ex- 
cept in name. Yery few will withhold their signatures 
when informed of the numberless, dreadful evils, which 
slavery sanctions. Plead not the want of time for this 
work, or that family cares prevent you. It is not an 
easy or an agreeable service ; but in view of the many 
comforts and privileges we enjoy, of which the poor 
slave is entirely deprived, our trials and sacrifices in their 
behalf will appear like bubbles light as air. Let us, 
therefore, engage in this work, with renewed vigor, and 
proceed with unwearied step and untiring vigilance, so 
long as the sighing of a slave is heard in our land. 

Zephina. 
Glastenbury, April, 1840. 



THE CONTRAST. 



FY FRANCIS GILLETTE. 



Homo sum, humani nil a me alienumpvto. 

I am a man, and am interested in all that concerns mankind. 

This sentiment was uttered two thousand years ago, 
by one who had tasted the bitter cup of slavery. He 
had been an African slave, and was manumitted on ac- 
count of the brilliancy of his genius. We are told that 
when this line was pronounced upon the Roman stage, 
the audience, consisting of foreigners and native citizens, 
was thrilled with delight, and the amphitheater rang 
with rapturous and reiterated applause. It fell upon 
their ears as a voice from Heaven ; it was the language 
of nature — a noble assertion of the native dignity and 
independence of man. The author does not say that he 
was interested in all that concerned his peculiar race or 
country, but in all that concerned mankind. He em- 
braced in his great heart the whole brotherhood of man; 
the petty distinctions and boundaries which make ene- 
mies of nations, were to him unheeded and unknown; 
his soul went forth to all men in the dignity and gran- 
deur of its godlike nature, spurning alike from its august 
presence the murky clouds of prejudice and the chains 
of tyranny. He felt and spoke as it became a man, and 
the sentiment wakens a response in every manly soul. 
The author of it was a pagan; the audience that ap- 



90 freedom's gift. 

plauded it were pagans; but notwithstanding this, it was 
two centuries afterwards substantially repeated and en- 
nobled by the lips of Jesus Christ. Christianity claimed 
it as her own, and placed it conspicuously in her dia- 
dem. Surely it is not an inappropriate offering to 
44 Freedom's Gift." 

But when we come down to our own times, we are 
surprised by a sentiment perfectly contrasting with that 
which has been mentioned. Said an honorable Senator 
on the floor of the United States' Senate, " I prefer the 
liberty of my own country to that of any other people, 
and the liberty of my own race to that of any other race," 
and added, "the liberty of the descendants of Africa in 
the United States, is incompatible with the safety and 
liberty of the European descendants." He seems to 
have spoken on the supposition, that the Creator, when 
he formed man, instead of breathing into him a u living 
soul," inspired him with ill-will and hatred towards his 
brother-man. This is a strange philosophy, alike dis- 
creditable to man as a rational being, and contemptuous 
of God as his benevolent Creator. The sentiment is un- 
worthy of the man, and unbefitting the age. Had it 
come to us from some quarter, where the twilight of 
civil liberty is just dawning, it had excited less surprise; 
but that it should come to us from the Senate chamber 
of the United States, is strange and humiliating. u I 
prefer the liberty of my own race to that of any other 
race!" — how ignoble, how poor does this declaration 
appear beside that noble and magnanimous sentiment, 
which shot up above the mists and shadows of ancient 
paganism, and flashed over the moral horizon as a beam 
of Christianity ! 

This declaration of the American Senator, so far 
from receiving any rebuke from those to whom it was 



freedom's gift. 91 

addressed, was extolled in common with the speech 
which contains it, and its author lauded, as the mighty 
destroyer of abolitionism ; the redoubtable champion of 
slavery. Such is the degradation of sentiment which 
slavery has wrought in the heart of this Christian na- 
tion — a degradation upon which ancient paganism looks 
down with pity and detestation. 

We are abolitionists, not because we "prefer the liber- 
ty of our own race to that of any other race," but be- 
cause we prefer universal liberty to partial liberty; be- 
cause we recognise a brother-man wherever God has 
enstamped his image, and sympathise with him in all 
his joys, and compassionate him in all his woes. We 
see divinity shining out in the human countenance, and 
the seal of eternity set upon the human soul. We feel 
that man, spiritual and corporeal, is an immortal child 
of God ; and that any injury done him is a grievous af- 
front to his heavenly Father. We tremble for those 
guilty wrongdoers of whatever name, who impiously at- 
tempt to blot out the Divine spirit in man, and with ruth- 
less hands deface and mar his ima^e as exhibited in his 
cherished offspring. God himself is there, and we bow 
before him with reverential awe. We aspire to the 
dignity of the sentiment which thrilled a Roman amphi- 
theater with rapturous delight, and spurn with detesta- 
tion the groveling sentiment to which our American 
Senate paid homage. 

But had the Senator alluded to taken a broader view 
of the subject, and brought to its investigation his noble 
intellect unbiased, he would have found in the poor sen- 
timent he uttered a cogent reason why he should cast all 
his influence against that stupendous system of iniquity 
which he would uphold ; for in order to preserve the 
liberty of his own race, he would have found it necessary 



92 freedom's gift. 

to grant the boon to the millions in bondage. He would 
have understood that liberty and slavery are utterly in- 
compatible, and that liberty must ere long break the 
chains of slavery, or slavery will eat out the heart of 
liberty. It is a maxim in legal courts, that those who 
would have equity must do equity — it is no less true, 
that those who would have liberty must grant it to others; 
for it is as true of nations as of individuals, " With what 
measure they meet it shall be measured to them again." 
The man who thinks to preserve the rights and liberties 
of one portion of his countrymen by trampling upon the 
rights and liberties of another class, has yet to learn the 
first lessons of political wisdom ; and it is difficult to say, 
whether his head, or his heart is more deficient in those 
qualities which distinguish the true and trustworthy 
statesman. When will republican despots repudiate the 
impious dogma, that slavery is the pedestal of liberty — 
u the corner stone of the republic," and adopt the maxim 
that justice is the highest political expediency — the only 
safe and durable foundation of national freedom and 
prosperity? Till then, we cannot expect the complacent 
smiles of the Ruler of nations, but must continue to re- 
ceive his frowns, and feel the scourgings of his rod, 
until mercy shall be quite merged in judgment. 
Bloomfield, Conn. 



THE GOSPEL OPPOSED TO SLAVERY. 



BY HENRY W. ADAMS. 



The Gospel aims at the destruction of all sin. Every 
species of iniquity bears upon its very face the broad 
seal of its condemnation. No system of immorality can 
elude its notice, however specious the garb it wears. It 
takes an unerring cognizance of sin, and faithfully treas- 
ures up for it wrath against the day of wrath. It rends 
the veil of hypocrisy and pours a flood of consuming 
fire upon the inhabitant within. The Gospel has waged 
a war of extermination with all grades of iniquity. 
Though no marshalled armies crowd the field of blood, 
and no carnal implements are employed, yet its invinci- 
ble and all-conquering energy is achieving a glorious 
victory. A great moral revolution is yet destined to 
convulse the world, and disenthrall it from the captivity 
of Satan. And well may we pause and rebuke our in- 
fidelity at its successful triumphs ; for though the fate 
of a nation may tremble, on a doubtful strife, yet 
for almost six thousand years, it has been the song of 
poets and the burden of prophesy, that the kingdom of 
Christ shall be a universal kingdom, and the principles 
of his government shall subvert all the Tyranies and 
Despotisms of mankind. We have much, therefore, to 
encourage us in our exertions for the overthrow of Ameri- 
can Slavery. Its every feature is so essentially at vari- 
ance with the pure principles of the Gospel, that to call 
9 



94 freedom's gift. 

Slavery right, is to denounce the Gospel as wrong. The 
truth is, there is nothing right about Slavery. It is all 
wrong; a concatenation of wrongs, perpetrated against 
unoffending humanity; and the Gospel has adjudged it 
worthy of damnation. It has already cursed it with a 
fearful curse, and scaled it with an everlasting reproba- 
tion. And would to God that some interposition of Di- 
vine Providence might speedily banish it from among 
men. But so long as Slaveholders have this wicked 
system under their control, and entertain their present 
views of its righteousness, it is presumption to dream 
of its downfall. Believing in the justness and utility of 
the system, they enact laws for its maintenance. The 
only hope, therefore, which unimpassioned reason war- 
rants us to entertain respecting its overthrow, is based 
upon the almighty power of the Gospel to change their 
views, convert their souls, and expose to their gaze the hor- 
rid enormities of Slavery. This done, and the monster 
dies. As soon as the scales are torn from their eyes, and 
the true light shines into their hearts, the contemplation 
of Slavery will become awfully revolting. Its alleged 
rightfulness will create within them an instinctive repug- 
nancy. Old things will pass away, and behold all things 
will then become new. Whereas they were once blind, 
they will then see ; and the things they once loved, they 
will then hate. Every avowed beauty of the system will 
be transformed into the most sickening deformity. It 
can no longer be practised with impunity; for their 
hearts are now overflowing^with the love of God. But 
he that seeth his brother have need and shutteth up his 
bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love 
of God in him. 

To be consistent, therefore, with the great claims of 
the Gospel, Slavery must be instantly abandoned. Every 



freedom's gift. 95 

yoke must be broken, and the poor captive set free. Is 
this too much to be expected from the principles of our 
holy religion ? Do they not require an instantaneous 
renunciation of all sin, and a constant practice of holi- 
ness] And is Slavery unholy] Then surely pure and 
undefiled religion before God and the Father will de- 
stroy it ; for we are taught that the time is coming when 
the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdoms of 
our Lord and of his Christ ; when the lion and the lamb 
shall lie down together, and the little child shall lead 
them ; when all the proud and all they that do wickedly 
shall be burned up ; and when this earth shall be trans- 
formed into a sublunary heaven. Will sin then exist? 
Certainly not. But Slavery is sin; therefore, Slavery 
will not exist. And will this glorious epoch be consum- 
mated through the instrumentality of the Gospel 7 ? Most 
certainly it will. Hence the Gospel contemplates the 
abolishment of Slavery. 

Only promulgate its glorious truths and faithfully en- 
force its divine requirements ; preach holiness of heart and 
life ; contend earnestly for the faith once delivered to the 
saints ; and Slavery could no more exist in the church 
than in the bosom of God. The fact is, so far as our 
information extends, the Gospel is not very generally 
preached in its purity, at the South. It is made to sub- 
serve local purposes and sanctify the awful abomina- 
tions of Slavery. Professed ministers of Christ, vindicate 
it from the Bible. They proclaim it a holy institution. 
Yes! a system whose first fruits are universal con- 
cubinage — a system of mental degradation — of murder 
to the soul as well as barbarous crucifixion to the 
body, is portrayed as one of the brightest features of 
the Gospel, by the clergy at the South. There may be 
honorable exceptions to this allegation. But that we 



9G freedom's gift. 

do not transcend the facts in the case, we cite the Rev. 
Dr. Capers, a distinguished Methodist minister of the 
South, who fearlessly declared, not long since, that 
slavery tends to the salvation of the slave! Oh ! ye am- 
bassadors of Christ! Ye legates of the skies ! Ye flying 
heralds of the cross ! the retributions of eternal judg- 
ment will speedily overtake this guilty land, and not 
only shall the wicked be turned into hell, and all the na- 
tions that forget God, but if any man shall add to the 
Gospel of Christ, God shall add unto him the plagues 
which it threatens ; and if any man shall take away 
from the Gospel of Christ, God shall take away his part 
out of the book of life, and our of the l^oly city, and from 
the things which are written in this book ! 



ODE, 
FOR JULY 4th, 1840. 

B Y C. T. ERVING. 

When the beams of rising light 

Usher'd in the infant day, 
And the shadows of the niorht 

Were receding fast away, 
Sounds of joy and mirth were heard, 

Cannon's roar, a mighty peal, 
And the patriot's breast was stirr'd — 

Yes, a patriot's heart can feel. 
'T was the birth-day of the free, 
' T was the freeman's jubilee. 

Then the sire and son would tell 

Noble deeds their fathers done ; 
How on battle field they fell, 

And of glorious victories won ; 
How the mother cheer'd her boy 

On to danger, and to strife — 
How each bosom beat with joy, 

When those blessings dear as life, 
Were secured, and we were free — 
Gain'd our country's liberty. 

Yes, the tear-drop still will fall, 
And our heaving bosoms swell, 

When we scenes of strife recall, 
And upon their relics dwell. 
9* 



96 freedom's gift. 

Cherish'd is their patriot dust, — 
We recount old memories o'er, 

Keeping rights in sacred trust, 
Which our fathers bought before : 

Bought with toil, and sweat, and blood, 

Through the blessing of our God. 

But the free alone can tell 

Of the blessings of the free, 
And alone their bosoms swell 

With the gush of liberty. — 
Not the slave, who sighing bends 

'Neath oppression, faint with toil. 
When the freeman's song ascend.-. 

While he cultivates the soil, — 
Not in joy can he unite, 
But can feel his injur'd right. 






SLAVERY HOSTILE TO RELIGION. 

BY L. CROWELL. 

"Had he religion, think you he could pray ? 

Ah no; he steals him to his lonely shed, 

What time moist midnight blows her venom'd breath, 

And musing how he long has toiled and bled, 

Seeks shelter only in the arms of death. ,, 

This is the worst feature of slavery. It is cruel, we 
confess, to violate the slave's physical and intellectual 
rights ; — to deprive him of domestic, social and civil en- 
joyments ; to enslave his body; doom him to unrequited 
toil, and imbrute his mind. But the darkest work of 
slavery is the unceasing war that it wages with con- 
science. It not only paralyzes the conscience of the 
master, but prompts him to interfere with the conscien- 
tious rights and duties of the slave, whenever caprice, 
interest or passion may demand. It meets him at the 
altar, and stifles the voice of prayer. It suppresses the 
rising emotions of piety and seals the lips of the humble 
suppliant. It suspends his religious interests and eter- 
nal welfare upon a pivot, that a flash of excitement or a 
burst of passion may turn, to the ruin of an immortal 
being. A cloud of awful darkness rolls between slavery 
and the religious nature of the slave ; and while one 
side of it reflects the bow of peace and mercy, the other 
is lurid with the lightnings of God's holy law. Religious 
liberty and slavery are absolutely incompatible. The 
free, uncorrupted influences of the Gospel, must neces- 



100 freedom's gift. 

sarily elevate the slave to the dignity of freedom. A 
mind cannot long exist under the full force and power 
of the religion of Jesus Christ and yet be enslaved. 
Under such influences, like the bud in the genial warmth 
of the sun, it will naturally gather strength and expand, 
until it rises up into the consciousness of freedom and 
the greatness of man. No slave in our country, in the 
proper sense of the word, enjoys religious liberty. It is 
a solecism ; it is the liberty of the ox at the shambles ; 
the freedom of the mart of blood. The cruel statute 
that sanctions slavery, interdicts the sympathies of hu- 
man nature and eclipses the light that would, otherwise, 
fall upon the soul of the oppressed. It shuts off more 
than half the force of the Gospel, and works a fearful 
ruin in that intellectual and moral nature, that the hand 
of the Creator has stamped with the marks of wisdom 
and excellence. Observe the old, toil-worn slave as he 
winds his way to the sanctuary. It is Sabbath morning. 
The gay beams of the sun diffuse life over the landscape ; 
all nature is tranquil ; the earth smiles, and the air is 
full of the melody of birds. All is free, save one. The 
weary pilgrim moves pensively along the vale ; at length 
he reaches the sacred spot ; he enters with reverence and 
seats himself in silence. The hour arrives and the min- 
ister commences the devotions of the day. Prayers are 
offered, but to him they are ambiguous; the hymn is 
unintelligible ; the Bible is read but he has never learn- 
ed the language ; the minister preaches, but it is a gos- 
pel that loses its excellence in-the darkness of his under- 
standing. His views are imperfect, his reason weak, 
his mind confused and beclouded. He pants for the 
waters of life, but alas, they are insipid to his taste. He 
is excited, he feels; but his religion is superficial and 
unstable. He enjoys no deep communion ; he has no 



freedom's gift. 101 

consistent hopes of a future world. He knows but little 
of God, of himself and of religion. On him you see the 
marks of slavery. He repeats his visit to the sanctuary 
a few more times, and then weary of life, subdued by 
labor and suffering, unpitied, unwept, he "seeks shelter 
only in the arms of death." The earth receives him 
and no monument tells the place of his tomb. 

But it is not the old alone that suffer. All ages are 
subject to the effects of slavery. All are doomed to be 
its victims. Ye parents, who labor and watch for your 
offspring, think of the thousands for whom no one cares. 
Ye who smile over helpless infancy, — who rejoice for 
the health, beauty and loveliness of your children, and 
feed their opening minds with knowledge and virtue, re- 
member the children of distress and slavery. Think of 
those that are naked and hungry, and give your sympa- 
thies to the forlorn and oppressed. The tenderness of 
infancy lies neglected; and the cry of distress calls for 
mothers who are not ! The voice of those whose wants 
are great, whose cradle is the cold ground, breaks in up- 
on you. Can ye not pity those who so much need pity ; 
whose bodies are feeble ; whose minds are devoted to 
ignorance, and whose sable hands no one shall teach to 
rise in prayer ? Before them lies a rugged, thorny path ; 
and when grown to man's years, no remembrance of 
early joys shall cheer them on; no sweet memory of the 
Sabbath, the school, the Bible and home shall renew 
their life. 

It cannot be safe for us longer to sport with the reli- 
gious interest of our fellow men ; — to trifle with truths 
that we have proclaimed immutable and self-evident, 
and which address themselves as such to the consciences 
of all men. A warning comes over the waters to us, 
even from the ruins of fallen empires. An enlightened 



102 freedom's gift. 

world frowns upon us, while despots are melting the 
chains from their subjects. A wail comes from the 
burning cotton field, and the rice swamp " dank and 
lone," and the arms of the slave are lifted to Heaven for 
relief. Philosophy urges its claims, and religion presses 
her solemn sanctions. Eternal truth demands that we 
regard the sympathies and wrongs of the perishing; and 
abrogate the laws that annihilate the attributes of man. 
The last appeal of outraged humanity breaks forth. It 
is the cry of aggrieved, much abused man. It must be 
heard ; if we disregard it, the response will come from 
the throne of God. 



THE ANTI SLAVERY ENTERPRISE: 
ITS OBJECT, AND AIMS. 



BY R. S. RUST. 



The object of the Anti-Slavery enterprise is to anni- 
hilate the bloody system of American Slavery, which is 
scattering its pestiferous breath over the brightest pros- 
pects of human happiness. It contemplates the com- 
plete overthrow of that system, feebly styled by a south- 
ern clergyman, " the concocted essence of fraud, tyranny, 
and cold-hearted avarice." Were this the acme of its 
injustice it might be endured ; but it stops not here. It 
wages a furious war upon the government of Jehovah, 
by dragging down man, monarch of the earth, possessor 
of an immortal nature, to a level with the brute creation ; 
crushes his intellect and whelms him in despair. It 
forbids millions for whose redemption Christ sweat great 
drops of blood, to gaze upon the soul-cheering pages of 
Divine Truth, the lamp given by God to direct man's 
wayward steps through this world of sin and oppression, 
up to eternal felicity. It breaks up the sacred and en- 
deared relations of husband and wife, parent and child. 
Slavery will not permit the child even to sustain the 
tottering limbs of its aged and infirm parents, nor to 
wipe away the trickling tear of anguish from the furrow- 
ed, care-worn brow of her who gave him existence. It 
will not permit the husband to protect the companion of 



104 freedom's gift. 

his bosom from the base assaults of any heartless, licen- 
tious person. He is compelled to endure, without a 
murmur, the excruciating torture and agony of seeing 
her, around whom all his affections cluster, insulted, 
whipped, defiled, and even to have the tender cords of 
his heart rent asunder, and the purest affections of the 
soul outraged by an eternal separation. 

This is the horrid system which the Abolitionists are 
attempting to bury in the dark shades of oblivion ; and 
we hope to succeed in keeping such a mountain of dis- 
grace and detestation upon it, that it may never have a 
resurrection. Shall slavery forever bloom on the soil 
of the Pilgrims, and fatten on human tears, and groans, 
and sufferings'? May Heaven forbid! May the friends 
of bleeding humanity forbid! May the oceans of blood 
and tears which slavery has caused, be dried up. Hu- 
man yokes must be burned, and the galling fetters sun- 
dered, and the millions of American bondmen shall yet 
stand forth disenthralled. This enterprise has strong 
claims upon our sympathy. Man is a creature of sym- 
pathy ; God created him thus. Sympathy is a sort of 
mental magnetism, which attracts and blends the differ- 
ent members of the human family, in one grand brother- 
hood. This lovely principle was implanted in the human 
breast, for the purpose of cheering the disconsolate, alle- 
viating the wrongs of the distressed, and oppressed. No 
eloquence touches the heart of man so affectingly as a 
note of anguish. The wrongs of the brave Poles agita- 
ted the whole nation ; their sufferings touched a cord 
whose vibrations were felt throughout the whole civilized 
world. Are the hearts of American Christians, so hard 
that they cannot be moved by the intense sufferings of 
our oppressed brethren? Do not the sighs and the 
groans, which come floating along on the southern 



freedom's gift. 105 

breezes, affect the people of the north ? Oh that the 
plantations of the south, drenched with the captive's 
tears and blood, could break their eternal silence, and 
thunder forth in your ears, the story of the negroes' 
wrongs ! Oh that the cruel, bloody lash of the slave- 
driver's whip, could whisper in your ears, the heart- 
rending sufferings of the slaves ! Oh that the crushed 
and bleeding soul, could depict the unutterable agonies, 
which slavery has inflicted upon its deathless nature ! ! 
We should not be able to endure such overwhelming 
testimony. We have a faint delineation of " Slavery as 
it is," by our Weld; and human nature can scarcely 
survive the shock. Do not American slaves have strong 
claims upon our sympathy ? If we have hearts so hard, 
that they cannot feel for others woe, let us tear them 
out, and let the eagles glut on them ; why should we 
cherish hearts which are as cold and unfeeling as a 
chilling iceberg ! 

The Anti-Slavery enterprise has imperative claims 
upon the benevolence of the nation. The people must 
be aroused and brought to feel their deep guilt in refer- 
ence to slavery. Public sentiment, that mighty engine 
of reform, must be rectified — the evils of slavery must be 
held up to public gaze — the danger of continuing a 
slave-holding nation, must be portrayed — the duty, ad- 
vantages and safety of immediate emancipation, must be 
scattered broadcast over the land. A vast amount of 
means is requisite for this great work. The heart of 
every abolitionist should be a fountain of benevolence. 
May the hearts of the professed friends of the slave, 
which are pent up by the rocks of selfishness begin to 
flow afresh. If you see that your brother hath need, 
being deprived of every comfort of life, and overwhelm- 
ed with want and anguish, and you assist him not, how 
10 



106 freedom's gift. 

dwelleth the love of God in your hearts'? It is of little 
benefit to the slave, that we profess friendship for this 
cause, unless works accompany our faith. That aboli- 
tionism without works is spurious. We may meet to- 
gether occasionally, resolve to do this and that; no one 
assumes the responsibility and the work remains undone, 
I wonder that the resolutions, which we have passed at 
some of our meetings, do not haunt us in our slumbers, 
and goad us up to renewed activity. Leviathan is not 
easily tamed. If we intend to effect the overthrow of 
slavery, we must have v igorou s action, as our watchword. 
Let us have acts instead of resolutions. When the his- 
tory of the anti-slavery reform is written, I ardently de- 
sire that there may be, as in the New Testament a large 
book of Acts. Let the abolitionists of Connecticut see 
to it, that they are well represented there. 

Wesleyan University. 



LIBERTY! LIBERTY! 

"Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them.'' 

Hebrews xiii. 3 

BY WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 

Never, O God, can I too thankful be, 
That thou hast given me perfect liberty ; 
That, from my birth, thine image has been seen, 
Acknowledged, and respected, in my mien ; 
That, as an equal being, I may claim 
Affinity with men of every name ; 
That man's inalienable rights are mine, 
And spiritual life, and light divine ! 

O ! to be freer than the chainless wind, 
Beyond all human power to hold or bind ; 
To go or come, rise up or seek repose, 
Labor or rest, just as the mind shall choose; 
To stand erect, with glory and honor crowned, 
And no superior find the world around ; — 
'Tis this that makes existence bright and dear, 
Ennobles man, and gladdens his career ! 

But, to be yoked and fettered, bought and sold, 
Like a dumb brute, or grovelling swine, for gold ; 
To have no home, no country, and no friend, — 
Unrecompensed to toil till life shall end ; 
Covered with scars, and famishing for food, — 
Crushed, and despoiled, and robbed of every good ; — 
O, direful thought ! O, miserable doom ! 
Thrice welcome death — a refuge in the tomb ! 



108 freedom's gift. 

If such a horrid fate were mine, O God ! 

If o'er my head were held a tyrant's rod ; 

If my loved wife could from my fond embrace 

Be wrested, flogged, defiled before my face ; 

If the dear children, granted me by Heaven, 

Could to the shambles be like cattle driven ; 

What floods of tears would drown my weeping eyes ! 

What anguish fill my breast ! how loud would be my cries \ 

How would my spirit yearn for liberty ! 
How would I supplicate to be set free ! 
By day, by night, plot how my chains to break r 
And with my wife and children to escape ; 
Call upon all the friends of God and man, 
For our deliverance to toil and plan, — 
Forgetful of each other's caste or creed, 
And nobly emulous our cause to plead ! 

Therefore it is — remembering those in bonds 

As bound with them — my yearning soul responds 

To all their groans, each briny tear that starts, 

Each dreadful pang that rends their bleeding hearts ; 

And therefore do I cease not to proclaim 

My country's guilt, barbarity and shame ; 

And therefore slavery do I execrate, 

And warn the tyrant of his awful fate. 

Down with the hellish system, now — forever! 
Break every yoke — each galling fetter sever ! 
Come to the rescue, all your means unite, 
Ye friends of Justice, Liberty, and Right ! 
And as ye triumph in this holy cause, 
All heaven, all earth, shall ring with loud applause ; 
A ransomed host a choral song shall raise, 
And myriad voices shout Jehovah's praise ! 

Boston, March 31, 1840. 



