r^5 . 75'73' S ^o. G 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofjamesmdo1832mcdo 



^:^^m4i©^ 



OF 



JAMES M*DOWEL.Ii, Jr. 



(OF ROCKBRIDGE,) 



IN THE 



m<£)w@ii (^w iDmhm^^m^^ m^ ^w:^<mL^R^^ 



ON 



THE SLATE dUESTION: 



Delivered Saturday ^ January 21, 1832. 



SECOND EDITION. 



This second edition of the speech of James M'Dowell, Jr. on the "Slave duestion," is 
published by gentlemen who are favorable to the views advocated by Mr. M'D. 



RICHMOND: 

Printed by Thomas W. White, opposite the Bell Tavern. 

1832. 



(tz..75?S.% ^\o. 



■J O^i^f t^$^\ 






SPEECH. 



Mr. Speaker : There are many circumstances connected with the 
protraction of the present debate, which make it, personally, undesira- 
ble for me to enter upon it nov/. The various bearings of which it is 
susceptible have been explored; tlie principles on which the decision 
of it should finally rest, have been stated and examined; the stores 
of arp^ument and of fancy have alike been drawn upon to sustain and 
relieve it — the whole ground repeatedly, ably and successfully pre- 
occupied. In this situation, silence, especially by one whose habits 
commend it to his observance, and whose legislative duties have en- 
tirely detached him from the immediate subject of debate, (a debate, 
too, unexpectedly introduced,) can only b6 broken with positive dis- 
advantage. And, sir, I would not break it now ; I would not open 
the lips which discretion should seal, were it not that the question 
which we are discussing, and the disscussion itself, have brought a cri- 
sis on the country; have brought up a measure for decision here, of 
such eventful influence over the social structure and condition of the 
State, as to demand, imperatively demand of every member that, 
guided only by his judgement and his conscience, he should stand forth, 
firmly and deliberately, and take his position upon it. In doing this, 
I desire that my reasons may accompany my act. Sir, if there ever was a 
subject thrown before the public councils of any people, which involved 
a crisis in their affairs, that subject is before us now, view it in what 
aspect you can and decide it as you may. It is one whose consequences 
go more to the peace and power of this Commonwealth ; to that of 
the whole slave-holding portion of our Union — possibly to that of the 
Union itself — one which will awaken throughout the Continent of 
America a deeper response of sympathetic feeling, and will comprehend 
in its final results, a wider range of operation upon intellectual and 
moral and christian man, than any to which the Legislature of Vir- 
ginia has ever been directed. Cast your eye for a single instant over 
that volume of consequences to our own and to the millions of another 
race, whose destinies are complicated with ours in this measure — cast 
your eye to these as they lie folded up in the proposition on your ta- 
ble — and you will at once perceive that it is not in the power of rhe- 
torical extravagance to give to that proposition any factitious weight; 
that it is not more than competent for language itself, enervated as jts 
strong terms have become by familiar use, adequately to impress a 
suitable conception of its character. We, sir, to whom it is given to 
originate and dispose of the measure from which these consequences 
will flow, to be the actors in this new scene of legislation, will stand 
out in the foreground of our country's history — prominent on its can- 
vass — the subjects of curious interest and of various animadversion, 



to the statesmen and the philanthropists of after-time. Thus elevated 
by the circumstances in which we are casually placed, to a peculiar 
association with the future fate of the Commonwealth, 1, for one, am 
deeply sensible, both to the responsibility and the distinction of the 
posture; deeply sensible to the anxious call which Virginia makes, in 
this trying hour of her fortunes, upon the calmest wisdom of her pub- 
lic men; and am gratified — nay, am proud, that as one, and an hum- 
ble one, of these, it is permitted me to respond to that call, by uniting 
with others in the indication and support of a policy which, however 
startling at the first sight, is the only one in which a sure guarantee 
can be found for the great interests of the State, or for the permanent 
security and happiness of the citizen. This policy, which has long 
been repressed by unmanly apprehensions or smothered as the dream 
of impracticable benevolence ; discoursed of by the statesman only in 
his closet ; and breathed by the christian only in a silent prayer for 
his country :— this policy, 1 thank Heaven, can, at last, be debated in 
the face of day — in the face of assembled multitudes — can be brought 
for judgement to the bar of reason, and searched and decided by the 
lights of truth. 

Adverting to the course of debate, that I might collect from it the 
prominent points on which it has been conducted, and as far as prac- 
ticable, examine them myself, I regret that any one of them has been lost 
to me — regret especially, that I was casually prevented from hearing 
the remarks of the gentleman from Petersburg, (Mr. Brown,) as well 
because they have been represented as exhibiting a favorable specimen 
of intellectual power, as because of their assuming some new grounds 
of argument. Not having heard them, however, and no report of 
them yet existing for reference, they are inaccessible to ^e for any 
purpose, either of criticism or conviction. So far as the debate has 
come within my knowledge, no direct inquiry has been made into the 
relative capacities of the negro and the white man, as laborers — as the 
mere agents of production. This inquiry seems to have been estopped 
by the general, I believe, universal concession, that slavery was an 
*'evil." Thus, sir, a branch, necessary to the full investigation of 
the subject, and one upon which the expediency of a gradual emanci- 
pation can well be supported, has been indirectly closed. I say well 
supported, because no proposition can be more easily or conclusively 
established, both by general deduction from the principles of human 
nature, and by observed facts, than ihis^ that the labor of a free white 
man, in the temperate latitude of Virginia, is more productive than 
that of a slave — yielding a larger aggregate for pubhc and for private 
wealth. 

But it is not in this relation, not as a laborer of equal or of less 
capability than the white man, that the negro has been considered; 
he has been considered chiefly as an alien element in the composition of 
our civil society, as constituting a class which cannot be otherwise 
than perpetually distinct — necessarily discordant with that which go- 
verns him — between whom a common sympathy is impossible, and 
whose existing rights admit of no melioration. It is under this view 
of the negro's situation here, that the case of gradual emancipation 
has been argued — that the question has been put and controverted, 



whether upon a comprehensive estimate of our permanent interests, it 
is most expedient to retain him as a slave, or to liberate and remove 
him? Whilst, however, it is admitted, that slavery is a hostile princi- 
ple in any society and government, especially in one like ours, and 
therefore, an "evil," it is nevertheless maintained to be an evil so in- 
terwoven with the habits and rights of our people as to be incorrigible 
by any means consistent with these, and at the same time, within our 
reach; and upon this double view of the case, the efficacy, as well as 
propriety, of legislation upon it, is challenged. 

Your committee, sir, declare that legislation " at present is inexpe- 
dient:''^ The amendn)ent proposed, and now under discussion, declares 
the contrary. Believing that the amendment takes the true ground, 
I shall endeavor to sustain it: and in so doing, will present the consi- 
derations which I have to submit without reference to method, and 
without limiting myself to ihe onl}' point which is strictly before us, 
that of expediency, I will, under the sanction of the general example, 
look a little to the mode of legislation also, and see whether there be 
any principle on which it may be justly and rightfully exercised. 

Whatever it may have been, it is no part of our legislative duty, 
at this day to inquire, whether slavery does or does not consist with 
the first and leading principle of a Republic; nor is it necessary to 
determine whether the permission of it here does not form one of the 
most striking instances upon record, of a people resolutely violating 
towards others, that principle of absolute freedom on which they erect- 
ed their own independence, and which they were the first to proclaim to 
the world as the only just and admissible rule of popular government. 
Forbearing inquiry into the coherence of slavery with the abstract jorm- 
ciples of our government, I shall not make the question of its coherence 
with the abstract principles of morality, and will not, as some gentlemen 
have done, consider the position, whether, morally, we have any war- 
rant for it or not. Upon this point angry controversies have long 
been maintained. The absence from the Bible, of any direct repro- 
bation of the practice of slavery, the qualified admission of it, under 
the Mosaic Law — the double reference which is made to it in the Deca- 
logue itself, the recognition of it by St. Paul in a specific case, (the 
case of Onesimus,) and the identity of the words, servant and slave, 
in the etymologies of the Greek language, the original language of 
the Testament, are all of them so many points of argument on one 
side, rebutted on the other, and powerfully rebutted by the fact pf 
man's original equality of rights, equality of responsibility as a moral 
agent, and by the great canon of the divine law, which enjoins upon 
all to perform to others the duties which we exact for ourselves. 

But, sir, whether the slave, as the 'descendant of Ham, suffers un- 
der a primitive curse — whether he is graduated in his intellect, by Pro- 
vidence, for the post which he actually |ffcupies in the labors of the 
world — or whether he belongs to another ""family of nations, the family 
of Cush, and has sprung from ancestors illustrious in history, the re- 
formers of Ancient Egypt, the authors of arts and learning — nay of 
the very alphabet itself — whichever of these suppositions be the true 
one, and curious and instructive as may be the learning by which they 
are respectively maintained, they may yet be decided either way without 



in the least affecting him as he is known to our laws — in the least affect- 
ing him as the proposed object of practical legislation. It is only as such 
an object, and not because of any speculative matter connected with 
his history, or with our right to his services as a slave, that I intend 
to regard him now. 

The impracticability of legislating in any useful manner, for the 
ultimate emancipation and removal of the slaves of this Common- 
weahh, has been assumed in the course of debate by many gentlemen, 
and all attempts having that object in view, have, in consequence, been 
denounced by them as not only unwise, but improper and dangerous. 
This assumption is a violent one. With thousands of examples around 
us of what il is possible for the human mind to accomplish when it is 
exerted upon otlier objects of interest or pursuit, we have no reason to 
pre>uppose a failure to its exertions in the rase before us. If it is a 
case of much difficulty, it is also one of more than correspondent im- 
portance — one which must, of necessity, be reflected on, which must 
engross the energies of the public mind as it engrosses to the last de- 
gree, the public security and repose. The difficulties in the way of 
legislation are not more positive than are the necessities for it; they 
go hand in hand, increasing with every hour of delay : and that these 
difficulties are not removable by some scheme easily prepared, and to 
which, wheu it is prepared exception cannot be taken, is no more than 
what is true of every other complicated subject, and constitutes a rea- 
son, not for abandonment, but for a more painstaking perseverance. 
Of all oihers, the objection to this measure, that it is difficult — the as- 
sumption that it is impracticable, is made with the worst grace by us 
who have just entered iipon ihe threshold of its investigation ; by us, 
who are employed for no other end than that of adjusting these very 
difficulties as they arise in the public business, and who have received 
the whole constitutional power of the State in the express confidence 
that, devoting our time and talents exclusively to the trust, we woidd 
apply it to this or any other purpose which the situation of the com- 
munity might require. Had the difficulty of an enterprise been made 
a rule for avoiding or deserting it, in the ordinary undertakings of life, 
as gentlenien would have it to be in that which is proposed for the pub- 
lic, we shpuld have been enriched by none of the acquisitions of sci- 
ence or art, and society, at this day, would have had little to distin- 
guish it from that of a primitive and barbarous age. 

*Allow me, sir, in this connexion, to refer to a declaration of an il- 
lustrious man of another country. It was once asked of Sir Isaac 
Newton, by an admirer who was confounded at the splendid results of 
his science, how it was possible for him to have reduced all the phe- 
nomena of the Heavens to a few elementary and easily intelligible 
principles of calculation? "I never could have done it," was the re- 
ply, " otherwise than by long, laborious, and patient thovght.^^ This 
reply is admonitory to us, and we may profit of it in our present spe- 
culations. We have a problem, a practical problem, to discuss and to 
settle which demands this process of thought beyond every other one 
on which the mind can be employed, which takes continents and ages 
into its scope of operation, and which, thereby, involves an influence 
on the sum of human happiness so immeasurably greater than any 



with which the results of speculative science could affect it, that all 
the problems of all the schoolmen and philosophers seem, in compa- 
rison of this, to be little more than the day-dreams of a profitless and 
visionary abstraction. Let us but give our minds patiently and labo- 
riously to some plan of gradual emancipation and removal, and we 
need not fear the result — need not fear but that some one will be de- 
vised which shall be just in its principle, and, for the most, satisfactory in 
its details. Several have already been presented — characterized, in- 
deed, by features of more or less imperfection, but, nevertheless, in re- 
futation of the idea that any one was impracticable and principally 
repugnant to those who, believing that all schemes are improper, can 
the more easily imagine that all are defective. Enough has beeu'pre- 
pared to show that the subject is practicable: enough has not, and 
never will be prepared to satisfy predetermined hostility. 

The example of our ancestors, in this matter, has been plead against 
legislative action on it now. They, and they only, it has been said, 
were competent to undertake and perfect the proposed experiment on 
our slave population. The case of emancipation, if ever manageable, 
was manageable by them ; the difficulties which now oppress it were less 
embarrassing then, and yet they were deemed to be too overpowering 
to be grappled with. Hence it is argued, that the case having changed 
for the worse, the imprudence of legislating upon it has become 
greater, and that what, in this respect, was merely unwise for our an- 
cestors to attempt, would be madness for us. Now, sir, besides the 
double error, both in argument and in morals, of claiming a faulty ex- 
ample for imitation — a slight examination into the early circumstances 
of slavery in this Commonwealth, will shew, that the change in these, 
which has since taken place, and upon which all legislation is now de- 
nounced, is precisely the change which justifies and requires it. With 
a far smaller number of negroes than we have, if it was more easy 
for our forefathers to emancipate and deport them, it was less neces- 
sary: no motive but that of moral duty demanded it; personal safety 
was not implicated in the question ; the general considerations of ex- 
pediency which now operate, were unfelt, and the fact that the negro 
was then more valuable as a property, and less dangerous as a man, 
was an additional persuasive for contentment with the policy that en- 
slaved him. That schemes for his emancipation were therefore dis- 
couraged, is no more than should have been expected : that they should 
have been formed and pressed as an offering of voluntary justice, un- 
called for by private interest or public necessity, would have been 
more extraordinary and much more at war with the principles of our 
nature ! 

At that day, the sentiment of the world generally was less adverse 
to this institution of slavery than it is at present, and the sentiment of 
our own country admitted towards persons, of a much greater restriction 
upon the principle of absolute equality than it does now. At that 
time too, our agricultural wants sent us in quest of laborers for the 
field— our forests were to be levelled — our low-lands to be fitted for 
culture, and the staple which for many a year brought wealth to the 
planter and afforded perhaps the original pretext for the importation 
of the slave, was nearly or quite limited to the production of our own 



8 

soil. Hence the labor of the slave was more necessary and more pro- 
fitable. Then also an immense territory was open to his admittance 
and an unrestrained exportation supplied the ready means of disposal 
for all which the convenience or interests of our citizens might require 
to be sold. Now, this outlet for the vicious or redundant portion of 
this people is closed — the forests which burdened the labors of our 
ancestors have disappeared, and the peculiar staple which rewarded 
ihem has been scattered far and near through the Union. 

From this it results, that the slave now lives amongst us when he is 
less wanted — less profitable — less tolerated by public feeling, and 
when his accumulation, which was never influenced by moral restraint, 
is no longer repressed by that positive check which a foreign and an 
open market had afforded. Our present relation to the slave, there- 
fore, is widely different from what it has been, and the several parti- 
culars in which this difference consists are several arguments for 
making him the subject of immediate legislation. He might, or he 
might not, have been made such by our ancestors, in some degree, at 
their discretion: no motive of private interest imperatively urged them 
to the step, and although a sound policy which looked to future re- 
sults would then, as now, have made it wise, yet there was no necessity 
like the present, which superseded all choice and made it indispensable. 

Were the example of the period adverted to, or of any period to be 
preferred to the decisions of our own reason in the discharge of our 
own duties — were it a just rule of action that those who control the 
public welfare of one age should yield a prescriptive obedience to the 
policy of the age that went before it, then it were but a small, consola- 
tion to know that the circumstances under which this sacrifice of mo- 
ral and mental independence is required, are the same with those upon 
which that policy was originally established. Here, however, this is 
not the case; and the example invoked for imitation, is an example 
misapplied. 

But if it were otherwise — if the past and present circumstances 
which qualify the propriety of legislating on the subject in issue, were 
essentially the same, the example proposed for adoption, should be re- 
jected — it is unworthy of acknowledgement — unworthy of obedi- 
ence — an example of error, and it is no part of the better spirit of the 
day in which we live, to canonize error, because of its antiquity — 
no part of that spirit, to permit the sentiment of veneration for the 
dead, which softens the worst of their acts, and which sheds a salutary 
and healing influence upon individual feeling, to hallow a ruinous ex- 
ample to national observance. Sir, if our ancestors had exerted the 
firmness which, under higher obligations, we ourselves, are called 
upon to exert, Virginia would not, at this day, have been mourning 
over the legacy of weakness, and of sorrow, that has been left her — 
she would not have been thrust down — down — in a still lowering rela- 
tion, to the subordinate post which she occupies in the confederacy 
whose career she had led — she would not be withering under the lepro- 
sy which is piercing her to the heart. 

Who will say that this Commonwealth is what she would have been 
without this alien population in her bosom, that her people are as 
happy, her power as great, her geographical divisions as perfectly 



9 

united by community of interest, as perfectl / knit together by the 
tastes and habits and pursuits — by the assimilation of character and 
object which identify and attach a homogeneous people? Who will 
say that Virginia has risen to the lofty prosperity of which she is ca- 
pable ; that her physical condition conforms to her physical resources, 
that her multiplied bounties of land and of water, have ministered as 
they should have done, to the comforts of her people, that a thrifty 
agriculture is every where extracting wealth from her soil and an ac- 
tive commerce gathering it from her streams, that a spirit of hardy 
and forward enterprise directs alike the energies of the public and the 
private arm, pervades the land with its living impulse, covers it with 
the achievements of labor, the improvements of skill, the ameliorated 
means of personal and business connexion — with the varied traces of its 
invigorating and salutary power — that the Commonwealth, under a 
double developement of its moral and physical faculties, l;)lends, at a 
single exhibition, all that it is possible for a prosperous people with a 
free government to accomplish? Who will say this? Sir, no one will 
say it. Our proverbial admiration of Virginia and the prodigal eu- 
logy which that admiration inspires, cannot tempt us to such extrava- 
gance as this. 

We know that the picture is the ''counterfeit presentment" of the 
true one. We know that inefficiency and languor characterize our 
movements — that enterprise is scarcely known to us, but from obser- 
vation of its influence on other communities. We know that the bles- 
sings of our position and soil and climate are countervailed by the 
apathy of our public counsels and by our exclusive reliance upon in- 
voluntary labor. Our interests and senses, proclaim the progress of 
general decline; conscience and experience attest that slavery is 
its principal cause. Is it not so ? When we look at Virginia as a 
whole, without pausing upon the bright and the beautiful that still 
show forth as intrinsic qualities of her character, but look at her, in 
reference to her every day practical habit and appearance, is she not 
any thing but prosperous ? Do we not in this respect contemplate her 
justly when we regard her as meagre, haggard and enfeebled — with 
decrepitude stealing upon her limbs — as given over to leanness and im- 
potency, and as wasting away under the improvidence and the inactivitv 
which eternally accompany the fatal institution that she cherishes and 
cherishes, too, as a mother who will hazard her own life rather than 
part even with the monstrous offspring that afflicts her ? Sir, it is true 
of Virginia, not merely that she has not advanced but that in many 
respects she has greatly declined ; and what have we got as a com- 
pensation for this decline ? As a compensation for this disparity be- 
tween what Virginia is and what she might have been ? Nothing but 
the right of property in the very beings who have brought this dispa- 
rity upon us. This is our pay; this is what we have gotten to remu- 
nerate us for our delinquent prosperity ; to repay us for our desolated 
fields, our torpid enterprise; and in this dark day of our humbled im- 
portance, to sustain our hopes and to soothe our pride as a people. 

I ask you, sir, is the consideration satisfactory, the equivalent com- 
plete ? Is a birthright of citizenship in a free community, unaccom- 
panied by this right of property, less valuable or less dear than one in 



10 

our community as it now is, where this right is retained, but where th<j 
retention of it has paralyzed the energies of the Slate and planted at 
every hearth the instrument of domestic massacre? Who, sir, that 
looks at this property as a legislator and marks its e^ect on our na- 
tional advance but weeps over it as the worst of patrimonies ? Who 
that looks to this unhappy bondage of an unhappy people in the midst 
of our society and thinks of its incidents or its issues but weeps over 
it as a curse upon him who inflicts as upon him who suffers it? Who 
that would place Virginia without a slave upon her surface in any 
comparison of equality with Virginia and the thousands who have 
yielded their liberty to her laws ? 

If I am to judge from the tone of our debate, from the concessions 
on all hands expressed, there is not a man in this body, not one, per- 
haps, that is even represented here, w^ho would not have thanked the 
generation? that have gone before us if, acting as public men, they had 
brought this bondage to a close — who would not have thanked them, 
if, acting as private men on private motives, they had relinquished the 
property which their mistaken kindness has devolved upon us ? Proud 
as are the names for intellect and patriotism which enrich the volumes 
of our history and reverentially as we turn to them at this period of 
waning reputation, that name — that man — above all parallel would 
have been the chief, who could have blotted out this curse from his 
country — those, above all others, would have received the homage of 
an eternal gratitude, who casting away every suggestion of petty in- 
terest, had broken the yoke which, in evil hour, had been imposed and 
had translated, as a/ree man, to another continent, the outcast and the 
wretched being who burdens ours with his presence and who defiles it 
with his crimes. - , 

But, sir, it has been otherwise appointed. Slavery has come down 
to us from our fathers, and the question now is, shall we, in turn, hand 
it over to our children ? Hand it over to them aggravated in every 
attribute of evil ? Shall we perpetuate the calamity we deplore and 
become to posterity the objects, not of kindness but of cursing ? Pos- 
sessed of slaves as a private property by the act of our ancestors, shall 
we transmit it as such throughout an indefinite future ? This is the 
question. 

It is answered that we shall transmit it ; that the right to the slave 
is indefeasible and unpurchasable ; that we have no power to divest it 
and no means to buy it up with. Time, it is urged, operates no change 
whatever in the right ; that cleaves to the descendants of the slave 
whenever existing, and though a century may interpose its succession 
of descents, yet it remains unweakened and abides upon the offspring 
then no less than upon the parent now. The right, then it seems, is 
interminable. But where are the public resources with which to pur- 
chase out this right ? Are there none ? So the Treasury answers. — 
Can none be raised ? This too, may perhaps be answered in the ne- 
gative. It may be argued, and with some show of force, that you can- 
not tax a negro in order to accumulate a sum wherewith you may 
jultimately buy him, because the tax itself is an abstraction from his 
value and you have the same right to take the whole of his value as a 
part. You cannot tax land exclusively for such an object, because 



11 

that would be to make one property pay for another — to sacrifice one 
class of private rights equally sacred, to another class. There is, 
therefore, a total want of means, present and prospective. 

Allusion, however, both frequent and confident, has been made to 
those of the general government, as being open to our hand. I will 
suppose them equally intangible for any purpose connected with our 
subject. What then sir ? With a right of property perpetual in the 
hands of the citizen, and without resources in those of the public to 
extinguish it by purchase, what is to be done — what can be done.'^ Is 
the private right to be perpetuated at all hazards to the State i* Has 
the State, as such, no rights which conflict with this perpetuity.'' No 
power to regulate a propert}', which exists only in virtue of her 'Own 
laws ? No reason to make the regulation when that property which 
is only sanctioned as incidental to the public good, is like to endanger 
its subversion ? Is not the State a party, representing the general in- 
terests of all with which no specific, individual interests can be permit- 
ted, either hypothetically or practically, to be repugnant f Is she 
competent to institute a right of property which she is not competent 
to remedy, qualify or withdraw as considerations of necessity or of 
paramount interest may require ? Must she look, sir, in quiet imbeci- 
lity, on the multiplying evils of her slave population — must she sit 
down in powerless despair, and see this population coming on — wave 
after wave — a gathering deluge to overwhelm her f 

No, sir, she has the corrective power which she may justly apply 
when her judgement directs-, and apply in such event, without violence 
to private rights, which, so far as they are conventional, do not and 
cannot exist, but in dependence upon the higher rights of the State. — 
All States resting upon compacts, express or implied, for the public 
good, no one has the capacity even to will, much less to authorize, an 
injury to the well-being, which, and which only, it was constituted to 
protect. The private property, therefore, which a State allows to be 
held by its citizens, must consist with the general end for which the 
State itself is created ; must be held under the reserved and necessary 
condition that it is not to be productive of public disadvantage, or, 
that if it be, that then it becomes the fair subject, to the State, of re- 
sumption or restraint. Any other tenure to private property than this 
— a tenure by which it might be held over after a discovery of its 
pernicious or dangerous influence to the public welfare, would be in- 
compatible with the very object for which it is authorized and with 
that just relation of inferiority of individual interests to the interests of 
the State. 

The power, therefore, Mr. Speaker, of correcting the evil tenden- 
cies of an authorized property, is inherent in all governments, and the 
exercise of that power in effecting the correction, when such tenden- 
cies arise, is no infringement of private rights — no infringement, be- 
cause, as these exist within the limitation that they do not conflict 
with the general weal, they ftiay be considered as determined when 
that conflict occurs. A State cannot arbitrarily cancel a private pro- 
perty when its uses are salutary without committing injustice to pri- 
vate rights : an individual cannot hold a property when its general 
quahties are dangerous or baneful without doing equal injustice to the 



12 

rights which are public. Both have rights in this subject of property 
then which, at certain limits, mutually exclude interference. But, sir, 
whilst it is unquestionably true as a general principle that the right to 
private property is a grant from the public which it may or it may not 
make at its pleasure and which, when made, does not detract in the 
smallest degree from the power of that public to recall it if it be a grant 
of evil operation — whilst this principle is true and admitted, an em- 
barrassing difficulty will generally arise in reducing it to practice. — 
How, when, and under what circumstances shall it be applied ? At 
what degree of ill operation is a private property justly restrainable 
by the State .^ 

Let us see, sir, whether that which we are considering, has acquir 
ed a character and an operation which places it within this degree 
and properly subjects it to correction. And in this investigation there 
is no difficulty— nothing has been left to speculation or inquiry, for how- 
ever widely gentlemen have differed upon the power and the justice of 
touching this property, they have yet united in a common testimony 
to its character. It has been frankly and unequivocally declared 
from the very commencement of this debate by the most decided ene- 
mies of abolition themselves as well as by others — that this property is 
an " evil" — that it is a dangerous property. Yes, sir, so dangerous 
has it been represented to be even by those who desire to retain it, that 
we have been reproached for speaking of it otherwise than in fireside 
whispers — reproached for entertaining debate upon it in this Hall, and 
the discussion of it with open doors and to the general ear, has been 
charged upon us as a climax of rashness and folly which threatens 
issues of calamity to the country. It is then a dangerous property — 
held at the certain and declared risk of involving, from any act of 
imprudence in us or its owners, the repose and security of our people. 
What follows from this character ? That the property which bears it 
is beyond the reach of interference or restraint from the laws ? As- 
suredly not. 

With the principle undenied and undeniable that it is the right and 
the duty of every government to protect its citizens from danger, no 
matter what be the form of it — a right and duty which necessarily re- 
sult from the very purposes of a political compact and independently of 
any direct stipulation to that effect — with this principle admitted in 
the government, and with a property amongst us, the danger of which 
is also admitted, does not the case already exist to which the principle 
should be applied ^ Why this power of protection unless it is to be 
applied when danger occurs f Danger is the very thing to which 
this power is the necessary and intended antagonist — the very thing 
to which it is perpetually opposed — from the first moment of its exis- 
tence to any after period of its progress, this power is always ready to 
meet and resist it. At no time therefore can the existence of danger 
and the duty of protection, subsist side by side in quiet fellowship with 
each other. ^ 

But it is thought that this protective power is altogether ulterior in 
its nature and objects, and cannot be properly resorted to but when 
the greatness of danger to the whole State requires the suspension of 
her ordinary laws ; that it is in fact, a power which never arises ex- 



13 

cept when the life of a community is at stake and when a consequen- 
tial right is derived, from tliat circumstance, of doing whatever the 
public exigency may demand. Now, sir, the idea that we cannot re- 
medy an evil existing in the form of a private right and sanctioned by 
the civil law without waiting until it becomes Ibrmidable enough to 
threaten the very being of the Slate, and thus to justify a resort to the 
supreme "law of necessit}'," is a mistaken and a mischievous one. It 
is an idea evidently founded upon the supposed analogy between the 
case of a State exposed to peril from external or from organized vio- 
lence, and assuming, in consequence, the shield of the " suprenie 
law" for its defence, and the case of a Slate when the danger to 
which it is exposed proceeds from the ill-regulation or the ill-charac- 
ter of one or more of its private and domestic rights. No such analo- 
gy obtains. When the violence is offered to a State which requires 
an appeal to this "supreme law" for protection, the danger is imme- 
diate — uncompromising — total; — not arising out of the laws, but di- 
rected against them ; Qomprehending all the rights of all the citizens, 
and demanding such suspension of them all as may be necessary for 
their ultimate safely — demanding a remedy prompt as the danger and 
co-extensive with the injury which it threatens. In the case, however, 
of a similar danger being likely to result to a Slate, from the ill-ma- 
nagement or from the progressive extension of an injurious property, 
it is one which must, at first, be limited — must be of gradual advance 
— of slow growth — and therefore not one which necessarily subjects 
the State to the exercise of any extraordinary means to repel it. On 
the contrary it is a danger which is fairly within the reach and cor- 
rection of the ordinary laws, out of whose provisions it proceeds, and 
whose beneficial objects in establishing property must be abused be- 
fore it can even begin to exist. 

That there is a power to be exercised, at some time or other, when 
the safety of the State requires it, and against whatsoever may be re- 
pugnant to that safety, nobody questions. The difficulty seems to be 
in fixing upon the proper time and the proper degree of public jeo- 
pardy, at which such an exercise of power is allowable. It is a diffi- 
culty, which in my judgement, can be resolved into the single proposi- 
tion — whether it is wiser to exercise that power when danger is first 
discovered, is feeblest and most manageable, or when it has acquired 
extent and strength and manifold means of strenuous resistance ? Be- 
tween such alternatives one would suppose that there could be no hesi- 
tation, and they are, unquestionably, the very alternatives which a just 
consideration of this admitted power presents. Is it, sir, a merely 
military power belonging to the armory, indeed, of every government 
but never to be drawn out for service except as a piece of ordnance is 
drawn out, when the " ultima ratio^^ is appealed to ? Never to be ex- 
erted but in the battle field and when the Slate necessities are such as 
to put her upon a struggle of strength ? Is it to be exerted only when 
it can be best opposed, and when successful opposition would be the 
most ruinous? Certainly not. This would be to hazard the very 
power itself on the efficiency of which the public security depends : 
this would be to limit it when applied to a cause of domestic danger, 
in a far greater measure than it is confessedly limited when applied 



14 

between nations themselves to maintain and defend their separate in- 
dependence. 

it is, sir, as we all know, an undoubted principle of national law that 
any nation lias the right of interposing- and crushing, if she can, the 
hostile preparations which are making by another, and which she has 
just and sufhcient reason to believe are intended for herself. This is 
the principle of defence ; and if actual hostilities committed by one 
nation upon another in order to obviate an apprehended injury be a 
legitimate and sanctioned application of it, then is the repression, by 
any countr}', of any existing cause of internal danger or disorder, a 
fortiori, a more legitimate exercise of the principle still. It is easier 
to defend by excluding or preventing danger than by permitting and 
then resisting it. It involves less sacrifice, less suffering ; and hence 
the propriety of this principle or right of national interference. Upon 
this ground also — that of preventing injury by anticipating its occur- 
rence — are founded the civil enactments which relate to personal secu- 
rity. Did the law afford no such provision as this for the safety of 
our persons, no other could be effectual. In such cases a remedy for 
the satisfaction of a permitted injury would be the merest mockery of 
protection. The injury which might have been restrained, if allowed 
to be perpetrated, might be such, that no human remedy could reach 
it — such that no degree or accumulation of pain upon the offender 
would be productive of any mitigation to his act. The idea of per- 
sonal security from a law which is not preventive in its operation is 
wholly delusive — a fallacy on which no man would rely, as no man 
would be safe who could never look to his government but in the mo- 
ment of assault — could never call upon it for help, but when the dag- 
ger was plying at his bosom. 

Sir, this defensive power of the government is not passive as gentle- 
men would make it — is not held up for occasional exertion — for emer- 
gencies of State which may call it into use, but to become the real and 
beneficent safeguard which it is qualified and intended to be, it must 
be habitually directed to the prevention of every danger, wherever 
and whenever it appears, which can threaten the general security. 

Am I asked how this protective power is to be applied to the case 
before us — the case of slavery ? Unquestionably, I answer, in no 
other way than by a decisive and timely prevention of its dangers. — 
But what, it is further asked, is the mode of prevention? I answer as 
frankly, that there can be no other mode than that of keeping down 
or diminishing the increase of the slaves by a gradual liberation and 
removal of them. I would not apply this mode, except at the private 
election of the owners, to the slaves now in existence, but only to those 
hereafter born. These, and these only, should be made the objects of 
positive law. If the holders of these decline a voluntary surrender of 
their claim to them, then, in the first place, this claim should be pur- 
chased out bv the State, but if the State have not the means of mak- 
ing the purchase, then this claim should be forfeited to the State in 
such manner as shall best preserve the interests of individuals without 
hazarding too much the interests and safety of the Commonwealth. 

But, sir, here is the tender point : here it is that we have been call- 
ed upon to stop, to desist, to touch not, to handle not — that the 



15 

property we would remove— tlje property we would purchase — 
the property we would forfeit, both the born and unborn, is private 
property, and perfectly sacred in that character, from the action of 
every power but the power of arbitrary and lawless force. Is this 
eternity to the private right to be admitted? 

Admit that this right of private property in the slave is perpetual 
and indefeasible, and how stands the question of relative rights be- 
tween the government and its citizens? On the one side the sanctity 
and inviolability of private property is plead for the preservation of 
the total number of our slaves, present and to come : on the other 
side, there is plead, the increasing danger of this slave population to 
the public security, and the consequent necessity of arresting it by a 
gradual reduction of its numbers. Allow the private claim of property 
to prevail, and you authorize a progressive and indefinite increase 
of the slave : — Allow the public claim to security to prevail, and you 
authorize an immediate restriction of that increase. How, sir, are 
these opposite claims, both of them of acknowledged legitimacy — the 
one as resulting from the operation of law, the other as resulting from 
the very purpose of government — how are they to be reconciled with 
each other in their practical effects ? If a limitation is imposed on 
the right to this property or its increase, an abridgment of private 
rights is complained of: if no limitation is imposed, an abridgment 
of personal and public security is complained of. Upon this opposi- 
tion how are we to decide f How can we decide but against the infe- 
rior right ? 

The rights of private property and of personal security exist under 
every government, but they are not equal. Security is the primary 
purpose for which men enter into government; property, beyond a 
sufficiency for natural wants, is only a secondary purpose. It is be- 
cause private property ministers to the uses and comforts and enjoy- 
ments of persons that it is sanctioned by law, and it is for these ends 
and these only that it is sanctioned. To these ends, therefore, must 
it be kept constantly subordinate, constantly conformed. When it 
loses its utility — when it no longer contributes to the personal benefits 
and wants of its holder in any equal degree with the expense or the 
risk or the danger of keeping it — much more — when it jeopards the 
security of the public — when this is the case, then the original purpose 
for which it is authorized is lost; its character of property, in the just 
and beneficial sense of it, is gone, and it may be regulated, without 
private injustice, in any manner which the general good of the com- 
munity, by whose laws it was licensed, may require. 

The contrary of this doctrine is monstrous : it would be to make 
man with all his rights of life and liberty and happiness, subordinate 
to the workmanship of his own hands — to the very commodity, the very 
property by which he intended to aid and accommodate his person. 
No government will do this — no government can do it. Constituted 
to protect property only as it answers the uses of persons, a govern- 
ment cannot protect it to the extent of bringing those persons into 
danger. But, sir, the danger from an unchecked accumulation of 
our slaves is, on all hands, acknowledged. Then may that danger, 
and in the very way in which it arises, be justly prevented. There is 



16 

no sacredness in this property which is equal to the sacredness of per- 
sonal security — no right in it which must not yield when its continu- 
ance would subject that security to hazard. The tenure of it is for 
good — not for evil — for the general benefit of society, not for its en- 
dangering or its calamity. 

No one disguises the danger of this property — that it is inevitable 
or that it is increasing. How then is the government to avert it? By 
a precautionary and preventive legislation or by permitting it to "grow 
with our growth" until it becomes intolerable and then correcting it 
by the sword ? In the one way or the other, by the peaceful process 
of legislation or the bloody one of the bayonet, our personal and 
public security must be maintained against the dangers of this pro- 
perty : either the right to acquire or retain it must be qualified by some 
limitation of time or service which shall have the effect of diminishing 
its increase or all restraints upon it must be abandoned and the coun- 
try be made to depend upon the final remedy of force. An unlimited 
right to the purchase and the possession of the slave cannot but favor 
the progress of his numbers to an aggregate so formidable as may 
place the safety of the Comm6nwealth in his actual and violent extir- 
pation. The claim to property cannot balance, much less, cancel the 
claim to security; and when the two come into collision, as come they 
must if things continue as the}' are, then the property must yield and 
the claim to security must be satisfied should it require the immediate 
and total abolition of its adversary. 

Let it not be said that this is the extreme case — the very one to 
which t'he law of necessity applies — the very one, which is admitted 
to sanction, if circumstances require it, the suppression of property 
rights. Why await the sure arrival of that day when these rights 
may have to be annulled without any reservation whatever? Why 
not anticipate it by a suitable regulation of them and thereby save 
them, if they are so highly valued, from destruction? 

Sir, this " supreme laio*^ of the public safety which is thought to arise 
only when a State is in actual jeopardy of life and limb and which is then 
so plenary for all the purposes of defence — this law is best understood 
when it is believed to possess preventive as well as remedial agencies. 
It is thus understood and applied, as already stated, between nations 
— it would be no less correctly understood and applied in all cases of 
domestic policy. There exists no just reason why this law is not afe 
obligatory upon government, not as supreme over all who are charg- 
ed with its administration, to provide against any foreseen and proba- 
ble event which will put the public safety to hazard as it is to provide 
for the restoration of that safety when the hazard shall have been in- 
curred. 

It would be easy to enlarge upon this point, but I trust that enough 
has been said to sustain the principle assumed, that it is the right and 
duty of every community to qualify, limit and prescribe the terms on 
which property shall be held by its citizens, and, therefore, the duty of 
the citizen to submit his property, at all times, to this reserved right 
of control in his government. Were this principle a false one, and 
the opposite of it true, then it would follow, that whenever a property 
is once introduced into a comrtiunity — if introduced through a 



17 

consent casually given or through ignorance of its qualities or llirough 
the suggestions of temporary convenience or ex necessitate, as is known 
to liave been the case with our slave property — if introduced, no mat- 
ter how, and no maiter what be its character, it is forever after intan- 
gible- — not subject to restraint — not subject to removal but a vested 
private right, and therefore too sacred to be touched. Call it but a 
private property, and be it ever so evil, you endow it, according to 
this principle, with a perpetual impunity. Let it be gifted with nothing 
but misclnef, noxious as the imagination can paint it, the very " moth 
and rust" which corrupteth and endangerth society, if it be once al- 
lowed as a property, you cannot recall it — you cannot mitigate it ; 
restraint upon it would be profanation — control would be tyranay — 
you must permit it and cherish it as if it were a blessing — you must 
endure it in despite of its evil, despite of its terrors — you cannot, you 
dare not interpose till your existence is at stake — till fear and danger 
have left you no choice but a choice between the extinction of the pro- 
perty or the extinction of the State. Maintain the inviolability of pro- 
perty without reference to its uses or its effects and this is the mon- 
strous result. If it happens to be a dangerous one, violence and force 
are the only remedies which are allowed. 

Surely no man can adopt the principle, which, fairly applied and 
extended, leads to this result — and yet this is the principle, contended 
for. Under this principle slavery is held <o be extinguishable but no 
otherwise than by insurrection and blood; under that, which I have 
attempted to support, it is held to be extinguishable also, but by gra- 
dual legislation, which, operating on its future increase, shall qualify 
and limit it according to the demands of public safety. — The slave — 
considered as a person multiplying more rapidly than his owner and 
soon destined to outstrip him in number — is a dangerous property, 
and if the ^^ salus populi,^^ the "supreme law of public safety," be 
correctly understood as comprehending a power to provide against a 
danger to the public security from an anticipated occurrence equally 
with a power to preserve that security when the occurrence foreseen 
has actually transpired (and this understanding of it is unquestionably 
the true one), then is slavery as properly the subject of present regu- 
lation as of future force and may be restrained in its future increase in 
just consistency with an admitted and fundamental principle in every 
government. 

After this argument it may be unnecessary to say, that there is in 
my judgement nothing wrong in the post nati or after-born principle 
which has been presented on this subject, by the gentleman (Mr. Ran- 
dolph) from Albemarle. 1 decline, however, expressing any opinion, 
^ none being called for, as to the terms or manner in which he proposes 
to carry that principle into effect. 

A contemplation of this subject, Mr. Speaker, has led to much re- 
mark on the dangers of slavery; they, danger and slavery, are, in 
truth, inseparable^-ihe concomitants of each other under all circum- 
stances, and are peculiarly associated under those in which it is here- 
after to be tolerated in Virginia. But gentlemen assure us that this 
danger is far, far off. I ask them to say when they will consider it 
as existing f Will they understand it to exist some forty years henccj 
3 



IS 

when, according to the statistics of the gentleman from Dinwiddie 
(Gen. Brodnax,) the slave population, all other things remaining as 
they now are, will exceed that of the white man in this Slate by some 
two hundred or more thousand? No sir, not then, for this numerical 
majority will weigh nothing against the intelligence and resources and 
military skill by which, in any struggle, it will be easy to overpower 
it. Will they understand it to exist should the negroes reach that dis- 
parity of numbers which is now exhibited in tfje West Indies and ex- 
ceed their masters by some thirteen or fourteen to one? No sir, not 
yet, for here is a practical example that in despite of such odds, their 
masters, and effeminate masters too, can keep them in subjection. Sir, 
that disproportion may rise up to five hundred to one against the white 
man and we shall still find some one gallant enough to deny that dan- 
ger has yet come; some one gallant enough to declare, as we well wot 
that some one has already declared it, that he could cope with that 
number himself — that mounted on his chosen steed, his pale horse, 
and having, it may be, the additional advantage of a personal resem- 
blance to the great enemy of us all, he could drive them before him as 
he pleased. 

Depend upon it, sir, the time will never come when interest 
or incredulity will not fabricate some pretext for saying and be- 
lieving that the " woe is not yet." Avarice, blindly adhering to an 
exclusive interest, will see no danger so great as the danger of losing 
its victim and will part with that only when every thing else is to be 
surrendered; when time himself shall close up his volume; the day of 
doom be ushered in ; 

" When earth's cities have no sound nor tread, 
And ships are drifting with the dead, 
To shores where all is dumb." 

It is not for us, however, who are the constituted guardians of the 
safety and happiness of the people to compromise with a danger which 
we know to exist — which we know to be spreading — which we know 
to be portentous of disaster; it is not for us to compromise with it be- 
cause it proceeds from objects of profit and to argue and to doubt 
about acting on it until the necessity for acting be announced to us, in 
conflagration and murder. A necessity for acting, short of this in- 
deed, but nevertheless, a necessity exists now, unless we are prepared 
to surrender every hope of legislative remedy and patiently commit 
ourselves to the issues of convulsion. We must begin or take the al- 
ternative ; the choice is between them. 

We have been told in the course of this debate, frequently told, that 
the attachment of the slave to his owner is common, that, in numerous 
instances, it is warm and devoted, and the fact has been urged in re- 
prehension of the idea that he cared for his freedom. The fact is un- 
doubtedly true and it is one of honorable import to the humanity of 
our people. But although true it is only so in particular instances ; 
the instances themselves are anomalous ; they are out of the ordinary 
course of human nature; are in contradiction of its strongest passions; 
its leading principles and are chiefly noticeable for their novelty. 
Were we to assume isolated instances of this kind as instances upon 



19 

which it would be just to construct a system of laws for the govern- 
ment and condition of the slave, our legislation would be a nullity; it 
would provide for the units of that population but let the mass of it 
escape. If, however, the fact in this case, be broad as it has been 
stated, and the inference from it — that freedom is no boon which is de- 
sired by the slave — be just, why, then, censure our debates upon this 
subject.' Why censure us for holding out to the slave an unattainable 
object, for exciting impracticable hopes, for stimulating daring and 
incendiary attempts to accomplish them? One or the other of these 
judgements upon the temper and the wishes of the slave must be mista- 
ken ; being contrary they cannot both be true, but as both have fur- 
nished a separate ground of argument against us, from one at least, of 
these arguments we should be lield as fairly discharged. 

As to the idea that the slave, in any considerable number of cases, 
can be so attached to his master and his servitude as to be indifferent 
to freedom, it is wholly unnatural — rejected by the conscious testimo- 
ny of every man's heart and by the written testimony of the world's 
experience. The truth is, sir,., that although there are special in- 
stances of slaves who are willing to forego the benefits of complete 
freedom for certain other benefits which they enjoy under a nominal 
slavery, yet the instances, from their very nature, must be limited — 
they can extend only to a favored ^e\y and they furnish no authority 
for a decision upon the conduct of others. Take the slave in his 
general relation to ourselves, and you cannot regard him otherwise than 
as man, — having the capacities and resentments of man, both indeed 
repressed but both existing. Here, at least, in our country, he is not 
spurned from this distinction : humanity admits him as a member — 
soiled in his character and degraded in his fortunes, indeed, yet still a 
member of a common race and still entitled, as such, to our sympathy 
and kindness. This sentiment tells upon his condition here : you read 
it in his dwelling, you read it in his health, you read it in the quantum 
of his labor — in the manifold personal privileges which he enjoys. It 
is true, sir, to the letter, what gentlemen have frequently declared, that 
there is no laboring peasantry in any other part of the world, who, in 
1' external respects, are better situated than our slave — who suffer less 
irom want — who suffer less from hardship — who struggle less under 
the toils of life or who have a fuller supply of the comforts which 
mere physical nature demands. In all these respects he shares in the 
equalizing and benignant spirit of our institutions and our age. He 
is not the victim of cruelty — rarely, if ever, of oppression — is governed 
by an authority, which year after year, is abating of its harshness and 
is admitted to every privilege which the deprivation of his liberty can 
allow. 

But, sir, it is in this very circumstance, in this alleviated and im- 
proved condition, that we have a principal cause of apprehension from 
the slave. You raise his intelligence with his condition, and as he 
better understands his position in the world, he were not man if it did 
not the more inflame his discontent. That it has this effect we all 
know ; for the truth is proverbial, that a slave is the more unhappy as 
he is the more indulged. He could not be otherwise; he follows but 
the impulse of human nature in being so. Introduce him step after 



20 

step into the enjoyments of that estate from which he has fallen and 
yet proclaim to him that he is never to regain it and his heart rejects 
every favour but the favour which is denied. As you benefit his ex- 
ternal condition, ihen, 30U do not better him as a slave, but, with 
feelings of increased discontent, you improve his intellect, and thereby, 
increase both his disposition and his capacity for the purposes of re- 
sentment. Depend upon it, sir, that he will use his capacity for such 
purposes — that the state of things which we boast of as the evidence 
of our humanity is not the state of things to be trusted in. 

Let gentlemen look to the clothed and comforted and privileged 
condition of their slaves, and please themselves with it as an achievement 
of kindness, — but see to it, sir, if it be not a mask of mischief — a co- 
vering which hides from the eye the fire of a future explosion.— Lift 
up the condition of the slave and you bring him in nearer contact with 
the liberty he has lost; you deepen upon his heart, — irrevocably deepen 
— the image of that idol of which man is everywhere the worshipper. 
And is this safe? Or think you that no such consequence occurs — that 
the slave, crawling in the dust, has none of the generous feelings of a 
man — regards not and worships not the liberty which stirs the blood 
and wakens up the enthusiasm of the free .f* It might indeed be so, 
had not the love of liberty come to us with life and made up a part of 
its charter. Sir, you may place the slave where you please — you 
may dry up, to your uttermost, the fountains of his feeling, the springs 
of his thought— -you may close upon his mind every avenue of know- 
ledge and cloud it over with artificial night — you may yoke him to 
your labors as the ox which liveth only to work and worketh only to 
live — you may put him under any process which, without destroying 
his value as a slave, will debase and crush him as a rational being — 
you may do this and the idea that he was born to be free will survive 
it all. It is allied to his hope of immortality — it is the etherial part of 
his nature which oppression cannot reach ; it is a torch lit up in his 
soul by the hand of the Deity and never meant to be extinguished by 
the hand of man. 

It is quaintly remarked by Lord Bacon that 'Miberty is a spark 
which flieth into the face of him who attempleth to trample it under 
foot." And, sir, of all conceivable or possible situations, that which 
the slave now occupies in the domestic services of our families, is pre- 
cisely the one which clothes this irrepressible principle of his nature 
with the fearfulest power — precisely the one which may give that prin- 
ciple its most fatal energy and direction. Who that looks upon his 
family with the slave in its bosom, ministering to its wants, but knows 
and feels that this is true — who but sees and knows how much the 
safety of that family depends upon forbearance, how little can be pro- 
vided by defence? Sir, you may exhaust yourself upon schemes of 
domestic defence, and when you have examined every project which 
the mind can suggest, you will, at last, have only a deeper conscious- 
ness that nothing can be done. No sir, nothing, for this purpose, can 
be done. The curse which in combination with others, has been de- 
nounced against man as a just punishment for his sins — the curse ol 
having an enemy in his household — has come upon us. We have an 
enemy there to whom our dwelling is at all times accessible— our per- 



21 

soils at all times — our lives at all times and that by manifold weapons, 
both visible and concealed. 

But, sir, I will not expatiate farther on this view of the subject. 
Suffice it to say that the defenceless situation of the master and the 
sense of injured right in the slave are the best possible preparatives for 
conflict ; a conflict too, which may be considered as more certainly at 
hand whenever and wherever the numerical ascendency of the slave 
shall inspire him with confidence in his force. 

We are called upon, then, sir, by every motive wliichcan impel or au- 
thorise us to act, by considerations individual and general, considera- 
tions of safety to our families, and of prosperity to the Common- 
wealth — to provide against the growing dangers of our slave popula- 
tion — to provide for a limitation on its increase — to provide for the 
interception of its innumerable evils before they be visited, on the 
slave or his owner, or on both, in irreparable calamit}^ 

Let us, Mr. Speaker, examine for a moment our relations with the 
Federal Government and see wiiether they are not such as to aftbrd an 
auxiliary argument for the policy which I have been endeavoring, on 
other grounds, to establish. This view was glanced at, upon yester- 
day, by my friend — (Mr. Randolph,) from Albemarle. I beg leave 
to expand it a little. 

I will not enlarge upon the fact, that the existence of slavery cre- 
ates a political interest in this Union, which is of all others, the most 
positive; an interest, which in relation to those who do not possess it, 
is adversary and exclusive; one which marks the manners of our 
country by a correspondent distinction and is sowing broadcast 
amongst us, both in our official and private intercourse, the seeds of 
unkindness and suspicion. On this interest geographical parties have 
been formed — on its maintenance or restriction, the bitterest struggle? 
have been waged in another body, (Congress,) and as it contains an 
ingredient of political power in our Federal Councils, it will always 
be the subject of struggle — always defended by the most vigilant care 
and assailed by the most subtle counteraction. Slave-holding and 
non-slave-holding must necessarily constitute the characteristic fea- 
ture of our country — must necessarily form the broad and indivisible 
interest upon which parties will combine, and will and does compre- 
hend in the jealousies which now surround it, the smothered and pow- 
erful, but, 1 trust, not the irresistible causes of future dismemberment. 
To all of its other evils then, slavery superadds the still further one, 
of being a cause of National dissention — of being a fixed and re- 
pulsive element betw^een the different members of our Republic — itself 
impelling with strong tendency and aggravating all smaller tendencies 
to political distrust, alienation and hostility. 

Should the dismemberment of our Union ever occur from this or 
other causes, let us look, for a moment, at the probable consequences 
which would result from it — not on the elevated ground in which 
these consequences might be considered as affecting the oppressed of 
other countries, who, directed by the light of our example, have com- 
mitted themselves to a last and devoted struggle for their rights — -but 
solely as they affect the case of slavery and the public security which 
that case involves. Suppose the federative tie to be broken — suppose 



22 

that the Union, which in despite of occasional errors, has been a be- 
neficial bond of political amity, should have passed away and the 
Stales which compose it be thrown into the attitude of separate and 
indt'peiident governments. Suppose this to be the case, and it is evi- 
dent that their new relations to each other must be maintained under 
circumstances the most inauspicious to their peace. Whatever be the 
motives which cause neighboring nations to hate each other — the mo- 
tives of rivalry and counteraction ; those which make them hostile in 
interest, hostile in feeling — prone to insult and aggression and war 
upon each other — whatever these motives be, they would be aggra- 
vated here by the unappeasable bitterness of a family quarrel — by the 
vindictiveness of a ruptured brotherhood. Yes sir, these motives, thus 
specially inflamed, would urge on to their objects and shew them- 
selves in instant activity at the very first moment of our Federal dis- 
solution. 

Let this dreaded event but occur— let this Union which, above 
every other political blessing, is worthy not only of the loyalty of our 
principles but the loyalty of our affections too, let it be given up, and 
the peace which it secures and the bountiful prosperity which our citi- 
zens have reaped under it, be handed over to separate and disunited 
States for their care and preservation, and what, I ask you, is to be 
the consequence ? Are we to remain as perfectly secure and prosper- 
ous as at present — as perfectly free from danger from each other as 
now ? No sir, that is impossible. When we part we part in anger : 
we shall live in anger or in jealousy with each other; hatred and re- 
venge and suspicion and mutual scorii at mutual differences of habits 
and institutions will rankle in our intercourse, will interrupt our peace, 
will eternally keep us in the act or attitude of border hostility. The 
past picture of England, Scotland and Ireland, will be renewed in 
America, and the fell spirit of feud and foray and border war will be 
domesticated here. The boundary lines which now imperceptibly 
blend with each other, in token of our family kindness, will speedily 
exhibit the evidences of a family rupture — of a departed confidence — 
and like the frontier lines of foreign nations, will be marked by the 
array of military equipment and military defiance. Our new and pet- 
ty principalities will put on the whole panoply of Empires—will fur- 
nish forth their armies and navies and cordons of posts and all the 
etcetera of a precautionary and jealous defence. 

In this stale of things what is to be our situation*— how are we like- 
ly to be placed ? Sir, do you not see under the event supposed, that 
it would be a situation of peril ? Do 3'ou not see, at a glance, how 
enfeebled Virginia and the whole South, would become by that alien 
and insurrectionary population which they nurture in their bosom i* 
Do you not see that any emergency which would concentrate their dis- 
posable force on the objects of external defence, would lay open the 
whole interior to devastation and would expose every family to the 
most unutterable of catastrophes ? Nay, sir, do you not see, as a last 
and crowning result, that the very form and principle of our govern- 
ment might be lost — that no patriotism and no devotion might be able 
to sustain it under the double shock of servile and of foreign war, and 
that we — yes sir, we to whom the humbled and oppressed of the world 



23 

look with hope and rejoicing of lieart as being the most favored of 
men — might sink into the darkness and despotism, whose very horrors 
had long been illustrated in contrast with our happier example ? If 
gentlemen do not see nor feel the evil of slavery whilst this Federal 
Union lasts, they will see and feel it when it is gone ; they will see 
and suffer it then in a magnitude of desolating power to which the 
•' pestilence that walketh at noon day" would be a blessing — to which 
the mal-aria that is now threatening extinction to the ''eternal city," 
as the proud one of the Pontiffs and the Caesars is called, would be as 
refreshing and as balmy as the first breath of Spring to the chamber of 
disease. 

Let it not be said, sir, that the political contingency supposed, the 
dismemberment of these Slates, is a visionary one — an improba- 
ble presumption, and of course, that is one for all the fancied and 
possible results of which, no legislative discretion requires us to pro- 
vide. It is but too unhappily the contrary. Whether we look to mat- 
ters of fact or to the results of reasoning, the event adverted to is any 
thing but visionary. No man who looks to the posture or prospects 
of our federal relations and understands the grounds on which they 
rest, but well knows that this very event at this very hour, is lowering 
over the otherwise sunny face of our national fortunes. No man, who 
sees at all, but must perceive the gathering auguries which premonish 
us of its approach. And when it does come who can tell the political 
coalitions which may follow it? Who can tell but that Dictatorships 
and Dynasties may spring up as the inevitable but monstrous product 
of a disorganized Confederacy ? ^ 

It were vain to speculate on the possible combinations which might 
arise or upon the principle or the form which they might assume. In 
the midst of this general uncertainty, however, there is one thing 
which we can foresee with precision — one thing which we may be said 
to know. It is this, sir, that the slave-holding interest of the country^ 
will and can coalesce with no other interest and must, as a consequence, 
be separate and hostile to all others. But, sir, it is for the very rea- 
son, that this interest, whether imbodied in one or two distinct Con- 
federacies, is peculiar; for the very reason that it impairs that princi- 
ple of general affiliation which would unite and strengthen it with the 
common sympathies of others ; for the very reason that it produces, in 
every community that permits it, a positive impotency in its means of 
self-preservation : — it is for these reasons that this interest is always a 
dangerous one : for these reasons that a crusade, in the name of li- 
berty but with the purpose of plunder, will be preached against the 
States that protect it, — that they will be held up as the common ene- 
mies of man whom it will be a duty to overthrow and justice to des- 
poil. If such a shock, be ever meditated and attempted, I ask you, 
sir, would it be possible for Virginia to stand it? Would it be possi- 
ble for Virginia, with her half million of slaves and with their hopes 
and passions wrought up to phrensy by proclamations of assistance 
and of freedom, to subdue their fiendish energies and, at the same 
time, successfully repel the more fiendish enemy that would use them ? 
Heaven forbid that such an effort should ever be called for ! 

I put it, Mr. Speaker, to the candor of gentlemen to say, whether 



24 

any one of the States of Europe, possessing a slave population in like 
ratio to its total numbers with that which is now held in Virginia — 
whether it could have maintained itself under the last twenty years strug- 
gles upon that continent ? Nu one can believe it possible. A State so 
insulated by a peculiar interest from all around it, would be the natural 
enemy and the natural victim of all. The hollow pretences of an assumed 
morality and a no less pretended sympathy for the violated rights and 
liberty of man would be every where proclaimed and would bring po- 
tentate after potentate in emulous competition for the glory of putting 
it down. The slave would be armed against the State by the base 
and profligate ambition of some neighboring monarch or adventurer 
who looked only to the spoil, and rapine and murder and conquest 
would be hallowed under the names and the pretexts of " freedom and 
justice." If you turn to the records of history or consult the princi^ 
pies of our nature, both will demonstrate that some such fate under 
such circumstances must be inevitable. There is, then, abundant ground 
to conclude that no European State, as a slave-holding one, in the 
last twenty years of war and revolution or at any previous time upon 
that continent, could have maintained her integrity : such an anomaly, 
when compared with surrounding governments, would not have been 
suffered to exist. 

And the like consequences, sir, to our own State and indeed to the 
whole slave-holding department of the South may be expected to occur 
whenever our Federal bond is dissolved. Withdraw but the protect- 
ing energies of that instrument and be the new associations into which 
we shall be thrown what they may — whether directed by judgement 
or caprice — our distinct character as a slave-holding people will still 
be left — we shall still hold a separate and adversary interest but hold 
it under circumstances of aggravated evil, as the existence of it will 
disqualify us for defence in the very degree in which it will expose us 
to foreign hostility and wrong. 

Under this view of the consequences of slavery, sir, we are strongly 
admonished to the timely and determined exercise of the legislative 
action upon it. The same admonition presses us from all sides. Look 
to the dangers of slavery as resulting from its peculiar condition and 
its growth Of look to them as involved in the incidents which may 
change the politicf\l relations of the Republic and we are emphatically 
warned to prepare for them in time — emphatically warned, that our 
destiny as a people is pledged upon the wisdom and the vigor with 
which we arrest them. 

1 am turned aside at this point, Mr. Speaker, from the path of my 
own reflections by the course of the remarks which were submitted the 
other day by the gentleman from Brunswick, (Mr. Shell.) I, sir, in 
common, I doubt not, with every member of this House and with eve- 
ry lover of genuine pleasantry whose good fortune it was to be here, 
am indebted to that gentleman, and with no hope on my part of mak- 
ing compensation, for an hour or two amongst the most entertained 
and delighted of any which I have ever spent in this body. He, sir, 
has entered upon our debate as the spring enters upon the seasons--!-? 
storm and tempest disappearing at his approach, and gaiety and sun-* 
shine and flowers starting up around him. It was reserved for him in 



25 

the exercise of a wit as playful as it was pungent— as generous as it 
was keen, which probing fearlessly and every where, yet " carried not 
a heart stain away on its blade" — it was reserved for him, sir, thus 
exercising this rare faculty in its double character of sportiveness and 
strength, to dissipate the gloom of our discussion, to soften its severer 
tone and restore to the House the kindness and tiie temper it was los- 
ing. This gentleman is blessed also in his capacities for mental 
amusement and illusion : his whole atmosphere is comic and he looks 
through it with a sunny and a laughing face upon the world, pleasing 
himself with its fancied images of pastime and fun and wondering that 
the things which are objects of farce to him should ever be objects of 
fear to others. There is no telling the extent, sir, to which this wild 
quality of the mind will not adventure; time and space are' but its 
handmaids; substance and shadow its contributors; it seizes upon 
every incident of life and every object of thought and dresses them out 
for mimickry and for frolic. What will it not attempt? Under its 
impulse do we not see that Swift could caricature the day of judge- 
ment ; Holbein the phantoms of the dead, and the worthy member 
from Brunswick, the horrors of Southampton ! What more could it do? 

This gentleman in the eccentric exercise of genius, whose province 
it is, like the sun, to gild the objects on which it falls, has so disposed 
of the lights of his as to provoke a laugh at the darkest scene of our 
history. He has worked up a portion of that scene into a comic dra- 
ma, and has played it off upon this theatre, act by act, (I speak it not 
derisively but technically) with an overflowing " benefit," to an ad- 
miring and overflowing audience. In the course of that dramatic nar- 
rative which he was pleased to sketch for our information and amuse- 
ment, the gentleman has shadowed forth himself as a hero — not of the 
first magnitude^ sir — nor yet actually a hero but only — potentially one. 
He would have been one without doubt, as he says and thought, had 
it not been for one of those unaccountably cross accidents which will 
sometimes check the career of the most gallant and lay all their aspi- 
rations and hopes of laurels in the dust. A volunteer in the army of 
the *' South-Side," he expected to distinguish himself against Gen. 
Nat and his band and was marching on, with the picture of his fame 
before him, and had reached the very point of his wishes, when to his 
utter disappointment, ihey were all dashed and ruined by " three men 
and two boys," who had just encountered, routed and dispersed this 
redoubtable General and his troop ! Was ever man so disappointed 
and by so sad an accident ! Our sympathies, sir, cannot but mingle 
with his sorrows ! 

But, Mr. Speaker, this statement of the gentleman^s has a serious 
bearing and has conducted to serious conclusions. It was so empha- 
tically reiterated by that gentleman, so connected with other remarks 
which were intended to show the petty and contemptible character of 
that whole affair and thereby to deride the arguments which have as- 
sumed it as an illustration of the dangers of slavery, that I cannot 
doubt but that this statement which was made in joke was meant for 
history. The very same strain of derisive remark has been employed 
by other gentlemen in relation to this same affair and with the like 
bearing on this debate. I have, therefore, sought out the documen- 
4 



26 

tary history of the Southampton transaction, that 1 might understand, 
not only its precise extent, but also the light in which it was viewed, 
at the time, as affecting the general security of the surrounding coun- 
try — not, sir, as affecting this security through any apprehension of 
immediate assault from Nat and his band, but through that spirit of 
revolt which might he awakened and encouraged amongst the slaves by 
an actual example of insurrection* In this point of view this occur- 
rence has been chiefly adverted to as sustaining the State policy on 
the subject of slaves, which has been so strenuously resisted by the 
gentleman from Brunswick and by others. 

The volume, sir, in which the history is to be found, consists of pa- 
pers originally in the hands of the Executive, but now in possession 
of the House, in compliance with a call upon the Executive for that 
purpose. As I was not a member of the Special Committee, for 
whose more immediate uses the information contained in this volume 
was intended and who have had it in their hands, I did not procure it 
until last night and was then prevented, by indisposition, from making 
the thorough examination of it which I wished. I have made, howe- 
ver, a sufficient one and beg leave to submit, without regard to me- 
thod, some of the facts directly and collaterally connected with Nat's 
insurrection. 

The first public notice of this event is given by Col. Trezvant of 
Southampton — late a member of Congress, — who throws an open note 
before the whole public, proclaiming insurrection and murder. This 
is followed by immediate and numerous calls upon the Executive for 
arms and ammunition, and which calls are made by officers both civil 
and military. — The Mayor of Petersburg, in making one, states that 
he considers that town in danger, and asks for the means of defence. 

Col. Gholson, (a member of this House from Brunswick,) commu- 
nicates this Southampton occurrence in a letter to the Executive — 
states that as reported to him it was such as to " fill the mind with the 
most appalling apprehensions," and concludes with a demand for 
muskets. 

Gen. Eppes who had been called into service to suppress the insur- 
gents, writes to the Governor from his head-quarters at Jerusalem in 
Southampton, that the inhabitants of that town were in a state of ter- 
ror and alarm which could not be exceeded if the town itself were de- 
voted to storm and pillage. 

Gen. Brodnaxj (memberfrom Dinwiddie,) who had assumed the com- 
mand of the whole corps engaged in this service, states in an official 
communication to the Governor, that many families in the counties of 
Southampton and Greensville had fled into Brunswick — that many 
others had assembled in his camp at Hicks' ford — unsheltered and des- 
titute ; the poorer ones sustained on the public rations and all in great 
distress. He states farther, that there was no reason to believe that 
any general conspiracy had been formed, and that, in his opinion, 
twenty resolute men could at any time have put down Nat Turner and 
his band. 



27 

Extract of a letter from Gen. Brodnax, dated August 27, 1831. 

"It is much to be regretted that in the general consternation which prevailed, the extent 
of the force which hadrebelled should, so long, have continued unknown and exaggerated 
and the militia of the neigh!)orhood unembodicd. For there existed I apprciiend no point of 
time in which twenty resolute men, could not, most easily had they confronted them, sup- 
pressed this insurrection. 

" The consternation unfortunately was not confined to the county where the danger ex- 
isted, but extended over all immediately above it. Not a white family in many neighbor- 
hoods remained at home — many went to other counties, and the rest assembled at different 
points in considerable numbers for mutual jDrotection. In numerous instances, females, with 
their children, fled in the night with but one imperfect dress and no provisions. I found 
every hovel at Hicks' ford literally filled with women and children — with no way to lodge 
but in heaps on the floors — without an article of food or the means of procuring or cooking 
provisions. Other engagements of primary necessity prevented any attempt to ascertain 
their numbers. The charity of the few residents of the village would have bisen gi-eatly 
inadequate to their support and many seemed willing to encounter starvation itself rather 
than retm-n home unprotected and while their husbands and sons were in the field. 

Several extracts from a narrative of the insurrection, furnished the 
Governor, and making part of the volume laid before the House, 

" The murderers commenced their operations at Joseph Travis's, Monday, August 22d" — 
*' proceeded to S. Francis's — a negro boy eighteen years old here joined them — went to Mrs. 
Turner's — murdered Mrs. Turner and Mrs. Newsom, a visiter, in their chambers — two men 
here joined them" — at Mrs. Whitehead's, whose family they murdered, they were joined 
by another — proceeded thence to Trajan Doyle's — killed and mangled him, &c, — at Porter's 
they were joined by several slaves — at Nathaniel Francis' they recruited several others. 
Near Mr. J. Parker's these wretches were overtaken by a small party of gentlemen who 
pursued them — " they were shot at and a little engagement ensued — but the gentlemen were 
compelled to give ground (being few in number) until reinforced, when the negi'oes in tui'n 
were compelled to retreat." " The negroes were so s^quandered in this engagement and re- 
treat and so hotly pui'sued, that their murderous career was arrested. There was no other 
engagement on Monday. - On Tuesday the pursuit was renewed — several were killed, and 
on Wednesday, as their panic increased, several others were taken without offering resis- 
tance." 

W. O. Goode and E. B. Hicks on the part of a " Committee of Safety" in the county of 
Mecklenburg address a letter to the Governor from which the following are extracts : 

"These tidings (the account of the South&ipton insurrection) found us destitute of arms 
on which we can rely — and when we take into consideration that the population of this 
county is made up of about twelve thousand blacks to about eight thousand whites ; and 
more especially when we reflect that a large portion of the blacks are situated on the river 
Roanoke, sufficiently contiguous to assemble in bodies of four or five hundred in a few 
hours, the conclusion is forced upon us, as we trust it will be on your Excellency that our 
situation is critical if not perilous." 

" Properly armed, we have entire confidence in our ability to defend ourselves, as well as 
to give aid to other places which may be threatened." 

" Up' to this time, (August 25,) there has been no insurrectionary movement in this county, 
but we cannot expect forbearance if the insurgents below us are not speedily quelled. We 
consider that less time will be lost by your Excellency's pressing, or otherwise procuring 
wagons to transport the arms hither." 

Extracts from a letter addressed to Gen. Jackson, hy a Committee of the 
citizens of Southampton, on August 29th, 1831. 

"Most of the havoc has been confined to a limited section of our country, but so inhuman 
has been the butchery, so indiscriminate the carnage, that the tomahawk and scalping knife 
have now no terrors, _ Alon^ the road travelled by our rebellious blacks, comprising a 
distance of something like twenty miles, no white soul now^ lives to tell how fiend-like was 
their purpose. In the bosom of almost every family this enemy still exists. Our homes, as 
well those near the scene of havoc as others more remote, have all been deserted and our 
famihes gathered together and guarded at public places in the country ;" and "still farther 
the excitement is so great, &c. &c., that were the justices to pronounce a slave innocent, we 
fear a rnob would be the consequence." This committee therefore ask for a detachment of 
the United States troops as a guard. This application, remitted to the President, was en- 
closed by the Secretary of War to the Governor who, in his reply, very properly repels the 
idea that the State could not defend its citizens. 

Sept. 19th, 1831. Judge Semple thus writes to the Governor, nearly a month after the 
insurrection : 



28 

"The people here are in a state of great excitement and the town is one entire camp." 
In an official despatch from General Eppes at Jerusalem, of date the 31st Augtist, 1831, 
we have the following : Speaking of the apprehensions of the negroes themselves, he says — 
"Cou2")led with the violence done upon some in this neighborhood Avho have been shot at 
sight, even without knowing who they were, it does not seem to me remarkable that they 
should be under ajiprehensions." Speaking farther of a case in a neighboring county, in 
which "a negro had been examined, discharged, and afterwards shot down," he states, "I 
put an end to this inhuman butchery in two days, dispersed the troops from where they Averc 
assembled ; the citizens retired and I have not heard cf an act of violence smce, except upon 
the rebels in arms who refused to suiTender." 

But, Mr. Speaker, I forbear further reference to this volume which, 
is literally, a volume of terror. Huge as it is, it is filled with com- 
munications of distress or alarm, and with requests for arms from the 
citizens and officers of some thirty or more counties of the State. 

From these and like extracts, which might easily be multiplied, it 
appears, generally, sir, that to its extent, there never was a bloodier or 
more shocking massacre than that of Southampton, that besides the 
sixty-two or sixty-three white persons who were murdered and the 
forty odd insurgents who were shot in arms or executed afterwards, 
there were others (how many is not known) who were shot privily 
(and by whom, I believe is not known) without accusation or trial; — 
that many died in the field refusing to surrender ; that a detachment 
only of these wretches attacked Dr. Blount's house and were repelled 
by the *' three men and two boys" spoken of; that the insurgents, re- 
cruited others at every house to which they went, with but few excep- 
tions, and that before they were checked, they had traversed the coun- 
try a distance of twenty miles spreading desolation and woe around 
them. It also appears that it was early believed and early made known 
to the governor and the public as the opinion of the commanding 
general (General Brodnax,) that there was no general conspiracy and 
that Nat and his whole force might at any lime have been put down 
by twenty resolute men. And yet sir, notwithstanding this statement 
such was the general consternation produced by this event and such 
the conscious insecurity of every neighborhood and family that rapid 
and vigorous preparations were almost every where making for mili- 
tary defence. Companies were organized — concerts established — 
military supplies provided — towns and counties far from the place of 
revolt — far from one another-— many of them days and weeks after the 
revolt had been crushed, were still anxiously calling on the Executive 
for arms, arms. 

Now sir, I ask you, I ask gentlemen, in conscience to say, was this 
a " petty affair .?" 1 ask you, whether that was a petty affair which 
startled the feelings of your whole population, — which threw a portion 
of it into alarm — a portion of it into panic; which wrung out from an 
affrighted people the thrilling cry, day after day conveyed to your 
Executive, *' we are in peril of our lives, send us arms for defence." 
Was that a "petty affair" which drove families from their homes, 
which assembled women and children in crowds and without shelter at 
places of common refuge, in every condition of weakness and infirmity, 
under every suffering which want and pain and terror could inflict, 
yet willing to endure all — willing to meet death from famine, death 
from the climate, death from hardships, any thing rather than risk the 
horrors of meeting it from a domestic assassin.^ Was that a " petty 



29 

affair" which erected a peaceful and confiding portion of the State into 
a military camp, which outlawed from pity the unfortunate beings 
whose brothers had oflended, which barred every door, penetrated 
every bosom with fear or suspicion, which so banished the sense of 
security from every man's dwelling that let a hoof or a horn but break 
upon the silence of night and an aching throb would be driven to the 
heart; the husband would look to his weapon and the mother would 
shudder and weep upon her cradle ! 

Was it the fear of Nat Turner and his deluded and drunken hand- 
ful of followers which produced or could produce such effects? Was 
it this that induced distant counties where the very name of South- 
ampton was strange, to arm and equip for a struggle? No sir, it was 
the suspicion eternally attached to the slave himself, the suspicion that 
a Nat Turner might be in every family, that the same bloody deed 
could be acted over at any time and in any place, that the materials 
for it were spread through the land and always ready for a like explo- 
sion. Nothing but the force of this withering apprehension, nothing 
but the paralyzing and deadening weight with which it falls upon and 
prostrates the heart of every man who has helpless dependants to pro- 
tect, nothing but this could have thrown a brave people into conster- 
nation, or could have made any portion of this powerful Common- 
wealth, for a single instant, to have quailed and trembled. 

This Commonwealth in the late war stood the shock of England's 
power and the skill of England's veterans with scarce a moment of 
public disquiet. Admiral Cockburn with his incendiary spirit and 
backed by his incendiary myrmidons alarmed not the State ; struck 
no fear into its private families, and had his spirit been ten fold more 
savage than it was and his army an hundred fold stronger and had he 
plied every energy and pledged every faculty of his soul to the destruc- 
tion of the State, he could not have produced one moment of that ter- 
ror for private security which seizes upon all at the cry of insurrection. 
He would have been our enemy in the field, would have warred in 
open combat with the disciplined and the gallant of the land. But an 
insurgent enemy wars at the fireside— makes his battle ground in the 
chamber and seeks, at the hours of repose, for the life of the slumber- 
ing and the helpless. No wonder sir, that the gentleman from Bruns- 
wick (Mr. Gholson,) with his sensibilities aroused by the acts and the 
fell energies of such an enemy as this should have said that " they 
filled the mind with the most appalling apprehensions." No wonder 
that the gentleman from Mecklenburg (Mr. Goode) looking to the 
same desolating power of this domestic enemy and feeling that the 
numerical excess of the slave in the county he represents made its 
exercise the more easy and the more to be dreaded — no wonder he 
should say, that he considered his "situation not only critical but 
perilous." 

Sir, I thank that gentleman for this declaration : — I thank him for 
having compressed into so short a statement the very truth which J had 
been endeavoring to establish by argument, and for having lent his 
testimony, however unwittingly, but the more valuable as rendered 
under a practical view of the question, to that very policy which I 
have been laboring to recommend — he laboring to prevent. Were I 



30 

to retrace my argument on the subject under debate, with the view of 
amending it, I could not jilace it more broadly or more favorably be- 
fore you, than it is placed by the gentleman himself in the passage of 
his letter alluded to. 

What was the general argument? It was that the confinement (now 
inevitable from the laws existing or expected of other States) of the 
present race of slaves, together with their increase to the limits of Vir- 
ginia must soon result in giving to them a numerical superiority — 
that this superiority, when attained would and must lead to inevitable 
danger to the public safety, and, therefore, that such result should be 
provided against and prevented in season. What, now, is the gentle- 
man's statement? It is, that there are twelve slaves to eight white 
persons in the county of Mecklenburg, and that he considers this cir- 
cumstance, together with another of incidental influence, which he 
mentions, as well calculated to render the situation of that county not 
only "critical, but perilous." Where is the difference between the 
result argued to upon principle and the result announced upon fact? 
There is none earthly. The dangers of the slave population mainly 
arise upon its excess over the white population. So says the argument, 
and so says the gentleman's statement. This statement, therefore I 
adopt, as containing the substantial truth which I desired to exhibit, 
but I adopt it on condition, that I be allowed to append to it a single 
corollary — a just, natural and legitimate one — It is this; that as the 
danger to the white population is " perilous" when the black popula- 
tion is greatest, according to the gentleman's confession, that, there- 
fore, this gentleman himself should unite in arresting the "peril" of 
which he complains, by restraining the black population from exceed- 
ing the white. This is the policy vindicated by my argument — the 
policy required by his fact. Consistency, should make the same ap- 
plication of both. 

It may be added sir, that what is true of Mecklenburg, with her 
greater slave than white population would be still more so of the whole 
State under like circumstances. As the whites outnumbered the blacks 
in the aggregate population of the whole State, the danger to particu- 
lar districts where the contrary is the case, can be alleviated, but if in 
the total number the deficiency was on the side of the whites, then the 
danger would be without alleviation or corrective. 

Here sir, I may be permitted to remark that as an air of ridicule 
has been thrown over the whole Southampton occurrence, it may be 
thought that the military preparations which were made by the Execu- 
tive to repress it, were unnecessary and unwise. Such an inference, 
though I am well assured it was not intended to be covered under the 
remarks of the gentleman from Brunswick (Mr. Shell) may be dedu- 
ced by others. Now sir, without specification of reasons on this point, 
it may be enough to say, that there is no one who understands aright 
the ground occupied by the Executive, but will authenticate the opinion, 
that the military provision which was made for the Southampton afiair 
was no greater than called for and that it was ordered judiciously and 
efiectively. 

A word or two, sir, as to what is rather technically termed by gen- 
tlemen, the "jurisdiction" of this matter. The title by which the re- 



31 

presentatlves of the West claim to participate in the exercise of this 
jurisdiction has already been exhibited so ably and justly, that little 
more is needed for its vindication. As one of the representatives from 
that portion of the State and one too, whose feelings, for years, have 
been deeply and irrevocably pledged to some measure of emancipation, 
I was nevertheless disposed from the beginning, upon views both of 
courtesy and expediency, to yield the principal direction of such a 
measure, should such be introduced, to any Eastern gentlemen who 
held, in relation to it, the same ulterior objects with myself So dis- 
posed, I so stated to the Chairman of the Special Committee on the 
colored population (Gen. Brodnax) amongst others, and forebore, in 
consequence, any active connection with the subject until the motion 
was made by the gentleman from Mecklenburg (Mr. Goode) to dis- 
charge that committee and this House from the farther consideration 
of it and thus to seal it up forever. 

The existing property in the slave is so preponderant on this side 
of the Blue Ridge, and there are so many considerations both of safe- 
ty and prejudice connected with every public measure that affects it, 
and these are so much better understood by the representatives who 
sympathise with and feel them, than by others, that in my judgement, 
it was never more becoming or necessary that the Western members 
should relinquish a portion of their strict claims to reasons of prudence 
and should concede to those of the East, in organizing some scheme 
of emancipation, every thing which did not postpone or destroy its 
ultimate efficiency. The subject itself they could not abandon with-'' 
out abandoning their constituents, but the time and mode of action, 
if neither too indefinite nor too feeble, they could yield to be governed 
by the interest and discretion of others. So deeming of this matter, 
the Western delegates have abstained from any prominency in it until 
longer abstinence was rendered impossible by the effort alluded to, the 
effort to foreclose and, in effect, to prohibit all future legislation upon it. 

Why, it is asked, should the West, with her inferior slave popula- 
tion, be so much more strenuous than the East for a limitation upon 
its increase — why abjure so vehemently a property of which she holds 
so little f Sir, it is for this very reason that her relative interest in it 
is small that the West urge the policy of preventing its growth. We 
do not wish that interest to become larger — we do not wish it to be- 
come more unmanageable — we do not wish it to extend beyond the 
convenient reach of legislative remedy — we do not wish it to over- 
spread that part of your State also — thus making it more and more 
inaccessible, and rendering its eradication, in any other mode than that 
of the sword, utterly and forever hopeless. 

Were this question of emancipation to be sectionally considered in 
reference to its present practicability in the West, no one could doubt 
for a moment, but that it is easily and perfectly practicable there — 
that it would encounter little or no resistance from public sentiment 
and would result in no considerable shock to the productive industry 
of the country. 

But, sir, we are told by the gentleman from Brunswick (Mr. Shell) 
that if the extension of slavery in the West is so intolerable to its, that 
we cannot any longer allow it, that in that case nothing can be easier 



32 

than to prevent it — that all we have to do is merely not to buy and the 
object is at once accomplished — the evil at once arrested. That this 
expedient may lack nothing of entire and perfect efficiency, he under- 
takes to guarantee, on behalf of the Eastern owners, that not a head 
shall show itself beyond the mountains unless ii has been bought and 
bought at a sound price. This will certainly do as far as it goes but 
it scarcely goes the length of a single step. 

What, let me ask that gentleman, would he do with the slaves who 
are now there — amounting to near sixty thousand, and being about 
double the number possessed in any of the Northern or Middle States 
at the era of their emancipating laws — what would he do with them 
and their increase? Would their growth be limited by a refusal to 
purchase others? It may be so, but it will certainly require the gen- 
tleman's ingenuity to explain the process by which it is done. Be- 
sides this, does it not occur to this gentleman that his recipe for the 
cessation of Western slavery, — and which, by the way, is compounded 
of quite as much voluntary abstinence as is like to make it practica- 
ble — does it not occur to him that it operates but partially ? That 
whilst it prohibits a Western man from importing a negro to his own 
domain \i permits an Eastern one to cover it over with as many as he 
pleases ? Are not your Western lands to become the residence of 
your Eastern citizens, and when do they move without a retinue of 
slaves f That this is to be the case is proven by the experience of 
every year and every future year will multiply the proofs and causes 
for this kind of emigration. When the laws of the Western States shall 
exclude the slave and the alternative to a lowland Virginian, whose 
wants have outnumbered his supplies, be the alternative o^ d^n unheal- 
thy residence in the South or of a healthy one in the rich mountain 
districts of your own State, then will Western Virginia receive froni 
you her part of those contributions which you are annually making to 
the population of other communities. This is now the case, to much 
extent, in some of the counties at the Western foot of the Blue Ridge, 
the county of Botetourt, for example, where there is a large and aug- 
menting slave-holding interest, principally in the hands of gentlemen 
from Eastern Virginia. Here then is an inlet to tlie slave which is 
unprovided for by the Brunswick prescription. 

But there is yet another, sir, which 1 hope the gentleman in the hey- 
day and generosity of his youth will not have the heart to forbid. 
Would the gentleman regulate the loves of the country by its geogra- 
phy ? Would he deny us the honor of a family alliance ? Surely 
not. These alliances are not so common as to threaten the loss of 
caste to either side of the mountain, yet they will sometimes occur. It 
is true that the West is occasionally considered a terra incognita of 
refinement and its young men are apt to be rated as contraband arti- 
cles in treaties of marriage. But it does not all do : they will some- 
times succeed. Father and mother may sneer or may scold but love 
will do what it lists and despite of their frostiness. despite of their 
lowering, the daughter, in the innocence of her hopes will sometimes 
— she cannot help it — look with an eye of more favor on the Buckskin 
of the Mountain than on the Crab of the Lowlands. But the "beauty 
and the booty" are won together : the lover gets the bride, and the 
West gets the slave. 



33 

Turning, sir, to the graver aspect of our subject, from which this 
slight departure is relief, allow me to say, that in whatever degree the 
problem of emancipation in Eastern Virginia has assumed an appal- 
ling character and now presses upon the mind with a painful and dis- 
tressing sense of its almost incalculable magnitude and difficulty, in 
that very degree does the reason exist why yoli should arrest the pro- 
gress of slavery now — why you should not suffer it to go forward. Sir, 
you have yet one safe and rallying point in the West where you may 
operate for the extinction of this curse. If that too be occupied by 
the slave as the plains of the East are occupied, all hope but the hope 
of the strongest is gone, and you must look for your destiny in the 
issues of mutual and horrible concussion. Let that dry. spot be pre- 
served — let it not be covered by this spreading inundation and relief is 
yet practicable — a door of escape is yet open, but if that last place of 
refuge be relinquished, you may save yourselves but you will rear your 
posterity to the scenes of the dagger and the torch. 

As a Virginian then no less than as a Western man I would implore 
this Assembly to begin the work of safety and protection now. A defi- 
nitive and positive law is not sought for — only let the object be resolved 
upon, only let the "expediency" of it be established by your decision 
and you will, for the present, have made progress enough — you will 
have laid the corner stone on which the better fortunes of your coun- 
try may be built. 



