Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2011 witli funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/antidotetowestinOOIond 



ANTIDOTE 



TO 



Wit&t=^nXiinn ^'ktit'^t^, 



DRAWN 



FROM AUTHENTIC SOURCES. 



No. I. 



CONDITION 



OF 



THE SLAVES IN THE BRITISH COLONIES^ 



PINCKARU's NOTES O:. THE WiST INDIES. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED FOR WHITMORE AND FENN, 
CHARING CROSS. 



181G. 



*■ vS fi?'vA ■ '* I T" '■ ' 7 



PRINTED BY W. SMITH AND CO. KING STREET, SEVEN DULSo 



ANTIDOTE 



TO 



West Indian Sketches^ Sfc. 



A SMALI^ pamphlet, entitled "West 
Indian Sketches," has lately been 
disseminated, with wonderful assi- 
duity, in order to prejudice the pub- 
lic, and particularly the members 
of both Houses of Parliament, 
against the whole Society of the 
West Indies. This is only part of a 
system that has been long pursued 
by a few individuals hi this coun- 
try ; who, in defiance of truth, in 
contradiction to authentic informa- 
tion, and with unparalleled effron- 
tery, have dared to accuse the colo- 
nies of every crime their heated im- 
aginations could conjure up. Let 
it not be supposed that the West In- 
dia body are insensible to the ca- 
lumnies which have been invented 
against their character and honour, 
or to the danger which threatens 
their lives and property. But 
the injury is not theirs exclusively; 
the permanent welfare of the em- 
pire demands, that in a question in 
which the very existence of the co- 
lonies is at stake, these offenders 
against all honorable consistency 
and candor should be convicted of 
their falsehood at the justice seat 
of public opinion. The following 
pages therefore, are written to warn 
tlie public against sacrificing the best 
interests of England^as they are 
advised to do by a few individuals, 
who, under the mask of humanity, 
are aiming at the total ruin of 
our valuable colonies — to unveil the 
delusion which fanaticism and pre- 
judice would throw upon all colo- 
nial subjects — and to point out the 
paths which are visibly preparing 
for the rapid march of murder, an- 
archy, and desolation in our West 
India possessions. In doing this 
we shall trust to " authentic docu- 



ments" rather than to long argument, 
in order to shew the spirit of wil- 
ful falsehood and calumny, which 
actuates the editor of the West In- 
dian Sketches : and we shall begin 
by referring to those very extracts 
from Dr. Pinckard's notes on the 
West Indies, which he has so par- 
tially collated, and so disingenu. 
ously misrepresented in his first 
number. 

In the year 1796, Dr. Piuckard 
accompanied a large expedition sent 
by this country against the Dutch 
colonies. It was completely suc- 
cessful, and Dr. Pinckard accord- 
ingly lived on shore with the army. 
He gives an account of the state of 
the Dutch Society in Demarara, and 
amongst other things, relates what 
was told him of an expedition fitted 
out by the Dutch government, the 
year before the colony was in our 
possession, against the Bush ne- 
groes, who are, for the most part, 
runaway slaves, living in the woods 
and subsisting on plunder. After 
much difficulty, some of the Bush 
negroes were taken and punished by 
the Dutch, in a manner which could 
not be justified even by the crimes 
and murders of those depredators. 

Having described the shocking 
punishment that was inflicted upou 
them, the editor says, " the object 
of the present paper is to give one 
of those graphic reprcserdations of 
West India manners and feelings, in 
respect to the slave population, 
which Dr. Pinckard's work has fur- 
nished us. 

" Well may humanity shudder 
at such a recital. But if the trans- 
action be too horrid even to be told, 
what must it have been to be wit- 
nessed, and still more to be felt? 



And is it in the uncontrouled power 
of persons capable of perpetrating 
such atrocities, that the British Par- 
liament and nation will be content 
to leave the destinies of so many of 
their fellow subjects 1 We must no 
longer squeamishly turn aside oiir 
view from these spectacles of horror. 
This nation can no longer decline 
the duty of examining them, aye, 
and of remedying them too." 

Only mark with what insidious 
and wilful obliquity the '' Sketch" 
applies this scene, (which was acted 
twenty years ago, in a dutch co- 
lony, under dutch laws, and go- 
vernment, and by persons totally un- 
acquainted with our language,) to 
the present existing state of society 
and feelings in our English colo- 
nies I 

So that the sins of the Dutch in 
Demarara are to be visited on the 
heads of Englishmen, who are emi- 
nently humane, both individually 
and as a nation ! As well might 
all the horrors of the French revo- 
lution be brought up in judgment 
against the present generation iu 
England, Russia, and the other 
States of Europe, as the cruelties 
of the Dutch planters of 1796, be 
a subject of reproach to the Eng- 
lish of 1816. But it is of little 
moment to these calumniators how 
far their assertions are founded in 
truth. They circulate the poison, 
conscious that it is poison ; — they 
scatter abroad the iiames, sensible 
tliat those must produce destruc- 
tion ;■ — but equally sensible that in 
the ruin, they can suiter but re- 
motely. They know that in the 
disguise, in which their principles 
are spread abroad, before they are 
discovered, they must have taken 
considerable effect, and a repetition 
of the same measures, they calcu- 
late, will accomplish the object at 
last. 

We beg our readers to pause for 
a moment on this part of the sub- 
ject, and to judge for themselves 
Jbow far the African Reports and the 
West Indian Sketches, which go 



hand in hand together, are entitled 
to credit, when they can so garble 
and misrepresent the facts which 
they pretend to quote. 

" Surely the rumors which ascribe 
these Sketches to Mr. Stephen, are 
highly injurious to that gentleman — 
and cannot possibly be true ;'' a 
master in the Court of Chancery, 
whose first duty is to be just to all 
men — one who has tilled the situa- 
tion of a member of the British 
Parliament, where honor, integrity, 
and consistency of principle, are 
the only path to greatness ; and 
ought therefore to actuate his con- 
duct, cannot have descended to be- 
come the editor of a scurrilous 
pamphlet, which conceals real infor- 
mation, misrepresents facts, and 
violates the sanctity of truth. 

But leaving this question, which 
is not very important to the general 
subject, let us further enquire into 
the justice of identifying the feel- 
ings and acts of Dutchmen, with 
those of our own countrymen. 

In the first place, hear what Mr. 
Brougham says of the Dutch in his 
Colonial Policy, vol. 1, page 75. 

" The Dutch, on the other hand, 
who grovel after every kind of pro- 
fit, whose spirit for gain is tempered 
by no dignity of character, and 
prompted by the competition of 
large capitals, are of all nations in 
the West Indies, the most inhuman 
masters, and the most pliable, in 
worming themselves into the various 
habits of gainful speculation ;" and 
again, Sect. 3, page 361. " The 
most unfortunate circumstance in 
the colonial policy of the Dutch, 
has always been their bad treatment 
of the slaves." 

No, it is not to persons " ca- 
pable of committing such atro- 
cities, that the British Parliament 
and nation, are leaving the des- 
tinies of thousands;" it is not to 
Dutch proprietors, but to English 
humanity, that our slaves are en- 
trusted. 

But that the contrast between 
the Dutch and English, in their 



treatment of the negroes may be 
made still more evident, and the 
disingenuous attempt to judge of 
the one by the other more clearly 
unmasked; we shall conclude this 
number with one or two extracts 
from " authentic sources," which we 
presume even the editor of the 
sketches will not be bold enough to 
dispute. They are from the notes 
of Dr. Piuckard, whom the sketch 
acknowledges to be so " respectable 
a witness, and so far removed from 
every suspicion of partiality or 
party feeling." Having made a 
tour round the island ot Barbadoes, 
he concludes in these words. " To 
bring into one point the sum of 
gratification afforded by this delight- 
ful excursion, would be a work of 
difficulty. — You will form some idea 
of it from the loose details I have 
marked. It has offered us an abund- 
ant opportunity of seeing the whole 
face of the island — of viewing many 
of the different plantations — of ob- 
serving the produce, and method of 
cultivation— 0/ witnessing the man- 
ners and customs of the inhabitants 
— and of noticing the labors and 
habits of life of the slaves ; whom we 
have seen in the fields — in their huts 
— in the sugar works— about the 
houses — at their moments of rest and 
retirement — and amidst all their va- 
rious occupations and modes of em- 
ployments 

Does this look as if a system 
'• pre-eminent in cruelty and injus- 
tice," prevailed in our colonies ; — 
when Dr. Pinckard " found it diffi- 
cult to describe the sum of gratifi- 
cation which his delightful excursion 
afforded him?" 

But let us follow him into details, 
and our humane readers will bealmost 
as much gratified as the author was, 
" ?■«. being able to remark, after 
much and careful observation, that 
the planters in general" (even twenty 
years ago, observe) " are humane 
and mercijul, and do not exact im- 
moderate toil ; with them the slaves 
have a certain round of duty, whieh 
cannot be regarded as excessive or 



. severe; being such as may be per- 
formed withoutany hurtful exertion." 

And thus again he describes 
the happy condition of the negroes. 

" At the estate I now speak of, 
a circular piece of ground was ap- 
propriated as the negro yard ; but 
instead of the slaves being left to 
construct their own habitations, six- 
teen very neat and uniform cabins 
were erected of wood, and well 
roofed with shingles. Placed in . 
eight divisions, they form a hollow 
octagon, a free opening being left 
for the breeze at oue end of each 
hut. In the centre of the octagon 
is built a common kitchen, which 
serves for all the sixteen families. 
The huts are neat, and the whole 
premises wear an air of order, and 
of cleanliness, not common to the 
abode of slaves. We contemplated 
this spot with much satisfaction, 
and were gratified in observing the 
high degree of attention, which ivas 
here given to the comfort and ac- 
commodation of the negroes, who had 
little cause to lament their removal 
from the wild woods of an opposite 
shore, and could scarcely desire to 
change their present lot for the high 
rated freedom of European paupers. 
This happy negro yard forms as it 
Mere, a complete village of sixteen 
families, all of whom may assemble 
each evening, after the labor of the 
day, to join the merry dance, or ta 
smoke and sing together, free from 
every care. They have no thought 
how to provide for their infants, or 
their aged parents ; nor have they 
to seek either food, habitation, or 
apparel. To each family is allotted 
a separate, and to all a common 
home ; the necessary food and 
clothing are issued to them ; and 
they know none of the anxious vexa- 
tions or difficulties of the world. No 
fearful concern, nor harassing in- 
cumbrance can arise to them on ac- 
count of their offspring, who, like 
themselves, are furnished with all 
that is needful ; and those who have 
most children, find thenjselves most 
valued and esteemed. 



** In sickness, medical attendance 
is provided for Ihem, and what- 
ever is required, is administered 
without any trouble on their own 
behalf. Tims are they guarded at 
every avenue, against the approach 
of want and solicitude. Six days 
labor is demanded from them in the 
week ; but the sabbath is given 
thera as a day of rest and relaxa- 
tion ; and from the total absence of 
care, it is usually spent in un- 
bounded mirth and festivity." 

This is one of the many delight- 
ful pictures, which Dr. Pinckard 
has drawn of the happy state of 
the negroes in the British colonies ; 
but all of which, let it be remarked ! 
the editor of the West Indian 
Sketches, has carefully suppressed. 
Our readers would dwell with plea- 
sure, as we have done, on many 
similar passages from the same 
work : but we must content our- 
selves, for the present, with one 
more, which afibrds the strongest 
possible evidi^nce of the humane 
treatment of the slaves, under Eng- 
lish masters. — This extract de- 
scribes, we may say, the perfect 
happiness which the negroes en- 
joyed on the estate of Mr. Dou- 
gan, an English gentleman, who 
was settled in Demarara, and who 
in spite of the system which pre- 
vailed around him, among the 
Dutch plantations, still supported 
that national character, for . hu- 
manity and gentleness, which dis- 
tinguishes an Englishman, but 
which the African Institution, and 
the editor of the Sketches are so 
anxious to vilify. 

" We were conducted after din- 
ner across the canal to visit the es- 
tate, and happy home of Mr. Dou- 
gan, a neighbour whom Mr. Osborn 
had invited to meet us. Here we 
found a rich sugar plantation, bor- 
dered with coffee and fruits. I can- 
not express how much we were in- 
terested and gratified with all we 
saw at this cheerful abode of Mr. 
Dougau. 

'' The plantation is laid out with 



much taste, and having every ad- 
vantage of culture, it exhibits, in 
high perfection, all the luxuriance 
of an opulent trophical estate. Uti- 
lity, comfort, and convenience, are 
here most happily combined. 

A private canal leads through the 
middle of the grounds, and serves 
for ornament and pleasure, as well 
as for bringing home the copious 
harvests of coffee and sugar. 

*' At its sides are smooth walks 
of grass ; and between these and 
the sugar canes are borders, planted 
with all the choice tropical fruits, 
rendering a promenade upon the 
water or its banks, most fragrant and 
inviting, and offering to the eye and 
the palate, all the variety of oranges, 
shaddocks, forbidden fruit, citrons, 
limes, lemons, cherries, custard 
apples, cashew apples, avagata 
pears, grenadelloes, water lemons, 
mangoes, and pines. The other 
walks which traverse the plantation, 
are also cool and sweet smelling 
avenues of fruit trees. But, how- 
ever, great the richness, beauty, 
and fragrance of the estate, its 
canals and its ivalks, still, I am sen- 
sible that I shall more firmly secure 
your attacJiment to it, by mention- 
ing the simple fact, that, to the 
slaves it affords, a happy home I I 
know not whether, upon any occa- 
sion since my departure from Eng- 
land, I have experienced such heart- 
felt pleasure, as in witnessing the 
high degree of comfort and happi- 
ness enjoyed by the slaves of the Profit 
estate. Mj. Dougan not only grants 
them many little indulgencies, and 
studies to make them happy, but he 
fosters them with a father's care, 
whils they, sensible of his tender- 
ness towards them, look to their re- 
vered master, as a kind and affec- 
tionate parent ; and, with undivided 
unsophisticated attachment, cheer- 
fully devote to him their labor and 
their lives. Not satisfied with be- 
stowing upon his negroes mere food 
and raiment, Mr. Dougan establishes 
for them a kind of right. He as- 
sures to tliem certain property, en- 



deavours to excite feelings of emu- 
lation among them, and to inspire 
them with a spirit of neatness and 
order, not commonly known among 
blacks ; and I rejoice to add, that, 
the effects of his friendly attention 
towards them, are strongly mani- 
fested in their persons, their dwell- 
ings, and their general demeanour. 
Perhaps it were not too much to 
say, that, the negro yard at ' Pro- 
fit/ Jorms one of the happiest vil- 
lages ivithin the ivide circle of the 
globe. The slaves of Mr. Dougan 
are not only fed, clothed, and ten- 
derly watched in sickness, without 
any personal thought, or concern, 
but each has his appropriate spot of 
ground, and his cottage, in which 
be feels a right as sacred as if se- 
cured to him by all the seals and 
parchments of the Lord High Chan- 
cellor of England, and his court. 

" Happy and contented the 
slave of " Profit," sees all his wants 
supplied ; never having been in a state 
of freedom, he has no desire for it; 
not having known liberty, he feels 
not the privation of it ; nor is it 
within the powers of his mind either 
to conceive or comprehend the 
sense we attach to the term. Were 
freedom offered to him he would re- 
fuse to accept it, and would only 
view it as a state fraught with cer- 
tain difficulties, and vexations, but 
offering no commensurate good. 
* Who gib me for gynghaara,* massa' 
he asks, ' if me free who gib me 
clothes'? who send me a doctor 
when me sick V 

" The cottages and little gar- 
dens of the negroes, exhibited a 
degree of neatness and plenty which 
may be envied by free-born Britons 
not of the poorest class. The huts 
of Ireland, Scotland, France, Ger- 
many, and many even of England 
itself, bear no comparison with these. 
In impulsive delight, I ran into se- 
veral of them, surprising the slaves 
with an unexpected visit. They 
mostly consist of a comfortable sit- 

* Clothing. 



ting room, and a clean well fur- 
nished bed chamber. In one I ob- 
served a high bedstead, according 
to the present European fashion 
with deep mattresses, all nicely 
made up, and covered with a clean 
white counterpane; the bed posts, 
drawers, and chairs, bearing the 
polish ot well rubbed mahogany. 
I felt a desire to pillow my head in 
this hut for the night, it not having 
fallen to my lot, since I left Eng- 
land, to repose on so inviting a 
couch. The value of the whole was 
tenfold augmented by the contented 
slaves being able to say, ' all this 
ivefeel to be our own.' " 

We could have wished to add a 
few extracts from Bryan Edward's 
History, and other authentic docu- 
ments to the same effect, but the 
limits of our present number will 
not permit us to do so. Let this 
one fact, however, be particularly 
attended to ; it is a highly import- 
ant one, and on which humanity 
and benevolence may dwell with 
pleasure, that these " graphic re- 
presentations,'' were made twenty 
years ago! long before tlCe amelio- 
rating acts were passed — long before 
the abolition of the slave trade, 
which has, even by the admission 
of Mr. Wilberforce, and Mr. Ste- 
phen, opened a new Eera in the co- 
lonial system, and introduced great 
and radical improvements in the 
condition of the slaves. Enough 
has now been said to enable our 
readers to judge of the fairness and 
candor of the West Indian Sketch, 
No. 1, and of the real merits of a 
cause which requires so much false- 
hood and misrepresentation to sup- 
port it. We shall follow this gen- 
tleman through the remainder of his 
sinuous windings, and not permit 
him to write down common sense 
among mankind. In no instance 
has the arrogance of popular ambi- 
tion, (as exemplified in the few in- 
dividuals who conduct the affairs, 
draw up the reports, and expend 
the resources of the African Insti- 
tution) shewn itself more conspi- 



cuous than in matters connected deavour to misrepresent and de- 
with our colonial establishment ; in fame those whom they intend to in- 
none has the prejudice of party jure and oppress, 
been more conspicuous ; in none This is part of the system which 
have the efforts of fanaticism been has been played off upon mankind 
attended with more dangerous re- for the last thirty years by every 
suits. Like all other inovators, would-be legislator, and the con- 
whenever these men have a private sequences of which have shaken the 
theory, which they want to prove moral and political world to their 
and establish, they invariably en- deepest fbundationse' 



