AN 



EXAMINATION 



Pvitutptes 



SLAVE REGISTRY BILL, 



AND OF THE 



MEANS OF EMANCIPATION, 



PROPOSED 



BY THE AUTHORS OF THE BILL. 



By G. W. JORDAN, Esq. F. R. S. 

COLONIAL AGENT FOR BARBADOS. 



LONDON : 
PRINTED FOR T. CADELL AND W. DAVIES, STRAND. 

1816. 



V 



res ■ 75^.^ •»•* 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library V The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/examinationofpriOOjord 



AN EXAMINATION 



OF THE 



Principles 

OF THE 

SLAVE REGISTRY BILL, 



The time is at length arrived, when for the pro- 
tection of the persons, for the security and preser- 
vation of the rightSj liberties, and properties of the 
British Colonists of the West Indies, I shall ap- 
pear ranged in opposition to those who profess 
themselves to be the advocates of freedom. I had 
hoped that this effort would have been spared to 
my life, and that my name would not go abroad to 
the world, or descend to posterity subjected even 
to the suspicion of entertaining opinions and 
feelings hostile to the great cause of the liberties of 
all mankind. That hostility for myself and for 
mine, I disavow, I disclaim. The Colony which I 

B 



C 2 ] 

represent, during the progress of the proceedings 
for the Abolition of the Slave Trade, positively en- 
joined me to give no opposition to. the measure. 
On the subject of the slavery of the West India 
Colonies, my own opinions are contained in the 
following public declarations and expostulations 
made for myself and other British Colonists, and 
opposed to one of those invasions of colonial 
rights so frequently meditated. 

t€ We take this occasion to deprecate the odium 
which the agricultural system of these Colonies 
may have excited against us. We have suc- 
ceeded to the system and continuance of slavery. 
We are equally guiltless of the production with 
our brethren in Europe, who stand in an equal 
decree and distance of relation with us from the 
original authors, and we are equally zealous with 
them to do whatever is practicable, whatever is 
safe. We consider the system as oppressive to 
master as well as to slave, as tending to injure of 
both the moral characters, to plague persons, and 
to pejorate families. The proudest and most 
prosperous among us would wish time to go 
back, to replace our ancestors in Europe, and to 
give to chance the power of determining for us 
our conditions in Great Britain, where all are 
free, rather than to occupy the highest and most 
distinguished stations in these Colonies, where 
many are slaves." 



[ 3 ] 

This public act of the Colony, these sponta- 
neous expressions of individual feeling and opinion 
may fairly be advanced in front, and insisted upon 
as proofs that nothing can have been done to 
counteract the Abolition of the Slave Trade, that 
nothing could remain undone to render the condi- 
tion of the black slaves comfortable and consistent 
with the personal safety of the Colonists., and with 
the agricultural and colonial systems of the West 
Indies. But these avail not for us or for others. 
My public duty, therefore, commands, and my pri- 
vate affections urge me to stand up in defence of 
my countrymen and my brethren of the Colonies. 
I appear only as the advocate of British rights and 
of British subjects, and I come prepared to defend 
these against all aggression, from whatever quarter 
it may proceed, whatever it may presume or pre- 
tend. 

I come not to defend slavery either in the ab- 
stract or the particular. I will not vindicate the 
black slavery of the West Indies in its origin or in its 
continuance. To any question which may respect 
the existence of the Slave Trade, an answer is al- 
ready given. To any question which may respect 
the existing slavery of the Colonies, the answer is 
already given. In defence of our political freedom, 
our existence, our establishments, I come forward 
to exhibit to the united British Parliament, and to 
the world, by what invasion of rights, what hazard 

b S 



[ * ] 

of persons, what danger to property, the emancipa- 
tion of the negroes in the Colonies is now proposed 
to be accomplished — to state the sacrifices, private 
and public, it will require, however, and whenever 
effected, and to leave to them to judge of the mea- 
sure, and to decide respecting the means. 

We know, we feel the evils inseparable from a 
state of slavery, and under this feeling, when in ad- 
dition to these, charges imputing all the crimes 
which are of man, and of every state of society, 
are accumulated upon us, we submit in silence, 
from whatever sources they may be derived, or by 
whatever motives they may be dictated. But silence 
and submission would be criminal, when the course 
of proceeding contemplated and avowed respects 
Our dearest interests, would violate political rights, 
endanger personal safety, extinguish the agricultural 
system of the Colonies, with the commerce depend- 
ent thereon, and overwhelm in general ruin the 
expensive establishments and valuable plantations 
of the islands. 



On the 13th of June, 1815, Mr. Wilberforce 
moved in the House of Commons for leave to bring 
in a Bill to prevent the clandestine importation of 
Slaves into the British Colonies. Previously thereto,, 
copies of a pamphlet, entitled, " Reasons for esta» 



C 5 J 

" blishing a Registry of Slaves in the British Co- 
kt lonies, being a report of a Committee of the Afri- 
" can Institution, published by order of that Society," 
were delivered to the several members of both 
Houses of Parliament. In making his motion, Mr. 
W. referred to and adopted this pamphlet as advo- 
cating the measure, and indicative of a course of 
proceedings to be subsequently adopted by Parlia- 
ment, and to lead to the general emancipation of 
the black slaves in the West Indies. On the oth 
of the following July, the Bill was brought in, and 
by order printed, as preparatory to the revival of 
the measure, during the succeeding Session of Par- 
liament. 

To this Bill, as in itself destitute of all parlia- 
mentary grounds of fact or circumstance for its 
support, as invasive by internal legislation of the 
rights of the Colonial Assemblies, as not being sanc- 
tioned by the unquestioned right of the British Par- 
liament to commercial regulation, as transgressing 
limits which the British Parliament has prescribed 
to itself in matters of revenue, as violating by excess 
all the principles of penal law which it respects not, 
and all the rights of property in others whom it 
entirely disregards, these enumerated objections are 
opposed. 

Of these, the first and last apply to the Bill itself, 
the others to the extent of British parliamentary 
jurisdiction. 



[ 6 ] 

These objections are opposed to the Bill— to its 
existence — to its principle — to its enactments. — 
But when the measure is considered in its origin and 
objects, when contemplated in its causes and conse- 
quences, its means and ends, the primary purposes 
it is insidiously contrived to effect, the ultimate it 
is avowedly intended to accomplish, all the evils 
that attend and will follow its existence, course and 
progress, beginning in a violation of public, and a 
disregard of private rights, leading to destruction, 
depreciation, and abandonment of properties, to 
massacres and deportation of persons, and to be 
consummated by conflagration and destruction, and 
by the extinction of establishments, individual and 
national, of agricultural and commercial wealth, 
and of naval power, dependent upon these — all these 
evils rise up in horrible array, and in prospect not 
remote. Already have those movements been per- 
ceived, which threaten to lead the afflicted master to 
measures of necessary precaution and infliction, 
and would compel him, with his own hands to sa- 
crifice a portion of his property in personal charac- 
ters and existences, that he may preserve himself and 
the remainder. 

To Emancipation, all these horrors are to be re- 
ferred, to the Emancipation of the Black Slaves in 
the West Indies, now for the first time openly con- 
templated, and as that to which this whole course of 
irregular and violent proceeding is to lead, now for 
the first time publicly avowed, under the following 



C ? ] 

circumstances, intended to justify the course of pro- 
ceeding, even to its last terrible consummation. 

To Emancipation, all these horrors have a thou- 
sand times been objected, as necessary consequences 
to be expected from the measure either contem- 
plated or effected. As often have they been en- 
countered by a direct, positive, absolute denial, that 
Emancipation was meditated or intended, a denial 
formally and publicly made by those very persons,, 
who now come forward and avow the principles and 
practices developed in the following exposition of 
past events narrated in their own words. 

" Accused by their opponents of meditating a 
" general Emancipation, they denied the charge, but 
" it was denied only in the insidious meaning of the 
" imputation itself. They did not aim at an Eman- 
" cipation to be effected by insurrection." 

The fact therefore is admitted and established, 
that the charge of meditating a general Emancipa- 
tion was made, and as positively and directly 
denied. 

This denial, however, is now stated to have been 
made under a secret mental reservation, that it was 
not inteo led by means of insurrections, and all their 
trains of attendant horrors. These, as the means of 
Emancipation, it is stated, were insidiously imputed, 



C 8 ] 

not openly expressed in the charge of their oppo- 
nents. They were therefore insidiously not decla- 
redly included in the denial. Thus under a suggested 
mental reservation of their opponents, a mental re- 
servation is admitted in themselves, by which they 
would now justify the breach of a solemn public 
pledge, given at another time, and under other cir- 
cumstances. This is an original species of mora- 
lity, which would justify fraud committed by the 
imputation or suggestion of fraud intended. The 
non existence however, of what is imputed, is capa- 
ble of being most exclusively established, and the 
violation of a solemn engagement, made and ad- 
mitted to have been made in the face of the public, 
and of the world, is further aggravated by an at- 
tempt to defend, and to justify it, by affirming the 
thing which was not, the thing which could not 
be. i 

It never was, it never could have been insidiously 
imputed, nor publicly charged that murder and mas- 
sacre, and conflagration, and destruction were the 
means by which Emancipation was to be effected. 
These evils, indeed, as apprehended consequences, 
were then openly as now deprecated, never as means, 
never as the course of proceeding by which eman- 
cipation was to be accomplished. That the agitation 
of the question, that the establishment of the mea- 
sure would be followed by insurrections and massa- 
cres as effects to be produced, not as causes produc- 



C 9 ] 

ing, was always openly charged. Never was it stated, 
or suggested, or imagined that Emancipation was 
aimed at or to be effected by these horrors^ but that 
these horrors would be produced by Emancipation 
contemplated or established. The existence there- 
fore of any concealed insidious meaning was impos- 
sible. The suggestion is of the present time, and 
raised upon the occasion. The statement that it 
existed, and was known and operated to induce an 
insidious covert counter-declaration, is entirely un- 
supported and disproved, and the accuracy of state- 
ments by which the breach of a solemn engagement 
would be justified, is equal to the morality. 

This avowed mental reservation of a party under 
a supposed or suggested mental reservation of their 
opponents, a mental reservation impossible in itself, 
and now for the first time suggested to defend a 
breach of engagement, can never be justified. It 
belongs to political profligacy alone to employ all 
means to attain its ends, to fanatical depravity alone 
to justify the means by the end. 

To qualify however the denial thus unadvisedly if 
not profligately made, and to exclude these conclu- 
sions which necessarily flow from, and are thus legi- 
timately established against the declaration, as weli 
as its authors, it is stated in continuance, not very 
consistently with what precedes, that they never 
denied that " they did look forward to a future ex- 



[ io J 

" tinction of Slavery in the Colonies, by the same 

" happy means which formerly put an end to it in 

* c England, by a revolution in opinions and manners, 

" by encouragement of manumissions, by progres- 

" sive melioration of the condition of the Slaves, till 

" it should slide insensibly into general Freedom, in 

" short to an Emancipation, of which the masters 

" should be the willing authors." 

How the covertly qualified denial of the charge 
of meditating general Emancipation, has been dis- 
posed of by its own internal evidence, already ap- 
pears. Let this admission of an openly qualified 
denial be now referred to and compared with that 
and with their present conduct, and unqualified de- 
clarations. 

Upon what evidence a Committee of the African 
Institution made such a report, it is unnecessary to 
inquire. The nature of the statement excludes the 
possibility of producing evidence to establish, the 
necessity of producing evidence to disprove it. No 
evidence can exist to support, none is required to 
impugn that which is in itself impossible. Although 
not required, evidence is not however wanting to 
negative the affirmation, " that all the Abolitionists 
" professed themselves to be as earnest as Mr. Wil- 
" berforce himself to abolish Colonial Slavery." 
Mr. Stephen, the brother-in-law of Mr. VVilberforce, 
in a letter dated so late as January 15, 1813, declares 



[ 11 ] 

(< the charge of meditating Emancipation, to be the 
' c renewal of a stale and idle charge against Mr. Wil- 
" berlbrce as well as himself, both being equally 
" incapable of entertaining a purpose they have pub- 
" licly disclaimed." For this fact, taken from p. 
93, ct " Thoughts, &c. and an Examination of the 
" Registry Bill Report," I am indebted to its author, 
and I seize this occasion for myself, and for all, to 
thank him for this, and for all his intelligent and 
zealous exertions in the cause of the Colonies. 

For the credit of the African Institution, the only 
question that can be raised, respects the existence 
of any report, or of any committee appointed by 
themselves, according to the usual form and style of 
creation of committees, to inquire into the matter 
and to report the same, and the minutes of their 
proceedings, and of the evidence taken before them, 
together with their observations thereupon. 

If no such committee was appointed, no pro- 
ceedings had, no minutes of evidence taken, no re- 
port made — the title-page of the pamphlet presents 
a statement of, and affirms things which are not, of 
a committee, of a report published by order of the 
Society ; and the Society have only to deny these 
statements, to withdraw themselves from exposure 
to the preceding and following observations. 

The pamphlet may indeed be the production of 



L 12 J 

an individual, and the Institution unquestionably 
may adopt it, and as such it may be published by 
the order, and, if such an application of their funds 
be warranted, at the expense of the Society. Un- 
questionably the Society, if they cannot truly, may 
not state it to be a report of a committee of their 
body. Such an unsupported statement, when the 
pernicious effects to be produced by it are con- 
sidered, is even divested of that colour of inno- 
cence by which a celebrated moral philosopher, 
Paley, has accurately distinguished certain inaccurate 
statements. 

The nature indeed of these statements, the in- 
ternal evidence of the work itself, lead irresistibly to 
the inference that it is not what it professes to be. 
I will not indeed believe the work to be what it pre- 
tends, what its title-page so unblushingly announces 
it to be — the thing is impossible, and I relieve my 
mind from the painful consideration of referring it 
to so respectable a body, by treating it as a com- 
position which has not been considered or approved 
of by the great and respectable part of the Society. 
Whatever may be wrong, I attribute to an inferior 
agency of persons, such as, from sordid motives, 
contrive to introduce themselves into ostensible si- 
tuations in all public institutions and societies, that 
they may avail themselves of their means, and powers, 
and influence — and against such alone are these 
animadversions directed. As this agency may be 

6 



[ 13 ] 

inferred from general practices, so is its existence and 
operation unquestionably established and exhibited 
by the publication itself, and its attendant circum- 
stances. 

Many of the principal Members of the African 
Institution, I respect, reverence and personally re- 
gard. All I do not know. To all worthy of re- 
gard, reverence or respect, I appeal against the 
unfounded allegations and malignant inferences 
which have been uncontradictedly permitted to 
appear under their sanction, and so have been pre- 
sented to the High Inquest of the Nation, com- 
promising at once the credit, the honour and the 
intelligence of the Society. 

To all worthy of regard, reverence or respect, I 
appeal against the cruel calumnies with which the 
British Colonists and Legislatures have been assailed 
— Calumnies against all truth and decency accumu- 
lated upon men in all things most just and honour- 
able, of his Majesty most faithful and loyal sub- 
jects, of the United Kingdom the dutiful and affec- 
tionate children and brethren, in education and in- 
telligence inferior to none on an average of extent 
of district and number of persons. Of my own 
Colony I would vouch for more, not as among 
Colonies, for this would be invidious, but as of 
countries in general. Many of the Colonies have 
been, that in particular was colonized by the best 



C I* ] 

blood of England, %ing from the invaders and 
usurpers of the church and throne. In the Colonies 
last of all the King's dominions, in Barbados, last of 
all the Colonies, from this honourable circumstance, 
and from priority of settlement, justly styled most 
ancient and most loyal, flew the royal flag when demo- 
cracy and puritanism triumphed over the monarchy. 
In that Colony I have been one of a company of se- 
venteen or eighteen gentlemen, all educated at Cam- 
bridge and Oxford. Nor is this said with the view 
of distinguishing any one among the Colonies ; " I 
speak that which I do know" of one, and leave to 
be inferred for all. It is done for the purpose of 
upholding all against observations which would de- 
grade all, and have even contrived to introduce 
themselves into office through persons in whom they 
are calumnies, and who, admitted to advise in 
colonial affairs, compromise those who commit 
themselves to their agency, by their blind prejudices 
and anxious endeavours to debase the characters of 
the inhabitants of the Colonies, whom they feel that 
they injure. 

Of the several legislatures I will affirm that" 
they are all fully competent to their various du- 
ties. In support of this proposition 1 refer my- 
self to all who, by personal residence in the 
Colonies, and actual observation, are judges of 
the question under the view now to be exhibited and 
illustrated by comparisons by no means intended 



[ 15 ] 

to degrade or disparage. I speak of times gone, and 
of persons who have passed away, Has noi every 
Colonial legislature, as a legislature, been at all 
times and in all respects, from ability, talent and 
information, as fully fitted for its functions as the 
King's epresentative, chosen and delegated by his 
Majesty to the office of Governor ? There can be 
nothing odious in a comparison which would sink 
none but raises all, and which, by referring to ob- 
jects placed naturally, as it were, side by side, and 
thus exposed to direct observation, renders the 
judgment respecting that one which alone is sub- 
mitted for question, obvious and intuitive. There 
have been at all times in both Colonial houses of 
legislation, the council and assembly of each Co- 
lony, the first appointed for life by his Majesty, 
the other elected by the people, many individuals 
who need not shrink from a general comparison of 
personal merits, either with a respected chief, or 
with individuals among the first of both Houses of 
Parliament in the United Kingdom. That there 
have been persons delegated by popular election, 
whom popular election alone would delegate, is 
true of the Colonial Assemblies as of the Imperial 
Parliament. The Imperial Parliament also has had 

her , but I forbear to name them, nor will 

I be driven by ruffian outrage to practise outrage, 
or even for self-justification and defence, expose 
the bosom to be torn open, and the natural infirmi~ 



C 16 ] 

ties to be displayed of a mother whom I love and 
honour. 



On the Evidence produced to support the Bill. 

The objections to the measure proposed, divide 
themselves, as before stated, into two classes, one 
of which respects the Bill itself, and the other the 
extent of British parliamentary jurisdiction. 

The fairest mode of estimating all those of the 
first class, is by considering them as regularly sub- 
mitted against the Bill, to a Parliament having the 
unquestioned right of entertaining it, to a Colonial 
Legislature, to that of Barbados, for instance. 

In the first place, it is destitute of all parliamen- 
tary grounds of support. It is proposed as a remedy 
for an evil that does not exist, that could not exist 
without beins known, which is known not to exist. 
In Barbados, a single African could not be im- 
ported and concealed. In a community where a 
complete communication of whatever occurs is im- 
mediately diffused and eagerly circulated, where 
every thing and every person is known to every 
body, in a country of small extent, closely inha- 
bited, neither by woods or mountains affording a 
single place of concealment, a solitary African could 
neither pass in open air, nor lurk in secret shade, 
without being observed. In some of these circum- 



[ " 3 

stances of condition, the other Windward Islands 
may differ, in dimensions of considerable extent, 
Jamaica alone varies; but in all, illicit importa- 
tion is equally capable of being, and is as dis- 
tinctly and positively denied as it can be, or is de- 
nied by Barbados, and for all it is completely dis- 
proved by the returns made from all to Govern- 
ment, and printed by order of the House of Com- 
mons, in July, 1815. This non-existence of an 
illicit import, renders enactments to prevent it un- 
necessary and futile. Under this impossibility of 
existence, without being known, and discovered, and, 
when discovered, subjecting the party to the pains 
and penalties of the Abolition Laws, to a charge 
of, and to the punishments of felony, to call upon 
a legislature to enact new laws under such circum- 
stances, is to abuse and to misapply and to waste 
its powers, and the proposal would deserve to be 
repelled, not merely by a silent — by an indignant 
rejection. 

In Barbados it might in the next place be ob- 
served, that there are annual returns of Slaves, made 
upon oath, and under adequate penalties, which 
would infallibly discover any irregular increase of 
numbers by clandestine import, if otherwise conceal- 
able. The registration in the public offices, of all 
deeds, conveying Slaves, is also by law required to 
give effect thereto, within a short given time. In 
most of our islands, the report itself which advo- 

c 



C is 3 

cates the Registry Bill admits, " that annual returns 
of Slaves are required for the purposes of internal 
revenue, and in most, or all the islands, the enrol- 
ment of deeds is required within a limited time, to 
pass the estate granted ;" and it is added, that " the 
Registry proposed, would do little more than provide 
a clearer specification of property, as if the whole 
cumbersome machinery of the Bill, of officers to be 
appointed, and offices established in each of the 
Colonies, and in Great Britain, of returns to be 
made, of duties to be performed, of fees to be 
paid, fines inflicted, penalties incurred, and forfei- 
tures suffered of estates in lands to any extent, for 
the omission of a single name, were little more than 
a clearer specification of property. 

The Bill therefore is not only destitute of all par- 
liamentary grounds of support in itself, but is also 
rendered unnecessary by regulations which exist 
within that and most of the other Colonies, regula- 
tions similar to these which are proposed, and en- 
forced by no violations of principles and rights. 

Under these circumstances, under the existence 
of no necessity to justify, and during the existence 
of regulations that would meet any such necessity, 
should it occur, can it be expected that any intel- 
ligent or independent Legislature would consent to 
impose upon the community it represents, such a 
load of personal duties, offensive in their origin, 



t 19 3 

chargeable in themselves, and vexatious as unneces- 
sary, or subject their constituents to fees, fines, pe- 
nalties and forfeitures violating in principle, and 
in excess, all penal laws and institutions, and all the 
rights of property? Is it to be supposed, that any 
free British Colonial Assembly will ever be induced, 
by the adoption of the Trinidad order in council, to 
assimilate its own condition to that of a conquered 
Foreign Colony, to that subsisting state of conquest, 
which they all deplore, not only in itself, (and as it 
affords an excuse for practices and ordinances, at 
which the spirit of a Briton revolts,) but as, by its ex- 
ample and its continuance, tending to affect, to 
weaken, and to impair their own undoubted rights 
and franchises r Such might be the deserved fate 
of the Bill, if offered to the Colonial House of As- 
sembly in Barbados for enactment. Let Barbados, 
however, speak for herself. She has spoken by her 
two Houses of Legislature in resolutions, two of 
which, the second and fifth, are here exhibited, to 
disprove the charge of illicit import, and the unjust 
and unfounded imputation that the Colonial As- 
semblies will do nothing. They do honour to the 
Colony. 

2d. Resolved, That the allegation contained in the said Bill, 
namely, that there is an illicit importation of Slaves into the West 
Indies, as far as respects this island, is totally void of foundation 
this House feeling the most thorough conviction, that the only 
Africans imported here, since the abolition of the Slave Trade, 
have been either brought in as prize to his Majesty's navy, or for 
the purpose of recruiting his army. 

c 2 



[ 20 [J 

5th. Resolved, That although there is an Act, at present in 
force in this island, which requires, under a heavy penalty, the 
annual return upon oath of the Slaves of each Proprietor ; yet, to 
evince the cordial desire which this House feels to co-operate in 
any measure deemed necessary for carrying into effect the Acts 
of the Imperial Parliament, for Abolishing the Slave Trade, it de- 
clares that it is most willing to adopt, by an Act of the Legislature 
of this island, such parts of the Registry Bill as are compatible with 
the legitimate rights and local circumstances of the inhabitants 
of this island, and which may be more adequate to ascertain the 
Slave population. 



That the British Parliament will, as would a Co- 
lonial Parliament, in defect of all parliamentary 
grounds for its support, reject the measure, inde- 
pendently of all other considerations, may fairly be 
expected from its good sense and wisdom. But as 
it may be necessary to establish that before a British 
Parliament, by duly exhibited evidence, which, to a 
Colonial Parliament, would be, and is known by 
direct observation, by self conviction, by intuition, 
by information, which each to other, as composing the 
same inquest, every member might, and is bound to 
impart, and as the establishment of the facts neces- 
sary to justify a proceeding, is of right demandable 
from the actors and promoters of the measure, 
neither law nor reason requiring the proof of a ne,- 
gative proposition— An examination of the evidence 
produced by the Report, which advocates the mea- 
sure, becomes necessary, and is undertaken to save, 
as much as possible, a discussion, necessarily involv- 



C 21 ] 

ing those further higher considerations, which form 
the second class of observations, opposed to the 
Bill. 

The evidence to be produced before the British 
Parliament, should unquestionably be the highest, 
which the nature of the case admits, and establish- 
ing facts sufficient by their number, magnitude and 
importance, to warrant an exercise, even of its 
ordinary and unquestioned right of jurisdiction. 

An apology is made for the non-production, 
which admits, and would account for the non-exist- 
ence of such evidence, and which endeavours to 
supply the defects of that other confessedly inferior 
evidence, which is produced. The proof is opened 
by stating, not that there is abundant evidence to 
establish, but " abundant reason to conclude," that 
there has been an illicit import of African Negroes, 
into some-, if wo/ all of our islands: that this is to be 
inferred from the case of Saint Croix, (Danish, and 
now in Danish possession,) in which island, the 
collector of the customs, supposing " that there was 
abundant reason to conclude," that illicit import 
existed, advertised rewards for discovery, which pro- 
duced neither information nor evidence to convict: 
That this is to be inferred in the absence of evi- 
dence, which, although possessed, is not exhibited, 
because it has been obtained in a manner, that does 



[ 22 1 

not admit of its production, " by communications 
from persons, who dare not appear as witnesses : 
and that this is to be inferred in the absence of that 
highest evidence, which might be demanded, be- 
cause, from the want of informers, and of com- 
petent witnesses, that highest evidence exists not. 

A document is in the next place referred to, dated 
July 25th, 1814, purporting to be " a Return 
u of all ships and vessels, condemned under any of 
" the Acts for the Abolition of the Slave Trade," 
which took place on the 1st of May, 1807. In 
seven years to 1814, the vessels from Africa, con- 
demned in the West Indies, amounted to eight, not 
one of which appeared bound to a British port, or 
" could well be suspected to be so," as the Report 
admits, though it adds, without any alleged grounds 
for the charge, that " it cannot reasonably be 
doubted, that many of the Slaves were destined cir- 
cuitously for the British Colonies." Of sixteen cases 
of smaller vessels, the Report observes, that the 
numbers of Slaves found on board, were so small, 
that they do not average four to each vessel, and 
this, it is argued, establishes a smuggling trade among 
the islands. All consideration of time is however 
carefully abstained from, These condemnations of 
sixteen sloops and schooners, were of seven years, 
barely two to a year, and of sixty-four Slaves, 
barely nine to a year, for all the West Indies ; and 



C 23 ] 

judging, from the names of ships or masters, 
thirteen, at least, of the vessels were foreign. Any 
objection to the smallness of these numbers, in them- 
selves, or as of a long period of years, is encountered 
by stating, in obviously unfounded and contradic- 
tory terms, that the mischievous tendency of this 
illicit trade depends not upon its extent, upon its 
actual degree, " the known practicability of clandes- 
tine import in one island would be enough for the 
effectual and open supply of all the rest." 

In the absence confessed of that highest evidence 
which is required, and in defect of other sufficient 
evidence to prove, the Report infers the existence of 
an actual or potential contraband Slave Trade, 
(potential resource, p. 51 of Report,) from sugges- 
tions and presumptions, for the most part neither 
legitimately established, nor logically deduced, many 
contradicted by facts, many convertible against the 
points they would prove, all irrelevant and inadmis- 
sible as evidence. As evidence, therefore, they are here 
rejected. As calumnies, they call for, and shall re- 
ceive future consideration and confutation. 

Those to whom the charge of Colonial interests is 
committed, submit, as documentary evidence, the 
papers relating to the West Indies, printed by order 
of the House of Commons, in July 1815, to prove, 
that there has been no illicit import, calling for fur- 



[ 24 ] 

ther legislation, within the limits either of the Impe- 
rial or Colonial parliamentary jurisdictions, and are 
prepared to confirm the same, by further evidence 
and the testimony of witnesses, establishing a nega- 
tive in the only way in which it can be maintained, by 
the entire exclusion of the affirmative proposition. 

Here then the evidence might be closed on both 
sides, and summed up, to consist, on one side, of 
apologies for evidence, of defective evidence, of un- 
founded and inadmissible allegations and presump- 
tions; on the other side, of evidence, as complete 
and sufficient as the case is capable of receiving, 
and entirely subversive of that to which it is op- 
posed. To the decision which should follow such 
an exhibition of evidence, the parliamentary case is 
submitted. 



There is therefore no illicit import of slaves into 
the Colonies. By the Abolition Laws, " to 
" carry on from British ports, from Africa in British 
" ships, or to prosecute the Slave Trade at sea, or 
ll in any foreign part of the world, on account 
" of, or by British subjects," [so the Report qua- 
lifiedly states for its own purposes, but the Act it- 
self says,] " to carry, or aid and assist in carrying as 
" Slaves, any persons from Africa, or from any other 



C 25 ] 

n country or place, immediately, or by tranship- 
" ment at sea, directly or indirectly, on account of, 
" or by British subjects," to import into any Island 
or Colony, to ship or embark on board any vessel 
or boat, any Slave or Slaves, to hire or employ for 
these purposes any vessel, to fit out, command, enter 
on board of, or navigate any vessel so employed, 
constitutes all persons, British subjects, so offending, 
felons, and " has been made as difficult, as danger- 
tc ous as Parliament could possibly make it. The 
" penalty of death can only be superadded." 

In the face of these laws, and of the preceding evi- 
dence establishing their practical efficacy, it is con- 
tended, that an illicit import is to be presumed, pre- 
sent or future, immediate or prospective, actual or 
potential, because there has been no amelioration 
of the condition of Slaves, and no protection has 
been secured to them — they may be sold for debts, 
and have not been attached to the soil — they are 
the subjects of a poll- tax laid for all without dis- 
tinction on the master, and of pecuniary compensa- 
tions in make-good leases — that manumissions are 
obstructed, and religious instruction prohibited — 
because in opposing the abolition measure, illicit im- 
port, it was argued, could not be prevented, that, 
therefore, it has existed to the full extent of the 
demand! — and because a legal presumption of slavery 
from colour, excludes from all legal redress in the 



C 26 ] 

Colonies, and in Jamaica subjects a free man of 
colour to be sold into slavery with his manumission 
in his hand. No one of these statements, if all be 
admitted, proves any breach of the Abolition Laws, 
the conclusions to be deduced from many, are di- 
rectly hostile to the views of the authors, and they 
are advanced rather to excite clamour and prejudice, 
than to justify any parliamentary proceeding. 

The charge, for instance, that manumissions are 
obstructed, might be admitted, and it might be an- 
swered and contended, could we descend so low as 
to imitate the weak course of argumentation pursued 
in the " Report of Reasons," that the Abolition 
Acts having effectually cut off all the sources of ex- 
ternal supply, it is adviseable to limit, by all possible 
means, the diminution of the existing number of 
slaves, and that, therefore, manumissions are dis- 
couraged, as tending to lessen those numbers. 

Make-good leases in the West Indies, are for 
terms of years longer or shorter, and for the secu- 
rity of the lessor, an appraisement is made upon oath, 
of the value of the property, exclusive of the lands, 
at the commencement and at the termination of the 
lease, and the difference in value is paid or received 
by the lessor or lessee. It is contended, that the 
lessor reserves pecuniary payment, because he looks 
forward to supply deficiencies of slaves by purchase. 



[ 27 ] 

What, and if he has to pay the difference ? If the 
number of slaves had been to be made up by the 
lessee, it might have been said with equal justice, 
that he stipulated for a return of numbers, in con- 
templation of illicit import, enabling him to do it 
at less cost than the first valuation. 

Because it was objected argumentatively to the 
Abolition Acts, that they could not prevent the 
illicit import of slaves into the islands, that, there' 
fore, an illicit import, and to the extent of the de- 
mand, has existed, thus endeavouring to establish 
by inference founded on inference, what is un- 
supported by any, and contradicted by all evi- 
dence, and expecting Parliament to believe, to ad- 
mit, and to act upon the statement as duly esta- 
blished, is a serious trifling, that deserves repro- 
bation. 

I wish I could give the same character and an- 
swer to the statement that a poll-tax continues to 
be laid upon the master, the direct consequence of 
which, to the slaves he possesses, is destruction of 
life and of increase, and the inferred, an immediate 
or potential resource in illicit import. 

" This tax attaches on them from the birth to the 
" grave, without any allowance for infancy, infir- 
*' mity, or age. If a mother be relieved from labour 
11 on account of pregnancy, or her duties as a nurse, 



[ 28 ] 

" the master is yet rated for her and for her infants 
" too. If feeble life is kindly cherished after the 
" hope of productive labour has ceased, the poll- 
" tax still continues, and operates in effect as a dis- 
" couragement to humanity and justice." 

It can only operate in effect by destruction of 
life. In Barbados, the only poll-tax that exists, is 
applicable to the purposes of the government, and 
amounts to Is. lOjd. currency, or about 18 pence 
sterling per annum. This is the amount of the pay- 
ment, and of the supposed inducement to sacrifice 
human life in its commencement, or in its decline. 
But this is not all. There are numerous pecuniary 
charges established per capita, on all slaves. The 
apothecary's daily care is remunerated by an annual 
allowance for each. The occasional attendance of 
a physician, in many plantations, is secured by si- 
milar payments. These " attach on infancy as well 
" as age." The allowance of food, clothing, and of 
general supplies, never to be diminished on account 
of age or infirmity, together with these, cannot, in 
the whole, be estimated at less than from <£\Q to 
£\9> currency per annum ; and the infant, from its 
birth, receives a daily allowance delivered to its 
mother, as a support and encouragement to her. 
In some of the Colonies, the poll-tax may be higher 
than in Barbados. In all, the general charges must 
be nearly equal. If life can be sacrificed to avoid 
payment of the poll-tax, how can existence be pre- 



[ 29 3 

served against this load of annual charges and mur- 
derous inducements ? 

This is not all. The Registry Bill, in addition to 
these, would lay on a set of consolidated annual 
charges per capita, f ' without any allowance for in- 
" fancy, infirmity, or age," that altogether would 
amount to more than triple the Barbados poll-tax ; 
and these already existing in Trinidad, are further 
increased by a direct poll-tax, under a recent Qrder 
in Council, to nine times the amount. 

Such is the humane consistency of these advo- 
cates for Emancipation. Blinded by sordid mo- 
tives, they act, as if in others as in themselves, the 
power existed not of distinguishing truth or false- 
hood under the garb of hypocrisy and fanaticism, 
and have thus advanced these weak and impotent 
arguments, merely to introduce the soft flow, the 
canting and inconsistent jargon of release from ma- 
ternal duties leading to infantine destruction, and 
feeble life cherished to be destroyed. 

What shall I say of the statement — what shall I 
say of the inference — what shall I say of the mo- 
tives — would not the harshest terms be deservedly 
applied to all ? How much would it be regretted if 
such men could be admitted to advise, or have 
power to influence a government ! 



1 30 j 

Thus far are these statements, with all their in- 
ferences, disposed of. 

The examination is necessary of a statement for- 
mally made that there exists a legal presumption that 
a man of colour is a slave, which in all the Colonies 
excludes him from all the means of legal redress, 
and that in Jamaica particularly there exist laws 
** consistently with which a freeman may be sold 
" into slavery with his deed of manumission in 
" his hand." 

Unfortunately these statements prove too much 
and against the points they are invented to establish. 
If colour excludes a negro from all legal redress, 
how is the evidence of freedom under the Regis- 
tration Bill to avail him, if in Jamaica a negro may 
now be sold with his registered Jamaica manumis- 
sion in his hand, how is the New Registration 
Evidence to protect him ? I speak of these state* 
ments as invented upon the occasion, because they 
have no other source of existence in the nature of 
things. It would well have become the Report in 
making such charges thus extensively dilated upon, 
to have referred to any law of a Colony, and to that 
particular law of Jamaica which, and which alone 
could, and being referred to would at once have sub- 
stantiated them. How impossible is it to find that 
which by its non-existence would mock all search ! 
No laws are made in the Colonies for coloured 
persons, without the added specification of free or 



[ 31 ] 

slave ; te negro, mulatto, or other slaves" is the con- 
stant description of such persons expressed in all 
laws. No law, therefore, or legal disqualification 
can exist but as applied to slaves — to existing 
slaves. The very law of Jamaica, under which a 
vagabond or runaway slave, as a measure of police, 
is sold, according to the statement of the Report 
itself, can only be applied to a slave, and the price 
is reserved for the master of the slave until he shall 
appear to claim it, and slaves alone therefore are 
contemplated. If every vagrant slave taken up by 
the police, by giving no account of himself or his 
master, and claiming to be free, could without fur- 
ther inquiry obtain his discharge, a most neces- 
sary and useful law would at once be rendered a 
dead letter, This further inquiry is made by the 
usual advertisements, stating the detention of the 
individual, and the publication of the case is for his 
benefit as well as for the ends of justice. No 
freeman of colour Could exist in the Colony under 
the execution of a law that would sell him as a 
slave with his manumission in his hand. 

In the Colonies where the proportion of slaves 
to freemen of colour is so considerable, the moral 
probability that every man of colour is a slave is 
great. In Barbados, taking, according to the last 
returns, the numbers respectively as 70,000 and 
3,000, the moral probability or moral presumption 
that any coloured individual is a slave, is as 



[ 32 ] 

twenty-three nearly to one; in Jamaica it is consi- 
derably greater. 

No other moral or legal presumption whatsoever 
concerning colour as evidence of slavery exists or 
can possibly exist in the Colonies, and the state- 
ment is absolutely unfounded. Stated and consi- 
dered as true, it is employed to introduce the most 
odious comparisons and reflections on the legisla- 
tures, laws, courts of justice and inhabitants of the 
British Colonies, continued through thirteen pages 
of the Report, from 56 to 69. Let these pages be 
carefully perused, and afterwards the following. 

If a man of colour in the West Indies should 
make application to any magistrate or lawyer for 
legal redress, the moral probability before stated 
would perhaps lead to an inquiry respecting the 
free condition of the man. In the smaller Colo- 
nies where every person almost is known, even this 
would not probably occur. Known to be the slave 
of a neighbour, if such an application could pos- 
sibly occur, he would be treated as a slave. Known 
to be a freeman of the country, his case would be 
attended to most carefully, if within the pale of cri- 
minal jurisdiction, by the magistrate; by the practis- 
ing lawyer, if within his province of employment. 

Let it be inquired of any lawyer who has prac- 
tised in the Colonies, if upo^ the application of a 



[ 3.3 ] 

coloured man, for his professional assistance in a 
civil or a criminal case, he would have answered 
" looking at his condition recorded in his face," 
My good fellow ! your case is remediless, your skin 
is black. The inquiry has been made, I have made 
it. Mute astonishment at the question, as not 
being what the words imply, has always been fol- 
lowed by a negation couched in terms of disgrace- 
ful reprobation and peremptory denial. 

The Seventh Report of the African Society, in 
1813, only two years before, states the case of a 
black man named John George Whiston. Having 
been manumitted by his mistress, who was only a 
tenant for life, he was after her death, in 1812, 
claimed as a slave, and as such being arrested, was, 
by writ of habeas corpus, subsequently released. 
The question of freedom was tried in the Island of 
Saint Vincent, and the verdict of a jury, established 
the Slavery. The generous advocate who defended 
the Negro, prevailed on the Court to reserve the 
point of law, pledging himself to pay one hundred 
pounds sterling, in satisfaction of the claim, pro- 
vided no reversal of the judgment should be effected 
within a twelvemonth, by further proceedings. 

This case affords an example worthy of imitation, 
where, by regular course of proceeding, and a due 
conservation of the rights of others, a man who had 
enjoyed freedom during a long course of years, was 
saved from again descending into that slavery, from 

D 



E 34 ] 

which he had formerly been raised. The benevo- 
lence of Mr. Keane,,and of the directors who ad- 
vanced the money necessary on the occasion, de- 
serves all praise. 

Here then is an instance of a black man, notwith- 
standing the colour of his skin, coming into a Colo- 
nial Court upon an habeas corpus, and having the 
question of slave or free, publicly tried and deter- 
mined. The decision was indeed unfavourable to 
the individual, he was in fact a slave, and must have 
been so known to be. Yet, both a black and a 
slave, he is not as either, excluded from a regular 
trial of his title to freedom. 

This case could not be, was not unknown to any 
committee framing the Report of Reasons, and is 
glanced at by the following observation, in itself 
contradictory of all its other statements : "If free- 
"* dom be asserted for them by habeas corpus, at the 
" instance of some bold and generous patron, their 
" colour is a presumption of slavery, which he could 
" not repel," unless, by competent witnesses, to 
prove the necessary facts. 

Yet, with this case existing, and establishing these 
points, the Report has ventured to state, that reme- 
dies for detention in slavery, of free Blacks, and the 
right of even alleging the wrong in a civil action, 
are barred by objecting that the man is a slave : 
that upon a question of slave or free, the Colonial 



C 35 ] 

Courts have excluded from all redress, by one short 
rejoinder, " the man's skin is black :.•' That " the 
Assemblies have absolved the master from any other 
trouble in proving title to an alleged slave beyond 
theproductionof the party whose condition is recorded 
in his face :" and all this upon a legal presumption of 
slavery from the skin, which neither assemblies, nor 
courts, nor advocates, ever entertained. 

In the West Indies, as in England, the law truly 
knows no distinctions of persons, parties to suits, 
but what may be put in issue between them. If the 
declinatory plea of slavery be pleaded, like the 
plea of alien enemy in the present, or of Villeinage 
in Ancient time, or any other similar plea, it may be 
put in issue and abate the suit, or upon a judgment 
of respondeat ouster* the suit will be continued. 
Upon the master also, or upon him who pleads, the 
burthen of proving his own plea lies, although the 
Report states that " the Assemblies have cast the 
" burthen of proof on the weaker and helpless 
" party, upon the alleged slave himself." A practice 
of this sort would be against all legal principle, and I 
call for the production of any act of any assembly 
that ever existed to this effect. 

A wilful and pitiful misrepresentation and mis- 
statement both of law and of facts is made and main- 
tained in this case, by confounding the meaning and 
use of the terms negro and slave, and substituting each 
for the other to support a verbal argument that has 

d 2 



[ 36 ] 

no foundation whatsoever, except in the convertibi- 
lity, not immediately to be perceived, of one word 
for another, whilst each is in common parlance ap- 
plied at different times to mean the same or differ- 
ent things. By calling a negro a slave, and a slave 
a negro, and naming this, or that, when the other is 
intended, a verbal and sophistical course of argu- 
mentation is prolonged through 20 pages, to the 
opprobrium and disgrace of that respectable body, 
who have most unadvisedly thus committed them- 
selves to others for fair, and legitimate, and honour- 
able argumentation. When it is stated, that in a civil 
action, the objection that {< the man is a slave" can- 
not be removed, the equivocation is on the word 
slave. If the objection really be that " the man is a 
slave," it may be removed if unfounded, and if 
true, that it may avail, it must be established by 
the objector : If that " the man is a negro," his con- 
dition indeed cannot be changed, but the objection 
would not avail nor be received. The Report states 
slave, but wishes negro to be understood. — If " a 
slave is disabled from applying to the law in any 
case," this does not disable a free negro. — To the 
question of slave or free should [not the Colonial 
courts, as is stated,] but the party in the cause 
" shortly rejoin," "his skin is black," how would this 
meet the question ? This course of pleading is novel 
in Westminster Hall, and I venture to affirm that 
would not be offered to or received by any Colonial 
court existing. When the master produces the al- 
leged slave, what is that w condition which is re- 



C 37 J 

corded in his face ?" slave or negro ? If slave it 
ought to avail against him. If negro it avails no- 
thing. Then which is it? It can only be ?7egro, his 
skin is black. Only as slave can it avail to maintain 
the argument of the Report. Against the inex- 
cusable ignorance or wilful misrepresentation dis- 
played by these observations and statements, we ap- 
peal to the British public and to the Institution it- 
self, calling upon them " to do us somehow nsble 
justice," and to discharge from their confidence and 
consideration the authors of these calumnies, and 
upon Parliament to reject a measure derived from 
these sources, and supported by these proofs of its 
necessity. 

Of the remaining presumptive propositions, ame- 
lioration of condition, protection of persons, religious 
instruction, sale for debts, attachment to the soil, all 
consideration is for the present waved. It is due to 
public opinion and expectation that they should be 
treated with some consideration, and they shall in due 
time receive the fullest, particularly as connected with 
the subject of Emancipation, when the general 
condition of slaves in the Colonies shall come to be 
considered in itself, and apart from that measure 
of registration to which it affords no ground of 
support. To these, therefore, as proofs of any 
breach of the Abolition Acts, we apply the exception 
that excludes them, as not establishing any thing in 
point if admitted. All further consideration of the 
question of manumission is also, for the present, and 



[ 38 ] 

might altogether be declined from the powerful 
inference it affords against any actual or expected 
supply of slaves by illicit import. We disclaim the 
inference as founded on a principle which exists 
not. But a consideration of the state and condi- 
tion of the free coloured people, by no means 
correctly represented or understood, is necessary 
in itself and in its relations to that mode of Eman- 
cipation suggested in the Report, and will also as a 
part of the subject of Emancipation be duly consi- 
dered. 

It is, however, even here denied that there has 
been no amelioration of condition — that there is no 
protection for slaves. The amelioration laws of 
several of the Colonies, of Jamaica for instance, 
notwithstanding the. indecent and unfounded sug- 
gestions of the Report respecting them, are ap- 
pealed to. The protection of these laws against 
masters, and the never failing protection of slaves 
by their masters against strangers, contradict both 
the preceding statements. They are contradicted 
by the observation of all in the West Indies, now 
that the abolition of that cruel trade has removed 
from among the coloured population the. appearance 
of many unfortunate subjects of slavery in a fo- 
reign country, and a native peasantry is now ex- 
hibited with fewer objects of squalid commiseration 
than any other country affords. That slaves con- 
tinue liable to be sold for debts, and are not at- 
tached to the soil, are points involving so many 



[ 39 ] 

considerations which respect not only the public 
and the master, but the slave himself, — the benefi- 
cial policy, respect being had only to the slave, is so 
equivocal that the best of men would pause, and 
doubt, and delay before he decided, and so perhaps 
would not decide at all. No prohibition has been 
opposed to Religious Instruction in any Colony, 
except what the prudent care of the magistracy has 
exercised to preserve the peace and morals of the 
country against characters of a description incapa- 
ble of affording any religious, moral, or beneficial 
instruction whatsoever. 

As matters of general political consideration, 
many of these topics will hereafter be discussed 
more at large. I spare to encumber with further 
observations that which is adduced, and is to be 
taken only as evidence to prove the point in issue ; 
breach or not of the Abolition Laws. To that 
which is, and may be received as evidence, the 
question is committed. 



On the Extent of Parliamentary Jurisdiction. 

After all, the question is not of Abolition. Abo- 
lition is only the pretext. It is indeed on all sides 
known, it is felt, it is admitted that there has been 
no violation of the Abolition Laws ; none that re- 
quires the enactment of any new or more coercive 



[ 40 ] 

laws. The question is not whether a registry 
of slaves shall be established in the Colonies or not. 
In almost all, annual returns of numbers which 
would discover illicit increase, are already regularly 
made ; in all, recorded Registrations of persons and 
numbers, are publicly made, and may always be 
consulted. Abolition and Registration are only 
pretences. 

The object is by that which calls itself a Regis- 
try Bill, and affects to be only a registration of 
slaves, although accompanied with clauses that 
would constitute it rather a Bill of pains, penal- 
ties and forfeitures, to induce Parliament to violate 
the exclusive rights of internal legislation of the 
Colonial assemblies in a case of no great apparent 
interest, that the promoters of the measure may be 
enabled afterwards, through Parliament, as has been 
done by Orders in Council for the recently con- 
quered Colonies, to proceed to legislate for all the 
Colonies of Great Britain. 

There are indeed most high and important con- 
siderations which arise from a view of the state in 
which these Colonies remain, considerations which re- 
spect the general rights of British Colonists, the duty 
of the executive, and the responsibility of its advisers. 
The general right of British Colonists to British 
laws and a British form of Government, becomes 
weakened by the precedent and example of a Co- 
lony retained after final cession by a treaty of 



C 41 ] 

peace, in its ancient state of subjection to a des- 
potism which the British Constitution rejects, and 
British feeling would abhor. So impressed was I 
with the consequences to all of this proceeding, that 
I considered it my duty, although neither directly 
nor indirectly connected with that Colony, to re- 
monstrate, as a British Colonist, against this con- 
duct in the case of Trinidad, at a very early 
period after the final cession of that Colony. The 
answer I received from the then Secretary of State, 
the late Earl of Buckinghamshire, was worthy of a 
British minister. " We are as anxious as yourself 
" to give a British Constitution to Trinidad, and 
" will certainly do so as soon as it can prudentially 
" be effected. Such, however, is the present state of 
" that Colony, that to a General Representative 
" Assembly, if established, there would be mem- 
" bers returned, whom you," addressing himself to 
me, " would regret to see holding places in any 
" Colonial Assembly." 

Two years ago, upon a suggestion that a registra- 
tion of slaves in all the Colonies, similar to that 
which had been established in Trinidad, would tend 
to enforce the Abolition of the Slave Trade, a 
measure alike favoured by myself and my con- 
stituents, I obtained a copy of the Trinidad Order 
in Council, which I transmitted to the Colony, and 
recommended, under the Annual Poll-Tax Returns, 
a more particular specification of names and de- 
scriptions of persons, as all that was necessary or 



[ 42 ] 

proper to be done, and this more from respect to 
what I considered to be the wish of Government, 
than from any conviction of its use or necessity. 
What I felt as a man, as a Colonist, and an 
Englishman, when I perused that Order in Coun- 
cil, and contemplated the powers exercised, and, 
the form in which it had been imposed on that 
unfortunate Colony, I cannot describe, but I can 
never forget, — I seemed to cease, at the moment, to 
be a freeman of a free country. The horror I felt 
I failed not to express to my constituents, and from 
this circumstance probably, as well as from the total 
absence of any necessity for legislative interference, 
nothing was then done. 

I cannot but observe upon the caution with which 
this ordinance for Trinidad is mentioned in the 
Registry Report ; once only is it mentioned as a 
new law ', the legislators are not hinted at, and 
when formally referred to, it is designated as an 
" instrument before alluded to," being the Order 
in Council of the Prince Regent for registering 
slaves in Trinidad. 

In 1812 this ordinance was imposed upon Trini- 
dad. It was not, as is now proposed for that and 
for all the British Colonies, a British Statute made 
by a British Parliament, undertaking to legislate for 
a British Colony. It was not an Act passed by an 
Assembly of the Colony, for no such legislative 
body exists within it. It was imposed upon the 



[ 43 ] 

Colony contrary to the general wishes of the Hi-, 

habitants, in the form of an Order in Council, by 

right of conquest I presume, for I know of no 
other right that can be pretended. 

Is it not by force of that innate principle in 
human nature, by which power once possessed is 
always fondly retained, that these men have been 
enabled to persuade his Majesty's Government to 
hold and to exercise against what might perhaps be 
considered as a sound discretion, the power of 
making ordinances for British Colonies and British 
persons ? Have they not availed themselves of the 
power thus retained, to send out their registry 
ordinance to Trinidad and the other ceded Colonies 
of St. Lucie and the Isle of France ? Is not the 
Registry Bill unquestionably an insidious attempt 
on the part of the same persons, but by other 
means, and with equal disregard of the sacred 
rights of Britons, to introduce into all the Colonies 
a similar law, by the agency of Parliament, in the 
hope that having thus once surmounted all the 
muniments of Colonial rights, they may proceed 
to those further violations contemplated and avowed 
of jurisdiction and of property ? As such we 
meet the attempt with the following vindication of 
Colonial rights. 



The British Parliament has, in time past, claimed 
the right of legislating for the British Colonies in 



[ 44 ] 

all cases whatsoever. This right has always been 
denied by every Colony possessing a duly consti- 
tuted legislature. 

This question involves two others; the original 
right of the British Parliament to British legislation, 
and the extent of that right as referrible to Colo- 
nial legislation. 

Unquestionably the British Parliament owes its 
existence and its powers to those original rights, 
and rights of representation which are vested in, 
and inseparable from, persons and freeholds. Con- 
formably to these principles, and in execution of the 
royal duties, a separate summons, by letter or 
writ, is sent to each Peer of Parliament, and a writ 
to the sheriffs and bailiffs, commanding Returns 
of Representatives by freeholders or others. 

These principles which impart the powers, define 
also the limits of British Parliamentary Jurisdiction, 
and prescribe the course of proceeding to be pur- 
sued, upon the accession of persons or of districts 
to those already represented. This claim of the 
British Parliament can only be founded on a right 
connate with itself, of extending the powers it 
possesses to other communities and countries besides 
those from and for which it has been elected. 
Such a claim is, however, against principle, and is 
not warranted by those rights of representation, to 
which alone Parliament, under a due exercise of the 



L 45 1 

royai prerogative, owes its creation and existence *, 
and which are derived from, and limited to particu- 
lar persons and places. 

Against this claim the antient law-authorities 
declare themselves. " A Tax by the Parliament of 
" England shall not bind Ireland, because they are 
" not summoned to Parliament. Ireland hath a 
" Parliament of its own, and maketh and altereth 
" laws, and our Statutes do not bind them, because 
" they do not send knights to our Parliament." 
Year Book— .1 Henry VII. 



* Parliament owes it* existence to the Crown, in virtue of the 
prerogative, creating and convening it. The Crown created 
peers and tenants in capite. As inferior courts baron were 
constituted by the inferior tenants of each, so those constituted 
the royal court baron, or common council of the realm. In 
one house, barons and tenants continued personally to sit, un- 
til of the tenants a representation by election was made, and 
a delegation established of knights from counties, of burgesses 
from tenant-boroughs, of citizens from corporations corporate 
tenants elected according to charter. Finally, a division was 
effected into two houses, one of barons in their own rights, and 
one of representatives, this latter house carrying with it and re- 
serving to itself the right of originating all taxes. Subse- 
quently to William I. A. D. 1066, these establishments began. 
Between 1250 and 1300, the representation of tenants was es- 
tablished, In 1327, the division of houses was effected. In 
1422, the qualification of 40*. freeholders was enacted. Thus 
the frame and constitution of the British parliament was com- 
pleted, and a government formed which combines all rights of 
king, peers, people, legislating for themselves directly, or by 
representation, and embraces practically through boroughs all in- 
terests a> well as persons. 8 



Parliament has indeed in practice waved this 
claim of self extension, and returned to a recognition 
of those principles to which it owes its existence, 
and which not to know argues itself unknown. 

Extension of parliamentary power can only be 
effected by extension of parliamentary representa- 
tion. In cases of added population, in all cases of 
extended dominion, the British principle and prac- 
tice has always been to proceed by extended repre- 
sentation united and inclusive, or separate and 
exclusive. Cases of the former kind are of Wales 
and of Ireland finally, though at first, as a kind of 
Colony, to be ranked among the latter : cases of 
the latter kind, of representation separate and ex- 
clusive, are of the Colonies. 

Ireland was originally conquered and "planted by 
the English, as a kind of colony/' vi. Blackstone, 
vol. 1. p. 100. For a long time it was held in a 
state of subjection, such as never has been practised 
towards any British Colony. When, upon a due 
consideration of the state and circumstances of that 
conquest, and from propriety, expediency, and ne- 
cessity, English laws, and a parliament had by the 
King been duly constituted therein, the powers and 
the duties of that Parliament, were, by indirection 
subsequently reduced to a nullity, by their submit- 
ting to entertain no Bill, of which the heads had not 
previously been transmitted to England, and ap- 
proved of by the British Government, and their sub- 
jection was further enforced, by an appeal from the 



E 47 ] 

Courts in Ireland, to the Courts of Westminster. 
Thus a subordinate judicature was superadded to 
that which was not subordinate, but a mockery of 
legislation, 

Jamaica was conquered in \655. In ]66l, the 
King's representative was duly empowered by his 
Majesty, to erect British courts of judicature, and, 
with the advice of a council, to be elected by the 
inhabitants, to pass laws suitable to the exigencies 
of the Colony. Subsequently a commission issued 
to the governor, directing him to call an assembly, 
to be indifferently chosen by the people at large, 
to pass laws for their own internal regulation and 
government. This practice of making ordinances, 
by a governor and council, during the unsettled or 
unceded state of a Colony, and upon final settlement 
or cession, as soon as circumstances permit, of esta- 
blishing a general Assembly, composed of the King by 
representation, and of two legislative houses, a coun- 
cil, and a representative assembly, is regular and 
right. An attempt was made in Jamaica, to subject 
their legislation to the restraints, and confine it 
practically within the limits of Poyning's Law, but 
this was properly and effectually resisted. 

During the latter part of the reign of James the 
First, Barbados was occupied under a grant by let- 
ters patent to the Earl of Marlborough, afterwards 
waved in favour of the Earl of Carlisle, to whom 
the proprietaryship of the Island was granted, by 
letters patent, under the great seal, giving to the 



f 48 ] 

said Earl of Carlisle, for the government of the said 
Province, with the consent of the free inhabitants 
thereof, thereunto to be called, power to make laws, 
as convenient and agreeable as may be to the laws 
of England, and ordaining that the said province be 
of the King's allegiance, and that all persons born 
therein, be subjects of the Crown of Great Britain, 
as free as those born in England, and shall freely, 
quietly and peaceably, have and possess, all the li- 
berties, franchises and privileges, of natural born 
subjects and liege persons. The Barbados settlers 
carried with them all British laws, and in the course 
of a very few years, from the first settlement, after 
passing through the necessary administration of a 
governor and council, the British Constitution also 
was fully imparted to the Colony, by the establish- 
ment of a general assembly, composed of the go- 
vernor, council, and representatives of the people, 
being freeholders, freely elected by and from the 
freeholders of every parish in the Island, and lawfully 
empowered by commission from the Earl of Carlisle, 
thereto empowered by letters patent from the King. 

In February 17&2, the French island of Grenada 
surrendered upon capitulation to the British arms, 
and was finally ceded by the treaty of peace in Fe- 
bruary 1763. October the 7th, 1763, his Majesty, 
by proclamation, states, that " for the speedy set- 
" tling various governments, of which Grenada is 
" one, and from his paternal care for the security 
6( of the liberties and properties of the inhabitants, 
c - he had given express power and direction to the 



[ 49 ] 

et Governor thereof, that as soon as the state 
" and circumstances of the Colony will admit, 
" he shall, with the advice and consent of his 
" Majesty's Council, summon and call Gene- 
" ral Assemblies, and, together with his Majesty's 
" Council, and the Representatives of the people, 
" freely elected by the freeholders and inhabitants 
" thereof, in General Assembly, make laws and 
" statutes to bind the people thereof, as near 
" as may be agreeable to the laws of England." In 
April 1764, a Governor was by commission ap- 
pointed, with full powers, and before the end of 
1/65, a General Assembly was actually formed and 
convened in the Colony. 

Conformably to the charter of King John, that 
the King would summon Peers himself, and the 
Commons by Sheriffs and Bailiffs, — conformably 
to these precedents, and to the same principles, the 
rights of persons and of freeholds, to which the Bri- 
tish Parliament owes its existence and powers, and 
in execution of the same royal duties, are Colonial 
Parliaments formed and convened. Every mem- 
ber of the Upper Houses of Legislature in the Co- 
lonies, is called to sit therein by letter or commis- 
sion, signed by the King's own hand, whilst the 
Lower Houses of Representatives are formed by 
writs issued on the occasion to the proper offi- 
cers, commanding a return of members duly elect- 
ed to serve therein. The King, by representation, 

E 



t so ] 

exercises the royal right of approving or rejecting 
all bills — money bills originate only in the Houses 
of Representatives- — each House possesses and ex- 
ercises all the legislative privileges and powers of 
each House of Parliament in England — and the 
general resemblance of the Colonial to the Imperial 
Parliament, is complete in their modes of creation, 
existence^ constitution, and powers. 

These principles and these precedents deny to 
the British Parliament that right and power of self- 
extension, by which it would exclude Colonial Par- 
liaments, and occupy their districts of jurisdiction, 
in violation of the rights of persons and of free- 
holds. 

There are indeed instances in which the assist- 
ance of the British Parliament has been invoked, 
and joined with the powers of the prerogative under 
particular circumstances, as in the case of Canada, 
to give by successive enactments, conformably to 
the practice of the Crown acting by and for itself — 
first, by 14 Geo. III. c. 83. a Governor and Le- 
gislative Council to make ordinances — and subse- 
sequently, by 31 Geo. III. c. 31. a duly constituted 
Legislature composed of the King by representation, 
a Council appointed by the King, and a body 
of Representatives freely elected by the freeholders 
and inhabitants of the Colony to make laws. But 
the exercise of this power, or even the possession of 



[ 51 ] 

the power attributed to the British Parliament by 
Blackstone, of new modelling and reforming the 
whole of a colonial constitution, gives no right of in- 
ternal legislation either to the King or to the Parlia- 
ment, when, and after the constitution is settled. 
That it remains not in the King, the Grenada case 
has decided, and the principle of that case, and all 
reason, would equally take it out of the British 
Parliament, after the formation of a government 
fully capable of making laws in all cases, subject 
to the royal negative. 

That to the King properly and exclusively, ac- 
cording to his own discretion, and as circum- 
stances shall admit of its exercise, belongs this 
power of imparting the British constitution and 
constitutional forms of government to the Bri- 
tish Colonies, is unquestionably established. The 
King, in the due exercise of his prerogative, 
gives existence to the British Parliament by con- 
vening it. The King creates Peers. The King 
created boroughs in England, until the union 
with Scotland prevented any new creation that 
would change the relative numbers of the repre- 
sentatives of the two kingdoms. The King has 
always possessed and exercised the power of inter- 
mediate regulation of all conquests. Lord Mans- 
field, in Campbell i). Hall, states distinctly, " that 
" in the case of Ireland, no man ever said the 
" Crown did not do it, that the Crown could not 

e 2 



[ M ] 

"do it:" — "That which is called the Statute of 
*' Wales, is certainly no more than regulations made 
61 by the King in Council for the government of 
" Wales :" — " Berwick, after the conquest of it, 
" was p-overned by charters from the Crown, with- 
" out the interposition of Parliament, till the reign 
" of James I. ; that the King has this right was 
'* never denied in Westminster Hall, was never ques- 
" tioned in Parliament." The King, therefore, has 
in himself the undoubted right " of subordinate" re- 
gulation, that is, of regulation " subordinate to his 
" own authority in Parliament," when he pleases to 
submit it, " but without any power to make changes 
" contrary to fundamental principles," to the Bri- 
tish Constitution and Laws, " in all cases of con- 
tl quest," and I will add, of Colonies conquered or 
to be settled. 

As soon as settled, or ceded and settled, and cir- 
cumstances permit, the duties of the prerogative 
require the establishment in every Colony of the Bri- 
tish Constitution and forms of Legislation, and of 
British Laws, if they did not previously exist, to be 
modified to the existing state of each Colony by its 
own Legislature, subject to the royal negative. 
Nothing else can regularly be done. A Governor 
alone — a Governor and Council are intermediate 
states — a Governor, Council, and Assembly of Re- 
presentatives, perfect states of Government. When 
too long a time has passed without establishing this 



[ -53 ] 

List fjrm of government, and change of circum- 
stances may require it, the King joins Parliament 
to himself, or himself to Parliament, for duly effect- 
ing the same purposes. 

This power of forming and imparting a British Con- 
stitution and Laws once exercised by the King, is no 
longer in him, and this is established and admitted 
in Campbell v. Hall — exercised by Parliament in- 
voked by the King, and in aid of the King, and by 
his assent, for without his invocation it would not, 
and without his assent it could not act, it is equally 
out of the King, and, by all reason and analogy, 
out of the Parliament. The King's power to act 
without Parliament is unquestionable. Parliament 
cannot act without the King. It is this occasion- 
al agency of Parliament, and the not distinguish- 
ing between a perfect and this imperfect constitu- 
tion, this intermediate state of regulation which 
Parliament assists to new model and reform, that 
has led Mr. J. Blackstone, in a general work, and 
upon an occasion in which accuracy of information 
or observation has not been possessed or exercised, 
to state, that " the Legislation of the Colonies is sub- 
" ject to the revision and controul of the King in 
" Council," instead of the simple royal negative 
which may be exercised, and to attribute to Par- 
liament the general power of " new modelling and 
" reforming Colonial constitutions." This new 
modelling and reforming can only be of the inter- 



I 54 ] 

mediate state of regulation which is in the King. 
To the Act, Parliament would not and could not 
proceed, but in aid of, and invited by, the King, 
and this once performed, as it ends the intermediate 
power of regulation in the King, so it ends that 
power which exists only as invoked and as auxiliary 
thereto. The Act that imparts a British Constitution 
and Laws, establishes powers fully adequate to, and 
entitled to perform all the works of Legislation, either 
for Laws, Constitution, or form of Government, sub- 
ject to the King's negative. With the original auxi- 
liary aid of Parliament, therefore, that of new mo- 
delling and reforming also is gone. No power can 
it possess of new modelling and reforming the Bri- 
tish Constitution, and no other can King or Parlia- 
ment have given, or have undertaken to give to Bri- 
tish subjects. 

The power therefore of self extension for the 
purposes of internal Colonial Legislation, is not 
in the British Parliament by original right, or 
by the occasional exercise of its powers in form- 
ing constitutions for particular Colonies, and it 
is excluded therefrom absolutely and of right, by 
the establishment of these Constitution*, and the ex- 
istence of olonial Parliaments duly constituted 
like itself, and possessed of equal powers within 
their several districts and jurisdictions. 

There is therefore in the British Parliament no 



t 55 3 

original right of internal Colonial Legislation. If 
any such could ever have been supposed to exist, it 
is divested by Acts of the British Parliament itself. 

To British considerations, Acts of Parliament 
possess powers before which all legal opinions and 
judicial decisions disappear. If they differ, they are 
controuled thereby — if they agree, they are merged 
therein. I pass over those acts of commercial regu- 
lation, which are not to be considered as acts of in- 
ternal Colonial Legislation, and those occasional 
acts of direct violation of the exclusive Colonial 
right, which can never impart right resisted or not, 
and come to direct positive enactments which con- 
troul all these. 

By the 6th of Geo. I. c. 5. it is declared, that 
the King's Majesty, with the consent of the Lords 
and Commons of Great Britain in Parliament, 
hath power to make laws to bind the people of 
Ireland. 

By the 6th of Geo. III. c. 12. it is declared, that 
the King's Majesty, with the Lords and Commons 
of Great Britain in Parliam&pt, have power to make 
laws to bind the people of the British Colonies in 
all cases. 

By the 18 Geo. III. c. 12. it is declared and en- 
acted, that the King and Parliament of Great Bri<- 



C *» 1 

tain will not lay any tax, duty or assessment what- 
ever payable in any Colony, except duties necessary 
for the regulation of Commerce, the nett proceeds 
of which shall be paid to the use of the Colony, in 
which they shall be levied, to be at the disposal of 
the general assembly thereof. 

By the 23 Geo. III. c. 28. it is declared and en- 
acted, that the right claimed by the people of Ire- 
land to be bound only by laws enacted by his Ma- 
jesty and the Parliament of that kingdom in all cases 
whatever, is thereby established and ascertained for 
ever, and shall at no time thereafter be questioned 
or questionable. 

Here then are four British Statutes, the two first 
of which assert a power in the British Parliament, 
to make laws to bind Ireland and other British con- 
quests and dependencies in all cases. The third 
concedes to the British Colonies, the right of taxa- 
tion claimed under the general right of Legislation 
asserted. The fourth concedes to the people of 
Ireland, the right claimed by them of being legis- 
lated for only by their own Parliament, declaring it 
to be a right, established and ascertained for ever, 
and thus establishing and ascertaining it for ever, for 
all the dependencies and Colonies of Great Britain, 
similarly circumstanced. 

The Act the 6th Geo. III. c. 12. advanced a 



E 57 ] 

claim to the general right of legislation, to support 
a claim to the particular right of taxation. In a 
subsequent case the particular claim is as form- 
ally withdrawn as the general claim was made, 
and with the particular claim or object, the whole 
measure was, and the general claim was fairly 
considered as abandoned. If only then parti- 
ally, although actually, it now stands virtually and 
generally repealed by the then existing General 
Right subsequently declared for Ireland within five 
years after, by the 23 Geo. III. and by its enact- 
ments operating as an actual repeal for all. 

The Colonial Assemblies claim exclusive internal 
Legislation by right original and indefeasible : as in- 
cident to their distinct creation and separate ex- 
istence : as established by the modes and purposes of 
their creation, by principle and analogy, by propriety, 
expediency and necessity : by right not impaired by 
exercise of the admitted right of Commercial Re- 
gulation in the British Parliament, nor by petty vio- 
lations of their general right of Legislation, because 
not always nor captiously resisted : by right con- 
firmed against all claim, all invasion, all judicial opi- 
nions and legal enactments, by enactments operating 
in principle and in effect, to relinquish, redress, re- 
verse, and repeal all these. 

The original and indefeasible rights, under which 
the Colonial Assemblies are entitled to exclusive in- 



C 58 ] 

ternal legislation, are those original unquestionable 
rights of representative legislation and representa- 
tive election vested in and inseparable from persons 
and freeholds, and so declared to be by Lord Chief 
Justice Holt, confirming the ancient principle before 
referred to in the Year-book, 1 Henry VII. If this 
right be admitted, and it cannot be questioned, it is 
in its nature exclusive, as well as inclusive — it esta- 
blishes beyond all question the rights of the inhabi- 
tants and freeholders of the Colonies to elect re- 
presentatives, and of those representatives as part of 
a Colonial General Assembly or Parliament, to le- 
gislate for them their constituents, and it establishes 
also those rights of the Colonists and of the Colonial 
Legislatures within their own districts, to the exclu- 
sion of all claims not representative of their persons 
and freeholds. 

I can only weaken by attempting to dilate upon 
this right. But I cannot refrain from confirming and 
illustrating it by reference to the following Resolu- 
tions recently passed in the Honourable the Houses 
of Assembly of Jamaica and Barbados, declara- 
tory of these rights as founded in the indefeasible 
rights of persons — resolutions to be adopted by every 
Colony of the Empire — and upon these I take my 
stand. 



£ $9 1 



Jamaica Resolutions. 

" Resolved, 1. That the free British subjects who conquered 
and settled in Jamaica, or have since removed to and established 
themselves in this island, are bound by the like allegiance as 
every other subject of the realm, and carried with them, have 
enjoyed, and ought of right to enjoy, all liberties and immunities 
of free and natural born subjects, to all intents and purposes, as 
if they had been born and remained within the realm, modified 
and adapted to their peculiar situation as Colonists : and particu- 
larly have enjoyed, and ought of right to enjoy, so long as their 
Knights and Burgesses are not called to sit in Parliament, a dis- 
tinct and entire civil government, of the like powers, pre-emi- 
nence, and jurisdictions, within the said island, as are established 
in the British government, in respect of the British subjects 
within the realm, which government, according to the constitution 
of Jamaica, is composed of his Majesty the King of Great Bri- 
tain and Ireland, the Council appointed by his Majesty, and 
the representatives of the people, freely elected and met in general 
assembly. 

2d. — Resolved, That the most important of the rights, privi- 
leges, immunities, and franchises, which are inherent in British 
subjects as their birth-right, and have by them been brought to 
this island, is to consent to those laws by which they are to be 
governed by the exercise of the right to send their Representa- 
tives to the said General Assembly, who, with his Majesty, and 
the Council, can and of right ought to do, all such acts and mat- 
ters of legislation, respecting the internal government of the 
island, as the Imperial Parliament can do within the United King- 
dom of Great Britain and Ireland. 

3d. — Resolved, That it is the peculiar privilege of the free Bri- 
tish subjects settled in Jamaica, by their Representatives met in 
General Assembly, to give and grant all aids and subsidies to his 
Majesty ; and to impose all rates, duties, taxes, fees, fines or pe- 
nalties whatever; and that laying and levying any taxes, fees, fines 



[ 60 ] 

or penalties, other than such duties of customs as are mere re- 
gulations of trade, on the inhabitants, by any other authority 
than the Legislature of this island, composed as aforesaid, is 
altogether unconstitutional, and a violation of their dearest 
rights. 

4. — Resolved, That the inhabitants of this island have not had 
the liberty and privilege of electing and sending any Knights and 
Burgesses or others, to represent them in the High Court of Par- 
liament, and explain the condition of their country, and ought 
not to be bounden by laws, or touched and grieved by subsidies, 
fees or penalties enacted, granted and imposed, without their 
assent, other than such external regulations, in respect .of 
commerce, as are necessary for the common weal of the Em- 
pire. 

5th. — Resolved, That we have seen with surprise and concern 
the draught of a Bill said to have been printed by order of the 
Commons House of Parliament, entitled " A Bill for effectually 
preventing the unlawful importation of Slaves, and the holding 
free persons in slavery, in the British Colonies/' which assumes a 
right of legislation within the island, upon a subject of mere mu- 
nicipal regulation and internal police, exercises a power over the 
estates and property of the inhabitants, imposes the most griev- 
ous penalties and forfeitures, to be inflicted at the will of a single 
officer, without trial by jury, and levies fees and gratuities to the 
use of the said officer and others, on the inhabitants; not given 
or consented to by their Representatives in General Assembly ; 
by which enactments, penalties, forfeitures and assessments, not 
only the constitutional right of internal legislation is infringed, but 
the. pledge in respect of taxation, given to the Colonies by the 
Statute of 18 Geo. III. c. 12. is violated. 



I 61 ] 



Barbados Resolutions. 

1st. — Resolved, That this Mouse, having- received from its 
Ao-ent in London, the copy of a Slave Registry Bill, lately in- 
troduced into the House of Commons, conceives itself most ur- 
gently called upon to protest against the infringement which this 
Bill attempts on the rights of our Colonial Legislature. 

3d. — Resolved, That although the ostensible object of the Bill 
is to obtain a Registry of Slaves, it obviously proposes to attain 
that by imposing a tax upon every Slave Proprietor within the 
Colony, in manifest violation of that sound and just principle of 
the British Constitution, that " representation and taxation are 
inseparable." 

4th. — Resolved, That the sole right of imposing taxes on the 
inhabitants of this Island, or of passing laws for internal regula- 
tion, is now, and hath been for a length of time past, vested in 
the House of Assembly with consent of the Council, and of the 
King or his Representative here for the time being: — a right 
which can never be safely or advantageously exercised by those 
who are utter strangers to these Colonies, and must necessarily 
* want that local information which is so essential to the important 
work of legislation. 



Not only by original right, but by actual existence 
the Colonial Legislatures are exclusive. This, as of 
natural bodies, excludes all others from the places 
they fill. Their existence and the exercise of the 
powers by which they occupy their particular dis- 
tricts, naturally and necessarily, politically and 
practically exclude the existence and exercise by 



C 62 ] 

all persons of similar powers within their jurisdic- 
tions. 

If to avoid the political solecism of Imperium in 
imperio, and the existence of two concurrent le- 
gislatures of equal and absolute powers within the 
same limits of jurisdiction, one must necessarily 
exclude the other, that must certainly prevail which 
duly established, legally existing, possessing the right 
and exercising the power, excludes all others by and 
from all these, and even from the Right of Claim. 
The Colonial Parliament is admitted to be duly 
constituted and legally subsisting. Possessing and 
exercising its powers de jure <§* de facto, they are 
as necessarily exclusive., as they are rightfully esta- 
blished, and the imperium in imperii) is rather to be 
applied against that Parliament which claims to 
possess, and to exclude against rightful and actual 
possession. 



By positive institution as well as by the purposes 
of institution, the Colonial Legislatures exclude all 
others from their districts. When the King, by vir- 
tue of his Royal prerogative, and in execution of his 
Royal duties, as soon as the state and circumstances 
of any settled or conquered Colony, to be deter- 
mined by his Majesty in the exercise of a sound 
discretion, aided by responsible advisers, will admit. 



[ 63 ] 

and for the security of the liberties and properties 
thereof, constitutes and convenes a Colonial Par- 
liament or General Assembly, composed of his re- 
presentative, a council duly appointed by himself, 
and representatives freely elected by the inhabitants 
and freeholders thereof, such Parliament or Gene- 
ral Assembly possesses all the rights, privileges and 
powers of a Parliament, and of internal Legislation, 
to the exclusion of all other Parliaments or Legis- 
lative Bodies constituted and convened by the same 
royal powers for any other separate part or district, 
or united parts or districts of the realm. 

Of the Parliaments of Great Britain, of Ireland 
before the Union, of Jamaica, Barbados, Grenada, 
each created and convoked by the same power for 
its particular district, none can possess the right of 
legislating for or within the jurisdictions of the 
others. 

The declared purposes of constituting Parlia- 
ments, are for securing the liberties and proper- 
ties of persons. These purposes can only be ac- 
complished by exclusive internal legislation,— by 
internal legislation obviously, by exclusive necessa- 
rily. Legislation must be exclusive as well as in- 
ternal, or it is nothing. It must exclude, or it will 
be excluded. Internal exclusive legislation can 
alone secure liberties and properties— there is nei- 
ther liberty nor property to him who holds them at 



[ 64 ] 

the arbitrament of another over whom he has no 
controul, with whom he is connected by no privity, 
no relation political or legal, to whom he has dele- 
gated no power. 

It has been shewn that the express purpose for 
which Colonial Parliaments have been constituted, 
is the security of the liberties and properties of the 
Colonists, and that exclusive internal legislation is 
necessarily consequent as indispensable to that great 
purpose. If now it can be shewn that in any case 
of properties or liberties the power of legislation 
claimed has been effectually resisted and denied to, 
and by the British Parliament itself abandoned, that 
is established by positive law, which was before in- 
ferred from principle, and any one case or prece- 
dent of a settled or conquered colony or district, 
is extendible by analogy to all. 

The case of property is fully settled and secured 
by a formal abandonment by the British Parlia- 
ment, of the right of taxation, by the 18 Geo. 
III. c. 12. before referred to, and which might be 3 
as before observed, and was considered as a failure 
and abandonment of the general claim advanced to 
support it. 

The other purpose for which Colonial Parliaments 
were constituted, the security of the liberties of the 
Colonists, is also effectually secured by enactments 



C 65 ] 

of the British Parliament itself, conceding the right 
of exclusive internal legislation to the claims of one 
of the dependencies of the British Crown by the 
23 Geo. III. c. 38. abandoning the whole British 
parliamentary claim to the declared and ascertained 
right of the people of Ireland, and declaring that 
his Majesty and its own Parliament alone have a 
right to make laws for them. Principle and ana- 
logy extend these exclusive powers and privileges to 
Jamaica, and Barbados, and Grenada, and to all. 

By abandonment of a part of the general claim 
to the Colonies, the right to the whole was weaken- 
ed, and indeed extinguished under the circumstan- 
ces of advancement and abandonment. By abandon- 
ment of the whole claim against one as contrary 
to general declared existing right, the right to the 
whole is abandoned as against all similar territorial 
dependencies of the empire, and the claim of the 
Colonies to exclusive legislation is established and 
confirmed in part, and in the whole, by positive 
enactments, , by principle, and analogy. 

By propriety, expediency and necessity, they pos- 
sess exclusive legislation against the impropriety, 
impracticability and impossibility of its being gene- 
rally, or effectually, or duly exercised by the British 
Parliament sitting at the distance of between 4000 
and 5000 miles, without any local knowledge, without 
any practical knowledge whatsoever— and they hold it 



C 66 ] 

not impaired by any apparent incroachments which 
the admitted right of commercial regulation in the 
British Parliament justifies, or by any petty, but 
more direct violations of the general right, viola- 
tions which can never give or take away rights. 
They hold it confirmed by the Acts, and by the 
sweeping clause effects of the Acts before re- 
ferred to, removing every judicial or legislative de- 
claration, decision, or enactment opposed to them. 



T- 



To this claim of the Colonies, the Report opposes 
the argument of Imperium in imperio, which has 
already been disposed of, and the following^objec- 
tions : " that the lawgiver is the sovereign," a 
proposition which if admitted would render the Par- 
liament of the United Kingdom the sovereign of 
the United Kingdom, and is therefore disproved by 
the argument ex absurdo : that it would constitute 
a virtual independence of the Colonies, as if the 
admission would expel his Majesty from his sove- 
reignty, and abrogate that right of negative, and 
those other powers of controul which indissoluble 
bind and unite the Colonies to the Crown of the 
United Kingdom : that it would place the sugar 
islands in the same relation " to us as Hanover, 
with this unjust and degrading difference, that we 
should be bound to protect, though not allowed to 
govern."; — If by us be meant the people of England, 



[ 67 ] 

we answer; that we are British subjects, the children 
and the brethren of the people of the United Kingdom, 
which the people of Hanover are not : — if by us be 
meant the sovereign and king of the United Kingdom, 
we refer the Report for an answer to the lowest of the 
legal profession, who will inform him that Hanover 
belongs to the person of the King, the Colonies to 
the Crown of the United Kingdom : — if the term 
us, as applied to the obligation to protect, be in- 
tended of men who write Reports for Institutions, 
we deprecate the protection — equally ignorant of 
general law and Colonial policy must he be, who 
confounds Hanover with the British Colonies, or it 
might be with Hampshire — the general defence and 
preservation of the empire with the protection of 
the Colonies : That parliament has acted erro- 
neously in confining itself most commonly to com- 
mercial regulation, and leaving internal regulation 
to the Colonial Assemblies : that for commercial 
regulation, Parliament has exercised legislation, as 
well within as without the Colonies, and that other 
laws, not of commercial and maritime regulation, 
have been made invasive of Colonial rights, and 
therefore destructive of them: that the admitted 
right of enacting commercial regulation, is only 
a jbranch of, and establishes the general right of 
legislation in the British Parliament, and that the 
acquiescence in violations of the Colonial rights, 
by the enforcement of these, and the erection of 
official establishments on shore in the Colonies, is 

f 2 



[ 68 I 

a concession by the Colonies of the whole rights 
claimed : 

To these objections, and to the demand that 
the Colonial Right should be surrendered, or com- 
mercial and maritime regulation distinguished from 
general legislation, and these territorial invasions 
from others not of similar origin, it is answered ; 
that we have never contended with Great Britain 
for the empire of the ocean, that we have never 
contended for any right beyond our respective 
limits, and that within these limits we confine all 
assertion or defence of rights. 

Other violations indeed there have been of Colo- 
nial Rights, violations which neither give nor take 
away rights, but the establishments incident to 
commercial regulation when duly limited, neither 
are, nor are to be considered as violations. 

The right of the British Parliament to enact com- 
mercial regulations limited in their operation to the 
ocean, in and over which Great Britain possesses all 
the rights of empire, not to be questioned certainly 
by her own subjects, and extended to the shores of 
all the Colonies, on which necessarily are erected 
the establishments required for their maintenance 
and enforcement, has never been denied. But can it 
be inferred or supposed that we have abandoned and 
forfeited all the rights of men and of Britons, be- 



C 69 ] 

cause we have not complained of encroachments 
upon our territory, necessarily exceeding those of the 
ocean, and have not required and insisted, that cus- 
tom-houses should be erected only below high water- 
mark ? No Colonial right is affected or impaired, 
by exercise of the admitted right of the British Par- 
liament to commercial regulation extrinsic to Colo- 
nial limits, nor by the formation of establishments, 
fiscal and judicial on the physical lines which bound 
the jurisdictions of the different Legislatures, and 
are necessarily drawn upon the Colonial territory. 

The British Parliament has itself declared and 
enacted, that whenever any imposed duties, neces- 
sary f« *r commercial regulation, shall be payable 
in any Colony, the same shall be at the disposal of 
the Colonial Legislature, and has thus recognized, and 
in so much admitted and established their exclusive 
legislative rights, even against itself, as well as the 
arguments of the Report: 

That if local legislation may be admitted as ne- 
cessary in these cases, the Registry Bill also may be 
enacted as a necessary regulation to effectuate abo- 
lition, and being thus justified by, and as auxiliary 
to commercial and maritime regulations, may be 
received among them, and considered as one of 
them : thus the Registry Bill becomes a law of trade-: 
thus the Acts for registering deeds in Yorkshire and 



[ 70 ] 

Middlesex, are laws of trade : Thus all the Acts in 
the Colonies, for registering deeds are laws of trade, 
although the objects of all are, as is the principal 
object of the Registry Bill, to furnish evidence to 
Courts of Common Law, in matters of title, and of 
title to freedom, distinct from questions of maritime 
jurisdiction, and commercial regulation. 

Physical lines do not, like mathematical lines, 
bound two surfaces without being parts of either. 
On the line of shore therefore, which bounds the 
sea although part of the land, and of necessity, 
are the establishments placed, which a maritime 
jurisdiction requires. But, to extend in argu- 
ment the breadth of this physical line, to the oc- 
cupation of all the soil, and of all its rights — be- 
cause a legislation, commencing for, and on, and 
operating over the surface of the ocean, reaches its 
limits — by extending to the shore which bounds it. 
To contend that legislation may begin within the 
land, operate over the whole territory, establish itself 
in the heart of the soil, and extend itself to the 
utmost limits of its surface, under pretence of being, 
and by calling itself maritime regulation, is only to 
be equalled by offering this sophistry to the British 
Parliament, and calling it reasons, or by any name, 
that may suppose the power of ratiocination in the 
person or persons addressing, or the possession of 
intelligence by the persons addressed. 



C 71 ] 

That the Act, the 6 Geo. III. c. 12, has settled 
the question : That by the 18 Geo. III. c. 12, Par- 
liament only partially receded from this general as- 
sertion of legislative authority, in the case of tax- 
ation, for the sake of conciliation, which not even 
the renunciation of the general claim would have 
produced — as if this failure of effect might enure 
to defeat the law itself. 

This failure of effect cannot indeed be exhibited to 
abrogate the law itself. It is however carefully cou- 
pled with observations on the limited nature of the 
concession, in order to resist the inference, that what- 
ever of pretension, or of right was advanced to sup- 
port the claim, was of course abandoned with the 
claim. The strength of the inference is thus de- 
monstrated by the preparations made to oppose it 
The practical inference and general expectation was, 
that the claim of legislation was abandoned with 
the claim of taxation. 

I cannot but admire the dexterity with which the 
question of taxation, as applied to the Registry Bill, 
is artfully evaded. The Act, the 18 Geo. III. c. 12, 
by which the claim to taxation was abandoned, is 
introduced, merely to " remove an objection, resting 
upon a mistake," respecting its operation as a re- 
nunciation of the general claim of legislation, and is 
stated to have been passed, "partially to qualify 



t 72 ] 

this assertion of legislative authority." The Act 
therefore, " enacts Or promises" (were such words 
ever exhibited in, or applied to the enacting clause 
of any British Statute ?) that Parliament will not 
impose any tax, duty or assessment whatever, pay- 
able in any Colony. The question of its extent of 
operation in repealing the Act of the 6 Geo. III. c. 
12, will not here be revived. The Act unques- 
tionably abandons the right of taxation. The Re- 
gistry Bill imposes a tax payable in the Colonies. 
Does this <f objection rest upon a mistake respecting 
its operation?" — Why is this not shown? — Why is 
the question carefully avoided ? — It cannot, how- 
ever, with all this subtilty, be evaded. 

By the 18 Geo. III. c. 12, it is enacted, that the 
King and Parliament of Great Britain will never 
impose any duty, tax, or assessment whatever, pay- 
able in any of his Majesty's Colonies in America or 
the West Indies, except duties for the regulation of 
commerce, the nett produce of which shall be at 
the disposal of the respective General Assemblies. 
August 17th, 1815, a poll-tax of two dollars on each 
slave, amounting on 30,000 persons to 60,000 dol- 
lars, was imposed in his Majesty's name, by Order in 
Council, on the British subjects of Trinidad, held 
in a state of conquest, without any General As- 
sembly. — I offer this fact to the consideration of 
Parliament, and to British feelings. 



C 73 ] 

The Bill indeed imposes a tax payable in the Co- 
lonies, a tax operating as, and being indeed a Poll- 
Tax, and of an excessive amount. We have already 
stated it to triple, at least, the amount of the exist- 
ing Poll-Tax in Barbados, which is Is. 6d. sterling 
for each person. This for 70,000 persons, would 
amount annually to 10,750/. sterling, at 40 per cent, 
upwards of 14,000/. currency, per annum. 

The only defence that has been offered of the Bill, 
against this objection, is a suggested distinction be- 
tween a tax imposed for the purposes of the Colony 
itself, and one raised for the benefit of another 
country. Against this distinction, I rely on the 
words of the preamble, which speaks of the justice 
of raising taxes under the authority of the general 
assembly of the Colony, and of the Act, declaring 
that Parliament will not " impose any tax, duty, 
or assessment whatever, payable in any Colony.'* 

"Will it be said, that it is not a tax because imposed 
in the form of fees, — because applied to pay officers 
for services performed, — because collected by the 
officer who is to receive, — because the collection and 
application are cotemporaneous, — because the ways 
and means, and the expenditure, meet at the same mo- 
ment, in the same person and place ? The general and 
principal objects of taxation, are the payments 
of officers, persons in office from the highest to the 



I 74 j 

lowest, from the first lord of the treasury to the 
clerk. Will a tax upon land, or upon malt, cease 
to be a tax by its mode of application, or is the tax 
diminished, because a part is applied to the expenses 
of collecting, and paid to, or retained by the officers 
collecting ? Parliament cannot impose any tax, 
duty or assessment, — the Registry Bill imposes what 
is equally a tax, a duty, and an assessment of a 
given sum on and for every Slave returned and re- 
gistered, combined with other charges which swell 
this distinct charge, to an enormous tax per capita, 
to an oppressive and additional Poll-Tax . 

The 23 Geo. III. c. 28, establishes for all the 
dominions of the Crown of Great Britain, the exis- 
tence of a general paramount indefeasible right, 
and directly repeating the 6 Geo. I. c. 5, for Ire- 
land, which was in the nature of a Colony, and 
by direct consequence, the 6 Geo. IIL c. 12, for 
the Colonies has thus abrogated this last law also, 
and extinguished the general claim to legislation, ad- 
vanced in it : 

That the King has no authority to make laws for 
Colonies, in which representative assemblies exist, 
and therefore Parliament must do the work itself, 
or leave it to the Colonial assemblies. That neither 
Parliament nor the King has the right, has been 
shewn, nor will the suggested alternative give the 



[ 75 ] 

right to Parliament, " although the work, if left to 
the Colonial Assemblies, certainly will not be done," 
as it is proposed to be done. It is not necessarily 
in the Parliament, although not legally in the King. 
Not being in the King, but legally and actually in 
the Colonial Assemblies, it is not either legally or 
necessarily in the British Parliament. 

Any question respecting the supremacy or so- 
vereignty of the British parliament can only be 
answered by referring to or repeating the preceding 
statements. Supreme or sovereign executive — su- 
preme or sovereign legislative are terms of abstract 
and metaphysical jurisprudence, never to be con- 
founded with British law. By not adverting to this 
distinction and division of powers, received indeed 
by himself, Blackstone states generally, that so- 
vereignty and legislature are convertible terms, not 
qualifying the term sovereignty, and thus excluding 
the executive— -and the Report, rushing on beyond 
him to its own objects, from powers to persons, 
making the lawgiver the sovereign, arrives at that 
absurd extreme case which in every system of reason- 
ing establishes the absurdity of the intermediate, 
and would establish the Parliament c-f the United 
Kingdom, the sovereign of the United Kingdom,' 
whilst the maker of the Berlin decree is contem- 
plated, and foreign despotism confounded with 
British legislation. As a British lawyer, I know 
only King and Parliament, and I know their powers. 



C 76 3 

Those of parliament are, as hereinbefore stated, ex- 
hibited, and established from history, by principle, 
and by precedent. To the metaphysical jurist I 
leave to satisfy himself, by finding out among these 
any powers he may choose to include under those 
or any of his terms. For information I refer the 
British lawyer to former statements. The depend- 
ence, connection, uniformity of institutions in the 
Colonies, are preserved by the controul and exer- 
cise of the prerogative of the Crown. Their com- 
mercial regulations and external relations are set- 
tled and arranged, those by the parliament, these by 
the King, the sole sovereign of all. 

I know nothing of that absolute despotic power 
which must be vested somewhere, and therefore is in 
parliament. The necessary existence of such a 
power in terms I do not see— -I do not see that it is 
in parliament — I see in parliament certain general 
superintending powers, not despotic — these may be 
defined, and stated, and enumerated, and this is 
all I know. I admit the whole enumeration of par- 
liamentary powers, detailed in Blackstone, vol. i. p. 
160; and from the whole paragraph I would only 
strike out the words, stating parliament to be " the 
u place where absolute despotic power resides/' as 
neither necessary to the sense nor agreeable to 
British law. How exists this absolute power against 
the fundamental and essential conditions of the 
union with Scotland and with Ireland ? How 

7 



C 77 ] 

against antient paramount rights to which parlia- 
ment itself owes its existence and powers ? — Against 
those rights, declared by and existing independently 
of its own acts ascertaining not creating them ? I 
admit not the right, and therefore I contemplate not 
the existence of a power in parliament, the exer- 
cise of which would dissolve the whole frame of the 
constitution, and therein its own rightful existence. 

If parliament, indeed, possesses the power of tak- 
ing away original declared rights, by repealing the 
Acts, declaratory of these, taking the 18 Geo. III. 
c. 12, for an example, should we be more safe 
under its own words, ll declares and enacts," or 
those supplied for it by the Report, " enacts or 
promises" — and of which is the immorality greater, 
the violation of a right or of a promise ? Such a 
violation of all principle, even the Report itself has 
not yet arrived at. 

Thus is the claim of the British Parliament to 
internal Colonial legislation disposed of, — thus is the 
right of the Colonial Assemblies to exclusive in- 
ternal legislation within their separate jurisdictions, 
established in itself, and confirmed against all 
objections. 



t 78 ] 

In the Newtonian philosophy, we query the truths 
we would consider as established. In imitation of 
that great master, I will give to the principal pro- 
positions, which embrace the disputed points of Im- 
perial and Colonial parliamentary jurisdiction, the 
form of queries. It is more respectful, and it may be 
more grateful, that they should rather remain as ques- 
tions, referred even to that honorable body itself, 
which every British subject respects and regards, and 
which he the more regards, the better he understands 
the nature of its existence, and the exercise of its 
powers, as dependent upon British principles, and 
British practices, unmixed with all others. 

Does not the British Parliament owe its existence 
and its powers to those original rights, and rights of 
representation, which are vested in, and inseparable 
from persons and freeholds ? 

Is not the British Parliament restricted and limited 
in legislation by this right of representation, to the 
persons and places whom it thus represents ? 

Can the British Parliament extend itself and its 
powers, or can they be extended to other persons 
and places, but by extended representation ? 

Conformably to these principles, has not the prac- 
tice been, to extend parliamentary legislation and 
powers, by extended representation and union, and 



I 79 ] 

where this has been unadvisable, or inconvenient, 
has not separate legislation been established? 

Is not the security of liberty and property, the 
great object and purpose of these legislative estab- 
lishments, whether united or separate? 

What security for, what liberty or property has 
he, who holds them at the arbitrament and disposal 
of others, over whom he has no controul ? and does 
not this necessarily constitute each, exclusive of the 
others? 

Is not the separate legislation, thus duly estab- 
lished, necessarily exclusive of that legislation to 
which it has not been united, by all the principles 
which have established both, of creation, of repre- 
sentation, of necessity forbidding or delaying union? 
Of many separate Legislatures thus duly established, 
and dependent each for its existence and powers, 
upon the distinct representations of different persons 
and places, communities, and countries, can any 
one, or more, possess the right of interfering with 
any one, or more of the others, of controuling their 
powers, or of exercising its own, or any powers 
within their districts and jurisdictions ? 

Are not all legal opinions, depending as they do, 
for their acceptance, only upon their reasonableness 
and conformity to right; are not all judicial deci- 



C 80 ] 

sions admitted to be obligatory, because considered 
to be declaratory of existing law ; are not all legisla- 
tive enactments, invasive of these rights, unjustifi- 
able in themselves, and for ever subject to be re- 
jected, reversed and repealed ? 

Is not an Act or Statute of the British Parlia- 
ment, of sufficient authority and power, to controul, 
reverse and repeal, by its enactments, all legal opi- 
nions, judicial decisions, and preceding British Sta- 
tutes, repugnant to its own subsequent enactments, 
and is it not in itself, by principle and analogy, ex- 
tendible, and to be extended to all cases and circum- 
stances, similar to those for which it has once 
provided and settled, by its declarations and enact- 
ments ? 

Are not all British subjects who conquer or 
settle a Colony bound by the same allegiance as 
all other British subjects, and do they not carry 
with them and enjoy all their liberties and rights 
to be modified and adapted to their situations 
as Colonists, and particularly, so long as their 
Knights are not called to sit in Parliament, to a 
distinct Civil Government, by a General Assembly s 
composed of his Majesty by representation, a 
council appointed by his Majesty, and the repre- 
sentatives of the people freely elected, which Ge- 
neral Assembly alone, of right, can, or ought to do 
all such acts and matters of legislation for the in- 



[ 81 ] 

ternal government of the Colony as the Imperial 
Parliament can do for that of the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Ireland ? 

By the cases and precedents of Jamaica, Barba- 
dos, Grenada, and by the words of his Majesty's 
royal proclamation declaring the same in the case 
of Grenada, is it not settled and established as the 
constitutional law and practice, that every settled 
and conquered and ceded Colony, as soon as its 
condition and circumstances will admit thereof, is 
entitled to British laws, to the British Constitution, 
and to the British form of government by a Legis- 
lative Body, composed of the Governor, or King's 
Representative, a Council duly appointed by the 
King, and an Assembly freely elected by the free- 
holders and inhabitants of the Colony, and that it 
is among the duties of the Crown, judging of con- 
dition and circumstances, in the exercise of a sound 
discretion, aided by responsible advisers and in its 
paternal care for the security of the liberties and 
properties of the Colonists to constitute this form 
of government within the Colony ? 

In the principles of creation and existence of the 
separate Legislatures of Great Britain, Ireland, Ja- 
maica, Barbados, Grenada, each constituted de- 
claredly for the same general purpose of securing li- 
berties and properties, and each duly and separately 
convened conformably to their several rights, and 



G 



[ 82 ] 

by the same Sovereign, acting by himself or by de- 
legation, by virtue of his royal prerogative, and in 
execution of his royal duties, is there any thing to 
give to either of these Legislatures the right of 
legislating for any other, of interfering with any 
other, of excluding any other from its proper legis- 
lation, and which might not, if by any, by every one 
be claimed ? 

Where from omission on the part of the Crown 
to form a duly constituted Representative Legisla- 
ture, where from lapse of time, varying circum- 
stances, or the expediency of making changes not 
clearly within the limits of the royal prerogative, it 
has been judged necessary by the King himself not 
to act but with the assistance and concurrence of 
Parliament, in forming and establishing such a 
Legislature or Legislatures, can the right thus 
exercised by the King and the two British Houses 
of Parliament, jointly, but which, if it remains, is in 
the King alone, or the right claimed for all jointly, 
being a question partly between the King and the 
British Parliament, and partly between the Imperial 
and the Colonial Parliament, of forming, forming 
anew, and new modelling the whole of the Consti- 
tutions of the Colonies, give to the Imperial the 
right of internal Colonial legislation ? The forma- 
tion of a Legislature, and the exercise of legisla- 
tion are for ever distinct and not to be confounded. 
The King forms in the first instance a Colonial Le- 



- [ S3 \ 

gislature. That gives him no right of legislation, 
but in fact, excludes him and all others from all fur- 
ther and future right of formation and legislation. 
If the Parliament, of which the King is a part, forms 
a Colonial Legislature, is not the Parliament for 
ever excluded, as in that Colony, from the power of 
formation and legislation, having created a Repre- 
sentative Body competent to both works ? 

If to avoid the political solecism of imperium iri^ 
imperio, and the co-existence of two Legislatures of 
equal powers within the same limits of jurisdiction, 
one. must necessarily exclude the other, which shall 
exclude, or be excluded, that which de facto and 
de jure possesses and exercises the powers of in- 
ternal legislation, and by possessing and exercising 
excludes all others, or that which claims to possess, 
and to exercise, and to exclude ? 

The admitted right of commercial regulation ex- 
tends the right of Imperial Parliamentary jurisdic- 
tion to the shores of every Colony as its limits. 
Can the erection of custom-houses and of Vice- 
Admiralty Courts, necessary to commercial regula- 
tion, upon the lines not mathematical but physical, 
which bound the rights of internal Colonial legisla- 
tion and external imperial commercial regulation, 
and which are necessarily drawn upon the Colonial 
territory not within high-water mark, be considered 
as invasions on one side and acquiescences on the 

g 2 



[ H 3 

other, of sufficient force to abrogate the Colonial 
right of exclusive internal legislation ? 

Can any invasion of right in itself impart right ? 
Can any invasions of rights, however numerous, be- 
cause not continually or captiously resisted, destroy, 
or establish rights in others, and do they not rather 
maintain between the parties, under a sense of hos- 
tile aggression, a perpetual right of vindication and 
recaption ? 

Was not the attempt of the British Parliament to 
raise a revenue in the Colonies by taxation an in- 
vasion of their right of property, one of those great 
rights, or branches of right, for the security of which, 
Representative Assemblies were formed? Was it 
not so admitted to be, and as such, afterwards, and 
for ever abandoned by the British Parliament itself, 
by the Act of Parliament, the 18th of George III. 
c. 12, repealing insomuch the preceding Act of 
the 6th George III. c. 12, claiming a right in the 
British Parliament to make laws to bind the Colo- 
nies in all cases whatsoever ? Was not this which 
even gave to the Colonial Assemblies the right of 
applying any duties eventually raised within their 
jurisdiction by exercise of the admitted right of 
commercial regulation, and as necessary thereto, an 
admission of the right of exclusion, and of exclu- 
sive internal legislation of the Colonial Assemblies 
in all matters of property ? and was not this aban* 



[ 85 ] 

domiient of the claim to taxation, an abandonment, 
of the claim to legislation advanced to support it? 

Ireland was conquered and planted by the British 
Crown — so was Jamaica. Ireland and Jamaica 
had each its separate Parliament. The Parliament 
of Ireland was persuaded to pass Poynings's law, 
which reduced its legislative powers to a shadow. 
An attempt was made to prevail upon Jamaica to 
adopt Poynings's law, but it was resisted and failed. 
The Act of 6 Geo. I. c. 5, for Ireland, and the 6 
Geo. III. c 12, for Jamaica, as a Colony, asserted 
a power in the British Parliament to make laws to 
bind both in all cases whatsoever. The Act the 23 
Geo. III. c. 28, declares and enacts, that the Kino 1 
of Great Britain with the Parliament of Ireland 
alone have power to make laws to bind Ireland in 
all cases. Can any but his Majesty, with the Legis- 
lature of Jamaica, have power in any case to make 
laws to bind Jamaica ? Is not every preceding 
enactment repugnant hereto repealed by the enact- 
ing part ? Does not every succeeding enactment 
stand controuled by the declared paramount princi- 
ple which it would violate ? 

Is not the 2.3d Geo. III. c. 28, a declaratory Act, 
and does it not, as such, establish an old, not create 
anew right, a general existing right, existing and 
applicable to whatever exists, and applicable to, and 
including Jamaica, and every other Colony of Great 



[ 86 ] 

Britain, possessing a duly constituted Representative 
Legislature ? 

Does not this law not only declaring, but enact- 
ing, controul, reverse, and repeal all opinions, de- 
cisions and laws contrary thereto, and together with 
18th Geo. III. c. 12, establish for all the Colonies 
perfect security of liberties and properties, by set- 
tling in his Majesty alone, together with the gene- 
ral Assembly of each Colony, the right of ma- 
king laws to bind each Colony in all cases what- 
soever ? And can these declared and ascertained 
rights for Ireland and for the Colonies be destroyed 
or extinguished by the repeal of those laws, or by 
any enactments whatsoever, without the violation of 
all right, of all faith, of all honour r 

Is not the exclusive legislation thus established in 
the Colonial Assemblies by principle and analogy as 
a right, justified and maintained as a measure of 
propriety, expediency, and moral necessity ? The 
representative right entitles to union, or to separate, 
and if to separate, to exclusive legislation. If se- 
parate legislation rather than union is indicated for 
the Colonies by state and condition, by distance, va- 
rious climate, differing agriculture, mixed popula- 
tion, and if union would seem to be forbidden, 
which would constitute a general Parliament, only 
partially fitted to legislate for Colonial affairs in 
proportion to the accession and number of Colonial 



I 87 ] 

Representatives, does not this which forbids union, 
deny legislation to a Parliament totally unqualified 
in practice and in principle to legislate for the Colo- 
nies in the absence of all Colonial representation ? 
Thus all right, all propriety, all expediency, moral 
and natural necessity, render it unsafe and unwise, 
and impossible for the British Parliament to legis- 
late for these distant dependencies. 

Contending for these established and unquestion- 
able rights, and using all the legal and constitutional 
means of resistance they possess, can the Colonies 
be legislated for without being conquered ? If Par- 
liament will proceed thus to legislate for us we are 
conquered — We submit to be conquered, and Or- 
ders in Council may then go out to the Colonies 
with, or as now, without the formality of parliamen- 
tary acquiescence. Then it is that those who now 
assert will deprecate in the British Parliament a 
power which can never constitutionally nor conve- 
niently be exercised, and will see to whom they will 
have delivered over the British Colonists : To 
office, which sees only with the eyes of others, 
and in Colonial affairs has never in the Colonies 
or in Great Britain used the best — to the inferior 
agents of institutions and joint stock companies — to 
the men who write reports for the African Institu- 
tion — and to July jobbers of Acts of Parliament. 



C 88 ] 

On the proposed Means of Emancipation. 

The population of the British Colonies consists 
of three classes of persons. 

1. White persons : 

2. Free persons of various intermediate colours 
between those of negroes and of white persons, in- 
clusive of the former and exclusive of the latter : and 

3. Slaves, consisting almost entirely of negroes, 
with a few individuals of mixed origin. 

Of these last we shall first speak. 

In proceeding to speak of the institutions of sla- 
very, if I should speak of benefits incidentally arising 
from the condition, let it not be supposed that my in- 
tention is to defend or to recommend it. — From my 
heart I abhor and detest all slavery, as pernicious 
and not to be endured. I hesitate not to declare 
that the system ought to be abolished, whenever this 
may be effected by means less pernicious in their 
principles and consequences than the system itself : 
and in secret, as I proceed, I breathe the humble and 
sincere prayer that this defence of ourselves, and as- 
sertion of our own rights, may not be, or be converted 
to the injury of others, more particularly, of these, 



[ 89 ] 

our unfortunate slaves and fellow-creatures — and 
that what is best for all may be dispensed to all. 

What the condition of slavery really and practi- 
cally is, may best be estimated and known by com- 
parison with servitude, that state of freemen to 
which it is most nearly assimilated. 

The grand distinctions which exist betiveen sla- 
very and service respect both the masters and the 
labourers. In service, the compensation follows the 
labour, and dissatisfaction on either side terminates 
the contract. 

In the indissoluble contract of slavery, the means 
of supporting life in health, strength, and comfort, 
the considerations for which service labours, being 
of necessity, duly secured, and regularly received, 
to withhold the labour thus purchased and paid for, 
constitutes a crime incapable of compensation in 
the circumstances under which it originates, and re- 
quiring to be prevented by punishment, which may 
restrain the commission. That which in service as 
a breach of contract may be repaired or pro- 
vided against by exclusion from employment, is thus 
in slavery exalted into an offence of an higher, of a 
criminal nature, and can only be remedied by co- 
ercion. Thus to slavery the infliction of corporal 
punishment is inseparably incident, and the necessi- 
ty of constant supervision, in order to diminish its 



[ 90 3 

necessity and frequency— a supervision general as 
well as constant, notwithstanding the varieties of cha- 
racter incident to all societies, and, which even in 
slavery, distinguish the good and the industrious 
from the profligate and the indolent. That the 
power thus possessed will never be abused by wan- 
tonness or excess is not to be expected from human 
nature. It is this abuse which is the sting of slavery 
as it respects the slave, the necessity, coupled with 
the use, however proper, is the sting of slavery as 
it respects the master, to whose regrets and injury 
indeed the abuse also is superadded. From neither 
the use as a system, nor the abuse can he deliver 
himself; the good slave may suffer incidentally from 
the abuse of power — the master, even when the 
power is duly used, against the bad. 

Without thus commanding the labour, that power 
which is to move all. it is impossible to commence, 
conduct or continue the system dependent upon it, 
and it is weak to suppose, that in such a state of so- 
ciety, such a mixed population, in such countries 
and such climates, that to classes of persons can be 
applied that power of enforcement, that necessity 
which applied to free individuals in other societies 
produces, but not always unfailingly and unsparingly, 
the exertions of power, and the labours that are re- 
paid simply by what is adequate to the sustentation 
of life, whilst in those other societies, individual 
capitalists by possessing the natural means, or arti- 



C 91 ] 

iicial instruments, lands, houses, machineries, estab- 
lishments, stock, acquire great profits, duly operat- 
ing by their reaction and accumulation for the be- 
nefit of all. 

If it be inquired what are the rights of persons 
subjected to the condition of slavery, and how may 
the persons be secured in them, the first part of the 
question may be answered by referring, comparing 
and assimilating the condition of the slave, whilst 
the slavery endures, as nearly as may be to that ser- 
vitude which endures for ever among freemen, and 
in and under which nine-tenths of mankind for ever 
labour — by securing to him those unalienable and 
indefeasible rights to which labour entitles all her 
children, and compensating him for the loss of those 
rights which disappear before the power of enforce- 
ment, unavoidably substituted for that necessity 
which is the main-spring of free powers, by provi- 
sion secured for him in infancy, infirmity and age, 
such as improvident freedom seldom lays up in 
store for itself, but which is due before Heaven 
and before man from every society to the labour, 
whether free or enforced, by which it ultimately sub- 
sists. 

Nor is this declaration of rights made as of 
rights denied. They are understood, admitted, acted 
upon — only in particular cases, blazoned indeed as 



[ 92 ] 

of all, are they disregarded or violated, as are all 
human institutions. — Systematically and generally 
respected, they are only violated by the individually 
bad, who are of every age, of every station, and 
of every society. 

"When a distressed or wicked master respects not 
these rights or abuses this power, behold one of 
those cases inseparably incident to slavery, which 
constitute its principal ills, and make it what it is, 
which make the state of the slave to depend upon 
the temper and condition of the master. These 
cases are not indeed frequent ; they are, in fact, ex- 
ceptions to the general state and condition, which 
they by no means represent. They receive that no- 
toriety which distinguishes them, from a malignant 
spirit which passing from all that is good and ami- 
able, more rejoiceth over one such instance of de- 
pravity, than over thousands of just persons who 
perform their duties conscientiously. When by a 
good master a full provision is made for, and re- 
ceived by a slave, of food, raiment, and domestic 
comforts, under a due conservation of domestic 
rights ; and to the possession and enjoyment of 
these is added a sense of security and an assurance 
in the provision made for him in health, sickness, 
and old age, by his master, as his savings-bank, 
as his benefit or friendly society box, without any 
of the cares and self-denials, and perplexing fore- 



[ 93 ] 

thought of ordinary and common life, it cannot be 
denied that the supply of the slave, not the condition, 
as some think, is better than that of the freeman. 
I cannot indeed admit, as other good and feeling 
men contend, that a state of slavery can under any 
circumstances be preferred to, or compared with, a 
state of freedom. In this particular my own opi- 
nion is founded upon high and exalted considera- 
tions of liberty — that of others upon what they may 
consider as a better formed estimate of benefits and 
evils, and of all things incident to human life, 
such as it is, and is of the great body of the human 
race. That the state of slavery in the West-Indies 
is generally what interested advocates report, or 
prejudiced hearers believe, I deny. 

Such are the rights of slavery, to which in gene- 
ral all rights have been denied. The wrongs of sla- 
very are of two classes — those of the master and 
those of others. 

Against the wrongs of others, against all other 
wrongs, the master is to the slave the sure defence 
and certain means of redress. 

In the Colonies, the remedies for injuries done to 
slaves are by right of action in the master. It is for 
the benefit of the slave, that it should be so, rather 
than that he should be abandoned or compelled to 



[ 94 ] 

seek redress for himself. Under the protection of 
his master who considers every wrong done to his 
slave, not only as an injury done, but as a personal 
violation offered to himself, the vindication of which 
interest, honour, and I hope I may be allowed to add 
feeling, urge him to demand, the slave is more 
secure than the whole class of free persons, black, 
coloured, or poor whites, who are left to their own 
remedies. 

Possessed of these indefeasible rights, and thus 
practically and effectually secured against one whole 
class of wrongs, how is the slave to be protected 
against those which are of the master and his agents, 
against the abuse of powers which that title confers, 
and in the enjoyment of those compensatory rights 
which his condition claims ? 

Every thing has been done for these purposes 
that can be done. To the obligations of moral 
duty the sanctions of legal enforcement have been 
added. 

In several of the Colonies, the murder of a 
slave had formerly been punished by fine on the 
master, or by fine on a stranger, superadded to the 
compensation due to the master. In all, for several 
years past, by the repeal of former laws, the punish- 
ment of death is inflicted on the murderer. Yet this 



L 95 ] 

additional security for life, operating both by terror 
and by infliction, is not admitted into the negative 
catalogue which charges that nothing has been done 
to meliorate the condition of the slaves in the Co- 
lonies. 

When for these purposes principally, when in 
compliance with the wishes of good men, and to si- 
lence the clamorous expostulations of agitators, 
Jamaica undertook to revise and consolidate her 
Slave Laws, and by enactments of positive law to 
assign limits to the formerly undefined exercise of 
discretionary powers and punishment, and to re- 
gulate and secure to the labourer those compen- 
satory supplies of food, clothing, and other com- 
forts to which he is entitled ; — when having done 
every thing that by law could be effected by 
enactments in their nature alike monitory and 
prohibitory; — when the difficulties arising to the 
execution of these laws, which result from the 
state and condition of slavery, and which they 
and all Colonists knew and felt, and which alone 
have delayed in many the adoption of similar 
measures, though not required by any defects ia 
their own existing domestic regulations ; when these 
difficulties came to be observed in the execution of 
these laws, these same agitators, who called for them, 
now object to the Colonists the enactment of these 
very laws, which they now call mock laws, ano 1 



C 96 ] 

speak of as being laughed at and forgotten. These 
statements are however unfounded. These laws 
would not be unavailing and useless were they only 
rules of conduct, prescribed and recommended by 
none but their innate authority to the consideration 
and observance of all. They would teach to the 
unfeeling and the penurious the limits, inclusive and 
exclusive, of his powers and his duties. But when 
they assume the force of legal enactments, and when 
the performance of duties to which justice as well as 
interest prompts, is required under legal sanctions, 
they must and they do avail, and they are effectual 
to a considerable, if not to the whole extent con- 
templated. 

By this exposition, therefore, the statement, that 
nothing has been done, nothing of any effect, is dis- 
proved. All has been done to protect the slave 
against the wrongs, arising from his very condition 
as a slave. Unfortunately no laws in the Colonies or 
in the world can protect against the irregular sallies 
of violence and injustice, and all the bad passions of 
men.— Against the wrongs of others, his very condi- 
tion, as before shewn, is his best and complete defence. 
—-The incompetency of his testimony in particular 
cases, (for the rejection thereof in all cases is an in- 
correct statement.) is founded upon those principles 
which in every legal system establish an incompe- 
tency of witnesses, dependent upon station and con- 



C 97 ] 

dition. The incompetency of one witness in no sys- 
tem operates to exclude all other testimony and evi- 
dence, and these have never been wanting to vindi- 
cate the master's rights and the injuries done to his 
slave. 



There exists in every Colony a class of free persons 
more or less numerous, intermediate in colour and 
condition between the whites and the negro slaves. 
To manumissions from various motives, and to 
natural increase, they owe their origin and numbers, 
Scarcely separated in the beginning from slaves, they 
continue in their habits and lives, and manners, 
scarcely distinguished from them. However con- 
siderable the political rights obtained — however ex- 
alted their political state, they are not in their social 
state much advanced in the consideration of the 
whites, nor in their own, above the better classes of 
slaves. They are so retained by their own sense of 
its propriety, and from the political prudence and 
necessity of preserving unimpaired those distinctions 
of colour and of class upon the observance and con- 
tinuance of which primarily depend the peace 
and safety of ail. Raised ever so high above the 
slaves, they may not, from moral and social consi- 
derations, from political and prudential reasons, be 
mixed and confounded with the whites. — The feel 
ings of the whites, their own, the feelings of the 

H 



[ 9S ] 

slaves forbid it, the interests of all forbid it. From 
them, as in England from persons of different 
condition, as from the domestic servant or re- 
spected tradesman, the observance of certain forms 
indicative of distinction, respect, and civility, is ex- 
pected, and never fails. 

But their legal and political rights are the same 
with those of the domestic and tradesman, except in 
one or two points in one or two of the Colonies. 
What are they in Barbados ? His testimony is 
subjected to the same limits of competency with that 
of the slaves, from among whom he was taken. He 
cannot elect or be elected a member of assembly or 
vestry. He cannot serve as a juror on the trial of 
real actions. These are all. Of only one of these 
restrictions has he any reason to complain, of the 
narrow limits to which his competency, as a witness, 
is restrained. Of the other two, one is for his be- 
nefit, the exemption from service as a juror; of both 
the propriety is obvious. Of the population of 
Great Britain do nine- tenths possess the elective 
franchise, and are they not excluded by positive law 
in defect of qualification ? 

Of a slave, the testimony, narrowed by the estab- 
lished legal limits of testimony, is further narrowed 
by his condition, in questions between free white 
persons. If one of the parties be his master, of 
course he cannot be admitted. And how in any 



[ 99 3 

doubtful case is the testimony to be accepted of one 
over whom any person has the power of a master, 
although that person be not as a legal party legally 
interested ? 

In all questions therefore between white parties, 
the production of a slave, as a witness, is never con- 
templated, is by law forbidden, and can it be said, 
without reason ? In all questions however among 
slaves, or confined to slaves, and here generally, a 
slave's interests are at issue, the contest of master 
in slave, or slave in master, against similar parties, 
is reduced to an equality of motives and interests, 
that admit slaves as witnesses on all sides. 

Against free persons of colour also the testimony 
of a slave is by law expressly received. 

The competency therefore of a slave has necessa- 
rily been reduced to narrower limits, and confined 
to cases arising between the coloured population 
alone. By and to this standard the competency of 
all coloured persons also was reduced, as persons 
not more worthy of general credit than slaves, 
from whom they were not easily distinguishable. 
Unfortunately this limitation in cases of freemen 
of colour in which the King is the party, confines 
the proof to other evidence, and testimony not of 
r.he party aggrieved, if a freeman of colour. This 

H 2 



[ 100 ] 

may occasionally be a grievance. But as general jus- 
tice never excludes from its consideration evidence 
of which it may avail itself, and to which the dis- 
qualifications of slavery do not apply, a better con- 
sideration which respects general as well as indi- 
vidual interests, is proceeding to remove this single 
invidious exception, which exists, I believe, in only 
one other Colony. 

With the single exception, therefore, in one or two 
of the Colonies of the elective franchise, which 
Great Britain denies to more than one half of her 
freemen, and a tenth never use, and with a bene- 
ficial exemption from a particular public service, 
the legal condition of the coloured freemen may be 
stated to be in all respects the same as of the white 
Colonists. In most of the Colonies it differs not at 
all. The only differences which exist, and are mistaken 
for legal disabilities, are in the moral and social dis- 
tinctions of persons, such as manners and habits es- 
tablish, and which in all societies differ with con- 
ditions. 

These statements are made for the purpose of in- 
forming the British public, and others, who not ac- 
curately distinguishing between the moral and legal 
condition of the freemen of colour, have errone- 
ously inferred a diminution of legal rights, from a 
difference in social distinctions. 



[ 10] ] 

• They are made to shew at once how desperate are 
all expectations of succeeding in the projet of the 
West India agitators, who, by extending and in- 
creasing this class, and by proceeding through them 
in imitation of white villeinage, according to their 
sliding system, would establish a general emancipa* 
tion of the slaves. 

They are made as applicable to, and bearing upon 
the case of Trinidad, connected as it is with the 
Registry Bill, and to the measures adopted by these 
men, the advocates of freedom, to deceive his Ma- 
jesty's ministers, and to keep that unfortunate Co* 
lony and its population of free persons of all colours 
and descriptions under subjection to Spanish des- 
potism and the right of conquest regulations, im- 
posed as Orders in Council. 

Such was the state of the free coloured people in 
the British Colonies, possessed, with very few excep- 
tions, of all the rights of Britons, and not more af- 
fected, being already free, than the whites them- 
selves, by the laws intended to prevent addition to 
their numbers, when the Colony of Trinidad was 
rlnallv ceded to the British Crown, and became a 
British Colony. 

Since that time the population of the Colony ha,s 
experienced, as was to be expected, considerable 



C 102 ] 

changes, and the number of free British born sub- 
jects has increased to several thousands, so as now 
fully to equal and exceed that of all the other com- 
bined Spanish and French inhabitants. Since that 
time several applications have been made by the 
inhabitants of the Colony, and their friends in 
Great Britain for a British constitution and laws. 
Mr. Wyndham, when in office, proposed, and was 
proceeding to accomplish, this desirable work, as 
a thincp of course. The conduct and the oeclara- 

o 

tions written and oral of Lord Buckinghamshire, 
were favourable to the measure as soon as circum- 
stances would permit. 

In 1810, the freeholders of Trinidad petitioned 
for a change of political system. All that it 
was necessary or proper for his Majesty's govern- 
ment to do, to give to Trinidad a British constitu- 
tion and laws, was, by proclamations and letters 
patent similar to those of Grenada, to establish 
the same. These would have included all free per- 
sons without distinction in its provisions. To all it 
would in the first instance have imparted the same 
equal rights and privileges, and if at any future time 
any attempts had been made by the constituted Le- 
gislature derogatory to these rights, they could only 
have been effected by the Royal assent, and this 
might have been petitioned against by the persons 
or interests affected. All that the free coloured 



C 103 ] 

people had to do was to wait in patience the result 
of this application. Every friend of these persons 
would so have advised them. Agitators however in 
the Colony, equally the enemies of the whites and 
coloured freemen, anxious only to defeat an appli- 
cation, which, if successful, would put an end to 
all their schemes for annoying the British Co- 
lonists, disturbing the Colony, and making expe- 
riments upon its varied population, prevailed upon 
a considerable number of these ill-advised persons 
to adopt a sort of counter-petition, most inju- 
rious to their own best rights and interests, 
under an agency of persons from their own body, 
into which some of the worst characters of the 
Colony contrived to introduce themselves. They 
came forward asking in terms for " something" 
without specifying what, without knowing, when 
questioned, what they should ask ; and finally, by 
specifications, which^ as before stated, might have 
induced them to refrain from asking any thing. In 
the mean time the conduct and developement of cha- 
racter of some of their leading men, produced a 
feeling by which all their true friends were grieved. 
Unfortunate men ! you came forward to resist an 
application, which, under the due superintending 
care of the British government, would have given 
you, and the whites without distinction, all the 
rights and privileges of British subjects, and by the 



C 104 1 

same superintending care, you would have been 
protected and preserved in them. This would have 
been the conservation and consummation of more 
than all those enumerated rights of capitulation 
which were claimed by, or for you, even after final 
cession, beyond which capitulation extends not; and 
you would have had them by the better claim and title 
of British subjects. Your own application has been 
considered among the principal reasons for refusing 
to all a British constitution and laws, which now, 
or hereafter, can only be regularly established, as 
it then might have been, by imparting equal rights 
undistinguishably to all, by a due course of Royal 
proceeding, similar to that practised in the case of 
Grenada, or if now rendered necessary by lapse of 
time and change of circumstances, of Parliamentary 
proceeding, pursuing a similar course. 



Such is the state and condition, such are the rights 
of coloured free persons in all, except the con- 
quered Colonies. 

The only question that can remain, and this has 
been raised by others, respects the increase of their 
numbers as a measure of wisdom, policy and safety. — » 



C 105 ] 

Undoubtedly fj for the encouragement of good con- 
duct among those who are slaves," justice and po- 
licy would advise " to make enfranchisement the 
prize of great individual merit." The rule is ad- 
mitted, and the strict application of the rule, 
which circumstances hereafter narrated might per- 
haps justify, would confine it to the individual, a 
measure more harsh than any of these which are 
complained of. 

The first objection that offered itself to the eye of 
political prudence in the Colonies, was the creation 
of an inferior class of persons, who, necessarily 
mixing with, might vitiate the black population by 
their habits of indolence, and by the vices that flow 
therefrom — of receivers and retailers of what was 
received. 

The second objection that occurred, was; that the 
existence of such a class, if honestly employed, oc- 
cupied the places and employments of artificers and 
handicraft workmen, to the exclusion and injury of 
the inferior classes of white men, who would thus 
be left destitute of the means of supporting life. 

None of these coloured freemen ever became 
agriculturists or labourers, a circumstance worthy 
of observation. 



C 106 ] 

With these radical objections to the extension of 
this class, we solaced ourselves under their unre- 
strained increase by these same considerations 
which are now presented to us by others. And 
it could be wished that this were the last occasion 
in which the unfortunate Colonist is reasoned for by 
others, who, strangers to every thing that belongs 
to himself or condition, would deny to him the pos- 
session, whilst by their gratuitous recommendation, 
they suggest the absence of all reasoning powers 
within himself, for himself, or the things which are 
his. 

We looked upon this intermediate population 
as tending to establish the security of the whites, 
as men, who, in every question or conflict that 
might arise from the slave population, would un- 
questionably be on the part of the whites. This 
expectation has been disappointed. The ex- 
periment has been made and has failed. Danger 
has been found to exist in a free coloured popula- 
tion, danger commensurate to its extent, and, 
therefore, it is that in many of the Colonies, " laws 
to restrain manumissions have originated within a 
very few years." These acts are spoken of by the 
report in terms which are justified by no evidence. 

The case and the laws of Grenada are referred 
to as constituting a cruel mockery, "enhancing the 



[ 107 ] 

pain of the oppression." The Legislature of Gre- 
nada in 1797 required a deposit of .§£]00 on ma- 
numissions, and granted an annuity of £\0 for 
life to the person manumitted. In 1806 they 
retained the deposit without making any annual 
allowance. This conduct of the Legislature is 
accounted for by the Chief Justice, who has pub- 
lished the laws of Grenada, stating that the pro- 
vision had been abused, and improper advantages 
taken of it. The report states the law, but omits 
the justificatory exposition of the Chief Justice 
which accompanies. The establishment of manu- 
mission-deposits and annuities dependent thereon is 
of antient practice on good principles in all the Colo- 
nies, and their subsequent increase of amount is to be 
attributed to, and may be defended in all, by the fol- 
lowing history of events which occurred in Grenada; 

In the beginning of March, 1795, a rebellion broke 
out among the free coloured people of Grenada. 
They seized in the first moments of the insurrection 
45 principal proprietors and inhabitants, and carried 
them off prisoners to their camp, where, for several 
weeks they endured all the indignities, privations, 
and miseries to which such a condition exposed 
them, personally knowing, and being personally 
known to, their rebellious captors. Removed at 
length to Mount Quaqoa, the highest station of Fe- 



[ 108 ] 

don, the Mulatto rebel general's camp, and con- 
fined all within a wooden tenement, on the night of 
the 7th of April one of these unfortunate gentle- 
men awakened the rest by informing them that he 
had heard one of the centinels tell another that an 
order had been issued for putting all the prisoners 
to death. Another gentleman stated that he had 
heard the words, and that they did not bear any 
such import. When the next morning the guard 
entered to turn them out severally for slaughter, the 
former gentleman could not refrain from exulting 
even in the moment of death, in the correctness of 
his information, exclaiming — Gentlemen, you find 
I was accurate. A line of coloured rebels was 
drawn up at a short distance from the wooden house, 
and fronted towards it. A party entered and turn- 
ed out these unfortunate individuals singly to the 
death which each received, as he was made to turn 
off in walking to the right, from one of the Mulat- 
tos in line stepping forward, putting his musket 
close to his back, and discharging the ball through 
his body. Among the prisoners were a surgeon, 
Mr. Hay, and the Rev. Mr. M'Mahon, the rector 
of St. Patrick's parish, the residence of Fedon. 
Mr. Hay was preserved by order, because his assist- 
ance was necessary to the rebels. One of the rebels 
sent in undertook to save the life of the clergyman, 
and leading him out attempted to passhiia through the 



E 109 ] 

line. One of those in line stepped back, and with the 
butt-end of his firelock struck at the priest in order to 
drive him back. The attention of Fedon, who sat 
down at a small distance, viewing and superintending 
the massacre, was attracted by these circumstances, 
and the observation of Mr. Hay, who separated 
and saved from among the rest was seated by him, 
and he called out, waving with his hand, Spare that 
man. Thus saved, the rector was supported, for his 
half-covered feet were wounded and torn by pre- 
ceding marches, and led to, and seated, for he could 
not stand, where Fedon was sitting, and thence he 
beheld the slaughter of his remaining fellow-prison- 
ers. The Lieutenant-Governor the Honourable 
Ninian Home fell. Archibald Campbell, the illus- 
trious patriot of Grenada, a name for ever dear to 
every British Colonist, as the bold assertor of their 
rights, came forth, and opening his bosom to the 
rebels, called upon them to give fire, received it, 
and fell. Of other individuals, as the ball passed 
through the body, the hand was applied to the wound 
at which it passed out through the breast, and the 
unhappy individual raising, and looking at his bloody 
hand, sunk and expired. Thus many perished. 
Many, as the shot was received, sprang up convulsed, 
and fell dead. To the heads of those who did not 
immediately expire, muskets were applied, and ef- 
fectually discharged. The shrieks and outcries were 
terrible of a British lad who would not come out, 



[ no ] 

and was murdered within the lodge. Three persons 
only survived this bloody scene. The names of the 
42 sufferers are recorded on a public monument 
erected to their memory in the Colony. 

I leave to this narration the justification of Gre- 
nada. Other Colonies did not shut their eyes to 
what was passing in Grenada. They saw the 
failure of the only principle upon which the gradual 
increase of the intermediate class had been acqui- 
esced in. They did not however resort to actual 
prohibitions, nor to the harsh measure of confining 
the reward of personal merit to the person — they 
opposed difficulties to enfranchisement, from whose 
operations they expected effects that would diminish 
and restrain their numbers within the limits of 
peaceful safety. The increase of manumission- de- 
posits is thus accounted for. If under the exaspe- 
ration of the moment, at a time and under circum- 
stances not favourable to correct calculation, some 
may have exceeded, the excess is also to be referred 
to the same causes. The other causes stated by the 
Colonial Legislatures justify the demand and reten- 
tion of an adequate deposit, not extending in effect 
beyond the objects of purview. 

These men were in possession of all the rights of 
Britons. They possessed them by the establishment 
of a British Constitution and Laws. Of none could 



[ in D 

they after the settlement of the Government have 
been deprived, except by laws to which the King 
and assented. Yet this availed not. The same also 
would have been the case with the free coloured 
inhabitants of Trinidad. Any charter of settlement, 
any capitulation upon surrender derogatory of these 
British rights is in itself void. Settlements are of 
Britons. Capitulations of temporary existence, and 
applicable only to the intermediate time which pre- 
cedes final cession. — Settled or conquered, every 
Colony is entitled under the conditions and limi- 
tations expressed in the Grenada proclamations to 
a British Constitution and Laws. 

This insurrection and massacre, it has been con- 
sidered, was only a French rebellion, and to be at- 
tributed to French principles. This, though not 
exactly so, may yet be admitted. But when the 
Commissioners of the National Convention at 
Guadaloupe sought for instruments in Grenada to 
effect their purposes, to whom did observation lead 
them ? There were in the Colony Frenchmen, 
French freemen of colour, French negroes. The 
whites were neglected, though they joined afterwards. 
The Commissioners preferred, they selected and 
seduced the coloured freemen, possessing all the 
rights of Britons, as their fittest and most convenient 
instruments, in consequence of, and from a consi- 
deration of their intermediate condition and station 

in society, from their connections with, and the in- 

8 



[ 112 ] 

fluence their example might have upon the slaves, 
and that it might appear and be considered only as 
a contest with the whites for freedom, that so the 
whole coloured population might be identified, as 
seeking the recovery of rights, emancipation from 
tyranny and oppression. 

In the same spirit, and with the same views, 
the agitators of Trinidad practised upon the free 
coloured population of the Colony, and prevailed 
upon a few of not the most respectable, to resist 
a measure which could not but have terminated for 
their advantage, as has been already shewn, in the 
due and regular establishment of the British Con- 
stitution and Laws, to a full participation of which 
they would have at once been admitted without 
any distinction of persons or colours, and in which 
they would have been secured against all violation, 
which, if even meditated, could never have been 
effected but by the Royal assent, which might, when- 
ever necessary, have been deprecated. Intend- 
ing to annoy the whites, and to deprive them of 
all power to interfere with or interrupt their pro- 
jects or plans respecting the slaves, they judged the 
middle population to be fit instruments for their pur- 
poses, practised and tampered with them according- 
ly, and whilst they would covertly sink, confound, and 
identify them with the slaves, persuaded them to re- 
sist, instead of joining with all free persons in a mea- 
sure intended to exalt and improve the conditions 

3 



[ 113 ] 

of all freemen, and this, that the agitators them- 
selves might keep possession of the Colony and its 
government, and make experiments dangerous and 
injurious to the peace, happiness, and safety of all. 

In the same spirit, and with the same views, is 
not the African Institution now practising with the 
coloured population, — with the people of colour in 
all the Colonies, privately agitating and intriguing 
with them, whilst their inferior agents, in their peri- 
odical publications, have recommended that they 
should " be sent for," and maintained at the general 
expense, as mercenaries and auxiliaries in that war, 
which they are for ever waging against the British 
Colonists ? By these it has been proposed " to raise a 
u fund for bringing over to England a few witnesses ol 
" the class of persons of colour, from each Colony, to 
" give testimony of Colonial practices." In an Ad- 
dress from the African Institution to the public, 
dated January 22, 1816*, it is stated, "that the si- 
" tuation of the slaves and coloured population in 
" our West India islands has been a subject of con- 
*'■ stant and increasing solicitude with the Institution, 
" and a determination is expressed to persevere until 
c< public feeling shall overcome those deep-rooted 
" prejudices and mistaken views, which are opposed 
" to the happiness and rights of the enslaved Afri- 
" cans and people of colour in these Colonies." 
Can I understand the words of the preceding seu- 

i 



C 114 ] 

tence, printed in Italics, in any other than their 
commonly received acceptation, by which the terms 
coloured population and people of colour, are ap- 
plied to free persons in the Colonies, not whites ? 
Coloured population is clearly contradistinguished 
from slaves in the first place — in the second, enslaved, 
may be referred both to people of colour and Afri- 
cans, although enslaved people of colour is a term 
never used. Is the object thus insidiously concealed, 
that it may be avowed or disclaimed as may be conve- 
nient ? I must understand the words, in their usual 
sense and application. The people of colour in 
nearly all, with trifling exceptions in a few Colonies, 
possess all the rights Of Britons. All that remains 
for the Institution to do, is to introduce them to the 
boards and beds of the white Colonists. 

Is there a man of any class, colour, or description 
in the Colonies, who does not start, with horror, at 
such a suggestion. Yet is it the only inference that 
can remain to be made, when the happiness and 
rights of men who possess all the rights of Britons, 
are to be advanced. To no legal disabilities are 
they subjected. By moral distinctions alone are 
they separated. These boundaries are all that re- 
main to be removed or overleaped. 

Is there an inhabitant of Great Britain, who would 
not start at a determination expressed by any asso- 



[ H5 ] 

elation of persons, " to persevere until the general 
." feeling of the British public should gradually over- 
" come those deep-rooted prejudices and mistaken 
" views so long opposed to the happiness and rights 
" of the inferior orders of society" in Great Britain, 
by which they have been and are excluded from the 
tables and beds of the higher classes, of the privi- 
leged order (so they call the white Colonists) in 
Great Britain. Of this violation, the evils in a 
succeeding generation of all white persons, might 
disappear ; but what shall we say of submitting the 
daughters of Great Britain, or of the Colonies, to 
the embraces of persons, towards whom there is in 
fact, and confessedly an instinctive feeling, not 
merely " a prejudice or a mistaken view," which 
the strongest and most brutal of passions is not 
always able to overcome, and which (in the last 
extremity) would abate even the joy of a mother, 
that a man child is born into the world. 

If upon the equivocal terms used, it should be 
denied, that this is contemplated by the Report or 
Address of the Society, yet such is the state to which 
by the projected mode of emancipation, the report 
of their committee, if such it be, proposes to bring 
the population of the Colonies, and such is to be the 
Euthanasia of Colonial slavery. 

I cannot refrain, upon the present occasion, from 
I 2 



c m ] 

expostulating with the noble Earl, who communi- 
cated to the Colony, through the Governor, the re- 
jection by government of the application from Tri- 
nidad for a British constitution and laws. In the 
official letter, it is stated in terms applicable alike to 
Colonists and Colonial Assemblies, that, "they have 
" been educated, or suppose themselves to be edu- 
" cated, in the knowledge of them," the British 
constitution and laws. Never, in so few words, 
weie men and legislatures at once so disqualified, 
and more than disqualified. 

The- Colonies, in considerably more than their 
just proportion as compared with other parts of the 
British dominions, abound with men completely edu- 
cated in all the knowledge of past and of present 
times, in whatever literature, philosophy, general or 
particular policy can teach, in all the knowledge of 
the British and Colonial constitutions and laws. 
What will be the feeling of every Colonist who 
reads this letter ? 

The dispatch is official : the words may be of 
office. I ascribe them to the suggestions of those 
who seize every occasion to degrade the West India 
character, and have particularly busied themselves 
in the affairs of Trinidad. To the same men I as- 
cribe the false impressions made on government, 
leading them to conclude, that to grant to British 



[ 117 ] 

subjects the British constitution and laws established 
in the other British Colonies, would lead to the di- 
rect, or to any invasion or abridgment of the poli- 
tical and legal rights of the free coloured population 
of Trinidad, or to any regulations respecting the 
same, except what the British government might ap- 
prove, and his Majesty must assent to. They have 
thus doubly committed government on points of 
Colonial personal estimation and general policy and 
law. These persons, or persons of this same cha- 
racter, are now misleading the good and honourable 
members of the African Institution, by misrepresent- 
ing and confounding the moral and social with the 
legal and political condition of the free people of 
colour in the West Indies. To watch over the 
abolition of the Slave Trade is a great and noble ob- 
ject. — When this no longer affords employment — 
when the civilization of Africa, which calls for, and 
will exhaust all their means, ceases to proceed — 
when the source of the Congo shall be ascertained, 
for the benefit of geography, although no commerce 
may thrive, as none can now land upon its inhospi- 
table banks, possessed by nations fierce and barba- 
rous, who use, who require no articles of innocent im- 
port. — Let not the Society, in imitation of the slave 
dealers, to whom they have succeeded, voyaging 
from Africa to the West Indies with equally base 
and cruel freights, purchased, and collected, and to 
be employed in their West India labours, under 



[ US ] 

the same violations of persons and of rights which 
existed in the slave trade, seek to amuse pub- 
lic expectation, and support their own existence, by 
speculations in an equally base and sordid traffic 
carried on for the benefit and on account, but not 
risk, of their inferior agents. 

Atn I not justified in imputing sordid motives 
when I see men enriched in themselves and in their 
relatives — when I see professions and trades exer- 
cised, and more prosperously and safely than in or- 
dinary circumstances, under the influences, and with 
the means of others exerted and employed upon va- 
rious occasions ? Can these renewed agitations be 
referred to any other principle but that of covering 
and protecting the title to what has been acquired, 
and of leading to other and further acquisitions ? 



These two classes thus described, together with 
the first class of white inhabitants British subjects, 
forming the principal class of masters of slaves, con- 
stitute nearly the whole mixed population of the 
Colonies. — Of the slaves of this population, thus 
composed and conditioned, an emancipation is now 
for the first time distinctly proposed. 

Of this as a question of magnitude and of danger 



[ m i 

unparalleled — of vital importance to all in the Colo- 
nies and in Great Britain — to the contemplation — to 
the consideration — to the agitation of this question, 
we are compelled, by a necessity which we depre- 
cate, under a responsibility at which we tremble for 
ourselves and for all. For ourselves, therefore, and 
for all, and for itself, we invoke the justice of the 
nation for all consequences upon the heads of those 
who have moved it. 

The question is to be considered as it respects 
national interests — individual interests, even of those 
for whom it is proposed — and the means proposed 
for effecting it. 

To all national interests, emancipation, however, 
and whenever effected, gives the death-blow. The 
naval power which depends upon the commerce, the 
commerce which depends upon the agriculture, will 
all fall with the agriculture. Never can the agricul- 
ture of the Colonies, and the emancipation of the 
labourers co-exist. — Never can the agriculture be 
maintained under any state that shall deny to it that 
controul over persons, and the possession of powers, 
which it now retains, and by which, during every 
day of labour in the year, it is enabled to command 
and to apply them. Even now the agriculture in 
detail is only and exactly commensurate to the ex- 
tent of these powers and of this controul, and the 
assured possession of them during the whole succes- 



[ 120 ] 

sion of days, months, and years. The labours of 
West India cultivation continue through the whole 
period of crops which require more than a year to 
begin and be completed. On every one of the six 
days of every week, in every month, in the whole 
year, the whole of the population of every planta- 
tion or village, for such it truly is, has allotted la- 
bours to perform, adapted to the powers of the va- 
rious classes into which the persons are distributed. 
These works, as times or seasons require, are for the 
first classes, the most laborious of preparing, plant- 
ing, or reaping the crop which should repay the 
capitalist, or provisions to sustain the population ; 
and for the other classes, works of inferior labour, 
or auxiliary to those of the first classes. 

Notwithstanding these arrangements for the year, 
the urgency of particular occasions frequently ren- 
ders it necessary to procure auxiliary labour, that 
whilst one essential work is in progress, another 
equally indispensable may, in due season, be accom- 
plished. All these require such a constant and con- 
tinued command and controul of active powers, that 
without them they would languish, and must fail. I 
appeal to all, who know the West Indies, for a con- 
firmation of these things 5 and I appeal to posterity 
upon the result of and against the experiment, if the 
experiment shall ever be tried. 



[ 121 ] 

Under absolute emancipation this controul can 
never exist — under any qualified or supposed eman- 
cipation which shall maintain this controul, all the 
evils complained of, and magnified in the existing 
slavery, will remain* They will always remain 
whilst a power of man over man remains, which 
wicked persons and passions will not fail as now to 
abuse. Neither the apprenticeships of England or 
of Sierra Leone afford any hope, that West India 
apprenticeships would produce better treatment or 
afford more protection than is now enjoyed. That 
under any thing short of absolute emancipation, 
abuses will continue — that under absolute emanci- 
pation neither the agriculture, the commerce, or the 
naval power will continue, I state, not intending to 
infer or decide that this or that is to be preferred, 
nor will I maintain that because these may be lost, 
that shall be abandoned. To those to whom the 
fates of empires are committed I leave the decision. 
Towards them, towards my country, I have perform- 
ed my duty by this exposition. — It yet remains to be 
performed towards individuals. Attachment to the 
soil, the state of villeinage, proposed for imitation 
and adoption, would yield, whilst it continued, no 
additional protection against evils similar to the pre- 
sent, to be derived from lords and bailiffs. 

Emancipation must of necessity be immediate and 
direct, or future and to be produced by the insen- 



[ 122 ] 

sible operation of time and circumstances effecting 
the change. 

That it can be immediate and direct is impossible. 
This is inconsistent with all the individual as well as 
national interests implicated, and is even by the 
agitators themselves of the Colonies admitted so 
to be. 

In the first place, the train of compensations it 
would naturally draw along with it, for property 
taken, or destroyed, or rendered of no value, exceeds 
all the ability, of the United Kingdom to discharge, 
even were the Colonies called upon to contribute 
their full share of the expense. Great Britain never 
takes, for public uses or objects, individual proper- 
ty, without a full and duly estimated compensation. 
Compensation the Colonists are unquestionably enti- 
tled to demand, and beyond all doubt they are 
equally entitled to demand from parliament, and 
do now demand protection and safety for property, 
and respect for rights, by declarations that shall 
guarantee them against all future attacks to be 
made thereon, under cover of parliamentary pro- 
ceeding. 

To the unfortunate slaves themselves no proceed- 
ing could be more fatal or disastrous, The wretched 



[ 123 ] 

white population might be withdrawn by a middle 
voyage of miseries and deaths to other countries, 
the black population would proceed through massa- 
cres and destruction to establish another Africa in the 
American islands, and convert the settlements of 
British power and wealth into provision grounds of 
Arum and Convolvulus-Batatas roots. 

If emancipation then must be of future time, why 
is it not abandoned to future time ? Eight years 
have passed since the first Abolition Act was enacted. 
In eight years an individual scarcely emerges from 
infancy. In the ages of nations and societies eight 
years are as nothing. The Villeinage of England 
fully established at the time of the Conquest, con- 
tinued until the 15th James I. in which year the last 
legal case of Villeinage occurred, (omitting all consi- 
deration of the 12 Car. II. which extinguished 
the real tenure) during a period of 550 years, and 
was at last effected, as the Report states, by a revo- 
lution in opinions and manners, by particular 
manumissions, and by melioration of condition. 
Without questioning these causes or their operation, 
I hesitate not to affirm that more has been done 
within these eight years; in these respects, for the 
Colonial slaves, than any 50 years in England ever 
effected for its villeins. How far these, any conti- 
nuance of these, any progressive improvement or 
extension of these measures may, during any period, 
by the operation of these, and of time alone, ex- 



[ 124 ] 

tinguish the slavery, will hereafter appear from the 
reasons which shall be assigned. 

I proceed now to examine the particular modes 
or means proposed of effecting emancipation. Two 
examples from history are exhibited, Roman slavery 
and English villeinage, the one for illustration, the 
other for imitation. The supplies of captives once 
cutoff, they both, it is stated, gradually declined, and 
were extinguished by time and other causes. The 
precise time during which Roman slavery gradually 
disappeared, cannot be so accurately estimated as for 
English villeinage. The causes to which the ex- 
tinction of each is ascribed, I am not inclined to ad- 
mit. Of the extinction of Roman slavery, having 
no talent for invention, I forbear to speak. For the 
extinction of English villeinage, manumissions may 
have done a little, but so far was melioration of con- 
dition from effecting the change, that the total neg- 
lect of the lord for his villeins, during periods of 
acquiescence in their independent condition, either 
extinguished all memory of his title or established a 
legal limitation of right by time, which prevailed in 
the Courts against his title. If the principle of 
this acquiescence be sought for, it will be found in 
the nature of the services which were either predial 
and occasional, and might therefore be omitted, or 
personal, and not always required and claimed. But 
above all, the grand and most important distinction 
that appertained to English villeinage, was the 



[ 1«S 3 

natural condition of the person. The English villeio 
was a white man. Those words exclude at once all 
comparison of persons or adaptation or adoption of 
systems. The English villein by not being natu- 
rally distinguished among freemen frequently became 
a freeman, and becoming a freeman was no longer 
distinguishable in society as having been a villein. 

In the Colonies a coloured man when manumit- 
ted becomes not one of, constitutes not a part of 
the population of whites whose privileges he has 
obtained. He is a free man but he does not become 
a white man. For ever he remains distinguished 
by nature and separated by manners, and by social 
institutions which may not be considered as other 
than wise and provident. 

Villeinage in England was of various sorts, pure 
and absolute, privileged and limited. — Villeins were 
in gross and personal, or regardant and atttached 
to lands. The state of the Colonial slaves is as 
nearly as can be that of villeins in gross. This is 
by all authors described as the least oppressive in 
its nature. This was primarily extinguished in fact, 
whilst the real tenure remained until the )2th of 
Car. II. Yet from this state of independent vil- 
leinage, it is proposed to reduce negro slaves to the 
attached state, through which, it is considered that 
they may more comfortably be conducted, to final 
emancipation, and to restore at this day in the Colo- 



C 126 ] 

nies what has been abrogated in Great Britain by 
positive law. To this measure these objections 
are opposed. 

Indissoluble attachment to the soil, which is con- 
tended for, is adverse and opposed to that plan which 
proposes now to arrive at emancipation by particular 
manumissions. The two parts of the plan are at 
variance with each other. In cases of villeinage or 
of attachment to the soil, emancipation to be effec- 
tual by particular manumissions must be accompa- 
nied in cases of attached villeinage by the power of 
detaching from the soil ; and yet the present cry is, 
Attach to the soil, — attach and you may not detach. 
If the object be emanciparion and detachment from 
the soil by manumissions, why begin by attachment ? 
Attachment, therefore, inseparable from the soil, is 
inconsistent with the proposed plan of emancipation. 

But neither will emancipation, nor detachment 
from the soil by manumissions, however general, 
produce that state of society which naturally, fol- 
lowed in the cases of English villeinage or Roman 
slavery. There the only question was slave or free, 
slave or villein; the slave or the villein manumitted 
took at once his station in a society of which he 
became immediately an integrant undistinguishable 
part. 

The union of a West India population is by me- 



C 127 ] 

ehanical intermixture, not natural combination. 
There are repulsions between the various parts, 
which will for ever keep them from forming any other 
kind of association than the present, except by the 
extinction of the whites, and the subsequent depres- 
sion of white mixtures in society, until they shall be 
neglected as unworthy of consideration in the 
dark-coloured medium through which they will be 
found, if existing, indissolubly to float. 

Even if the agriculture should survive this state 
of things, the natural, all connexion between the 
Colonies and parent state will be dissolved, and it 
will be discovered in Great Britain, as it is now 
felt in the Colonies, that all respect, all regard for 
British or white connexion or dependence begins in 
the Colonies in the first place, and subsequently 
extends itself to Europe, and that to weaken or 
destroy that, is to break asunder the connecting line 
of union which passes through all. 

The question of attachment to the soil, as every 
other question arising among persons, such as are 
these, so combined in political society, is to be con- 
sidered and disposed of under a double reference, 
which should respect the rights of others over, and 
in those persons, as well as the rights of the persons 
themselves who are to be so attached, how far the 
interests of those are compromised, what of benefit 
or injury will accrue to these. 



:[ 128 ] 

The measure would be unquestionably a gross 
violation of the rights of property, not only as it 
respects immediate proprietors, but as it would affect 
the claims of creditors of every description. It 
could never indeed have been contemplated, nor 
would it have been even for a moment endured, 
except in such a species of property. 

There are even in slavery certain paramount in- 
defeasible rights, securing to the slave all things ne- 
cessary to support and solace life, food, raiment, 
lodging, family rights, such as service, labour, a due 
exertion of bodily power can every where obtain, 
and without which labour and life itself may not be 
preserved and continued in existence or succession. 
Against these rights I admit none other under the 
slavery to prevail. The question then is, how far 
these rights of property to be controuled are opposed 
to those rights of persons, and if opposed, whether 
the present state of unattached, or that proposed o£ 
slavery indissolubly attached to a particular soil, 
and place, and situation, trenches most on these 
rights so as to forbid or recommend the change. 

In the Colonies, the plan of attaching slaves to 
the soil has generally been advocated by men in 
distressed circumstances, as combined with certain 
preliminary legal processes for enforcing payment 
of debts to which delays would be incident, and 
expenses and a command of capital would be re- 



[ 129 ] 

quired through sales, receivers, or trustees, such as 
no general creditor would submit to, or might possess. 
The pretences have been sometimes of a public na- 
ture for preventing the dilapidation and destruction of 
plantations, and sometime* of a private, for securing 
the slaves against the inconveniences of removals ; 
but the motives have been obviously of particular 
convenience and of the persons proposing. The 
arguments derived from such sources will be duly 
appreciated, and perhaps the removal from an es- 
tablishment thus conditioned may not be dreaded 
by the slaves themselves. 

There are indeed benefits obtained as well as in- 
juries suffered by the dissociation from an establish- 
ment where everything is settled and arranged. On 
the other hand, there are benefits also obtained by 
the change. There are benefits obtained, or injuries 
secured against by the attachment. There are bene- 
fits lost and injuries suffered by the attachment. 
Upon a due consideration of these, it is extremely 
difficult to decide, and hazardous to advise a change. 

Perhaps the proper objection is to the system 
itself, as a system overwhelming every thing, and 
changing every thing, and which, when established, 
may operate to purposes never contemplated, with a 
power of action and motion not to be controuled or 
restrained when put m operation. If to the master 
remain,and who can take away without consent, with- 

K 



E 130 ] 

oujt compensation, the power of disposing of, the pow- 
er of detachings — these powers, those interests, which 
are of the master, and belong to his creditor if he 
has any, cannot be taken away from either, and why 
should a power be denied to the laws of doing that 
for justice'-sake which the master may do for his 
own sake ? For the sake of humanity the exercise 
of this power may be regulated without injury to 
master or slave, and these regulations through the 
master will be extended to others, and the extent 
and due conservation of the masters rights will be 
the principles to guide in, and to be extended to all 
cases. 

The evils complained of, which arise from the sale 
for debt, and dissociation or removal of persons, 
may be remedied in themselves by partial regu- 
lations specially applied and submitted to the test 
of experience. That savours more of revolutiona- 
ry practice which begins by destroying in order 
to renew. This is more consonant to British prin- 
ciples proceeding by regulations which shall controul 
the evils without producing greater or other. 

And after all, what do the men in Great Britain 
and in the Colonies who recommend the system, 
know of the attached villeinage, which by way of 
emancipating them, is to chain individuals to soils, 
except of the single circumstance of enchainment ? 
Of what description they are in the Colonies has 



C 131 ] 

been stated. Their condition I may lament, though 
I may not respect their motives. The numbers 
are indeed small of these speculators and therefore 
distressed, of these distressed and therefore specu- 
lators in agriculture, in general and Colonial policy, 
in all things. Still less do I respect the motives of 
those in Great Britain, who with similar views pos- 
sess not similar means of judging. 

West India slavery is in fact already as nearly as 
may be, that species of villeinage in gross which all 
have agreed to consider as the least degrading, least 
oppressive to individuals. The proposal is to change 
it for and into that other, of attachment to the 
worst soils, and to services the most base. 

The question of English villeinage is between 
white men alone ; of West India slavery, between 
white men and negroes. Before the systems 
can be compared, the persons must be assimilated, 
identified in species and in colour. One entire 
class must be changed. Until the leopard change 
his spots, or the Ethiopian change his hue, this 
sliding system may not be contemplated, — not as 
likely to attain its purposed end even in 550 years, 
the period of English villeinage, by that association 
and union into one homogeneous body composed 
of these smaller parts. The everlasting distinctions 
of nature may not be so controuled and surmounted, 



C 132 ] 

No commixture, personal or social, leading to it, 
can be contemplated without alarm and apprehen- 
sion at the consequences of thus confounding all 
things, and sacrificing the smaller number of persons 
delivered over to the greater, disarmed of those ar- 
tificial defences of differing institutions, habits, 
manners, conditions, persons, by which, in all so- 
cieties, the few maintain against the multitude those 
rights or possessions which fanciful, specious, and 
perverted opinions have claimed, and even now 
claim for all. 



Should the voice of humanity inquire how then may 
the slavery be terminated ? How may its evils be re- 
dressed ? Reserving the latter, to the former question 
I answer, certainly by none of the modes proposed j 
and further, that I see no display of adequate intelli- 
gence or accurate information in the proposers, no 
proper general consideration of the subject in all its 
parts and relations, to justify any expectation of 
any thing better from prejudices and personal in- 
terests which require rather to be maintained by 
agitating unceasingly all sorts of questions to sup- 
port a misplaced popularity, and to gratify sordid 
motives of lucre and ambition. 

I have given throughout my life the most earnest 



C 133 ] 

and constant attention to the subject, and confess 
freely, that with the most anxious desire to effect 
whatever is practicable and safe, I have not been 
able to satisfy myself. 

The course of reasoning and of reflections through 
which I have passed, I will put down for my own 
justification, for the elucidation of the subject, and 
for the information of others, of men who from 
pure motives respect, and would secure to all, the 
rights of liberty and of humanity. 

Is this slavery to be perpetual ? Often as has this 
question presented itself to my consideration, it has 
always been preceded or accompanied by the follow- 
ing train of reflections. 

In considering the state of British society, British 
institutions, establishments, and orders of persons, 
there is no consideration which has to my heart been 
such a source of exultation and triumph, as the pow- 
er which every man, the child of every man pos- 
sesses, of arriving at the first places of honour and 
distinction in the government and country. Against 
any exclusions, but of demerit, against any pa- 
trician or plebeian distinctions, or disqualifications, 
I would for ever contend, zealous to shed my blood 
and to sacrifice my life in the sacred cause. This 
privilege I will not submit to any calculate of indi- 
vidual beneficial chances to ascertain its value. Like 



t 134 ] 

a gem it is to be estimated, not by its sordid use, 
but by the sense of distinction and of possible at- 
tainment which it confers. 

Apply this feeling to the state of slavery, and let 
the question be repeated — Is it to be perpetual ? 
This question must be distinguished as applied to 
the condition, or to the individual. The British 
question so applies itself. All cannot arrive at the 
first honours of Great Britain — some will. The 
access is open to all, but almost all will retain their 
original relative condition in the great political 
body^- 

A state of slavery, from which no personal merit 
or exertion could raise the individual would in- 
deed be terrible. There is no such slavery in the 
Colonies. Access to the first stations in society is 
indeed restrained by bars of policy, of nature, and 
of manners. The road is however open which leads 
from slavery to a state of comparative distinction, 
and of all the rights of British freemen, and the 
possibility and the frequency of thus raising him- 
self into a higher class may be compared and esti- 
mated for the slave, and for the British labourer ; and 
I question whether the chance of the one is so very 
far superior to that of the other. 

If the individual were a white man, as in Roman 
slavery and English villeinage, the full power of en- 



[ 135 ] 

joyment would be superadded to the possession of 
these rights. Changing his political, the negro can- 
not put off his natural condition, and this may be 
considered as only one more impediment, one of 
those chances contained in the calculate which we 
rejected, which professed to estimate, and which 
would have reduced almost to extinction in the 
white, as does his condition absolutely in the negro, 
the chances and consequent value of the privilege 
of rising to the first stations. 

The individual therefore may raise himself above 
his servile condition. How may the servile con- 
dition itself be exalted into one purely social. If 
the slavery was of whites no difficulty would remain. I 
should be anxious to anticipate the English period 
of 550 years by all the means that could possibly 
be devised. That this period will be shortened even 
for negro slavery I most confidently trust and hope. 
In the mean time how it may be accelerated I 
have not been able to devise. For them, as could 
only be done for whites, who if they were slaves would 
of necessity, await the progressive changes of tim 
and circumstance, every thing that is possible should 
be effected by a continued supervision of the go- 
verning authorities, whilst the servile state continues, 
to secure to them the possession and enjoyment of all 
thoserights and benefits to which freelabourersinGreat 
Britain are entitled, which they could obtain by the 



[ 136 ] 

same labour, and which constitute all the property 
and happiness of nine-tenths of British freemen. 

All that a good man can desire or propose to 
himself is to secure to those, the rights of labour in 
these, and that the slavery of the Colonies, as are 
their laws, should be agreeable as near as may be, 
the climate and other things considered, to the ser- 
vitude and laws of Great Britain. In both, the Co- 
lonies will not shrink from the comparison, or from 
the provisions necessary. 

Not to exclude the class of coloured freemen by 
law from general or legal, or political rights — to se- 
cure to the class of slaves the perception of these 
their just and indefeasible rights of labour, and of 
protection against the abuse of powers — both these 
objects are within the power and province of the 
royal prerogative. The first may easily be effected 
by that negative controul which of ordinary right 
belongs to it. The second by an active exercise of 
its powers under the direction of good men, practi- 
cally and personally conversant in Colonial affairs, 
who to liberal education and natural intelligence 
add a knowledge of the subject obtained by actual 
residence and inspection, and who have not dis- 
qualified themselves for ever by their courses, their 
prejudices, their motives, their objects — men of in- 
dependent, enlightened, unprejudiced minds, of in- 



[ 137 ] 

formation acquired by having contemplated the 
scenes and the states and the persons in their natu- 
ral and actual, and local condition and existence, 
men capable of moving through a moral or a social 
medium without imbibing any of its impregnations 
or taints, — men of feeling without prejudice, of no 
personal motives, no sordid objects, no malignant 
feelings, — men who know men, and to whom 
nothing that is human is unknown, nihil humani 
alienum. With the power secured to individuals of 
rising above the servile condition, with a due con- 
servation of rights to all who continue in the ser- 
vile classes — without injury to property, without vio- 
lation of persons, without destruction of national 
establishments, of commerce, and of power — time 
discovering and working out for all interests com- 
pensations, by changes effectual, but gradual—to Pro- 
vidence may be left the final consummation of this 
state of things, to be effected according to the 
dispensations of that wisdom and goodness which 
direct and order all things. 



On reviewing what is past, it appears that the 
Registry Bill may be considered as disposed of up- 
on a total failure of proof that there exists any 
fact, circumstance, or necessity to support it as a 



[ 138 ] 

parliamentary measure, if not rejected in limine 
by a dignified proceeding on the part of the British 
Parliament refusing to interfere in matters entirely 
within the province of Colonial Legislation. 

The points which remain, and remain I trust for 
ever settled, respect the right of the Imperial Par- 
liament internally to legislate for Colonies possessed 
of duly and fully constituted Legislatures, and the 
emancipation of Colonial slaves considered in its 
modes and consequences. 

Nothing can be more clearly -and constitutionally 
established than these points ; that after by the King, 
in whom primarily the power is by the prerogative 
vested, or by Parliament, in whom the King is in- 
cluded and by his own assent alone concluded, 
a British constitution and laws are established in 
any Colony, the power of internal regulation ante- 
cedently in the King, and all power of internal 
legislation in the Parliament, is ended : 

That emancipation cannot immediately and never 
can be directly accomplished without compensations 
for the property taken or rendered of no value, 
without a sacrifice of commerce and navigation, 
and of naval power dependent upon these, which 
the nation would for ever feel, without evils 
and injury incalculable even to the slaves them- 
selves. 



[ 139 ] 

Although the power of internal legislation for 
the Colonies is not in Parliament, yet for and over 
the whole empire Parliament possesses powers to 
be exercised for the good of all, specially for the 
good of the United Kingdom. To these powers we 
now resort, humbly invoking of Parliament the aid, 
and the display and exercise of all its energies, to 
protect the rights of the Colonists, and in them the 
rights of the whole empire. To Parliament we 
commit the care of these rights, which should be, 
and indeed are, and are to them as their own. 

We intreat Parliament to watch over the antient 
Colonies, to preserve them, and with them the 
antient Constitutions under which the Colonies 
have in all times past thriven, and continue to 
thrive ; to apply all their energies to a considera- 
tion of the unconstitutional state in which the 
British conquered and ceded Colonies are retained ; 
over all mismanagements and abuses, which begin- 
ning in the Colonies and extending themselves every 
where by their influence and example, may affect the 
general interests of the empire, to exert their con* 
tinued vigilance and controul for the sake of British 
interests primarily, finally for the good of all. 

Let me again and again warn the British Govern- 
ment and Ministers with respect to the whole course 
of measures and proceedings into which a self-in- 
terested faction would lead them, and by which they 



t *40 ] 

may incur a fearful responsibility to the nation, and 
to posterity. 

Let me exhort all ministers, governors, judges, 
and officers to aid these energies of Parliament, to 
shorten as much as possible the duration of these 
intermediate states of foreign despotism and royal 
regulation in Colonies now British, and whenever 
called to apply and enforce the laws of tyrannous 
establishments, to confine themselves in practice 
within the pale of British law and British feeling, 
and to prescribe to themselves as a general rule* 
never to do that which British law, and freedom, 
and manners, would reject and reprobate. 

Let me warn all, by the examples herein adduced, 
against committing themselves personally or politi- 
cally to these agents of African traffic and trade, I 
warn public men returning from the Colonies against 
the insidious practice of introducing persons and 
tracts to their consideration, and the flattery which 
appears to consult, whilst it intends to betray; and I 
warn the Colonist himself against all hypocritical 
greetings and notices to which he may find himself 
exposed, against the self-complacency thus excited 
in himself, by which, combined with his own manly 
regret respecting the evils of a state he cannot 
change, he may unwarily be led to mix himself with 
men whose objects and feelings are not in unison 
with his own. 



[ hi 2 

I again return to and to warn Parliament against 
the impropriety of any corporation, company, asso- 
ciation or institution proceeding as such beyond the 
principles and powers of creation and existence ap- 
pertaining to each. Beyond these they are not 
known, are not to be received. Organized and con- 
stituting themselves judges of things beyond them- 
selves, or assumed to belong to themselves, they ex- 
pect to influence, perhaps to overawe, Parliament, as 
clubs have done in other countries, being like clubs, 
always conducted and moved by a few inferior agents 
with the power and momentum of the whole body ; 
and I claim from its magnanimity and justice decla- 
rations and the adoption of measures which shall 
secure the liberties, properties, and lives of the Co- 
lonists from all question or danger of invasion, by 
which they are daily threatened, and may be sud- 
denly destroyed. 



On the 26th of February this Work was sent to 
the press ; on the 25th day of this instant, (March) 
it comes forth. In the mean time printed declara- 
tions and admissions have been made of persons and 
transactions which would give the credit of divina- 
tion to what is herein written. — " What I have writ- 
ten I have written." I feel considerable satisfaction 
in being able to refer the Trinidad Letter to its pro- 
per source. This I was anxious to do in the text, to 
separate what was of office from the person of the 



C 142 ] 

noble writer, and to refer the things which were 
most invidious, as well as those which were not duly 
founded, only to those to whom they were then, 
and it now appears truly ascribed, to those who were 
permitted "to advise on the Constitution and Laws 
to be given to that Colony." The voice was in- 
deed Jacob's voice, the hand appeared to be the 
hand of Esau. I cannot however applaud the pru- 
dence of employing prejudiced and unqualified per- 
sons to advise in these cases. The letter will be 
read by every Colonist with feelings which a Go- 
vernment should never excite. These in me 
were severe, so as almost to be remembered with 
regret. 

By feelings like these are the sons of the Colonies 
urged irreristibly to come forward in their own de- 
fence. The British Colonies have never wanted men, 
their sons, to vindicate their characters and assert their 
rights, whenever occasion has demanded, or excite- 
ment urged. Nothing less than the meditated invasion 
of these could now have excited me. Among these 
sons my desire is to stand the most humble in con- 
sideration, among the most ardent in defence of all. 
The Colonies possess and will always possess sons 
equally zealous, more powerful, constantly readv 
to march to the pqmcerium of their rights, liberties, 
and establishments, and by all the arms and arts of 
policy, prudence, and science to resist all aggression. 



L 143 ] 
RESOLUTIONS 

OF THE 

HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY OF BARBADOS, 
READ AND PASSED UNANIMOUSLY, 

JANUARY 17, 1816. 



1st. Resolved. — That this House having received from its 
agent in London the copy of a Slave Registry Bill lately intro- 
duced into the House of Commons, conceives itself most urgently 
called upon to protest against the infringement which this Bill 
attemots on the rights of our Colonial Legislature. 

2d. Resolved. — That the allegation contained in the said Bill, 
namely, that there is an illicit importation of Slaves into the 
West Indies, as far as it respects this Island, is totally void 
of foundation ; this House feeling the most thorough conviction 
that the only Africans imported here since the abolition of the 
Slave Trade have been either brought in as prize to his Majesty's 
navy, or for the purpose of recruiting his army. 

3d. Resolved. — That although the ostensible object of the Bill 
is to obtain a Registry of Slaves, it obviously proposes to obtain 
that by imposing a tax upon every slave proprietor within the 
Colony in manifest violation of that sound and just principle of 
the British Constitution, that representation and taxation are in- 
separable. 

4th. Resolved. — That the sole right of imposing taxes on the 
inhabitants of this Island, or of passing laws for internal regula- 
tion, is now and hath been for a length of time past vested in the 
House of Assembly, with the consent of the Council and of the 
King, or his representative here for the time being, a right which 
can never be safely or advantageously exercised by those who are 



utter strangers to these Colonies, and must necessarily want that 
local information which is so essential to the important work of 
Legislation. 

5th. Resolved. — That although there is an Act at present iiv 
force in this Island which requires under a heavy penalty the an- 
nual return upon oath of the slaves of each proprietor ; yet to 
evince the cordial desire which this House feels to co-operate in 
any measure deemed necessary for carrying into effect the Acts 
of the Imperial Parliament for abolishing the Slave Trade, it de- 
clares that it is most willing to adopt by any Act of the Legislature 
of this Island such parts of the Registry Bill as are compatible 
with the legitimate rights and local circumstances of the inhabi- 
tants of this Island, and which may be more adequate to ascertain 
the slave population. 

6th. Resolved. — That the Committee of Correspondence be re- 
quested to instruct our agent in England to give every oppositioa 
in his power to the Registry Bill now pending in the Imperial 
Paa-liament, and by the earliest opportunity to transmit to him 
the address prepared by the joint Committee of the Honourable 
Board of Council and of this House. 

By Order of the House of Assembly, 

JOHxN BECKLES, 

Speaker. 



C 145 ] 

(Copy) 

TO 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS 
GEORGE PRINCE REGENT. 

The humble Address and Petition of the Council and 
Assembly of Barbados: 



MAY IT PLEASE YOUR ROYAL HTGHISTESS, 

We, his Majesty's most faithful subjects, Members of the 
Council and of the General Assembly of this his antient and 
loyal Colony of Barbados, in approaching your Royal Highness, 
at a moment to us of just alarm, hope we may be permitted to 
condole with your Royal Highness on that melancholy affliction 
of Providence, which deprives us of the paternal protection of 
our most gracious Sovereign, and to entreat your Royal High- 
ness's favorable attention to these our humble supplications. 

Yielding to none of our European fellow-citizens in zeal and 
affection to your Royal Highness's illustrious house, and attach- 
ment to the glory and interests of the United Kingdom and its 
dependencies, we beg leave, with all due deference, to claim, in 
a spirit strictly accordant with these professions, for ourselves, ovir 
constituents, and our posterity, all the acknowledged and well- 
known rights and privileges of British subjects. 

It is not without serious concern, therefore, that we have no- 
ticed the introduction into the House of Commons of a Bill " for 
" more effectually preventing the unlawful Importation of Slaves, 
" and the holding free persons in slavery in the British Colonies," 
which, were it to receive the sanction of the Legislature, would, 
in many of its enactments, be entirely subversive of that most 
vital and fondly-cherished principle of our Constitution, that 

L 



[ 146 ] 

" Taxation and Representation are inseparable," the inhabitants 
of this Colony, as your Royal Highness must be aware, having 
neither Representative nor influence in the Imperial Parliament. 

Allow us, without offence, to call to your Royal Highness's re- 
collection, that the darkest cloud which ever obscured the bright- 
ness of the present glorious and happy reign, originated in un- 
justifiable and impolitic attempts to establish the doctrine against 
which we now contend, and which is, we are confident, no less 
incompatible with the well-known liberality of your Royal High- 
ness's sentiments than with the enjoyment of those rights and 
liberties, which we have ever been taught to esteem as the most 
valuable possession of freemen. 

We pray your Royal Highness to reflect how probable it is, 
that all endeavours to frame provincial laws, by a body of raen ; 
four thousand miles distant from the scenes of their attempted 
regulations, will fail of their desired effect, as it is impossible that 
the best understandings and the purest motives can supply the 
want of that local knowledge so essentially necessary to the impor- 
tant work of Legislation. 

We most solemnly assure your Royal Highness of our firm 
conviction, that in this Colony, there never has been, nor is ever 
likely to be, any evasion of the Slave Trade Abolition Act, a 
measure which has always been considered by us equally honora- 
ble to the mother country, and conducive to the prosperity of this 
Island, abounding as it does in a large and increasing population 
of Creole Slaves, which will, we trust, in a short time, be amply 
competent to the task of cultivating the whole of its productive 
soil. 

Could any plan, nevertheless, be devised by the parent state, 
not inconsistent with the exercise of our undoubted political 
rights, to give the completest effect to that law, it would be re- 
ceived by us with gratitude, and furthered with alacrity and zeal. 
We challenge any the strictest scrutiny that can be made into 
the state and condition of the Slaves of this Colony, confident 
that the result of it would be highly creditable to the character 
of the Colony, and soothing to the feelings of our fellow-subjects 



[ 147 ] 

at home, inflamed and misguided as they are by false representa- 
tions and calumnious reports. 

We beg - leave to deprecate, in the strongest terms, all legislatire 
interference between master and slave, as leading to consequences 
directly opposite to the professed object of those deluded philan- 
thropists, who would thus increase instead of diminishing the 
sum of human misery, by exciting ill-defined expectations that 
cannot be gratified, and encouraging an insubordination necessa- 
rily productive (if not of still more horrid evils) of that very 
severity which they seem most anxious to restrain. 

We shall await with anxious, but confident minds, the result 
of this appeal to the generosity and justice of your Royal 
Highness, and ardently hope, that the candid and gracious 
reception of it, which we humbly presume to anticipate, may in- 
duce your Royal Highness, acting in the name and on the behalf 
of his Majesty, to oppose the weight of your Royal Highness's 
authority to the passing of this obnoxious Bill into a law. 

By Order of the House of Assembly, 

JOHN BECKLES, 
January 17, 1816. Speaker. 

By Order of the Legislative Council, 

GEORGE MAYNARD, 
January 17, 1816. Speaker. 



THE END. 



G. Wooufall, Printer, 
Angel Court, Skinner Street, London. 



