res, 75-?3. & «».tl 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofwilliamoOOgood 



yjaaia ss>®ia©ia 



OP 



WILLIAMO. GOODE, 



ON THE 



Abolition of Slavery; 



DELIVERED 



IN THE 

\ 



mi^w©^ <m wwmB<&&im® <©» WHB&oaaba 



ON 



TUESDAY, JANUARY 24 3 1832. 



RICHMOND: 

Printed by Thomas W. White, 

1832, 



res . "7573.% no. \l 












t*\ 



SUsDW^ia ®2* ©QILiac^'aia© (D3? Wl^HEMIils 



WM. O. GOODE'S 
Speech on the Abolition of Slavery. 

— @®^— 

Delivered Tuesday, January 24, 1832. 

WEDNESDAY, January 11, 1832. 

Mr. Goode of Mecklenburg, rose to move the following 
resolution : 

Resolved, That the select committee raised on the subject 
of slaves, free negroes, and the melancholy occurrences 
growing out of the tragical massacre in Southampton, be 
discharged from the consideration of all petitions, memorials 
and resolutions, which have for their object, the manumission 
of persons held in servitude under the existing laws of this 
commonwealth, and that it is not expedient to legislate on 
the subject. 

Mr. Randolph moved the following substitute, to be in- 
serted after the word " Southampton :" 

■ "be instructed to inquire into the expediency of 

submitting to the vote of the qualified voters in the several 
towns, cities, boroughs, and counties of this commonwealth, 
the propriety of providing by law, that the children of all 
female slaves, who may be born in this state, on or after the 
4th day of July, 1840, shall become the property of the com- 
monwealth, the males at the age of twenty-one years, and i 
females at the age of eighteen, if detained by their owners 
within the limits of Virginia, until they shall respectively ar- 
rive at the ages aforesaid, to be hired out until the nett sum 
arising therefrom, shall be sufficient to defray the expense of 
their removal, beyond the limits of the United States, and 
that said committee have leave to report by bill, or other- 
wise." 



MONDAY, January 16, 1832. 

Mr. Brodnax, from the committee on the coloured popu- 
lation, presented the following report: 

The select committee, to whom was referred certain memo- 
rials, praying the passage of some law providing for the 
gradual abolition of slavery in the commonwealth, have, 
according to order, had the same under consideration, and 
have come to the following resolution thereupon : 



Resolved as the opinion of this committee, That it is inex- 
pedient for the present legislature to make any legislative 
enactment for the abolition of slavery. 

Mr. Preston moved that the resolution reported from the 
committee, be amended, by striking out the word "inexpe- 
dient," and inserting the word "expedient." 

TUESDAY, January 24, 1832. 

On motion of Mr. GOODE of Mecklenburg, the report of 
the committee on slaves, free negroes and mulattoes, and 
the amendment of Mr. Preston, were taken up; when Mr. 
GOODE rose and addressed the house as follows : 

Mr. Speaker: — After the various allusions which have 
been made to me, personally, through the whole course of 
this most remarkable debate ; I trust, that I shall not be re- 
garded, as imposing too much on the liberality of the house, 
in risine; to give utterance to my thoughts. That this is a 
task from which I would willingly shrink, must indeed be ob- 
vious to all — and for reasons equally obvious. But I am left 
without the right of election. Circumstances have already 
marked out my course; and that course I shall pursue, re- 
gardless of consequences. 

The unexpected incidents which have here transpired; the 
incalculable interests which are here involved; the great, and, 
in the estimation of the gentleman from Berkeley (Mr. Faulk- 
ner), "the grand and patriotic revolution" sought to be 
achieved: the animated, and even sublime eloquence, with 
which the subject has been treated, all conspire to give to our 
proceedings, a character, and an importance so imposing, as 
to sink into comparative insignificance, all considerations, 
which exhaust themselves on a single individual. Yet I feel 
that I should be faithless to myself — and to those who take 
an interest in my welfare : faithless to the great cause which 
I have espoused ; and to those who have so generously sus- 
tained me in that cause; were I not to invite the attention of 
the house, to a minute examination of the part which I bore, 
in the transactions which gave origin to this discussion. 

On an early day in our session, I walked into the house, 
and found our clerk engaged in reporting a voluminous docu- 
ment, which seemed not to have been so fortunate, as to at- 
tract the attention of any considerable portion of the house. 
On application to those around me, I ascertained the docu- 
ment to be, a memorial on the subject of our black popula- 
tion; and that it had been presented by the gentleman from 
Hanover (Mr. Roane). Anxious to save the time of the house; 
and mindful of the existence of the rule, which dispenses with 



5 

the reading of a petition on its presentation ; I suggested to 
the member from Hanover, the propriety of relieving the 
house, from the labor of attending to the reading. The sug- 
gestion seemed to meet his approbation; and a motion was 
made by me, to refer the memorial. The gentleman from 
Pittsylvania (Mr. Witcher), rose in his place, and insisted 
that the question should be regarded as a test ; and that the 
votes should be entered on the journal. I then learned that 
the memorial contained the principle of abolition. My de- 
liberate judgment opposed itself to that principle; and had 
the house insisted on the vote of reference, I should not have 
hesitated to maintain my own principles, even at the expense 
of a seeming inconsistency, in voting against my own motion. 
But, there was a ready mode of extricating myself; and ac 
cordingly, by the indulgence of the house, I withdrew the 
motion to refer, and submitted one to reject:. on which I de- 
manded the ayes and noes. — Yet, I have been surprised to 
hear, that, I am regarded as making violent opposition to a 
measure, originally referred at my instance. — The earnestness 
of my opposition to the principle of abolition, on its very in- 
troduction here, is remembered by every member of the 
house: it was in some degree attributable to that earnestness, 
that the memorable debate arose, in which it is insisted by 
the abolitionists j that the distinguished member from Dinwid- 
die (Mr. Brodnax), gathered for himself immortal honors — 
erected for himself an imperishable statue, which posterity 
will approach, with reverence and gratitude. The result of 
the debate is already known — I voted in a minority of twenty- 
seven, and the house sent the memorial to the committee. 
There it went, and there it staid — day after day — week after 
week, — and I might almost say, month after month, — without 
receiving the action of the committee. And what were the 
occurrences which then took place. Members of the com- 
mittee submitted propositions, directly affecting the relation 
of master and servant. Their consideration was deferred — 
whilst the propositions themselves found their way to the pub- 
lic, through the medium of the public journals. The con- 
ductors of these journals, attaching perhaps too much conse- 
quence to the proceedings which resulted in the original re- 
ference, and receiving improper impressions from those pro- 
ceedings, did not hesitate to communicate those impressions 
to others — and to assume the positions which they intended 
to occupy. The effects of these things were soon made mani- 
fest — uneasiness was diffused through the public mind — men 
knew not what to anticipate — holders lost confidence in the 
tenure by which they held their property — purchasers were 
reluctant to make investments — the value of property became 



impaired, in distant, though important markets; — and other 
results were threatened, greatly to be deprecated. Sir, I 
considered our proceedings, as calculated to produce disas- 
trous results on the slaves themselves — as calculated to inspire 
hopes which must ultimately prove delusive — hopes which 
terminating in disappointment, must have a necessary ten- 
dency, to convert the present contentment of the slave, into 
impatience, and restlessness in his present, and his future 
unavoidable condition. I regarded our proceedings as cal- 
culated to fan the latent spark, which might spring up into a 
blaze, and ignite this great republic. With these convictions 
fixed in my mind — firmly, painfully fastened there, I felt it to 
be my imperious duty — and the imperious duty of the house, 
to make some effort, to arrest these evils. 

Sir, — what was the course which I then pursued ? Con- 
vinced of the absolute necessity of stopping short the investi- 
gation of this delicate subject; yet, unwilling to trust to the 
unaided suggestions of a mind, too much under the dominion 
of feeling, I determined to appeal to my friends for advice. 
To whom was it natural that I should have preferred this ap- 
peal ? To those who had manifested coincidence of views 
and feelings with myself. To them I did address myself. 
By them I was advised to pursue the course which I have. 
I attempted nothing — I made no motion, without mature and 
deliberate reflection — without able and trusty counsel — with- 
out taking the advice of those, in whose judgment I had un- 
bounded confidence. From them I received encouragement, 
corresponding with the manly, and generous support, which 
they have afforded to my cause through this trying conflict. 
Yet, Sir, for the purpose of bringing odium on me — or on 
the proposition which I submitted — or for some other ulterior 
end — a report has been circulated— widely — if not industri- 
ously circulated, that, I was prompted to the course I have 
pursued, by my own thoughtless, and giddy brain — and that, 
in it, I acted against the advice, of some of the most talented, 
and distinguished members. That I acted against the wish of 
some, who originally entertained views widely differing from 
my own, is what I may not question. Nor was it to be ex- 
pected, that, with such differing views, I could have conformed 
myself to their wishes, — but I repeat, that my conduct has 
been regulated, by a due regard to the wishes, and feelings 
of the party, with whom I became associated, in the incipient 
stages of this controversy — and the record of our votes will 
prove it. I wish to be distinctly understood. This report is 
imputed by me, to no individual member of the house; but 
groundless as it is — and unjust and illiberal as I regard it, I 
should not have felt myself under the necessity, of inviting 



the attention of the house, so particularly to the history of 
this part of our proceedings, had not the distinguished mem- 
ber from Dinwiddie (Mr. Brodnax), felt himself bound, to 
allude publicly, to the folly and indiscretion, which charac- 
terized the introduction of the resolution submitted by myself. 
When that suggestion was publicly made, I determined to 
give this public narrative, and to assure the public, that, with 
how little wisdom soever it may have been characterized, the 
step was not taken inconsiderately, or unadvisedly. It was 
my misfortune to find myself so circumstanced, as to be de- 
prived of the benefit of all advice, which I might otherwise 
have derived, from a source so respectable as the gentleman 
from Dinwiddie : but, unhappily for me, if not unfortunately 
for my country, that gentleman had assumed a relation to 
this subject, which placed it out of my power, to direct my 
footsteps by the lights of his understanding. We entertained 
different views — we sought the accomplishment of different 
ends— we were necessarily guided by different counsels. He 
had frequently declared to the house that, " the people de- 
mand that something must be done;" and although he has 
made a powerful attack on the unlucky, and friendless propo- 
sition of the gentleman from Albemarle (Mr. Randolph), yet 
a great portion of the same speech, is devoted to the demon- 
stration, of the practicability of emancipating, and exporting 
the slave population of this commonwealth. He has rebuked 
the folly of my proposition, declaring it inexpedient to legis- 
late on the subject. He has reported from the committee that, 
it is inexpedient to legislate on the subject — and we know he 
will sustain that report by his vote. 

I have been charged by the ardent gentleman from Hano- 
ver (Mr. Roane), with having unnecessarily provoked this 
discussion. He has not hesitated to declare, that, I have 
rashly thrown the subject on the house, "in its most hideous 
form." Permit me to remind the gentleman, of the course 
which I pursued, on offering my resolution. I sent forth my 
offspring, to meet its destiny in the black, gathering storm, 
without even the benefit of a father's benediction. It was not 
until the gentleman from Albemarle (Mr. Randolph), had 
offered his amendment, that I made any remarks to the 
house — and then far from provoking discussion — far from 
rashly entering the field, of this wide, and wild debate, I 
was content to suggest such reasons, as I thought demon- 
strated the impropriety of the discussion — and I conjured the 
house to abstain from it. But there were others here, who 
stood pledged to the world, to force the consideration of this 
question — who did force its consideration — and who, in as- 
suming to themselves the responsibility of the debate, can 



8 

only manifest a magnanimity, bearing some proportion to the 
stupendous magnificence of their designs. So little am I ob- 
noxious to this charge, that, others have actually accused me, 
of an attempt to suppress — to stifle debate. From this attempt 
to stifle debate I certainly should have been restrained, by an 
entire consciousness of its futility. But the two charges are 
wholly incompatible : The one is an ample refutation of the 
other — " non nos tantas componere lites." 

Mr. Speaker, I was somewhat surprised, by the formal ac- 
cusation of the gentleman from Hanover (Mr. Roane)| of my 
having assailed the liberty of the press. The conductors of 
the public journals here, know, and knew, the position which 
I assumed. That position was, that, the press had drawn im- 
proper inferences from our own acts; and that, being itself 
deceived, it was communicating false impressions to others. 
To correct these false impressions — to furnish the press with 
accurate information, as to the real judgment of the house, I 
deemed it necessary that, the house should discharge the 
committee. And yet we were entertained with the solemn, 
and earnest manner of the gentleman, in entering enthusias- 
tically upon the defence of a press — not assailed — not en- 
dangered — and which, if assailed, or endangered, is fully 
competent to its own defence, without the assistance of the 
gentleman from Hanover. When the liberty of the press is 
really endangered, every generous son of this republic, will 
rush to its defence with patriotic enthusiasm. 

Other gentlemen have embraced this opportunity of mani- 
festing their zeal for the liberty of the press. I pray them to 
dismiss their apprehensions. In this country, you cannot re- 
strain, even the licentiousness of the press. No rational man 
will attempt its liberty. Yet there are some, who have che- 
rished the most violent opposition, to a certain distinguished 
conductor of a distinguished journal, who now laud him, with 
extravagant praise. One gentleman in the fulness of his 
gratitude and admiration, has declared that, if the conductor 
of that journal, had committed more crime, than was ever en- 
tered on heaven's register, against a being — dead or alive — 
his merit in regard to this subject, would forever eflface the 
immortal record ! ! I know of nothing in the ordinary, and 
monotonous occurrences of human life, to which his transport 
may be compared. It reminded me of the rapture of recon- 
ciled lovers — who having long cherished a strong passion, 
have been kept apart by some harsh obtrusion. At last some 
favorable incident occurs. The charmer is fortunately thrown 
into peril. The gallant lover rushes to the rescue, — and hav- 
ing extricated the lovely fair one, relapses into all the fervour 
of affection. Sir, I was greatly interested, to observe the ec~ 



stasy, with which the impassioned gentleman from Rock- 
bridge (Mr. Moore), hung upon the soft, the timid, the abashed 
—yet unresisting — even yielding Enquirer. 

That it may appear to the public, that, I have filled the 
climax of human folly — I have been subjected to these grave, 
conflicting charges, in regard to a subject, on which it has 
been frequently asserted, that, "the People demand that 
something must be done." The gentleman from Dinwiddie 
(Mr. Brodnax), made this declaration, — and it has been fre- 
quently repeated. Not only have I assailed the liberty of 
the press, but I have made a deliberate attempt, to defeat the 
will of the people, publicly expressed ! ! ! Sir, if " the People 
demand that something must be done"— -why refer this ques- 
tion to " the People." Surely, gentlemen are not entitled to 
the benefit of an argument, founded on the supposition, that, 
" the People demand that something must be done," at the 
very moment they are urging upon us, the propriety of re- 
ferring this question to " the People." If " the People demand 
that something must be done," it cannot be necessary to refer 
the question to "the People, if it be necessary to refer it to 
"the People" — "the People" cannot have demanded, " that 
something must be done." The truth is, "the People" have 
not spoken : — a few voices have been heard — and the member 
from Brunswick (Mr. Shell), has already exposed the weak- 
ness of their numbers. Gentlemen grossly deceive themselves, 
if they mistake these gentle whispers, for the irresistible, om- 
nipotent voice of" the People." 

Perhaps, Sir, there is something specious in this suggestion, 
of referring a question to "the People." I fear that, it may 
hereafter obtain currency in this land ; — but I beg leave on 
this occasion, to enter my most solemn protest, against the 
introduction of any such practice. There are obvious rea- 
sons, springing up from the nature of this subject, which ren- 
der it peculiarly improper, to throw the East under the neces- 
sity, of discussing the topic, in the very presence of our slave 
population. But the practice itself, unconnected with this 
subject — is entirely objectionable, and inadmissible. Legis- 
lative power can be exerted safely by the legislature only. 
In the exercise of these powers, you cannot safely, challenge 
the action of the constituent body. The practice would be 
fraught with frightful tendencies — tendencies fatal to the pub- 
lic tranquillity. Take this question as a mere example. In 
relation to it, the people of the West are supposed by their re- 
presentatives, to have one interest. The people of the East, 
have a conflicting interest. To require the people to decide 
the question, would array one portion of the community, 
against another — and unavoidablv generate heats, and feuds, 
2 



10 

calculated to relax, and to dissolve, the ties, by which our 
people are united. To refer to the qualified voters of this 
commonwealth, the decision of any legislative question, would 
violate the principle of that compromise, which obtained in 
the late convention. The embarrassing difficulties encoun- 
tered by that body, are fresh in the memory of every gentle- 
man. There was a party — and a powerful party — which in- 
sisted, and strenuously insisted, that, the organic law, should 
be so constructed as that, man, and man alone, should be re- 
presented in the legislative counsels. Another party, as stre- 
nuously insisted that, society was instituted partly for the pro- 
tection of property, and to secure that protection, it was ne- 
cessary, that the influence of property, should be exerted upoit 
the deliberations of the legislature. The discussion of this 
question agitated, and convulsed the whole republic; and 
threatened to result in the division of the state. The expedi- 
ent of a compromise was finally adopted. Property was al- 
lowed a representation — though perhaps not its just repre- 
sentation; and the public was restored to its accustomed re- 
pose. The great effort then was, to enable property to pro- 
tect itself, against unjust and inordinate taxation. It was 
then apprehended by the fathers of the land, that, if the white 
population of the state, were adopted as the basis of represen- 
tation, the legislature would not be sufficiently disposed, to 
abstain from the imposition of heavy burdens: — but should 
this question be referred to the decision of the qualified voters, 
the very existence of the property as such, would be subject- 
ed to the operation of the repudiated basis of white popula- 
tion. Sir, in the presence of the western delegation — in the 
presence of the western people — I enter my earnest protest — and 
call upon my eastern brethren, to attend to this my solemn 
warning. 

This proposition to refer this question to the people, is a 
direct attack on the representative principle. It denies that 
the General Assembly, is a fair exponent of the will of our 
constituents. It denies the efficacy of the representative prin- 
ciple, in imbodying and reflecting the popular will. The 
sanctity of this principle, is essential to the preservation of 
our political institutions. It is the great characteristic, which 
distinguishes our own frame of polity, from the tumultuous 
democracies of ancient days. It is the solitary invention of 
modern times, in the abstruse, and complicated science of 
government. It is the great, and powerful principle, which, 
enables the gentlemen from Brooke and Norfolk, to co-ope- 
rate on this momentous occasion. It is the efficacious principle, 
which imbodies in our federal counsels, the statesmen of Bos- 
ton, and of New Orleans. It is the pervading, the vital prin- 



11 

<clple, winch diffuses itself through our whole system, impart- 
ing life, and animation, to the intire body politic. Impair 
the energies of this principle, you introduce anarchy, toge- 
ther with those turmoils, and convulsions, which buried in 
riiins the Republics of old. 

The habit of referring questions to the people, will neces- 
sarily debase the representative character. Instead of hav- 
ing these seats filled, with firm, manly, independent patriots, 
ready to incur that just responsibility, unavoidably, and in- 
separably, incident to their situation; our counsels will be 
guided by men, ever seeking to avoid that responsibility — 
ever ready to screen themselves, by a call for the expression 
of the constituent will. Sir, it becomes us as men, to whom 
are confided, the great interests of this great community, 
promptly to repudiate this fatal suggestion ; and to proceed 
on our own responsibility, to the decision of this agitating 
subject. 

Mr. Speaker, — in the discussion of this question, gentlemen 
have indulged in learned reflections, on the evils of slavery 
in the abstract. They have discussed the morality — the re- 
ligion of the thing — as though we were deliberating on its 
original introduction. I shall not imitate their example. With 
all my rashness, all my folly, I shall not presume to enter the 
lists, with these learned Theologians — 1 am content to rest 
that part of the subject, on the beautiful effort of my friend 
from Petersburg (Mr. Brown). It is true, that I have read 
of the curse of Canaan — " cursed be Canaan ; a servant of 
servants shall he be unto his brethren." It is true, that I 
have read in Holy Writ, of the cause of that curse, as, it fell 
originally from the lips of Noah. It is true, that I have read 
of the blessing of Shem, and of the prayer for the prosperity 
of Japheth. It is true too that, I have perused some sage 
reflections, in which it is insisted that the Europeans, the sup- 
posed descendants of Japheth, in the act of seizing on this 
continent, and of exterminating the defenceless aborigines, 
have forced themselves into the "tents of Shem;" and that 
in the persons of the Africans, we hold as our " servants" 
the descendants of Canaan. But, in the decision of this great 
question, I attach but little consequence to these learned dis- 
quisitions. It is sufficient for me to know, that, the thing ex- 
ists among us — and exists in a form, not to be controlled — 
that it did exist in this land, and in a form not to be con- 
trolled, at the time when our ancestors were called upon, to 
establish our organic law. I know we cannot control the 
irresistible force of circumstances. Slavery, sir, has been de- 
nounced, as a heavy curse on any nation. The distinguished 
gentleman from Dinwiddie (Mr. Brodnax), emphatically 



12 

pronounced it to be "the heaviest curse, which an angry 
Providence could in his wrath, inflict upon a sinful people." 
I may not controvert this proposition ; because I am no Theo- 
logian — certainly I can affix no limits to the Omnipotence of 
Divine Providence. 

Gentlemen have adopted the reasoning of philosophical 
writers, and political economists, demonstrating that the la- 
bor of the slave, is less productive than that of the freeman. — 
I shall not assail this reasoning. — But when, for illustration, 
resort is had, to facts resulting from the organization of our 
society — from the relation of master and servant — I shall take 
the liberty of examining those facts. 

Numerous statistics have been exhibited, for the purpose of 
shewing the deficiency of exports from the slave holding 
states, when compared with those from the non-slave holding 
states ; and from them it has been inferred and argued, that 
the labor of the slave is less productive than that of the free- 
man. I state, in the spirit of frankness and candor, that I 
have no confidence in any argument, founded on the notion 
of the balance of trade — but least of all, can I accredit one, 
founded on an exhibit of tabular statements, shewing the 
mere amount of exports, from particular ports of the union 
— and inferring that those commodities are reared in the states 
from which they are exported. The fallacy of such reasoning 
must be obvious, to any cool, candid and thoughtful mind, 
engaged in the investigation, and elucidation of truth. We 
know positively that the mere amount of exports from par- 
ticular ports, will not enable us to ascertain the productive 
power of the state, in which the port may happen to be lo- 
cated. The staples of the state of North Carolina, are in a 
great degree, vended within the limits of this commonwealth 
— and are shipped from our ports. Couid it be just to infer, 
or to argue, that, the labor of Virginia produces these sta- 
ples! The products of the land and labor of South Caro- 
lina, North Carolina and Virginia, are exported in large 
quantities from New York. The teeming abundance of 
Ohio and Kentucky, finds its way to the Atlantic, through 
the icy regions of the north — or is wafted on the broad 
bosom of the Mississippi, to find a market in New Or- 
leans. It must be obvious to every member, that, Louisiana 
and New York, are not entitled to the credit of having reared 
these commodities; and it must be equally obvious that, 
any argument which extends to them that credit, is entirely 
unworthy of our confidence. But there are circumstances in 
our commercial history, to which I invite the attention of 
those gentlemen, who deride the productive power of slave 
labor; whilst they estimate the value of all labor, by the 
amount of commodity reared for exportation. The cotton, 



*3 

tobacco and rice of our country, are produced almost exclu- 
sively by slave labor. They are grown in the slave holding 
states. The entire population of the U. States is 12,856,154 
souls. The slave population is 2,010,629 souls ; less than 
one-sixth of the entire population. In the year 1826,. which 
was a fair average year, selected merely because I happened 
to have in m}' possession, the necessary document ; the entire 
exports of all our domestic productions, was $53,058,710. 
The exports of cotton, tobacco and rice, the products of 
slave labor exclusively, was $32,289,856; more than three- 
Jifihs of the entire exports of domestic productions. The 
house then discovers that less than one-sixth of the entire po- 
pulation, has produced more than three-fifths of the entire ex- 
ports — and yet gentlemen who estimate the value of labor, 
by the amount of commodity reared for exportation; deride 
the productive power of slave labor, and denounce "slavery 
as the greatest curse, which an angry Providence could in 
his wrath, inflict upon a sinful people." 

The gentleman from Kenhawa (Mr. Summers), as an ex- 
emplification of the inferiority of slave labor, has challenged 
our attention to a comparison of the states of Kentucky and 
Ohio. Does the thoughtful, sagacious mind of that gentle- 
man, discover nothing in the condition of those states, to 
which the disparity of their growth may be attributed, save 
the circumstance to which he has attracted our attention ? 
Kentucky for her prosperity, has relied in a great degree, on 
the exertion of her own energies: the wealth of other re- 
gions has been poured into the lap of Ohio; Kentucky at 
most, has shared with the southwestern states, the emigration 
from the old slave holding states; Ohio may be said, to be 
the great reservoir of emigration, from the northern, and non- 
slave holding states. It should not therefore excite our won- 
der, that, Ohio has increased more rapidly than Kentucky. 
Sir, I presume it will be more profitable, to examine the ef- 
fects said to have been produced on our own commonwealth, 
by the existence of slavery within her limits; and here I may 
be allowed to express the pain, and mortification with which 
I was afflicted, by the remarks submitted by the member from 
Buckingham (Mr. Boiling). That gentleman has discovered 
among our people, a depravation of the moral principle; 
which he regards as one of the effects of slavery. It is cu- 
rious to mark the wide difference between the opinions of this 
gentleman, and those of the great Edmund Burke. Burke 
believed that, the existence of slavery in the American colo- 
nies, gave to our ancestors, an early idea of importance and 
superiority, which imparted an elevation of character, raising 
them far above the commission, or toleration of littleness, or 



14 

meanness ; but the gentleman from Buckingham discovers 
something in the relation of master and servant, calculated 
to corrupt our morals, and to debase our understandings. I 
appeal from his decision to the judgment of the American 
people. I do emphatically protest against his representation 
of the character of our citizens. I claim for the citizens of 
this commonwealth, no peculiar, no extraordinary merit; but 
I do earnestly insist, that, they are equal in virtue ; equal in 
morals ; equal in intelligence, and equal in merit to those of 
any state in the confederacy. Rut, suppose that I am mista- 
ken, does it become us to proclaim the infamy of the com- 
monwealth ? Is there a son who knows of the folly, the weak- 
ness of his mother ? Does he know of her guilt, her shame ? 
Let the fatal secret be forever hidden in the deepest recesses 
of his own soul. The horrid consciousness is enough to poi- 
son the sources of his happiness. To give it publicity would 
madden his brain. 

In treating of the effects of slavery, gentlemen have in- 
dulged in gloomy representations, of the agricultural condi- 
tion of the commonwealth. They have strained, and tortur- 
ed their imaginations, for the invention of metaphors, and 
figures of speech, suited to their own mournful conceptions, of 
the misery and wretchedness of our country. Indulging in 
the most capricious freak, they have passed by all the beau- 
ties of the forest, and the willow, weeping o'er the graves of 
their ancestors, and appealed to the pine for poetic inspira- 
tions. They speak of nothing but deserted mansions; en- 
closures already gone to decay; extensive fields turned to 
waste, and gullies deep-furrowed in the sides of our hills. One 
would imagine that, devastation and desolation reign univer- 
sally, through the dominions of the east. Is this a just re- 
presentation? Where is Wilton ? Where Verina ? The seats 
of the ancestors of the gentleman from Albemarle. Where 
is Curies? Where is Shirley? Where is Westover? Where 
is Brandon ? Where that beautiful tract of country, stretch- 
ing along the banks of the Rappahannock ? Where those 
extensive, highly cultivated farms, which adorn the shores of 
the broad Potomac? Where, sir, is Gloucester ? Rich, lux- 
uriant, abundant Gloucester. And where, sir, is Southamp- 
ton itself? Great injustice has been done this country. Sir, 
it is in a state of improvement; and I call on every member, to 
reflect on the condition of his own neighborhood, and to re- 
spond to this my declaration. A better system of agriculture 
has been introduced, than existed here ten years since. We 
do better ploughing. We attend more to the rotation of crops. 
We attend more to the raising of manures. There is more 
attention to all the operations of the farm — and there is 



15 

an obvious improvement exhibited in the whole face of the 
country. If each gentleman will reflect on his own neigh- 
borhood, and form his judgment on his own observation ; in- 
stead of taking upon trust, the fanciful, desponding conceits 
of others, I have the utmost confidence, that, not one will 
withhold his assent to the truth of my suggestions. I have 
been told, and I believe it is true that, a gentleman near me, 
a member of this house, representing too a tide-water county, 
has gathered three hundred barrels of Indian corn for each 
plough. Shall this country be described as a barren waste? 
No, sir, the country has improved, and it is yet improving; 
and what may seem strange to those who have not attended 
to the fact — improvements have been introduced into every 
neighborhood, first upon the large estates, on which slave la- 
bor most abounded. I know that in other countries, improve- 
ments have been introduced on small farms, after the division 
of estates had rendered it necessary that holders should im- 
prove their farms as a means of subsistence; but the remark 
is not true in this country. Improvements have been intro- 
duced here — first, on the large estates, on which slave labor 
most abounds ; — and for the truth of this assertion, I appeal to 
the candor, experience and observation of every member of 
this house. Perhaps I astound the house in announcing the 
proposition which I am about to do. Nevertheless, 1 shall 
make the annunciation. Some time during last fall, accident, 
or destiny, threw me on the north side of the Potomac. I 
was in the city of Philadelphia ; the hospitality of a gentle- 
man, to whom I was previously unknown, and to whom I 
owe the stronger obligation, .afforded me an opportunity of 
seeing the adjacent country. I saw lands which I was told 
would command $200 per acre, I saw the meadows of the 
Schuylkill and Delaware ; and I assure the house that I did 
not see one farm better cultivated, better arranged, better 
managed in any particular, than is the farm of Richard Samp- 
son, in the county of Goochland. Sir, the agricultural pro- 
duct of our state is greater now than it ever was at any pre- 
vious period; and the gentleman from Brooke (Mr. Camp- 
bell), who exhibited his tabular statements on yesterday, to 
show the diminution of our exports, might have learned, had 
he pushed his inquiry, that the result was effected, not by 
the diminished quantity of staple reared, but by the depre- 
ciation in the price. These reflections have led me to the 
conclusion, that the baneful effects of slavery on our agri- 
culture, have not been developed, as described in the gloomy 
pathos of our orators. 

Gentlemen have indulged in bitter lamentations, over the 
depopulation of this commonwealth. One might imagine 



16 

that our country is abandoned, and deserted to sink into 
hopeless ruin. Yet, in the very moment they indulge in these 
affecting representations, they adduce incontestable proof, of 
the regular, and even rapid increase of our population. Yes, 
sir — proof of the regular and rapid increase of the white po- 
pulation of this commonwealth. In 1790 the white popula- 
tion was 442,117; in 1800 it was 513,865; in 1810 it was 
551,553; in 1820 it was 603,081; in 1830 it was 694,300. 
This statement exhibits a constant, regular, and rapid increase, 
of the white population of the state. An increase, which 
compared with foreign nations — exhibits even startling re- 
sults. An increase, not to be compared wiih the unnatural 
and bloated obesity of Ohio — but one as great as would allow 
of the maturity and justness of proportion, necessary to the 
structure of a perfect stature. This increase is the natural, 
and necessary consequence of the present condition of the com- 
monwealth. Gentlemen astonish me by complaints of depo- 
pulation. Our population must of necessity have increased — 
and of necessity must continue to do so. Have any of the 
positive checks to population, found an existence in this land? 
Had this been so, the effect must have been first developed, 
on the laboring class of this community; for no man can 
imagine that the laboring class would be supplied with abun- 
dance, whilst those who control them are subject to want. 
But gentlemen display their ample statistics to demonstrate the 
rapid, the alarming increase of the laboring class of Virginia — 
so that the positive checks to population cannot have found ex- 
istence here. Have the negative checks found such existence ? 
Is any gentleman conscious of their operation? Does the rose 
fade on the cheek of the damsel, because her hand remains 
unsought? — Beauty far oftener withers and dies, because of 
the immaturity in which the tender bud is plucked. No man 
qualified to preside over a family, is restrained from contract- 
ing the matrimonial connexion, by the apprehension that his 
family is to come to want. Oftener indeed does it happen, 
before the youth attains to the condition of a freeman, that, 
the soft, gentle pressure of the hand of devotion has sent a 
thrill through the soul of loveliness. Sir, there has been no 
check upon the increase of our population. It is true, our 
growth has not equalled that of the state of New York: but 
that may be accounted for, without referring to the existence 
of slavery. Our people have emigrated; but they have not 
flown from the evils of slavery; for they are now found re- 
siding in slave holding states. Virginia has in a great degree 
peopled Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi ; 
and even Louisiana and Missouri have given to her sons a 
shelter and a home. To appreciate the energies of this state, 



17 

let the imagination roam back for fifty years, and contemplate 
the great Valley of the Mississippi. What does it there behold? 
One vast, one wild, unbroken wilderness. The stag there 
reclined under the shade of the oak ; the prowling wolf howled 
through the desert; the wild yell of the savage red man, 
burst upon the silence of surrounding solitude ! — The sound 
sunk on the deep, green wood; and all nature was restored 
to solemn and sublime tranquillity! The enterprise of our 
citizens shot forth, and penetrated the trackless recesses of 
these wilds. The valor of our citizens conquered the coun- 
try from the fierceness of the aborigines. The industry of 
our citizens paid down the purchase money into the federal 
treasur}'. The forests, fell at the approach of civilization. 
Extensive farms were scattered through the plain; houses 
sprung up in the land, the abode of civilized, contented, pros- 
perous man. Edifices were erected. Splendid palaces, ex- 
citing the wonder of the thoughtful traveller, whose weari- 
some approach is gladdened, and greeted, by the verdant 
luxuriance of their wide-waving fields. Virginia has spoken 
nations into being. Virginia is literally the mother of na- 
tions. And yet the reviled, the abused slave, has been the 
instrument in the hand of the white man, by which he has ac- 
complished these vast results. And what were the circumstances 
under which they were accomplished? Sir, I will not detain 
the house, to consider the evils which afflicted our country in 
consequence of the commercial convulsions which agitated 
the commercial world, between the years 1816 and 1823. I 
will not detain the house to consider the evils which sprang 
from the wild spirit of over-trading, which pervaded our own 
state during that period. I will not refer to those heavy 
calamities with which we have been afflicted, by federal mis- 
rule. I only ask the house to reflect, that our own lands have 
been repeatedly purchased by our own citizens; and the pur- 
chase money as repeatedly invested in the lands of other 
states. Individual energy has triumphed over the prodigality 
of government, and purchased an empire equal to that origi- 
nally ceded to the federal authorities. It is astonishing that 
the energies of Virginia have been so little relaxed by the 
operation of this severe process. Sir, she has accomplished 
these great results — She has purchased and peopled mighty 
regions, by throwing oft' the mere redundancy (if I may use 
the expression), the mere effervescence of her population : nor 
have we cause to repine over this course of events. Sir, we 
may have lost our citizens, but we have planted allies through 
the expanded west, who yet cherish for the land of their na- 
tivity, the strongest, the most endearing affections. Our 
friend, our brother is torn from among us, but he is prospe- 
3 



18 

rously planted in the mighty distance; and though mountains 
may rise between us, rudely obtruding their mighty crags ; 
rivers gushing from the mountain tops, pouring and tumbling 
over rock}' precipices, may stretch between us their angry 
floods ; yet oft, at the silent hour of night, when musing by 
his own solitary fire-side, cheered only by the little cricket's 
chirp, will memory lose him in fond meditation on the casual, 
but endearing enjoyments of his childhood ; which lighted 
up, and cheered the hearth of his fathers. Sir, if that fatal 
day must come, when this great confederacy shall rock upon 
its basement, when it shall be thrown into mighty fragments — 
nature will triumph; ourselves and our brothers will cling 
into an embrace, not to be severed by the grand convulsion. 
Mr. Speaker, — It has been insisted, by both the gentlemen 
from Rockbridge (Mr. Moore and Mr. McDowel), that, sla- 
very impairs our strength in time of war. One of them estima- 
ted that one half of our effective force, must be retained, as a 
necessary precaution against the danger of insurrection. 
This suggestion has been urged with so much emphasis-- 
and with such an air of confidence, that, I feel myself greatly 
embarrassed, in attempting even to impair its force. Yet I 
may inquire of gentlemen whether, in adopting the opinions 
they avow, they have not disregarded the lights of experi- 
ence? We have gone through two wars of much difficulty. 
Our revolutionary conflict especially, was conducted amidst 
the most embarrassing difficulties — against the most power- 
ful nation in the world — in the very heart of our own terri- 
tory — in the very presence of our slave population — Yet, not- 
withstanding our colonial weakness, there was no difficulty in 
the management of our slaves; and there is no circumstance in 
the history of those days, which sustains the position here as- 
sumed. On the contrary, men of wisdom, and sagacity — 
whose locks are whitened with the frosts of years, have made 
suggestions on this subject, worthy of the profound attention 
of statesmen. Sir, — in this age — money is the sinew of war — 
it is not by the exertion of mere brute force, that, the disputes 
of empires are now adjusted: — this is effected in an eminent 
degree, by the developement of the sources of wealth. It was 
the wealth of England, which wrested the sceptre from the 
grasp of Napoleon. For the successful prosecution of war, 
it is necessary that there should be a regular, and unceasing 
stream of wealth, flowing into the public treasury. The la- 
bor of society is the source of its wealth; and in a country 
where the labor is performed by the citizen, all the operations 
of society are embarrassed, by converting the citizen into the 
soldier. March to the field the mechanic, and the plough- 
man — the mechanic operations of society are neglected, and 



19 

the glebe remains unturned — the productive power of labor 
is impaired — the sources of national wealth are exhausted — 
the strength of the state, is lost, or destroyed. In a coun- 
try where the manual labor is performed by those not admit- 
ted to the rights of citizenship — all the necessary agricultural 
operations — all the necessary mechanic arts, are performed 
without any sensible interruption, even amid the tumults of 
war. The government draws from society its regular, and 
its necessary supply, and the vigor of the state is compara- 
tively unimpaired. 

Sir, — there is no well grounded apprehension of a servile 
insurrection in time of war — we have armed men then in the land 
— assembled, and able by a movement to crush such an effort. 
Our own history and the history of the world, will justify the 
opinion, that, without any aid, the old men and boys not re- 
quired to bear arms, are able to preserve order, and discipline 
among the slaves. Our citizens who reside where slaves are 
most numerous, are convinced of the correctness of this opin- 
ion — and dread much more the folly of legislation, than even 
the violence of infuriated fanaticism. The gentleman from 
Rockbridge (Mr. McDowel), has labored to produce a dif- 
ferent impression — and felt himself authorised to report ex- 
tracts from documents, in the possession of the executive, by 
which he sought to satisfy the house, that, a panic pervaded 
that whole community, adjacent to the scene of the Southamp- 
ton tragedy. That great excitement, strong emotion, rest- 
lessness, impatience, and uneasiness, diffused themselves 
through that community, is what I shall not deny — that cra- 
ven fear existed there, is what I utterly deny, and repel. Sir, 
on the recital of horrid barbarities, humanity must experi- 
ence strong emotion, strong sympathy for the sufferers. That 
it is so, can be no cause of just reproach. It was natural that it 
should be so, in the instance to which the gentleman referred. 
Sir, the people had no accurate information of the character 
of the outrages actually committed. Their imaginations were 
excited by extravagant representations ; and perfect equani- 
mity was not to be expected. But the gentleman from Rock- 
bridge, acting in the character of a statesman; in the exer- 
cise of his official functions — with all the means of informa- 
tion at hand — with a knowledge of the nature and extent of 
the transaction — occupying a position from which he sur- 
veys with composure, events gone by; seeks to seize on this 
momentary feeling; this evanescent excitement, to be relied 
on as a reason of state, for disturbing the relation of master 
and servant! for affecting vitally — for destroying the property 
of one half the citizens of the commonwealth ! ! Yes sir, the 



Southampton tragedy is relied upon as the justification of 
this great innovation : " this grand and patriotic revolution" 

Mr. Speaker, — 1 call on gentlemen acting too in their cha- 
racter of statesmen, to reflect on the incidents of the South- 
ampton tragedy; and I have an abiding confidence, that they 
will with me conclude, that, it affords satisfactory proof, of 
the futility of all apprehension, of any successful, any gene- 
ral, or even extensive insurrection. Sir, it will be remembered 
by the house, that, the strength of the insurgents ranged from 
forty to sixty men — freed from all restraints of religion, mora- 
lity, or humanity, — stimulated by the frantic genius of fanati- 
cism, — and exulting, and rioting in death and murder. Yet 
it cannot have escaped our attention, that, they took not the 
life of a human being, where three white men were assembled ! 
Is this the foe to strike terror into the legislature of Virginia. 
Sir, our citizens are safe when they bear the proportion of 
one to ten* It is proven by the history of this notable insur- 
rection. It is demonstrated, and illustrated by the history of 
St. Domingo. It is impossible for our slaves to sustain a contin- 
ued rebellion ; they have not the means of concert, of any exten- 
sive co-operation; they are without discipline, without arms, 
without the habit of command ; or of subordination to one 
another; — and if they were not deficient in these particulars, 
they have not, nor can they procure the means of subsisting 
an imbodied force. To sustain an imbodied force in the 
field, there must be a regular, and constant supply of provi- 
sions — to procure which, requires the agency of factors, and 
public functionaries. It is impossible for the insurgents to 
command these supplies ; and it is therefore impossible for 
them to remain imbodied. They must fall a part of their own 
incoherence. The gentleman from Brunswick (Mr. Shell), 
has attributed the suppression of this insurrection to three 
men and two boys; who encountered this formidable foe, at 
the house of Dr. Blunt. He is mistaken in his supposition; 
had the insurgents encountered no opposition, they must have 
separated by the force of the circumstances to which I have 
alluded. I do not maintain that, our citizens are exempt from 
violence, and murder, and conflagration. No society can enjoy 
such an exemption. Casual outbreakings of popular rage, 
have marked the history of every people. Lyons and Bris- 
tol have lately suffered by the violence of popular fury; and 
our history will prove that, we are not more exposed to such 
calamities, than are all the nations of the earth. 

Mr. Speaker, — I trust that my remarks may have some ten- 
dency, to reconcile us to the condition, into which we have 
been thrown by immutable fate — to remove our misapprehen- 
sions, as to calamities supposed to have sprung from our so- 



21 

cial relations, and to dissipate apprehension for the safety of 
the republic. I trust the house is perfectly satisfied, that, the 
presence of our slave population does not endanger the safety 
of our citizens. By what motive then shall we be prompted 
to banish the slave from the limits of the commonwealth? Is 
it for the sake of the slave himself? Do we expect to better 
his condition? Gentlemen in the generosity of their nature 
have admitted that, the slave in humanely treated. He has 
an unrestrained abundance of good, substantial, wholesome 
food—as well for his family, as for himself. He and his family 
have an ample allowance of comfortable clothing. He is, 
for the most part well housed. He enjoys many reasonable 
indigencies. He has set apart for his own use, his garden — ■ 
or his little field, from which he derives many of the com- 
forts, and even some of the luxuries of life ; beyond the reach of 
the peasantry of other countries. Is he sick? Is his wife, his 
child, struck down bv the hand of disease? He is secure of 
the best medical aid — of the kindest, the most constant atten- 
tions. Is he charged with the commission of crime? He is 
not entitled to jury trial — because his peers are not good and 
lawful men — but he is secure of a fair, and public trial. He 
has two chances to establish his innocence; first before the 
justice of the peace, and secondly before the courts of police. 
He is secure of the benefit of counsel, by the humanity of our 
law — and the commonwealth compels the attendance of his 
witnesses. He resides in a civilized society, in a well regu- 
lated community, in which he is protected from all outrage, 
and even the power of his own master is restrained from all 
violent excesses. What have you to offer as an equivalent 
for these certain, these substantial advantages? A perilous 
freedom, a capricious license for the commission of crime. 
To be sent to live — we know not where — among institutions 
we know nought of. Who can conjecture his future condition? 
He may become the subject of a despot. He may be thrown 
amidst political convulsions. He may be exposed to violent 
outrage. He, his wife, his daughter, or his child, may be- 
come the subject of capricious tyranny. Sir, I call upon 
this house to determine, whether they are likely beneficially 
to serve, the objects of their humane benevolence. 

But gentlemen urge that we must act for our own sakes. 
They contemplate with peculiar horror the day, when the 
great flood of slave population, shall break over the barrier 
of the lofty blue mountain, and overflow the towering sum- 
mits of the west. This suggestion has been already discus- 
sed — humorously by m}^ friend from Brunswick (Mr. Shell), — - 
seriously by my friend from Petersburg (Mr. Brown). Sir, 
I have nothing of the ludicrous in my composition; I am 



22 

obliged to consider things seriously; and following the re- 
flections of my friend from Petersburg — I ask whether there 
be nothing in the condition; the manners and pursuits of the 
western people, which should admonish them to dismiss their 
fears. Sir, they are graziers, or they are farmers. They 
want not the slave to follow, or attend their (locks, and herds. 
As farmers, their demand for labor is but occasional, or peri- 
odical; confined for the most part to seed time, and harvest. 
They are not under the necessity of burdening themselves 
with the support of the laborer the whole year round: they 
can procure labor on occasion, in quantities suited to their de- 
mand. Hence, their demand for slave labor will not be ef- 
fectual. It cannot compete with the greater demand, which 
will exist in the planting country. The man who grows to- 
bacco, cotton and other products of a plantation, has a con- 
stant, and unremitted demand for a regular force, the whole 
year round: the operations of his estate must not depend on 
any precarious supply of labor; it must be certain, and al- 
ways at command. The planter, therefore, has a greater 
demand for the labor of the slave, and he will pay more for it, 
than the farmer, or the grazier. The labor of the slave like 
every thing else, will go to where it is most useful — will 
meet the most effectual demand; and our western brethren 
need not apprehend, that they are to be overrun by our 
slaves, unless they are willing, and able to pay more for 
them, than can be obtained in other parts. It was by the ope- 
ration of this principle, that slavery was banished from the 
northern states. The northern people became farmers and 
graziers — they had no effectual demand for slave labor : it 
was less useful to them, than in the southern states: it sought 
the effectual demand of the south; and the number of slaves 
diminished in the north, until the slave interest, enfeebled 
and exhausted, was unable to resist the abolition of slavery. 
Such, Sir, I believe, under the dispensation of Divine Provi- 
dence, will be the course of events here. The superior use- 
fulness of the slaves in the south, will constitute an effectual 
demand, which will remove them from our limits. We shall 
send them from our state, because it will be our interest to do 
so. Our planters are already becoming farmers. Many who 
grew tobacco as their only staple, have already introduced, 
and commingled the wheat crop. They are already semi- 
farmers; and in the natural course of events, they must be- 
come more and more so. As the greater quantity of rich 
western lands, are appropriated to the production of the sta- 
ple of our planters, that staple will become less profitable. We 
shall gradually divert our lands from its production, until we 
shall become actual farmers. Then will the necessity for 



23 

slave labor diminish; then will the effectual demand diminish, 
and then will the quantity of slaves diminish, until they shall 
be adapted to the effectual demand. 

But, gentlemen are alarmed lest the markets of other states 
be closed against the introduction of our slaves. That such 
an event may be occasioned, by the folly of our own legisla- 
tion, is possible, if not probable — that any thing else should 
produce it, is to my mind most improbable. The excitement 
which lately existed in some of the states, will soon lose its 
ephemeral existence; things must flow back into their natural 
channel; and the Southampton insurrection though it may be 
remembered as a thing which once had existence, will not be 
regarded as such an event, as should disturb the settled policy 
of a nation. Sir, the demand for slave labor must increase 
through the south and west. It has been heretofore limited 
by the want of capital ; but when emigrants shall be relieved 
from their embarrassments, contracted by the purchase of 
their lands — when they shall have erected their necessary 
buildings, the annual profits of their estates, will constitute 
an accumulating capital, which they will seek to invest in la- 
bor. That the demand for labor must increase in proportion 
to the increase of capital, is one of the demonstrations of po- 
litical economists; and I confess, that for the removal of sla- 
very from Virginia, 1 look alone to the efficacy of that prin- 
ciple; together with the circumstance that our southern bre- 
thren, are constrained to continue planters, b}' their position, 
soil and climate. But, suppose I am mistaken in all which I 
have submitted to the house — suppose the evils of slavery to 
be as great as they have been here represented — suppose sla- 
very to be "the greatest curse which an angry Providence 
could in his wrath inflict upon a sinful people." Is it expe- 
dient ? Is it possible for this assembly to banish it from this 
land? 

Sir, if we may not confide in the operation of natural causes? 
If we may not trust to the developement of the mysteries of 
time — then are we without hope in this particular, — for it is 
impossible, that the object can be accomplished by legislation. 
Others I know come to a different conclusion ; and many con- 
tend that, the practicability of the thing, has been already 
demonstrated. In the examination of this proposition, I shall 
confine my remarks to the plan submitted by the gentleman 
from Dinwiddie (Mr. Brodnax), because that plan, though 
not drawn out in the form of a resolution; but suggested 
merely by way of argument, has been regarded by the abo- 
litionists in this house, as entitled to the greatest considera- 
tion. Indeed, it has been treated by the gentleman, and his 
admirers, as containing an irrefragible, an indisputable de- 



24 

monstration. With others, the ardent gentleman from Hano- 
ver (Mr. Roane), has proclaimed it to be a conclusive demon- 
stration — and seemed to consider that fatuity itself, would 
scarce attempt its refutation. Will the house allow me to ex- 
amine this plan. It contemplates the annual removal of six 
thousand souls. It is known to the house, that a number of 
slaves are now annually exported to the south — that number 
has been estimated at 8500; but my friend from Petersburg 
Mr. Brown), has examined this subject with some minuteness, 
and thinks that we may venture the declaration, that at least 
5000 are thus annually exported; and that without cost, and 
without the agency of the commonwealth. But, gentlemen as- 
sert that this drain of 5000 annually, is to be closed by the 
force of circumstances; and we think it may be closed by our 
own system of legislation. Then we are to close an annual 
drain of 5000; to open an annual drain of 6000. The in- 
crease of exportation is, therefore, to equal 1000 souls — but 
notwithstanding the present exportation of 5000 souls, the 
annual increase of the slave population, far exceeds 1000 
souls — so that the increased exportation, will not equal the 
annual increase of the slaves. With great deference to the 
opinions of gentlemen, who profess unlimited confidence in 
this plan, I submit, whether it be possible to remove the slave 
population of the state, by means of an exportation, not equal 
to the annual increase. But, Sir, if for the sake of argu- 
ment, it be conceded that, this operation might in time ac- 
complish its object, yet the plan itself can never be executed. 
The estimated cost of transporting our slaves from the conti- 
nent of America, to the coast of Africa, is thirty three dol- 
lars for each soul. The cost of transporting 6000 souls, as 
estimated by the gentleman from Dinwiddie, is two hundred 
thousand dollars: but this sum is the mere cost of transporta- 
tion and settlement. The gentleman repudiates the very idea 
of violating the sanctity of private property. Slaves he re- 
gards inviolable property. He would wrest no slave from 
his holder, against the consent of that holder — or without 
just compensation. Just compensation for our slaves would 
average two hundred dollars each ; which would afford an 
aggregate of $ 1,200,000— this sum added to the $200,000, 
the cost of exportation, affords a general aggregate of 
$ 1,400,000, to be raised annually by a tax on property, for the 
single purpose of accomplishing this plan, and entirely exclu- 
sive of the civil list. To support the civil list, a property tax 
is now imposed of $277,000; which added to the amount 
necessary to accomplish the plan of the gentleman, will make 
a sum equal to $ 1,677,000, to be raised annually by a 
tax on property; instead of the sum of $277,000, the 



. 25 

amount now raised by a tax on property — viz. for each dol- 
lar of property tax now paid, we shall pay more than $6, if 
we adopt this scheme. When shall we be relieved from this 
load of oppression ? Not at the end of one — nor of ten 
years. But, ifevery thing should operate with exact accuracy--- 
if we should experience no disappointment, the people of the 
commonwealth may cherish a hope, that, they may find some 
relief, after they shall have groaned under this load of oppres- 
sion, for the full period of seventy-nine years!! We must 
pass from the scene of action — our children must be num- 
bered with the dead, long before the arrival of the day, when 
we may even hope for relief. It has been said by a most 
profound thinker, that the chief characteristic of the English 
people— inherited by their descendants here, is that, they as- 
sociate as inseparable, the ideas of liberty, and of exemption 
from taxation. Is it to be expected that the people will sub- 
mit to this exorbitant taxation, for the purpose of paying for 
their own property — tax themselves to pay themselves. Col- 
lect from them an amount sufficient to pay them for their slave 
property, you take from them an amount equal to the value 
of the slaves: and you had just as well take the slaves them- 
selves. Let us examine into the amount, necessary to be 
raised for the purpose of effectuating this plan. There are 
within the limits of the commonwealth 469,724 slaves — which 
at an average of $200 each, would command the sum of 
$93,944,800. The cost of exporting our slaves to Liberia, at 
$ 33 each, would be $ 15,500,892. This sum added to the 
amount of the purchase money will afford an aggregate of 
$ 109,445,692, to be raised in seventy nine years, exclusive 
of the amount necessary for the current expenses of the go- 
vernment. 

My friend from Petersburg, has estimated the amount 
necessary to be raised, at $ 115,000,000, exclusive of the civil 
list. Neither of us has stated any account of the expense to 
be incurred, for the purchase and exportation of one, born 
after the taking of the last census. We have only calculated 
the cost of purchasing and transporting those now in exis- 
tence ; the real expense would be greater than we have the 
means of calculating. Sir, the people cannot bear 'it; and 
rely on it, they will not bear it. The unconscious minds of 
gentlemen seem to have received an involuntary conviction 
of this truth; and, accordingly, we find the gentleman from 
Dinwiddie, already referring to other sources. We are di- 
rected towards the government of the United States: we are 
to ask our portion of the public lands. Virginia — disinte- 
rested, magnanimous Virginia, is to be dragged, as a men- 
dicant, to the portals of the general government, to beg the 

4 



26 

crumbs which fall from its sumptuous board! Can we ex- 
pect effectual aid from that source? The largest sum ever 
received by the federal government from the public lands, 
was $2,479,658 90 cents. The population of Virginia, in 
federal numbers, is about the one-eleventh part of the entire 
population of the United States. Should this suggestion be 
adopted, and attended with success, we may calculate on re- 
ceiving the one-eleventh part of the whole amount annually 
derived from the public lands, which will about equal $225,000. 
Deduct this sum from $1,400,000, and you have a balance 
of about $1,175,000 to be annually raised by a tax on pro- 
perty, exclusive of the current expenses of the government! 
And this system to endure, at the least, through the full term 
of seventy-nine years! Yet the ardent gentleman from Hano- 
ver, has maintained that the wisdom and practicability of this 
plan, has been demonstrated beyond the power of refutation. 
Sir, has it been shown that we may discharge an annual debt 
of $1,400,000, by the payment of $225,000? We must still 
farther lose our confidence in the resources of the public 
lands, if we reflect on the fluctuations in the price of lands, — 
the difficulty of making sales and collections; — and on the 
fact, that the entire stock of land may be exhausted before 
the expiration of seventy-nine years. It is also proper to 
remind the house, that all our estimates have been made, not 
on an average of receipts from the public lands, but on the - 
largest amount of any one year. 

Mr. Speaker, — If we disregard these suggestions, and pros- 
trate the commonwealth, as a supplicant for charity at the 
hands of the federal government, and fail to obtain the 
wretched boon, what will be the sense of humiliation with 
which our people must be afflicted? And, sir, is it not pro- 
bable that our application will be neglected and despised? 
that we ourselves, shall be spurned from the presence? Re- 
flect on the remarks submitted by my friend from Brunswick 
(Mr. Shell). Shall we make a vain attempt to procure amend- 
ments to the constitution? Can we expect the co-operation 
of men who, by consenting to such an amendment, would 
virtually admit that their political career has been distin- 
guished by a total neglect and disregard of the principles of 
the government which they have solemnly sworn to sustain? 
Would you consent to receive the boon? Would you accept 
a gratuity from the federal government, in the* absence of all 
constitutional sanction? Sir, I trust it is impossible. I trust 
that this commonwealth is not destined by her own solemn 
and deliberate act, to invoke a violation of those sacred prin- 
ciples for which she has so often professed an inviolable at- 
tachment. Sir, I know not whether to express more of morti- 



27 

fication, or of astonishment, at the declaration of the gentle- 
man from Dinwiddic, that no person ever heard of an objec- 
tion to an appropriation of the avails of the public lands to 
this object, or to objects of a similar character: — that these 
avails constitute a distinct fund, which may be appropriated 
to literary purposes, and other objects of like character. Is 
it possible that this is so? Is there any clause in the con- 
stitution, any provision of any sort, which distinguishes the 
proceeds of the public lands from any other revenue of that 
government? When these proceeds go to the treasury, do 
they not mingle with all other monies, and constitute one 
common fund, for the constitutional purposes of that govern- 
ment? I say, I was filled with pain and astonishment, when 
1 heard such a declaration emanate from such a source — 
from a Virginian — a southeastern Virginian, who professes 
to belong to the state right party. No man ever heard of 
an objection ! Has the gentleman never heard of that trans- 
action to which allusion has been made by the member from 
Kanawha? (Mr. Summers). Did he never hear of the last 
act of the political life of Rufus King? or, rather, of that 
act which terminated his connexion with the senate of the 
United States. And who, sir, was Rufus King? He was a 
federalist, it is true : he was a federalist of the Rufus King 
stamp : he was a federalist who had obtained that distinction 
with his party, as that his own name distinguished and cha- 
racterised his party. But, does any man here doubt his 
patriotism? does any man here doubt his wisdom? Sir, he 
was a patriot, and a sage; and yet he was denounced by the 
whole southern community, for inviting the attention of the 
senate to the proposition now gravely and zealously sustained 
by the gentleman who represents the county of Dinwiddle' 
Yes, sir, it was said of Rufus King, that he could not retire 
through the portals of the senate, without turning to hurl a 
fire-brand at the south. Sir, this patriot and this sage, was 
not permitted to sink into the shade of retirement, without 
,- being stigmatized as a public incendiary; and yet his plan 
is now sustained in the very hall of the house of delegates, 
by the distinguished member from the county of Dinwiddie, 
who claims to belong to the state right party!! Sir, this 
suggestion may be sustained. I have, long since, learned to 
moderate my surprise at almost any human event; but the 
suggestion can only be sustained, at the entire sacrifice of 
opinions and principles heretofore held sacred within these 
walls. And suppose it should be sustained, both here and at 
Washington — Suppose that the gentleman shall succeed 
in engaging the government of the United States in " this 
grand and patriotic revolution,"- — is it to be expected that the 



28 

government will confine its operations to the limits of this 
commonwealth? It must embrace the whole confederacy, 
and banish the black man from this continent. Let us con- 
template the difficulties of this project of purchasing and 
transporting' a nation of souls. There are now in the limits 
of the United States, 2,10,029 slaves, exclusive of free per- 
sons of color. These, at an average of $200, would cost 
the sum of $402,125,800. To transport them at the price 
of $33 each, would cost $66,350,750, affording a general 
aggregate for the purpose of purchase and transportation, of 
$46S,476,550 : and it will appear, on the slightest examina- 
tion, that this calculation is not sufficiently comprehensive; 
because, while the slaves of Virginia may, probably, be rated 
at an average of $200 each, every body knows that sum would 
not be regarded as just compensation, in the southwestern 
states; and the cost of the undertaking, would be augmented 
in proportion to the increased average value. I ought here 
to repeat the suggestion, that this estimate embraces only the 
present number of slaves; and no account whatever is stated, 
of the cost and transportation of one, who may be born after 
this, day. It must be obvious* to the house, that this great 
object could not be accomplished at a cost less than five 
hundred millions of dollars ! ! The reflection may be disa- 
greeable, but it is impossible to shut it out from the mind. 
There are no resources within our reach, equal to the accom- 
plishment of this mighty project. The idea of compensation 
and transportation, cannot possibly be realized. It must ever 
prove a delusive phantom — it will ever flit before the imagi- 
nation — it will forever elude the grasp. You cannot perform 
impossibilities — you cannot pay us for our slaves. You must 
first make them free men; freed by your own act of arbitrary 
legislation, and their present holders must sustain the loss. 

Mr. Speaker, — this sentiment has been already avowed, 
openly, unreservedly avowed, by those generous and philan- 
thropic gentlemen, who have stretched forth their hands, 
laid them on the altar, and called on the Great Ruler of the 
Universe, to witness the solemn dedication of themselves, to 
the accomplishment of their holy purpose. Yes sir, the de- 
voted friends of abolition, who believe that our slaves have 
been held in servitude, by the mere force of an invincible 
necessity ; which necessity they regard as removed — gentle- 
men who earnestly insist that, according to the laws of God 
and nature, man can not be property, have had the firmness 
openly to declare, that, we cannot of right demand compen- 
sation. Their sagacious minds have discovered, the utter 
futility of an attempt at this revolution, when they acknowl- 
edge, and act on, the idea of compensation. With a decis- 



29 

ion adapted to their ends, they have boldly assumed the posi- 
tion that, there is no binding obligation in the constitution, 
which secures the right to compensation. Sir, our property 
has been compared to a nuisance, which the commonwealth 
may abate at pleasure, A nation of souls to be abated by a 
mere effort of the will of the General Assembly! A nation of 
freemen to hold their property, by the precarious tenure, of 
the precarious will of the General Assembly ! ! And to re- 
concile us to our condition, we are assured by the gentleman 
from Berkeley (Mr. Faulkner) that, the general assembly in the 
abundance of its liberality, is ready to enter into a compromise, 
by which we shall be permitted to hold our own properly, 
twenty eight years ! on condition that, we then surrender it, 
absolutely, and unconditionally!! This compromise, he re- 
gards as just compensation; he avers it to be the only com- 
pensation, which, as a slave holder he will ever deign to re- 
ceive: which as a statesman, he will ever deign to give. Sir, 
I cannot but admire the frankness with which these gen- 
tlemen have treated this subject. They have exhibited them- 
selves in the fulness of their intentions; given us warning of 
their designs, and we now see in all its nakedness, the vanity 
of all hope of compensation. Is there one among us. who is 
disturbed with a troubled conscience? Does he believe that, 
by the detention of his slave, he offends against the will of 
Almighty Providence? Let him prepare his voluntary deed 
of emancipation ; let it be executed without delay ; let him not 
tease and tantalize himself, with the vain expectation of com- 
pensation from the public. Whenever his slave is emancipa- 
ted by the agency of the public; it will be done per vim* 

But, why should we discuss the title to property; why dis- 
cuss the topic of post nati: on the assumption that, the black 
population is to be removed. The sole question which we 
can determine is, whether we will abolish slavery, and allow 
the manumitted blacks, to remain as freemen in this republic. 
You have not the means of purchase and removal : and if you 
had you have no domain to which they might be exported. 
As jjto the colony at Liberia, if it belonged to the General 
Assembly, it is inadequate to the reception of the blacks. I am 
indebted for this suggestion to my friend from Halifax (Mr. 
Bruce). According to the representations of those best ac- 
quainted with the affairs of the Colonization Society, that co- 
lony could not receive from Virginia, more than five hundred 
annually. But if it were exclusively our own, and if every 
acre of its territory, were capable of reclamation, and of adap- 
tation to the uses of civilized man, — if the face of the country 
be interspersed, with no mountain, no morass, it could not 
receive our slave population. The length of their territory 



30 

is but about two hundred and eighty miles; its width but 
thirty five ; it therefore only contains about nine thousand eight 
hundred square miles — which with a population of thirty to 
the square mile, (nearly twice as dense as the population of 
Virginia,) would only contain about 294,000 souls, — whilst 
the slave population of this commonwealth, is 469,724 souls, — 
exclusive of 47,000 free persons of color. 

Mr. Speaker, — when I came to the house, I intended to 
discuss the doctrine of post nati— the subtle — fleeting doctrine 
of post nati — whose very essence consists in its subtlity — affirm- 
ing as it does that, we have no property in the increase of our 
slaves, because that increase is not in existence — because it 
has no substantial form, on which the obligations of law may 
fasten: — but I cannot now subdue my feelings, to the exami- 
nation of this legal question. The thought is constantly re- 
curring to my mind, — will the house vote an act of emanci- 
pation, without the possibility of compensation f Sir, the 
response grates on the ear. We have heard it orally from the 
lips of gentlemen — we have seen it under their own signs 
manuel, in the form of speeches written out for publication — 
that, the General Assembly enjoys the right, of disredarding 
the provisions of the constitution, in regard to this species of 
properly: and of wresting that property from our possession, 
without rendering compensation. Is it possible for gen- 
tlemen to suppose that, this can be accomplished in peace. 
Sir, I beg I may not be considered, as addressing any con- 
siderations to the fears of gentlemen. I never use the lan- 
guage of menace. It is not the part of a brave man, to en- 
deavor to inspire his adversary with fear. I should despise 
myself if I thought myself capable of such an effort; I should 
despise the house, if I thought it capable of acting under such 
an impulse. But sir, it is the duty of statesmen, to act with 
candor towards one another. We must know, and appreci- 
ate the feelings of others, before our own conduct, can be 
marked with wisdom ; and I announce it to these gentlemen, 
as a solemn, — as an immutable truth, — that they cannot succeed 
in the accomplishment of their undertaking, and maintain the 
peaceable relations of our citizens. Sir, it never can be ac- 
complished, by the mere force of reason. It were vain to dis- 
cuss abstract theories ; it were vain to discuss subtle ques- 
tions of law. This is a question which appeals to the feel- 
ings of men : and it is one, which must be settled by force. 
It is a fatal error to suppose, that, gentlemen can by the force 
of reason, wrest from the possession of our citizens, property 
which they received as an heritage from their fathers : and 
to which, they consider themselves entitled, by the law and 
constitution of this land. Sir, if they persist in the agitation 



ol 

of the question — if we are to be annually convulsed by its 
thrilling consideration, our country will be embroiled in civil 
war. Citizen will be arrayed against citizen— Father will 
be arrayed against son — Brother must face brother — and 
friend, meet friend, in deadly conflict : there is no hope of 
averting these calamities, save that which is suggested, in 
the shocking contemplation of the division of the state. 

Mr. Speaker; — my friend from Petersburg, a few days since, 
attributed the calamities of St. Domingo, to the deliberations 
of the constituent assembly of France. What national ca- 
lamity might not that gentleman have attributed to the same 
fatal cause? That assembly disregarded the right of pro- 
perty. They denied the sanctity of private right. They 
confiscated the private property of the citizen. They con- 
fiscated entire species of property. They confiscated the 
property of whole orders of men. They sent forth their 
doctrines, to be published to the world. The public mind 
became tainted ; the public sentiment became depraved. 
The public was inspired with phrenzied rage, which nothing 
could extinguish but the blood of the citizen. The French 
republic was steeped in blood. Sir, our brethren cannot have 
reflected that they are advancing the same opinions, the same 
sentiments, the same principles, which there occasioned these 
disastrous results. In the commencement of the French revo- 
lution, Marat and Mirabeau, sometimes trembled at the con- 
templation of the fearful precipice. Our orators, stimulated 
by their own generous feelings, rush to the accomplishment 
of their holy purpose, with the fire of enthusiasm burning 
on their cheeks. I conjure them to pause in their career. If it 
were their deliberate purpose to excite our slaves to universal 
insurrection, what topic could they have discussed which they 
have now left untouched? Have they not expatiated on the 
miseries of slavery, and depicted its sufferings in the most 
melancholy strains ? Have they not portrayed the loveli- 
ness of liberty, and exhibited the goddess in all her decora- 
tions, to the excited imaginations of that race of men? Have 
they not invoked the genius of universal and eternal justice? 
Have they not recurred to the law of nature, and declared that, 
according to the provisions of that law, the black man has 
an indefeasible right to the full and free enjoyment of his 
liberty? Have they not addressed the most impassioned ap- 
peals to their heated and exasperated passions? Sir, I ask, 
and ask emphatically, what additional topic they could have 
urged, had they cherished the deliberate design of instigating 
our slaves to instantaneous insurrection ? I cannot impute 
to them this design ; but I admonish them — and solemnly ad- 
monish them, that the tendency of their conduct is to produce 



32 

this result. They inspire them with fatal hopes, which must 
terminate in disappointment, and in consequent desperation. 
They will stimulate them to fierce insurrection. They chafe 
and exasperate the caged Lion. They inspire him with wrath 
and fury. They rend the bars which restrain his rage, and 
send him to roam through the deep, dark forest, or to turn 
upon our families, and imbrue his fangs in the lifeblood of 
our little children. And, sir, when that great day shall come, — 
when our mansions shall be wrapt in flames, and the black 
smoke shall burst from our housetops : — when we shall be 
startled from our midnight slumbers, by the piercing screams 
of our bleeding wives: — when our little children, filled with 
terror, and clinging to the neck of their murdered mother's 
corpse, shall be torn away by the hand of the ruffian, dashed 
against the rock, or thrown, screaming, into the flames : — when 
our aged mothers shall call, in vain, for protection, from their 
slaughtered sons — where, I ask, will these gentlemen be 
found? Not leading, — not mingling with the black horde? 
No, sir, I do not sa}^ it. I do not believe it. I will not be- 
lieve it. But where, I ask, will they be found? What are 
we to expect from the gentleman from Rockbridge? (Mr. 
Moore). Has he not told us that " the Autocrat of Russia 
does not more deserve the name of tyrant, for sending his 
hordes of barbarians to plant the blood-stained banner of 
despotism on the walls of Warsaw, amid the desolation of all 
that is dear to the hearts of freemen, than does the petty 
tyrant who, in any other quarter of the globe, is equally re- 
gardless of the acknowledged rights of man.' 1 We know 
the import of this sentence. We know the firm spirit of the 
member from Rockbridge. We know that he would "sooner 
be precipitated into the presence of his offended God, with 
all his sins full blown upon his head, and with a lively con- 
ception of the horrors of a hell," than stain his hands in the 
blood of a fellow being struggling for the recovery of the 
inalienable rights of man. What are we expect from the 
thoughtful gentleman from the county of Berkeley ? (Mr. 
Faulkner). Already has he gloried and exulted in his own 
good fortune ; — already has he sent to the throne of grace, 
the fervent expressions of his gratitude, for having been al- 
lowed to record himself as one of the first champions of this 
"grand and patriotic revolution." Will he endeavor to sup- 
press a cause which he proclaims to be thus glorious? What 
are we to anticipate from the impetuous spirit of the gentle- 
man from Montgomery? (Mr. Preston). Already has he 
likened this conflict to the generous efforts of Parisian patri- 
otism. What, sir, I ask, are we to anticipate from the sublime 
genius of the gentleman from Kanawha? (Mr. Summers), 



33 

Already has he given life and being to the silent meditations 
of Thomas Jefferson ; and declared, in the presence of an 
attentive world, that in the event of a conflict with our slaves, 
there is not a solitary attribute of Deity which could take part 
on the side of the white man. Could we expect of him to 
abandon his principles — defy the wrath of offended Heaven — 
and aid in the suppression of a cause which he has sustained 
with so much zeal and ability? Where then, I ask, are we 
to expect to find these gentlemen in that black, tremendous 
day? Not mingling with the black horde? No, sir; that 
cannot be. If such suspicion hatiV fastened on my mind, I 
would insert my own talons, and tear the black conception from 
my brain. But, where will these gentlemen be found? With 
the genius of Byron — treading the mountain tops, and gazing 
on the desolation which burns through the plain ! ! Gracious 
Heaven ! are these the just exponents of popular will ? Have 
these sentiments universally obtained ? Have they found 
general acceptation on the west of the lofty blue mountain ? 
Have we no friends there, who cherish for the east, one gene- 
rous sentiment? Is it to be regarded as a reproach, that they 
cherish some sympathy for our sufferings, and are disposed to 
extend to us the hand of affection, in the day of our great 
calamity? Shall they be rebuked and reproached, as black 
spots on the vestal robe? Sir, if these sentiments be diffused 
through the broad west — if they animate the mighty Alle- 
ghany, we have nothing to hope from the deliberations of the 
mountain, but a recurrence of the horrors of St. Bartholo- 
mew! 

Mr. Speaker. — If gentlemen have not been hurried away 
by the heat and ardor of debate — if they cherish the fixed, the 
immutable purpose of renewing and pressing the considera- 
tion of this subject — then, I say, there is no hope of peace, 
except in a division of this great commonwealth. It is a 
sentiment which I announce with pain — with pain fixed and 
acute : but the spirit of candor compels me to the declara- 
tion, that I prefer division to the continued agitation of this 
question. And if the agitation of the question be continued, 
1 shall, in every character which I may fill, exert myself to 
produce that division. I shall do so, myself — I shall earnestly 
recommend it to my constituents. Sir, you can readily 
imagine the agony which it cost, to proclaim to the world 
this determination of my mind. Duty required that I should 
apprise my adversaries of the existence of the sentiment. 1 
feel that I have discharged that duty, and I leave the con- 
quences to my country— to my God. 
5 



