(Ik ^-1^ 




:^s*^y*^ 



An unequalled opportunity for the selectJiQn of Christmas 'nd'Wew^5^v's Prcseuts 
is offered by the rare and beautiful collection of article's toTjerftJund at the 



-V 



It will comprise six different styles of Ladies' Parisian Neck-ties, for the prom- 
enade or drawing-room, of very rich material; Children's Winter Dresses, some very 
beautiful; Bonnets and Hoods, tlie former of the well-known Foxboro' manufacture, 
the latter of the latest style. Just received, rich corded Aprons; Parisian Frills ; 
blond and net Caps ; Bonnet do. ; silk and cambric Night-caps ; Cologne ; Sweet- 
meats ; Purses ; Needle-books ; China Ink-stands, &c. with anti-slavery mpttos ; Chil- . 
dren's Socks, Mittens and Comforts; Shells, scientifically arranged; twenty varietie.'i 
of Bags, Reticules and Cahas, of velvet, German worsted, satin and cord ; Worsted 
work of every description; Watch-cases, Slippers, Mats, Bags, i&c. Very rich 
wrought Book-covers, Pin-cushions, and Napkin Rings, in silk, canvas and floss.' 
Ring-stands, Allumette do. ; satin and velvet French Box and Basket work of every 
kind ;,Scrfeens of silk and gilded and emb.ossed morocco ;' Card-cases and Baskets; 
Portfolios, Music and Letter-books'; Writing Gases, all {inifilied with exquisite pen- 
cil-drawings and flower paintings ; rich damask Taboiirets and (Ottomans ; East India 
Scenery and Manners illustrated, in a very valuable series of drawings on sheet talc ; 
rice paper paintings ; Herbarium ; East India Figijres ; exquisitely Cftf ved pastiHe 
Burners; plain and wrought Capes, Collars 'and' Handkerchiefs. A full,, list of 
useful articles, too numerous to specify. Eoliun Harp ; Mciiiorandum Books and 
Card-cases of embossed bronze -leather. 

-^ '—■ '' ' - :y»\ '.■ -i il 



A 'tTABILS Ba©KllLY IFiaiSKiaSKllIll) FQB ©KJOILSBglKia 



Among the attractions of the ,occasion will be a Printing Press in full operation, worting oft' tlie 

NORTHSTAR, 

THE JOtJRNA* OF T W,E FAIR. 



i^K « Jl»e Book Table will be supplied with a new Annual, got up for the occasion, 
called The Liberty Bell. Prints of distinguished individuals; Books of rare 
Autographs ; Relics of Pennsylvania Hall. 

(D=JUST RECEIVED FROM LOKDON,43] 

— (PR. RUS^LL,) — •'■ ■ \'-r * «■ ' • 

Three cases of new styles of Fancy Goods — invaluable as Models for Fancy Work. 



SPite mvaiU of the Sale teitl bepatsed into the Vreaattrtj of the .iratsactttisetft 
•(. tMuli-Slaeery! Socieltf, 



