Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/jointspecialcommOOmass 



HOUSE No. 41. 



eomtuontoealti) of Massachusetts* 



The Joint Special Committee of the Senate and House of Rep- 
resentatives of the State of Massachusetts, to whom was 
referred the petition of George Latimer and more than sixty- 
five thousand citizens of Massachusetts, also the Message of 
his excellency the Governor, communicating a copy of all the 
correspondence between the governor or authorities of the 
State of Virginia and the Executive Department of this Com- 
monwealth, touching the case of George Latimer, ask leave to 

REPORT. 

This large body of petitioners, probably the most numerous 
that ever made application to the General Court, ask three 
things, to wit : 

1. That a law should be passed, forbidding all persons who 
hold office under the government of Massachusetts, from aiding 
in or abetting the arrest or detention of any person who may be 
claimed as a fugitive from slavery. 

2. That a law should be passed forbidding the use of the 
jails or other public property of the State, for the detention of 
any such person before described. 

3. That such amendments to the Constitution of the United 
States be proposed by the Legislature of Massachusetts to the 



2 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

other States of the Union, as may have the effect of forever 
separating the people of Massachusetts from all connexion with 
slavery. 

These requests deeply affect the relation which Massachu- 
setts bears to many of the States in this Union. They are re- 
quests which should not be lightly asked or inconsiderately acted 
upon. The form of government established by the constitution 
of the United States has now been in successful operation more 
than half a century, and no propositions of the kind suggested 
are believed to have been ever before brought forward by so 
large a number of persons, for serious consideration, as in the 
present instance. The first impression upon the mind of every 
citizen would naturally be that no change of the system, which 
has thus far worked favorably for the happiness of the greater 
number of the people who live under it, could be expedient. And 
at least, it must be admitted, that when any such change is 
proposed, the reasons which can be brought to bear in its favor 
should be of the strongest kind, before any one should be in- 
duced to recommend it. If this remark be true in all cases, it 
is most particularly so in those where the change proposed is 
likely to be regarded with an unfriendly eye by the citizens of 
some of the states, who may consider their rights partially 
impaired thereby. Your committee are strongly impressed by 
the force of these considerations. They would be very slow to 
yield their assent to any proposal not strongly grounded in rea- 
son, or that was urged solely for the purpose of agitating an 
exciting and dangerous subject. Yet, on the other hand, they 
are not prepared, in an over-earnest anxiety to avoid or to defer 
the examination of such a subject, to shut their ears or their 
eyes to facts which force themselves on their attention, and to 
the evidence which is continually developing itself with more 
and more clearness, to prove the necessity of sustaining by de- 
cisive action some of the great principles upon which the liberty 
of the citizen and the value of all government depend. 

It cannot and it ought not to be concealed, that the feeling 
which prompts nearly seventy thousand persons to sign the 
present petition, is a feeling of uneasiness at the encroachments 
which the friends and supporters of the institution of domestic 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 4J. ?, 

slavery in the United States, are believed by them to be mak- 
ing upon the great doctrines of human freedom. Of all th<" rea- 
sons which they have for so much uneasiness, your commit- 
tee do not feel called upon to treat at this time; nor will they 
point out the specific instances in which republican principles 
have been grossly violated in a manner to justify their fears, 
excepting in so far as they are directly connected with the 
points under consideration. For the sake of greater perspicuity, 
and in order to divide the matter proposed by the three points 
of the petition, in the way it naturally should take, your com- 
mittee will first discuss that branch of the subject which relates 
to the prohibition upon all State officers to aid in the arrest of 
fugitives from labor; and the refusal of the use of the State 
jails for the detention of them. After that question shall have 
been disposed of, the propriety of offering amendments to the 
constitution of the United States, will remain to be considered 
by itself. 

It is only within a very short space of time that the mur- 
murs of dissatisfaction which have been long heard against the 
abuse of both the executive and the legislative departments of 
the general government to further the interests of the slave- 
holding party in the Union, have reached to the third, the most 
firmly established in the respect of the American community, 
the judiciary. So long as the arbitrary doctrines, which have 
marked the progress of that party, were perceptible only in 
those branches of our republican system which are liable to 
constant change, there was ground for hope of a return to a 
better system, through the purifying process of public opinion. 
But when the slightest indication of a spread of the same dan- 
gerous notions into the tribunals of justice of the Union appeared, 
there immediately followed a change in the character of the 
public feeling. The prospect grew more dark, because there 
was more of permanency in the quality of the coloring. This 
change is mainly to be attributed to one decision made by the 
judges of the supreme court of the United States, at the Janu- 
ary term of the year 1842. Your committee refer to the case 
entitled Edward Prigg vei^sus the State of Pennsylvania. And 
inasmuch as upon that case has grown the request of the peti- 



4 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

tioners, the members of the committee feel it indispensably 
necessary not only to go into an examination of its principles 
and effect in this report, but to beg of the members of the Gen- 
eral Court to examine it for themselves. For upon the view 
which each person will take of that decision, must depend the 
propriety or impropriety, in his mind, of adopting the measures 
which the committee will ultimately recommend. 

Yet before going into the brief notice of that case, which 
may here be permitted, they desire unequivocally to signify the 
spirit with which they mean to proceed. They disclaim any 
disposition to oppose the constitution of the United States, or 
to resist or deny the binding nature, upon the citizens of all 
the states, of the provisions which it contains. They do not 
seek to instigate any discontent with the jurisdiction of the su- 
preme court, organized as that tribunal is, in a perfectly con- 
stitutional form ; and deciding questions that come up for its 
consideration, as it does, in a regular and unexceptionable man- 
ner. Whatever may have been the emotions with which they 
read the decision in the case in question, there was not mingled 
with them a particle of inclination to deny its validity as a 
decree. However adverse it seemed, in its spirit and tendencies, 
to all the noblest principles at the foundation of a republican 
government, such as that of the United States claims to be, it 
was sufficient that the regularly constituted tribunal had de- 
clared such to be the law, to secure for it acquiescence on the 
part of those states whose rights are most deeply affected, and 
whose legislation is most extensively annulled by it. It is, 
however, one thing not to strive to contend with the authority 
of the court, and another to endeavor to discover justifiable and 
proper modes of remedying, at least in part, the evils which it- 
has occasioned. Although your committee are in no sense in- 
clined to dispute the power of the highest tribunal of the Union, 
they see no objection to making a calm examination of the rea- 
soning which it uses, or to recommending such measures as are 
by itself admitted to be within the ability of the State to adopt, 
and are calculated to restrain the dangerous authority which it 
assumes. It is for the sake of defining what the extent of that 
authority is, as well as of ascertaining whether the time has 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 5 

come to recommend restraining measures, that your committee 
propose to refer to the case of Edward Prigg. 

And, first of all, it may be as well to give in full the second 
section of the fourth article of the constitution of the United 
States, because it was on the construction of a part of it, that 
the case came up for decision. 

" The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges 
and immunities of citizens in the several States. 

"A person charged in any State with treason, felony, or other 
crime, who shall flee from justice and be found in another State, 
shall, on demand of the executive authority of the State from 
which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State hav- 
ing jurisdiction of the crime. 

" No person held to service or labor in one State, under the 
laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any 
law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or 
labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom 
such service or labor may be due." 

Your committee have given the whole of the three clauses of 
the section, although the case of Prigg has reference only to the 
last of them. The reason is, that they will have occasion, in 
the course of their report, to allude to each of them in succes- 
sion, and it may be convenient to look at them in the connex- 
ion. It will be perceived that each clause is in its character 
restrictive of State authority. The first prohibits the creation 
of distinctions of citizenship in any one State, which would ex- 
clude citizens of the rest from a right to enjoy the privileges 
and immunities that citizenship may confer within its borders. 
The second restrains the States from harboring and protecting 
persons charged with crimes, and flying from justice from one 
State to another. The third secures slave-owners in the States, 
where the relation of master and slave exists, against the dan- 
ger of losing ownership, by virtue of any legislation, which 
those States not recognizing slavery, might adopt. It also di- 
rects that fugitive slaves shall be delivered up on "claim" of 
the owner. 

Now it is immediately perceptible, that a difficulty arises" in 
the construction of this last clause in the section, from the use. 



6 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

of the word " claim " there. What does " claim " in this con- 
nexion mean ? Does it mean simply the assertion of a right to 
a person by a slave-owner ? or does it include the proof neces- 
sary to show that that assertion is founded in truth and justice? 
If only the first, then the liberty of every freeman in the land, 
of whatever color and complexion, is at the mercy of any person 
who may be unscrupulous enough to affirm him to be his slave ; 
and none of the provisions of our laws, so carefully made to 
protect us from arbitrary imprisonment, can avail. If, on the 
other hand, it means a demand supported by evidence to make 
it good ; then is it or ought it to be within the power of the per- 
son demanded to enjoy the same opportunities of rebutting that 
evidence, which the law gives him in every other case of dis- 
puted right? And to that end he should have the privilege of 
immediate redress, if wronged, through the ordinary process of 
law, and a trial by twelve of his peers. 

This is the first and greatest difficulty ; to understand exactly 
what the word " claim" means ; and this difficulty the law of the 
United States, passed on the 12th of February. 1793, was in- 
tended to remove. That law was designed to specify the man- 
ner in which persons charged with crimes and fleeing from jus- 
tice from one state into another, should be demanded. In other 
words, its first application was to be to the second clause of 
the section of the constitution already quoted, but it was also 
made to embrace a provision for the recovery of fugitive slaves 
on "claim" made by the master. That provision is in the fol- 
lowing words : 

" When a person held to labor in any of the United States or 
in either of the territories on the north-west or south of the 
river Ohio, under the laws thereof, shall escape into any other 
of the said states or territory, the person to whom such labor or 
service may be due, his agent or attorney, is hereby empowered 
to seize or arrest such fugitive from labor, and to take him or 
her before any judge of the circuit or district courts of the United 
States, residing or being within the state, or before any magis- 
trate of a county, city or town corporate wherein such seizure 
or arrest shall be made, and upon proof to the satisfaction of 
such iudge or magistrate, either by oral testimony or affidavit 



1843.J HOUSE— No. 41. 7 

taken before and certified by a magistrate of any such state or 
territory, that the person so seized or arrested doth, under the 
laws of the state or territory from which he or she fled, owe 
service or labor to the person claiming him or her, it shall be 
the duty of such judge or magistrate to give a certificate thereof 
to such claimant, his agent or attorney, which shall be sufficient 
warrant for removing the said fugitive from labor to the state 
or territory from which he or she fled." 

By this law it will be seen, that the Congress of the United 
States adopted a middle course in defining the sense of the 
word " claim" in the constitution. They admitted that it was 
not enough to make a mere demand, and, upon that demand, to 
carry away the person demanded into captivity. But, on the 
other hand, they denied the necessity under it of substantiat- 
ing the right of property to the same extent that is required in 
all ordinary cases of dispute at law. They specified the de- 
gree of proof which would be sufficient to establish the claim, 
and, setting aside the right of trial by jury, they reposed in the 
breast of any federal or state magistrate, even to the justice of the 
peace, the power of deciding, without appeal, upon the question of 
freedom or slavery for his fellow-men. Neither were they very 
severe in regard to the character of the evidence which might be 
adduced to sustain the claim. It may be oral or written. It 
may be only the certified oath of the claimant sworn to before 
a magistrate in the slave territory itself. AH that is necessary is, 
to make what is called in law a, prima facie case, " such as, upon 
an ordinary warrant, would justify his commitment for trial." * 
Whereupon the judge or justice of the peace before whom a 
man claimed as a slave may happen to come, may, accord- 
ing to his will and pleasure, order his release or consign him 
irrevocably to bondage. 

Such are the passages of the constitution and the laws of the 
United States upon which the judges of the supreme court were 
called to express an opinion in the case of Edward Prigg. They 
were required to say how far these controlled the power of the 
states to legislate upon the subjects to which they referred. 
Your committee understand their answer to establish — 

* See Story's Commentaries on the Constitution, iii. 677. 



8 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

1. That the federal government has an exclusive right to 
regulate the mode in which the " claim" of a master over his 
fugitive slave shall be made. 

2. The Congress of the United States has already exercised 
that right in a perfectly constitutional manner through the law 
of 1793, already quoted. 

3. All legislation on the part of the several states which di- 
rectly or indirectly limits or restrains the right of recovery of fugi- 
tive slaves on " claim" as thus defined, is utterly null and void. 

4. No state can pass a law in any way interfering with the 
power of summary removal of an individual " claimed" as a 
fugitive slave from its territory, provided that this power be 
exercised by the judges of the United States courts, but it is not 
obligatory upon any state to suffer its own magistrates to exer- 
cise the same power. 

Your committee regret to perceive, in this construction of 
the constitution, no safeguard whatever for the liberty of 
a citizen who, though free, may happen to be seized in a 
place where he is unknown, on the "claim" of a slave- 
owner. The writ of personal replevin, that of habeas cor- 
pus, and the right of trial by jury, all invaluable privileges 
of the citizen, fall a dead letter before the combined will 
of a careless or unscrupulous magistrate and a crafty kid- 
napper. It is to be feared that a decision cannot be well 
founded, which, in republican America, shall bring us to such 
results as these. It is, nevertheless, very true that in the opin- 
ion given by the judges to justify their decision, a very oppo- 
site view is taken of it. " Construe the right of legislation as 
exclusive in Congress," they say, " and every evil and every 
danger vanishes." Your committee lament the circum- 
stance that they cannot see the matter in the same light. On 
the contrary, they would be more apt to affirm, that if you 
construe the right of legislation in the particular specified, to 
be so exclusive in Congress as that it may make the general 
government able, at any moment, to destroy the force of every 
well-recognized principle of human liberty in the federal and 
state constitutions, then every evil and every danger, so far 
from vanishing, must be multiplied a thousand fold. Your 
committee take the liberty, very respectfully, to dispute the 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 9 

reasoning which leads to a result so alarming. The judges say, 
in extenuation, that " in the exposition of the portion of the 
constitution under examination, the court limits itself to those 
considerations which appropriately and exclusively belong to 
it, without laying down any rules of interpretation of a more 
general nature." And again : " Hence the safest rule of inter- 
pretation, after all, will be to look to the nature and object of 
the particular powers, duties and rights, with all the lights and 
aids of contemporary history ; and to give to the words of each 
just such operation and force consistent with. their legitimate 
meaning, as may fairly secure and attain the ends proposed." 
Perhaps this view may be the just one ; but it is not the one 
which is most favorable to the preservation of the spirit of 
our free institutions. Your committee cannot help thinking 
that, in the interpretation of any one or of all the separate por- 
tions of that instrument, a general idea of the spirit in which 
it was conceived and the high purposes it was designed to fulfil, 
should be uniformly observed to predominate. And to this end 
it is useful to hold in constant remembrance the strong words 
of the preamble, which furnish a tolerable clue to the intent, if 
such a clue were not every where to be found in the instrument 
itself. That preamble declares — 

" We, the People of the United States, in order to form a 
more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquil- 
lity, provide for the common defence, promote the general wel- 
fare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our pos- 
terity, do ordain and establish this constitution for the United 
States of America." 

It was, then, to secure the blessings of liberty to the genera- 
tions now in being in America, that the Constitution was adopt- 
ed. That design should, then, be eternally kept in view, when 
construing each of its separate provisions. And although it 
may be admitted that the same rule of construction cannot, in 
every part, be rigidly adhered to, yet one thing ought to be in- 
sisted upon, which is, that whatever may be the form of the 
rule, it should, in substance, invariably favor the development 
of those blessings which it was the object to secure. And, 
moreover, it ought to be insisted on, that wherever a paragraph 
2 



10 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

occurs in it consonant with the purposes declared in the pream- 
ble, it should be interpreted in its most liberal sense ; and, on 
the other hand, wherever a paragraph occurs which is not in 
unison with the main design, that the meaning of it should be 
restrained, as far as possible, to the precise purposes it was in- 
tended to serve. 

The great objection which your committee have to make to 
the decision of the court, in this instance, is that the rule of ac- 
tion here pointed out has been overlooked or disregarded. 
Hence the confined view taken of one particular clause of the 
Constitution, unfavorable to the principles of liberty, is made 
not simply to conflict with the construction of all the other 
clauses in it which secure to the people the blessings it ought 
to confer, but, in its practical effect, to ride over them all. It 
overturns, also, the great barriers in the declaration of rights of 
many of the separate States, which protect the citizen and 
guarantee his personal safety. And, above all, it proclaims to 
the world the startling truth, that the continuance of bondage 
to the slave is of more worth to the mind of Americans than 
the continuance of liberty to the freeman. For the question 
which your committee are now to consider, is not simply 
whether a slave shall be recovered after his escape from his 
master into territories where slavery is not recognized, but 
whether a freeman shall be enslaved, beyond the possibility of 
escape, at the mere volition of a town or county magistrate. It 
is the danger of the freeman which calls for the most attentive 
consideration. The execution of the clause of the constitution 
for the delivery of slaves, would not, perhaps, be a legitimate 
ground for State interference, or State discussion, if it did not 
so happen that it was liable to overstep its appropriate sphere, 
and deprive a class of men of certain rights, in the enjoyment 
of which it is the bounden duty of the State to protect them. 

Supposing, for example, that a colored man, a citizen of Mas- 
sachusetts, should leave his home where he is known, to go to 
a distant place in pursuit of work. Supposing that a crafty 
kidnapper should have traced his progress, and. in an unguard- 
ed hour, should seize him and make oath before a justice of the 
peace that he was a slave. The effect of this movement would 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 11 

be at once to strike from under him the only support which a 
freeman has, the common law rights and those secured by the 
State constitution. He would be at the mercy of the magis- 
trate, who might be prejudiced, and not impossibly might be 
corrupt. But even the most honest magistrate is only required 
to see that a prima facie case, "such as upon an ordinary 
warrant would justify a man's commitment for trial," is made 
before he is authorized to proceed to sentence him to slavery 
without appeal. The burden of proof is completely transferred 
from the party claiming the man as property to the party 
struggling to be free. Thus the most fully established princi- 
ple in the governments of the United and the several States, 
that a man is presumed to be free until he is proved to be other- 
wise, is completely overturned, even in the free Staces, and the 
contrary is assumed, to wit, that some men shall be presumed 
to be slaves unless they shall, at all times, be prepared incon- 
testably to prove their freedom. 

Has it indeed come to this, that after centuries of contest be- 
tween the principles of absolutism and of liberty, no farther pro- 
gress should have been made in establishing them in republican 
America, on immutable foundations, than such a doctrine would 
betoken ? The old English common law goes very far beyond 
this. That law, from which we derive most of our impres- 
sions of civil liberty, distinctly condemns every invasion, direct 
or indirect, upon the freedom of the individual. What says 
Judge Blackstone on this point? 

" Of great importance to the public is the preservation of this 
personal liberty ; for if once it were left in the power of any, 
the highest- magistrate, to imprison arbitrarily whomever he or 
his officers thought proper, (as in France it is daily practised 
by the crown,) there would soon be an end of all other rights 
and immunities. Some have thought that unjust attacks, even 
upon life or property, at the arbitrary will of the magistrate, 
are less dangerous to the Commonwealth, than such as are 
made upon the personal liberty of the subject." 

And yet this power not merely of confining but enslaving a 
man to do the work of another for life, is one which, according 
to the construction now contended for, is vested not simply in 



12 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

one high magistrate, but in every magistrate, high or low, 
whether of city, town or county, in every State of the United 
States. If this be security against tyranny, your committee are 
at a loss to know what constitutes the difference between a free 
and a despotic government. 

The complaint made against the decision of the supreme 
court, should be stated distinctly. It is that, in adjudicating 
the right of recovery of fugitive slaves, they have endan- 
gered the rights of freemen, and diminished their secure enjoy- 
ment of the blessings of liberty. If it be impossible to prevent 
an individual in a State from resorting to the process described, 
in a wrongful manner, against any person whom he shall think 
fit to claim as his slave ; then it follows, that the barriers which 
have been considered as obstructing every attack upon personal 
liberty, are actually thrown down. Was it the intention of the 
framers of the constitution, that one little clause, admitted by 
way of compromise with the upholders of slavery, should thus 
be made omnipotent against freedom ? Surely not. Neither 
would the temper of the people of that day, just emerging from 
the contest of the revolution, have submitted to the construction 
a moment. It was not enough for them that the privilege of 
the habeas corpus was expressly secured to them in the body of 
the instrument ; it was not enough for them that the preamble 
assured them that the object was " to secure to them and their 
posterity the blessings of liberty." It was not enough that jury 
trials should be secured to them in cases of crime only, — they 
incorporated into amendments the great principles which they 
felt ought to be acknowledged beyond the reach of equivocation. 
Those amendments, all of them, have more or less reference to 
the liberty of the individual citizen, and are designed to secure 
it. Take for example the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, and the 
seventh. 

4. " The right of the people to be secure in their persons, 
houses, papers and" effects, against unreasonable searches and 
seizures, shall not be violated; and no warrants shall issue but 
upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation ; and 
particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons 
or things to be seized." 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 13 

5. "No person shall be held to answer for a capital or other- 
wise infamous crime, unless, on a presentment or indictment of 
a grand jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, 
or in the militia, when in actual service, in time of war or 
public danger ; nor shall any person be subject for the same 
offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb ; nor shall be 
compelled, in any criminal case, to be a witness against himself, 
nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process 
of law ; nor shall private property be taken for public use, 
without just compensation." 

6. "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right 
to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State 
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which 
district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to 
be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation ; to be 
confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory 
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor ; and to have the 
assistance of counsel for his defence." 

7. "In suits at common law, where the value in controversy 
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be 
preserved ; and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re- 
examined in any court of the United States, than according to 
the rules of the common law." 

If a man claimed by another as his slave, escaped from bond- 
age, were to be considered a criminal, he would be entitled by 
the seventh amendment above quoted, to a public trial, by an 
impartial jury. If he were regarded as a mere piece of property 
above the value of twenty dollars, still, by the seventh amend- 
ment, the fact of ownership would require the judgment of a 
jury. In point of fact, however, he is not included in either or 
any of the above provisions. It is enough that he is "claimed " 
under the second section of the fourth article, to strip him of 
almost every privilege secured by our republican forms of gov- 
ernment, and to lay him, bound hand and foot, at the mercy of 
any single magistrate, whom it is the pleasure of the claimant 
to select and make the instrument of his will. Your commit- 
tee cannot refrain from expressing their opinion, that any con- 
struction of the constitution and laws, which leads to such 



14 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

practical incongruities in our republican institutions as this, 
must have its origin either in a very confined or a prejudiced 
view of the subject, and perhaps in some degree in both. 

The great objection to the decision of the supreme court is, 
then, that by virtue of this confined view of one portion of the 
constitution, it assumes as a rule of practical value, that slave- 
ry must be made the institution to be sustained even at the 
cost of all the safeguards to liberty. The consequence follows, 
that slavery and its doctrines furnish the standard of construc- 
tion, and liberty is made the exception instead of the rule. The 
result must be, as your committee have already stated, in every 
case where a man brings before a magistrate an individual 
whom he avers to belong to him as a slave, that magistrate, in 
the absence of all other testimony, is bound to believe his state- 
ment true. He must give the certificate which consigns him 
to slavery, unless the unfortunate person seized can distinctly 
prove his freedom. In what a dreadful position this doctrine 
places all the individuals who have a shade of color in their 
skins, throughout the free states, must be instantly perceived. 
They have no security, when absent from their own homes, for 
an instant, against the arts of the wily kidnapper. On this point 
the opinion of the court goes so far as to say, " that the owner 
of a slave has a right vested in him to seize and re-capture his 
slave in every state of the Union, whenever he can do it with- 
out any breach of the peace or illegal violence," without the 
intervention of any forms of law whatever. The chief justice, 
in his separate opinion, confirms this view, and says that the 
very simple form required by the United States of going before 
a magistrate, is wholly unnecessary. " No certificate or warrant - 
is needed, if the person seized goes peaceably, and whoever re- 
sists or obstructs the claimant is a wrong- doer." In other words, 
the chief justice construes the word "claim," in the second 
section, fourth article, to mean the mere assertion of a right ; 
and living, as he does, on the very confines of slavery, he sees 
no difficulty in the way of a construction which shall cover a 
quiet seizure of any free colored man who may happen to live 
on the Pennsylvania border, whenever it shall be in the power 
of a Maryland kidnapper to catch him absent from home with- 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 15 

out free papers, and to drag him over the boundary of his 
freedom. 

Let it not for a moment be supposed that this is any imaginary 
danger. The very case which caused the passage of the law of 
the United States, of 1793, adopting a different construction of 
the word "claim" from that of the chief justice, proves it is 
not. It appears that so long ago as in the year 1788, John, a 
free negro, residing at Washington, in the County of Washing- 
ton and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, was seized and carried 
away into Virginia by three white men. He was sold, and be- 
came the slave for life of Nicholas Casey, residing near Romney, 
on the south branch of the Potomac, in that state. The aboli- 
tion society of Pennsylvania, having become aware of the fact, 
that these three white men, then under indictment as criminals 
under the laws of Pennsylvania, had taken refuge in Virginia, 
applied to their Governor Mifflin to demand of the Governor of 
Virginia those persons as fugitives from justice, under the sec- 
ond clause of the section in the constitution, just at that time 
going into operation, which we have been considering. Gov- 
ernor Mifflin accordingly made the demand. But he was refused 
by the Governor of Virginia, on the ground that the constitu- 
tion had not provided the means by which the provision respect- 
ing the surrender of persons flying from justice could be carried 
into effect. Thus it was that the want of a supplementary law 
was made the plea under which kidnappers of a free negro 
were saved from punishment. He and his posterity were con- 
demned to bondage, and the perpetrators of one of the most 
high-handed crimes that can be committed against a fellow-be- 
ing were protected because the attorney general of Virginia was 
not quite convinced that it ought to be called a crime. 

And this is but a part of the picture. In consequence of this 
difficulty in the construction of an important part of the fed- 
eral constitution which had failed to punish men guilty of en- 
slaving' a freeman, Governor Mifflin submitted to President 
Washington all the facts in the case, and he, in his turn, sent 
them to Congress. The result was the introduction of a bill 
which did indeed provide against a recurrence of the difficulty 
complained of, but it also embraced a new and wholly different 



16 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

clause directing the manner of recovering a slave. It is an un- 
welcome idea to receive, but your committee fear that attentive 
observation of the history of the country will show it to be 
just, that even the best legislation has not been suffered to go 
on without some incumbrance or other which the upholders of 
domestic slavery have striven to impose in order that they might 
the more certainly fasten it upon the states which do not, with- 
in their own limits, sanction that institution. The law of which 
we are now treating, furnishes a prominent example of the 
truth of this remark. The original recommendation of Presi- 
dent Washington related solely to the subject of recovery of 
criminals flying from one State into another. It had grown out 
of an unpunished offence against the liberty of a freeman. The 
end proposed was to prevent a repetition of a similar accident. 
But the law did not go from the two houses of Congress without 
an appendage of a clause of wholly different intent. The friends 
of slavery could not consent to facilitate the surrender of men 
guilty of enslaving their fellows without having a quid pro quo 
in a provision for the more effectual recovery, without the inter- 
vention of the ordinary forms of law, of their own escaping 
slaves. The passage of one clause was made to hang upon the 
success of the other, and thus the fair fruit of our legislation in 
one case was made to envelop the bitter ashes of the other. It 
is needless to add, that this compromise, like every other which 
has been made upon the same subject, has turned exclusively 
to the benefit of the slaveholders. And even that very part of 
the law which was gained upon the representation of Governor 
Mifflin to secure the surrender of fugitive criminals, is now con- 
verted, by the ingenuity of slaveholding affidavit-makers, into 
a new engine for the recovery of their slaves. The application 
to His Excellency Governor Davis, by the acting Governor of 
Virginia, backed by the affidavit of James B. Gray, for the sur- 
render of George Latimer, as a fugitive from justice, who is 
alleged to have been the latter person's slave, is an instance in 
point to which your committee will presently refer more at 
large. If such a construction of the constitution could once be 
established as would justify the surrender of persons alleged to 
be slaves by the executive of a free state on the oath of the 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 17 

master, that they had been guilty of crimes, this oath to be 
forwarded by the governor of the state in which that master re- 
sides, as the decisive evidence of their guilt, then it would need 
little foresight to conjecture the change of operations that would 
immediately take place in the south. The fugitive slave would 
be stripped of all the public sympathy with his involuntary 
condition, and would, in every case where he could be traced, 
be made, by the invocation of the state power, to fall into the 
class of malefactors escaping from justice, whilst he conld 
be deprived of the rights of habeas corpus and of jury trial with 
greater certainty and less odium, than if he had been claimed 
as a fugitive slave by the master alone. 

Your committee will now return to the case of Prigg against 
the State of Pennsylvania, for the purpose of showing how 
utterly unprotected it has left the citizens of the free States 
against violations of their personal liberty. The law of Penn- 
sylvania, which was adjudicated upon and declared inconsist- 
ent with the United States constitution, and therefore null and 
void, was a law passed by the Legislature of that State, in the 
year 1826. It was passed at the instance and solicitation of 
commissioners, appointed by the constituted authorities of the 
neighboring State of Maryland, for the purpose of more tho- 
roughly securing the recovery of slaves flying across the border 
which divides the slave and the free State. Its main design 
was to furnish an easy and speedy mode of restoration of such 
slaves, although not a summary one, nor one setting aside every 
right which would accrue, in all other cases, even to the vilest 
criminal. The only condition required was the proper one, 
that the fact of bondage should be distinctly proved before the 
magistrate, previously to his giving the necessary certificate for 
the slave's surrender. In other words, the ordinary principle 
of our law was maintained, that a man should be presumed 
free, until the facts proved him to be a slave. In addition to 
these clauses, however, it did so happen that the frame rs of the 
law, in the exercise of a wise precaution, inserted two sections 
to guard against the probable abuse of the facilities conceded to 
slaveholders, for the purpose of kidnapping colored men ac- 
tually free. The title of the law was " An Act to give effect to 
3 



18 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, relative 
to fugitives from labor, for the protection of free people of color, 
and to prevent kidnapping.'''' And so far as your committee 
can perceive, it did very strictly mark out the precise line con- 
templated in the constitution of the United States, between the 
concession made to slavery in one part of the instrument, and 
the preservation of the great principles which characterize 
almost every other part. The penalties imposed by it upon 
such persons as might, under the pretence of recovering fugi- 
tive slaves, come into the State and attempt to make use of 
its provisions to enslave the free, were not too heavy nor inju- 
diciously prescribed. Yet it was this unlucky exception in 
favor of the freedom of Pennsylvanians, which ultimately turned 
the boon so ardently sought for by the people of Maryland into 
a stumbling block of offence. It was this which induced them 
at last to deny the constitutionality of a statute which they had 
themselves procured to be passed, and to carry the question up, 
at the public expense, to be tried in the person of Edward Prigg, 
a slave-catcher, indicted under the law, by the highest judicial 
tribunal known to the country. That tribunal has formally 
decided in favor of Prigg, and has annulled the provision of the 
law of Pennsylvania which would have punished him. That 
tribunal has decided that the power to recover slaves on 
"claim" is universal, and can be restrained or regulated by no 
free state. It has decided that it is not possible for any state to 
pass statutes which, although intended to preserve the rights of 
freemen to a class of persons, by similarity of color perpetually 
liable to be mistaken for slaves, may yet involve the neces- 
sity of sometimes conceding the ordinary advantages of the 
law to the slave himself. It has decided that it is enough 
that a colored man be "claimed" as a slave at once to take 
from him the right which the common law gives him, which 
almost every form of government in the free states confirms, 
and which the constitution of the United States solemnly guar- 
antees. 

Your committee are deliberately of opinion, that a decision 
which arrives at a result so shocking to the feelings and. the 
principles of every citizen in a land of freedom, must be in its 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 19 

principle erroneous. And they hope that a time may yet come 
when a revision, by persons a majority of whom will not be 
directly interested in the question at issue, will restore to their 
vigor the genuine doctrines of liberty. That time cannot, how- 
ever, be reasonably expected very soon, and in the mean time 
the question arises, what are the free states to do ? Shall the 
slaveholder or the kidnapper range far and wide over their 
limits, setting at defiance all the ordinary restraints of our laws, 
and carrying whom they please before any magistrate they 
please, even to an ordinary justice of the peace, there to be 
dealt with summarily, without the chance of appeal? Your 
committee cannot hesitate upon the answer which shall be given 
to these questions ; — and their only doubt has been upon the 
measures necessary practically to check this great power. 
Without, in the remotest degree, intending to recommend any 
steps of resistance to the execution of the clause of the consti- 
tution which has been so liberally construed, so long as it shall 
remain a clause in that instrument, they do nevertheless feel the 
necessity of devising some method, strictly justifiable in itself, 
of restricting the scope of its operation. They consider the 
clause referred to so often, as an exception to the general char- 
acter of the instrument that contains it. And further, that 
as such an exception, all-proceedings under it should be made 
to conflict as little as possible with the liberty of the citizen 
under state as well as the general government. If the slave 
must be made subject to recovery, he should not be made 
so under any reasonable doubt of the fact of his being held to 
service for life. For your committee must insist that, in spite 
of all the restraining provisions of the constitution, it would be 
a far grosser violation of its general character and spirit to per- 
mit the enslaving of one freeman through its means than the 
liberation of a thousand slaves. 

It is a growing cause of complaint with the people of the free 
states, that the great principle which lies at the foundation of their 
political institutions, and forms the basis of the social theory, is 
now not simply denied in a large portion of the Union, but con- 
temned. Government is, in its very essence, a surrender by 
individuals of a portion of the liberty which they possess in a 



20 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

state of nature, for the sake of more perfect protection against 
violence, of that which they do not surrender. But the prac- 
tice has become general with the citizens of the slave states, to 
consider questions of national importance chiefly according to 
the bearing they may be expected to have upon the all-impor- 
tant point of maintaining a subjection, by force, of two^or three 
millions of human beings. In order to effect this, the most 
self-evident truths are denied, and the plainest directions of the 
constitution of the United States are set at defiance. The first 
object is to establish, not simply in their own territories, but 
throughout the Union, the proposition, that men of dark skin 
shall everywhere be presumed to be slaves, and that they shall 
nowhere be presumed to be citizens. In evidence of this, it is 
only necessary to refer to the manner in which the first clause 
of the section of the constitution, already quoted, that which 
establishes the rights of citizenship throughout the states, is 
daily and hourly violated in most, if not all, the ports of 
the southern states. This violation is deliberate, because 
it has been persevered in for twenty years, notwithstanding 
that one of the judges of the supreme court of the United 
States, himself a citizen of one of the states which set the ex- 
ample of authorizing it by legislative statutes, did long ago, 
from his judicial seat at home, pronounce such legislation un- 
constitutional. Neither does the case stop here. South Caro- 
lina, which took the lead in this measure of resistance to the 
constitution, has been followed by most of the slave states of 
the Union. Year after year the legislation complained of gains 
ground, by transmission from the elder to the younger states. 
Remonstrance from the free states is not listened to. But when 
a powerful foreign nation, which never suffers her citizens to 
be injured without claiming redress and generally exacting it if 
not voluntarily offered — when Great Britain interferes and 
points to commercial engagements infringed, then the laws 
which are never relaxed in their application to brethren of the 
same nation, are suspended so far as they relate to the stranger. 
And, as if to crown all, the very terms of the common bond 
are now disputed, and the sense of it absolutely denied. Those 
persons who are known in Massachusetts as citizens, are de- 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 21 

clarcd not to be such citizens, and therefore not entitled to the 
privileges and immunities of citizenship, by the voice not of her 
own people, but by that of communities living at a distance 
from her territories. And the resolutions heretofore passed by 
her representatives and senators legally elected to serve in her 
General Court, for the purpose of uttering her will, resolutions 
remonstrating against the tyrannical edicts which oppress some 
of her citizens, instead of meeting with even respectful atten- 
tion, are characterized by the authorities of at least one of the 
states complained of, as the sickly effusions of fanaticism, — as 
if a mockery of the simple words of the constitution of the 
United States were not enough without superadding insult to 
injury and to the downright violation of all right. 

Upon this topic, however, your committee do not propose to 
dilate further in this report. Enough has probably been said 
to show the effect which the legislation of the slave states 
has had to destroy the force of the constitution in one particu- 
lar, — the general rights of citizenship which it was intended to 
confer. The same result is again observable in the construc- 
tion attempted to be placed upon the second clause of the sec- 
tion which has been heretofore quoted. And it is still more 
strikingly visible in the action had under the third and last. 
Nowhere can this truth be more clearly seen than in the course 
of proceeding adopted in the case of George Latimer. That is 
the case which immediately gave rise to the great petition re- 
ferred to the consideration of your committee, upon which they 
now report. 

On the nineteenth day of October, 1842, a colored man, rep- 
resented to be more white than black, was seized in the streets 
of Boston by an officer of justice, upon a warrant issued from 
the police court of that city, on a complaint entered against 
him by E. G. Austin, Esq., for larceny committed at Boston, 
within the limits of the Commonwealth. Mr. Austin had no 
personal cause of complaint in the case, but was acting only 
as the attorney of James B. Gray, a white citizen of Norfolk, in 
the State of Virginia. Mr. Austin knew that no such larceny 
as that complained of had ever been committed in Massachu- 
setts, but, according to his own statement, from entire inatten- 



22 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

tion to the mode in which the complaint was entered, suffered 
the error to escape his observation. He had intended to have 
entered it as committed in Norfolk, in Virginia, which is a place 
wholly without the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. Be this as 
it may, Latimer was seized and put into jail upon a warrant 
that could not have stood a moment's legal investigation. But 
the instant that he was lodged in jail, the same constable who 
had placed him there, forthwith changed his attitude and as- 
sumed to detain him by a different authority. He produced a 
written power, signed by Mr. James B. Gray, to detain Lati- 
mer as a fugitive from labor due to him. Mr. Austin had acted 
as the attorney of Mr. Gray in the matter of the criminal com- 
plaint only that he might the more effectually serve his main 
purpose of recovering his slave. That slave had been seized, 
and the fact of his seizure, right or wrong, was enough. The 
presumption of law, as established in the case of Edward Prigg, 
went into instantaneous effect, by which a man, seized no mat- 
ter how, so long as he was seized, had become liable to " claim" 
under the constitution. In other words, he was stripped of 
every defence which the law allows to each individual citizen ; 
even of that which he would have had if committed for the 
very offence with which he had been charged. He was now 
subject to be immediately hurried, into slavery, provided that 
lie could not demonstrate the fact of his right to his freedom. 
The complaint against him as a criminal had done its work of 
making him a slave. The warrant which had been first made 
had served the end proposed, notwithstanding the fact that the 
complaint on which it rested was so grossly and flagrantly 
false that the complaining attorney was driven to substitute 
another even in the short period before he deemed it expedient 
to discontinue that part of his operation altogether. 

Latimer was now in jail. The criminal law had been suc- 
cessfully prostituted to the use of the slave-catcher, and the 
writ of habeas corpus, that of personal replevin, and the right of 
trial by jury fell a dead letter before the decree of the Supreme 
court, in the case of Prigg. The very judge who had pro- 
nounced that decree, the judge who had probably been selected 
the spokesman for his brother slave-holding judges, because he 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 23 

was not himself one, was the person to whose lips was to be 
commended the first bitter draught prepared from his own chalice. 
No judge of the State courts would take apart in the matter either 
for or against the surrender of Latimer. The case of Prigg had 
struck them all with paralysis. In this connexion, the question 
whether he was or was not in reality a fugitive slave, is of no 
consequence. The fact of his freedom would have made no 
difference in diminishing his wrongs or his sufferings. It was 
the iron rod of slavery, wielded by the supreme court of the 
United States, that had broken down all the supports of Ameri- 
can liberty. Still, in justice to the distinguished and highly 
respected judge who presides in the circuit court of the United 
States for Massachusetts, it ought to be stated, that he had no 
share in the imprisonment of Latimer in the county jail. That 
was still continued, although even the shadow of warrant that 
originally palliated it, had disappeared. According to the 143d 
chapter, 1st section, of the Revised Statutes, " the common jails 
in the charge of the respective sheriffs, shall be used as prisons : 
First, for the detention of persons charged with offences and 
duly committed for trial. Secondly, for the detention of persons 
who may be duly committed, to secure their attendance as wit- 
nesses on a trial of any criminal causes. Thirdly, for the con- 
finement of persons committed pursuant to a sentence upon 
conviction of an offence, and of all other persons duly commit- 
ted for any cause authorized by law." Lastly, it is declared, 
that the provisions of the section " shall extend to persons' 
detained or committed by authority of the courts of the United 
States, as well as the courts and magistrates of this Common- 
wealth." Very clearly does it then appear, that for the space 
of nearly one month after the complaint made by Mr. Austin 
against Latimer, had been on his motion dismissed in the police 
court, he was kept in jail, although neither "charged with an 
offence, and duly committed for trial," nor yet ''detained as a 
witness on any criminal trial," nor yet -committed pursuant to 
a sentence upon conviction or for any cause authorized by law." 
Neither was he " detained by the authority of the United States 
courts," for the order of Judge Story directs nothing of the kind. 
It simply places him in the custody of Mr. Gray. From all 



24 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

which, it does most clearly appear, not only that the criminal 
process of Massachusetts has been outrageously perverted to 
the purposes of slave-catchers, but that a jail has been made 
the storehouse, and the officers of justice have become volun- 
tary instruments to effect the purpose of a man, who branded a 
human being as a criminal, only for the sake of bringing him 
near his own person again as a slave. 

Neither is the whole of the story yet told. Since the discov- 
ery by Mr. Gray of the fact, that his own labors cannot avail, 
the power of the sovereign State of Virginia has been invoked 
by him to gain his end. Not content with compounding his 
claim on Latimer for a sum of money, which, however good the 
intention may have been, never should have been paid to him 
within the limits of Massachusetts Mr. Gray, since his return to 
Norfolk, has made an affidavit in substance that Latimer there 
stole two pocket-books and a hair-brush from him, though it ap- 
pears that he admits they were left behind him and exposed to 
view. Upon so doubtful a pretence as this, the acting governor of 
Virginia has thought it his duty to demand the surrender of 
Latimer by the governor of Massachusetts, under the second 
clause of the portion of the federal constitution, so often quoted. 
The fugitive slave is instantly converted into " a person charged 
with treason, felony, or other crime, who has fled from justice." 
Thus it is that the spirit of slavery, flying from one paragraph 
of the constitution to another, seeks to wrest out of each in turn 
the necessary strength to maintain itself. Thus it is that, whilst 
one provision intended to extend the blessings of freedom and 
citizenship is at its nod utterly annihilated, two others are con- 
verted into instruments for fastening the chain on the neck of 
the slave more firmly than ever, through the agency of those 
who boast that they acknowledge no such system within their 
limits. That very government which has been shown to have 
hesitated, fifty years ago, about calling the seizure and sale of a 
free inhabitant of Pennsylvania " a crime," included among 
those referred to in the constitution, is at this day disposed to 
attempt the recovery of a slave on the allegation made by his 
master, the individual most interested in procuring his surren- 
der, of a possible petty larceny never proved against him. The 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 25 

correspondence which has taken place between the acting gov- 
ernor of Virginia, and the late governor of Massachusetts, Mr. 
Davis, is among the papers which have been referred to your 
committee. It is scarcely necessary to add, that, in their opin- 
ion, the conduct of governor Davis, in refusing to listen to a 
demand founded upon authority so trifling, was perfectly cor- 
rect. Any opposite decision to his could have been attended 
with no other effect than the demolition of one more bulwark 
against the complete domination of the slaveholding principle 
over the land. 

In conclusion of this part of the subject, the discussion of 
which has extended further than was originally intended, the 
question remains yet to be settled what it is best to do. Your 
committee all agree in the opinion, that the decision of the su- 
preme court has enlarged instead of restricting the influence of 
the slaveholders over the country. They agree in the belief, 
that it has diminished instead of securing the enjoyment of the 
blessings of liberty, as promised to the present generation by 
the preamble to the constitution. Yet it is difficult to ascertain 
precisely what course should be pursued in the present emer- 
gency. Your committee will not recommend any measure, 
however well adapted in appearance to the prevention for the 
future of such outrages as were executed upon the person of 
Latimer, which has a tendency to conflict with the authority 
of the supreme court of the United States, exercised within its 
legitimate sphere. And yet they are unwilling to suffer an in- 
stant to pass without the proposal of some new safeguard for 
the personal liberty of the citizens of Massachusetts. Luckily, 
the decision of the judges in the case of Prigg, which has occa- 
sioned the dilemma, furnishes in one portion of it a clue to help 
them out of it. Thus the very weapon that inflicted the wound 
may be made to furnish some matter with which partially to 
heal it. For whilst, on the one hand, the majority of the judges 
rigidly insist upon the right of the general government to exe- 
cute the provisions of the law of Congress of 1793, for the better 
recovery of fugitive slaves on "claim " made by their owners, 
through officers of its own creation, on the other hand, it 
leaves the States perfectly free to refuse the cooperation of their 
4 



26 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

magistracy, whenever they shall think it right so to do. The 
law of Congress confers a power of deciding, without appeal, 
upon the liberty of human beings and their posterity, upon 
State judicial officers down to a justice of the peace. The court 
decides that they may, if they choose, exercise the authority 
thus conferred, " unless prohibited by State legislation. 1 '' From 
such an exception, it necessarily follows, that the States have 
it perfectly within their power to make such a prohibition, 
whenever they shall think fit so to do. In view of the case of 
the negro John, in Pennsylvania, in 1788, of that of Edward 
Prigg, in 1840, and of that of George Latimer, in 1842, in view 
of the liability to abuse for the worst of purposes, of the power 
given to so many magistrates, as well as of the protection which 
thousands of freemen in Massachusetts have a right to demand 
of the State, your committee can no longer doubt what should 
be done. This arbitrary authority to dispense with the ordi- 
nary forms of law in cases of the utmost importance to indi- 
vidual liberty, must be as far as practicable withdrawn. Your 
committee are willing, that the injunction upon the States not 
to pass laws liberating fugitive slaves, should remain in full 
force, since "it is so nominated in the bond." They will even 
submit to the necessity, that they should be delivered up to 
their masters on "claim" even though the evidence sufficient 
to support that claim would not be deemed sufficient in the 
State courts to decide a question of disputed property in value 
exceeding twenty dollars. " The law allows it and the court 
awards it." But the force of the award must be strictly con- 
fined within its exact limits, because it is unfavorable to the 
great principles of liberty which the constitution was designed 
to establish. Your committee recommend that the State sur- 
render no more power than they have literally agreed to do. 
They cannot consent to let its magistrates, in whose hands no 
similar jurisdiction can be vested by its own constitution and 
laws, pass without appeal, without responsibility to the power that 
created them, and without the interference of a jury, upon the 
right of living men to their freedom. They cannot permit the 
prostitution of the criminal process of the State, or of its pro- 
perty set apart for certain specific purposes, to the base uses of 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 27 

men engaged in the honorable business of enslaving their fel- 
lows. To furnish extraordinary facilities for the establishment 
of a system of oppression within the limits of Massachusetts, 
they are not bound by any law, human or divine. No political 
party within her territory would sanction .the idea a moment. 
For the purpose of providing against the danger apprehended, 
and in order to meet the wishes of the petitioners, as expressed 
in two parts of the petition, your committee ask leave to report 
a bill. 

There remains yet to be considered the third request, which 
is, ' : That the Legislature propose such amendments to the 
constitution of the United States, as shall forever separate the 
people of Massachusetts from all connexion with slavery." 

This is a wholly independent proposition of the preceding 
ones, far more extensive in its bearing, and one a great difficulty 
properly to discuss which your committee feel in the already 
too great length of the present report. The first question for 
consideration is, What is that connexion of Massachusetts with 
slavery, which it is the object of the prayer to have severed ? 
Something of its nature has perhaps been already disclosed 
in this report, but nothing of its extent. Yet if the doctrine 
generally assumed to be true in the slaveholding States, and 
not infrequently repeated even in Massachusetts, that the free 
States have now no connexion with slavery, and consequently 
have no business to meddle with the subject at all, were actually 
sound, then there would be no ground for the prayer of the pe- 
titioners. It is because they feel that this doctrine is directly in 
the face of all the facts, that they ask for action by which it 
can be made to conform to them. The petitioners ask, that the 
very state of things which the people of the slave States affirm 
they most earnestly desire should be established. They deny 
that it is established now. They insist that the constitution of 
the United States, in some of its provisions, imposes upon them 
obligations to sustain the institution of domestic slavery, which 
they feel to be not merely burdensome, but exceedingly dis- 
gusting to them. And they seek a remedy, not by refusing to 
abide by the contract, or seeking forcibly to get rid of it, but in 
a perfectly legitimate way ; by the proposing of amendments 



28 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

to the instrument, to which the parties must assent, or they 
cannot be made. 

That there is a growing feeling, throughout the free states, 
of dissatisfaction with the operation of the slaveholding power 
upon the system of the general government, can hardly be de- 
nied by any person accustomed to observe the tone of public 
sentiment. It is partly based upon a moral and religious scru- 
ple against the lawfulness of slavery in any form, and partly 
upon less exalted views of the political preponderance acquired 
through its means. But in either shape which it assumes, it 
has had and has now very little to do with the movement of 
the great parties into which the country is divided, or with the 
leading individuals who represent them. It is the spontaneous 
burst of the moral feeling of a portion of the people themselves, 
acting in resistance to the doctrines of political expediency and 
to the interests of all the active statesmen of the day. As such, 
it deserves to be treated with respect even by those who see 
nothing but danger from the movement, and whether it meets 
with it or not at present, it will scarcelyfail in the end to secure 
it. When nearly seventy thousand persons, in a population not 
much more than ten times that number, unite in a single re- 
quest of the nature now under consideration, there is reason to 
suppose that a feeling is at work in the community of which 
they form a part, which will not rest satisfied with inaction or 
indifference as it regards the questions they choose to agitate. 
Your committee could not be guilty of either if they would. 
It is due to them to say, in addition, that they would not if 
they could. 

But so great is the connexion of slavery with the people of 
Massachusetts, through the obligations imposed upon them by 
the constitution of the United States, that a great difficulty oc- 
curs at the threshold, to know how to propose amendments 
which shall have the effect desired without completely destroy- 
ing the instrument itself, and making necessary the framing a 
new one. Slavery, which crept in at the window of the edi- 
fice when it was building, under an implied promise to remain 
but for a time, has now grown so large that it occupies all the 
space, and cannot be put out of the door without hazard to the 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 29 

entire erection. The basis of representation now makes the 
slaveholding interest all powerful in the legislative department 
of the government. The same thing dictates to the chief 
magistrate, whoever he may be, the necessity of submitting to 
the power that creates him. The same influence insinuates 
itself, by a more covert and dangerous road, into the bench of 
the judiciary. The great principles of the constitution are 
made to bend to it where they cannot be broken. No aspirant 
for political distinction can hope to gain it a moment longer 
than he can accommodate his most enlarged notions of popular 
liberty to the necessity of maintaining slaveholding doctrines 
and slavery throughout the territory of the Union. Such is a 
condensed statement of the facts proved by the experience of 
the past, but it is an easier thing to describe the evil than to de- 
fine the remedy. 

A keen sense of the unfavorable influence which slavery has 
exerted upon the character of the Union generally, and the in- 
terests of the free states in particular, has led some persons to 
commit aggressions upon the rights secured to the slaveholders, 
which cannot altogether be justified. On the other hand, the 
slaveholders themselves, irritated by these constant attacks 
upon that which they deem to be their property, and feeling 
that, on account of them, their right to that property is daily 
becoming more uncertain, have been instigated to commit acts 
and adopt principles, which can neither morally nor politically 
be sanctioned. The process thus described as having taken 
place, is yet going on, and bids fair to continue, so long as the 
connexion now existing between the free and the slave states, 
under the constitution of the United States, is maintained. It 
would probably be a fortunate event for both parties, and for 
the duration of the common form of government now well 
established, if such amendments to the constitution as would 
remove the causes of complaint on both sides, could be adopted 
before a degree of irritation shall take place, which may prove 
beyond the control of reasoning. It is idle to suppose that the 
organization now formed against the progress of slaveholding 
doctrines, an organization which has survived every conceiva- 
ble form of discouragement in its infancy, will ever be surren- 



30 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

dered so long as slavery retains its power. It is equally idle to 
expect that the slaveholding doctrines themselves will be aban- 
doned so long as the immense amount of property which they 
arc designed to sustain shall continue to be at stake upon the 
issue. The only hope for peace under these circumstances is 
to be derived from the withdrawal of the material to feed the 
fire of contention. And much of this material is to be found 
in the articles of the constitution of the United States, con- 
strued and acted upon as they have been, for the most part, by 
persons interested in the maintenance of slavery. 

Your committee might, if they thought proper, go into a detailed 
examination of the history of the general government, in order to 
show how the slave system has bent the executive department 
to its will, both in shaping the foreign and the domestic policy 
of the administration ; how it has controlled the Congress of 
the United States until it has actually substituted for the will 
of the people in the consideration of such measures as they 
may desire, the power of a majority of representatives to ex- 
clude every thing which they dislike : and how it has prompted 
the judiciary to extend, over the whole of the free states, the 
force of those arbitrary doctrines which, if heard in America at 
all, should have expended themselves within the limits in which 
arbitrary power is sustained by the local law. But they ab- 
stain for many reasons, and principally because they do not 
desire to say anything unnecessarily to provoke opposition. In 
the discussion of a topic so full of danger, it is, above all, expe- 
dient and proper that nothing be said which may cause need- 
less irritation. The truth must be spoken at all times fearlessly 
when it is indipensable to the justification of any measures 
that may be proposed, but it needs not to be attended with 
words of anger or of provocation. 

The time appears to have arrived, when it is proper to look 
to the cause of the difficulties which have taken place in the 
progress of the general government, for some years past. 
Through all the contests of the political parties which have 
taken place, one fact is visible ; and that is the steady ascen- 
dency of the slaveholding principles. This fact can be ac- 
counted for only in one way. It is the basis of representation 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 31 

in the popular branch of the Legislature, which establishes 
that ascendency. Twenty-five representatives, elected by the 
citizens of the slave-holding States, in addition to the number 
which they are entitled to by their free population, have, for ten 
years past, controlled the destinies of the country. Twenty- 
five electoral votes, gained to the masters from the chains of 
two millions of human beings, and held forth as the prize to 
that individual and that party which will consent to make the 
greatest sacrifices of principle to obtain them, are sufficient to 
decide the character of the government policy. This has been 
submitted to without great murmuring up to this time, but there 
are many indications to prove that it will not be so any longer. 
The free states have a right to be heard on this point, because 
the original compromise, which was made upon this subject in 
the constitution, and which let in this enormous power, has in 
its practical effect been wholly favorable to the slave States, 
and without any benefit at all to them. The power which is 
gained by the white slave-owners, through the representation 
of their slaves, is a constant, enduring, and increasing power; 
whilst the slight relief from proportional burdens, experiences 
by the citizens of the free States, through the taxation of those 
slaves, has been experienced only during the very brief periods, 
few and far between, when direct taxes have been levied by 
the federal government. For the last ten or twenty years that 
the slave power has pressed the hardest upon the free States ; 
these have derived not a particle of compensation for the bur- 
den. It is now the moment to state this frankly and fearlessly, 
and to ask for a revision of the contract. 

Your committee have then come to the conclusion to recom- 
mend that an amendment of the constitution be proposed in 
the third clause of the second section of the first article. They 
believe that the root of the evil which threatens the peace and 
happiness of the Union lies there. They would eradicate it if 
they could. But at any rate they deem it not unwise that 
Massachusetts should act under a provident eye to the future, 
and by a calm and frank exposition of her doctrines, endeavor 
to guard against dangers to come. The representation of a 
free country ought to be the representation only of the free. 



32 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 

Let this principle be once carried out, and the government of 
the United States will assume a moral power on the face of the 
earth which it has never yet enjoyed. Let this principle be 
carried out, and the geographical distinctions which threaten 
the integrity of the Union, and against forming which Wash- 
ington's last words so earnestly forewarned us all, will lose the 
greatest source of their support. Neither will the slaveholding 
States lose so much by assenting to the change, as they may at 
first imagine. Let them once remove the necessity of acknow- 
ledging the influence of the slave in the national councils, and 
they will remove the strongest incitement to agitating the ques- 
tion of his freedom. Let them cease to extend their local law 
over States which cannot assent to its propriety, and they will 
be more likely to maintain it undisturbed at home. The great 
object with Massachusetts is to free itself from all responsibility, 
direct or indirect, for the continuance and spread of slavery in 
the United States. If it must exist, let it exist without sanc- 
tion from the free States. Let those only sustain it, who think 
they derive pleasure or profit from the relation. It is non-inter- 
ference, based upon a total separation of interests in the sub- 
ject, which is the point aimed at by the present proposal. 

But it may be objected to the committee's amendment, that 
it will not of itself, even if adopted by the requisite number of 
States, effect the purpose intended by the petitioners. The re- 
mark is true. There are several passages of the constitution, 
besides that fixing the basis of representation, which connect 
the free States with slavery. They are all, however, of sec- 
ondary consequence, when compared with that, and as they 
probably draw their vitality from, so they would die with it. 
Your committee are, for this reason, unwilling to weaken the 
force of the position taken by them on the main question, by 
at the same instant, opening a variety of smaller ones. It is 
the slave representation, which in their belief is effecting, by slow 
but sure degrees, the overthrow of all the noble principles that 
were embodied in the federal constitution. To that let the pub- 
lic attention be exclusively directed. If in the process neces- 
sary to the procuring a removal of it from the instrument of 
government, it should become advisable to consider the points of 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 33 

mino consequence, this may be done then as easily as now, 
and with more effect. The withdrawal from the constitution 
of the slave representation, would alone, in the opinion of your 
committee, be of force enough to carry with it the remaining 
obstacles to that complete and effective separation from all con- 
nexion with slavery, which the petitioners desire. 

With these views, your committee close by submitting to the 
consideration of the Legislature, a Resolve. 

By order of the committee, 

CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS. 



34 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 



(&ofumont®wltt) <tf Munum^nnttu. 



In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Forty- 
Three. 



Concerning an Amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States. 

Resolved, That the following amendment to the con- 
stitution of the United States be and hereby is recom- 
mended to the consideration of Congress, to be acted on 
according to the fifth article : 

The third clause of the second section of the first arti- 
cle shall read in the words following : 

" Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned 
among the several states, which are or may be included 
within this Union, according to their respective numbers 
of free persons. The actual enumeration shall be made 
within two years from the date of the adoption of this 
amendment, in the manner provided by the constitution, 
and within every subsequent term of ten years, in such 
manner as the Congress shall by law direct. The number 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 35 

of representatives shall not exeeed one for every thirty 
thousand, but each state shall have at least one represen- 
tative." 

Resolved, That his excellency the governor be requested 
to transmit a copy of the aforegoing resolve and the pro- 
posed amendment to each of the senators and members of 
the House of Representatives of this Commonwealth in the 
Congress of the United States. 

Resolved, That his excellency the governor be requested 
to transmit a copy of the same resolve and amendment to 
the executive of the United States and of the several 
States. 



36 FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY. [Feb. 



eommotttoealtt) of mansxttmutttti. 



In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Forty- 
Three. 



AN ACT 

Further to protect Personal Liberty. 

J3 E it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa- 
tives, in General Court assembled, and by the authority of 
the same, as follows : 

1 Sect. 1. No judge of any court of record of this 

2 Commonwealth, and no justice of the peace, shall 

3 hereafter take cognizance or grant a certificate in cases 

4 that may arise under the third section of an act of 

5 Congress, passed February 12, 1793, and entitled 

6 " an act respecting fugitives from justice and persons 

7 escaping from the service of their masters," to any 

8 person who claims any other person as a fugitive slave 

9 within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. 

1 Sect. 2. No sheriff, deputy-sheriff, coroner, consta- 

2 ble, jailor, or other officer of this Commonwealth, shall 

3 hereafter arrest or detain, or aid in the arrest or deten- 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 41. 37 

4 tion, or imprisonment in any jail or other building be- 

5 longing to this Commonwealth, or to any county, city 

6 or town thereof, of any person for the reason that he 

7 is claimed as a fugitive slave. 

1 Sect. 3. Any justice of the peace, sheriff, deputy- 

2 sheriff, coroner, constable or jailor, who shall offend 

3 against the provisions of this law by in any way acting 

4 directly or indirectly under the power conferred by the 

5 third section of the act of Congress aforementioned, 

6 shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars 

7 for every such offence, to the use of the county where 

8 said offence is committed, or shall be subject to impris- 

9 onment not exceeding one year in the county jail. 



