HORRORS OF SLAVERY 



IN' TWO PARTS. 



PART I. 

Containing Observations, Facts, and Arguments, extracted 
from the speeches of Wilberforce, Grenville, Pitt, 
Burke, Fox, Martin, Whitbread, and other distin- 
guished members of the British Parliament. 



PART II. 

Containing extracts, chiefly American, compiled from au- 
thentic sources ; demonstrating that slavery is impoli- 
tic, antirepublican, unchristian, arid highly criminal ; 
and proposing measures for its complete abolition through 
the United States. 



BY JOHN KENRICK. 



CAMBRIDGE : 

PRINTED BY HILLIARD AND METCALF. 
1817. 

Sold by Cummings &. Hiixtaut*, No. 1, and Lincoln k Epmaxajs, 
No. 53, Cornhill, Boston.— Price 20 cents. 






rti.l&6S°'$'l 



INTRODUCTION. 

That all men are bom equally free and independent, is 
a principle which was assumed by the people of this coun- 
try, in their contest for liberty and the rights of man. In 
defence of this and other principles of natural right and 
justice, or in resistance of what they deemed violations of 
their rights, the whole people of these States have thought 
themselves justified in appealing to arms, and in exposing 
their lives and property in two bloody and desolating 
wars. 

Now if the evidence of the fact were not too palpable 
to be overlooked or denied, would it not be thought in- 
credible, that a people, so jealous of their natural rights, 
could hold in the most absolute and degrading servitude, 
unaer a. free government, a million of fellow beings, who 
have by nature, reason and justice, as fair a claim to 
liberty as themselves ? Could it be supposed that a peo- 
ple, thus jealous of their own rights, would treat their 
brethren of a different colour as property, to be bought and 
sold like oxen and horses ! Yet such is the inconsistency 
of the white inhabitants of the United States— a people 
too who call themselves Christians ! 

To invite attention to this melancholy subject, and to 
excite sympathy for the suffering, is the object of this 
publication. The compiler firmly believes that his coun- 
trymen stand exposed to the righteous rebukes of Provi- 
dence for this glaring inconsistency and inhumanity ; 
that whether they shall be tried at the bar of reason, the 
bar of conscience, or the bar of God, they may justly be 
condemned out of their own mouths ; and that all their 
arguments, and all their fightings for liberty, may be pro- 
duced as evidence, that, as a people, they do unto others 
as they would not that others should do unto them. 



4 li> JLiVvALnJUllUIN. 

The work which now solicits the attention of the public 
is principally composed of extracts from the speeches and 
writings of eminent men. The subject of the slave-trade, 
with its concomitants and consequences, gave opportuni- 
ty for the display of the most impressive eloquence. It 
called forth the energies and exertions of men, whose 
names will long be registered among the benefactors of 
mankind. Such is the character of the extracts, that the 
orator, the philosopher, the philanthropist and the chris- 
tian, may all peruse them with profit and with pleasure. 
And it is devoutly to be Imped, that while each one shall 
find something instructive, and adapted to his own taste, 
each may imbibe a deep feeling, a tender sympathy, for 
the suffering and degraded sons of Africa, who are groan- 
ing under bondage in a land of boasted freedom, — nay, 
groaning under oppression from the hands of men who 
would probably involve a whole nation in war and blood- 
shed — or even set the world on fire rather than submit to 
a fiftieth part of the violation of natural rights, which they 
inflict on the African race. 

THE COMPILER. 

Neivtm, May 5, 1817, 



HORRORS OF SLAVERY. 

PART I. 

PARLIAMENTARY SPEECHES, EXTRACTED FROM CLARK 
[IS 

TRADE.* 



SON 9 S HISTORY OF THE ABOLITION OF THE SLAVE 



Mr. Wilber force said, u It was ridiculous to say 
that men would be bound bj their interest, when gain or 
ardent passion urged them. It might as well be asserted 
that a stone could not be thrown into the air, or a body- 
move from place to place, because the principles of grav- 
itation bound them to the surface of the earth. If a plan- 
ter—found himself reduced in his profits, he did not usu- 
ally dispose of any part of his slaves; and his own grati- 
fications were never given up, so long as there was a pos- 
sibility of making any retrenchment in the allowance of 
his slaves." Hist, Abol. p. 46. 

" Europe, three or four centuries ago, was in many 
parts as barbarous as Africa is at present, and chargea- 
ble with as bad practices. For, what would be said, if so 
late as the middle of the thirteenth century, he could find 
a parallel there for the slave trade ? Yes. This parallel 
was to be found even in England. The people of Bris- 
tol, in the reign of Henry VII, had a regular market for 
children, which were bought by the Irish : but the latter 
having experienced a general calamity, which they im- 
puted as a judgment from heaven, on account of this 
wicked traffic, abolished it. The only thing, therefore, 

* All the references are to pages of vol. ii. 
1* 



6 WILBERFORCE. 

which he had to solicit of the house, was to shew that 
they were now as enlightened as the Irish were four centu- 
ries back, by refusing to buy the children of other nations." 
jj. 53. 

" He wished to treat the West Indians with all possi- 
ble candour; but he was obliged to confess, in arguing up- 
on these points, that whatever splendid instances there 
might be of kindness towards their slaves, there were 
some evils of almost universal operation, which were ne- 
cessarily connected with the system of slavery. Above 
all, the state of degradation, to which they were reduced, 
deserved \o be noticed ; as it produced an utter inatten - 
tion to them as moral agents. They were kept to work 
under the whip like cattle. They were left totally igno- 
rant of morality and religion. There was no regular 
marriage among them. Hence promiscuous intercourse, 
early prostitutions, and excessive drinking, were materi- 
al causes of their decrease." p. 183. 

' Mr. Ross conceived a master had a right to punish 
his slave in whatever manner he might think proper.' 
The same was declared by numberless other witnesses. 
Some instances indeed had lately occurred of convictions. 
A master had wantonly cut the mouth of a child, of six 
months old, almost from ear to ear. But did not the ver- 
dict of the jury show, that the doctrine of calling masters 
to an account was entirely novel ; as it only pronounced 
him f Guilty, subject to the opinion of the court, if im- 
moderate correction of a slave by his master be indicta- 
ble !' The court determined in the affirmative; and what 
was the punishment of this barbarous act ? A fiite of for- 
ry shillings currency, equivalent to about twenty five shil- 
lings sterling. It was in evidence, that they were in 
general underfed. They were supported, partly by the 
produce of their own provision-ground, and partly by an 
allowance of flour and grain from their masters. In one 
of the islands, where provision-ground did not answer one 
year in three, the allowance to a working negro was but 
from hve to nine pints of grain per week: in Dominica, 
where it never failed, from six to seven quarts : in Nevis 
and St. Christophers, where there was no provision-ground > 
it was but eleven pints. 



WILBERFORCE'. 7 

Add to this that it might be still less, as the circumstances 
of their masters might become embarrassed ; and in this 
case both an abridgment of their food, and an increase of 
their labour, would follow. " But the great cause of the 
decrease of the slaves was in the non residence of the plan- 
ters. — The fact was, that these [the managers] sought to 
establish their characters bj producing large crops at a 
small immediate expense ; too little, considering how far 
the slaves might suffer from ill treatment and excessive 
labour. The pursuit of such a system was a criterion for 
judging of their characters, as both Mr. Long and Mr. Ot- 
ley had confessed, pp. 185 and 186. But he hoped the 
committee would attend to the latter part of the assertion 
of Captain Smith. Yes : this trade, while it injured the 
constitutions of our sailors, debased their morals. Of this 
indeed, there was a barbarous illustration in the evidence. 
A slave-ship had struck on some shoals, called the Morant 
Keys, a few leagues from the east end of Jamaica. The 
crew landed in their boats, with arms and provisions, 
leaving the slaves on board in their irons. This happen- 
ed in the night. When morning came, it was discovered 
that the Negroes had broken their shackles, and were bu- 
sy in making rafts; upon which after wr- id stney had plac- 
ed their women and children. The men attended upon 
the latter, swimming by their side, whilst they drifted to 
the island where the crew were. But what was the se- 
quel ? From an apprehensim that the Negroes would 
consume the water and provision, which had been landed, 
the crew resolved to destroy them as they approached the 
shore. They killed between three and four hundred. Out 
of the" whole cargo only thirty three were saved, who, on 
being brought to Kingston, were sold. pp. 194, 195. 

In answer to a suggestion of regulating the treatment of 
slaves by law, he asked, How could any laws made by — leg- 
islatures, be effectual, whilst the evidence of Negroes was 
in no case admitted against white men ? What was the 
answer of Granada ? Did it not state, ; that they, who 
were capable of cruelty, wou d in general be artful enough 
to prevent any but slaves bei;>g witnesses of the fact? 
Hence it had arisen, that when positive laws had been 



8 WILBERFORCE. 

made, in some of the islands, for the protection of the 
slaves, they had been found almost a dead letter. Be- 
sides, by what law would you enter into every man's do- 
mestic concerns, and regulate the interior economy of his 
house and plantation ? This would be something more 
y than a general excise. Who would endure such a law ? 
And yet on all these and innumerable other minutiae 
must depend the protection of the slaves, their comforts, 
and the probability of their increase. — The provisions of 
the Directorio had been but of little more avail in the Por- 
tuguese settlements, or the institution of a protector of 
the Indians, in those of the Spaniards. But what degree 
of protection the slaves would enjoy might be inferred 
from the admission of a gentleman, by whom this very 
plan of regulation had been recommended, and who was 
himself no ordinary person, but a man of discernment and 
legal resources. He had proposed a limitation of the 
number of lashes to be given by the master or overseer for 
one offence. But, after all, he candidly confessed, that 
his proposal was not likely to be useful, while the evi- 
dence of slaves continued inadmissible against their mas- 
ters. But he could even bring testimony to the ineffica- 
cy of such regulations. A wretch in Barbadoes had chain- 
ed a Negro girl to the floor, and flogged her till she was 
nearly expiring. Captain Cook and Major Fitch, hearing 
her cries, broke open the door, and found her. The wretch- 
retreated from their resentment, but cried out exultingly, 
" that he had only given her thirty nine lashes (the num- 
ber limited by law) at any one time ; and that he had on- 
ly inflicted this number three times since the beginning of 
the night," adding that he would prosecute them for break- 
ing open his door ; and that he would flog her to death for 
all any one, if he pleased ; and that he would give her the 
fourth thirty nine before morning, pp. 1 97-8-9. 

"For his own part, he declared that, interested as he 
might be supposed to be in the final event of the question, 
he was comparatively indifferent as to the present decis- 
ion of the house upon it. Whatever they might do, the 
people of Great Britain, he was confident, would abolish 
the slave trade, when, as would then soon happen, its in- 



justice and cruelty should be fairly laid before them. It 
was a nest of serpents, which would never have existed so 
long, but for the darkness in which they lay hid. The 
light of day would be now let in upon them, and they 
would vanish from the sight. For himself, he declared 
he was engaged in a work, which he would never abandon. 
The consciousness of the justice of his cause would car- 
ry him forward, though he were alone. Let us not, he said, 
despair. It ^is a blessed cause ; and success, ere long, 
will crown our exeitions. Already we have gained one 
victory. We have ohtained for these poor creatures the 
recognition of their human nature,* which for a while was 
most shamefully denied them. This is the first fruits of 
our efforts. Let us persevere, and our triumph will be 
complete. Never, never, will we desist, till we have wip* 
ed away this scandal from the Christian name 5 till we have 
released ourselves from the load of guilt under which we 
at present labour; and till we have extinguished every 
trace of this bloody traffic, which our posterity, looking 
back to ^the history of these enlightened times, will scarce- 
ly believe had been suffered to exist so long, a disgrace and 
a dishonor to our country." pp. 203-4. 

Second Attempt. 
On the second of April, 1792. Mr. Wilberforce moved 
the order of the day ; which having been agreed to, — He 
then, began by soliciting the candid attention of the West 
Indians to what he was going to deliver to the house. 
However others might have censured them indiscriminate- 
ly, he had always himself made a distinction between them 
and their system. It was the latter only, which he rep- 
robated. If Aristocracy had been thought a worse form 
of government than monarchy, because the people had ma- 
ny tyrants instead of one, how objectionable must be that 
form" of it, which existed in our colonies ! Arbitrary 
power could be bought there by any one, who could buy a 
slave. The fierceness of it was doubtless restrained by 

* This point was actually obtained by the evidence before the 
House of Commons ; for, after this, we heard no more of them as 
an inferior race. 



an elevation of mind in many, as arising from a conscious- 
ness of superior rank and consequence : but alas ! it was 
too often exercised there by therbase and vulgar. As for 
the cure of this monstrous evil, he had shown last year, 
that internal regulations would not produce it. These 
could have no effect, while the evidence of slaves was in- 
admissible. What would be the situation of the bulk of 
the people of this country, if only gentlemen of five hun- 
dred a year were admitted as evidences in our courts of 
Jaw ? * Neither was the cure of it in the emancipation of 
the slaves. He did not deny that he wished them this 
latter blessing. 

He would now say a few words relative to the Mid- 
dle Passage, principally to show, that regulations could 
not effect a cure of the evil there. Mr. Isaac Wil- 
son had stated in his evidence, that the ship, in which 
he sailed, only three years ago, was of three hundred and 
seventy tons ; and that she carried six hundred and two 
slaves. Of these she lost one hundred and fifty five. 
There were three or four other vessels in company with 
her, and which belonged to the same owners. One of these 
carried four hundred and fifty, and buried two hundred; 
another carried four hundred and sixty six, and buried 
seventy three ; another five hundred and forty six, and 
buried one hundred and fifty eight; and from the four 
together, after the landing of their cargoes, two hundred 
and twenty died. He fell in with another vessel, which 
had lost three hundred and sixty two; but the number 
which had been bought, was not specified. Now if to 
these actual deaths, during and immediately after the 
voyage, we were to add the subsequent loss in the season- 
ing, and to consider that this would be greater than ordi- 
nary in cargoes which were landed in such a sickly state, 
we should find a mortality, which if it were only general 
for a few months would entirely depopulate the globe. 

" He would advert to what Mr. Wilson said, when ex- 
amined, as a surgeon, as to the causes of these losses, and 
particularly on board his own ship where he had the means 
of ascertaining them. The substance of his reply was 
this : that most of the slaves laboured under a fixed mel- 



wIKUEiOroKijifi. fr 

ancholy, which now and then broke out into lamentions 
and plaintive songs, expressive of the loss of their rela- 
tions, friends, and country. So powerful did this sorrow 
operate, that many of them attempted in various ways to 
destroy themselves, and three actually effected it. Oth- 
ers obstinately refused to take sustenance ; and when the 
whip and other violent means were used to compel them 
to eat, they looked up in the face of the officer, who un- 
willingly executed this painful task, and said with a smile, 
in their own language, " presently we shall be no more." 
This, their unhappy state of mind, produced a general lan- 
guor and debility, which were increased in many instan- 
ces by an unconquerable aversion to food, arising partly 
from sickness, and partly, to use the language of the 
slave captains, from sulkiness. These causes naturally 
produced the flux. The contagion spread ; several were 
carried off daily ; and the disorder, aided by so many 
powerful auxiliaries, resisted the power of medicine. 
And it was worth while to remark, that these grievous 
sufferings were not owing either to want of care on the 
part of the owners, or to any negligence or harshness of 
the captain ; for Mr. Wilson declared, that his ship was 
as well fitted out, and the crew and slaves as well treat- 
ed, as any body could reasonably expect. 

" He would now go to another ship. That, in which Mr. 
Claxton sailed as a surgeon, afforded a repetition of all 
the horrid circumstances which had been described. Su- 
icide was attempted, and effected ; and the same barba- 
rous expedients were adopted to compel the slaves to con- 
tinue an existence, which they considered as too painful 
to be endured. The mortality also was as great. And 
yet here again the captain was in no wise to blame. But 
this vessel had sailed since the regulating act. . Nay p 
even in the last year the deaths on ship board would be 
found to be between ten and eleven per cent, on the 
whole number exported. In truth, the house could not 
reach the cause of this mortality by all their regulations. 
Until they could cure a broken heart, until they could 
legislate for the affections, and bind by their statutes 
the passions and feelings of the mind, their labour would 
be in vain. 



-tot— rm, 

" Such were the evils of the passage. But evils were 
conspicuous every where, in this trade. Never was there 
indeed a system so replete with wickedness and cruelty. 
To whatever part of it we turned our eyes, whether to Af- 
rica, the Middle Passage, or the West Indies, we could 
find no comfort, no satisfaction, no relief. It was the gra- 
cious ordinance of Providence, both in the natural and 
moral world, that good should often arise out of evil. 
Hurricanes cleared the air ; and the propagation of truth 
was promoted by persecution. Pride, vanity, and profu- 
sion contributed often, in their remoter consequences, to 
the happiness of mankind. In common, what was itself 
evil and vicious was permitted to carry along with it some 
circumstances of palliation. The Arab was hospitable ; 
the robber brave. We did not necessarily find cruelty 
associated with fraud, or meanness with injustice. But 
here the case was far otherwise. It was the prerogative 
of this detestable traffic to^separate from evil its concomi- 
tant good, and to reconcile discordant mischiefs. It rob- 
bed war of its generosity ; it deprived peace of its security : 
we saw in it the vices of polished society, without its 
knowledge or its comforts ; and the evils of barbarism 
without its simplicity. No age, no sex, no rank, no con- 
dition, was exempt from the fatal influence of this wide- 
wasting calamity. Thus it attained to the fullest measure 
of pure, unmixed, unsophisticated wickedness ; and, scorn- 
ing all competition and comparison, it stood without a ri- 
val in the secure, undisputed possession of its detestable 
pre-eminence." 

" Smith, who was sent out by the royal African com- 
pany in 1726, assures us, 6 that the discerning natives ac- 
count it their greatest unhappiness, that they were ever 
visited bv the Europeans. They say that we Chrsitians 
introduced the traffic of slaves; and that before our coming 
they lived in peace. But, say they, wherever Christian- 
ity comes, there come swords, and guns, and powder, and 
ball, along with it." pp. 282- — 293. 

PITT. 
Mr. Pitt rose, and said, that " from the first hour of 
his having had the honour to sit in parliament down to 



the present, among all the questions, whether political or 
personal, in which it had heen his fortune to take a share, 
there had never been one in which his heart was so deep- 
ly interested as in the present 5 both on account of the 
serious principles involved, and the consequences con- 
nected with it. 

" The present was not a mere question of feeling. The 
argument, which ought in his opinion to determine the 
committee, was, that the slave-trade was unjust. It was 
therefore such a trade as it was impossible for him to sup- 
port, unless it could be first proved to him, that there 
were no laws of morality binding upon nations ; and that 
it was not the duty of a legislature to restrain its subjects 
from invading the happiness of other countries, and from 
violating the fundamental principles of justice." p. 248. 

BURKE. 

Mr. Burke said, " Nothing makes a slave, but a de- 
graded man. In proportion as the mind grows callous to 
its degradation, and all sense of manly pride is lost, the 
slave feels comfort. In fact, he is no longer a man. If 
he were to define a man, he wotdd say with Shakspeare, 

* Man is a being-, holding- large discourse, 

* Looking- before and after.' 

But a slave was incapable of looking before and after. 
He had no motive to do it. He was a mere passive in- 
strument in the hands of others, to be used at their dis- 
cretion. Though living, he was dead as to all voluntary 
agency. Though moving amidst the creation with an 
erect form, and with the shape and semblance of a human 
being, he was a nullity as a man. 

<• He said, the slave trade was directly contrary to the 
principles of ftumamty and justice, and that the state of 
slavery, which followed it, however mitigaced, was a state 
so improper, so degrading, and so ruinous to the feeimgs 
and capacities of human nature, that it ought not- to be 
suffered to exist." p. GG. 



14 MARTIN. 

MARTIN. 

Mr. James Martin said, " He had been long aware, 
how much self-interest could pervert the judgment; but 
he was not apprised of the full power of it, till the slave- 
trade became a subject of discussion. — For he never could 
believe that any man, under the influence of moral prin- 
ciples, could suffer himself knowingly to carry on a trade, 
replete with fraud, cruelty, and destruction ; with de- 
struction, indeed, of the worst kind, because it subjected 
the sufferers to a lingering death. — It was well observed 
in the petition from the University of Cambridge against 
the slave-trade, 6 that a firm belief in the Providence of 
a benevolent Creator assured them that no system, found- 
ed on the oppressions of one part of mankind, could be 
beneficial to another.' He felt much concern, that in an 
assembly of the representatives of a country, boasting it- 
self zealous not only for the preservation of its own liber- 
ties, but for the general rights of mankind, it should be 
necessary to say a single word upon such a subject; but 
the deceitfulness of the human heart was such, as to 
change the appearances of tru^h, when it stood in opposi- 
tion to self-interest. He had to lament that even among 
those, whose public duty it was to cling to the universal 
and eternal principles of truth, justice, and humanity, 
there were found some, who could defend that which was 
unjust, fraudulent, and cruel. 

" The doctrines he had heard that evening, ought to 
have been reserved for times the most flagrantly profli- 
gate and abandoned. He never expected then to learn, 
that the everlasting laws of righteousness were to give 
way to imaginary, political, and commercial expediency; 
and that thousands of our fellow creature were to be re- 
duced to wretchedness, that individuals might enjoy opu- 
lence, — Dissenters of various denominations, but particu- 
larly the Quakers (who to their immortal honour had ta«- 
ken the lead in it) had vied with those of the established 
church in this amiable contest. — -In short, there had never 
been more unanimity in the country, than in this righteous 
attempt. 

" With such support, and with so good a cause, it would 



a±\xxxxx. 



be impossible to fail. Let but every man stand forth, who 
had at any time boasted himself as an Englishman, and 
success would follow. But if he were to be unhappily 
mistaken as to the result, we must give up the name of 
Englishmen. Indeed, if we retained it, we should be the 
greatest hypocrites in the world 5 for we boasted of no- 
thing more than of our own liberty; we manifested the 
warmest indignation at the smallest personal insult? we 
professed liberal sentiments towards other nations : but 
to do these things, and continue such a traffic, would be 
to deserve the. hateful character before mentioned. While 
we could hardly bear the sight of any thing resembling 
slaverv, even as a punishment among ourselves, how could 
we consistently entail an eternal slavery upon others ? 

" For his part, he should never believe those persons to 
be sincere, who were loud in their professions of love of 
liberty, if he saw that love confined to the narrow circle 
of one community, which ought to be extended to the nat- 
ural rights of every inhabitant of the globe." pp. 308—- 212. 

SMITH. 

Mr. William Smith rose. " He wondered how the last 
speaker could have had the boldness to draw arguments 
from scripture in support of the slave-trade. 

" Such arguments could be intended only to impose on 
those, who never took the trouble of thinking for them- 
selves. Could it be thought for a moment, that the good 
sense of the house could be misled by a few perverted or 
misapplied passages, in direct opposition to the whole 
tenor and spirit of Christianity ; to the theory, he might 
say, of almost every religion, which had ever appeared in 
the world ? Whatever might have been advanced, every 
body must feel, that the slave-trade could not exist one 
hour, if that excellent maxim, 'to do to others as we 
should wish that others should do to us,' had its proper 
influence on the conduct of men. 

" Nor was Mr. Stanley more happy in his argument of 
the antiquity and universality of slavery. 

" Because a practice had existed, did it necessarily fol- 
low that it was just? By this argument every crime 
might be defended from the time of Cain. ******* 



> 



16 SMITH. 

" That the slaves were exposed to great misery in the 
islands was true, as well from inference as from facts : 
for what might not be expected from the use of arbitrary 
power, where the three characters of party, judge, and 
executioner were united ! The slaves too were more ca- 
pable on account of their passions, than the beasts of the 
field, of exciting the passions of their tyrants. 

" To what a length the ill treatment of them might be 
earned, might be learnt from the instance which Gen. 
Tottenham mentioned to have seen in the year 1780 in 
the streets of Bridge Town, Barbadoes: 

" 6 A youth about nineteen, (to use his own words in the 
evidence,) entirely naked, with an iron collar about his 
neck, having five long projecting spikes. His body both 
before and behind was covered with wounds. His belly 
and thighs were almost cut to pieces, with running ulcers 
all over them; and a finger might have been laid in some 
of the weals. He could not sit down, because his hin- 
der part was mortified ; and it was impossible for him to 
lie down, on account of the prongs of his collar,' He 
supplicated the general for relief. 

" The latter asked, who had punished him so dreadful- 
ly ? The youth answered, his master had done it. And 
because he could not work, this same master, in the same 
spirit of perversion, which extorts from scripture a justifi- 
cation of the slave-trade, had fulfilled the apostolic maxim, 
that he should have nothing to eat. The use he meant to 
make of this instance was to shew the unprotected state 
of the slaves. What must it be, where such an instance 
could pass, not only unpunished, but almost unregarded ! 
Tf,in the streets of London, but a dog were to be seen lac- 
erated like this miserable man, how would the cruelty of 
the wretch be execrated, who had thus even abused a 
brute ! 

"The judicial punishments also inflicted upon the Ne- 
gro showed the low estimation, in which, in consequence 
of the strength of old customs and deep rooted prejudices, 
they were held. 

" Mr. Edwards, in his speech to the assembly at Jamai- 
ca, stated the following case, as one which had happened 
in one of the rebellions there. Some slaves surrounded 



SMITH. 17 

the dwelling-house of their mistress. She was in bed 
with a lovely infant. They deliberated upon the means 
of putting: her to death in torment. But in the end one ot 
them reserved her for his mistress ; and they killed her 
infant with an axe before her face. 

" 'Now,' says Mr. Edwards, addressing himself to his au- 
dience, 6 you will think that no torments were too great for 
such horrible excesses. Nevertheless I am of a different 
N opinion. I think that death unaccompanied with cruelty, 
should be the utmost exertion of human authority over our 
unhappy fellow-creatures.' Torments, however, were al- 
ways inflicted in these cases. 

" The punishment was gibbeting alive, and exposing the 
delinquents to perish by the gradual effects of hunger, 
thirst, and a parching sun ; in which situation they were 
known to suffer for nine days, with a fortitude scarcely 
credible, never uttering a single groan. 

" Rut horrible as the excesses might have been, which oc- 
casioned these punishments, it must be remembered, that 
they were committed by ignorant savages, who had been 
dragged from all they held most dear ; whose patience 
had been exhausted by a cruel and loathsome confinement 
during their transportation ; and whose resentment had 
been wound up to the highest pitch of fury by the lash of 
the driver. 

" But he would now mention another instance, by way 
of contrast, out of the evidence. A child on board a slave 
ship, of about ten months old, took sulk and would not 
eat. The captain Hogged it with a cat; swearing he 
would make it eat, or kill it. From this and other ill 
treatment the child's legs swelled. He ordered some wa- 
ter to be made hot to abate the swelling. But even his 
tender mercies were cruel ; for the cook, on putting- his 
hand into the water, said it was too hot. Upon this the 
captain swore at him, and ordered the feet to be put in. 
This was done. The nails and skin came off. Oiled 
cloths were then put round them. The child was at 
length tied to a heavy log. Two or three days afterwards, 
the captain caught it up again ; and repeated that he 
would make it eat or kill it. He immediately flogged it 
5* • - 



18 COURTENAY. FOX. 

again, and in a quarter of an hour it died* But, after the 
child was dead, whom should the barbarian select to throw 
it overboard, but the wretched mother? In vain she start- 
ed from the office. He beat her, till he made her take up 
the child and carry it to the side of the vessel. She then 
dropped it into the sea, turning her head the other waj 
that she might not see it. 

" Now it would naturally be asked, was not this cap- 
tain also gibbeted alive ? Alas ! although the execrable 
barbarity of the European exceeded that of the Africans 
beforeinentioned, almost as much as his opportunities of 
instruction had been greater than theirs, no notice whatev- 
er was taken of this horrible action 5 and a thousand sim- 
ilar cruelties had been committed in this abominable trade 
with equal impunity — but he would say no more." pp. 
224—239. 

COURTENAY. 

Mr. Courtenay rose, and observed, that" The trade, it 
had been said, was conducted upon the principles of hu- 
manity. Yes : we rescued the Africans from what we 
were pleased to call their wretched situation in their own 
country, and then we took credit for our humanity; be- 
cause, after having killed one half of them in the seasoning, 
we substituted what we were pleased to call a better treat- 
ment than that which they would have experienced at home. 

" It had been said by Mr. Stanley, that the pulpit had 
been used as an instrument of attack on the slave-trade. 
He was happy to learn it had been so well employed 5 and 
he hoped the bishops would rise up in the house of lords, 
with the virtuous indignation which became them, to 
abolish a traffic so contrary to humanity, justice, and reli- 
gion." pp. 259,210,241. 

FOX. 

Mr. Fox observed, that " some expressions, which he 
had used on the preceding, day, had been complained of 
as too harsh and severe. He had since considered them ; 
but he could not prevail upon himself to retract them ; be- 
cause, if any gentleman, after reading the evidence on the 



F0*. 19 

table, and attending to the debate, could avow himself an 
abettor in this shameful traffic in human flesh, it could 
only be from some hardness of heart, or some difficulty of 
understanding, which he really knew not how to account 
for."* 

" Some had considered this question as a question of 
political, whereas it was a question of personal freedom. 
Political freedom was undoubtedly a great blessing; but, 
when it came to be compared with personal, it sunk to 
nothing. To confound the two served therefore to ren- 
der all arguments on either perplexing and unintelligible. 
Personal freedom was the first right of every human being. 
It was a right, of which he who deprived a fellow crea- 
ture was absolutely criminal in so depriving him, and 
which he who withheld was no less criminal in withholding. 
He cou'.d not therefore retract his words with respect to 
any, who (whatever respect he might otherwise have for 
them) should, by their vote of that night, deprive their 
fellow creatures of so great a blessing. Nay, he would 
go further. He would say that if the house, knowing 
what the trade was by the evidence, did not by their vote 
mark to all mankind their abhorrence of a practice so sav- 
age, so enormous, so repugnant to all laws, human and di- 
vinev they would consign their characters to eternal infa- 
my." pp. 254—5. 

" Against this trade innumerable were the charges. 
An honourable member, Mr. Smith, had done well tc in- 
troduce those tragical stones which had made such an im- 

* The expression of Mr. Fox in a former debate, " That the 
slave-trade could not be regulated, because there could be no 
regulation of robbery aDd murder," was brought up, and constru- 
ed by planters in the house as a charge of these crimes upon 
themselves. Mr. Fox, however, would not retract the expression. 
u He repeated it. He had no notion, however, that any individu- 
al would have taken it to himself. If it contained any reflection 
at all, it was on the whole parliament, who had sanctioned such a 
trade." 

" He would not believe that there could be found in the House 
of Commons men of such hard hearts and inaccessible understand- 
ings, as to vote an assent to its continuance, and then go home to 
their families, satisfied with their vote, after they had been once 
more made acquainted with the subject.'* 



20 FOX. 

pression upon the house. No one of these had been yet 
controverted. It had indeed been said, that the cruelty 
of the African captain to the child was too bad to be true, 
and we had been desired to look at the cross-examination 
of the witness, as if we should find traces of the falsehood 
of his testimony there. 

"But his cross examination was peculiarly honourable to 
his character ; for after he had been pressed in the closest 
manner by some able members of the house, the only in- 
consistency they could fix upon him was, whether the fact 
had happened on the same day of the month of the year 
1764 or the year 1765." p. 256. 

" But what was our motive in the case before us ? To 
continue a trade which was a wholesale sacrifice of a 
whole order and race of our fellow creatures ; which car- 
ried them away by force from their native country, in or- 
der to subject them to the mere will and caprice, the ty- 
ranny and oppression, of other human beings, for their 
whole natural lives, them and their posterity forever !! O 
most monstrous wickedness ! O unparalleled barbarity ! 
And, what was more aggravating, this most complicated 
scene of robbery and murder, which mankind had ever 
witnessed, had been honoured by the name of..... trade." 
p. 257. 

<-« With respect to the situation of the slaves in their 
transportation, he knew not how to give the house a more 
correct idea of the horrors of it, than by referring them to 
the printed section of the slave-ship; where the eye must 
see what the tongue must fall short in describing. On this 
dismal part of the subject he would not dwell. He would 
only observe, that the acts of barbarity, related of the 
slave -captains in these voyages, were so extravagant, that 
they had been attributed in some instances to insanity. 
But was not this the insanity of arbitrary power ? Who 
ever read the facts recorded of Nero, without sus- 
pecting he was mad ? Who would not be apt to impute 
insanity to Caligula, or Dominitian, or Caracalla, or Corn- 
modus, or Heliogabalus ? Here were six Roman empe- 
rors, not connected in blood, nor by descent, who, each of 
them possessing arbitrary power, had been so distinguished 



FUX.. 

for cruelty, that nothing short of insanity could be imput- 
ed to them. 

" Was not the insanity of the masters of slave-ships to 
be accounted for on the same principles. Of the slaves in 
the West Indies it had been said that they were taken 
from a worse state to a better. An honourable member, 
Mr. W. Smith, had quoted some instances out of the ev- 
idence to the contrary. He also would quote one or two 
others. A slave under hard usage had run away. To 
prevent a repetition of the offence the owner sent for a 
surgeon, and desired him to cut off the man's leg. The 
surgeon refused. The owner, to render it a matter of du- 
ty in the surgeon, broke it. ' Now,' says he, 6 you 
must cut it off, or the man will die.' We might console 
ourselves perhaps, that this happened in a French island ; 
but he would select another instance, which had happen- 
ed in one of our own. Mr. Ross heard the shrieks of a 
female issuing from an out-house 5 and so piercing, that 
he determined to see what was going on. On looking in 
he perceived a young female tied up by her wrists to a 
beam, entirely naked ; and in the act of involuntary 
writhing and swinging 5 while the author of her torture 
was standing below her with a lighted torch in his hand 
which he applied to all the parts of her body as it ap- 
proached him. What crime this miserable woman had 
perpetrated he knew not ? but the human mind could not 
conceive a crime warranting such a punishment. 

" He was glad to see that these tales affected the house. 
Would they then sanction enormities, the bare recital of 
which made them shudder ? Let them remember that hu- 
manity did not consist in a squeamish ear. It did not 
consist in shrinking and starting at such tales as these 5 
but in a disposition of the heart to remedy the evils they 
unfolded, Humanity belonged rather to the mind than to 
the nerves. But, if so, it should prompt men to charita- 
ble exertion. 

- " One argument had been used, which for a subject 
so grave was the most ridiculous he had ever heard. 
Mr. Alderman Watsjn had declared the slave-trade to be 
necessary on account of its connexion with our fisheries. 
But what was this but an acknowledgment of the man- 



ner, in which these miserable beings were 'treated ? The 
trade was to be kept up ? with all its enormities, in order 
that there might be persons to consume the refuse fish 
from Newfoundland, which was too bad for any body else 
to eat. 

" It had been said that England ought not to abolish 
the slave-trade, unless other nations would also give it up. 
JBut what kind of morality was this ? The trade was de- 
fensible upon no other principle than that of a highway- 
man. Mere gain was not a motive for a great country to 
rest on, as a justification of any measure. Honour was 
its superiour 5 and justice was superiour to honour. 

" With respect to the intellect and sensibility of the 
Africans, it was pride only, which suggested a difference 
between them and ourselves. There was a remarkable 
instance to the point in the evidence, and which he would 
quote. In one of the slave-ships was a person of conse- 
quence ; a man, once high in a military station, and with 
a mind not insensible to the eminence of his rank. He 
had been taken captive and sold ; and was then in the 
hold, confined promiscuously with the rest. Happening 
in the night to fall asleep, he dreamed that he was in his 
own country \ high in honour and command ; caressed by 
his family and friends ; waited on by his domestics ; anil 
surrounded with all his former comforts in life. But 
waking suddenly, and finding where he was, he was heard to 
burst into the loudest groans and lamentations on the 
miserable contrast of his present state ; mixed with the 
meanest of his subjects; and subjected to the insolence of 
wretches a thousand times lower than himself in every 
kind of endowment. He appealed to the house, whether 
this was not as moving a picture of the miserable effects of 
the slave-trade, as could be well imagined. There was 
one way, by which they might judge of it. Let them 
make the case their own. This was the Christian rule of 
judging ; and, having mentioned Christianity, he was sor- 
ry to find that any should suppose, that it had given coun- 
tenance to such a system of oppression. So far was this 
from being the case, that he thought it one of the most 
splendid triumphs of this religion, that it had caused slave- 
ry to be so generally abolished on its appearance in the 



FRANCIS. 23 

world. It had done this by teaching us, among other beau- 
tiful precepts, that, in the sight of their Maker, al4 man- 
kind were equal. Its influence appeared to have been 
more powerful in this respect than that of all the ancient 
systems of philosophy ; though even in these, in point of 
theory, we might trace great liberality and consideration 
for human rights. Where could be found finer sentiments 
of liberty than in Demosthenes and Cicero? Where 
bolder assertions of the rights of mankind, than in Taci- 
tus and Thucydides ? But, alas ! these were the holders 
of slaves ! It was not so with those who had been convert- 
ed to Christianity. He knew, however, that what he had 
been ascribing to Christianity had been imputed by others 
to the advances which philosophy had made. Each of the 
two parties took the merit to itself. The philosopher gave 
it to philosophy, and the divine to religion. lie should 
not then dispute with either of them ; but as both coveted 
the praise, why should they not emulate each other by 
promoting this improvement in the condition of the human 



race 



" He would now conclude by declaring that the whole 
country 5 indeed the whole civilized world, must rejoice 
that such a bill as the present had been moved for, not 
merely as a matter of humanity, but as an act of justice; 
for he would put humanity out of the case. Could it be 
called humanity to forbear from committing murder ? 
Exactly upon this ground did the present motion stand ; 
being strictly a question of national justice. He thanked 
Mr. Wilberfbrce for having pledged himself so strongly to 
pursue his object till it was accomplished; and, as for 
himself, he declared, that, in whatever situation he might 
ever be, he would use his warmest efforts for the promotion 
of this righteous cause. 9 ' pp. 260—265. 

FRANCIS. 

Mr. Francis said, M Having himself an interest in the 
West Indies, he thought that what he should submit to 
the house would have the double effect of evidence and 
argument ; and he stated most unequivocally his opinion, 
that the abolition of the slave-trade would tend materially 
to the benefit of the West Indies/ — Many had affirmed 



24 DR. HORSLEY. 

that the slave-trade was politic and expedient 5 hut i was 
worthy of remark, that no man had ventured to deny that 
it was criminal. Criminal, however, he declared it to be 
in the highest degree 5 and he believed it was equally im- 
politic. Both its inexpediency and injustice had been es- 
tablished by the honourable mover. 

" He instanced an overseer, who, having thrown a Ne- 
gro into a copper of boiling cane -juice for a trifling of- 
fence, was punished merely by the loss of his place, and 
by being obliged to pay the value of the slave. He stated 
another instance of a girl of fourteen, who was dreadfully 
whipped for coming too late to her work. She fell down 
motionless after it ; and was then dragged along the 
ground, by the legs, to an hospital ; where she died. This 
was a notorious fact. It was published in the Jamaica 
Gazette ; and it has even happened since the question of 
the abolition had been started. 

" The only argument used against such cruelties was 
the master's interest in the slave. But he urged the com- 
mon cruelty to horses, in which the drivers had an equal 
interest with the drivers of men in the colonies, as a proof 
that this was no security. He had never heard an instance 
of a master being punished for the murder of his slave. 
The propagation of the slaves was so far from* being en- 
couraged, that it was purposely checked, because it was 
thought more profitable and less troublesome to buy a full- 
grown Negro, than to rear a child. He repeated that his 
interest might have inclined him to tfye other side of the 
question ; but he did not choose to compromise between 
his interest and his duty 5 for, if he abandoned his duty, 
he should not be happy in this world 5 nor should he de- 
serve happiness in the next." p. 2-4—216. 

DR. HORSLEY. 

" Dr. Housley, adverted to what had fallen from the 
learned council, who had supported the petitions of the 
slave-merchants. One of them had put this question to 
their lordships, 4 If the slave-trade were as wicked as it 
had been represented, why was there no prohibition of it in 
the holy scriptures £' He then entered into a full defence 



^.» v >'Ji. S-> ^-^ .».-*.= 



of the scriptures on this ground, which he concluded by 
declaring that, as St. Paul had coupled men- stealers with 
murderers, he had condemned the slave-trade in one of 
its most productive modes, and generally in ail its modes : 
and here it was worthy of remark, that the word used by 
the apostle on this occasion, and which had been trans- 
lated men-stealers, should have been rendered slave-trad- 
ers. This was obvious from the scholiast of Aristophanes, 
whom he quoted. It was clear, therefore, that the slave- 
trade, if murder was forbidden, had been literally for- 
bidden also. 

" The learned council too had admonished their lordships, 
to beware how they adopted the visionary projects of fan- 
atics. He did not know in what direction this shaft 
was shot; and he cared not. It did not concern him. 
With the highest reverence for the religion of the land, 
with the firmest conviction of its truth, and with the deep- 
est sense of the importance of its doctrines, he was proud- 
ly conscious, that the general shape and fashion of his 
life bore nothing of the stamp of fanaticism. - But he 
begged leave, in his turn, to address a word of serious ex- 
hortation to their lordships. He exhorted them to be- 
ware, how they were persuaded to bury, under the oppro- 
brious name of fanaticism, the regard which they owed 
to the great duties of mercy and justice, for the neglect of 
which, (if they should neglect them,) they would be an- 
swerable at that tribunal, where lo prevarication of wit- 
nesses could misinform the judge 5 and where no subtilty 
of an advocate, miscalling the Dames of things, putting 
evii for good and good lor evil, could mislead his judg- 
ment." pp. 58£-3. 

'HUDDLESTONE. ' 

" "Mr. Huddlesi one could not help lifting his voice 
against this monstrous traffic in the sinews and bloou of 
man. the toleration of which had long been the disgrace 
of the British legislature. He did not charge the enor- 
mous guilt resulting from it upon the nation at large: for 
the nation had washed ite hands of it by the numerous pe- 
titions it had sent against it; and it iiad since been a mat- 



ter of astonishment to all Christendom, how the constitu- 
tional guardians of British freedom should have sanction- 
ed elsewhere the greatest system of cruelty and oppres- 
sion in the world 

"He said that.a curse attended this trade even in the 
mode of defending it. By a certain 'fatality, none but the 
vilest arguments were brought forward, which corrupted 
the very persons, who used them. Every one of these 
were built on the narrow ground of interest ; of pecunia- 
ry profit ; of sordid gain ; in opposition to every higher 
consideration ; to every motive that had reference to hu- 
manity^, justice, and religion; or to that great principle, 
which comprehended them all. Place only before the most 
determined advocate of this odious traffic, the exact im- 
age of himself in the garb and harness of a slave, dragged 
and whipped about like a beast; place this image also be- 
fore him, and paint it as that of one without a ray of hope 
to cheer him ; and you would extort from him the re- 
luctant confession, that lie would not endure for an hour 
the misery, to which he condemned his fellow-man for 
life. 

" How dared he then to use this selfish plea of interest 
against the voice of the generous sympathies of his nature ? 
But even upon this narrow ground, the advocates for the 
traffic had been defeated. If the unhallowed argument of 
expediency was worth any thing when opposed to moral 
rectitude, or if it were to supersede the precepts of Chris- 
tianity, where was a man to stop, or what line was he to 
draw ? For any thing he knew it might be physically 
true, that human blood was the best manure for the land : 
but who ought to shed it on that account ? True expe- 
diency, however, was, where it ever would be found, on 
the side of that system, which was most merciful and 
just. 

" The condition of the Negroes in the West Indies had 
been lately compared with that of the Hindoos. But 
no barbarous sounds of cracking whips reminded him, that 
with the form and image of a man, his destiny was that 
of a beast of the field. Let the advocates for the bloody 
traffic state what thev had to set off on their side of the 



VV HA lUHUAi 



question against the comforts and independence of the 
man, with whom they compared the slave." pp. 392 — 5. 

WHITBREAD. 

Mr. Whitbread said, " No eloquence cojild persuade 
him, that the Africans were torn from their country and 
their dearest connexion*, merely that they might lead a 
happier life ; or that they could be placed under the un- 
controlled dominion of others without suffering. ^ Arbi- 
trary power would spoil the hearts of the best. Hence 
would arise tyranny on the one side, and a sense of inju- 
ry on the other. Hence the passions would be let loose, 
and a state of perpetual enmity would follow, 

" He needed only to go to the accounts of those who 
defended the system of slavery, to show that it Was cruel. 
He was forcibly struck last year by an expression of an 
honourable member, an advocate for the trade, who, when 
he came to speak of the slaves, on selling oft* the stock of 
a plantation, said, that they fetched less than the com- 
mon price, because they were damaged ! Damaged ! What ! 
were they goods and chattels ? What an idea was this to 
hold out to our fellow creatures ! We might imagine how 
slaves were treated, if they could be spoken of in such a 
manner. Perhaps these unhappy people had lingered out 
the best part of their lives in the service of their master. 
Able then to do but little, they were sold for little ! and 
the remaining substance of their sinews was to be press- 
ed out by another, yet more hardened than the former, and 
who had made a calculation of their vitals accordingly." 
pp. 312—314. 

ERSKINE. 

The Lord Chancellor (Erskine) said, "From infor- 
mation whfch he could not dispute, lie was warranted in 
saying, that on this continent [Africa] husbands were 
fraudulently and forcibly severed from their wives, and 
parents from their children ; and that all the ties of blood ( 
and affection were torn up by the roots. He had himself 
seen the unhappy natives put together in heaps in the 
hold of a ship, where, with every possible attention to 



»T X.L1 L»il/\1Y1. 



them, their situation must have been intolerable. He had 
also heard proved in courts of justice, facts still more 
dreadful than those which he had seen. One of these he 
would just mention The slaves on hoard a certain ship 
rose in a mass to liberate themselves ; and having far ad- 
vanced in the pursuit of their object, it became necessary 
to repel them by force. Some of them yielded ; some of 
them were killed in the scuffle ; but many of them actu- 
ally jumped into the sea and were drowned; thus prefer- 
ring death to the misery of their situation ; while others 
hung to the ship, repenting of their rashness, and bewail- 
ing with frightful noises their horrid fate. Thus the whole 
vessel- exhibited but one hideous scene of wretchedness. 
They, who" were subdued, and secured in chains, were 
seized with the flux^ which carried many of them off. 
These things were proved in a trial before a British jury, 
which had to consider, whether this was a loss, which fell 
within the policy of insurance, the slaves being regarded 
as if they had been only a cargo of dead matter. He 
could mention other instances, but they were much too 
shocking to be described. Surely their lordships could 
never consider such a traffic to be consistent with humani- 
ty or justice. It was impossible." pp. 429,430. 

CARYSFORT. 

Lord Carysfort rose, and said," that the great cause of 
abolition had nourished by the manner in which it had 
been opposed. No one argument of solid weight has been 
adduced against it. It had been shown, but never dis- 
proved, that the colonial laws were inadequate to the pro- 
tection of the slaves; that the punishments of the latter 
were most unmerciful; that they were deprived of the 
right of seli-deience against any white man, and, in short, 
that the system was totally repugnant to the principles of 
the British constitution." p. 241. 

WINDHAM. 

" Mr. Windham deprecated not only the slave-trade, 
but slavery also. They were essentially connected with 



GRENVILLE. m 

each other. They were both evils, and ought both of 
them to be done away. Indeed, if emancipation would 
follow the abolition, he should like the latter measure the 
better. Rapine, robbery, and murder were the true char- 
acteristics of this traffic. The same epithets had not in- 
deed been applied to slavery, because this was a condi- 
tion, in which some part of the human race had been at 
every period of the history of the world. It was, howev- 
er, a state, which ought not to be allowed to exist," p. 415. 

GRENV1LLE. 

Lord Grenville then read a resolution of the com- 
mons. " This resolution, he said, stated first, that the 
slave-trade was contrary to humanity, justice, and sound 
policy. That it was contrary to humanity was obvious 5 
for humanity might be said to be sympathy for the dis- 
tresses of others, or a desire to accomplish benevolent ends 
by good means. But did not the slave-trade convey ideas 
the very reverse of the definition ? It deprived men of 
all those comforts, in which it pleased the Creator to make 
the happiness of his creatures to consist, of the blessings of 
society, of the charities of the dear relationships of hus- 
band, wife, father, sou, and kindred ; of the due discharge 
01 the relative duties of these, and of that freedom, which 
in its pure and natural sense, was one of the greatest gifts 
of God to man. 

" It was impossible to read the evidence, as it related to 
this trade, without acknowledging the inhumanity of it 
and our own disgrace. 

" Another way ot keeping up the slave-trade was by the 
practice of man stealing. The evidence was particularly 
clear upon this head. This practice included violence, 
and otten bloodshed. The inhumanity of it therefore 
could not be doubted. 

" The unhappy \ictims,being thus procured, were convey- 
ed, he said', across the Atlantic in a manner which justified 
"the charge of inhumanity again. Indeed trie suffering here 
was so gi eat, that neither the mind could conceive nor the 
tongue describe it. He had said on a former occasion, 
that in their transportation there was a greater portion ot' 



3© GRENVILLE. 

misery condensed within a smaller space, than had ever 
existed in the known world. He would repeat his 
words, for he did nnt know, how he could express himself 
better on the subject. And, after all these horrors, what 
was their destiny ? It was such, as justified the charge 
in the resolution again : for, after having survived tne 
sickness arising from the passage, they were doomed to 
interminable slavery. 

"He intreated their lordships, to endeavour to conceive 
the hard case of the unhappy victims of it ; and as he had 
led them to the last stage of their miserable existence, 
which was in the colonies, to contemplate it there. They 
were there under the arbitary will of a cruel task -master 
from morning till night. When they went to rest, would 
not their dreams be frightful ? When they awoke, would 
they not awake 

tc only to discover sights of woe, 

Reg-ions of sorrow, doleful shades, where peace 
And rest canviever dwell, hooe never comes - 
That comes to all ; but torture without end 
Still urges ?" ....' 

"They knew no change, except in the humour of their 
masters, to whom their whole destiny was entrusted. We 
might perhaps flatter ourselves with saying, that they 
were subject to the will of Englishmen. But English- 
men were not better than others,' when in possession of 
arbitrary power. The very fairest exercise of it was a 
never-failing corrupter of the heart. But suppose it were 
allowed, that self-interest might operate some little against 
- cruelty 5 yet where was tl.e interest of the oveiseer or 
the driver ? But he knew it would be said, that the evils 
complained of in the colonies had been mitigated. There 
might be instances of this ; but they could never be cured, 
while slavery existed. Slavery took away more than half 
of the human character. Hence the practice, where it ex- 
isted, of rejecting the testimony of the slave: but, if his 
testimony was rejected, where could be his redress against 
his oppressor ? 

" Having shown the inhumanity, he would proceed to 
Ike second point in the resolution, or the injustice, of the 



GRENVILLE. 31 

trade. We had two ideas of justice; first, as it belonged 
to society by virtue of asocial compact; and secondly, 
as it belonged to men, not as citizens of a community, but 
as beings of one common nature. In a state of nature, 
man had a right to the fruit of his own labour absolutely 
to himself; and one of the main purposes, for which he 
entered into society, was, that he might be better pro- 
tected in the possession of his rights. In both cases there- 
fore it was manifestly unjust, that a man should be made 
to labcur during the whole of his life, and xet have no 
benefit from his labour. Hence the slave-trade and the 
colonial slavery were a violation of the very principle, 
upon which all law for the protection of property, was 
founded. Whatever benefit was derived from that trade 
to an individual, it was derived from dishonour and dis- 
honesty. He forced from the unhappy victim of it that, 
which the latter did not wish to give him; and he gave 
to the same victim that, which he in vain attempted to show, 
was an equivalent to tiie thing he took, it being a thing 
for which there was no equivalent ; and which, if he had 
not obtained by force, he would not have possessed at all. 
Nor could there be any answer to this reasoning, unless 
it could be proved, that it had pleased God to give to tiie 
inhabitants of Britain, a property in the liberty and life 
of the natives of Africa. But he would go no further on 
this subject. The injustice complaiued of was not con- 
fined to the bare circumstance of robbing them of the 
right to their own labour. It was conspicuous throughout 
the system. They, who bought them, became guilty of 
ail the crimes which had been committed in procuring 
them ; and, when they possessed them, of all the crimes 
which belonged to their inhuman treatment. The injus- 
tice in the Tatter case amounted frequently to murder. 
For what was it but murder to pursue a practice, which 
produce! untimely death -to thousands of innocent and 
helpless beings t It was a duty which their lordships 
owed to their Creator, if they hop d for mercy, to do 
away this monstrous oppression/' pp. 41 (J — 421. 



3S 



EPILOGUE. 



Epilogue to the Padlock, in which Mungo appeared as 
a black servant.— Mungo enters, and thus addresses the au- 
dience : 

*• Thank you, my Massas ? have you laugh your fill ? 
Then let me speak, nor take that freedom ill. 
E'en from my tongue some heart-felt truths may fall, 
And outrag'd nature claims the care of all. 
My tale in any place would force a tear, 
But calls for stronger, deeper feelings here ; 
For whilst I tread the boasted freemen's land,* 
"Whilst now before me crowded freemen stand, 
Vain, vain that glorious privilege to me, 
1 am a slave, where all things else are free. 

" Yet was I born, as you are, no man's slavey 
An heir to all that lib'ral nature gave ; 
My mind can reason, and my limbs can move 
The same as yours f like yours my heart can loye, 
Alike my body food and sleep sustain ; 
And e'en like yours feels pleasure, want, and pain. 
One sun rolls o'er us, common skies surround ; 
One globe supports us, and one grave must bound. 

" Why then am I devoid of all to live 
That manly comforts to a man can give ? 
To live ... untaught religion's soothing balm, 
Or life's choice arts ; to live. . . unknown the calns 
Of soft domestic ease ; those sweets of life, 
The duteous offspring, and th' endearing wife? 
To live . to property and rights unknown, 
Not e'en the common benefits my own 1 
No arm to guard me from oppression's rod, 
My will subservient to a tyrant's nod ! 
No gentle hand, when life is in decay, 
To sooth my pains, and charm my cares away; 
But helpless left to quit the horrid stage, 
Harass'd in youth ; and desolate in age ! 

" But I was born in Afrie's tawny strand, 
And you in fair Columbia's fairer land. 
Comes freedom, then, from colour ? . . . blush with shame I 
And let strong nature's crimson mark your blame. 
I speak to freemen. Freemen, then, behold 
A man by freemen s?iar'd, and seiz'd, and sold / 
And yet no freemen's statute damns the deed, 
Nor do the more than murd'rous villains bleed. 

* The compiler has taken the liberty, by changing a few words, 
to accommodate this beautiful little poem to the American Re- 
publick. 



INEliKirS CUM FLAUNT. 33 

" O sons of freedom ! equalize your laws, 
Be all consistent, plead the Negro's cause ; 
That all the nations in your code may see 
Columbia's Negro, like Columbia, free. 
But shall he supplicate your laws in vain, 
To break, forever, this disgraceful chain, 
That be may share kind heaven's all social plan ? 
Though no Columbian, Mungo is .... a man." 



From the- charming pen of Coivper. 
• « THE NEGRO'S COMPLAINT." 

" Fonc'o from home and all its pleasures, 
Afric's coast I left forlorn, 
To increase a stranger's treasures, 
O'er the raging billows borne ; 
Men from England bought and sold me, 
Paid my price in paltry gold ; 
But, though slave they have enroll'dme, 
Minds are never to be sold. 

" Still in thought as free as ever, 
What are England's rights I ask, 
Me from my delights to sever, 
Me to torture, me to task ? 
Fleecy locks and black complexion 
Cannot forfeit nature's claim ; 
Skins may differ, but affection 
Dwells in white and black the same. 

" Why did all creating- Nature 
Make the plant for which we toil ? 
Sighs must fan it, tears must water, 
Sweat of ours must dress the soil. 
Think, ye musters, iron-hearted, 
Lolling at your jovial boards, 
Think how' many backs have smarted 
For the sweets youi cane affords. 

" Is there, as ye sometimes tell us, 
Is there one, who reigns on high ; 
Has he bid yuu buy and sell us, 
Speaking from his throne the sky ? 
Ask him, if \ our knotted scourges, 
Fetters, blood-extorting screws, 



54 NEGRO'S COMPLAINT. 

Are the means, which duty urges 
Agents of his will to use ? 

" Hark ! he answers. Wild tornadoes, 
Strewing yonder sea with wrecks, 
Wasting towns, plantations, meadows, 
Are the voice with which he speaks. 
He, foreseeing what vexations 
Afric's sons should undergo, 
Fix'd their tyrants' habitations 
Where his whirlwinds answer . . No. 

" By our blood in Afric wasted 
Ere our necks received the chain ; 
By the mis'ries, which we tasted 
Crossing in your barks, the main ; 
By our sufPrings, since ye brought us 
• To the man-degrading mart, 
All sustained by patience, taught us 
Only by a broken heart. 

" Deem our nation brutes no longer, 
Till some reason ye shall find 
Worthier of regard, and stronger, 
Than the colour of our kind. 
Slaves of gold ! whose sordid dealings 
Tarnish all your boasted powers, 
Prove that you have human feelings, 
F.re you proudly question ears/." 



PART II. 



BRISSOT. 

Movsieur Brissot, in relating bis travels in the Unit- 
ed States in 1788, says: " In New Jersey, — the western 
parts of the State are disposed to free their Negroes : 
but the eastern parts are opposed to ,it. 

" It is probable, that their obstinacy will be overcome ; 
at least it is the opinion of the respectable Mr. Livingston, 
celebrated for the part he has acted in the late revolution : 
he has declared this opinion in a letter written to the So- 
ciety at Philadelphia.* He has himself freed all his 
slaves, which are very numerous. 

" The Quakers have been more fortunate in Pennsylva- 
nia. — In 1780, at their request, seconded by a great num- 
ber of persons from other sects, the General Assembly 
abolished slavery forever, forced the owners of slaves to 
cause them to be registered, declared their children free 
at the age of twenty -eight years, placed them, while under 
that age, on a footing of hired servants, assured to them 
the benefit of trial by jury, &c. But this act did not pro- 
vide against all the abuses that avarice could afterwards 
invent. It was evaded in many points.— Some barbarous 
masters sold their blacks, to be carried into foreign coun- 
tries ; others sent the Negro children into neighbouring 
States, that they might there be sold, and deprived of 
the benefit of the law of Pennsylvania, when they should 
come of age ; others sent their pregnant women into an- 
other State, that the offspring might be slaves ; and others 
stole free Negroes, and carried them to tne islands for sale. 
The society, shocked at these abuses, applied again to the 

* A Society for the abolition of slavery. 



x Jtn.». txfi^xrT-r 



Assembly, who passed a new act in March last, effectual- 
ly to prevent them. It ordained, that no black could be 
sent into a neighbouring state, without his consent; con- 
demned to the publick works the stealers of Negroes, &c. 

" Doubtless we cannot bestow too much praise on the 
indefatigable zeal of the Society in Pennsylvania, which 
solicited these laws, nor on the spirit of equity and hu- 
manity displayed by he legislature in passing them ; but 
some regret must mingle itself with our applause. VY hy 
did it not extend, at least the hopes of freedom, to those 
who were slaves at the time of the passing the first act ? 
They are a property, it is said ; and all property is sa- 
cred*. But what is a- property founded on robbery and 
plunder ? What is a property which violates laws, human 
and divine? But' let this property merit some regard. 
Why not limit it to a certain number of years, in order 
to give at least the cheap consolation of hope? Why not 
grant to the slave, the right of purchasing his freedom ? 
What! the child of the Negro slave shall one day enjoy 
his liberty ; and the unhappy father, though ready to leap 
with joy on beholding the fortune of his son, must roll 
back his eyes with aggravated anguish, on his own irre- 
vocable bondage ! The son has never felt, like him- the 
torture of being torn from his country, from his family, 
from all that is dear to man ; the son has not experienced 
that severity of treatment so common in this country 
before this revolution of sentiment; yet the son is fa- 
voured, and the father consigned to despair. But the 
injustice cannot long sully the laws of a country where 
reason and humanity prevail. We may hope that a ca- 
pitulation will be made with avarice, by which these 
slaves shall be drawn from its hands. 

"Again — Why. in the act of March, 1780, is it de- 
clared that a slave cannot be a witness against a free; 
man. You either suppose him less true than the free 
man, or you suppose him. differently organised. The last 
supposition is absurd; the other, if true, is against your- 
selves ; for, why are they less conscientious, more cor- 
rupted and more wicked ?•— it is because they are slaves. 
The crime falls on the head of the master ; and the 



JLiiVjL._7>_>\_T JL. , 



slave is thus degraded and punished for the vice of the 
master. 

" Finally, why do you ordain that the master should 
be reimbursed from the public treasury, the price of the 
slave who may suffer death for crimes ? If, as is easy to 
prove, the crimes of slaves are almost universally the 
fruit of their slavery, and are in proportion to the severi- 
ty of their treatment, is it not absurd to recompense the 
master for his tyranny P When we recollect that these 
masters have hitherto been accustomed to consider their 
slaves as a species of cattle, and that the laws make the 
master responsible for the damages done by his cattle, 
does it not appear contradictory to reverse the law rela- 
tive to these black-cattte, when they do a mischief, for 
which society thinks it necessary to extirpate them? In 
this case, the real author of the crime, instead of paying 
damages, receives a reward. 

" The little state of Delaware has followed the exam- 
ple of Pennsylvania. It is mostly peopled by Quakers ; 
instances of giving freedom are therefore numerous. In 
this state, famous for the wisdom of its laws, for its good 
faith and federal patriotism, resides that angel of peace, 
Warner Mifflin. Like Benezet, he occupies his time in 
extending the opinions of his society relative to the free- 
dom of the blacks and the care of providing for their ex- 
istence and their instruction. It is in part to his zeal 
that is owing the formation of a society in that state, after 
the model of the one at Philadelphia, for the abolition of 
Slavery, 

" With the state of Delaware finishes the system of pro- 
tection to the blacks. Yet there are some Negroes freed 
in Maryland, because there are some Quakers there; and 
you perceive it \evy readily, on comparing the fields of 
tobacco or of Indian corn, belonging to these people with 
those of others ; you see how much superior t\\e hand of a 
freeman is to that of a slave, in the operations of industry. 

" When you run over Maryland and Virginia, you con- 
ceive yourself in a different world ; and you are convinc- 
ed of it, when you converse with the inhabitants. 

"They speak not here of projects for freeing the Ne 
4 



~ •"« ~ -~ " *n +. rs e*s ors?* - "^ **** 

proes ; they praise not the societies of London and Amer- 
ica : they read riot the works of Clarkson — No ; the in- 
dolent masters behold with uneasiness the efforts that are 
making to render freedom universal. 

" The strongest objection lies in the character, the man- 
ners, and habits of the Virginians. They seem to enjoy 
the sweat of slaves. They are fond of hunting; they 
♦love the display of luxury, and disdain the idea of labour. 
This order of tilings will change when slavery shall be no 
more. It is not, that, the work of a slave is more profit- 
able than that of a freeman ; but it is in multiplying the 
slaves, condemning them to a miserable nourishment, in 
depriving them of clothes, and in running over a large 
quantity of land with a negligent culture, that they sup- 
ply the necessity of honest industry. 

" In the south, the blacks are in a state of abjection dif- 
ficult io describe ; many of them are naked, ill fed, lodged 
in miserable huts, on straw. — They receive no education, 
no instruction in any kind of religion ; they are not married, 
but coupled ; thus they are brutalized.— Every thing in 
Maryland and Virginia wears the print of slavery; a 
starved soil, bad cultivation, houses falling to ruin, cattle 
small and few, and black walking skeletons ; in a word, 
you see real misery, and apparent luxury, insulting each 
other. 

< God has created men of all nations, of all languages, 
of all colours, equally free i Slavery, in all its forms, in 
all its degrees, is a violation of the divine laws /* and a 
degradation ofhumqn nature.' 

* if slavery is " a violation of the divine laws •" is it not absurd 
to talk about a gradual emancipation ? We might as well talk of 
gradually leaving off piracy — murder — adultery, or drunkenness. 
Might not Pharaoh with as much propriety have told Moses 
about a gradual emancipation of his slaves ; and asserted, that 
they were unfit for freedom ; that none but a mad-man could 
think of setting at liberty a million of such contemptible wretch- 
es, before they were duly enlightened, and prepared for liberty ; 
and have demanded how it was possible for them to subsist any 
Other way than by robbery ? 

But Moses would have been ready with an answer— that they 
were going into the wilderness ;~that it was but just and rea- 



*_/ A-JCX^-JCT^W 



The society of Philadelphia say, in their address to the 
public, " The wretch who has long been treated as a beast 
of burthen, is often degraded so far as to appear of a spe- 
cies inferior to that of other men ; the chains which bind 
his body, curb likewise his intellectual faculties, and en- 
feeble the social affections of his heart. 9 ' 

Tn speaking of a certain American writer, he says, 
66 He uniformly employed the language of invective. This 
is the weapon that the partizans of slavery always use in 
America, in England, and in France." 

After having mentioned a scheme for colonising the 
free-blacks on the coast of Africa, he adds : " By this 
civilization, Europe would open a vast market to her man- 
ufactures, and obtain, at a cheap rate, and without the ef- 
fusion of blood, those productions, which cost her at the 
islands so much money and so many crimes. God grant 
that this idea may soon be realized."* 



From « The Christian Disciple," JVo. 20. 

-— " Ceasing to import Africans affords but iittls relief 
to the multitude, who are still held in bondage, under our 
free government. If we have done going to Africa for 
Negroes, still the 6 - slave trade' is continued in anothet 
form, and our fellow beings are bought and sold like cat- 
tle, in the southern States ; and many of them are abus- 

sonable that they be furnished, as a remuneration for their hard 
services, with " jewels of silver, and jewels of gold:" but, if these 
were denied, at least they should insist on being" supplied with 
provisions, and every necessary for beginning the world. 

If the Israelites were more enlightened while under the Egyp- 
tians, than are the present American slaves, to what cau.se can it 
be assigned ? Had they better masters ? 

• Let it be remembered, that the United States have the im- 
mense country of Louisiana, the southern part of which is well 
calculated for a settlement of the Africans, and too hot a country 
for a white population. Indeed, every advantage anticipated by 
Europeans from colonising- the shores of Africa with free Negroes, 
would most assuredly be realized by the United States, were 
they to settle them in South Louisiana* 



ed and driven about, in a manner more cruel, than it 
would be lawful to treat the vilest of the brute creation. 
We may therefore reasonably expect, that 4 the shrieks 
and groans' of these slaves will be continually ascending 
to the righteous Governour of the world, calling for ven- 
geance on the oppressors. 

" It will probably be pleaded, that those who keep no 
slaves have no concern in this guilt. But is this the fact ? 
Do 'not those who keep no slaves protect the slave-hold- 
ers in their oppression ? What would be the fate of 
these domineering lords, if those who have uo slaves 
should avowedly withdraw their protection, and leave the 
masters and the slaves to settle this one cjuestion ; Whose 
turn is it to serve in future ? Do not the slave-holders 
depend on being protected in their merciless tyranny by 
the national government ? : If this be the fact, how is it 
possible that the nation, as such, should be clear from the 
charge or the guilt of holding in slavery more than a mil- 
lion of human beings ? Suppose that in the district of 
Massachusetts fifty masters were protected by the state 
government in holding in slavery three thousand Negroes; 
would not the whole State be involved in the guilt? Ver- 
ily they would. On the same principle every state i:« the 
union partakes in the guilt of the southern slave-holders. 

" We are aware that the subject is attended with very 
serious difficulties, on account of the great number of 
slaves. But do the difficulties diminish by delay ? Are 
not the number of slaves annually increasing ? And do 
not the difficulties increase in the same proportion ? Is 
it resolved by the nation that negro slavery shall be per- 
petual in this land of liberty ? Shall those who have 
their eyes open, wiih respect to the magnitude of the evil, 
hold their peace, and do nothing to purge themselves and 
their country from this dreadful guilt, until a righteous 
God shall repeat in our land the horrors of St. Domingo ? 
With what equity may the sovereign Disposer of events 
strip the white inhabitants of these states of those privi- 
leges, which as a nation they deny to a million of fellow 
beings, who are as worthy of freedom as their masters ! 

** if a small number of our white people happen to be 



: " AJ5J5& XtXYj^Al 

subjected to bondage in the African states, or pressed on 
board foreign ships of war, how soon is the cry of injus- 
tice spread through the land ! Yet how many can tame- 
ly and silently behold a greater number of blacks sub- 
jected to x he most degrading slavery, than the whole 
amount of population in Massachusetts ! Will not God 
be avenged on such a nation as this ? Had we no other 
national guilt, this, if persisted in, would be enough to 
sink us into the deepest gulf of national wretchedness. 

" If any of our readers shall think that this subject is too 
frivolous for the Christian Disciple^ be entreated to con- 
sider what would be your views and feelings, should you 
be doomed to spend your days in slavery, and to have 
your children, from generation to generation, in the same 
deplorable state. What would -you then think of the 
heart that could not feel for you, or tlie tongue that would 
not plead your cause ? ;s 

THE ABBE RAYNAL. 

The Abbe Raynal, in his observations on slavery, says t 
" Will it be said that he, who wants to make me a slave, 
does me no injury, but that he only makes use of his 
rights? Where are those rights? Who hath stamped 
upon them so sacred a character as to silence mine ? 

" He, who supports the system of slavery, is the enemy 
of the whole human race. He divides it into two societies 
of legal assassins : the oppressors, and the oppressed. It 
is the same thing as proclaiming to the world, if you would 
preserve your life, instantly take away mine, for I want 
to have yours. 

66 But the Negroes, they say, are a race born for slave- 
ry ; their dispositions are narrow, trecherous, and wick- 
ed ; they themselves allow the superiority of our under- 
standings, and almost acknowledge the justice of our au- 
thority. Yes; the minds of the Negroes are contracted, 
because slavery destroys all the springs of the soul. 
They are wicked, but not equally so with you. They are 
treacherous, because they are under no obligation to speakr 
truth to their tvrants. They acknowledge the superiority 



*v dx 9 ib ^AKiorvr^ 

of our understandings, because we have abused their igno- 
rance. They allow the justice of our authority, because 
we have abused their weakness. 

" I shall not be afraid to cite to the tribunal of reason 
and justice those governments, which tolerate this cruelty, 
or which even are not ashamed to make it the basis of 
their power." 

DAVID BARROW. 

Mr. David Barrow, a minister of religion in the 
state of Kentucky, in a pamphlet he published some years 
since, says : " To see a man (a Christian) in the most se- 
rious period of all his life — making his last will and testa- 
ment — and in the most solemn manner addressing the 
Judge of all the earth— In the name of God, Amen — Heark- 
en to him — he certainly must be in earnest ! — -He is clos- 
ing all his concerns here below ! — He will very shortly 
appear before the Judge, where kings and slaves have e- 
qual thrones ! He proceeds : 

" Item. I give and bequeath to my son — — — , a Negro 

man named , also a Negro woman named , with five 

her of youngest children. 

" Item. I give and bequeath to my daughter , a 

Negro man, named , also a Negro woman, named , 

with her three children. 

"Item. All my other slaves, whether men, women, or 
children, with all my stock of horses, cattle, sheep, and 
hogs, I direct to be sold to the highest bidder, and the mon- 
ies arising therefrom, (after paying my just debts) to be 
equally divided between my two above-named children !!! 

" The above specimen is not exaggerated ; the like of it 
often turns up. And what can a real lover of the rights 
of man say in vindication thereof? 

" Suppose ior a moment, that the testator, or if the own- 
er dies intestate, (which is often the case,) was ever so 
humane a person, who can vouch for their heirs and suc- 
cessors? This consideration, if nothing else, ought to 
make all slave-holders take heed what they do, for they 
must give an account of themselves to God." 



UxX» i Axxi.rx~j.-i. -x. *.* - ■ --»—.-.- 

Dr. PRIMATT. 

In his "Dissertation on the duty of mercy, and on the 
sin of cruelty to brute-animals," he takes occasion to ad- 
vert to the subject of the African slave-trade. " It has 
pleased God," says he, " to cover some men with white 
skins, and others with black 5 but as there is neither merit 
nor demerit in complexion, the white man, notwithstand- 
ing the barbarity of custom and prejudice, can have no 
right by virtue of his colour to enslave and tyranize over 
the black man. For whether a man be white or b4ack ? 
such he is by God's appointment, and, abstractedly con- 
sidered, is neither a subjcet for pride, nor an object of 
contempt." 

Extracts from a speech delivered in the convention held 
at Danville, Ken^uckt, for forming a state constitU' 
Hon : 

BY THE REV. DAVID RICE. 

" Sir, I have lived free, and in many respects happy, for 
near sixty years ; but my happiness has been greatly di- 
minished, for much of the time, by hearing a great part of 
the humun species groaning under the galling yoke of 
bondage. In this time I lost a venerable father, a tender 
mother, two affectionate sisters, and a beloved first born 
son ; but all these together have not cost me half the anxi- 
ety as has been occasioned by this wretched situation of 
my fellow-men, whom, without a blush, I call my breth- 
ren. 

" A slave claims his freedom ; he pleads that he is a 
man, that he was by nature free, that he has not forfeited 
his freedom, nor relinquished it. Now unless his master 
can prove that he is not a man, that he was not born free, 
or that he has forfeited or relinquished his freedom, he 
must be judged free ; the justice of his claim must be ac- 
knowledged. His being long deprived of this right, by 
force or fraud, does not annihilate it; it remains ; it is still 
his ri^ht. When I rob a man of his property, I leave him 
his liberty, and a capacity of acquiring and possessing 



<* ~-». *■-* t» -r-s. »r~! . jr>.<&. '■-f-srsr 



more property ; but when I deprive him of his liberty, I 
also deprive him of his capacity ; therefore I do him great- 
er injury, when I deprive him of his liberty, than when 1 
rob him of his property. It is in vain for me to plead that 
I have the sanction of law ; for this makes the injury the 
greater, it arms the community against him, and makes his 
case desperate. 

" We only want a law- enacted, that no owner of a brute, 
nor other person, should kill or dismember it, and then in 
law the case of a slave and a brute is in most respects par- 
allel ; and where they differ, the state of a brute is to be 
preferred. The brute may steal or rob, to supply his hun- 
ger; the law does not condemn him to die for his oftence, 
it only permits his death ;' but the slave, though in the 
most starving condition, dare not do either, on^penalty of 
death, or some severe punishment. 

" That a slave is made after the image of God, no Chris- 
tian will deny ; that a slave is absolutelv subjected to be 
debauched by men, is so apparent from the nature of slav- 
ery that it needs no proof. This is evidently the unhap- 
py case of female slaves; a number of whom have been 
remarkable for their chastity and modesty, If their mas- 
ter attempts their chastity, they dare neither resist nor 
complain. If another man should make the attempt, though 
resistance may not be so dangerous, complaints are equal- 
ly vain. They cannot be heard in their own defence; 
their testimony cannot be admitted. The injurious person 
has a right to be heard, may accuse the innocent sufferer 
of malicious slander, and have her severely chastised. 

" The destruction of chastity has a natural tendency to 
introduce a number of vices, that are very pernicious to 
the interests of a Commonwealth : and slavery much con- 
duces to destroy chastity, as it puts so great a number of 
females entirely in the power of the other sex; against 
whom they dare not complain, on peril of the lash; and 
many of whom they dare not resist. This vice, this bane 
of society, has already become so common, that it is scarce- 
ly esteemed a disgrace, in the one sex, and that the one 
that is generally the most criminal. Let it become as lit* 
tie disgraceful in the other, and there is an end to domes- 
tic tranquillity — an end to tl>e public prosperity. 



" It is evident that the laws of nature, or the laws of 
man are wrong ; and which, none will be at a less to judge. 
The divine law says, 6 whom God hath joined together, let 
no man put asunder;' the law of man says, to the master 
of the slave, 4 though the divine law has joined them togeth- 
er, you may put them asunder when you please.' 

" Masters designedly keep their slaves in ignorance, lest 
they should become too knowing to answer their selfish 
purposes; and too wise to rest easy in their degraded sit- 
uation. In this case, the law operates so as to answer an 
end directly opposed to the proper end of all law. It is 
pointed against every thing dear to them ; against the 
principal end of their existence, It supports, in a land of 
religious liberty, the severest persecutions; and may ope- 
rate so as totally to rob multitudes of their religious priv- 
ileges, and the rights of conscience. 

"The master may, and often does, inflict upon the 
slaves, all the severity of punishment the human body is 
capable of bearing; and the law supports him in it: if he 
does but spare his life and his limbs, he dare not complain 5 
none can hear and relieve him ; he has no redress under 
heaven. — Are we rulers ? How can the people confide 
in us, after we have thus openly declared that we are void 
of truth and sincerity : and that we are capable of enslav- 
ing mankind in direct contradiction to our own princi- 
ples ? "What confidence in legislators, who are capable of 
declaring their constituents all free men in one breath ; 
and in the next, enacting them all slaves ? In one breath, 
declaring that they have a right to acquire and possess 
property; and, in the next, that they shall neither acquire 
nor possess it during their existence here ? Can I trust 
my life, my liberty, my property, in such hands as these ? 
Will the colour of my skin prove a sufficient defence 
against their injustice and cruelty ? Will the particular 
circumstance of my ancestors being born in Europe and 
not in Africa, defend me ? Will strait fcair defend me 
from the blow that falls so heavy on the woolly head ? 

" Slavery naturally tends to destroy all sense of justice 
and equity. It puffs up the mind with pride; teaches 
youth a habit of looking- down upon their fellow creatures 



with contempt, esteeming them as dogs or devils, and im- 
agining themselves beings of superiour dignity and im- 
portance, to whom all are indebted. This banishes the 
idea, and unqualifies the mind for the practice of com- 
mon justice. If I have, all my days, been accustomed to 
live at the expense of a black man, without making him any 
compensation, or considering myself ,at all in his debt, I 
cannot think it any great crime to live at the expense of 
a white man. If I rob a black man without guilt, 1 shall 
contract no great guilt by robbing a white man. If I have 
been long accustomed to think a black man was made for 
me, I may easily take it into my head to think so of a 
white man. If I have no sense of obligation to do justice 
to a black man, I can have little to do justice to a white 
man. 

" You say, a law of emancipation would be unjust, be- 
cause it would deprive men of their property; but is .there 
no injustice on the other side ? Is nobody entitled to 
justice but slave-holders ? Let us consider the injustice 
on both sides ; and weigh them in an even balance. On 
the one hand, we see a man deprived of all property, of 
all capacity to po33ess property, of his own free agency, 
of the means of instruction ; of his wife, of his children, of 
almost every thing dear to him; on the other, a man de- 
prived of eighty or an hundred pounds. Shall we hesitate a 
moment to determine, who is the greatest sufferer, and who 
is treated with the greatest injustice ? The matter ap- 
pears quite glaring, when we consider, that neither this 
man nor his parents had sinned, that he was born to 
these sufferings : but the other suffers altogether far his 
own sin and that of his predecessors. Such a law would 
only take away property, that is its own property, and 
not ours : property tkat has the same right to possess us, 
as its property, as we have to possess it : property that 
has the same right to convert our children into dogs, and 
calves and colts — that may transfer our children to stran- 
gers, by the same right that we transfer theirs. 

" No man, when he views the hardships, the sufferings, 
the excessive labours, the unreasonable chastisements, the 
separations between loving husbands and wives, between 



FOSTER. 47 

aoectionate parents and children, can say, were I in their 
place, 1 should be contented 5 I so far approve this usage, 
as to believe the law that subjects me to it, to be perfectly 
right : that I and my posterity should be denied the pro- 
tection of la v, and by it be exposed to suffer all these ca- 
lamities ; though I never forfeited my freedom nor mer- 
ited such treatment more than others. No ; there is an 
honest something in our breasts, that bears testimony 
against this, as unreasonable and wicked. 

" Here we should consider on whom these evils are to 
be charged ; and we shall find they lie at our own doors, 
they are chargeable on us. We have brought one genera- 
tion into this wretched state ; and shall we therefore 
doom all the generations of their posterity to it. Do we 
find by experience that this state of slavery corrupts -and 
ruins human nature ? And shall we persist in corrupting 
and ruining it in order to avoid the natural evils we have 
already produced ? Do we find, as the ancient poet said, 
that the day we deprive a man of freedom, we take away 
half his soui ? And shall we continue to maim souls, be- 
cause a maimed soul is unfit for society ? Strange reason- 
ing indeed ! An astonishing consequence ! Therefore I 
give it as my opinion, that the first thing to be done is to 

RESOLVE UN60NDITI0NALLY TO PUT AN END TO SLAVE- 
RY in this state. This, I conceive, properly belongs t« 
the convention ; which they can easily effect, by working 
the principle into the constitution they are to frame." 

FOSTER, 

in his Discourses on Natural Religion and Social Virtue, 
calls slavery " a criminal and outrageous violation of the 
natural rights of mankind. — We take," says he, 44 the most 
effectual method to prevent the propagation of the gospel* 
by representing it as a scheme of power and barbarous 
oppression, and an enemy to the natural privileges and 
rights of man ; a practice, which, in my opinion, bids that 
God, who is the God and Fatiier of the Gentiles uncon- 
verted to Christianity, most daring and bold defiance, 
and spurns at the principles both of natural and revealed 
religion." 



4y SA V AlxK. " 31U1V1 fiTSQtrrEtJT'MjiiiJLifeli. 

RICHARD SAVAGE, 

having personified Public Spirit, makes her speak ok the 
subject in the following manner : 

" Let by my specious namejio tyrants rise, 
And cry, while they enslave, they civilize ! 
Know, liberty and I are still the same, 
Congenial . . . ever mingling 1 flame with flame ! 
Why must I Afric's sable children see 
Vended for slaves, though born by nature free, 
The nameless tortures cruel minds invent 
Those to subject whom nature equal meant ? 
If these you dare (although unjust success 
Empow'rs vou now unpunish'd to oppress) 
Revolving empire y >u and yours may doom , . . 
(Rome all subdu'd . . . yet vandals vanquish'd Rome) 
Ves . . . Empire may revolt .... give them the day 4 
And yoke may yoke, and blood may blood repay. " 

MONTESQUIEU 

says, "Slavery is not good in itself. It is neither use- 
ful to the master nor to the slave. Not to the slave, be- 
cause he can do nothing from virtuous motives. Not to' the 
master, because he contracts among his slaves all sorts of 
bad habits, and accustoms himself to the neglect of ail the 
moral virtues. He becomes haughty, passionate, obdu- 
rate, vindictive, voluptuous, and cruel.- — It is impo-sible 
to allow that Negroes are men \ because, if we allow them 
to be men, it will begin to be believed that we ourselves 
are not Christians." 

JOHN MELLISH, 
in the second volume of ins very interesting Travels in the 
United States in 1811, relates the following affecting oc- 
currence which took place while he was on the banks of 
the Ohio river. 

" As we stood upon the beech at this place," says he. 
" a large skiff drew towards the shore, in which the pro- 
prietor had four Negro children, the' oldest about fourteen* 
the youngest about four years of age. He told us that he 
had left his home in Maryland, with the children, and 
their father and mother, in order to carry them down the 
river to a market. Finding that he could dispose of the 



"BREVVSTElir 49 

man by the way to advantage, he had sold him. The night 
after, the woman (whom he reproached as an unnatural 
wretch for leaving her children) had run away, and he was 
obliged to go on with the children without her ! The three 
youngest had not reflection enough to feel their loss; they 
jumped out of the boat and played upon the sand : they 
were pretty children ! But the eldest sat in the boat, the 
emblem of heart-rending despair ! I do not know that in 
the whole course of my life, I ever had my feelings so se- 
verely tried. I hid my face with my hands, that those 
accustomed to such scenes might not perceive my weak- 
ness.'!!"* 

Extracts from a very interesting pamplilet. 
By Jarvis Brewster. 
Printed at New Brunswick, in the state of New Fork, in 
1815, entitled, " An exposition of thetreatment of slaves 
in the southern states, particularly in the states of Mary- 
land, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and 
Georgia" 

— P Oh, America ! what more could have been done for 
thee than has been done. Surely propitious Heaven has, 
with a liberal hand, granted all thy requests. What more 
could have been asked for at the commencement of the 
American revolution ? Our Independence has been es- 
tablished on a solid basis ; a system of government formed 
whiclr extorts admiration from a surrounding world ; a 
continent producing all the rich variety of nature; civil 
and religious liberty protected ;— but sad to relate that not- 
withstanding all these manifestations of the divine good- 
ness, we do permit in the bosom of our country, a system 

1 * A compliment this, which might hare been acceptable to 
a Nero, or a Herod, who slew the innocent children of Bethlehem. 
And are the compassionate feeling's which distinguish a good man 
from a tiger, or a demon, to be termed " weakness ?'* God grant 
that such *'• weakness'' may be as extensive as the human family ; 
that we may bear less resemblance to beasts of prey ; and some 
resemblance to a compassionate Saviour, who wept over Jerusalem, 
while contemplating the distresses they were bringing on_ them- 
selves. 



u *> ' ' ' ' - met, whTBti 



- ---!—->=. 



of tyranny and persecution more horrible perhaps than 
was ever practised by a Nero, or a Robespierre. 

"Notwithstanding all our well founded claims to civil- 
ization, hospitality, and the general principles of humani- 
ty, the sanctity of our laws are openly and daringly vio- 
lated. The murderer, the wilful and deliberate murderer, 
with his hands blood-stained, is permitted in the face of 
open day, in pomp, to parade the streets without even an 
inquiry into his conduct. The innocent are driven by 
cruel persecution to seek an asylum in the inhospitable 
swamps, accessible only to those driven by sad despair ; 
and inhabited only by vermin and beasts of prey, where 
solitary gloom pervades the whole. Sad indeed must the 
situation of that man be, that would lead him to prefer 
such a retreat; exposed to the chilling blasts of winter— . 
the perpetual damps peculiar to these horrible swamps— 
the gna wings of hunger, disease and death — no friendly 
hand to beat up his pillow, or administer the medical 
draught. Awful as this situation is, it is a solemn and un- 
deniable truth, that hundreds are at this time lingering 
out a miserable life in this way — even here in America, 
in the very bosom of our country, our happy country, and 
land of liberty, wlfich is said to be an asylum for the op- 
pressed of every nation. These unhappy exiles, when 
driven by necessity to seek food in the neighbouring woods, 
when discovered, are by the orders of the great, the rich, 
who are possessed of wealth, talents, and a refined educa- 
tion, shot with as little hesitation, or sensations or regret, s 
as they would shoot a mad dog. In order to elucidate 
these facts more fully, I will give a short summary of in- 
formation collected during a hasty tour through the states 
of Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina. At this time 
no idea was entertained of laying any thing before the 
public ; of course what was collected was merely acci- 
dental. 

6i It is well known that the rich planters in the southern 
States hold ' in their possession vast numbers of slaves; 
these are placed under men hired lor the express purpose 
of dealing out their provisions and keeping them at their 
work. Their allowance of provision is one peck of corn 



BREWSTER. 51 



m rue \\ 



in the grain per week.* which they must get c 
ground as.thcy can ; no time being allowed in 1 
the sabbath must be employed for this purpose, and the 
night in cooking it. No dainties deck their humble board, 
the hoe-cake forms their breakfast and their supper, din- 
ner being out of the question, as the custom of many is 
to start at the dawn of day, and pursue their labour until 
eleven o'clock. Whilst the mules are eating, the Negroes 
eat their breakfast, after which they are again driven to 
their work, and kept to it until the sable curtains of night 
shut in the light of the day.— -This system of food arid la- 
bour is by many almost invariably pursued from year to 
year. That man, employed as an oveseer who is the^ most 
cruel and severe is preferred and can procure the highest 
wages; being nurtured from infancy to manhood to exer- 
cise the unrestrained efiiisions of wrath, the smallest of- 
fence on the part of the slave is .sufficient to procure for 
him the most brutal and inhuman treatment. 

" In passing from Fayetteville to Wilmington in North 
Carolina, I put up one night with a farmer, whose feelings 
were more humane than his neighbours', and who was 
much disgusted with the method of treating slaves in that 
country. He informed me that the Negroes often stole 
articles from him, and that he used frequently to remon- 
strate with them 011 the subject, telling them" if they must 
steal they ought to take from their masters, and not from 
their neighbours. Their answers uniformly were, that they 
roust steal or starve, and that they dare not not steal from 
their masters, for if they did, and were detected, they 
were sure to suffer every thing but death 5 that they stole 
from such as they thought would not inform against them, 
if detected; that if their masters would give them one 
pound of meet a week, they would never steal from any 
man. Knowing, as I did, that it was the custom in a great 
part of the country, to keep their slaves on one peck of 
corn a week each, without a mouthful of any other kind 

* " Of all the impositions ever practised on any human beings, 
that of confining- them to the scanty allowance of one peck of corn 
a week, is the most outrageously abominable. The criminal load- 
ed with irons in his dungeon is better served.*- 



of nourishment, this honest confession on the part of the 
poor Negroes excited emotions in my bosom, not easily 
described. I thought the request a reasonable one, and 
could not suppress the ejaculations, Great God ! and is it 
possible that any of thy intelligent beings, enjoying the 
common bounties of thy providence, whose store-houses 
are filled with the products of the labor of these very 
slaves, to which they deny a mouthful of meat to appease 
the cravings of hunger ? 6 Tell it not in Gath ; publish it 
not in- the streets of Askelon.' Is there a man in Ameri- 
ca, treading upon its soil, oreathing its pure and free air, 
who has a drop of American blood running in his veins, 
l>ut that must sicken at the recital of such gross inconsis- 
tencies, such palpable violations of the principles we pro- 
fess, both as individuals and as a nation. 

" In returning to the northward, I put up one night in 
the southern part of the state of Virginia, at a place called 
Hick's Ford, a*t a respectable tavern. In the course of 
the evening, a number of the neighbours came in, who in 
a short time entered into a very interesting conversation, 
m which all expressed sensations of extreme sorrow and re- 
gret at having missed an opportunity, which they said was 
not likely ever again to be offered. It was allowed by all_ 
that some one was to blame, and each wishing to clear him- 
self from censure, endeavoured to place it on the shoulders 
of the other. I listened in silence a long time, but was not 
able to ascertain the real subject. I concluded, however, 
from the run of the discourse, that a wolf or some other 
dangerous animal had been in the neighbourhood, by which 
they were alarmed, and had flew to arms for safety, as I 
found some wore armed with muskets, some with swords, 
and some with pistol*. 

" I then took the liberty to ask one of the company if 
he would be good enough to explain to me the subject of 
their, conversation.— He very honestly and frankly repli- 
ed, ' that a Negro, who, was owned in that neighborhood, 
had been run away from his master nearly a year- — that 
the night before, his master was informed the Negro was 
in a neighbouring house occupied by blacks — that on re- 
ceivins: this information he mustered a number of the 



neighbours, and armed them for the purpose of shooting the 
Negro- — that the anxiety of the master was so great that 
he could not wait for the rest, and advanced to the house 
— when within about a rod from the door, the Negro 
came out, the master levelled his musket, but unfortunate- 
ly she flushed — the night being dark, and the rest of the 
company being a little behind, the fellow made his es- 
cape.' He then observed, < that if the company had heen 
a little sooner they would surely have got him, as such an 
one had an excellent musket, another a pistol, and a third 
a sword — that if one had missed, the others would have 
soon done the job for him.' I observed that I thought it 
would have been more to the master's interest to have 
taken him alive, as he could have sold, if he did not wish 
to keep him. He replied, ' that his master was so exas- 
perated with the Negr> that he was determined never to 
take him alive, and that he had kept his gun loaded a long 
time for the express purpose of of shooting hi n.' — I inquir- 
ed if the laws of that state would allow a man to murder 
his slave. He said, 4 twat the laws of that state were as 
pointedly against it, as they were in any state, but the 
damned Negroes were so bad that nobody took notice of 
it— that it was a common thing to shoot them there— and 
that one had heen found a few days before not far from 
that place dead in the woods, who had been shot, and it 
was not common in those cases to make any inquiry- — a 
hole was dug, the Negro thrown in, covered up, and that 
was an end of it.' 

" The company above referred to were men of informa- 
tion, and from appearances, men of respectability. Among 
their number was a justice of the peace 

" It is a solemn and awful fact, denied by none on cool 
reflection, not evea the wretch whose guilty arm is weary 
with inflicting bioudy stripes on those hapless sons of mis- 
fortune, that these cruelties merit the deepest abhorrence 
of all civilized men, and the heaviest curses of Ahnmhtv 
God. " J 

" We find, agreeably to the last census, taken in the 
year 1810, that in the state of Maryland there were 
111,502 slaves; in the state of Virginia. 392,5 18; in the 
5* 



state of N. Carolina, 168,824; in the state of S. Caroli- 
na, 196,36.5; and in the state of Georgia, 105,218; mak- 
ing a total of 974,427 slaves. We will allow one fourth 
of the whole number to be employed as house servants, 
who are generally fed and clothed well ; of the remaining 
number, 730,821, we will suppose one half are owned by 
feeling and humane men, who furnish them with food and 
raiment sufficient, — the remaining number of 365,410 we 
may calculate are trembling under the most tyrannical 
-and despotic government ; kicked, thumped, tied up and 
cringing under agonizing and bloody tortures, inflicted by 
petty overseers, without regard to the laws of the country, 
or the dictates of humanity. 

" In casting my eyes over a late New York newspaper, 
I observed, a ' piece taken from a North Carolina paper, 
which is as follows : 

Raleigh, N. C. July 4, 1£15. 
Shocking Murder / 

- a On the 4th ins't. we understand, a most shocking mur- 
der was committed on the body of a Slave, who had been 
detected as a runaway. He was seized in this place, driv- 
en before men on horse-back at full speed, a distance of 
twenty -two miles, suffering the lashes the whole way, and 
finally on reaching the owner's house, was fastened to a 
log, beaten in the most savage manner, and an immediate 
end put to his existence by breaking his neck. The coro- 
ner's inquest returned a verdict of wilful murder. In due 
time a full narrative of the transaction will doubtless ap- 
pear." 

After solemnly addressing the legislatures of those 
states, he proceeds, " Ye ministers of the everlasting gos- 
pel ! Ye centinels of the Most High ! be your name or 
denomination what it may, your grand object undoubtedly 
is, to pull down Satan's kingdom, and advance the inter- 
ests of the Redeemer. Permit me to solicit your zealous 
exertions, in stemming this torrent of vice, infidelity, and 
heaven -daring, wickedness ; which, if persisted in, must 
'inevitabljr sink our beloved country beneath a load of ac- 



cumulated wrath. You may be powerful instruments in 
the hands of the Almighty in forcing conviction on the 
minds of the people, that these liberties which they fondly 
boast of, but of which they deny their slaves any partici- 
pation, " «.*e the gifts of God, and cannot be violated but 
with his wrath." 

" Ye magistrates, who have been selected by the con- 
stituted authorities of our country and placed as watchmen 
on our walls, and as judges in our counts, to guard the dig- 
nity of our laws, and enforce their precepts — have you 
kept that watchful eye over the laws of your country, 
which your duties imperiously demanded ? Have you in 
all cases falling under your knowledge enforced its pre- 
cepts ? In fact, has not the sword of justice, committed to 
your care, been converted into a sword of tyranny ? Has 
not the culprit brought before you been condemned with- 
out a trial, and sentenced to the lashes of his unprincipled 
persecutor? Have you not been eye-witnesses of those 
bloody lashes, inflicted in the rage of passion, which are 
not sanctioned by the laws of our country, nor by the dic- 
tates of humanity ? » Have you not been eye-witnesses ; 
if not, have you not had sufficient information, of certain 
individuals within your judicial jurisdiction having been 
guilty of plunging the dagger into the bosom of an innocent 
man ? Have you not passed over scenes like these unno- 
ticed and unregarded ? If in the affirmative, the blood of 
the murdered will be requited at your hands; and re- 
member that a day of retribution is near. Charity, how- 
ever, will lead us to Hope that this is not your case. 

— " Ye virtuous fair, whose bosoms are formed of mild- 
er clay ; whose eye-lids have been taught to weep, and 
whose tender sympathies do not fail to bleed over suffer- 
ing humanity, permit me to solicit you also to exert that 
influence, which we know you possess over man, in res- 
training those boisterous passions which so often lead to 
.*;cts so repugnant to the feelings of delicacy and decorum. 
—Consider yourselves for a moment placed in their con- 
dition, with all your female delicacies and infirmities, 
compelled by ao unfeeling tyrant to subsist on the "scanty 
allowance of one peck of corn a week, exposed to the 



-j=3Mr=*« \r* ~tt£\7ar^K*-£f&SCx 



scorching heat of an almost vertical sun, your laborious ex- 
ertions extorted in the field, compelled to use the plough, 
the spade, and the mattock, as implements of labour ; for 
every trifling deviation from orders you must be tied up, 
and cringe under the bloody lashes inflicted by a tyrant or 
his overseer. No court of justice open to hear your com- 
plaints, no protecting arm to be found ; to plead for mercy 
is in vain ; to escape by flight is impracticable ; quiet and 
peaceable submission is the only alternative.' Tims situa- 
ted, without a glimmering hope of ever being extricated, 
until the king of terrors shall have executed his commis- 
sion, and consigned you to the silent mansions of the dead. 
Would you not sink under a mountain of hopeless and 
desperate grief? Would you not call on the heavens and 
the earth and all that is therein, to mourn over your hap- 
less condition — to weep for you as a mother for her first- 
born?" 



LIBERTY AND COLUMBIAN GLORY. 

Or all the civil blessings heav'n bestows 

On man, to guide him through this world of woes, 

Justice, and peace, and truth, and freedom stand 

The brightest jewels of our favor'd land. - 

Let equal liberty to all extend : 

Then- peace may reign : and bitter strife shall end. 

Why.. should republicans,, who lead the van 
In shouting liberty ! and " rights of man /" 
Deprive the biaoks of every personal right ? 
EnslavM, contem'd, and bru s'd — 41 odious sight. 

We boast of freedom ! But poor Afric's sons 
In tears, oppress'd and starv'd, are held in bonds. 
The tyrant whips and vents his boist'rous passion, 
The tr mbUng slaves are scourg'd to meek submission. 
" Reflecting Cod is jut t" and hates dissembling, 
Great Jefferson may well resume his trembling.* 

* To the XVIII Query, in Mr. Jefferson's " Notes on the State of 
Virginia" he says, " The whole commerce between master and 
slave, is a perpetual exercise of the most boisterous passions, the 
most unremitting despotism on the one part, and degrading sub- 
missions on the other. Our children see this, and learn to imitate 
it j for man is an imitative animal. This quality is the germ of 



LIBERTY AND ULORT . 

• 
Ye rulers i! Guardians of Columbia's fame ! 
Wipe off this shameful odium from her name. 
Redeem from bondage Afric's sons, and " pour \ 

The wine and oil," their plunder*d rights restore : 
Bind up their broken hearts — their thanks excite. 
By giving- something less than what is right. 
In Louisiana's distant, richest soil, 
Afford them lands, wiih bread, and leave to toil 
Beyond the reach of whips and boist'rous strife, 
With liberty ! the sweetest boon of life. 
Instruct, protect, and bless their infant state. 
While young, be friends ; and allies when they're great.* 

all education in him. From his cradle to his grave he is learning 
to do what he sees others do. The parent storms, the child looks 
on, catches the, lineaments of wrath, puts on the same airs in a 
smaller circle of slaves, gives a loose to his worst passions, and 
thus nursed, educated, and daily exercised in tyranny, cannot but 
be stamped with odious peculiarities. And with what execra- 
tion should the statesman be loaded, who, permitting one half the 
citizens thus to trample on the rights of the other, transforms 
those into despots and these into enemies, destroys the morals of 
one part, and the amor patrix. of the other. 

*« With the morals of the people, their industry also is destroyed. 
For in a warm climate, no man will labour for himself who can 
make another labour for him. This is so true, that of the pro- 
prietors of slaves, a very small proportion indeed are ever seen to 
labour. 

" And can the liberties of a nation be thought, secure, when we 
Liave removed their only basis, a conviction in the minds of the 
people that these liberties are tfie gift of God ? That they are 
not to be violated but with his wrath ? Indeed I tremble for my 
country, when I reflect that God is just; that his justice cannot 
sleep forever ; that considering numbers, nature and natural 
-means only, a revolution of the wheel of fortune, an exchange of 
situation is among possible events ; that it may become probable 
by supernatural interference ! The Almighty has no attribute 
which can take side with us in such a contest." 

* It is a question, whether it would cost the United States 
more than the expenses of the late war, if so much, to redeem all 
the slaves, (by making a moderate, but reasonable compensation 
to the present slave-holders,) and colonize them in South Louisia- 
na. They might be retained as colonies, under the protection of 
the United States, for whose advantage their trarle, (which would 
eventually be of vast importance,) might be reserved; or* which 



CONCLUSION. 



Then shall disgusting hateful tyranny, 
No more disgrace our land of liberty ; 
With tears of joy, the Negro's prayers ascend 
To heaven, for blessings on this happy land* 
Then shall Columbia's name with praise resound 
Through distant lands, the spacious earth around. 
From east to west — from southern pole to north, 
Behold Columbia's glories beaming forth. 
Fair seat of justice, righteousness and peace, 
Propitious heaven appoves the great release. 



CONCLUSION. 

The compiler presumes that whoever has candidly and 
impartially examined the foregoing iacts and arguments, 
can have no doubt of the injustice, and pernicious tenden- 
cy of slavery; but must be fully satisfied, that "permit- 
ting one half the citizens thus to trample on the rights of 
the other," has a natural tendency to " transform those in- 
to despots, and these into enemies ;" in short, that slavery 
is, beyond ail dispute, impolitic, antirepublican, unchris- 
tian, and highly criminal. 

Whenever the government of the United States shall 
come to the righteous and consistent determination, that 
all the inhabitants shall be free, it is believed that no in- 
surmountable obstacles will be found in the way of its ac- 
complishment. 

Whether it would be just, and equal, and eligible, to 
take money from the public treasury to redeem African 
slaves, may possibly become a question for the considera- 
tion of Congress. It may not, however, be amiss for the 
people to inquire, whether it would be more just and equi- 
table to continue to withhold from more than a million of 
our fellow-beings those essential blessings, without which 
we ourselves should consider life insupportable. 

would be more noble* as Mr. Jefferson has suggested, " Declare 
them a free and independent people, and extend to them our al- 
liance and protection until the have acquired strength," know- 
ledge, virtue and wisdom, sufficient to take care of themselves. 



If it should be pleaded, that the powers of the general 
government are too limited to ensure the personal, civil, 
fnd religious liberties of all; can a doubt be entertained 
of the readiness of the people, when they fairly understand 
the subject, to enlarge those powers to any extent neces- 
sary for the attainment of an object of such trancendant 
importance?... To say. 'they would not,', would be to 
utter a most shameful libel against a majority of the Iree- 
men of the United States. 



FINIS. 



