Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/inquiryintocondiOOamer 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

ZiAV7, M£3BI@AL, THEOLOGICAL, AND 
M:ISGISL£iAS7I30US 

293 MARKET STREET, PHILADELPHIA. 



HASWELL, BARRINGTON, AND HASWELL, 

(SUCCESSORS TO A. TO WAR,) 

PUBLISHERS AND BOOKSELLERS, 

Keep a general supply of Books suitable for Country Mer- 
chants, Colleges, Schools, &c., &c., to which they respectfully 
call the attention of Purchasers. Their stock of 

Medical Books 

will be found to comprise every variety suited to the wants of 
the Professor, the Practitioner, and the Student. They also 
publish, monthly, 

THE SEL.ECT MEBICAL- LIBRARY 

AND 

Eclectic tFournal of Jfledlcine, 

Being a reprint of Standard medical works, and a journal 
of such Selections and Original Communications as interest the 
profession. 



The attention of Directors of Public Schools, Colleges, and 
Scientific Institutions generally, is especially called to their 
large assortment of Classical, Scientific, and Miscellaneous 

SCHOOL BOOKS, 

In Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Spanish, Italian, French, and English' 

H. B. & H. alsohaveforsale, and will be constantly adding 
to their shelves, a general assortment of 

AND 

SLEIKEENTARIT JiA.'W BOOKS. 

They have lately published a very handsome edition of 
Thomas's Coke, in three vols, royal 8vo., superior printing 
and binding. 

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARIES 

SUPPLIED 

WITH STANDARD AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. 



Just published, a fine edition of 
HUrrHlT'S COIKHVEEKTAHIES, 

In 6 vols. Also, a beautiful 

©©SAW® leaiBiSiiig 

In every variety of binding. 



AN INQUIRY, ETC. 



AN INaUIRY 



THE CONDITION AND PROSPECTS 



AFRICAN RACE 



mmwa ^uun: 



THE MEANS OF BETTERING ITS FORTUNES. 



" Indignantly frown upon the first dawning of every attempt to alien any 
portion of our country from the rest." — George Washington. 



BY AN AMERICAN, 



PHILADELPHIA : 

HASWELL, BARRINGTON, AND HASWELL. 

1839. 






^i--t-- y 



'"■^■k^^t^^' 




j» ^ ^^^^^ 






Enteued according to th^ Act of Congress, in the year 1839, by 
Ha SWELL, Barringtoic, and Haswell, in ths Clerk's Office of 
the District Court of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 



CONTENTS. 



IpfTRODUCTIOlC . . . . . • PAGE 13 



CHAPTER I. 

TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

I. Why first appeal to Abolitionists — result of their measures 
doubtful. — Writer, once an abolitionist — how cured. 

II. Ultraism of the present day — in theology — and benevolence. 

III. Writer's views of slavery — caused by man's depravity — no 
remedy but Christianity — moral influence of our national pros- 
perity. — Coronation of England's queen — Dr. franklin. 

IV. Circumstances in which slavery may be a blessing — theory 
and practice of abolitionists inconsistent — reference to St. Paul 
— objections to holding slaves. 



» CONTENTS. 

V. Action and measures of abolitionists, why wrong — abolition 
periodicals — Mr. Garrison — editor in New York— should be 
judged charitably. 

VI. Slaveholders' ideas of abolitionists — why — many slave-owners 
anxious to get rid of slavery — what abolitionists ought to have 
done — arguments not admitted — abolitionists seriously ques- 
tioned. 

VII. Abolition in District of Columbia opposed — why 1 p. 21 



CHAPTER II. 



APPEAL TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 



I. Design of the writer. Slaveholders and abolitionists ignorant 
of each other. 

II. Character of abolitionists misunderstood — enthusiasts — in- 
creased by opposition — many of them well-meaning men. 

III. Slavery, general view — negroes human beings, capable of 
improvement. 

IV. Power of the master — slaveholders interrogated. Fearful 
responsibility in holding human beings as slaves. 

V. The Bible on that responsibility. 

VI. Brief survey of practical slavery — moral aspect — ignorance 
— dishonesty, facts in proof — licentiousness, slaveholders aware 
of the evil. 



GOPfTENTS. ^ 

VIL Influence of slavery on individuals — character of slaves — 
their influence on masters — on poor white men. 

VIII. Influence of slavery on national prosperity — monopoly of 
cotton — southern system not favourable to improvement — 
comparison with imperial Rome — with Peru and Mexico. 

IX. A better system recommended to the South. Question of 
moral right will be agitated among slaveholders. 

X. Slaveholders plead that a manufacturing country makes actual 
slaves — some weight in the plea — radical difference. Southern 
states should depend on agriculture. " Plan " of independence 
considered. 

XI. Views of the North on slavery — tendency of abolition — 
ridiculous action among some northern manufacturers. 

XII. Dissolution of Union threatened — its preservation urged upon 
the South. North not inimical to the South. 

XIII. The probable result of the controversy. Influence of British 
emancipation. Modern slavery compared with Roman and 
Grecian. Conclusion . . . . . p. 63 



CHAPTER III. 



TO THE FREE STATES. 



I. Free and slave states diametrically opposed — what influence 
this should exert on the former — why oppose the spirit of abo- 
lition — how the South may be reached. 



10 CONTENTS. 

II. Why slaveholders should be judged charitably — and the sub- 
ject investigated — northern ministers appealed to — northern 
men at the South — severe taskmasters — why. 

III. Power of habit, the stronghold of slavery, influence of filial 
and venerable associations among slaveholders — opposed to 
unconditional emancipation — why. 

IV. Universal conviction of the right of property. — Value of 
slaves. — Ignorance of northern men respecting slavery. 

V. Condition of the slave — observations of the writer — house 
servants many advantages — field labourers — negro houses — 
bad — ^mode of feeding slaves — various resources among them 
— public opinion in favour of humanity — dress of slaves — 
personal treatment — mode of labour — general appearance and 
manners — many of them in places of trust — general views of 
the whites — influence of the age on the slave. 

VI. Free blacks of the South — situation unfavourable to improve- 
ment — interesting exceptions. 

VII. Condition of the free blacks at the North — anecdote — de- 
graded — outcasts — vicious — ^neglected by the whites — deep- 
rooted prejudice against them — proofs — what justice requires 
of the free states. — North not guiltless respecting slavery — 
what atonement for her own wrongs. 

VIII. South devoted to the Union. — Interference of the North, 
on the question of moral right — appeal to the free states — 
to the clergy — examine motives — forbearance recommended 
among equals — injurious eflfects of northern denunciation. — 
Example of the Saviour. . . . . . p. 116 



CONTENTS. 11 



CHAPTER IV, 



TO THE UNION. 

I. What can be done i Subject of vast magnitude — radical 
difference of opinion. 

II. Three modes of settling the question stated. 

III. Faint hope that either side will abandon its position — ultra 
slaveholders — violence of southern excitement a favourable omen 
— no prospect of the North becoming in favour of slavery — rea- 
sons — will not use force against it. 

IV. Dissolution of the Union considered — its probable conse- 
quences and result. 

V. Third mode of settling the question — by compromise and 
concession — why it may be hoped for — desirable that southern 
men should express their views — prevented by abolition move- 
ments. 

VI. Colonization recommended — abolitionists opposed — mista- 
ken philanthropy — colonization emancipation must become a 
national question. South will reject every other mode — urged 
from motives of regard for the welfare of the coloured race — ne- 
groes cannot rise to equality with the whites- — proved in the free 
states — in Philadelphia — slaves to remain in the country as hired 
servants considered — South will oppose it, and why — no encour- 
agement from the example of the North. British emancipation 
referred to — final consequences not known. 

VII. Why the coloured man should go to Africa — climate con- 
sidered — comparisons invited- -America owes it to Africa to send 



12 ' CONTEBTTS. 

back her children. God intends it by our prosperity — government 
must do it — influences of colonization on Africa. Question of 
expense alluded to — money lost in Florida war. 

VIIL Some slave states have begun the vpork — reasons for 
government interference — partizan politics, the curse of our coun- 
try — the only hope of benevolence in the future. . p. 1 6 1 

Conclusion ,, . . • .... p. 205 



INTRODUCTION. 

The story of Washington and the Declaration 
of Independence are the first lessons treasured up 
in the memory by American youth ; and one of 
the first subjects on which the reasoning powers 
are exerted, is an attempt to reconcile slavery with 
the declaration that all men " are created free and 
equal," and " entitled to life, liberty, and the pur- 
suit of happiness." The youth of ingenuous dispo- 
sition, educated in the free states, in reflecting upon 
this subject, early obtains a deep impression of the 
fallibility and inconsistency of human character. 

First, all men are free and equal; — secondly, 
some of the men most distinguished in American 
history were slaveholders, that is, bought and sold 
their fellow-men like cattle ; — thirdly, among these 
distinguished men, some (as the author of the 
Declaration of Independence) condemned slavery 
in the strongest terms of language while they hved, 
and others, (as General Washington,) in their final 
acts, cancelled the obligation of the slave, and gave 
him freedom. 

These reflections greatly puzzled the writer of 
2 



14 _ IIVTRODUCTION. 

the following pages in his boyhood, and induced a 
spirit of inquiry on the subject of American slavery, 
which has increased with maturer age. In common 
with the youth of the free states, he early imbibed 
a strong prejudice against slavery, as being in- 
compatible with the freedom of our government : 
although this prejudice was subsequently somewhat 
softened, by reflecting, that some of the men whom 
Americans are taught from their childhood to 
venerate as great and good, were slaveholders; 
and also, by the consideration that the government, 
in all its acts and subordinate departments, has, 
(until very recently at least,) recognised the law- 
fulness of slavery. There are multitudes, doubtless, 
at the North, who will at once comprehend the 
embarrassment of the writer at this period, by their 
own experience ; — fully convinced of the wrong of 
slavery as an abstract question, and yet notfeehng 
authorized to openly denounce it, under the cir- 
cumstances in which it is tolerated in our country: 
and it was not until the writer had mingled with 
slavery, and observed its practical operation and 
bearing upon the community, with a circumspection 
prompted by the curiosity and unsatisfied inquiries 
of twenty years' residence in the free sates, that he 
was enabled to form an opinion of its merits, as it 
exists in the United States — and also to see the 
.reason why great men had been engaged in it, and 
why the people of the South so tenaciously adhered 
to the practice. The result of these observations 
is given in the following pages ; and the writer 



INTRODUCTION. 15 

feels an anxious interest in the diffusion of inform- 
ation on this subject at this time, for two reasons : 
1st. A crisis is approaching. Every man of com- 
mon observation must be aware of the fact, that 
this subject — the moral and political influence of 
slavery — has been increasing in public interest for 
the last few years ; and there are evidently causes 
at work, which will continue to increase this in- 
terest, until public opinion shall be centred upon 
it with a force, which can neither be evaded nor 
repulsed. The rancor of a most bitter political strife 
has for a time withdrawn public attention from it, 
but the elements are yet in a state of commotion, 
and only wait a favourable opportunity to burst 
forth and overspread the whole horizon. And no 
honest man can, in view of our national interests, 
wish the settlement of this great question delayed. 
If slavery is that grievous, heaven-daring oppres- 
sion, which some of its opposers are clamorous in 
denouncing, it should be speedily abolished ; if it 
can be shown that the practice is consistent with 
republicanism and Christianity, the slaveholder 
should be relieved of that load of obloquy which 
many now heap upon him, and be permitted to hold 
his possession in peace. 

I call the attention of southern men to this point. 
Free discussion is the only method of eliciting light, 
and estabhshing correct principles in this land of 
liberty. We have here no absolute monarch to 
think, and speak, and act for the people " by the 
grace of God." Free discussion is not only the 



1(5 INTRODUCTIOIV. 

prerogative but the genius of our people. It is 
the great manufactory of pubUc opinion, which is 
the supreme law of the land. Every question, 
whether of village or national notoriety, must be 
submitted to it, and decided by it. It is as impos- 
sible to prevent this as to stop water from running 
down a declivity ; and the attempt to arrest the 
progress of discussion on this great subject, if per- 
sisted in, must lead to the most disastrous results. 
A practice that will not bear investigation is always 
liable to suspicion. If the South are determined 
to resist every attempt to discuss and investigate 
the merits of slavery, it will not only increase the 
prejudice of its opposers, but the consequence will 
be to produce rival orders of public opinion at the 
North and South, diametrically opposed to each 
other, and tending to cherish sectional and jarring 
interests. 

Without a free interchange of sentiment, there 
cannot be such an enlightened understanding of 
the subject as will lead to a righteous decision by 
this people. Even now there are many anxious 
minds labouring under an impression that slave- 
holders are unwilling to bring the question of slavery 
to a free and full discussion of its merits ; and this 
impression is strengthened by the acts of tlie 
national legislature. At both the sessions of the 
twenty-fifth Congress, the House of Representa- 
tives voted (after much animated and excited 
debate) to reject ail petitions, and to allow no dis- 
cussion on the subject of slavery. This act is to 



INTRODUCTION. 17 

be regretted. Its policy is more than questionable : 
it is unwise. It is like checking a current in its 
natural channel : the accumulated waters may 
be arrested for a time, but when the barrier gives 
way^as it surely must — the torrent will sweep 
every thing in its course. The calm which seems 
to acquiesce in this act, is no evidence of its approval. 
The jfires are becoming more intense in the pent-up 
volcano. On a subject not involving the safety of 
the dearest interests of the community, a reflecting 
people will yield an unwilling assent to the decision 
of a large majority, and submit to the rejection of 
their petitions, constitutionally expressed and of- 
fered ; until the manifest justice of their cause, and 
the exertions of its friends, have removed the op- 
position to their wishes. This mode of rejecting 
petitions is manifestly unjust — contrary to the spirit 
and letter of the constitution — and can only be de- 
fended on the ground that extreme exigences war- 
rant the setting aside of established constitutional 
provisions. The slaveholder pleads that the reckless 
violence of the abolitionists has produced this 
result, and no doubt this is true ; but whether the 
ultimate decision of the country will sustain the 
act, and thereby declare that the exigence required 
the sacrifice, time only can determine. It cannot 
be questioned that one effect of this act will be, a 
stronger conviction among the people of the North, 
that the South are inclined to shut up every avenue 
to the investigation of slavery. And the final 
consequences of such a conviction at the North, or 



18 INTRODUCTION. 

such a determination at the South none can foresee, 
but all must dread. 

2d. The object of the writer is to diffuse infor- 
mation on the subject among the popular ranks 
of his countrymen. 

Many books have been already written on both 
sides of the question ; but they have generally been 
elaborate treatises: on one side condemning slavery 
on the abstract principles of moral right, or on 
the other defending the practice, from the usages 
of mankind in all agps ; or by denying and contro- 
verting the opinions of their opponents. Such 
works are but little suited to the popular taste, and 
produce but little practical effect upon the body of 
society. The great mass of the people, the owners 
and cultivators of the soil, and the artizans — men 
who acquire a proud independence by honest and 
persevering toil — who are seldom concerned in 
tumults or mobbish excesses, — and to whom dema- 
gogues and enthusiasts generally preach in vain — 
a class of men to stand by the laws in the hour of 
peril, and which holds in check that spirit of insub- 
ordination, which seems eager to destroy — these 
are the men, who are to pronounce sentence upon 
this momentous subject ; and the sentence they 
pronounce they will carry into execution. But 
they will not decide this question, however enthu- 
siasm may invoke, or uncurbed passion may 
menace, until they have had opportunity to ascer- 
tain facts, to hear evidence, and weigh the subject 
in all its bearings. They constitute the supreme 



INTRODUCTIOPT. 19 

court of the country, from whose decision there is 
no appeal. These men have little knowledge of 
Latin, or the logic of the schools, and little time to 
study the elaborate productions of doctors of law 
or metaphysics. With them a well-attested fact 
is of more value than a cart load of suppositions; 
and their assent is given to theory, when it is re- 
duced to practice. They require no other wisdom 
than that plain sense with which God has endowed 
them — and which their observation and industry 
keep in constant exercise and improvement — to 
decide upon the most important subjects of na- 
tional interest when fairly brought to their com- 
prehension. 

To this class of his fellow-countrymen, both 
North and South, the writer addresses these pages, 
without reference to politics, party, sect, or section. 
They have an unspeakable interest in this question ; 
for it needs not the spirit of prophecy to foretell, 
that unless it be amicably settled, a crisis is ap- 
proaching, which will involve the whole country, 
and come home to every man's bosom, from Maine 
to the Sabine. Already the agitation is begun, 
and a spirit is awakened which cannot be put to 
rest, till a final verdict is rendered by the people. 
Notwithstanding the magnitude of the subject, it is 
becoming one of absorbing interest, and every man 
in the nation must look it in the face. 

To prepare the public to act understandingly, it 
is important that information should be diffused. 
Already, from ignorance of each other's circum- 



20 INTRODUCTION. 

stances, sectional animosity is gaining ground ; 
and it will require all the wisdom which fallible 
men can gain from moral obligation and experi- 
ence, to arrest the current of sectional prejudice, 
and decide the question in the spirit of equity, 
and with reference to the great interests at stake. 
That the great mass of the people are ignorant of 
each other's situation, and sectional and domestic 
customs, and therefore greatly liable to err in 
judging of them, the writer is abundantly satisfied 
from his own experience and views, before and 
after witnessing the operation of slavery. Should 
he be instrumental in directing this class of men to 
a sober and righteous decision on this momentous 
subject, his object will be attained. He has no 
selfish motives to favor. His own individual sug- 
gestions are alone responsible for this work. He 
has consulted no man, and but few books. He 
has no interests at stake, which will be involved 
by the decision of this question, any farther than 
as a single member of the community. The sub- 
ject has been one of engrossing interest to him 
ever since he came to years of manhood, and he 
has watched the progress and development of 
public sentiment with great sohcitude. His humble 
efforts are intended to direct it, in its inquiries, to a 
sober and thorough investigation; to a just, and, if 
possible, an amicable settlement of the momentous 
controversv. 



CHAPTER L 

TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

I. Why first appeal to Abolitionists — result of their measures 
doubtful. — Writer, once an abolitionist — how cured. 

II. Ultraism of the present day — in theology — and benevolence. 

III. Writer's views of slavery — caused by man's depravity — no 
remedy but Christianity — moral influence of our national pros- 
perity. — Coronation of England's queen — Dr. Franklin. 

IV. Circumstances in which slavery may be a blessing — theory 
and practice of abolitionists inconsistent — reference to St. Paul 
— objections to holding slaves. 

V. Action and measures of abolitionists, why wrong — abolition 
periodicals — Mr. Garrison — editor in New York — should be 
judged charitably. 

VI. Slaveholders' ideas of abolitionists — why — many slave-owners 
anxious to get rid of slavery — what abolitionists ought to have 
done — arguments not admitted — abolitionists seriously ques- 
tioned. 

VII. Abolition in District of Columbia opposed — why ? 



" One great principle which we should lay down as immovably 
true, is, that if a good work cannot be carried on by the calm, 
self-controlled, benevolent spirit of Christianity, then the time for 
doing it has not come." Chakjting. 

I. As you had the honour or dishonour to begin 
the modern agitation of that great question, which 
has produced so much excitement in the country — 
the immediate aboUtion of slavery — it seems very 



22 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

proper, in taking a survey of the subject, and 
showing the bearing it has upon the various sec- 
tions of the country, and classes of the community, 
to make the first appeal to you. You have declared 
a war of extermination against slavery, and per- 
sisted in your plans for accomplishing its overthrow, 
with an ardour worthy of good men in a good 
cause. Whether your efforts will result in the weal 
or wo of your country is very problematical. The 
principal reason to hope for the former, is, that 
wiser and discreeter men may arise, to wield the 
elements which your zeal has put in commotion. 
Great occasions give being and impulse to great 
energies, but the pioneers of a grand enterprise 
are seldom the men to guide it to a successful issue. 
In our own history, the prudence and deliberation 
of Franklin and Washington directed the storm 
which the enthusiasm and ardour of the Adamses 
and Henrys kindled. Without such an interference 
to check your headlong impetuousness, there is 
little hope of the future. If your past action in 
word and deed is to be the measure of your future 
progress and effort, then the patriot can only rest 
his hopes upon anticipations of what may be in the 
dispensations of Infinite Wisdom and Goodness, be- 
yond the vision of erring and short-sighted mortals. 
As one who claims an interest in the welfare of 
his country, not exceeded by your own — one who 
possesses the same freedom of opinion, and right 
of discussion ; — as one having the same stake in the 
issue, and accountable to the same tribunals here 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 23 

and hereafter — I take the liberty to make such re- 
marks upon your principles and measures, and 
offer such views respecting their ultimate tendency, 
as reflection and experience have suggested. In 
doing this, I shall use great plainness of speech ; 
thus, in one respect at least, following your own 
example. But be assured, I have no sinister 
designs to accomplish ; nofeelingsof enmity to gra- 
tify ; and God forbid that I should cast any stum- 
blingblock in the way, to impede the progress of 
truth, justice, and benevolence. 

I was once a decided abolitionist in feeling — one 
of the " straitest sect." Looking on that side ex- 
clusively, as most of you do, — absorbed in the con- 
templation of the injustice and horrors of slavery, 
but at the same ignorant of the system — I felt al- 
most strong enough, in view of the abstract ques- 
tion of right or wrong, to go forth, single-handed, 
to silence every opposer, and break the fetters 
from every slave in Christendom. A greater work 
than Clarkson was twenty years in accomplishing, 
I could have performed in about as many weeks. 
Such is the ardour of an ingenuous disposition in 
support of an exclusive idea, and just such is the 
great body of your members. They have read 
some abolition papers ; heard perhaps some anti- 
slavery lectures, and become inflamed with a more 
than patriotic ardour, in defence of the great doc- 
trine of human rights. Their arguments are very 
summary and conclusive. Slavery is wrong ; there- 
fore every slaveholder ought to give his slaves instant 



24 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

freedom ! If his next neighbour does not imme- 
diately admit the conclusiveness of his reasoning, 
the abolitionist marvels at his hardness of heart, 
or obtuseness of intellect : if the slaveholder should 
plead for time to consider the subject in view of 
the circumstances m which he is placed, I fear the 
spirit of modern abolition would equal the zeal of 
the disciples, in wishing, on a certain occasion, to 
call down fire from heaven. 

The writer was led 1o serious reflection, and 
ultimately cured of his abolition enthusiasm, long 
before he ever saw a slave, by attending the anni- 
versaries of the Anti-slavery and Colonization Soci- 
eties in New York, four or five years ago. At the 
meeting of the former, there was considerable 
exultation manifested, that the latter was labouring 
under great pecuniary embarrassment — one of the 
speakers stating to the assembly, " We have met 
here to sound the death-knell of colonization." 
At the meeting of the Colonization Society the day 
following, some wit Vv'as displayed, and no little 
mirth excited among a very reverend auditory, by 
alluding to the ocular proof present, that coloni- 
zation was neither dead nor buried. 

As a spectator the wa'iter could not witness but 
with painful feelings the malevolence of disposition 
manifested by men claiming to be benevolent ; nor 
could he but regret, that these two societies, having 
the same ultimate object in view — the improvement 
of the coloured race — should indulge in a bitterness of 
invective, not allowable even in the fiercest sectarian 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 25 

polemics. " Surely there is field enough for both 
to labour without interfering with each other ; and 
the narrow views which engender strife and con- 
tention between them, can only be equalled by 
that profound charity of ignorant religionists, which 
will not permit an opponent to be in the way to 
heaven, unless he follows in the dim ray of its own 
httle rushlight." 

The scenes above mentioned gave the writer un- 
favourable impressions respecting the motives of 
abolitionists: since that, he has seen something of 
slavery in its practical appearance, and is still 
more unfavourably impressed with regard to their 
measures. But even these are to be judged with 
great allowances, except so far as they exert a 
practical influence injurious to society, in view of 
the spirit of the age. 

II. Ultraism is the order of things at the present 
day. Every thing runs into excess, " A sober 
man, who can find !" The modern improvements 
in the arts, and the discoveries in philosophy and 
science, have given a kind of intoxicating impulse 
to men's minds; and nothing short of the velocity 
of steam power is sufficient to fill their enlarged 
capacities. Excited action is the natural result of 
extravagant speculation; and men, not satisfied 
with pitying the benighted state and groping igno- 
rance of their fathers, seem determined to make 
them appear more diminutive by powerful con- 
trast. The aged patriarch who jogs along the 
3 



26 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

road in an ancient vehicle, as his fathers did before 
him, is rudely jostled by his flying grandchildren, 
who measure his wisdom and judgment by the 
motion of his wheels. 

Theology has partaken of this spirit in a re- 
markable degree. The old land-marks are broken 
down or neglected, and new avenues are laid out 
to Bunyan's " celestial city." Newlight reformers 
have discovered that their plodding forefathers 
entirely erred, in explaining the text of that old 
guide book the Bible ; and the narrow, up-hill 
path therein delineated has, in the plastic hands of 
different reformers, been smoothed and Mc Adam- 
ized ; or made wide enough for all to travel together. 
The great change to be effected in man, may be 
generally produced by joining "our side;" that is 
the only patent orthodoxy. The attentive observer 
can almost hear the very language of worldly 
rivalry, from these modern sectarians — " this way, 
sir, safest and cheapest line, through by daylight." 
Benevolence has also caught the same spirit, 
and shows a determination to make amends for 
the sluggish apathy of all former generations. 
Let me not be understood as being opposed to 
benevolent enterprize. Among the almost in- 
numerable societies for improving the condition 
of the human family, no doubt the most of them 
are exerting a happy influence. There can be 
no danger of circulating too many Bibles, or re- 
ligious tracts, or Sunday-school books ; nor of em- 
ploying too many devoted missionaries. There is 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 27 

vice, and crime, and misery enough in tiie world, 
to employ all the hands, and hearts, and means, 
which Christian charity can call into action. But 
there is a great amount of zeal on this subject 
which is not according to knowledge. Among 
the innumerable demands made on the public for 
its aid in sustaining charitable and benevolent 
operations, there is difficulty in deciding upon the 
most worthy objects. The incessant call for giving, 
has influenced many to withhold altogether. And 
there is evidently a spirit of competition excited 
among some societies for public favour, and a 
jealousy of each others success. But on this sub- 
ject, as almost every other, enthusiasm has far 
outstripped sober judgment. Men's minds have be- 
come so absorbed in the contemplation of existing 
evils, that they seem incapable of adopting the best 
mode of removing them. 

This I believe is true in regard to the subject 
of slavery. Among the great objects of modern 
benevolence, the slave receives, at the present 
moment, an unusual share of commiseration. The 
subject is indeed one of unspeakable interest, and 
worthy the attention of every philanthropist ; but 
its very magnitude should teach us to approach it 
with caution. Instead of this, a numerous class 
appear bent upon deciding it in a summary man- 
ner. The abolitionists have no idea of allowing 
any circumstances to affect their belief or to 
modify their measures. They have seized hold of 
this, with an exclusiveness of purpose, as though 



28 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

it were the only sin of the age, and, in their zeal 
for its removal, have leaped over every consider- 
ation affecting the situation of those most deeply 
interested, both masters and slaves : and their loud, 
and unceasing cry is, repent, repent. Surely the 
eyes which see such grievous beams in others, 
should be clear of motes ; and the hearts which 
condemn such hardness should be full of Christian 
charity and meekness. But I fear the abolitionists 
are not so guiltless of all sin, as to be authorized 
to throw the first stone at slaveholders. 

III. In making this brief appeal, I shall state 

First, My own views with regard to slavery ; 
and, 

Secondly, My views respecting the plans and 
measures of abolitionists, and their ultimate ten- 
dency. 

Abstractly considered, slavery has been proved 
to be a grievous wrong. It would require very 
little reasoning to convince a free man of common 
intelligence and common uprightness that he pos- 
sessed inherent rights and faculties, of which he 
could not be justly deprived, except by the Creator 
who bestowed them. Nor would it be difficult to 
prove to him, that his fellow-men, by whom he is 
surrounded, are entitled to the same privileges 
as himself, being given by the same Author. The 
equality of men in essential things, in likeness of 
physical organization, in the attributes of body and 
mind, is too evident to admit a doubt that God 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 29 

intended each to be free and happy ; responsible 
only to Him for the possession and exercise of 
those endowments and faculties which he alone 
could give or take away. 

Were these great principles, which lie at the 
very foundation of our theory of government, acted 
upon by the human family, there would be no 
crime, no misery, no tyranny, no slavery in the 
world, and a community, whether large or small, 
will be individually and socially happy, and ap- 
proximate towards perfection, just in proportion to 
its adoption and practice of these principles. But 
alas ! we are speaking of principles which have 
had but a very limited influence among men since 
the garden of Eden was deserted ; and which will 
never prevail in the world, till God regenerates 
our race. 

It will not probably be heresy in the view of 
abolitionists to declare a belief in that ancient 
doctrine, the fall of man from his original rectitude, 
that event which 

" Brought death into the world and all our wo." 

From that period to the present, man, having 
lost the moral image of his Maker, has followed 
the devices of his own heart ; what these are, 
the Bible will inform us : and the history of five 
thousand years will attest the truth of the re- 
cord. Without holy affections, without innocence, 
mankind prefer the pleasures of sense to moral 
obedience. And as God has so ordered, that his 
laws cannot be broken with impunity, either in the 
3* 



30 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

moral or physical world, just so far as men have 
trampled upon the authority of God, have they be- 
come obnoxious to the penalty of transgression. 
This penalty is exacted in the moral world — in the 
guilty conscience, the shame of discovery, the fear 
of punishment and of future retribution. In the 
physical, it is seen in the shape of every evil that 
"flesh is heir to." Tyranny and oppression, beastly 
vice, haggard poverty, sickness and death, are its un- 
erring results. God never made a man to be a slave, 
neither did he ever make one to be sick, or poor, or _ 
unhappy. But sickness and poverty are the certain 
consequences of the transgression of the immutable 
laws of Providence ; nor does slavery constitute an 
exception. There can be no doubt that the regular 
action of the functions of the human system will 
always preserve health: it is only their obstruction 
byintemperance and excess which produces disease; 
and this obstruction when complete must necessa- 
rily end in the premature dissolution of the body. 
So in civil communities, did each regard the great 
laws of individual and equal rights, joined with the 
evident acquirements of duty, to be industrious and 
temperate, peace and happiness would universally 
follow. But it is this disregard of the order of 
Providence which obstructs iTealthy action in so- 
ciety, just as in the human system. Men are 
very sagacious to discover, and very prompt to 
assist their own inherent rights and privileges, but 
the equal lights of others are not included in their 
process of reasoning. 

And the same cause which makes the monarch 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 31 

an oppressor, makes his servant a brute. Both 
have cast off their obligations, and each is pur- 
suing his self-gratification in the course most 
agreeable to his condition. Perhaps in the next 
generation their situations may be reversed : the 
son of the tyrant may be a groveling beast ; the 
other an oppressive despot. But from the circum- 
stances of men in most countries, comparatively 
few can be lords or tyrants. Wealth, and talent, 
and hereditary privilege generally combine to hold 
the reins of power, but the avenues to sensual 
gratification are open to all. Hence the mass of 
men, by indulging their propensities for such grati- 
fications as are within their reach, have been in 
every age debased and vicious. The gradations 
are many, but the tendency is always downward ; 
and vast numbers in every community have ever 
been at the bottom of the scale. They have 
yielded every sentiment of honour and humanity to 
the inexorable demands of a brutahzing lust; have 
suflJered the fire of heaven to be extinguished in 
their bosoms, or given themselves over, self-bound, 
to be beasts of burden. In elevating the scale of 
human character from cannibalism to civilization 
and Christianity, there is a stronger assertion of 
national right and individual thought; but even at 
the highest point yet attained, the structure of so- 
ciety is like the feet of the image in Nebuchad- 
nezzar's vision, part of iron and part of clay. 

In this highly favoured country — if a digression 
from the subject may be allowed — the community 



32 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

appear to be intoxicated with the idea that the 
golden age is returning; when hberty and equal 
rights, emanating from this union as a centre, will 
overspread the world. I invoke the blessing of 
Heaven, that this feeling, so extensively pervading 
the pubUc mind, may not prove to be a mere fit of 
intoxication, and nothing more nor worse. But 
let us not be deceived. I fear we are anticipating 
the most important effects, from very inadequate 
causes — looking for good fruit from an evil tree. 
As a nation, although but just emerged from 
childhood, we have made some progress in the 
arts, some in science, much in improvements of 
practical utiUty ; and are perhaps in advance of 
all others in the freedom of our constitution. But 
we are as yet scarcely on the threshold of civil 
liberty. Unless we enter far enough to see the 
beauty and glory of the inner temple, our worship 
will be confined merely, as it has been in all ages, 
to the dazzling exterior. There is a charm which 
captivates, in the sound of liberty ; but unless it 
has its seat in the heart of pure moral affections, 
its exercise cannot be depended on for guiding its 
possessor aright, or for exerting a salutary influ- 
ence upon others. 

Nothing but the spirit of Christianity can elevate 
us as a people. No man but a Christian can be a 
true repubhcan, in the highest and best sense of the 
term. Of freedom of opinion and action we have 
enough, more perhaps than the mass of men (hable 
as they are to be swayed by corrupt and unprin- 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 33 

cipled partizans) know how to exercise to advan- 
tage; and unless our moral improvement advances 
in the front rank of our social progress, the liberty 
to do wrong will eventually overcome the dispo- 
sition to do right. Could the arts have regenerated 
the world, it would not be in so deplorable a con- 
dition ; for it is a question even now, whether 
Egypt, three thousand years ago, was not our 
superior. Could literature have done it, then the 
Augustan Age had stayed that long night of dark- 
ness which overspread twelve centuries of our era. 
And of science, it will not be too much to say, that 
it has been always harnessed to the car of ambi- 
tion, and its highest attainments oftener exerted for 
the destruction than the welfare of man. 

Intelligence without piety is like the giant in the 
fable, strong and Wind, more likely to do evil than 
good. An intellect that could measure the universe^ 
would not promote the best interests of man, with- 
out being guided by a sense of moral obligation. 
Political economists and philosophers, reasoning 
h priori, have concluded that there is necessarily a 
period of advancement, of elevation, and decline in 
national affairs. Because Egypt, and Assyria, and 
Rome, rose, and reigned, and declined, therefore 
all nations must. Such a doctrine is a libel on the 
divine character; a stretch of assumption which 
even infidelity has hardly dared to make. It is 
mere fatalism-^an adoption of one of the grossest 
sentiments of heathen mythology, that the fates are 
above the gods themselves. Such a doctrine 



34 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

teaches but one thing conclusively; and that, some 
of its advocates would abhor, viz., the entire de- 
pravity of man. That communities and nations 
have not continued to rise and flourish, the history 
of the past is a melancholy proof: but to say they 
cannot, is to question the sincerity, authority, and 
power of Jehovah, in his warnings, exhortations, 
and promises to the Israelites in the Mosaic record. 
In pursuing these reflections a little further, 
suffer me to inquire, what is the ultimate object of 
all our toil? what tiie glittering prize, which en- 
larges our organs of vision? What the great idol 
on whose altar the whole community is mad ? Is 
it any thing higher than lofty conceptions of indi- 
vidual and national aggrandizement? Whence is 
the loud boast of our commerce, our manufactures, 
our internal resources, our rail-roads and canals ? 
Is it any thing more than the flattering belief that 
these will elevate us in power and grandeur above 
the nations ? Without suitable acknowledgments of 
the Divine sovereignty, and a heartfelt conviction 
of our dependence, and obligations to Him, as our 
constant benefactor; the blessings which are poured 
into our lap without measure, will only enlarge our 
ability, and increase our dispositions to do evil. 
We have the Bible in proof, " The love of money 
is the root of all evil." Was there ever a people 
whose entire energies were so devotedly conse- 
crated to the acquisition of gain, as ours? And 
there is greater cause for apprehension in the fact, 
that religion has, to a great extent, caught the 



TO NORTHERIV ABOLITIONISTS. 35 

spirit, and appears ambitious to follow the maxims, 
and keep up with the improvements of the world. 
Her temples are crowded — her votaries innumer- 
able; for the profession is in honor. Who are 
indeed striving for " a crown of glory that fadeth 
not away" will only be known, when the Son of 
God shall come to claim his jewels. Heaven will 
not lack inhabitants, if it be as easy to join the 
church triumphant as to get into the church (mis- 
called) militant. 

Still, there is hope of our country, in the diffu- 
sion of the means of light — in the spread of the 
Bible — in the sacrifices for missions — in the exten- 
sion of Sunday-schools, and more in that unobtru- 
sive piety, which seeks out the objects of its 
benevolence among the wretched, and mingles its 
prayers and tears with the neglected outcast, un- 
known to the world ; leaving its reward to " the 
resurrection of the just." I would rather rest the 
welfare and safety of my country, on the interces- 
sions of one such soul, than on the valor of the 
mightiest captain. Ten such souls would have 
saved Sodom. A nation of such would convert 
the world. 

It was a beautiful emblem of the ancient Greeks 
in lighting their altar fires from the sun. The 
offering of common fire was unworthy the deity 
they invoked. They undoubtedly borrowed the 
idea from the Israelites, whose altars were some- 
times kindled by fire miraculously descended : but 
although they had lost the knowledge of the true 



36 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

God, they kept up the allusion in drawing fire from 
the principal object of his visible creation. In pro- 
portion to the number of hearts, which are daily 
kindled with fire from heaven, will our country 
obtain the protection and blessing of Infinite bene- 
volence. 

I will close this digression, by referring to a fact 
of recent occurrence, which has been a subject of 
serious reflection, from its contrast wdth parallel 
scenes in our own country. I allude to the late 
crowning of the Queen of England. In view of 
the wealth and power of the British empire, the 
splendor and talent of the embassies which came 
to do it honour, it was perhaps the grandest and 
most magnificent pageant which the world ever 
witnessed. But the fact to which the attention of 
the reader is directed, is the religious, yea, devo- 
tional spirit of the august ceremonies. The high 
priest of all England appears to have been the 
second personage in the scale of attractions on 
that solemn occasion. The sacred anthems, the 
services of the church, the oflferings, the presence 
of the Bible, and the distinct acknowledgment of 
its Author, as the source whence " kings reign and 
princes decree justice," presented a spectacle 
worthy of a Christian nation, and which cannot 
but have a happy influence upon its morals and 
institutions. Would that our republican legislators 
might so far overcome their patriotic horror of the 
union of church and state, as at least in their public 
ceremonies of national interest to acknowledge the 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 37 

sovereignty and beneficence of the Supreme Go- 
vernor of the universe, and give pious hearts in 
their vast assembhes an opportunity and an innpulse 
to invoke the blessings of God upon their pubHc 
servants and their own beloved country. 

There is indeed one event in our own history, 
which will be remembered as an instance of the 
moral sublime, and one on which a good man can- 
not reflect without the keenest emotion. It was 
when Franklin arose in the Congress which adopted 
our constitution, and acknowledged there was a 
God who ruled in the affairs of men, and proposed 
that prayers be daily offered, for His wisdom and 
guidance through the angry and stormy strife 
which impeded all their deliberations. I am not 
aware that Franklin was a professor of religion ; 
but this act of his will increase the veneration for 
his character and services among the good and 
wise of his countrymen in all generations. 

IV. To return from this digression to the ques- 
tion of slavery. 

If the view we have taken of the moral state of 
man be correct — if the tendency of human nature, 
when left to itself, is headlong downward — then 
slavery, by arresting the progress of man in his 
brutalizing course, may prove a blessing. For this 
reason, God has permitted slavery, probably, to 
avoid a greater evil. On this principle can I ac- 
count for the plain declarations of scripture in the 
4 



38 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

Old Testament. I know not how a proposition 
can be expressed more plainly in words, than the 
permission given the Israelites to hold slaves. 
Lev. XXV. 44-46. This is more than mere permis- 
sion, it is authoritj'^ ; and the reason for it is plain, 
on the principle I have assumed. Of the heathen 
round about them, the Israelites might buy servants 
to serve them for ever. The moral and physical 
condition of such persons would be greatly im- 
proved as slaves to the Israelites ; in comparison 
with their lot as heathen, sunk in the grossest 
idolatry and brutality. 

And on this principle, I understand the curse 
pronounced upon Ham, Gen. ix. 25-27 ; not that 
it was for ever absolute and irreversible ; but that 
Ham was so debased and prone to vice — his very 
affections were so given up to the greedy pursuit 
of sinful indulgence — that servitude to his brethren 
would be the means of restraining him and his 
posterity from the lowest depth of wretchedness. 

And nowhere in the Bible is the possession of 
slaves prohibited. I know it is contended, that the 
great law of loving our neighbour as ourself utterly 
condemns it. There can be no doubt among good 
men, that when the principles of this law prevail 
in the world, there will be no slavery. But I can- 
not find any example or authority in sacred history, 
for agitating its overthrow ; except by such a dif- 
fusion of the light of the Gospel, as shall naturally 
produce its extinction. It is evidently left by the 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 39 

Saviour and apostles as an evil appertaining to the 
present state of man, to be overthrown by the 
gradual adoption of the principles of Christianity. 
In illustration of this it may be remarked, that 
there was probably never a people in a state of 
greater moral delinquency, than the Jews in the 
time of our Saviour. Slavery among them, and 
among their masters the Romans, was a cup of 
unmingled bitterness. The slaves of that period 
drank it to the dregs. And yet Jesus Christ did not 
preach insurrection or insubordination to the slave, 
nor condemn the owner for possessing them. It 
was no part of his mission to change the institu- 
tions of society by a miracle. He did not inter- 
fere with established usages and customs. He 
admitted the order of society as he found it. " Ren- 
der unto Cesar the things that are Cesars." The 
great principles of morals he inculcated, when 
adopted by an individual, will teach him the love 
of God and man; when adopted by a community, 
will overthrow every evil which that community 
has cherished or practised. It was his object to 
make the tree good ; not by a miracle to produce good 
fruit from an evil tree. Of what advantage would 
it have been to mankind, had he freed the slaves, 
without giving them and their masters new mo- 
tives of action ? On this point it appears to me, 
the abolitionists greatly err, in pressing the im- 
mediate and unconditional emancipation of the 
slaves in our country, without considering the con- 



40 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS, 

sequences which would result to masters and ser- 
vants from such an act* 

Again, this rule of doing to others what we 
would have them do to us, was never taken in its 
broadest literal signification. Such a construction 
is not sustained by the Bible, nor the institutions of 
the wisest men. In the present moral state of the 
world, it would lead at once to the dissolution of 
society. Its legitimate effect would be an agrarian 
division of property, and another subdivision, as 
soon as the improvident and vicious had wasted 
their dividend. The abolitionists will contend that 
by this rule the master ought to treat his slaves as 
his children. But who ever did it 1 who ever re- 
quired it ? They will not certainly object to be 
judged by their works. Are their servants on an 
equality with their children? Do they eat, and 
drink, and sleep with them, as with their children — 
send them to the same schools — occupy the same 
seats in the church — use the same means to train 
them up? Do they alternately send their daugh- 
ters into the kitchen, and bring their maid servants 
into the parlour to acquire polite accomplishments ? 
" Consistency is a jewel." Have they first cast 
the motes out of their own eyes? Their practice 
in the circumstances above mentioned is sufficient 
proof that they do not regard the exhortation of 
the apostle, " masters, give to your servants that 
which is just and equal," as a command to make 

* The reader is referred to the writer's views on this sub- 
ject more fully in another part of this work, — Appeal to the 
Free States. 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 41 

them equals. If the inspired writer had intended 
to make them free by this injunction, he would not 
have used the term servants, which implies subjec- 
tion. 

Subordination and gradation prevail throughout 
the world, — and they will forever. I speak it with 
reverence, they prevail in heaven. The creation 
of different orders of intelligence requires it : and 
this is perfectly consistent with the moral govern- 
ment of God. In a state of unmingled joy and 
happiness, every being will enjoy the blessing to 
the extent of his capacity, but the capacities of all 
will not be equal. 

Again, to refe«r to the doctrines and example of 
the New Testament on this subject, I can but wish 
our modern abolitionists would drink in more of the 
spirit, and copy more the example of St. Paul. 
We read that on one occasion, " his spirit was 
stirred within him when he saw the city wholly 
given to idolatry." That city was as full of slavery 
as of idolatry ; but we do not read of any denun- 
ciations against it in the language and spirit of 
modern abolitionism. He even did not rail and 
scoff at their idolatry. Did Paul in his epistles 
teach servants that insubordination, or obedience, 
was well-pleasing unto God 1 Did he exhort mas- 
ters to treat their slaves in view of an accountability 
hereafter, and in the fear of God ? or did he de- 
nounce them as deserving of utter wrath for the 
mere act? Did he teach submission or rebellion 
to the laws'? — even of tyrants. Did he bring 
4* 



42 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. , 

railing accusations against those who opposed 
him 1 — or was he content to say " the Lord reward 
him according to his works?" Did he assist and 
secrete runaway slaves 1 — or return such to their 
Christian masters ? What was his course in the 
vineyard of his Lord, in the midst of a most un- 
godly generation — but one of meekness, forbear- 
ance, patience, prayers, and tears! These are 
evidences, known and read of all men, of the spirit 
and power of Christianity, for they are qualities 
and virtues which do not flourish in the hearts, nor 
show themselves in the practices of the world. 

On the principles heretofore mentioned, I hold 
the doctrine of slavery. I believe the sin to be in 
the abuse, rather than the use of slaves. 1 cannot 
think of any circumstances in which I would pur- 
chase a slave — except to manumit him ; but have 
no hesitation in declaring my conviction, that 
should. slaves fall into my hands by marriage, inhe- 
ritance, or otherwise, I might possess them, and so 
discharge my duty towards them, as to avoid con- 
demnation of heaven. On this point, I have no 
doubt ; but may God spare me the trial. It is a 
fearful responsibility to have one's temporal and 
eternal destiny put into his own hands : who, then, 
is sufficient to incur that of many others in addition 
to his own ? I should fear the result, when my 
principles and self-interest were at strife, over a 
rational, immortal being like myself, and his welfare 
was the stake. His moral accountabihty, his hfe 
and health, his riches and poverty, his virtue and 
vice, his ignorance and knowledge, M'ould be so 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 43 

much under my control, that on my head must 
rest a fearful obligation. 

But there is another objection which, as an in- 
dividual, I should plead against holding slaves ; and 
which, although of an entirely different character 
from the one just mentioned, would be conclusive, 
viz., their comparative worthlessness as laborers. 
Except in a country where Divine Providence has 
poured out its bounty upon the soil with an un- 
sparing hand, they are not profitable. On a sterile 
or exhausted soil they are a moth, scarcely pro- 
ducing their living. If this fact is an argument 
against slavery, so be it : it is no part of my design 
to shield it from fair and close investigation. 

Before leaving this part of the subject I wish to 
anticipate a question, which many readers may 
wish to propose, — " Admitting the correctness of 
your views respecting slavery, would it not be more 
consistent with our professions, as a moral, benevo- 
lent people, to endeavour to teach and elevate the 
poor and degraded, rather than by consigning them 
to bondage, merely coerce them into a state of 
negative goodness?" Certainly. No man who has 
the most distant pretension to Christian character, 
can hesitate to decide this point. But the question, 
in this form, does not apply to our subject. We 
are not to consider the propriety, expediency, or 
sinfulness of adopting certain measures ; but the 
influence of measures which have been adoptedj 
and incorporated into society for generations. 
The difference is as great, I apprehend, as between 



44 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

deciding whether a certain regimen if adopted, will 
injure a man's health ; and the best method of 
counteracting the effects of that regimen upon the 
system, after it has been practised for years, and 
found to be pernicious. 

V. I purpose to make some remarks upon the 
plans and measures of abolitionists. 

And, first, it appears almost evident, that a con- 
viction must force itself upon the minds of sober 
reflecting men, who have taken an interest in this 
controversy, that the abolitionists have not fol- 
lowed the Christian rule laid down by the Saviour, 
Matt, xviii. 15, nor the golden rule, of doing as they 
would have others do to them. On the abstract 
question of right and wrong, they commenced a 
most violent attack upon slaveholders indiscrimi- 
nately ; denouncing them all as guilty of a most 
horrible, unnatural crime ; and with an assurance 
unbecoming fallible men, anticipating the extreme 
judgments of Heaven. And then, for accomplishing 
its overthrow, they took a step, for the wisdom of 
which the history of the world can not furnish a 
parallel. That step was, the sending of these 
bitter, indiscriminate denunciations all over the 
South, hurling their direful anathemas in the face 
of a community, which neither acknowledged their 
right to judge, nor the correctness of their as- 
sumptions. I 

2d. As an appendage to these denunciations, 
they held up slavery as a monster of cruelty, and 



i 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 45 

impurity, and oppression ; virtually saying to every 
slaveholder who received one of these inflamma- 
tory papers, " thou art the man." Can it be vi^on- 
dered at, if the whole South was instantly in a 
blaze. For my own part, I am only surprised, 
that the utterance of southern feeling and indigna- 
tion was not more outrageous. The unanimity of 
the South, in repelling these attacks, and throwing 
back these denunciations is without a parallel. 
Not only the slaveholder from principle, but the 
thousands who were anxiously looking for some 
way to abolish it, all united in resisting this wanton 
attack. Even now, in the national and state legis- 
latures, every question is viewed by southern men 
with regard to the bearing it has upon immediate 
abolition. 

In another respect the action of abolitionists has 
been contrary to every principle of justice, recti- 
tude, and fairness. As a body they know com- 
paratively nothing of practical slavery, and yet 
they continually denounce it for its cruelty. They 
have seized hold of individual instances of great 
tyranny and personal oppression, and charge the 
crime upon the whole community. This is mani- 
festly unjust. By the same rule every denomina- 
tion of Christians — yea, Christianity itself — might 
be condemned. Probably not one person in a hun- 
dred who has subscribed to abolition societies 
and petitions, has ever been in a slave state. Their 
information is derived, in a great measure, from 
travelers and transient residents — many of whose 



46 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

statements are of an exparte character, and of 
whom comparatively few had sufficient opportuni- 
ties, or took sufficient interest in the subject, to 
judge it fairly or comprehensively. The inhabi- 
tants of the free states, who have never been at 
the South, can form no more definite ideas of the 
practical operation of slavery, than they can of the 
face of a country, from the description of a tra- 
veler. The traveler will show you a hill here, and 
a valley there, but of the numberless inequalities of 
surface, a single v^ew will give you a correcter 
idea, than a hundred pages of description. So on 
this subject, it is impossible to form a comprehen- 
sive view of the detail of slavery, without actual 
inspection. The writer had conversed with, and 
questioned hundreds respecting it, but two days' 
actual observation gave him altogether a clearer 
view of the system of what slavery is, than the 
answers to a thousand questions. 

Another measure of abolitionists, which has been 
the cause of much excitement, was the invitation 
and cordial reception given to a foreign emissary 
to denounce slavery, at the North. This excited 
feelings of great irritation at the South, as it did 
feelings of humiliation among the majority in the 
free states. It was in effect declaring that Ameri- 
cans were not capable of managing their own 
domestic concerns, without foreign interference. 
Had this missionary gone to the South, as the ap- 
propriate field of his labours, it would have been 
in character ; but his moral courage could not have 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 47 

been of a very high order, to shoot his artillery from 
behind a barrier, and fear to meet his opponents 
face to face. The views of the v^riter at that 
period were inclined to favour abolition, but as an 
American he heartily rejoiced that this intermed- 
dling philanthropist was driven from the country by 
the force of public sentiment, without personal 
injury. 

Again, the resolutions introduced and candied, 
and the speeches delivered at abolition meetings, 
are frequently characterized by illiberality ; full of 
violent and bitter denunciation against the whole 
South, without respect to age, sex, or character. 
If we are to believe som.e of them, the ministers 
of the slaveholding states are more deserving the 
Penitentiary than the pulpit. Such wholesale ma- 
ledictions are a source of constant irritation, excit- 
ing deep feelings of prejudice and animosity at the 
South, and they retard the progress of true bene- 
volence. 

In connexion with this may be mentioned the 
abolition periodicals. I regret to say they are far, 
immeasurably, below that standard of Christian 
forbearance and moderation, which should charac- 
terize the discussion of so important a subject. 
They have descended from that elevation which 
should ever be sustained in pleading the cause of 
humanity and philanthropy, to wallow in the dirty 
waters of malevolence and abuse. A good cause 
never requires the aid — is never promoted by the 
ijse — of opprobrious language. " Soft words and 



48 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

hard arguments" is the maxim of Christianity ; not 
feeble arguments in harsh words. It seems almost 
impossible for a paragraph writer on the abolition 
side, not to get into a passion, and to scatter fire- 
brands on all sides of him. Not satisfied with 
depicting scenes of inhuman cruelty and oppression 
which he never witnessed, he pours vials of worm- 
wood and gall upon a whole community. 

Among these periodicals the " Liberator" de- 
serves notice, as being the oldest ; the great 
pioneer of anti-slavery. I never read it except as 
accident threw it in my way ; but it will be safe 
to assert, that I never saw a copy, which did not 
contain sentences and epithets, which Christianity 
would blush to own. One of these papers, the only 
one seen for a year, now lies before me. I will 
copy a few sentences in proof of the statement 
above. The writer is speaking of some coloniza- 
tionist in New Jersey. It ought to be stated, how- 
ever, that this communication is not original in 
the Liberator, but adopted from another paper. 

" One Honourable persecuting inquisitor, who 
has more presumption than brains, already in a 
certain neighbourhood, has done more mischief, 
and created more prejudice against the poor un- 
offending coloured people, and thrown more diffi- 
culties in their way, than his body hung upon 
pitch-forks could atone for in purgatory, in a 
thousand generations. Contemptible wretch ! Is 
it not enough that coloured men are already sought 
out and abused by every vagabond in the land, 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS, 49 

through colonization instrumentality ? will this gray- 
headed totterer upon the brink of the grave and of 
eternity, fill up the measure of his iniquity by 
becoming more notorious for cruelty and wicked- 
ness than Satan himself?" 

I will leave this extract, with the single observa- 
tion, that I have entirely mistaken the character of 
the people in New England, if they sustain a cause 
which is supported by such language, and such a 
temper as the above. 

It is with no pleasure these references are made 
to the Liberator. For the writer had formed a high 
opinion of Mr. Garrison — tinctured no doubt with 
boyish enthusiasm — from an anecdote which is 
current in some parts of the North. It is this :— His 
mother consecrated him to the work of slave 
emancipation from childhood ; instilled into his 
youthful bosom a horror of the practice ; and 
charged him to prosecute its abolition, as the great 
purpose of his earthly being. The writer disclaims 
all intention of injuring any person by relating this 
anecdote, nor does he indorse its correctness. 
Even if it be true, it will not be believed that Mr. 
Garrison imbibed the gall and bitterness of his 
paper from such a source ; and perhaps there are 
palliating circumstances in the fact, that he has 
been publicly denounced as an incendiary, and a 
reward offered for his apprehension and dehvery 
to the South. But a man who places himself in 
the front rank in a great moral enterprize, must 
not only forego all stipulations affecting his personal 
5 



50 ' TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

destiny, but should bear himself above the petty 
strife and clamor of the multitude. It is painful 
to reflect, that in a man of his talents and influence, 
the " milk of human kindness" should so soon be 
dried up, or that he should ever be girded with 
other armour than that which becomes a Christian 
philanthropist. 

And the abolition periodicals abound in such Chris- 
tian sentiments. 1 will instance one more — from a 
reverend editor in New York : — " Truly, we beheve 
the destiny of the most abhorred beings that ever 
lived on earth, will be mild compared with the repro- 
bation that awaits the clerical defenders of American 
slavery." Then perdition unavoidably awaits nine 
tenths of the ministers of all denominations south 
of the Potomac and Ohio. And oh ! such an ag- 
gravated doom ! The writer has some clerical 
acquaintance in the slave states, who he had no doubt 
— until this malediction appeared — would be found 
worthy to walk the streets of the New Jerusalem ; 
and even now he will continue to hope, reflecting 
with respect to these men in the spirit of a royal 
and a grievous sinner of old, who in the depth of 
his penitence said, " who can tell V 

But the above, and similar expressions from the 
same paper, should be read with great allowances ; 
, for the writer can bear witness that this same 
reverend editor is a very serious, conscientious, 
estimable man, except when he is seized with these 
terrible ague-fits of immediate abolition. He is 
indeed, upon the whole, a very fair reasoner on 
the subject of slavery ; but occasionally, after pre- 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 51 

paring a very palatable dish, even for his opponents, 
he will, in one of these paroxysms, dash in worm- 
wood enough to nauseate even his friends. 

The vi^riter would suggest in the kindest manner 
to this reverend editor to commence a series of 
essays on charity, founded upon the thirteenth 
chapter of First Corinthians. By keeping the ske- 
leton in the drawer of his editorial table, where he 
could seize it in a moment, and employ a half hour 
in filling it up, when he felt one of these wormwood 
fits coming on, it might greatly promote the cause 
of rational abolition. 

There is one feature in many of the productions 
of abolitionists to which I would seriously call 
their attention, as it is evidently proof either of an 
unusual degree of human frailty or of superhuman 
knowledge. They are very much inclined to ex- 
tend their denunciations beyond the limits of time, 
and assign their opponents to a doom more or less 
aggravated, it would seem, in proportion to their 
want of faith in, or opposition to, the scheme of 
immediate abolition. From the example of the 
Bible, it appears that the future destiny of sinners 
was seldom pronounced except by Him who knew 
what was in man — an apostle but in one instance 
saying — " thou child of the devil ;" and even an 
angel, when disputing with an opponent, was con- 
tent to say, " the Lord rebuke thee." 

VI. Permit me now to state, what the aboli- 
tionists have already effected at the South. 

And first, they have loaded themselves with not 



52 TO NORTHEBN ABOLITIONISTS. 

only the indignation, but the deep execration of 
nearly a whole community. It is impossible for 
language to express the feelings of slaveholders on 
this point. Imagine a monster with the heart of a 
fiend and the strength of a tiger ; which delighted 
in filling a peaceful hamlet with midnight shrieks 
and consternation — that monster would be an ap- 
proximation 10 an aboli ionist, in the mind of a 
southern slaveholder. I do not use this language 
as mere declamation — but only express the ideas 
which have been conveyed to the mind, through 
the medium of the eye and the ear. 

And the question immediately arises; have they 
deserved this execration? As an individual I do 
not hesitate to say, they are not a together guiltless. 
The reasons for this opinion have been recapitu- 
lated. It has been slated that abolitionists are not 
proper judges of slavery, for as a body they know 
nothing about it ; and it is equally true, that as a 
body, slaveholders are not proper judges of abo- 
litionists, and for the same reason. Just in this 
position the parties stand at present, ignorant of 
each other's characters and motives ; but vindict- 
ively urgent in hurling at each other the most 
violent denunciations, and applying the grossest 
epithets of abuse which language can furnish. It 
. is impossible to say which has the advantage in 
this contest, but it must be admitted that the abo- 
litionists were the aggressors. 

Secondly. The abolitionists could not have de- 
vised a plan, more effectually to close up every 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 53 

avenue leading to slave emancipation, than the 
measures which have been referred to. They • 
have greatly increased a feeling of jealousy and 
suspicion towards the North ; and they have rivet- 
ted the fetters of the slave, abridging the few 
pleasures he enjoyed, and throwing serious ob- 
stacles in the way of his redemption. I had often 
heard this stated as one of the results of abolition 
movements, but gave it little credit, believing it to 
be the outcry of persons interested in the perpetua- 
tion of slavery. But a very slight acquaintance 
with the South will place its truth beyond a doubt. 
Pass over the boundary between the free and slave 
states, at any point you please ; and as you advance, 
ask the inhabitants their views of abolition, and 
the effect its measures have had in abridging 
the liberty of the slave. If the answers are not 
unanimous, as to the fact, and the cause, I will 
retract the statement. 

In all the frontier slave states, several causes 
have conspired to work a change in the public mind 
prejudicial to slavery, for some years past. This 
change had operated so far in most of these states, 
as to produce more or less action touching the 
question of slavery in the state legislatures. In Vir- 
ginia particularly, the subject had been freely dis- 
cussed with respect to measures for prospective 
emancipation, and the people were watching the 
progress of legislation with great interest. Almost 
in a moment, the subject was dropped, when it was 
seen what course the abolitionists were pursuing; 
5* 



54 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

and instead of measures for giving freedom to 
slaves, it was considered necessary to make addi- 
tional laws for their security ; and to counteract 
what were looked upon as incendiary movements 
in the free states. 

Could abohtionists hear good men (for although 
it m.ay not be credited every where, there are good 
men among slaveholders), I repeat, could they 
hear good men in Virginia deplore this, as one of 
the injurious results of their measures, they would 
ponder their doings with more deliberation. The 
wheels which had begun to move, and were ac- 
quiring accelerated motion by the action of public 
sentiment, were effectually blocked ; and they could 
never be set in motion again until the obstacle was 
removed. When the whole South was assailed 
with denunciation, and threatened with ruin and 
perdition, it was to be expected that all parties 
and opinions should sink their private views and 
minor interests in the public welfare, and unite in 
opposing the common enemy. Thus the public 
agitation of the subject has been indefinitely post- 
poned through the mistaken zeal of abolitionists. 

There can be little doubt in the minds of those 
acquainted "uith the subject, that had there been no 
cause of reaction, public opinion would have direc- 
ted legislation to provide for prospective emanci- 
pation, in more than one of the slave states, in a 
very few years ; probably the work would have 
been commenced at the present moment. There 
is a continual outcry among a certain class of 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 55 

agitators, from one end of the slave states to the 
Other, appealing to southern interests, and southern 
feelings, and having a direct reference to the insti- 
tution of slavery. This is a bond of union indeed, 
and one which will not be easily dissolved ; but 
there is a stronger bond even than this which go- 
verns men, and that is individual interest. And rest 
assured, that just as soon as a majority of the talent, 
the wealth, the free population of any state decides 
that slavery is injurious to the best interests of that 
state, it will be abandoned, notwithstanding all the 
influence which may be brought to oppose it. And 
there are powerful causes at work, tending to pro- 
duce this result, in all the frontier slave states. 

Were the writer to undertake a mission to the 
South to preach against slavery, he would, at least 
in the five most northern states, take political eco- 
nomy for his text, and engage to convert fourfold 
more slaveholders than could abolitionists. 

But the last thing that can be done, will be to 
drive them into emancipation. Almost every thing 
in this world can be driven from its position, but 
human nature ; and of this genus, perhaps the 
American is the most intractable species ; and of 
the American, the southern will claim its full share 
of pertinacity in maintaining its opinions and de- 
fending its practices. 

Had abolitionists adopted a different course, they 
might have effected great good — perhaps the ac- 
complishment of their object, slave emancipation. 
Instead of confining their attention chiefly to the 



56 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. '■ ' 

abstract question of moral right and wrong, and 
bitterly reproaching the advocates of slavery on 
their own assumption of the decision, they had de- 
liberated and inquired as other men, and even as 
they do on other subjects, they would now sustain 
a very different attitude before the community. 
Had they at first made an appeal to the South 
openly, and not as spies — in the spirit of Christian 
forbearance and meekness, appealing to their hearts 
atid consciences as responsible and accountable 
stewards, they would have found many persons 
willing to listen to all their rebukes, and ready to 
confer with them respecting any feasible plan for the 
abolition of slavery. Had they gone, not as agents 
of societies, but as simple individuals, and examined 
slavery critically, in the various aspects of its prac- 
tical operation, they would have been better able 
to judge of its enormity, and to apply a suitable 
remedy. Had they preached the doctrines of the 
New Testament — not on the house-tops but at the 
fireside — they would have found multitudes ready 
to respond to the truth, and would have been re- 
ceived with courtesy and Christian hospitality. 

But let them not go now, as avowed abolitionists, 
unless they aspire to a national notoriety. They 
would hardly escape the honor of martyrdom, be- 
low the thirty-fifth degree of latitude : above that 
line they might receive some permanent badge of 
southern sensibility. And yet at this day, there is 
no hesitation in a Virginian to converse freely, and 
express his views frankly respecting slavery to a 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. o7 

guest, who gives evidence that he has no sinister 
design in view. 

There are thousands of slaveholders who are 
as anxious to get rid of slavery as abolitionists are 
to have them — though not in all cases, for precisely 
the same reason. Perhaps the latter may take to 
themselves the credit of this fact, but let them not 
be deceived. The persons with whom the writer 
conversed, who most deeply regretted the existence 
of slavery among them, could scarcely restrain 
their indignation when alluding to the aboHtionists 
for having effectually (at least for the present) put 
a stop to all the plans in progress for the removal 
of the evil. Perhaps it may not be universally 
known, that the law prevents masters from giving 
freedom to their slaves, unless they are sent out of 
the state ; or bonds are required for their mainte- 
nance and good behaviour. 

The creed of the abolitionist may be summed 
up in one sentence — " do right, and leave conse- 
quences to God." This reads very well, but in the 
view of slaveholders it is mere assumption, inas- 
much as it implies that slavery is not right. The 
majority of slaveholders are conscious of no 
wrong in the practice. And a very little reflection, 
or a limited acquaintaince v ith human nature, 
might have taught the abolitionists, that a system 
of so long standing, incorporated into society for 
ages, combining the influence of almost the entire 
community, would not surrender at discretion. 
They might have known that, however individuals 



58 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

of that community might be affected by the ques- 
tion, there were muhitudes upon whom their beUef 
would hav^e no effect ; who would spurn their 
anathemas, and scoff at dictation on a subject in 
which their own interests were immediately and 
vitally concerned. Foreseeing this, probably, and 
wishing to array all the opposition to it in one 
combination, they have exerted themselves in form- 
ing a system of affiliated societies in the free 
states ; hoping, perhaps, by their exertions, and 
trusting to the numerical strength and intelligence 
of the North, to bear down slavery by the concen- 
trated force of public opinion. 

But are they sure of being I'ight in this view^ of 
the subject. On this point, I would bespeak their 
most serious and deliberate attention. They pro- 
fess to be governed by very disinterested and pure 
motives, appealing to the Bible for arguments in 
defence of their measures, and for their rectitude 
of motive. But supposing they should succeed in 
concentrating public opinion at the North against 
slavery : is that opinion so enlightened, that it 
would be controlled by the spirit of the Gospel ? 
If not, then its concentration against slavery would 
only produce evil, being governed by selfish mo- 
tives. I confess a decided belief, that the concen- 
tration of public opinion in the free states, (en- 
lightened and pious as they are,) would, at present, 
be swayed much more strongly by political than 
by religious motives. There are indications that 
anti-slavery is becoming drawn into the vortex of 



TO NOKTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 59 

politics ; if so, it will at once descend from its 
peculiar position, and be naerged in the strife of 
parties; or should it become sufficiently influential 
to make itself the most prominent subject of party 
action — which it will never do, until its tone is 
changed — it would lead at once to decisive, perhaps, 
fatal measures. But as the stream cannot rise 
above its fountain, neither can the moral agency of 
a society exceed the moral aggregate of its mem- 
bers. If the abolitionists, by any possible event, 
should succeed in obtaining a majority in the state 
and national councils ; and should then press their 
measures in the same spirit they now manifest; 
can they depend upon the moral power of that 
majority to wield the elements in the storms that 
may arise? Have abolitionists deeply pondered 
the event of success in their headlong course ? 

VII. There is one more subject, having a most 
important bearing on this question, to which I wish 
briefly to allude, in closing this chapter. The 
abolitionists have become clamorous for the expur- 
gation of the District of Columbia. Their efforts 
on this point are destined, I candidly believe, to be 
productive of evil. On this subject, sober reflection 
has made an entire revolution in my opinion. 

First. The South will always resist the proposition. 
They will never consent to the measure (nor can 
they consistently) until they are ready to abolish 
slavery in the states. They look upon this district 
in the light of a frontier post adjoining an enemy's 



60 TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 

territory, the yielding of which would open an 
avenue for their admission into the whole country. 
Under these circumstances, the continual agitation 
of the question must be a source of exceeding irri- 
tation and apprehension. And in the zeal which 
the people of the North have manifested on this 
subject, it appears they have lost something of 
that reputation for staid ness and dehberation for 
which they are wont to be characterized. I say 
the people of the North, for I am persuaded but a 
part of those signing the petitions for abolition in 
the District of Columbia, would agree with the 
abolitionists in their abuse, and their indiscriminate 
and unchristian denunciation of the South. Com- 
paratively few of the petitioners on the long rolls 
sent to Congress ever deliberately canvassed the 
subject, or seriously reflected upon the consequen- 
ces of the success of their- petition. They have 
perhaps heard an anti-slavery lecture, and the 
petition is passed round at the close, while the 
thermometer of public feeling is above blood-heat, 
under the influence of the eloquent lecture ; or some 
busy-body with a long tongue in a small head goes 
through the neighbourhood with the instrument of 
abolition in his hand, and lectures by families. His 
eloquence magnetises wherever it falls, and the 
fever becomes contagious. The deacon signs it 
because the minister did ; the farmer because the 
squire did ; and all their hirelings, to be in good 
company. Is it not so?" 

Secondly. Although it is admitted that Congress 



TO NORTHERN ABOLITIONISTS. 61 

has unlimited power in the district, yet it may be 
questioned, whether an act to abohsh slavery there 
would be in all respects an act of good faith. That 
part of the district in which the city of Washing- 
ton is situated was formerly an integral part of the 
state of Maryland. Would she have resigned her 
jurisdiction over this territory, had she known that 
Congress would have abolished slavery in it 1 And 
if not, would it be proper for Congress to do 
what she would not have done ? Had the terri- 
tory in question been located in a free state, and 
the South had petitioned Congress to admit slaves, 
or the traffic of slaves in it, contrary to the esta- 
blished usages of the place, would there have been 
no outcry, no resistance from the North 1 And 
would not this very point have been urged, that 
Congress was transcending its proper limits by 
doing that which the state having original juris- 
diction would never have permitted 1 

Thirdly. Another circumstance deserving atten- 
tion is the fact, that probably a majority of the 
people in the district would at present vote against 
the interference of Congress on this point : although, 
while there is so much excitement in the country, 
no attempt will probably be made to obtain an 
expression of public sentiment. 

Fourthly. I would suggest an opinion, that this 
district should be held as common ground, on which 
all the inhabitants of the country may meet on terms 
of amity. Unhappily, the usages of the various 
sections of our country are different ; on this very 
6 



62 TO NORTHEKN ABOLITIONISTS. 

account, the central point at which they legislate 
should be a place where each may find its sectional 
usages respected. Great forbearance should be 
exercised, that the people of no section should 
come here with the feeling, that their rights were 
infringed or their privileges curtailed. If the 
sight of a slave is offensive or painful to an aboli- 
tionist, he must not only keep away from slavery, 
but should alter the laws of the United States, 
which, as a citizen, he is bound to respect; for 
these recognize the right of carrying slaves all 
over the country. 

Congress has always manifested a very liberal 
disposition towards this district. It is a beautiful 
section of hill and dale, well adapted from its 
locality to be the seat of federal government; and 
its inhabitants have great reason to be thankful for 
the liberahty and favour of Congress. It has ex- 
tended a generous hand to aid public improve- 
ments, wherever there was a probability of their 
being useful. It has done much to embellish 
Washington in its pubhc buildings ; and if private 
enterprise keeps pace with the public munificence, 
the city cannot fail to be a capital worthy of the 
Union. 



CHAPTER II. 



APPEAL TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

I. Design of the ■writer. Slaveholders and abolitionists ignorant 
of each other. 

II. Character of abolitionists misunderstood — enthusiasts — in- 
creased by opposition — many of them well-meaning men. 

III. Slavery, general view — negroes human beings, capable of 
improvement. 

IV. Power of the master — slaveholders interrogated. Fearful 
responsibility in holding human beings as slaves. 

V. The Bible on that responsibility. 

VI. Brief survey of practical slavery — moral aspect — ignorance 
— dishonesty, facts in proof — licentiousness, slaveholders aware 
of the evil. 

VII. Influence of slavery on individuals — character of slaves — 
their influence on masters — on poor white men. 

VIII. Influence of slavery on national prosperity — monopoly of 
cotton — southern system not favourable to improvement — 
comparison with imperial Rome — with Peru and Mexico. 

IX. A better system recommended to the South. Question of 
moral right will be agitated among slaveholders. 

X. Slaveholders plead that a manufacturing country makes actual 
slaves — some weight in the plea — radical difference. Southern 
states should depend on agriculture. " Plan " of independence 
considered. 

XI. Views of the North on slavery — tendency of abolition — 
ridiculous action among some northern manufacturers. 

XII. Dissolution of Union threatened — its preservation urged upon 
the South. North not inimical to the South. 

XIII. Theprobableresult of the controversy. Influence of British 
emancipation. Modern slavery compared with Roman and 
Grecian. Conclusion. 



Slavery — that consuming canker of great states. 

SlSMOKDI. 

I. In a former chapter I have given you my 
views of the measures and movements of aboli- 



64 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

tionists ; permit me now, as a suitable introduction 
to this, to tell you something of the abolitionists 
themselves. If the description should differ from 
the picture in your mind's eye, be assured there 
is no intentional deception or false colouring ; and 
that it is drawn from actual observation. The 
writer did not enter upon this undertaking to build 
up or pull down, to favour or traduce, any party 
or man, and never entered into any calculation 
respecting the degree of approbation or censure 
which might accompany his labours. A good 
cause never suffered by investigation ; a bad one 
was never permanently benefited by falsehood or 
intrigue. It is less the design of the writer to give 
his own opinions, than to state facts, and leave 
the reader to form his own conclusions. 

With these views, it is to be regretted that so 
much asperity of feeling should exist between the 
great parties of this controversy — the abolitionists 
and those slaveholders which have taken a con- 
spicuous part in opposing them — with so little 
knowledge of each others characters and motives. 
On each side judgment has been made up from 
exparte statements, and a verdict rendered against 
the whole body, from the inflammatory language 
and excited action of a few. This is not only 
unhappy, but it might have been prevented by more 
deliberation and forbearance. It must be most 
evident that neither party is deserving the un- 
qualified abuse which has been cast upon it by the 
other. 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 65 

II. The writer has been personally acquainted 
with several abolitionists, sorae of whom have held 
a prominent place before the public, since the first 
agitation of the subject ; and he is ready to bear 
witness that they are not the cutthroats and 
monsters which slaveholders are led to believe. 
Worse men than they, misguided or unprincipled 
demagogues, having private interests to subserve or 
hideous passions to gratify, have raised the hue 
and cry against them — have set on the mob to break 
up their meetings, destroy their property, and put 
their lives in peril — to load them with infamy, and 
quiet the South. No other result could reasonably 
be expected, than that which followed. Instead 
of a handful of quiet, unoffending men, who met 
to pass resolutions on the subject of slavery, to 
relieve their minds of a burden, they have grown 
up, in spite of themselves, into a numerous body ; 
and now occupy a large space in the public mind, 
both north and south. Sober, reflecting men, who 
witnessed the treatment they suffered for no illegal 
act or offence against the laws, necessarily came 
to the conclusion, that if such violence was to be 
the penalty of believing and acting as every in- 
dividual has a right to do, then no man or society 
would be safe from the exactions and injuries of 
a lawless infuriated rabble ; and they befriended 
or took sides with the abolitionists, not so much 
from a behef of their sentiments, as to sustain the 
peace and order of society. 

The men who inflamed the mob and set them 
6* 



66 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

to their task are utterly devoid of principle ; and 
having only selfish purposes to gratify, would as 
soon set fire to the south as the north, if they could 
thereby accomplish their interested designs. The 
miserable beings who generally act as efficient 
agents in such scenes — men in the likeness but 
without the attributes of humanity — who have sunk 
the rational intelligence into brutal vice, and who 
have brought hopeless poverty and oppression upon 
themselves in all ages, are probably destined in 
this, as in every other country, to be controlled, 
when in masses, like beasts of prey, only by powder 
and ball. That this class were the workmen in these, 
as in all mobs, there is no doubt; and yet it cannot 
be denied, that in almost all the tumults growing out 
of abolition at the North, there have been large 
numbers of orderly persons, and many respectable 
citizens, lookingon with approbation. If these latter 
supposed they were aiding in pulling down abolition, 
by their passive assent in countenancing the mob 
in pulling down houses, they egregiously erred, as 
experience has abundantly proved. 

True, the aboUtionists are enthusiasts — they are 
absorbed in the contemplation of thi^, as the great 
sin of the nation ; and beUeve they are called upon 
by every principle of Christianity, and by the love 
of man, to raise their voice against it ; and to use 
every reasonable exertion for its extinction. If 
they use unreasonable exertions, the fault should be 
attributed in some measure to the headlong preci- 
pitancy of the times ; and something should cha- 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. G7 

ritably be allowed for the infirmities of human na- 
ture, under the circumstance in which they have 
been placed ; as all history, civil and ecclesiastical? 
proves that the proper aliment on which enthusiasm 
thrives and prospers is opposition. 

But apart from their exclusiveness on this 
point, the abolitionists, those of whom the writer 
can speak from personal experience, are unas- 
suming, peaceable men, having at least as much 
claim to the character of Christian as their op- 
ponents. They would not designedly hurt the 
hair of the head of a single slaveholder. They 
have not enlisted in this cause from motives of 
self-interest, popular favour, or ambition. Were 
you to sit down with them to discuss the subject 
of slavery, however the argument might turn, I 
would guarantee the abolitionist not to be the first 
to lose temper. Of course, I except certain hot- 
headed ones, which in this, as in every other cause, 
are always loaded and primed ready to go off. 
That many of them are philanthropists, in the highest 
sense of the term ; not giving to those who can 
repay them, but devoting themselves to seeking 
out, relieving, and instructing the miserable and 
wretched, is susceptible of proof They are ac- 
tively engaged in some northern cities, in drawing 
those idle and vagabond children for whom " no 
man cares " from the streets or their miserable 
abodes, and collecting and teaching them in Sab- 
bath-schools. For these labours of unrequited 
philanthropy, of pure, disinterested patriotism, and 
true charity, I will honour them, and praise them, 



68 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

— notwithstanding the frowns and scorn of popular 
obloquy — believing, that in the day which shall 
" try every man's work, of what sort it is," these 
labours will stand every test and be approved ; 
whatever may be the fate of their abolition 
measures. 

III. The subject of American slavery is one of 
such vast magnitude, involving so many interests, 
and presenting such a variety of aspects, that to 
trace even an outline of the whole field would re- 
quire time and research, which the writer is wholly 
unable to command. He wishes, nevertheless, in 
the brief space allotted to this chapter, to call your 
attention to some points of great interest, and de- 
serving your deliberate and profound considera- 
tion. 

And- first, with respect to the main question, — 
slavery itself. It is not necessary to repeat or 
add to what has been stated in another place. I 
have there briefly but frankly avowed my own 
sentiments on the subject. In presenting this ap- 
peal to you, I wish as frankly to address you first 
as accountable beings, and in view of a tribunal 
hereafter, where the judgments of men will be re- 
viewed and reversed, and where every man will 
be judged according to his ivorks. 

I take the ground that the negro is a human be- 
ing, although now sunk in ignorance, and degraded 
by slavery — a being, having capacities for improve- 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 69 

ment and enjoyment above his present lot — a being, 
accountable to God, and destined to future retribu- 
tion — and a being who has claims upon the phi- 
lanthropy of the age, which cannot much longer 
be slighted or overlooked. 

All of you will agree to some of these proposi- 
tions ; some of you will agree to them all. But no 
efforts for reformation will avail, unless founded 
upon principles of Christian benevolence. Nothing 
but the spirit of the gospel can essentially ameliorate 
the condition, humanize and christianize the negro. 
All other principles of reformation will degenerate 
into mercenary and selfish practices. Human 
nature is essentially the same, in all ages and 
countries ; its great deity is self — its highest attain- 
ment self-ijolatry. 

IV. You hold, by legal possession, by long un- 
questioned right, the person of the slave. He and 
his posterity are yours to employ, and to dispose 
of, according to your own pleasure. His time and 
abilities are yours — his task has no limit but your 
will. Of freedom or property he has none. He 
can make no alliances, no contracts — his wife and 
children are not his own, but yours. His igno- 
rance and knowledge, his virtue and vice, are 
governed by the circumstances of his situation. 
The employment of the faculties which God has 
given him, and which are indestructible, is in- 
fluenced by your control ; yea, the manner in which 



70 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

he exercises them as an accountable moral being, 
is shaped by your example and authority. 

Now, without entering into any question of right 
or responsibility, permit me to ask you, on what con- 
ditions would you agree to have the order of society 
reversed, and yourselves and posterity destined to 
the same state and situation in which you now 
hold the negro ? I do not say, to the negro, but in 
the most favourable circumstances, in which the 
cases should be parallel ; so you would be con- 
trolled absolutely by a master, and held " as goods 
and chattels." Are you indignant at the question 1 
Then there are still stronger reasons for the pro- 
priety of asking it. It may not be in accordance 
with the established rules of fashionable courtesy 
to propose such a question, as the foundation of an 
argument or discussion ; but in view of the great 
interests of humanity — of that moral accountability 
of which we all are partakers — the artificial rules 
of society will never be permitted to suppress a 
query, prompted by rectitude of motive, and having 
for its object an investigation of the utihty and pro- 
priety of customs and usages practised by a great 
community. 

Perhaps, if you deign an answer, you will sum- 
marily decide, that such a reversal is not within 
the limits of possibility. Were the present state of 
existence the end of man, this answer might be 
conclusive, for there is scarcely a possibility that 
the weak could overcome the strong — that barba- 
rism and ignorance could triumph over civiHzation 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 71 

and ihe arts. But this is not the view of the sub- 
ject we are contemplating. In view of the control 
you exercise over the slave, do you not sustain the 
greatest weight of responsibility of which man is 
susceptible ? — a responsibility greatly increased by 
being exercised under the light of Christianity. 
Unless you deny his relation to the human family, 
you cannot forget that the negro is equally with 
yourself the creature of the same infinite Creator, 
— that common Father of all — who is no respecter 
of persons ; and before whom, in all essential at- 
tributes, human beings of our race are equal. In 
the closing hours of life, when the honours, and 
riches, and colour, which now give you an enviable 
superiority in the eyes of the world, shall be re- 
duced to their just estimate, this equality will ap- 
pear with a distinctness which you never imagined. 
Even, if you are satisfied, beyond the reach of 
doubt, that slavery in your case is morally right, 
have you no reason to fear, in view of the frailty 
and selfishness of our nature, that in the possession 
of such powers your self-interest or passion Mall 
obtain the mastery over reason and conscience — 
over the perception of right and wrong ; and that 
you will exceed the measure of a rightful and just 
authority. The rule of that measure is, what you 
would have exercised over you were you the 
slave. In view of the moral responsibility attend- 
ing the condition of master and slave, it appears 
to me that a man having any adequate perception 
of that responsibility, and of his own fallibility, 



72 TO SLAVEHOLEERS. 

would not hesitate, were he destined to choose 
between them, to accept the latter. 

I have before stated my belief that slavery to a 
good master might, by checking the propensities of 
a debased and groveling human being, prove a bless- 
ing. On this point I have adverted to Scripture in 
proof. Probably every reader of this can immedi- 
ately refer his thoughts to persons within his know- 
ledge, who would be better off physically, and as far 
as he can judge morally, in a state of absolute servi- 
tude ; such persons, as are now sunk to the lowest 
point of self-degradation. But would the responsi- 
bility of the master cease in such a case 1 Cer- 
tainly not. It must be a law of morals, on which 
I fear the slaveholder seldom reflects, that the mas- 
ter who consigns a fellow-being to bondage neces- 
sarily assumes his responsibilities, so far as he 
controls him. And if this responsibility is great in 
respect of the person who has already degraded 
himself below a consciousness of moral perception ; 
who would willingly incur it in the case of one, 
possessed of all his faculties, in their full (though 
untaught) vigour, and who, in favourable circum- 
stances, would assert the dignity and independence 
of an intelligent free agent. 

Slavery must necessarily forbid the develop- 
ment of the mental faculties — the chain Vvhich 
surrounds the body must be drawn so tight as to 
close every anenue to the mind, or the master 
would not be secure. If we say the slave has not 
capacity for greater development or greater en- 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 73 

joyment than he obtains in slavery, we say it in 
the face of inspiration, which declares that every 
man shall render an account of the talents com- 
mitted to his charge. If we bury a single talent 
belonging to another, which but for our restraint 
and control would have been improved by the 
possessor, of us will he demand, to render his 
account in the day of reckoning. 

V. If the Bible teaches us that God permits 
slavery, it a4so teaches us the accountability of the 
master. Nowhere have we more striking proof 
of the beneficent regard of the Creator for his erring 
creatures, nor of his endeavors (if the expression 
be allowable), for the preservation of their liberty 
and happiness, than in the Mosaic history. Notvi^ith- 
standing the immediate and frequent revelations 
which the Almighty gave to the Israelites — the 
signal interposition of his providence in their de- 
liverance from difficulty — and the impressive obli- 
gations resting upon them to deal justly and love 
mercy — he, their great legislator and guide, who 
knew the character of man, in his positive insti- 
tutions for their government, made a provision for 
their welfare wholly unknown among human legis- 
lators, and having a direct bearing upon their 
social happiness and equal rights. This was the 
institution of the Jubilee, at which period lands 
were to revert to their former owners, and slaves 
to be emancipated. The design of this institution 
is thus stated, by a learned commentator, forcibly 
7 



74 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

showing the benevolence of the Creator, in provi- 
ding checks to the natural propensities of men to 
become tyrants or brutes. 

" The reason and design of the Jubilee was 
partly political and partly typical. It was politi- 
cal to prevent too great oppression of the poor, as 
well as their liability to perpetual slavery. By this 
means the rich were prevented from accumulating 
lands upon lands, and a kind of equality was pre- 
served through all the families of Israel. Never 
was there any people so efiectually secure of their 
liberty and property as the Israelites were, God 
not only engaging so to protect those invaluable 
blessings by his Providence, that they should not 
be taken away from them by others, but providing 
in a particular manner by this law, that they should 
not be thrown away through their own folly, since 
the property which every man or family had in 
their dividend of the land of Canaan could not be 
sold or any way alienated, for above half a cen- 
tury."* 

Every reader of the books of Moses must be 
struck with the following reflections : — 

First. That God intended the Israelites to be 
equal in rights and privileges. All had an equal 
interest in the division of the land of Canaan, 
according to their families and numbers. No king 
was appointed over them. Moses was merely a 
deputy lawgiver under the Almighty, and the heads 

* Home's Introduction, Art, .Tubileo. 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 75 

of tribes were honored as counsellors, without any- 
superior share in the inheritance. It was a pure 
republic, with provisions for its welfare and perma- 
nence such as infinite wisdom only could make. 

Second. Slavery (from among the heathen) was 
tolerated, but under positive restrictions of not 
more than fifty years' continuance ; at which 
period also, lands sold were to revert to the origi- 
nal proprietors. 

Third. The melancholy proof of the depravity 
and impiety of human nature, — in so soon forget- 
ting the awful manifestations of Deity, by which 
the giving of these laws was solemnized — in neg- 
lecting that reverence and love of God, which a 
sense of his goodness and protection should have 
kept burning in their hearts — and, finally, in viola- 
ting his positive commands, and utterly disregarding 
the penalty annexed, thus daring the execution of 
that penalty, which they have suffered to the utter- 
most, and under the doom of which they remain 
to this day. 

In connection with this it may be observed, that 
the most fearful judgments, perhaps, in the whole 
Bible, are denounced against oppressors ; those 
who grind the face of the poor, and withhold from 
the hireling his due. The most grievous calami- 
ties, and especially the scattering of the Jews 
an)ong all nations, (Jer. xxxiv.) are particularly 
threatened for their oppression, in not giving the 
freedom promised and ordained in the law of 
Moses. How far these threatenings are appHcable 



76 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

to modern slavery, is a question which falliblis men 
should be cautious in determining. 

VJ. I purpose now to take a brief survey of 
slavery, with regard to its moral and political 
aspect; for this is the only sure test of utility in 
every human institution. I will not designedly 
overcolour the picture, nor give it a single hue 
which reality will not sanction. Every man, how- 
ever humble, exerts an influence on society for 
good or evil ; and every writer probably adds some- 
thing to the aggregate of human happiness or 
misery. In this belief, 1 would write nothing with- 
out a deep-felt consciousness, that the eye of Omni- 
science is upon me, and that for my words and 
sentiments, and their influence upon the world, an 
account must be rendered. 

And first, the moral aspect of slavery as it is 
developed in our own country. On this subject I 
have no wish to go into detail. I will state some 
of those prominent facts, which are known and read 
of all men in a slave country — submitting to those in- 
terested to judge the fairness of the statements, and 
leaving the reader to draw his own conclusions. 
The first question touching the morals of a com- 
» munity, is in respect to its religion. And the slaves 
as a body must be without intelligent piety, for 
they are without any learning. The laws gen- 
erally — and I know not but in all the states — interdict 
their being taught to read ; and even when it may 



TO SLAVEH OLDERS. ' 77 

perhaps be left to the discretion of the master, the 
result is essentially the same. 

Ignorance is always an attendant upon slavery. 
Yet, while every advocate or apologist of slavery 
must admit the necessity of this, enlightened piety 
must deplore the consequences, in regarding them 
as accountable beings. Reading is emphatically 
the key of knowledge, and how ministers and 
Christians can reconcile with the precepts of the 
Bible, their taking away this key from one-half the 
community of human beings, is beyond my com- 
prehension. A land of Bibles, and one-half the 
immortal souls not permitted to read it! We de- 
plore the biblical ignorance of the people in popish 
countries — ought we not to lament the moral dark- 
ness of our own? Surely Christian slavery gives 
the strongest evidence of man's corruption and 
depravity, for it virtually declares these to be more 
influential in governing men than the Bible. 

Hence the slave, whose only knowledge of religion 
is derived from example and oral instruction, forms 
his estimate of its value from its practical influ- 
ence upon those ai'ound him. I fear this reflected 
light from example would be so feeble, even from 
the most pious community in the Union, as to be 
but a very uncertain guide to the ignorant. There 
are many persons in the south, who take an active 
interest in the subject, and devote much time to 
the oral instruction of the negro; and no doubt the 
ministers of the gospel generally encourage and 
assist in the work : but whether they discharge all 
7* 



78 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

their duty to the slave, must be left to Omniscience 
to decide. Very many of the slaves in the large 
towns are regular attendants upon worship, and com- 
municants in the church ; and most of the masters in 
the country encourage their slaves to attend : and 
although the number of attendants in the country, 
so far as the writer's observation extended, is small, 
he has been informed that this is by no means gen- 
erally the case. Some masters practically en- 
courage the desecration of the Sabbath, by requiring 
six days' labour of the slaves; thus leaving them 
only the seventh for the cultivation of their own 
garden, and the performance of other necessary 
duties ; but by far the greater number give them a 
portion of time expressly for their own services 
and duties, and most of these also discountenance 
their labouring on the Sabbath. 

Another feature characteristic of southern sla- 
very is dishonesty — perhaps I should say pilfering — 
and its sure concomitant, lying. Two facts which 
are peculiar to the south will prove this statement. 

First, almost every house is guarded by one or 

more dogs — generally a pack — a great nuisance to 

the traveller who is unaccustomed to such society — 

extremely savage, and especially taught to seize 

, the negro in his night maraudings. 

Secondly, every mistress or housekeeper in town 
and country keeps her rooms locked, forbidding 
entrance without permission. This practice ap- 
pears to be reduced to a system, and vigilantly 
attended to ; thus giving evidence that the danger 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 79 

is not from without, as in cities, but from within. It 
seems to be a household maxim, that servants are 
not to be trusted. Having no liberty, no property 
of his own, is it surprising that the slave should 
covet, and in his moral and mental ignorance ap- 
propriate to his own use, something of the abund- 
ance wh ch surrounds him, or whatever accident 
throws in his way, that may minister to his gra- 
tification ? Naturally of a social disposition, but 
denied by his situation from enjoying his propensity 
during the day, his nights are frequently given to 
visiting, frolicking, rambling, plundering. 

But the darkest moral feature in the South is 
licentiousness. It walks like the pestilence at noon- 
day — lurks in every corner and by-way at night — ■ 
and nothing is free from its contamination. I am 
satisfied but few slaveholders themselves know 
the amount of this vice carried on among them. 
Sensuahty is a strong propensity in the negro, and 
in his state of degradation, and in the absence of 
mental pleasures, it is not wonderful that sensual 
indulgence should have a strong dominion over 
him. Besides, it cannot be questioned, that this vice 
is often practically encouraged by his white supe- 
riors ; and where every tie of family kindred is 
liable to be broken at the will of the master — where 
the slave is permitted to have no individual will, 
but is personally and mentally subjected — where 
passive acquiescence to the demands or wishes of 
a superior may prove a source of mitigation of 
evils — where all these are combined with the na- 



80 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

tural inclination of the negro, what can prevent a 
flood of pollution from pouring over the land. 
Nothing can prevent it, but a strong sense of moral 
principle ; and whether a state of domestic slavery 
is more or less favourable to the formation and 
exertion of such a principle, is submitted to the con- 
sideration of slaveholders. From impressions on 
the mind of the writer, he is confident that a little 
observation and inquiry will give such a view of 
the subject, as to make a moral man ashamed that 
he belongs to the species. Pen should not write, a 
virtuous mind should not for a moment retain ex- 
pressions of deeds, of which men, called respectable, 
openly boast. 

And a southern slaveholder never ought to utter 
a word of reproach, or speak of amalgamation, in 
connection with the free states. Were every black 
there to be married to a white, the result would not 
exhibit such a motley complexion, as the South now 
presents, in open defiance of every moral and reli- 
gious precept. The one might offend the estab- 
lished rules of society ; the other outrages every sen- 
timent of decency. You may very frequently at the 
South see a black woman with two or three children, 
each of a different coloured hue — such things pass 
without observation as a matter of course. And 1 
have sometimes v,^hile traveling, asked the ques- 
tion respecting a fellow-being before me, " is that 
man black or white V The answer was generally, 
" he is a slave." And I need not allude to the end- 
less variety of shades which meet the eye, in ob- 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 81 

serving the coloured population, in all the cities of 
the south. Leaving out of view entirely, the idea 
of moral responsibility, what are the prospects of 
such a state of society? Who can be secure, when 
the very atmosphere is loaded with pestilence 1 Who 
can be surrounded with fire, and not be scorched? 
What an introduction to manhood, have the youth 
of such a society! 

I know that many persons at the south, many 
slaveholders, view this picture of society with dis- 
may, and are anxiously looking for some ray of light 
to break in upon the surrounding darkness. They 
know that it is poisoning the fountains of morals, 
and undermining the very foundations of society. 
They know also that slavery is the procuring cause 
of the evil, by placing the cup within the reach 
of every individual, and that public opinion silently 
acquiesces in the practice. In the frontier states, 
these men have hope of removing the evil by des- 
troying the cause ; but in the far south, where self- 
interest, worldly prosperity, the climate and habits 
of society, combine to perpetuate slavery, some of 
these men do not hesitate to express a belief, that 
slavery is destined to take a terrible revenge — not 
by insurrection, but by amalgamation — the black 
swallowing up the white. 

VII. Secondly. — The influence of slavery, with 
respect to individual and national prosperity, were 
there no other objection to slavery, I would urge 
emancipation upon the master from motives of 



82 TO slaveholders! 

political economy alone. No country or state ever 
was or can be permanently prosperous, where the 
mass of the population are slaves. That slavery is 
contrary to the original designs of the Creator, and 
the established laws whicii govern the world of 
mind, is sufficiently proved from its unprofitable- 
ness. We need not appeal to history or human 
science for the proof of these propositions. That 
slave-labour is necessarily unproductive, must be 
evident to the most common reflection. As a 
general principle, with rare exceptions, no man 
will exert himself to do any thing without an object 
in prospect, and every man's exertion and perse- 
verance will be in proportion to the value he 
places upon that object. Now, on this common 
sense principle, what motive has the slave to 
labour 1 He is a mere passive instrument in the 
hands of another : he has no voice in the direction, 
no profit in the result of his labour : he will have 
his food and clothing, although the cattle destroy 
the corn ; he will have no more, although it yields 
an hundred fold.* 

He has no attachment to the soil except from 

* Upon reading this chapter to a slaveholder from an 
agricultural district, he objected to the above, stating, that in 
his neighbourhood, there was a very manifest rivalry among 
the slaves of different plantations, to make the best crop of 
cotton, and a feeling of pride among those that succeeded. 
I very cheerfully give his statement a place, and should be 
happy to learn that the same was true of the slave states 
extensively. 



\ 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 83 

habit ; and the force of his application is a com- 
pact between his sluggish indifference and the 
value he sets upon the ill or good will of his 
master. He has no motive to be saving or econo- 
mical; for every thing around him belongs to 
another. He is a" machine impelled by extraneous 
force — ^just like a watch, which will go as long 
as it is wound up; and, like a watch, the slave 
must be wound up every day; he must have 
his orders daily, and must have a command 
repeated every time a certain service is required, 
although it may be only "■ to water the horse," or 
" shut the gate." His want of care, his negligence 
and forgetfulness, are complete — established traits 
of character. Of consequence, a great deal of his 
labour, inefficient as it is, is unproductive, or ren- 
dered of no avail. 

It is a common remark of those persons ac- 
quainted with slave-labour, and northern free- 
labour, that their proportion is as one to two. This 
is not too great an estimate in favour of the free 
labourer ; and the circumstances of their situation 
produce a still greater disparity. The absence of 
motive, and the consequent want of mental energy 
to give vigor to the arm of the slave, is the source 
of another great drawback upon the usefulness of 
his labour. His implements or tools are at least 
one-third (in some instances more than twofold) 
heavier and stronger than the northern man's, to 
counteract his want of skill and interest in his 
work. A negro hoe or scythe would be a curi- 
osity to a New England farmer. Of course the 



84 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

extra exertion required in the use of these tools, is 
a deduction from the profit of his labour. All his 
manufacturing and repairing, except regular trades- 
men, of which there are some respectable workmen 
at the South, are of the rudest kind ; and a northern 
man, seeing his heavy cart attached to a mule, with 
the relics of a harness, kept together by cords and 
straps, is at once led to reflect upon the probable 
advancement the American negro has made in 
mechanical ingenuity over his brethren on the banks 
of the Goliba. 

There is another view of this subject to be taken 
also, in the hght of political economy ; and that is 
the influence of slavery upon the white population. 
Some writer has said " every man is as lazy as he 
can be ;" but the remark should be taken with the 
same limitation as that, in which the inspired 
Psalmist called " all men liars ;" he said it " in his 
haste." Notwithstanding, there is one denuncia- 
tion in the Bible, which mankind, in all ages and 
countries, have regarded with peculiar dislike, and 
used all their efforts to shun. There is indeed, 
comparatively, a few who have looked upon this 
denunciation as a blessing in disguise, and have 
therefore cheerfully acquiesced in it ; but their num- 
ber has always been so small, and they themselves 
adjudged by the world to be a class of old-fashioned, 
mean-spirited beings, that they have made very 
few converts to their faith or practice. The pas- 
sage alluded to may be found in one of the first 
chapters of Genesis, and reads thus — " in the sweat 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 85 

of thy face shalt thou eat bread," which in modern 
paraphrase is generally understood to mean, "thou 
shalt woi'k for a living." Of all the punishm.ents 
inflicted or threatened upon man by his Creator, 
this appears to be regarded as the greatest, and 
men have exercised every ingenuity to escape it. 

But there is no I'eason to believe that southern 
men or slaveholders are sinners above all others 
in this respect ; for the New Englander has at 
heart as great a horror of the spade and hoe : but 
the former has a great advantage over the latter 
in situation, being supplied with a plenty of other 
hands, in the sweat of whose faces, instead of his 
own, he eats bread. The wealthy planter need 
not work, and does not, neither does the wealthy 
northern farmer. On lands fertile in soil, and 
large in extent, he can bid defiance to Franklin's 
maxim, — 

" Whoever by the plough would thrive, 
Himself must either hold or drive" — 

as he has one or two grades of officers between 
himself and the labourer ; and therefore takes but 
little interest in the detail of his great estate. Be- 
tween these proprietors of the first class, and those 
whites who are absolutely poor, there are a num- 
ber of grades which, in proportion to the quality of 
their lands and the number of their slaves, are en- 
abled to live more or less at their ease, in respect to 
worldly competence. But most of these take some 
8 



86 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

direct and daily interest in the managen:ient of their 
estates. 

A class of these, in moderate rather than affluent 
circumstances, probably enjoy life with more real 
satisfaction, than any other. With a few negroes, 
not more than they can personally superintend, and 
not enough to preclude the necessity of their con- 
stant supervision, and assistance in labour — they 
work almost as regular and perseveringly as the 
New England farmer. Many of this class are also 
wise enough to bring their sons up to labour — take 
them into the field, and put them side by side with 
the slave. This is the most virtuous and truly 
independent class of southern men, the true lords 
of the soil — the strong framework of society. In 
all these classes, except perhaps the highest, the 
negligence and carelessness of the negro requires 
a degree of vigilance, and causes an amount of 
anxiety, which makes a large deduction from the 
ease of the master. 

And besides, the fixed habits of the negro have 
exerted a powerful influence to the master's injury. 
The latter seems from a kind of necessity to have 
accommodated himself to the slovenly course of 
the slave. There appears to be a great want of 
^method, and destitution of energy in almost every 
thing about him. His inclosed fields are too large 
for profitable culture; his pastures generally open 
in commons ; his fences rude and out of repair ; 
and his buildings and tools, and vehicles, not of the 
best construction for available profit. Tliere is an 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 87 

appearanceof want of thrift generally, which strikes 
an observer from the old states of the north, as 
evidence that there is some cause operating exten- 
sively against the inhabitants, preventing them from 
reaping the natural benefits of their situation, with 
respect to climate, soil, and local advantages. 

But there is another class of whites, equal per- 
haps to all the others in number, upon which slavery 
has had an indirect but decided influence. In a 
country where slaves perform all or nearly all the 
work, it cannot be expected that labour will be 
considered respectable ; and this public sentiment 
of the rich operates with fatal influence upon the 
energy of the poor man. By a poor man is meant 
one too indigent to own slaves. As a general fact, 
they are unwilling to be hired, to go into the field 
with the slave. Some of them are overseers or 
managers for the planters, a situation I believe in 
which few accumulate property. Many of them 
possess considerable tracts of land (which is very 
cheap) from which, in the vicinity of navigable 
waters, they carry considerable quantities of Wood 
to market. Many of them near the large towns 
are small gardeners, others are sailor^, boatmen 
fishermen, — w^hile great numbers probably depend 
more on their dogs and guns, and female industry^ 
for support, than any regular business. As a body , 
so far as the writer can judge, the class of poor 
whites are ignorant. Great numbers even in the 
Old Dominion can neither read nor write. In this 
respect, however, there is a better prospect for the 



88 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

children. And I need not prove, that as a body, 
the poor class of whites in the slave states are 
vicious, if rum drinking, profanity, and laziness 
entitle men to that appellation. To what extent 
the effects here spoken of are to be attributed to 
slavery, must be left for others to decide. 

VIII. I shall probably be met here with the 
assertion, that the South, even with its slave labour, 
produces three fourths of all the exports of the 
country ; and shall be asked how this fact is recon- 
cilable with the wastefulness of that labour, and the 
poverty it tends to produce. 

This will bring us to a consideration of the 
influence of slavery, in respect to political economy. 
The fact is conceded, that the states of the South 
produce- most of the exports of the nation in numer- 
ical amount; but it does not thence follow, that 
these states are adding to individual and national 
prosperity in the same proportion. Slavery and 
slave labour are inherently the same in all parts of 
the world, but various circumstances modify their 
influence in different states and countries. In 
Alabama and Louisiana slave labour is more valua- 
ble than in Virginia — not because the slave is more 
industrious or less wasteful — but because the arti- 
cles he produces are more profitable. In many 
parts of Virginia, a slave in cultivating corn will 
hardly produce his own support ; take the same 
slave to Mississippi, and with the same time and 
exertion of labour in producing cotton, he would 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 89 

be worth annually several hundred dollars clear 
profit. Evidently then, the advantage is not in the 
slave, but in his situation. 

The South, from its local position, possesses a 
monopoly of one of the greatest staples of traffic 
in the commercial woi'ld. Its virgin soil produces 
cotton in abundance, and the demand for the arti- 
cle in all the manufacturing districts of Europe 
and America, in this age of universal peace, and 
improvements in the arts, sustains a price which 
affords an enormous profit. It has been stated that 
the labour of a slave in producing cotton or sugar, 
would in two or three years amount to his value, 
1000 or 1500 dollars. 

Much is said at this day about national prosper- 
ity, but without definition, it is a mere abstract 
term, and has no political meaning. If by national 
prosperity is meant, the useful and profitable em- 
ployment of all the individuals of a nation; and at 
the same time suitable provision for increase of 
population, then the expression has a very significant 
meaning. If the individuals of a nation are pros- 
perous, it will be a prosperous nation of course. 
That the cotton states produce national prosperity 
in this sense, by adding to the profitable employ- 
ment of individuals, is very true ; but the least part 
of this prosperity is realized at the south. Let us 
enter into an examination of this statement. In 
conformity with southern usage, we shall consider 
the whites alone as population or individuals, 
leaving the slaves entirely out of view, as passive 
8* 



90 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

agents, or mere cattle. Now, how the planter can 
be said to be usefully or profitably employed — in 
cultivating a square mile of cotton with 200 labour- 
ers, — thus absorbing the means of sustaining 100 
individuals, I do not see. With all this estate he 
can live in but one house, eat and drink, and sleep 
for one, and enjoy life only as an individual. True^ 
he may travel, possess fine equipages, be clothed 
like a prince, and spend money like a prodigal — 
but this does not improve his land, add to his re- 
sources, nor make room for an increase of popu- 
lation. 

Again, the cotton which he produces (without 
other human agents) is carried to New or Old 
England, and in the process of manufacture em- 
ploys 100 persons, or 20 families ; each of which 
must have a house to live in ; and must have food 
and clothing, giving useful employment to many 
others. Now which possesses the greatest resour- 
ces of prosperity, the plantation of the cotton culti- 
vator, or the place (suppose the same extent of 
territory) where the cotton is manufactured 1 The 
former contains a population of one or two fami- 
lies, and one or two houses ; the latter contains 
a population of twenty famihes, in twenty houses, 
with plenty of vacant room for more, the price of 
which is continually advancing, as new houses are 
called for: as the number of manufacturing opera- 
tives is increased, the demand for other mechanics 
is extended, and the increased consumption of 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 91 

agricultural products greatly enhances the value 
and price of land. 

Now let us enlarge the scale, without changing 
the principle. On ten thousand square miles of 
territory are five thousand cotton planters — assu- 
ming that the cotton land of each is one half of his 
estate or plantation — having splendid houses to live 
in — immensely rich — and with every luxury at 
command which money will purchase, or man has 
a capacity to enjoy. On the other hand, on ten 
thousand square miles are forty thousand families, 
and although not living in the same splendour — use- 
fully and profitably employed. In the latter case, 
the activity of the people, and the increase and 
facilities of business invite population ; the very 
circumstances of the former repel it. Now which 
of these communities adds most to the wealth and 
strength of a nation? In case of war, which 
would most likely be attacked? That where 
wealth was concentrated in a few hands, or that 
where conquest would afford the least plunder in 
proportion to the inhabitants, and where an attack 
would be opposed by a greater force 1 In which 
of these communities will there probably be the 
greatest improvement and skill in the useful arts : 
the most activity, industry, and physical and 
mental energy 1 Which of them will most proba- 
bly establish and sustain schools, and become an 
intelligent community 1 

If the foregoing contrast is founded on facts and 
reason, the southern planter may see the direct 



92 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

tendency and result of the system on which he 
acts. His productions are a source of great 
national prosperity (in a nation so extensive and 
various as ours), but unfortunately they benefit him- 
self and his part of the nation the least.* The 
cotton states add immensely more to the wealthi 
resources, and strength of England, than they do 
to themselves — but this is no fault of the former, 
rather their own. She is pursuing a course which 
invites an increase of active population; and which 
gives momentum and energy to every branch of 
industry — every department of science ; they repel 
such population. Hence they pay an exorbitant 
tax for the services of transient mechanics and 
merchants, who retire to spend their profits else- 
where. The grand secret is the difference in their 



* The aggregate of southern exports is immense in annual 
amount — so many millions for cotton — so many for rice^ 
sugar, and tobacco. But it is easily demonstrable that the 
amount of northern agricultural production, independent of 
her commerce and manufactures, exceeds that of the South, 
even in proportion to her population. This is true of the 
two sections taken as a whole, or of any particular portions 
compared together. For instance, the annual amount of pro- 
duction of western New- York or Ohio, from the forest, the 
grass and grain fields, the pastures and gardens, will exceed 
the amount from an equal territory, selected from any portion 
of the South. The great difference is, the productions of the 
latter are sent abroad, while those of the latter are consumed 
at home ; and, therefore, not so tangible or visible, except in 
the progressive improvement, and rise and accumulation of 
property in the immediate section itself. 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 93 

systems. The manufacturing country (if free) must 
necessarily expand itself. The system of the South 
will not hear expansion. 

And this system is alike unfavourable to the 
development of internal resources, of physical and 
moral povs^er. With their monopoly of products, 
and fertility of soil, the states of the South ought to 
be the richest in the world. Those on the Gulf of 
Mexico possess a mine in these respects, which 
might produce wealth enough to plate their surface 
with silver. But the blessings of Providence are 
poured into their lap in such profusion, that frail 
human nature is incapable of making the best use 
of them. They spend their immense incomes in 
personal accomplishments, in personal enjoyments, 
in lordly munifience. Each man is for himself, 
living and enjoying in his isolated grandeur; never 
dreaming that there is any bottom to the fertility 
of his soil, or Umit to his pleasures. His individual 
(personal) prosperity is apparently unbounded and 
enviable. But it is delusive. He is, politically, like 
a man in a balloon, sailing at an amazing elevation 
above the rest of the world, but Hable every mo- 
ment to be dashed down to earth. His children 
are not so likely to be taught the value of time, of 
money, of character, of morals, of physical energy. 
One certain result of that indolence and luxurious 
mode of living, consequent upon the sudden influx 
and increase of wealth in a family or state, is to 
effeminate the physical powers, deteriorating man 
more and more in every successive generation. 



94 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

Rome ill her richest days was in similar circum- 
stances to the states enjoying this monopoly, and 
she sunk under the burden. Central Italy was too 
much occupied in war, and her freemen were too 
proud to labour, while the necessaries and luxuries 
of life were profusely supplied by the distant pro- 
vinces. These, although possessed by the wealthy 
patricians of Rome, were cultivated by slaves so de- 
graded and brutalized, as to offer no resistance 
even to barbarian invaders. Hence, between the 
luxurious effeminacy of the masters, and the despic- 
able condition of the labourers, the empire became 
an easy and an inviting prey. 

But a more exact parallel may be drawn between 
these slates and the mining countries of Mexico 
and South America. So utterly subversive of all 
moral principle, and all physical energy, is the 
acquisition of great wealth without personal effort, 
that these countries, although possessing the very 
fountains of money — whence the streams flow all 
over the world — are among the weakest in power, 
and the most abandoned in morals : while the 
passion for gold, absorbing all other passions and 
interests, has entirely paralysed the energies of 
the mother country, and in two centuries, almost 
completely prostrated one of the proudest and 
most powerful states in Christendom. I do not 
say the South would ever descend so low in the 
scale of moral and mental degradation as these 
states — it is in a great measure free from their 
ignorance, and from the influence of a corrupt, 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 95 

irresponsible priesthood ; but the tendency of its 
system — the accumulation of the wealth of the 
state — and that wealth immense in comparatively 
a few hands, is precisely the same ; and, unless hu- 
man nature is changed, must lead to the same 
result. 

IX. Now, permit me to ask the southern planter 
if it would not be better for him, better for his 
state and section, better for the nation, and better 
in every point of view, to divide his twelve 
hundred acres, or two square miles of land, into 
farms of one hundred acres each, and farm it 
out to twelve men or families. By giving them 
long leases (on the English system), these tenants 
would have a direct interest in preserving the 
fertility of the rich, and replenishing the exhausted 
soils ; and by actual personal inspection of the 
whole — and that prudent economical management 
which men generally exercise in their own con- 
cerns — greatly increase the amount of production. 
If, by this means, the planter should obtain the 
same income from his estate that he does at pre- 
sent, and at the same time his estate should sup- 
port twelve other industrious families, would he 
not enhance the value of his own property, and 
add to the resources of his community 1 

By being relieved of the responsibility and anxi- 
ety of watching and directing one or two hundred 
idle, wasteful, and refractory hands, would he not 
be happier ? As long as he remains isolated in his 



96 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

present situation, he cannot improve his property. 
He will v^ear out and exhaust, but will not re- 
plenish. He will be behind the age in construct- 
ing internal improvements for the public good. 
Old Virginia will show him by ocular proof the 
inevitable result of his own system. She practised 
it on a soil, perhaps somewhat originally inferior 
to that of Alabama, and a hundred and fifty 
years has exhausted her entirely. Let him go 
to the North, and examine the condition of the 
same extent of land as his own plantation, — see 
the number of inhabitants on it — the industrious 
competition continually active — and he may at 
once see the reason why real estate is continually 
advancing in all the old free states, and actually 
declining in the old settled parts of the slave states. 
He may easily tell the reason why Massachusetts, 
with its bogs, and rocks, and cold climate, would 
sell in market for more money than old Virginia, 
with her double population, her eightfold extent, 
her navigable waters, and unrivalled situation. 
Let him compare their systems of operation, and 
he will see further, that if the population of Mas- 
sachusetts were placed in Virginia, it would, in a 
few years, resuscitate the exhaustion of her mari- 
time section, tunnel her mountains to the Ohio, and 
bring to hght the inexhaustible mineral wealth 
hidden in her interior. He would see, that one- 
fourth of the population of Virginia, carrying with 
them the Virginia system, spread all over the 
former state, would soon perish with famine. 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 97 

In stating this contrast, I have made but slight 
reference to the question of morals, or of human 
rights. But they must enter deeply into every 
question affecting the welfare of society. That 
luxury and pride, idleness and haughty independ- 
ence, almost certainly follow the acquisition 
of sudden wealth, requires no proof. Impiety 
to God, and hard-heartedness to man, follow in 
the train. That the morals of the South are not 
too deeply imbued with that spirit of meekness and 
forbearance which the Bible inculcates, is evident 
from the number of gentlemanly assassinations in 
affrays and duels which so frequently occur. 
With regard to human rights, there are some per- 
sons who would be inclined to ask in their simpli- 
city whether it is right for one man to make two 
hundred fellow-beings, (perhaps as honest, as vir- 
tuous, as capable of improvement as himself), 
labour, that he may spend their earnings accord- 
ing to his pleasure. And the time will come when 
this question will be asked at the South, not in 
corners and whispers, but openly and loudly, 
and all over the South. And the social agitation 
which will accompany this inquiry, will give the 
people new eyes to see things, which, although 
lying on the very surface of society, unyielding 
prejudice has hither prevented them from seeing. 
I invoke the hastening of this period from motives 
of sincere regard for the best interests and welfare 
of the South. 



98 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

X. And here, I am aware the slaveholder may, 
perhaps, plead the unfairness of this contrast so far 
as slavery is concerned, and contend that the 
manufacturing section, when densely populated, 
will produce a class of labourers, poor, ignorant, 
and debased — slaves in every thing but the name. 
Candour must admit that this plea is not without 
weight. It has weight. The tendency of large 
manufactories is the same as large slave planta- 
tions, viz. to absorb the wealth of the state, and 
place it in a few hands. And whenever the manu- 
facturers should outnumber the agricultural popu- 
lation, the result would be a controlling influence 
of an irresponsible, wealthy aristocracy. Experi- 
ence proves that the influence of manufacturing 
upon labourers is bad ; as a class they are ex- 
ceedingly improvident, and the peculiar circum- 
stances of their situation, fosters ignorance, 
licentiousness, and intemperance. In view of this, 
the legislatures of some of the states have enacted 
laws compelling the education of the children. 
By banishing ardent spirits, also, the rapid descent 
of this class to abject poverty and degradation will 
be arrested. But as soon as the demand for manu- 
facturing labourers shall be exceeded by the supply, 
competition will reduce the wages to a bare sub- 
sistence, and then the employer will control the 
labourer, almost without responsibility: for what 
is now common, viz. so great a degree of poverty, 
as to be unable to remove a family from one factory 
to another, will then be nearly universal. Nothing 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 99 

but law and public opinion will then interpose in 
favour of the labourer, and these have always been 
a very feeble barrier to wealthy aggression. If 
the remark of an English manufacturer to the 
writer is to be credited, the females in the English 
factories are as much in the power of their masters 
as the southern slave, and perhaps as vicious. 

And yet at the worst, there is an immeasurable 
distance between the slave and free labourer. The 
former is entirely passive, the latter voluntary. 
No ray of mental light can reach the slave. If he 
could see his chains, he would make an effort to 
break them. But the freeman has liberty to rise, 
and may surmount the hardships of his state, and 
become a prominent man in society. The institu- 
tions of the state, and public sentiment, both invite 
him to educate his children. There is no obliga- 
tion to hinder him from leaving his employment at 
any moment, but such as he has imposed upon him- 
self If he is not a slave to vice, the most grievous 
of all slavery, there is always hope of his rising in 
the world. Actual slavery destroys its victim at 
once, and is no worse in generations — but the 
descent and degradation of the free labourer is gra- 
dual, and is frequently a long period in reaching 
its ultimate depression. I cannot conceive an 
obtuseness of intellect so great, as not to perceive 
a radical difference between the two cases. 

But there is no necessity or propriety in drawing 
a comparison between the slave and the manufac- 
turing labourer. I bespeak no indulgence, and shun 



100 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

no responsibilities, in declaring (from actual know- 
ledge of both) that the lower class of whites at the 
South are as poor, as ignorant, as vicious, to say 
the least, as the labouring operatives in the northern 
manufactories. Taken as an average, as a body, 
or as individuals, the latter will not suffer in com- 
parison. 

In leaving this part of the subject, I wish to 
make a few observations to prevent misapprehen- 
sions respecting what has been stated of the south- 
ern system of labour. 

Nothing in the foregoing remarks was intended 
to bear, in the least, against the great business of 
the South — but against the mode of conducting it. 
The Almighty Disposer, who allots to men their 
destiny in this life, has evidently designed these 
states to be agricultural; and in their fertility, 
facilities of production, and in a monopoly of 
cotton, they are indebted to Him for a source of 
"wealth, an amount and aggregate of profit, which 
no other community ever possessed. They only 
need to avail themselves of the best plan of opera- 
tions for applying their resources to this business, 
to be immensely rich and powerful. The product 
is immense, and so is the profit: both might be 
increased. But it would seem they are dissatis- 
fied with their circumstances, and aim at grasping 
the business of their northern neighbours. Let them 
be reminded of the fable — " of the dog carrying the 
meat over the river." If I were an enemy to the 
South, I would encourage the '^ plaii'^ to render 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 101 

themselves " independent of the North," by export- 
ing their own produce and importing their own 
goods. That they can buy goods as cheap in 
England or France, as northern merchants, cannot 
be doubted ; but that they can build ships and 
carry on commerce, and diffuse foreign merchan- 
dize through the interior, as cheap as can be done 
at the North, is out of the question, unless they can 
anticipate a period of fifty years ; for to this 
amount of time, the North are ahead of them, in 
these respects : and it is but a poor compliment to 
themselves, to suppose the North has any design of 
injuring the South, in her manufactures or com- 
merce. The North was driven to extend her inter- 
est in these by the force of circumstances. The 
poverty of her soil, and the severity of her climate 
compelled her increasing population to seek other 
channels of active business; and it was only by 
perseverance against obstacles, and by a gradual 
progress, that her commerce and manufactures 
reached their present elevation. The increase of 
these, naturally led to the construction of canals 
and railroads. But none of these great enterprizes 
can be successfully carried on without a dense 
population. This is also necessary, in order to 
develop the internal resources of a state. Has the 
South so far extended her cultivation, that she can 
spare labourers to dig the ore and w^ork iron, to 
build ships, to man them, to manufacture goods, 
which she now receives from the North? If not, 
then she will not succeed any better in extending 
9* 



102 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

her commerce and manufactures, than would the 
middle states, in endeavouring to cultivate their 
own cotton. Each would be out of the sphere 
in which Providence evidently designed it to act. 
But perhaps the South covet the profits of the North. 
Let them rather take good care of their own. I 
am no merchant, but will guaranty that the im- 
porters, ship owners, manufacturers, and merchants 
of New York, will exchange profits on the capital 
invested in their employments, for the profits on 
an equal amount invested in cotton cultivation. If 
the South are fearful of becoming " dependent" let 
them make the proposition. This " plan" before 
mentioned seems to be started as an offsett to north- 
ern abolition. The scheme is entirely worthy of 
that which gave it birth : and I cannot but hope 
and believe, for the best good of the country, and 
the whole country, that either will be discounte- 
nanced and abandoned before it involves its own 
section of the Union in disaster and distress. 

XL It may not be improper, after giving my 
views of slavery and slaveholding, to offer the 
South some information respecting the state of 
public sentiment at the North. On this point, a 
right understanding is of immense importance. A 
spirit of jealousy and suspicion is awakened in 
each section of the Union, leading to crimination 
and threatening ; and this arises chiefly from igno- 
rance of each other's views and circumstances. It 
was a principal object of the writer in commencing 



TO SLAVEHOLDER^. 103 

this appeal, to remove this ignorance, and if possi- 
ble make the great mass of the people on each side 
better acquainted with each other. If this is 
effected, there is hope that the question may be 
amicably settled. I have often thought it must be 
difficult for the people of the South to form any 
correct opinion of northern feeling on this subject, 
from the various and contradictory statements of 
the press. One will aver that abolitionits are 
silenced : another will declare they are increasing. 
One states that the North is sound on this subject, 
and the slaveholder has nothing to fear ; another 
comes out boldly, and connecting the subject of 
free discussion, declares that the North are all for 
abolition. 

The fact is, the free states, as a people, have not 
yet spoken on this subject. They are a deliberate, 
thinking community, not easily excited ; and there 
is no great question of universal and absorbing 
interest like slavery among them, to draw out 
public sentiment. I will venture, as an individual, 
to make two statements, as facts, respecting the 
people of the free states. 

First. They generally, almost universally, hold 
slavery in abhorrence. This is the settled feeling 
and conviction of their hearts. They believe it to 
be cruel wrong to the slave, and as far as they have 
information, believe it to be deeply injurious to the 
masters. These are their views respecting slavery 
in the abstract — slavery everywhere. These are 
the reasons which influenced them to abolish it 



l04 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

among themselves, and which will always deter- 
mine them to reject it. 

Second. I believe there is a firmly settled con- 
viction, that it would be wrong for them to take 
any steps to enforce abolition at the South. In 
addition to their convictions of a moral nature on 
this subject, there is a very general belief that in 
the compact of our government, slavery was fairly 
though tacitly recognized, and left to the exclusive 
control and action of the several states respectively. 
Just in this position they are now inquiring what 
is their duty with respect to any action on the sub- 
ject; and even if the South should now dissolve 
the Union, they would still inquire and deliberate, 
although that event would probably hasten their 
decision, and also, probably change its character. 

If asked, whether abolition is increasing, I should 
answer, yes.* The numerous abolition societies, 

* Since the above was written, circumstances have taken 
place which require the answer to this question to be some- 
what modified. For a year past, the mobbing of abolition- 
ists has been a rare occurrence, and so far as the limited 
observation of the writer has extended, the consequences 
have not been favourable to the growth of immediate aboli- 
tion. The cause of that incitement, which persecution always 
gives to a feeble party in a free, intelligent community, being 
thus removed, the abolitionists appear to be falling out 
among themselves, and earnestly intent upon discovering the 
true Solomons of the party. It is to be hoped for the honour 
of our country, and the cause of free discussion, that suoh 
disgraceful scenes will no more be enacted. If left to stand 
or fall on their own merits, the good sense of the people will 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 105 

and the increase of petitions to Congress, are 
sufficient evidence of the fact; but there is no 
proof in this that the North will ever attempt to 
force abolition. Nor is there any proof within the 
knowledge of the writer, that any abolitionists have 
this object in view. As a body they entirely dis- 
claim it. Some of the most elevated men in the 
free states, elevated as Christians, as statesmen, as 
philanthropists, men who are favourably known on 
both sides of the Atlantic, are decided abolitionists 
in sentiment, and unequivocally disclaim the thought. 
The abolitionists disclaim the use of any weapons 
but those of persuasion and moral force. They 
have adopted the plan of affiliated societies, which 
is one of the peculiar features of the age, and 
adopted by all sorts of interests. As a means of 
spreading their sentiments, and enhghtening public 
opinion, they employ agents to lecture on the sub- 
ject, and distribute their publications. They take 
the ground, that every subject among a free people 
is open to investigation — that it is evidence of a 
bad cause to shun the light — and that good insti- 
tutions are never afraid to have the foundation on 
which they stand thoroughly examined. When 
questioned respecting their object, they answer that 
public opinion requires to be enhghtened on the 
subject. When the North is brought to view 
slavery in its proper hght — in other words, as they 

pass a verdict upon the measures of the abolitionists, which, 
whether it be condemnation or approval, will be final ; and 
in that verdict every good citizen will acquiesce. 



lOi) TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

view it — they expect that its influence will be felt 
with such weight at the South as to procure volun- 
tary abolition. 

In all this, there is nothing illegal, and if left to 
themselves, pubhc sentiment at the North will pass 
a righteous verdict upon their designs and mea- 
sures. But their numbers have been increased, 
and their influence extended by the short-sighted 
zeal and the reproaches of their opponents. Per- 
secution has added tenfold to their societies, and 
has brought the subject home to the reflection of 
tenfold more v\^ho never gave it reflection. It is 
astonishing that the light of all history should be 
lost upon the present age. Persecution never failed 
in a free country to build up a sect or party, which 
differed from the majority in matters of opinion 
not amenable to the laws. I should fear the spread 
of Mohammedanism, in this country, were one of 
that belief located among us to be ridiculed and 
persecuted, because he chose to pray in the streets 
with his face towards Mecca. 

Apply these observations to facts respecting 
abolitionists. liOok at New York, Boston, and 
Utica, where the violence of mobs was put in re- 
quisition to break up their meetings. In all these 
places they have increased tenfold, and can now 
meet, and say, and do what they please, and pub- 
lish their proceedings without fear. It is a principle 
of republicanism, which the North will adhere to, 
while she is worthy of freedom, that truth and error 
are to be left to combat each other in open field. 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 107 

While on this subject, I wish to disabuse the 
South on one point. The great excitement in the 
slave states, a few years ago, was followed by 
nneetings in various parts of the North, disclaiming 
all connection with the abolitionists, and denounc- 
ing them as disunionists, disturbers of the peace, 
&c. This was one of the most ridiculous farces 
ever enacted in a civilized community. The osten- 
sible object was to convince the South that the 
North was not hostile to slavery ; the real design 
was to save the southern market, for the sale of 
patent yankee notions. The writer is acquainted 
in some of the places where these patriotic meetings 
were held, and he doubts not if the views of the 
persons assembled had been honestly expressed, 
the preambles to their resolutions would have com- 
nrienced with the speech of the silversmith of 
Ephesus, (Acts xxv. 19) — whereas, " sirs, ye 
know that, by this craft, we have our wealth." 
Every high-minded man will respect those manu- 
facturers more (and such there are), who are open, 
avowed abolitionists. 

XII. Much has been said and written between 
the North and South, since this controversy began, 
respecting its ultimate tendency ; and the separa- 
tion of the Union has been repeatedly and loudly 
threatened. This subject will be noticed in a fu- 
ture page ; but I beg the privilege of offering a few 
suggestions on this head for the reflection of south- 
ern men — leaving to their judgment, both the wis- 



108 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

dom of the suggestions and the motives which 
prompted them. 

The threatenings alluded to have generally come 
from the South, and some persons have been led to 
fear that the country was rapidly verging to such 
a catastrophe. But recent observation has con- 
vinced me that many northern men are making up 
their minds to this event, and that the North will 
accept the dissolution, if it must come, without 
reluctance. From such a period to our national 
union, may Heaven preserve us. 

But the most important suggestion I have to 
offer the South, is — preserve the Union, preserve it 
at any sacrifice. I do not hesitate to say, preserve 
it at the expense of slavery. It will be the less of 
two evils. It is for your interest, at least as much 
as for the North, to preserve it. Both sections might 
undoubtedly exist as independent nations, but they 
could not long exist in peace. Neither individuals 
nor communities can be aware of the ultimate con- 
sequences of measures adopted in times of great 
excitement. Suffer no sudden ebullition of feeling 
to commit acts which cannot be rescinded, or to 
take steps which cannot be retraced. A subject of 
greater importance, more deeply, perhaps vitally, 
affecting the best interests of man, probably never 
agitated the world. Before deciding upon declar- 
ing or even accepting a separation of the Union, 
look into futurity, and ponder the result. Be sure 
that the great objects, for which you would barter 
the Union, would be attained. The South cannot 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 109 

avoid an investigation of the merits of slavery. 
Whether welcome or not, she must grapple the 
public opinion of the age on this question. Can she 
go through this struggle alone, better than as a 
co-equal branch of the Union 1 Again, will disunion 
give security to the possession of her slaves in 
peace ? These are points which should be deeply 
and thoroughly weighed. 

A breach like this, once effected, can never be 
healed. As soon as divided, the North and South 
are enemies. Even, if an amicable adjustment of 
national interests could be produced, — which is a 
supposition verging upon the very borders of im- 
possibility — peace could not long be preserved. 
Unpleasant recollections would be deepened into 
feelings of distrust, irritation would be changed to 
bitter enmity. Thousands of men, unworthy the 
likeness of humanity, w^ould make it a business to 
stir up dissention, that they might reap a golden 
harvest, though steeped in blood. A civil or an 
international war between the North and South, 
would be conducted with a murderous strife. 
Even now, the feelings of the great body of the 
people on both sides, are far from being as friendly 
as they ought. The South will not easily forget 
the cause of the abolition excitement ; and on the 
other side the treatment of some northern men in 
Tennessee, in Georgia, and elsewhere, has pro- 
duced deep feelings in the public mind. 

The South may be assured, that it is an entirely 
gratuitous suspicion, which supposes the North to 
10 



110 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

be unfriendly to her interests. The South may be 
assured that the North rejoices in her prosperity. 
The great interests of both, although not identical, 
are reciprocal ; and it is susceptible of proof, that 
they are mutually dependent upon, and flourish by 
the aid of each other. The North is engrossed in 
active enterprize, to v^^hich her situation and her 
industrious habits both impel her — and is too busy 
about her own concerns, to devise schemes for 
injuring the South ; and if the latter would put her 
heads and hands to the like active enterprize, she 
would have less time, and less inclination, to indulge 
in suspicion that the North was endeavouring to 
cripple or undermine her prosperity. 

I have no hesitation in repeating what has been 
frequently said, that the North has no disposition 
to do injustice to the South. But still, if the former 
believe that justice requires freedom for the slave, 
and the latter by the same term understand a right 
to keep him in bondage, there is a radical difference 
of opinion between them ; and nothing but the 
wisest deliberation, joined with forbearance and 
Christian principle, and aided by God's mercy, can 
ever settle the question in an amicable manner. 

XIII. In closing this chapter, I will take the 
liberty to state my views as an individual, respect- 
ing the result of this controversy. In view of the 
circumstances and opinions of the age, affecting 
slavery in the civilized world, there are evident 
indications that it will be abolished. Do not at- 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. Ill 

tribute this belief to the spirit of abolition. I do 
not even give this opinion as a northern man, 
actuated by feelings of opposition to the South. 
Many of my prejudices were softened and removed 
by an actual interview with slavery. I came from 
that intervie"^, impressed with a conviction, that 
the slaves were better off than their forefathers 
ever were in Africa ; better off, as a body, than 
they would be, if emancipated and turned loose 
upon southern society — and with the strongest con- 
viction, that they were in every respect an injury 
to their masters. 

But I came from that interview — opposed to 
slavery ; because the spirit of the age in the middle 
of the nineteenth century demands that the Ameri- 
can negro should be placed in a situation to culti- 
vate his moral and intellectual being — because 
slavery is detrimental to the moral, civil, and phy- 
sical interests of the master — and because it is 
utterly opposed to the spirit of Ainerican liberty. 
Were I in Europe I could defend slavery upon 
the broad principles of legal enactments, and the 
customs of all ages; but, as an honest man, I could 
not defend it, in the face of Jefferson's Declaration. 
American slavery — after all our protestations of 
freedom, and boast of man's equality — is gross 
inconsistency. 

With these views, although from the relative 
situation and condition of the North it will doubt- 
less have a powerful influence in producing this 
result (emancipation), I believe it would take place, 



112 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

were the free states blotted out of existence. The 
spirit of Christianity and of civiUzation is against 
it. The South will not always be able to with- 
stand the light which is pouring all around her. 
She now laughs to scorn the incipient advances 
of the enemy ; and, mighty in her opinion of right, 
defies its power ;, but she has not yet grappled the 
giant. She has closed her doors, and looks out 
from the window, in imagined safety ; but she 
knows not the subtlety of the foe. He comes in 
every wind, lurks in every corner : he presents 
himself to the eye, the ear, to every avenue of the 
understanding. The attempt to arrest the course 
of public opinion, will be like rolling back the stone 
of Sysiphus. The impulse which has been given 
to the spirit of freedom across the Atlantic, by the 
example .of our institutions, is now re-echoed upon 
our shores, and points directly to slavery. lis 
voice is louder and louder. Almost all Protestant 
and Catholic Europe is against it. And in Europe 
our great national charter is understood to mean 
what it says. And surely it is pardonable to be- 
lieve there is an inconsistency in declaring all men 
to be born " free and equal," and keeping one-fifth 
of these free and equal born in hopeless bondage. 
Perhaps the inconsistency appears more glaring 
from the fact, that some of the greatest American 
statesmen have utterly condemned the practice. 
Europe knows what Thomas Jefferson and Henry 
Clay have said of slavery, — although slaveholders 
themselves. Yet it is possible the light from con- 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 113 

tinental Europe might be shut out, were it not for 
England. England, our own father-land, which, 
as the home of hterature, arts, and Christianity, 
the South venerates far more than the North, has 
set an example on this subject, on which the eyes 
of the world are turned with eager interest. The 
result of her measures for colonial emancipation is 
not yet sufficiently obvious to be judged with cor- 
rectness. 

Should that result be favourable, the example 
and the influence of that country, will have a pro- 
digious effect upon slavery throughout the civilized 
w^orld ; and these United States will feel that 
effect in its mightiest power. As well might the 
South attempt to silence the roar of the Atlantic 
upon her shores as to escape its influence. If 
England, by emancipation in her colonies, should 
prove to the world, not only that negroes are human 
beings, but that they are capable of self control as a 
free community, and of high intellectual, and moral 
improvement — that they are more virtuous, more 
peaceable, more industrious as free hirelings ; in a 
word, that they are worthy of the same rights and 
privileges as men of Saxon or Roman descent — 
and should make these facts a comment upon the 
Declaration of American Independence, that all 
men " are entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of 
happiness," would southern slavery long be able to 
withstand public opinion ; not of the free states — 
not of England and her dependencies alone — but of 
the civihzed world? 

10* 



114 TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 

I confess the idea of such a result elevates my 
mind above all consideratior-s affecting any section 
or any interest of my native country, and gives 
me a loftier tone of feeling as a well w^isher to my 
species. 

In answer to all this it may be said, that slavery 
is not incompatible with republicanism, and Greece 
and Rome may be cited in proof. I will offer two 
considerations touching this point, for the reflec- 
tion of the reader. 

First. Slavery in ancient times was not confined 
to a distinct race as with us, nor was the object 
then, as now, merely pecuniary advantage. War 
and conquest were then considered almost the only 
ennohling employments, and upon the conquest of 
a state, or the sacking of a city, the whole survi- 
ving population— patricians and peasants — were 
dragged away by the conquerors, to be exhibited 
as trophies of their valor. After the exhibition 
they were slain, or sold by the soldiers — being con- 
sidered only worthy to be menials, for their want 
of spirit in being taken alive. " Come back loith 
thy shield, or on thy shield" — the Spartan mother's 
injunction to her warrior son — is a true picture of 
the spirit of that age, in which physical power was 
more honoured than intellectual or moral. 

The other consideration arises from the greater 
responsibility which we incur as moral agents. 
"Where much is given, much will be required." 
Upon republican Greece or Rome Christianity never 
dawned. They were swayed by mere worldly 



TO SLAVEHOLDERS. 115 

motives in all their individual and national acts; 
and the law to love their neighbours as themselves 
had never sounded in their ears. The stream can- 
not rise above its fountain ; and their gods, the 
fabrication of their ancestors, were of like passions 
with themselves. One of the maxims to which, as 
nations and as men, they most rigidly adhered, 
was always to resent an insult; and it is evident 
that human nature grows no better by age ; for, in 
defiance of the law of God, it is a standing maxim 
of the world at present. 

In conclusion, I know not with what view the 
considerations offered in this chapter may be re- 
ceived ; but to my own mind, the exhortation of 
the apostle to the Athenians is strikingly applica- 
ble to American slavery — " the times of this igno- 
rance God winked at, but now commandeth all 
men every where to repent." 



CHAPTER III. 



TO THE FREE STATES. 

I. Free and slave states diametrically opposed — what influence 
this should exert on the former — why oppose the spirit of abo- 
lition — how the South may be reached. 

II. Why slaveholders should be judged charitably — and the sub- 
ject investigated — northern ministers appealed to — northern 
men at the South — severe taskmasters — why. 

III. Power of habit, the stronghold of slavery, influence of filial 
and venerable associations among slaveholders — opposed to 
unconditional emancipation — why. 

IV. Universal conviction of the right of property. — Value of 
slaves. — Ignorance of northern men respecting slavery. 

V. Condition of the slave — observations of the writer — house 
servants many advantages — field labourers — negro houses — 
bad — mode of feeding slaves — various resources among them 
— public opinion in favour of humanity — dress of slaves — 
personal treatment — mode of labour — general appearance and 
manners — many of them in places of trust — general views of 
the whites — influence of the age on the slave. 

VI. Free blacks of the South — situation unfavourable to improve- 
ment — interesting exceptions. 

VII. Condition of the free blacks at the North — anecdote — de- 
graded — outcasts — vicious — neglected by the whites — deep- 
rooted prejudice against them — proofs — what justice requires 
of the free states. — North not guiltless respecting slavery — 
•what atonement for her own wrongs. 

VIII. South devoted to the Union. — Interference of the North, 
on the qruestion of moral right — ^^appeal to the free states — 
to the clergy — examine motives — forbearance recommended 
among equals — injurious effects of northern dennnciatioii. — 
Example of the Saviour. 



I speak as unto wise men, judge ye what I say. 

I. In the discussion of the subject of slavery, 
now in asritation in our country, vou cannot act at 



TO THE FREE STATES. 117 

all, nor exert any influence without incurring great 
responsibility. Indeed it is probable, that the re- 
sult, or final decision of the question, will take its 
character, in a great degree, from the manner in 
which you treat it. You need, therefore, scarcely 
to be informed that, upon your wisdom, and pru- 
dence, the future welfare and destiny of this great 
nation depends. 

The writer, being one of your number by birth 
and education, may be presumed to know some- 
thing of your habits of thinking — your prejudices 
and sectional views, — and will take the liberty to 
animadvert plainly on the position you occupy in 
relation to this controversy ; and endeavour to assist 
your inquiries, in view of forming a right decision 
upon the subject. 

And the first, perhaps the most important point 
about which you need to be admonished is, to 
divest yourself of sectional prejudice. You have 
much yet to learn as a community, in order to 
judge this subject, with respect to reciprocal right. 

You are deeply prejudiced against slavery, and, 
as a very natural consequence, against slaveholders. 
Many of you are ready to prove, as clear as de- 
monstration, that slaveholding in every case, in 
every degree, is grossly wrong, a violation of ev^ery 
sentiment of justice, a daring sin against Heaven. 
In defence of this opinion, you will quote the Bible, 
— appeal to the views of moral and political right 
in which you were educated, and your own free- 
dom from the sin. The slaveholder will make 



118 TO THE FREE STATES. 

exactly the same appeal on his side — quoting the 
Bible, — the views of right in which he was edu- 
cated, — and his consistent practice as proof. In 
this state of the subject, all the deliberation, the 
forbearance, the wisdom which fallen man can 
command, will be required in the progress and 
settlement of this question. 

And remember, you cannot even agitate this 
subject, to produce any effect on the South, with- 
out being the aggressors. The South solicits you 
to let her alone. She asks not your counsel re- 
specting the possession or treatment of her slaves; 
she earnestly requests you not to intermeddle with 
her domestic institutions. She claims, and justly 
too, that this is a question to be decided by her 
own free will. 

Many of you will plead perhaps that slavery is 
a moral evil, and therefore ought to be abandoned. 
Admitting this to be true, what practical effect 
ought it to produce among you ? Are you thence 
authorized to undertake its abolition by force? 
Have you received a commission to vindicate the 
cause of moral right, from the only source whence 
such a commission could emanate — the fountain of 
truth and justice? would you not individually, and as 
a Community, resist to the utmost, every interference 
which assumed a right to dictate respecting the 
moral tendency of your own actions? The answer 
is too plain to admit a doubt. 

Every question involving moral obligation, ex- 
cept so far as it affects the peace of society, is 



TO THE FREE STATES. 119 

purely between man and his Maker, Of course 
when men design to exert an influence upon others, 
touching such questions, no weapons are allowable 
but those of a moral kind. This truth is too ob- 
vious to admit any doubt : and the people of the 
North have practised it with great effect on a 
subject deeply affecting the temporal as well as 
moral interest of society. I mean the subject of 
temperance. 

Had the first agitators of temperance reform 
gone forth and taken the drunkard by the throat, 
and commanded him to abstain from his cups, be- 
cause he was ruining himself; what would have 
been the result? Would not the universal opinion 
of society have condemned such measures 1 and 
would it not have increased rather than diminished 
the evil ? What would be the effect, if ministers 
of the gospel should leave their appropriate sphere 
of "persuading men to be reconciled to God," 
and, by anathemas and violence, compel them to be 
pious 1 How soon would the pagan world be con- 
verted, if the missionaries sent to them should under- 
take to coerce their abandonment of heathenish 
idolatry 1 

But you do not harbour the idea of attempting 
to put down slavery by force; I am fully persuaded 
your views on this subject, as a question of moral 
right, are correct ; but there is great danger, that, 
although you would not raise an arm to free the 
slave, the tendency of your measures will lead to 
the same result. If you, by persisting in a course 



120 TO THE FREK STATES. 

of opposition to the known will and wishes of the 
South — by reproaches, threats, and criminations — 
produce an excitement leading to a civil or a 
servile war, will you not be answerable for the 
consequences, to God and man t The effect will 
be the same as if you marched an army to put 
down slavery. With this view of the subject, I 
call on you, as a sober, reflecting people, to oppose 
the temper of the immediate aboUtionists. What- 
ever may be their principles, their tone and manner 
are at war alike with religion, and reason, and 
common sense. The spirit manifested in their 
publications, and many of their public resolutions, 
cannot be a good one. It is the spirit of denuncia- 
tion, and curses, and vengeance. It reveals itself 
in reproaches, in bitter taunts, in indiscriminate 
invective. It does not breathe benevolence and 
good will to men, but exactly the reverse. It is 
the spirit of the worst persecution, for it bitterly 
denounces every thing that does not immediately 
bow to its own assumptions. I hazard nothing in 
asserting, that as soon as the tone of the immediate 
abolitionists becomes the standard of northern feel- 
ing on the question of slavery, there is an immediate 
end of this Union. The South would break the 
bond of union at a blow, without taking time to 
reflect upon the consequences. 

But the South rejects your reasoning on this 
subject altogether. She denies the premises, and 
rejects the deductions. Probably a majority of 
the religious and moral part of the southern com- 



TO THE FREE STATES. 121 

munity will contend that slavery is morally right, 
and of the still larger class who profess no religion, 
and are not governed by nnoral motives, it is suf- 
ficient to secure their adherence to the practice 
even unto death, that it is for their interest. Now, 
whether right or wrong, you must first remove 
slaveholders from the ground they at present oc- 
cupy as moral and thinking beings, before you can 
effect abolition. You must convince the man who 
admits his moral accountability, that slavery is 
sin ; you must convince the man governed by 
wordly motives, that slavery is against his interest, 
and then you may make an impression upon the 
system. 

To effect these objects, it is evident there is a 
large field to be explored. Every thing relating 
to slavery, as an institution or usage of society, is 
of importance in examining the subject. Neither 
individuals nor communities are ready at once, 
nor even immediately after full conviction of its 
injurious tendency, to renounce a practice which 
they have long cherished. There can be no doubt 
that the result of abolition movements upon the 
South, thus far, has been to withdraw the minds of 
slaveholders from all investigation of its moral and 
political bearing, and make them adhere to and 
support it more strenuously in self-defence. 

II. I shall now endeavour to make such state- 
ments with regard to slavery, as some observation 
of its practical operation and effect upon society 
11 



122 TO THE FREE STATES. 

suggested, with a view of adding something to 
your knowledge of the subject, and enabling you 
to form a correct opinion of its merits. 

First, I purpose to offer some observations on the 
situation and views of the whites or masters ; 
which will lead us to contemplate the system in 
the light of cause and effect. 

And the first reflection which strikes the mind, 
in taking a comprehensive view of the subject, is 
one of a moral nature. In condemning slavery, 
we unchristianize the South. The slave states, 
like the free, are divided into a great number of 
religious sects. These all, as a body, ministers 
and laymen, are slaveholders. Her presbyteries, 
associations, convocations, and conferences, all 
recognize its lawfulness — all participate in it — all 
repel charges brought against it. Surely this fact, 
although no justification of slavery, should, at 
least, influence us to be deliberate and cautious in 
condemning it in a wholesale manner. Were the 
practice sustained by one or two sects, and rejected 
by the others, there would be more ground for 
suspicion ; but there are multitudes of ministers 
of each of the great denominations at the South, 
who have no more conscientious scruples in hold- 
ing their slaves, than they have in preaching 
sermons. Are you ready, at your distance, to 
denounce a whole Christian community for holding 
to a practice which you consider unlawful ? Until 
you have their views explicitly unfolded, and can 
comprehend all the circumstances which have a 



TO THE FREE STATES. 123 

bearing upon the subject, charity should admonish 
you, not to be hasty in judging. 

Either slavery is right, or these Christians are 
bhnded to the truth ; for it cannot be a moment 
behoved, that they are all hypocrites, openly avow- 
ing and defending a practice which they know to 
be wrong. The question whether they are right 
should certainly be investigated, before they are 
summarily condemned ; and even if they are proved 
to be wrong, passionate or harsh denunciation 
will have but little effect in opening their blind 
eyes, or in stopping their deaf ears. That they 
are not sinners " above all others" with regard to 
the deportment and character which should adorn 
the Christian profession, any one may judge for 
himself, if he will seek an interview. A minister 
in Virginia told me, that rum-selling and visiting 
horse races (a favourite amusement at the South,) 
he considered subjects of church discipline, and in 
his own church would not be tolerated. This min- 
ister was a slaveholder. Perhaps some of my 
readers may be inclined to class him with those 
who " strain at a gnat and swallow a camel." 
And here I will remark, that I believe, the minis- 
try at the North generally, to say the least, are 
becoming more and more opposed to slavery. I 
have no reason to question their motives in this ; 
but I must be permitted lo enter a solemn protest 
against their summary denunciation of the practice, 
from conclusions formed in their own studies. If 
they heartily believe that it is a crying national 



124 TO THE FREE STATES. 

sin, one upon which the judgments of Heaven are 
impending, they ought first to satisfy themselves of 
its enormity; and, if possible, go and view the 
ofl^ence and the offenders face to face, that they 
may be able to preach understandingly against it, 
and enforce their arguments by facts and illustra- 
tions drawn from their own observations. The 
ministers of the South do not act in a corner, nor 
would they be reluctant to meet a candid opponent 
in argument, or to hear all his candid objections 
against it. But a continual warfare and angry 
discussion at a distance, is contrary to the spirit of 
Christian benevolence, and to the first principles of 
justice. It produces continual irritation, and deep- 
ens prejudices which otherwise might be easily 
effaced. Even St. Paul did not thus act in his 
intercourse with the heathen world. The town- 
clerk of Ephesus exonerated him from the charge 
of blaspheming the goddess of the Ephesians. With 
a profound knowledge of human character, he 
judged that clamorous denunciations of their abo- 
minable idolatries would fill the popular mind with 
phrenzy or prejudice, and thus effectually exclude 
the doctrines which he designed to inculcate for 
.their good. 

And there is another observation to be made 
here, to which the candid attention of northern 
ministers is invited, while reflecting upon this sub- 
ject. A great many ministers have gone from the 
free states as missionaries, teachers, and residents 
of the South. They had the fellowship and confi- 



TO THE FREE STATES. 125 

dence of their brethren when they left, as pious, 
devoted men. Now what is the result ? In a 
majority of instances, have they converted the 
slaveholders, or have the slaveholders converted 
them ? Have they fallen into the errors of the com- 
munity around them, or, like Noah, walked with 
God, while all others apostatized from him 1 Surely 
this fact of the general adoption of the practice of 
slavery by Christian men from the free states, should 
at least give some room for charity in judging it. 
And it is a source of complacency to the South, 
and not very creditable to the northern denunci- 
ators of slavery, that northern men, upon becoming 
residents of a slave state, very generally become 
slaveholders ; and it is a notorious fact, that they 
are frequently the severest masters. 

It is a common remark at the South, that the 
negro, when elevated to be an overseer, is the 
hardest taskmaster over his fellow-slave, and the 
slaveholder from the free states is the next. The 
reason of this severity, in the case of the latter, is 
easily explained ; although the explanation will add 
more credit to northern character for enterprise 
and energy, than for clemency and humanity. 
The northern man is accustomed to a degree of 
activity, energy, and skill among mechanics and 
labourers, to which slaves are utter strangers. 
Consequently, he becomes impatient at their in- 
dolence and carelessness, and will very probably 
endeavour to hasten their operations by compul- 
sion. Among native slaveholders, the master has 
11* 



126 TO THE FRKE STATES. 

been so long accustomed to the sluggishness of the 
negro, or rather has been accustomed to no other 
mode of labour, that it excites no surprise or impa- 
tience. After a sufficient experiment, the northern 
man, weary of exerting himself in vain to make 
the negro energetic and quick, gives up the point, 
by falling into the custom of his neighbours, and 
letting the slave pursue his ov^^n mode and system. 

III. 2. The power of habit is perhaps nowhere 
more strikingly manifest than in the practice of 
southern slavery. The influence of this principle 
is here observed, as having the same control over 
a community that an inveterate habit has over an 
individual. No person can have an adequate idea 
of this fact, without actual residence among them. 
Slavery is a mere matter of course. To agitate 
the question of general emancipation in any form, 
would strike the community at large like proposing 
to them to give up their homes. The first question 
would be in either case, " how could we live with- 
out them ?" The practice has been so long con- 
tinued, handed down from father to son, that it has 
become necessary to the present organization of 
society. The system is so interwoven with every 
fibre of society, that, to think of abandoning it, 
would seem like rending the different members of the 
body asunder. It has thrown a chain round society 
almost as difficult to cast off, as that which distin- 
guishes castes in India. The inhabitants live as 
their fathers did, for they know no other way. 
Those people of the North, who see comparatively 



TO THE FREE STATES. 127 

very few blacks, have very little idea of the con- 
struction of society at the South. Were some of 
them who associate every thing offensive with the 
idea of coming in contact with a negro, to see the 
order of things, where one half the society are 
blacks, they would soon learn there are more 
things on earth — 

" Than are dream't of in their philosophy," 

and would obtain some new ideas of human 
character. It is mutually understood, both by 
master and slave, that the former is to do the 
head work, and the latter the hand work. And 
although this is a distinctive characteristic, yet as 
the direction of labour must constantly attend its 
operations, it brings the two parties into familiar 
contact, though entirely distinct. In the towns, 
and among the large planters, the slaves do all the 
labour, and perform all the menial services. As a 
general fact, a white man can do nothing even for 
himself personally, which another can do for him. 
In the house and abroad, a servant is in attendance. 
The parlour, the dressing-room, as well as the 
kitchen, are full of them. They come in contact 
with the family and guests at every corner. Hence 
there are various grades, and various duties as- 
signed to each. A stranger to the system, closely 
observing the movements of the parties, would 
very soon see the effect of slavery upon the do- 
mestic organization of society. 

Again, in another respect, the system of slavery 
possesses a very powerful influence upon the feel- 



128 TO THE FREE STATES. 

ings of the community. It has been so long 
adopted and uncensured, been transmitted from 
father to son for generations, that it is associated 
with every thing venerable and filial. There is 
not perhaps a stronger or more deeply cherished 
feeling in the human breast, than respect and vene- 
ration for our fathers. And this feeling has a great 
influence when applied to the subject under consi- 
deration. '' Surely a system which our forefathers 
approved and practised — a state of society in 
which they lived and died — cannot be wrong. The 
right to an inheritance, which was bequeathed to us 
by them, and transmitted to us by their last solemn 
act and testament ; sanctioned by the laws of the 
land, and by the usages of the whole community, 
cannot be questioned." Thus the slaveholder rea- 
sons, for he is bred in the same undoubted right to 
the slave, that he is to the family mansion. The 
wealth of the father purchased both ; his care and 
affection preserved them for his children. Is it 
strange, then, if under such circumstances, the son 
should not join the immediate abolitionists in de- 
nouncing his father's memory, and proclaiming to 
the world that his ancestors were all guilty of a 
most hateful crime. Their filial respect and grati- 
tude are now indissolubly connected with their 
interests, and, with their present views and feelings, 
they would sooner perish on the tombs of their 
fathers, than do a deed which, in their opinion, 
would dishonour them. It requires but a limited 
knowledge of human nature, to judge of the power- 



TO THE FREE STATES. 129 

ful influence which such reasoning possesses over 
the minds of persons in their circumstances ; and 
although the opposer of slavery will not admit its 
weight as an argument, it is a strong hold, which 
men of the world will hardly yield. 

3. There is another objection, arising in the 
minds of slaveholders, when thinking seriously of 
emancipation, at which they revolt. It is the idea 
of having the slaves set at liberty, and yet remain 
in the community. There must he a complete 
change in their views and feelings before they 
loill consent to this. There are many reasons 
which influence their minds, in utterly rejecting 
this proposition. A very strong one is the fact 
that the few free negroes, now living among them, 
are a miserable, idle class, outcasts of society, and 
looked upon with universal suspicion by the whites. 
So strong is the prejudice against free blacks, that 
in some of the states there are laws against any 
being made free, unless they are sent out of the 
state. Again, there is no doubt, in many instances, 
a feeling of proud superiority, which would not, for 
a moment, brook the idea of having the slave re- 
leased from his condition of servility and depend- 
ence, and made in any respect an equal ! There 
is also a very large class who would not be able 
to endure the thought of living without the conti- 
nual services of the negro, so entirely dependent 
has habit made them upon the eyes, ears, and 
hands of others, for the most simple personal 
services. 



130 TO THE FREE STATES. 

But the grand objection of the community (and 
it is probably nearly universal) is the belief, that the 
negroes, if made free, would be the pest of society, 
and live by plunder and mischief Naturally indo- 
lent — almost forced, at present, to perform their 
slight work — without intelligence to direct their 
labours — without any property — in a state of utter 
destitution — they would continually prey upon the 
whites, and live uncontrolled. Many, no doubt, 
think the lives and property of the whites would 
be at their disposal, and some even declare that 
the latter would be obliged to abandon the coun- 
try to them. This is a serious question, and 
demands deliberate attention. The South will 
never harbor the thought of emancipation in this 
mode, without a radical change in public senti- 
ment. It is sufficient to remark, that the southern 
people are the only proper judges of the mode of 
emancipation ; and that whatever individual or 
community proposes a plan for their adoption, it 
should be done in the tone and manner of friendly 
counsel, not in the spirit of compulsive denuncia- 
tion. 

IV. But perhaps the most prominent fact sug- 
gesting itself to the mind of the observer in the 
slave states, is the almost unanimous conviction of 
the right of property in the slave. However they 
may differ in other respects, the slaveholders, as a 
body, are generally agreed in this. Depend upon 
it, the South at present feels a consciousness of 



TO THE FREE STATES. 131 

right on the main question at issue, which is very 
Uttle understood at the North. There are indeed 
many in the frontier states, who are harboring 
conscientious scruples as to the moral lawfulness 
of slavery, who feel that it is burdensome and 
wasteful, and know that it rests like a mountain 
of lead upon the energies of the state ; but still, even 
these are not ready to allow you to touch the right 
of property. On this point, I will relate a single 
fact, among many similar which might be given. I 
was introduced to a gentleman, one who is well 
known in his neighbourhood for piety and philan- 
thropy, as a northern man. In the seclusion of 
the parlour, he opened to me his views fully, on the 
subject of slavery — commencing himself with the 
remark, " I hope you have come to show us some 
feasible plan of putting away slavery." He con- 
versed freely and openly, respecting his own views, 
— the state of public sentiment — and the action of 
legislation on the subject: but when the thought of 
abolitionists entered his mind, (just such views of 
northern abolitionists prevail all over the South, 
indeed this is a very favourable specimen) his voice 
and manner changed in a moment. " You," said 
he, pointing his finger at me, " you, northern abo- 
litionists, have put a stop to all our designs for the 
benefit of the slave." " Why," he exclaimed, 
" should they attempt to take away my property, 
I would take down my rifle there, and fight to the 
last breath." This same man told me he could 
not conscientiously sell his slaves, unless he knew 



132 TO THE FREE STATES. 

they would be better off than with him, and I have 
abundant proof that he was an indulgent master. 

The South feel at present on this subject pre- 
cisely as the people of the free states would, if 
some power, which had no shadow of right to 
intermeddle, should agitate the question of taking 
away — " peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must," 
one half of their property, embracing that part of 
it which was most valuable and available. 

Connected with tliis view of the subject is the 
value of the slave. At a very moderate estimate 
of the value of the slaves in the United States, as 
property, they are worth five hundred millions of 
dollars. To bring the question more within the 
range of practical calculation, it may be safely 
assumed, that the slaves are more valuable than 
the plantations, were both put into the market, and 
they are also more available property. With their 
present views, all this property would be lost by 
emancipation, and their estates be without value. 
Have they not some reason to require, that if you 
wish them to give up their slaves — their means of 
living — leaving them entirely helpless — you should 
make them remuneration 1 

Thus I have endeavoured candidly to state some 
of the views of the South with regard to slavery, 
in reference to emancipation. That the reasons 
given operate with the weight of conclusive evi- 
dence in favour of slavery, need not be questioned. 
Whatever may be the impression among the 
people of the North, respecting the cogency of 



TO THE FREE STATES. 133 

these reasons, they may at least learn what obsta- 
cles are to be removed before peaceable emanci- 
pation can be effected. Those who consider 
slavery as a mere appendage to southern society, 
which may be thrown ofT with the same facility as 
an extra garment from an individual — are egre- 
giously mistaken, and know nothing about it. It 
is emphatically an integral part of society itself, 
and its removal would produce a. different organi- 
zation or order. There is another class — perhaps 
wiser men — at the North, who would be wilhngly 
considered profound thinkers, and deeply read in 
the knowledge of human character and institutions, 
who do not see any very terrible consequences, in 
overthrowing the system at once, in the very face 
of all these obstacles. They look upon these objec- 
tions, which I have briefly considered, only as so 
many deep-rooted prejudices, or more properly 
bug-bears, having no existence but in the imagi- 
nation of the slaveholders. Like a man who has 
got an idea that there is a tremendous precipice in 
the path just before him, how cautiously and fear- 
fully will he grope his way, and shrink back, 
involuntarily, at the thought of another step being 
his last. But when he has passed the utmost 
limits of the supposed danger, he will look back 
with surprise and chagrin, at the mighty fears his 
imagination had created. This is, indeed, a very 
pretty supposition, and all that these deep thinkers 
have to do is to get the slaveholders safe beyond 
the verge of the precipice. 
12 



134 TO THE FREE STATES. 

V. What are the views and practices of the 
slaveholder, simply as a master, possessing, govern- 
ing, and directing the slave, may perhaps be under- 
stood by considering 

Secondly, The condition and treatment of the 
slave. 

My own observations will form the basis of my 
remarks on this subject. I shall state what I have 
seen rather than what I have heard. 

Upon entering a slave community for the first 
time, after thirty years' residence in the free states, 
my closest observation was directed to the condi- 
tion and appearance of the blacks. I went with 
the feehngs of a northern man — a liberal prejudice 
against slavery. My object was not to pry into 
secrets, and explore hidden mysteries, — not to hunt 
up isolated facts to use as arguments against 
slavery — not to note down trivial circumstances, 
to be expanded into marvelous narratives to feed 
insatiable appetites. I had a great curiosity to see 
a system or state of society, in my own country, 
about which I had heard and reflected so much. 
I wished to see it, and did see it, not in corners or 
in peculiar circumstances of great interest, but as 
an institution of society in its every day appear- 
ance. I had no interference with it— did not go 
out of my way to make discoveries — but made such 
use of my eyes, ears, and tongue, as inclination 
prompted. 

Such is the foundation of the following remarks 
on the condition and treatment of slaves. I had 



TO THE FREE STATES. 135 

no motive in seeing, which I would not willingly 
have made public — I have none in writing, but the 
well-being of my country. My first impressions 
of slavery were favourable. Candor obliges me to 
acknowledge that in no city of the North of the 
same class have I ever been, where the black 
population are so respectable in appearance — so 
well dressed — well behaved, and apparently so 

happy, as in the city of where I first landed. 

I am also obliged to say, that this was the best 
specimen I saw in these respects, — of half a dozen 
cities and large towns I subsequently visited in that 
and the neighbouring states. 

From what has been said of 4he familiar inter- 
course of household servants with their masters 
and families, it will of course be inferred that the 
former are expected and obliged to keep them- 
selves very neat and respectable in their personal 
appearance, and habits, at least externally. And 
they exhibit a very distinct relationship to the 
human family of a lighter complexion, in their 
fondness for dress and finery. The most exquisite 
gentlemen in dress and politeness I ever saw, were 
blacks in a slave city. House and body servants 
frequently catch and copy the manners of their 
masters, so as to exhibit in their address, and in 
polite accomplishments, an exact imitation. You 
may observe two dandies pass in the street, and 
salute each other, and touch their hats with a grace 
which few white men ever attain. 

From the circumstances of their situation, the 



136 TO THE FREE STATES. 

servants having close and constant intercourse 
with the family, have many privileges and advan- 
tages. Their burdens are not heavy, their labours 
far from being severe. They appear to enjoy hfe 
as well or better than any other class in the com- 
munity ; and when not actually employed, the 
streets and corners are loud with their gossip and 
laughter. 

In descending to the country, slavery wears a 
different aspect. According to the circumstances 
and style of the master, a greater or less number 
of each sex are employed in the necessary services 
of the house, as in the large towns ; the rest are field 
hands or outdoor labourers. It is an object for 
slaves to get a station about the house. The labour 
is lighter, and the fare better, and they are all very 
fond of the good things of the kitchen. 

The field labourers live in huts by themselves, 
which, on small plantations, are generally built in 
the immediate vicinity of the family residence. 
These huts are called the negro quarters, and the 
impression they made on my mind was more 
unfavourable to the practice of slavery than any 
thing I saw. I hesitate not to say, they are too 
often alike unworthy the master and the slave. I 
doubt whether the cabins of the natives on the 
banks of the Gambia are so poor and miserable. 
I never entered one of them, but have looked into 
several, and seen numbers in traveling. They are 
constructed of plank or logs, or logs and clay, and 
are very generally in a dilapidated condition ; and 



TO THE FREE STATES. 137 

from the specimens I saw, with nothing worthy 
the name of furniture. The farmers' hovels or 
cattle sheds at the North, taking the average of 
both, are better buildings, except that the cabins are 
probably somewhat tighter. I regret to say these 
things — I say them in hope of producing reform. 

There is a manifest pride in the master in hav- 
ing his slaves, particularly those about his house 
and person, in good condition ; but to see a large 
mansion, a worthy residence for a governor, with 
its beautifully shaded inclosures and graveled 
walks, and tasteful gardens, flanked at a little dis- 
tance in front by half a dozen wretched hovels, 
unfit to tenant any human beings, is a scene un- 
worthy of old Virginia. 

The slaves on small plantations, and with hu- 
mane masters, are generally supplied with food 
from the household kitchen. A sufficient quantity 
is prepared at each meal for the whole estabhsh- 
ment, and after the master and family have eaten, 
the remainder is carried out to the servants in their 
quarters, without measure or weight. This is the 
most favourable mode for the slave, as he has the 
same food as the master. But the general practice 
in feeding slaves is by rations — a given quantity 
to each person. The great staple is corn. This 
is measured so much to a person or family, for a 
given time, and prepared by themselves. I am 
unable to state to what extent meat rations are 
allowed. Some masters deny meat to slaves al- 
together, but I believe these are comparatively 
12* 



138 TO THE FREE STATES. 

few. In a country where pork is plenty, and an 
article of universal consumption, the slaves are 
extensively furnished with it, and is generally given 
out to them, once a year, at the time of slaughter- 
ing, so much for an individual or family. Many 
of them also raise pigs and chickens, which they 
may consume or sell. And I believe it is a very 
general practice all over the South, to allow slaves 
patches of ground which they may appropriate as 
they please. They raise corn, cotton, tobacco, or 
vegetables, and sell them for their own profit. 
This kind of tithing, or allowing slaves a part for 
themselves, is observable also in other things. A 
negro brings a load of wood to market, and you 
will see several long sticks slung on the outside of 
his cart. He delivers you the load, and you ques- 
tion him about the outside sticks. " Dat mine, 
massaj I get quarter dollar for dat." You buy it 
of course. 

There is also a great variety of wild fruits, in- 
creasing as you proceed South — to which the 
negroes have access. On large estates, and where 
the " force" is under the control of a hard-hearted 
and selfish manager or overseer, I have no doubt 
there are instances of deprivation and actual suf- 
fering. But the reader may be assured the negroes 
perfectly understand the first law of nature — self 
support. If sufiicient is not given them, they have 
little difficulty in helping themselves. They gather 
the crops, do all the work, and every thing that 
is their master's passes through their hands. The 



TO THE FREE STATES. 139 

right is theirs, the moon and stars their friends ; 
and dogs, bolts, and bars are insufficient to keep 
them from providing for themselves in case of 
necessity. They have also some resources, which 
avail them more or less. One is grumbling. They 
are inveterate grumblers when they are not suited. 
I have seen a slave tell a white man, who threat- 
ened to give him no dinner, — very respectfully of 
course — that " he could not work without he had 
enough to eat," and I have little doubt that if the 
slave was cut off from his dinner, the master was 
cut short in his work. If the slave has not enough 
to eat, he will obstinately neglect or spoil his work 
Experience has taught masters that it is for their 
interest to have servants well fed, well clothed, and 
well treated. 

I am unwilling. to believe the southern slave, except 
in rare instances, suffers for want of food. There 
are here, as everywhere else — brutes in human 
form — men who fear not God nor regard man. 
An example w^as mentioned of a man, in Maryland, 
who possessed several hundred slaves, and from 
whose manner of feeding them, both as to quahty 
and quantity, humanity revolts. " What do his 
neighbours say about him ?" I inquired. " What 
do his neighbours say about him," repeated my 
informant, (a slaveholder himself,) — " what donH 
they say about him." There is public opinion in 
favour of humanity at the South ; and the man who 
sets public opinion at defiance among slaveholders, 



140 TO THE FREE STATES. 

is estimated in society there as he is everywhere 
else. 

The slaves are habituated to rise very early in 
the morning and commence their labours, and, so 
far as I have observed, quit their work at supper 
or sunset, and then they are free till the next morn- 
ing. It is not customary to require services of 
field labourers after night fall, except on extra oc- 
casions, although, at such times, I have no doubt, 
unreasonable services are sometimes required of 
them. 

With regard to dress, the slaves are generally 
comfortably supplied. Their clothing is strong 
and coarse, but whole and decent. In many in- 
stances in the country, the master and servant are 
clothed from the same piece. And yet there are 
some so patched, like Joseph's coat, with many 
colours, that it would puzzle even Yankee ingenuity 
to discover the original cloth. I have seen some 
suits, which must have represented all the garments 
used in the family mansion since the revolution. 
The common clothing is supplied by the master, 
of course — generally in the same mode as rations 
— so many garments and pairs of shoes per year ; 
but whenever a holiday suit is required, the slaves, 
unless lucky enough to obtain the cast off garments 
of the family, supply themselves. I believe most 
slaves of both sexes have suits better than their 
every day clothing, and the fact is creditable to the 
master and servant. The avails of their gardens, 
and the means obtained for little services, from 



TO THE FREE STATES. 141 

guests of the family and others, are expended for 
this purpose. Servants in large towns and vicini- 
ties obtain considerable money in this way, which 
is considered their own. And probably not a few 
purloin and sell the property of their masters, 
and apply the avails to their own use. 

The main question will here be asked, what is 
the personal treatment of the slave 1 It is a point 
which should be satisfactorily settled if possible, 
for there is a great prejudice against slavery in 
some sections, on account of real or supposed in- 
humanity to the negro. And there are some very 
compassionate people who believe the master is 
engaged, a considerable part of his time, with a 
terrible cat-o'-nine tails, and who think the lash is 
continually resounding from the Delaware to the 
Sabine. I am by no means prepared to answer 
this question, from extensive observation ; for during 
a year a half con-tact with slavery, I have never 
seen a slave flogged or sold. Doubtless I might, 
had I been ambitious of looking up such spectacles, 
but in " minding my own business," no such re- 
markable occurrence has fallen under my notice. 
I will endeavour, however, to throw some light on 
the subject, and at least put the reader in the way 
of answering the question for himself 

And the first suggestion I would offer is this, 
how do the people of the free states treat their 
servants, and how would they treat them, were 
they in the bondage of southern negroes 1 The 
northern reader can immediately refer his thoughts 



142 TO THE FREE STATES. 

to certain persons of his acquaintance who would 
be cruel masters, but of the great body of his 
neighbours he has a better opinion. Human na- 
ture is radically the same every where. The North 
will perhaps lay claim to more religion, purer 
morals, and a higher philanthropy to soften their 
dispositions; and so far as this is the fact allowance 
is to be made, — otherwise they may judge very 
exactly of the treatment of southern slaves, by the 
mirrors in their own bosoms. 

The slave is taught from childhood that his busi- 
ness is to labour, and he goes to his snail-pace 
employment as a matter of course. On large plan- 
tations there are overseers to direct the labourers 
and keep them at work. If the slave should be 
refractory or disobedient, he would be subdued in 
a summary manner. If, in the absence of the 
master or overseer, he should not perform a reason- 
able amount of labour, he would very probably 
suffer some punishment, — most likely corporal 
chastisement — and certainly for a repetition of 
neglect. That the master or manager follows 
him into the field, and urges him forward with a 
whip, is, I am persuaded, but a rare occurrence ; 
and that the slaves, as a body, are not goaded and 
driven in their tasks, I am satisfied from two con- 
siderations. 

First, — public sentiment is against it. There is, 
as I have before stated, a kind of tacit agreement 
between the master and slave, that the latter should 
take his own course as to activity of muscular mo- 



TO THE FREE STATES. 143 

tion, provided he keeps regularly at work ; and out 
of his accustomed track he cannot be driven with 
impunity or safety. About a certain amount of 
positive labour is expected of each hand, accord- 
ing to his ability. This certain amount is pretty 
definitely understood by both parties, and does not 
exceed half of what is performed by a northern 
labourer. The master who should persist in 
forcing his hands to much greater exertion, 
would generally find himself in difficulty. His 
work would be neglected or spoiled — his slaves 
would run away, if they did nothing worse — he 
would be marked by the community as an inhuman 
master, and hated by his own subjects. It is im- 
possible to keep slaves from communicating with 
each other ; what is done on one estate is known 
through the neighbourhood. 

Secondly, — there is prima facie evidence of the 
general freedom of the slave from great severity 
of treatment, which to my own mind is of great 
weight. I was greatly disappointed at the general 
appearance and manners of this class of society. 
As a body they are erect in posture, with manly 
figures, personally in good condition or well fed, 
and with a boldness of look, not found among 
human beings, either burdened with guilt or ground 
to the dust by an iron rigour. A slave will look a 
white man in the face with as much confidence, 
and as little wavering of the eye, as one of his 
equals. There is an air of servility about them in 
all their communications with the whites, as a 



144 TO THE FREE STATES. 

matter of course — a negro is taught to touch his 
hat to a white man as a superior ; he does it al- 
most mechanically — but there is very Httle abject- 
ness o*f demeanor. I have been often struck with 
these facts in my observation of slavery, and they 
afford conclusive evidence that the negro has not 
lost all sense of manliness in his bondage. There 
is a large number among them who appear almost 
to have lost the idea of slavery. Many of them 
have the management of farms at a distance 
from their masters, with a sufficient force to per- 
form the labour. I have had acquaintance with 
some such, who for that information most useful 
to farmers, such as is derived from experience and 
observation, are equal to white men — perhaps 
superior; for being ignorant of letters, their mental 
capacities are all centered in observing the opera- 
tions of nature, and the practices of other men — 
while for shrewdness and manliness in managing 
bargains, they are not a whit behind their masters. 
Many are teamsters or wagoners, who are in- 
trusted with loads of produce to carry to market, 
— sometimes on journeys of hundreds of miles; 
and carry back merchandize for the country mer- 
chants. Others are mechanics, millers, or coach- 
men, all of whom are men in manners, deportment, 
and sagacity, far above the degree which ignorance 
of practical slavery has assigned to such a state. 
I believe the idea of degradation dwells much more 
strongly in the breast of the master than the slave. 
Some of the former, at least in sentiment, profess to 



TO THE FREE STATES. 145 

hold the latter as an inferior to the last degree. A 
white man — (and a Christian man if profession 
makes a Christian), said, " I will lose the last drop 
of my blood before I will be insulted by a negro," 
although the insult in this instance consisted in the 
slave refusing to do what he was ordered, having 
received a contrary order from another, who had 
at least an equal right to his services. Of course 
this Christian man was in a tremendous passion. 

There is a very general belief throughout the 
South, that the negro requires a chastisement oc- 
casionally ; a sort of periodical flogging, to keep 
him obedient and respectful — otherwise he would 
become impudent, insolent, and intolerable. I am 
not sufficiently acquainted with slavery in detail, 
to judge the correctness of this common, almost 
universal, sentiment ; nor whether the practice of 
the master accords with his belief. But I have 
heard the remark from persons living in the slave 
states, and who were opposed to slavery from 
principle, giving, as a strong feature of the negro's 
character, an inclination to be impudent and in- 
solent. 

But one fact is very evident ; they are very 
much inclined to scold, and fret, and quarrel 
among themselves, especially females, and require 
a firm voice and steady hand to keep them from 
uproar, or injuring one another. It is a curious 
fact, that the last epithet of reproach which they 
can use in anger, is to call each other negro. If 
ordered by one of their own colour to do any thing 
13 



146 TO THE FREE STATES. 

to which they have a disinclination, the scornful 
answer is, " I don't do nigger's work." 

In summing up the particulars mentioned on this 
subject, I am ready to conclude that, in the physical 
treatment of southern slaves, they are belter off 
than their fellows of any other age or country. 
In view of the fearful power of the master to pos- 
sess, work, punish, or sell the slave almost beyond 
responsibility ; and in view of the disposition of 
men to exceed the bounds of justice or modera- 
tion where they have power, it must be conceded 
the southern slave has a very tolerable lot ; and 
his condition must of necessity grow better or 
worse. He cannot stand still while the world is ad- 
vancing around him. The increasing light must be 
hidden from him, or it will have a decided influence 
upon him. Though at an almost immeasurable dis- 
tance, he follows in the footsteps of his master. 
Although his fellovt^ man has denied him the use of 
letters, he cannot deprive him of those avenues to 
the mind with which God has endowed him. The 
negro sees the triumph of art in the steamboat and 
rail-road, and he feels a degree of the enthusiasm 
of his master. He even feels a pride of country 
in these achievements of art. His constant inter- 
course with his white superiors has imparted a 
portion of their intelligence to him. He reflects 
and reasons, although in a limited sphere, and as- 
sociates the ideas of freedom and wealth with all 
the improvements around him. To be sure, habit 
and hereditary degradation have destined him to a 



TO THE FREE STATES. 147 

life of servility. Every thing about him — all his 
senses — combine to teach him that his master is 
strong, and he weak ; the one rich, the other poor. 
But the advancement of society will find him a 
wjlhng disciple, and an apt scholar; and when the 
amount of knowledge among slaves shall be suffi- 
cient for them to exert an influence upon each 
other, and thus impart intelligence among them- 
selves, faster than that received by reflection from 
the master, as at present, the relative position of 
the community will soon be very different. The 
influence or result of that change, time only can 
determine. 

VI. I will here make a few remarks on the free 
blacks of the South. As a class, they ai'e in a 
worse condition than the slaves. They have little 
more intelligence, and are more out of the way of 
acquiring information, being at a greater distance, 
and having'less intercourse with the whites. They 
look upon the slaves as being obliged to work, and 
they exhibit positive evidence of being free from 
the obligation by their idleness. It is also a very 
general belief that they get their living mostly by 
stealing. They are not so well clothed, and less 
respectable in appearance and manners, than the 
slaves. They are also a source of continual sus- 
picion, and their situation seems .to be in every 
respect unpleasant and unfavourable to improve- 
ment. 

But to these general remarks there is an interest- 



148 TO THE FREE STATES. 

ing exception. In all the cities of the South, there 
is a class of free blacks who have risen above all 
the obstacles that surround them, and, by perse- 
verance in w^ell doing, have established a character 
for honesty and industry, and are in prosperous 
circumstances. They are barbers, mechanics, 
porters, hackmen, and, especially, waiters. This 
last appears to be the most suitable employment 
for the negro. It is a situation which seems to be 
adapted to his taste and genius, and he takes pride 
in showing his capability in it. Experience makes 
him an adept in all its details. It is here, if any- 
where, his activity and energy are brought to light. 
And from the acknowledged worthlessness of the 
great body of servants, those in whom confidence 
can be placed are always in demand, and obtain 
good wages. 

VII. As a suitable conclusion to this part of the 
subject, I purpose to offer a few remarks on the 
condition of the blacks in the free states. In doing 
this, I shall avoid all extended comparisons. It 
has required some exertion of the will throughout 
this work to keep my pen from instituting compa- 
risons between the North and South, while treating 
of slavery. Many might be made highly illustra- 
tive of sectional characteristics, but I am aware 
they might seem invidious to certain classes of 
persons, and would perhaps have a tendency to 
deepen that feehng of prejudice (already sufficiently 
watchful), which it should be the aim of every 



TO THE FREE STATES. 149 

person, whose object is the dissemination of truth 
and justice, to allay. 

This would be a suitable place for treating upon 
the capacity and character of the African, but the 
discussion of that subject does not fall within the 
limits of this work. I will venture, however, to 
remark, that, in the present condition of the negro, 
the community will never agree respecting it. 
Reflections will naturally arise in the minds of the 
inquisitive, but it would be altogether unjust to 
judge of what he is capable of attaining, as an in- 
tellectual being, from his present state. It is an 
undeniable fact, that, throughout this Union, he 
is considered and treated as a degraded inferior. 
When we reflect upon the slow progress made 
even by our English forefathers, in the arts of life 
and mental cultivation for three hundred years 
past, at which period the mass of the people were 
probably behind the present American negroes, 
we can form some opinion of the length of time 
the latter would require, in the most favourable 
circumstances, before it would be fair to decide 
upon his capacity. That he partakes in an emi- 
nent degree of the indolence and the propensity for 
animal indulgence, so conspicuous in the natives of 
warm climates, cannot be questioned ; whether 
they are increased or diminished by his condition 
of slavery, it is difficult to determine. That he is 
the subject of strong passions, both fierce and 
gentle, must be evident to every one who has made 
any observation on his character. The following 
13* 



150 



TO THE FREE STATES. 



anecdote has often occurred to me in observing 
the condition of the African race, as iUustrative of 
its degraded, unsocial state in this country. I was 
acquainted with a very respectable coloured shoe- 
maker, while a resident of one of the northern 
cities, a few years ago, whom I sometimes em- 
ployed in his occupation. I frequently entered into 
conversation with him, and, observing several 
white men in his employ, endeavoured to excite in 
him a feeling of sympathy in favour of his race. 

I immediately discovered that the subject was one 
on which he had been thoughtful. " Sir," said he, 
suspending his work, and looking me in the face, 
" I have tried to do them good, but I can't. They 
won't learn. I have had a dozen coloured appren- 
tices, and they every one left me after staying one, 
two, or four months. They were never used to 
any work, and it was so irksome to be confined 
to it, they had rather run away, and hve by begging 
and stealing. Not one in twenty will make a man 
good for any regular business. It is the fault of 
their parents." 

Every northern man can judge how far this 
statement of the coloured shoemaker is a fair 
representation of the character of the blacks of his 
acquaintance. 

Now permit me to ask you, citizens of the free 
states, what is the moral and physical condition 
of your black population? Are you authorized, in 
view of a comparison between them and the south- 
ern slave, to throw the first stone? The fathers 



TO THE FREE STATES. 151 

of these blacks were slaves. In your wisdom, you 
gave them prospective freedom. Their emanci- 
pation is now nearly complete. What improve- 
ment have they made as a community, and what 
influence have you exerted on them, and they on 
you ? Again ; with a knowledge of their habits 
and character would you be willing to have a 
black population, as numerous as that at the South, 
added to your own ? If I mistake not, the condi- 
tion of the blacks among you, does not reflect much 
credit upon your philanthropy. You hate slavery. 
I fear you also hate the negro. Certainly there is 
a great lack of evidence that you regard his wel- 
fare. Your blacks are in many respects in a worse 
condition than those in the South. They are 
actually, as a body, more out of the way of im- 
provement. You have no immediate intercourse 
with them. You hold them at a great distance. 
Generally ignorant, suffering under the ban of a 
felt neglect and degradation, their liberty seems 
to be comprized in a freedom to commit vice. In 
a civilized and Christian community, they receive 
scarcely any of its benefits. True, many of them 
in the large towns are respectable waiters, barbers, 
and kitchen servants, but in the country, and the 
vicinity of your villages, the negroes are scattered 
in rude huts — perhaps a little better than those 
mentioned in Virginia — at a distance from other 
habitations, and live precariously by day's work 
and pilfering. The farmers generally reject their 
services, because there is no dependence upon 



152 TO THE PREF STATES. 

them. They almost universally drink to excess, 
and are otherwise in gross debasement. The 
churches and public schools are indeed open to 
them, but it requires a degree of hardihood but few 
persons in their circumstances possess to avail 
themselves of these privileges. Do the ministers 
look them up, like stray sheep, and invite them to 
the sanctuary? Do the teachers encourage theni 
to attend school ; and if any of them conofi, do they 
take an interest in their instruction, or turn them 
off, with such attention as is " good enough for 
negroes ?" Do the community, as a body, exhort, 
encourage, and strive to lead them in the ways of 
well doing, or do they, by their neglect and re- 
proaches, pronounce them out of the pale of decency 
and respectabilit}" 1 In proof that the above is the 
character and condition of your black population, 
I appeal to the calendars of your courts, and the 
records of your jails and penitentiaries. Examine 
these, and see what proportion the convictions for 
murder and penitentiary crimes bear to the rela- 
tive population of white and black. If there is 
great disparity against the latter, the cause must 
be found, either in a more vicious disposition, or 
in the unfavourable circumstance of his situation. 
I leave you to the choice of the dilemma. 

It appears to me evident, that there is deep, 
unmitigated prejudice against the negro. His con- 
dition and situation in the free states proclaim this. 
In how many of these states can he be a legal 
freeman or voter, let his property or respectability 



TO THE FREE STATES. 153 

be what they will ? Legislative acts, and the 
popular voice also, proclaim this. I will instance 
only one fact, the result of the Canterbury School 
in Connecticut. Public opinion was very deliber- 
ately brought to bear on that question, and the 
consequence was, a judgment of the highest court — 
sustained by the public, and more recently sanc- 
tioned by legislative enactments, in the little but 
enlightened state of Connecticut, that the negro 
was not a citizen, in the high and proper sense of 
the term — but a being inferior to the white man. 
Now it appears to me evident that justice requires 
the free states to improve the condition of their 
blacks, before they take any urgent steps for the 
emancipation of the southern slave. The South 
might now very justly say to them, if you have so 
great a regard for the negro, begin at home ; 
educate and elevate your own, make them good 
citizens, honest and intelligent, and then you may 
hold them up to the view of the world, as examples 
of the capability and worth of the negro among a 
community of whites. At present, we can see no 
improvement in the African by emancipation,yrom 
your example. At least, let us have a plain example 
to follow, before we are called upon to give up 
our inheritance. 

I have stated my conviction in a former chapter, 
that slavery is destined to come to an end. But 
there is no good foundation for the behef that 
emancipation will be sudden or immediate. And 
whenever the period arrives, the work must be 



154 TO THE FREE STATES. 

accomplished either by the free action of the slave 
states, or a civil convulsion. Suppose for a mo- 
ment, the righteous judgment of Heaven should 
permit the latter, what reason have you to offer 
why you should not suffer your full share of the 
calamity? In a moral point of view, the North, 
or free states, are not guiltless in this matter. 
They have another burden to be removed, besides 
the sin of being part of a slave nation. Northern 
cupidity carried slaves from Africa, and sold them 
to the South. And there are plenty of merchants 
and sailors among you who would do it now, were 
it not unlawful. Some of the most costly mansions 
in New England were built with the profits of this 
traffic, and still stand as monuments of its great- 
ness. Why not go to the owners of this property, 
and bid them sell it, and give the money to bene- 
volent objects, as, in some measure, an atonement 
for the guilt. In some instances the lineal de- 
scendants of the slave dealer occupy the premises, 
just as the sons of the original purchasers possess 
the southern slave. 

Some of you have heard from the lips of the old 
negro, by the youthful fireside, the story of his 
being ambushed and stolen by the white man, 
while playing with his mates among the palms of 
his native Guinea. Could the cry of Africa for 
retribution be heard by mortal ears, it would fall 
with appalling sound upon the Christian land of 
New England and the free states. What have 
they done to atone for these forgotten wrongs ? 



TO THE FREE STATES. 155 

Has emancipation done it? It does not acquit the 
robber or assassin, to promise he will not repeat 
the crime. Paying a thousand new debts will 
never cancel an old one. After serving yourselves 
as long as you thought prudent with these slaves, 
you turned them loose upon the wide world, poor, 
ignorant, friendless, without even a " God bless 
you" to cheer their lot ; and now you spurn and 
reproach, and heap indignity upon them, because 
they do not in a moment rise up miraculously your 
equals. Oh, the henrt that kindles in commisera- 
tion of human suffering is ready to wish these 
injured outcasts might borrow the jewels of gold, 
and jewels of silver, and precious things of their 
neighbours, like their fellow bondmen of old, and 
like them escape in their father-land, to enjoy, with 
God's blessing, the reward of their fathers' labours 
in peace. 

Or, what will you gain, morally or physically, 
from the result of this fearful struggle 1 Suppose 
you demand emancipation. The South repels 
your demand as unjust, and dares you to the trial 
of right. Will you be more prosperous, or leave 
a better name, or better inheritance to your pos- 
terity, or rejoice in emancipation, after the work is 
accomplished by violence. Will you rejoice in the 
ruins of a country — of a nation of brothers, which 
your own doings have investigated ? 1 have thus 
imagined a scene, which may Heaven never suffer 
to be realized. It is indeed not beyond the limits 
of human folly, but there is great reason to hope 



156 TO THE FREE STATES. 

that forbearance and justice will prevail, and this 
fair and glorious inheritance of ours will be spared^ 
the horrors of a civil or a servile war. 

Let the North be assured that the South is not 
a whit behind her in patriotic devotion to this 
Union. The South loves the Union, and is willing 
to make important sacrifices for its preservation. 
Through the Revolution, and in all the national 
struggles since, she has borne a conspicuous part. 
In this controversy, she asks, as a question of simple 
justice and legal right, for the same quiet posses- 
sion of her domestic policy that you enjoy in yours. 
She asks it as a right conferred on her by the con- 
federation of the states. So far from being an 
infraction of the Constitution, she claims that it 
distinctly recognizes slavery. And she will charge 
you with the consequences of breaking your solemn 
obligations, in sealing that instrument, if you offer 
such an interference with her rights, as will lead 
to a dissolution of the Union. 

But you claim to be actuated by higher motives 
than mere patriotism. You found your interference 
upon the question of moral right — the claims of 
eternal justice and truth. Exhibit your evidence 
that Heaven has delegated you to sit in judgment 
upon the moral conduct of your fellows, and every 
'good man in the Union will rally to your standard. 
But your most distinguished writers on morals, 
explicitly deny that you have any right to offer 
coercive interference. Such a proceeding would 
inevitably make matters worse. 



TO THE FREE STATES. 157 

Rather than consent to this, I would say, leave 
slavery to the course of events ordained by Divine 
Providence. I do not ask you to abate your 
abhorrence of slavery. I know its strength. But 
I do ask you to ponder well the course of action 
you pursue : as has been said in appealing to the 
South, so I say to you, sacrifice even slavery to 
the Union. In view of present evil, or future retri- 
bution, there can be little hesitation in the bosom 
of a good man, in choosing whether to bear the 
sin of belonging to a slave nation, or of taking a 
part in forcibly overthrowing it. And I put this 
question distinctly to the clergy of the free states, 
a class of men whom 1 extensively know to be 
philanthropists and republicans ; and generally 
worthy of the great influence they possess on 
questions of morals. In a community so intelli- 
gent, and moral, and religiously influenced as the 
North, the clergy will have to bear, in a great mea- 
sure, the responsibility of the decision on this sub- 
ject, whatever it may be. 

Again. If you begin deliberately to inquire what 
you shall do to correct the wrong of slavery, first 
examine the heart — go down into its deepest re- 
cesses, and discover, if possible, the motives from 
which you are to act. The judgment is greatly 
liable to be prejudiced and influenced by early 
associations, and long-cherished opinions, and 
modes of thinking. What is your practice, or 
what agency do you exert in abolishing other 
evils 'I As Christians you are opposed to intem- 
14 



158 TO THE FREE STATES. 

perance and pagan idolatry, as republicans to mo- 
narchy and tyranny. But you never seriously think 
of opposing these and other practices different from 
your own, with any other weapons than those of 
persuasion. Perhaps you will say, all these evils are 
foreign ; whereas slavery is an evil in our own coun- 
try, and among our own citizens. True, but for that 
very reason ought you to exercise greater forbear- 
ance and charity. These fellow-citizens enjoy the 
same rights, privileges, immunities, and blessings as 
yourselves. The liberty, civil and religious, which 
you enjoy, is a common inheritance, equally 
possessed, equally purchased. These citizens prac- 
tise customs different from your ov^-n, and in your 
view incompatible with civil hberty and moral 
accountability. But is it not an unwarrantable 
assurance which arraigns them before the bar of 
your judgment. They acknowledge neither the 
crime nor the jurisdiction of the court. You send f 
missionaries to convert the heathen, but you in- 
struct them not to coerce, but to persuade and con- 
vince the gross idolater. Have you so little faith 
in the agency of these instruments in reclaiming 
your equals, that you resort to violence and de- 
nunciation ? 

If you discovered your brother in a place of 
danger of which he was unconscious, would you 
endeavour to show him his situation in a kind or 
a harsh manner ? Would you burst forth in a 
torrent of reproach at his folly or want of foresight, 
in bringing himself into this danger ; or would you 



TO THE FREE STATES. 159 

propose some mode of relief or escape, in a spirit 
of brotherly affection and sympathy '? Which does 
Christian and moral benevolence dictate? Which 
will have the most powerful influence, in view of 
the character of human nature? Have you fol- 
lowed the guidance of wisdom, and the " golden 
rules" in treating this subject ? Instead of offering 
friendly assistance and persuasion, have you not 
oftener charged them as slaveholders, with the 
crime of living in known violation of the laws of 
God and man ? — while a great majority of them, 
be assured, acknowledge no such crime. Instead 
of exhorting them to repentance, in the spirit and 
language of St. Paul, have you not frequently 
denounced against them the judgments of Heaven? 
Instead of offering to relieve them of a burden, you 
have heaped ridicule upon it. 

And especially, will you denounce all slave- 
holders as on one common level? Will you, by 
your action and measures, force those back with 
the multitude, who are anxiously looking for some 
way of escape from their bondage ? The reason 
that the South fling back every thing that comes 
from the North, is the fault of the latter. The 
spirit and language of the North, when speaking of 
slavery, has been without discrimination ; harsh, 
bitter, reproachful. There are many exceptions, 
but this is the fact generally. Comparisons have 
been drawn unfavourable to the South, and touch- 
ing them in very sensible points. Besides this, 
you make no allowance for the sanctions of time 



160 TO THE FREE STATES. 

and custom ; none for the peculiar circumstances, 
for the long-cherished feelings and habits of slave- 
holders. Believe it; there are many men, men of 
great respectability, south of the Potomac, who 
consider themselves in far greater, more distressing 
bondage, by the system of slavery, than their own 
slaves. I say this, from a firm conviction of its 
truth. There are others who are halting between 
two opinions. Now I verily believe that the tend- 
ency of northern rxtion, and northern language, 
and northern feeling, is to drive these men back to 
a reconciliation with slavery, instead of offering 
them sympathy and aid in a manner which they 
can accept. 

The modern improvements of the age in the arts 
of life have in themselves no power to make men 
radically better. Their aim is entirely superficial. 
They have no influence upon the heart, the seat of 
moral affections. Their tendency is to inflate 
little man with great pride. Luxury and effemi- 
nacy, vice and oppression, follow their footsteps 
with fearful certainty. Nothing but that spirit of 
benevolence which was manifested by Him, who, 
when he was reviled, reviled not again ; whom the 
direst persecution could not swerve from pursuing 
the object of his mission into the world — unsought 
and unrequited goodwill to men : nothing but this 
spirit can save our country, or carry it safely 
through the agitation and distraction of this vexing, 
this momentous controversy. 



CHAPTER IV. 

TO THE UNION. 

I, What can be done'! Subject of vast magnitude — radical 
difference of opinion. 

IF. Three modes of settling the question stated. 

III. Faint hope that either side will abandon its position — ultra 
slaveholders — violence of southern excitement a favourable omen 
— no prospect of the North becoming in favour of slavery — rea- 
sons — will not use force against it. 

IV. Dissolution of the Union considered — its probable conse- 
quences and result. 

V. Third mode of settling the question — by compromise and 
concession — why it may be hoped for — desirable that southern 
men should express their views — prevented by abolition move- 
ments. 

VI. Colonization recommended — abolitionists opposed — mista- 
ken philanthropy — colonization emancipation must become a 
national question. South will reject every other mode — urged 
from motives of regard for the welfare of the coloured race — ne- 
groes cannot rise to equality with the whites — proved in the free 
states — in Philadelphia — slaves to remain in the country as hired 
servants considered — South will oppose it, and why — no encour- 
agement from the example of the North. British emancipation 
referred to — final consequences not known. 

VII. Why the coloured man should go to Africa — climate con- 
sidered — comparisons invited — America owes it to Africa to send 
back her children. God intends it by our prosperity — government 
must do it — influences of colonization on Africa. Question of 
expense alluded to — money lost in Florida war. 

VIII. Some slave states have begun the work — reasons for 
government interference — partizan politics, the curse of our coun- 
try — the only hope of benevolence in the future. 



Liberty and union, now and forever, one and inseparable. 

I. " What can be done to settle the agitation on 
the great subject of slavery; and decide the con- 
14* 



162 TO THE UNIOIV. 

troversy in an amicable manner, satisfactory to all 
parties ; with reference to the claims of justice, 
and the best interests of humanity?" This question 
is often asked by men of inquisitive and reflecting 
minds ; but in view of its vast magnitude, and the 
difficulties which seem to bar up every avenue of 
approach, human wisdom bows before it. 

There is indeed no lack of propositions on the 
subject ; but none has been offered which is not 
objectionable to large portions of the community. 
And while the suggestions of common minds are 
rejected as unequal to the exigency, men of wiser 
and more comprehensive judgment will cautiously 
deliberate before assenting to propositions, which, 
however plausible in theory, involve an unknown 
amount of experiment in the execution. It is not 
the welfare of an individual which is at stake, but 
a question respecting the rights and the well being 
of six or seven millions of fellow-men. In another 
view, the integrity of a nation, already one of the 
first rank — and destined, as far as human foresight 
can judge, to exceed all that have preceded it in 
intellectual and physical power, and promising 
by its youthful enterprise and intelligence to exert 
a powerful agency in the great drama of human 
affairs. 

But the greatest obstacle to the settlement of 
this question, arises from the fact, that there is 
at present, beyond all controversy, a radical dif- 
ference of opinion between the free and slave 
states on the subject. There are great classes on 



TO THE UNION^. 163 

each side, whose views differ respecting various 
minor points; but as communities, they will unite 
on the great principles ; the latter, that slavery in 
their circumstances is justifiable and lawful; and 
the former, that it is unlawful in all circumstances 
whatever. Admitting these views of the case to 
be correct (and I would gladly be convinced of 
error if wrong), there are but three modes of set- 
tling the question. 

II. First. By one side giving up the principle. 
Second. By a dissolution of the Union. 
Thirdly. By mutual concession and compromise. 

The attention of the reader is directed to some 
remarks on each of these modes. 

III. On the first, I purpose to be very brief, as 
the former chapters have anticipated the most 
prominent facts and reflections on this head. 

With their present views, and in the position 
they now occupy with regard to each other, there 
is scarcely a ray of hope that either side will 
abandon the ground it has taken. From the unfa- 
vourable commencement of the controversy, the 
parties are not in a mood to look at the subject 
dispassionately. The consequence resulting from 
the agitation thus far, is a determination of each 
side to adhere to, and persist in, its sectional views 
with increased prejudice. Pushed but a httle 
further, this result will eventuate in the direst 
national calamitv. 



164 TO THE UNION. 

With regard to the South, it is impossible to 
predict what influence may result from a more 
sober and conciliating tone, or a proposition to 
compromise, from the northern states ; nor from 
the great experiments which are in progress in the 
British colonies; nor from the increasing light and 
improvements of the age ; but loith their present 
views and feelings, the South is ready to join 
issue with all the world on the main question — the 
right of slavery. Perhaps below the latitude of 
Tennessee, a great majority hold it with Governor 
McDuffie of South Carolina, who invoked Heaven 
that " his posterity, to the latest generation, might 
never Hve in any other state than one of domestic 
slavery." I never saw a northern man read this 
invocation without smiling. An honourable sena- 
tor also from the same state, recently stated in 
Congress (in substance), that every abolitionist 
caught in that state should be hung, in defiance of 
all earthly power. 

These statements from men who may be pre- 
sumed to represent the popular will in their section 
— and as they have been corroborated by acts of 
violence farther south, give us pretty substantia] 
evidence of public sentiment in the slave states. 
But, as an individual, I am ready to hazard a belief 
that the past violence of the South, in word and 
deed, is a favourable omen. The suddenness of 
southern excitement is a proof that it was not the 
result of deliberate reflection ; and its violence 
shows that it has pre-occupied the public mind. 



TO THE UNION. 165 

and closed up every avenue to calm investigation. 
The South is, indeed, from its state of society, 
exposed to danger from the agency of incendiaries, 
but not to an extent which its vigilance and cen- 
sorship of the periodical press would justify. These 
must be attributed, mainly, to the sudden and mad- 
dening effects of the unwarned, and ill-judged 
irruption of abolition philanthropy. But as the 
violence of the storm is soon wasted in proportion 
to its fury, so the ebullition of popular excitement 
prostrates the energies of public phrenzy,and leaves 
society better prepared for dispassionate and calm 
reflection. That this will be the result ; that the 
South will ere long condescend to discuss the sub- 
ject of slavery calmly, on the question of its merits, 
and with respect to its moral and political bearing 
upon society, there is great reason to hope ; that 
this period will be hastened or retarded, as well as 
its ultimate effect influenced by the temper and 
action of the free states, cannot be doubted. 

That the North will abandon its principles on 
this subject, there is no foundation for believing. 
Having deliberately given her own slaves freedom, 
it is to be presumed that she ardently wishes her 
example in this respect to be universally followed. 
It is in her view a question both of morals and of 
interest; and although the former doubtless greatly 
preponderates, yet, in both aspects, she views it as 
a question deeply affecting the welfare of the South, 
and affecting herself indirectly. Should the civil- 
ized world, as it advances in intelligence and in 



166 TO TliE UNION. 

the progress of free discussion, speak in terms of 
reprehension of slavery, her voice would join that 
of universal public opinion, for this is now decidedly 
the sentiment of her people. She perhaps claims 
that her own freedom gives her an elevated stand- 
ing, better suited to a deliberate view of the sub- 
ject ; but she may be assured that by obtaining 
her information at second hand, as the mass of 
society necessarily must, she is greatly liable to 
mingle unreasonable prejudices with her calmest 
dehberations. The action of the South on one 
point, has placed n weapon in her hands, which 
she will ever be prompt to wield. I allude to the 
demand made by public meetings, by the press, 
and if I mistake not by some legislative assemblies, 
that the North should stop the discussion of slavery 
among her own citizens. In this, the South, for- 
getful of her own prerogatives, made a demand, 
which she would have indignantly spurned, as an 
interference with the inalienable rights of freemen. 
Free discussion is the very foundation on which 
our liberties are based. If it is the misfortune of 
the South to be placed in a situation where it will 
endanger her safety, can she therefore justly re- 
quire it to be silenced ? The principle is one which 
she would adhere to, as the sole arbiter of her own 
interests and rights ; can she complain if other 
states and other sections dictate the terms of its 
being exercised among themselves. 

The North will never, unless impelled by in- 
fluence beyond her present vision, attempt to put 



TO THE UNION. 167 

down slavery by force. She is too well acquainted 
with the requirements of reciprocal right, to do a 
deed which would justify positive interference with 
her own institutions and usages ; but that she will 
continue to agitate the subject, — to discuss it freely 
among her own citizens, and to exert an influence 
prejudicial to slavery, cannot be questioned. It is 
the very genius of her people to do this. She will 
exert an influence against all slavery, without 
design of intermeddling with established customs 
of any state or government. 

In this sense, and to this extent, nearly the whole 
North are abolitionists; and the difference between 
the mass of society, and those denominated im- 
mediate abolitionists is, that the latter have outrun 
the former in a sober, rational view of the subject, 
about as far as a certain father of whom I have 
heard, that in his overheated zeal for the spiritual 
welfare of his family threatened to whip his chil- 
dren if they would'nt pray. This I consider a fair 
illustration of the state of public feeling at the 
North. The great body of the people, although 
ardenily desiring the universal extinction of slavery, 
and especially in their own country, will join the 
abolitionists in their measures for its overthrow, 
about as soon as the rational, intelligent portion of 
the religious community, although anxiously desir- 
ing the salvation of their fellow-men, will adopt 
the practice of the father above-mentioned. 

Thus, I have endeavoured to show the position 
of the two great sections of our country, as they 



168 TO THE UNION. 

stand at present with regard to this question. 
Let us 

IV. Secondly, Take a brief view of another 
mode of adjusting it, viz. hy a dissolution of the 
Union. The idea of such a result ought never to be 
indulged for a moment. But as it has been plainly- 
brought before the public, and as it has been loudly- 
asserted, that its dissolution would be preferable 
to a constant interchange of reproachful language, 
and to living in a state of increasing excitability 
and apprehension ; it may be proper to look at 
some of the evident consequences of such an end to 
our federal government. 

Has any man in his folly ever estimated the value 
of this Union. Surely those men who speak of its 
dissolution as a desirable event, and who threaten 
to use their exertions to accomplish it, have no 
adequate perception of its consequences. The 
very impudence and folly of their clamor, on a 
question of such unspeakable magnitude, should 
cause the community to frown them into silence. 
For myself, I cannot seriously retiect upon such 
an event without dismay. And it is not mere 
pride of country — glorious recollections of the 
past, nor splendid prospects of national destiny in 
future — neither is it the exultation of monarchs at 
the downfall of the only republic, that excites my 
fears. It is the desolations of home ; the severing 
of strongest ties; the disruption of society ; the utter 
ruin of the fairest portion of the globe, just bloom- 



TO THE UNION^. 169 

ing in its glory, over which I would throw a veil. 
If this nation is destined to perish, let it share the 
common lot of others, and die of old age, sunk in 
luxury and corruption, rather than perish by 
violence, like a youth in the pride of his strength. 
In its very location ; in the circumstances of its 
settlement ; its independence ; and in its unrivalled 
blessings ; it stands on an elevation above all 
which have preceded it : and if it now perish, like 
the fabled monster, by tearing out its own bowels, 
the record of its fate will be the darkest page in 
the blood-written history of man. 

The folly of this estimate is equalled only by 
another — that of calculating the relative strength of 
the North and South. Even this has been done — 
probably, for lack of other employment. That the 
free states are numerically and physically — in 
almost all the available resources of a country — 
superior to the South, will not be doubted ; and that 
in a good cause, she might be considered, as far as 
human judgment can extend, an equal match : but 
before she engages in this strife, she should hear 
sermons in all her thousand churches from the 
words of inspiration — "the race is not to the swift, 
nor the battle to the strong." 

No man can take a comprehensive survey of 
this great country, without being struck with the, 
conviction, that Divine Providence designed it to be 
one nation. No other country, possessed by a 
civilized people, presents the same features. Geo- 
graphically it is one, and cannot be divided (as 
15 



170 TO THE UNION. 

slavery would divide it) without opening a door 
for interminable strife. If slavery is destined to 
dissolve the Union, the division would probably 
follow the Potomac (or Mason and Dixon's line), 
and the Ohio. We will suppose the separation to 
be amicably effected — the public buildings at 
Washington sold — the national property, the navy, 
the debt, the public documents, and the national 
domain to be divided, and all its present interests 
fairly adjusted. There is indeed some common 
property belonging to the entire Union, which it 
would be difficult to divide ; but in an affair of 
such moment, veneration for the past would not 
offer a Gordian knot of restraint. I allude to the 
battle-fields of the Revolution, and the memorials 
of that eventful period. The battle-fields are per- 
haps nearly equally divided, and each might be 
content with its share. There is Lexington, and 
Bunker Hill, and Saratoga, in the North ; and 
Eutaw, and King's Mountain, and Yorktown, in 
the South. The portrait of the father of his coun- 
try, and also that of his illustrious French com- 
patriot, which now look down upon the legislative 
hall of Congress, might be severed, and half given 
to each section ; but as the country had so soon 
attained to such a pitch of refinement, as to render 
their wisdom useless, it would be more in charac- 
ter to sell them to the highest bidder, as second- 
hand rubbish. There are men in Europe who 
w^ould be proud of the trust of keeping these hal- 
lowed memorials from sacrilegious hands ; and 



TO THE UNION. 171 

they might perhaps in some future ages be brought 
forth to kindle a spirit of hberty, and be the patron 
saints of freedom, in some colony of a tyrant realm. 

The relics in the tomb of Mount Vernon, being 
exposed to disturbance from their location on the 
borders of the rival states, should also be expatri- 
ated. 

The four great pictures which adorn the capitol 
at present, — belonging, as they do, two to each 
side, might be given up to their respective sections. 
The figure of Peace, that most exquisite specimen 
of art, which salutes the rising day with her ever 
placid countenance from the front portico, should 
be crowned with the stars, and w^rapped in the 
stripes of the Union, and burnt by the executioner, 
— the olive branches torn from the talons of the 
eagle in the senate hall being used for faggots. 
The eagle himself, the proper emblem of a great 
freebooter, should be perched upon the helmet of 
Mars, and carried in the van, as the presiding 
genius of each army. In the present national 
motto " e pluribus unum,''^ the last word should be 
exchanged for "^ hellum,^^ and the disunion would 
be complete. 

This vast country then, embracing within its 
extremities nearly twenty-five degrees of latitude, 
containing sixteen millions of people, speaking the 
same language, practising the same customs, and 
professing the same religion ; contains two nations. 
Their interests, which before were reciprocal, are 



172 TO THE UNION. 

now, by this act of separation, become dissimilar, 
and at variance. 

As the most favourable view of the case, we 
will assume that temporary residents in either sec- 
tion are permitted to dispose of their property, and 
retire ; or if they choose, to promise allegiance to 
the state, and remain. One of the first steps of 
every independent nation is to provide against 
aggression, and to protect its own interests; ac- 
cordingly, a chain of posts is established along the 
boundary from the Atlantic to the Mississippi ; and 
an armed force quartered in each to prevent smug- 
gling, repel invasion, and keep the peace. Where 
any man may now travel without notice or obser- 
vation, no man could then pass without scrutiny 
or a passport. 

The mighty Atlantic, which, like its great Author, 
is no respecter of persons, but bears on its bosom 
the people and the productions of all nations, rolls 
with equal majesty and beneficence the shores of 
both ; and, as it now affords a common channel for 
promoting prosperity, would then offer equal facili- 
ties for international strife. Each nation would 
struggle to obtain a naval superiority, for the pro- 
tection of its commerce, and the defence of its 
maritime border. The communication between the 
North and South, which is now so extensive, and 
the source of so much prosperity, would be re- 
stricted by the same rules that impede the corres- 
pondence of foreign and distant nations. Every 
cask of rice or barrel of suffar would be taxed in 



TO THE UNION\ , 173 

the North ; every bale of manufactured goods in 
the South. Every letter and newspaper in passing 
over the boundary would be subject to rigid inspec- 
tion. The great object of each would be to enrich 
and strengthen itself at the expense of its rival. 
The inhabitants on opposite sides of the Ohio might 
kindle a war at any time, by shooting each other 
across the river for pastime. And the seeds of dis- 
sension might be disseminated with the greatest 
facility, from the fact, that unprincipled men of 
address and intelligence might pass from one sec- 
tion through the other — the language being the 
same — and spring a mine among a community 
reposing in conscious security. 

But the source of interminable war, would be the 
navigation of the Mississippi. There is not per- 
haps a more powerful and universal trait of national 
character than a disposition to avail itself of the 
natural advantages of its situation. And this king 
of rivers, which, with its thousand arms, drains the 
fairest portion of the globe, was made to bear, as 
it now does, the products of that portion on its 
bosom. The voice of Nature on this subject is too 
plain to be misunderstood. Natural obstacles, 
though in part overcome by the art and industry 
of man, forbid any other outlet with equal facility. 
A great portion of this valley — and that portion 
to which the outlet is of most importance — lies on 
one side of the boundary, and the point of destina- 
tion, fixed by nature, is on the other. Would the 
states of the Upper Mississippi submit to be debarred 
15* 



174 TO THE UNION. 

the free use of this natural channel ? Would the 
states of the South permit this great avenue to be 
common property ? The event alone can justify 
an answer. 

In view of all these circumstances and causes of 
international strife, it may well be inquired how 
long peace could be maintained between the two 
sections. History will give us some light on this 
question, and we need not go back to the states of 
antiquity for information, — Christian history will 
be sufficient for our purpose. Cite first the records 
of the middle ages. Read attentively the history 
of those states which overthrew the empire of the 
West, and began the present monarchies of Europe; 
the Goths, Franks, and Lombards, whose meagre 
annals for several centuries are mostly filled with 
accounts of royal fratricides and paricides — and 
they will inform you how long brothers of jealous 
disposition and rival interests will remain in peace. 
Ask England, our venerated mother, whose records 
in the time of the roses, will give the most satis- 
factory evidence on this point ; for her throne is 
as deeply red with fraternal blood as any in Christ- 
endom. It would be needless to multiply inquiries 
or state suppositions on a subject respecting which 
the history of all ages concurs with every day's 
experience of human character. Nothing but 
Divine interposition could avert the last resort in 
the case under consideration, even to the period to 
which we have arrived. It cannot be longer 
stayed. The war of brothers commences. Mu- 



TO THE UNION. 175 

tual jealousies, rivalries, and heartburnings, long 
cherished in secret, burst forth like the tornado in 
the summer's calm. 

The cause of each party is as clear by right and 
just, as though written in sunbeams. With mutual 
horror at such unnatural conduct, each party ap- 
peals to Heaven for justice, and for avenging the 
injured, that is, its own cause. Public supplica- 
tions are offered in sublime mockery for Divine aid 
throughout the North and South, — and the sword 
is let loose. 

Hundreds of emissaries from the North, filled 
with the spirit of evil, elude detection, enter the 
South, excite the slaves to insurrection, and promise 
them the estates of their masters. In the mean 
time the energies of the South are distracted, agi- 
tated as she is by a civil and a servile war, her 
agriculture neglected, and her ports of commerce 
blockaded. The North is divided by factions ; 
many of her best citizens having ever and utterly 
opposed this resort to arms. But the clamour of 
the multitude prevails, and in the excitement of the 
revolution a brave army is raised to conquer the 
South. But this army finds a theatre of operations 
very different from what it expected. The re- 
sources of the South are distributed on a plan 
differing entirely from the North. Instead of the 
frequent villages and wealthy towns of the latter, 
it finds abundance of pine woods to plunder, with 
country mansions scattered all over the country, a 
mile asunder. As it approaches a large town, a 



176 TO THE UNION. 

cloud of flame, a miniature Moscow, points out its 
locality, and covers the retreat of the inhabitants. 
To the utter surprise of these invaders, they have 
to contend every step v^^ith slaves. Individuals and 
squadrons and regiments of negroes oppose their 
progress continually, fighting heroically for their 
native soil. They enfilade the woody passages 
leading to their masters' dwellings and their own, 
and, like their brethren in Africa, strike their ene- 
mies from the bush. As it pushes onward into the 
country, a new enemy attacks the army. Disease 
seizes the unacclimated, and the remnant falls an 
easy prey. Another is raised, equipped, and 
marched. During all this time, the arts of peace 
being exchanged for the excitements and the tumult 
of war, the manufactories of the North are sus- 
pended ; her shipping unemployed or captured ; 
her agriculture neglected ; her enterprize palzied ; 
and vice and crime are the lessons of her former 
industrious population. 

The great courts of Europe, which have been 
silent but interested spectators of this scene, now, 
after the combatants appear to be exhausted, under 
pretence of reconciling difficulties, become engaged 
in the strife, assist the weaker sufficient to make 
it an equal match for the stronger, until both 
'parties are completely prostrated, and the energies 
of the country are destroyed. These allies, having 
seized upon the most important stations, garrison 
them with their own troops, under the double plea 
of preserving peace, and of remuneration for 



TO THE UNION. 177 

services rendered ; and as for the ruined country, 
they— 

" Leave it alone in its glory." 

Taking advantage of its prostrate condition, a 
dozen young Napoleons aspire to the sovereignty. 
Each gathers a rabble of lawless followers, and as 
the country exhibits some symptoms of returning 
life, after one-half the aspirants are defeated or 
murdered, the remainder having established some 
authority in different sections, and the impoverished 
state wiUing for repose at any sacrifice, the whole 
country is divided into half-a-dozen kingdoms, 
ready, as soon as recovered from the desolating 
scourge, to renew scenes of conquest and violence. 

Such is merely the faint outUne of a picture 
which is impressed upon the mind in contemplating 
a resort to arms as the final result of this contro- 
versy. To fill up the picture, would require a 
volume devoted to the extreme degree of human 
madness and suffering. If God, who has been our 
great benefactor, should ordain us a scourge for 
our ingratitude, and let loose the spirit of anarchy 
in our country, the strides we have taken in na- 
tional power and prosperity would be exceeded 
only by our rushing downward to ruin. 

Thirdly. We have another mode of contempla- 
ting the settlement of this question, which promises 
a happier result. This is by concession and com- 
promise. Against any proposition of this nature, 
I am aware there are strong feelings and prejudices 



.178 TO THE UNION. 

arrayed from that stubborn independence of our 
people which arrogates to itself a perfection of 
wisdom, and professes a readiness to defend its 
opinions and vindicate its conduct to the last ex- 
tremity. Some of these prejudices will be noticed 
in pursuing this inquiry ; but it may be sufficient 
to say here, that there is gi'ound to hope that a 
spirit of concession may prevail from the fact that 
individual as well as national interests combine to 
favour it. Men of the habitual reflection of the 
American people, will ponder upon the certain 
consequences of disunion and war, before they 
consent to engage in the strife. And when each 
man has looked at the stake he has in the question 
— his personal interest and safety, his family, his 
friends, his merchandize, his property — he will ask 
at what price or sacrifice this threatening calamity 
can be averted, before he decides to meet it. 

And that it is a momentous question is proved 
from the difficulties which surround it. It is grown 
so enormous that men know not how to grasp it ; 
but there is some light daw'ning from the right 
quarter. There are many slaveholders giving 
their attention deeply to the subject. I have heard 
plans proposed for its extinction, which evinced a 
degree of profound observation and reflection. 
There are plans in contemplation among slave- 
holders which are worthy of candid attention, and 
of encouragement from the free states. It is 
greatly desirable that some of these men could so 
far overcome the obstacles and the prejudices of 



TO THE UNION. 179 

their situation, as to give their thoughts to the 
public. It would elicit inquiry, and they would 
find many others seeking for information, to 
whose minds their suggestions, and the fact that 
the subject of emancipation was exciting public 
attention at home, would afford relief and gratifica- 
tion. I know the reply which will be made to this 
suggestion, viz., that the measures of the aboli- 
tionists have entirely precluded any such action 
among slaveholders at present. That it would be 
unworthy of the South to make any propositions 
touching emancipation in any form, while the aboli- 
tionists were menacing them with ruin. But from 
this view of the subject I beg to dissent. It is pay- 
ing the aboHtionists a compliment which they do 
not deserve. They are but a small fraction of 
northern society, and shall they suspend and ob- 
struct the action of the community, both North and 
South, on subjects of national interest ? But another 
reason may be offered why this is the proper time 
for southern men to offer their plans. The move- 
ments of abolitionists have awakened pubhc atten- 
tion at the North to the subject of slavery, and 
the majority of the people, although not approving 
their measures, are inquiring for information, and 
are just in a position to receive favourably any pro- 
position which, while it exposes the errors and 
mischiefs of immediate abolition, shall offer some 
feasible plan for doing away the evil. If no such 
proposition is offered — if every thing which comes 
from the South, looks only to the perpetuation of 



180 TO THE UNION. 

slavery — multitudes of this northern nnajority will 
probably either settle down into the unwilling belief, 
that slavery is an unremediable evil, or will fix their 
attention and their hopes upon some modification 
of abolition. 

With these views, the writer calls upon the 
South for such declarations of their wishes and 
intentions, without compromising their own inte- 
grity and honour, or yielding to the fanatical spirit 
of immediate abolition, as may lead the awakened 
feeling of the North to adopt measures for pre- 
serving the public tranquillity, and calm its agita- 
tion by manifesting a disposition to at least 
investigate the merits of the subject. 

And I would not startle the patriotism or self- 
interest of the reader, in declaring, that by conces- 
sion or compromise, I avow a firm conviction, 
that colonization offers the best, the only true plan 
of bringing this controversy to a happy issue — and 
of making a freeman of the slave. I am aware, 
that my patriotism and philanthropy will both be 
called in question for this avowal; but to such per- 
sons I have only to say that a candid and thorough 
investigation of the subject has forced this convic- 
tion upon me, in spite of powerful and opposing 
prejudices. And the deliberate attention of the 
reader is invited to the facts and the reasons 
which will now be given for this conviction. 

The idea of transporting all the slaves back to 
Africa, seems at first view utterly chimerical; and 
so the writer once viewed it. But the work is not 



TO THE UNION. 181 

beyond the reach of possibility; and the rule of a 
good man respecting a good work is, if he cannot 
do all he would, he will do all he can. If we can- 
not remove all the blacks, certainly we can relieve 
those portions of the country where slavery is be- 
coming a burden. On this point I should regret 
not having the aid and co-operation of aboUtionists. 
I know they are capable of exerting a powerful 
influence in this cause, and am confident that it is 
a mistaken philanthropy which leads them to op- 
pose it. They have entirely different views of 
human nature from the mass of men, if they think 
to elevate the negro to an equality with the whites 
in this country. And unless they possess the 
power of foreknowledge, and are acting under the 
inspiration of what shall be at some future period, 
it is almost self-evident, that their success in the 
measures which they now so strenuously urge, 
will result in the injury of the coloured race, both 
present and prospective. At least such is the con- 
clusion of the writer, in contemplating this subject, 
in the light of past experience. 

I recollect once suggesting the proposition of 
purchasing the slaves, for the purpose of emanci- 
pating them, to an abolitionist of some notoriety, 
when he inmaediately replied — " what ! buy stolen 
property ? no, never." To what extent the views of 
this man are those of abolitionists generally, I 
know not ; but would make a few remarks on this 
point, for the reflection of all northern men. If 
the negroes were stolen, the North is at least as 
IG 



182 TO THE UNION. 

deeply implicated in the crime as the South. If 
there is national dishonour in slavery, the North is 
a partaker in it. If it is to be blotted out in blood, 
she will inevitably furnish a share. If emancipa- 
tion can be amicably effected, she must and ought 
to bear a part of the burden. 

That the subject of colonization emancipation is 
becoming one of increasing interest, is evident from 
the fact that some of the slave states have state 
societies formed foi encouraging it, which receive 
legislative aid. And the time is not distant, when 
the question of African colonization will be agi- 
tated in the national capitol. Emancipation 
must become a subject of national interest, of na- 
tional deliberation and effort. And I should rejoice, 
were there such a tone of feeling in the country, 
expressed through the state legislatures and local 
assemblies, as should demand of Congress to offer 
to transport to Africa at the national expense, and 
provide for their temporary maintenance, all the 
slaves which should be offered by their masters, 
and all the indigent free blacks who should offer 
themselves, to return to their father-land. While 
these were in progress of removal, another propo- 
sition might be made to purchase all that should be 
offered within a limited price and time. By this 
means public attention would be drawn to this 
mode of emancipation, and by their gradual re- 
moval the utility and expediency of colonization 
on a large scale would be tested; Should the cur- 
rent of popular feeling among the blacks be directed 



TO THE UNION. 183 

strongly into this channel, it would soon break 
down every barrier, and its force become irresisti- 
ble. Not only the slave and the indigent freeman, 
who would be aided in their removal, but the man of 
property, would be anxious to emigrate to join a 
community where his respectability and influence 
would be something more than nominal, and not 
entirely overshadowed and obscured by his supe- 
riors. To this plan, I am aware there are strong 
objections, but I cannot believe the objectors have 
deliberately canvassed the subject. The question 
of colonization has entered into the discussions 
between the North and South on slavery, and each 
section has imbibed prejudices against it — the 
North professing to believe that the South encou- 
raged it from interested motives of making slavery 
more secure ; and the latter jealous of every thing 
emanating from the North, looked upon it as the 
incipient movement of a society, whose ultimate 
object was the overthrow of slavery. 

This result has been produced by the abolition 
excitement, since which, for the reasons just men- 
tioned, the Colonization Society has received less 
favour from the public, than in the first years of 
its existence. But whatever may be the fate of this 
society, the cause is a good one, and must prevail. 
My belief in its goodness is based upon observation 
of human nature and experience of the past — in 
its prevalence, is founded upon the wisdom, justice, 
and humanity of my countrymen. 

First. The South will not listen a moment to 



184 TO THE UiVION. 

emancipation in any other mode. Those who are 
opposed to slavery from principle, and those who 
would be relieved from it as a burden, look only to 
colonization for relief. They are certainly the 
best judges of their situation, both present and pros- 
pective, and the opposer of colonization may choose 
between the practicability of changing the public 
sentiment of an entire community of millions, and 
the propriety of co-operating in measures of their 
own adoption. But this fact of southern opposition 
to emancipation, except the slaves are sent out of 
the country, is altogether a secondary considera- 
tion in advocating colonization. Even if they 
should consent to a full and free unconditional 
abolition, I would still urge colonization upon the 
negro. I would plead for it then, as I do now, first 
and chiefly, for the very reason that the immediate 
abolitionists profess to oppose it ; that is, from 
motives of regard for the welfare of the coloured 
race. I must acknowledge a full conviction, that 
it is out of the question to elevate the negro to an 
equality with the whites in this country. And this 
conviction is the result of a calm and deliberate 
consideration of the condition — not of the servile 
and degraded southern slave — hut of the eman- 
cipated blacks and their descendants in the free 
states, 

I cannot reflect upon this condition, without 
adopting the language of another — " he can never 
rise, he is a negro !" In proof of this, go to New 
England, the land of the pilgrims, the boasted home 



TO THE UMON. 185 

of Christianity, of good morals, of political freedom, 
of unfeigned philanthropy, and of charitable insti- 
tutions. There the slave has been free for near 
half a century, and what is his condition? Where 
is his place in the family, even of the parish minis- 
ter? Where in the church, and at the eucharist? 
He is a man, a man of intelligence, of integrity, of 
property. But can he vote ? Has he any politi- 
cal rights ? He has been knocking at your legis- 
lative doors repeatedly for redress of grievances, 
for removal of his disabilities, for equal, Declara- 
tion-of-Independence, rights and privileges — and 
the only response he has ever obtained is " you are 
a negro." His property is taxed, but he has no 
voice in the taxation — a violation of the very prin- 
ciple for which your and his forefathers dared to 
resist the power of the mother country. He is a 
native of the state ; and if reputation, industry, and 
knowledge can make a man respectacle, he is 
entitled to the appellation : but you trample him 
under foot, and impart the right of suffrage and 
citizenship to a degraded, ignorant foreigner, who 
is in every respect (except the colour of his skin) 
his inferior. He is subject to the most degraded 
caste. You do not hesitate to come in the closest 
personal contact with the negro, as a barber, or a 
body servant, but a Jew would sooner eat pork 
than you would sit at the same table with him. In 
this remark I speak of the great body of society. 
Your daughters would be disgraced in associating 
16* 



186 TO THE UNION. 

with parties of black females. Even now they 
shudder at the bare idea. 

I have before stated that southern men ought 
never to reproach the North on the subject of amal- 
gamation. May it not be said, with much greater 
emphasis, that the North should be cautious in 
reproaching the South for infracting the plain letter 
of Jefferson's Declaration, by denying the blacks 
their freedom. The latter openly avow a right to 
keep them in servitude ; the former have granted 
them a freedom, which at the same time they 
acknowledge to be counterfeit, by withholding from 
them those privileges which they themselves con- 
sider the essential rights of freemen. 

Again. Look at Philadelphia, the boasted city 
of loving brothers, and of good order. You would 
not believe, from a knowledge of its past history, 
or a walk through its quiet streets, that materials 
for a mob could be found in the whole city and 
liberties ; but even Philadelphia is moved, when 
the African dares a step above his level. A white 
and a negro walk the streets of Philadelphia, arm 
in arm! — will posterity believe it! — and Pennsyl- 
vania Hall is fired to see the spectacle. 

Take the most respectable coloured person in 
the community, and what is the current observa- 
tion respecting him 1 Why exactly this ; that he 
is very smart for a negro. The mere report of 
an intermarriage between a white and black would 
throw any city of the North into a ferment. 

If this is the condition and the standing of the 



TO THE UNION. 187 

negro in the free states fifty years after emancipa- 
tion, how long a period will be required to place 
him on a level with the whites 1 When this ques- 
tion is satisfactorily answered, some- opinion may 
be formed of the time requisite to elevate the 
southern slave to the same equality. 

But, it will be answered, public opinion is wrong 
in consigning the negro to degradation. Admit 
it, and what follows ? Will the true philanthropist 
spend his life in fruitless struggles to overcome an 
unconquerable prejudice against the coloured man; 
or take advantage of that prejudice to place him 
in a situation, where he may exert all the faculties 
of his nature for his own benefit'? A sort of infamy 
is every where attached to a state of slavery, and 
this with his sable complexion fixes an indelible 
mark upon the negro, which can never be effaced 
until human nature is radically changed. This 
country is not the home of the negro ; it never can 
be.* He may continue to live here, but he can 
never assert the privileges of a freeman ; can never 
develope his powers. He will always be an outcast, 
trodden under foot, a hewer of wood and drawer 

* " You may set the negro free, but you cannot make him 
otherwise than an alien to the European. — The moderns 
then, after they have abolished slavery, have three prejudices 
to contend against, which are less easy to attack and far less 
easy to conquer, than the mere fact of servitude ; — the pre- 
judice of the master, the prejudice of the race, and the 
prejudice of colour." 

De Tocqueville, Democracy in America, 



188 TO THK UNION. 

of water. He has no better inheritance in pros- 
pect for his children, than to be servants of ser- 
vants. In view of this nearly universal prejudice, 
many of the best men of the North are decidedly 
in favour of colonization ; and I doubt not also 
the greater portion of the community who have 
soberly investigated the subject. 

And here the opposer alike of colonization and 
slavery will inquire, why not free the slave, and 
let him remain as a hired servant? I answer, 
chiefly for the reasons just stated. This plan offers 
at first view a very plausible mode for extinguish- 
ing slavery, and elevating the negro, and as such 
deserves attention. I have ever believed that if 
the South would adopt it, it would relieve her from 
very great present embarrassments. The negro 
would have a motive to labour, to exercise frugal- 
ity and economy, which he cannot have in his 
present state. If the planter should divide his cul- 
tivated fields among his labourers, and offer a pre- 
mium for the greatest product, he would realize a 
larger profit. The fear of insurrection, a suspicion 
of which now makes every man's ear to tingle, 
would be entirely removed. The resources of the 
whole South would no doubt be greatly increased. 
But I am aware that the South looks upon this 
proposition as one bearing the impress of folly 
upon its very face, and giving rise to no emotions 
but those of contempt and ridicule. Perhaps the 
best men would reject it instantly. The whole 
South would reject it unanimously. Nevertheless 



TO THE UiSION. 189 

this fact does not alter my opinion. I cannot 
believe it a futile project, until the experiment 
shall have been tried. But still its ultimate results 
— taking the experience of the North, and a know- 
ledge of human nature for our guides — are far from 
being clear or satisfactory. Certainly, I should 
not hesitate to declare a preference for coloniza- 
tion, in comparison with this plan. The one offers 
certain advantages for the neo;ro, the other must 
be comparatively a doubtful experiment. It has 
been shown, what is the present condition of the 
blacks in the free states — that their freedom is 
merely nominal ; and from that we may form an 
opinion of the slow progress which the blacks of 
the South would make in improving themselves. 

In considering this point, we must not lose sight of 
the agents by which this change is to be effected. 
If the slaves are emancipated, the act must be done 
by southern legislators. Suppose for a moment 
they consent to try the experiment of emancipa- 
ting the slaves without removing them. He has 
studied human character to very little purpose, 
who does not at once perceive that in the steps 
preliminary to this event, effectual measures for 
self-defence would be taken. Various enactments 
would be made with reference to the probable con- 
sequences of such an event ; and one not the least 
important would have a direct bearing upon the 
political rights of the blacks. Would the right of 
suffrage be extended to them, or would this prero- 
gative of freemen be fenced around with so many 



190 TO THE UNION. 

barriers, that but few of them would be able to 
surmount them for generations. The laws would 
most certainly be so framed as to exclude them 
forever, if possible, from any share in state or 
national legislation. Were the right of suffrage 
given them to the same extent that is now prac- 
tised in some of the free states, they would control 
every department of government in more than one 
of the slave states, at the very next following 
election. And I ueed not ask, what southern, but 
what northern legislator would consent to occupy 
a seat in the representative hall with a negro ! 
The consequence of such freedom as they would 
obtain, would be, either a degraded state of inferi- 
ority — or if the blacks should increase faster than 
the whites (a very probable supposition), they 
would soon be in a condition to demand equal 
rights. 

But again ; these slaves are set free, exceedingly 
ignorant, totally destitute of property. Accustomed 
to entire direction in all their employments, they 
are now cast off, and told to provide for them- 
selves. They have nothing to commence with, no 
houses, lands, tools, or trades; and though used to 
labour, very few of them have sufficient intelli- 
gence to direct their labours to a useful purpose 
or a profitable result. Would not a community of 
whites in such circumstances be satisfied with the 
gross indulgences of sensual propensities, and drag 
out a miserable existence rather as brutes than as 
men. What then can be hoped from the negro, 



TO THE UNION. 191' 

who, in addition to his exertions for personal advan- 
tage in the most unfavourable circumstances, has 
to combat every step with an unconquerable pre- 
judice against his colour, deepened by a recollec- 
tion of his late servile condition. To the prejudice 
which now consigns him to a secluded degrada- 
tion in the intelligent, enlightened free states, would 
be added a strong, ever wakeful suspicion at the 
South, arising from the physical inequality of the 
blacks. 

In view of these almost certain results, 1 cannot 
perceive how the friend of the African race can 
wish him to remain in this country as a freeman. 
Great rejoicings have been made in some parts of 
the country, at the emancipation of the slaves in 
the British colonies in our neighbourhood. I shall 
be glad, if these rejoicings do not prove to be pre- 
mature. Every good man and friend of his race, 
must rejoice at the abandonment or extinction of 
slavery, wherever it offers a prospect of improving 
the condition of the slave ; and every such man 
will believe that freedom is preferable to slavery 
in every case, until observation and experience 
disprove the fact. Very contradictory reports 
have been published respecting the operation of 
the apprenticeship system, and abolition in the 
British islands ; but sufficient has been elicited to 
convince the writer of the following facts : — That 
full emancipation is safe for the master — that the 
negro slave is the same passive machine in Ja- 
maica as in the southern states, and that he is 



192 - TO THE UNION. 

looked upon as the same degraded inferior — that 
continual altercation will arise between the em- 
ployer and the hireling in such cases respecting 
wages — and that the latter has little to hope from 
his late master, in aiding his improvement in any 
respect. The consequences of this measure cannot 
be known with certainty any faster than time 
develops them, although it will, no doubt, event- 
ually tend to the improvement of the negro. We 
should, however, be cautious in all our specula- 
tions on this subject, and especially in comparisons 
between the state of these colonies and our own 
country. The former are not independent states, 
but entirely under the control of the British crown 
or Parliament; consequently the government of 
England not only dictates the time and mode of 
emancipation, but the condition of the freedmen 
with regard to citizenship. The present popular 
feeling of the British nation indicates that this will 
be favourable to the negro. In view of these facts 
there can be little doubt that one result of colonial 
emancipation will be an ultimate abandonment of 
the island to the blacks, unless the whites should 
choose to live under their legislative control. 

VII. But there is a better prospect for the slave 
in the land of his fathers. Tropical Africa appears 
to be the home destined by the Creator for the 
negro, and has been the residence of his race, from 
lime immemoritd. There is room enough even in 
the vicinity of the coast of Upper Guinea for all 



TO THE UNION. 193 

the black population of the Union ; as but a very- 
small part of its luxuriant soil has been brought 
under cultivation. There the negro can stand 
erect in his manhood, and, in the face of his 
brother, behold only an equal. No master has 
power to task him, or make him feel continually a 
consciousness of bitter degradation. He may there 
assert the rights and dignity of a freeman, and 
cultivate the faculties which God has given him. 
If he has enterprize, there is a sufficient field for its 
exercise in the unknown regions of his father-land. 
If he has learned any thing valuable, in his state 
of vassalage, he can there turn it to his own ad- 
vantage. If he is capable of exciting an influence 
upon Africa in favour of Colonization and Christi- 
anity, she needs it all. His religion, his character, 
his intellect, are here thrown into the shade, by his 
white superiors ; there they may be exerted for 
his own benefit, and the improvement of his be- 
nighted countrymen. Here, in the most favoura- 
ble circumstances, he obtains but a partial reward 
for his labour — he is surrounded by an influence 
which neutralizes his utmost exertions — there, he 
has to compete only with equals, and may obtain 
a reward bounded only by the limits of his indus- 
try, his enterprize, and skill. His employments 
here are the same which will be in request there. 
Here he cultivates the earth, and another enjoys 
the harvest. There he may survey his cotton or 
cane-field with a conscious pride of feeling that 
the fruits of his toil are all his own. The pro- 

17 



194 TO THE UNION. 

ducts of his country will find a ready market, and 
he may even come in competition with his old 
master in producing the staple articles of com- 
merce. Ev^en now the coffee of Liberia is in 
demand through the Union. Her cotton, sugar, 
and rice are of the best quality, and there is no 
question but she may cultivate all the productions of 
the tropics, including the teas, the spices, the dyeing 
vegetables, and the drugs of India. Of the finest 
fruits she has a profusion almost without cultiva- 
tion, equal to any other section of the globe. 

But, it will be answered, the climate of tropical 
Africa is unhealthy for immigrants. This is un- 
doubtedly true. It is a well known fact that emi- 
grants from a northern to a southern climate, or 
from an old settled to a new country, must go 
through a process of acclimation, in which more 
or less die. This is abundantly evident, from the 
progress of population in our own country. But 
from impressions on my own mind, without refer- 
ence to tabular statements, I am decidedly of 
opinion that the coloured emigrants to Liberia 
have enjoyed greater immunity from fatal diseases 
than emigrants from one part of our own country 
to another. The mortality among them has been 
incomparably less than among the first settlers of 
Plymouth or Jamestown : and I doubt not a less 
proportion of American emigrants die in Liberia, 
than of slaves who are carried from the northern 
slave states to the southern, or of white emigrants 
from the eastern states to the western country. 



TO THE UNION. 195 

Those who doubt the coi'rectness of this statement 
are invited to furnish the facts, and give, in tabular 
form, the data from which a comparison may be 
made. It is, if 1 mistake not, generally admitted 
that Liberia is a very healthy country for the 
natives, and as much so at least, as tropical cli- 
mates generally to foreign residents of temperate 
habits. A large majority of the whites who have 
gone there, and resided more than a year in the 
service of the Colonization Society, have survived, 
although many of them were from the northern 
states of this country. A number of these were 
in this country during the last year, and their evi- 
dence on the subject is entirely worthy of credit. 
But so important a point as hcalthfulness of the 
climate should be duly weighed in connection with 
the removal of a numerous population ; and who- 
ever, on either side, should make wanton mistate- 
ments on this subject to favour the designs of a 
party, can be looked upon in no other light than a 
trifler with human existence. 

Does not America owe it to Africa, to send back 
her children, and their descendants. We have 
used them as servants for nearly two centuries, 
and have made them no equivalent. If they have 
become wiser, it has been accidental, not a posi- 
tive gift. They have engrafted some of our worst 
vices on their own. Our forefathers were among 
the first who engaged in the horrible traffic of 
slaves, and were thus guilty, in a great measure, of 
exciting those murderous wars, whicii have torn 



196 TO THE UNION. 

and scourged thai unhappy country for ages. We 
may pay the debt in part by returning those over 
which we have control; by placing them in hap- 
pier circumstances, and making the settlements a 
barrier to the coast trade in slaves. And as the 
whole nation is guilty in this matter, and as the 
whole, also, has been profited by the toil of the 
slave, his redemption and welfare becomes an 
object of national importance. Not until the nation 
becomes interested in the subject, will the work be 
accomplished. It is too vast, too burdensome, to 
be effected by an individual, a society, or a state. 
And the resources of the country are equal to the 
mighty enterprize. Has not God been our bene- 
factor to put into our hands the means of paying this 
enormous debt. He has given us peace (with 
very slight intermissions) from the commencement 
of our national existence, and multiplied our riches 
without measure. The whole period of fifty years, 
has been one scarcely interrupted scene of onward, 
onward increase and prosperity, heretofore un- 
known in the annals of the world. Our population 
has quadrupled, our means increased a hundred 
fold. I cannot review this scene of progressive 
welfare without a conviction that God intends a 
great offering shall be made, to remove from our 
midst an entire people, by whose burdens this 
great accumulation has in part, been produced. 
We stand in relation to the Africans, as the Egypt- 
ians stood to Israel ; and as sure as the latter were 
liberated, so surely must these be released. It is 



TO THE UNION. 197 

needless to go into the evidences of this coming 
event. They are distinctly perceptible to every 
Christian, and philanthropist, and patriot. The 
great question is, shall we come forward as a peo- 
ple, and make the time and mode of their discharge 
a great thank offering, becoming the magnanimity 
of a nation which is above the fear of an outward 
foe ; or shall we grasp the possession, as the lion 
grasps the Iamb, until the decree for emancipation 
shall be executed after suffering all the plagues of 
Egypt. And the real philanthropist is equally 
confident of the ultimate redemption of the slave, 
and the necessity of sending him home to Africa. 
He must needs go back, not only for his own wel- 
fare, but for enlightening his countrymen. The 
day is dawning, in which Ethiopia is to be civil- 
ized and Christianized. 

And although this undertaking appears so vast, 
and apparently unattainable, its difficulties will 
gradually disappear when the work is commenced 
in earnest. When this shall be done, there will be 
less want of means than of willingness to apply 
them. The resources of the nation are annually 
accumulating far beyond what would be required 
for this object, by the most ardent and active inter- 
est in its accomplishment. We have presented 
the singular spectacle of a nation, receiving more 
revenue than it knew what to do with; and with 
prudence and integrity in the national councils, 
such a period is before us again. The very opera- 
tion of our present national system aiid laws, will 
17* 



198 TO THE UNION. 

produce such a result continually, while we have 
wisdom to keep in peace with the nations. Either 
of two items of the national revenue, that from the 
customs or the public lands, would be sufficient to 
effect this great work in a progressive manner. 
Will this application, so equal, so little burdensome, 
eo just, and for the accomplishment of so import- 
ant an object, be denied ? And will not the nation 
demand that the navy be enlisted in and devoted 
to this great work? The ships of war, which are 
now decaying in the harbours, and the gallant 
men who are rusticating on shore for want of em- 
ployment on the ocean, should be engaged in this 
business, greatly to reduce the expense, and to 
benefit the service. By the agency of this single 
power, as many might be transported (at the least 
expense) as could be advantageously settled in 
Africa for some years to come. And it would be 
a spectacle worthy of our infant but energetic 
Union, to see the ocean covered with American 
vessels, as transports and convoys, carrying back 
to their father-land, that portion of our population 
which is extensively regarded by some of the most 
enlightened nations as a dark spot upon our na- 
tional x:haracter. The songs of a nation redeemed, 
swelling over the ocean, would be re-echoed wdth 
great joy, by all human intelligence. Such a spec- 
tacle would show to the admiration of the world, 
that the boasted motto of our statesmen and am- 
bassadors — ^' equal and exact justice to all men"— 
is not an unmeaning or false declaration, and wo.uld 



TO THE UNIOPf. 199 

elevate us in the estimation of the wise and good, 
more than the gaining of a hundred battles, or the 
exhibition of Roman valour. 

By engaging in this enterprize on a scale suited 
to its magnitude, treaties would be entered into 
with native tribes, and cessions of territory re- 
quired, by which we should check and assist to 
extinguish the merciless slave trade ; a work in 
which our government has but slightly co-opera- 
ted, from motives of national policy, on which I 
need not animadvert. With the reputation and 
the resources of the nation to sustain it, this under- 
taking should not be carried on in a parsimonious 
manner. The negro should not be sent empty 
away. The destitute should be provided with 
homes, and every family a lot in proportion to its 
numbers, that they might in reality sit under their 
own vine and fig tree. 

The accomplishment of this enterprize, or even 
its vigorous commencement, would form an era 
in the history of Africa, and its influence could 
not be otherwise than salutary. These ransomed 
servants would carry the Bible and the Christian 
ministry along with them, and churches and schools 
would be established in all their borders. It would 
be a land of Goshen, not like that of old ; but the 
light in their dwellings would shine afar, and il- 
luminate the gross darkness of that mighty con- 
tinent. The news of their coming would be spread 
abroad, and barbarian kings from the vast interior 
would send messengers to hold " palaver " with 



200 TO THE UIVION^. 

the Christian foreigners. Their example might 
teach these rude nations, that the arts of peace 
were preferable to the horrors of war. With 
wise governors and counsellors to mould the infant 
state ; with a sufficient number of workmen in the 
useful arts ; with the blessings of Christianity and 
civilization ; it would possess advantages, which 
few incipient colonies ever enjoyed. By its in- 
dustry, and enterprize, in developing its agricul- 
tural resources, this infant nation would repay in 
a few generations all the burdens miposed by its 
establishment in its contributions to American 
commerce. 

To those who shrink from the contemplation of 
this project — the purchase and transportation of 
the slaves — in view of the expense, let me suggest 
a reflection for my countrymen on the objects for 
which enormous sums of money are now expended 
by the nation. I will instance only one, the Florida 
war. It is painful to reflect upon the insatiability 
of a false national honour. The sum which has 
been expended, estimated at $20,000,000, in com- 
bating a handful of Indians without subduing them, 
would purchase a territory in Africa large enough 
•for all the black population in the Union, and 
build them houses to live in ; or a thousandth 
part of it would have secured the friendship of 
these savages, instead of making them inveterate 
enemies. 

But the national honour was said to be in 
jeopardy ; and to sustain this, the people have as 



TO THE UNION. 201 

yet quietly submitted to this enormous expense. 
But if national renown has any connection with 
the prodigal expenditure of money, we shall have 
a niche in the temple of glory. Future history 
will secure us the undying fame of putting forth 
the energies of a mighty nation against fifteen 
hundred rude barbarians, and killing ihem at an 
expense of fifty thousand dollars per head. Fifty 
odd millions more will extinguish the tribe, unless, 
as in mercantile affairs, the capitation value should 
be increased as the number is lessened. But even 
if the recent project of building a wall of Hving 
men across the peninsula, to repress their incursions, 
should succeed, and no more millions be demanded 
at present — the glory of the past is at least secure, 
and we may be assured that posterity will do us 
jtistice. I regret to mar the joy of this prospective 
fame, by suggesting that the price of killing one 
Indian would have given a new and happier life 
to a hundred negroes. But Indians and negroes 
are very different men, and national honour and 
national benevolence are at present far from being 
convertible terms. 

VIII. In closing this appeal, the writer begs 
serious attention to the following remarks, as a suit- 
able appendix to the subject. It has been hinted, 
that emancipation must become a subject of na- 
tional interest and effort. On this point I am 
satisfied that reflection and discussion will produce 
a degree of unanimity as to the fact, however 



202 TO THE UIVION. 

the people may disagree respecting the extent and 
appUcation of the national resources. There is a 
tone of independent feeUng and action in the South, 
which in two or three states has already begun 
the work of Colonization, and when fully awakened, 
will go far towards effecting the object ; but even 
should state action be sufficient for the purpose, 
the interposition of government would be required 
in directing their plans to unity of design. Unless 
the national standard should he raised in Africa, 
and a governor or board of control have supreme 
jurisdiction, petty jealousies would break out into 
anarchy and coUisions between the emigrants and 
colonial governments of the different states, and 
thus all the great objects of Colonization would be 
defeated. There can be little doubt that when the 
current of popular feeling on this subject shall 
run in the proper channel, it will give the helm of 
direction to the national legislature. The popular 
will is the supreme dictator, the federal govern- 
ment is its agent. The great object at present 
should be to diffuse information. There are power- 
ful influences already at work, and if the opposing 
sentiments are left to combat in open field, the 
truth will be elicited by their collision. Nothing 
can be effected now, but an appeal to the good 
sense and sober judgment of the people, for there 
is no room for its admission into legislation. There 
is a struggle too engrossing, between the ins and 
outs of party, to listen to matters of purely be- 
nevolent import. It is the curse and disgrace of 



TO THE UNION. 203 

our country, that the demon of party feeh'ng and 
party interest sits enthroned in the capital, — and 
not only in the capital, but the state governments. 
Ev^ery where the predominant party stretches its 
prerogative to the utmost. No influence is allowed 
to the minority, no patriotism recognized, although 
it constitutes perhaps nine-twentieths of the people; 
no personal reputation, no amount of pubhc service 
can shield the man from proscription and obloquy, 
who does not fall down and worship the great 
idol of party. Legislation seems to be not for 
the nation, but for the party. The very spirit 
which actuates a victorious army, maddened by 
an obstinate conflict, to rush onward over a beaten 
and retiring foe, appears to govern our political and 
legislative action. Perhaps the reader may sup- 
pose these remarks to be levelled at the present 
administration. It is diflicult to decide which 
side is the most deserving. The spirit manifested 
by the opposition gives but too much evidence, 
that its first acts of power would be exercised in 
effacing every vestige of the present party domina- 
tion. The writer is no party follower. If he loves 
Csesar less, it is because he loves Rome more. 

There are indeed some appeals to patriotic prin- 
ciples, some assertion of independent thought in 
the debates of the capitol; but the loaves and fishes 
of office are evidently the great object of patriotic 
ardor. And it is loudly proclaimed by the clamor- 
ous patriots of the leading presses on both sides, 
that the very hope of freedom depends upon the 



204 TO THE UNION. 

success of their doctrines and measures. A wise 
man of old had these very Solomons in mind, 
when he said " truly ye are the men, and wisdom 
shall die with you." The government is yet in 
the hands of the people. If they have not sufficient 
virtue and knowledge to retain it, they will be the 
first to feel the weight of anarchy and despotism. 
If they permit their eyes to be blindfolded, and 
themselves led by those whom they sustain and 
support, they cannot complain if they are brought 
to the very brink of the precipice. In the present 
state of the public mind, there is little room for 
the exercise of patriotic benevolence. Amid the 
storm and tumult of partizan rancor, the welfare of 
the slave or the interest of his master, are subjects 
of secondary importance. Even should the ques- 
tion be now agitated as one having a national 
bearing, it would be swallowed up in the vortex 
of party. The lover of his country and his fellow- 
men, can only exert an individual influence in 
endeavouring to difilise facts, and awaken a spirit 
of inquiry ; leaving to Infinite Wisdom to curb the 
elements of discord and party selfishness; and 
bring about a period, when men shall live and act 
for the well-beins of their fellow-men. 



205 



CONCLUSION. 



In revising this brief work for the press, after 
several months' delay since it was first written, 
the writer begs the indulgence of the reader in 
offering a few additional observations, and making 
some explanatory remarks to prevent misappre- 
hension. 

First, however, he would state that a more 
careful observation, and a more extended survey 
of the whole field of controversy, including a some- 
what enlarged acquaintance with abolition periodi- 
cals — although residing himself among a slave 
community — have resulted in a stronger convic- 
tion that the positions laid down, and the facts 
stated in this work, are in the main, correct. In 
expressing his views in the foregoing pages, the 
writer is not aware of being influenced by any 
sinister motives, nor can he, on the other hand, lay 
claim to any very excitable feelings of com- 
placency, in prospect of receiving the flattering 
encomiums of any party, to which these pages are 
18 



206 CONCLUSION. 

particularly addressed. He never asked himself 
respecting anything he was about to write, "what 
will slaveholders say to this?" or "how will aboli- 
tionists relish that ?" He has expressed his own 
opinions, and aimed at stating facts without regard 
to fear or favour of any man or body of men. 
He never was a member of any society, having 
any connection with the question of slavery, nor 
did he take any person's counsel with regard to 
the propriety of what he was about to write. 
The impressions made on his mind, by a slight 
acquaintance with practical slavery, induced a 
wish to throw some light on the vexed and agi- 
tated subject; and when this wish began to assume 
a tangible form in writing, the great and important 
inquiry, — " what do truth, and justice, and future 
accountability require V was kept continually in 
view. ' That strong language has been frequently 
used, and that the free states have received a large 
share of pointed rebuke in the foregoing pages, 
is freely admitted : that the sentiments addressed 
to any section or class of the community, are more 
severe than truth and facts will warrant, will be 
cheerfully acknowledged, on conviction. The 
writer claims no exemption from the frailties or 
infirmities of humanity — he only bespeaks the in- 
dulgence of wiser men, that the errors of the head 
may not be imputed to the heart. 

That his inquiries and observations should result 
in recommending Colonization was entirely un- 



CONCLUSION. 207 

foreseen at the commencement. He once laughed 
at the impracticable scheme, and, with a good 
portion of the abolition prejudice against it, set it 
down as an enterprize, something worse than 
visionary. But a candid view of both sides of the 
question, and a deliberate survey of the whole 
controversy, has resulted in an entire conviction 
that this plan offers the only feasible, benevolent, 
effectual remedy for American slavery. Were 
his circumstances such as to warrant the under- 
taking, he would wilUngly devote his humble ef- 
forts, to persuading and assisting the injured and 
degraded coloured population of the free states, to 
go back to the home of their fathers. He knows 
of no field, in which true benevolence could be 
more usefully employed. 

Again, the writer is aware that he will be 
charged by the spirit of modern aboHtion, with 
feeling a strong sympathy for slaveholders. In 
one sense he pleads guilty to this charge ; and he 
is confident a large number of abolitionists would 
do the same, if they were acquainted with slavery. 
He would vindicate slaveholders, when they are 
traduced — when arraigned before a tribunal to 
which they owe no submission, — and when the 
misdeeds of a fraction are imputed to the whole 
body. Beyond this, the charge cannot be sub- 
stantiated. If denounced as a defender of "hor- 
rible cruelty," or even wishing to perpetuate slavery, 
I would only answer, " it is a small thing to be 



208 coNCLusiorf. 

judged of man's judgment." But I am frank to 
declare, that the more slavery and aboUtion are 
brought into contrast, the more I am convinced 
there are two sides to the question. Are not the 
aboHtionists aware that slaves were bought and 
sold and advertised in Boston as common occur- 
rences, before the Revolution — and that when it 
was abolished, or about to be abolished, many 
slaves were carried from the North and sold to the 
southern planters, tu save a loss ? Do not they 
very well know that slavery was forced upon the 
colonies by the mother country, and one of the 
colonial assemblies sharply rebuked, (and its peti- 
tions rejected), for remonstrating against it. But 
they will say, " we have now abolished it entirely :" 
true, and presuming upon the act, you are now 
saying in effect — " stand by, for I am holier than 
thou." This spirit will never effect peaceable 
emancipation. — Neither will the good sense of the 
community ever resolve to pull down slavery, 
because there are bad men, monsters, engaged in it. 
After publishing the horrible atrocities of the sys- 
tem in their periodicals for years, the abohtionists 
have collected the whole series into one volume, 
with large additions, to " astound" the people with 
the horrid cruelties of slavery. This volume 
contains the evidence of a " thousand witnesses.'] 
Are the slaveholders of thirteen states to be de- 
nounced as out of the pale of humanity, by these 
thousand witnesses? Suppose some one should 



CONCLUSION. 209 

bring the testimony of a thousand witnesses to 
prove that slaveholders u'ere kind, humane, and in- 
dulgent ? — would abolitionists allow the testimony 
on one side, as an offset to the other 1 But again, 
say the abolitionists, — " human nature is so bad, 
that where men have the power of slaveholders, 
the will abuse it." Let us apply this argument 
to another subject. Human nature loves rum so 
well, that wherever men can get it, they will drink 
to excess. And would the people of New Eng- 
land quietly submit to the insinuation, that the 
whole mass of society were drunkards, because 
a thousand witnesses had testified that they had 
seen beastly intoxication in various parts of New 
England 1 Dr. Johnson said, the man who was 
continually declaring that all men were rogues, 
incontestibly proved that one at least was so. 
And I will venture to suggest, even at the hazard 
of being called an advocate of slavery, that there 
is some negative good at least in the restraints of 
slavery. Abolitionists know very well what num- 
bers of free blacks at the North are miserable 
drunkards. There are very few such among 
slaves, chiefly because they are slaves. But mul- 
titudes of free blacks in the slave states are like 
those just mentioned at the North, a burden to 
themselves and a nuisance to society. 

In conclusion, I will venture to propose to aboli- 
tionists, how they may effect aboHtion. Slavery 
is at best an untenable position if rightly ap- 
18* 



210 coNCLUSiorf. 

preached. But the abolitionists have hitherto at- 
tacked it in their own strength — and have failed. 
They are at present " a house divided against 
itself." They have in several instances urged on 
their followers to the polls, — and have failed. 
They have endeavoured to unite the people of the 
free states in their plans and measures — and have 
failed. Let them undertake to conquer slavery, 
as the apostles undertook to conquer the world, — 
and they will succeed. Had the disciples remained 
in Judea, lecturing the Jews upon the abominations 
and cruelties of heathen idolatry, how soon would 
such measures have converted Greece, and Rome, 
and Scythia ? But they took their lives in their 
hands, and went forth to preach to the idolater. 
I can assure the aboUtionists, there are large 
" fields, white, and ready for the harvest," at the 
South. In many of these fields, the masters ac- 
knowledge the evil of slavery, and are anxiously 
looking for relief They now consider abolitionists 
— and with too much reason — as incendiaries and 
fanatics. But under the influence of that spirit 
and power which accompanied the apostles, the 
chains would imperceptibly loosen and fall from 
the slave. The master cannot withstand such a 
spirit. Go entirely defenceless, trusting in the arm 
' of the Almighty. " He that takes the sword shall fall 
by the sword." Put the slaveholder upon his con- 
science. Hitherto you have put him entirely upon 
his legal rights^ and there he is strong. Have you 



CONCLUSION. ' 211 

not men for this service ? Men with the New 
Testament in their hands, and its spirit in their 
hearts ? No other spirit can subvert slavery, so 
as to bring good out of the evil. Slavery cannot 
be forced down, without deeply injuring both 
master and slave. Even should the measures of 
abolitionists succeed, and the servants remain on 
the soil, they will be but servants still, and will 
need the goodwill and friendship of their enaployers. 
If they should be induced to go to Africa, the as- 
sistance and counsel of their masters will be a 
source of gratification and prosperity. 

It becomes the intelligence, the justice, and the 
Christianity of the North to send men, in whom the 
public can confide, to the South, to bring back an 
accurate report of what slavery is practically, 
before judgment is made up respecting it. Thus 
far the statements on the subject have been of an 
ex parte character. I do not believe the people of 
the South would object to have slavery examined 
by men of principle and intelligence. Openness of 
conduct is a strong trait in their character. They 
would submit to it with as good a grace at least 
as the people of the North would to an examina- 
tion of their civil and domestic customs and usages. 



Although the fact may be of no interest to the 
public, the writer claims a pride of country as an 



212 CONCLUSION. 

American, not exceeded by that of any of his 
cotemporaries. And his pride is, not to be a north- 
ern or a southern man, but an American. His 
vision is not confined to a state or section, but 
embraces the country — the whole country. When 
the bond of union is loosened, and falls to pieces, 
the charm of American citizenship will be broken. 
As the first independent nation on this side the 
Atlantic, we have preserved the continental title, 
and if true to ourseh'es we shall sustain a reputa- 
tion worthy of the name. Unless we cherish a 
national, an American feeling, we shall lose or 
become unworthy the great name we have assumed, 
and which is recognized throughout the world. 
As soon as sectional or selfish interests shall have 
triumphed, and rent the Union in pieces, petty ap- 
pellations will be attached to petty sovereignties. 
There will be none worthy the names of Ameri- 
cans ; and a New Yorker, or a Carolinean, will 
take rank with a Brazilian, or a Guatimalean. 
Every American should cherish this national feel- 
ing with the spirit of a man who stands as a con- 
necting link in a line of illustrious men, whose 
worth and reputation he is to transmit to posterity. 
With these views, and apprehending a fatal 
issue to the Union from this cause, were my voice 
of sufficient influence to be heard, I w^ould summon 
an assembly of the free states, to discover, as accu- 
rately as possible, the state of public sentiment, and 
to offer to the South some plan for the extinction 



CONCLUSION. 213 

of slavery, in the spirit of sympathy and generosity, 
and propose to co-operate in the work. Could 1, 
on the other hand, gain the ear of the South, I 
would call on her citizens for an exphcit avowal 
of their views of slavery, soliciting them to state 
the terms on which they would accede to the 
wishes of the North, and the sacrifices they would 
make for national union. Should these efforts fail 
to settle the controversy, I would exhort each to 
resist to the utmost every attempt to stir up sec- 
tional strife, — to bear and forbear with all long 
suffering, rather than consent to a civil convulsion, 
leaving to the judgment of a wiser generation, and 
the guidance of Divine Providence, the future 
settlement of the question. 

With respect to the manner of this performance, 
the writer would bespeak the indulgence of criti- 
cal readers. It was written during such brief and 
irregular intervals, as could be spared from a very 
laborious and harassing employment — without 
opportunity to study connection of parts, or make 
it critically conformable to the rules of rhetoric 
and grammar. Without entering into any laboured 
argument, the writer has aimed chiefly to throw 
together statements, and facts, and opinions on the 
principal subjects of controversy, in a manner 
intelligible to the great body of the community. 
Perhaps he has offered nothing new. If so, he can 
only plead the scarcely pardonable excuse of good 
intentions, in adding to the great mass of useless 



214 CbNCLUSION.' 

publications. If he has merely suggested some 
ideas worthy of being transplanted from a barren 
into a better soil, where they may flourish, and 
bring forth good fruit, his labour will not be alto- 
gether in vain. 



District of Columbia, June, 1839. 



THE END. 



., -oport It; a- 

.>ks. 

established bee 
>ne Library, th 



ist not ^3 mada t- 




/iv^ 



'M. 



