Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/antidotetowestin02lond 



ANTIDOTE 



TO 



«W&tfa$vtofm&ktto$&," 



DRAWN 



FROM AUTHENTIC SOURCES. 



! No. VII. 

OBSERVATIONS 

ON THE 

NECESSITY OF A TOTAL CHANGE 

IN THE 

SYSTEM OF MANAGEMENT 

OF 

THE AFRICAN INSTITUTION, 



LONDON: 

FAINTED FOR WHITMORE AND FBNN, 
CHARING CROIS. 

1817. 



f£S,l£Bb.W m7 









■ M ^0 ■ 



-, . | p j ., ■ - | k 



PRINTED BY W. SMITH AND CO. KING STREET, SBVEN BJAbS. 

;•■':...■'■■■ 






ANTIDOTE 



TO 



4i 



, SfC. 



V> 



THE Editor of the West Indian 
Sketches, — after treating our poor 
Autidote with great contempt, de- 
signating the arguments it contains 
as " those privileges of weakness, 
which he would even feel disposed to 
acknowledge and respect," — deigns, 
at length,' to think it worthy of some 
notice. After assuring us that " in 
joining our harsh and feeble note, 
to swell the dissonant chorus of our 
fellows, we only prove our impo- 
tence and malignity;" — after telling 
us that he need only " refer us back 
for our refutation," to his former pro- 
ductions, — he finds that something 
more than mere declamation is ne- 
cessary to vindicate his character as 
an impartial and candid writer. Ac- 
cordingly — he has entered into a 
long " explanation of the conclusions 
he sought to establish" in the minds 
of his readers, in identifying the 
English Colonial system with that, 
described by Dr. Pinckard as 
existing in Dutch Guiana. But so 
far is his " explanation" from being 
satisfactory — so far is it from re- 
deeming his character for fairness 
and liberality, that it involves him 
still deeper in the labyrinth of his 
own evasive arguments. 

He complains of (to use his own 
expression) — " the cunning with 
which we have spied out, exaggera- 
ted, and dilated upon unimportant 
mistakes," That we have spied 
them out is most true : true — and 
cunningly, if it please him to have it 
so; but whether we have exaggerated, 
or unnecessarily dilated upon them, 
will best appear by our preceding 
numbers ; — let them speak for them- 
selves. And " unimportant mis- 
takes !" can mistakes on a subject 



like the present, — a subject involv- 
ing the prosperity and wealth of the 
country at large, the character and 
fortunes, perhaps the lives of many 
thousands, connected with the Co- 
lonies, — be unimportant? Are we to 
be gravely told that " in giving fun- 
damental facts, which were to de- 
monstrate the unexampled iniquity 
of the West Indian system, which 
were to supply unavoidable inferences 
to the hearts and understandings of 
his readers" — his mistakes are " un- 
important]" We must acknowledge, 
as the Editor observes of us, that 
" we labor under a heavy infirmity," 
and cannot understand the lessons, 
which this reasoning is intended to 
teach. 

Still less do we comprehend on 
what principles of candour the Editor 
can attempt to "justify" his omission 
of the numerous and important pas- 
sages in Dr. P.'s work, which express 
a favorable opinion of the general 
treatment of the negroes. But he 
does attempt it ! yes, after having 
collated, with great care, every cir- 
cumstance mentioned by his author, 
which he thought would prejudice 
the colonies, omitting all those pas- 
sages, which regard the general con- 
tentment and happiness of the slaves : 
he sits down quite satisfied that he has 
fairly " demonstrated the nature of 
the West Indian system." He de- 
clares, in so many words, that "for 
his part he feels no difficulty in jus- 
tifying the omission of the * passage 

* (See Antidote No. I— p. 5) The 
passage is one, which we brought heme 
to him as having unfairly suppressed, 
but as it is only t:ie out of many others, 
which he equally omitted, we presume the 
Editor meant " passages" and not " p«a- 
sage." 



in question," because! — " he was 
not Ihen engaged in a critical exami- 
nation of Dr. P.'s opinion, or of his 
inferences- He had only to do with 
the facts themselves. He appealed 
to him as a witness, and not as a 
reasoner. With the most perfect 
reliance on Dr. P.'s accuracy in the 
relation of such incidents as fell 
under his own observation, he might 
even be allowed to dispute the 
soundness of the opinions, which he 
deduced from them." 

So then ! in bringing forward a 
work to illustrate his proposition 
of the necessity of a change in our 
colonial system he may (because 
they do not answer his purpose) 
conceal his author's sentiments' and 
impressions regarding the actual 
state of that system, although he ac- 
knowledges him to be intelligent, 
impartial, •« free from prejudice or 
party feeling!'' This is certainly 
a very honorable and candid rule 
of argument ;— very convenient for 
such writers as the Editor of the 
West Indian Sketches, who have 
a declining cause to support. But 
how are we to obtain any correct 
notions of the society existing in the 
West Indies, unless from the ac- 
counts of enlightened and impartial 
travellers, who reason from personal 
observation and experience. Dr. P. 
had " seen the negroes in all their 
habits of life — at their labor — in the 
fields — in their huts — in the sugar 
works — about the houses — at their 
moments of rest and retirement, and 
amidst all their various occupations 
and modes of employment" — to 
whom, then, can we more safely 
refer in our enquiries into their real 
condition? 

But we are prepared to disprove 
the Editor's assertion that " he did 
not appeal to Dr. Pinckard as a 
reasoner, and that he had nothing 
to do with his opinions and infe- 
rences." We are prepared to show 
that he did, throughout his whole 
work, refer to Dr. P. as a reasoner, 
and endeavoured to make us believe 
that Dr. P.'s impressions and infer- 



ences supported his own arguments. 
For this purpose we shall quote his 
own words, which he seems entirely 
to have forgotten in his anxiety to 
justify himself. 

In No. 1, he began thus; " A Se- 
cond Edition of Dr. Pinckard's notes 
on the West Indies has recently 
made its appearance. No publica- 
tion could be more seasonable. It 
exhibits the 'impressions, made on the 
mind of an intelligent spectator, at 
first evidently prejudiced in favor 
of West Indian manners, who has 
had an opportunity of seeing with 
his own eyes the real nature and 
effects of colonial bondage. It 
seems the more necessary to bring 
forward to the view of the public, 
at this particular time, a witness so 
respectable, and so far removed 
from any suspicion of partiality or 
party feeling; since, in the warmth 
of the conflict on West India sub- 
jects, the colonial partizans appear 
disposed to deny the existence even 
of the most prominent features of 
their own system, for example the 
practice of driving." 

In No. 3, he compares the testi- 
mony of his author with that of offi- 
cers .of high rank, Admirals and 
Generals who have served in the 
West Indies, and who have given 
their evidence in favour of the hu- 
manity of the planters : he prefers 
Dr. Pinckard's opinion to theirs, 
because " he was not satisfied with 
first impressions ! he was determined 
to judge for himself." 

In No. 5, he refers to Dr. Pinck- 
ard's " reasoning" on the subject 
of slavery, and records, with some 
degree of exultation, Dr. P.'s opinion 
** that, compared to slavery, the 
restrictions of military discipline 
are as exquisite freedom." In short 
he was anxious to convince his 
readers that Dr. P.'s impressions, 
on the subject of the Colonial Sys- 
tem, were perfectly in unison with 
his own. So much so, that when 
we venture to raise " our harsh and 
feeble note," and bring forward pas- 
sages from Dr, P.'s work to shew 



that he has unfairly represented the 
opinions of his author, he writes an- 
other Sketch, No. 6, and endeavors, 
at considerable length, to prove that 
he did " not pervert^Dr. P.'s meaning, 
or misstate his sentiments" — He even 
" appeals to any man of common can- 
dour whether he did not fairly state 
the impressions on Dr. P.'s mind, and 
which pervade his book," &c. Arc. 
and " whether these impressions be 
not" so and so. 

But now in No. 7, when he finds, 
on reflection, that his misrepresenta- 
tions are brought completely home 
to him, — when he finds it proved that 
Dr. P's. impression in 1797 was, that 
the negroes were well treated by 
their owners, — that they were in ge- 
neral amply fed, fitly clothed, and ten- 
derly watched in sickness — he turns 
round and says, " I have nothing to 
do with his impressions. It is true, 
he is an intelligent and disinterested 
spectator; neither is his knowledge 
superficial, nor his judgement has- 
tily formed; but — as his opinions 
and inferences do not answer my pur- 
pose, I decline to accept him as a 
reasoner!" He thought Dr. Pack- 
ard's sentiments of great importance 
to his Sketches, so long as he could 
give them a false colouring ; so long 
as he remained unanswered, he was 
anxious to *' exhibit the impressions 
of an intelligent spectator." But, 
once bring his productions to the 
light — once show him to himself in 
the charmed mirror of truth,— 
and, Proteus-like, heassumes another 
shape : — 

... ... « pl1Ee n0 M immemor nrtis, 

Omnia transformat sese in miracula rerutn." 

He then discards Dr. P's. opinions 
and inferences as totally irrelevant — 
and has no difficulty in justfying the 
omission of them ! 

But this is not all : we must go 
even yet farther to give our readers a 
perfect idea of this writer's love for 
truth and liberality; he says, " the 
opinion, expressed by Dr. Pinckard, 
in favor of West Indian humanity, 
was before he had been five weeks 
in the West Indies, and was contra- 



dicted by his maturer judgment ;" he 
tells us, that these '« sentiments of 
his author were immature, — incon- 
sistent not only with (he general cur- 
rent of his facts, but with the opi- 
nions on the subject of West Indian 
slavery, which he afterwards ex- 
pressed." Now, is this tiie fact? is 
it true that Dr. P's. sentiments in fa- 
vour of West Indian humanity were 
corrected by his maturer judge- 
ment? We are content that the an- 
swertothisquestionshall decide whe- 
ther, the Editor's assertions are de- 
serving of credit, or not: — aud Dr. 
P's. own words shall give the an- 
swer. In September 1797, just be- 
fore he left the West Indies, where 
he had been eighteen months 
he thus expresses himself: — " From 
much and careful observation I am 
authorized to remark, that the plan- 
ters in general are humane and mer- 
ciful, and do not exact immoderate 
toil ; with them the slaves have a 
certain round of duty, which can- 
not be regarded as excessive or se- 
vere, being such as may be per- 
formed without any hurtful exer- 
tion. For a considerable time after 
their arrival,* it is usual to put them 
only to light work, treating them 
with gentleness, and making their 
employment more an object of 
amusement than of fatigue. Thus 
they are gradually trained to the 
common sound of toil, which, after 
all that is said aud written upon the 
subject, is not so severe and oppres- 
sive, as general opinion in Europe 
represents it. It is compulsory, aud 
therefore performed with reluctance; 
but the labor is not more heavy, nor 
the day longer than that of the poor- 
in other countries. They are not 
required to toil during more than 
tweive hours of the twenty-four : 
and due intervals are allowed for 

* That is, after their arrival in the 
West Indies from Africa. For, be it 
still iememi>ered, all these observations 
of Dr. P. were long before the abolition 
of the slave trade, which he thought 
would be the most effectual means of 
improving the condition of the negroes. 



taking rest and food. The climate 
is undoubtedly more exhausting than 
that of Europe, but the quantum 
of work performed is proportionate. 
The labor of an industrious English 
peasant or mechanic amounts, per- 
haps, to three or four times as much, 
within the twelve hours, as is accom- 
plished within the same period by 
a slave. Besides which, it should 
be taken into the account, that the 
temperature is congenial to the ne- 
groes ; in proof of which, I have ob- 
served it to be a common practice 
among them, (instead of retiring into 
the shade,) to eat their dinners and 
bask away the whole hour allotted 
them in the open field, exposed to 
the direct rays of the sun. It is al- 
ways the interest of the master to 
be kind and considerate towards his 
slaves; for, if they become sickly 
and unfit for labor, they will be only 
an useless expense to him. Amoug 
the planters who possess large bodies 
of them, their hours of rest and toil 
are regular and proportioned ; they 
are fitly cloathed and amply fed, and 
are less frequently treated with seve- 
rity. It is among a different class of 
owners, whose bread is earned by the 
toil of a smaller number, or who 
have only a single slave, that the 
unhappy blacks are ill fed, hard- 
worked, and often punished." 

Such were the sentiments of Dr. 
Pinckard, — not after five weeks resi- 
dence — buton the experience of eigh- 
teen months, and just before he left 
the West Indies: — " from much and 
careful observation," says he, " I am 
authorized to remark that the plan- 
ters in general are humane and mer- 
ciful," — and yet the Editor declares 
that Dr. P's. testimony in favor of 
"West Indian humanity was contra- 
dicted by his maturer judgement! 
Let any one read the preceding ex- 
tracts and many other similar pas- 
sages in Dr. P's. work and judge 
whether the Editor has not altoge- 
ther " perverted the opinions of his 
author." Perhaps he will call this 
one of his " unimportant mistakes," 
but in our view of thein these mis- 
takes, which recur so often, and bear 



such evidence of wilful misrepresen- 
tation, are neither unimportant, ab- 
stractedly considered, nor in the in- 
ferences, which were intended to be 
dnrwn from them. 

The Editor proceeds to defend th« 
Africanlnstitutionforpublishingtheir 
libel against Sir J. Leith's Aides-de- 
camp in Antigua. His observations 
are very ill timed, and he has proved 
himself rather an injudicious advo- 
cate ; for shortly after his Sketch was 
printed the Directors were found 
guilty, on a criminal prosecution in 
theCourt of King's Bench, of exercis- 
ing the influence of the Society for 
the worst purposes of calumny. We 
should not now refer to the subject, 
but for some observations,which have, 
escaped the Editor. We know the 
feelings which this and other recent 
circumstances have excited amongst 
some of the most distinguished Sub- 
scribers of the Institution; and we-, 
should, therefore, rather have ab- 
stained from again bringing this dis- 
graceful business before the public. 
But the Editor of the Sketches seems 
to hold out a threat that the Direc- 
tors of the African Institution will 
continue to persevere in that course, 
which has already done so much 
mischief. — So little do they seem to 
be aware of the opinion, which the 
public has formed of their measures, 
that the Editor says "they may safely 
appeal to the dispassionate judge- 
ment of their country for their vin- 
dication: and experience may in- 
struct them that its approbation — 
that just reward of upright public 
service — will not be withheld, be- 
cause, in their arduous struggle 
against oppression, supported by 
wealth and influence, they may os- 
casionally have fallen into errors, 
consistent with honest intentions, 
and with conduct essentially judi- 
cious and wise." They even " pity 
us, because we know so little of the 
resolute self devotion of patriotism 
and humanity, as to hope that our 
attacks will deter any, who hare 
embarked in this cause, from its stre- 
nuous and persevering prosecution." 

The SELF-DEVOTION of PATR1 5 



otism and humanity ! where is 
the self-devotion of subverting 
the whole system of our Colonial es- 
tablishments, in the ruin of which 
they can suffer but remotely? — ■ 
" Mankind are often compelled to 
admire even the mistaken or mis- 
guided zeal of those well meaning 
reformers, who heroically involve 
themselves in the ruin they occa- 
sion. The self-devotion of the Di- 
rectors is of a very different charac- 
ter. Secured against all individual 
danger, by a distance of above a 
thousand leagues from the theatre 
of their exploits, they try their 
ruinous experiments on the lives 
and properties of others, without 
any risk to themselves" — and dig- 
nify their principles of Emanci- 
pation to the negroes with the title 
of " self-devotion." But patrio- 
tism too ! — Patriotism is indeed a 
noble sentiment — it is that zeal for 
the service of the State, which nei- 
ther hope nor fear can influence us 
to forego ; — it is that ardor in de- 
fence of the happiness and honor of 
our country — that patient endurance 
of difficulties and danger — that vir- 
tue, in fine, which animates us to 
all that is great, and good, and no- 
ble among men. But where is the 
Patriotism of those, who would 
stop the very source of our national 
prosperity, who would at once sa- 
crifice the lives and fortunes of 
thousands, in the pursuit of their 
own visionary schemes of popu- 
larity, and who glory in identifying 
the character of their countrymen 
with that of foreigners, in all those 
features which degrade human 
nature. And above all — where 
shall we look for the huma- 
nity of the Directors? In 
their own pamphlets indeed they 
are not wanting tc themselves : — 
they are sensible that the very 
uame of humanity bears a charm, 
that captivates the hearts of Eng- 
lishmen, and they lay claim to its 
almost exclusive possession. — They 
rejoice " that they are not as other 
BQcai are," aud run over the whole 



catalogue of their virtues,* with un- 
satisfied delight. But where, we 
repeat, shall we find their humanity 
— their charity and benevolence? 
where is the charity of presump- 
tuously passing sentence of con- 
demnation against whole commu- 
nities, charging them with almost 
as many crimes as they themselves 
profess to have virtues ? — Where is 
the spirit of benevolence and phi- 
lanthropy in exciting the once 
happy and contented slaves of our 
West India colonies to turn upon 
their masters? where the humanity 
of making experiments in revolution, 
which must bring immeasurable evils 
on all who take a part in them ? 

The following sentiments will give 
a tolerably clear exposition of the 
sort " of self-devotion, patriotism, 
and humanity," which distinguish the 
leading Directors of the Institution. 

" In every delineation of the co- 
lonial system, it is of the utmost 
moment to mark the identity of its 
features among nations, who have 
scarcely, any other institutions in 
common. If it was in the English co- 
lonies only, or in the Dutch colonies 
only, that these ferocious cruelties 
were perpetrated, some defect in the 
colonial code of that particular na- 
tion, or in its adminstration, might 
be assigned as the cause. But when 
we find that the Dutch, the French, 
the Portuguese, the English, the 
Spanish, both on the African coast, 
and in the West Indies, assume, on 
this subject, one common character: 
that the crimes of Barbadoes, Ne- 
vis, &c. find their parallel in the 

* " Works of mercy" — (' learning, 
genius, and charity" — " eminent desert" 
— manly and vigorous minds" — " pro- 
found knowledge" — " honest intentions" 
— " preeminent virtue'' — " sleepless 
energies of mind'' — " aversion to equi- 
vocation on the statement of their prin- 
ciples" — " profound knowledge, power- 
ful style, high tone of moral feeling"— 
" accomplished statesmen, learned in 
the theory and practised in the art of 
government," with " resolute self-deve- 
tion, patriotism, and humanity" are a 
few of the virtues and qualifications te 
which the Director* lay Clahnt 



8 



Brasiis, in Dutch Guiana, in Mar- 
tinique, in the Mauritius, in Cuba ; 
the similarity of guilt indicates some 
common character, to which it is to 
be referred. However differing in 
laws, descent, manners, and religion, 
the colonists of France, England, 
Holland, &c. wonderfully concur in 
their general estimate and treatment 
of their unhappy bondsmen. And 
the common principles, which can 
alike harden the hearts of these dif- 
ferent colonists, are fear, avarice, 
and pride, passions which are, each 
singly, of force, when they rule the 
bosom with absolute sway, to bring 
to light the most hateful propensi- 
ties of our nature. When united, 
and entrusted with unlimited do- 
minion, they are capable of convert- 
ing men into fiends." 

We do not give these extracts in 
order to refute them, it would be 
a poor compliment to the under- 
standings of our readers, if we 
could be induced to make any re- 
ply to such general and opprobious 
calumnies. But we call upon the 
Subscribers of the African Institu- 
tion, to mark this system with their 
reprobation. We appeal to them 
whether they can still continue to 
lend the authority of their names to 
a Society, which attempts to support 
its doctrines by such abuse as this. — 
We know what manyof the Subscri- 
bers feel respectingthe libel contained 
in the Tenth Report of the Africau 
Institution. They are naturally in- 
dignant at seeing their names recorded 
at full length iu the many hundred 
copies of that Report, which were 
Bent forth into the world. They 
feel that they have, in some measure, 
— but most improperly — Leen made 
parties to the libel. But surely that 
libel was mild and innocent, when 
compared with the language we have 
just quoted, and with the numerous 
other publications of the Directors. 

We beg to call to the recollection 
of the Subscribers, the objects, for 
which the Society was established 



— In the First Report of the Diree* 
tors, read to the General Meeting in 
1807, we find the following rules 
and regulations adopted for their 
government. 

" To prevent misconception con- 
cerning the views and measures of 
the African Institution, it may be 
proper, in the first instance, to de- 
clare, that it is the Society's fixed 
determination not to undertake any 
religious missions, nor to engage in 
commercial speculations. It may 
also be proper to premise, that it 
will naturally become the duty and 
care of this Society to watch over 
the execution of the laws recently en- 
acted in this and other countries, for 
abolishing the African Slave Trade; 
to endeavour to prevent the infrac* 
tion of those laws \ and, from time 
to time, to suggest any means, by 
which they may be rendered more 
effectual to their objects ; and like- 
wise to endeavour, by communica- 
ting information, and by other ap- 
propriate methods, to promote the 
abolition of the Slave Trade by 
foreign powers. 

" The means, which it is proposed 
to employ for the purpose of promo- 
ting civilization and improvement in 
Africa, are of the following kind : — 

" 1. To collect and diffuse, 
throughout this country, accurate 
information respecting the natural 
productions of Africa, and, in ge- 
neral, respecting the agricultural and 
commercial capacities of the African 
continent, and the intellectual, mo- 
ral, and political, condition of its 
inhabitants. 

" 2. To promote the instruction 
of the Africans in letters and in 
useful knowledge, and to cultivate 
a friendly connection with the na- 
tives of that continent. 

" 3. To endeavour to enlighten 
the minds of the Africans with res- 
pect to their true interests; and to 
diffuse information amongst them 
respecting the means, whereby we 
may improve the present opportunity 



9 



ef substituting a beneficial com- 
merce in place of the Slave Trade. 

" 4. To introduce among them 
»uch of the improvements and use- 
ful arts of Europe as are suited to 
their condition. 

" S. To promote the cultivation 
of the African soil, not only by ex- 
citing and directing the industry of 
the natives, but by furnishing, where 
it may appear advantageous to do 
«o, useful seeds and plants, and im- 
plements of husbandry. 

" 6. To introduce amongst the 
inhabitants beneficial medical dis- 
coveries. 

" 7. To obtain a knowledge ©f 
the principal languages in Africa, 
and, as has been already found to 
be practicable, to reduce them to 
writing, with a view to facilitate 
the diffusion of information among 
the natives of that country. 

'* 8. To employ suitable agents, 
and to establish correspondence as 
•hall appear advisable, and to en- 
courage and reward individual en- 
terprize and exertion in promoting 
any of the purposes of the Institu- 
tion." 

The many eminent persons, who 
contributed to the funds of this 
Society, no doubt expected that 
the Directors would adhere to these 
rules and regulations, as laid down 
for them by the General Meeting. 
We apprehend it was not their in- 
tention, on becoming Subscribers, 
to support the political opinions of 
any particular party, regarding the 
natural rights of man to freedom 
and equality — or the constitutional 
power of the Mother Country to le- 
gislate for the colonies. These are 
fit subjects for the consideration of 
the Philosopher and the Statesman, 
but the discussion of them is very 
ill suited to a Society, established 
for objects of charity. At least — 
we believe that such of the Subscri- 
bers, as are Members of the two 
Houses of Parliament, do not re- 
quire the assistance' of the Directors 
to guide their judgement on these, 
and .ether great national questions. 



The Directors, however, are of « 
different opinion — they think the 
British Parliament " is bound'' to 
adopt all their sentiments and opini- 
ons, ayd " to regard Colonial Sla- 
very, as a reproach, which we are 
called upon to wipe off." They are 
men of such " pre-eminent talent" — 
such '• accomplished statesmen, 
learned in the theory, and practised 
in the art of government," — -that 
those subjects, which, in the opinion 
of Mr. Pitt and Mr. Burke, involved 
the most delicate questions of po- 
litical justice and prudence, present 
no obstacles to the ". sleepless ener- 
gies" of their minds. Their " learn- 
ing, genius, and charity" have 
enabled them to take a rapid flight 
over the difficult paths of enquiry 
and reflection, which to ordinary 
minds oppose innumerable impedi- 
ments in the search after truth. 
They have received the spirit of 
sanctification, even unto perfect wis- 
dom ; and such is their " high 
tone of moral feeling," that all, 
who differ from them in opinion, 
are " either obstinate, and will not, 
or labor under a still heavier infir- 
mity, and cannot understand reason. 7 
Even Mr. Burke does not escape 
the " powerful style" of their phi- 
lippics : " he," it appears, " is one 
of the strongest illustrations of one 
of the worst effects of the French 

Revolution." Mr. Burke on* 

of the strongest illustrations of om 
of the worst effects of the French 
Revolution ! — " It produced in 
him," says Mr. Stephen, " a morbid 
sensibility to the dangers of re- 
formation, even when his own moral 
and elevated principles pleaded 
strongly for the change." Our rea- 
ders, perhaps, will readily divine the 
cause of this little ebullition of pique 
against Mr. Burke's sensibility; — 
'.' he was cold, or rather lukewarm in 
the cause." No I not cold or luke- 
warm in any good or just cause: 
but cold and lukewarm he certainly 
was, , when compared with those, 
whose heated imaginations so far 
outstep the bounds of prudence. 



10 



He did not, indeed, permit his ima- 
gination to mislead his judgement — 
but tempered the warmth of his zeal 
by his profound knowledge of man- 
kind, and the depth of his reason- 
ing. If this be a morbid sensibility 
to the dangers of reform, we believe 
there are few amongst us, who would 
not readily plead guilty to the 
Charge. 

Not only do the Directors thus 
assail the opinions of distinguished 
individuals, when they are of a dif- 
ferent character from their own, but 
Parliament itself must bow to their 
Superior judgement. They tell Us 
that " we cannot be acquitted before 
God and our consciences, if, after 
having the enormities of this system 
unveiled to our view, we satisfy our- 
selves with a few ineffectual wishes 
for its reformation. The Parlia- 
ment and people of England are 
bound to take measures for raising 
our fellow subjects of the West In- 
dies from their present state of de- 
gradation and suffering. The guilt 
of its unmitigated continuance will 
otherwise be theirs."" And again we 
have the following very modest ex- 
position of their sentiments and pre- 
tensions. " If a general registry of 
slaves be obtained, there we ure con- 
tent that the reforming of slavery by 
Act of Parliament shall end. Should, 
however, this most efficacious and 
inoffensive remedy be withheld, let 
aot our opponents tax us with in- 
consistency when We resort to other 
Parliamentary means for the relief 
of the unfortunate slaves. Denied 
a fair trial of the expedient we pre- 
fer, we shall be driven to others, in 
■which we have less confidence in- 
deed, but which it would be oppro- 
bious in that case to leave untried. 
At all events^Feknow our duty, and 
with God's help we will perform it. 
We will not leave considerably more 
than half a million of helpless fellow- 
creatures in a state, opprobious not 
only to the British government, 
under which they live, but to human 
nature itself j — a state, which must 
toon lead them to their utter exter- 



mination, as it has to that of my- 
riads who preceded them in it, — 
without making the most strenuous 
and unwearied efforts for their re- 
lief." 

Was it for all this that the So- 
ciety was instituted 1 ? was it for 
the Emancipation of the slaves and 
the establishment of that negro Em- 
pire, with which we are threatened 1 
— An Empire like that of Jtiayti, 
where British merchants are to be 
thumb-screwed and tortured at the 
will of a ferocious black ?* No 

* See Mr. Davison's Petition to the 
'.rfouse of Commons, on the 4th of this . 
month, respecting Christophe's cruelty 
towards him. We may, perhaps, after 
this, be permitted to differ with the 
" Philanthropists of the new school/' who 
are so warm in this man's praises. Mr. 
Marryat gives the following " account of 
their proceedings on a late public occa- 
sion :" — it " illustrates the extravagant 
extent to which their principles are car- 
ried." 

" An advertisement announced, that the 
members and friends of the African and 
Asiatic Society would dine together, at 
the Freemasons' Tavern, on the 27th of 
March last, the day the Report of the 
African Institution was read ; and that 
a number of Africans and Asiatics were 
expected to dine in an adjoining room. 
The tables were laid out for a far more 
numerous company than attended. Mr. 
Wilberforc took the chair. After dinner, 
the company drank the usual toasts : the 
King, the Prince Regent, the Queen, 
and the rest of the Royal Family, but, 
without rising from their seats. 

" Mr. Stephen then arose, and apolo- 
gized for addressing the meeting, which 
he was induced to do, as being more ac- 
customed to speak in public than Mr. 
Prince Saunders, a man of colour, who 
had just returned from a mission to St. 
Domingo; and whose communications 
from thence he would lay before them, 
appealing to Mr. Saunders for the cor- 
rectness of his statement. Mr. Stephen 
addressed himself in a great degree to 
the Africans and Asiatics, who had only 
been separated from the company by a 
screen, drawn across one end of the 
room, from behind which they had by 
this time emerged, and were standing 
round the tables. He dwelt upon the - 
infamy of supposing, that the difference 
of colour in the skin could occasion any 
inferiority of the mind. From a warm 
eulogy upon black as contrasted with 
white, he slid into a panegyric upo» 



11 



Wonder that all, who have been 
to Africa, and had an opportunity 

Christophe, whom he described as au or- 
nament to the African name, and au ho- 
nour to the human race — as the friend of 
the immortal Toussaint — the patriot, li- 
berator, and exalter of his fellow-crea- 
tures — the hero who had broken their 
bonds of slavery, and raised them to free- 
dom and independence — liberal — en- 
lightened — beneficent — merciful — and, 
above all, a sincere and pious Christian. 

" The health of King Henry of Hayti 
was then proposed; but the waiter who 
repeated the toast from behind the chair 
of Mr. Wilberforce, being apparently 
ttot very conversant in the history of this 
new black dynasty, gave, in aloud voice, 
King Henry the Eighth ; which occa- 
sioned mueh laughter and some confu- 
sion. The mistake, however, was soon 
rectified, and his black Majesty was 
drank, the whole company standing, with 
three times three, and enthusiastic accla- 
mations. 

" Mr. Prince Saunders confirmed the 
details of Mr. Stepheu. He repeated 
the earnestness with which Christophe 
longed for religious; instruction, and his 
disdain for the trappings of state. He 
particularly dwelt on the assurances he 
had given his Majesty, his court, and his 
people, while in St. Domingo, of the 
sure alliance and aid they might expect 
from Mr. Wilberforce, and his associates^ 
in this country, of whom he expressed 
himself in terms of the highest admi- 
ration. 

"The secretary of the society next con- 
gratulated the company on the display of 
African talent which they had just heard, 
and said he would favour them with an- 
other specimen of its supeiiority, by 
calling on Mr. Paul for a speech. 

" This Mr.Paul repeated a composition, 
something between a speech and a ser- 
mon : but by this time the party-coioured 
children had made their way to the table, 
and were delivering their sentiments so 
leudly, on the relative merits of the nuts, 
figs, and oranges of the desert, as to give 
no small interruption to Mr. Paul, and 
render much of his oration inaudible. It 
appeared, however, to consist principal- 
ly of a mixture of religious instruction, 
more connected with the mysteries of 
the christian faith than with moral ad- 
rice, and of fulsome compliments to Mr. 
Wilberforce, interlarded with texts of 
scripture. He congratulated himself on 
the happiness he never expected to en- 
joy, of seeing face to face the saviour 
and benefactor of the blacks, the friend 
©f the whole human race. 

" Mr. Wilberforce, who sat " attentive 
te his own applause," declared, when 



of judging from personal obsenra- 
tion, express so much disappoint- 

another expressed a wish to address the 
chair, that he was glad to find it was one 
of his own countrymen; for after the ad- 
mirable specimens of eloquence they had 
just heard from their brethren of colour, 
he began to be apprehensive they had 
monopolized all the talents, and that he 
should feel ashamed of his own com- 
plexion. Mr. Stephen, determined to 
take the lead in this gratuitous contest 
of humility, intimated that he actually 
felt that shame which Mr. Wilberforce 
only began to apprehend. 

" Dr. Stoddart prefaced the health of 
Mr. Wilberforce, by an eulogium upon 
that gentleman ; according to which; Mr. 
Wilberforce was the greatest living be-, 
ing in this hemisphere, as King Henry 
of Hayti was of the other. The world 
was full of their fame ; and nothing but 
the universal conflagration, which is to 
devour the universe, would prevent its 
continuing to resound with their praises. 

" The health of Mr.Wilberforce having 
been drank with appropriate honours, 
that gentleman expressed himself grati- 
fied with the appiobationhis humble ex- 
ertions had received ; but modestly ascri* 
bed part of the success which had at- 
tended them, to the able assistance of 
his friends. He then gave Mr. Ste- 
phen as high-sounding praises, as he had 
himself received from Dr. Stoddart. 

" Mr. Stephen pronounced a second 
harangue ; and in illustrating the merits 
of Dr. Stoddart, ascribed the Abolition 
of the Slave Trade by Louis the 
XVIIIth, to th» public writings of that 
gentleman. 

" Dr. Stoddart repaid all the compli- 
ments he had received, with interest ; 
and translated an address, composed by 
a French gentleman present, of which 
the praises of Mr. Wilberforce were the 
leading theme. 

" In the early part of the entertainment, 
a black man led in a white woman, with 
a party-coloured child, the fruit of their 
mutual loves. This interesting group 
paraded round the room, as a proof of 
the happy result of that union of colours 
and races, which all true philanthropist! 
are so anxious to promote. 

" When the Africans and Asiatics in- 
troduced themselves from behind th« 
screen, which at first separated them 
from the company, a medley of blacks 
and mnlattoes appeared ; many of them 
mendicants, whose faces were recog- 
nized, as constantly plying at their re- 
spective stands in the public streets: 
and in the true spirit of equality and 
fraternity, wine was handed about t# 
them to drink with their benefactors. 



J2 



went at the system there pur- 
sued by the Directors. No won- 
der that " the colony of Sierra 
Leone is in a dreadful state of de- 
pravity — and that the rising genera- 
tion are more immoral and dissolute 
than the inhabitants of any other 
part of Africa ;" — when the atten- 
tion of the Directors is occupied on 
subjects, altogether foreign from the 
views of the Institution,— and the 
time, which should be employed in 
the civilization of Africa, is taken 
up in dangerous schemes of reform 
in the colonies in America. 

We have endeavoured to shew, in 
one or two instances, the very im- 
proper calumnies, by which these 
schemes are supported :— in No. II. 
of the Antidote we referred to the 
libel, which the Directors published 
against Sir James Leith's aides-de- 
camp. The Editor of the Sketches 
is much offended at this : — He says 
"we have introduced that subject be- 
cause we have discovered the weak- 
ness and danger of our ground ;" he 
affects to think that this has little 
to do with the question before us, 
and observes that the inferences 
founded on his West Indian Sketches 
would not be less legitimately de- 
duced if the Institution were sup- 
pressed to-morrow as a public nui- 
sance. Now — if he is not sensible 
that the " inferences to be drawn 
from his Sketches" will do more 
to suppress the Institution " as a 
public nuisance" than almost any 
thing else, — we believe his friends 
are more clear sighted than himself. 

We believe that the Sketches, 
and the libel against Sir James 
Leith's aides de-camp, added to the 
manner in which the funds have 
been applied, and the mismanage- 
ment of the Directors in our unfor- 
tunate African settlements, have ex- 
cited a strong disposition amongst 
the Subscribers " to suppress the 
Institution altogether as a public 
nuisance" 

They already feel that, in con- 
tinuing to lend their sanction to the 
measures, which we have so anx- 



iously deprecated, they will become 
responsible for the evils which must 
be the consequence of them. But 
if they express themselves so strongly, 
on being made acquainted with one 
or two instances of this system of 
misrepresentation, what would they 
think and say if they were to read 
all the publications of this Institu- 
tion, containing aspersions equally 
unfounded, and even more insulting 
to the whole West India body ? 
The fact is the " Reports" and 
" Special Reports" the pamphlets, 
the reviews, and the public address- 
es of the Directors are one series of 
libels against the general body of 
Proprietors in the Colonies. The 
Directors claim it as a right— an 
exclusive privilege — to send out 
to the world their printed addresses 
and resolutions, without any regard 
to the personal feelings of those, 
whose character they assail. They 
appear insensible to the danger of 
holding up the White Population as 
the "puny multitude," the " small 
— but oppressive minority," whom 
the Negroes may despise and re- 
sist with impunity. 

We have not forgotten the Ad- 
dress, which was widely circulated 
last year on the state of the finances 
of the Society. Of this Address 
the Directors say — " they thought 
it expedient to authorize the circu- 
lation of a large number of copies." 
— After assuring the public that 
" the labours of the Institution have 
been great, &c." the Address pro- 
ceeds thus ; "The Institution has 
anxiously watched for a favorable 
opportunity of suggesting mea- 
sures, which should tend to 
ameliorate the condition, and_ 
raise the moral character of those 
despised and oppressed fellow- 
men, the slaves and coloured 
population of our West Indian 
Islands ; and it is determined to 
persevere, until the general feeling 
of the pubic shall gradually over- 
come those deep rooted prejudices and 
mistaken views, which have been so 
long opposed to the happiness and 



13 



rights of the enslaved Africans and 
people of color in those colonies." 

We should be happy to know 
how many of the Directors attended 
at the Institution, when it was 
" thought expedient" to promulgate 
these sentiments. That the small 
party who dictated the Address, 
and who manage the whole affairs 
of the Society, were present, there 
can be no doubt ; but we doubt 
exceedingly whether any others 
gave their sanction to it. — -Sure we 
are that such of the Directors, as we 
have the pleasure to know, and for 
whom we entertain the highest res- 
pect, have never lent themselves to 
the circulation of the unworthy 
calumnies, which constantly appear in 
their name. Here then is the whole 
secret of the system. — One or two 
of the Directors, having prepared 
an Address, or a Special Report, or 
a West Indian Sketch, call a meet- 
ing. The quorum assembles — (for 
observe, by the rules of the society, 
jive Directors make a quorum) the 
Address or Sketch is read — and 
provided it has enough of declama- 
tion against " the West Indian Aris- 
tocracy," and is occasionally enli- 
vened by a modest reference to 
their own " self-devotion, patriotism 
and humanity," it is carried nemine 
contradieeute. And this is pub- 
blished as the address of the in- 
stitution ! 

We can picture to ourselves the 
imposing scene at one of these 
meetings ; — we can imagine that 
the business of the Court of Direc- 
tors being very soon disposed of, 
and prayers read, each gentleman 
takes np his hat and stick and walks 
piously home, satisfied that if the 
Address to the public has not really 
expressed the sentiments of the Di- 
rectors in general, or of the Sub- 
scribers — it will at least produce 
'* unavoidable inferences," which will 
answer the purpose quite as well. 

Let our readers observe the pains 
which have been taken to give this 
Address the whole weight and in- 



fluence of the Society. . It is headed 
in large capitals 

AFRICAN INSTITUTION, 
His Royal Highnes* thr 

DUKE op GLOUCESTER 

President and Patron, 
and the public are told that " it is 
principally composed of persons, 
who had distinguished themselves 
by their indefatigable exertions to 
procure the abolition of the Slave 
Trade." What is the unavoid- 
able inference ? surely it is this — if 
his Royal Highness, and those distin- 
guished persons, who were most 
active in the abolition of the Slave 
Trade — thus publicly declare that; 
West Indian Proprietors are remorse- 
less and cruel — if they say that the 
situation of the negro is inhuman and 
oppressive, there can be no doubt 
of the truth of it ; there can be no 
doubt that " the deep rooted preju- 
dices and mistaken views of the mas- 
ter have long opposed the happiness 
and rights of the enslaved Africans 
and people of color." Observe too 
how extensively there calumnies 
have been disseminated. 

The Directors say that " the 
funds continuing to be still further 
reduced by various urgent claims, 
they authorized the circulation of a 
large number of copies of this Ad- 
dress to the public on the state of 
the finances of the Institution. — The 
copies have accordingly been widely 
circulated under the direction of a 
Committee ; but sufficient time has 
not elapsed to afford an opportunity 
of judging of the effect produced 
by this representation.' Certain, 
however, it is that, without conside- 
rable additions to the funds, the 
Directors will be materially cramped 
in their endeavours to forward the 
original views of the Institution ; 
to which, indeed, their means have 
never been equal, and are now be- 
come more inadequate than ever." 

Thus — because the funds of the 
Institution " continue to be still fur- 
ther reduced," the Directors think 
themselves entitled (particularly as 



14 



it is for objects of philanthropy and 
benevolence) to post the West In- 
dia body, in every town through- 
out the kingdom, as remorseless 
and cruel, — as a class of men 
whose " prejudices and mista- 
ken views" are to be rooted out 
only by their determined persever- 
ance ! A very praiseworthy and 
honourable proceeding this — v not to 
say a word of the arrogance of it) 
for the Directors of an Institution, 
whose original views were objects of 
charity! — and then they are very 
much surprised at being convicted 
for libel ! they cannot understand 
how the law is to punish their " un- 
important mistakes" and " inci- 
dental errors," which they assure us 
*' are connected neither with wilful 
perversity, nor with corrupt inten- 
tion !" 

And now with regard to the 
finances of the Institution 1 How 
does it happen that they are as low 
as to cramp the original views of 
the Institution ? How is it that the 
Directors are unable to " proceed 
with vigour in the prosecution 
of those great objects detailed in 
their first report V They inform 
us that **• the funds have been still 
further reduced by various urgent 
claims:" — but this is not a suffi- 
cient explanation upon a subject of 
so much importance. — It appears 
from the very confused accounts, 
which are published in the reports, 
that out of ^12,000, which has 
been collected amongst the Subscri- 
bers, only ^2,500 has been applied 
to the improvement and civilization 
of Africa ; whilst above 5 or ^COOO 
has been lavished in the expense of 
publishing the Pamphlets and Re- 
ports of the Directors, and prepa- 
ring petitions to the Legislature, on 
the subject of the foreign Slave 
Trade. We cannot express our re- 
gret and astonishment at seeing 

that TWO HUNDRED GUINEAS 

was paid in one item " for 400 co- 
pies of a work on mitigation of 
slavery, chiefly intended for distribu- 
tion in the West Indies J" for dis- 



tribution in the West In- 
dies ! We confess this excites 
strange ideas in our minds, and 
forcibly recalls to our recollectiou 
that part of Mr. Pallmer's speech in 
the House of Commons, which 
related to the subject of publications 
distributed in the West Indies. — • 
" Mr. Pallmer said that all the 
principles, to which he referred, 
had operated by a combined in- 
fluence upon the minds of the 
negroes ;- — that pains had been 
taken to disseminate the publi- 
cations, which contained these 
principles — that the negroes sought 
for English publications for infor- 
mation, and looked for arrivals from 
England for it— Was it then possi- 
ble to resist the belief and the per- 
suasion that the agitation of these 
subjects, and the present sad situa- 
tion of the colonies were cause and 
effect ?" But leaving, for the pre- 
sent, the consideration of this cir- 
cumstance, which, however, is one 
of deep anxiety, and imposes a 
heavy responsibility on those, who 
have encouraged so dangerous a 
system, — we beg to ask, how 
the improvement and civilization 
of Africa can be promoted by a 
distribution of these works in 
the West Indies ? has this any 
reference to the " original views'* 
of the Institution ! and can we 
be surprized that " the poor 
African settlers are in greater 
poverty and wretchedness (as thft 
Chief Judge of Sierra Leone de- 
clares them to be) than when they 
were taken under the care of the 
Institution;" since the funds, which 
were raised for their benefit, havft 
been diverted to other objects 1 
We find that the Directors, after 
all the representations they have 
made about their enlightened and 
extensive exertions, have, in the 
course of nine years, appropriated 
the sum of £2,500 to the first great 
object of the Society ! Yes — the 
instruction of " ill-fated Africa and 
her sons" in letters and useful know- 
ledge the introduction amongst 



15 



them of the improvements and arts 
of Europe — the supply of- seeds, 
plants, and implements of husban- 
dry, and the communication to them 
of beneficial medical discoveries, — 
have all been accomplished for 
,£2,500 !* 

Such is the delusion under which 
the Subscribers have been kept 
in regard to African atFairs : — such 
the system which a few individuals 
have pursued towards our West 
India Colonies, for the accomplish- 
ment of their own views of popula- 
rity and political influence. 

We, therefore, call upon the 
Subscribers to make the only repa- 
ration, now in their power, to the 
injured feelings of the West Indian 
Legislatures, and the West Indian 
communities in general. We call 
upon them to satisfy the daily in- 
creasing anxiety of all those, who 
are connected with the Colonies, 
that henceforward the security of 
their property shall not be compro- 
mised by any measures, emanating 
from the Institution. 

We urge this not only on the 
ground of justice to the Proprietors, 
but also for the sake of the Negro- 
population ; because the progress of 
amelioration will be far more cer- 
tain and effectual, when the master 
feels a confidence in the good dispo- 
sition of his slaves, than when his 
distrust is excited by a dangerous 
spirit of impatience and revolt. — 
The West India communities are 
anxiously desirous — both for their 
own interest and security; — but, 
above all, for the gratification of 
their own personal feelings, to pro- 
mote the happiness and comfort of 
their slaves. We know that they do 
not yield to those individuals, who 

* About as much as Clerks' salaries, 
office expenses, and advertisements in 
the newspapers within the same period. 



arrogantly endeavour to calumniate 
them, in any of the sentiments, which 
dignify and adorn a manly or a 
Christian character. But when they 
perceive that the interference of 
persons in this country has produ- 
ced a " growing insubordination" 
in the minds of the negroes, they 
are naturally diffident of extending 
any of those indigencies, which 
might appear to be extorted from 
them through fear. 

With regard to the Institution, as 
it affects Africa, we can only say, 
that, if it can accomplish any thing 
for the civilization of the natives, or 
give the least assistance towards the 
universal abolition of the Slave 
Trade, by foreign countries, none 
will more sincerely offer their meed 
of approbation to such laudable ob- 
jects — none will be more ready to 
assist in giving full effect to the 
abolition laws, already existing in 
England, than the colonial 

legislatures.* We confess, 

however, that the past experience of 
so many years does not inspire us 
with any great confidence. It seems 
to be generally admitted, that little 
or nothing has yet been done for 
the benefit of Africa; and we fear 
the small party, who have hitherto 
conducted the affairs of the Society, 
are not likely to adopt that consis- 
tent, ingenuous, and temperate line 
of conduct, which can alone ensure 
its success. 

* In confirmation of this, we need 
only refer to the readiness with which 
all the colonies (we believe without 
exception) have adopted the reso* 
lution of passing bills for the " Re- 
gistry of Slaves;" and whilst we write 
this, we receive information from 
Jamaica of another act having been 
carried through the Legislature of that 
island, in " furtherance of the provi- 
sions of the abolition laws." We hope 
a similar act will be adopted la tbf 
other islands. 



