A 

TESTIMONY 

AGAINST THAT 

ANTI-CHRISTIAN PRACTICE OP 

WHEEEIN IT IS SHEWED TO BE CONTRARY 



DISPENSATION OF THE LAW AND TIME OF 

THE GOSPEL, AND VERY OPPOSITE 

BOTH TO GRACE AND NATURE. 



By ELIHU COLEMAN. 



Therefore all thhigs whatsoever ye would that men 
should do unto you, do ye even so to them : for this is the 
law and the prophets. Matt. vii. 12. 



PRINTED IN THE YEx^R 1733. 
J\'EW-BEBFORB : 

P.E-PRI.VTED FOE, ABRAHAM SHEARMAN, JUr*. 

1825. 



res 



7S7^./P 4«».r 



• ADVERTISEMENT 

TO THE PRESENT EDITION. 



Eliiiu ColExMan, the Author of the following 
Tract on Slavery, was born at Nantucket, in the 12th- 
month, 1699, and died there in the 1st month, 1789, 
in the eighty-ninth year of his age. — He was a Min- 
ister of the Society of Friends. To preserve the 
remembrance of his labours, in a cause then com- 
paratively new, is the principal inducement to 
the republication of a Work, which must have had an 
influence in enhghtening the public mind in that 
day ; and of which it is not known that more than 
one copy is now extant. The Author himself refers, 
in his Preface, to other writings on the same subject, 
and it appears from Clarkson's History of the Abo- 
lition, that William BuRLrNG, of Long-Island, wrote 
several tracts on the unlawfulness of Slavery, one of 
which was published in 1718 ; and that Ralph San- 
riFORD, a Merchant, of Philadelphia, published a 
tract on this subject, in the year 1729, entitled " The 
Mystery of Iniq^uity, in a Brief Examination of the 
Practice of the Times." — These, it is believed, were 
the earliest publications, written by Friends in this 
country, on this interesting topic. The following 
piece was written, as appears by the date, in 1729 — 30, 
and published in 1733 ; its Author was certainly one 
of the first publick advocates for the cause of the op- 
pressed Africans, in New-England. The subject had 
previously engaged the attention of Friends in a 
Society capacity. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/testimonyagainstOOcole 



TO THE USADEE. 

Before I speak of the unlawfulness of 
this practice of making Slaves, it is in my 
mind to give a relation hov\^, and after what 
manner I came to understand it so ; and 
for why, and for what reason 1 now speak 
against it. After I had arrived to the years 
of a man, I was very desirous that I might 
eome to know the Lord for myself: For 
although I did believe I was educated or 
taught the right w^ay, yet upon serious con- 
sideration, I came to see that the religion 
of a man's education, was not the religion 
of his, but of them that educated him : and 
therefore I was very desirous to know him 
for myself; for I read in Scripture, that 
when destruction came upon the city, that 
if Daniel, Noah and Job were in it, they 
by their righteousness could save none but 
their own souls. And although I might 
liye in the midst of a righteous people, I 
saw that it would not avail any thing to 
me. And as I was thus concerned, it pleas- 
ed the Lord in his own time to manifest 
himself to me, in some small degree and 
measure, so that then I could discern things 
aright in some degree ; and after I had 
considered the principles of those my friends 
called Quakers, I did, and now do believe 
that they are undeniably good, and that 
those that keep close to them, I do believe 

A2 



VI 



that there can never any weapon be form- 
eel that shall prevail against them. And 
as I considered thereon^ I found a necessi- 
ty in myself to join with those people, 
whose principles were so good : yet not- 
withstanding I must confess, (and for that 
reason I now write) that as I knew a ne- 
cessity to join witii them in that which was 
good ; the same necessity I now find to 
speak against that which is evil, although 
it may be in some of them. For the Lord 
made me sensible in that convincing day, 
that he would not allow of sin, although it 
might be in Jacob, and that transgression 
in Israel should not go unpunished, and 
that he would yet again search Jerusalem 
as with candles, and bring to light the hid- 
den things of dishonesty. 

And now, although some may think it 
liard to have this practice spoken against, 
that has been carried on so long pretty much 
in silence ; I may let such know, that I 
have found it hard to write against it ; yet 
nevertheless, believing it to be my duty so 
to do, I have written according to the un- 
derstanding I have had thereof. And al- 
though I have written but little, and in 
a very plain way, yet I hope that those re- 
marks 1 have made thereon, may serve 
as a text for some to preach to themselves 
upon. I am not unthoughtful of the ferment 
or stir that such discourse as this may make 
among some, who (like Demetrius of old} 
may say, By this craft have we our wealthy 



Vll 



which caused the people to cry out witli 
one voice, saying, Great is Diana of the 
Ephesians, whom all Asia and the world 
worship. Therefore leaving such to wor- 
ship what they will, I will also say, 
that there are many sober men that have 
spoken against this practice, both by writ- 
ing and in their public assemblies, whom 
I could name, but choosing to be brief, I 
will only observe to the Reader, what I 
myself have observed, and that is, that 
those people that dwell nearest the truth, 
and are most engaged in it, and are more 
concerned for the spreading of it than for 
any thing in this world beside,^ cannot al- 
low of this practice, they seeing it to be 
oppression and cruelty. 

Now I having spoken something of the 
reason why I have wrote this, I will con- 
clude this my preface, wishing the Readei 
an impartial judgmento. 



AGAINST THAT ANTICHRISTIAN PRACTICE 01 

MAKING SLAVES OF MEN, 



Such hath been the love and goodness 
of God to men; that in all ages of the world 
he has had a peopliBj family or church 
whom he hath called and alsa chosen, to 
Bear a testimony to his name and truths 
Yet it may be observed by them that read 
the Holy Scriptures, that those people 
whom he had called, and favoured above all 
the families of the earth, and had wrought 
signs and wonders for them, and had 
exalted them in the sight of their enemies ; 
that those people in times of liberty and 
ease, grew forgetful of God. This aptness 
to forget God in a time of ease, the Apos'- 
tie Paul well knew, after that he had a 
thorn in the flesh, or the messenger of Satan 
to buffet him (as he calls it) for before he 
was afflicted he went astray, therefore he 
knew chastisement or affliction to be prof- 
itable for him, and could then say, I take 
pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in 
necessities, in persecutions, in distresses 
for Christ's sake : For when I am weak, 
then am I strong. S Cor. xii, 10. It 



10 

may be also observed by them who read 
the Book of Martyrs or sufferings of the 
people of God, from the time our Lord was 
crucified, down to the reign of the bloody 
Queen Mary, (which history I da believe 
is believed to be true by most protestants) 
that in all that length of time, God had a 
people whom he had called out of the wor- 
ship, ways and customs of the world, who 
were a suffering people, and that in the 
midst of their greatest sufferings, they were 
the most immediately upheld by the t)ivine 
power of God ; so that they could even re- 
joice in the fiames.^ But when it pleased 
God that a good King or Emperor came to 
rule, so that they were not persecuted or 
oppressed, that they grew forgetful of God^ 
and some of them became oppressors them- 
selves. Now I do believe that God some* 
times afflicteth outwardly, and sometimes 
inwardly, who best knows the rod that is 
suitable to chastise with. We may observe 
also how it hath been with our elder friends, 
who were a harmless and suffering people, 
who did not only bear testimony in word, 
but in practice also, against all outward 
and carnal weapons ; which our friend 
Hobert Barclay observing, said, that it was 
their innocent lives and conversations that 
convinced him, before ever he inspected 
into their prineiples. He did not see them 
in this practice of making slaves of their 
fellow creatures, which practice is upheld 
by the carnal sword only, but he bore a 



a 

testimony against the carnal sword, and 
would not allow of it to be nsed, although 
it were in self preservation. Such inno- 
cency was in that worthy man, as well as 
many others in that day, that they would 
not allow of this practice, having more re- 
gard to that command of Christ, (to do 
to others as we would they should do to us) 
than to any outward advantage in this 
world. And after our friend George Fox 
liad travelled in the island of Barbadoes in 
the West-Indies, where he saw this prac- 
tice of making slaves, even to that degree, 
that their houses were black with them, 
that he bore open testimony against it, 
%vhen he got home he wrote a little book to 
them, wherein I find these words, ^^ ^And if 
thy brother, an Hebrew man, or an Hebrew 
woman, be sold unto thee, and serve thee 
six years, then in the seventh year thou 
shalt let him go free from thee, and when 
thou sendest him out free from thee, thou 
shalt not let him go away empty : thou 
shalt furnish him liberally out of thy flock, 
and out of thy floor, and out of thy wine- 
press, of that wherewith the Lord thy God 
hath blessed thee, thou shalt give it to him. 
And remember that thou wast a bondman 
in the land of Egypt, and the Lord thy 
God redeemed thee : therefore I command 
thee this thing to day/ Heut. xv. IS, 13, 
14, 15. See here this was to be done by 
the Jews to such as were of their own peo- 
ple 5 and indeed this will very w ell become 



1-3 

cliristians, masters, governors and Tulers 
6f families here in: this Island or elsewhere, 
who should outstrip the Jews to deal so 
(as the Lord commanded) with their ser- 
vants and apprentices, that were of their 
own nation or people : and to close up all, 
let me tell you, it will doubtless be very 
acceptable to th« Lord, if so be that masters 
©f families here would deal so with their 
servants the negroes and blacks whom they 
have bought with their money, to let them 
go free after a considerable term of years, 
if they have served them faithfully : and 
w hen they go and are made free, let them 
not go away empty handed. This I say will 
be very acceptable to the Lord, whose ser- 
vants we are, and who rewards us plentifal- 
ly for our service done him, not suffering us 
to go away empty. For ' who is there even 
among you,' saith the Lord, ^that will shut 
the doors for nought? neither do you kindle 
a j&re on mine altar for nought.' Mai. i. 10. 
So now you, I say, that are Christians, 
that are redeemed out of the spiritual 
"Egypt ; for as the Apostle saith, 1 Cor. vii, 
%%, ^He that is called in the Lord being 
a servant, is the Lord's free-man,' that is, 
set free from sin, and spiritual bondage. 
Be ye holy, as your heavenly Father is 
holy ; and be ye merciful, as your heavenly 
Father is merciful ; as is commanded you 
in Luke vi, 36. And this is the way to 
have the lost image of God restored and 
renewed in us 5 therefore I say, you spir- 



itual Jews^ you must exceed the outward 
Jews in this, who are come to Christ, who 
is a merciful and faithful High Priest, who 
is the Saviour of all men, and who tasted 
-death for all men. Heh. ii. 17. 

^^ A-ud let not your families of whites and 
Macks be like Sodom and Gomorrah^ like 
Zeboim, and the rest of the cities of the 
plain, or like the Canaanites ; lest sudden 
destruction come upon you, and the Lord 
root you out as he did them. Let not, I 
say, your servants under your command, 
and such as are bom in your houses, and 
bred up in your families, and such as you 
have bought Avith money, suffer them not 
(I say) to take husbands and wives at their 
pleasure, and then leave them again when 
they please, and then take others again as 
fast and suddenly as they Avill, and then 
leave them, this is not well, this may bring 
the judgments of Grod upon you ; yea, this 
manifests your families to be unclean and 
adulierated families.'' 

Now by these words (though but a small 
part of what he wrote) we may see that he 
was against making slaves of men. Now 
I do believe if men were ingenuous to ac- 
knowledge to the truth, even as their con- 
sciences bear them witness, I need not go 
any farther for a proof against this practice : 
but because thev be not. I will turn also to 
the Holy Scriptures^, that so they that are 
in this practice may be condemned by both. 



li 

First, we may observe, wben God had 
created man^ that he gave him a free will, 
and would not compel the will of man, no 
not to that which was good, much less to 
that which was evil ; therefore we ought 
not to compel our fellow creatures. 

Objection. But liad not God's people 
bond-servants in all ages of the world, 
bought with their money ? To which I an- 
swer, that in all the time of the law they 
bad bond- servants bought with their mon- 
ey ; but the Apostle saith, <^ The servant 
abideth not in the house ever/' Now the 
v/ord servant I understand to be but for a 
time, but the word slave forever. And 
those that merchandised in slaves we may 
find were Babylon's merchants, Rev. xviii, 
13. And those that had bond-servants un- 
der the law, were commanded to let them 
go free after some time of service, and they 
were not to let them go empty handed 
neither, which some of them not observing, 
the Lord complained by the prophet Jere- 
miah, that they ^^ have not hearkened unto 
me, in proclaiming liberty every one to his 
brother, and every man to his neighbour : 
behold I proclaim a liberty for you, saith 
the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, 
and to the famine, and I will make you to 
be removed into all the kingdoms of the 
earth," Jer. xxxiv. I7. 

Objection. But they were of their own 
nation that the command was against; no\T 
these negroes are not of our own nation, but 



15 

are mere infidels and strangers. To M^hicli 
objection I'll answer as it is written in Ex. 
xxii. 2if " Ye shall neither vex a stranger^, 
nor oppress him, for ye w ere strangers in 
the land of Egypt/^ And Exod. xxlii. 9. 
'• Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger, 
for ye know the lieart of a stranger, seeing 
ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.'^ 
Now I do not find that it is any more al- 
lowable to make a slave of an unbeliever;^ 
than a believer, seeing we are commanded^ 
Matt. vii. 12, " Therefore all things what- 
soever ye would that men should do to you, 
do ye even so to them, for this is the law 
and the prophets.^^ Now we may see that 
this was not only a command of Christ's, 
but was the law and the prophets also; 
and those that come to observe that com- 
mand, even fulfil both tables at once. Now 
I have often considered how earnestly 
some men will search into the etymology 
or original of some things that may be but 
small, and in the mean while omit the 
greater. Now in my judgment every thing 
ought to be looked upon according to the 
importance, weight or value of the thing ; 
for to be very zealous in a small thing, and 
to pass lightly over a greater, that zeal may 
be more properly called superstition than 
good zeal, which should be grounded upon 
knowledge. Now I would have all to con- 
sider of this practice of making slaves of 
negroes, or others that we can get the mas- 
tery over, to see upon what foundation it 



16 

stands, or to see what the original of it was, 
whether or no pride and idleness was not 
the iirst rise of it, that they might go with 
white hands, and that their wives might 
(Jezebel like) paint and adorn themselves, 
and their sons and daughters be brought 
up in idleness, which may be very well 
termed the mother of all vice ; for it is gen- 
erally the richest sort of people that have 
them, that could do best without them, for 
the poor are not so able to get them. 

But some may object, as I myself have 
heard them, that there was a mark set upon 
Cain, and they do believe that these negroes 
are tlie posterity of Cain, because of their 
hair, and their being so black, differing 
from all others, and that Canaan was to be 
a servant of servants to his brethi-en, whom 
they take to be of the same lineage : But 
if we do but observe, and read in the gen- 
ealogy of Cain,^ we may find that they were 
all drowned in the old world, and that Ca- 
naan was of the line of Beth. And al- 
though it was of the will of God that the 
world was drowned, because of their great 
wickedness ; yet we may observe also, that 
there was unclean beasts went into the ark, 
as well as clean, and that it was the will or 
permission of God, that there should be a 
Ham, as well as a Shem and Japhet : by 
w hich we may see that God suffers wicked 
men to live as well as righteous, and we 
find that the sun shineth on the evil as well 
as on the goodg and that the rain falleth on 



17 

tlie unjust as well as the just, and that 
Christ forbids his followers to meddle with 
the tares lest they hurt the wheat; there- 
fore, none can have any plea for making of 
them slaves, for their being either ignorant 
or wicked ; for if that plea Avould do, I do 
believe they need not go so far for slaves 
as now they do. 

And although Canaan was to be a ser- 
Tant of servants to his brethren, yet the 
Lord afterwards spake by the propliets, 
that tlie son should not bear the iniquity of 
the father, and the father should not bear 
the iniquity of the son, but the soul that sin- 
iieth should die. Then the posterity of 
Canaan or of Ham, do not bear their sins : 
And tiie Apostle Peter saith, ^^ Now I per- 
ceive of a truth that God is no respecter of 
persons, but in every nation he thatfearetli 
God and worketh righteousness, is accepted 
of him.^' Now although the negroes might 
not have the understanding that some other 
nations have, then I do believe there is the 
less required, and if they do but as well as 
they know, I do believe it is well with 
them. For John the Divine saith in the 
Revelations, that he saw them that were 
^ sealed in their foreheads, of the tribes of 
Israel, of each tribe twelve thousand, which 
made an hundred and forty and four thou- 
sand : And after this I beheld (said he) 
and lo a great multitude which no man 
could number, of all nations, and kindreds, 
aiid people; ami torigues; stood before the 



iS 

throne, and before the lamb, clothed with 
Avhite robes, and palms in tlieir hands, and 
they cried with a loud voice, saying, salva- 
tion to our God, which sitteth upon the 
throne, and unto the Lamb.^^ llev. vii. 9, 
10. Now if there was of all nations^ 
kindreds, tongues and people, then there 
was some of the negroes. 

Now aUhough the Turks make slaves of 
those they can catch, that are not of their 
religion, yet (as history relates) as soon a» 
any embraces the Mahometan religion, they 
are no longer kept slaves, but are q^uickly 
set free, and for the most part put to some 
place of preferment ; so zealous are they 
for proselytes and their own religion. Now 
if many among those called Christians^ 
would but consider how far they fall short 
of the Turks in this particular, it would be 
well ; for they tell the negroes that they 
must believe in Christ, and receive the 
christian faith, and that they must receive 
the Sacrament, and be baptized^ and so 
they do ; but still they keep them slaves 
for all this. Now how partial are those 
that can judge a negro that should run away 
from his master to deserve beating, and if 
one called s. christian (although it may be 
no better christian than the other) should 
run away from the Turks, they can judge 
liini to be a good fellow, and to have dpne 
-well. Now I look upon this practice of 
making slaves to be so great a sin, that 
even isieii whose principles will allow of 



i9 

killing men in their own defence, will myk 
allow of making slaves ; for they counting 
it better to deprive them of life that rise 
lip against them, than to deprive those of 
liberty that have done them no harm. 

Now if any one should ask one of the 
negroe's masters that had a negro child and 
a child of his own, what harm the one had 
done, that it shonld be made a slave more 
than the other? that they would not I be- 
lieve be able to answer it ; and if thej 
have done us no harm, (as it is evident they 
have not) then it is very contrary to scfip- 
ture, and even to nature, to make them suf- 
fer. Now if we will but look back into 
the original of this practice, which ought 
to be most looked into, and spoken against ; 
for until the cause is removed, I know not 
how the eflfect should cease ; we shall iSnd 
that they were stolen in the first place ei- 
ther by them that fetched them, or they 
carrying such goods as induced some of 
their own nation to steal them; and they 
standing ready to receive them, which is a§ 
bad as if they had stolen them themselves. 

Now we may find that man-stealing and 
man-slaying were joined together, and there 
was the same punishment for the one as for 
the other. See Exod. xxi. IS, 13, 14, id, 
16. ^ And he that smiteth a man, so that 
he die, shall surely be put to death. And 
he that stealeth a man, and ^elleth him, or 
if he be found in his hands, he shall surely 
be put to death.^ We may find it also ia 



m 



the New Testament joined with the worst 
of murderers, as sach as were murderers 
of fathers and murderers of mothers, and 
man-stealers, 1 'j^'im. i. 9, 10. The pro- 
hibition is general, he that stealeth away 
man, a brother or a stranger, or heathen, 
or any man, the punishment is capital ; 
for he that killed was to be put to death, 
because it was the image of God> Gen. ix» 
6. So he that robbeth a man of his free- 
dom, which only maketh knowledge nseful, 
seems to deface the image of God, and 
therefore is punished with death. 

Objection. But how can this practice of 
making slaves be so great a sin, when it is. 
so generally practiced among all the socie- 
ties of people? For let them differ about 
what they will else, they pretty generally 
agree about this. To which objection I 
answer, That if they did but as well agree- 
about all ather points as they do about this^ 
they might almost if not altogether be term- 
ed one community;: yet I cannot find this to 
be a proof r for I take it for a maxim, that 
in a general way, the negroes are cruelly 
used J and therefore I do not find, that 
their agreement in making slaves can be an 
example for ms, any more than their using 
them cruelly. Therefare if we would but 
consider the thing rightly, we shall not find 
that to be a proof^ because it is so general 
a practice. For we may observe how it 
was when oui' Lord was crucified, that there 
was divers sects of people; and of very dif- 



fering minds, yet in putting him to deatlF 
they could generally agree ; and though 
they were so much at variance, that as thje 
proverb is, they were at daggers drawing, 
yet the text has it, Hhat the same day Pilot 
and Herod were made friends.' Yet some 
that have annotated thereon, have not scru- 
pled to call that a cursed friendship, that 
was contracted by putting to death our 
Lord, that came in love to their souls. — ^ 
But I have a furtlier reply to make to what 
I have said before, of the general agree- 
ment of making slaves; namely, that there 
are some of all persuasions, I do believe, 
that cannot allow o?f this practice : for they 
seeing it to be contrary to Christ's com- 
mand, and even to nature : for I have made 
this observation myself, (though but young 
in years) that those that dwell neare&t the 
truth, and contend most for it^ caniK>t allow 
of this practice, for they see it to be oppress 
sion and cruelty. But it may be objected^ 
that there have some spoken against this 
practice, and they have come to nothingy or 
have not prospered in it. To which I an- 
swer, tiiat a good cau&e may be badly mai}'- 
aged, and by sad experience we often see 
it is so. Now I do believe by what hath 
already been said, that all that have not 
concluded beforehand that they would not 
see, may see this practice of making slaves 
to be anti-christian; for it cannot be of 
Christ, because contrary to his command|, 
therefore of antichrist. 



Now I liave lieai-cl some men say^ that 
they believed they did wrong in getting ne- 
groes, but that they did not know what to 
do with them now they had got them ; for 
if they let them go free after some time, if 
any mishap befel them, their estates were 
obliged to maintain them. And though 
they seem to acknowledge the wrong done 
to them, ^e^i they seem to be very much 
afraid lest they should be forced to help 
them a little, and so seem to rest contented. 

Now, suppose that to give the negroes 
theii' times, or let them go free here in this 
country, was wrong, which I do not believe 
"would be wrong, after they had served them 
some time \ but if it were wrong to let them 
go free, whether or no those that see they 
did wrong in getting them, ought not to 
bear a testimony against it? For their 
keeping them and being silent, encourages 
others to get them. For instance, the 
Apostle Paul's advice to the believers, not 
to join themselves in marriage, a believer 
with an unbeliever, for he counted it wrong, 
even so do I : but if a believer had got a 
wife that was an unbeliever, I do not think 
that he should put her away, yet notwith- 
standing the practice was wrong, and ought 
to be spoken against. Now I can truly 
say, that this practice of making slaves of 
Jnen, appears to be so great an evil to me, 
that for all the riches and glory of this 
world, I would not be guilty of so great a 
siu as this seems to be. And I do belie\^e 



23 

many would see it so, were they not blind» 
ed by self-interest. Now as I said in the 
beginning, how apt men were to forget God 
in a time of liberty, as we now seem to 
have, which if rightly considered, we ought 
the more to remember him, and to prize 
his favour therein. For I do believe if 
persecution was on foot again, and people 
were haled to prisons, as they have been in. 
times past, that many would have more re- 
gard to their own practices than now they 
have. For this practice of making slaves 
tends to many evils, as parting man and 
wife, and children from them both, and 
thereby causing them to commit adultery 
with others, and so their children cannot 
come to honor them. And all this is done 
by violence, which is forbidden in the scrip- 
tures ; for there we are commanded to do 
violence to no man. And lastly, it is a hin- 
derance to the spreading of the Gospel 
among those poor creatures, for whom (as 
well as others) our Lord came and laid 
down his life, and also hath said, that his 
Gospel should be preached unto all nations. 
But some may object, as I have heard them, 
that by this means they come to hear the 
Gospel preached, and they believed this 
was the way our Lord intended that na- 
tion should have the Gospel preached to 
them, viz. to be brought slaves here. To 
which V\\ say, the reader may quickly 
suppose what people these are, for it must 
be them that buy the Gospel pretty dear 



tliemselves^ or else tliey would not think 
that the negroes should be bond-slaves, and 
their children after them^ for the knowl- 
edge of the Gospel. But I do not find that 
the Gospel was either bought or sold for 
money ; neither do we find that God com- 
pelled any to receive it^ but only intreated 
them or advised them to chuse lite and live. 
Now by tliis practice they hate the name 
of a christian; for all of us they can get 
(say they) they make slaves of, and even 
nature itself tells them that it is wrong. 

Now I would have all seriously to con- 
sider, that love their own souls, and do 
believe that they must give an account for 
the deeds done in the body, to look into 
their own practices, to see upon what foun- 
dation they stand ; for God will not forgive, 
what is in our power to help. 

Now^ I having shown by Scripture the 
unlawfulness of this practice, as it is now 
in use, both in the Old Testament and in 
the New. And now, I would have all to 
turn their minds inward, to that divine 
monitor or counsellor, placed in the heart 
of man, which is as agreeable to the holy 
Scriptui^s (I do believe) as any internal 
thing can be to an external one ; to which 
V\\ leave my reader, even to that ever bless- 
ed Spirit, One with the Father. 

ELIHU COLEMAN, 

-Nantucket, the 20th of the 
11th Mo. 1729—30. 



