Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witin funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/proceedingsinhouOOfran 



PROCEEDINGS 



IN THE 



HOUSE OF COMMONS 



ON THE 



SLAVE TRADE, 

AND 

STATE OF THE NEGROES 

IN THE 

PFEST INDIA ISLANDS. 
With an appendix. 



By PHILIP FRANCIS, Esa. 



Houfe of Commom^ May Zj ijgi. 

Resolved, <* That from and after the firft Day of January, 1796, 
" it fhall not be lawful to import any African Negroes into any 
^^ Britilh Colonies or Plantations." 



LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR CAROLINE RIDGWAY, YORK-STREET, 
ST. JAMES'S-SQUARE. 



XH 



Ma^ 30, 1796. 
It was thought dejirahle hy fome perfons, who have the Caufe 
of the Negroes Jerioujly at heart, that thefe proceedings 
fhould be fpcedily publijhed. They have^ therefore^ been 
colle^ed haji'ily, in the midjl of many prejfing avocations* 
T^he fuhjlance of what pajjcd is carefully preferved. The 
forniy if that were of any -moment y may be mended 
hereafter. 



PROCEEDINGS in PARLIAMENT, 



H O U S E o F C O M M O N S. 

Monday f April 1 8, 179U 

In a Committee of the whole Houfe, 

Mr. WILBERFORCE moved, «« That the Chair- 
" man be inftrudted to move for leave to bring m a bill 
" to prevent the farther Importation of Slaves into the 
« Britifti Colonies in the Weft Indies." 

In the courfe of this debate^ 

Mr. FRANCIS faid, he fhould have contented him- 
felf with giving his vote for the motion, but for fome 
confiderations, which were perfonal to him, and by 
which he thought himfelf particularly called upon to 
deliver his opinion on the prcfent occafion, not impli- 
citly by a vote, but expreffly by declaration. He be- 
lieved he was not very likely to be fufpedted of receiv- 
ing, with fpecial favour and partiality, any meafure in- 
B troductd 



( 2 ) 

troduced and recommended from the other fide of the 
Houfe ; that, in his own fituation in private life, every 
motive, by vi^hich tiie condu6l of men is ufually deter- 
mined, v^as united on one fide, and powerfully preiTed 
upon him, to engage him to take part this night againft 
his opinion. Connexions of every fort; friends, who 
were dear to him, and Vv^ho thought their fortunes were 
at flake ; folicitations, the moft urgent, from perfons 
to whom he was bound by many ties ; and poflibly the 
profpe61: of advantage to himfelf or to his family, at a 
future day, to be forfeited or preferved. All thefe were 
in one fcale, and nothing in the other, but the juftice of 
the caufe, and the protedion of creatures, who would 
never know that he had endeavoured to ferve them, or 
whofe gratitude could never reach him. That he 
did not flate thefe circum fiances for oftentation, or 
as a claim to merit, but to fortify his caufe, by fliew- 
ing that his opinion was fincere. Sir, I do not intend 
to go far into the general fubjed. If the undifputed 
ilate of fadls, if the clear and able argument delivered 
by the honourable gentleman, who takes the lead in this 
bufniefs, has not carried conviction along with it, I 
mufl: conclude, that truth and reafon on this fubjed have 
no accefs to the human mind. Many gentlemen, in- 
deed, have alTerted what they have by no means efla- 
bliilied, and what, upon the whole, I utterly difbelieve, 
that this trade is profitable ; but no man has yet had the 
courage to atnrm, or even to infinuate that it is not 
s'jiminaL The queflion then is not, whether the trade 
be criminal, but in wliat degree ? Is it a crime of the 
higheft guilt in morals, or is it in pra6lice capable of 
palliation? Will it admit of an excufe ? No, Sir; I de- 
clare upon my honour and my confcience, none. I 

pafs 



( 3 ) 

pafs by the traffic as it is conduced on the coafl of 
Africa, the temptation you give to one human creature 
to make a property of another, and to fell him to per- 
petual flavery. I take no notice of the miferies it pro- 
duces in that country. Remember only that, whatever 
they are, you are anfwerable for them all. You create 
the market, and it is the market that conftitutes the^de- 
niand, and produces the fupply. I fliall not infift on 
the horrors of the Middle Paffage. You do well to pafs 
over them with difregard. The mofl determined mind, 
the moft obdurate heart, if it be hum.an, could not liften 
to the evideiice, on that fubje^t, without torture. I 
take thefe creatures in that, which is flated to be their 
beil fituation ; at their landing in the iilands ; at their 
arrival in the land of promife, where they are inilantly 
to find relief from their fufferings ; where, in return for 
a moderate degree of labour, a tolerable mode of exif- 
tence is provided for them. You fay you have paid for 
them ; that they fubfifl: at your expence, and that you 
have a right to their labour. Be it fo. On that princi- 
ple, let us fee how they are treated. In confidering 
the flate of flavery in the Weft Indies, the obje£l, that 
inftantly ftrikes my mind with a Force and convi6lion, 
to which the evidence of fpecial fa6ls hardly makes an 
addition, is the power of corporal punifhinent, allotted 
as I find it. I do not afk you to inquire in what man- 
ner this power is exercifed, but how it is difpofed of, and 
to whom it is trufted, and then to determine what muft 
be the efFe£l of it. They know nothing of the human 
con ft i tut ion, who have not obferved, thatpower of every 
fort, of one man over another, has a natural tendency 
to deprave and corrupt the mind. The moment I 
hear of fuchpower^ uncontrouled, in any hand, I con* 
B 2 elude 



{ 4 ) 

dude that the depravity is unlimited. The a£lual exer- 
cife of it, ill the inflidlion of punilhment, afTurcdly intro- 
duces that word and moft odious of all diforders in the 
moral fyftem, perfonal cruelty. The truth of thefc 
principles is acknowledged hy the fpirit and caution of 
our penal laws in every other inftance, by the care they 
take, in all criminal proceedings, to feparate the intereft 
from the judgment, and the judgment from the execu- 
tion. They will not fuiFer fuch characters and powers 
to be united in one perfon ; nor are they united in any 
civilized fociety upon earth, except in our Weft India, 
iflands. What are the ufual offences imputed to ne- 
groes ? In ninety-nine inftances out of a hundred, they 
are either idlenefs or theft. They do not work hard 
enough to fatisfy the tafk-mafter, (and why they ihould 
work at all, I know not) or they fteal provifions. The 
thing they can eat is the only thing worth their ftealing. 
Food is tlie only obje6l of theft, which it is in their 
power to conceal, or that could poffibly do them any 
fervice. Confider the riik they run, the horrible pu- 
niihments they fuiFer when deteded, and then you may 
conceive in what manner they are fed. But, in the 
confideration of thefe offences, who is the offended 
party ? — The negro driver. — Who is the judge of the 
fa6l } The driver. — Who awards the punifliment ? The 
driver. — Who infli6ls it ? The driver with his own 
hand. But how ? Captain Giles, of the army, fays, 
that ** the punifhment by whipping, though with fewer 
*' laflies given, is more fevere and cruel than that of 
*^ the army, becaufe of the fize of the whip." Captain 
Hall, of the navy, fays, " that in Barbadoes and the 
*' Leeward Iflands, the treatment of the negroes on the 
^^ plantations was inhuman ; that the puni/liments in- 

*^ fiidl«d 



( i ) 

*" fi\3.td were very fhocking to perfons not vifed to fee 
^* them ; much more fo, than on board a man of war, 
** The field ilaves he has feen, fa great many) were gc- 
«« nerally marked with the whip." This is the moJt of 
punifhment. What is likely to he the degree of it ? An 
angry man determines the penalty; an ofFended judge 
inflids it ; and he, perhaps, by office, by habit, and oc- 
cupation, one of the loweft if not worft of our fpecies. 
If you cannot have an indifferent judge of the oiFences 
ef thefe wretches, at leail let there be a cold, indiffe- 
rent executioner. It is a horrible truth that, when once 
the lafli is lifted by an angry man, with defpotic power 
over the obje6l, his rage is Inflamed by every ftroke he 
gives. The cries and writhings of the creature ar=c 
called reliftance ; even his patience is called fulkinefs; 
even his fufFerings are an offence. The decrees of paf- 
fion are executed by paffion. Admitting the power to 
be neceffary, is there any protediion againft the abufe 
of it ? Have the negroes any fhelter ? Have they any 
appeal? Is there a law to deter, is there a magiflratc 
to refortto? — No, Sir; none at all. Mr. Terry, who 
was many years an overfeer in Grenada, fays, *' that he 
" has known flaves punifhed by managers feverely for 
'• trifling faults; that they durft not complain to the 
** owner, for fear of worfe treatment ; that he has knowri 
" them punifhed by the owner for fo doing, and fent 
'* back, though their complaint was juft; that field 
" flaves ufually bear the marks of the whip ; and that 
" he never heard that a flave complained to a magiflrate 
<* of his owner, manager, overfeer, or attorney ; that 
" he has known the fame perfon both attorney, mana- 
5* ger, and dodlor on one eftate ; that he never knew a 
*' planter or manager interfere with another's treat- 
3 ** pent 



( 6 ) 

<' ment of his flaves ; that food is the general obje£l of 
^' theft among flaves, and at the hazard of their lives. 
*^ That an overfeer on the eftate where he was, (Mr. 
«^ Coghlan) threw a flave into the boiling cane juice, 
«« who died in four days; he was not punifhed other- 
*^ wife than by replacing the flave, and being difmiflTed 
<^ the fervice; was told of this by the owner's fon, the 
^*^ carpenter, and many flaves on the eftate; has heard 
^« it often." 

Againfl: all 'the allegations and all the arguments on 
this fubje£l, one general anfwer is ufually ftated, and 
fuppofed to be conclufive : 77?^ negroes are our property i 
vae have paid high prices for them , eur profits depend upon 
the care we take of them* If we are bad men, at leafi we 
iinderfand our intereft too welly to dejiroy or difahle the in- 
(irumentSy by which alone our ejiates are made of any value 
to us. In the firfl: place, Sir, the proprietor is not in 
general the perfon, who exercifes the power in quef- 
tion. If he were, it might be fair to prefume, that the 
confideration of his true intereft would be fome reftraint 
upon his paflions. I fear, that, in general, it vv ould 
not be efFedive. Many of the Weft-India proprietors, 
I know, are men of as much honour and humanity as 
are to be found in any other rank of life; but they re-. 
fide in England. Concerning the management of their 
cftates, they have no other evidence but the information 
of their overfeers; concerning the treatment of their 
flaves, they have nothing to judge by, but the amount 
produce of their labour. If the returns are abundant, 
it is not likely that the owners fhould be much difpofed 
to inquire into abufes, by which their profits do not 
appear to be diminifliedf They hear no complaints ; 

they 



( 7 ) 

they live happily themfelves, and conclude that all is 
well.^ But I deny that the principle, fo affumed and 
relied on, namely, that Haves will be well treated, be- 
caufe it is the intereft of an owner to take care of his 
property, is conclufive in this cafe, as it would be in 
the cafe of inanimate property. All the prote6lion, 
which you can cxpe6l from the principle, and it goes 
no farther, is, that corporal punifhment fhall not be 
inflidted to the hazard of life and limb; that the flave 
Ihall not be difabled from performing the tafk. allotted 
to him. Within that limitation, the lafh may be in- 
flicEled with the moft Ihocking, capricious feverity, 
provided it does not effentially injure the property of 
the owner. But to fecure even that degree of pro- 
te(ftion, he ought never to truft the lafh out of his 
own hand. He delegates his power to another, but 
not the interefl-, which, you fay, is to govern the er- 
crcife of it. Still the negroes are your property. So 
are your horfes, and of more value too, if price and 
value are the fame. See how thofe noble, ufeful ani- 
mals are treated by coachmen and others, every day ia 
the ftreets ; every night at the doors of the crowded: 
afTemblies of this town, before the eyes of their rnafters 
and miftrefles, and even at the hazard of their lives. 
I have been often witnefs to thefe abominable fcenes of 
riotous or paflionate cruelty. Did you ever hear of 
a coachman punifhed, or even difmifTed, for cruel treat- 
ment of his horfes ? 

• Captain Hall fays, " he believes the flaves fufFered from the 
*< owner's abfence, becaufe it was the bufmefs of the overfeer, 
" for his own credit, to make as much fugar as poffible ; to do 
<« this, he muft work flaves to the utmoft ; it being no concern of 
** his whether they died or not." 

One 



( 8 ) 

One would think, at the firft view of the fubjccSl, 
that a plantation, once properly ftocked with male and 
female negroes, would fupply itfelf without farther im- 
portation, I wifh it were fo ; for then I fhould con- 
clude that the condition of the negroes was tolerable at 
leafl» There is nothing in the climate or foil to coun- 
tera6t the propagation of negroes in the iflands, any 
more than in Africa, where they multiply to excefs. 
In all other countries, the labouring part of the people 
are in general the moft prolific. Why not in the Weft 
Indies ? Exceflive labour, and fcanty unwholfome food, 
would be fufficient to check population any where. 
But the fa6l is, that the planters do not think it their 
intereft to encourage it. Captain Hall tells you, that 
** in the Britifh iflands, breeding is not thought defira- 
" bie ; they rather thought it a misfortune to have 
^^ pregnant women, or even young flaves. They 
*^ efleemed the charge of rearing a child to maturity, 
^' more troublefome and greater than buying a flavc 
*' fit for work; and it was not uncommon for thezn to 
*-^ give away a child of two years old, as you would a 
*= a puppy from a litter. Has heard an overfeer of 
** fome confequence exprefs this opinion. It was, in 
*< fad, his fyftem to prevent population, as far as in his 
«* power ; and he underflood this to be a general fyftem. 
*^ So little care was taken of infants, that mothers 
•' deemed it a misfortune to have children : after the 
" month, they were fent to field labour, with their 
*^ child upon their backs, and fo little time afforded 
*« them to attend to its wants, that he has feen a 
*' woman, feated to give fuck to her child, roufed 
" from that fituation by a fevere blow from the cart 
« whip.'' 

Mr. 



^ ( 9 ) 

Mr. Terry fays that, while a manager, he never 
^^ received any direilion about attention to preg- 
*^ nant women, or children ; has heard managers fay, 
^' it was cheaper to buy African flaves than to breed | 
*^ that they wiihed the children to die, for they loll 
^^ much of the mother's work during their infancy." 

Captain Rofs fays, *^ he has {cen a negro woman 
^^ flogged with ebony bullies, fo tliat the fkin of her 
'•^ back was taken oiF down to her heels ; ilie was then 
^^ turned round, and flogged from her breail: down to 
*^ her waifl: ; and in confequence, he faw her afterwards 
** walking upon all four, and unable to get up." 

Such is the treatment of women ilaves, and in that 
flate too, which of all others would excite pity in the 
moll callous heart, that ftill had one human fenfatioii 
left in it. But we are told that, altho' poffibly fadls 
of this atrocious nature may have happened in the early 
periods of the Weft-India fettlements, no fuch inflances 
occur at prefent : that the government of the i Hands in 
this refpe6t is greatly improved ; that good laws have 
been made; that they are carefully executed; and that, 
upon the whole, the fituation of the negroes is confide- 
rably mended, and grows every day more and more 
tolerable. Perhaps it m.ay be fo on fome particular 
plantations ; but, in general, I do not believe the af- 
fertion to be true. The operation of habits and prin- 
ciples is permanent and uniform; the check created by 
good laws can only be temporary and occafional, until 
they have acled long enough to efFe6t a change in the 
manners of the people. It would have been natural 
to conclude that, while thefe inquiries were going on 

C in 



{ to 

in England, and while the attention of the nation was 
fo particularly direded to the fubjedl as it has been 
lately, fome reftraint would have been laid on pra6lices, 
which it was well known had excited univerial indig- 
nation here. One fad, which I fhall ftate, will be 
fufficient to fhew you, what you have to expe61: from 
the probable effe£l: of thefe pretended laws and regula- 
tions made in the iflands for the protection of the flaves. 
It is not more than eighteen montlis ago that 1 read, in 
the Jamaica Gazette, an account of a female flave, of 
the age of fifteen, flogged by one of thefe drivers, till 
ihe fell fenfelefs to the ground. In this ftate Hie was 
dragged by the legs to a place which they call an hofpi^ 
tal, till her mangled fiefh was torn completely from 
her bones. In the hofpital (lie died. The villain was 
tried for his life, and honourably acquitted by twelve 
of his peers, every one of whom, I have a right to 
conclude, and, for my own part, have no fort of doubt, 
would have done exadlly the fame. On what pretence 
was he acquitted ? — Why, Sir, it was faid, or pretended, 
that the girl was his property; that it could not be his 
intention, becaufe it was not his interefl, to take away 
}ier lifce 

Sir, I have given you but a very flight fpeclmen, inr 
deed, of the horrors, with which thefe books are filled; 
I will not argue the queftion, whether we ought to en- 
deavour to put an end to them, or not. The very quefr 
tion is a difgrace to us. In fuch a cafe, I will not at- 
tempt to do that, which many perfonal cpnfiderations 
■would have led me to do, to endeavour to compound 
with my duties, and to compromife between extreme right 
^ncl extreme wrong. 1 give my vote for abolition. I 

declarq 



{ " ) 

declare my opinion. I would do more if I could. Were 
I to have done otherwife, I do not believe that I could 
have enjoyed happinefs in this world. I am fure I fliould 
not have deferved it hereafter. 



HOUSE OF COMMONS. 

Tuefday^ March 15, 1796. 

*' Motion for taking into confideration the report 
*^ of the Bill, Jor the jiboHtion of the Slave Iradcy at a 
'* time to he Umited.^^ 

Sir WILLIAM YOUNG. 

General SMITH. 

Mr. FRANCIS. Mr. Speaker, I really had na 
thoughts of taking part in this debate. My opinion of 
the Have trade is fufEciently known. But I confefs I 
have not patience to hear what I have heard this day, 
without feeling indignation, and endeavouring to ex« 
prefs it. The honourable General introduced his fpeech 
with premifing, that he had no property in the Weft In- 
dies, nor any conne6lion with thofe who had. Allow 
ine in my turn to declare that, altho' I have no pro- 
perty in the iflands, 1 once was intimately conne£led 
with feme, who pofTefTed a great deal. The perfcn, I 
allude to, had no relations but in my family. Her per- 
fonal fortune was very confiderable. The fucceffion to 
the greateft part of it would undoubtedly have gone, as 
in juftice it ought to have done, to her own relations, 
to whom fhe always exprefTed, as in common gratitude 
to me file ought to have felt, the warmefl affedlion. 
Why was that jufl and reafonable expe(5lation on our 
C 2, part 



( 12 ) 

part difappolntej ? Becaufe I did not yield to her car-* 
neft and repeated foil citations to vote againft the aboli- 
tion of the flave trade, or at lead to be neuter. I voted 
and fpoke for it, and flie difpofed of her fortune accord- 
ingly. The honourable General fays, that we are very 
much at our eafe, while we are voting away the pro- 
perty of others; that we go home to the enjoyment of 
our dinners and our beds, without thinking on the mi- 
fery and ruin v/e are to bring on a great body of our fel- 
low fubjedls. Well, Sir, of me at leafl, it cannot be 
faid that, while I negleded or facrificed their interefts, 
I was careful of my own, I adled with my eyes open, 
for I was difiindlly threatened wiih the confequencc^ 
And yetl went home that day with appetite to my din- 
ner, as I Ihali to-day, and flept foundly that night. 
Had I done otherwife, I fhould have loft the quiet 
mind, without which, neither can the luxuries of the 
table gratify the palate, nor the bed of down give re- 
pofe. Forgive me, Sir, for fpeaking of myfelf in this, 
manner. The fads I allude to are well known to every 
one, who knows me. My objedt in referring to them 
is to obtain credit for ray fmcerity, in the part I now 
take, even with thofe, who may undervalue my judg- 
ment. The honourable Baronet, in vehement language, 
and paffionate terms, complains of the enormous lofs 
and injury, which the,Weft India proprietors and plan- 
ters are to fufFer by this bill, without any compenfa* 
lion. I deny it as afa6l. But, if it were true, let them 
begin by entitling themfelves to redrefs, before they ex- 
pedl that the Houfe will liften to tlieir complaint. I 
anfwer them with the authority and in the language of 
Englifh equity, ever fmce equity was known in Eng- 
land ; Do juji'ice before you demand it, NoN FERET 
^QUUM, QUI PETIT INIQUUM, As long as you are 
4 guilty 



( n ) 

guilty of an enormous injuflice, on the very grotind 
and fubje6t matter of your pretended wrongs, the court 
will not liften to yon, even though it were true that 
you had fome equitable claim to compenfation or re- 
lief. The honourable Baronet fays, that the preamble 
to the bill, in afferting that the flave trade is contrary to 
the principles of jujiice and humanity, is a cruel mockery 
of the fuiFerings of perfons in his fituation, and that it 
adds infult to wrong. The honourable General, on the 
other hand, fays, that it is nothing but the truth, that 
it was true a hundred years ago, and has continued fo to 
this hour; and therefore, I fuppofe, he concludes it is 
too trite and notorious to be worth aflerting. The ho- 
nourable gentlemen agree better in their views, than in 
their principles. The honourable Baronet fays, that 
the ftate of the greater part of the Weft India proprietors 
is already fufficiently diftreffing, and in many inftances 
deplorable ; that their eftates are mortgaged, for nearly 
the whole of their actual value, to merchants and other 
monied men in this country ; and that this bill will an- 
nihilate the fecurity of the mortgagees. Be it fo. The 
intereft then is in them^ and from them we have had no 
petition. The honourable Baronet's anxiety about the 
mortgagees is extremely generous I confefs ; but, if his 
account of the a6lual fituation of Weft India property 
be corred, the owners would fuffer little or nothing, 
even by a general foreclofure. Thefe gentlemen recom- 
mend it to us not to forget policy, while we are talking 
of juftice; from which I can only colledl: that, in their 
minds at leaft, there is an evident diftindlion between 
policy and juftice. In mine, Sir, they are the fame. 
If there be any circumftances of the prefent moment, or 
in the adual fituation of affairs in the Weft Indies, 

which 



( 14 ) 

which irsay rencler It prudent or advifeablc not to cztff 
the meafure of abolition into inftant execution,- his 
Majefly's Miniflers, who have the heft information oh 
fuch points, and who are trufted with the care of the 
general interefts of the empire, ought to tell us fo. I' 
muft confide in their prudence. If, by withholding 
any necefTary information of fa(^, they fuiFer the Houfe 
to be mifled, they are to anfwer for it. But, as to ge- 
neral and fundamental principles of policy, I want no 
inftru6lion from any man. I know that it is by juflice 
only that great empires can preferve their greatnefs, Jzc 
fortis Etruria crevit, and that, by abandoning that prin- 
ciple, they infure their ruin. But, when argument 
fails, we are to be threatened if we perfift. The exam- 
ple of the lofs of Am.erica is held up to us by way of 
warning not to provoke the Weft India illands, left 
they alfo fliould be loft to Great Britain, If this be a 
fpeculation only, I anfwer it with a better; — -that the 
events and iffues of human counfels are at the difpofal 
of a higher wifdom than our's; and that thofe conclu- 
lions, which we moft ftrongly dread and deprecate in 
profpe6l5 are very often beneficial in the event. If it 
be a menace, I anfwer it with a fadt. At the outfet of 
that unhappy conteft, the terror held out by thofe who 
promoted and thofe who oppofed it, was the lofs of 
America ; by the form.er if we yielded, by the latter, if 
we perfifted. But all parties agreed, that the lofs of 
America muft be the ruin of Great Britain. America 
was loft ; yet, in fpite of that lofs, and of all that this 
country wafted and fuifered in attempting to recover it. 
Great Britain has furvived, and ftood as firm and fecurs 
as ever ; nor do I know with certainty that, fetting afide 
the expences and calamities attached to the canteft. 

Great 



( xs ) 

Great Britain is effentially weakened or impoveriflied by 
the reparation of America. The honourable General 
fiates it as an abfurdity in the councils of adminiflration 
to wafte fo many lives, and to fquander fuch immenfe 
fums of money in expeditions to make conquefls in the 
Weft Indies, while in efFecl they forbid the cultivation 
not only of any you may acquire, but even of thofe 
which you poffefs. Of what ufe are the acquifitions, 
if the importation of negroes be forbidden ? Sir, it would 
be improper to enter now into the policy of thefe expe- 
ditions,. That queftion is not before us, nor is this the 
time for it. But to the objetliion, as it is ftated, the 
anfwer is obvious. On our principles, there is no con- 
tradidlion between the policy of the expeditions, and the 
ohje6l of the bill. The two meafures may be con- 
fiftent, at leaft in the judgment of perfons, who think 
and maintain, as I do, that the cultivation of all the 
lands in the Weft Indies m.ay be eftedually provided for 
without a farther importation of negroes from Africa. 
The honourable Baronet complains of the extreme ri- 
gour and feverity of the penalties impofed by this bill. 
My anfwer is, that if the purpofes of the law be good, 
if the obje6l be juft and neceflary, the penalties muft be 
iufficient to enforce the execution, and infure the efFedt. 
Beyond that point, I allow, they ought not to be ex- 
tended. On this part of the fubjed 1 call on the gen- 
tlemen of the long robe to give us their advice and af- 
liftance. It is properly their bufinefs and duly to watch 
the formaion of all penal ads, and to take care that 
they neither violate the principles, nor extend the ri- 
gour of our Englifti jurifprudence without abfolute ne- 
ceflity. I muft own I have my doubts, whether there 
fnay not be fome foundation for the apprehenfion ex- 

preiTed 



C >6 ) , 

prelTed by the honourable Baronet, that the extreme la- 
titude of the terms ufed in the firfl claufe, by which the 
procuring, aidhigy or aBettlng the importation of any ne- 
groes, is put on the fame footing vv^ith the adlual im- 
portation, and made fubjedl to the fame penalty of tranf- 
portation for fourteen years, may involve innocent per- 
fons in the confequences of a6ts done v/ilhout their par- 
ticipation, and even without their knowledge. Here agaia 
I call on the gentlemen of the long robe, to examine this 
matter, and give us their advice. The honourable Baronet 
affirms and laments that, by this claufe, men of birth, 
fortune, and education, polifhed and improved by man- 
ners and by learning, are liable to a punifhment degrad- 
ing as well as rigorous, and to be confounded with fe- 
lons and criminals of the vilefh denomination. I feel 
the force of the obje6lion, and wifh to have it confidered. 
At the fame time, I do not think it comes with a very 
good grace from the honourable Baronet. When the 
fedition bill pafled, he took no part to oppofe it. He 
faw no objecftionthen to the newly-created penalty of 
tranfportation for a feditious libel, on a fecond offence. 
By what fort of perfons could that fort of offence be 
committed ? By men of learning, genius, and educa- 
tion. He faw no objedion then to the penalty of tranf- 
portation in company with felons of every defcription, 
though poffibly it might fall on fuch a man as Mr. Burke 
or Dr. Parr, or on perfons the mofl eminent in the 
kingdom for literature and fcience. Such men, if they 
were obnoxious to government, would be profecuted, 
in the £rfl; inftance, on any trifling pretence, for the 
fake of infuring the penalty attached to the fecond con- 
viction. The honourable Baronet has different rules 
SEd meafures for offenders, whofe quality and chara6ler 

are 



( 17 ) 

are the fame. But juftice ought to be diflributed with 
an equal hand to all men. The clafs of the offender 
undoubtedly fliould be confidered, as well as that of the 
offence. If, in this refpe(5l:, the bill fhould be found 
liable to objedlion, it ought to be correcfled. 

,; Bill thrown by 74 to 70 ! 



HOUSE OF COMMONS. 

Monday^ March 21, 1796. 

Mr. FRANCIS rofe to give notice of his intention 
to take the firft convenient opportunity, after the re- 
cefs, to bring forward a motion concerning the ftate of 
negroes in the Weft India iflands. That, in order not 
to' load himfelf with unneceffary difficulties in an at- 
tempt fufficiently arduous in itfelf, and perhaps above 
his capacity, by exciting groundlefs fufpicions, or pro- 
voking a fuperfluous difpofition to oppofe his intended 
propofition before it was underflood, he would now flate 
flaortly to the Houfe, not what his objedl was, but what 
it was not. It did not relate at all to the abolition of 
the {lave trade, nor to the manumiflion of the flaves now 
in the iilands. His purpofe was to provide for another 
intereft, which, in his opinion, tho' certainly not 
negle6led, had never been wifely confidered, or ration- 
ally promoted on found principles of advantage either to 
the mafter or the flave; he meant, the real intereft of the 
proprietor himfelf. If, thro' that medium, the con- 
dition of the flave could be improved, he hoped it would 
not be an objedlion to his propofition. It was true, he 

D had 



( »8 ) 

had not till lately thought of taking an active part upon 
a fubjedi:, which, in other views, had been fo long de- 
bated, and to fo l;ttle purpofe. The lafl unfortunate 
vote on the flave trade had determined him to come for- 
ward. On one point only, he thought it neceiTary to 
make an explicit declaration, in order to fhelter himfelf 
from perfonal reproach or blame. It was true that he 
had taken his refolution, and that, at prefent, he faw 
no reafon to think it at all likely that he fhould not 
adhere to it. Neverthelefs, it was poflible that, in the 
interval, confiderations might occur, or be fuggefled to 
him by men wifer than himfelf, whom he meant to con- 
fult, or that infurmountable difficulties, or ftrong pruden- 
tial objedions might deter or divert him from purfuing 
his prefent purpofe. If fo, the Houfe would hear no 
more of it. But, if he perfevered in his defign, of 
•which at prefent he had no doubt, the Houfe might bp 
affured that he would apply his mind to it, with all the 
induftrv of which he was capable, and with every exer^ 
tion of whatever faculties he pofTelTed. 



HOUSE OF COMMONS. 

Monday^ April i\^ 1 796. 

Mr. FRANCIS, Mr. Speaker, It is hardly necef- 
fary for me to fay that the fight of fo numerous 
an attendance, on the prefent occafion, gives me the 
greateft fatisfadion. I confider it not only as a 
pra6lical acknowledgement of the importance of the 
bufinefs of the day, and of the interefl: it excites, but 
as an omen of fuccefs. Convinced, as I am, of the 

intrinfic 



( 19 ) 

intrinfiG merits of the caufe I am engaged in, 1 cannot 
but rejoice to find that fo many gentlemen are ftili 
difpofed to attend to it. The greater the number, and 
the more they examine it, the more I am afTured that, 
fooner or later, it will make a deep and univerfal im- 
prelTion, and finally prevail over every oppofition. I 
believe, Sir, I may venture to aflert, without a rifque 
of contradidion, that, including the greateft learning, 
by w^hich this Houfe is at all times adorned and fome- 
times inftrucSted, there is no man here better qualified 
than I am to introduce a ferious fubje^t of any kind 
with a dull, tedious, elaborate exordium. The power 
and the faculty being undifputed, I fhall not abufe it. 
Inftead of tormenting you with a long preface, I iliall 
fubmit to the Houfe fome fhort but earneft requefis, and 
then inflantly to my fubje6t. The firft is, that the Houfe 
will grant me a patient audience. I afk it with humi- 
lity for myfelf j but I demand it, as a debt of jufliice, 
for my caufe. On this day, it is your lot to exercife 
;i high jurifdi6lion over a queftion important to a great 
portion of mankind, and interefting, I trufl:, even to 
thofe, who think they have no concern in it. If this be 
your office, your patience is your duty. My fecond 
requeft is, that gentlemen will have the goodnefs and 
the candour to hear me out ; that they will not fufFer 
their minds to travel fader than I do ; that they will 
not anticipate my conclufions, and much more, that 
tliey will not conclude for me. The fubje6l naturally 
divides into two parts ; the principles and obje6l on one 
fide, the means on the other. Each of thefe divifions 
conftitutes of itfelf an entire whole, the merit of 
which, if it has any, will depend on the mutual re- 
htion^ correfpondence, and confiftency of its confi:i™ 

D % tucnt 



( 2» ) 

tuent parts, united in one view, and ac^ting together 
for one general purpofe. It cannot be fiirly deter- 
mined, or even thoroughly underAood, hy any confi- 
deration of particulars, that detaches tlic materials from 
the compofition, or that Values the component part with- 
out regard to its pofition. The mod irregular fragment, 
in meeting another fragment, finds the place that belongs 
to it. But, above all things, 1 mufl appeal to your jufticc 
againfl any nttcmpt or inclination to confound the con- 
fideration of the two general divifions of the fubjedt, 
by drawing objeclions from the means, and applying 
them to the obje^fl:. The fecond may be eligible and 
pradicable in its nature, though poflibly not by that 
courfe, or through that medium, which to me might 
appear preferable to all others, if not the only one 
likely to be fuccefsful. You may approve the purpofe 
without admitting the means. But you cannot ho- 
neftly or reafonably contend, that deciiive objedlions 
to the means are necefTarily fatal to the end. Sir, I am 
thoroughly confcious of my own infirmities. I cannot 
hope to make myfelf underftood, unlefs I am heard 
without impatience or interruption. Even figns and 
geflures are fufficient to difconcert me. From that 
fort of diltrefs, however, I hope to guard myfelf in 
fome degree, by obferving a rule, which is not fo much 
regarded as it ought to be, by fixing my eye as fteadily 
as I can upon you. Sir, from whom I exped nothing 
but what I have always experienced — kindnefs, encou- 
ragement, and protedlion. There is no afFedation in 
confefling that I have but little confidence in my own 
ftrength. Allow me to claim the benefit not the merit 
of this confeflion, if you believe it to be fmcere. Con- 
clude 



( 21 ) 

elude for me, as you ought to do, that I am convinced 
of the ftrength of my caufcj and that I rely on it for 
fupport. That I am^arneft in my opinion you cannot 
doubt. The value of it mud be eflimated by others. 
On this day, Sir, it is eminently my duty, as it is at ail 
times my intercil and inclination, to look round me for 
affiflance, and to conciliate, if I can, every clafs of per- 
fons and opinions, into which the Houfe has been divided 
on the fubject of the Slave Trade. To the encm.ies of 
this traffic, a refolute and I liope an unconquerable 
phalanx, to thofe, who have hitherto ad vifed and in- 
fifted on abolition, 1 think I have fome right to apply 
for fupport. I have gone the full length of their opi- 
nions, and given them, from firfl to lafl, tlie utmoil 
affiftance in my power; and, if ever they fhouid think 
it prudent or advifable, if ever they fhouid fee, v^hat at 
prefent I defpair of, a rational profpedl of fuccefs in 
that dire6l purfuit, they fliall find me at m.y poif, and 
as ready as ever to fecond their efforts. Is it poffible 
they fliould tell me in return, as, I think, iinplicitly 
they would do by refufmg to concur with me this 
night, that they will not fufFer any part or portion of 
that entire fyftem, which has totally failed in their 
hands, to fucceed in mine? They may fay, perhaps, 
that their principles will not permit them to negotiate 
with guilt, or to compound with crimes, as they muft 
do, if they confented to palliate or to qualify an evil, 
which they cannot remove, and much more if they ap- 
peared to authorize or even to acquiefce in its exiflence, 
by contributing to reduce it to a lefs intolerable form. 
Neither would /, if I could help it. But :s it true that, 
by yielding to neccfilty, any principles are abandoned ? 
Do I renounce even tbeir objedl of ultimate abolition, 
I or 



( 22 ) 

or do I purfufe it b^^ a courfe, perhaps more eiFe6lual> 
though lefs rapid and direct than that, which they have 
hitherto repeatedly tried without fuccefs ? Arc there no 
ftares and p-radations between complete fuccefs and ab- 
foiute defpair ? x\re there no expedients in pra6lice, of 
which prudence flioukl avail itfelf to compafs whatever 
is attainable of the obje6ls of wifdom and benevolence? 
Have thev a moral riglit to this extreme precifion in a 
queftion of a6tion, in which the fufFerings of others arc 
rallantly involved r Have they nothing to confider 
now but their own confiftency ? Is it pride or is it 
charity to fay to a fellow -creature, the fufFering fubjefl 
of the argument and vidlim of the debate, that you will 
not fubmit to relieve, becaufe you have been difappointed 
in attempting to cure ? From thofe gentlemen I have a 
right to cxped better morals, if not better logic. My 
appeal to the planters and proprietors is of a dilFerent 
nature, but equally intended to conciliate their good 
w^ill, and to obtain their concurrence. Of them 1 de- 
mand nothing but an exa61: confiilency between their 
condu^ this day and all tiicir former profefTions. They 
cannot onjent to abol'i/h ; but they are ready and dejirous to 
regulate and to improve. Such has been their conftant 
lano-uacre, whenever abolition has been propofed. They 
are at all times ready to meliorate the perfonal con- 
dition cf the Negroj tho' not to put an end to the 
trade. — Now 1 take thefe gentlemen at their word. 
Let us heartily and honeftly unite our endeavours to 
accomplifh that, which they are willing to concur in, 
which tliey confefs ought to be done, to place the 
Negroes in the Iflands on fuch a footing of legu- 
lated fervice, no longer at perfonal difcretion, but 
under a legal fecurity, that the exidence of the trade 

itfelf 



( 23 ) 

itfelf for a farther period may poffibly be endured. 
Some of the parties, I am told, are highly dliTatisfied 
at my attempting to revive the fubje6l in any fli'ape. 
For what purpoje do you Ji'ir a quefllon^ now finally fettled 
by a refolution of the Houfe P Are we never to be at reft f 
To a complaint of this kind I might truly anfwer, 
that if T were filent, or if /were not in being, there 
are others, who would refume the fubjedl with as much 
zeal, and with greater ability ; who would never fufFer 
it to perifli or be forgotten. On this point the gentle- 
men 1 allude to may as well refolve at once to make up 
their minds to their fituation. They may be allured, that 
as long as the grievance exifls, at leafh in its prefent 
form, they will have no repofe ; they can never be at 
reft. But this is not my language. It would have the 
air of an apology, which 1 will never make to any 
party or to any power, for endeavouring to do one 
of the greatcft duties incident to my Ration, In doing 
it I want no fhelter, nor would I (loop to folicit it 
from any human refentment. I tell them frankly that, 
while I exift, the queftion fhail never die ; and tho' 
it were dead, yet fhall it live. Some years ago it was 
faid by a Member of this Houfe, refpecStable for his 
age, — where he is now I know not, — '^ Why cannot 
** you be content ? Are not we all very happy ? Do 
^' not we enjoy good dinners and pleafant fociety, and 
<* all manner of comforts ? I dare fay tlie Negroes are 
** very well ofF, and why cannot you let them be 
*^ quiet ?" My anfwer was and is, that fuch principles 
and pra6lice never ought to find peace on earth. It is 
in vain to look for it. By power and by force they 
may obtain a partial triumph from day to day ; but it 
inuft be in a perpetual ftruggle between a6tive wrong 

and 



( 24 ) 

and perfcverlng right, until the moral fcnfc of jufticc, 
charity, and fliame, lliall either finally prevail or be ut- 
terly extinguiflied in this land. To any other iflue the 
war is immortal. AddrefTing myfelf now to the Houfc 
colle6lively, I certainly mean to do it with the de- 
ference and fubmiffion that becomes me. If I could 
pcrfonify the Houfe of Commons, it would be my in- 
terefl: as well as my duty to approach fo great a perfon 
with the utmoft refpedl. But refpecl does not exclude 
£rmnL'fs, and fhould not rellrain me from faying, that 
it is the fundlion of your greatnefs, as well as of youi 
office, to lifien to truth, efpecially when it arraigns a 
proceeding of your own. I am not here to admire your 
conliftency, or to applaud the condu6l which I am en- 
deavouring to correal. Thefe topics do not furnifli 
any fubjedt for applaufe. You have nothing like praife 
to expe(5l from me; unlefs you feel, as T do, that a 
compliment of the higheft order is included in the con- 
fidence, which appeals to your juftice againft your in- 
clination. Compare the refolutions of the fame Houfe 
of Commons in 1792 and 1796. Againfl the fecond I 
plead the lirft, the refult of a longer debate, the deci- 
fion of a greater majority. If the authorities are equal^ 
to which fhall we fubmit r Contradidlions cannot aft 
together. Is it poffible to remember the pledge that 
was given, the faith that was engaged, and really to 
rcfpe6l a power, by which both have been broken ? It 
is not for me to qualify the proceedings of this Houfe. 
But they can not efcape tlie records of hifiory. To 
fave vou from everlalling diflionour, tliat leaf muft be 
torn out. There is one perfon left, 3ir, wbofe fup- 
port, if I really had it, would undoubtedly be of more 
ufe than all the reft; but whofe fupport I difdain to 

folicit. 



( 25 ) 

follcit. I will not, for any purpofe of this world, 
much lefs for any intereft of my own, defcend frorii 
the independence of my character, or from the ftation 
attached to the duty of this day, to fubmit myfelf to a 
capricious, mean, injurious enmity, not the lefs bitter 
becaufe utterly groundlefs, not the lefs perfevering be- 
caufe utterly unprovoked. Neither is it neceflary. I 
have a furer courfe to take with the Right Honour- 
able perfon I allude to. If I am not groffly mifta- 
ken in my opinion of his chara6ter, I have a power- 
ful refource in the judicial quality of his calculating 
mind. I am not alluding now to the general purity of 
his morals, or to his fmcerity in particular. Without 
difputing his virtues, I hold it to be fortunate that I am 
not driven to rely on theai. I depend on his fupport, 
becaufe I think I can put an- honourable force upon his 
mind. I know the fcruples and the prudence, with 
which he weighs and balances the fpecific value of pro- 
fit againft praife. Whatever you may think of him, he 
is not a man to be driven, even by a favourite paflion, 
to facrifice a great portion of reputation for an inconfi- 
derable advantage, and ftill lefs for a gratuitous indul- 
gence of temper. I am fafe, then, when I fay, that 
my prefent intention is neither to folicit or to oiFend, 
but to provoke him, (Hear ! hear ! ) — Yes, Sir, not 
to offend, but to provoke. Provocation is not of ne- 
Ceffity offence. To inflame is not to irritate. They 
know nothing of the language, who think that thefe 
words reprefent the fame idea. I tell him frankly that 
the lafl: decifion of the Houfe has left a fliade, I will not 
call it a ftain upon his reputation. Is he not ^/et fatiated 
with the pofTeilion of power and emolument ? Is he not 
weary of the drudgery of his office, compared to which 

E th« 



f *6 ) 

the mere labour of a Negro is in my mind a fervice to be 
endured ? And does he think it poflible that the country, 
that any rational being lliould give credit to a propofitioii 
fo extravagant and fo monftrous, that the all-power- 
ful Minifter of the Crov^^n, with all his eloquence, and 
with all his influence, and with che acceffion of thirty 
voices from his fide of the Houfe, fhould not have been 
able to engage more than feventy votes on a favourite 
queftion of his own, if, in earneft and bona fide, he had 
defired to carry it ? Is there nothing in his mind to 
elevate him for a moment above the level of his ftation ? 
Does he never look forward to a time, when the merits 
of his charadler will be canvafl^ed by pofterity ? And 
is it poflible for him to endure the thought of pafldng 
for an ^ * "^ * 

Mr. Secretary DUNDAS rofe to call the Honorable 
Gentleman to order. He fpoke of his Right Honorable- 
friend as a Member of Parliament only ; and it was the 
cfliablifhed rule of the Houfe to prefume that no mem- 
ber ever delivered opinions or exprefl^ed fentiments in 
which he was not in earnefl:. That to aflTert or infi- 
i^uate the contrary was unparliamentary, and a high 
breach of order. 

Mr. FRANCIS. I fubmit to corrcaion, though I 
really do not think that I faid any thing to deferve it.^ 
Certainly what I meant was, not to exprefs a fufpicion 
of my own concerning the Right Honorable Gentle- 
man's fincerity, but to indicate to him the impreflioa 
which t^e fad, as it fl:ood, feemed likely to make on 
the general judgment of mankind at prefent and here- 
after. I have no time now to debate a point of or- 
der ; 



• ( 27 ) 

icr ; nor Is it ncceflary. The full idea, which I meant 
to give, may be conveyed in another form. Inftead 
of a comment, allow me to tell you a fliort ftory, 
from good authority ; but whether it be true or not 
is immaterial. It will ferve to illuftrate an obfcure 
fubjed, without the rifque of giving offence. A 
Member of this honorable Houfe was afked, how he 
voted on the lafl: queftion of abolition. '' Sir, I voted 
"*' with my friend the Minifter." How fo ? I thought 
you had divided againfl: the Bill. — " Very true; I 
<* certainly divided againft the Bill; but I voted with 
*^ my friend the Minifler." At the moment, when the 
Secretary of State called me to order, 1 was going to 
make an acknowledgement in favour of the Right Ho- 
nourable Gentleman, and to pay him, what I never re- 
fufe even to hoflile merit, an honeft tribute of ap- 
plaufe. What judgement I poffefs is a good deal go- 
verned by impreffion. I cannot calculate the value, 
while I feel the effe6l. I have not forgotten that 
illuftrious night ^5 when all the powers of his elo- 
quence were fummoned to the fervice, and exerted in 
the defence of juftice and humanity; — -when he took 
the Houfe, at a late hour, exhaufted with watching 
and wearied with debate ;— when worn out attention 
revived at his voice; — when he carried convidlion 
to our hearts ; — when reafon in his hand feemed to 
have no office but to excite the beft of paffions in our 
breafts; — then, Sir, was the time, if he had nothing to 
Gonfider but his own glory, then was the moment for 
him to have chofen to retire from Parliament, perhaps 
from the world. He had arrived at the pinnacle of 

♦ Monday, ad April, 1792. 

E a parlia- 



( a8 ) 

parliamentary honor, and at the fummit of his fame ; 
and there he ihould have quitted the fcene. From that 
moment and from that ftation, in my judgment, he has 
done nothing but defcend. If the eifort 1 allude to 
was no more than the imitation of an a6lion, we may 
find fuch imitations Hill better reprefented .in books, 
or as well a6led on the ftage, where reality is not in 
queftion. I do not fufpeft his fincerity on that occa- 
fion. But, whether that was an imitation or not, mine 
is a real aftion ; or, if it be an error, it is /who am 
the dupe of it. I well know the dilemma, in which I 
am to ftand this day. If the motion I have in view 
fucceeds, I ihall then be driven to fubmit to a conti- 
nuance of the trade. If it fails, the whole exifting mif*' 
chief receives another confirmation. But on the other 
hand, if I fucceed, a great immediate good is done, 
progreiTive in its nature, and inevitably leading to final 
abolition. If I fail, one material advantage will he 
gained by it, that the pretences fet up by thofe, who 
fay they cannot yield to abolition, will be unmaiked ; 
and that, with refpedl to them at leaft, we fhall know 
what we have to truft to. Such is the perpetual mix- 
ture of good and evil, that embarraffes the choice and 
balances the event of human councils. We cannot 
command the ifTue ; Jet us make fuie of the intent* 
The firfc queftion that will naturally occur to all par-^ 
ties is to afk me, what is your general intention ? You 
fay, you do not now propofe to abolidi the trade. Do 
you mean to emancipate the Negroes in the Iflands ? 
In efFe6l, Sir, I have anfvsrered that queftion already. 
It cannot be my intention, becaufe it is not in my 
pov. , nor would I venture it, if it were. Before I 
difcharged them from their prefent evil condition, I 
A fliould 



( =9 ) 

Ihould be bound to provide for their fubfiflence and fe- 
curity in a better. Otberwife their freedom, unpre- 
pared and unprovided for, might be their inftant de- 
ilru6lion. They mufl: be furnifhed with the means of 
fubfifting on the fpot, and inftru(9:ed to make ufe of 
them. Liberty, like all other human advantages and 
enjoyments, has difficulties of its own, which he, who 
has been bred in flavery, will not fuddenly know how 
to contend with. In fome cafes the planters are ready 
enough to make their Haves free, that is, to turn them 
adrift when from age or infirmity they are paft their 
labour, and leave them at liberty to fhift for them- 
feives. For this proof of the liberality of planters, the 
Houfe, I imagine, will give them but little credit* 
The fame principle operates thro' all their condu£t. 
Their fole confideration is the profit or the lofs. The 
Negro, in every ftage of his exiftence, is, fome way or 
other, the fubjefl: of cruelty or injuftice, of w4iich the 
final eiFort, when it can exa6l no more, is to refine 
upon all the reft, and at laft to fet him free. I do not 
fay that fuch conduct has been univerfal. Undoubted- 
ly fome planters are wifer and more humane than 
others. But that the practice I allude to has prevailed, 
I affirm from the befl: evidence, from the laws of the 
Iflands, which declare the fad, and pretend to put a 
fl:op to it. But for what reafon ? Is it becaufe juftice 
or humanity forbid that thefe helplefs wretches fhould 
be let loofe to frarve and to perifli at the period of their 
fervice ? No, Sir ; no fuch thing. The laws inter- 
pofe, avowedly, for' no purpofe but to deftroy a nui- 
fance, to remove an eye fore, or to difcourage theft. 
Thefe immoral beings, it feems, are determined to eat. 
If you will not give them food, they take it by Health. 

The 



C 30 ) 

The appropriated rights of nourifhment are invaded by 
thefe free Negroes. No edible property is fecure from 
them. And is that an evil to be endured for a moment 
by an enlightened legiflature ? — No, Sir, it is not my 
defign to give fuch freedom on fuch terms; nor will I 
leave it to the mafter tp dilfolve the relation between 
his flave and himfelf, juft whenever he pleafes. The 
next queftion, I expedl, is ; — Do you mean to give 
the Negroes equal rights with the white inhabitants ? 
That would be a direct emancipation. What I would 
do immediately, if I could, would be to place them in 
a flate equivalent to that of voluntary fervice. That 
ftep will-follow in due time ; but it muft be preceded 
by other gradations. To abolifli fervice in fociety, is 
in fa6l to aboliih man. You have heard of fanciful 
definitions, that man is an animal bipes et implume, that 
man alone makes inftruments to a6l with ; but there is 
no diflin6lion perhaps more ftriking, more prominent 
and chara6i:eriil:ic5 than that he alone of all created 
beings makes ufe of the fervice of creatures of his own 
fpecies. But fervice is not flavery. It is the free man's 
calling. In effecSt, flavery is the rcverfe of fervice, 
Inftead of bad flaves I would make the Negroes good 
fervants. I am fure that the mailer's profit, on the 
whole, would grow with the freedom, and that even 
his morals would be mended by it. A good mafter 
makes a good fervant, and, vice verfa^ a good fervant 
makes a good mafter. The principles a£l and rea6t 
©n each other. But we are yet at too great a dif- 
tance from this humble ftate of improvement. I do 
not aim at it immediately. Then what is ii you pro^ 
pofe ? I mean, Sir, generally, in the iirft: inftdnce, 
%p allow the Negroes every benefit and advantage com* 

patible 



( 31 ) 

patible with a rational and profitable demand on their 
fervice ; to mend their a6lual condition, to prepare 
tliem gradually for a better fituation, and to make them 
capable of higher improvements. The courfe and the 
power fliall be ftated in their place. But, firfl: of all, 
let us inquire and confider, what is the adlual ftate of 
the Negroes in the I (lands. I mean to reprefent it 
fairly on both fides. In a printed trad, called A true 
Slate of the ^uefllon, drawn up with great artifice, 
i:inder an air of fimplicity, I find the following paffage, 
which the author evidently means fhould be taken for 
a general and candid account of the Negroes in the 
plantations. ^' They have a houfe and garden for 
" nothings clothes found them, food found them, both 
** good and fufficient, the beft dodors in the country 
*' to attend them when fick, their wives and children 
*' provided for, and all without any expence. The par- 
<* fon, who lived there three years, fays this is the 
*' general ftate of the Negroes on all the plantations 
*^ he faw; and that in a great many parts they catch, 
*^ by means of fpringes or fnares, abundance of wild 
*' pigeons and Guinea hens." Undoubtedly, Sir, if the 
Negroes are really furni'fhed with all tliefe conveniences 
and amufements, there is no occafion to tell us that it 
mufl: be without any cxpence to them. They land naked, and 
they cannot acquire. To fay that they have them y^r 
nothings is only to affert that their labour is of no value. 
But does any man in his fenfes believe the ftatement to 
be true ? If it be, the fortunate iflands were never dif- 
covered before. Grenada and St. Kitt's are the real Hef-^ 
perides* A fugar plantation muft be a perfe6l paradife. 
Be it fo. I take thefe gentlemen at their word. In 
aiTerting the fa 61, they allow the right. To affirm 

thar 



( 32 ) 

that fnch Is the pra6lice already, is to confefs that fuch 
it ought to be. Their allegation is an admilTion, Al- 
inoft all that I contend for is acknowledged to be right, 
and in eiFe61:, if they Ipeak truth, already granted and 
enjoyed. Inforce your pra6lice. Compel thofe plan- 
ters, if there be any, who negledl or refufe to follow 
your benevolent example. Confirm your own cuftom 
by fome legal fan6lion, and make it binding on all par- 
ties. The rights, which are held at difcretion, may be 
capricioufly refumed ; and, even while they are pof- 
fefTed, can hardly be enjoyed. You cannot anfwer for 
the juflice and humanity of your fucceffors. It is not 
abfolutely certain that your virtues will defcend with 
vour eftates. Since in effe£l you give the fubftance, 
for what reafon flriould you refufe the fecurity ? Your 
Negroes will not work with lefs diligence, when they 
know^ that their induftry and obedience are the certain 
tenure of their happinefs. As long as they have no- 
thing to lofe, they are not properly within the reach of 
good government. At ieafl it is worth trying, whe- 
ther the fear of forfeiture may not be full as efFe6lual as 
the dread of punifhment. I mufl: call upon you now. 
Sir, to attend to the oppofite fide of this flattering re- 
prefentation ; — after looking at the pi6lure, to turn the 
frame and examine the canvas. Very different indeed 
is the view, which I fhall endeavour to give you of the 
condition of thefe flaves ; but it is that, which I moft 
confcientioufly believe to be true. The reality of the 
cafe, as I fhall ftate it, is founded in the ftrongeft pro- 
bability and rational prefumption on general princi- 
ples ; is fupported by dired evidence, and above all 
things is demonftrated by unavoidable inference from 
the laws of the Iflands. My chief reliance is on the 

laft^ 



( 33 > 

iafl, becaufe, tho' not in its nature fo d'lreS: as oral 
teflimony, it is the only fort of evidence, which it is 
impoffible for any adverfe party tocontradidtor difpute. 
At the fame time, Sir, I defire it to be underftood that 
what I ftate on this fubjed is flated generally. I do 
not mean to deny that fome plantations are better ma- 
naged than others ; that, in fome places, very prudent 
and humans regulations have been cftablifhed, and par- 
ticularly that, v^hen proprietors, who commonly re- 
fide in England, have vifited their eftates, their occa- 
fional prefence has been a bleffing to their flaveS. 
Knowing and efteeming many of them, as I do, and 
living in friendfhip with others, I fhould betray my 
caufe as well as my honour, if I did not much more 
than admit, if I did not contend that a great part of the 
miferies fufFered by the Haves is in fa6t owing to the 
conftant abfence of the proprietors, and would probably 
be removed or alleviated by their prefence. Had it 
been my lot to have poffefled an eftate in the Weft 
Indies by gift or inheritance, — fuch property afluredly 
I never would have acquired by an adl of my own, — I 
fhould have thought it my duty, in the firft indance, 
againft every motive of perfonal reludance and diflike, 
tQ have vifited my eftate, to have examined the condi- 
tion and treatment of my Negroes with my own eyes, 
and, before I allowed myfelf to think of any thing 
clfe, to give and infure to them at lead as much com- 
fort and happinefs as might be compatible with the de- 
mand of a reafonable and a ^^^J proportion of the amount 
produce of their labour. What more I would have 
done, in the fame purfuit, may be colle£led more ufe- 
fully from the fcheme, which I am gradually unfolding 
to the Houfe, than from an abrupt declaration of it 

F at 



( 34 ) 

at prefalt. Speaking generally then, and not withdut 
exception, of the a£lual fituation of Negroes in the 
Weft Indies, I fay it appears to me, from all the evi- 
dence to which I have alluded, that they are a collec- 
tion of human beings, exifting together, but not in a 
ftate of Society ; — that they are under no law, but that 
of arbitrary will; — that tliey know of no govern- 
ment, but the whip ; — that they have no efFc£live pro- 
te6lion, in laws or in magiftrates, againft pcrfonal 
cruelty on the part of thofe white men, who exercifc 
the ofBces, too often united in one perfon, of mana- 
gers, overfeers, and drivers, nor any fhelter whatfoever 
from the fevereft punilhments, but in the prudence or 
humanitv of thofe officers ; — that there Is no bond of 
marriage among them ; — and finally that, in this ftate, 
they neither have, nor can have, nor in fa6l: is it in- 
tended that they fhouid have, any idea of morals or re- 
ligion. If this be generally their condition, it follows 
of courfe that, even if the propagation of Negroes in 
the Illands were not diredly difcouraged, as it is, by the 
planters, they could not increafe and multiply, as be- 
yond all doubt they would do, if they were to partak^of 
the common benefits of fociety, or even If fhey were fure 
of protection from outrageous wrongs. The caufe is 
proved by the efFcdl. They, who affirm that the con- 
trary is true, that propagation is really encouraged and 
protcfted, are bound to ihew, why they have not fuc- 
ceeded in the courfe of a century, and why a continued 
importation of adult Negroes from Africa is ftill necef- 
fary. If you trull: to their experience of the eiFe6l of 
their own meal'ures, the neceffity can never ceafe. You 
niufl: perpetuate the importation. I wait with curiofity 
to hear, with what arguments and proofs they fupport 



( 35 ) 

fo extraordinary a propofition. They will find it a 
difficult tafk ; and they may he fure of my attention to 
€very thing they fay. Not a word of it ihall be loft. 
But, until I receive new lights on this part of the fub- 
je6t, I muH; continue in my prefent convi6lion, that 
there is no marriage among the Negroes (by which I 
do not mean a cafual cohabitation, but a real bond of 
union], becaufe there is no protedion to mairiage^ and.?, 
that, without marriage, there can be no certain propa- 
gation, or care of the infant. For what reafon fliould 
a Negro marry ? That his wife, if flie has any per- 
fonal attra£lions, may be at the mercy and difpofal of. 
the driver, who whips them both? That his children, 
if they are fufFered to live, may be Haves like himfelf ? 
And do thefe people expe^l us to believe, that the pro- 
dudive power of mere animal inftin6i:, if in fa(St it were 
proteded and encouraged, is fufficient to overcome 
the moral order of nature, and the difpenfations of 
Providence ? Promifcuous cohabitation is generally ad- 
verfe to increafe ; but, in the cafe of the Negroes, tho* 
birth were not prevented, death muft follow. What 
care do you think is likely to be taken of the mother 
or the child, when children are confidered as a lofs and 
a burthen to the eftate ?— Do you mean then to impart 
direftly to the Negroes, now in the Weft Indies, the 
immediate benefit and enjoyment, as far as a ftate of 
iervitude is capable of it, of law and government, of 
morals and religion ? No, Sir, that is not my inten- 
tion. I know too well that they are not in a ftate to 
receive thefe benefits, or to prohc by them. You 
might as well attempt to fow wheat upon a mar- 
ble table, or on a gravel walk, and expe£l a plentiful 
trop in return, Before you- plant, you muft prepare . 

F 2 the 



( 36 ) 

the foil ; otherwife the cxpencc is wafted, and the la- 
bour thrown away. Something muft be done, in the 
firft inflance, to ralfe their degraded minds, and to ex-s 
cite their faculties, before you attempt to make them 
produ6live. What idea can they form of a govern- 
ment, or how can they regard it, from which they ex- 
perience nothing but punilhment ? How can they con- 
fide in laws, which place no confidence in themy and 
from which they derive no prote6lion ? What concep- 
tion can they have, or would it be poiTible to give 
them, of moral obligations, as long as they exift with- 
out a focial relation of any kind, not only to the whites, 
who to them are a difiind order of beings, but even to 
one another. Many well-meaning perfons, I know, 
have wiflied and endeavoured to impart to the Negroes 
fome notion of a Deity and fome fenfe of religion, 
W^ithout blaming the intention, 1 lament the mifappli? 
cation of a pious principle, and the inutility of a vir- 
tuous attempt. Again I entreat the Houfe, moft ear- 
neftly on this point, not to anticipate my argument, 
not to conclude haftily either for me or againft me. 
My language, on this fubjedt, may be ofFenfive to vul- 
gar ears, or to fuperficial obfervers ; but examine it 
well, and you will find, that it proceeds from the 
deepeil fenfe of the truth and reafon of religion. Thefe 
ferious confiderations are not foreign from my purpofe, 
The legiflator, who leaves religion out of his fcheme. 
of government, whatever it may be, knows nothing of 
human nature, and but little of his office. But, in aU 
the operations of human contrivance, gradlrtion and 
order are eflential to fuccefs. It is only for the hand 
of the Creator to ad, by infi:ant inftitution, univerfally 
and at once. The Negrpes, in their prefent fiate, are 

incapable 



( 37 ) 

incapable of the benefits of religion, becaufe they ar© 
not prepared to receive them. To give them, as they 
are, a confufed idea of a Power and Providence above 
them (which is the utmoft you can do) would be much 
worfe than ufelefs and inefFedlual. 1 fay it would be 
dangerous. In failing, you only wafte your time. I 
dread nothing but your fuccefs. Expofe, if you will, 
the aweful rites and ceremonies of your religion to 
mockery and profanation. Baptife your dogs. Baptife 
your horfes. Thefe animals you carefs. They feed 
from your hands; and, above all things, they do not 
know that they are your Haves. But beware of the 
Jaft a£t of human impiety. Beware of perfuading the 
Negro of the exigence of a Being, of whofe power and 
attributes he can know nothing, but in the miferies it 
inflicts, or permits to be inflifted upon him. In his 
prefent ftate, do you expe6l him to liften to religious 
inftru6tion, or to underftand it, if he does ? Be it fo. 
You have taught him to believe, or to pretend to be- 
lieve, what he does not underftand, the exiftence of a 
providential Power above us. In what manner is he 
likely to be affe6i:ed by that belief, or what conclufion 
will he draw from it ? His fimple reafon will tell 
him, in eiFe6l, that to him it is an abflradi propofi- 
tion ; that, whether true or falfe, he has no manner 
of concern in it ; or that, if there be a God, he is not 
the equal protestor of his creatures ; that all the bene- 
fits of exigence are referved for the whites, and nothing 
for his colour, but degradation, flavery, and ftripes. 
Js this the impreflion you wifli to make by your in- 
llru6tipns > Whatever you may intend, the untu> 
tored mind of the Negro is incapable of any other. 
What then ? Is it my purpofe tq keep the Negroes as 

they 



( 38 ) 

they arc, without a fenfe of the truth, oi a fliare In the 
bleffings of religion ? God forbid. My intention is 
diredly the reverfe. I have confulted the Book of 
Wifdom, and fliall follow the precept as it is written. 
He, who reads that book without emotion, in my 
mind, has no feeling; he, who reads it without relilli, 
has no tafte. Begin with yourfelves. Do not intercept 
all the goodnefs of Providence in its pallage. Let fome 
portion of its benefits efcape from your grafp, and dc' 
fcend to your fellow-creatures. By degrees the Negro 
will conceive, without envy, that it is your lot to oc- 
cupy an order of exiftence above him, confiflent with 
his happinefs, and poflibly the medium, thro' which 
he is to receive it. Give him benefits, and he will re- 
turn thanks; give him hope, and he will pray. Why 
ihould he be grateful now, or for what purpofe fhould 
he pray ? Defpair never prays ; extreme guilt, rarely. 
The publican hid his face. You have heard of the 
parable of the fewer and the feed. From a man, whofc 
life has been wafted in the purfuit of biifinefs or of 
pleafure, and perpetually traverfed by difappointment 
in detail, tho' fuccefsful 'in the refult, thefe things 
may have more weight, perhaps, than if they came di- 
recflly from the temple and the teacher. The only 
feed, which brought forth fruit, was that, which fell into 
good ground. The good ground is that, which is duely 
prepared. Without cultivation, the richefl foil pro- 
duces weeds, and nothing elfe. If then you feriouily 
and rationally mean to give religion to the Negro, pre- 
pare his mind to receive it. By what means ? By dire6l 
information ? By pofitive inftrudlion ? No. Give him 
a footing on the ground, tho' it were but a point. 
Give hirn a ftation in fociety;, even the loweft that cati 



( 39 ) 

be found. At prefent he has none. He belongs to no 
ordefi Give hina fome tenure in the earth, if you 
mean to exalt his thoughts to any thing above it. 
His mind is elaftic as well as your's ; but it mull have 
fomething folid to a(5l upon. Thefe are the premifes. 
Then what is the coRclufion ? In one word, give pro- 
perty to the Negroes. What ! property to a Have ! to 
a being, who is not the mafter of his own a6lions, 
who is not the owner of himfelf! Yes, I fay, property 
to a flave. I mean a property in the foil, the beft for 
their ufe, the moft convenient for yourfelves, qualified 
and limited on one fide, and accompanied on the other 
with time and means to cultivate, and fecurity to enjoy. 
Without thofe conditions, the mere grant of property 
would be nominal and nugatory. I am not alluding to 
goods and chattels, but to a real tho' inferior tenure in 
the land. To that fort of property, in all its degrees, 
cultivation is the origin of right, antecedent to laws 
and even to fociety. But, if that proportion be true^ 
how peculiarly powerful is the inference in favour of 
the Negro ? The moment you forced him to v/orkj 
you gave him the claim, and much more than I con- 
tend for. To fome participation at leaft, the labour 
and the right are infeparable. I fay that the prote6lioa 
of property is the caufe and foundation of fociety. 
In that fingle and fimple principle is involved^ and 
out of it will gradually unfold, the benefits, the 
orders, and the improvements of focial life. In that 
acorn the whole oak is included. Give it time to take 
root ; give protedlion to the plant ; let it thrive and 
flouriih. The ornament and the ufe will pay you here- 
after. The branches, as they expand, will flielter you 
from the Hoim* The majeftic ilem itfelf, even when 

it 



( 40 ) 

it falls, will be devoted to your fervice. From thiar 
fingle a6t of giving property to the Negroes, the im- 
provement of their faculties and chara6ber as well 
as of their condition will gradually and necelfa- 
rily proceed, or on this ftock it may be grafted. The 
cultivation of the earth is not merely the fource of 
nourifhment, or comforts, or perfonal enjoyments, but 
of order, laws, art, and fcience, of every thing that is 
moft refined, and mofi; purely intellectual in the human 
fyftem. Even eloquence, mufic and poetry, tho' laft in 
fucceflion, are the progeny of the earth. Morality and 
religion undoubtedly derive from a higher fource. But 
this is the medium, thro' which they are conveyed to 
us. Prima dedit leges, Cereris sunt omnia 
MUNUs. You may not believe in the infpiration of 
poetry; but I am fure you will liilen and fubmit to 
the wifdom of a king. You have it from royal autho- 
rity, that truth Jhall fpr'ing and Jiourijh OUT OF THE 
EARTH, What can that fentence mean, but that hu- 
man knowledge, with all its illuftrations in fociety, 
was intended to originate from the clod, broken by the 
fpade, or turned by the plough ; and that the labour 
beftowed \rpon the earth is the firft ftep to the cultiva- 
tion of the mind. Before I proceed to fpecify the fort 
of property, in which I wifli the Negroes to partici- 
pate, I am bound to ihew generally that rights of pro- 
perty are not incompatible with a ftate even of abfo- 
lute flavery, and that in fa6l they have exifled toge- 
ther, under governments, which, in other refpe6ls, 
exhibited no fign of lenity, or even mercy, to their 
ilaves. It was the pradlical wifdom or policy of 
thofe ftates which, only in this refpe£t:, and for 
a public purpofe, prefcribed a limit to the power of the 

3 mafter. 



C 41 ) 

niafter, tho', in all other inftances, utterly arbitrary 
and uncontrouled. By the cuftom of Rome, if not by 
pofitive inftitution, the flave might acquire, by extra- 
worjc, or by favings on his allowance of grain, 2. peai- 
Ihim or private property, which the mafler could not 
take from him, tho' he might dlfpofe of his perfon. I 
do not know that the pecnUum was provided for by 
the laws of the Twelve Tables ; but it was confidered 
as a cuftomary right, and prote61:ed by the Freetor-. 
This money, with their maAer's permiflion, they laid 
out at intereft, or purchafed with it a flave for them- 
felves, from whofe labour they might make profit. 
They might buy out their liberty, and have their 
names inferted in the cenfor's roll ; by whicli they ob* 
tained fome of the advantages attached to the condition 
of a Roman citizen, tho' the relation between the 
freedman and his mafter was not entirely diflblved. 
Even while the bond continues, the allowance of, or 
the connivance at petty profits by the flaves tends of 
itfelf to foften and efFace the impreffion of flavery, and 
to convert it gradually into the condition of voluntary 
fervice. The efTential difference between flavery and 
fervice is, that one is forced, the other is voluntary. 
Montefqii'ieu fays that, in Germ.any, the labour of the 
mines, in itfelf fevere and odious beyond all others, 
was maintained by the encouragement of little privi- 
leges, perquifites, and profits to the miners \ that they 
were even brought to love their condition, and to live 
happily in it. From this fa6l he concludes, that 
there is no labour that man can execute, which may 
not be performed by freemen. A'fy conclufion from 
it is, that the more of freedom you can impart to 
^ flave, the more he will labour, provided it be ac- 

G companied 



( 42 ) 

companied with a gradual acceflion of profit. Cu- 
pldhate peculii nullam conditlonem recufant dunjfima fervi- 
tutiss In fociety, or in conta6l with fociety, I hold 
that the pofTelTion of property, of fome kind and to 
fome degree, is more necefTary to a Have than to a free- 
man. It tends to give him not only comfort hut pro- 
tection, and necelfarily prepares him not only for fo- 
cial benefits, but for perfonal improvement. The 
favage is fatisfied with his liberty. Inftead of fta- 
tionary labour, he ranges for fubfiftence ; and, having 
little or no idea of property, has ftill lefs of laws or 
fettlement. In fociety, a free man may do without 
property ; bccaufe he is free. His liberty is his free- 
hold. Without acquifition, he may have enjoyment. 
But, in fome way or other, he mufl ferve, or he mufl 
labour. So niufl we all, tho' in different fenfes, or in 
oppofite direiiions. The many cannot govern the 
few, nor do they defire it. But is there a rank in 
fociety, including the higheft, in vi^hich the mafter in 
efFe6t is not very often more a fervant to his fervants, 
than they are to him f From my own experience, 
tho' on a little fcale, I can affirm it to be true. But 
the relations between the different clafles of man- 
kind, to be ufefully maintained for any, rauft be 
reciprocally obferved by all. In the lowefl fitua- 
tions of life, the people know, as well as we do, that 
wherever perfonal induftry is encouraged and property 
protecled, there muft be inequalities of pofTeiTion, and 
confequently diilindlion of ranks. Then come the 
form and the order, by which the fubftance is at once de- 
fined and preferved, DiRribution and limitation pre- 
vent confufion, and government by orders is the natural 
refuit of property prote6led by freedom. Take care 

that 



( 43 ) 

that you adhere to it. Where the few poffefs all, and 
the multitude have nothing, there is no government by 
orders. Every thing is in extremity, and nothing in 
gradation. It is ignorance or calumny to fay, that if 
the poor man v/as allowed his humble fhare in the al- 
lotment, he would feel any difpofition to invade the 
, portions of the ranks above him. Equality of condi- 
tion is impoffible. They, who talk of it to the people, 
mean nothing but to deceive them. The very a6t of 
juftice and good government, which fecures to every 
man his refpeclive right, excludes the idea of pofitive 
equality. The Roman flave had fome rights of per- 
fonal property, tho' he had no other. That example, 
however, is but little to my purpofe compared to the 
condition of the Helots, under the tyranny of Sparta. 
My general wifh and object is to make the fervice of 
the Negroes, as much as poflible, a real fervice, by at- 
taching it to the foil, and as little as poflible a perfonal 
fervice. The Negroes, in our iflands, are equally 
fubjecft to both, or may be capricioufly transferred 
from one to the other. The horrible barbarity, with 
which the Helots were treated, was the deliberate policy 
of the ftate, not the indulgence or refult of perfonal 
cruelty. The Spartans were far outnumbered by the 
Helots. The fecurity of the few was thought to be 
incompatible with common juftice, or even with com- 
mon mercy, to the many. One crime produced an- 
other. The firft violation of riglit, in reducing a free 
people to flavery, could only be fupported by a perpe- 
tual outrage to humanity. Such at leaft was the prin- 
ciple and prad^ice of that extraordinary government, 
in which every thing was original and unexampled. 
In another inftance, dire6lly applicable to my prefent 
G a purpofe^ 



\ 

\ ( 44 ) 

purpofe, they departed boldly from all the Vulgar 
rules of human prudence ; and yet they a6led wifely. 
They renounced the ufes of property for themfelves, 
and in efFe6l gave the lands of Laconia to the Helots, 
to be cultivated by them, on the fole condition of re- 
turning to their mafters a fixed and certain tribute in 
kind, equivalent to a quit-rent, which could never be 
increafed. To every other intent of ufe and profit, the 
Helots were in faft proprietors af the lands. The 
amount of the demaod on the produce of their la- 
bour being once made unalterable, a vigorous and 
general cultivation followed. Many years ago, I 
endeavoured to inculcate a fimilar principle on the 
Englidi Government of Bengal. I faid then, and I 
fay now, leave the lands with the natural owners, 
the Zemindars, and fix your demand of a certain por- 
tion of the produce at once and for ever. Subje^^, as it 
is, to a foreign dominion,, much heavier in detail than 
that of a fingle defpot, Bengal cannot exift, with fecu- 
rity of any kind to the natives, or with permanent ad- 
vantage to the governing power, on any other princi- 
ple. The eifeclive right of property was inviolable in 
the Helot ^ tho* fubjedl, in his perfon, to a cruelty at 
once deliberate and capricious, and th»' his life was 
never fafe. He ftill held a middle rank between the 
freeman and the domeftic fiave. The Helots were 
commonly inrolled in the Spartan armies; and, tho* 
feldom rewarded for their courage or fidelity^ their 
condition was mended, at leafl as long as the war 
lafted. The life of a foldier, with all its fatigues and 
dangers, is undoubtedly preferable to that of a flave. 
We are told that the Negroes on our plantations are 
ahvays ready to take up arms for their owners, and ta 

fight 



( 45 ) 

iiglit in their defence ; and this is advanced for a 
triumphant proof of their attachment, and confequentl j 
of the mildnefs with which they are treated. In fome 
cafes, it may he fo. 1 have no wifh or occafion to 
overftate any thing to the difadvantage of the plan- 
ters. But, generally fpeaking, the fad does not prove 
the propofition. All it proves, with any certainty, 
is, that in the army the Negroes are fuie of food 
and cloathing, and exempted from field labour and 
arbitrary punifhment. How were the armies of Lewis 
the Fourteenth recruited in the lateft of his wars ? 
The diftrefs and mifery of every other condition of 
life drove all men into the army, where alone it was 
poiTible to fubfift. How often have we been told that 
the wonderful facility, with which the French have been 
able to keep their forces complete in the preient war, 
proves nothing" Ijut the general defolation of the coun- 
try, and that all the bread, that exifted, was rcferved 
for the army. This example of the Helots, Sir, is 
dired and powerful to my immediate purpofe. They 
were Haves, and they had landed property, or an equi- 
valent to it in the ufe and enjoyment. In our owri 
ancient hiftory, the firft eflate or tenure, fuperior to 
downright llavery, but inferior to every other condi- 
tion, was that of a Fiilan regardant, whofe fervice was 
annexed to the manor or to the land, and who could, 
not be feparated from it. To a flate refembling this, 
I would, in the firft inftance, raife the Negro. The 
planters fhould be obliged to furnifh every adult Ne- 
gro, as they fay they do at prefent, with a cottage and 
a fmall portion of land for his own ufe, with implements 
of tillage, and a fixed allowance of time for cultivation; 
the entire produce to be his own. In fome of the 

3 lilands^ 



( 46 ) 

Jflailds, this allotment may be made with greater eafe 
and convenience than in others. But no plantation 
fliould be fo overflocked with Negroes, no more than 
a farm with cattle, as not to leave room enough for 
the produ6lion of fubiiftence. Ground food is the only 
nourifhment, in which the Negroes have any pleafure. 
The Houfe will obferve that I mean to confine my- 
felf to the general principles and outlines of a plan, 
the detail of which will appear before you more dif- 
tin6lly in another form, if I fhould be permitted to 
proceed in the manner 1 propofe. Marriage muft be 
encouraged ; I mean a real bond of union between the 
fexes. A certain participation in tlie ufufruft of the 
land, however limited and qualified, is the firft en- 
couragement to marry. The marriage muft be con- 
tradted w^ith fome ceremony, and recorded in fome 
form ; and then it muft be ferioufly protected. By the 
laws of fome of the Grecian ftates, if a mailer violated 
the v/ife of his flave, the hufbaad and the wife were 
in flan tly free, heges pud'icit ice junt juris yiatur alls, Di- 
redl force or violent compulfion of any kind, employed 
againft a Negrefs, ftiouid be puniilied with death. 
Corruption of the wife lliould make the hufband free. 
It is fhocking to human nature to think that perfonal 
prote6lion, even to this amount, would conftitute in 
itfelf a ftate of improvement. But, once granted and 
fecured, it would of necefTity lead to greater. * I know 
that, according to the actual la\vs of the Illands, in 
which you will find that principles are for ever de- 
duced from pra6lice, the difficulty of convicting a 
a vvhite man of any crime againft a Negro, is little 
lefs than mfurmountable. The Negroes are not fup- 
pofed to be moral agents. Againft a white man, no 

evidence 



( 47 

evidence of theirs is admitted. The laws, if they were 
good, cannot a£l for want of proof. The hand of the 
magiilrate, tho' difpofcd to punifli, is difarmed or fuf- 
pendedo The moft fhocking a6ls of cruelty are encourag- 
ed by impunity ; and, in the midft of horrible fuiFerings, 
there is no complaint. By mending the pofitive exifl- 
ence of the Negro, you will gradually raife him to a 
moral chara6ler, fufEcient at leaft to make his evidence 
admiffible. Without it, he can have no prote61ion 
from the laws. His credit and eftimation will grow 
with the intereft you give him, and keep pace with 
the advantages, in which you fuiter him to participate. 
In no cafe (hould the Negro be removed, againil his 
will, from the fpot which he has cultivated, much lefs 
from the eftate. They fhould always defcend or be trans- 
ferred together. In no cafe fhould wives be feparated 
from their hufbands, or children from their parents. la 
thefe inftitutions I lay my foundation. Particular re- 
gulations will follow m their place. There iliould be 
a general limitation by law of the hours of labour ac- 
cording to age and fex. Indulgence to weaknefs or 
infirmity mull ftill be left to the difcretion and bene- 
volence of the mailer. Every Negro fliould have thp 
privilege of applying the petty profits of his induftry to 
the recovery of his freedom, by buying out the re- 
mainder of his flavery, or fome part of it, at a price 
to be fixed by law. Fathers and mothers, who have 
brought up a certain number of children, fhould be 
rewarded with premiums, and the mothers exempted 
from labour. No man fhould be deemed capable of 
the office of overfeer or manager of an eftate, who was 
not of a certain age, and married. The fuperintendance 
of the female flayes would naturally devolve, as it 

ought. 



( 48 ) 

ought, to the care of his wife. I need not paint the 
cafes, in which the fympathy of a woman and a 
mother would he a fource of comfort and relief to thefe 
creatures. The fuiFerings, appropriated to the fex, 
demand the ofEce, and allot tlie department. I am not. 
Sir, fo weak or inexperienced as to expe£l that, if laws 
were ever fo judicioully framed to accomplifh all thefc 
falutary purpofes, they would execute themfelves, and 
efpecially in the Weft India Iflands, without the con- 
currence of other eftablifliments. Undoubtedly there 
muft be fpecial courts, and magiftrates, and officers, to 
receive complaints, to profecute, and to punifli. There 
muft be a judge confer vator of the Negroes in every 
ifland, with an advocate and attorney to plead and a6l 
for them, appointed by the King, and dependent folely 
on the Crown, with fufficient falaries, and no way in- 
terefted in the property or produce of the plantations. 
Under the principal judge, and by his deputation, 
there fhould be itinerant infpe6^ors, with fome of the 
powers of a juftice of peace, who fhould travel occa- 
iionally, anid not at dated periods, in circuits thro* the 
Iflands, give notice of their arrival at convenient fta« 
tions, and wait there a fufficient time to receive com- 
plaints ; in petty inftances, to give redrefs; in graver 
cafes, to inftitute a more ferious proceeding before the 
fuperior court. I have another meafure in contempla- 
tion, materially connected with the general objeCl of 
Relief, for which I am contending, tho' it be not to 
Operate immediately in the Iflands. I know that, in 
the circumftances to which I am compelled to fubmit, 
U could not fail of producing many falutary elFedls; 
and yet I cannot mention it without a deep fenfation of 
regret. With or without it, the general plan might 

proceed. 



( 49 ) 

proceed. But, if the plan fails, the meafure I allude 
to is indifpen fable. I fhall fubmit it to the confidera« 
tion of the Houfe, as I received it from a gentlenianj, 
who pofleiTes a confiderable property in Antigua, and 
with whom I have the happinefs to be united by per- 
fonal friendOiip as well as by alliance. As it is flill 
permitted to be the will of Parliament, that this in- 
fernal trade ihould continue, let us endeavour to mi- 
tigate, if we can, the horrors that belong to it. There 
ought to be commiflioners ftationed at the principal 
places of traffic on the coaft of Africa, with falaries 
fufEcient to engage men of characSter to accept the 
office, and with legal powers to examine the accommo- 
dation in the lliips, to fuperintend and regulate the 
purchafe of Negroes, to a6l as magiftrates of the mar- 
ket, to prevent or put a ftop to treacherous or fraudu- 
lent tranfa61:ions, to fee that iniquity and injuftice are 
at lead condudled fairly, on their own pretended prin- 
ciples, and without unnecelTary aggravations. Surely 
the fubflance of this traffic is enough of itfelf to fatisfy 
the mofl: favage or brutal mind. Above all things, it 
ihould be the care and duty of fuch commiffioners to 
prevent the feparation of families — not to fuixer the 
wife to be divided from her hufband, the fifler from the 
brother, the infant from its mother. The fales in the 
Iflands fhould be governed by the fame rules. A multi- 
tude of other duties and offices, with which the com- 
miffioners fhould be charged, will occur upon refle6lione 
That a cafe fhould exift, with the confent of an enlight- 
ened Government, in which fuch an inftitution fliould 
be wanted, is fliameful, is intolerable. I am fure it is 
an opprobrium to the name of England. In the treat- 
ment of the Negroes in our iflands, of all its evils the 

H mofl 



( 50 ) 

fiioft grievous and afflicting remains to be confidere^* 
As long as it exifts, I know that general inftitutionsj? 
laws, and magiftrates, will avail but little in their 
defence. The arbitrary power of the whip, committed 
to men without feeling, to be exercifed in anger, and 
•unchecked even by the interefl of an owner in the well- 
being of the ohJQ&i, is not in its nature capable of re- 
gulation, or fubje6l to controul. To limit the num. 
ber of ftripes, to interpofe between the naked helplefs 
wretch, — a pregnant woman perhaps,-*-and the up- 
lifted hand of the driver, would be an unjuft invafioii 
of neceflary authority, and pofiibly in its confequences 
might hazard the crop. For a mifchief of this kind 
there is no partial remedy. In the place of a defpotic 
power of puniihiiient entrufted to a lingle perfon, I 
would fubftitute a form of trial, not lefs effectual to in- 
fure the reafonable demand on labour, and equally fafe to 
the only interefts, which the planters feem to think of. 
I would give jurifdiCkion to the Negroes, in every plan- 
tation, over one another* The whole gang of males 
adult ftiould conftitute the pannel, out of which a kind 
of jury fhould be foimed by lot or by fele6i:ion, with a 
right of challenge, on one fide to the oiFender, and 
on the other to the mafter, or to his reprefentative, 
who fhould fuperintend and regulate the proceedings, 
and mitigate or remit the fentence, if he thought pro- 
per. Gentlemen, who are fond of juftice, may appre- 
hend, perhaps, that a black tribunal would rarely if 
ever infli6l fufficient punifhment on a Negro. I, for 
my part, am confident that, as focn as they underftood 
their office, and were fenfible of the truft repofed in 
them, they would rather lean to feverity, and that the 
overfeer would often find himfeif obliged to reftraiii 

it .. 



f 51 ) 

it. On this principle, the difcipline of our armies in 
India is eiFe6luall)r maintained. An Honorable Gen- 
tleman * near me can give you better information on 
this fubjedl. But I know enough of it to be able to 
aflure you that no Sepoy can be puniflied but by the 
fentence of a court martial compofed of native officers, 
who have all been taken from the ranks, and with an 
European officer to a6l as judge advocate ; and that I 
never heard the juftice of their proceedirags difputed. 
As long as they are tolerably well treated, they are 
attached to their officers, and will follow them as far 
as the beft Britifli troops. A remarkable inftance of 
this attachment, and of their difpofition t6 do even 
more than juftice on offenders of their own caft, oc- 
curred a few years ago. Captain Ewans, an officer 
generally beloved, at the head of his battalion, was 
murdered by a Sepoy, who fuddenly went out of the 
ranks and fhot him, without notice or complaint, or 
any provocation that could ever be difcovered. The 
whole battalion faw the fa<St. The grenadiers on the 
flanks immediately wheeled without orders, and fur- 
rounded the alTaffin. The difficulty then was to pre- 
vent their tying him to a horfe's tail, and dragging 
him to death without a trial. The Britifh officers 
infifted on his being regularly tried, and executed 
in the ufual military form. I need not, however, 
have gone fo far from the Iflands for a fuccefsful 
inftance of practice founded on the fame principle. 
I have not the honour of knowing the gentleman, 
whofe example I am going to appeal to ; I mean Sir 
Philip Gibbs ; but I know his character, and what 

♦ General Smith, 

H 2 his 



( 52 ) 

his condu(!t has been in the management of his eftate in 
Barbadoes. The former is eminently humane ; the 
latter equally judicious. His virtues are to me a proof 
of his wifdom. He gives his Negroes land and ftock, 
with time to cultivate. He feeds and cloaths them well. 
He encourages marriage among them, and allows of no 
punifhment but by the fentence of a jury of Negroes, 
The confequence is that his flaves do double the work 
of others, becaufe they are better able and more wil- 
ling. The in(lru6lions he has given to the managers 
of his eftate are a model for imitation. The fuccefs and 
the profit have correfponded with the benevolent de- 
fign. Before I quit this firft divifion of my fubjecSl, I 
owe it in juftice to an honorable perfon, lately a dif- 
tinguifhed member of this Houfe, as well as to my 
caufe, not to conceal the lights I have received from 
him, and to avail myfelf, as far as I can, of the con- 
currence of his authority. On a fubje6i: of this nature 
there cannot, in my opinion, be a greater. I mean 
J\dr» Burke. Divided, as we are, by an irreconcileable 
diiFerence of opinion on another important fubjedl, and 
feparated in private life as long as that unfortunate 
queftion continues, I ftill hope and believe that the 
bond of perfoaal friendfhip and good-will between us 
v/ill never be dillcived. As foon as I had determined 
to take an ailive part in this bufinefs, I went to Air. 
Burke, as wifbr men have done before me, for advice 
and information. I know how little I am qualified 
to occupy his ftation on any fubje6l, and that I 
have undertaken a talk, which eminently and pe- 
culiarly belonged to him. To form and to digeft a 
complete and perfe6t code of Uws, on a fubjeft fo ex- 
tenfive and fo full of difficulties, would be a work ap- 
propriated 



( 53 ) 

proprlated to the powers and compafs of his mind. Hh 
induftry and perieverance alone could carry it into exe- 
cution. On a tranfcendent queftion, fuch as this, of 
morals implicated with policy, the eminence of his 
mind extends his view, and gives him an horizon, 
which vulgar vifion can reach to. I have not ftrength 
to fuftain or vigour to wield the armour of Achilles. 
If Mr. Burke were here, — for his own happinefs I can- 
not vsifn it, — this would be his office. How gladly 
would I refign it to him ! 

'Non/oret incerius tantl certaminis hisres* 

I have not feen the plan which he drew up forae years 
ago, and which he then communicated to a Right 
Honorabie Gentleman, high in office in Ireland;* 
and iince to a Right Honorable Friend on the other 
fide •^. Nor would I avail myfelf now of his permif- 
fion to fee it, becaufe I foon perceived that it went to 
an extent and embraced a multitude of obje6ls, which 
I knew it was impolTible for me to manage. To force 
them on my mind, without capacity to receive them, 
would be only to embarrafs or utterly to difcourage 
i^ie. Perhaps, too, I might differ from him on the 
moft prudential courfe of proceeding. You will not 
fufpeft me of fetting my judgment in competition with 
his. If it were poffible for him to lead the caufe him- 
felf, I fliould hold myfelf ready for any fubordinate 
part in it, and to be guided by his judgment. But, if 
I am to a6l, I muft ait upon my own. I am not tho» 

* Mr. Pelham. 
t Mr. Windham. 

roughly 



( 54 ) 

roughly convinced of the advantage of forcing a great 
variety of inftitutions to march together and in front. 
Or poiTibly it won Id be more honeft to fay, that I 
confult my own infirmity in leaving as much as I can 
to the gradual operation of thofe fimple principles and 
limited inftitutions, which I am more able to com- 
prehend, to arrange with effe6l, and apply to pradice. 

The Houfe, Sir, is now in pofleffion of the general 
oh'jeO: and principles of the plan, which 1 meant to 
,lay before you. There are fome perfons undoubtedly, 
whofe heaity concurrence I am not fanguinc enough 
to expe6t ; bat I do not believe it polTible that any man 
will dire6lly and openly alTert, that fuch an objedl, if 
it were attainable, is not to be deiired ; — that fuch a 
plan, if it were pra6i:icable, is not fit to be encouraged. 
No human refolution will go that length. I know, 
as well as they do, on what ground they are prepared to 
meet me, and for what queftion the ftrength of their 
oppofition is referved. Admitting tlie meafure to be 
eligible in itfclf, they alk me now by what means do 
you propofe to carry it into execution ? What courfe 
would you purfue ? What power would you employ ? 
I fhall not keep thefe Gentlemen in fufpenfe. My 
anfwer, I fee, is waited for with an impatience, which 
indicates the certainty and anticipates the triumph of 
immediate vi6lory. They exult in the pra6lical diffi- 
culties infeparabte from every attempt to do good in 
this world;, and which, they truft, are infurmountable 
in the prefent inftance. Weil, Sir, I am ready to 
gratify their defire, and prepared, as I think, for all 
the objedlions that can be rationally urged againft me. 
This part of the quellion is not new to me. What I 

know 



( ss ) 

know of it is derived not only from fludy and rc» 
fle6lion, as deep as I am capable of giving to any 
.fubje61:5 but from the vs^ifdom of great men whom 
I have known, and from the experience of events 
which have happened in my own time. Tho' too 
young to take part, I was old enough to obferve, and 
1 had accefs to fome of the greatefl: fources of inflruc- 
tion. How far I may have been able to avail myfelf 
of thefe advantages muft be determined by others. The 
power, which I mean to refort to, for carrying this 
plan into eiFedl, is that of the Britilli Parliament over 
the colonics of Great Britain. No man is fairly at 
ifTue with me, who does notdiftin6lly deny that power^ 
Is there a ftatefman in this Houfe, is there an indi- 
vidual of any rank or confideration here, who will take 
it upon himfelf, diredly and plainly, to maintain that 
denial, or, in other words, to affirm, that in no cafe 
whatever has the Britifti Parliament a right to make 
laws to bind the Britifh colonies ? I cannot believe it. 
But, if there be, let him come forward and declare 
himfelf. On that queilion, inconfiderable as I am, and 
bold as it may appear, I am ready to meet him in 
front, to £hew that he knows nothing of the principles 
of legiflation, of the policy of flates, or of the duties 
of government, and to make him, for his ignorance at 
leaft, the fcorn and contempt of mankind. If he 
admits that cafes may poflibly exift, in which the power 
may be necefTary, and the right undifputed, I then ihall 
have nothing to prove, but that this is eminently a cafe 
in point, in which the application of tlie unqueftion- 
able power of Parliament muft be reforted to, becaufe 
no other power on earth is equal to the purpofe. I am 
as ready as any man to allow, or to contend, if it were 

necelTary, 



( 56 ) 

neceflary, that the tranfcendent power of Farliamer^t 
to make laws for every part of tlie Britifli empire^ 
where it has not been formally reJinquifhed, is not, 
in prudence, to be ufed on ordinary occafions, when 
the fubordinate powers of legiflation can a6t with equal 
tffeS: in their feveral departments. It is a right re- 
ferved for great emergencies. To fay that it ought 
to be fo referved, is to acknowledge that it exifts. 
Without evident neceffity, I would neither urge the 
cafe nor agitate the right. Occafions vary, and pru- 
dence muft be confulted. But rights are not given 
to lie dormant for ever. They have relative duties at- 
tached to them. According to the occafion, the right 
is to be exercifed, and the duty to be performed. Ne- 
ceffity alone, if the thing muft be done, and if there 
be no alternative, conveys a right, or ftands in the place 
of it, to a6l for the general welfare or for the public 
fafety, I fhall fbew you hereafter how little is to be 
expedted, on this fubjedl:, from the power, even if it 
concurred with the difpofition of the colonial affemblies, 
and that, by their means, a real and elFedlive alteration 
in the condition of the Negroes can never be accom- 
pliflied. But I have firft another argument to main- 
tain, and better ground to ftand on. In a former de- 
bate, the example of America was held out to deter us 
from a6ts, which might alienate the Weft India Iflands, 
and drive them to look elfewhere for prote6lion, if 
not to refiftance. At that time, nothing was in quef- 
tion but the abolition t>f the Slave Trade. This 
night you may be fure of hearing the fame argument 
repeated, or rather of feeing the fame weapon up- 
lifted to awe your deliberations. Let the queftion be 
what it may, they are equally ready with it. If the 

3 ' Weft 



( 57 ) 

Weft India I Hands would not fubmit to abolition, 
how will tbey endure the interpofition of the legifla- 
tiire in any thing that touches their internal govern- 
ment ? Such is the language of Englishmen, fitting 
among us, to the legiflative authority of their country^ 
Let us fee with what reafon they refort to the example 
of America. I am as ready to appeal to it as they are. 
. I know where that fatal queftion originated. No part 
of the argument, which divided this country on the 
merits of the Stamp ASiy or of the events, Vv^hich fol- 
lowed it, have efcaped me. V/ith all thofe tranfac- 
tions in my view, I declare now, on the principles and 
in the language of Lord Chatham, that I rejoice 
THAT Ame'^ica resisted. If this be a conceflion, 
thefe Gentlemen are welcome to it. I do not believe 
it will avail them. I rejoice that America refifted 
with fuccefs, becaufe it was a triumph of unqueftion- 
able right over outrageous wrong, of courage and vir- 
tue over tyranny and force ; — becaufe the iffue of that 
contefl has provided a refuge and left us an afylum, 
when exigence in Europe, perhaps even in England, 
can no longer be endured. The nations, cruftied by 
taxes for the fupport of powers that opprefs, or of 
wars that deftroy them, have ftill the confolation of 
knowing that peace, and freedom, and plenty, are to 
be found in America, and that there is ftill a coun- 
try in the world, where every man enjoys in fecu- 
rity the fruits of his induftry, and the produce of 
his labour. Who is there, who can pronounce with 
certainty that a period is not approaching, when no 
other refuge may be left us? — On what ground did 
the Americans firft difpute the general legiflative au- 
thority of the mother country ? Did they affert that a 

I B4tifh 



( 58 ) 

BritiHi Parliament had no right to bind or to regulate 
a Britifli colony by its laws, in any cafe ivhatfoever ? 
Did they ever maintain a proportion fo abfurd and fo 
'monftrous as that prote6i:ion gave no claim to obe- 
dience, that thofe duties were not reciprocal ; that a 
nation Jub tutela owed no fubmiffion to the tutelary 
power by which it was protected, that the ward owed 
nothing to the guardian, the pupil to the tutor, the 
child to the parent ; — that fuch ofEces were merely 
nominal, and gave no right to a£l even for the benefit 
of the pretended obje£ls of their care ? No, Sir; Ame- 
rica had too much wifdom for herfelf, as well as too 
hearty an attachment to England, to hold fuch foolifh 
language, or to. maintain fuch dangerous do61:rines. 
See how fhe has lately ad^ed to fome refra6lory de- 
pendencies of her own. The moment fuch principles 
prevail, there is an end of all unity of government in 
the world. In an extended empire, every diftant pro- 
vince may fet up for itfelf. Every one of your 
illands may be an independent ftate. If I aimed at 
their deftrudlion, they fhould have my confent to be fo. 
You would foon fee them at your feet with fupplica- 
tion to you to refume your ftation, and never to re- 
linquifh your authority over them. That authority 
was not difputed by America, until it was extended to 
purpofes unconne6led with general regulation, and 
exercifed on principles, which, if once they were ad- 
rqitted, left no fecurity to the Americans for anv thing 
they poiTelTed. The claim, which they refifted, was 
that of dire61; taxation by a Houfe of Commons, in 
which they were not reprefented. They afTerted truly, 
that taxation and reprefentation were infeparabie; — • 
that the right grew from the {aGi^, and could not exifb 

without 



( S9 ) 

■without it. In private life, the guardian regulates the 
condu6t3 and even difpofes of the property of the pupil, 
for his maintenance, for his fervice, or for his educa- 
tion. But it does not folloWj that he may take any 
part of it for his own ufe or benefit. The firft may be 
a duty; the fecond would be a robbery. The protect- 
ing power has a claim to obedience, not to money* 
To prevent any further queftion on this fubje6l, all 
claim to lay taxes on the colonies was formally re- 
nounced in the year 1778. The atSl of the i8th of his 
prefent Majefty, coiiimonly called Governor JohnJlone% 
a6t, " declares and enadls, that the King and Parlia- 
" ment of Great Britain will not impofe any duty, 
*' tax, or aflefTment whatfoever, payable in the colo- 
" nies, except fuch duties as it may be expedient to 
*' impofe for the regulations of commerce, the nett 
^' produce of fuch duties to be always paid and applied 
*' to the lafe of fuch colonies," — This furrender, on 
the part of Great Britain, is fpecific. All the other 
general rights of the mother country remain unaltered. 
The conceffion, by which one particular point is given 
up, amounts in fadl to a re-alErmance of the reft. The 
queftion then is, whether the meafure I propofe, and 
particularly that part of it> by which the planters would 
be obliged to allot fome portion of their land with a 
cottage to their Negroes, be or be not an a6l of taxa- 
tion. I defire lo confine myfelf to this point at pre- 
fent, becaufe I do not mean to infift that a provifion 
for the falaries and eftabliflimcnts of magiftrates, ad- 
vocates, and commiffioners ma^ not properly be the 
fubje£l of a different confideratiori. What I am now 
fpeaking of is the allotment of a fhare in the ufufru6t 
of tlie eftate to the fervice and benefit of the eftate 
I % itfelf. 



( 6o ) 

Ufelf, and to no other purpofe whatfoever. Notliing 
is taken away from the owner, nothing is applied to 
the ufes of Government. The tenure of the villan re- 
gardant was in its nature ufufruduary, and was never 
underftood to limit or impair the right of the proprietor 
to the property of the foil. Now I affirm that it is ef- 
fential to the cliarader and definition of a tax, that the 
amount fhall be taken from the contributor and applied 
to the ferviee of the Crown or of the public. To 
appropriate and allot an exifting fund, whether in land 
or money, is not of itfelf an a£l of taxation. But if 
it were fo, what pretence have thefe gentlemen to 
appeal to the cafe or to quote the rights, which 
juftified the refiflance oi America ? Is there any re- 
femblance between the two fituations ? The Ame- 
ricans refified taxation, becaufe they were not re- 
prefented in Parliament. The folly and injuftice of 
this country, by perfifting in a claim of right, which 
never could have been effedlually exercifed, and 
which at laft was relinquifhed, drove the Americans 
to the neceffity of afferting much more than their 
original pretenfions amounted to. They began with 
petition and rem on ft ranee.; — they appealed to the fword^ 
and eftablifhed their deftined independence long be- 
fore its natural and inevitable period, before they 
themfelves had forefeen or defired it. In the full- 
nefs of time, and in the maturity of their flate, fepa-- 
ration and independence muft have been the lot of 
America. The Herculean infant would neceffarily 
have burft its cradle, and broken loofe from its leading 
firings. But then the union of the two countries 
would have continued unimpaired. The mutual rela- 
tions of kindnt-fs and friendfhip would not have been? 

diiTolved* 



( 6i ) 

difiblved. AiFeflion and attachment would have oc- 
cupied the places of authority and dependence. Be- 
tween the cafe of America and that of the Weft India 
Iflands there is no fimilarity, nor are the fame confe- 
quences poffible. Is it true, in hS:, that the property 
of the Weft India Iflands is not reprefented in the 
Houfe of Commons ? Of what fort of perfons does that 
party confift, which, on the fubje6b of the Slave Trade, 
carries every thing before it in this Houfe ? Why, Sir, 
it is one of their allegations, when it fuits their pur- 
pofe, that the property of the Iflands is veiled in Great 
Britain, that is, in the hands of relident owners, mort- 
gagees, merchants, and creditors. They are all on the 
fpots to reprefent the interefts, and to defend the 
right of the Iflands. They, at leaft, are the fubjedls of 
Great Britain. They, at leaft, may be compelled by the 
power of Parliament. If they are not your fubje<35y 
what are they ? The Americans, on the contrary, re- 
fided on their own continent, at a diftance, which 
siade communication impra(f^icable, and not only 
without reprefentation, but not even in contact:, and 
much lefs in fympathy with the power, that pretended 
to tax them. The progrefs of their population bad- 
no limits. An unbounded territory expanded to receive 
it. The Iflands have their boundary fixed for them by 
nature. The number of their white inhabitants cannot 
increafe beyond a certain point, and muft always be 
inconfiderable in comparifon with the Negroes and 
people of colour. Of fome fuperior power, of fome 
protedling dominion, the Iflands muft for ever be the 
colonies or the dependencies. In the nature of things 
they never can be independent ftates. Their Repre^ 
fenutives in this Houfe talk boldly of feparation, and 
S even 



( 62 ) 

even intimate refiftance. I would not drive them tar 
that iffue. If they can make out their right, I would 
never put them to a trial of their ftrength. Their ar- 
guments and their power are pretty much upon a 
footing. They know that, if they were unconnedted 
with us to-morrow, and if it were poffible for them 
to maintain their independence againft France and 
America, the great market for their produce is in the 
confumption of thefe kingdoms, and that to this market 
they muft bring it on any terms, which Parliament 
iliould think fit to prefcribe to them. 

I have already intimated, that it is not my In- 
tention to propofe any thing, that fhould really 
trench on the queftion of taxation, or furnifh a pre- 
tence to cavil or to quarrel with the general views 
and purpofes of the meafure. I need not argue about 
privileges, which 1 have no thoughts of invading. If 
the fums required to pay the falaries and to fup- 
port the eftablifhments, made necefTary by this or any 
other plan, were to be raifed in the Iflands by the 
dire£l authority of Parliament, the objedlion would 
then be in its place, and proper to be confidered. That 
point is not in queftion, and need not be debated. If 
the colonial aflemblies capnot be prevailed upon, by a 
recommendation from the Crown, or any other means, 
to provide for fuch expences, the charge muft be borne 
by Great Britain, and may eafily be alTeiTed upon 
objects, unqueftionably within the difpoHtion of Par- 
liament. I am ready, for my part, to contribute to it^ 
by a perpetual rent-charge on my eftate, to a greater 
amount than can be reafonably ftated as the jufl pro- 
portion of any individual.. 

Waving 



( ^3 ) 

Waving now. Sir, all farther confideration of the 
llri£i: right of Parliament to adl leglflatively for the 
general benefit of the Weft India Iflands, I know there 
is another important queftion to be refolved. Sinc« 
the different Iflands have colonial aflemblies or inferior 
Parliaments of their own, why do I not prefer fome 
courfe of application to thofe aflemblies, and try whe- 
ther all the tifeful purpofes of the Bill, which I am 
endeavouring to recommend to the Houfe of Commons, 
may not equally be efFe(Sled thro* that medium ? The 
queftion Is fair, and I fhall anfwer it frankly. In the 
face of experience, and againft all our knowledge 
and obfervation of the principles, character, and pro- 
ceedings of thefe aflemblies, let us fuppofe for a mo- 
ment that a general difpofition did really prevail among 
them to impart to their Negroes fome ihare in the 
natural rights of human creatures, labouring in their 
fervice, and a legal fecurity for the poiTeilion of them. 
Within thefe few years, fmce queftions on this fubje6l 
have been warmly revived and repeatedly agitated in 
England, they have had opportunities and incitements 
enough to indulge their benevolence, and to take the 
bufinefs into their own hands. But neither have they 
discovered fuch an inclination^ nor do I think it was 
in their power to have concerted a general plan, or to 
have purfued it with eiFed. Partial alteiations might 
poflibly have been attempted in the feveral Iflands, 
without fyftem or conne6lion, according to the acci- 
dental temper or prevailing difcretion of the diiFerent 
aflTemblies. Some would have granted lefs than others. 
Very little, I believe, would have been yielded by 
any of them. But, were it otherwife in point of dif- 
pofition, their number and their diftance from each 
pther would have made it impoflible for them to deli- 
berate 



( 64 ) 

berate in concert, or finally to concur in a uniform 
coDclufion. The colonies of North America vs ere in 
contaft -with each other, and were capable of ail- 
ing under one diredlion, for a general objed. The 
Iflands have no union of views, no common bond of 
interefl:, to engage them to agree in a general refolu- 
tion ; much lefs have they a union of power to inforce 
it. So much the more neceflary is it, that there fhould 
be fomewliere a fuperior indifferent tribunal, and a 
binding power paramount to them all. No authority, 
adequate to the purpofe, can exift but in Parliament. 
If one of the provincial legiflatures prefided with fo- 
vereignty over the reft, it might poflibly be fufficient 
to form the plan. The difficulties of the execution 
would ftill be infurmountable. But let their capacity 
be what it may, the principal difqualification lies in 
their rooted averfion to the meafure, and in their con- 
tempt of the objects of it. Such is the invariable in- 
fluence of arbitrary capricious power, to vitiate the 
human mind ; — to make us hate, when we have in- 
jured ; and defpife, when we have degraded. A 
great deal, it is faid, may be expe(::l:ed from the virtue 
and prudence of the colonial aflemblies. Let us try the 
value of that expedation by the teft of experience. 
To judge of what they will do, let us fee what 
they have done. I place no confidence in profef- 
lions, unfupported by condu6l. 1 have examined 
their laws with care and attention. I have read 
them with patience, with wearinefs, and difgufl. I 
do aflure you. Sir, it is not eafy for an Englifh 
mind to conceive that fuch a code as this could be the 
refult of debate and deliberation in a fenate of any fort. 
Their utter ignorance of every rational principle of 

legiflation 



( 6s ) 

leglfiatiori is dnly to be paralleled by the unfeeiiiig 
cruelty that didates and prevails thro' all their refolu^ 
tions. I fhall not weary the Houfe with details or 
recitals from this book. My honorable Friend * near 
iTie has kindly undertaken that talk, if the Houfd 
ihould be difpofed to call for it. I believe it will be 
fufficientj if I give you a fample of the principles, ou 
which thefe aflemblies have proceeded. You may take 
it fafely for a fpecimen of the whole. Firft of all, let 
the perfonal injury done to a Negro, be ever fo atrd^ 
Cious, the aflemblies have taken fpecial care to make ton- 
viclion impofiible. Suppofe that all the Negroes on any 
jilantation fhould jointly and feverally atteft that the 
overfeer had maimed, defaced^ mutilated^ or cruelly tor^ 
tured a Negro, (the common language of thefe laws) 
their evidence would avail nothing. The patrty would 
be at liberty to purge himfelf on his Oath ; that is^ 
they have eftabliilied impunity by law for crimes^ in 
many cafes worfe than murder. They talk of con- 
viction perpetually, and of penalties to be attached tc5 
it. To deface, to maim, or to mutilate, if by any 
means the fadl can be proved, is to be punifhed with 
imprifonment, not exceeding three months, and a fine 
of a hundred pounds currency, to he paid intli the trea^ 
fury of the ifland for the public ufes thereof But in what 
form, or by what teflimony convi(5lion is to be ob- 
tained in this or any other inftance againft a white 
man, where there is no white evidence, which mud 
generally be the cafe, is no where fpecified. White 
overfeers and drivers will not often bear witnefs againft 

* William Smith, Efq. 



C 66 ) 

on6 another. They have a fellow feeling ort this 
fubje6l, or they can eafily take care not to a6l in com- 
pany. An a6l, pafTed in Dominica in the year 1788, 
for the encouragement y proteHlon, and better government df 
JIavesy I ain told, is greatly relied on as a proof of the 
juftice and humanity which prevail in the Iflands. 
This a6l does certainly admit, that " it is jufl and 
** proper that the flaves ihould be protecSled in their per- 
^* fons from the violence and inhumanity of fuch white 
*^* perfons and free perfons of colour, who may have no 
'* lawful authority over thcm^^ The admiffion is impor- 
tant. Obferve the ddte, and then confidfer what fort and 
what lehgth of antecedent pra6lice is proved by it. But 
this a6l is remedial, I wilh it were poflible to bring thfe 
whole tenor of it into your view. One example will 
be enough to fhew you the fpirit that runs thro' it. 
The 1 8th claufe declares that the irj'erior crimes of flaves 
cannot ahvays he conveniently brought before the cognizance 
nf the magflraiesy and therefore ena£ls, '' that every 
^' Have, who iliall difobey orders, or who fliall be 
*' guilty of neglecfl: of duty, or abfence from labour, 
*• Sec. &c. iliall be punifhed oJ the difcretion of the 
*' oWner, renter, manager, or overfeer, by confine* 
'^ ment or fiogging on the bare back, provided the 
'* number of lafhes does not exceed thirty-nine." 
Trial and convidtion are avowedly out of the queftion. 
But if the poniflier fJjall infliB any pun'ifhment not pre- 
fcribed by this a^fy — -What then ? He J}} all be fubjeB to a 
penalty not c::cecdhig tzventy pounds current money of the 
ifand^ to be recovered by billy plaint, or information^ in 
any of his Iidajcffs courts of record I Who is to com- 
plain? Vvho is to inform? — Suppofe he repeats the 
thirty -nine lafiicSj after a (liort interval. That cafe 

is 



( 67 ) 

is not provided for. Moil of thefe lawgivers feem 
to think it reafonable that, if any violent injury be 
done to the perfon of a Negro, compenfation fhould be 
made for it. By an a6l of St. Vincent's, pafl in 1767, 
it is provided that, if any white perfon fhall caftrate or 
difm^mber any flave (familiar cafes) he fhall, upon con- 
vl^ioriy and if the profecution be co.mmenced in one year after 
the offence y pay double damages and cojis io the party grieved. 
By the 47th claufe, if a Have, in purfuit of a runaway, 
Jhall be only maimed or much hurt^ proportionable allow- 
ance Jhall be made by the public. Now who do you 
underftand to be the party aggrieved, to whom fome 
compenfation and allowance ought to be made ? — The 
maimed or mutilated Negro ? No, Sir. In the eye 
of the law, the owner is the only fufFerer. He fufFers 
in his property. He lofes the labour of his flave. If 
Me be reimburfed, the juftice of the ifland is fatisfied. 
By a law of the Bahama Iflands, pafled in J784, it is 
enadled that any perfon, who fhall apprehend a run- 
away Negro, dead or alivcy fhall be paid twenty pounds. 
Then comes the trial of the runaway, before two magi- 
ilrates and three freeholders, who, on conviiSlion ihali 
order execution, unlefs it fhall appear to them that fuch 
Jlave has received fuch cruel ufage from his or her owner ^ 
as to have been the caufe ef his qr her running away, Ob- 
ferve that the reward is given for taking dead as well 
as alive ; that is, for fhooting a Have, who might have 
been driven to run away by that cruel ufage, which, 
they fay, would fave him from punifhment if he had 
been taken alive. Redrefs, compenfation, or pjotec- 
tion to the Negro is never thought of= 

K 2 . In 



( 68 ) 

In other iflands, the proof of innocence, or freedon^ 
is always put upon the accufed Negro. If he cannot 
prove affirmatively, that he did not commit the'fa^l, or 
that he is not a flave, conviction follows of courfe* 
The laws of Montferrat take fpecial care of provi^ 
fions, A Negro, who fteals any, to the amount value of 
twelve pence ^ iliall, upon due proof thereof, before the 
governor and cowncW, Juffer fuch death as they Jhall think 
jit to award! Again; " If flefh of any fort fhall be 
<^ found in the houfe of a Negro, unlefs he or Jhe can 
^' make it plainly appear they came by it honejily^ fuch Ne- 
^^ gro fhali undergo a whipping, and have one of their 
^« ears cut oiF." 

I afk pardon of the Houfe for dwelling fo long, on 
fuch odious examples of deliberate legiflative barbarity. 
It v/as neceiTary, in order to fhew you what fort of 
legiflators you are referred to ; into what hands you are 
to delegate your juflice and your mercy, and how fit they 
are to be truiled. To eflablifli thenecellity of a dire6l 
recourfe to the power of Parliament and the injuftice 
of reforting to any other, one general confideration of 
the fubje6l remains to be ftated^ and with that I fhall 
conclude. The population of the iflands confifts of 
the manys who are black, and of a few who are white* 
The few legiflate for the many, without their confent 
or knowledge. The Negroes, I take it, are not repre-^ 
fented in the aiTemblies, whofe authority, however, 
%vould not have been difputed, if it had been exercifed 
with any tolerable regard to juflice, reafon, or hu- 
manity. The nature of the cafe requires that there 
ihould be fomewhere a compulfory power over both 
jparties. The higheft attribute of Parliament is to com« 

pel 



( 69 ) 

pel the guilty and to prote6l the innocent. The Na- 
tion and the truft are infeparable. Renounce your of» 
jice, or perform your duty. 

With the affiftance of a near relation, whofe fludies 
1 hope will be fuccefsful as long as they are dire6led by 
generous principles to honourable ends, a bill for the 
purpofes, which I have fubmitted to the Houfe, is in 
fome degree of forwardnefs. I am glad I did not fore- 
fee the uncommon difijcuities that belong to it, and 
the extent of the labour J was about to undertake. I 
fear it would have deterred me from attempting to do 
any thing. Suppofmg I were at liberty to proceed as I 
thought fitj my defire v/ould be to have leave to bring 
in the Bill, to read it once, to have it printed, and to 
Jet it lie over till the enfuing feffion. Even they, who 
might wifli to promote the obje6ls of the bill by other 
means, would find fome advantage, I hope, from having 
the bill before them. They might take the materials^ 
^nd make a better ufe of them. Though I fhould not 
have a feat in Parliament, I fhall be ready to devote 
my time and my labour to afllfl: any man, who will uiu 
dertake to profecute the meafur^. 

With this afl I am content to clofe my parlia- 
mentary life. I fet out with a fixed principle, and 
have adhered to it faithfully, without looking to the 
right or left for advantages. I am not confcious of 
having purfued any intereft at the expence of any 
duty. 1 faw my way, and I knew where it would 
lead me. For profit or preferment I fhould have taken 
another courfe. For honour and happinefs I fliall not 
think that I have lived in vain, if, at the period of my 

exiftence, 



( 7^ ) 

exigence, I fliould be able to look back, as I do in this 
place, to a life of unrewarded fervice, and to end it 
with an a6i: of benevolence to mankind. 

I move you, Sir, that leave be given to bring in a Bill 
for the better regulation and improvement of the fitua- 
tion of the Negroes and other flaves in the colonies, 
iilands, and plantations in America and the Weft IndicS;^ 
belonging to his Majefty, his heirs, and fuccelTors, 



APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX 

No. L 



To Philip Francis, Efq, 



SIR, 



Jpr'il (), 1769, 

IT affords fome fatisfa(5lion to the friends of humaiiitj 
to obferve that, notwithftanding the recent rejec- 
tion of the Bill for aboli filing the African Trade, the 
fubje6l is not yet wholly abandoned ; but that, on the 
contrary, it will be revived in a manner much more 
likely than heretofore to infure eventual fuccefs. The 
little attention that has been paid to conciliate the good 
will, or to allay the fears of thofe, who were mofl: inte- 
refted in the event, were but too fure indications either 
that the meafure propofed was not intended to be car- 
ried, or that the promoters of it, however fincere in 
their intentions, were ftrangely ignorant of the means 
likely to effe6t their purpofe. Is it pollible that man- 
kind are yet to learn that the happinefs or advantage of 
any one clafs of fociety can never depend on the niifery 
or misfortunes of another ? It is by uniting the real 
interefts of different claffes of men in one meafure, 
and not by placing them in oppofition to each other, 
that any permanent reform is rcafonably to be ex- 
pe6^ed. 

2 In 



in) 

In atteiilpting to engage the Britiili Pafliamefit irt 
meliorating the condition of the flaves in the Weft In- 
dia Iflands, you will, perhaps, incur the difpleafure of 
thofe, who, in the high language of unbending virtue^ 
difdain to regulate oppreflion, or compromife with 
guilt ; but the fedate obferver of human nature will fee 
that violent changes in the moral world are not lefs 
dangerous than thofe of the natural, and that al- 
though a florm ot an earthquake may at times purify 
the atmofphere, yet that this change is much more de- 
firable when effe£led by a lefs violent operation. Hu- 
man misfortunes and human crimes require human re- 
medies ; and that faftidious delicacy, which cannot bear 
the loathfomenefs of an hofpital, or the diftrefTes of 
a jail, is not likely ever to render any important fer- 
Vices to mankind. 

From the Weft India Planters you will probably 
meet with a more formidable oppofttion ; and it is not 
unlikely that they may oppofe you in the firft ftage of 
the bufinefs, by contending that^ as each of the iflands 
has a legiflative body of its own, they are exclufively 
competent to judge of fuch regulations as are neceftary 
for their internal fafety and advantage, and that the 
interference of the Britifh legiflature in making laws^ 
which do not afFeft themfelves, but afFedt a difFerent 
body of men> with different fentiments, and diiFerent 
interefts, is prepofterous and unjuft. 

This objedlion would certainly be well founded, were 
all the inhabitants of the W^eft India Iflands in fuch a 
ftate of information and equality as to concur in mak- 
ing laws for themfelves, and to bring out in refult a 

general 



( 73 ) 

general opinion. But the fa6l is not fo. Thefe iflands 
are inhabited by two bodies of men, the great majority 
of whom are in a ftate of flaveiy to the reft. In 
claiming therefore the right of making laws for thefe 
fubordinate clafTes of fociety, the planters arrogate to 
themfelves the very privilege, which they contend to 
be tyrannical and unjuft, viz. the right of m.aking laws, 
by which others are governed without their own con- 
fent. Whilft thefe two claffes of men exift, the in- 
terference of the Britifli Government is rendered ne- 
ceflary by that very circumftance. Whilft thefe iflands 
remain a part of the Britifh dominions, it is not only 
the right but the indifpenfahle duty of that government 
to watch over the interefts of the humbleft clafTes of 
the community, and not to confign over the happinefs 
and exiftence of thoufands to the paftions or the pre- 
judices of thofe, who, blinded by miftaken ideas of 
their own intereft, and too often depraved by long 
habits of fuperiority, are generally the leaft qualified to 
judge even where the queftion relates to their own ad- 
vantage. The refult of the flave carrying bill, the 
good efFefls of wliich are now generally acknowledged, 
has however afforded one ufeful leftbn to the fuppor- 
ters of African flavery ; and I hope the regulations, 
which you purpofe to introduce, v/ill ere long afford 
them another. 

It may be ftated as an incontrovertible maxim, that 
whenever any portion of the human race are placed in 
a fair and reafonable fituation, and fupplied with the 
neceffary articles of life, they will continue to increafc 
their fpecies. Had this not been the hCt the human 
race v/ould long ago have been extincl, nor has it ever 

L beea 



( y4 ) 

beerl pretended that the natives of Africa are Icfs prcy^ 
lific than thofe of any other quarter of the earth* 
To what caufe is it then to be attributed that, after a 
conftant fupply for upwards of two centuries, the pre- 
fent Negro inhabitants of the Britilli Weil Indies bear 
fo fmall a proportion to the number from time to time 
aftually imported ? or whence arifes this continual 
wafte of life, which is the foundation of the Aftican 
Trade? Certainly hecaufe they are not in afairandrea- 
finable Jituatton, and have not thofe advantages, which 
are neceflary to enable them to fulfill even the firfl: 
law of their exigence. To improve that fituation — 
To admit them, if I may ufe the expreffion, to the rank 
of human beings- — To give them a ftation, and a known 
place in fociety, however low that place may be, is the 
immediate obje6l and duty of that government on 
whom, and on whom only, they have claims for pro- 
tedlion. As their numbers increafe, as their moral 
powers improve, they will make further advances ifi 
the fcale of civilization ; their progrefs will be from 
llaves to vaffals attached to the land, from vaiTals to 
hufoandmen, and from hufoandmen fome may, perhaps^ 
fife by their own merits to a higher clafs, and form a 
fort of yeomanry of the Britifh plantations. The ne- 
ceiTary power for cultivating thefe plantations will 
then be obtained on the fpot. The example, if advan- 
tageous, will be follov/ed by other nations, and the 
trade for {laves to Africa v;ii] be abolifhed without a 
ilruggle, not as unjuft, but as unneceiTary. 

That the parent (late, and not the local legiflaturcj^ 
is properly charged with the performance of this duty, 

h 



( 75 ) 

is evl<ient from the firil meafure, which it appears ne- 
ceiTary to adopt. The planters; when called upon by 
the Britifli nation to mitigate the dlftrefTes of their 
ilaves, have replied by their able advocate Mr. Bryan 
Edwards — '* It is for you, if fmcere, to fet us the ex- 
<* ample, by a repeal of the Britilh ftatutes, which fub- 
^' jects flaves in the plantations to be taken in execu- 
*^ tion, and fold for the debts of Britifh creditors, and 
*' is the moll: cruel and opprelTive regulation, under 
*^ which thefe people groan." The remonftrance is 
juft. This ftatute is a perpetual bar to the happinefs 
^nd improvement of the Negro, and till it be repealed, 
all attempts at further regulations are ufelefs. That a 
creditor, under the fanclion of a Britifli acl of Parlia- 
ment, ihall feize upon a body of men, women, and 
children, as on a herd of cattle ; that he ihall be im. 
powered, for no crime or mIfcondu6i: of theirs, to tear 
them^from their habitations, to feparate the wife from 
the hufband, the mother from her children, and difperfe 
them to different mailers, in different iflands, is a re- 
proach to this country, which ought effe^fbually to pre- 
vent its upbraiding the planters with feverity to their 
flaves. Even in the moft unfavourable fi\tuations of 
fociety, the common fympathies of human nature will 
at times be felt, and frequenr intercourfe may excite, 
and has excited an attachment between the Have and 
his mafter, or between the mafter and his numerous 
and dependant family ; but what pity can exift in the 
bofom of a creditor, refident in England, whofe only 
obje6l is the recovery of his money, and who confiders 
the unfortunate vidtims of his rapacity as the fubje6l& 
of a legal diftrefs? 

L 2 The 



( 76 ) 

The oppofition to the repeal of this cruel ftatute will 
not arife from the planters, but from thpfe powerful 
capitaliils in Great Britain, who advance them money, 
on ftipulations, which often return an enormous rate 
of intereft ; but it will not be difficult to ihew that 
fuch a regulation, whilil it is injurious to the planter, 
is not favourable to his creditors, and has no better 
tendency than to excite a conteil: among them, who 
fhall be the firft to tear his property in pieces. When 
the Negroes are thus carried off the eftate to fatisfy the 
demand of a hngle creditor, what is to become of the 
mortgagee of the real property, whofe fecurity is there- 
by rendered unprodudive ? or of the other creditors, 
who have no refource but in the imprifonment of an 
infolvcnt ? To deprive a planter of the inftruments, by 
which alone he can extricate him fell from his difficul- 
ties, merely to gratify an avaricious or refentful credit 
ditor, is the height of injuitice to the reft. Let the 
Negroes then be attached to the eftate, and difpofed 
of or retained with the inheritance. The planter will 
thus be enabled to exert bimfelf with confidence, and 
if he fiiould eventually prove unfuccefsful, the fale of 
his whole property together will be more advantageous 
to his creditors, than the fuiFering it to be difmembered 
by conteAed claims. By thefe regulations the planter 
vvill be eiTentiallv beneiited : the Negro will have a 
fixed refidence, will become domefticated and attached 
to the foil, and the creditors at large will have a fe- 
curity againft preferences by a partial transfer, the ad^ 
miffion of which is equally impolitic and unjuft. 

Next to the repeal of this obnoxious ilatute, it would 
appear advifable that the fituation of the Haves in the 

different 



( 77 ) 

diiFerent iflands fhould be affimilated to each other.— 

According to the prefent laws of thofe iflands the Ne- 
groes are in fome of them confidered as real property, 
defcendible to the heir, and in others as perfonal pro- 
perty which vefts in the executors, and are liable to be 
fold from the eihite. That, which has been found ad- 
vantageous or tolerated in one iiland, cannot prove in- 
jurious to another; and it may therefore be prefumed 
that no great objection would be made to a regulation^ 
which fnould declare that the K'eg-roes iliall in ail 

o 

cafes defcend with the eftate, and fhall not be devifable 
from it, even by will. Being thus placed on the fame 
level, tliey would become the equal objeds of any re- 
gulation, which might hereafter be propofed for their 
benefit ; which, in their prefent precarious lituation, it 
is impoffible fliould be the cafe. This would alfo pre- 
vent any perfcn not pofTeiied of an eftate from acquir- 
ing a property in a Have, and would put an inllant pe- 
riod to the inhuman and increafing cuilom of purchaf- 
ing flaves, in order to hire out their labour to thofc 
planters, who will pay the highefl price. 

Were the foundations thus laid, fuch further im- 
provements might be introduced as would foon anfwer 
the great ends, which I prefume you have in view. 
But coniiderations of this nature would lead me beyond 
my limits, and I have fcarcely time to difpatch this 
letter by the poft, fo as to have a chance of reaching 
you in London before the difcuffion takes place. I 
have, hovv'ever, taken the liberty of tranfmitting you a 
fmall pamphlet publifhed in the year 1788, at the clofe 
of which you will find fome hints towards a bill for the 
gradual abolition of the African Trade, and the final 

emanci- 



( 78 ) 

emancipation of the {laves; and I fliall be truly happy 
if anv eirort of mine can in the lead degree contribute 
towards fo great and defirable an event. 

It has juftly been cbferved that arguments, deduced 
from general principles, are equally valid from what- 
ever quarter they may come ; and this might have been 
my apology for fuppreffing my fignature ; but I like 
not an anonymous addrefs, and as I have a full confi- 
dence that, in expreffing a wifh to be unknown to any 
perfon but yourfelf, my purpofe will be fully anfweredj 
I beg leave to fubfcribe, 

With great refpe(f^, &c. 



St, yamess Square^ 
SIR, ' Jpril I2y 1796. 

T DID not receive the favour of your letter of the 
9th inftant, till yefterday about an hour or two he^ 
fore I went down to the Houfe of Commons, with my 
tnind, as you may imagine, tolerably well filled with my 
fubjedl. I did not venture to read more than three or 
four pages of it, for a reafon, which, at firfl: fight, 
may appear extraordinary. The firft part of this ex- 
cellent, and in my judgment incomparable performance, 
fuggefted to me a very important hint, of which I faw 
I could avail myfelf in the courfe of the debate ; hut I 
l^as really and ferioufly afraid to expofe myfelf to that 

force 



( 79 ) 

force and necefTity of taking more, which I v/as very 
fure the remainder" of your letter would impofe upon 
me. The reafon of this fear was founded upon a jufh 
and prudent diftrufl: of my own capacity. I dreaded 
the confequence of receiving more than I might be 
able to digefl, even of food of tlie heft quality. I hav© 
now perufed the whole of your letter, with the fame 
continued attention wliich the firft lines of it excited, 
and with perfect fatisfa6iion. It appears to me, and 
I fay it with a grateful fentiment of honeft pride^ that, 
if we had concerted our principles, and agreed upon a 
plan together, it is hardly pofiible to conceive a more 
exact concurrence of principles, views, and opinions, 
than that which exifts between your's and mine. 
With refpeft to the a6l of George II, or to that part 
of it, which you fo juftly and ably reprobate, it was 
certainly my intention to have moved, at a proper 
time, for a repeal of it ; that is, if I had been fufFered. 
to take the £rft flep of all, without which you muft 
be fenfible that I could not have a point to ftand 
upon. I am afraid the cafe is now defperate. When 
abolition is propofed, you hear of nothing hut a won- 
derful readinefs to accept of regulations, and, with or 
without a law, to carry them into elFed. When regu- 
lations are propofed, they have another remedy t-o 
refort to, i. The Parliament of Great Britain have 
fio right to legillate for the Weft India Iftands, parti- 
cularly if any a£l of that power fhould involve the 
efFed of taxation, tho' the produce or the efFed fhould 
operate folely v/here it was created, that is, in the 
Iflands themfelves, and no way to the benefit of Great 
Britain. 2. You, who dare to ftir fuch a queftion at 
all, are an incendiary and a traitor. 

Sir^ 



( So ) 

Sir, 1 very much wifh that you would leave me at 
liberty to make what ufe I may think proper of your 
letter, under the condition, if you defire it, of care- 
fully concealing your name. 

I am, with the fmcereil refpe6t: and efteem, 
Sir, 
Your molt obedient aud 

Moll obliged humble fervant, 

PHILIP FRANCIS. 



To Philip Francis, Efq. 

SIR, 

Jpril 14, 1796* 

I BEG you to accept my grateful thanks for your 
communication of the debate on your motion, and 
for your very kind letter, which has relieve-d me from 
the apprehenfion, of which I could not diveft myfelf, 
of having unfeafonably, and perhaps unneceiTarily, in- 
truded on your time. 

It is in fome degree fortunate for thofe, who have 
been accufliomed to intereft themfelves in the welfare of 
their fellow creatures, as well white as black, that 
they are not, in thefe times, very fufceptible of the 
pangs of difappointment. The repulfes they have met 
with, on. all occafions, have blunted their feelings to 
that anguiih (the keeneft, perhaps, of any not de- 
I rived 



( 8i ) 

rived from tonfcious criminality) which refults from 
the defeat of a great and difinterefted attempt ; and the 
failure of your motion is only another example of 
thofe outrages againft truth, juftice, and humanity, 
which have of late fo frequently difgraced this age and 
country. After the miferies, which mankind have 
recently fufFered from the fhock of extreme opinions, 
it might have been expe6led that he, who fliould raife 
the ftandard of moderation, would not find himfelf in 
Want of volunteers* 

But the cafe is otherwife ; and, whatever may be the 
juftice of his pretenfions, and with whatever candour 
and perfpicuity they may be inforced, he will find that, 
with a great majority of his hearers, the welfare of 
others is an obje6i of much lefs importance than the 
gratifying their own particular notions. Thus the 
man, who difdains to (loop to regulate an iniquitous 
abufe, becomes the accomplice of him, who contends 
that the abufe ought not to be corrected, and fo gets 
that moil important maxim, 

— — — —funt certl deni que fines y 
^uos ultra citraque nequit confijiere redum^ 

There is, however, one great man, who, when the 
interefts of humanity are at ftake, is fuperior to the 
gratification of a perfonal feeling ; whofe enlightened 
mind can perceive the wifdom of doing what good is in 
his power, in the expedlation of preparing the way for 
more, who, if he floops for a moment from the known 
dignity of his principles, does it only to rife with a 
gr^^^tx effort ; and who, when he cannot promote the 

M interefls 



( 80 

mtcrcfts of viftiie, Will at leafl take care that he is not 
feduced into the ranks of her enemies. The approba- 
tion and fupport of fueh a man, and of the few, who 
have on this occafion followed his example, will to 
your own mind be a fufficient corapenfation, and may 
fafely be taken as a decifive proof of the re6litude and 
neceflity of your meafures, in oppofition to the mixt 
majority of over-virtuous, and over-vicious, who, by 
different roads, met in monftrous alliance at the fame 
part of the circle, and equally contributed to overturn 
a meafure calculated to produce the utmoft degree of 
practicable at leaft, if not of poflible good. 

1 cannot, Sir, conclude without again expreffing 
my thanks for your indulgence to my hafty remarks, of 
which I am the more fenfible, as I perceive, from your 
addrefs to the Houfe, how little you flood in need of 
them. I fliall not, however, regret the few hours 
devoted to them, as they have been honoured with an 
approbation, with which I cannot but be highly gra- 
tified, and have afforded me an opportunity of expref-^ 
fing the thorough fenfe I have of the rectitude and 
firmnefs of your public condudl, both on this and for- 
mer occafions. 

I can have no obje^ion to your converting my re- 
marks to any purpofe in which they can be in any de- 
gree ufeful ; but, as my name can give them no addi- 
tional weight, I muft beg you will permit it to remain 
unknown » 

I am^ 5cc. 



N«. 



( Sj ) 



No. II. (p. 41.) 

PecuUum, ^^ C'efl le fonds que celui, qui efl ei\ 
*' puiiTance d'autrui, com me im fils de famille, ou un 
^' efclave, pent acquerlr par fa propre induftrie, fans 
^' avance ni fecours de la part de fon pere ou de fori 
" maitre, mais feulement avec fa permiirion. 

*' FURETIERE." 



PecuUum is the property, which he, who is in th^ 
power of another, fuch as a fon or a flave, may acquire 
by his own induflry without advances or afiiftancc 
from the father or the mafier, but only with their 
permiflion. 



No. III. (p. 45.) 

** La famine, qui defoloit les campagnes, fut ung 
" reiTource pour la guerre. Ceux, qui manquoient 
^' de pain, fe nrent foldats, Beaucoup de terres refle^ 
^^ v^Xi% en friche ; nnais on ?ut une arm?e, 

*« VOLTAIRE, Cap. 21." 



M a No, 



( H ) 
No. IV. 



An A€t of Barbadoes, pafled in 1785, *^ To preveni 
*^ diflempered, maimed, and worn out Negroes, from 
*« infefling the towns, flreets, and highways of this 
<<Illand/'-r 

Preamble, *' Whereas it has for feme time paft beei^ 
the cruel pra^ice oi fome perfons pofTefling Negroes, 
who, from their old age and infirmities, are incapable 
of further fervice to their inhuman owners, to drive 
them from their plantations, to beg, fleal, or ftarve, 
which faid unhappy obje61:s are daily infefling the 
public flreets of the feveral towns in this ifland,, 
greatly to the annoyance and nuifance of the inhabitants^ 
thereof^ 

*^ To prevent fuch inhuman fraSlices for the fu« 
ture, fo difgraceful and dangerous to the country. 
Be it therefore ena6led, &;c. That the owner or owners 
of any diflempered, maimed, or worn out Negro, &c. 
fufFering fuch diflempered Negro, &c, to infeji the 
towns, flreets, lanes, public highways, or avenues lead- 
ing to the feveral towns of this ifland, upon notice or 
fummons, acquainting the owner with the nuifance 
the public fuftain thereby ; the faid owner of fuch flave, 
not removing the fame within the fpace of four days 
after receiving fuch notice ihall, on convidlion, forfeit 
for every offence five pounds ; and the magiftrate, be- 
fore v/hom fuch convi6lion fhall be had, fhall caufe 
fuch diflempered, maimed^ or worn out flave or flaves, 



( 8s ) 

to be immediately removed and conveyed to the owner 
or owners of fuch Have or flaves, or to his, her, or 
their habitation or place of refidence, and pay the 
charges and expences thereof with or out of the faid 
penalty of £ve pounds, one third of the overplus, if 
any be of the faid fum, to be applied to the ufe of the 
conftable or perfon who fliall apprehend fuch diftem- 
pered, maimed, or worn out flave or Haves, and the 
other two thirds, to b^ placed in the Public 
Treasury," &c. , 

N. B, By the prudent provifions of this a6l, the 
Euifance is removed out of the ftreets, like a dunghill 
,or a carcafe; but what becomes of it ? The living Ne^ 
gro is apprehended as a criminal, and fent back to his 
cruel and inhuman owner. As to the penalty of five 
pounds, the conflabie receives one third ; the remainder 
goes to the treafury : but not one penny to the diflem=- 
pered, maimed, worn out, and ftarving jQave ! 

The pra6tice, for which this remedy is provided, 
feems to have been taken from the Spaniards. The way, 
in which it is .mentioned by Cervantes^ fliews that it 
was common among his countryrnen. 

'* Lo que fuelen hacer los que ahorran y dan libera 
?' tad a fus Negros, quando ya fon viejos, y no pue- 
?' den fervir ; y echandoles de cafa, con titulo de Ubres^ 
?' los hacen esclavos de la hambre, de quien no pienfaa 
?^ ahorrarfe fmo con la muerte." 

CERVANTES, 2. 24, 



No. 



( S6 ) 



No. V. (p. 60.) 



Gn the 3(1 of May, 1796, this do61rine, concerning 
a6ls of Taxation, was maintained in terms by Mr. Ser- 
jeant Adair and Mr. Pitt, on occafion of a bill brought 
down from the Hoafe of Lords, intitled, '^ A bill for 
** the further fupport and maintenance of curates \a 
*^ the church of England." They contended that it 
was not a money Bill, againft the opinion of Mr, Huf* 
fey and others, 



Extrat:^ 



f S7 > 



E^<tra3s of feveral ABs for the Regulation of 
Slaves, pajfed in the Wefi India Iflands, 



By an a6l of St. Chriftopher's, pafTed ia 1703, /or 
ihe better government of Negroes and other flaves, it 
is ena6ted, " That if any Negro or other Have op- 
fofe-y flruggle withy or fir ike any white perfon, upon 
complaint made to the next juftice of the peace the 
faid Negro or other ilave fo offendingy^i^// be publicly 
whipped by the conftable of that divifion, or fome other 
perfon he fhall provide to do the fame, at thedifcretion of 
the faid jufiice ; but in cafe fuch perfon be hurt, wounded, 
bruifed, or maimed by fuch Negro or other Have, then 
two juftices of the peace are hereby authorifed and 
impowered to fentence fuch Negro or other flave to 
death y difmemberingy or fuch other punijhment as they in 
their difcretion Jhall think fit /" 

By an a(Sl of Tortola, pafled in 1782, entitled " An 
A£t for the good government of Negro and other ilave, 
&c. If any Negro or other ilaves fliall abfent or with- 
draw himfelf or herfelf from his or her mafler, owner, 
renter, or pofTeflbr's fervice, for the term of three 
months in any one continued fpace of time, or fix 
months in two years, fuch offence or crime, fhall be ad- 
judged felony y and each and all the offenders fhall fuf» 
fsr death, or fuch other punifhment as the juflicesy 
4 frpm 



( 88 ) 

from the circumilances of the cafe, ihall judgi 
'proper P 

N, B. By the firft claufe of this ai^, a power is given 
to three magiftrates, or if they cannot agree tojivey [two 
others being alTociated) to try ana conviB delinquent 
flaves, without the intervention of a jury, to fentence 
and punifh them at their difcret'ion, even unto death, and 
to award Immediate cxecutioUy *' By fuch Jlaves as theyjhalt 
appoint^ and in fuch manner as they /hall think fit^^ 

By the 6th claufe of the fame A6t of Tortola^ 

any per/on or perfons who Jhall kill any Negro or other 
Jlave in purfuit unavoidably, who has been abfent for the 
term of three months, from his or her mafi:er,'ownerj 
renter, or pofFeiTor's fervice, is, and are not only in- 
demnified to all intents and purpofes, but fhall receive 
the following gratuities ; namely, for every Negro or 
other ilave fo unavoidably killed in purjuity the fum of 
three pounds, and for every Negro or other flave ap- 
prehended and taken alive, the fum of fix pounds cur- 
rent money, which jfliali be paid by the treafurer of 
thefe iilands, upon proof being made before a juflice ef 
the killing or apprehending of the offender or offenders, 
and upon certificate thereof under the hand and feal 
of the magiftrate." 

By the 24th claufe of the fame a6l; of Tortola, 
^' If any flave or flaves Jhall impudently Jlrike or 
oppofe any white perfon, any juflice, upon complaint and 
proof made, Ihail order a conflable to caufe fuch flave 
or flaves to be publicly ivhipped^ at his difcretion ; and if 

rejijlance^ 



( 89 ) 

rejtflancc^ fuch offending flave or flaves JJmll have their 
nojejllty or any member cut off\ or be punljljcd with death, 
at the dlfcretion of the jujiices, always excepting, that 
fueh flave or ilaves do not the fame by his or her owner 
or employers' order, or in defence of his or her perfoii 
or goods. 

By an a6l of St. Chriftophers, in 1784, entitled, '* An 
zdi to prevent the cutting ofF or depriving any flave in 
this ifland of any of their limbs or members, or other- 
wife difabling them," it is provided, that the ow^ner 
or pofTefTor of any Negro or other flave, or any other 
perfon who fliall maim or difable any flave, iliall forfeit 
5C0/. and be imprifoned fix months in the common 
jail.— It is afterwards ena6led, '* That in cafe any Ne- 
gro or other flave fliould at any time have his tongue 
cut out, or difabled, his eye put out, his nofe, ear, or lip 
flit, his nofe, ear, or lip, or any limb, or any other mem- 
ber cut off, or any limb or any member broken, in this 
ifland, and no perfon or perfons have been convi6ted of 
having been guilty of fuch offence, the Provoft Mar- 
fhall or his lawful deputy is hereby directed t9 appre- 
hend fuch Negro or other flave J and confine him, her, or them 
in the common jail;, and in cafe the owner of fuch Ne- 
gro or other flave fliall not within fxty days after puhli- 
cation made by the Provoft Marflial, or his lawful de- 
puty, in the public newfpapers in this ifiand, of liis 
having taken up and confined in the common jail fuch 
Negro or otlier flave, prove upon oath before any magif- 
trate of this ifland, either by himfclf or fome crcdiih 
VJitncfs, that he did not wilfully cut out or difable the 
tongue, put out the eye, flit the nofe, ear, or lip, or cut 

N oiF 



( 9° ) 

off the nafe, ear, or lip, or any limb, or member of 
any fuch Negro or other (lave, or caufe the fame to 
be done, fuch Negro or other JIave Jhall he forfeited to 
the ufe of the public of this ifland, and the Provoft Mar- 
fhall, or his lawful deputy, is hereby dire6led to fell fuch 
JSIcgro or oxh^r flave at puHic fale^ in the town of Baffe- 
terre, in the prefence of fix white perfons, at leall:^ 
within fix days after the expiration of the term herein- 
before allowed to the owners to make oath as aforcfaid of 
their innocence, and the faid Provofi: Marfhal, or his law- 
ful deputy, is hereby dire6i:ed to pay all fuch monies as 
fuch Negro or other flave fliall have been fold for, into 
the public treafury of this ifland, after dedudling the 
charges and expences attending the apprehending, con- 
fining, and felling fuch Negro or other Have as afore- 
faid; and the faJe of the faid Provoft Marfhal, or his 
lawful deputy, fhall give a good title to any purchafer 
of fuch Negro or other Have, 

By an act pafTed at Montferrat in 1693, intitled '^ An 
act: to reftrain the infolence of ilaves," &c. it is enadled, 
** That henceforward, where any Negro fhall be taken 
ftealing or carrying away flock, cattle, or provifion^ 
amounting to the value of twelve pence ^ fuch Negro or 
Negroes taken therein fliall, upon due proof thereof 
before the governor and cowncW^ fuffer fuch death as they 
think fit to award; and when any Negro fliall have any 
theft proved agairifl: him, and the value not amounting to 
izuclve pence, that then fuch Negro fhall only fuffer a 
fevere whipping, and have both his ears cut off for 
the frf time ; but for the fecond offence in the like na- 
ture fliall f'ffer death in the form aforefaid^ the public 

paying 



( 91 ) 

paying the owner for every Negro put to death, the 
lum of 3500 lb. of Mufcovado fugar." * 

The introdu6lory part of a fubfequent claufe of the 
7th of this fame as5l ftates, that " Whereas feme maf- 
ters, &c. are fo carelcjs as not to put in a competency of 
prov'iftons for their flaves, whereby they are o\KQn forced 
to run away, or at leaf! to commit thefts and robberies 
upon their neighbours, " Be it further, &g. 

By the 8th claufe of the fame a£l of Montferrat, it 
is enabled, " That where two {[diVQs fhall fall out and 
fight, and one maim or kill tlie other, it fhall lie at the 
perforHs dfcret'ion whofe Negro fhall be either maimed or 
killed, whether, for the firfl offence, the Negro who com^ 
rnitted thefame^ fhall fuffer whipping, or for the latter 
deaths or to receive fuch fatisfadlion of the owner of 
fuch Negro as the governor and his council fhall ad- 
judge fufficient. 

By the loth claufe of the fame aft, it is ena£led, 
** That where any white fhall take aflave^ and bring 

♦ N. B. This part of the claufe is repealed by a fubfequent a6t 
of 1 714, on the ground that mafters and owners of delinquent Ne- 
groes, not thinking the value of 3500 lb. of fugar an adequate coni- 
penfation for the lofs of afiave, frequently concealed and fcreened 
them from public juftice; which enafts, in lieu of that provifion, 
that thenceforward the owner of every Negro, fuffering death ac- 
cording to the proviuons of the former a6t, fhall receive in money 
or fugar, the full value of fuch flave at the time of fentence pafFed, 
afccrtained by appraifcment. See lb. p. 90. 

N % him 



( 92 ) 

Ilim in dead or aihe, if alive ^ fhall have paid him by 
the owner of fuch Negro or Have, the fum of £vc hun- 
dred pounds of Mufcovado fugar ; where dead^ the fame 
fum out of \.\\Q. public f-tock of this ijland ; and where any 
flave fhali lake a runaway, fuch Negro ilave Ihall have 
three hundred pounds of fugar, either by tile owner cr 
pubUc afore fa id.'* 

By the 2d claufe in the fame a6l of Montferrat, it is 
cnacled, " That it {hall and may le lawful for any per- 
fon to Jhoot at^ and, iffojfible^ to kill any Negro he fliall 
find digging out, drawing, or ^fiXm^hisprovifionj pro- 
vided fuch provifjon be not within forty foot of the 
common path, and the party fo killing the JSJegro hath 
not, in the hearing of others, expreffed either hatred or 
malice againft the owner of fuch Negro, for in either 
cafes the owner of fuch fliall recover damages to the full 
value of any who iliali fo kill their Negro." 

By the 6th claufe of the fame a6l, all commifTion of- 
ficers within thii iiland are hereby impowered and re- 
qiiired, upon notice by a?iy one to them given o{ any num- 
ber of Negroes got together, and the place where, im- 
mediately upon the fame to raile a fufficient number of 
men, and with them to purjue, apprehend, and take fuch 
NegroeSy either alive or dead; and whatfoever commif- 
fioned officer (hull negkci, or other perfon refufe to be 
aiding and afliiiing herein, iiiall forfeit the fum oftw* 
thoufand pounds of fugar. 

Bv an a6l of the Bahama iflands, paiTed in 1784, 
entitled, " an ad for governiyig Negroes,'^ &c. reciting, 
that '' Whereas many heinons and grievous crimes, 

fuch 



( 93 ) 

fuch as murder, &c. are many times committed by Ne- 
gro, Mulatto, Muftees, or Indian ilaves, or are nmny 
times maliciQuJly attempted by them to be commitiedy in 
which, though by divers accidents they are prevented ^ yet 
are their crimen neverthelefs heinous, and therefore de- 
ferve punifhment. And whereas Negro, Mulatto, 
Muftee, and Indian ilaves, do many times ileal, wil- 
fully maim, kill, and deftroy horfes, cattle, iheep, or 
other things, of the value of fix iliillings or above, or 
are acceiTary to the committing of fuch crimes as are 
beforementioned, which feveral offenders, for danger of 
efcape, ought not long to be imprifoned, anddejcrve noty 
for the bajenefs of their condition, to be tried by the efabtifhed 
laws of England, nor is execution to be delayed in cafe 
of their committing fuch horrid crimes : Be it ena6led 
by the governor, council, and alTembly, " That if, after 
the publication hereof, any Negro, Mulatto, Muftee, 
or Indian ilave, ihall be accufed of having committed, 
or having atzempted to commit, any of the crimes before 
mentioned, upon complaint thereof being made to any 
juftice of the peace, the faid jaftice fhall ifTue out his 
warrant for the apprehending the offender, and for all 
perfons to come before him that can give evidence [and 
the evidence of one Jlave againft another, in this and all other 
cafes, J hall be dccmcd good and fuficient proof ) and if upon 
examination it probably appears, that the apprehended 
{lave is guilty, he iliall commit him or her to prilbnj 
and certify to any other j uftice the caufe, and require him 
by virtue of this a6t to aifociate himfelf to him, which 
juii:ice is hereby required to do, &c. they fo aifociated 
Ihall iifue out their warrant to fummon three free- 
holders or houfekeepers, letting forth to them the m.at- 



( 94 ) 

ter, Src. requiring them to be at a certain day, and hour, 
&;c. at fuch place as the faid juftices fhall appoint for 
fuch trial, at which time and place the faid juflices 
and freeholders or houfekeepers fhall caufe the faid of- 
fender and evidence to come before them, and if they, 
on hearing of the matter (the faid freeholders or houfe- 
keepers being by the juftices firft fworn to judge up- 
rightly and according to evidence, which oath the faid 
juftices are hereby empowered and required to adminifter) 
fhall judge the criminal guilty of the offence complained 
bf, they, or the major part of them, of whom one to be a 
juilice, Jhall give ftntence of deaths or order fuch other 
funijljment as they in their judgment Jhall ihiiik meet, &c* 

By the 2d claufe of the Bahama a6l of 17S4, it h 
enacted, '' That if any Negro, Mulatto, Alujhe, or In^ 
dian lliall aiTault a white perfon with a dangerous wea- 
pon, whereby the life of tiie perfon fo aiTaulted may 
be greatly endangered, or make any ajfaidt of a violent 
nature, except afave, and in defence of his or her owner'' s 
or employer's perfon or property, he or flie fliall fufFer 
death; and if any Negro, he. be otherwife ahufve to any 
v/hite perfon, he or llie ihali be puniflied by the diredion 
0/ o/z^juftice of the peace, or by fine, not exceeding 15/. 
or by corporal punifJjmcnt.'^'' 

By the 18th claufe, it is enaded, *' That any flave 
Vvho may be nozv run awayy and fhall not, within one 
month after the publication of this acl, return to his 
or her owner, or any flave that fhall, after the publi- 
cation hereof, abfent him or herfeif from his or her 
owner for the fpace of three months fucceiTively, fuch 
Have (hall be deemed an mtlaw \ and as an encouragement 

to 



( 9S ) 

fo apprehend and bring to juftiee fuch runaways, any 
perfon or perfons, who fliall apprehend any fuch run- 
away, either DEAD or alive, fliall hQ paid out of the public 
treafury twenty pounds for every flave y© apprehended and 
taken ; and any fuch ilave taken alive fhail be deli- 
vered by the perfon apprehending him or her into the 
hands of the provoft rnarilial of thefe iflands, v/ho is 
hereby ordered anddire6led to put every fuch runaway flave 
INTO IRONS, and forthwith to make his report thereof to 
fome juftice of the peace, who, with the affiPiance of 
another magiflrate and three freeholderSj Jhall proceed to 
trial, and on conwlCtion Jhall order execution of every fuch 
runaway f.ave, unlefs it fliall appear to them that fuch 
Jlave has received fuch cruel ufage from his or her owners as 
to have been the caufe of his or her running away, then in 
fuch cafe tlie faid magiftrates and freeholders or houfe- 
keepers fliall fentence fuch offender to be tranfported oS 
thefe iflands. Provided always, and it is hereby fur- 
ther ena6led, that every owner fliall, within fourteen 
days after the running away of his or her flave, give 
notice thereof by advertifements, to be affixed at the 
ufual public places, which ihall be proved by oath of 
one credible witnefs, wherein fliall be inferted the name 
and defcription of fuch runaway, by means whereof he 
or fhe may be the more eafily apprehended ; and in 
cafe the owner as aforefaid Jhall negled fo to do, he or 
flie fliall not receive any fatisfa5iion from the public trea^ 
fury for fuch Jlave as Jhall be fo killed or executed* 

By the 4th claufe of the fame a6l it is enaftcd, 
*' That all fuch Negroes, Mulattoes, Mullees, and 
Indians, as have beenflavesy and are now free, fliali, for 
all offences^ capital or criminal, be tried and adjudged 

after 



( 96 ) 

after the manner and method as before dire£led (a) for 
the trial and adjudging of flaves, and the evidence of a 
JIave againjl thcmjhall be good and valid to all intents and 
purpofes ; any law, ufage, or cuflom, to the contrary 
notwithftanding.'* 

By the 2ift claufe of the fame 7i6}(., it is ena6led, 
** That if any perfon fhall, by accident, kill any Negro 
or other flave, he or flie fhall not be liable to any pu- 
mjhment therefore, but the owner* s a£lion at law for 
the value of the Negro or other flave fo killed ; and if 
any -perfon (b) fhall wilfully kill any Negro or other 
ilave, he or fhe fhall be tried (c), and if fonnd guilty 
fhall fufFer for the fame according to the laws of England y 
forfeiture of goods and chattels, lands and tenements^, 
only excepted.'* 

By the 22d claufe, it is ena6led, ^^ That the oath of 
Negroes, Mulattoes, Muftees, or Indians, fhall not be 
vood or valid in law again ft any white perfon, excepting 
in matters of debt, and then any free Negro, Mulatto, 
Muflee, or Indian Chriftian, fhall be allowed to prove 
his or her account, and fue for the fame in any court 
in thefe i Hands, where the fame fhall be cognizable." 
See claufe 4. 

(^) See ift claufe of the ad (p. 41 of the CoIIe(51:LOA.) 

{b) i. e. not a flave. 

(f ) i. e. by his peers. Slaves are not fo, nor is their evidence 
goad againfl him. See fubfequent claufe and claufe 4. 

By 



( 97 ) 

By an a£i: of Dominica, pafled in 1773, ij^titled, 
*^ An AS: for fipprejffiyig Runaway Slaves, and tor the 
better Government of Slaves, &c." it is ena6^ed, " That 
if any flave or flaves, who hath or have been upon or 
ihall hereafter be upon this ifland for the fpace of one 
year, ihall abfent or withdraw, or being now run away^ 
abfent, or withdrawn, from his, her, or their owner, 
renter, or employer's fervice, fliall continue fo abfent 
or withdrawn for the fpace of three months from the 
publication of this acl, or from the time fuch Have or 
flaves fliall firft abfent, withdraw, or run away here- 
after, or if any Have or flaves having been or that fliall 
be on this ifland for the fpace of one year, fliall abfent 
or withdraw, or run away from his, her, or their 
owner, renter, or employer's fervice, at feveral times 
within the fpace of two years, amounting in all to fix 
months, all and every fuch flave or flaves fliall be, 
and is, and are hereby adjudged guilty of felony^ and 
Jhall fuffer death as a felon or felons, or fuch other pu^ 
nifhment as the jufices, from the circumftances of the 
cafe, fhall judge^ proper \ and, if convided of felony, 
fliall fuffer the pains of death, by virtue of a warrant 
from any two juftices of the peace of this ifland; and 
the provpft marflial of this ifland, or his lawful deputy, 
is hereby required to execute, or caufe to be executed, 
in any part of the ifland, all flave or flaves whatfoever 
condemned to death, and fhall bury, or caufe to be 
buried, fuch flave or flaves fo executed ; and it fhall and 
may he lawfuliox the provoft marflial to have and receive 
as a fee, for each fave executed and buried^ the fum oifx 
pounds twelve fhilUngs current money, and no more, to 
be paid out of the public treafury of this ifland." 

By 



( 98 ) 

By the 17th claufe of the fame adl of Dominica, it 

Is enatfled, '* That any flave or Haves \vhoJhallprefume 
wilfully to ftrike, or attempt to ftr'ike any white perfon, 
Xiriditr any pretence whatfoevevy unlefs in the lawful, im- 
mediate and neceffary defence of his, her, or their 
owner y renter, manager y or employer'' s per/on [a)y fhaliy?^- 
fcr [b) death or lofe his, her, or their right handy at 
the difcretion of two juflices of the peace; and in like 
manner ihall any flave or flaves he punijhed that fliall 
be guilty of murder, or grofjly injulting or attempting to 
ilrike his or her owner, &c. &c. 

Provided always, that any flave or flaves, who ihall 
break open any houfe, &c. or rob, or attempt to rob 
on the highway, (hall fi^iffer death as a felon, or fuch 
other punifliiiient as the juflice or juftices fhall dire6t. 

By the 25th claufe of the fame a6l of Dominica, it 
is ena6l:ed, " That if any per Jon or perfons fhall wilfully 
kill any Jlave or flaves, and be therepf convi61ed, he, 
Jhe, or they Jhall forfeit to his Majefty, his heirs and 
fuccefTors, any fum not exceeding three hundred pounds^ 
nor Icfs than one hundred pounds current, for every 
fuch flave fo wilfully killed, to be paid into the public 
treafury of this ifland for the public ufes thereof, and 
alfo fuffer twelve months clofe impnjonment y without bail or 
mainprize ; and if the Have or flaves fo wilfully killed 



{a) Sep the 23d claufe which jultifies a flave in maiming or 
wounding -eiwoxh^x Jla^ue in his own defence ; but a flave muft not 
forcibly relifl: a white man, however unjuftly or outrageoufly he 
may be aflaulred. 

{h) See a fimilar proviflon in an a6l of Jamaica, palTed A. D« 
J7S8. (p. 124 of the Collection.) 

as 



( 99 ) 

3S afotefaid, belonging to any other perfon or perfons 
than the murderer or murderers, the value oi fuchjlave ot 
{[^vc^Jhall be paid by the murderer or murderers to the 
owner or owners, renter or renters of fuch flave of 
flaves, to be levied on his, her, or their efFeds, by 
warrant of court, immediately upon convidlion ; but 
if fuch murderer or murderers have not efFeds fufficient 
to pay the value of fuch Have or flaves fo murdered as 
aforefaid, then the deficiency (hall be made good to the 
owner or owners, renter or renters of the Have or 
ilaves murdered out of the public treafury of this iilaiid, 
he, &c. 

By the 28th claufe, it is ena£led, " That ^nj jujiice 
of the peace may and is hereby empowered to grant a 
permijjion^ for fuch limited time as he in his difcreii&n 
iiiall think fit, to any white or other free perfon or 
perfons as fhall voluntarily offer him or themfelves, 
together with a fufficient number of trufiy flaves, by 
and with the confent of their owner, &c. to hunt the 
woods and other lurking places in this ifland, and there 
purfuey take, and fecure all fuch flave or flaves as Jhall 
appear to them, or ihe^ may have reafon to fufpe^ are run- 
aways, and it fhall and may be lawful for fuch white or 
free perfons to ufe and employ mujkcts, cutlajjes, and 
other weapons in hunting fuch woods, &c. and to Jir^ 
upon, kill or wound any flave or flaves appearing to them 
to be run away, who fhall refift or tefufe to furrender, 
being firfl required fo to do." Further provides, that 
the owner of fuch runaway flaves, Jo killed, &c. fhall 
not have any compenfation therefore. *' And the per- 
fon or perfons fo killings as aforefaid, is and are hereby 
indemnified of and from any fine, forfeitufe or punifh- 

O 2 meat 



( ioo ) 

hntnt/orfo doing ; un/eft it can be made appear that fuch 
flave or flaves lb killed or wounded, was or were 
known to the perfon or perfoiis fo killing and wounding 
not to be run away, or that fuch killing and wounding 
Was wantonly done, and that there was no refijiance (a), 
refufal to furrender, or caufe whatfoever to render fuch 
killing or wounding neceffarj, &c." 

Ey an a6l of St. Vincent, psiffed in 1767, entitled, 
*' An a6l for making ilaves real eftate, and the better 
government of JIaves and free Negroes,'^ [b) it is eha6led> 
that perfons feized of any flaves for their own or others 
lives, who iliall fend them oiF the ifland or difpofe of 
them, fhall pay treble their value to thofe in reverjion or 
remainder^ &c. to be recovered by acflion ; " and if any 
fuch tenant for life, &c. fo holding any N^gro or 
other Ilaves, Jhall wilfully dejiroy, malm, or difable aiiy 
Negro or other flaves fo held, fuch perfoh fo deftroy- 
ing, &G. fhall pay treble the value of fuch Negro de- 
ftroyed, &e. to the -perfon or perfons in reverjion^ &c. 

By the 14th claufe/it is provided^ that the provofl 
marfhal fhall receive and keep in 'his cuftody all runa- 
v/ay flaves taken and brought to him. 



(a) In either of fuch cafes th?n the inference is that the o<wner 
of the flave killed or wounded would be intitled to recover a com- 
penfation from the party killing or v/ounding; biit the party really 
injured, the hunted, perfecuted, wounded, deftroyed flave is in 
no better plight. His fate is, at all enjents^ matter of perfe6t in- 
diiference to thefe humane legiflators. They do not condefcend 
even 10 notice whether thefe circumftances vary at all in the na- 
ture and quality of the wrong he has fuffered. 

{h) The fir !l elaufe declares Jla'ves to be realejlate, and widows 
dowable thereoi^. 

By 



( lOi ) 

By the i5tli claufe, it is enaded, '' That in cafe anj 
fuch flave Jhall per'ijh in his cujlady for want, he ftiall 
forfeit KpU 

By the 31ft claufe of the fame a6l of St. Vincent, it 
is enadled, '' That if any ^diYQfhall impudently ftrike or 
oppofe any white perfon, any juftice, upon complaint 
and proof made, fhall order a conftable to caufe fuch 
flave to be publicly whipped at his difcretion; and if 
fiich white perfon be a?iy way hurt, wounded or dif~ 
figured by any flave's fefiftance^ fuch ofFending flave 
ihail have his nofe flit, or any member cut off, or be pu- 
nifhed with death, at the difcretion of any two jujlices^ 
always excepting, that the flave do not the fame by his 
or her owner's ^r mailer's orders, or in defence of his 
or her owner or majier'*s perfon or goods ; and it fhall be 
lawful for all perfons to take away from any flave of 
flaves any hurtful clubs, or other other mifchievous 
weapons whatfoever, unlefs fuch flave or flaves is or 
were intrufted with fuch weapons for the defence of his 
or their owner s goods or perfon." 

By the 43d claufe of the fame a6l of •St. Vincentj 
of 1767, reciting that, " Whereas fome mafters and 
owners of flaves in this ifland do not provide fufficiently 
for their faves, or allow them time to plant and provide 
for themfelves, contrary to law, and yet the fafety of 
this ifland requires that fuch faves fhould fuffer ! or 
Otherwife they vjould commit the greateft outrages, and 
their maflers and owners be encouiaged in their neg> 
le6l at the public charge ; be it therefore enabled by 
the authority aforefald, that the juftices at the fame 
time of trying any flave accufed oi vohh^r j fhall imiuire, 

bv 



( «oa ) 

by witnefles examined on their oaths, hovj the owner 
or owners of fuch Jlaves was provided with prov'ifions and 
other ncccjjariesy and what allowance fuch Jlave received*^ 
and if it fhall appear to the faid juftices, that the 
mafter or owner had not provided fufficiently for fuch 
dave^ and that neceffi.ty might have compelled the flave to 
the ojff-ence committed by him, the faid juftice jfhall cer- 
tify * the fame to the treafurer, and direct the trea- 
furer to pay the damage done by fuch flave to the party 
injured (fo as fuch damage does not exceed the va- 
lue of fuch flave, as in that cafe the value only of 
fuch flave (hall be paid for the damages) but nothing to 
the owner J^ 

By an ad of Grenada, pafTed in 1788, entitled, " Afi 
aft for the more effedual trial and punifhtnent of crimi- 
nal flaves," it is provided that, upon complaint made to 
any juilice of the peace of any heinous and grievous crime, 
or felonious a6l: committed by flaves, the juftice fliaii 
ilTue his warrant for apprehending the oiFenders, and 
{hviii {^m-nmon all perjons or flaves that can give evidence 
therein^ to appear before him ; and if upon examination 
it appeareth probable that the apprehended is guilty, he 
fhall forthwith commit him to prifort, and within ten 
days certify to the two next juftices (one to be of the 
quorum^ the caufe, and to require them to aflbciate 
themfelves \n\\\ him, and they, fo aflbciated, are to 



* But the Jlave is equally cmn^l^ed of^ and executed for ihi 
robbery^ 



tty 



( 103 ) 

try * the ofTender within ten days, at focb place as theyt, 
Jhall appoint, and caufe the oiFender and evidences to 
come before them ; " And if the faid juftices (one 
whereof being of the quorum) upon hearing the matter, 
ihall adjudge the criminal or criminals guilty of th^ 
offence complahed of, the faid jui^iCQS Jhall give fentence of 
death, or fuch other punijhment as the crime defcrveth, and 
forthwith, by their warrant, caufe immediate execution^ 
in capital cafes, to be done by fuch Have or Haves as 
the Provoft Marfhal, or his lawful deputy fhall appoint 
and in other cafes by fuch flave or flaves, as the clerk 
of the nearefl: market fhall appoint, in fuch manner a^ 
fuchjifiiccsjhall think fit J" 

By the 2d claufe of the fame a£l reciting, '< That 
whereas it muft tend greatly to the public peace and 
tranquillity^ if the executive part of the law be ren- 
dered wzor^ /r!?»2/>^ and fummary, where the oiFences are 
not of a felonious nature, and triable before three juf- 
tices, as hereinbefore mentioned, it is ena61ed, That if 
any flave or flaves fhall perfonally infult ahufe, threaten 
or in any manner contemptuQufly treat any white or free 
perfon, &c. or be found gaming, heating drums, blow- 
ing /hellsy or other loud infiruments, at improper hours, 
or fighting, &c. fuch Have or flaves fhall be punifh- 
able for any fuch oiFence, at the difcretlon of anv one 
juflice of the peace, who is hereby authorifed and im- 
powered, to take cognizance of the fam.e, and to inflid 
fuch punifhment as he fhall judge adequate to the offence,^* 

* Themfeli>es, without the iiitervention of a jury. 

By 



( 104 ) 

By a claufe in an ad of Jamaica, pafled in I 
The pradice of a fort of witchcraft, called obeah, by 
flaves, is made punifhable with deaths or other arbi- 
trary fentence in the difcretion of the court. 

By another in the fame a6t. The running away from 
their maflef, &c. and the going oiF, or confp'iring or at- 
tempting to go off the illand, fubjeds them to the fame 
puniftiment. 

In the year 1736, the legiflature of Montferrat hav- 
ing difcovered, by fatal experience, that the kindnefs 
and lenity exhibited to the Negroes in all their former 
adis of afTembly, had done more harm than good, found 
themfelves at laft obliged to refort to vigorous mea- 
fures. They begin with faying, that, *' Whereas it 
*^ appears that the laws, now in force, relating to Ne- 
«' groes and flaves are not extenfive enough to reftrain 
*' them, and that lenity and indulgence^ inllead of pro- 
<« ducing the defired effe61:s, have rather given encou- 
*' ragement to robberies and diforders, by furniiliing 
<* pretences, whereby the offenders pften efcape punifh- 
« ment," &c. 

This a6l, among other things, forbids all Negroes 
from planting, or expofing to fale, any indigo, cotton, 
ginger, coffee, or cocoa; and alfo to carry or fell any 
frovijions or other goods (which hitherto they had been 
iuffered to do on the Lord's Day) ; and then it is en- 
acted, that, *' It fliall and may be lawful for any per- 
" fon or perfons, to take the faid provifions, or other 

*' goods 



( loS ) 

*^ goods from any fuch flave or flaves, and Gonvert 
*^ them to their own proper ufe ; and the perfon is 
^* hereby further impowered to give fuch Have or flaves 
" a moderate whipping," &cc. 

Fide page 91, of a Colled ion of Weft India Adls, 
which the Houfe of Commons ordered to be printed^ 
the ift of May 1789, and from which all the preced- 
ing Extra6ls are literally taken,. 



F I N I S^. 



