RIGHT AND WRONG 



IN 



BOSTON 



It is a secret both in nature and state, that it is safer to change 
many things than one. — Lokd Bacon. 

By-Ends. You must not impose, nor lord it over my faith ; 
leave me to my liberty, and let me go with you. 

Christian. Not a step farther, unless you will do in what I pro- 
pound, as we. — Bun y AN. 



Digitized by tiie Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of tiie Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/annualreportofbo1837bost 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOSTON FEMALE 



AM T I- ^ I. AVERY SO€IET ¥9 



WITH A SKETCH 

OF THE 

Obstacles thrown in the way of Emancipation by 
certain Clerical Abolitionists and Advo- 
cates for the subjection of Woman, 

IN 18 37. 



BOSTON: 

PUBLISHED BY ISAAC KNAPP, 
NO. 25, CORNHILL. 

1837, 



7 -*? > ••■/ '.•* 



PROCEEDINGS AT THE ANNUAL MEETING. 



Agreeably to previous advertisement, the Annual Meeting of the 
Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society was held at Lyceum Hall, 
Oct. 14th, at 3 o'clock, P. M. 150 present. 

The annual report, written by the For. Cor. Secretary, M. W. 
Chapman, was read and unardmously accepted. It was then 
voted that it be published. Question on the manner of publication, 
whether in the Liberator, to economize the funds, or in a pamphlet 
form, was decided by voting that it be published under the direction 
of the Board. 

At a meeting of the Board, the succeeding Wednesday, (open 
also to any members of the Society who might wish to make sug- 
gestions, or changes in phraseology,) it was thought best, by a ma- 
jority of those present, that the part relative to the organization of 
the Free Church should be expunged; and the Board having no 
power to do this, it was thought best to refer it again to the Society. 

At a special meeting of the Society, regularly called, at 39, 
Hanover Street, Oct. 25, at 3 o'clock, P. M., a reconsideration of 
the report was moved. It was read and discussed and again ac- 
cepted, but not unanimously ; and voted to be published at the 
expense of the Society. 

Three weeks after, and while the last pages were in the nress, 
the following note was handed to the Secretary, with the request 
that it might be inserted in the report. If it be thought by the So- 
ciety, an improper course, to have made their report, the vehicle 
for this expression of opinion, the Secretary asks pardon for taking 
the responsibility of inserting it. 

Nov. 17th, 1837. 
While we give our cordial approbation to many of the sentiments 
of this Report — the love of freedom and justice constrain us to state 
that to some portions of it we cherish the most serious objections. 

MARY S. PARKER, 
C. M. SULLIVAN, 
M. V. BALL, 
L. M. BALL, 
E. R. DAVIS. 



REPORT 



The members of the Boston Female Anti- Sla- 
very Society have convincing proof, that the prin- 
ciples and feelings which unite them are rapidly 
advancing, in the number and variety of the ob- 
stacles which they have been compelled, by fol- 
lowing those principles, to encounter and over- 
come. 

Whether we are led by them through mobs, 
judicial courts, or ecclesiastical councils ; whether 
we are brought in contact with law or theology ; 
whether opposition appears as mercantile or min- 
isterial, clothed in the guise of ' light and love,' or 
in its unadorned deformity, may we be strengthen- 
ed by Him with whom is no variableness, neither 
shadow of turning, to follow them with unfalter- 
tering constancy. 

It is principally with the congregational ministry 
and their churches, that the principles of Chris- 
tian Freedom have brought us into collision during 



the past year; — Unitarian, and Orthodox congre- 
gationahsts have both manifested the narrowness 
of an oppressive spirit. In order to understand 
the nature and tendencies of the present move- 
ments against freedom among the latter class, it is 
necessary to go back as far as 1835. It was from 
this denomination, the most influential in New- 
England, that much was expected by the friends 
of the slave at the commencement of their enter- 
prise. They thought the principles of Congrega- 
tionalism w^ere in unison with their own ; and the 
opinion "was confirmed by the ready acknowledg- 
ment. of the members of this communion, that 
they were as much opposed to slavery as any one 
could be, but preferred the instrumentality of the 
Colonization Society, as it roused no bad passions 
or unchristian spirit. When, after much expendi- 
ture of reasoning on cause and effect, with exhi- 
bition of colonization facts, doctrines and sentiments, 
this society was removed from the position it oc- 
cupied, as the insidious foe of the slave. Abolition- 
ists were surprised that so few manifested any 
intention to aid them. They were looking, they 
said, for a more excellent and inoffensive way ; 
•jnd the machinery known in the records of anti- 
slavery offices, and associations of the ministry, as 
the ' American Union,' was devised. How it was 
planned and built, and how conductors were led 



from it through the land, from Boston to Cincin- 
nati, and from thence to Princeton, and from thence 
to New Haven, and how it was hoped that it 
would meet and soothe the consciences of the 
people ; and how besides amelioration and mitiga- 
tion of ihe sufferings of the free colored race, it 
might allay the desire which began to be express- 
ed by the people of the country parishes, to judge 
for themselves whether the abolition principles 
were from heaven or of men ; and how it might 
prevent the funds of the benevolent from being 
swallowed up by the chimera of ' immediatism ' ; 
all these, with other technics, we leave to be ex- 
plained at large, by the future historian of the 
progress of freedom. The most clear-sighted 
among the Abolitionists, undeceived by the scheme, 
dealt with it after their fashion — immediatel}- . A 
few sudden and heavy blows were sufficient. The 
reverberation of its hollovvness was convincing to 
all who had not at first perceived, that its moving 
spring was hatred of righteous principles and ef- 
fectual measures. The Abolitionists now began 
to realize how deep was the dislike of their enter- 
prise. No wonder that it was so, for unregenerate 
man hates suffering for the sake of others ; and 
any effectual action, it was seen at a glance, in- 
volved suffering in mind, body, and estate. Hith- 
erto they had hoped that their pastors and other 



8 

influential members might yield, though they de- 
spaired of the heads of their church ; but the in- 
creasing violence of the opposition destroyed the 
expectation of any immediate change. 

It is painful to continue in the forms of com- 
munion, with those with whom we have so little 
in common, that their prayer gives no voice to the 
thoughts that burn on the altar of our hearts be- 
fore God. The human soul naturally seeks sym- 
pathy, by a law of its being. The orthodox con- 
gregationalists felt the need of its consolations, and 
were drawn together by it from their respective 
churches. They hoped, also, to produce an effect 
on the religious community as an association, which 
they had failed to do as individuals. They wish- 
ed, as far as in them lay, to withdraw the sanctions 
of religion from the slaveholder. They perceived 
that their voices, as individuals, were lost in the 
congratulatory hail, with which the wealthy slave- 
holding minister and professor of religion was re- 
ceived on his return to northern pulpits and fire- 
sides. 

They wished also practically to embrace the 
great truth, which lies at the foundation of the 
teachings of Jesus Christ ; — that all men, of what- 
ever color or condition, are of equal value before 
God. Their moral sense was outraged by the 
settled scorn of these teachings, of which every 



so called ' House of God ' bears witness, by its 
very construction. They proposed to band them- 
selves together as the first free corigregational 
church. This measure was the signal for a storm 
of reproaches. They were ^ destroying the peace 
of the church ; ' — ' obscuring the prosperity of 
Zion;' — ^grieving away the holy spirit;' — and 
* hindering the glorious work of the Lord in revi- 
vals.' They were reviled for ^ harsh language,' 
and hated for alleged ' want of love.' They de- 
cided, notwithstanding, to form themselves into a 
church, where no distinctions of caste or color 
should be painfully felt, and testified against the 
crime of slaveholding, by excluding the criminal 
from their communion table and from their pulpit. 
They requested the ministers of eighteen churches 
of Boston and vicinity, to assist at their organi- 
zation. 

Whenever Abolitionists declared, as some were 
wont to do from the beginning, that the American 
church is one of the main supports of slavery, 
they were thought to blaspheme. * The church,' 
said the ministry, ^ is the salt of the earth and the 
light of the world.' •' The ministry,' said the 
church in return, ' are the ambassadors of Christ, 
and the Lord's anointed.' How important is it, 
said the Abolitionists on this occasion, that the 



Id 



ministry should be with us ; we cannot succeed 
in our enterprise but by concihating them. 

With thi§ fear of man strong in their minds, 
did the committee of the AboUtionists address 
themselves to meet the powers they had evoked. 
After the opening of the Council, the Rev. Ne- 
HE3IIAH Adams of Boston, rose to enquire, wheth- 
er they avowed or disavowed the following as a 
reason for forming a free church in Boston. 

' We need a new church constituted, which shall 
exclude from communion all persons who, in the eye 
of a vast majority of the Christian community, are 
guilty of living in known sin. The vitality of a 
large part of our churches is nearly extinct, because 
the man-stealer, the fornicato?', the false -swearer, 
and the intemperate, are not excluded from the priv- 
ileges of the children of God.' — New-England Spec- 
tator, Wm. S. Porter, Editor. 

Deacon Gulliver, the chairman, replied, that 
though the writer of that extract was one of their 
number, yet he had written it as editor of the 
N. E. Spectator, and not as a member of the Free 
Church Committee. This reason, added Deacon 
Gulliver, is not avowed by us, for the formation of 
a free church. This (to say the least) U7 fortunate 
reply, appeared to satisfy the Council. The next 
step in order was to present the confession of faith, 
form of covenant, &c. for their approbation. With 
this the council were, as might have been antici- 



11 



pated, exceedingly dissatisfied, and they voted that 
the principles of which they particularly disap- 
proved, were those contained in the following 
words : — ' All persons who use or traffic in ardent 
spirit as a drink, all adhering masons, and all slave- 
holders, or those who are concerned in the buying 
and selling of slaves, shall be excluded from the 
communion table and the pulpit.' Deacon Gulliver 
now tried to recover the important ground he had 
yielded, by requesting that a reference to their 
written documents might be inserted, as an answer 
to Mr. Adams's question, in the minutes of the 
council. Rev. Mr. Blagden, from the South, 
reported to be a slaveholder, was by no means 
disposed to receive these documents as a satisfac- 
tory answer. He again put the committee to the 
Question, without success. Mr. Adams, the first 
inquisitor, finding that the committee still refused 
to confess, moved the dissolution of the council. 
It was thought by some of its other members, that 
an adjournment was preferable. The delay might 
afford an opening for compromise. Mr. Blagden, 
true to southern principles, declared he woul 
listen to no argument, nor continue longer in the 
council, unless his question were answered by a 
distinct disavowal. Rev. Dr. Fay, Chairman of 
the council, pleaded ill health, and retired. 

Mr. Adams again applied the question without 
eliciting any sufficient answer ; on which he retired 



12 



with the Rev. Mr. Blagden. They were followed 
by the Rev. Dr. Jenks : and the council, in wrath 
and perplexity, and some of the members, it may 
be hoped, with righteous indignation, adjourned till 
next morning. 

It is painful to record that during the night, 
which might have been made, to use the expres- 
sive words of John Woolman, " a strengthening 
opportunity," the faith and courage of the aboli- 
tionists meked away. The weight of Ecclesiasti- 
cal domination was heavier than they could 
bear. They sunk under the application of the 
question the next morning, thus solemnly pro- 
posed : — 'Do you distinctly, as a commhtee, 
DISAVOW the following as a reason for the forma- 
tion of a new church in this city, viz. that ' We 
need a church constituted, which shall exclude 
from communion all persons, who, in the eye of a 
vast majority of the Christian community, are 
guilty of living in known sin. The vitality of a 
large part of our churches is nearly extinct, be- 
cause the man-stealer, the fornicator, the false- 
swearer, and the intemperate, are not excluded 
from the privileges of the children of God,' 
WHENEVER and by whomsoever this statement 
may have been made ? ' In reply the committee 
^ fully and frankly disavowed such a reason alto- 
gether.^ 



13 

A message to that effect was sent to Rev. 
Messrs. Blagden, Adams, and Jenks, who, as 
well they might, resumed their seats with cordial 
expressions of satisfaction. They had gained 
their point. They had, in a manner, nullified the 
testimony of the proposed church for the time. 
They had the satisfaction of finding that he who 
had assumed the direction of the enterprise was 
feeble, if not untrue, and they had exercised their 
spiritual despotism unrebuked. It does not ap- 
]jear that the lay members had much weight in 
the council. Most of the debating was done in 
secret session. 

The committee, after having been marched and 
counter-marched as the council pleased for the 
space of two days, were at length permitted to 
inform the waiting congregation, that Svith the 
distinct understanding that the council do not en- 
dorse the terms of communion,' and ^ it being 
necessary to their regular organization as a con- 
gregational church,' (!!!!) the council consented 
to examine as to the christian character of each 
individual ; and being satisfied with the evidence 
they found to that effect, they voted themselves 
ready to proceed to the performances. 

Thus was the proposed noble confession of the 
Christ that this age denies, frustrated, for the sake 



14 



of an ' invocation and reading the Scriptures, by 
the Rev. Mr. Blagden, — reading confession and 
covenant, by Rev. Dr. Fay, — consecrating prayer, 
by Rev. Dr. Jenks, and fellowship of the churches 
by Rev. Mr. Adams.'* 

Many members of the society felt deep regret 
at the course chosen by the chairman : — a course 
which has this year terminated in the frankest 
antinomianism of abolition; — an attempt to sub- 
stitute a word-confession of the principle of im- 
mediateism, for immediate action. Full of in- 
instruction are these examples; and when we are 
tempted to make the smallest concession of faith 
or practice, principles or measures, let us remem- 
ber that ' those who do yield a hair's-breadth, do 
seldom win to their feet again.' 

The pro-slavery public were but encouraged 
by the concession, to make further demands. An 
outcry w^as kept up around the free church, that 
its members were absorbed in one idea, to the 
neglect of other parts of christian duty. 

This has always been an effectual string to play 
upon, for no man likes to be accused of monoma- 
nia ; and a resolution was suggested by Deacon 



* Rev. Geo. B. Cheever and other acting members of the coun- 
cil, we believe were abolitionists , and would probably have lent 
their aid to the organization without demanding any sacrifice of 
principle. 



15 

Gulliver, and published in the N. E. Spectator, 
the organ of the free church, to this effect : That 
abolition was merely placed by it on a footing 
with the other benevolent operations of the day. 
Here was a second step yielded ; though of this 
it may require more theology and metaphysics 
than we possess, to convince those who do not see 
that freedom is that precious possession, without 
which, nothing : —that the Almighty forces even 
heaven upon no man, but first made the soul free 
as the necessary preliminary to its salvation. We 
are thankful that neither theology nor metaphysics 
are necessary : — that we have had grace given us 
to see that slavery and benevolence are at open 
and constant conflict : and that in promulgating 
the principles of freedom, we are laboring for 
every other good cause. 

The effect of these concessions was hardly per- 
ceptible at the time. Their effect within the 
church seemed confined to the hearts that sug- 
gested them. Abolitionists of all denominations 
felt the warmest interest in its success, and were 
frequent in their attendance on its Sabbath services: 
Difterences of creeds were forgotten in the fulness 
of a spiritual communion. 

All were anxious to co-operate in the erection 
of a building, and a general meeting of abolitionists 
was called on Monday evening, Gth July. 1835>. 



16 



Francis Jackson, President — H. E. Benson, Sec- 
retary. After prayer by Geo. Thompson, Samuel 
J. May stated the object of the meeting, to be the 
erection of a building for free discussion, and illus- 
trated the pressing need of such a building, by a 
reference to the masonic suppression of freedom 
of speech, and the recent treatment of abolition- 
ists at the N. E. Convention, which, after occupy- 
ing the Swedenborgian chapel one half-day, (and 
what is a half-day to an Anti-Slavery Conven- 
tion ?) were compelled in the midst of a christian 
city to a hall under the control of infidels ; and 
this while ^^ 100,000 worth of pews was owned 
by abolitionists in the city. Mr. Amasa Walker 
seconded Mr. May in a speech which was warmly 
applauded. Mr. Walker believed that in Boston, 
if any where, existed the moral power to carry 
forward every good work ; though Boston was 
at present governed by an aristocracy — fewer doz- 
ens than it contained thousands of inhabitants, and 
it was the custom to carry every plan or proposal 
to these ; and not unless they approved it was it 
thought best to undertake it. Whereas, continued 
he, all that is necessary is, that the plan be brought 
forward by respectable men, (which he explain- 
ed to mean the good and honest of all classes,) 
and that the discussions respecting it be free. A 
gentleman (unknown) rose after Mr. Walker clos- 



17 

ed, and stated that without declaring what his own 
sentiments were, he wished to know whether the 
sect, whose popular name was Kneelandites, would 
be permitted to advocate their opinions in the pro- 
posed building. 

The President replied that it would be conse- 
crated to the consideration of every great moral 
question, and to the endeavor on every such ques- 
tion to ascertain the truth. 1 think this ground 
broad enough. A gentleman rose in front, un- 
known to the President, and said, ' My name has 
been introduced into this assembly, and 1 wish to 
say somewhat respecting it. Abner Kneeland is 
of no sect. He has no followers. But i wish a 
direct answer to one question, — will Abner Kneel- 
and be permitted openly to advocate his senti- 
ments in the hall about to be built ? ' ' Sir,' 
replied the President, ' the building is to be 
erected as an arena where truth and error may 
grapple with each other, and presupposing that the 
decencies and courtesies of discussion be observed, 
Abner Kneeland may speak to his sentiments 
in it.' (Very great apjflause.) Mr. Thompson; 
after sketching the plan of the building and giving 
an estimate of the expense, said, * Here is the last 
refuge of liberty, where we shall rejoice to see 
infidelity and Christianity conflicting. We exalt 
Abner Kneeland above Christianity by fearing to 
2 



18 

let Christianity contend with him. The hall shall 
be as much his as any man's — not to make 
exparte statements, or to violate the courtesies or 
decencies of social order, but his for the purpose 
of bringing forward and defending his opinions, — 
for the purpose of free discussion respecting them. 
Mr. Garrison rose to concur heartily in the feel- 
ings that had been expressed by that meeting. 
What if Abner Kneeland was an infidel? 'A 
man 's a man, for a' that.' It was unworthy the 
majesty of truth to use any foreign weapon against 
error. Slie should rely on herself alone. In all 
the churches at present, Mr. G. felt that the plan 
was wrong. The temples were places of mer- 
chandise, —the pews were knocked off at auction, 
like stalls in a market. But here would be -a 
place where a man might hear the truth without 
being taxed for it. A committee of five were 
named; and the meeting was adjourned to such a 
time and place as they should appoint. Alas ! 
those abolitionists who had a double interest in 
the success of the proposed building, quailed be- 
fore the bold presence of Truth. They feared 
generally, to second in action the few who had so 
nobly proclaimed their confidence in her, though 
they had, in a moment of lofty enthusiasm, done 
so by their involuntary applause. Had our Mas- 
ter been on earth with us, we should have heard 



19 



him say, ' Oh ye of little faith ! wherefore did ye 
doubt ? ' Faith as a grain of mustard seed, would 
have put the abolitionists in possession of a lofty 
platform in the midst of this city of unbehef, half 
Rome — half Tyre, from which their cry for the 
perishing slave might have pierced the ear and the 
heart of the people. 

The next step of the free church was to obtain 
a minister. Deacon Gulliver and Mr. John S. 
Kimball secured the services of the Rev. Charles 
Fitch. Of his ministrations in behalf of the cause 
we will only say, that they gave but little offence 
to his clencal brethren of Boston. He, however, 
shared the odium of Garrison and the Mass. Soci- 
ety, for he had joined it knowing that it required 
no subscription to church creeds, or certificates of 
church membership. 

That virtue which had been prevented from 
going out of the church and affecting those around, 
yet lived strong within. After some internal 
struggle, in which Mr. Fitch took the right side 
against Deacon Gulliver on the wrong, a noble 
stand was taken and maintained by a large major- 
ity against prejudice. They redeemed their souls 
from the infamy of making color a standard, in- 
stead of moral worth: and though their example 
is powerless as yet, upon those who immediately 
surround them, the knowledge and praise of it 



20 



have penetrated the hearts of thousands in other 
lands ; and in sects most differing from their own, 
wherever the gospel of deliverance is preached, 
shall this precious oifering which they have poured 
out at so great a cost be told as a memorial of 
them. 

The opposing clergy, who had, when the 
undertaking was first proposed, exhibited such 
outward and visible signs of their disapproval, 
were now for the most part at rest in their moun- 
tain, apparently unconscious of the existence of 
slavery. They w^ere relieved that so many of 
those who had troubled their false peace while in 
their midst, had gone out from among them. 
They were unanimous in their efforts to suppress 
discussion ; and failing to do so in one instance, 
occasioned the Rev. Mr. Blagden to dissolve his 
pastoral connection with his people. 

We cannot but notice the consistency of his 
rourse. The same consideration due to Mr. 
McDuffie as a Statesman, must be awarded to 
Mr. Blagden as an Ecclesiastic. 

It appeared, at the commencement of the year 
1837, that the world was far in advance of the 
church, in matters of practical righteousness. 
Freedom of speech was obtained in the Mass. 
Legislature, and much hght diffused through the 
community by the publication of debates and 



21 

resolutions in the newspapers ; which (with the 
exception perhaps of the Liberator) no man feels 
disposed to wait his minister's permission to read. 
In some places^ the current ran so strong that the 
ministers were swept along by its force. Some 
of them swam bravely with the tide, trusting that 
they should soon be followed by their ministerial 
brethren : but it now began to be evident that a 
counter current was setting in. It was visible, in 
the manner of notorious opposers of the cause, to- 
wards such of its notorious friends as they deemed 
might be induced to help them to widen a way in 
which they now began to perceive that, sooner or 
later, they must go. We saw it in a coldness and 
shrinking of some ministers, with symptoms of 
coalition between them and temporizers and apol- 
ogists. 

At the Annual Meeting of the Mass. Society 
(1837, at the stable,) an effort was made by Dea. 
Gulliver to obtain subscriptions for the free church 
building. His course had never tended to advance 
him in the confidence of abolitionists. Many of 
our society perceived that his object now was, if 
indeed it had ever been any other, to make aboli- 
tion subservient to the church. He shrunk from 
the idea of making the church, as every church is 
constituted of Christ to be, — an instrument for 
the abolition of all slavery. We inquired if indeed 



22 



his principles would enjoin upon him that the 
building should be absolutely /ree; no man being 
excluded for opinion's sake. For we felt that as 
men and societies are mutable, an engagement 
that it should be free to the Mass. Society was no 
security that it might not be barred, at some future 
time, against the truth on the subject of slavery. 
He replied that it should be free for the discussion 
of all moral questions. ' What did he consider 
moral questions?' we asked. He evaded the 
point — reserving, it seemed to us, the right of de- 
cision ; but stated that the persons engaged in it 
were abolitionists, and that their character as such, 
ought to be a sufficient security. One gentleman, 
not av/are how blighting had been the influence of 
Dea. Gulliver, nor how he had sunk the idea of 
abolition, pledged himself to aid the work if he 
should like the security. How wise he was to 
make this reservation will be seen hereafter. 

We noticed at this meeting, further S3/raptoms 
of alienation on the part of ministers. Rev. Mr. 
W^oodbury, (brother to the secretary of the treas- 
ury,) who, at previous conventions, was first among 
the foremost, had before this been seized with 
doubts as to whether any but strict Sabbatarians 
should be permitted to co-operate In the work of 
abolition ; and was observed to be ominously 



23 

silent. A resolution to the following effect was 

introduced by H. B. Stanton. 

Resolved, That the grant to this Society, by the 
Representatives of the people of this Commonwealth, 
of the use of the State House, in which to hold our 
Annual Meeting, is a keen rebuke to those churches 
in this city, who have refused to us the occupancy 
of their houses of worship, that we might plead in 
them the cause of two millions of American heathen 
— and is a decided proof, which we record with 
gratitude to God, that, although the political and 
religious aristocracy of Boston may oppose the pro- 
gress of impartial li!)erty and ricrhteous equality, the 
piety and democracy of the Commonwealth hate 
despotism, sympatliise with the oppressed, spurn the 
gag, defend the rights of the minority, and advocate 
freedom of thought, of speech, and of action. 

In allusion to this, the Rev. Charles Filch made 
many remarks, which were exceedingly unsatis- 
factory to us. ^Let us,' he said, ^ not lose sight 
of the end of our organization as an anti-slavery 
society. Let us dwell less on our own wrongs 
and the danger that threatens, and think and say 
more about the infinitely more oppressive wrongs 
of the slave. I don't like this turning aside, to 
inflict chastisement, deserved indeed, upon Bos- 
ton.' We saw that the enslaved had little to 
expect from a man who took this view of thoir 
case — who failed to perceive that their prison 
doors are, in a sense, the church doors. The 
ministry of Boston, the leaders of Church organi- 



24 



zation throughout Massachusetts, had drawn up 
their forces across the narrow path to emancipa- 
tion ; and earnest endeavors to effect a passage 
through them, he called 'turning aside.' We 
were startled to hear a man call himself an aboli- 
tionist, who did not see that slavery cannot be 
abolished till the protecting influence of ministers 
and churches is removed. 

A critic in style might have objected to the 
harshness of his language. A hearer whose deli- 
cate sense of propriety was stronger than her 
womanly compassion, might have objected to some 
of his illustrations. But it has ever seemed to us 
unworthy those who feel for the bondman as 
bound with him, to 'turn aside' to criticise these. 
All weapons are useful in this cause, from the 
delicate scimitar to the rough two-handed blade. 
He dwelt on some cases of revolting criminality. 
As long as the pastoral office is claimed as a shield 
for wrong, we shall regret that publicity could not 
have been given to the names of the reverend 
perpetrators. He said he was in the habit of 
speaking on this subject in season and out of 
season. Would he had continued in that habit 
unto this day ! 

The conviction was deepened on our minds by 
this speech, among the other straws whose course 
we watched at this time, that what had been 



25 



gained in Mass. in the state, would be lost by the 
counter-currents sweeping in from Ecclesiastical 
sources, unless some measures were adopted to 
resist them. At this juncture we recoll^pted the 
Rev. Amos A. Phelps, an orthodox congregational 
clergyman, formerly minister of Pine St. church, 
Boston, who, with his wife,* had early in the cause 
made great sacrifices for it. He had sacrificed the 
comforts and pleasures of a settlement in ' the 
literary emporium,' — * the paradise of clergymen,' 
as Boston has been called ; with the high consid- 
eration which has always been awarded through- 
out the country to a metropolitan preacher, for 
the precarious support, toilsome life, and full 
measure of contempt which were then, more than 
now, the earthly portion of an anti-slavery agent. 
He, if any man, we thought, could meet the 
coming emergency ; and at a special meeting we 
resolved to raise ^^1000 to sustain him as the 
agent of the Mass. Society. They accepted the 
proposition. We wished to remove every possi- 
ble occasion of offence, and thought thus to avoid 
the flowers of rhetoric with which the pro-slavery 
press had so prodigally showered the path of Mr. 
Thompson. We believed Mr. Phelps to be as 
regardless of them as ourselves, but fearing they 

* Mrs. Phelps was the first president of our society. 



26 

might prejudice the minds of some who would 
otherwise hsten, we willingly conceded every 
thing bnt principle ; and credulously thought his 
efforts might be more favorably received as an 
agent of the Mass. board, than as an agent of the 
society of Boston women. On his arrival, we 
perceived a decided mitigation in the manner of 
the Boston ministers of his own denomination. 
It has ever been observed, that from some yet 
undefined cause, it is harder to keep one's footing 
as an abolitionist in Boston than in any other 
place. Men and women, whose mountain stood 
strong when in other parts of the land, have felt 
it totter as they neared the ' cradle of liberty.' 
But in the mind of Mr. Phelps, we thought we 
perceived that rare combination of piety and logic, 
that would remain fixed amid temptations that 
might prove too strong for many an other. De- 
lightful as are the approbation of one's public and 
the smiles of one's peers, his integrity appeared 
immoveable. Rev. J. H. Towne, who was called 
from the anti-slavery field to be the successor of 
Mr. Blagden, was not equally able to resist the 
subtle influence of the city atmosphere. The 
space which divides the foes of freedom on the 
left hand from her friends on the right, is but a 
hair's-breadth ; and it was evident to the whole 
body of Boston abolitionists, that his sympathies 



27 



were drawing him to the left. His settlement in 
the city had been earnestly desired by them, for he 
was eloquent and prepossessing, and they doubted 
not that he would strengthen the cause. At the 
suggestion of abolitionists of his church, no appli- 
cations were pressed for the use of their building 
while his election was pending, lest it should im- 
pair his chance of success. It is to be hoped that 
the mortifying results of all little policising deal- 
ings with regard to gospel truth, will cause them 
to be entirely abandoned by abolitionists. In the 
work of reformation, there is no strength gained 
by waiting. 'A more convenient season ' is fatal to 
righteousness. Continual conflict with pro-slavery 
influences is our only chance of success ; — contin- 
ual practical illustration of the principle of imme- 
diateism, our only means of gathering inward or 
outward strength. 

Mr. Phelps, meanwhile, was lecturing in the 
neighborhood of Boston with great power and ac- 
ceptance. Vigorous efforts were made to bring the 
outraged and insulted slave fully before the peo- 
ple. The grand difficulty, from the commencement 
of the cause, has ever been to give sufficient noti- 
fication of discussions and lectures. The pioneers 
of the lecturer always had the mortification of hear- 
ing their neighbors and friends say, ' Why did you 
not let us know ? we wanted to hear what your 



28 



lecturer had to say.' It should be observed that, 

to the scattered population of the villages, this giv- 
ing notice from the meeting-house is the custom- 
ary and only effectual resource ; and that even in 
cities, a large class of the people are more effectu- 
ally informed of proposed meetings in this way 
than in any other. But the ministry too frequently 
acted the part assigned to the 'row of black extin- 
guishers' in Moore's Fable of the Guebres. At 
Cambridgeport, where Mr. Phelps had been en- 
gaged to speak, the abolitionists were greatly re- 
joicedj on the Sabbath previous to his appoint- 
ment, to see the Rev. Robert Bernard Hall rise 
to preach. He it was, who, at the annual meet- 
ing of the Mass. Society, had opposed political ac- 
tion, arguing that a religious enterprise should be 
left in the hands of the church ; and they felt 
sure that he would aid a brother clergyman of the 
same denomination to collect an audience. 

What was their disappointment to find their no- 
tice quietly suppressed. 'He respected the usag- 
es of brother Stearns's pulpit.' But as these are a 
part of the very usages that, as friends of the slave, 
they felt called to abolish, they could not but deem 
a pulpit having such usages ' false to its trust.' * 
They also had doubts as to the ownership of ' Bro. 

* See Daniel Webster's Plymouth Speech- 



29 

Stearns's pulpit.' Sometimes it seemed to them 
to be his — sometimes it would flash into their 
rainds that it was quite as much their own ; and 
that ihey also were somewhat responsible for 
its usages. It was a knotty point, involving much 
metaphysics and more theology ; but they felt that 
there was no avoiding the conclusion that Mr. 
Stearns's infl-uence helped to uphold slavery, nor 
any shorter way of settling the question, than by 
reading their notices themselves, at the close of 
the service. 

In multitudes of towns and villages, ihroughout 
the land, has the same obstacle presented itself. 
It is, in fact; the grand obstacle. It is the struggle 
of Freedom with Slavery for the ear of the people. 
It is an assertion of the right to know and judge 
for themselves on the part of the people, and an 
endeavor, on the part of the ministry, to substitute 
their own judgment as the ultimate decision. It 
is no petulant anger at the thwarting of a party 
purpose that makes abolitionists so constantly re- 
peat these efforts : — They see, in these refusals to 
read anti-slavery notices, at once the symbol and 
the fruit of a deliberate determination on the part 
of the ministry not to labor for emancipation 
themselves, and those wdio would, to hinder. 

In the city even the most long-suffering, thought 
it would be treason to the cause of their enslaved 



countrymen, not to clainfi, in the name of Him who 
came to preach deliverance to the captive, the 
countenance and aid of the pulpit in their behalf. 
At the Rev. Dr. Channing's Church, where, 
year after year, the claim of equal privileges with 
others for the prosecution of their benevblent op- 
erations had been presented, and where, in 183(5 a 
committee of vigilance had undertaken to shield 
the preachers of liberal ( 'hristianity from the dis- 
grace of a retrograde movement towards popery, 
by themselves assuming the right to judge for the 
})eople what was truth and what was error, the 
struggle was still maintained. On one occasion, 
the Rev. Mr. Stetson, of Medford, was accosted 
by this committee, as he was in the act of receiv- 
ing a notification of one of our meetings, at the en- 
trance of Dr. Channing's church, and directed not 
to read it. The committee declared that the of- 
fering of these notices ^ must be put a stop to.' 
But we felt that the right to offer a notice of our 
meetings was like the right of petition — inalienable. 
It is a part of our right of free discussion ; nor 
may it be, without guilt, surrendered to church 
committees, parish meetings, ecclesiastical coun- 
cils, or legislative bodies. We hold the right to do 
good from God. Were it the notice of a meeting 
to discuss the question of His being, a minister 
would be unfaithful to Christianity who should be- 



31 



tray such a doubt of her power as to suppress it. 
equally unfaithful, in a question which concerns 
the dearest interests of his children. The only 
plausible plea a minister has for refusal is, that ht 
thinks the discussion likely to be disastrous in its 
consequences. What does the pope say more, 
against placing the scriptures in the hands of the 
people ? A clergyman is {vqq to choose, say apol- 
ogists. ' Free, but not guiltless in the sight of 
God,' we reply, 'in withholding either view of a 
disputed question from others.' 

How many a kindly spirit has been called of 
late to this moral^strife for freedom, for principle, 
for the slave. How many a warm heart has been 
saddened to find nothing but enmity to his advo- 
cates in those who should themselves have plead- 
ed his cause. How many a roused soul, in search- 
ing for the latent causes of such obduracy, has 
learned that associations of the clergy are battal- 
ions drawn up against freedom : and that from 
their secret conclaves, as from the inquisitorial 
cells and Vehmique courts of by-gone ages, pro- 
ceeds an influence which neutrahzes the efforts of 
the friends of freedom. 

There are swift hours in life; — strong, rushing hours, 

Which do the work of tempests in their might ! 

Which shake down things that stood as rocks and towera 

Unto the undoubting mind : which pour in light, 

Where it but startles ! as a burst of day. 

For which the uprooting of an oak makes way! 



32 

And this was of such hours with the presbyteri- 
anized congregationulists of New England. This 
was the beginning of an examination of the claims 
and character of their clergy, which will end only 
with a reformation hardly less startling or less 
needed than that of Luther. 

It w^as in the year 1836, that the idea suggested 
itself to us of calling a general convention of anti- 
slavery women from all parts of the country. It 
is worthy of remark, how generally the same train 
of thought, in different minds, grows out of similar 
courses of action. Without any previous corres- 
pondence or acquaintance, we almost immediately 
after, received a similar suggestion from Lewis 
Tappan. This coincidence of opinion respecting 
women's duties, gave us great satisfaction. We 
diligently corresponded with other societies of 
women, and with individuals. The plan was 
approved by them, and the convention met in 
New York city. May 9th, 1837, composed of one 
hundred and seventy-four tried friends of the 
cause. They met on three successive days, and 
enjoyed a free and affectionate interchange of 
sentiment on the many important topics compre- 
hended in the idea of abolition. The following is 
a Gondensed view of the states of mind which 
were the results of their discussions. 

They approached the subject with the full con- 



33 

victlon that the cause of the enslaved is the cause 
of God — the cause of Christ. They felt that the 
question is not one of treatment, but of principle ; 
and they therefore claimed not merely kind usage, 
but renunciation of the right of ownership. They 
saw clearly that interest j political, commercial and 
domestic, is the occasion of the violent opposition 
which abolition principles have excited. They 
resolved never to surrender fugitive slaves. They 
felt that the right of petition is God-given, inalien- 
able, therefore ought to be exercised to the utmost 
for the slave ; — and they resolved to petition 
congress annually to abolish all slavery over which 
it has jurisdiction. They regarded those northern 
men and women who marry slaveholders, as iden- 
tifying themselves with the system. They re- 
garded women as solemnly called by the signs of 
the times and by the spirit of the age, to discuss 
the subject of slavery, so that they might be pre- 
pared to meet the approaching exigency as women 
and as chistians. They resolved that as certain 
rights and duties are common to all moral beings, 
the time has come for woman to move in that 
sphere w^hich Providence has assigned her, and no 
longer remain satisfied in the circumscribed limits 
with which corrupt custom and a perverted appli- 
cation of Scripture have encircled her ; therefore 
that it is the duty of woman, and the province of 
3 



34 



woman, to plead the cause of the oppressed in 
our land, and to do all that she can by her voice, 
and her pen, and her purse, and the influence of 
her example, to overthrow the horrible system of 
American slavery. 

They earnestly recommended to all the follow- 
ers of Christ to ascertain with fervent prayer, 
what God would have them to do in regard to 
those benevolent operations which are carried on 
by the hire of the laborer from him kept back by 
fraud, and to inquire through what channels their 
benevolence may flow to the. heathen world with- 
out mingling with the streams which arise from 
traffic ' in slaves, and the souls of men.' They 
felt that slavery in this country is a national sin, 
so long as it exists in the District of Columbia 
and the territory of Florida ; as long as the north- 
ern states surrender the fugitive to his master, 
refuse to repeal those laws which recognize and 
secure the usurpation of the master over his slave, 
and continue pledged to put down servile insur- 
rection at the South ; as long as the inter-state 
slave trade is carried on, and there are governors 
in our free states, who pronounce the free discus- 
sion of the subject of slavery to be ^ a misdemea- 
nor at common law,' and that we regard slavery 
to be a national sin, because congress has the 



m 

power to abolish it, just so far as it has exercised 
that power to create and sustain it in our land. 

Many spoke as mothers, solemnly urged by all 
the blessings of their own and their children's 
freedom, and by all the contrasted bitterness of 
the slave-mother's condition to the resolution of 
lifting up their hearts to God for the captive as 
often as they should pour them out in blessings 
on their own children, in a joy with which ^no 
stranger may intermeddle.' They resolved to 
guard with jealous care the minds of their children 
from the ruining influences of the spirit of pro- 
slavery and prejudice, let those influences come in 
what name, or through what connections they 
may. 

Because they believed that the pure and Chris- 
tian principles of peace commended themselves 
with peculiar power to the hearts of abohtionists ; 
and because they felt that by publicly professing 
these principles, and engaging actively in their 
dissemination, they gave their friends at the South 
the best possible security that, in all their measures 
tor the relief of the oppressed slave, and for his 
restoration to freedom, they should be governed by 
the forbearance and forgiving spirit of our Savior; 
therefore they recommended to mothers to ed- 
ucate their children in the principles of peace, 



and special abhorrence of that warfare, which 
gives aid to the oppressor against the oppressed. 

They said, that as most of the merchants and 
editors of our large cities had done every thing 
they could, to close the door of access at the 
South, against abolition doctrines, by vihfying the 
characters and misrepresenting the motives of 
abolitionists, who had stood forth as the advocates 
of the oppressed American, whether bond or free; 
they therefore as their wives, mothers, sisters, and 
daughters, were resolved to do all that they could 
to open that door, by vindicating their characters 
from the aspersions which have been cast upon 
them, and standing side by side with them in the 
great struggle between right and wrong, freedom 
and despotism, justice and oppression, Christian 
equality and American prejudice. 

They spoke of northern churches, united to 
southern slaveholding churches by the bonds of 
church-fellowship ; and they dwelt on the duty of 
solemn rebuke, and the duty of women, as church- 
members, to pray their respective ecclesiastical 
bodies to declare slavery a sin. They deemed 
prejudice against color no less unholy. They 
determined prayerfully to inquire by what steps 
they should avoid unrighteous participation in the 
products of slave labor. They dwelt with delight 
on institutions of learning which, like Oneida in- 



37 



sthute and Western Reserve College, have prac- 
tically uprooted the long-standing antl-repuhlican 
prejudice against color. They enforced on each 
other's minds the duty of sustaining and visiting day, 
evening, and Sabbath schools, irrespective of color. 
Oberlin Collegiate institute received from them 
the tribute of heartfelt commendation. It stands 
alone in America if not in the world, — a school for 
HUMANITY, irrespective of sex or color. Southern 
members of the convention, before whom slavery 
had been exhibited in all its terrible distinctness, 
strove with all their energies to place its enormity 
clearly before the minds of their northern sisters. 
On motion of one of them, whose friends are now 
residents at the south, it was resolved, that the 
convention regarded anti-slavery prints as power- 
ful auxiliaries in the cause of emancipation, and 
recommended that they should be multiplied a 
hundred-fold, that the speechless agony of the 
fettered slave might appeal unceasingly to the 
hearts of the patriot, the philanthropist and the 
christian. It was resolved on motion of a north- 
ern woman ' That as large funds are required in 
order to the rapid advancement of this cause, we 
consider it an imperious duty to make retrench- 
ments from our own personal expenses, whenever 
in our power, that we may be the better able to 
contribute to such funds.' 



38 

The convention deemed It their duty and the 
duty of all abolitionists to encourage their op- 
pressed brethren and sisters, in their different 
trades and callings ; also to use their utmost influ- 
ence to remove the disgraceful side-seats and 
corners set apart for them in churches. They 
thought the contribution of means for the purchase 
of men from their claimants, an acknowledgment 
of a right of property in man; inconsistent, and 
inhuman, unless accompanied by an absolute 
denial of the existence of such a right. They 
recommended to the South the noble example of 
the colored slaveholders of Martinique ; the first 
instance of a petition to government from slave- 
holders themselves for the extinction of slavery. 
The wives and daughters of clergymen throughout 
the land, were entreated to strengthen their hus- 
bands and fathers to declare the whole council of 
God, touching slavery, fearing no danger or prej- 
udice or privation, being willing to suffer persecu- 
tion with them for Christ's sake. 

The convention expressed grief and amazement 
at the deathlike apathy of some northern church- 
es, and the unchristian opposition of others to 
anti-slavery efforts ; expressing their conviction 
that as long as northern pulpits are closed against 
the advocates of the oppressed, whilst they are 
freely open to oppressors, the northern churches 



have their own garments stained with blood, and 
are awfully guilty in the sight of God. 

A punctual attendance upon the monthly con- 
cert of prayer for the oppressed was recommended 
to all whose consciences approve of appointed 
seasons of prayer. Finally, the convention pledged 
themselves to each other, laying aside sectarian 
views and private opinions, to unite their efforts 
for the abolition of slavery, seeking to be directed 
by divine wisdom ; and to continue thera until it 
.should be effected. 

A committee from the different free states 
whose women have petitioned congress, for the 
abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, 
and Florida, was instructed to convey to the Hon. 
John Quincy Adams, the grateful sense which the 
convention entertained of his services, in defend- 
ing the right of petition for women, and for slaves, 
— qualified with the regret, that by expressing 
limself ^adverse to the abolition of slavery in the 
District of Columbia,' he did not sustain the 
cause of freedom and of God. 

Feeling deep gratitude for the aid and encour- 
agement and strengthening sympathy of the 
women of Great Britain, a committee was ap- 
pointed to attempt to express it. An address to 
the women of the nominally free states, and 
another to free colored Americans, were issued 



40 

by the convention, with a circular to anti-slavery 
societies of women. From these excellent wri- 
tings it may be hoped that multitudes will joyfully 
learn that they have duties and responsibilities as 
christian patriots and philanthropists, on the faith- 
ful discharge of which, greatly depends the welfare 
of their country and their race, and without a 
knowledge and love of which, their duty as moth- 
ers can be but imperfectly fulfilled. The dele- 
gates from our society were instructed to vote 
against the formation of a national anti-slavery 
society of women, and to exhibit the reasons 
which are strong in our minds, against the plan of 
a paper exclusively for women. The columns of 
all the publications of the cause are open to us. 
We owe our own interest in it, and much enlarge- 
ment of mind for its prosecution, to a perusal of 
them. Why should they not be equally benefi- 
cial to other women ? We prefer to aid their cir- 
culation. We think that the best hopes of the 
sexes are in each other ; and that the plan of sep- 
arate sources of knowledge, and separate means of 
mental and moral improvement is likely to pro- 
duce a characteristic difference, fatal to the hap- 
piness and the usefulness of both. 

It was resolved that a convention of anti-slavery 
women be held annually in some part of the Uni- 
ted States till slavery is abolished, and that the 



next be held in Philadelphia, on the third week 
in May, 1838. 

Thus ended the first general convention of 
women ever held in America : but its influences 
strike far into the future. Long after slavery 
shall have become a word to be found only in old 
books ; long after the practice of separate meet- 
ings of men and women for the discussion of great 
principles shall have disappeared, it will be recog- 
nized as among the first of the grand series of 
-movements which are to make this enslaved earth 
again a paradise. 

We have spoken of notices of our meetings. 
The one which gave so misch offence to the com- 
mittee of Dr. Channing's church, was of a meet- 
ing to be addressed by two South Carolinians who 
had embraced the cause. It might have been 
anticipated that they would have met w^ith a 
friendly reception, from those calling themselves 
the better sort, for they were highly connected, 
A circumstance, which even in repubhcan New 
England, greatly allayed opposition before the 
Hon, James G. Birney, a Kentuckian and once 
a slaveholder, who visited it about the same time. 
Unfortunately, they were but women ; though the 
misfortune of that fact was greatly abated by their 
being sisters of the Hon. Thomas S, Grimke. 

They were listened to with gratitude and de" 



42 

light by our society independently of any of these 
considerations. We were anxious that others 
should. partake of the benefit and pleasure of their 
lectures and hoped by the following letter to 
forward their plans in behalf of the slave. 

Boston, June 7th, 1837. 

TO FEMALE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES THROUGH- 
OUT NEW ENGLAND. 

Christian Friends: 

The purpose of this letter is to entreat, in the. 
name of the Boston Female Anti-slavery Society, 
that you will aiford every facility in your power to 
Sarah M. and Angelina E. Grimke, for the 
prosecution of their labors in the cause of emanci- 
pation. 

With their names and characters, with their noble 
sacrifices, and with their published works, you are 
well acquainted ; and therefore there is no need that 
we should dwell on all the circumstances growing 
out of these, which so peculiarly fit them to dispense 
the truth, respecting the conflicting principles of 
freedom and slavery. 

One thing we cannot omit to mention, which 
marks them as eminently qualified for the promul- 
gation of anti-slavery principles — the elevated and 
christian point of view, from which they behold the 
condition of woman, her duties and her consequent 
rights. It is of paramount importance, that both 
men and women should understand their true posi- 
tion and mighty responsibilities to this and to com- 
ing generations. In all spiritual things, their func- 
tions are identical ; — both are created to be parents 



43 

and educators; — both for all the duties growing out 
of that spiritual equality here, and for communion 
with their Maker during" their immortal life hereaf- 
ter; — neither for helplessness or dependence — nei- 
ther for arbitrary dictation ; — each to obey the com- 
mands of God as responsible to him alone. Such is 
our view of the primary duties of our race. With 
respect to secondary pursuits — whether mercantile, 
mechanical, domestic or professional — the machine- 
ry of mortal existence, — ' the tools to whosoever can 
use them.' All are alike bound to the free and 
strenuous exercise of such faculties as God has given 
them. 

We could not confidently commend to your hearts, 
or receive unreservedly to bur own, any who were 
grinding in the narrow mill of a corrupt public 
opinion on this point; but in view of the justness of 
their theory, and the faithfulness of their practice, 
concerning it, we earnestly entreat you, in the 
words of Paul — * Help these women, who have la- 
bored thus in the gospel ' — and thereby help us to 
manifest gratitude for the important aid they are 
affording to the anti-slavery enterprise. Help them 
to exalt the national character of our women — so 
inferior to that of the Maternal Ancestry, who, in 
1620, * shot from their spheres* in England, and 
stood here with their little ones, shelterless in the 
wintry air, that they might pursue their christian 
course unimpeded by sneers or ridicule, ecclesiasti- 
cal mandates, or public outrage. 

Let us help one another to repel the idea, that 
while the chief end of man is to glorify God, and 
enjoy him forever — woman is sharer of the like glo- 
rious destiny, ' but as it were in sort or limitation.' 

Dear friends, let us nrge on you the importance 
of making available to the cause of freedom, the 



44 

scattered energies of your respective neighborhoocfs, 
by gathering together and seeking the co-operation 
of all whose interest for suffering humanity is lead- 
ing them to ask, * what shall we do ?^ The num- 
bers of such, in every place, are small, in comparison 
with those who will undertake to dictate to you what 
you shall not do. 

We are not entirely without experience. Trust 
us when we say, that we have found those the most 
effectual helpers, who come to us least encumbered 
by the trappings of this world, and unfettered from 
the thraldom of its ways. 

Let there be no exclusive system adopted in our 
societies. Ask no one's sect, rank, or color. Who- 
soever willj let them come. If our worship be sin- 
cere, of the God who created our race free, and the 
Savior who came to redeem them from bondage, it 
will so appear in our active exertions for our en- 
slaved countrymen, that the selfish, the hypocritical, 
and the unfaithful, will be compelled to ho)d them- 
selves aloof from our ranks. There is no danger to 
be apprehended from the companionship of any 
others — for a holy cause purifies the heart, and 
enlarges the intellect, and directs the zeal, and re- 
fines and exalts the ideas of all who embrace it in 
sincerity. 

We renewedly commend to you these our beloved 
friends, nothing doubting that they will receive from 
you that hospitality of the heart, which will be to 
them an assurance that they have not consecrated 
their lives and fortunes to the cause of christian 
freedom in vain. 

In behalf of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery 
Society. MARY S. PARKER, President, 

Maria Weston Chapman, Cor. Sec, 



4S 

The Misses Grimke were women of genius and 
eloquence. They were humble and devoted 
Christians also, and therefore, free from the cramp- 
ing-irons of the religious and fashionable world, 
by which genius and eloquence are so often par- 
alyzed. On their appearance in New England, 
great alarm was manifested by the pro-slavery 
ministry. 

The general association of Massachusetts cler- 
gymen, met at Brookfield, June 27, 1837. 
Among the influential actors in it) were the same 
whom we have seen in council over the affairs of 
the free church. They issued a pastoral letter, 
written by the Rev. Nehemiah Adams. The 
following we consider the parts best worth preserv- 
ing in this connection. 

* The first topic upon which we would speak has 
respect to the perplexed and agitating subjects which 
are now common amongst us. 

All that we would say at present with regard to 
these subjects, is this : — They should not be 
FORCED upon any church as matters for debate at 
the hazard of alienation and division. 

Once it would have seemed strange even to hint 
that members of churches could wish to force a 
subject for debate upon their pastor and their breth- 
ren of the same church. But we are compelled to 
mourn over the loss, in a degree, of that deference 
to the pastoral office which no minister would arro- 
gate, but which is at once a mark of Christ'an ur- 
banity, and a uniform attendant of the full influence 



m 



of religion upon individual character. If there be 
a tendency in zeal upon these subjects to violate the 
principles and rules of Christian intercourse, to in- 
terfere with the proper pastoral inflaence, and to 
make the church, into which we flee from a troubled 
world for peace, a scene of * doubtful disputations,' 
there must be something wrong in that zeal or in 
the principles which excite it. If any are constrain- 
ed to adopt those principles and to use that zeal, we 
would affectionately and solemnly caution them not 
to disturb the influence of those ministers who think 
that the promotion of personal religion amongst their 
people, and the establishment of Christians in the 
faith and comfort of the gospel, is the proper object 
of their ministry. 

II. We would call your attention to the impor- 
tance of maintaining that respect aad deference to 
th® Pastoral OJice, which is eRJeined in Scrip- 
ture, and which is essential to the best influence 
of the ministry on you and your shildren. 

One way in which this respect has been in some 
cases violated, is in encouraging lecturers or preach- 
ers on certain topics of reform to present their sub- 
jects ivithin the parochial limits of settled pastors 
without their consent. (!!!!) 

Your minister is ordained of God to be your teach- 
er, and is commanded to feed that flock over which 
the Holy Ghost hath made him overseer. If there 
are certain topics upon which he does not preach with 
the frequency or in the manner that zvould please you- 
it is a violation of sacred and important rights to en- 
courage a stranger to present them. Deference and 
subordination are essential to the happiness of socie- 
ty^ and peculiarly so in the relation of a people to 
their pastor. Let them despise or slight him and he 
ceases to do them good, and they cease to respect those 
things of which he is at once the minister and the 



47 

symbol. There is great solemnity in those words : 
*Obey them that have the rule over you and submit 
yourselves : — for they watch for your souls as they 
that must give account. It is because we desire the 
highest influence of the ministry upon you and your 
children, that we now exhort you to reverence that 
office which the ascending Redeemer selected from 
all his gifts as the highest token of his love and care 
for his people 

III. We invite your attention to fJie dangers 
which at present seem to threaten the FE3IALE 
CHARACTER with wide-spread and permanent 
injury. 

The appropriate duties and influence of women 
are clearly stated in the New Testament. Those 
duties and that influence are unobtrusive and private, 
but the sources of mighty power. When the mild, 
dependent, softening influence of woman upon the 
sternness of man's opinions is fully exercised, socie- 
ty feels' the effects of it in a thousand forms. The 
power of woman is in her dependance flowing from 
the consciousness of that weakness which God has 
given her for her protection and which keeps her in 
those departments of life that form the character of 
individuals and of the nation. There are social in- 
fluences which females use in promoting piety and 
the great objects of Christian benevolence, which 
we cannot too highly commend. [We appreciate 
the unostentatious prayers and efforts of woman in 
advancing the cause of religion at home and abroad ; 
in Sabbath schools, in leading religious inquirers to 
the pastor for instruction, and in all such associated 
efforts as becomes the modesty of her sex ; and ear- 
nestly hope that she may abound more and more in 
the labors of piety and love.] But when she as- 
sumes the place and tone of man as a public reform- 
er, our care and protection of her seem unnecessary, 



48 

we pot ourselves in self-defence against her, she 
yields the power which God has given her for pro- 
tection, and her character becomes unnatural. If 
the vine, whose strength a»d beauty is to lean upon 
the trellis work and half conceal its clusters, thinks 
to assume the independence and the overshading na- 
ture of the elm, it will not only cease to bear fruit, 
but fall in shame and dishonor into the dust. 

We cannot, therefore, but regret the mistaken 
conduct of those who encourage females to bear an 
obtrusive and ostentatious part in measures of reform, 
and countenance any of that sex who so far forget 
themselves as to itinerate in the character of 'public 
lecturers and teachers. 

We especially deplore the intimate acquaintance 
and promiscuous conversation of females with regard 
to things * which ought not to be named ; ' — by 
which that modesty and delicacy which is the charm 
of domestic life, and which constitutes the true in- 
fluence of woman in society is consumed, and the 
way opened, as we apprehend, for degeneracy and 
ruin. We say these things, not to discourage prop- 
er influences against sin, but to secure such refor- 
mation as we believe is scriptural and will be perma- 
nent.' 

Almost every shade of opinion was manifested 
in the Association, respecting this letter ; from 
Rev. Mr. Howe, who deprecated all such discus- 
sion by that body, to Rev. Mr. Blagden, who sin- 
cerely hoped the letter would be adopted. He 
felt a high degree of gratitude, that such a docu- 
ment had been so prepared, as to meet the wants 
of the times. We have sufficiently long borne, 
with such severe trials, as this letter is designed 



49 

to remedy. There were two points in particular, 
which he was glad to notice. 

1st. Pastoral influence. The time has 
come for pastors to take a positive stand against 
encroachment on their office. 

2nd. Female Influence and Character. 
There is danger, at the present time, of Women 
assuming the place and attitude of men as public 
reformers and itinerating lecturers. 

Mr. Worcester, perceiving that some of the 
members v^'ere not pleased with the letter, attrib- 
uted it to their ignorance of the wants of the 
times. 

Mr. Fowler was not aware of any need of such 
a letter. Mr. Bennet said, ' this shows the igno- 
rance of the remote brethren. Females are now 
lecturing pubhcly amongst us ; and notices are re- 
peatedly sent up to our pulpits.' Mr. Hawley 
took into consideration the feelings of the parties 
concerned ; saying that if such a letter went into 
his section, females would feel much aggrieved. 
Fie was not prepared to give an opinion as to the 
justice or injustice of the charges, but could never 
give his consent to such a way of proceeding. 
Mr. Alvord seemed to be of opinion that this 
whole matter was out of the appropriate sphere 
of the Association. 

Respecting this production we have only to 
4 



50 

say, that whoever comes to us with such a mes- 
sage on his hps, is liken our idea of a nuncio of 
bis holiness, than an Ambassador of Christ. It 
was by the continual and unchecked prosecution 
of such claims, that the pastoral Lituus of the 
Apostles became the crosier of the Romish clergy. 
This general movement was seconded by Rev. 
A. A. Folsora, Rev. Hubbard Winslow, Rev. J. 
F. Stearns, and Rev. Parsons Cooke, in sermons to 
their rjspective congregations, which they caused 
to be published, and of which the following ex- 
tracts, are the parts which will best shov/ our sons, 
through what opposing influences their mothers 
passed, to free the fettered and the perishing. 

FilOM MR. COOKe's SERMON. 

* It is made the duty of woman no far as religious assemblies are 
concerned, to learn and not to teach — to learn in silence. And 
then a reason is given for it; i. e. that it would be an unseemly 
usurping of authority, for one who should bear the marks of sub- 
jection. 

♦ Not only were women not permitted to, harangue a christian au- 
dience, but ihey were not permitted to ask a question in public. Jf 
they met any thing in the public instructions which they could not 
understand or consent to, they must wait and confer with their hus- 
bands at home respecting it. It is treated not only as a wrong, but 
a ' shame,^ a scandalous offence against propriety and decency. 
' It is a shame for women to speak in the church.' 

' Do any evade the rule on the ground that the word church is 
used, and therefore it does not apply to all religious assemblies. 
This is an evasion which is good only to English ears. The word 
here translated church, means assemblies of any character or de- 
scription. It IS equally descriptive of the small social meeting of 
men and women and the great congregation ; of religious or secu- 
lar meetings, where one stands forth to harangue an assembly. It 
is parallel with the word assembly, or meeting, and the prohibition 
is as broad as if meetingy had been the word. And as if the 



51 



apostle had said, it is a shame for a woman to speak in public 
meetings. 

' Even if it were true, that some woman in an assembly had 
more talents than all the men present, the excess of her talents, so 
far from making a reason why she should display them, would 
make it a still stronger case of usurping authority over the man. 
Take a familiar Ccise. A few years ago the community were 
shocked by the preachments of one Fanny Wright, in favor of infi- 
delity, and universal licentiousness. Now what was it, in this case, 
that constituted the outrage upon the feelings of the community 1 
Was it her infidelity 1 That was bad enough; but all that is held 
forth constantly without awaking any of the peculiar abhorrence, 
felt in this case. Was it the tramphng on those domestic institu- 
tions in which woman has an interest so deep and sacred 1 It 
might have been partly this. But this is often done by others, and 
the report of it scarcely goes beyond the reach of the speaker's 
voice. Yv'as it the unblushing licentiousness which she promulgat- 
ed '? This doubtless aggravated the horror which we had of the 
whole affair. But after all the main shock to the good 
sense of the loorld loas caused by the fad that she loas a woman 
— aiDoman standing forth as a public lecturer. And the shock 
so far from being mitigated was increased by the masculine powers 
of intellect which she wielded. The very fact that she could hold 
listening thousands in deep attention, and wield a mastery over the 
strongest passions of the populace, was her deepest condemnation. 
On that account so much greater the light against which she sinned, 
so much greater the powers which she prostituted, and so much the 
higher was the authority which she assumed over man.' 

' Till such flagrant breaches of decorum become more common, 
(which day may God avert,) the female preacher may be sure of 
crowds to hear, for reasons like to those which would insure her 
many eyes to see, if like the public stage dancer she were to enter- 
tain them with improper exposure of her person. But neither the 
gratification of feasting the public curiosity, nor any usefulness pos- 
sible by such means, can compensate for the injury she is doing to 
herself as well as to the world. Stripped of every womanly attri- 
bute, is that woman, who has become public property by such a 
rude protrusion of person and character on public theatres and such 
chosen familiarity with the tongue of common fame. To an unso- 
phisticated ear, the term female orator, in whatever cause the 
oratory be displayed, or with however much purity of private char- 
acter associated, has a sound too nearly allied to another that may 
not be named. And all approaches to the character of a" female 
public speaker, proportionally detract from the honor appropriate 
for females.' 

* Dark will be the day when the public taste becomes so vitiated 
as to suffer the cause of christian benevolence and the interests of 
Christian truth to be sustained in the harangues of female orators.' 



52 

We are reminded by this Sermon, of the words 
of Rabbi Eliezur — ' Perish the book of the law, 
rather than it should be expounded by a Woman.' 

FROM MR. WIN slow' S SERMON. 

' The sacred writers have intimated that her constitutional sus- 
ceptibility and ardor, so vakiable wlien wisely directed and so evil 
when misguided; her spirit of impulse and action, her passion for 
novelty and adventure predominating over cool discretion and cau- 
tious judgment — as seen in the case of the first transgression — is 
one essential reason why God requires that she shall ' learn in si- 
lence with all subjection,' and does not ' suffer her to teach nor to 
usurp authority over the man.' 

But this law of female subjection, implanted in the human con- 
stitution and enjoined l>y God, is misapprehended, perverted or 
abused, ia all but Christian nations.' 

' The same act which would be modest and delicate in a man, 
would not always be so in a woman ; while on the other hand what 
may be very bold and energetic in a woman, might be very tame in 
a man.' 

' Here then is a promiscuous assembly, not an exclusive meeting 
of the church, and the apostle teaches us that here she must not 
only be in silence, but must even have on the then customary badge 
of modesty and subjection. 

Such then are inspired vievv^s respecting female delicacy and pro- 
priety, respecting her becoming deference to the other sex, and her 
appropriate reverence and homage to her husband*' 

' But oh how fallen from this high elevation is she, when, impa- 
tient of her proper sphere, she steps forth lo assume the duties of 
the man, and, impelled by false zeal with conscience misguided, 
does as even man ought not to do — when, forsaking the domestic 
liearth, her delicate voice is heard from house to house, or in social 
assemblies, rising in harsh unnatural tones of denunciation against 
civil laws and rulers, against measures involving political and State 
affairs of which she is nearly as ignorant as tlie child she left at 
home in the cradle, against churches and ministers, perhaps her 
own pastor, and certainly all who dissent from her views ; expecting 
to reform politics and churches, and to put down every real and 
supposed evil in them, by the right arm of female power, and clam- 
orous for the organization of female societies for this specific ob- 
ject; not slow to anathematize all who do not submit to her dicta- 
tion, in the stereotype phraseology of certain modern charity, as 
* time serving men,' and ' canting hypocrites ; ' and withal very 
sure that the world will never go right till women take the lead. — 



53 



What a pad wreck of female loveliness is she then ! She can hard- 
ly conceive how ridiculous she appears in the eyes of ail sober, dis- 
creet, judicious Christian men, or how great the reproach she brings^ 
upon her sex. Despite of gallantry, her power over the minds ot 
men is then at an end; she must henceforth 'fight as one that 
beateth the air.' Men will smile or pity, and let her pass on; for 
to expostulate or argue they will soon find to be in vain, inasmuch 
as she is certainly right, has nothing to learn, and is bent only on 
leaching.' 

'To perform deeds of personal charity and kindness to lli des- 
titute and afflicted ; to converse modestly or to employ the pen upon 
subjects which engage her mind and interest her heart; to assist ia 
the circulation of approved religious traces; to act the part of a 
personal or a private teacher, whether secular or religious; to en- 
gage in small social circles of her own sex in the duties of devotion 
and of Christian conversation; to solicit charity for approved be- 
nevolent objects, by private application — deeds like these, if per- 
formed with the spirit and manner which become her, ai)pear to be 
comprehended within the sphere which the scriptures assign to the 
female sex; and 1 know of no female virtue on which they neces- 
sarily encroach. 

But when females undertake to assume the place of public teach- 
ers, lohether to both sexes or only to their own; when they form 
societies for the purpose of sitting in judgment and acting upon the 
affairs of the church and state; when tiiey travel about from place 
to place as lecturers, teachers, and guides to public sentiment; 
when they assemble m conventions to discuss questions, pass reso- 
lutions, make speeches, and vote upon civil, political, moral, and 
religious matters; Avhen they begin to send up their names to gen- 
tlemen holding official stations, gravely declaring their own judg- 
ment in regard to what they ought to do, and informing them, with 
solemn menace what they have themselves determined to do, if they 
do not vield to their wishes — even to repeat the expression of their 
sentiments until they do yield; when they attempt the reformation 
of morals by engaging in free conversation and discussion u{)on 
those things of which the apostle says, 'it is a shame even to 
speak;' when they encourage meetings and measures like the 
above, either by their presence, countenance, orservice; — in short, 
when the distinguishing graces of modesty, deference, delicacy, and 
sweet charity are in any way displaced by the opposite qualities of 
boldness, arrogance, rudeness, indelicacy, and the spirit of denun- 
ciation of men and measures, so that they give any just occasion for 
being denominated, by way of distinction, ' the female brethren ' — 
it is then no longer a question whether they have stretched them- 
selves beyond their measure and violated the inspired injunction 
which saith, ' Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection, 
but i suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the 
man, but to be in silence.' 



m 



* The world has had enough of Fanny Wrights ; whether they 
appear in the name of avoioed infidelity, or of civil and human 
rights, or of political economy, or of morals and religion, their 
tendency is ultimately the same — the alienation of the sexes, the 
subversion of the distinguishing" excellence and benign induence of 
woman in society, the destruction of the domestic constitution, the 
prostration of all decency and order, the reign o( wild anarcliy and 
shameless vice. -Thomas Paine could not desire belter diiciplss; 
nor would it much concern him in what name or cause they 
might profess to appear, since the ultimate eft'ect is one and the 
same.' (!!!!!) 

FROM MR. Stearns's sehmon. 

•When I see ladies of talent, and learning, and refinement, — la- 
dies whose accomplishments and virtues would have fitted them to 
stand in the first rank among their own sex, stepping out of their 
sphere, to enter upon stations and offices which have heretofore 
i)een regarded as appropriate to men, it forcibly reminds me of the 
parable of Jotham contained in the ninth chapter of Judges — ' The 
trees of the wood went forth on a time to anoint a king over them. 
And they said unto the olive tree, Reign thou over us. But the 
olive tree said unto them. Should I leave my fatness, wherewith by 
rne they honor God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees 1 
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come thou and reign over us. 
But the fig tree said unto them. Should I forsake my sweetness and 
iny good fruit, and go to be promoted over tlie trees 1 Then said 
the trees unto the vine, Come thou and reign over us. And the 
vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God 
and man, and go to be promoted over the trees % Then said all the 
trees unto the bramble. Come thou and reign over us. And the 
bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, 
then come and put your trust in ray shadow.' 

'That there are ladies who are capable of public debate, who 
could make their voices heard from end to end of the church and 
the senate house, — that tliere are those who might bear a favorable 
comparison with others as eloquent orators, and who might speak 
to better edification than most of those on whom the office has hith- 
erto devolved, I am not disposed to deny. The question is not in 
regard to ability, but to decency, to order, to Christian propriety. 
Of one thing I am certain, they would find it hard to convince 
most of those v.hom they would emulate, that the course was eith- 
er amiable or becoming. For if an cfieminate man is always de- 
spised, no less so, as nature herself teaches, must be a masculine 
woman. 

My hearers must pardon me for speaking thus explicitly. The 
advocates of such principles and measures have, in times past, been 
confined principally to the ranks of unbelievers, whom no pious and 



55 

respectable feanale would desire to encou'-age. But wlien popular 
female writers, and women professing godliness, begin to take the 
same ground, it is time for the pulpit as loell as the press to 
speak plainly. I verily believe, that should the practice i have 
censured become prevalent, and the consequent change in the 
treatment of fem.ales, already anticipated by some of its advocates, 
take place in the commisnity, the influence of iadifs, now so im- 
portant; to the cause of philanthropy and piety, would very speedily 
be crushed, and religion, morality and good order, sutler a wound 
from which they would not soon nor easily recover.' 

'Your persuasions are a power which man cannot easily breast 
himself against. The still influence of woman disarms him, and 
he is charmed to submission before he is prepared to resist. 

Beware, then, how you forfeit your peculiar advantages. Beware 
how you do any thing to diminish that delicate and chivalrous re- 
spect, which the feminiue character now commands from all who 
are not lost to every principle of honor.' 

' And be assured, ladies, if the hedges and borders of the social 
g'arden should be broken up, the lovely vine, which now twines it- 
self so gracefully upon the trellis, and bears such rich clusters, will 
be the first to fall and be trodden under foot.' 

FROM MR. FOLSOm's SERMON. 

' The legithiiate effect of being converted to the popular meas- 
ures of the Abolitionists, (popular, I mean, among a certain class — 
not v/ith the great mass of the people, — God forbid,) is a neglect of 
some of the appropriate duties of woman. She seeks relaxation 
too often from her domestic obligations, and in fine, looks upon 
family afif;iirs as of secondary importance. Her time, she is apt to 
think, can be better employed than- to devote it to her own peculiar 
household concerns, and therefore, she becomes a sort of travelling 
agent for those who make it a business to lead captive ' silly women.' 
She leaves her own children to become slaves lo their ' appetites 
and passions,' while she interests herself with wonderful zeai in the 
cause of the southern negro. She is, then, 

' Bred only, and completed to the taste 
Of fretful appetence — to sing — to dance, 
To dress, to troll the tongue, and roll the eye. 
Yet empty of all good wherein consists 
Woman's domestic honor and chief grace.' 

But the effect of this corruption extends still further, and poisons 
the soul, embitters the affections, and exasperates the feelings. She, 
•who is naturally amiable and modest, by having her mind filled with 
the peculiar spirit which characterises the most clamorous among 
the Abolitionists, is imperceptibly transformed iuto a bigoted, rash. 



56 



and morose being. Nor is this all. Self-sufficiency, arrogance and 
masculine boldness follow naturally in the train. 

As Eve experienced to her sorrow the consequences of disobe* 
dience, so will you, who step aside from that simplicity, and those 
modest manners, which ornament your sex, reap the hitler fruits of 
folly. The respect of the wise and good you cannot have, but their 
pity and contempt you mast unavoidably incur, while out of your 
sphere — the willing dupes of crafty men.' 

* When I have witnessed before now, on various occasions, in 
the hall of Slate, as well as in the private room, the collection of 
females around some distinguished haranguer on the subject of Ab- 
olition — when I have seen these modest^^e'mgs join in the shout of 
applause, and in the earnest cheer, I have thought of the descrip- 
tive language of the prophet Isaiah — ' And in that day seven women 
shall take hold of one man, saying, 'We will eat our own bread, 
and wear our own apparel; only let us be called by thy name, to 
lake away our reproach.' ' Only let us be called Abolitionists, and 
we may act the public part without disgrace or shame.' ' We may 
speak, write and lecture on the subject of ' equal rights,' ' political 
economy,' or ' national justice,' only let it be understood that 
these all have reference to the great question of slavery, without 
transcending our proper rights and duties.' This, my respected 
friends, is a vain and worthless plea — a weak and inapplicable ex- 
cuse. iNothing, no, nothing of the kind will ever justify you in 
departing from the simplicity of the gospel of your Lord and" Mas- 
ter.' 

' If it is not permitted unto women to speak publicly upon the 
subject ot religion, it verily is no part of their right or jn-ivilcge 
to be heard tipon the subject of slavery. If it is a shame for a 
woman to speak in the church upon one topic, it is no less shame- 
ful for her to raise her voice w^on any other theme. And in all in- 
stances of the kind, females go counter to tlie established opinion of 
the world, and the express commands of Holy Writ. Hence they 
ought to be looked upon as ' busy bodies, speaking things which 
they ought not.' 

The « simplicity of Christ ' peremptorily foibids those practices, 
to which we have alluded, as it does all interference in the c;>ncernfl 
of State, on the part of the female portion of the ccmmunir.y. It 
is unbecoming the dignity of the feminine class of society to inir 
])ortune the National Court, year after year, upon the difficult sub- 
ject of slavery. Still more irreverent and unbecoming is it to 
threaten incessant application, until Congress shall grant the stale 
prayer of the misguided petitioners, who are made up of all 
classes, characters and colors. 

From such improprieties, may reason and good sense deliver you 
all. May a suitable reg:ird to your own character and sex deter 
you from entering upon the inappropriate and unlawful duties of 
public life, or from seeking unenviable notoriety after the way and 
manner of some.' 



57 



On the appearance of these Sermons, that part 
of the world, which In a moral conflict, is amused 
by looking on, did not fail to observe, that differ- 
ent denominations had found a way of laboring 
against abolition efforts, without imagining them- 
selves responsible for each other's, religious belief. 

Appearances indicated, that the political press 
did not intend, very vehemently, to oppose the 
efforts of women, in behalf of the slave, and 
therefore, the pro-slavery ministers, and their or- 
gans, the religious periodicals, were obliged to be 
doubly active. The Religious Magazine and 
Family Miscellany, published Mr. Winslow's ser- 
mon entire, WMth the following note by the editor, 
Professor E. A. Andrews: 

' We can scarcely suppose any of our readers to 
have been so far removed by their situation, from the 
prevailing agitations of society, as not to have ob- 
served some of the causes now operating to deteri- 
orate the female character. On a former occasion 
we alluded to the injurious tendency, in this respect, 
of the system of education pursued in many female 
seminaries. We might, with the same view, invite 
attention to the voluminous report of au Amazonian 
Convention recently held in New York, but for the 
present it may be sufficient to refer to the bustling 
and obtrusive applications which are now daily made 
in this city, by an organized company of females, to 
obtain signatures to memorials designed to instruct 
the Congress of the United States in relation to 
their duty. If the lady of the house, on whom 
these 'female brethren' call, declines to give 



58 



her name, they demand the reasons for her * de- 
clioc^ture/ and proceed to exercise ' the inalienable 
right of free discussion,' concIudin<T their tirade with 
a request that the domestics be cpjled to give their 
signatures. We are ajad to perceive that the public 
are not only aware of the evil to which \ve have al- 
luded, hut arc waking up to the mcan^ of repressing 
it. The following extract from tlie Pastoral Letter 
of the last General Association of this State, will 
show the. view taken of this subject by that enlighten- 
ed hodyj * 

This gentleman had intimated, in a previous 
number of the Magazine, bis conviction that many 
slaveholders were doubtitig the correctness of the 
principles, on which they had rested the defence 

* What a picture of tbs United States is here presented to the 
world ! One million of wretched women at t'ne South, lying at 
the absolute disposal of others, to be flogged, bought and sold, or 
treated with yet more dreadful indignity; — their family relations 
utterly set at naught ; — the very suckling torn from its mother at 
will, the hasband compelled to scourge the wife of his bosom, should 
caprice so dictate; — some fifty thousand other southern women 
ready to buckle on the armor of their brethren, to do battle for the 
maintenance of these heart-rending practices; — some women of 
the North, joined by two of their southern sisters, striving, in 
prayer and sacrifice, to avert God's impending Judgments, by re- 
pentance, and calling on others to repent; — and the clergymen of 
Massachusetts, with their religious periodicals and their Family 
Magazines — where are they % Giving the sanctions of Christianity 
to the enslavers, and * waking up to the means of repressing ' these 
exertions of woman for the enslaved ! God be praised that noble 
exceptions are multiplying, >So«ze are '' waking up,' not to shame 
and everlasting contempt, but to shine by turning many to righteous- 
ness. 



59 



of their system, lie received a letter from a 
southern correspoDdent, of which the following is 
an extract : 

' With an extensive acquaintaoce, and more ex- 
tensive correspondence, I venture to assert, that, 
with the exception hereafter mentioned, there lias 
not been a single convert on the syhject [abolitionism] 
in the southern States ; that there is not a resident of 
them, religious or irreligious, who is not PERFECT- 
LY SATISFIED WITH THE RELATION AS 
IT EXISTS; thai there is not a single male slave- 
holder loho is not ready to defend by force of arms 
Ms rights, ?ior a single FEMALE' ?^/io ivoidd not 
BUCKLE ON THE ARMOR of her husband or 
brother to defend these rights J 

' It is but justice to remark,' says Professor 
Andrews, ' that the author of this letter is a gen- 
tleman of high and honorable character, distin- 
guished even at the South, for hh liberal hospi- 
tality, a humane master, and, what is far better, 
an active, enlightened, and we doubt not, sincere 
and humble Christian.' (!!!!) 

* The exception I allude to,' continues die Pro- 
fessor's southern correspondent, ^ is the Misses 
Grimke. The effect of this is entirely done away 
by the general notoriety that exists, of the unfor- 
tunate hereditary insanity wdiieh prevails in that 
family.' 

The Misses Grimke immediately contradicted 
this falsehood, in a letter for the Religious Maga- 



60 

zine, which Professor Andrews inserted with the 
following comment : ''For our own part, we fear 
that the verdict of any respectable coroner's 
court, in view^ of the course pursued by these 
ladies for some time past, would be, as in other 
cases of suicide when committed by people pre- 
viously respectable, 'temporary derangement.'" 

As far as the pastoral letter and the subsequent 
action of the clergy are personal to Sarah and 
Angelina Grimke, every one of us is prepared to 
say, ' Whenever your names and property and 
reputation are thus nobly perilled, it is pleasant 
also to me to peril mine.'^ 

Happily these women waited for no man's ap- 
probation, and deprecated no man's wrath. They 
only sought opportunities to plead the cause of 
those who are appointed of man to destruction. — 
They discussed the subject of slavery at Ames- 
bury with Massachusetts men who upheld it, to 
the great satisfaction and edification of the people 
there. I'hey lectured to overflowing audiences at 
Boston, Lowell, Lynn, Newburyport, Andover, 
Worcester, Salem and fifty-two other towns; in 
many of them repeatedly. It was a singular sit- 
uation in which they were placed — overwhelmed 

*We now remember ativd apply the words of James Cropper, when 
speaking of George Tlioiiipson, he says, ' had I such power to im- 
print truth on the hearts of men, I should not dare to stay at home.* 



61 



with pressing invitations from the people in all 
parts of the State, even to the renfiotest counties, 
while they were openly reviled by the ministry. 

The idea of a woman's teaching was a starthng 
novelty even to abolitionists, but their principled 
and habitual reverence for the freedom of individ- 
ual action, induced them to a course unusual 
among men ; to examine before they condemned. 
Only a short examination was needed to convince 
them that the main constituents in the relation of 
teacher and taught, are ignorance oh one side and 
knowledge on the other. They had been too 
long accustomed to hear the Bible quoted in de- 
fence of slavery, to be astonished thgt its authority 
should be claimed for the subjugation of woman 
the moment she should act for the enslaved. 

The example and teachings of the Grimkes' 
wrought conviction as to the rights and consequent 
duties of woman in the minds of multitudes. — 
Prejudices and ridiculous associations of ideas 
vanished. False interpretations of scripture dis- 
appeared. Probably our children's children, our 
sons no less than our daughters, will dweW on the 
memory of these women, as the descendants of 
the bondman of to-day will cherish the name of 
Garrison. 

Anne Hutchinson found among the ministry a 
Mr. Cotton who appreciated her noble pur)joses: — 



62 



Sarab and Angelina Grimke were not without ac- 
tive friends and approvers from the same class of 
men.* Of this number was the Rev. Henry C. 
Wright ; a man of remarkable frankness and hon- 
esty of character. From strong opposition to 
abohtion^, he had become an advocate of the 
cause, and had acted for it among children, pos- 
sessing a peculiar power of adaptation to their 
capacities. 

It is singular that men who had in so many in- 
stances shown themselves of a clear-sighted and 
prophetic spirit, should not have foreseen that in 
addressing the children of pro-slavery parents 
Vv'ith the design of implanting anti-slavery feelings, 
a man must of necessity lead their minds to a 
higher than parental authority. No less singular 
is it that in the attack on a system inwoven with 
Church and State, they should have considered a 
man unfitted for the work because he appealed 
from the decisions of both to a higher tribunal. 

What are the minutia of Mr. Wright's opinions 
we do not distinctly understand. We only know 
that no man has shown himself in word or deed 
more faithful to the cause of the slave: and it 
tells unfortunately for the moral courage and 
christian consistency of the abolitionists, that while 

^Neither were there wanting among|the laity, men who like Sir 
Henry Vane, wers not ashamed to learn of a woman. 



63 

they joyfully saw all who had pjowerfui sects to 
sustain them, pleading the cause in their own way, 
they should have manifested intolerant feelings 
towards individuals who were without that sup- 
port. It seemed to be forgotten, in regard to the 
views of Mr. Wright, that if they were true, they 
would strengthen and support his abolition princi- 
ples ; that if they were mere eccentricities, they 
would take no hold on the minds of others. That 
if they partook of the nature of dangerous error, 
there was pressing need that they should be 
brought to the light of truth, that they might be 
destroyed by her power. 

They complained of want of caution and discre- 
tion ; and when asked for proof they referred to 
heretical opinions. They complained of the nar- 
rowness of men who refused to peril favorite 
missionary and temperance plans, by connecting 
themselves with the abolition cause; — they cen- 
sured the methodist body, who, falling into the 
error of Coke and Asbury, had required pledges 
of their young licentiates to touch no subjects but 
such as were generally acknowledged to pertain to 
Methodism ; — and with the same breath they were 
frequently heard to condemn anti-slavery lecturers 
for touching any subject but abolition. The pro- 
slavery public arraigned them for paying their 
money to support the errors mingled whh the 



64 



truths their agents propagated. Instead of fear- 
lessly announcing the intention to employ such 
agents as they pleased, too many "began with 
one accord to make excuse." Instead of feeling 
that whosoever had pleaded the cause effectually 
had done it "not as unto them but unto God," too 
many thought that they possessed the control of 
an agent's life, in consideration of the sum of 
^400 per annum; and were therefore responsi- 
ble for every expression of his opinions. 

These symptoms of intolerance, less, perhaps, 
the fruit of their own minds than a reflection of 
the minds of the opposition, were manifested not 
only by here and there an individual, but appear- 
ed in the shape of resolutions in two or three so- 
cieties. A new society at Bangor, passed the fol- 
lowing : 

Resolved, That while we admit and maintain the 
rights of free and full discussion on all subjects, yet, 
in our judgment, individuals rejecting the authority 
of civil and parental governments ought not to be 
employed as agents and lecturers in promoting the 
cause of emancipation. 

In excuse for this society it may be remarked, 
that it was within the atmosphere of a Theologi- 
cal Seminary."^ Had the proposition been thus 

* The Faculty and Professors of Theological Institutions have 
generally throughout the auti-slavery conflict thrown their influence 
against freedum. 



C5 



expressed, — ' Resolved, that in our opinion, indi- 
viduals rejecting the doctrine of universal salva- 
tion ought not to be employed,' &c. &ic. it nmy 
be doubted whether it would liave been so readily 
adopted. 

This was a time of trial for tlie cau^e ; and 
forasmuch as 'every universal truth which we ex- 
press in words, implies or supposes every other 
truth,' under its principles it was clearly seen that 
others than slaves might claini shelter. Its collat- 
eral bearings had always been more odious than 
its direct effects. It impinged on venerated abuses 
at every step, notwithstanding the well meant ef- 
forts of its friends to contract it to the smallest 
possible compass to avoid the shock of collision. 
]f the rays of the principles diverged, the whole 
land warmed and stirred under them in a manner 
that was appalling to those of little faith. If they 
were brought to a focus, they bore with scorching 
power on individual spots, which produced an ef- 
fect equally terrific. 

An instance of this was seen in the cases of the 
Rev. Elipiia White, a Massachusetts man who 
had become concerned in slaveholding ; and the 
Rev. G. W. Blagden, whose pro-slavery course 
had in so many previous instances been apparent. 
'Common, fame' had pronounced him a slave- 
holder : but common fame, though a sufficient au- 



66 



thority for citing a layman to appear before an 
ecclesiastical tribunal, is hardly admitted as such 
by ecclesiastics, when it arraigns them before an 
anti-slavery public. The '^ divine rights" of cler- 
gymen were outraged by an enquiry repeatedly 
made of Mr, Blagden in the Liberator, respecting 
the fact. When, as will often happen in moral 
conflicts, certain men come to be considered as 
personifications of certain principles, if one is 
touched, a thousand spring to their arms. That 
part of ihe community who call themselves, par 
excellence, the religious public, were strongly 
convulsed. Many wdio had imaginarily wept 
with the distant slave, now felt the swell of indig- 
nant sympathy for the present oppressor. 

At this critical moment, when, all minor imped- 
iments and blinding obstacles being removed by 
seven years of anti-slavery efibrt, the N. England 
Ministry were seen of all men, in the attitude of 
full communion with the southern slaveholuing 
ministry, inviting them to their pulpits, suppress- 
ing anti-slavery notices out of regard to their 
feelings, requiring anti-slavery agents to await 
their permission to enter the " rural parishes," 
and extending all the sanctions of Christianity to 
slaveholders :■ — at this critical m-oment, it was 
'' the hap"'- of Rev. Charles Fitch, and Rev. 

* See Dialogue between By-Ends and Christian : Pilgrims Pro- 
gress. 



67 

Joseph H. Towne, (andthree other clergymen but 
little known in the cause,) ' to jump in their judg- 
ment' with the greatest enemies of the cause, re- 
specting the principles of action by which it had 
till then been conducted. 

They privately circulated a call for a new anti- 
slavery organization, and issued an appeal or pro- 
test as ^clerical abolitionists,' which might have 
well been entitled, sequel to the pastoral letter ; 
so earnestly did it deprecate the violation of pro- 
slavery usages ; so deeply did the signers appear 
to feel, with the Rev. Mr. Blagden, that ''the 
time to take a positive stand against encroach- 
ments on PASTORAL RIGHTS had fully come," and 
so deeply were they wounded by the harsh lan- 
guage of abolitionists,"^ their ''base, vile, lying, 
slanderous, ferocious attack" on Pvlessrs. Blagdea 
and White,! and their uncourteous, nay unchrist- 

*r>ir. Fitch is the aiuhor of a pamphlet, ' Slaveliolding u-eiglied, 
&c.' which, with Mr. Woodbury's Speech on the guilt of the church 
and the ministry, we recommend to the perusal of the unawakened. 

•f In the Presbyterian General Assembly, Mr. White spoke as 
follows:—' If the General Assembly have a right to assume the 
powers asserted in the resolutions now on the table, they may say 
that my Presbytery shall not hold slaves. Let them do that, sir, 
and their authority will be disregarded. Yes, sir, let them do it, — 
and, my word for it, they will find they have Presbyterians to 
deal with. No, sir,— my Presbytery at the South will NEVER — 
no, NEVER GIVE UP THEIR RIGHT TO HOLD SLAVES 
to this Assembly, nor to any other Assembly than the " General As- 
.ijembly of the First Bora in Heaven." ' 



68 



ian trampling on the usages of a '' brother's pul- 
pit," by presenting there the clainns of the sulFer- 
ing and ihe dumb, in the shape of anti-slavery 
notices. They accused abolitionists of hostihty 
to other benevolent enterprises ; and feared lest 
themselves, and men like themselves, should be 
driven out of the cause by such misconduct, to 
weep in secret places for the poor slave. In this 
there was nothing novel ; but neither Mr. Fitch 
nor Mr. Towne appears to have been sufficiently 
well read in the earlier history of the cause. 

Rev. Mr. Woodbury, of Acton, addressed to 
tliem a letter of thanks, in which he suggested 
the great variety of opinions entertained by other 
abolitionists, on other subjects, as a reason why 
an onhodox clergyman should ' leave off lifting.' 
The two appellants amended the idea by pro- 
posing that chese others '- should go out from 
amongst' ilwm^ and accompanied the proposition 
w^ith the declaration that ^ihe Massachusetts So- 
ciety must have a new organ,' instead of using the 
columns of the Li'Derator."^ The New England 
Spectator, once the organ of the free church, had 
passed under the control of Deacon Gulliver — 

* The Mass. Society had, at its last anniversary, chosen to sus- 
tain this paper for the year, with the understanding that they 
claimed no coiitrol over the editor, Mr. Garrison, in consideration 
of so doing. 



69 

the Editor, Wm. S. Porter, was ' not prepared 
to say that the appeal (of theu^ minister) was not 
needed.' 

This triumvirate, which had long been em- 
ployed, each according to his gifts, in stifling the 
outgoings and effects of the abolition spirit in the 
free church, strenuously labored to produce the 
belief, that not only the abolition members of that 
church, but " nine tenths" of all others were 
favorable to the newly-invented " clerical aboli- 
tion." They were not mistaken in supposing 
that nine tenths of the clergymen in N. England 
would look favorably on the appeal : — their mis- 
take lay in supposing that the clergymen were 
the representatives of the abolitionists. They 
knew the disposition of the Theological Institu- 
tion at Andover, from which thirty-nine candi- 
dates for the ministry immediately joined them ; — 
they thought they saw Mr. Birney, the new sec- 
retary of the national anti-slavery society, with 
one hand in that of Dr. Channing, and the other 
clasped by Dr. Woods, and the moment seemed 
to them a favorable one to devise a sort of anti- 
slavery-made-easy, which might supersede the 
difficult requisition of repentance and its fruits. — 
The public sympathy for trampled millions which 
had with so much difficulty been disengaged from 
the colonizat'on and union plans, was now about 



70 



to be absorbed by a suffering clergy. If aboli- 
tionists had not been awake to the exigency, the 
free spirit going forth to unbind the captive, would 
have been seized and fettered, no more to pro- 
duce '' agitation" in the torpid bosom of the 
church. 

Thanks to the vigilance and fidelity of Oliver 
Johnson, Amos A. Piielps, and William Lloyd 
Garrison, the danger is, for the present, and only 
for the present, averted. We refer to their able 
replies to the appeals, protests, and letters of this 
period, for further illustration of the present perils 
of the cause. For ourselves, we consider this ' Bos- 
ton Controversy' as a mirror in vvhich every place, 
where abolitionists of several years standing are to 
be found, may see its own state reflected. 

Political partisans have failed to make a tool of 
the cause : church partisans can hardly hope to 
be more successful, unless through the unfaithful- 
ness of abolitionists. 

In laboring for the conversion of the pro-slav- 
ery party as citizens, abolitionists at first shrunk 
from making themselves of no reputation. It was 
painful and restraining to them to be called incen- 
diaries, insurrectionists, disunionists, amalgama- 
tionists, and monomaniacs. These epithets hav- 
ing lost their power, the same party are now, a§ 



71 



church men, sounding a hlgher-tonecl tocsin. The 
Giles of ^ Sabbath-breaker/ ^peace-man,' 'woman- 
preacher,' 'infidel,' ' heretic,' arid |_^eriiaps (if the 
pro-slavery spirit can be sufficiently disguised 
under the cloak of zeal for parental authority,) 
^ paiTicide,^ mil rins; so loud that the christian 
constancy of individuals may fail. 

As the cause rolls on, sometimes one of its con- 
stituent parts will be offended, and sometimes an- 
other ; — now a quaker, now a congregationalist, 
and anon a methodist or a baptist^ will feel the 
galling of their respective organizations : but as 
they value the preservation of these instrumen- 
talities wdiereby they w^ould accomplish their day 
of labor for their Saviour and their brethren, let 
them not permit them to be abused to the service 
of despotism. The cause of God and entire hu- 
manity is weightier than the cause of any subdi- 
vision. ' On whomsoever this stone falls, it shall 
grind him to powder.' 

We have glanced backward, along the church 
and ministerial policy of the last three years, tiie 
belter to understand our position and fulfil our 
duty. We find that at ahnost every step Vv-e liave 
taken towards the slave, our progress has been 
impeded by the same obstacle. As church mem- 
bers, we have been hindered by the ministry : — as 
women, we are hindered by the ministry : — as ab- 



clitioiilstSj still comes a 'clerical abolitionist,' to 
prevent, as far as in him lies, the vigorous prose- 
cution of our efforts. 

The question now before N. England, however 
veiled and disguised, is simply this; are ministers 
who defend slavery from scripture, and the apolo- 
gists of such, worihy or not, of the confidence and 
support of a christian community ? The question 
now before abolitionists is not what are the pecu- 
liar religious views of Mr. Garrison, — or which is 
most blameworthy, the * clerical abolitionists' or 
the editor of the Liberator : the question is of 
vital consequence to the slave ; — felt to be so 
through every vein and extremity. It is, 'shall 
we change our principles, our measures, and our 
instrumentalities at the suggestion of the oppres- 
sor !' ' Yes,' ansvver the clerical abolitionists ; 
and the temptation which made them unfaithful, 
is ever at work on every heart in the cause. The 
merchant, who would be bold for the right every 
where but on 'change, or in his place of business 
— the editor who speaks every where but in the 
columns of his j)aper, — the woman of fashion, 
who denies in the drawing-room what her heart 
acknowledges in its secret chambers, and shrinks 
from signing a petition in the face of opposing 
friends, — the church-member who dreads division 
of the church, — the member of an anti-slavery 



73 

society who forgets that truth is the only ground 
of union, and who, dreading a division in the anti- 
slavery ranks, trusts to the yoke of organization, 
after the bonds of sympathy are sundered, — who 
perils the cause by admitting anything but aboli- 
tion faith joined to abolition works ; and who, in 
his compassion for a sinning brother, would remove 
the true old land-marks of the cause, that he may 
appear to be yet within its pale; — all these, 
if they yield, are in the spirit of ' clerical aboli- 
tionism' as truly as the clergyman who dreads 
collision with the slavish usages of his associa- 
tion. The only difference is, that this latter claims 
that his cloth should exempt him from remark or 
censure. But is his 'customary suit of solemn 
black' a more valid plea than the far-famed 
* broadcloth^ of Boston ? He says he is the 
herald of Christ, and as such claims peculiar con- 
sideration : it is a dangerous step he takes when 
he compels a comparison between his claims and 
his character. No less dangerous is his position 
that a necessary qualification to plead the slave's 
cause is church-membership, if at the same time 
he bids those who fearlessly maintain that cause 
to keep silence in the church. 

As tliere is no royal road to mathematics, so 
there is no clerical road to abolition. The prin- 
ciples are too pure to admit of caste, even though 



74 



it were the high Braminical. A general may not 
file the abolitionists to the right and left, and 
enter at literal beat of dram, nor may a clergy- 
man claim to be speaker as in a church meeting, 
by virtue of his office, nor may a vvom.an j3lead 
her sex's pernicious privileges or pretended disa- 
bilities. 

Our position, as an anti-slavery society of wo- 
men, calls for special remark. It is not necessary 
for us, at this Jate day, to declare our theory with 
regard to the sphere of woman. It is sufficiently 
evident in our practice. V/e entreat all women, 
for the sake of the perishing, to examine this sub- 
ject attentively, for w^e see that women generally, 
cannot become other than abolitionists in the ab- 
stract;, till, their sentiments respecting the rights 
and consequent duties of woman are the growth 
of their own minds. The women of the north 
will not be so cold, in a cause so ennobling and 
holy, when they shall have life in themselves, 
and walk not slavishly by permission, but freely 
by inward determination. And it will be so ere 
long. In all parts of the Vv^orld are arising teach- 
ers on this subject, or rather the called of God, 
to suggest the idea of a truth which each mind 
must for itself discern — ordained of God to pre- 
sent a problem for every mind to work cut. We 
refer those who wish to examine it, to the writings 



75 

of Sarah and Angelina Grunke; Hamet Marti- 
neau, Aime Martin, and to the address of James 
A. Thome to the women of Ohio.^' 

The customary Bible argument for the subjec- 
tion of women is even more easily confuted than 
the Bible argument for slavery. 

Scripture has generally been presented to 
woman through a distorted medium. She is 
fettered in body and in mind by commentators and 
translators and partial reasoners, but by revelation 
never. What is the sphere and duty of woman, 
it rests with each one for herself to determine ; 
and to do this, she is aided by a revelation which 
it rests with each one for herself to interpret. 
The most absurd dogmas have been laid down for 
us. But dogmas lose their power from the 
moment we know them to be false. Made free 
in Christ Jesus, shall w^e receive the spirit of 
bondage again to fear? 

This is no digression. It is time gained to the 
slave to enlarge the sphere of action of his libera- 
tors. 

"Women of New England ! we are told of our 
pov/erful indirect influence ; our claims on man's 

^ We name these writings not as autiioi ities, but as tlie best 
aids to the examination of a subject liitherto strangely neglected, 
and in intimate connection with one that is beginning to arouse the 
Sand — the technically called Mora! Reform question. 



76 

gallantru and chivalry. We would not free all 
the slaves of Christendom by indirection ; such 
indirection. We trust to be strengthened for any 
sacrifices in their cause ; but we may not endanger 
our own souls for their redemption. We may 
not do evil that good may come. Let our influ- 
ence be open and direct: — such as our husbands 
and brethren will not blush to see us exercise. 

Let us be so open, so truthful, so fearless and 
so kind hearted, as to keep free from the impend- 
ing evil of an anti-slavery cant. It is one thing to 
cry, ' Let our motto be onward in the cause of the 
poor slave,' and another to make an actual ad- 
vance. It was one thing to say a year since, that 
the church and the ministry were supporting sla- 
very; and it will be quite another thing to stand 
the shock consequent upon their possible deter- 
mination to support it, now that seven years' labor 
begins to tell. It is one thing to say, let lis not 
turn aside from the poor slave bleeding under 
scriptural and patriarchial lash from the hands of 
McDuffie and South Carolinian ministers ; and 
another tiling to cross the path of the General 
Association of Massachusetts as they are urged 
backward in fellowship with such into the thick 
darkness of prelatic ages, by Professor Stuakt 
and Rev. Messrs. Blagden, Adams and Wins- 
Low. It is one thing to name a southern slave- 



77 

holder with open disapprobation, and another to 
question whether men in high standing among our- 
selves be slaveholders or not. It is one thing to 
testify loudlv against slavery as far off as South 
Carolina, and another, quietly and kindly to tell 
one's own minister that until he ceases to practice 
against the anti-slavery cause, one cannot worship 
under his ministrations. 

In these days of choice words and fair profes- 
fessions, we have been led by the notorious ab- 
sence of corresponding deeds, to bestow some 
thoughts on phraseology. Would that every man 
might speak in his own tongue. The all-impor- 
tant use of speech is to convey meaning.* Mr. 
Garrison wields a powerful instrument. He sun- 
ders at a blow, what another divides by continued 
efforts. He says of men, ' they are traitors, and 
must be drummed out of the camp.' We say of 
the same men, ' they are unfaithful to the cause of 
the slave, and it is wrong for us to suffer it to be 
supposed we think them faithful.' The idea is 
identical. Power is often sacrificed in seeking for 
' holiday and lady terms.' He who speaks to an 
unconscious people, in the moment of peril, must 

* We utterly reject those forms of speech which seem to have 
been invented to conceal meaning. When a man says, 'I still 
hold the principles of the abolitionists, but abjure their errors of 
practice,' he means, if he means any thing, ' I love their princi- 
ples aiiil hate their measures.' He is an abolitionist in the abstract. 



78 
if 
not begin like a lecturer on classical literature, — 
'Ladies and gentlemen.' He must utter the 
short, strong, stirring word, that turns back the 
flight. In a literary and critical point of view, 
Mr. Garrison, when the time serves, is second to 
no American writer. Posterity will find out, iliat^ 
Milton, in his own day, was known only as ' a 
foul-mouthed controversialist.' We find fault with 
no man, because (as B^n Jonson says of Lord 
Bacon,) '• his language is nobly censorious.' We 
rejoice when the cold-hearted casuist apologises 
for oppression, to see how 

' Mind smites Iiiai, with her wing of words ! ' 

We often hear apologies for Mr. Garrison's 
' harsh language.' It is said, ' we must pardon 
something to him who first raised this standard.' 
Is it of choice then, that he calls gentlemen * men- 
stealerSj' and ' traitors ? ' He has no choice — he is 
hound to do it, if such be his deliberate conviction. 
No ofBce, not even the pastoral or gubernatorial, 
should shield a criminal from recognition as such. 
To say otherwise, is to recognise the divine rights 
of kings and priests. It is idle to prescribe the 
' Christ-hke,' in language. They comprehend but 
little of the infinite fulness and all-sufiiciency of 
Christ, who db not see that the epithet Christ-like, 
covers every variety of expression, from rending 



79 

invective, to those words of gracious and gentle 
tenderness whicli men are wont to call v/omanly. 

It is idle to talk of ^ leaders.' In the contest of 
morals with abuses, men are but types of princi- 
ples. Does any one seriously believe that, if Mr. 
Garrison should take an appealing, protesting, 
backward step, abolitionists would fall back with 
him ? 

It is a revealed truth, of course, therefore, a phi- 
losophical necessity, that whenever a strong voice 
is heard crying through the wilderness of this 
world for reform, the man who gives it utterance 
will be hated : — and all who hsten and repent will 
be hated also, for his name's sake. Let them not 
strive to shake such odium. Their Savior left 
them the true example, when he submitted to the 
baptism of the bold, uncompromising John ; say- 
ing, THUS it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. 

The year has been to us one of instructive ex- 
perience in its bearings on the subject of religious 
liberty ;— one so linked to civil and personal liber- 
ty, that they cannot be separated. Our Society 
is composed of women of every religious sect and 
of every shade of opinion. Thanks be to God, 
by whose appointment of circumstances it is we 
differ, the most entire toleration prevails. 

We know that the cause of truth and freedom 
is perilled, if a single soul be cramped in the ex-. 



80 



pression of opinion, or hindered in pleading the 
slave's cause, because his plea is tinged, (as to be 
of any avail it ought to be,) with the coloring of 
his individual mind. We sliould be more deeply 
shocked, that one holding ultra peace principles, 
or not thinking the Sabbath an institution binding 
on Christians, should be, by the other members, 
considered disqualified to promulgate anti-slavery 
principles, than if the same intolerance were prac- 
tised on the representative of tiie most powerful 
sect. We shall none of us relinquish our individ- 
ual religious opinions — we shall none of us assume 
each other's responsibilities. 

Our common cause appears in a different ves- 
ture as presented by differing minds. One is striv- 
ing to unbind a slave's manacles, — another to se- 
cure to all human souls their inalienable rights ; — 
one to secure the temporal well-being, and anoth- 
er, the spiritual benefit of the enslaved of our land. 
Some labor that the benefits, which they feel that 
they have derived from their own system of the- 
ology, may be shared by the bondman, — others, 
that the bondman may have light and liberty to 
form a system for himself. Some that he may 
be enabled to hallow the Sabbath day, by rest and 
religious observances, — some that he may recbive 
wages for the labor of the other six. Some are 
forcibly urged to the work of emancipation, by the 



81 



sight of scourged and insulted manhood, and oth- 
ers by the spectacle of outraged womanhood and 
weeping infancy. Son^e labor to preserve from 
torture the slave's body, and some for the salva- 
tion of his soul. Here are difierences ; neverthe- 
less, our hopes and our hearts are one. 

The business of the anti-slavery societies, has 
been to erect platforms, from which those who 
felt moved to do so, might preach deliverance. 
For ourselves, we shall never assume their person- 
al responsibilities. As long as they preach deliv- 
erance, we will sustain them to do it, though they 
offend Unitarians, by speaking in the name of a 
triune God, Presbyterians by non-conformity in 
the matter of ' fate and free will,' or all the rest of 
the world, by non-conformity in general. The 
support which this consistent adherence to the 
principles of Christian freedom, gives to the cause 
of Christian freedom, is greater than any which 
can be afforded by gold, silver or majorities. No 
one can much advance the cause, who has not 
mental perspective enough, to present what is 
common and questionable among all sects, as the 
foreground. 

We may be permitted to quote a passage from 
our report of three years since : 

* We pray that this question may fulfil a perfect 
work in every soul it reaches ; that it may remain a 
6 



6^ 

searching question ; — that the numerous unpopular 
questions with which it is connected, may continual- 
ly come up with it as it is borne onward ; so that up 
to the final triumph, the a(?l of joining an anti-sla- 
very association may be, as it has hitherto proved, a 
test act.^ 

But joining an anti-slavery society is no longer 
a perfect test act. Many have joined them, to 
whom sympathy in sectarian doctrines, is more 
necessary, than sympathy in confessedly indivisi- 
ble principles. ' Happy is he,' says Carlyle, 
' who, when a symbol loses its significancy, knows 
how to substitute another in its place.'. The test 
in New England, for the present moment is, 
What think you of * Clerical Abolitionism ? ' 

The proper — the only antidote to slavery is 
freedom. The work is doing in every heart. The 
spirit of God is striving mightily with this people. 
Men are blindly praying for revivals, at the mo- 
ment that they are resisting and grieving it away. 
* Have I been so long time with thee and yet hast 
thou not known me, Philip } ' None but the free 
can unbind the fettered. Up to the very accom- 
plishment of our purpose, the struggle will be as it 
has ever been, for freedom to use existing instrumen- 
talities ; — such as the treasures of language, both 
spoken and printed, the moral power of associa- 
tion, the labors of woman : — for freedom to re- 
move obstacles ; — such as Colonization, American 
Union, and ' Clerical Abolition.' 



83 

We have marked the progress of the cause, 
amid the perils it has had to encounter, during the 
year 1837, with intense watchfulness, that no op- 
portunity might escape us of aiding it by w^ord or 
deed. This ' watching unto prayer,' we regard 
as a more imperative duty than any other, because 
a preparatory one. 

At the beginning of the year, we subscribed for 
fifty copies of the Liberator, which have been cir- 
culated in towns, where the principles of freedom 
had hardly been discussed. Their effect will be 
best shown by reference to the appendix : ^ one as- 
surance among the many we have received, of 
the power of truth plainly expressed, and of facts 
forcibly stated. We trust it will be in our power, 
the coming year, to circulate the Liberator more 
extensively. After one of Mr. Stanton's eloquent 
addresses, before our Society, we raised ^'100 to 
aid the operations of the National Society ; la- 
menting the smallness of the sum. 

The duty of petitioning has been a laborious 
one. Our addrers and forms of petition have been 
thoroughly circulated in Massachusetts, and ex- 
tensively throughout New England, f Forty-five 
thousand signatures of women, against the an- 
nexation of Texas, have, to our knowledge 
been transmitted to Congress ; and as many 
more will be thrown in, the coming session, for 

* See Appendix I. f See Appendix II. 



84 

the abolition of slavery in the District of Co- 
lumbia. It is thought that this number by no 
means includes all that have been forwarded. We 
feel that we may confidently affirm, that no woman 
of Massachusetts will cease to exercise for the 
slave, the right of petition, (her only means of 
manifesting her civil existence,) for which Mr. 
Adams has so nobly contended.* Massachusetts 
women will not forget in their petitions to Heaven, 
the name of him who upheld their prayer for the 
enslaved of earth, in the midst of sneers and 
wrath, bidding oppressors remember that they too 
w^ere w^oman-born, and declaring that he consider- 
ed the wives, and m.others, and daughters of his 
electors, as also his constituents. 

What immediate effect would be produced on 
men's hearts, and how much they might be moved 
to wrath before they were touched with repent- 
ance, we have n#.ver been careful to enquire. We 
leave such cares with God : we do so, wdth con- 
fidence in his paternal providence, for what we 
have done is right and womanly. 

In raising funds we have been aided by many 
societies in different parts of the State. May we 
be so faithful, self-denying and diligent and judi- 
cious that they shall never repent of having made 
us their stewards. We reckon in the funds of 

*See Appendix III. 



85 

this year $600, the product of a sale of usefu; 
articles of our own and our friends' manufacture.—^ 
Much has heretofore been said against Ladies' 
Fairs, by those who are justly displeased at the 
manner in which they are sometimes conducted. 
All the objections we have heard, respect impro- 
prieties of management, and therefore may be ob- 
viated. Surely if merchants and traders may buy 
and sell for their own benefit, we may buy and 
sell for the benefit of the slave. A Fair is not a 
malum in 5e, unless the same can be proved of the 
acts of sale and purchase. We propose, during 
Christmas week, again to have recourse to this 
means of raising money, as it is the most effectual 
means we can command. We do so the more 
readily, as it has been at the same time, a means of 
exciting and increasing a general interest in the 
minds of our friends. We have received from 
friends in Scotland, England and Ireland, thought- 
ful and affectionate proofs that they have us and 
our cause in continual remembrance. In behalf of 
the slave we thank them for their zealous co-opera- 
tion and sympathy. We are united to them, by 
the firmest of all ties — those which bind christians 
to the accomplishment of a righteous purpose. — 
How much do we not owe them — these tried 
friends of our father-land, for their active exer- 
tions and their ardent prayers. We hope the time 



86 

is not far distant when he who has already so faith- 
fully represented them in America, our beloved 
friend George Thompson, will again visit it, and be 
received, not as before, in a manner we would fain 
forget, but with the blessings and the thanks of re- 
pentant multitudes. 

The cause has received immense accessions of 
numbers. Among the perils of the slave may 
now be counted perils among false brethren. If 
we labor not with more and more diligence and 
fervor, and sympathetic and unalterable constancy, 
the cause will degenerate under our eyes, from a 
principle into an institution — from a feeling into a 
creed — from a social worship of the God of right- 
eous mercy, into a decent adhesion to an ami-slav- 
ery society. We must not for a moment see free- 
dom wounded in the house of her friends, without 
raising a voice of earnest remonstrance. No idea 
of expediency should seal our lips. It is the 
TRUTH which is mighty. It is the only light ; let 
us hold it up then, and though we lack skill and 
logic and the training of the schools, it will, not- 
withstanding, prevail. 

When clergymen plead usage and immemorial 
custom in favor of unutterable wrong, and bid us 
keep silence for courtesy, and put the enginery of 
church organization in play as a hindrance to our 
cause, and not as a help, our situation calls for far 



87 

more strenuous exertion than when, in 1835jthe 
freedom of the women of Boston was vilely bar- 
tered away in the merchant-thronged street. Our 
situation is as much more perilous now, as spirit- 
ual is more dreadful that temporal outrage. We 
have no means to strengthen and nourish our spirits 
but by entertaining and obeying the free spirit of 
God. Its influences are like the manna of the 
Hebrew sojourners in the wilderness; and may 
not be husbanded like earthly sustenance. 

Finally, dear friends, co-workers with us for the 
freedom of three millions — a generation — in bond- 
age, with their innumerable posterity! — let us keep 
our own hearts with all diligence, for out of them 
are the issues of freedom and of life. As yet, our 
judgment is unimpaired by hopes of the favor, 
and our resolution undamped by the fear of the 
host who oppose us. As yet, our hearts are not 
darkened by the shadow of unklndness. We lis- 
ten to clerical appeals and religious magazines and 
the voices of an associated clergy, as though we 
heard them not, so full on the ear of every daugh- 
ter among us, falls the cry of the fatherless and 
those who have none to help them, — so full in 
every motherly heart and eye rises the image of 
one pining in captivity, who cannot be comforted 
because her children are not. 



88 

During the review of the past year, how con- 
stantly have we felt that our cause is now hallowed 
by the remembrance of the dead. We have lost 
the visible presence of one for a double portion of 
whose spirit we fervently pray. May the manner 
of her life and of her serene departure be to us a 
continual admonition. For her beautiful example 
of truthfulness and love, of moral independence 
and lofty principle, of strenuous and unremitting 
exertion and Christian humility^ * we know how 
much we have to answer for to God.' We may 
not always penetrate the cloud and darkness that 
surrounds the councils of the Almighty and All- 
wise; but /iere, the eye of christian faith enables 
us to discern that * having in a short time fulfilled a 
long time, her soul pleased the Lord, wherefore 
hasted he to take her away.'* 

Boston, October ^o, 1837. 

♦See Appendix IV. 



Note to page 15. — The information relative to the form of 
organization of the Free Church, may be found in the N. E.Spec**; 
tator; at that time the organ of the Free Church. 

The Abolition Meeting respecting a free building, took place a 
short time previous to the organization. 



OS'FICERS OF THE BOSTON FEMAL.E ANTI- 
SLAVERY SOCIETY FOR 1837--8. 

President. 
MARY S. PARKER. 

Vice President. 
CATHERINE M. SULLIVAN. 

Recording Secretary. 
MARTHA V. BALL. 

Treasurer. 
LUCY M. BALL. 

Foreign Cor. Secretary. 
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN. 

Domestic Cor. Secretary. 
ANNE WARREN WESTON. 

Counsellors. 
T. SOUTHWICK, EUNICE DAVIS, 

HENRIETTA SARGENT, MARY G. CHAPMAN, 
SOPHIA ROBINSON, CAROLINE WESTON. 



Anti-Slavery Societies of Women in Mass<, with the 
Names of their Secretaries. 

Amesbury and Salisbury. Miss Betsey LinscoSl, 

Andover. Mrs. Susan Jolmson. 

Ashbicrnham. Mrs. Gilmaa Jones. 

AthoL A. M. Hoyt. 

Boston. Miss Anne Warren Weston. 

jBoxborougk. Mrs. Ebenezer Hay ward. 

JBridgewater. 

Cambridgeport. Mrs. M. Chamberlain. 

Danvers. Mrs. Isaac Winsfow. 

Dorchester. Miss Sarah Baker. 

East Bradford. Miss Ellen B. Ladd. 

Fall River. Miss Sarah G. Buffum, 

Fitchburgh. Mrs. Eliza Gill. 

Franklin. Elizabeth Pond. 

Groton. Miss Elizabeth Parnsvvorth. 

Haverhill. Miss Harriet Minot. 

Hingham. Mrs. Edward Thaxter. 

Loioell. Mrs. George Mansfield. 

Lynn. Miss Abby Kelley. 

Millville — Mendon P. O. Miss Abby Pitts, 

Newburyport. Miss H. S. Stickney. 

JVeto Bedford. Miss Elizabeth C. Taber» 

North Leicester. Eliza Earle. 

Blymouth. 

Reading. Mrs. Lydia P. T. Bancroft. 

Roxbury. Mrs. John Jones. 

Salem. Miss L. L. Dodge. 

South Reading. Miss M. A. Avery. 

South Weymouth.. Mrs. Eliza T. Lord^ 

Sudbury. Miss Mary Rice. 

Uxbridge. Miss S. Judson. 

Weymouth and Braintree. Mrs. H. C. Fifield. 



s« b 



3 p 

o'S- 






e 22 S-g- Oc-a ^t-^r-o^a;^ 
?"- -^ -^ ?: S"::-^ 3- :?'^ f^? ' -■^''ii9. 

r?lr??|||ii 

O — M 3 yj r; ^ir.S ° 

£.° " ra t3-' ^ == [I: 

S^S-- CO. g= = 

-•I. S^i o;: 

'-'S ^J? • c o 

o T^Cl. - - 

■ "- - >-b 

CB 
>■ 3 



.^W =1 



— B g g SaS''^ 



1^1^9.111 H'g^P^ 



n 2' £ * £, 












'^•1 



»g 



S5 



001 o 00 wo o :-■ 
00 o ceo coo 00 



O O O CJI o 



w ^ 



g 2 

2 . cT 



- 3 



rJ — ,^ rt- _ ^ , 






5 ;te) 0-3 

^cs CD ra 5:, 



:-5 3 3 
'= 2 - 
= a5 












02 . -■ ^' 



<5 Q-°-2 






^^^o 



O — 4i tc 50 



3 1 -• >- 



o 









rf- >- 



APPENDIX 



I. 



Sept. 30th, 1837. 



Mjf dear friends of the Boston Female Anti-Slavenf 
Society : 

I shall ever feel grateful to you all, for the blessed 
aid you have given us in the anti-slavery cause, by 
sending those five copies of the Liberator. It is evi- 
dent they have been doing good in this place. One 
young man — the very corner stone of influence 
among the young men of the church and Sabbath 
school, has acknowledged that Garrison's ansu'ers to 
the ' Clerical Appeal,' and especially to Woodbury, 
has satisfied him of the righteousness of our cause, 
and he declares that henceforth he will sustain us at 
all hazards. So great is the fear of the pro-slavery 
part of the people, that our minister preaches against 
us on the Sabbath ; and on the tenth of this month, 
he employed , of , who preach- 
ed against us, on account of the division anti-slavery 
was making in the church in this place ; and he even 
directed us 'to waive what we considered to be 
TRUTH AND DUTY, in order to keep peace in 
the church ; ' but these false arguments are met in 
the conference, when our good anti-slavery young 



93 



men lead ; and my husband told our minister a day 
or two since, that thoy might preach him down as 
much as they pleased in the desk, but, he would sus- 
tain himself out of doors, till the cloud disappeared 
and the siin^ and not here and there a flash of light- 
ning, enlightened the world. 

The Misses Grimke, (God speed them,) did us 
much good, by making our barn a Temple of free 
discussion, and of Christian principles. 

I shall have a little money for you, to remunerate 
jou in part for what you have done for us ; go for- 
ward my dear sisters! regard not 'black cloth or 
broadcloth,' but honor all who wear plain truth, as 
their garments, and you will have husbands* of hon- 



* Alluding to the petition to Congress, of ladies of Halifax, 
Va. ' that the northern ladies, who petition for abolition 
might be provided with husbands at the public expense.' ( ! ! ! ) 
The following is a resolution of the husbands and fathers of Bristol 
County, Mass., from which went 8000 women's signatures against 
the annexation of Texas, and 2800 for abolition in the District. 

' Resolved, That we are gratified at the interest in the domestic 
relations of women, recently manifested by ' ladies of Halilax 
County, Va.' in their petition to Congress, 'to provide certain of 
their sisters at the North with suitable husbands at the public ex- 
pense; ' and that while we protest against the man-jobbing aspect 
of their proposition as unwomanly, inhuman and heathenish, we 
still hope that their interest in the subject will not cease, until the 
thousands of sisters in their midst, (whose entire domestic relations 
are, by law and custom, trampled in the dust, without even the poor 
right of prayer for relief,) shall be welcomed to the rank and rights 
of womanhood, and the liand of female violence, that now so often 
plunders them of husband and children alike, and glories in its 
ghame, shall be cheerfully extended to protect and defend 1 he hearts 
and the hearths it now so inhumanly and wantonly desolates. 

Resolved, That woman, when she pleads for the oppressed, and 
labors to meliorate and relieve their condition, acts worthy of her- 
self, and of her high duties as an intellectual, moral and account- 
able being.' 

The following resolutions were passed by the Boston Young 
Men's Anti-Slavery Society. 



94 



or^with whom, after gathering in the household har- 
vest of righteousness, you will set down at the 
thanksgiving feast of equal rights, produced by free 
labor, and seasoned with love and good will to all 
mankind. I am your friend, 

In the bonds of sympathy, 

H N . 



II. 



Address of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society 
to the Women of New Kn gland. 

The true descendants of the pilgrims cannot fail 
to cherish in their inmost souls, the principles of 
Christian Freedom : — the children of the far-sighted 
founders of New England cannot fail to perceive 
that while, under any pretence, one human being is 
held in slavery in a nation of v/hich they form apart, 
their own freedom is in peril. Every dictate, there- 
fore, of Christian philanthropy and self preservation, 
is, to strive for the extinction of slavery. 

Who have power to abolish it in the District of 
Columbia, and to prevent its further progress by for- 
bidding the introduction of siaveholding Texas? 
Our northern senators and representatives, who form 



« Resolved, That the praiseworlhy zeal and self sacrificing spirit 
manifested by women in the cause of abolition, have essentially aid- 
ed in its promotion and are worthy of the highest commendation. 

Resolved, That notwithstanding the efforts made to arrest the 
philanthropic exertions of woman in the cause of abolition, by 
raising a cry respecting tlie ' appropriate sphere of women,' we 
have the utmost confidence in their unwavering adherence to prin- 
ciple, and believe they will not be deterred from continued exertion 
by such attempts.' 



95 



a majority in Congress. Why do they not use this 
power? Because ihey are not sure that it would 
meet the wishes of their constituents. Who are 
their constituents? You: women of the North! 
You, with your husbands and brethren, are their 
constituents. Remember that the representation of 
our country is based on ike numbers of the popular 
tion, irrespective of sex. Let us not forget that our 
representatives are now borne down by southern vio- 
lence, and require our utmost aid to enable them to 
act according to their consciences. What then will 
be their condition under the increase of violence, 
and the multiplication of arrogant demands, which 
must grow out of such an accession of power to the 
South, as the annexation of a slaveholding territory 
large enough to constitute five slave States, each as 
large as Kentucky? In vain is it said, this is noth- 
ing to us. Have we not a country, and is she not 
dishonored before all the nations, by her inconsisten- 
cy and shameless violation of faith, in refusinof for 
30 years, to acknowledge the irjdependence of Hayti 
with its 900,000 of inhabitants, and its extensive 
commercial relations, while she sends a vile and re- 
fuse population of only 30,000 to take possession of 
Texas — aids them with arms and troops to revolt 
against Mexico, acknowledges them to be an inde- 
pendent people — and is preparing at an extra session 
of Congress, to annex them to herself, that she may 
increase her profits in slaves? Is it nothing to us 
that Mexico and the Indian tribes should unite against 
our country's aggressions? — that our husbands and 
our sons should be drafted from our household-floors, 
to encounter the storm of fire and blood that will 
sweep along the south-western border ? Is it noth- 
ing to us if the north, — called on by those in Con- 
gress, who will then have the power and the disposi- 
tion to use it, at once to defend them and to obey, 



96 

should dissolve the national connexion? Is it noth- 
ing to us, if, amid the wreck of States — United no 
more, brother should battle against brother and friend 
against friend? Owr brothers — our friends? And 
is it indeed nothing to us that the scourged and 
trampled negro, a slave no more, should take ad- 
vantage of the crisis to make Ms being felt, and rise 
to the shedding of blood on every southern threshold 1 
However ignorant, thoughtless, or negligent oth- 
ers may be — and though we may eventually be 
obliged to mourn over their negligence in desolation 
and ashes, — let us free our souls from self reproach : 
let it sink deep into our hearts, that the unutterable 
destruction that sooner or later awaits our country, 
unless slavery be abolished, is as certain ag that God 
judges and punishes nations, in this world, accord- 
ing to their evil deeds. 

While this truth is warm in our souls, let us re- 
flect that conduct is the test of sincerity, and that we 
are upholding slavery in the most effectual manner, if 
we keep silence when an opportunity offers of lifting 
up our voices against it. Sustaining, as we do, all the 
relations of womanhood, w^e cannot but be shocked 
at a system which debases woman to a brute, by 
making her an article of property, keeping her in 
ignorance and heathenism, buying, selling, scourg- 
ing and dividing her from children and friends at 
will. But if we are not enough shocked at its exis- 
tence to pray both secretly and puhlicly^ of God 
and man for its extinction, we are partakers of the 
sin ; and may God forgive our hypocrisy, and hu- 
manize our hearts ! 

Let us now resolve to cast aside all the temptations 
of indolence and selfishness ; — to deem it a dignify- 
ing privilege to redeem our leisure hours from frivol- 
ity, by laboring with unremitting constancy to unite 



97 



the hearts and voices of others with our own, for the 
immediate abolition of all slavery over which Con- 
gress possesses jurisdiction. Let us count it but a 
small thing to toil thus voluntarily through the dusty 
summer, knowing there are in our country, hundreds 
of thousands among those who are scourged to un- 
requited toil, who would ' count it joy enough to 
perish, being free ' We are not idly spending our 
strength for nought. It is for the honor of our coun- 
try ! for the welfare of our children, and their re- 
motest posterity ; that their inheritance of civil and 
religious liberty be not vilely cast away ! It is for 
millions of our enslaved countrymen, and for the 
bondmen of all future generations ! It is for the 
iundamental principles of Christianity, wherein lies 
our salvation. 

One single hour devoted to the consideration of 
this subject, will show its mighty tendencies through 
all time— will demonstrate that the present moment 
is giving its coloring to the far eternity 1 

In view of this crisis, unparalleled in the world's 
moral existence, let us go up, in the spirit, into the 
councils of the nation, and ask in the name of God 
and the human race, for the freedom of the 7000 in 
the District of Columbia, and for a strenuous effort 
to avert the wrath gathering against that day of 
wrath which shall witness the annexation of Texas. 

Let every woman into whose hands this page falls, 
INSTANTLY, (for the work must be done before the 
extra September session,) prepare rolls of paper, and 
attach one to each of the annexed forms of petition ; 
and with pen and ink-horn in hand, and armed with 
affectionate, but unconquerable determination, go 
from door to door, * among her own people,' that 
every one of them may have an opportunity of affix- 
ing her name to these four memorials : — and the 
7 



benediction of God and good men, and the grateful 
intercessions of the enslaved and desolate, be round 
about every such tried friend of humanity, in its ex- 
tremest need ! 

By order of the Society, 

MARY S. PARKER, President. 
Maria Weston Chapman, 8ec'y. 
June, 1837. 

Forms of Petition and Remonstrance to the Con- 
gress of 1837. 

The undersigned, women of deeply 

convinced of the sinfulness of Slavery, and keenly 
aggrieved by its existence in a part of our country 
over which Congress possesses exclusive jurisdiction 
in all cases whatsoever, do most earnestly petition 
your honorable body, immediately to abolish Slavery 
in the District of Columbia, and also to put an end 
to the slave-trade in the United States. 

We also respectfully announce our intention, to 
present the same petition, yearly, before your honor- 
able body, that it may at least be a ' memorial of 
us,' that in the holy cause of Human Freedom, 
* We have done what we could.' 

The undersigned, women of thor- 

oughly aware of the sinfulness of Slavery, and the 
consequent impolicy and disastrous tendency of its 
extension in our country, do most respectfully re- 
monstrate, with all our souls, against the annexa- 
tion of Texas to the United States as aslaveholding 
territory. 

The following will show the manner in which our 
petitions are at present treated in the United States 
Congress : — 



, 99 

Scene in the Mouse of Representatives on the Pre- 
sentation of a Petition for the A holition of Slave- 
ry and the Slave-trade at the Seat of Government. 
— From the National Intelligencer of January 9, 
1837. 

Mr. John Cluincy Adams, ex-President of the 
United States, said, he would have the honor of pre- 
senting to the house the petition of 228 women, the 
wives and daughters of his immediate constituents; 
and as a part of the speech which he intended to 
make, he would take the liberty of reading the peti- 
tion. It was not long, and would not consume much 
time. 

Mr. Glascock objected to the reception of the pe- 
titi(m. 

Mr. A proceeded to read, that the petitioners, in- 
habitants of South Weymouth, in the State of Mas- 
sachusetts, impressed with the sinfulness of slavery, 
and keenly aggrieved by its existence in a part of 
our country over which Congress 

Mr. Pinckney rose to a question of order. Had 
the gentleman from Massachusetts a right, under 
rule, to read the petition? 

The Speaker said, the gentleman from Massachu- 
setts had a right to make a statement of the contents 
of the petition. 

Mr. Pinckney desired the decision of the Speaker 
as to whether a gentleman had a right to read a pe- 
tition. 

Mr. Adams said, he was reading the petition as a 
part of his speech, and he took this to be one of the 
privileges of a member of the house. It was a priv- 
ilege which he would exercise till he should be de- 
prived of it by some positive act. 

The Speaker repeated that the gentleman from 
Massachusetts had a right to make a brief statement 



100 



of the contents of the petition. It was not for the 
Speaker to decide whether that brief statement 
should be made in the gentleman's own language, or 
whether he should look over the petition, and take 
his statement from that. 

Mr. Adams — At the time ray friend from South 
Carolina 

The Speaker said, the gentleman must proceed to 
state the contents of the petition. 

Mr. Adams. — I am doing so, sir. 

The Speaker. — Not in the opinion of the chair. 

Mr. Adams. — I was at this point of the petition — 
'Keenly aggrieved by its existence in a part of our 
country over which Congress possesses exclusive 
jurisdiction in all cases whatever' 

tioud cries of ' Order, order.' 

Mr. A. proceeded. — ' Do most earnestly petition 
your honorable body ' 

Mr. Chambers of Kentucky rose to a point of or- 
der. 

Mr. A. proceeded. — ' Immediately to abolish sla- 
very in the District of Coluttibia,' 

Mr. Chambers reiterated his call to order, and the 
Speaker told Mr. Adams to take his seat. 

Mr. A. proceeded (with great rapidity of enuncia- 
tion, and in a very loud tone of voice.) — ' And to 
declare every human being free who sets foot upon 
its soil.' 

Mr. Chambers insisted on his point of order, and 
the Speaker again, with great earnestness of manner, 
told the gentleman from Massachusetts to take his 
seat. 

Whereupon Mr. A. yielded the floor. 

[The confusion in the Hall at this time was so 
great that scarcely a word could be heard by the re- 
porters.] 



101 



The Speaker presented, in writing, the substance 
of his decision, that it was not in order for a mem- 
ber to read the whole petition if objected to, but that 
he had only the right to make a ' brief statement of 
the contents thereof 

Mr. Adams said, he proposed to withdraw his ap- 
peal, in order to save the time of the House, if the 
gentleman from Kentucky would permit him to com- 
plete his * brief statement of the contents' of the 
petition. It was indeed so brief, that to read the pe- 
tition in its own language was the briefest statement 
that could be made. 

Mr. A. then read from the petition, that the peti- 
tioners ' respectfully announced their intention to 
present the same petition yearly before this honorable 
body, that it might at least be a memorial in the holy 
cause of human freedom, that they had done what 
they could.' 

These words were read amidst tumultuous cries 
for order from every part of the House. And order 
having at length been restored, 

Mr. Adams withdrew his appeal. 

We would particularly direct the attention of every 
woman, whose eye this page reaches, to the District 
of Columbia, containing 7000 slaves, besides being 
a great depot. Packets, fitted up as slave-ships, 
sail regularly from thence to New Orleans, the great 
slave-market of the far South-west, from whence 
they are transferred to the sugar plantations, where 
their average life is seven years. It is good slave- 
holding economy to work and starve them to death in 
that time. 

The regular dealers in the District arc licensed 

BY OUR GENERAL GOVERNMENT. The followiug, CX- 



102 

tracted from a conversation betweon one of our mem- 
bers and a woman of color, will help to show what 
IT IS that they are licensed to do. 

'Oh if I could only get my child! She is 14 
years old now if alive. When I was sold to New Or- 
leans, I was sixteen. My master let me carry her 
to the wagon that was waiting for me, a quarter of 
a mile down, — theji he took her, poor little thing, 
only a year old, off my arm, and Woolfolk drove me 
off to his prison. I have had three children since, 
but nothing can make up for that one. I was six 
weeks there, and oh, the dreadful life it was. We 
were made to be very still, and the men ironed up at 
night. Woolfolk did'nt like, I think, to go down 
amongst them himself, but always, while I was there, 
he sent an old woman, Mrs. Green, and she would go 
down amongst them, v/ith her apron full of irons, and 
do it. The men would bear it better of her. The 
nights were the worst — hot and crowded, and not a 
sound allowed. I have seen the mothers seize their 
little children by the throat and almost strangle 
them, for when a child cries in the night they flog 
the mother in the morning before all the men — they 
never mind that. One poor fellow turned his head 
away not to see such a disgraceful sight — they flog- 
ged him well, for his insolence^ they said. Could'nt 
he look at what they did ? they would teach him. 
Sometime before I went there, one of the women 
told me a man tried to escape. He got out at a high 
window and let himself drop into the yard ; but the 
walls were high — he sprung up and fell back — Wool- 
folk harked the dogs on him — they dragged him 
limb from limb about the yard. My husband used 
to come to see me whenever he could. Sometimes 
he got a chance, sometimes not, but never near 
enough to talk. I saw him in the house, before we 



103 



went on board the vessel. Woolfolk hoped I should 
persuade hirn to go off with us, for he was a first rate 
blacksmith and would sell very high in N. Orleans; 
so he brought him in, and set a chair for us both, 
and left the room. Though we had so much to say, 
and had'nt talked together for so long, we could'nt 
find one word. He cried, but I could'nt. At last I 
told him not to go, but get back to his master before 
he was missed. Woolfolk gave us all a dollar, big 
and little, (ho always does every one he sells,) and 
we were crowded on board. Suffering enough ; but 
I won't stop — we got to N. Orleans at last, and when 
we got out on the wharf there, I fell down. There 
I lay, I could'nt get up — if I had strength, I had'nt 
the heart ; I wished I might die. A man came 
along and bought me. Come, says he, I'm from the 
North, and don't like this business altogether, any 
more than you do ; get up and do your best, and 
I'll give you your freedom some time or other. The 
very word seemed to bring me to. I did cooking 
and washing at his farm-like kind of place, some 
way from the city a long time, and he kept his 
promise. But my poor child ! I heard Burditt 
Washington praying and begging to the meeting at 
Congress Hall, for money to buy his children. / 
thought if I was only a man, to get up and beg for 
mine ! but a woman has'nt half the chance.' 

True, poor oppressed one ! We, too, in many 
things, * are in bonds as bound with you ! ' But 
thanks (under God) to John Quincy Adams, t^ecAN 
rise and plead unceasingly for your child. 



104 

III. 

We have this year received communications most 
grateful and encouraging to our hearts, and assist- 
ance in raising funds, from ladies of Liverpool, 
Manchester and Darlington, Eng., — from ladies of 
Glasgow, Scotland, — from Ladies' Juvenile Associa- 
tion in the vicinity of Dublin, Ireland. We subjoin 
such of them as have not before been presented to 
the different N. E. societies through the medium of 
the Liberator. To these dear friends all our hearts 
reply as one — 'I thank my God upon every remem- 
brance of you.' 

To the Members of the New England Ladies Anti- 
slavery Societies. 

Dear Friends, — As members of a small associa- 
tion formed in this town, to promote the educati6n 
of the negroes in our colonies, we wish to assure 
you of the deep interest we feel in your much more 
arduous labor of love, as regards your colored popu- 
lation, both free and in bondage. 

We have received with much sympathy the ac- 
counts which from time to time have reached us of 
the opposition and persecution which you have ex- 
perienced. Yet we trust none of these things will 
discourage you in your great work ; but that, whilst 
you see the necessity of continued prudence, and 
caution, and wisdom in all your exertions, you will 
nevertheless be enabled to go forward with increasing 
zeal in the cause of suffering humanity, — remembjer- 
ing that, as all who will live godly in Christ Jesus 
shall suffer persecution, so all who will arise to plead 
the cause of the poor and oppressed, and to seek 
justice for those who cannot seek it for themselves, 



105 



shall expose themselvas to opposition, calumny, and 
misrepresentation, — but this is the badge of disci- 
pleship, and we trust it will not cast you down. 

We heartily congratulate you on the rapid and 
amazing profi^ress wliich your cause has recently 
made in the United States generally. We hear of 
fresh societies springing up in almost every direc- 
tion, with a zeal and energy which we trust are 
excited by the Author of ail good and will be crowned 
with his blessing. 

We would also encourage you by the result of 
that long and arduous struggle, which the friends of 
humanity in tfiis country sustained for the rights of 
the negroes in our colonies. A result, which 
(though it has not embraced in its measures all they 
could ha?e wished) has abolished slavery entirely in 
some of the islands, and which, if the regulations of 
this government are carried into effect as we trust 
they will be, will soon prove its extinction in the 
whole of the British possessions. 

The difficulties you have to contend with are in- 
deed much greater than were ours. Yet the same 
Omnipotent hand, which, in the one instance, was 
stretched out for the deliverance of the oppressed, 
can overthrow for you every barrier, and accomplish 
his purposes of love and mercy, in answer to the 
prayers of his believing people. 

Above all we would desire to encourage you in 
your endeavors to raise the religious and moral con- 
dition of your free colored people, and may the God 
of all grace give yo« to see the reward of your la- 
bors, in the improved state of public feeling regard- 
ing them, and in the removal of that galling yoke of 
bondage which embitters tlie lives of so vast a num- 
ber in your Southern states, 

V/ith warmest desires that the blessing of God 
may rest on all your labors and crown them with 



106 

success, we would bid you take courage, and trust 
in him. In behalf of the Liverpool Ladies' Negroes 
Friend Society. 

ANNE CROPPER, Secretcn^ij. 

Liverpool^ April 4:th, 1837. 

Glasgow, 7th 31onth 22J 1837. 

My Dear Friend — Herewith thou wilt receive 
fifty copies of the third Annual Report of the ' Glas- 
gow Emancipation Society, '^ and fifty of the Report 
of the 'Ladies Auxiliary.' By the latter thou wilt 
see that the communications from the Ladies of New- 
England, have been received and duly appreciated,, 
and that we have taken great liberty with * Right 
and Wrong in Boston ; ' indeed we wished, in advo- 
cating the cause of the American slave, and the- 
American anti-slavery Societies, to allow our friends 
there to speak for themselves; knowing that nothing 
we could say could have so much weight. It is with 
great interest we read and circulate all the informa- 
tion we can obtain of your movements, and the pro- 
gress of the cause generally, — and are from time to- 
time filled with gratitude and astanishment at the 
amazing rapidity with which it advances. 

We have been indescribably shocked and grieved 
at the horrid disclosures recently made by Joseph 
Sturge and others, of the cruelties still inflicted on 
our own fellow subjects in the West Indies; and are 
determined to rest no longer till the system of ap- 
prenticeship is abolished, and slavery forever ban- 
ished both in name and reality from . the British 
Dominions. 

We have great hopes in the tender mercies of our 
young Queen^ and are preparing petitions to her to- 



107 



confer immediate and unconditional freedom upon 
all her subjects.* 

We intended to have prepared a box of work and 
sent it towards the end of the year, — but under- 
standing you were to have a sale or fair sometime in 
autumn, and wishing to appear at it, (however hum- 
bly,) we have hastily collected a few articles, — and 
hope shortly to forward another box of something of 
the same kind to another society. As those now 
sent have been mostly prepared within three or four 
days and some of them the contributions of children, 
they are perhaps neither so suitable for packing to 
send such a distance, nor so valuable as we could 
have wished. 

The portrait of George Thompson is far from 
being what it should be, but as it bears some resem- 
blance we send it. The painting was very good but 

* The following will show with how much energy this idea was 
acted upon. 

ladies' petition to the queen. 

* We are informed that the signatures to this petition in England, 
amount to 400,000 ! We have no doubt the number from Scotland 
will be as ffieat, in proportion to the population, if not even 
greater. We are unable to state the aggregate, as yet. of the sig- 
natures received by the ladies of Edinburgh, to their petition. 
Neither can we announce the total number appended to that from 
the Ladies of Glasgow. We know, however, that upwards of 
ttoenty thousand females have subscribed it within the city; while 
thousands of signatures are daily pouring in from the surrounding 
country. 

In the year 1833, when Mr. Buxton presented the last Ladies' 
petition, subscribed by only \^1 ,OQQ, four porters, if we mistake 
not, assisted the honorable gentleman to carry it into the house of 
commons. When completed, therefore, we may safely predict, 
that this will, as the petition of the females of the United King- 
dom, be altogether unparalleled for size, in the history of petition- 
ing. The heart of our youngr Queen, it is to be hoped, will be 
impressed by its prayer on behalf of the suffering Negroes. Who 
knows but our amiable Sovereign may be 'come to the Kingdom 
for such a time as this 1 ' Glasgow Chronicle, 



103 



the expression was spoiled in the printing, — perhaps 
we may be able to send a better likeness before long. 
A large edition of A. E. Grimke's appeal with an 
Introduction by George Thompson has been printed 
and extensively spread ; it is the best for its size, on 
the subject, I have met with. 1 cannot understand 
why 'Friends' should keep in the back ground in 
this cause in America now-a-days. Here, they are 
everywhere first among the foremost, — and I never 
heard one of them here find any fault with the wri- 
tings or proceedings of the American abolitionists. 
I expect this will be favored to New York by James 
McCune Smith who hopes to obtain his passage 
home in the cabin of the New York, — having been 
more than once rejected on account of his complex- 
ion, — by a letter in the appendix to the G. E. S.'s 
report thou wilt see the estimation in which he is 
held here. I trust he will enter the abolition ranks 
at home never to desert till victory is won. Hoping 
to have occasion to address thee again soon, I now 
conclude with an assurance that any communication 
from thee or any of thy esteemed associates will be 
most acceptable to the members of the society in 
whose behalf I write, and remain with affectionate 
esteem thy friend. JANE SMEAL, Jr. 

From the Seapoint Ladies Juvenile Association, 
Auxiliary to the ' Hibernian Negro's Friend Society,' 
to the American Ladies, united with them in the 
hallowed cause of justice and humanity. 

Dear Sisters : It is with feelings of thankfulness 
that we now address you, and esteem it a peculiar 
privilege, that we are permitted to take a part in the 
great work of Negro Emancipation. 

You will, we are sure, be happy to hear that on the 
19th of this month, we formed a ' Ladies' Juvenile 



109 



Association,' Auxiliary to the 'Hibernian Negro's 
Friend Society,' assisted by George Thompson, that 
able and zealous advocate of the enslaved African. 

Though we are at present a small and youthful 
band, we trust that our prayers and efforts may be 
blessed, and that the little stream of our endeavors 
in so merciful a cause, may in its course, continue 
to increase, till, from a great river, it shall become 
a mighty sea, by which Freedom and Gospel light, 
shall be conveyed to the fettered Slave. We rejoice 
to hear of your unwearied patience and perseverance 
on behalf of the poor Negroes; we sympathise with 
you, and earnestly desire that by the aid of the 
mighty 'you may leap over the walls' of opposition 
which surround you, and we would encourage you 
to a continuance in your benevolent exertions. 

We assuredly believe that the unceasing endeav- 
ors of our dear friend George Thompson, will not 
be in vain, but should he not be permitted to see the 
full fruit of his labors, we trust that the feelings of 
sympathy and compassion which he has sown in 
our hearts, may take root and increase, to the glory 
of Him in whose sight the soul of the Slave is as 
precious as that of his enslaver. 

Dear Sisters, we have little to give, but we are 
willing not only to devote a portion of our time to 
work tor those, whose cries, we believe, have reach- 
ed the ears of the ' Lord of Sabaoth,' but we will 
joyfully deny ourselves those indulgences, which, 
when ignorant of the degraded state of the wretched 
African, we did not consider wrong. 

We feel ashamed to acknowledge that until now, 
we were unacquainted with his real condition, not 
only in America, but in our own Colonies. Our 
feelings are now aroused, our sympathies awakened, 
aad we long for the day when 'the bonds of the af- 



110 

flicted shall be broken/ and when both the Oppres- 
sor and the Oppressed shall, through Divine Grace, 
unite in praise to that Redeemer, who came on 
earth * to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim 
liberty to the captive, and the opening of the prison 
to them that are bound.' 

United in one common cause and in the bonds of 
Gospel love, we, for the present, affectionately bid 
you farewell. 

Signed on behalf of the Association. 
. ' JULIA JACOB, President. 

DOROTHEA JACOB, Cor, Sec, 
(Septem'r) 9ih mo. 5th, 1837. 



IV. 

[From the Liberator.] 

Died, in this city, Miss Ann Greene Chapman, 
daughter of Henry Chapman, merchant, aged 35 
years. 

Among the great multitude of intrepid and virtu- 
ous maids and matrons, who have espoused the anti- 
slavery cause in this country, with a sympathy which 
is commensurate with human wo, a zeal which burns 
with quenchless ardor, a courage which outfaces all 
dangers, an endurance which is proof against every 
shaft of ridicule and scorn, and a benevolence 
which finds replenishment in ceaseless distribution, 
no one could have been taken from our ranks of 
greater loveliness and worth, nor scarcely any one 
of more real devotedness and service to this * holy 
enterprise,' than our deceased friend. In her char- 
acter, all the elements of goodness seemed to com- 
bine in rare and beautiful proportion. In doing 



Ill 



good, she was instant in season and out of season, 
without ostentation, and with Christ-like compas- 
sion and tenderness. In gentleness and energy of 
spirit — in steadfastness of purpose, in clearness of 
apprehension, in maturity of judgment, in activity 
of zeal, and in strength of principle, she was con- 
spicuous among her sex. As a member of the Bos- 
ton Female Anti-Slavery Society, she contributed 
largely toward that reputation for moral intrepidity 
and generous aid which it has so extensively ac- 
-quired, botli in this country and in England. It was 
iher privilege and joy to be one of those heroic wo- 
men, who were so basely assailed by the mob of 
•^ gentlemen of property and standing,' in this city, 
on the memorable 21st of October, 1835. On that 
trying occasion, she displayed a noble contempt of 
danger, a placid front, and an unfaltering trust in 
God. 

We have been permitted to copy the following 
extract from her Will, which she made a short time 
before her death, and which beautifully exhibits the 
temper of her pure mind, and her regard for the 
anti-slavery cause. 

' On the 1st of February, 1837, I, Ann G. Chap- 
man, of Boston, feeling myself clear in mind, sound 
in judgment, and in good health, do make my last 
Will and Testament, 

Whilst I live, I have solemnly devoted myself to 
the cause of Truth, Justice, Freedom ; and dying, 
I would yet bless it, in its onward course. 

Believing that the American Anti-Slavery Socie- 
ty is most beneficial to the slave, and is advancing 
rapidly the coming of Christ's kingdom, I leave to 
its Treasurer, Mr. John Rankin, or his successor in 
that office, the sum of one thousand dollars for the 
use of the Society. 



112 



To the Samaritan Asylum, one hundred dollars. 

To the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society, one 
hundred dollars. 

I trust that when the hour of death comes, my 
mind will be, as it is now, convinced that the way to 
serve God, and secure his favor, is by majdng the 
cause of his oppressed children my cause. And then 
I shall not have lived in vain.' 



The following tribute to the memory of Miss Chap- 
man is from the pen of Mrs. Child : 

On Friday, the 24th of March, Ann G. Chapman, 
eldest daughter of Mr. ilenry Chapman of Chaun- 
cey Place, bade farewell to this world of shadows ; 
or rather, to use her owu quiet expression of Chris- 
tian faith, she ' went home to a good Father.' 

In her, the Female Anti-Slavery Society has lost 
one of its brightest ornaments and dearest friends. 
The remarkable serenity of her character was not 
so much the result of temperament as of principle. — 
She had all those generous and quick susceptibili- 
ties that belong to the most delicate construction of 
mind; but, instead of concentrating them upon her- 
self, they flowed forth, a perpetual fountain of love 
to the whole human family. She had in a remarka- 
ble degree those clear and comprehensive percep- 
tions of duty, which are at once the result and evi- 
dence of great purity of heart and tenderness of 
conscience. Though educated in a sphere of soci- 
ety that often tends to narrow the sympathies, and 
fetter the spirit with conventional forms, she loved 
to minister to all of God's creatures, and was gently 
firm in her opposition to all systems, theories, and 
customs, that tended to trample them in the dust. 



113 

In the Songs of the Free, there is a beautiful 
hymn of her composition, containing the following 
characteristic verses : 

' O Father, give us power and love, 

A sound and perfect mind, 
That we may firmly do thy will. 

And thy sure blessing find. 

We know not where the future leads, — 

What may our trials be, — 
But calmly still would follow on, 

Guided by light from Thee. 

Her last thoughts were devoted to the cause of ab- 
olition. She entreated her surviving friends to labor 
for it, as a fitting exemplification of the great cen- 
tral truth of Christianity — the universal brotherhood 
of the human race. 

The affectionate gratitude of the Society will min- 
gle with their sympathy and prayers for her excel- 
lent and bereaved parents. Long will they remem- 
ber the gentle and true-hearted one, who gave so lib- 
erally, while she modestly concealed the hand. — 
Through coming seasons of trial, and perchance of 
peril, they will recall the example of her, who re- 
nounced the world with such sweet cheerfulness, and 
gladly incurred contempt and ridicule in the sacred 
cause of truth and freedom. 

Her more intimate personal friends can never for- 
get the expressive sweetness of her look, when any 
one addressed her — the kind and prompt attention 
— the quick but quiet comprehension of all that 
needed to be done — the calm self-sacrifice, and un- 
ostentatious activity, with which all her duties were 
accomplished. In the distance of years, they will 
remember her as a strain of very sweet music in a 
discordant world. 

8 



114 



The inscription on her coffin was most appropri- 
ate : * Her soul pleased the Lord, therefore hasted 
He to take her away.' 



At a meeting of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery 
Society, the following resolutions were unanimously 
adopted : . 

1. Resolved, That our feelings impel us to ex- 
press to the family of our departed friend, Ann G. 
Chapman, our deep sympathy with them, and to im- 
plore for them and ourselves divine comfort and di- 
rection. 

2. Resolved, That if at any time, from the fee- 
bleness of our faith, we should falter in promulga- 
ting the holy principles of truth and love, of which 
the result must be freedom, we will endeavor to gain 
strength for renewed effort, by the contemplation of 
the character of one who sacrificed for them her 
ease, and strength, and time, and friends, and repu- 
tation, and good name, and counted it all joy. 

MARY S. PARKER, President, 
MARTHA V. BALL, Secretary. 



TO THE MEMORY OF ANN GREENE CHAPMAN ; 

WHO DIED MARCH 24th, 1837. 

' Vergiss die treuen todten nicht!'* 

Dear sainted one! how calmly turns my mind to vanish'd days! 
With what a deep delight I dwell on all thy words and ways; 
Thy bright sweet smile, tliy beaming glance, thy open tranquil brow. 
With what a life-like vividness they greet my fancy now! 

* ' Forget not the fiuthful dead.' 



115 



Tliy voice so clear and musical — I seem to hear the tone 

In which thy lips were wont to make the bondman's cause thine owu , 

I yet can hear the fervent words, impassioned and sincere, 

So full of love and earnestness, so free from doubt and fear. 

How oft in hours of anxious thought, in moments of dismay. 
Thy glowing hopes have shed a light around our onward way! 
Strong in thy own calm purposes and aspirations pure. 
However dark to others, the path to thee was sure. 

Oh! thanks be unto God for all the memories of the past ! 
Thanks for the life so good and true, and steadfast to the last! 
Thanks for the death so calmly met ! thanks for the radiance shed 
Around our future pathway from off thy dying bed ! 

When our own hour of parting strife at length draws darkly on, 
Will it not comfort us to think that thou the fight hast won 1 

wilt not thou, dear spirit ! then, once more to earth descend. 
And, though to us invisible, thy blessed influence lend! 

1 will not say to thee, ' Farewell!' — 'tis but a little while. 
Before my eyes once more shall meet that sweet and gentle smile; 
Before my ears once more shall hear the music of thy voice. 
While clothed in immortality, thy spirit shall rejoice. 

Anne Warren Weston. 
March 27, 1837. 



FROM THE REFORMER. 

If we could ever be justified in giving a special 
obituary of any person, the earnest character of 
Miss Chapman has more than ordinary influence. 
The deceased was one of the few females that take 
an interest in the wide world's welfare. She labor- 
ed and sympathised with those who v/ish to leave the 
world better than they found it. She was active 
with those who believe that our good state of socie- 
ty can yet be improved. Her soul yearned for a 
more equal distribution of the essentials of human 



116 



happiness. Liberty, political — social — religious, was 
the sweetest meditation of her mind, if we except 
her confidence in the purposes of Rim who wisely 
orders all things, to establish through chosen agents 
its blessings on earth. She loved humanity! And 
this is greater than all sectarian prejudices that 
freight the minds of most females, and loCk up the 
richer endowments of the female character. She 
chose the good part, to be useful in this world— the 
sure preparation for another. 



Preamble to the Constitution of the Boston Female 
Anti-Slavery Society. 

Believing slavery to be a direct violation of the laws of God, 
and productive of a vast amount of misery and crime; and convinc- 
ed that its abolition can only be effected by an acknowledgement ot 
the justice and necessity of immediate emancipation, — we hereby 
agree to form ourselves into a Society TO ILTD MJ^'D AS- 
SIST 113° THIS HIG-HT^OUB ©.^USa ikS FikR 
^B LIES "WSTHIM QUB. POWieS.. 



117 



[From the Liberator.] 

LINES 

Written on reading the famous ' Pastoral Letter ' of the 

Massachusetts General Association. 

So, this is all — the utmost reach 

Of priestly power the mind to fetter ! 
When laymen think — when women preach — 

A war of words — a ' pastoral letter ! ' 
Now, shame upon ye, parish Popes ! 

Was't thus with those, your predecessors. 
Who sealed with racks and fire and ropes. 
Their loving kindness to transgressors '? 

A • Pastoral Letter,' grave and dull — 

Alas ! in hoof and horns and features. 
How different is your Brookfield bull. 

From hina who thunders from St. Peters ! 
Your pastoral rights and powers from harm. 

Think ye, can words alone preserve them 1 
Your wiser fathers taught the arm 

And sword of temporal power to serve them. 

O, glorious days — when Church and State 

Were wedded by your spiritual fathers ! 
And on submissive shoulders sate 

Your Wilsons and your Cotton Mathers. 
No vile ' itinerant ' then could mar 

The beauty of your tranquil Zion, 
But at his peril of the scar 

Of hangman's whip and branding-iron. 

Then, wholesome laws relieved the Church 

Of heretic and mischief-maker. 
And priest and bailiff joined in search. 

By turns, of Papist, Witch and Quaker ! 
The stocks were at each Church's door — 

The gallows stood on Boston Common — 
A Papist's ears the pillory bore — 

The gallows-rope a Quaker woman ! 



118 

Your fathers dealt not as ye deal 

With ' non-professing ' frantic teachers— 
They bored the tongue with red-hot steel, 

And flayed the backs of ' female preachers.' 
Old Newbury, had her fields a tongue, 

And Salem's streets, could tell their story. 
Of fainting woman dragged along, 

Gashed by the whip, accursed and gory ! 

And will ye ask me, 'why this taunt 

Of memories sacred from the scorner 1 
And why with reckless hand I plant 

A nettle on the graves ye honor 1 
Not to reproach New England's dead. 

This record from the past I summon. 
Of manhood to the scaffold led, 

And suffering and heroic woman. 

No — for yourselves alone, I turn 

The pages of intolerance over. 
That, in their spirit, dark and stern. 

Ye haply may your own discover ! 
For, if ye claim the ' pastoral right' 

To silence Freedom's voice of warning. 
And from your precincts shut the light 

Of Freedom's day around ye dawning :— 

If when an earthquake voice of power, 

And signs in earth and heaven are showing 
That, forth, in its appointed hour. 

The Spirit of the Lord is going ! 
And, with that spirit. Freedom's light 

On kindred tongue and people breaking. 
Whose slumbering millions at the sight. 

In glory and in strength are waking !— 

When, for the sighing of the poor. 
And for the needy, God hath risen. 

And chains are breaking, and a door 
Is opening for the souls in prison ! — 



119 

If then ye would, with puny hands. 

Arrest the very work of Heaven, 
And bind anew the evil bands 

Which God's right arm of power hath riven :— 

What marvel that, in many a mind, 

Those darker deeds of bigot madnesaL 
Are closely with your own combined. 

Yet ' less in anger than in sadness ' 1 
What marvel, if the people learn 

To claim the right of free opinion 1 
What marvel, if at times they spurn 

The ancient yoke of your dominion 1 

Oh, how contrast, with such as ye, 

A Leavitt's free and generous bearing — 
A Perry's calm integrity, 

A Phelps's zeal and Christian daring ! 
A Pollen's soul of sacrifice, 

And May's with kindness overflowing ! 
How green and lovely in the eyes 

Of freemen are their graces growing ! 

Ay, there's a glorious remnant yet. 

Whose lips are wet at Freedom's fountains. 
The coming of whose welcome feet 

Is beautiful upon our mountains ! 
Men, who the gospel tidings bring 

Of Liberty and Love forever, 
Whose joy is one abiding spring, 

Whose peace is as a gentle river ! 

But ye, who scorn the thrilling tale 

Of Carolina's high-souled daughters. 
Which echoes here the mournful wail 

Of sorrow from Edisto's waters. 
Close while ye may the public ear — 

With malice vex, with slander wound them — 
The pure and good shall throng to hear, 

And tried and manly hearts surround them ! 



120 

O, ever may the Power which led 

Their way to such a fiery trial, 
And strengthened womanhood to tread 

The wine-press of such self-denial, 
Be round them in an evil land, 

With wisdom and with strength from Heaven, 
With Miriam's voice, and Judith's hand. 

And Deborah's song for triumph given ! 

And what are ye who strive with God, 

Against the ark of His salvation. 
Moved by the breath of prayer abroad. 

With blessings for a dying nation 1 
What, but the stubble and the hay 

To perish, even as flax consuming, 
With all that bars His glorious v\ay. 

Before the brightness of His coming 1 

And thou, sad Angel, who so long 

Hast waited for the glorious token. 
That Earth from all her bands of wrong 

To liberty and light had broken — 
Angel of Freedom ! soon to thee 

The sounding trumpet shall be given. 
And over Earth's full Jubilee 

Shall deeper joy be felt in Heaven ! 



