Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportresolveson1839mass 




^>^^/ 




<^C? 



SENATE. 



No. 35. 



REPORT AND RESOLVES 



ON THE SUBJECT OF THE 



FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE. 






&omman\ntuUi) of JHaggft€i)u$ttt& 



Reported by a Special Joint Committee consisting of 
Messrs. Blake and Whitmarsh, of the Senate : and 
Messrs. Eveleth, of Boston, 
C ho ate, of Essex, and 
Southgate, of Leicester, 
of the House* 



Feb. 1839.] SENATE— No. 35. 



eommoutoealtl) af jMassacfjuaettB, 



February 7, 1839. 

The Joint Special Committee to whom were referred 
the memorial of Henry Edwards and many others, cit- 
izens of Boston, and also the memorial of Mark New- 
man, and a large number of other persons, inhabitants 
of the town of Andover, praying this Legislature to 
request of Congress the adoption of measures for the 
more effectual suppression of the foreign slave trade ; 
and also for the protection of the growing commercial 
intercourse between the United States and the western 
coast of Africa, have duly attended to the subject sub- 
mitted to them, and respectfully submit the following 

REPO RT: 

Whatever may be the differences of opinion among the 
great body of the high-minded and intelligent people of 
this Union, upon the subject of domestic slavery, and the 
degree of countenance and protection which should be 
given to it, under the existing Constitution of the United 
States, it is presumed there never has been, nor can be, 
but one feeling and one sentiment, as to the atrocious 
character of the foreign traffic in slaves, or as to its being 
the duty of our national government, so far at least as its 



4 FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE. [Feb. 

own citizens are concerned, to exercise all constitutional 
means for its immediate and effectual suppression. It is 
a circumstance well calculated to inspire the mind of ev- 
ery American citizen with a feeling of pride for the honor 
and glory of his country, that this solemn duty on the 
part of our National Legislature, has never, since its first 
organization, been, for a single moment, intentionally dis- 
regarded ; but, on the contrary, has always been a lead- 
ing and prominent subject of consideration in the councils 
of the nation. A recurrence to that series of severe con- 
gressional enactments upon this subject, which commenc- 
ed with the act of 1794, a very few years only, after the 
organization of the federal government, and which was 
followed up by no less than six other enactments, increas- 
ing always in the severity of their penalties, through a 
succession of years, down to the year 1820, when, by a 
solemn act of Congress, the foreign traffic in slaves was 
denounced as an act of piracy, will serve to demonstrate, 
in a forcible manner, the utter abhorrence with which this 
nefarious business has been uniformly regarded by the 
legislators of the nation. And it is a gratifying reflec- 
tion, that, notwithstanding the extreme bitterness of par- 
ty contention, which has at times pervaded the country, 
and not unfrequently had a sinister influence upon its le- 
gislation, in regard to various other subjects and objects, 
it seems not to have disturbed, in any degree, the original 
views and policy of the nation, with regard to the African 
slave trade. The several acts of Congress, which have 
been adverted to, not excepting the last, in 1820, de- 
nouncing this traffic as piracy, one of the highest offences 
in a moral, as well as political point of view, in the whole 
catalogue of human transgressions, which, it is understood, 
passed by both branches of the Legislature, without se- 



1839.] SENATE— No. 35. 5 

rious opposition from any quarter. The Committee, 
therefore, entertain the impression that, if, in the course 
of the investigation that has been instituted upon the 
present memorials, there have been elicited any facts or 
circumstances tending to show the inadequacy of the 
means hitherto, and now employed by the federal gov- 
ernment, for the effectual suppression of this abominable 
traffic, it is their duty, as good citizens, to make a public 
statement of such facts and circumstances ; and at the 
same time to recommend to the Legislature of Massachu- 
setts the exercise of its influence with the councils of the 
nation, to the end that further and more efficient remedies 
and checks may be provided against the great evil in 
question. 

It is a melancholy consideration that the cupidity and 
cunning of unprincipled men, of men destitute of all 
moral feeling, in cases where their own private interest 
is concerned, are not unfrequently found to be quite an 
overmatch for the wisest and the sternest legislation. 
Such, it appears, has been, in a most especial manner, 
the case, with regard to that series of enactments which 
have been alluded to, for the prohibition and punishment 
of the foreign slave trade. From a variety of well au- 
thenticated statements and documents that were laid be- 
fore the Committee, in the course of their investigation, 
it was made sufficiently apparent, that, although, by the 
combined efforts that were made, a few years ago, by the 
United States and Great Britain, when a competent num- 
ber of armed vessels, of either nation, were employed to 
visit occasionally, the western coast of Africa, for the 
purpose of breaking up the operations of the slavers, a 
temporary check was given to that horrible traffic, yet, 
that it has, more lately, been renewed, and is, in fact 



6 FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE. [Feb. 

now, carried on, alas, too, by American citizens in dis- 
guise, to, even, a greater extent than formerly ; and un- 
der circumstances of aggravated cruelty and barbarity. 
From these statements and documents, the Committee 
have reason to believe, that, for several years past, the 
average number of slaves from the coast of Africa which 
have been transported and landed in Brazil, has not been 
less than about 8000 per month ; and in fact, that in the 
course of eighteen months, only a few years ago, the 
enormous multitude of 114,000 were known to have been 
landed in that country. It appears, also, that not less 
than about 54,000 slaves from the coast of Africa, are 
regularly sent, annually, to Rio de Janeiro, and at least, 
40,000 per annum, to the island of Cuba, besides, not a 
few, to the boasted Republic of Texas. Many other 
branches of this traffic might be specified, but it is not 
necessary they should be, for the purposes of the present 
report. It seems that this extensive and horrible traffic in 
human flesh, particularly, since it has been declared by 
the American and British nations, as amounting to piracy, 
has been, in a great measure, carried on, by means of 
sharp, clipper-built vessels of small tonnage, which, it is 
believed, are for the most part, of American construction, 
and are, in very many instances, employed on account of 
American citizens. These vessels, it appears, are con- 
structed with a view principally, to their rapidity of sail- 
ing, whereby to escape the pursuit of cruisers, and with- 
out the least regard to the health, comfort or even lives, 
of the throng of wretched beings who are destined to 
embark in them. In illustration of this latter circum- 
stance, several well authenticated cases were stated be- 
fore the Committee, in which it appeared, that multitudes 
of these poor creatures had been stowed away, like mere 



1839.] SENATE— No. 35. 7 

senseless merchandise, between the decks, commonly about 
three feet, only, in height, of these miserable little vessels, 
and there confined, to groan and swelter during a long 
voyage, or perchance, to be thrown overboard, in case of 
a pursuit, or of any other emergency which might seem to 
render such a disposition of them advisable for the safety 
of the guilty agents in the concern — many other details 
with regard to the manner in which this accursed traffic 
has been pursued, and that too, by American citizens? 
within the last few years, were stated to the Committee, 
but they were all of a character so revolting, disgusting, 
that it is not deemed proper to pollute the pages of this 
report by their recapitulation. 

From this brief presentment of facts and circumstan- 
ces, it is manifest, that the several acts of Congress that 
are herein before alluded to, for the prohibition of the 
foreign slave trade, have become, of late years, if not, act- 
ually, a mere dead letter, at any rate, almost entirely inef- 
fectual for accomplishing the great national purposes for 
which they were intended. That such is found to be the 
present state of the case, is not at all surprising, when it be 
considered how little has been done or attempted on the 
part of the general government, for the purpose of carry- 
ing this series of laws into effectual execution. It, sure- 
ly, cannot be pretended, that there are any considerable 
omissions or defects in the provisions of these enact- 
ments ; they are full, explicit, and the great severity of 
their penalties, is sufficiently indicative of the abhorence 
with which, from the beginning, our legislators have 
been accustomed to regard this traffic, and of their earn- 
est desire to arrest its progress. But what are mere acts 
of legislation without the application of competent and 
proper means for their enforcement ? In relation, espe- 



8 FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE. [Feb. 

cially, to such pursuits as the slave trade, which, in their 
nature, are calculated to tempt the avarice, and to engage 
the worst passions and appetites of base and sordid minds, 
it is obvious that, although our national legislators should 
continue as they have done, to pile line upon line and 
precept upon precept, in the way of pains and penalties, 
it would all signify nothing. 

The vile trade would still go on ; the laws would, by 
means of cunning and stratagem, be evaded ; and for the 
reasons that were before adverted to, the horrors of this 
traffic would, probably, be aggravated rather than dimin- 
ished, by the additional, mere statutory restraints that 
were imposed upon it. The Committee are, therefore, 
unanimously of the opinion, that nothing but the exercise 
of great vigilance, and the employment of a competent 
physical force, by the National Government, for the pur- 
pose of prevention, can ever be effectual for the correction 
of the great and crying sin of the African Slave Trade. 
It has already been stated, that for several years past, but 
little if any thing, in this way, has been done or attempted 
by our government. It is believed that several years have 
elapsed since a single armed ship of the United States, 
with instructions to cruise for and capture such vessels as 
are subject to seizure by the existing laws, has ever been 
known to have made even a transient visit to the western 
coast of Africa, where, it is understood, that this trade, 
on American account, is largely carried on. This, surely, 
is not as it should be. Is it not due to the cause of hu- 
manity, to the honor and fame of this great republic, and 
to the majesty of its laws, that it should not suffer its benev- 
olent intentions, so frequently expressed by those laws, 
with regard to this interesting subject, to be frustrated, 
put to nought, when the means of their consummation 



139.] SENATE— No. 35. 9 

are ample, and might be so easily and promptly applied ? 
From a series of facts that were developed in the course 
of the present investigation, and the opinions that were 
adduced, of several respectable, intelligent individuals, 
who had often visited the western coast of Africa, and 
were well acquainted with the whole course of the vile 
operations of the slavers in that region, the Committee 
were induced to believe, that the judicious employment 
by the United States, of comparatively even a small naval 
force, for the purpose, would be sufficient to arrest its 
progress, in a great degree, if not, wholly to annihilate 
this commerce. 

It is believed, that a single sloop of war and an armed 
schooner, regularly stationed, during the more salubrious 
season of each successive year, at some selected points, 
upon this coast ; and especially, if these should be ac- 
companied by a few lighter craft, and a steamer or two, 
destined to cruise occasionally along the coast, between 
cape Messurado and cape Mount. The presence of even 
such a force would so disturb the intercourse between the 
slave dealers and the natives, as to bring about eventually 
and perhaps speedily, too, an entire abandonment of the 
trade, as being too difficult and hazardous to be pursued. 
If such be the case, which, the Committee have reason to 
believe, it really is, it would seem to be impossible, that 
the National Government, consistently with its original and 
constantly avowed policy regarding the foreign slave trade, 
consistently with its own dignity, and a just concern for 
the maintenance of a long series of laws of its own enact- 
ment, can now hesitate, as to the expediency of appropri- 
ating such slight means as have been adverted to, for the 
accomplishment of so great and glorious an object. 

But there are other circumstances intimately connected 
2 



10 FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE. [Feb. 

with this subject, which, in the view of the Committee, 
are also worthy of special consideration. The prayer of 
the memorialists is not confined, exclusively, to the matter 
of the foreign slave trade. They ask, also, that the' po- 
tent arm of the General Government may be extended 
towards Africa, for the protection and encouragement of 
a legitimate and valuable commerce, already subsisting in 
a degree, and which might be carried on to an almost in- 
definite extent, between the western ports on that conti- 
nent, and those of the United States. In reference to 
this object, a variety of well-vouched statistical papers 
were produced before the Committee, which served to 
show satisfactorily, that the commerce alluded to, even 
now, whilst but in its infancy had, become a matter well 
deserving the serious attention of the General Govern- 
ment, and that, by the application of proper means of pro- 
tection and encouragement it might be carried, in future, 
to an almost unlimited extent. It appears that, by means 
of the untiring zeal and efforts of the American Coloniza- 
tion Society, and its kindred auxiliary associations in sev- 
eral of the states, a considerable number of settlements 
or colonies have, within a few years past, been estab- 
lished upon the western coast of Africa, some of which 
have already, become the theatre of extensive business 
operations, and all of them being now in a high degree 
thriving and prosperous. 

These settlements lie between the two capes before 
mentioned, (distant from each other about 280 miles,) 
and contain, at this time, a free, civilized, population of 
about 5000 souls, consisting principally of emigrant col- 
ored people from the United States, and their children, 
most of whom, it is said, have obtained their freedom 
through the influence of the societies before mentioned. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 35. 11 

It was stated, apparently upon competent authority, 
that all along upon this line of coast, are to be seen a suc- 
cession of little flourishing villages, and that the principal 
one, Monrovia, which is called their capital, or seat of 
government, actually contains, at this time, not less than 
five hundred comfortable dwelling-houses ; that, within 
the compass of these settlements, there are, at this time, 
established, eighteen Christian churches, about forty min- 
isters of the gospel, eight hundred professors of religion ; 
and that the institution of schools for the instruction of 
children and the improvement of adults, has always been 
with this people, an object of peculiar concern and atten- 
tion. 

It being, however, understood by the Committee, that 
the character of the different American Colonization So- 
cieties, their merits or demerits, the utility or inutility of 
their operations, upon the coast of Africa, constitute in 
fact, no part of the specific, subjects submitted to them, 
according to the tenor of the memorials, they conceive it 
would be improper to pursue the inquiry any further, in 
detail, as to the purposes intended, or those that have been 
accomplished by means of those societies. By the terms of 
these memorials, it would seem to be their only object to 
stimulate the General Government to an exertion of its 
powers, for the more effectual suppression of the foreign 
slave trade ; and for the protection of American com- 
merce upon the western coast of Africa ; and it is in ref- 
erence, merely, to this latter branch of the subject, that 
the Committee now deem it essential to speak at all 
with regard to the present state of the settlements and 
improvements upon that coast. In this view, however, of 
the case submitted, it may be proper to add that, accord- 
ing to the representations made to the Committee, appa- 



12 FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE. [Feb. 

rently upon good authority, it appears, that the black pop- 
ulation which has been alluded to, are, in a high degree, 
moral, temperate, industrious, and for the most part, ac- 
tively engnged in various agricultural pursuits, which, by 
reason of the extraordinary fertility of the soil, are great- 
ly productive and prosperous. It was shown, also, that 
the internal commerce between different points upon that 
coast, was by no means inconsiderable, and that, by the 
application of suitable means of protection, might be great- 
ly facilitated and extended. As an example in illustra- 
tion of the nature of this trade, it was stated, that a con- 
siderable number of merchant vessels of various sizes, 
built at the port of Monrovia, and placed under the charge 
and command of black agents and navigators, were con- 
stantly employed in traversing the coast, for the purpose 
of conveying from one port to another, various commod- 
ities of American and European production, in exchange 
for the gold dust, ivory, gums, drugs, palm-oil, spices, 
and a great variety of other valuable productions brought 
from the interior of that fertile region. As to the nature 
and extent of the trade with that coast by vessels of the 
United States, of Great Britain, and other foreign powers, 
a series of statistical estimates, were also laid before the 
Committee, which, it would require too much time and 
space here to particularize. The Committee will, how- 
ever, refer to one fact among others, as having a direct 
bearing upon the precise matter submitted to them, and 
tending to show the extent of the American commerce 
with the Western coast of Africa, namely, that in the 
year 1831, eleven sail of vessels were despatched from 
the single port of Philadelphia, to Liberia, and that the 
export of African productions, such as have been alluded 
to, from the single port of Monrovia, during that year, 
was about $200,000. 



1839.] SENATE— No. 35. 13 

It was stated, however, that subsequently, this trade 
had, in a considerable degree declined ; that the appalling- 
event, which, about this time, ensued, of the capture and 
destruction of the colonial schooner, Mesurado, and the 
murder of her crew, by slavers on the coast, and the cir- 
cumstance moreover, that no sufficient effort was made, 
from any quarter, to bring these marauders, assassins, to 
punishment, had, very naturally, given an alarm, as well 
to our own merchants, as to the colonists, theretofore 
engaged in a legitimate trade on the coast, and been the 
means of discouraging them from the prosecution of their 
usual course of commerce. 

It is believed, that the occasional employment, by the 
United States, of a small naval force, upon this coast, for 
the protection of this commerce, would have the effect to 
revive and extend it, so that it would speedily become 
a source of immense profit, and advantage, in many other 
respects, to the nation. 

In fine, upon a careful consideration of the case sub- 
mitted, and of all the facts and circumstances disclosed 
at the hearing, the Committee are of opinion that the 
subject is highly deserving the serious and immediate 
attention of the national government. They have there- 
fore, agreed to recommend for adoption, the following 
Resolves. 

All which is respectfully submitted, 

Per order of the Committee, 

GEO. BLAKE, Chairman. 



Feb. 1839.] SENATE— No. 35. 15 



&dmm.otitD$aU!) of £Ha&gatf}ugettg* 



In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Thirty- 
Nine. 



Concerning the Foreign Slave Trade. 



1. Resolved, That the continued pursuit of the foreign 
Slave Trade, by citizens of the United States, is a re- 
proach to themselves and to their country ; and that all 
practicable means ought immediately to be adopted by 
the general government, for putting an end to this foul 
and disgraceful traffic. 

2. Resolved, That although the existing laws of the 
United States, upon this subject, are, in themselves, so 
far as mere legislation can go, abundantly sufficient, yet, 
that, for several years past, they have been, and are, now 
almost entirely inoperative, and void, by reason of there 
not having been exercised a competent physical power 
for their enforcement. 



16 FOREIGN SLAVE TRADE. [Feb. 1839. 

3. Resolved, ^That the cause of humanity, the honor 
of the nation,|and a due regard for the majesty of laws 
of its own enactment, imperiously demand the imme- 
diate employment of a competent naval force, as the 
only means of giving to them their proper power and 
effect. 

4. Resolved, That the commerce now subsisting be- 
tween the ports of the United States, and the western 
coast of Africa, especially as this commerce might by the 
exercise of proper means, be extended and improved, 
is an object well deserving the attention and protection 
of the general government : and that the same force 
which may be employed for the more effectual suppres- 
sion of the slave trade, would, at the same time, with 
but little additional expense, be the means of affording 
such protection. 

5. Resolved, That His Excellency the Governor be 
requested to transmit a copy of these Resolves to each of 
our Senators and Representatives in Congress. 



