Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/considerationsonOObarh 



'^y^^mi l^'-O^A^t!'--^ i!t*-^^-l^f^^^^^^-t^--t-i^^ 



CONSIDERATIONS 



ON THE 



AND 

THE MEANS 

OF 

PRACTICALLY EFFECTING IT. 



BY 

J. F, BARHAM, ESQ. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED FOR JAMES RIDGWAY, PICCADILLY. 

1823. 









A 



^?^ir/[-fU ^^ i^^-t f'>' ^^ ^''- 



- r/^iy ^■ 



/^ o^H ' ,/ '^-^^"^^ 



■C-y 






/ 



-^ 









7 



C'H. ^- -^ 



./^4' ■ - ^' 



If 

/ 4 



y /. 



r^J 



a / / / . //^ 



/ 



m 



7 



^ i:^ /^^ run., f^'-^r--' ^^ '^^-"^ 



/ 



O^ 



^: 



/ .^ t>'^^-/ 



,.//?v-.-^ ^ 



^ -7 / y -^ 



// <^ ■• . '\ f ^ / O'-' ^ 

jT-; _, .^.-"tV. ^=^-' ■' -I J II. «* ^- 

^ ' Poppin's Court, Fleet street. r^(^'//^/r77 

y^ f / .- ^'; /J ^ ^^^^ 

( Jhs ■^^ «»<> i,. 












7 



.FTrEFACE. 



a. 



V 



/ 



Every one, who addresses the public, 
must wishj that what he has to offer may 
be received without any prejudice arising 
from a misconception of his former opi« 
nions and conduct* On this account I am 
desirous to correct two misstatements, 
which have been made respecting myself, 

I have been represented by some, as 
having been originally a defender of the 
Slave Trade, though afterwards a convert 
to its abolition. This is not so. I have 
never, at any time, viewed the Slave 
Trade without the strongest feelings of 
disapprobation ; nor have I ever done an 
act, nor have I ever spoken a word, which, 
according to my judgment, had a tendency 

a 2 



IV 



practically to support it. The first occa- 
sion on which I ventured to address the 
House of Commons on a public subject 
was in support of the Bill, which was in* 
troduced in 1794, for the purpose of abo- 
lishing the Trade for supplying Foreign 
Colonies, It is true, that being tho- 
roughly convinced, that, under the circum- 
stances of that day, it would be impossible 
to enforce, practically, a direct and gene- 
ral prohibition; and that the attempt 
would only create a contraband trade of 
equal extent, worse character, and more 
difficult cure ; I very unwillingly opposed 
that measure ; recommending, in lieu of it, 
as much gradual restriction, as it might be 
found, from time to time, practicable to 
enforce : but no sooner had the revolution 
of St. Domingo, and the disappearance of 
every flag but the British from the West- 
Indian Seas opened a chance, as 1 thought, 
of really and practically abolishing the 



Trade throughout, that I joyfully added 
my best assistance to those who ultimately 
accomplished the abolition. 

I have also lately been represented as 
hostile to the improvement of the Slaves. 
This imputation has surprised me (since 
my exertions in their favour had not al- 
ways been unnoticed) ; but I suppose it 
may have arisen from the opposition I 
made to the Registry Bill. It is with re- 
luctance that I advert to a measure, which 
again divided me from many whom I re- 
spect ; but 1 must claim from them that 
candour, which I am willing to show. 
They introduced the Bill, doubtless, be- 
cause they believed, that a contraband 
trade existed, or would arise : I resisted it, 
because I was satisfied, that no such trade 
existed, or, under the changed situation of 
the Colonies, was at all likely to arise. 
They supported the Bill, because they 
thought it would be beneficial to the 



VI 

Slaves : I opposed it, because I thought^ 
that, without being of any use to the 
Slaves, by being misunderstood, it would 
lead them into mischief and danger. 
Whether there have been any reasons to 
suspect, that I was not wholly wrong, I 
shall not her'5 inquire. 

To improve the condition of the Slaves, 
in every safe and practicable way, I have 
ever deemed the first duty of the master ; 
nor have I ever contemplated such im« 
provement, without viewing at the end of 
my perspective, as its ultimate object and 
consummation, their capacity/ for, and 
their possession of freedom. XV 

That the process to this point must, un- 
der the present circumstances, be exceed- 
ingly slow, has always, to me, been a most 
painful consideration; and my chief mo- 
tive, in presenting these pages to the pub- 
lic, is to point out, that the present mo- 
ment offers an opportunity, which never 



vu 



has occurred before, and which may never 
occur again, of altering those circum- 
stances so as to render an accelerated 
progress of improvement both safe and 
practicable. 



ON 



THE ABOLITIO N 



OF 



iBtrgto ^iat^cxv^ 



THE nation, as with one voice, has called on 
its legislature to adopt speedy and decisive mea- 
sures for the abolition of Slavery in our Colo- 
nies — Government has accepted the call, and 
demanded that the task be committed to itself — 
Expectation is everywhere alive, and deeply 
painful will be the general feeling if it should be 
disappointed. 

It would be uncandid to suppose, that govern- 
ment had taken the matter into its own hands 
merely to get rid of a temporary embarrassment; 
and without meaning really to effect the object. 
But even if this were so, it would make no dif- 
ference in the end. Those, who have awakened 
the public feeling on this subject, will know 
how to arouse it again ; the puldic voice will be 

B 



2 



heard in a yet louder tone ; and the danger is, 
that government will thus be forced on mea- 
sures, which, if due preparation be not made for 
them, will involve both the Slaves and the 
Colonies in common ruin. 

The nation does not indeed expect that eman- 
cipation can be effected by any immediate act, 
for, until the Slaves can be fitted for freedom, it 
is acknowledged, that emancipation would be in- 
jurious even to themselves : but what the nation 
does expect, is this — that the most energetic 
measures shall he forthwith employed to bring 
them into that state, in which freedom may he 
granted to them with benefit and safety. 

To judge correctly with regard to these mea- 
sures is the important point, both for government 
and the nation. For, if, on one hand, by too much 
precipitation the greatest mischief and danger 
may be produced ; so, on the other hand, if 
there be not sufficient decision, the object will 
remain at a distance most unsatisfactory to the 
public feeling, and unjust towards those, whose 
wrongs we want to redress with all possible 
speed. 

In considering this difficult subject, our first 
question will naturally be to ask. What is the 
actual condition of the Slaves, and what has it 
hitherto been ? Has it improved ? Is it im- 
proving, or is it stationary ? The answer can- 



not be disputed. In physical respects it has 
much improved, and little is left to do. The 
Slave is now in most physical circumstances 
better off than the labouring class of other coun- 
tries*. This it was in the power of the master 
to accomplish, and it is done. But in civil and 
moral respects, his condition is not materially 
changed. Some improvement may have been 
made, and some may be in progress (more per- 
haps in reality than appearance, and more by 
custom than by law) ; but still we must confess, 
that his civil rights are yet hardly definable, 
and his moral improvement is almost yet to be 
begun. 

That progressive improvement, however slow, 
must arrive at the desired point at last, will of 
course be admitted. But if the question be 
asked, will it, under the present process, arrive at 
the point of emancipation within the time that 
the nation expects ? — the answer must be, de- 
cidedly no. At the present rate of improvement, 
generations must pass before freedom could be 
safely or beneficially imparted to the Slaves. 

If again it be asked, whether by such 
measures as have been now recommended 

* Let it not be understood as if it were meant to place 
physical good in any competition with the blessings of 
liberty, moral improvement, or religion. It is merely meant 
to state the fact as it is. 

B 2 



to the Colonies, the progress of improvement 
will be rendered satisfactory? — the answer must 
be again, decidedly no. Some good they may 
do : some branches of the evil they may lop 
off; but they go not to its root: they may 
somewhat relax the bonds of the Slave, but they 
will not practically mwcA advance that, which, if 
ever he is to be free, must precede his freedom ; 
namely, his moral improvement. 

Moral improvement is the hinge on which 
every thing must turn. When that is suf- 
ficiently advanced, civil rights may be freely 
granted, and emancipation will have no danger. 
But moral improvement will not be accom- 
plished by vain recommendations to the Colonies 
to do what they have not the means of effecting. 

Nothing indeed could be easier than for the 
Colonies to pass specious laws, which would re- 
move every reproach from their statute book ; 
but if, from existing circumstances, these laws 
could not have any practical effect, it were better 
that the evil should remain open to public view, 
than that it should be thus disguised. 

Nothing could be easier for them, than to in- 
troduce Christianity in name. For the most in- 
significant reward, the Slaves would universally 
accept baptism. Without reward, they would 
rather doze at a monthly sermon, than work 
during the time. But such feeble means of 



conversion would not change them : it were 
better that they should remain as they are, than 
that a people, whose religion (if indeed it can be 
called such at all) continuing in fact as it is, 
should be regarded as Christians. 

Nothing could be easier than to comply with 
the constant requisition, that the evidence of a 
Slave should be admissible in a court of justice ; 
but no one has yet contended, that, till he can 
feel the obligation of an oath, till you have at 
least found some symbol fairly to swear him by, 
his evidence shall be regarded as credible. What 
will the Slave then have gained ? The mockery 
of being produced not to be believed. Better 
for him that he should remain as he is, than 
exchange a technical disability for a public exhi- 
bition of his incompetence. 

Nothing could be easier than to abolish the 
use of the whip ; but those, who call for this 
abolition, always end by proposing some other 
means of coercion, some other instrument of 
punishment ; less decried perhaps, but which is 
to be equally effectual. What again will the 
Slave gain by this ? It were better that his 
chains should appear in their full deformity, 
than that they should be gilded over*. 

* One exception must, however, be made here. The 
recommendation lately sent out, to prohibit the use of the 
whip towards women, is most important in a moral point of 



6 

One of the measures recommended to the 
Colonies is the facilitating individual emancipa- 
tion ; and certainly it is desirable, that there 
should be no impediment in the way of those, 
who are disposed to give freedom to their 
Slaves*, as a reward, or from kindness; but 
no error could be more pernicious than to sup- 
pose, that general emancipation can arrive by 

view. Degradation of the female is everywhere the promi- 
nent feature of barbarism ; and to distinguish their women 
by any mark of respect cannot fail to raise them in the 
estimation of the Slaves, and to lead towards every virtue. 

* It does not appear, that any law has passed with the 
view of discouraging individual emancipations, nor indeed 
is it conceivable, that a policy of this nature could be 
entertained by any owner of Slaves, for the plain reason, 
that the fewer Slaves there are besides, the more valuable 
must be his own. Could one-fourth of the Slaves be eman- 
cipated this year, the income of the Colonies would be 
quadrupled in the next, for the redundant produce, which 
depresses the market, would disappear. The laws, which 
impose some.difficulty on emancipations, had another object. 
In part it was a humane one. The owner of Slaves is now 
by law obliged to furnish them annually with a fixed 
quantum of clothing, food, &c. Now to escape from this 
obligation, some persons were base enough, when their 
Slaves were past work, to emancipate them, and these be- 
came the most miserable objects imaginable. To prevent 
this, and to protect the parishes from the burthen of main- 
taining these poor people, laws were passed, requiring, that 
when a Slave was emancipated, some security should be 
given for his future sustenance. 



7^ 

multiplying individual emancipations. The case 
of the Negro has by some been compared to 
that, which once existed in our own and most 
other countries, where (as has been justly said) 
Slavery was at last extinguished by the enfran- 
chisement of the last Slave. But the cases differ 
essentially. When the European Slave was 
enfranchised, he passed into the general mass of 
the free population. Not thus is it with the 
Negro : when he is enfranchised, he passes not 
into the condition of the free community, but 
forms a separate class of his own ; and (as we 
see in every Colony) the most wretched class of 
the whole population. The reason of this is 
evident ; namely, that he is not yet in that state 
of moral improvement, in which freedom is a 
good. 

It will perhaps be said, that the case will be- 
come different when the number of emancipated 
Negroes becomes greater ; but experience does 
not warrant this opinion. We do not observe, 
that the free Blacks are more improved where 
they are more numerous : we can hardly discern 
anywhere, that one step has ever been taken by 
them voluntarily towards civilization ; nor ever 
will there, till their whole character be pre- 
viously changed. But as they become more 
numerous they will become more dangerous ; 
and, be where it may, whenever they become 



8 

sufficiently strong, they will drive out tbe 
WhiteSj and make the remaining Blacks slaves 
to themselves*. 

Of all the projects that have ever been ima- 
gined, that of declaring all the children free, 
who shall be born after a certain time, is the 
one which would bring with it the most certain 
ruin. Indeed, we may fix the date at which 
that ruin would arrive : this would be (if it did 
not happen sooner) at the first moment when 
this generation had reached maturity. 

Those, who expect that this generation 
would resemble the free labourers of other coun- 
tries, are strangely deceived. Let men conclude 
what they will, ^rom cases of exception, we know 
that the Negro race is so adverse to labour, that 
without force we have hardly anywhere been 
able to obtain it, even from those who had been 
trained to work ; and now we are to expect it 
from those who have been trained to idleness ! 

* There is nothing of which a Negro Slave has such 
horror as that of becoming the Slave of a free Negro, for 
these are generally found to be the severest of masters. I 
would not wLllingly undervalue the virtues of the Slaves 
(and attachment to their masters, when kindly used, they 
certainly have in an eminent degree), but I imagine, that 
to the fear of being made Slaves to other Negroes we must 
in some degree attribute that adherence to their masters, 
which the Slaves have often manifested in cases of insur- 
rection. 



9 

No — if ever general emancipation is to come 
without general ruin^ it must come, not by 
emancipating Slaves, but by emancipating Sla- 
very ; by gradually extracting from the condition 
of Slavery all its ingredients, till at last the 
whole mass of Slaves shall at once glide, as it 
were, into freedom. From the former course 
we could expect only an idle and vicious popu- 
lation ; in the latter, every step we take is good 
in itself, and leads to good. In the former pro- 
cess, the farther we go the greater is the danger; 
in the latter, everyday would bring additional 
security. 

But what, then, are the means, by which this 
desirable change could be so accelerated as to 
give us some near view of the object we aim at? 
The answer is painful, but it is of no use to dis- 
guise the truth — at present they exist not ; nor 
can they be created, unless we can remodel the 
whole frame of our Colonial establishments. 

This, therefore, we must either boldly deter- 
mine to undertake, or we must be content to 
await the slow progress of such improvement as 
time may gradually produce. 

Persons, who have given but slight considera- 
tion to the subject, or who have trusted false 
information as to facts, will be surprised at this 
statement, having hitherto believed, that, if the 
Colonial assemblies and proprietors were in 



\ 



10 

earnest, they could speedily effect whatever was 
desired ; but such will not be their opinion if 
tjaey examine the subject more closely. 

The assemblies may pass what laws they will ; 
but here are customs, manners, and opinions to 
be entirely altered ; deep prejudices to be rooted 
out, both in the White and Black population ; 
here is the character of a 'people to be changed ; 
above all, some stimulus is to be discovered, and 
brought into action, by which those are to be 
induced to labour, who have no wants, and those 
to submit to moral institutions, who have no 
moral feelings. If to change the character of 
a people by law be in any case the most difficult 
problem in political science, what must it be in 
that strange anomaly of human society, which 
the Colonies now present to our view ? 

The owners of Slaves may labour for the same 
object as much as they will, and many have thus 
laboured uU their lives, but have laboured nearly 
in vain. Nor are the causes of this failure out 
of sight. The changes to be wrought are not 
vv^ithin the scope of a master's mandate ; and his 
influence with the Slaves, as to many things, is less, 
exactly because he is their master. To any think- 
ing mind this will convey no paradox : the fewer 
rights a man retains, the more tenacious he is of 
them. All here depends on opinion : the opi*- 
nion of the Slaye at present acknowledges the 



right of his master to his labour, because he 
bred and feeds him : he acknowledges the right 
to enforce that labour by punishment : but of 
any interference with his domestic life or plea- 
sures he acknowledges not the right, and is 
exceedingly jealous of any approach to it, in 
the shape of advice or influence. 

Nothing can betray more ignorance of the 
subject, than when persons blame the master for 
not enforcing marriage amongst his Slaves. By 
persuasion and reward, sometimes, a seeming 
acquiescence in this institution has been obtained 
from a few Slaves ; but nothing would sooner 
excite their open resistance than any exertion of 
authority on the subject. 

Let it not be supposed for a moment, that this 
representation of the difficulties to be overcome 
proceeds from a wish to discourage the purpose : 
it proceeds from the very opposite motive. The 
first step to overcome a difficulty is to ascertain 
its full extent ; and he, who would undervalue, 
is not the most likely to surmount it. To repre- 
sent a thing easier than it is, may indeed lead 
men more readily to the attempt, but it is likely 
to place them farther from the execution of any 
thing that requires persevering exertion. 

Of exceeding difficulty is indeed the object we 
aim at ; but from nothing that has been said 



\ 

does it follow, that it is unattainable. It follows 
not, that, because in the present condition of the 
Colonies improvement must be extremely slow, 
changes might not be made in that condition, 
which would render a rapid improvement both 
safe and practicable. 

Of what nature those changes must be, will 
best appear by a review of the principal obstruc- 
tions which now exist against improvement* 



OP THE 

CHIEF OBSTRUCTIONS TO IMPROVEMENT, 

AND 

THE MEANS OF REMOVING THEM. 

I. The chief obstruction is fear of the Slaves. 
In physical force, they are tenfold superior to 
their masters ; but, from their state of ignorance, 
they arc not able to devise, and, from their close 
confinement, they are not able to execute, any 
plan of concert, or combination. Now, to im- 
prove them, we must enlighten their minds, and 
relax their confinement. But the more we suc- 
ceed in these objects, the more we increase our 
own danger. Knowledge is strength, and free- 
dom from confinement is opportunity. Suppose 
the assemblies to be as liberally disposed as pos- 
sible, you cannot expect them to be divested of 
those feelings, which govern the rest of mankind, 
and self-preservation will ever be the first law of 
human nature. 

To judge what would best remove this ob- 
struction from fear, it will be well to examine 
from what point the danger chiefly arises. The 
Slaves know pretty well, that, besides the power 
of their masters, there is another power over the 
water, which is stronger than they. Their no- 
tions are indeed not very distinct on the subject, 
but thev have occasionally heard, that this power 



14 

over the water is sometimes disposed to side 
with them against their masters ; and in pro- 
portion as this notion prevails more or less 
among them, so is naturally the danger greater 
or less of their resistance and insurrection. The 
way, then, to diminish, or rather to do away the 
danger at once, would be to let them see that 
there was hut one authority, from which there 
was no appeal, and against which all resistance 
Would he vain, namely, that of the King, for un- 
der such title would the authority of Great Bri- 
tain be regarded. In the mind of the Slave re- 
sistance to the King of England would appear 
in a very diiferent light, than resistance to the 
local powers ; and, if this change could be 
brought about, many an improvement, which 
now would be hazardous in the extreme, would 
be free from all danger. In fact, the danger 
would then become less, in proportion as the 
knowledge of the Slaves became greater ; for 
such knowledge would the more convince them 
of their inability to cope ultimately with the 
pawer of Great Britain. 

II. The next obstruction to improvement is 
the absence of all wants, that would stimulate a 
free Negro to labour in the West Indies. What 
they may have done in other countries or cli- 
mates proves nothing. Nor will any minute 
cases, which are brought forward (and which 



15 

one has no means of examining), have much 
weight. A few Negroes under peculiar circum- 
stances may have laboured for hire, but the evi- 
dence of all the Colonies in the West Indies (in 
some of which there are abundance of free Ne- 
groes, and abundance of people who would 
gladly hire them) proves, that, constituted as he 
now is, the Negro will not work but under co- 
ercion. Hayti proves it — Africa proves it*. 

* The cultivation of Hayti seems to be now confined to the 
raising of provisions, which requires very little labour, and to. 
the gathering of coffee and cotton from the trees already planted. 
As to Africa, even though in one particular part therie 
should be a class of men, who will undertake temporary 
jobs for hire, and even though there may be some symp- 
toms of voluntary labour at Sierra Leone, produced by moral 
improvement, yet such exceptions destroy not the general 
evidence of that vast continent. Indeed, the latter case 
rather confirms our statement. It is far from our meaning, 
that by moral improvement any change may not be effected ; 
what we mean to say is, that till such improvement shall 
have taken place, the Negro will only work by coercion. A 
curious proof of this will be found in Mr. John Hay's Narra- 
tive of the Grenada Insurrection, published by Ridgway, 
page 106. This gentleman was some time detained at Guada- 
loupe, then under the government of Victor Hugues. Punish- 
ment by the whip had been then totally abolished; but in- 
stead of it a military tribunal had been established, consist- 
ing of five whites and blacks, who made a tour of the Island 
once a month, in order to try and punish such Negroes as 
had neglected their work. They were condemned to be 



16 

But indeed we hardly need to appeal to ex- 
perience for the proof. By the clearest conclu- 
sions from facts, that cannot be disputed, we may 
assure ourselves, a priori, that it must be so. 
The labour of a few days builds as good a habi- 
tation as the Negro desires, and the labour of a 
few more supplies him with food for the year. 
Clothing he hardly wants, and artificial desires 
he has none so strong as the desire to pass his 
time in idleness. By what then but force can 
he be brought to work ? We must here call, 
with the Greek mathematician, for ground to 
stand on. Ground there is none; and we might 
as soon expect to put a machine in motion by a 
power, which should be weaker than the power 
that resists, as we might expect the free Negro 
to labour for hire, till some adequate want shall 
impel him. To teach him artificial wants must 
be a work of time and uncertainty ; and the case 
is hopeless unless we can bring him under the 
same impulse, which acts on the free labourer 
everywhere else. All the world over, this is 
neither more nor less than the want of food ; 
and if the Negro is to work, that stimulus must 

chained hy the middle and ancle for five to fifteen years. The 
more refractory were shot, which very frequently happened. 
Mr. Hay relates this incidentally, and not for the purpose 
of founding any argument upon it. 



17 

be applied to him, or he must remain under the 
whip; for as to confinement or disgrace, he would 
hardly feel them as a punishment. 

Such are not the most pleasing views of hu- 
man condition, but we must not shut our eyes 
to them, unless we would grossly deceive our- 
selves. The Slave probably would prefer his 
present state under the whip, to that into which 
we would thus lead him ; and no doubt, that 
physically he suffers less in his present state, 
than he would then do at first ; but the process 
is unavoidable ; and if you would convert him 
into a free labourer, there is no other way to 
teach him. 

But how may the thing be effected ? Half an 
acre is sufficient for his cottage and his food ; 
the kind of land he wants is of little value, and 
is divided amongst proprietors so numerous as 
to render a combination impossible. Sooner 
than let their land lie waste, these proprietors 
would underbid each other, and the Negro 
would thus obtain what land he wants at a rent, 
which the labour of a week, perhaps, would pro- 
cure him. Another week would serve for its 
cultivation, and the remaining fifty weeks he 
would remain idle. It does not seem, that any 
law could reach this case, nor could it be pre- 
vented, unless all the land were in one proprietor, 
who miglit require a ieasonal)Ie quantum of la- 

c 



18 

bour to pay for it. If this could be effected, 
the situation of the free Negro would become 
similar to that of the free labourer everywhere 
else, whose constant work is requisite for his 
constant food : some would then labour more 
and more successfully than others ; artificial 
wants would gradually supervene, and thus we 
should have obtained the ground to stand on, 
by which we might raise a due proportion of 
these people into the different degrees of social 
order. 

III. A third obstruction to improvement arises 
from the impossibility of obtaining any general 
concert amongst the numerous proprietors, 
which now exist. To produce the effect we 
want on the moral condition of the Slaves, it is 
indispensible, that some general and uniform 
plan should be everywhere instituted and fol- 
lowed up. Now this could not be accomplished 
by law, and must in great part, as matters stand, 
depend on the voluntary exertions of the pro- 
prietors and managers. But these (even if we 
suppose them unanimous as to the object) can- 
not be expected to be unanimous as to the 
means of pursuing it. According to their dif- 
ferent notions, one man will aim at improve- 
ment one way, while his neighbour aims at it 
another, and thus the endeavours of all will be 
lost. 



19 

This obstruction could obviously only be re- 
moved by bringing all the Slaves under one go- 
vernment. 

IV. A fourth obstruction to moral improve- 
ment is the want of adequate means in the Colo- 
nies to form the establishments it would require. 

The chief means of moral improvement are 
r^eligion and education. Religion we know may 
do any thing ; but it depends not on man to en- 
sure its acceptance and diffusion, especially 
amongst those, who are past the age of edu- 
cation. 

Education must therefore go hand in hand 
with religion ; and perhaps it would be best ex- 
pressed thus, we must have the means of re- 
ligious education Jirst, and of religious ob- 
servance afterwards. If we would produce 
the effect speedily, these institutions must be 
so extensive, that every child shall be thus edu- 
cated, and that the means of religious instruc- 
tion and worship shall be within the reach 
of every Slave. Partial attempts may do in- 
dividual good, but our object they would not 
attain* : whereas if the thing were done every- 

* It was the opinion of Mr. Burke (who at one time ho- 
noured the author by much communication on these sub- 
jects), that the moral improvement of the Slave would only 
be effected by a general diffusion of religious instruction at 
once. He said, that the point must be carried at first by a 
sort offeree, and that partial impressions would often be 

c 2 



^0 



where at once, we may calculate the day on 
which Slavery may be finally abolished ; for that 
day will have arrived when we shall have ob- 
tained a generation thus educated. 

Now, establishments of this extent it is out of 
the power of the Colonies to command, either in 
regard to the pecuniary means, or those of ob- 

obliterated as fast as they were made. But let it not be 
thought, that partial attempts are here undervalued. Infinite 
is the merit of those, who have made them, and great, in 
some cases, has been their success. The United Brethren 
(commonly called Moravians) have led the way, and their 
mode of teaching is peculiarly adapted to impress the minds 
of the Slaves. But neither their number nor their pecuniary 
means enable them to extend their missions as much as 
might be desired. The Methodists have also had consider- 
able success ; but they are viewed in the Colonies with some 
jealousy. I am inclined to believe, that this jealousy is in 
general unwarranted, though, perhaps, there have been some 
instances of particular persons (perhaps not authorized, but 
calling themselves Methodists) acting with considerable in- 
discretion. If in nonessentials they could adapt their forms a 
little to the circumstances of the case, their zeal might be 
highly useful. The Established Church has not hitherto 
been very active in this workj but it appears, that, under the 
patronage of the Lord Bishop of London, a society, having 
for its object the conversion of the Negroes, is now about to 
enter on the task with energy worthy of its object. Should 
the diffusion of religious instruction among the Slaves not 
be made a national concern, certainly, those who are 
prompted by humane views towards them, or a desire for 
the abolition, could in no way so well promote that object 
as by contributing to the means of converting them to 
Christianity. 



21 

taining the requisite teachers and ministers. At 
present, schools there are none, and the esta- 
blished clergy are barely sufficient for the white 
population. To furnish education and religious 
instruction to eight hundred thousand slaves, 
dispersed as they are, would require so many 
teachers and ministers as to induce a fear, that 
the thing could hardly be accomplished ; espe- 
cially as we know, on one hand, the indisposi- 
tion of men to risk their health in those cli- 
mates, and, on the other, the expenses of living 
there. Yet, as this is the turning point of the 
wholc;, let us not abandon it till we find it quite 
unattainable. 

A calculation of the requisite number of these 
establishments must at present rest on very un- 
certain data, and much depends on the dense- 
ness of the population in the different Colonies. 
In the Appendix (No. I) an attempt has, how- 
ever, been made to calculate that number and 
their expense, which it is supposed would not 
be less than two hundred and fifty thousand 
pounds per annum ; though afterwards it might 
perhaps be reduced. But even this supposes, 
that a considerable concentration of the popu- 
lation had been previously effected. At present, 
if education and religion are to reach all the 
Slaves, a much larger establishment and expense 
would be requisite. 

The means then of removing this obstruction 



22 

must be either to famish an establishment such 
as has been stated ; or, if the population be left 
in its present dispersed state, to furnish a much 
larger establishment. To alter the state of the 
population is obviously impossible, while the 
property remains in the hands of different pro- 
prietors ; and this brings us again to the same 
point, the advantage, or necessity of vesting it 
all in one proprietor, or at least placing it under 
one direction. 

V. The last obstruction, that need be enume- 
rated, is the apprehension, which the present 
proprietors entertain, that though all Great 
Britain demands the abolition of Slavery, yet 
that all the price of obtaining it would be cast 
upon them. Such apprehension is probably 
unfounded ; but when their all is at stake, men 
are not easily cured of their fears ; and till these 
are entirely removed, it cannot be expected, that 
the proprietors should act as they would, if per- 
fectly assured, that they were to bear whatever 
loss may ensue, only in just proportion with the 
rest of the nation. 

The remedy here would of course be to give 
them that assurance, either by some solemn 
declaration of the legislature, or, what would be 
better (if practicable), by some immediate in- 
demnity. But as this leads to a subject of much 
importance and extent, it may be well to con- 
sider it separately. 



OF COMPENSATION. 

Compensation should be considered in two 
points of view ; its necessity/ and its justice. 

Of the Necessity of Compensation. 

Tt is necessary, because without it our object, 
(the abolition of Slavery) cannot be attained. 
Doubtless it is in the power of Great Britain to 
abolish Slavery by its own decree, to enforce 
that decree on the Colonies, or to leave the 
Slaves to enforce it for themselves. Nothing 
could be easier or shorter than this process. 
The free condition of Hayti can everywhere be 
attained in a week. But if we want to retain 
the Colonies as possessions of any value* after 
the abolition, we cannot enforce it on the pro- 
prietors and resident white population ; for the 
very first application of force on them, that he- 

* No man's opinion deserves more weight on most sub- 
jects than that of Mr. Baring ; but particularly on this, on 
which his knowledge must be great, though not himself a 
Colonial proprietor. Mr. Baring declared to the House, that 
if the Slaves were emancipated, we must take leave of the 
Colonies as a productive possession. Doubtless this gentle- 
man would admit the condition, "unless the charade?- of the 
Slaves can be previously changed." 



24 



comes visible to the Slaves, will he the certain 
signal for general insurrection, and the fate of 
the Colonies is decided without recal. 

Let me here adjure those whom it may con- 
cern, to take care what they are about in this 
respect. One wrong step, and their regret may 
be eternal. Let them do else what they wilt. 
If they cannot else be satisfied, let them resume 
the charters, and abolish the present legislatures 
of the Colonies : it will be better for the Colo- 
nies, and better for the Slaves, than that they 
should be openly controlled, and yet suffered to 
exist ; for they will be consigned, not only to 
inefficacy and contempt, but to plunder and 
death. In whatever shape local authority appears 
to the Slaves, whether in that of a governor 
only, or as it is now composed; for their own 
sake, and for the sake of those who are entrusted 
with the authority, it should appear to the 
Slaves (while in their present state) to be ab- 
solute. 

But will the white inhabitants put it to this 
issue? Will they expose themselves to certain 
ruin, rather than comply with the terms required 
of them ? The answer is perilous ; but so much 
is certain, that they will not accept the assurance 
of persons here (who, as they think, know little 
of their situation), that abolition will do them 
no harm. Many of them believe, that abolition 



25 

will be fatal to their existence and that of their 
families ; and seeing ruin equally in compliance 
and resistance, in some quarter or other violent 
councils will prevail. To produce the catastrophe, 
it needs not that there should be a general re- 
sistance, any spark may be sufficient to light the 
flame. 

To predict this conduct, on the part of the 
Colonies, is not attributing to them any invete- 
rate determination to maintain a bad system, it 
is attributing to them only the common feelings 
of mankind. If it were proposed, at the sepa- 
rate expense of any county in England, to re- 
medy an evil which had been established by the 
nation at large, does any one suppose that such 
county would tamely acquiesce ? Yet how infi- 
nitely weaker would that case be than the one 
we have been considering! f 

Let not the pride of Great Britain be here 
offended. The same blood flows in the veins of 
the Colonist as in those of the people of Eng- 
land. They have dared much for their country 
in forming those Colonies : they have often suf- 
fered much for their country : and they will in 
any case act as their countrymen would. They 
will be ready to share with their country all the 
cost of abolishing Slavery; but if it is attempted 
to make them bear more than their share, they 
will not acquiesce — and, your Colonies are gone. 



^6 

Gompensation is therefore necessary, if we will 
have Colonies as well as abolition. But it were 
most desirable^ for the speedier attainment of the 
object, not only to have the acquiescence, but 
the willing co-operation of the white inhabitants; 
for if that population were merely to be passive, 
and do nothing, it would not be easy to find all 
the necessary agency by which to elFect our pur- 
pose. 

That co-operation we may have; and we may 
have it on the fair terms of doing that ourselves, 
which we call on others to do, and of paying 
our proportion of the debt, which we as well as 
they have contracted. 

Of Compensation, as required hy Justice. 

But is it really so, as we have affirmed, that 
the people of Great Britain are equally liable for 
the debt, we would now pay to humanity and 
j"ustice, as the inhabitants of the Colonies and 
the owners of Colonial property ? The ques- 
tion is most important ; and, before it can be 
safely answered, we must inquire how this debt 
arose, by whom, and for whose benefit it was 
contracted 9 

That debt arose by the Slave Trade; and that 
trade was established by, and for the benefit of, 
tlie nation at large. 

To say, that Great Britain formed the plan, 



27 

and that the Colonies executed it— to say, that 
Great Britain made the laws, and that the 
Colonies availed themselves of those laws — 
would be greatly understating the share, which 
Great Britain had in the origin of the Slave 
Trade, and in the consequent system of Slavery 
that now exists. But many persons have been 
so used to charge all the odium of that system 
on those, who by accident happen to be the pre- 
sent owners of Slaves, that they will be sur- 
prised to learn how much larger a share Great 
Britain has had, than the Colonies, in the for- 
mation, maintenance, and "present extent of 
Slavery. 

The following historical facts will clear up 
this point a little. 

Great Britain established The Colonies did not then 
the Slave Trade in the reign exist, 
of Queen Elizabeth, who 
personally took a share in it. 



Great Britain encouraged 
it in the successive reigns of 
Charles I, Charles II, and 
James II, by every means 
that could be devised. But 
it was William III who out- 
did them all. With Lord 
Somers for his minister, he 
declared the Slave Trade to 



The Colonies,all this time, 
took no share in it them- 
selves, merely purchasing 
what the British merchants 
brought them j and doing 
therein what the British go- 
vernment invited them to 
do, by every means in their 
])ower. 



28 



be ^^ highly beneficial to the 
nation :" and that this was 
not meant merely as benefi- 
cial to the nation through 
the medium of the Colonial 
prosperity, is demonstrated 
by the Assiento Treaty, in 
1713, with which the Colo- 
nies had nothing to do; and 
in which Great Britain binds 
herself to supply 144,000 
Slaves, at the rate oj 4,800 
pe7' annum, to the Spanish 
Colonies. From that time, 
till within a few years of the 
present time, our history is 
full of the various measures \ 

and grants, which passed tor ^ ^ • „ 

the cncoMragemew^ and pro- 
tection of the trade, ,^ ;^ ' 8 

So much as to t1jb¥e who created and fostered 
the trade : and now let us see, who it was that 
first marked it with disapprobation, and sought 
to confine it within narrower bounds. 

The Colonies began in Great Britain rejected this 
176O. South Carolina (then act with indignation, and 
a British colony) passed an declared, that the Slave 
act to prohibit further im- Trade tvas beneficial and 
portation; but ^ ),;;„; i.,**^'^c5sary Yo _^Ae mother 

.:: .o.:is di}] Si:_ :::2 isis udcmtifry*^:^^ j^iSjeg^, governor, 



who passed it, was repri- 



29 



manded; and a circular was 
sent to all other governors, 
warning them against a si- 
milar offence. 



The Colonies, however, in 
1765, repeated the offence ; 
and a hill was twice read in 
the assembly of Jamaica, for 
the same purpose of limiting 
the importation of Slaves j 
when 



The Colonies, in 1774, 
tried once more ; and the 
assembly of Jamaica actually 
passed two bills to restrict 
the trade; but 



Great Britain stopped it, 
through the governor of that 
island, who sent for the as- 
sembly, and told them, that, 
consistently with his instruc- 
tions, he could not give his 
assent : upon which the bill 
was dropped. 

Great Britain again re- 
sisted the restriction. Bris- 
tol and Liverpool* peti- 
tioned against it. The mat- 
ter was referred to the Board 
of Trade, and that Board 
.•,!;«> f\s^f!Rei>'?i^ ©ff'"" reported against it^^-^ /r^^ '■ 

* The conduct of this tovirn, with regard to the Slave 
Trade and Slavery, is too curious to pass without remark. 
Within a very few years of the present time, Liverpool was 
the great Slave Trader of all. Liverpool invented and clung 
to all the enormities of the middle passage. Liverpool de- 
fended the trade to the last moment, not as a necessary evil, 
but as a good thing in itself. The sense of the nation, how- 
ever, prevailed, and the trade was abolished. Still Liverpool 
would not give up the topic of Slavery, and its voice is still 
heard more than any other on that subject: but (oh the mi- 
racle!) it has suddenly changed sides, and the ultra advocate 
of the Slave Trade has become the ultra declainier against 



30 

The Colonies, by the Great Britain, by the 
agent of Jamaica, remon- mouth of the Earl of Dart- 
strated against that report, mouth, then president of 
and pleaded against it on the Board, answered by the 
all the grounds of justice following declaration: "We 
and humanity; but cannot allow the Colonies 

to check or discourage, iu 
any degree, a tra^c so he- 
neficial to the nation." And 
this was in 1774 1 

It is presuRiedj after this, not many persons will 
be disposed to contend, that Great Britain has 
not had at least an equal share in establishing 
Slavery with those who happen now to be the 
actual owners of Slaves. 

But still there are some points to be closely 
examined before we shall venture to pronounce, 
that the claim for compensation rests on the 
strictest grounds of justice. 

Slavery 1 How is this to be accounted for ? Self-interest is 
pretty generally worshipped, but seldom in so public a way. 
But something still more extraordinary has been reserved 
for this most mercantile town. It has nqt only changed sides 
diametrically within a very few years on this subject, but it 
is able at this moment to view the same thing in both ways 
at once. An ingenious merchant of that place has invented 
a glass, by which, if directed to the West, Slavery is seen 
as a monster of such frightful magnitude, that, in order to 
destroy it instantly, you ought to destroy all your Colonies; 
but which same glass, if directed to the East, shows the same 
Slavery in a form perfectly diminutive and inoffensive. 



31 

To make that claim absolute, it must be 
shown, that the thing which is required to be 
surrendered is not merely a system, which af- 
forded the means of prospective gain, but that it 
is absolutely a property in possession, and held 
by the same right by which all other property 
is held — the law. Closer than this it does not 
seem possible to draw the line ; and here lies the 
distinction between the present claim, and that 
which was made at the time the Slave TV^^e was 
abolished. The claim then made (but which 
was urged much more strenuously by the British 
Slave merchant than the planter) was not a 
claim for property in possession. The Slave 
Trade could not be property, though it might 
be the means of creating property. The right 
to trade had been permitted by law, but no en- 
gagement had been made, that it should be per- 
mitted for ever. Those, who trusted to its con- 
tinuance, trusted at their own risk, and when 
it was prohibited, what they lost was not a 
vested property, but the chance of contingent 
gain ; whereas Avhat will be taken here is, that 
which the law has sanctioned as property for 
ever. 

A very respectable author (Mr. Clarkson) 
contends against this claim of property upon a 
ground, which it is not necessary here to dispute. 
His argument seems to be, that such property 



32 

cannot be created even by law, since it is con- 
trary to the first principles of our nature (which 
are anterior and superior to all law) that one 
man should have property in another man. Be 
it so, but what then ? This would justify the 
Slave in regaining his liberty by any means he 
could employ, since he had been unjustly de- 
prived of it. But in the question of compensa- 
tion the Slave is no party. That question lies 
wholly between the proprietor and the legisla- 
ture, which has constituted the property. The 
law must he bindings at least on those that made 
it. If the legislature, with a view to national 
advantage, has committed injustice, and now, 
with a view to national justice, would repair the 
wrong, it is for the nation to pay the price of its 
wrong, and not for the individual, who acted in 
conformity to the law. To fix on the present 
proprietor the cost of redeeming the acts of the 
nation at large would be concluding a series of 
injustice to Africa by an act of injustice to a 
portion of your own subjects, with regard to 
whom your first laws would have been a fraud, 
and your last would be a robbery. 

It has been often repeated, that evil must not 
be done that good may come out of it : that the 
end can never sanctify the means : that injustice 
may not be committed even for the purposes of 
justice; and certainly there is no principle of 



33 

morality which it is more irtiportant to keep in- 
violate than this, though there often appears 
much temptation (even from good motives) to 
swerve from it. But here we are in no such 
distressing alternative. We are not to choose 
between injustice to the Slave, and injustice to 
his owner ; but we are to choose between in- 
justice to the owner, and that justice which we 
have it in our power to do him. 

If the people of Great Britain, by their gene- 
ral call on the legislature to abolish Slavery, 
meant to say, that they were so deeply sensible 
of its injustice, that they would pay whatever it 
cost to abolish it ; there is not a passage perhaps 
in any history, which does more honour to a na- 
tional character, for it must have appeared to 
them that the sacrifice would be great. 

But if by that call was meant, that it should 
be abolished by taking from others the property 
which they (the nation) had constituted such 
for their own benefit, and of which they had re- 
ceived the benefit, then there are no words which 
would adequately express the contempt they 
would deserve for their hypocrisy and injustice. 
It may be, that some few have signed petitions 
in that view ; it may be, that many have signed 
them without much consideration of the cohse- 
quences ; but he must have a vile opinion indeed 
of his country, who could attribuie a view like 



34 

this to any considerable portion of its inha- 
bitants. 

it is however said by some^ that no compen- 
sation will be due, since there will be no loss ; 
that when the Slaves are set free they will work 
for hire like labourers everywhere else ; and that 
such hire will be cheaper than the present cost 
of maintaining them. These assertions, it is 
not necessary either to admit or deny ; for, be 
they true or be they false, it is quite clear, that 
common sense, as well as common justice, de- 
mands, that the experiment should be made at 
the risk of those who predict its success, and 
demand its execution; and not at the risk of 
those who apprehend its failure, and protest 
against it. If the former be not altogether in- 
sincere in the opinions they express, and dis- 
honest in their purposes, they cannot hesitate 
to encounter a risk, which they say is nothing, 
and accept a gain, which they say will be great. 

But in what way can it be contrived, that ihis 
risk shall fall, as it ought, on the nation at 
large ? In what way can the due compensation 
be appreciated while one party maintains, that 
emancipation will be a benefit, and the other, 
that it will be ruin to the owner ? If the former 
be in the right, the smallest sum, that the people 
of Great Britain were made to pay, would be 
an. act of injustice to them; and if the latter 



35 

party be in the right, the largest sum, if less 
than the whole, would be an act of injustice to 
the proprietor. 

To say, that this may be settled afterwards, 
according as matters turn out, will not do, be- 
cause the result may remain in suspense for an 
indefinite period, and when it arrives its cause 
may be disputed. We know how compensa- 
tions are made after the event, when the same 
party is to make the estimation and pay the 
price. No men will agree to what they fear 
may be their ruin first, and then take their 
chance for what may be given them afterwards. 
It would be neither wise nor honourable for 
Great Britain to desire it. It would not be wise, 
for the expectation would be disappointed ; it 
would not be honourable, for, instead of an open 
display of justice and magnanimity, it would ex- 
hibit a narrow and equivocating spirit, which no 
man would honour, and no man ought to trust. 

One way there is to get out of this difficulty, 
and there is but one. It is obvious. Let the 
nation at once assume to itself all colonial pro- 
perty, and make moderate hut just compensation 
to the 'proprietors for the whole. Let the nation 
then do, on its own account, what it desired the 
present proprietors to do. Then, if there be 
risk, it will be incurred, as it ought, by the 
nation, which demanded the change; if there 

D 2 



36 

be JosSj it will fall, as it ought, on the nation ; 
and, if there be gain, it will be, as it ought to be, 
the gain of those who incurred the risk. 

Justice will be done to the Slaves, for they 
will be placed in a way in which, with the least 
possible delay, they may arrive at freedom. 

Justice will be done to the proprietor, for he 
will receive, as proprietor, exactly what was due 
to him, and, as one of the nation, he will pay 
exactly his due proportion of whatever loss may 
ensue. 

Justice will be done to the people of Great 
Britain, for in no case will they pay more, or re- 
ceive less, than exactly what they ought. 

When, in common life, a man, finding himself 
in a difficult case, of doubtful and seemingly 
conflicting duties, has had the virtue and cou- 
rage to turn away from all inferior considera- 
tions, and to follow the plain path of strict 
justice, it will ever be found in the end, that he 
has taken not only the honestest but the wisest 
course, though the consequences, that prove it 
such, may not always be immediately apparent. 
In this case they will be apparent, for the same 
measure, which does justice to all parties, will 
be found not only to remove every one of the ob- 
structions that have been enumerated against im- 
provement, but to facilitate our object in a de- 



VS7 

gree as yet perhaps hardly expected. It will^ 
farther be found, that those measures, which in 
the hands of the Colonists would be inefficient, 
would, in the hands of government, be effica- 
cious ; and that what with the former would be 
accompanied with great danger, with the latter 
might be undertaken with perfect security. Fi- 
nally, it will appear, that what to the individual 
proprietor would be probable ruin, to the state 
would bring, instead of loss, certain and consi- 
derable gain. 

But let us first review the existing obstruc- 
tions to improvement, in order to see whether 
they would be really removed. 

The first was the danger of the Slaves being 
led to resist local authority, by the hope of pro- 
tection from without. This danger would dis- 
appear, when they were told, that they were no 
longer Slaves of any private master, but that 
they belonged to the King himself; and not 
only would all thoughts of resistance be at an 
end, but a very salutary change would be 
wrought in their own ideas, and their estima- 
tion of themselves. 

The second obstruction arose from the want 
of means to induce a Negro to work, otherwise 
than by direct coercion. Such means would 
now be furnished by the possession of all the 
soil from which he can derive a subsistence. 



38 

The third obstruction was the difficulty of ob- 
taining any general concert among the proprie- 
tors, as to the modes of improvement that should 
be adopted. These modes would now be de- 
termined on by collective wisdom, and intro- 
duced by uniform direction. 

The fourth obstruction consisted in the want 
of adequate funds to form the necessary esta- 
blishments, and the want of power to produce 
the desirable concentration of the population. 
The former would now be defrayed by the pub- 
lic, which could not be unwilling to improve its 
own estate, and which, possessing the whole, 
would naturally draw the population into the 
more favourable districts, abandoning such as 
were least profitable. 

The Jjfth obstruction arose from the unwill- 
ingness, which the present white inhabitants feel 
to co-operate in that, from which they appre- 
hend their own ruin. Such apprehensions 
would now be at an end, and, for their own 
sakes, they would assist in producing an order 
of things, which must render their future resi^ 
dence both more agreeable and more secure. 



OF THE 

PRACTICABILITY OF THIS PLAN. 

But are we, after all, contemplating a vision i* 
And is not that, which is now proposed, as im- 
practicable as any of those things which we 
have shown to be so ? Does it not contain evils 
as great as those we would remove, or risks as 
formidable as those which we have refused to 
encounter r 

These are questions which ought to be fully 
canvassed, and the answers ought to be satisfac- 
tory. No objection should be deprecated, that 
can be distinctly and specifically stated ; but 
what may be fairly deprecated is this ; that, if 
all such objections shall be satisfactorily an- 
swered, the plan may not be rejected, from 
some undefined and undefinahle notion, that it 
will not do. 

That most men will at first be startled by the 
magnitude of the proposal is expected ; and 
some will, on this account alone, be disposed to 
dismiss the subject without further examination. 
There is, in some minds, a quality which re- 
fuses to contemplate any thing that is extensive, 
and leads men to regard, as impracticable, that 
which, if they would summon a little courage 



40 

and industry to their aid, they would discover 
to be, not only not impracticable, but not even 
of difficult execution. If we have hitherto stated 
facts correctly, and reasoned fairly upon them, 
it is, perhaps, not asking too much of such per- 
sons, when we call on them for a little farther 
patience and attention. 

It may be, that, as we proceed, difficulties, 
which at a distance appear insurmountable, may 
vanish as we approach them ; and that new, and 
as yet unperceived facilities may arrive to our 
aid. The difficulty of a measure is not always 
commensurate with its extent. It is sometimes 
easier to do the whole than a part ; and gene- 
rally cheaper to rebuild than repair, when there 
is an original fault in the construction. We will 
conclude nothing rashly. But if it has been 
shown, that the plan proposed affords the best 
chance of obtaining an object of deep interest ; 
if it shall be shown, that the means of its execu- 
tion contain nothing of insuperable difficulty, or 
paramount objection, it is not too much to say, 
that such plan deserves very serious considera- 
tion. 

That a measure like this should be free from 
all difficulties, and exposed to no objection, is 
not to be expected ; all that can justly be ex- 
pected is ; that such difficulties and objections 
should be less than those which exist in our pre- 



41 

sent state^ or whicb would accompany any other 
plan to amend it. We hope, however, that 
something more than this will appear, and that 
the measure will be found to be practicable with 
no great difficulty ; and, if liable to any objec- 
tions that cannot wholly be removed, yet that 
such objections, as compared with the object to 
be attained, are deserving of very little weight. 



OF 

THE MEANS OF EXECUTION. 

We are now to show, first, in what way the 
present proprietor may be compensated for the 
property which we call on him to surrender; 
secondly, how that property can be conveniently 
taken possession of on behalf of the nation ; 
and, thirdly, how it may be beneficially/ admi- 
nistered in future. 

The first process would be simple and easy. 
A fair estimate would be made of all Colonial 
property, and a stock to that amount might be 
created, which would afterwards be apportioned 
amongst the several proprietors, by separate va- 
luation of their respective properties. 

A sufficient number of commissioners might 
be appointed, who, having first fixed the prin- 
ciples of their valuation, would simultaneously 
proceed to the Colonies ; the average price of 
a Slave having been fixed already, nothing 
would remain respecting them, but to observe 
how much above or below that average each 
particular lot of Slaves may be. The land, with 
its appendages, on which the Slave is employed, 
is currently considered in value as equal to that 
of the Slaves, and the same observation would 



45 

take place with regard to that part of the pro^ 
perty. Such valuations are very frequent in the 
West Indies : and, if we may judge by the ce- 
lerity with which they are made, the whole of 
this great work might be accomplished in a very 
short time. * 

It is next to be shown, how possession could 
be conveniently taken of this property on behalf 
of the state : here again there would be no diffi- 
culty. A day might be fixed (which ought to 
be the day on which the crop was concluded), 
on which each transfer would take place, and a 
certificate might be delivered to each proprietor 
for the price that had been fixed upon for his 
property. Previously to this, a certain number 
of persons might have been selected in each dis- 
trict for the immediate management of property 
in that district ; these would be amenable to a 
more general authority in each Colony, at the 
head of which one or more commissioners would 
for the present remain, and who would corre- 
spond with a supreme authority to be created at 
home. In what shape that authority should be 
created it may perhaps be deemed here unneces- 
say to discuss, but we shall suppose it to be 
formed pretty much on the model of that which 
governs our Indian empire — a board of direc- 
tion and a board of control. These would gra- 
dually form the most suitable plans of future 



44 

management ; persons duly educated would be 
sent out for that purpose ; and one complaint 
would be speedily remedied, namely, that the 
Slaves are now governed too much by inferior 
persons, who are unfit to be trusted with power. 

We are, thirdly, to show, that this adminis- 
tration of the property would be beneficial, or, 
in other words, that the state need not make a 
losing bargain. 

That all the benefits, which are to flow from this 
change, would arise immediately, cannot be ex- 
pected ; since many of the alterations from which 
they are to arise must be gradually introduced. 
But some of these benefits would be immediate, 
and sufficiently show, why the same property, 
which, in the hands of individuals, had been un- 
profitable, must be highly profitable, when in 
the hands of one proprietor. 



OF THE 

INCREASED PECUNIARY PROFITS 

THAT WOULD 

IMMEDIATELY ARISE. 

These will be derived, first, from the price of 
Colonial produce, which, instead of fluctuating, 
as it has hitherto done, from extremes that al- 
ternately distress the consumer and the pro- 
prietor, may henceforth be fixed at a point, 
equitable and advantageous to both. 

Secondly. They would arise by a diminution 
in the expense at which the market is now sup 
plied. 



OF THE PRICE. 

That whosoever can regulate the supply can 
command the price, it must be unnecessary to 
argue. It would be a monopoly. But let not 
the odium, which is often attached to that 
word, be applied here. It is not a monopoly of 
one person, or a company, imposing an unrea- 
sonable price on the people. It is the people's 
own monopoly, imposing on themselves that 
fixed price, which they deem just, and which 
they are willing to pay for the object they de- 
sire. Within a few years they have frequently 
paid 80*., 9^5., and even 100*. per cwt. for raw 
sugar. These prices gave unreasonable gains 
to the producer ; but they distressed the people, 
and hurt the consumption. At present, the 
average price is about 60s. ; a price, which dis- 
tresses the producer, and would ultimately ruin 
the production. It seems, that it would be no 
bad bargain for the consumer, if the price were 
fixed at 72*. (which is about 2*. below the ave- 
rage of the last nine years). But if any one 
should choose to contend, that this would be a 



47 

tax on the people, be it so. This rise of price 
from its minimum (which cannot be long main- 
tained) would cost the consumer about l^d. 
per lb. ; and, perhaps, with the additional 
charges of retail, l^d. 

This then would be the total contribution of 
the people towards the abolition of Slavery. 
The other objects — their security against a 
higher price — their security against the loss of 
the Colonies, with all the important interests 
dependent on them — nay, the satisfaction of act- 
ing equitably to the proprietor shall be thrown 
in — this l^d. per lb. is what they would pay 
for what they have declared to interest them 
almost beyond any other object, and would 
form a sort of gauge by which the world will 
measure the sincerity of their professions of hu- 
manity and justice. 



OF 

EXPENSES, THAT WOULD IMMEDIATELY 
BE SAVED. 

The mercantile expenses, namely, those which 
arise between the loading of the vessel and the 
delivery to the first purchaser, and which come 
under the various heads of freight, insurance, 
commission, brokerage, &c. &c., amount to 
about 11*. per cwt. Of these, the freight of 5*. 
per cwt. could, perhaps, not be lowered (though 
some advantages would arise to the shipping in- 
terest from a greater certainty of freight) ; but 
the remaining charges might be done away with 
altogether. 

Insurance, which to the individual proprie- 
tors is necessary, would have no object when all 
the importation belonged to one proprietor. 
The individual insures lest the loss might hap- 
pen to fall on him separately ; but when the 
whole is concerned, that loss is already de- 
ducted, since the import is taken at the amount 
of its average arrival. 

Commission, brokerage, &c. &c., would be 
reduced to very little ; and what remains would 
be fully balanced by a saving of the expense of 
collecting the present duties, which would be no 



49 

longer necessary, since they would afterwards 
merge in the price. 

A calculation of these immediate profits by 
price and saving of expenses will be found in 
Appendix II*, and amounts to 2,880,000/. per 
annum. 

* The more important items in ail these calculations rest 
on data, that are capable of being exactly ascertained ; but 
as we have taken general averages for many points, they 
will not agree with individual cases. It is believed, that 
every thing has been rather under than overstated. But the 
principle being obvious, every one, who may differ from the 
estimator, will be able to apply his own estimates to the 
general conclusion. 



OF PECUNIARY PROFITS THAT WOULD NOT 
BE IMMEDIATE. 

These would arise from a consolidation of 
properties now held by different owners. As 
matters now stand, every proprietor must have 
his separate establishment of buildings, costing 
him from 500l. to lOOO/. per annum, in repairs, 
renovation, and interest on the capital so in- 
vested. He must also have his separate esta- 
blishment of manager, overseer, and subordinate 
agents. Where the property is small, or ill 
circumstanced, these two items often sweep away 
the whole of its produce. Now, by consolida- 
tion, one establishment (with perhaps a little 
addition) would often serve for two, and some- 
times for three or four properties. In Ap- 
pendix III will be found an estimation of the 
saving which might be made in five years (not 
counting the first) at the rate of 375,000/. per an- 
num, till it amounted to 1,500,000/. per annum. 

These amounts of immediate and gradual in- 
crease, united to the present profits, must be the 
future income of the Colonies. We have, there- 
fore to consider next, what are the actual returns 
of colonial property ; and in doing which it may 
not be amiss to consider what they have been 
hitherto, as well as what they are at present. 



OF THE PAST AND PRESENT RETURNS FROM 
COLONIAL PROPERTY. 

The returns from Colonial property have 
been extremely various. I'hey seem to have 
been larger about seventy or eighty years ago, 
than they have ever been since. From that 
date they fluctuated variously till about the year 
1789} when they again became very considera- 
ble ; but about the beginning of this century 
they received a severe check by the measure 
then adopted, of withholding a portion of the 
drawback on exportation ; or, in other words, by 
charging the Continent with a British duty on 
Sugar. The experiment was plausible. Great 
Britain was then severely taxed by continental 
subsidies, which it was not always easy to remit, 
and Great Britain at that time possessed almost 
all the Sugar Colonies in the world. But the 
scheme could in no case have lasted long. 
Sugar can be produced in too many parts of the 
world to be made a subject of monopoly in Eu- 
rope. The attempt stimulated the Americans to 
seek sugar in India. It set the Brazils and 
Cuba to work, and these Colonies, having soon 
after the Slave Market to themselves, in conse- 

E 2 



52 

quence of our abandoning that trade, obtained 
Slaves so cheap, that they were enabled to un- 
dersell the British planter in every foreign 
market. Still the balance of import and do- 
mestic consumption might have been soon re- 
stored ; but it was determined, at the last peace, 
to retain the Dutch Colonies in South America, 
the produce of which has, for the present, en- 
tirely destroyed it*. 

* Why, at the time when the nation was burning with 
zeal against Slavery, it was thought fit, as our share of spoil 
at the last peace, to claim, by preference. Slave Colonies, it 
is not easy to guess ; but it is not true (as has been said), 
that the old Colonies acquiesced. They made the strongest 
remonstrances against it. They contended, that these Colo- 
nies could be of no use to Great Britain (which had already 
more sugar than she could dispose of), while it would be sa- 
crificing the old Colonies to the interest of speculators, who 
had no right to plead their investments in these Colonies as 
a reason for retaining them, since a temporary occupation 
during war had authorized no conclusion, that they would 
be retained at the peace. They further argued, that these 
investments would not be lost, either to the proprietor or the 
nation, if these Colonies were restored ; but that the re- 
turns would flow into the mass of private and national profit, 
just as those, from similar investments in the Danish Colonies 
are known -to do. All was in vain. There existed at that 
moment an unaccountable desire for Slave Colonies. Deme- 
rara and Berbice were retained; and those speculators are 
now making ten per cent, on their capital, while the old 
Colonies are ruined. This is owing to the superior fertility 
of Demerara, which is, however, balanced by its great in- 



53 

In the earlier part of this history of the Colonial 
profits, we have not the means of being very ac- 
curate ; but for the last thirty-four years we can 
speak with more precision ; and, both from gene- 
ral calculations and reference to a great many 
actual accounts, it appears, that in this period 
the profits have been at the rate of about lol. per 
Slave, or something more than six per cent, on 
the capital, which agrees with the current esti- 
mation of that time, that an estate of one hun- 
dred slaves produced lOOO/. per annum, and so 
in proportion. At present the profits would 
hardly be taken at more than 3l lOs. by any 
one, or at less than 21. lOs. The medium is 
probably correct (vide Appendix IV), which 
would make the present returns of jO 

the Colonies to be 2,400,000 

This sum, added to the immediate 

gain of 2,880,000 

Would make the returns for the first 

year 5,280,000 

Which, according to Appendix, would 
increase every year by 375,000/. till 
it had reached (see Appendix V) . 6,780,000 

salubrity, and the danger, that as soon as the various armies, 
that have been fighting all round it, shall be withdrawn, the 
Slaves of Demerara, who are almost within hearing of the re- 
volted Slaves of Surinam, will disappear and join them. 



54 

Such would be the pecuniary results from this 
plan, in which we have taken no allowance for 
many new profits, that might be obtained when 
the whole were under one direction, but which 
are not within the reach of individual manage- 
ment 

No one has doubted, that new objects of cul- 
tivation might be introduced into the Colonies 
with success ; whicli would relieve the market 
from that glut of sugar, which is now exported 
to great disadvantage, together with its propor- 
tionate redundancy of rum. Such experiments 
have not been, nor probably ever will be, made 
by individual proprietors. When the prices of 
the present productions are high, the proprietors 
have no motive for changing them, and when 
those prices have become low, they have not the 
means. It is proverbial, that whoever first em- 
barks in a new speculation is likely to be ruined 
(even though it should turn out profitable after- 
wards), and therefore no one will begin. Such 
would not be the case when it were national 
property. To withdraw a proportion of labour 
from the production of that sugar, which is now 
so unprofitably exported, would cost little; and 
experiments of various kinds might be made 
throughout all the Colonies at a very trifling ex- 
pense. 

Another great advantage would arise. Those 



55 

disasters, which have so often ruined individuals, 
and even whole colonies, would now lose their 
terrors. No hurricane has ever affected all the 
Colonies at once ; and therefore the loss, in any 
particular part, being in future spread over the 
whole, would be as nothing, since it is the ave- 
rage production which has been taken as the 
basis of all the calculations. 

We must here, also, notice an advantage, that 
would not exactly be pecuniary, but vrhich would 
be of no small importance, as a means of check- 
ing our rivals in the Slave Trading Colonies ; 
and which would perhaps do more good in thi? 
respect than our negociations have done. We 
have, at present, a surplus of fifty thousand tons 
for export. This surplus, remaining in the mar- 
ket, is the cause of the present depression. But, 
if the whole importation belonged to the nation, 
the surplus would be exported at once*, and, 
wherever it were directed, would overwhelm 
every competitor, who would thus find himself 
much embarrassed in continuing his Slave Trad- 
ing speculations. 

* Here lies exactly the difference. This surplus remain- 
ing in the market, the depreciation falls on the whole, but if 
exported, it would fall only on the fourth part, and thus en- 
able us to undersell the foreign producer. 



OF THE AMOUNT OF COLONIAL CAPITAI^ 
NOW EXISTING. 

This capital consists in Slaves, in land, build- 
ings, stock, &c. The cost of a Slave formerly 
depended on the price at which he could be 
imported, with the cost of maintaining him till 
he became habituated to labour. Since the im- 
portation has ceased, it must depend on the cost 
of rearing him, which, according to Appendix 
VI, will be found to be about eighty pounds. 
It has been usual to estimate all other capital 
equal to the value of the Slaves. The actual 
cost of this has indeed been much greater. Co- 
lonial capital would then be estimated 
thus :— 

800,000 Slaves, at 80/. . . 64,000,000 
Other Capital ....... 64,000,000 



^128,000,000 * 



Vide Appendix VII. 



OF THE AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION. 

What the amount of compensation for this 
property ought to be, it is not necessary here to 
inquire ; and as it is not necessary, the task is 
willingly avoided ; since whatever were proposed 
would probably by some be thought too much, 
and by others too little. It is the principle, 
rather than the scale upon which that principle 
is to be adopted, that we are anxious to esta- 
blish ; and for our purpose it is sufficient to have 
shown, that the income obtained by the public will 
be amply sufficient, not only to cover any reason- 
able claim for compensation, but to defray all esta- 
blishments for improvement, and to leave a large 
surplus applicable to any national object. So 
much, however, may be observed respecting the 
proper amount of compensation, that on the one 
hand the proprietor ought not in his estimate 
to look to profits, such as he has heretofore 
had ; and, on the other, that the public ought 
not to look to his present moment of depression; 
first, because it has been caused, not by his own 
acts, but those of the public ; secondly, because 
there are events, not improbable, that would 
remove it ; and, thirdly, because, as the nation 
at any rate will gain much by the very thing for 
which it was willing to pay much, it ought not 
to seek to niake those gains still greater, by un- 
duly depreciating the value of a forced purchase. 



OF A NEW ADVANTAGE IN FACILITATING 
JEMANCIPATION. 

Having now disposed of the pecuniary gain, 
and other collateral benefits, that would arise 
from this plan, we return to the subject with 
which we began, emancipation, and the means of 
accelerating it. 

There yet remains to be stated an advantage, 
which will be gained for that object — one, that 
is perhaps more important than any which has 
been yet considered, and which perhaps alone 
were sufficient to justify our adoption of the 
measure proposed. 

It is an indisputable fact, that, at the present 
moment, at least one-third of all the labour in 
our Colonies is absolutely wasted and thrown 
away, by its being unavoidably employed on 
land unfit for the productions that are culti- 
vated. The individual proprietor has little 
means of helping this. Both he and his Slave 
are fixed to the spot, if not by law, at least by 
the extreme difficulty of removal. Thus, one 
proprietor employs a numerous body of Slaves 
on a soil, that makes the poorest return ; while 
another, possessing a fertile tract of land, is 
obliged to let the greater part lie waste for want 



59 

of labourers. This evil, which in a country of 
free labourers cannot exist, may be said almost 
to predominate in the Colonies ; and there are 
Avhole islands in this situation. Now this evil 
would be speedily removed. The individual 
owner can hardly ever command the capital 
necessary to purchase and form large establish- 
ments elsewhere, and in small bodies the Slaves 
are most averse to be moved. But when all shall 
be one property, no capital will be requisite for 
the purpose, and the Slaves would have no ob- 
jection to be removed to a better place, when 
they could be accompanied by all their connec- 
tions. 

Four or five years would be sufficient to place 
all the Slaves in the places where they might 
most profitably be employed ; and thus we 
should have at our disposal all the labour, that 
was wasted before. 

Here, then, we have obtained a fund, for as 
much individual emancipation as we may deem 
proper, and for as much relaxation of labour as 
we may think fit to impart. Here we have an 
engine of such power, as was hardly ever pos- 
sessed by the rulers of any people ; and it is not 
too much to say, that here we have the means, if 
we choose so to use them, of accomplishing one- 
third of the abolition almost immediately. 



60 



Let us now recapitulate the positions on which 
the plan proposed has been founded. 

1. The first was, That Slavery must be abo- 
lished, at whatever cost. 

2. That it cannot be safely or beneficially abo- 
lished, till the Slaves shall be brought into a fit 
state to receive freedom. 

3. That this can only be effected by moral 
improvement. 

4. That moral improvement is advancing at a 
veiy slow rate. 

5. That the Colonial assemblies and proprie- 
tors have not the means of materially accelerating 
this process. 

6. That the attempt to force them on mea- 
sures, to which they are unequal, would, under 
their present circumstances, produce probable 
ruin, both to the Colonies and Slaves. 

7. That therefore abolition must be deferred 
to a very remote period, or that some such 
change must be made in the form and constitu- 
tion of the Colonies, as would render more prac- 
ticable the improvement, that must precede abo- 
lition. 

8. That the obstructions to improvement are, 
fear of the Slaves — the want of means to induce 
them to voluntary labour— the impossibility of 



61 



producing the necessary concert among the pro- 
prietors — the want of adequate means to form 
the necessary establishments for education and 
religion — and, finally, the impossibility of ob- 
taining the necessary co-operation of the proprie- 
tors and white inhabitants, unless they shall be 
previously secured against the ruin they appre- 
hend. 

9. That all these obstructions would be re- 
moved by the measure proposed. 

10. That justice, as well as the necessity of 
the case, demands, that due compensation should 
be made to the present owners of the Slaves, 

11. That there is no mode in which such 
compensation could be made, without the dan- 
ger of either wronging the proprietor or the 
public, unless the public shall assume the whole 
property, and make compensation for the 
whole. 

12. That this measure would obviate every 
difficulty, and do complete justice to every 
party. 

13. That there is every reason to believe, that 
it would be profitable instead of being expensive 
to the nation ; but that, whether profitable or 
expensive, the profit would accrue, and the ex- 
pense would fall, where it ought. 

14. That tbere is nothing of paramount diffi- 
culty in, or objection to the measure. 



62 

15. And that, therefore, unless an equally 
good, or better measure can be proposed for the 
purpose, this is a measure, which the legislature 
owes to the Slaves, to the Colonial Proprietors, 
and to the People of Great Britain. 



CONCLUSION. 



Whether the opinions that have thus been 
submitted to the public be well-founded or no, 
at least they are not of recent formation ; and, 
if erroneous, they have all the demerit of de- 
liberate error. That the Colonial legislatures and 
proprietors have not the means of accomplishing 
what is expected of 'hem I have ever contended, 
both in public and in private ; nor has any thing 
ever induced me to waver in that conviction. It 
was, undoubtedly, a painful one ; for there seemed 
no chance of bringing about that unity of power 
and action which were indispensable for success. 
The plan of vesting the dl^-ection of Colonial 
concerns in the hands of a company, and that 
which has now been suggested, seemed to afford 
the only means of effecting it ; but, in times of 
prosperity, no proprietor would have consented 
to part with the management of his property, or 
much less to surrender it without such a price as 
could not have been paid. On the other hand, 
not till the present moment would the people 



64 

have endured any thing that seemed like taxing 
them, in order to obtain abolition. Such were 
the reasons that have hitherto deterred rae from 
venturing on the subject. 

But the case is now changed in both respects. 
On one hand, the Colonial proprietor is so de- 
pressed, that he would accept a price to which 
he would not have listened before ; and, on the 
other hand, the nation, by calling as it has done 
for abolition, has committed itself to pay its due 
proportion of the price, should price be ne- 
cessary. 

It has been remarked, that the co-existence 
of two evils may sometimes furnish the means 
of removing both : so it is here. Those evils 
are, the state of Slavery in our Colonies, and 
their present great depression. The same mea- 
sure will cure both these evils ; but, had they 
not existed simultaneously? neither could have 
been cured. But for the present depression, the 
Colonies would not have consented to this mea- 
sure ; nor would the nation have consented to 
it, but for the Slavery they wish to abolish. 
This concurrence of circumstances is so extraor- 
dinary, that deep would be, and ought to be, our 
regret, if, when too late, we should discover, that 
we had let the opportunity go by, when we 
could have at once abolished Slavery, and esta- 
blished the future prosperity of our Colonies. 



65 



Let those, who are most averse to entertain the 
project, reflect, that they have not the option 
to choose between this (or some equivalent) plan, 
and stopping where they are : the nation will 
not stop : Slavery must and will he abolished : 
and the question is now only, whether or no 
some attempt shall be made to prevent that abo- 
lition being accompanied by ruin to the Slaves, 
ruin to the Colonies, and ruin to many of the 
most important interests of Great Britain. 



POSTSCRIPT. 



To anticipate the objections that may be made 
to this plan will perhaps seem premature ; yet 
some having been suggested as probable, it may 
not be amiss to offer here some reasons that per- 
haps may remove them. 

OBJECTION I. 

It will perhaps be said, that to take property 
from the owner for a public purpose, and to fix 
its price, not by the intervention of a jnry, but 
by the estimation of those who take it, is vicious 
in principle, and without precedent. 

Now as to precedent, it may be answered, that 
the case is without precedent ; and as to princi- 
ple, except in the order of the thing, it follows the 
same principle by which, if injury shall have been 
done to an individual by the public, compensa- 
tion is fixed by the legislature, and not by a jury. 
But after all, if both parties are satisfied, who is 
to complain ? The nation must be satisfied, for 
it is the legislature that will have fixed the com- 
pensation ; and that the Colonies would be sa- 

F 2 



68 

tisfied with any fair compensation, under their 
present circumstances, there is no reason to 
doubt. 

OBJECTION II. 
It will no doubt be said, that individuals al- 
ways manage their concerns better than the pub- 
lic, and that the less government has to do with 
the management of property, the better. As a 
general maxim this is undoubtedly true ; yet 
there are exceptions, when, for the sake of major 
interests, the state wisely retains in its own 
hands concerns of a similar nature. Thus it 
grows its own timber, it builds its own ships, it 
manufactures its own arms ; and thus, if it will 
introduce free labour into the Colonies, it must, 
for a while, take them into administration. 

Besides, there can be no .apprehension that it 
would manage this property in a more disad- 
vantageous way than the proprietors have done, 
and indeed are obliged to do. The reason why 
a government generally manages ill is, because it 
is obliged to trust to agency throughout. But 
here, the proprietor, resident in Europe (where 
all reside, that can), trusts to a double agency ; 
first that of his merchant here, who never sees 
the West Indies, and he trusts to an agent there, 
who never sees him. As for the proprietor, who 
resides in the West Indies, he manages still 



69 

worse ; for he only resides there from want, and 
is therefore wholly disabled from conducting his 
affairs to advantage. 

Others may go farther and say, that govern- 
ment could not manage this property at all ; but 
on what grounds exactly such opinion could rest 
does not appear. That the concern is exceed- 
ingly great is true, but surely those, who have 
found the means of managing our East- Indian 
Empire, need not despair of being able to go- 
vern eight hundred thousand Slaves. There is, 
doubtless, in this case a difficulty peculiar to it, 
since we have to bring these Slaves into a new 
condition of society. But this difficulty could 
hardly be balanced against the infinitely greater 
extent, distance, and various complexities of the 
other case. Let it be also observed, that the 
difficulty, here, will only be temporary ; and 
when the change has been effected, administration 
may be at an end, and then the estate may be 
let for payment in produce, by which all the ad- 
vantages would be retained of commanding the 
price, without the trouble or expense of agricul- 
tural management. 

OBJECTION III. 
It may also be said, that this plan would 
throw a dangerous patronage into the hands of 
government. But the kind of patronage it would 



give is not of a dangerous description. Direct 
influence in parliament it need give very little ; 
since all those, who have appointments at home, 
might be excluded, excepting one or two for the 
purpose of giving explanations. The probable 
shape into which the rest would gradually fall 
would be, that young men would be educated 
here, in the necessary qualifications ; and being 
sent out, would generally rise by seniority. The 
patronage, therefore, would chiefly consist in 
the original appointments, which ought not to 
be more valuable than is necessary to obtain 
proper subjects ; and against this must be ba- 
lanced the suppression of all the places now held 
for the collection of Colonial duties. 



APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX I. 



Calculation of the Expense of a Church Establish- 
menti and Schools for the Negro Slaves. 

If we suppose the eight hundred thousand Slaves to be 
divided, as nearly as possible, into congregations of two 
thousand each, and that one clergyman could take on 
him the charge of two adjoining congregations, it would 
require two hundred clergymen for the whole; and, far- 
ther, it would require fifty supernumeraries to assist those 
who might be disabled by sickness, and supply the vacan- 
cies as they occur. It seems almost indispensible that 
they should be married men, both for the sake of their 
own domestic society, and for the sake of furnishing ex- 
amples to the Slaves, of the married state as it ought to 
be. The buildings in the plantations, which it is proposed 
to throw up, would conveniently enough supply habita- 
tions and churches ; and to each should be allotted a few 
acres of land for private use, but not enough to allow of 
any speculations of gain. Their stipends should not be 
such as to tempt worldly avidity, but sufficient to place 
them beyond the cares of any reasonable want. Above 



72 

all, they should be freed from any undue solicitude re- 
specting the families tl.ey may leave behind them. 

It does not seem, that a married couple could 
live in decent comfort in those countries un- 
der 300/. per annum; this, therefore, would £. 
require, per annum 75,000 

To each congregation should be attached a 
Negro clerk, a Slave, selected for his good 
character and Christian conduct; their pay 
might be 5/. per annum each ; and, as it 
should not be taken from them after they 
were disabled, the amount might be ... . 5,000 

Passages out and home, repairs of churches 

and dwellings, &c. &c. might be 20,000 

It would require one Bishop for Jamaica, and 
two for the other Colonies ; these, besides a 
suitable residence, could not have less than 
4,000/. each 12,000 

Three Deans, or coadjutors, to assist or succeed 

them, 2000/. each 6,000 

Passages, &c. &c » . . . . 2,000- 



Total church establishment of 120,000 



Taking the number of children to be educated 
at forty thousand, and dividing them into 
schools of fifty each, and supposing each 
teacher to attend four schools, it would 
require two hundred teachers, and fifty su- 
pernumeraries : as these persons ought to be 
of a description to assist the clergy as cate- 
chists and readers, a stipend of less than 



73 

200/. per annum would not be more than 
sufficient to maintain them, and thus we £. 

should want 50,000 

Incidental charges would amount to, probably 10,000 



60,000 
A sufficient fund for the support of all that 
were disabled in both services, for their wi- 
dows and children, might require 70>000 

Church establishment, as stated before .... 120,000 



Total for church establishment and schools 06*250,000 



APPENDIX II. 

Calculation of the immediate Profits that would arise 
{in addition to the present profits), if the whole be- 
longed to one Proprietor, 

Taking round numbers, we state the consump- 
tion of Great Britain and its dependencies 
to be one hundred and fifty thousand tons 
of sugar, the increase on which, at 125. per £. 

cwt., from 60s. to 72s., is 12/. per ton . . 1,800,000 

Mercantile expenses saved thereon, at 6/. per 

ton 900,000 



Gain on sugar 2,700,000 



£ 
Gain on sugar (brought forward) 2,700,000 
A proportionate rise of one-fifth on 
rum, from 10/. to 12/. per pun- 
cheon, on 30.000 puncheons, £. 

home consumption 60,000 

A proportionate saving of expenses . 30,000 

Gain on rum . . ..... 90,000 

All other articles* being supposed equal to 

rum, a similar gain on these would be . . 90,000 

Total gain .^2,880,000 



N.B. There would also be a saving on produce ex- 
ported, a great part of which is subject to all the mer- 
cantile expenses that would be no longer necessary ; there 
are not data for ascertaining the exact amount, but it is 
supposed that it might be little short of 300,000/. 

* Exact data for this item are not to be found, but it is generally 
supposed, that these articles, as coffee, cotton, &c. &c. are in value 
equal to rum. 



APPENDIX III. 

Calculation of additio7ial Profits, that would gra- 
dually arise by Co7isolidation of Properties. 

The outgoings on Colonial property, calculated on the 
Slaves at so much per head, is generally rated at 61., in- 
dependently of wliat may be furnished from one property 
to another, as cattle, &c., and which would not, there- 
fore, come into the general account. It is supposed, that 
at the least one- third of this would be saved by consoli- 
dation. 

From the eight hundred thousand slaves, we must here 
deduct fifty thousand not employed in agriculture, and on 
whom no saving would be made ; but a saving of 2l. 
each on seven hundred and fifty thousand slaves would 
be 06" 1,500,000 

This saving would begin on the second year, and be 
complete at the end of the fifth year, thus : — 

£. 

On the first year — 

On the second 375,000 

On the third 750,000 

On the fourth 1,125,000 

On the fifth 1,500,000 



APPENDIX IV. 

Estimate of the present Promts of the Slave Colonies, 
taken from totals. 

Two hundred thousand tons of sugar, at 221. £ 

net 4,400,000 

One hundred thousand puncheons of rum, at 

10/. net , 1,000,000 

All other articles taken as equal to rum .... 1,000,000 

Forty thousand Slaves*, not agricultural, as 

domestic servants, artizans, &c. &c., 20/. . . 800,000 



7,200,000 
Deduct 6/. per head expenses on eight hundred 

thousand Slaves 4,800,000 



.i' 2,400,000 



* In Appendix III, the Slaves, not agricultural, were taken at 
fifty thousand. They are now reduced to forty thousand, in conse- 
quence of a suggestion, that the former might be too large a num- 
ber ; and as there are no direct data, on which to calculate, it is pre- 
ferred to take the lowest estimate. For reasons, however, which 
will be found in Appendix VIII, it is believed, that in fact the num- 
ber considerably exceeds even fifty thousand. 



APPENDIX V. 

Calculation of Future Income. 

First year: — ** 

Present income, as before 2,400,000 

Immediate increase, as per Appendix II 2,880,000 

c£ 5,280,000 
Second year: — " "" 

Income as last year 5,280,000 

Gradual increase by consolidation, as 

per Appendix III 375,000 

£ 5,655,000 
Third year : — ' " 

Income as last year 5,655,000 

Increase as before 375,000 

£ 6,030,000 
Fourth year: — 

Income as last year 6,030,000 

Increase as before 375,000 

£ 6,405,000 
Fifth year, and subsequent years: — ■ - 

Income as last year 6,405,000 

Increase as before 375,000 

£ 6,780,000 



Calculation of Future Income^ made in another way. 

Sugar, home consumption, at 72*. (less duty £ 
275.J and freight at 55.) = 405. is 40/. per 
ton, on one hundred and fifty thousand tons . 6,000,000 
Fifty thousand tons exported at present, price 

22s. net, or 22l. per ton 1,100,000 

Rum, thirty thousand puncheons, home con- 
sumption, at 13/. 390,000 

Seventy thousand puncheons exported, at 10/. . 700,000 
All other articles taken as equal to rum* . . . 1,090,000 
Profit on forty thousand Slaves, not employed 

in agriculture, at 20/. each 800,000 



9,980,000 
Deduct reduced expenses on seven 

hundred and sixty thousand £ 

Slaves, at 4/ 3,040,000 

Expenses on the other forty thou- 
sand, at 6/. .... , 240,000 

3,280,000 



^6,700,000 

* Ab there is no general enumeration of the Slaves employed in 
each separate production, it is difBcult to speak with certainty on 
their separate profits. But it is not necessary for our purpose. TAe 
account we rely on, for a correct view of the profits, contains but three 
items. The first is the net sales. Secondly, the profits not arising 
from sales. And, thirdly, the expenses. All these, taking them in 
general, may be stated with tolerable accuracy. See Appendix IX 
with regard to the expenses j the other items have been discussed 
before. 



APPENDIX VI. 

The cost of rearing a Slave to the age of fourteen, 
when first his Labour begins to exceed the cost of 
his Maintenance, has been calculated thus : — 

1. Loss of the mother's labour before and after, 

allowance being made for the cases in which the £ 
child is born dead, or dies immediately 10 

2. Medical attendance, &c., with insurance on mo- 

ther's life, allowance being made as before .... 5 

3. Interest on the above two sums for fourteen years . 15 

4. Maintenance of the child (beyond the value of any 

labour) for fourteen years, at two per cent., with 
interest 40 

5. Insurance on the life of the child to the age of 

fourteen years 10 

£80 



APPENDIX VII. 

It has been remarked, that, previous to the abolition, the 
value of a Slave depended on the cost of importing, as it 
does now on that of breeding him. During the discus- 
sions respecting the abolition, there was exaggeration on 
both sides, on this subject. The abolitionists represented 
the cost of importing to be so much less than that of 
breeding, that the planter absolutely discouraged breed- 
ing j while those, on the opposite side, represented the 
cost of breeding to be less than that of importing. The 
truth was, that the cost of breeding was always greater 
than that of importing ; but the Slaves, bred in the coun- 
try, were of considerably greater value than the Slaves 
imported. Nearly the whole of the Slaves may now be 
considered as bred, and, therefore, will warrant a greater 
average value than will be found in old valuations. As 
to all the other property, it is said to be now currently 
taken as equal to the present estimate of the Slaves. 
Formerly it was rated higher, and Bryan Edwards puts it 
at double the former estimation of the Slaves. Thus an 
estate of one hundred Slaves was, according to him, worth 
5000Z. for the Slaves, and 10,000/. for the rest. Accord- 
ing to our estimate, the Slaves would be 8000/., and the 
rest 8000/. ; making 16,000/. instead of 15,000/. But 
the difference, that now almost all would be Creole 
Slaves, whereas, at the time he wrote, the greater part 
would be Africans, makes his the higher valuation of the 
two. 



APPENDIX VIII. 

By Slaves not agricultural is meant all those, the profit 
of whose labour is not included in that of the agricultural 
productions. All servants requisite for those, who are 
employed in conducting the plantations, and artificers be- 
longing to, and working on those plantations, should be 
counted as agricultural. But all servants or artificers let 
out for hire are not agricultural, as their profits arise 
from an independent source. Again, artificers hired to 
work for the plantation from without are not agricultural, 
since their hire is charged in the expenses of the estate. 

There are no direct data, from which to calculate the 
number of these non-agricultural Slaves; but it maybe 
estimated in two ways : first, by deducting from the whole 
number, that number, which we judge to be requisite for 
producing all the agricultural returns, the remainder being 
of course the number we seek. Secondly, we may com- 
pute, from the best grounds we have, what those other 
objects must require; and should both these processes 
lead to nearly the same conclusion, we may infer, that it 
is tolerably correct. 

Now, if we take G^ cwt. as the average produce of a 
Slave employed in Sugar alone (and probably no one 
would put it lower), it will require about six hundred 
thousand Slaves to produce the whole 4,000,000 cwt., 
which also tallies exactly with the profits and charges. 



82 

which we have fixed for Slave labour. The total price of 
sugar and rum, viz. 5,400,000^. less 3,600,000/. (the ex- 
penses on six hundred thousand Slaves, at 6/. per head) 
being 1,800,000/. ; which is exactly the clear value of the 
labour of six hundred thousand Slaves. We may, there- 
fore, pretty safely assume this to be the number employed 
on Sugar. With respect to the number of Slaves em- 
ployed on other agricultural produce, we cannot go by 
quantities, since we cannot get exactly at those quanti- 
ties J but we may see how many Slaves it would require 
to produce the 1,000,000/., which they are said to amount 
to; for at 9/. each (3/. profit, and 61. expenses) about one 
hundred and eleven thousand Slaves would furnish pro- 
duce enough to sell for 1,000,000/. Thus we have seven 
hundred and eleven thousand Slaves for agricultural pro- 
duce, and eighty-nine thousand Slaves for other objects. 

This will agree pretty well with the computation, which 
we should make of the number, that was really requisite 
for those other objects. And, first, we should estimate the 
number of artificers, independent of those on the planta- 
tions, thus : — There are considerably more than one 
thousand five hundred sugar works in the Colonies, which 
cannot be estimated at less than 4000/. each; and the 
other agricultural buildings, together with the towns, 
would certainly make a total of 12,000,000/. in value. 
Now only a small part of these is kept up by the 
plantation Slaves and Whites (say 2,000,000/.), leaving 
10,000,000/. for the non-agricultural Slaves. Now, if 
we suppose one twentieth of this to be required annually, 
in repairs and renovation, we shall want twenty-five thou- 
sand Slaves, who, at 20/. per annum (the price stated), 
would perform that work. Next, if we suppose ten thou- 



83 



sand resident non-agricultural white intiabitants in the 
Colonies, and allot to each three domestic servants, we 
shall want thirty thousand more in this capacity. If to 
these are added all those, who supply the towns with 
meat, vegetables, poultry, fish, &c., and all those, who 
breed horses and cattle for sale, not to the plantations^ but 
to others, with all other kinds of employment, it would 
perhaps not be too much, were we to insist on the full 
number produced by the other calculation. 



APPENDIX IX. 

There is no subject, on which people would answer so 
variously, as they would, if asked, what is the expense of 
Colonial property, estimating it at so much per Slave. It 
must naturally include, not only the personal expense of 
the Slave in food, raiment, medical attendance, &c., but 
it must include the expense of the tools he works with 
(as far as they are purchased), the expense of those per- 
sons, who superintend him, and the expense in repairs 
(not done by himself) of buildings, requisite for the manu- 
facture of his produce. It ought not, however, to include 
what is bought from other agricultural establishments, for 
the profits of these are not counted separately, but thrown 
into the agricultural produce. In the Leeward Islands, 
these expenses must be rated high, because there almost 
every thing must be bought from without; whereas, in 
Jamaica, almost all the cattle and provisions, together 
with a considerable portion of the lumber, is supplied 
within the island ; nay, in many cases, even a deduction 
from those expenses should be made, for articles (such as 
fat cattle) sold from the estates to the towns. The diffi- 
culty, in fixing the right sum, lies in forming a true average 
on property so variously circumstanced. Bryaa Edwards 
seems to have had too much in view, in this respect, the 
particular part of the country with which he was con- 
nected, and most persons form their opinions in a similar 



85 

way. But according to the broadest average I have been 
able to form, from the inspection of as many actual ac- 
counts as I have been able to obtain a sight of, and from 
the best calculation, that, with the assistance of the most 
experienced persons, I have been able to make, of what 
they ought to be, it seems to me, that 61. per head is a 
just allowance. 



THE END. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY CHARliES WOOD, 

Poppin's Court, Fleet Street. 



