ZEsar* 



FIFTY DAYS 



ON BOARD 



A SLA YE- YE S SEL 



MOZAMBIQUE CHANNEL, 



In April and May, 1843. 



REV. PASCOE GRENFELL HILL 



CHAPLAIN OF H.M.S. " CLEOPATRA.' 



J. WINCHESTER, NEW WORLD PRESS, 30 ANN-STREET. 

SUN OFFICE, CORNER FULTON AND NASSAU ; BURGESS, STRINGER AND CO. 222 BROADWAY ; 
J. C. WADLEIGH 459 BROADWAY ; HOTCHKISS AND CO., AND REDDING AND CO. BOS- 
TON } R. G. BF.RFORD, PHILADELPHIA ; WM, TAYLOR, BALTIMORE ; GEORGE JONES, 
. ALBANY; THOMAS H. PEASE. NEW HAVEN; T. S. HAWKS, BUFFALO; BRAVO 
AND MORGAN, AND 1, B. STEEL, NEW ORLEANS J J. W. COOK, PITTSBURG ; 
AND BY 
AL1 THE BOOKSELLERS AND PERIODICAL AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES. 



" Books for the People," published by J Wine/tester, 30 Ann street, New- York. 

MYSTEKIeToF PARIS. 

BY EUGENE SUE. 

TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY 
HENRY C. DEMING-. 



We do not hesitate to pronounce this work to be among the most extraordinary romances of modem times 
Its publication in Paris produced a greater sensation than any other work ever issued in the French metropolis. 
The novel certainly excites the most intense and startling interest. As the tale proceeds, the reader is introduced 
to every diversity of scene, from the most harrowing to the most touching— to every variety of churn cter, from the 
most degraded to the most spiritual. The taste for the horrible, and the taste for the refined, will find in 4t a 
source of gratification. A powerful intellect is displayed in the plot ; and no one can foresee from the commence- 
ment what is to be the end. The moral bearing of the work is unexceptionable. Indeed, the chief design of the 
author appears to be to illustrate the unhappy condition of the lower classes in France, and to effect its melio- 
ration by means of Association, which rapidly-spreading doctrine he advocates with a powerful pen. Lessons 
of charity, forgiveness and mercy are inculcated in the most eloquent manner. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

From the New- York Evening Post— Edited by Wm. C. Bryant. 
" One of the mostly interesting and thrilling works that has been published in many years," 

From the Albany Evening Journal. 
"•It is a very interesting work, full of thrilling scenes and startling incidents. In its description of the haunts 
and habits of some of the retti-Nis who prow! aboutParis.it bears a strong resemblance to portions of 'Oliver 
Twist ;' and with these ' shadows ' are mingled the ' lights ' of Parisian life with a truth to nature that Dickens 
has rarely surpassed in his best moods." 

From the Boston Daily Mail, 
" After reading only a small portion of this extraordinary work, by Winchester, of New- York; we can readily 
account for thi enthusiasm created by its appearance in the city of Paris. Though a .tale of modem times, it has 
nothing in common with the stories of the age. Its scenes, though located in the heart of the old world, are 
entirely new. Its characters are such as seldom see the light and rarely figure on the page of the novelist. In 
the first part of his work, Eugene Sue plunges from the light of day and the frequented parts of the city of Paris, 
into those fearful and dark abodes, where want, folly, and crime hold eternal reign, and where the only sem- 
blance of enjoyment is the frightful carnival held by successful villainy and triumphant vice. Here and there are 
scattered scenes and characters of a different and higher order, whish give the reader a hint that he is ascending 
in the scale of society, and that beginning on the lowest round of the ladder, he will finally rise, as the author 
I intimates, to the broad level ot' high refinement and civilization. Eugene Sue is a writer of wonderful imagina- 
tion—and is already well-known to fame. The present work seems to be the crowning effort of his pen. 

From the New- York Sun. 
" This attractive novel seems destined to as great poDularity in this country as it enjoys in France. It gives a 
perfect Daguerrotype view of life in Paris in all its various lights and shades, its scenes of gayety and splendor, 
of misery and vice. The history of literature furnishes no parallel to the enthusiasm with which ea ch successive 
chapter was received by the whole Parisian public. Sue's descriptions are wonderfully spirited; all full of 
hekve in their language and picturesque truth in detail. The spirit of the original is admirably preserved in this 
translation, which is made from the pages of the Journal des Debat.s, where the work was originally published. 
TVehavenever read a more thrilling ajid exciting romance; unlike most French novels, its morality is unex- 
ceptionable." 

From the New- York Daily Tribune— Edited by Horace Greeley. 

" We have been somewhat interested by the war of the publishers with regard to it, and having heard both 
sides, are satisfied that WINCHESTER'S is not only THE ORIGINAL AMERICAN BUT INCOMPARA- 
BLY THE MOST FAITHFUL TRANSLATION-IN FACT, THE ONLY ONE THAT HAS ANY 
JUST CLAIM TO BE CONSIDERED AN ENGLISH VERSION OF EUGENE SUE'S WORK. 
Whoever desires to catch the spirit and intent of the author should read this edition." 
From the Troy Daily Whig. 

" Mysteries of Paris, New World Edition.— This translation, as we have before observed, is REMARK- 
ABLE FOR ITS ELEGANCE AND FIDELITY, and IS IMMEASURABLY SUPERIOR TO THAT 
PUBLISHED BY THE HARPERS. The first is the work of an elegant scholar, who enters thoroughly and 
intuitively into the spirit of all the brilliant conceptions of his original ; the latter, that of a mill-horse drudge, 
who, with dictionary in hand, digs stupidly and mechanically into the rich mine which is opened before h;m. 

Price Odb Dollar. The usual discount to the trade. Address 

J. WINCHESTER, 30 Ann street. New.York 



FIFTY DAYS 



A SLAVE-VESSEL 



THE MOZAMBIQUE CHANNEL 



In April and May, 1843. 



REV. PASCOE GRENFELL HILL, 



CHAPLAIN OF^H.M.S. " CLEOPATRA.". 



J. WINCHESTER, NEW WORLD PRESS, 

§0 ANN STREET. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/fiftydaysonboard1844hill 



FIFTY DAYS 



ON BOARD A SLAVE-VESSEL 



H. M. S, " Cleopatka," of twenty-six- 
guns, commissioned by Capt. C. Wyvill, in 
April, 1842, having received orders to pro- 
ceed to the Cape of Good Hope station, and 
to convey Lieut. General Sir William 
Gomm to Mauritius, of "which Island Sir; 
William had been recently appointed Gov-' 
ernor, sailed from Spithead in the latter part 
of July, and arrived at Rio Janeiro on the 
6th of September. I was then in the " Mal- 
abar," of seventy-four guns, Capt. Sir 
George Sartorius, lying at Rio, and took ad- 
vantage of the opportunity which the kind- 
ness of Commodore Purvis, senior officer on 
the station, afforded me, of getting transfer- 
red from that ship to the " Cleopatra." 

The unrivalled magnificence of Rio har- 
bor, narrow at the entrance, but spreading 
into a circumference of seventeen leagues ; 
its hundred islands ; the mountains which 
inclose it, showing every change of outline, 
covered with the richest verdure from the 
shore to their summits ; the higher moun- 
tains beyond, which bound the view, ming- 
ling their heads with the clouds ; compose 
a scene of variety and beauty which can 
hardly tire the eye. The city, on the left 
hand at the entrance, is four or five miles 
from the mouth of the harbor ; the interme- 
diate coast divided into several small bays, 
studded with pretty villages and country 
seats. These are still more numerous on 
the Braganza side of the harbor opposite to 
Rio, the favorite resort of its inhabitants 
during the heats of summer ; a steamboat 
crossing hourly through the day. The sce- 
nery on that side is not equally grand in 
character, but has more softness, and the 
contrast is as great of its quiet and retire- 



ment to the noise and bustle of the city. 
The usual landing-place at Rio is in front 
of the " Hotel Pharoux," a very large and 
handsome building, which overlooks the 
quay, the market, and the great square. In 
the square, the principal objects are, the 
Palace of the Emperor, a Carmelite convent, 
now applied to secular purposes, and the 
Chapel Royal, adjacent to it. ' The busy 
stir on the quay, of boats sending passen- 
gers, or taking off supplies to the shipping ; 
the Lstill more busy and crowded market, 
with its tropical profusion of fruits and ve- 
getables; above all, the different tribes of 
the human race, of every hue and feature, 
who throng it ; offer a curious and lively 
scene. The proportion of the colored pop- 
ulation to the white, in the province of Rio 
Janeiro generally, is probably not less than 
twenty to one. On the plantations in the 
interior, where this proportion is greatest, 
the sufferings of the negroes are doubtless 
severest. In the metropolis, their condition 
does not wear that mournful appearance in 
which the imagination is apt to present it. 
Certainly the content and cheerfulness of 
the motley crowd here seems to equal that 
of the common classes in most other coun- 
tries. The heartiest mirth prevails among 
the parties who mingle around the small 
charcoal fires on which they fry their fish, 
or boil their cassava root and sweet-potatoe. 
The hardest labor witnessed in the streets, 
is that of the coffee-carriers, who bear bags 
of great weight on their heads, at a running 
pace, to the sound of some rattling sub- 
stances in a bladder, which the leader of the 
party shakes, and the others accompany 
with their voices. The number of hours 



g RIO JANEIRO. 

for which this toil is exacted from them on 
their masters" account still leaves them a 
portion of the day to work for their own 
profit, permitting them, by industry, within 
a reasonable time, to purchase their free- 
dom. And it is to the credit of the Brazil- 
ians, that the moment which releases the 
negro from slavery, raises him wholly above 
the contempt and ignominy to which his 
race" is subject in some other slave countries, 
on account of color. The situation of the 
domestic slaves in Brazil is more favorable 
than that of any others. But although ca- 
ses of cruelty toward them do not often 
come into notice, there is no doubt that they 
are frequently over-worked, under-fed, and 
otherwise harshly treated, dependent on the 
caprice of an ill- tempered or avaricious 
owner. Even the more humane, insist that 
it is impossible to get their negroes to work 
without the use of the rod. " II faut les 
frapper," remarked a French lady to me. 
A flogging can be legally inflicted only by 
sentence of a magistrate, whose award is 
generally one of extreme severity. 

I attended one of the slave-auctions which 
take place usually every week, having 
been previously advertised in the Gazettes. 
About twenty-five of both sexes, decently 
dressed, were seated on benches behind a 
long table, which as each in turn ascended 
to be better viewed by the bidders, a sullen- 
ness of look seemed to express their feel- 
ing of degradation in being thus put up to 
sale. The prices seldom rose above 300 
mil-reis, about £31 ; but it is to be suppos- 
ed that those who are thus disposed of by 
auction are among the least useful or valua- 
ble to their owners. It is not uncommon 
to meet negroes in the streets, moving slowly 
with shackled feet, or with a heavy iron 
collar round the neck, usually denoting a 
recovered fugitive. Advertisements of run- 
away negroes often fill a column in the daily 
journals. In one of these, taken up at 
hazard, " Jornal do Comercio, 13 de Agosta 
de 1842," I find the following: 

" Disappeared on the 16th inst., from Rua 
do Cano, N. 2, a negro boatman, named Se- 
bastian, native of .Inhambane : rather full- 
bodied, of ordinary height, dressed in a 
dirty white shut and trowsers, and accom- 
panied by a black dog, answering to the 
name of ' Cara-linda.' Whoever may ap- 
prehend and take him to the House of Cor- 
rection, and give information thereof at the 
above* address, will be rewarded for his 
trouble." 

" Ran away, on the 8th inst., at eight in 
the morning, from Dr. Jose Julio de Freitas 
Continho, N. 106, Rua do Hospicio, a ne- 
gro woman, his slave, named Maria, native 



of Congo, about twenty-five years of age, 
of a deeper black than usual, well-made in 
person, countenance handsome, teeth white 
and regular ; bearing marks on her arms, 
and one by incision, on her hand ; drest in 
a dark gown, with striped handkerchief , and 
red glass-earrings. She has taken with her 
two white gowns, shoes, socks, a lace 
shawl, a petticoat of stout calico, and a 
shift of the same. It is supposed that she 
has been decoyed away and kept in conceal- 
ment. Whoever may detain her is hereby 
protested against ; and any one who may 
discover and bring her to the above house, 
will be suitably rewarded." 

" Ran away, the 31st ult, a black, named 
Pedro, native of Mozambique, wearing a 
cotton shirt and trowsers, and an iron round 
his neck." — &c. 

" Whoever may apprehend and bring to 
N. 112, Rua de San Pedro, an old black 
woman, named Eva, who ran away, drest 
in a dark striped gown, carrying with her a 
case of sweetmeats, a box of linen, several 
pairs of shoes (being a great thief,) and 
having one of her eyes closed up, will be 
well rewarded." 

" Ran away, on the 12th inst., at one in 
the afternoon, a moleque (young male slave,) 
named Jose, drest in a striped cotton shirt 
and trowsers, somewhat dirty from use in 
the kitchen," — &c. 

" Ran away from the Caminho das La- 
rangeiras, a black, named Bento, of ordina- 
ry stature, having a wound on one of his 
cheek-bones: drest in a white shirt and 
trowsers," — &c. 

<• Escravos Fugidos. — Fugio, no dia 12 
do corrente, a uma hora da tarde, um mo- 
leque de nome Jose, nacao Congo ; levou 
vestido camisa e calca de algodao riscado 
de Minas, alguma cousa suja de estar na co- 
zinna : roga-se aos Srs. pedestres de, no ca- 
so de o apprehenderem, levalo a praia dos 
Mineiros n. 41 B, em casa de Manoel Fer- 
nande Machado Guimaraes, que sabera re- 
compensar o seu trabalho." 

" Fugio, no dia 8 do corrente, as 8 ho- 
ras da manhaa, ao Dr. Jose Julio de Freitas 
Continho, morador na rua do Hospicio n. 
106, uma preta sua escrava, de nome Maria, 
de nacao Congo, a qual tera 25 annos de 
idade ; e mais preta do que fula, tem cabel- 
lo cortado a gaforina, e e bem feita de corpo ; 
tem bonita physionomia, dentes claros e bem 
arrumados, signaes nos bracos, e um de 
cortadura na chave de uma das maos; le- 
vou vestido de chita escura, lenco de risca- 
dinha e brincos de vidro escarlate ; levou 
dous vestidos brancos, un de cassa de chad- 
rez miudo e outro de cambreta, sapatos, 
meias, um chale de renda. uma saia de mo- 



MAURITIUS. 



rim grosso e uma camisa do mesmo. Sup- 
poe-se que fosse seduzida e esteja occulta, 
por ser mocamba recolhida e prendada. 
Profesta-se contra quem a tiver, e pede-se 
a quem a descobrir que a ieve a referida casa, 
onde sera gratificado. 

Parallel to the Maranha or water-side, is 
B;S,i Kreita, the widest street in Rio, which 
. ' raverses in its whole breadth ; the other 
jjiJicipal streets going off at right-angles 
from it, through the length of the city. Of 
these, the first in attraction is the Rua Ouvi- 
dor, containing the most showy shops, 
chiefly French, and several circulating li- 
braries, stocked with modern French litera- 
ture. Toward the upper part of the har- 
bour, the Rue Direita terminates in the as- 
cent to a hill, on which is situated the spa- 
cious Benedictine convent, still tenanted by 
some monks of that order. It has fared 
better with this than with many other eccle- 
siastical edifices, as witnessed in the roof- 
less walls of the Jesuit's College, occupying 
a somewhat similar hill in the part of the 
town toward the harbor's mouth. One 
may regard, in the Southern Hemisphere, 
the ruins which mark the downfall of that 
Order, with feelings different from those 
which such a spectacle would excite in Eu- 
rope, recalling to mind the brave and un- 
weared opposition made by its members to 
the iniquitous slave traffic of their country- 
men in Brazil. The Carmelite convent, in 
the great square already mentioned, about 
midway between the Jesuit's and Benedic- 
tine, has met a sort of middle fate, in being 
appropriated to secular uses. Within its 
precincts, is the Royal Library, brought 
from Portugal by King John VI., in 1808, 
consisting of nearly 10,000 volumes, con- 
taining many Portuguese and French theo- 
logical and historical works. Among the 
few English books, I found Southey's " His- 
tory of Brazil," and in its pages the follow- 
ing passages : " Europe has fno cause to 
rejoice in the establishment of the Jesuits ; 
but in Brazil and Paraguay their supersti- 
tion may be forgiven them for the noble ef- 
forts made in behalf of the oppressed In- 
dians." — Vol. ii. 232. 

" The Jesuits opposed the Indian slave- 
trade with the zeal of men who knew that 
they were doing their duty : never had men 
a better cause, and never did men engage in 
any cause with more heroic ardour." — 
lb. 308. 

The " Cleopatra," after a week's stay at 
Rio, sailed on the 14th of September for the 
Cape of Good Hope, and arrived in sight of 
it on Sunday, the 9th of October. After re- 
peated endeavors, against a strong south- 
easter, to weather the Cape, in order to get 



round to Simon's Bay, the usual anchorage 
for our ships of war, on Wednesday morn- 
ing, the sea running very high, and the 
wind showing no disposition to abatement 
or change, it was found advisable to bear up 
for Table Bay, on the west side of the Cape, 
where we anchored the same afternoon 
The approach to the " Cape of Storms " is 
often a subject of anxiety to the navigator ; 
but to the passenger, weary of a long voy- 
age, no place can afford a more pleasant re- 
lief than Cape Town. It has broad, hand- 
some streets, shaded by trees ; well-furnish- 
ed shops ; excellent roads in its vicinity ; 
and a most delightful and healthy climate. 
On my way overland, to meet the "Cleopa- 
patra " at Simon's Bay, I spent a few days 
at the village of Wynberg, near Constanria, 
in a scene of complete rural quiet and beauty. 
We sailed from Simon's Bay at the end 
of October, and arrived about the middle of 
the following month at Port Louis, Mauri- 
tius. Sir William Gomm, whose reputa- 
tion had preceded him thither, was welcom- 
ed with acclamation to his new Government ; 
and we had much to regret in the loss of 
his society, and that of LadyGomm, to which 
their fellow- voyagers in the " Cleopatra " 
remain indebted for many agreable hours. I 
felt a desire to trace the scenery in this isl- 
and so minutely described in the elegant fic- 
tion of St. Pierre. Taking the book in my 
hand, and carefully marking every indica- 
tion which it afforded, I bent my steps to- 
ward the " Embrasure," in the mountain- 
ridge behind Port Louis — " cette ouverture 
escarpee au haut de la montagne" — near 
which the author fixes the residence of 
" Paul et Virginie." After various ineffect- 
ual attempts to cross the mountain in that 
direction, I at length took the road to Pam- 
plemousses — " le chemin qui mene du Port 
Louis au quartier des Pamplemousses," — 
after proceeding on which two or three miles, 
a turning leads round to the back of the 
mountain, where nothing appears but its 
black, perpendicular side of immense height, 
and a long, rough slope, which ascends to 
it from the plain. I made my way, how- 
ever, up this ascent ; and at the foot of the 
precipice, completely overshadowed by it, 
suddenly opened before me the "bassin," 
the spot of which I was in search. I en- 
tered a labyrinth of trees and flowering 
shrubs ; the fragrant yellow acacia (Arabi- 
ca,) the gorjava in fruit ; and other kinds, 
which I had not seen common elsewhere. 
There were, indeed, no traces of human hab- 
itation except remains of former inclosures, 
which showed that the place had not always 
been lonely and neglected. Birds, roused 
by my entrance, flew from tree to tree,min- 



3 



ST. AUGUSTINE S BAY. 



gling their various notes on all sides; the 
only sounds which broke upon the deep sol- 
itude. The path thence to Port Louis, 
through an opening in the intervening ridge, 
commands a view of the church of Pample- 
memsses, of the " Trois Mamelles," and, at 
the same time, of the harbor and Signal- 
hill ; — " le Morne de la Decouverte, avec la 
mer au loin, ou apparaissait quelquefois un 
vaisseau qui venait de i'Europe, ou qui y 
retournait ; — exactly corresponds to the view 
described by St. Pierre, and, indeed, beyond 
a doubt, taken by him on this very spot. 

At the beginning of December, the "Cle- 
opatra" quitted Mauritius, to proceed round 
the north point of Madagascar, to her ap- 
pointed cruizing ground, in the Mozambique 
Channel. A new interest here attached it- 
self to every sail which came in sight. The 
slave-trade on the coast of Africa is at pres- 
ent almost confined to the districts of Quiii- 
mane and Sofula, having ceased at the port 
of Mozambique, through the zealous exer- 
tions of its late and present Governors. 
This zeal on their pail has been attributed 
to the increase made of late years in the le- 
gal emoluments of the Government; the 
smallness of which, formerly, admitted 
temptation to add to them by patronizing the 
exportation of slaves. The City of Mozam- 
bique occupies an island across the middle of 
the harbor, about a mile and a quarter in 
length — scarcely a quarter of a mile in its 
greatest breadth. At one extremity is a very 
strong, handsome fort, built at the com- 
mencement of the 1 6th century. The island 
is low and sandy, with little vegetation ex- 
cept a few sickly palms, and depends for 
supplies on the adjacent coast. The present 
population is about 3,000, consisting chiefly 
of negro slaves, with a mixture of Malays, 
Johannians, Hindoo bunneahs, or traders, 
and a few Portuguese Creoles. I met in the 
streets a much greater proportion of shack- 
led slaves than at Rio Janeiro. The ne- 
groes inhabit cane huts, along the beach, 
and on the outskirts of the town ; and I was 
struck with the order and decorum which 
prevailed among them. On remarking this 
to a Portuguese, named Ncbre, the owner of 
the only large store in the place, he said — 
" Better for them, else their backs would 
smart." He candidly expressed his hatred 
to the English, for their exertions to sup- 
press the slave-trade. 

We crossed the channel, in the beginning 
of January, 1843, from the African shore, 
to the Bay of St. Augustine, on the coast of 
Madagascar, for the purpose of taking in 
fresh provisions and water. A small mer- 
chant schooner, from Mauritius, lay there 
at anchor on our arrival, surrounded by 



about twenty canoes, full of natives, who 
immediately paddled toward our ship. As 
they approached, a multitude of vofees, vy- 
ing with each other, proclaimed the names 
and titles of our visitors. ' ' Me broder Prince 
Wilt," meaning, I believe, " Prince of 
Wales ;" " Me John Green ;" " Me Dunga- 
ree;" ' ; Me Jem Bravo;" ' : You my very 
good friend — me come aboard, speaky 
the captain." They appeared to me a very 
fhie race of savages ; their dark brown skins 
sleek and glossy ; their well- formed limbs 
supple from continual exertion; all their 
actions and gestures free and agile. Their 
features are far from disagreeable, with an 
intelligent, vivacious expression; their jet- 
black hair plaited with great care and clean- 
liness, and by no means untastefully. The 
canoes, which held about four each, were 
twenty feet in length, very narrow, and 
sharp at both ends. Though frail in ap- 
pearance, being formed of the soft " cabbage- 
wood," they are, in reality, safe — two long 
transverse poles suspending a solid piece 
of the same light wood, which, floating on 
the water, balances the canoe, and precludes 
the possibility of its upsetting. Most of 
our visitors were nearly naked, except a few 
whom the pride of distinction had led to 
disguise their persons in an old naval coat 
or cap, sometimes with the addition of a 
cast-off epaulette, and a profusion of brass 
nails or buttons. On being admitted on board 
the ship, their volubility increased, having 
atcommand agreat number of English words, 
many of which they pronounce with great 
clearness, unfettered, it may be supposed, 
by any grammatical connection. One, who 
announced himself as " Captain Long," ad- 
dressed me in the most earnest tone of sup- 
plication : 

" Look here — you very good friend to me : 
I love you very well ; all de same one fader ; 
you speaky the captain." 

" What shall I say for you to the cap- 
tain ?'' 

" You speaky for me ; he give me one 
cape." (cap.) 

This petitioner had two brothers, bear- 
ing the same family name, but distinguished 
as " Young Long, " and " Jem Long. " 
These, though not above begging, deemed 
it beneath then dignity to bring shells for 
sale. 

' : No — no get shell; me big man-, sing 
out, ' Fellow, go get shell !' me have bul- 
lock — speaky the king, Prince Will." 

Several brought their assagais, or long 
spears, wliich they were not unwilling to 
barter for beads, buttons, or "clouty" (cot- 
ton cloth) 

In the afternoon, I landed at a village 



ST. ATJ"?T T ST1NE S BAY. 







within the mouth of the river which empties 
itself into St. Augustine's Bay. The huts, 
ahout fifty in number, are neatly constructed 
of clay and reed, tut so low, that it would 
require one to stoop double in order to enter 
the door. Here we found " Prince Will," 
a dwarfish, most wretched object, in extreme 
old age, one eye completely overspread by 
a hideous kind of fungus. He was engaged 
at a sort of "palaver," on the occasion of 
receiving some embassage from his brother 
potentate, " King Voose," whose Govern- 
ment includes the territory on the other side 
• of the river. Their titles are apparently 
hereditary, and their authority, I believe, 
subordinate to that of " King Baba," who 
resides at some distance in the interior. 
" Prince Will" was seated on the ground, 
under the shade of some fine trees, amid a 
circle of above a hundred warlike-looking 
men, also seated on their haunches, some 
having muskets, and all holding long spears 
erect in then hands. He seemed entirely 
engrossed in smoking his pipe, and incapa- 
ble of taking any interest in the business 
going forward, which was conducted on his 
part by three or four who sat near him. 
Ail preserved great gravity of demeanor, and 
took not the slightest notice of our presence. 
Many women and children, who had at- 
tended us from our landing, kept back at a 
respectful distance while we approached the 
circle, but again thronged us alter we with- 
drew from it, on our return to the boat, 
some of them were even pressing to enter it, 
and accompany us on board. One asked : 
" King ship take queeny ? Queeny come 
aboard ?" The title " Queeny'-" is given to 
their women, generally. On being told that 
their wisii could not be complied with, they 
signified then discontent very strongly. The 
shameless licentiousness of the women, en- 
couraged and promoted by their men, appears 
almost universal. 

On the morning after our arrival, " Prince 
Will" — notice having been duly sent of his 
intention, paid us a visit on board, bringing 
with him a large train of attendants. Cap- 
tain Wyvill having, with his usual good- 
nature, put in requisition all the chairs 
which could be got, his cabin was soon 
completely filled, and we were not then left 
long in suspense as to the purport of the 
visit. A young man stood forward and 
delivered, with much gesticulation, a some- 
what disjointed harangue, the object of 
which, however, was sufficiently obvious. 
" Prince Will very good friend to you, you 
very gcod friend Prince Will ; you come 
here catch water, catch bullock — very 
good. Prince Will, him no got powder, no 
got clouty — Prince Will, him drink brandy." 



Our decks were crowded, on this ant 
lowing days, with natives, bringing shells 
for sale — harps, cowries, volutes, and others, 
in great variety ; also a few water-melons 
and pumpkins. One "Captain Harribee," 
from Pullear Bay, about ten miles distant, 
objected to barter: "No sell, give;" he 
asked for a bottle and some '•' clouty" and 
afterward sent us a present of a fowl and 
a basket of eggs. Another man, who had 
received a Spanish dollar for two assagais, 
was asked what use he would make of the 
money ? " Get ten dollar, buy slave. Got 
one, two, three slave — bring water, bring 
wood." Most of our visitors wear, around 
the neck, attached to a string of beads, among 
shells and ether ornaments, a small piece of 
leather, which they call " Mahommed," and 
believe has a charm to protect from death. 
" Where," I asked one of them, " do we 
go when we die ?"" '•' You die, .takee shore 
— Tent-Bock, cder place — put in ground." 
" And never get up again r" "No, no get 
up." "But you must die too." "No, I 
no die." Jem Long, to whom T put the 
question, " Do you ever pray to God ?" an- 
swered, " Malgash no see God ; what for 
pray ?" The captain of the Mauritius 
schooner, a Frenchman, taking in here a 
cargo of orseille, a species of lichen, which 
produces a fine dye, tells me that the natives 
in this part of the island belong to the tribe 
called " Secalaves." He mentions also the 
" Baignemasaques," " Antolotes," and other 
Frenchified names. The main distinction, 
however, is between' these tribes, who in- 
habit most of the west coast, and the Oo- 
vahs. occupying the north part of the island, 
and the whole of its east coast, who own 
the sovereignty of the Queen of Madagas- 
car, and are much more advanced toward 
:ivihzaticn. 

From St. Augustine's Bay, the " Cleopa- 
tra " proceeded to Algoa Bay, in the Cape 
of Good Hope colony, the south limit of our 
cruising station. This port alone has easy 
communication with the productive districts 
in the interior of the colony. Its principal 
exports during the year 1842 were : — 
Wool . . . value £43,560 

Ox and horse hides . . 19,494 

Goatskins .... 9,503 

Butter 2,907 

Tallow 2,899 

Horns , . . ... . 1,066 

Aloes 5,644 

Ivory • 1,964 

The town, Port Elizabeth, contains upward 
of 3000 British inhabitants, and increases 
rapidly in population and importance. We 
found here nine English merchant- vessels 
at anchor. I made a visit to Uitenhage, about 
tweutv miles distant, chief town of the di- 



10 



QUILIMANE. 



vision of the same name, to which Port 
Elizabeth belongs. It is pleasantly situa- 
ted in a fertile valley, sheltered by a low 
range of hills, and watered by the Zerartkop 
river. Every house has its inclosures of 
peach, apple, or pear trees ; giving the whole 
an appearance of one large garden. The 
population is about 2000, half of the num- 
ber colored, the remainder chiefly Dutch, 
the English not amounting to one hundred. 
The time of the criminal sessions was ap- 
proaching, and the municipal authorities of 
Uitenhage were making preparation for the 
visit of the judges in circuit. Mr. Brunett, 
clerk of the peace, informed me, that since 
the abolition of slavery the average quar- 
terly number of criminal cases for trial in 
this division, containing 9000 square miles, 
and 1 1 ,000 inhabitants, had diminished from 
25 to 4. It is only to be regretted that the 
measure of slave-emancipation was not car- 
ried into effect in this colony with more con- 
sideration for its peculiar eircumstances. 
The compensation awarded to the slave- 
owners here, through misunderstanding on 
the part of the Boers, or their inability to 
wait till the time appointed for its payment, 
fell, in a great measure, into the hands of 
brokers at Cape Town, who purchased their 
claims at a very low rate. The dissatisfac- 
tion and distrust occasioned by this mea- 
sure have been the cause of the rebellious 
disturbances which have arisen in the colo- 
ny during the last five years, and which are 
now at a higher pitch than ever. Mr. Bru- 
nett expressed to me the anxious desire of 
the English inhabitants to obtain a resident 
clergyman at Titenhage ; and showed me a 
good house and garden provided by them for 
a lay catechist, or schoolmaster, who had 
just left them, which they would gladly 
settle on a clergyman of the Church of En- 
gland, who should come among them, as 
well as contribute, in a reasonable degree, 
to his support. I remember that Mr. Dick- 
enson,- clerk of the peace at Stellenbosch, 
twenty-five miles from Cape Town, held 
nearly similar language. That gentleman 
regretted to me that, instead of a school- 
master sent by Government, at a salary of 
2301. per annum, who exercised the Hot- 
tentots in questions concerning " oxygen, 
hydrogen, latent caloric," &c. , a clergyman 
had not been sent to administer the ordi- 
nances of the Church, as well as give due 
attention to the education of the poor. It 
is the painful truth that, in this vast colony, 
though thirty-seven years have elapsed 
since it passed into the hands of the En- 
glish, the Church of England is still unre- 
presented. 

The "Cleopatra," on her return to the 



north, cruised along the African coast, and 
anchored ten miles off the bar of Quilimane, 
early i-n February. Shortly after, I accom- 
panied a party, in one of our boats, to the 
town, situated about eight miles up the ri- 
ver, on its left bank. The water on the 
bar, at the time of our crossing it, was quite 
smooth ; but even a moderate breeze will 
curl the sea, to a great extent around, into 
formidable breaking waves. The sides of 
the river on each hand are a thicket of man- 
groves. Several recesses in these, shelter- 
ed large flat-bottomed boats, which are used 
to carry negroes to the slave-vessels out- 
side the bar. Pelicans, curlews, and other 
water-birds, flew around us. At two pla- 
ces, several hippopotami raised their heads 
above the surface, resembling, with their 
curved tusks, the twisted stumps of large 
trees. On a ball being fired at them, snort- 
ing up the water from their nostrils, they 
plunged beneath it. I longed to see one of 
the monsters in its full proportions, when, 
looking on a small island, " Pequena Ban- 
ca," just in the mid river, about 150 yards 
distant, appeared one standing on dry ground. 
The animal perceived us as soon, and ran 
to and fro with a speed hardly to be ex- 
pected from its unwieldy bulk; sometimes 
stopping to take a look at us, as if doubting 
which way to go, and, entering the water, 
gradually disappeared, not before I had sent 
a bullet at him, which, however, had no 
chance of penetrating its thick, tough hide. 
In size it approached the elephant ; but the 
shortness of its legs gave it rather the figure 
of the pig. We were most hospitably re- 
ceived at Quilimane, by Senhor Azevedo, a 
rich Portuguese gentleman, who carries on 
a considerable commerce in ivory and gold- 
dust. The exportation of slaves he pro- 
fessed to hold in abomination, and is at va- 
riance on that point with the present Gov- 
ernor of the district of Quilimane, whom 
he represents as conniving at it. Azevedo 
assured us he had certain intelligence that, 
during this and the following month, four 
to six slave-vessels may be confidently ex- 
pected at this port. The European inhab- 
itants of Quilimane do not exceed ninety 
souls. The principal houses are well-built, 
with extensive walled premises. Bice- 
grounds occupy a swamp in the midst of 
the population, in which are the numerous 
mud huts of the negro slaves. I thought 
the rice of sweeter flavor than even the 
Egyptian. No more, however, is grown 
than is sufficient for the consumption of the 
inhabitants. The prevalence of the slave- 
trade here has had its usual effect in damp- 
ing all other spirit of enterprise. The hand- 
somest feature of the place is a large grove 



of lofty cocoa-nut palms, which afford a 
delicious shade. The mangoes are good, 
though inferior to those of Mauritius ; the 
plaintains dry and flavorless. 

About the middle of February, the " Cle- 
opatra" proceeded from Quilimane to recruit 
her stock of water at St. Augustine's Hay. 
Our return thither was hailed, shortly after 
our arrival, by " Jem Bravo," " Young 
Long," and others of our former acquaint- 
ance. Disgust, however, at their endeavors 
to impose on us, by asking ten dollars each 
for bullocks small and lean, the fair price 
for which would have been three or four 
dollars per head, hastened our departure; as 
soon as the business of watering was com- 
pleted. On March 2d, having gone away 
in a boat to a neighboring reef, on a shelling 
excursion, while returning to the ship after 
dark, T perceived in the west horizon a re- 
markable column of light, resembling a ra- 
diation. Two or three days subsequently, 
the whole being visible above the horizon, 
it became evident that it was a distinct ce- 
lestial body; a comet, with a tail, on a 
rough measurement, of about forty degrees 
in length, travelling in a northerly and 
westerly direction. 

On March 4th, we left St. Augustine's 
Bay for Port Natal, desirous to learn how 
affairs went on there, previous to our return 
to Quilimane ; and anchored off Natal Bar 
on Sunday, March 12th. On the following 
morning, I crossed the bar in one of our cut- 
ters, which, the evening before, had been 
nearly swamped on it, and lost two of her 
oars. Lieut. Nourse, in command of the 
"Fawn" schooner, at anchor inside the 
harbor, told me that, from an account kept 
by him during a year, it resulted that there 
are, on an average, twelve days only in 
each month on which the bar is passable. 
There are about 200 soldiers here at present, 
under command of Major Smith — part at 
the " Point," just within the harbor's mouth, 
where a small fort is erected, and part at the 
Camp, two miles distant, on the site where 
the same officer, with a force of 100 men, 
withstood a siege of the Boers. The ex- 
isting relation between the British troops 
and the insurgents is that of a suspension of 
hostilities, without any acknowledgment yet 
made by the Boers of the sovereignty of 
England. 

The " Cleopatra" re-anchored off the bar 
of Quilimane on the 23d March, and, the 
same day, sent the barge up the river to the 
town. 

March 26th. The barge, which was dis- 
patched to Quilimane, returned this morn- 
ing, with the news that H. M. brig " Lily" 
had, during our absence, driven a slave- 



THE CHASE. H 

vessel ashore, and carried off two others, 
barks, prizes to the Cape ; bringing, also, a 
letter from the Governor of "Quilimane 
and Rios de Senna," in a far from congratu- 
latory tone on the subject. His version of 
the affair stated that, on the 4th of this 
month, the Portuguese brig of war, " Gentil 
Libertabor," crossing the bar of the river at 
daybreak, perceived a vessel approaching 
the shore, which the " Lily," then anchored 
outside, perceiving at the same moment, im- 
mediately weighed anchor. The vessel in 
question, judging it impossible to escape, 
continued her course to the shore, where 
she grounded at half-past seven, about six 
miles from the port. A quarter of an hour 
after, the Portuguese brig took possession 
of the stranded vessel, and hoisted on board 
of her the Portuguese flag. The Governor 
complains of the " Lily's" boats having 
afterward forcibly boarded the prize, and 
destroyed various parts of the vessel. We 
have grounds for more than suspicion that, 
had not an English cruiser been on the 
coast, the " Gentil Libertabor" would not 
have interfered with the proceedings of the 
slave vessel. The Governor's dispatch pro- 
ceeds to state, that, on the 20th of this 
month, the crews of the two Brazilian barks, 
" DesengaSo," and " Confidencia," captured 
by H. M. brig " Lily," presented themselves 
before him, part having been put ashore, 
and part on board the boat of the pilot be- 
longing to this port, at that time on service 
at the bar ; and 'expatiates on the peril of 
their being thus let loose on a country far 
from all inhabitants, except those of the 
town, exposed to the risk of being devoured 
by wild beasts. 

Friday, March 31 . A sail was observed 
this morning, apparently a brigantine, steal- 
ing along shore to the south of the Quili- 
mane river. At noon, the weather being 
calm, I took a seat in the barge, which, 
with the pinnace, were ordered away, man- 
ned and armed, to overhaul the vessel, or, 
failing in that, to proceed up the river to 
Quilimane. Soon after leaving the ship, a 
light breeze sprung up and the boats made 
sail. After steering a good while in the di- 
rection in which the vessel had been seen 
from the ship, we unexpectedly caught sight 
of her two or three points farther to wind- 
ward than we had supposed her to be, and, 
to our surprise, standing toward the frigate, 
which lay at anchor. About the same time 
we perceived a boat pulling furiously in that 
direction, which proved to belong to the 
Portuguese brig of war, anchored inside the 
bar. 

It seemed doubtful which of us would win 
the race ; and we anxiously watched for 



12 THE CHASE. 

some movement on the part of the " Cleo- 
patra," who had now the breeze as well as 
ourselves. At length we saw her, at the 
same moment cross her royal yards, and 
make sail. On this, the brigantine, taking 
alarm, hauled her wind. The race, mean- 
while, continued between our boats and the 
Portuguese, until one of their rowers, prob- 
ably from a coup-de-soleil, was obliged to 
quit his oar, which made them drop astern. 
The night approaching, compelled our boats 
also to abandon the chase, and, having 
stood on the same course half an hour after 
it became dark, we turned our heads back 
in the direction of the Quilimane river. On 
our return, falling in with the " Cleopatra," 
who continued the pursuit, the officer in 
charge of the boats wished to communicate 
with her, and supposed that she had hove 
to, in order to enable him to do so. Incau- 
tiously approaching her head, when close 
to her bows, we found that she had been 
just in stays, and, not perceiving our boat 
in the darkness, had gathered way, and was 
coming right down on us. In vain we hail- 
ed : " Put your helm hard a-port." No 
answer was returned. There was no pos- 
sibility of getting out of her way. " She 
is right into us." A few hands were near 
the bowsprit, to whom we cried : " Throw 
us plenty of ropes." I had hastily doffed 
my great coat in readiness for a swim ; and 
after an instant's hesitation, whether it 
would be better to jump overboard, or await 
the shock, and the chance of catching a 
rope, found my hand close to the dolphin- 
striker, which I seized, and the next instant, 
clambering up, I scarce knew how, clasped 
the image of Cleopatra, the figure-head of 
the frigate. Our boat had providentially 
been perceived just in time to throw all the 
sails of the frigate a-back, before the col- 
lision, which, otherwise, would have been 
inevitable destruction to most of us. Of 
those who remained in the boat, only one 
was disabled, no other injury being done to 
the barge than smashing her mainmast ; I 
rejoined my comrades in her, and we pro- 
ceeded toward the mouth of the river. Un- 
able, however, from the darkness of the 
night, to make sure of the entrance, we an- 
chored outside of the surf, and, the next 
morning, received a kind welcome from our 
hospitable friend Azevedo, at Quilimane. 
As we sat, after dinner, enjoying the cool 
of the evening, under a porch, he said to 
me, " Monsieur Hill, voulez-vous voir un 
Prince noir?" On my assenting, he dis- 
patched a request for the presence of the 
royal personage, who soon made his ap- 
pearance, with a dozen attendants, from 
an adjacent house allotted to their use. 



This was a chief of the Macoa tribe, from 
about two hundred miles in the interior, 
who had brought some gold dust and 
ivory for Azevedo. He and his train had 
very little clothing among them : their arms 
and legs ornamented with rings of hippo- 
potamus hide. Having been put in spirits, 
by a distribution of brandy, they performed 
a dance as void of grace and agility as all 
other negro dances that I have seen ; accom- 
panying the exhibition by clapping their 
hands and a most discordant vocal chorus, 
the same, Azevedo told me, which they use 
when they go to hunt the hippopotamus, 
and well calculated to astound the animal, 
if that be their object. In return for this 
entertainment, two or three musical boxes 
were set a-playing, with which the " Black 
Prince " was so much pleased, that he offer- 
ed to give four of his attendants for one of 
them. 

On the following day, we descended the 
river, and found the " Cleopatra" again an- 
chored off its mouth, having failed in pur- 
suit of the brigantine. ' The same afternoon 
we weighed anchor for the island of " Po- 
go," about 100 miles to the north, where 
slave vessels frequently seek shelter ; leav- 
ing the barge and a cutter to guard the en- 
trance to the Quilimane river. Finding 
nothing at Fogo, the pinnace was sent to 
look into the small rivers along the shore 
to Mozambique, 100 miles further to the 
north, where she rejoined us after a fruit- 
less search; and on Monday, April lOthj 
we began to retrace our course to the south. 
Wednesday, April 12th. — At day-break 
this morning, being again off Fogo, on re- 
turn to Quilimane, the look-out at the top- 
mast head perceived a vessel on the lee- 
quarter, at such a distance as to be scarcely 
visible ; but, her locality being pronounced 
very suspicious, the order was given to 
" bear up for her." Our breeze was light, 
and, falling still lighter, at 9 a. m. the boats 
were ordered out, and, in a few minutes, 
the barge and the first gig, manned and 
armed, were pulling away in the direction 
of the stranger. So variable, however, is 
the weather, at this season, that, before the 
boats had rowed a mile from the ship, a 
squall had gathered on our beam, and a 
thick haze surrounded us, hiding the chase 
from sight; rain fell in torrents, and we 
were going seven knots through the water, 
not waiting to hoist in the barge.. The fog 
clearing away, the sun broke foith, and the 
rakish-looking brigantine, as we now per- 
ceived her to be, appeared to have carried 
on all sail during the squall. A steady 
breeze succeeded, and we began to feel 
pretty confident as to the issue of the race. 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



13 






On. mounting a few steps u|> the rigging, 
we could see, under her sails, the low, 
Hack hull, pitching up and down ; and be- 
ing now within range of our shot, one of 
the forecastle guns was cleared away for a 
how-chaser. The British ensign had been 
for sometime flying at our peak, — at length 
answered by the green and yellow Brazil- 
ian flag. Orders were given to " man the 
foremost quarters on the main-deck," and 
the due elevation given to the guns, when, 
suddenly, the brigantine dropped her peak, 
shortened sail, and rounded to, as to wait 
for our coming up. Her pursuer, in conse- 
quence, also shortened sail, immediately on 
which she again made sail and was off, in a 
different direction across our bows No 
time was lost in bracing our yards in pur- 
suit, and sending back the hands to their 
quarters at their guns. 

As soon as it was brought to bear, the 
foremost gun was fired ; and, after an eager 
watch of a few seconds, the ball ploughed 
the waters just across the bows of the chase. 
Another and another followed in quick suc- 
cession, equally unregarded by the brigan- 
tine ; and fifteen to twenty shot were fired, 
some ahead, some astern, some over, till, as 
we were evidently gaining on her every 
minute, and the chance of escape became 
desperate, she at length shortened sail, and 
lay- to in good earnest. We now ranged up 
alongside, and eager eyes were turned on 
every part of the vessel. Dark, naked forms 
passing across her deck removed the least 
remaining doubt as to her character, and 
showed us that she had her human cargo 
aboard. A cutter being hoisted out, an offi- 
cer was sent to take possession, and the 
British ensign displaced the Brazilian. Capt. 
Wyvill, whom I accompanied, then follow- 
ed, taking with him the surgeon, to inspect 
the state of health on board the prize. It 
was a strange scene which presented itself 
to us when we mounted her side.^The deck 
was crowded to the utmost with naked ne- 
groes, to the number, as stated in her papers, 
of 450, in almost riotous confusion, having 
revolted, before our arrival, against their late 
masters ; who, on their part, also showed 
strong excitement, from feelings, it may be 
supposed, of no pleasant nature. The ne- 
groes, a meagre, famished-looking throng, 
having broken through all control, had 
seized everything to which they had a 
fancy in the vessel ; some with hands full 
of " farinha," the powdered root of the man- 
droe or cassava ; others with large pieces of 
pork and beek, having broken open the 
casks ; and some had taken fowls from the 
coops, which they devoured raw. Many 
were busily dipping rags, fastened to bits of 



string, into the water-casks ; and, unhappi- 
ly, there were some who, by a like method, 
got at the contents of a cask of "aguardiente," 
fiery Brazilian rum, of which they drank to 
excess. The addition of our boats' crews 
to this crowd left hardly room to move on 
the deck. The shrill hubbub of noises, 
which I cannot attempt to describe, expres- 
sive, however, of the wildest joy, thrilled on 
the ear, mingled with the clank of the iron, 
as they were knocking off their fetters on 
every side. It seemed that, from the mo- 
ment the first bal was fired, they had been 
actively employed in thus freeing themselves, 
in which our men were not slow in lending 
their assistance. I counted but thirty shack- 
led together in pairs ; but many more pairs of 
shackles were found below. We were not 
left an instant in doubt as to the light in 
which they viewed us. They crawled in 
crowds, and rubbed caressingly our feet and y 
clothes with their hands, even rolling them- 
selves, as far as room allowed, on the deck 
before us. And when they saw the crew 
of the vessel rathe r unceremoniously sent 
over the side into the boat which was to take 
them prisoners to the frigate, they set up a 
long, universal shout of triumph and- de- 
light. 

Account was now taken of the number of 
the negroes, amounting to 447. Of these 
189 were men, few, however, if any, ex- 
ceeding 20 years of age; 45 women; 213 
boys . The number of sick among them was 
reckoned at 25*. Captain Wyvill proposed 
to take 1 00 on board the " Cleopatra." This 
humane and judicious intention was, how- 
ever, unfortunately prevented from taking 
effect, owing to an erroneous impression that 
some of them were infected with the small- 
pox. Our prize proves to be the same ves- 
sel which we chased on the 31st ult., off 
Quilimane ; her name, the " Progresso," last 
from Paranagua, in Brazil, and bound, as 
her crew state, to Rio Janeiro. They are 
seventeen in number, and, with a few ex- 
ceptions, active-looking, able-bodied men : 
three Spaniards ; the rest Portuguese, or 
Brazilians. They quitted the coast only last 
evening, and have thus been captured by us 
within a few hours after the embarkation of * 
their cargo. The vessel is of about 140 j-~ 
tons ; the length of the slave-deck, 27 feet; ' 
its mean breadth, 21 1-2 feet; its height 
3 1-2 feet. The captain, if we credit the 
statement of the crew, was, with another 
man, drowned in the surf, where they em- 
barked the negroes ; and the absence of the 
long-boat gives some probability to the story. 
A Spaniard, of Barcelona, by name Antonio 



* This calculation was afterward found tobe 
much too low. 



14 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



Vallel, replied to my inquiries, " No hay 
quien manda ; tan capines somos uno como 
otro." " There is no one who commands ; 
we are captains as much one as another." 
This man, with another Spaniard, of Galicia, 
Sebastian Vicete, and a Portuguese, named 
Manoel, employed to cook for the negroes, 
were sent back into the prize. An interpre- 
ter being much wanted to communicate with 
them concerning the care and management 
of the negroes, I offered my services during 
the voyage, to which Captain Wyvill hav- 
ing assented, at 7 o'cock in the evening I 
' found myself, with my servant and carpet 
bag, on board the " Progresso," under sail 
for the Cape of Good Hope. The English 
previously sent on board were, the lieuten- 
ant in charge, a master's assistant, a quar- 
termaster, a feoatswain's mate, and nine sea- 
. men. 
1^* During the .first watch, our breeze was 
light and variable, the water smooth, the 
recently liberated negroes sleeping, or lying 
in quietness about the deck. Their slender 
supple limbs entwine in a surprisingly small 
compass ; and they resembled, in the moon- 
light, confused piles of arms and legs, rather 
than distinct human forms. They were, 
however, apparently at ease, and all seemed 
going on as fairly as could be desired. But 
the scene was soon to undergo a great and 
terrible change. About one hour after mid- 
night, the sky began to gather clouds, and 
a haze overspread the horizon to windward. 
A squall approached, of which I and others, 
who had lain down on the deck, received 
warning by a few heavy drops of rain. 
Then ensued a scene the horrors of which 
it is impossible to depict. The hands having 
to shorten sail suddenly, uncertain as to the 
force of the squall, found the poor helpless 
creatures lying about the deck an obstruction 
to getting at the ropes and doing what was 
required. This caused the order to send 
them all below, which was immediately 
obeyed. The night, however, being in- 
tensely hot and close, 400 wretched beings 
. — — thus crammed into a hold 12 yards in length, 
7th in breadth, and only 3 1-3 feet in height, 
speedily began to make an effort to reissue 
to the open air. 

Being thrust back, and striving the more 
to get out, the after-hatch was forced down 
on them. Over the other hatchway, in the 
fore-part of the vessel, a wooden grating 
was fastened. To this, the sole inlet for 
the air, the suffocating heat of the hold, and, 
perhaps, panic from the strangeness of their 
situation, made them press ; and thus great 
part of the space below was rendered use- 
less. They crowd to the grating, and, 
clinging to it for air, completely barred its 



entrance. They strove to force their way 
through apertures, in length fourteen inches, 
and barely six inches in breadth, and, in some 
instances, succeeded. The cries, the heat, — 
I may say, without exaggeration, " the 
smoke of their torment," — which ascended, 
can be compared to nothing earthly. One 
of the Spaniards gave warning that the 
consequence would be " many deaths." — 
" Mariana habra muchos muertoe." 

Thursday, April 13th (Holy Thursday.) 
— The Spaniard's prediction of last night, 
this morning was fearfully verified. Fifty- 
four crushed and mangled corpses lifted up 
from the slave-deck have been brought to 
the gang- way and thrown overboard. Some 
were emaciated from disease ; many, bruis- 
ed and bloody. Antonio tells me that some 
were found strangled, their hands still grasp- 
ing each other's throats, and tongues pro- 
truding from their mouths. The bowels of 
one were crushed out. They had been 
trampled to death for the most part, the 
weaker under the feet of the stronger, in the 
madness and torment of suffocation from 
crowd and heat. It was a horrid sight, as 
they passed one by one — the stiff distorted 
limbs smeared with blood and filth — to be 
cast into the sea. Some, still quivering, 
were laid on the deck to die; salt water 
thrown on them to revive them, and a little 
fresh water poured into their mouths. Anto- 
nio reminded me of his last night's warning, 
" Ya se lo dixe anoche." He actively em- 
ployed himself, with his comrade Sebastian, 
in attendance on the wretched living beings 
now released from their confinement below; 
distributing to them their morning meal of 
" farinha," and their allowance of water, 
rather more than half a pint to each, which 
they grasped with inconceivable eagerness, 
some bending their knees to the deek, to 
avoid the risk of losing any of the liquid by 
unsteady footing, their throats, doubtless, 
parched to the utmost with crying and yel- 
ling through the night. 

A heavy shower having freshened the 
air, in the evening most of the negroes went 
below of their own accord, the hatchways 
being left open to alloAv them air. But a 
short time, however, had elapsed when they 
began tumuituously to re-ascend, while per- 
sons above, afraid of their crowding the deck 
too much, repelled them, and they were 
trampled back, screaming and writhing, in 
a confused mass. The hatch was about to 
be forced down on them, and, had not the 
lieutenant in charge left positive orders to 
the contrary, the catastrophe of last iright 
would have been re-enacted. Antonio, 
whom I called at this juncture, turned away 
with a gesture of horror, saying, " No soy 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



15 



capaz de matarlos como anoche." On ex- 
plaining to him, however, that it was desir- 
ed he would dispose in proper places those 
who came on deck, he set himself to the 
task with great alacrity. As they climbed 
nimbly up, he made me feel their skins, 
which had been wetted by the rain : " Es- 
tan frescos," — " they are cool." " No tie- 
neb calor, tienen miedo." It Avas not heat, 
but fear, which now made them rush to es- 
cape from the hold ; and he showed me, 
with much satisfaction, how soon and quiet- 
ly thay were arranged out of the way of 
the ropes, covered with long rugs provided 
for the purpose. " Man ana no ha de morir 
ninguno : — acaso algunos de los que estan 
ahora enfermos," " To-morrow there will 
not be one dead — perhaps some of those who 
are now sick." 

April 14th (Good Friday.) — But one dead 
this morning. There are three in a dying 
state of the number trampled on the first 
night ; one, a robust lad, so dreadfully bruis- 
ed and swollen as to be unable to move a 
limb, nor can we open his eyelids. An or- 
ange squeezed into his mouth, from time to 
time, seemed to refresh him. 1 observed 
two women creep out of the boiler in .which 
beans are cooked for the negroes. On the 
first night, the females appear to have gone 
quietly, at an early hour, to a berth parti- 
tioned off for them between the rest of the 
hold and our cabin : it being the custom of 
slave-traders to keep the sexes strictly sepa- 
rate. At two, this afternoon, a large ship 
was reported to leeward ; soon ascertained 
to be the " Cleopatra," standing out from 
Quilimane, where she had touched on her 
way to the Cape. 

April 15th (Easter Even.) — The world 
can present no more shocking spectacle of 
human wretchedness than is contained in 
this vessel. It seems that a scene so har- 
rowing can hardly be witnessed without an 
injurious effect on the beholder ; its tenden- 
cy being, first to overwhelm, afterward, by 
familiarizing, in some degree to deaden, the 
feelings. Perhaps it but reveals that apa- 
thy to the sufferings of others which the 
heart would be unwilling to acknowledge 
of itself. Antonio came to report to me that 
not one had died during the last night ; ad- 
ding, '.' Bien arreglados, no mueren." 

April 16th, (Easter Day. )— The " Cleo- 
patra" being within two miles of us, at day- 
break, wishing to communicate, we bore up 
close to her, and, at 10 a. m., I accompanied 
the lieutenant on board. In a quarter of an 
hour we returned, bringing an old Portu- 
guese, named Valerian, to assist in repairing 
our sails, which were old and weak ; and 
a more important, as well as agreeable ad- 



dition to our company, in the assistant-sur- 
geon of the frigate, who proceeded to an ex- 
amination of the sick. The majority of 
cases were those of dysentery and ulcerated 
wounds. One man has deep sloughing ul- 
cers, from a flogging. " He cannot be worth 
much," remarked a Spaniard, "since he 
came into our hands not only ironed, but 
flogged." A poor child, six or seven years 
of age, has lost nearly the whole of his great 
toe, from the insect " niguas," or " jiggers." 
Another has a severe wound in the leg, 
caused by a bite from one of his compan- 
ions. Various impediments have prevented 
us from assembling to-day for Divine ser- 
vice. Our situation, indeed, appears as un- 
favorable as can well be imagined to there- 
pose of the sabbath ; and I am still more 
puzzled than formerly at a remark in the 
" Life of the Rev. John Newton," to the ef- 
fect, that he had never enjoyed sweeter sea- 
sons of communion with his Maker than 
during his voyages to the coast of Africa for 
slaves.* 

Msnday, April 17th. — Almost a «alm. 
The " Cleopatra" sent boats this morning, 
and took on board fifty of the boys. The 
disease among them, which had the appear- 
ance of small- pox, proves to be a virulent 
kind of itch. 

Tuesday, April 18th. — The wind con- 
tinuing very light, we received a second 
visit from the " Cleopatra's" boats, and sent 
further provision for the boys above men- 
tioned, viz., two sacks pf rice, one of millet- 
seed, and a quantity of Monte Video dried 
beef ; of which last article alone the " Pro- 
gresso" carries store enough to support all 
the negroes, for two months. There are, 
besides, six hundred sacks, containing about 



* Cape Town, June 24th. — The passage, in 
Mr. Cecil's "Life of Newton, "is as follows : — 
" 1 never knew sweeter or more frequent hours 
of Divine communication than on my two last 
voyages to Guinea, when I was either almost 
secluded from society on ship-board, or when on 
shore among the natives. I have wandered ♦ 

through the woods, reflecting on the goodness ' 

of the Lord to rnft . Many a time, upon these I 
occasions, I have restored the beautiful lines of 
Propertiusto the right owner ; lines full of blas- 
phemy and madness when addressed to a crea- 
ture, but full of comfort and propriety in the 
mouth of a believer : — 

'VSic ego desertis possim bene vivere sylvis, 
Quo nullo humano sit via trita pede ; " 

Tumihi curarum requies ; in nocte velatra 
Lumen, et in solis tu mini turba locis.' " 

The terms of censure applied to the above 
lines are surely severe. The sentiments they 
contain appears as innocent as beautiful : — 

" Thus in the sylvan desertswouldl dwell, 
Where never human foot hath trod ; with thee, 

A solace to my ears: in darkness fell, 
A light ; in solitude, society." 



16 SLAVE VESSEL. 

twenty-eight pounds each, of small beans ; 
a great many of an inferior rice, and of 
" farinha." Below the slave-deck are stowed 
twenty-two huge water-casks, averaging 
five or six hogsheads each. The length of 
one measured was six feet six inches. The 
cabin-stores are profuse ; lockers filled with 
ale and porter ; barrels of wine ; liquors of 
various sorts ; macaroni, vermicelli, tapioca 
of the finest kind ; cases of English pickles, 
each containing twelve jars ; boxes of cigars; 
muscatel raisins, tamarinds, almonds, wal- 
nuts, &c, &c The coops on deci are 
crammed with fowls and ducks, and there 
are eleven pigs. A breeze springing up in 
the afternoon, and gradually freshening, the 
" Cleopatra" shot ahead of us, passing so 
near that we could exchange farewell signs 
with our friends on board, who seemed now 
to be parting company in good earnest. 

Wednesday, April 19th. — Antonio gave 
me to-day an account of his escape off 
Quilimane, and subsequent capture, on our 
second chase. The slavers supposed the 
" Cleopatra," lying at anchor, to be an Ame- 
rican whaler. When undeceived on this 
point, and pursued by the frigate to the 
south, taking advantage of the darkness of 
the night, they hauled round, and, running 
back in an opposite direction, anchored be- 
tween Quilimane and Fogo. Here they 
commenced the embarkation of their cargo, 
which occupied ten days. " And had we 
not been detained," he added, "a day or 
two, waiting for provisions, we should have 
escaped you altogether. On the same night 
that we left the coast, we saw the lights of 
a ship, and tried to get out of her way, but 
there was little wind, and, at day-break, I 
mounted to the topmast-head, and — descu- 
brimas la fragata.*' The negroes forming 
their cargo, are affirmed by the Spaniards to 
have been in a very sickly state — "mala 
esclavitud " — when embarked ; having wait- 
ed on the coast two or three months in ex- 
pectation of a vessel. Some of them had 
come from far in the interior, and were re- 
ceived in wretched eondirion*a«d fifty were 
rejected as unfit to take. The vessel, they 
say, is capable of carrying five hundred, 
" Men arreglados y acomodados." Though 
little confidence may be due to the reports of 
slave-traders, J questioned them whether 
they considered the traffic likely to be abol- 
ished. Antonio, lifting his fore-finger to 
his eye, silently shook his head. Sebastian 
gave me his opinion that in Brazil, where 
many secluded creeks afforded facility for 
contraband adventure, there would be great 
difficulty in suppressing the trade, though 
the authority of the Government, if hearty 
in the cause, might do much. At Havana, 



he remarked, where for many years he had 
been engaged in it, and, at former periods, 
had seen twenty " negreros" lying in har- 
bor at a time, and two or three go in or out 
during a day ; now, owing to the zealous 
efforts of the Governor, not one was seen to 
enter. At Quilimane, by his account, eight 
or nine vessels take in their cargo yearly, 
averaging, at the lowest, five hundred in 
each. " But, now," he added, " none es- 
cape :" " es una carrera de hombres per- 
didos :" "it is a service of desperate men." 
Two vessels, as before mentioned, having 
been taken, and another driven ashore by 
the "Lily;" the "Progresso" makes the 
fourth capture this year. One, however, 
they say, escaped a few weeks since from 
that coast ; and it may be doubted whether 
its profits will not compensate for the loss 
of the other four. On the east coast of 
Africa negroes are usually paid for in mo- 
ney, sometimes in " fazendas," coarse cot- 
tons, at a cost of about eighteen dollars for 
men, twelve for boys. At Rio Janeiro, 
their value may be estimated at 500 milreis, 
or £52 for men ; 400 milreis, or £41 10s. 
for women ; 300 milreis, or £31 for boys. 
Thus, on a cargo of five hundred, at the 
mean price, the profit will exceed £19,000. 

Cost price of 500, at fifteen dollars, or 
£3 5s. each, - - - - ' £ 1,625 

Selling price at Rio of 500, at £41 10s. 
each, - - - - - - 20,750 

" Es vm comercio terribile" remarked An- 
tonio. The epithet thus applied by him to 
the commerce, taken literally, though strictly 
appropriate, would be far from expressing 
his meaning, viz., that it is extremely lucra- 
tive. The pay of the crew in the " Pro- 
gresso," as shewn by her papers, was at the 
rate of twenty -'five milreis, about £2 12s. 
per month ; to which the Spaniards say, a 
present of five hundred milreis to each per- 
son would have been added on the issue of 
a successful voyage. They are both suffer- 
ing under the coast-fever, against which, 
however, they bear up stoutly. Manoel, 
the Portuguese cook, on the contrary, gives 
way to it, has shaken hands with the sailors, 
and says that he is going to die. 

Thursday, April 20th. — A negro died this 
morning from having gorged himself with 
dry meal and crude beans. When thrown 
overboard, it being a dead calm, the body 
floated for upwards of half an hour, the face 
above water, close to the vessel, and some- 
times striking against the side ; while we 
were in apprehension every moment that a 
shark might approach and seize on it. Ano- 
ther negro suddenly fell on the deck, in 
violent convulsions ; his eyes became fixed, 
feis lips contracted, and we thought him 



SJLAVJE VESSEL. 



17 



dying. One of his companions, however, 
who speaks a little Portuguese, informed us 
that his fit was occasioned by having smoked 
a quantity of tobacco, wrapt in a piece of 
rag. After he had succeeded in swallowing 
a little water, he was immediately relieved, 
and lay down to sleep. A shed has l>een 
erected on deck, to shelter the sick, and ano- 
ther for the women, whose berth below is 
used for a store-room. The sick are fre- 
quently intruded on by others, who have no 
claim to be numbered among them,regardless 
of the injuries they occasion to the weak, 
helpless creatures, whom they crowd and 
crush 3 the misery of their own circumstances 
it may be supposed, leaving no room for 
commisseration of their fellow-sufferers. 
The great physical suffering of ail seems to 
be a raging, unquenchable thirst . 

xai £t tco opout) Kadeiariitei to tS tt\cov ko.i zkacaov 

totov. They eagerly catch the drippings 
from the sails after a shower ; apply their 
lips to the wet masts ; and crawl to the 
coops to share the supply placed there for 
the fowls. I have remarked some of the 
sick licking the deck, when washed with 
salt water. Their dinner to-day consisted of 
four bags of beans, and two of rice, well 
boiled together, and affording a plentiful re- 
past. It is distributed in tubs, round which 
they are seated, in parties of ten, and, at a 
signal, begin to dip their hands into the mess, 
and convey the contents to their mouths with 
great dexterity, but without any undue haste 
or greediness. Several of the younger boys 
have attached themselves to the after part of 
the deck, near our cabin, and will not leave 
the spot even during the night, having a 
piece of sail thrown over them. Their 
names are, Marcelio, who appears not to be 
above six years of age, Quelinga, Carre pa, 
and Catula. 

Sunday, April, 23rd. — Squally weather, 
and a heavy sea, prevented any attempt at 
the performance of Divine service. To turn 
my thoughts from harassing subjects, 1 had 
recourse to a few books, hastily put into 
my bag, on quitting the ship ; and the first 
which came to my hand, a volume of Mr. 
Newman's Lectures, transported me at once 
to the spot where I spent this season two 
years since. On the afternoon of Easier 
Sunday, 1841, 1 heard their author preach, 
at St. Mary's, on the Passion of our Lord, 
and passed the evening of the same day, 
amid a kind and hospitable circle, around 
the fireside of Mr. Palmer, of Worcester 
College. " Kebie's Christian Year," the 
constant companion, not of this only, but of 
all my wanderings in every quarter of the 
globe, affords a "treasure of sweet thought" 
n all scenes and circumstances. 



" Far, far away, the home-sick seaman's hoard, 

Iliy fragrant tokens live : 
Like flower-leaves in a' precious volume stored, 

To comfort and relieve 
Some heart too weary of the restless world." 
Form of Prayer to be used at Sea, 
Tuesday, April 25th. — The poor wretch 
who has wonderfully lingered twelve days, 
since the contusions received on the first 
night, terminated his miseries ■ to-day, and, 
when thrown overboard, sunk as lead. We 
are now just on the Tropic, having made 
only 350 miles on our voyage, owing to the 
frequent calms. The weather much resem- 
bles that which one meets on the Line, but 
little to be expected where we now are, at 
this season. " I saw a shark, sir," said a 
sailor to me this morning, « twice as big as 
what you are, swimming about the vessel." 
A large one was caught soon after, and 
mixed with farina, made a meal for the ne- 
groes, which they seemed to relish. We 
apprehended, on opening the monster, that 
we might find the remains of one of their 
late comrades, but the stomach was quite 
empty, which accounted for the ravenous 
manner in which the bait had been instantly 
seized. Half an hour after the entrails of 
this shark had been taken out, and its tail 
chopped off, both which operations it endured 
without a sign of sensation — it was sup- 
posed, indeed, that we had drowned be- 
fore bringing it on board — on a bucket of 
salt water being soused on it, to wash off 
the blood, it began to flounder about the deck, 
and bite on all sides, as if in full vigor of 
life. This sight makes credible the stories 
which J had previously heard as exaggera- 
tions, of sharks caught and deprived of their 
entrails, on being thrown back into the sea, 
and swimming off apparently as if nothing 
had happened to them. 

Wednesday, April 26th.— Six of the Eng- 
lish, including myself, are affected with 
feverish symptoms, though none in so severe 
a degree as the Spaniards. Manoel, the 
Portuguese cook, was reported delirious this 
morning, and unlikely to survive the day. I 
went forward to see him, in the men's hold, 
where he lay in a narrow crib. 

" Camara de marineros," said Sebastian, 
" es como casa de los puercos," — " A sai- 
lor's berth is like a pig-sty." 

" Comoesta Manoel?" I inquired. 

"Ah! Ave Maria Purfsima! si escape 
esta noche, no se : es segun el Biscaino." 
— " He is like the Biscayan ?" 

" And who was the Biscayan ?" 

"Era un Biscaino, que venia con noso- 
tros, que. cayb enfermo, y dixd que iba a. 
morir, y — en efeto murio." — It was a Bis- 
cayan, who came with us, who fell sick, 
and said he was going to die, and — in fact 



18 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



he died." " En estas calenturas de la costa 
de Africa," he continued, " es menester que 
no se acobarde ; que si uno se acobardfe, en 
quartro dias muere." — " In these fevers of 
the coast of Africa, it is necessary not to 
turn coward ; for if one turns coward, in 
four days he dies." 

The Portuguese could not recognise any 
one. To my question, if he knew me — 
" Manoel, quem sou eu ?" he replied : 

"Si, o tubarao."— " Yes, the shark;" — 
thinking, perhaps, of the voracious jaws 
that were shortly to prey on him. 

At 2, P. M., he died. The body, sewn 
up in a hammock, with a shot to make it 
sink, was .brought aft to the poop, where, 
the English and Spaniards attending, I read 
the Form of Burial Service appointed to be 
used at Sea : " committing his body to the 
deep, to be turned into corruption, looking 
for the resurrection of the body, when the 
sea shall give up her dead, and the life of 
the world to come." The increase of res- 
ponsibility incurred by those who have been 
called to the high hope of the Christian, 
and the " greater condemnation" which may 
arise from our misuse of the privilege, is 
His to pronounce, who will judge the se- 
crets of all at the last day. 

Friday, April 28. — The outcries below 
in the middle of last night being greater than 
usual, I obtained a lantern, and having rous- 
ed up the " Capita6 Pequeino," a boy ad- 
vanced to the title of " Captain" for his ser- 
viceableness in speaking a few words of 
Portuguese, he told me the cause of the up- 
roar. " Estad roubando agoa." I descen- 
ded on the slave -deck with a Spaniard, and 
an English sailor, who caught seven of the 
ringleaders in the act of drawing water 
from the casks beneath. The long, loose 
planks which compose this deck have daily 
to be removed, to get at the water and pro- 
visions ; but the nightly depredators, in rais- 
ing them, must at the same time displace a 
mass of living beings, piled on the top, re- 
gardless, no doubt, of any injury they may 
thus cause to them. The mischief result- 
ing from their delinquency is, not the loss 
of the water abstracted, but the corruption 
of that which remains, by the foul rags 
which they dip into the casks to obtain it. 
The boys were anxious to exculpate them- 
selves from sharing in the theft w T ith the 
men; crying, in their language, " Ouishi, 
ouishi no capean," — " the little ones do not 
steal." This morning the culprits were 
" seized up" with small cords to the fore- 
rigging, and received from fifteen to twenty 
lashes each from a rope's end ; a Spaniard, 
an Englishman, and a strong negro, reliev- 
ing each other at the task. Six of the 



most able negroes have been appointed to 
assist in pulling at the ropes, and entitled 
" capitabs marinheiros ;" distinguished by a 
canvas frock, with a daub of paint on the 
back, to mark the port and starboard watch- 
es. Their odd appearance and awkward 
efforts excite some mirth among the crew. 
" We ought to feel for the poor things," re- 
marked a sailor to his comrade, " more than 
we do." "Ay," was the rejoinder, "but 
we do not feel for one another, let alone 
them." Even the more considerate seem 
prone to look on this unhappy race as an 
inferior order of beings; as if the Almighty 
had not " made of one blood all nations of 
men on all the face of the earth." Thus 
one hears the expressions : " It will die ;" — 
"that is dying;" — thatfelloio cannot live." 

We have, at length, the luxury of a fair 
breeze, after a fortnight of calms or variable 
airs. Shoals of porpoises have been darting 
along on both sides of the vessel, skimming 
the water past us with surprising swiftness, 
or springing several feet through the air, 
and at every minute crossing our bows, 
where the sailors are bent, though vainly, 
on harpooning one of them. 

Saturday, April 29.— Last night I was 
awakened by the sound of taking in sails, 
amid peals of thunder, and lightnings the 
most vivid which I have anywhere wit- 
nessed. Flash succeeded flash with scarce- 
ly sensible intermission, blue, red, and of 
a still more dazzling white, which made the 
eye shrink, lighting up every object on 
deck as clearly as at midday. AH the winds 
of heaven seemed let loose, as it blew alter- 
nately from every point of the compass. 
The screams of distress from the sick and 
weak in the hold, mingled with the roar of 
the tempest. In the morning a strong gale 
came on, driving us back to the north. The 
heavy sea rendered it too dangerous to veer, 
and the vessel, from her extraordinary width 
of beam, being ill qualified to scud, we have 
lain-to since noon. From the rolling and 
creaking, one might fancy everything going 
asunder. The women's shed on deck has 
been washed down, and the planks which 
formed its roofs falling in a heap, a woman 
was found dead under the ruins, killed, the 
assistant-surgeon supposes, by a blow, hav- 
ing "no appearance of disease. 

Sunday, April 30. — The wind has 
moderated sooner than we had ventured to 
hope ; but the swell of the sea continues so 
high as to prevent our assembling for Divine 
service. We are beginning again to make 
a little progress through the water in the 
right direction this evening. 

Monday, May I.-—" May-day," which, 
in our climate, brings Jm the sunny hours, 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



19 



in this hemisphere marks the approach of 
the cold. The naked negroes* begin already 
to shiver, and their teeth to chatter. This 
is a new infliction added to the former cala- 
mities to which this unhappy race is doomed. 

'Obk S&tip oiSiv SeLvou 
r Hj ovx an apair' a%6as 

If we meet had weather on getting into colder 
latitudes near the Cape, as it is probable we 
may, increased misery and mortality must 
be the consequence. 

Wednesday, May 3. — The gale has re- 
turned from the southwest, though with 
somewhat less violence than before. We 
are lying- to, under main and fore- trysail, 
the fore-staysail having been blown away. 
We feel the cold now severely. Seven 
negroes were found dead this morning — 
among them a girl. 

Thursday, May 4. — The gale, which 
raged, like its predecessor, about twenty-four 
hours, has abated, and we have to-day light 
winds, apparently dying away into a calm. 

Friday, May 5. — The " Capitao Pequen- 
ino," who bears also the Portuguese name 
of " Luiz," came quietly to me this evening, 
and said, " Seneor, estao roubando aguar- 
dieiit eabaxo." " They are stealing brandy 
below." I could not comprehend how this 
could be, as all the brandy in the hold had 
been started at the commencement of the 
voyage, to prevent mischief. Having re- 
ported it to the Lieutenant, I accompanied 
the two Spaniards to the slave-deck, and 
surprised a large party of the negroes, busily 
drawing up, by means of old rags, as usual, 
the contents of two barrels. One of these 
proved to be of water, and another smaller 
one, which Luiz supposed to be aguardiente, 
contained vinegar. Summary punishment 
was inflicted on eight, who were taken in 
the fact. They received by moonlight about 
eighteen lashes each, and were coupled in 
shackles previously to being sent back into 
the hold. Thus, as in many other fine be- 
ginnings, the end but ill corresponds with 
the " early promise." The sound of knock- 
ing off their irons, which thrilled so musi- 
cally on thenar, when we boarded the prize, 
terminates hi the clank of rive tting them on 
again, with the accompaniment of flogging. 
The result of then offence is certainly highly 
provoking, when, as is sometimes the case, 
instead of pure water, we draw up from the 
casks their putrid rags ; on the other hand, 
none can tell, save he who has tried, the 
pangs of thirst which may excite them in 
that heated hold, many of them fevered by 
mortal disease. Their daily allowance of 

* The females were distinguished by a cotton 
handkerchief around the waist. 



water is about half a pint in the morning, 
and the same quantity in the evening, which 
is as much as can be afforded them. 

Saturday, May 6. — The two sheds built 
on deck for the females and for the sick, 
though an excellent provision during the hot 
weather, on our passing into cold latitudes, 
rendered th«ir inmates more exposed than 
the rest, who took refuge below, till the 
weather, levelling both, put all on an 
equality. The shed for the sick has how- 
ever, been re-erected. Many of the negroes 
have letters cut on the breast or shoulder, 
which, Antonio tells me, are the marks of 
their respective owners, who, on the ves- 
sel's arrival at Rio, thus recognize their own 
property. An agent, " fattore," at Quili- 
mane, in correspondence with the .Rio mer- 
chants, having notice when a vessel is to be 
expected, holds the cargo ready for embarka- 
tion. The condition of the negro, he added, 
is much worse at Rio, where he goes forth 
ragged and wretched, " like a slave," than 
at Havana, where he is often better dressed 
than many of the whites. 

Sunday, May 7. — My congregation to-day 
consisted of ten ; three officers, five sailors, 
two boys. 

Tuesday, May 9. — A heavy squall last 
night from the west, and this morning a 
strong gale. We hove-to, as before. The 
first objects which met my eye on deck were 
three lying dead on it : a man, covered by a 
coil of rope, a grim and ghastly object ; the 
poor little boy, with the " jiggers" in his 
foot, who had borne his sufferings with 
great patience ; and a young girl, whose eyes 
yesterday were both completely closed from 
inflammation of the head. Their lives had 
been for some time but a burden to them, 
and could not have been much prolonged, 
but were certainly shortened by the incle- 
mency of the weather. On looking down 
the after-hatchway, I had several times 
thought that I perceived part of a body be- 
tween two loose planks, half hidden by 
others lying on it, yet as often concluded 
it must be some bucket or small barrel • but 
at last ascertained it to be the corpse of a 
woman, who came yesterday to complain 
of her bowels. She was healthy-looking, 
well-formed, and in the prime of woman- 
hood, apparently about 18. The weather 
last night having driven all below who 
could move themselves thither, she was in 
all probability killed by falling down the 
hatchway — a raised cover, called the " com- 
panion," having increased the 'fall to about 
six feet. In consequence of this, a plank 
has been placed mid-way down, to facili- 
tate the descent. The wind is evidently 
abating this evening. Our gales, if formida- 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



He, have hitherto been, happily, of brief 
duration . 

Thursday, May 11. — I was called on 
deck soon after six this morning, to look at 
" the most splendid sunrise ever seen." 
The whole sky was hung with parallel 
layers of cloud, not dense enough to pre- 
vent the beams of the sun from gradually 
piercing and tinging the entire mass with a 
bright flame color. In the east, this was of 
a deeper hue, varied with rich green and 
yellow lines ; and, presently, the sun him- 
self arose, liery red, from the wave. Though 
a. fine, it was certainly a threatening dawn, 
and gave omen of a troubled day. Clouds 
were rising from all quarters of the horizon, 
and the breeze, which had been fair and 
steady, gradually freshened to nine knots. 
At noon there was ail husry to take in sail, 
and 2 p. m, we were lying-to under a gale 
heavier than any of the preceding ones. 
Had we shipped a sea, or lost either of our 
remaining sails, we had now no spare ones 
left to replace them, our danger would have 
been imminent. Toward evening, we were 
gratified by the report of the|helmsman, that 
" the heart of the gate was broke." A 
yellow haze however overspread the setting 
sun, and it centinued to blow as wildly as 
ever. Squalls, rapidly succeeding each 
other, mingled sea and air in one sheet of 
spray, blinding the eyes of the helmsman. 
Waves, towering high above us, tossing up 
the foam from their crests toward the sky, 
threatened to ingulf us every moment. The 
vessel, however, bending alternately each 
gunwale to the sea as it passed, then plung- 
ing deeply forward', but recovering herself 
with a bound, rode gallantly through the 
assaults of the winds and the waves. 

Friday, May 12 — I have to-day witnes- 
sed a spectaele such as I had frequently 
heard to have occurred in slave-vessels, but 
barely know how to describe. In a tub, 
placed on the slave-deck, for necessary pur- 
poses, a boy was found, who had fallen 
backward, and, too weak to extricate him- 
self, was smothered in it. He appeared 
quite dead ; but, on some water being thrown 
over him, showed some symptoms of return- 
ing life, though only for a few hours. 

Monday, May 15. — When the squalls, 
breaking heavily on the vessel cause her 
to heel over, and the negroes to tumble 
against one another in the hold, the shrieks 
of the sufferers, through the gloom of the 
night, rising above the noise of the wiwds 
and waves, seems, of all horrors in this 
unhappy vessel, the saddest. I went on 
deck in the early part of the morning watch. 
The horizon looks clear to windward, the 
moon just dipping into it, and day breaking 



in the opposite quarter. '"' The first actor on 
the scene is Cato, our mulatto cook, bust- 
ling, in the most imperfect light, among his 
pans and kettles, making a fire in the galley 
to cook our breakfast. What comes next"? 
The same dismal, oft-repeated tale ; three 
bodies, a man and two boys, lifted on deck 
from the hold. The man was one who 
had been savagely beaten by two of his fel- 
lows in misery three or four days ago. That 
the greater number of those who die have 
their deaths hastened by others overlying 
or otherwise injuring them below, is obvious 
from the fact, that they are found dead in 
the morning ; very rarely, at least, during 
the day-time. It not unfrequently happens, 
that they are crushed between the loose 
planks on the slave-deck, affording space 
for their limbs to slip down beyond their 
strength to extricate. The Spaniards, whom 
I found engaged in cleaning this deck, amid 
a scene of filth sickening to every sense, 
mentioned to me that, among the medicinal 
stores provided for the negroes, there are 
three which would be found of great use 
to them : " Macela" (camomile,) " Raiz de 
Althea" (marsh-mallow root,) and " Gomma 
Arabica." Antonio argued, not unplausi- 
bly, that the manner of the negro's life in 
his own country, " Como los animates in 
el campo," so differenf-fsom ours, rendered 
different remedies suitable. According to 
his theory, the bitter of a strong camomile 
decoction kills the worms in the stomach, 
and the mixture of the marsh-mallow and 
gum arabic soothes and strengthens the bow- 
els. He is to give his medicine a trial. 

Tuesday, May 16. — To my sincere sor- 
row, the " Capitao Pequenino," and an- 
other little boy named Francisco, with the 
chief of the " Capitaos Marinheiros," and 
several others, were brought up this mor- 
ning, charged by Sebastian with stealing 
water below. I could hardly credit it of 
the two boys, since I believe they might al- 
ways have got water for asking, as they had 
made themselves useful, and been treated as 
favorites ; except it be that, literally, " sto- 
len waters are sweet." There was no doubt 
of their delinquency, ' as they hung down 
their heads, and did not speak when I ques- 
tioned them. Their punishmentjvas such 
as rather to frighten than to hurt them. 
That of the other culprits, though not se- 
vere, <was attended by melanehoty circum- 
stances. One was in an advanced stage of 
dysentery, of which the execution of the 
punishment elicited the most revolting 
proofs. It so happened, that as another was 
lashed to the grating of the fore-hatchway, 
writhing about, and screaming with all his 
force, " Lambooya, lambooya," — their cry 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



21 



for mercy, two dead bodies were lifted up 
out of the hold, scarce two yards distant. 
There is among the negroes a man named 
Cimao, whose grotesque countenance and 
gestures make him regarded as a sort of 
buffoon. He has been appointed successor 
to the " Capitao Marinheiro," degraded for 
his late theft. One gave him an old jacket, 
another a pair of trowsers, to equip him for 
his office. Sabastian, who holds his quali- 
fications cheaply, eyed the proceedings with 
apparent disdain ; and having, like a true- 
born Spaniard, a refran ready on every oc- 
casion, said: 

" Este es el viage de Orinaco, 
Quien no muere se vuelve loco :" 
which, I suppose, may be loosely rendered 
thus: 

" This is the voyage to Luckinabad , 
They who don't die become mad." 

Thursday, May 18. — There is a natural 
good-breeding frequently to be remarked 
among the negroes, which one might little 
expect. They sometimes come aft, on see- 
ing us first appear on deck in the morning, 
and bend the knee by way of salutation. 
Their manner of returning thanks for any 
little present of food or water, is by a stamp 
on the deck, and a scrape of the foot back- 
wards, and they seldom fail, however weak, 
to make- this acknowledgment, though it 
cost them an effort to rise for the purpose. 
The women make a curtsey, bowing their 
knees forward so as nearly to touch the 
ground. In the partition of the small pieces 
of beef in their tubs of farinha,'the most 
perfect fair-dealing is always observed. 
One of each little party takes the whole into 
his hands, and distributes two or three bits, 
as the number allows, to each, and, should 
there be any remainder after the division, 
pulls it into yet smaller pieces, and hands 
them round with equal impartiality. After 
a meal, they express general satisfaction by 
a clapping of hands ; a mode also used by 
some among them of asking a favor, or 
begging pardon for a fault. I have collect- 
ed a few -words as a specimen of their lan- 
guage. 

Numerals. 

Massoro . Head. 1 Bossy. 

Masso . Eye. 2 Peedy. 

Macootoo . Ear. 3 Datoo. 

Maroto . Finger. 4 Nahy. 

Macoonuy . Nail. 5 Shanoo. 

Coey . Neck. 6 Danhatoo. 

Mimba . Belly. 7 Shenomy. 

Mendo . Leg. 8 Sairy. 

Maniallo . Foot. 9 Femba. 

Yboono . Toe. 10 Coomy 

Names of Men, iVaw.es of Women. 
Shematonga. Berezida. 

Condivenga. Citania. 

Chapanduco. Banzuvery. 

Zakaly. Mandilacota. 



Friday, May 19. — Bossey, the boat- 
swain's mate, who was attacked by dysen- 
fery a few days since, and . taken into our 
cabin, died this morning at four. The poor 
fellow had possessed a considerable stock of 
humor, was a singer of comic songs, and a 
great favorite of his shipmates. Two or 
three days ago he said, " he knew he should 
not get up any more, and should make him- 
self happy;" meaning that he would banish 
all thoughts tending to make him uncom- 
fortable. I could get him to converse but 
very little. Once, on asking if he under- 
stood parts of Psalms which I was reading 
to him, he answered very earnestly, " Oh, 
yes !" His last action, when we inquired 
if there was anything that he wished done 
for him, was to raise his hands above the 
bed-clothes, and turn them clasped upward. 
The assistant-surgeon, on a post-mortem 
examination, found an abscess covering 
nearly half of the liver. At 1, p. m., I 
committed his body to the deep, all the crew 
being able to attend, with the exception of 
one, suffering from inflammation of the liv- 
er, whom we have taken into the berth in 
our cabin, lately occupied by poor Bossey. 
Saturday, May 20. — We have, at length, 
a fair breeze, the first for many days, and 
are going three or four knots, being now 
near the spot we were on ten days ago. 
Antonio has been essaying the virtues of 
his mixture on the dysentery patients.* I 



* The following is a nearly perfect list of the 
medicines provided for the negroes, found on 
board the " Progresso" when taken by the 
"Cleopatra:" 

' Linseed, . . .... 8 lbs. 

Marsh-mallow root, . . . & 

Pearl Barley, 6 

Camomile, 6- 

Tamarind pulp, . . . . 6- 

Basilicum, . ... . . 6 

Epsom Salts, 16 

Gum Arabic, ... . . 5 

" Flor de Sabugueiro," . . . 6 

Pomegrante rind, ... 5 

Manna, 4 

Columba, . . . . . 4 
Electuario Cathartic©, . . .4 

Cream of Tartar, ... 2 

Sena leaves, . . _ . . . 2 

Ointment of Cantharides, . . 2 

Rose Ointment, . ... 2 

Gowlard's Ointment, ... 2 

Mustard, 2 

" Borrachinhas," . . . .2 

Adhesive Plaister, ... 1 

Resinous Ointment. . ' . & 

"Mel Rozado,'" ... 2£ 

" Especies Pectoraes," . . 5 

"Ditto Emelientes," . . 5 

" Especies Antiscorbuticos," . . 4 

" Cascas de Remaas," . . 4 

" Almofaris de Bronse," . . 1 

Le Roy's Purgative," . . •. ©bolt. 

Ditto Emetic, . . . . 3 

" Agoa Ingleza" (febrifuge,> . 1 



22 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



am not sanguine as to its efficacy, the dis- 
ease having, in most cases to which it is ap- 
plied taken too deep root. He points to their 
shrunk bowels,the skin wrinkled in folds, and 
asks: "Esos tienen barriga, o que tienen? 
no tienen mas que el pecho." One or two, 
however, who were in a state of emacia- 
tion, have begun to look better, and he 
pledges himself for their recovery. Only 
those cases, he says, are beyond hope in 
which the disease has made such progress 
as is marked by blood-redness of the mouth 
and gums— a horrid symptom generally ob- 
served in the more advanced stages. " Esos 
moriran, los otros no." The ulcer cases 
have put on so hideous a form that I can 
now scarcely bear to look at them. These 
poor patients are, almost without exception, 
affected by dysentery also, of which they 
are certain to die, even if healed of their ul- 
cers. 

" Quorum si quis, ut est, vitarat funera leti ; 
Visceribus tetris, et nigra proluvie alvi, 
Posterius tamen hunc tabes, letumque, mane- 
bat." 
A boy, wasted to as mere a skeleton as it 
is possible to conceive a human being, died 
this afternoon while Antonio was adminis- 
tering to him his camomile mixture. He 
had made him sit up to drink it, when he 
drooped his head, fell forward, and died in 
that posture. 

Sunday, May 21 . — Our breeze continues 
fair, though still light ; the sea smooth, and 
the weather fine. All our crew were able 
to assemble within hearing of Divine Ser- 
vice, raising my congregation to fifteen. As 
it was late before all had made themselves 
neat and ready for attendance, I read only 
the Morning Prayer and Litany, omitting 
the Communion Service ; although the full 
service would hardly have occasioned any 
impatience among hearers accustomed, in 
the " Cleopatra," to the unmutilated offices 
of the Church, 

Whatever gale the laboring vessel toss. 
I stationed the " Capitao Pequenino," 



Chloride of Lime, 

Bark Wine, 

Castor Oil, 

Phials of Opodeldoc, 

Tartar Emetic, 

Calomel, 

Ipecacuanha, . 

" Balsamo Catholico," 

Spirit of Ammonia, 

Peruvian Bark, 

Camphor, 

Sulphate of Quinine, 

Laudanum, 

Sugar of Lead. . 

Powdered Bluestone, 

'YWhite Vitrol," 

"lLombriguera," . 

" Pos de Joannes," . 



1 
1 
I 

4 

8 oz. 



who has crept into favor again, at the main 
hatchway, to sign into silence the negroes 
below, if any should show a disposition to 
be noisy. The few on deck, principally fe- 
males, remained perfectly quiet. After the 
service, I wished to question the " little cap- 
tain " as to the existence of any kind of re- 
ligious worship among the African tribes, 
but could give him no notion of what I in- 
tended to ask. Antonio, who came to my 
assistance, told me it was needless, as he, 
who knew much of the African coast, could 
assure me that they had not the remotest 
idea of any religion. " No tienen Dios, ni 
Santo — animates son, viven en covados, en 
el monte, como los lobos." " They have 
neither God nor Saint — mere animals, they 
live in holes of the rocks, like wolves." 
The only appearance of superstition, he 
added, prevalent among the native tribes, is 
their " fetish." They hang anything they 
fancy about their persons, call it " fetish," 
and A^enerate it. I asked him if, at the Ha- 
vana, where his occupation formerly lay, 
it was customary, previously to baptizing 
the newly-imported slaves, to give them any 
religious instruction. " No les ensena na- 
da," he replied, " antes del bautismo; noes 
preciso ensenarles nada, para bautozar-los." 
They are taught nothing before baptism ; it 
is not necessary to teach them anything in 
order to baptise them." 

Wednesday, May 24. — The breeze light 
and variable during the day, has been, these 
two last nights, succeeded by a dead calm ; 
the mainsail being lowered, to save it from 
the wear occasioned by the roll of the vessel, 
the other sails flapping heavily against the 
mast. It is now that we suffer great annoy- 
ance from the foul air produced by so many 
pent-up sick and wretched creatures. At 
the first outset of our voyage, it was com- 
paratively trifling, and I suffered little incon- 
venience from venturing down on the slave- 
deck, to see what the matter was, when any 
extraordinary noise or outcries occurred. It 
is superfluous now to make this descent, in 
order to inhale its atmosphere, which per- 
vades every part of the vessel, and in our 
after-cabin is almost intolerable. Gold lace 
and silver articles, though kept in drawers 
or japanned cases, have turned quite black, 
through this state of the air. In the middle 
of last night I left my great-coat and grass 
matj which have, in sailor's phrase, done 
duty for a bed since I came on board, and 
went on deck to seek a little relief, but in 
vain. There was not a breath of wind : 
nothing in apparent motion in sea or air, or 
the Heaven, except the huge albatross, with 
wings extending sixteen feet, wheeling round 
and round, sometimes sweeping so close as 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



23 



almost to touch the taffrail, on which I was 
seated. I returned below, and, heaping the 
cover of a large tea-pot with tobacco,* igni- 
ted and blew away at it, till the poor sick 
man whom we have taken into our cabin, 
complained that I was " stifling" him. Dis- 
order, I think, in every sense, is on the in- 
crease among the unhappy blacks. During 
the late fine weather, they have spent the 
sunny hours of the day on deck, but when 
below, their cries are incessant day and 
night. Thinned as their numbers are by 
death, there is no longer narrowness of 
room, but increasing sickness and misery 
make the survivors more hard and unfeel- 
ing, and they fight and bruise one another 
more than formerly. Little Catula, the finest 
among them, who received a bite in the leg- 
about six weeks since, getting continual 
blows and knocks, the wound has now be- 
come a deep spreading ulcer. Another fine 
intelligent lad has been lately severely bit- 
ten in the head. Others have the heel, the 
great toe, the ankle-joint, nearly bitten 
through; and worse injuries than these, too 
savage to mention, have been inflicted. 
Madness, the distraction of despair, seems 
to possess them. 

Several sail have been observed within 
these few days. So long a time had previ- 
ously passed without our seeing any, that 
we seemed " all deserted on the main," ex- 
cept by the albatrosses and Cape pigeons, 
which have constantly attended us for up- 
ward of a month past. The latter, a pretty 
species of bird, much resembling the pigeon 
in head, beak, and fan-tail, with white 
breast and mottled plumage, swim, in flocks 
of from fifteen to twenty, close to the ves- 
sel's side There is land in sight this after- 
noon — the first since the commencement of 
our voyage— supposed, from our observa- 
tion, to be Plettenburgh Bay, between Algoa 
Bay and the Cape. Some of the negroes 
point at it with looks of interest and curi- 
osity, but the greater number of them sit 
huddled together on the deck, their heads 
resting on their knees, apparently in perfect 
apathy to all' around; and surely a more. 
wretched looking set of objects were never 
assembled. 

Saturday, May 27th.— The bodies of 
three boys lay on the lee gangway this 
morning, awaiting the assistant-surgeon's 
selection of a subject for post-mortem exami- 
nation. Antonio, pointing to one of them, 
made me observe his tongue protruded from 
his mouth, and a slight wound on the neck 
— indications that he had been strangled. 

* We found on board a large stock of-Quili- 
mane tobacco, with a quantity of ree-d and clay 
pipe-bowls, for the use of the negroes. 



It appeared tome, from an occasional move- 
ment of the head, that he still lived. The 
Spaniard said that it was but the motion of 
the vessel ; but, on looking more attentively 
for some time, exclaimed, "Vive, este vive" 
— adding "pero esta para morir" — " but he is 
at the point of death." Some foam pres- 
ently issued from his mouth, the heaving 
of his breast became perceptible, and he 
continued to breathe between eight and nine 
hours. 

Sunday, May 28th. — Cape Agulhas in 
sight this morning, ten miles distant. We 
are still about one hundred miles from the 
anchorage in Simon's Bay. Our weather 
continues beautifully fine, and promises a 
favorable conclusion to a troubled voyage. 
During the Afternoon Service, the gentle 
"swell of the bright sea, the silence all around, 
contrasted to the noise and' stir of other days, 
and the " soothing tendency" of the Service, 
combined to give a greater imprsssion of 
peacefulness than I have hitherto felt on the 
passage. Might the voyage of life, after its 
storms and vicissitudes, end as brightly and 
peacefully ! 

Wednesday, May 31. — It is remarkable 
that no death has occurred to-day, though, 
during the previous seven days, the fatal 
cases have averaged four per diem. The 
ancient " Capitao" of the " Marinheiros" 
who was flogged on the 16th inst. for steal- 
ing water, and has scarcely shown himself 
above deck since, during the warmth of 
noon crept up the main hatchway ; but so 
altered as scarcely to be recognized. From 
one of the plumpest and stoutest of the party, 
he appeared reduced to little more than a 
skeleton; the shrunk and wrinkled skin 
hanging in loose folds over the regions of 
the bowels, and that " sign of despair," 
the horrid appearance of blood on the lips, 
which marks the fatal stage of dysentery. 

" Sudabant etiam fauces intrinsecus atro 
Sanguine, etuleeribusvocisvia saepta coibat." 

Thursday, June 1 . — The unusually high 
number of eight were found dead this morn- 
ing, and we can no longer venture, as be- 
fore, to throw them into the sea, lest the 
waves should wash them on the in- 
habited shores of the Bay, which we entered 
last night. The first sight which gieeted 
our eyes when the morning mist had cleared 
away, were ships lying in Simon's Bay, two 
or three miles distant. Three pendants were 
discovered, and others imagined. A frigate, 
with topmasts down- was pronounced to be 
the " Cleopatra ;" or, as termed in affectionate 
familiarity, the " Cleo." " Buthow is this ? 
She has fifteen ports on her broadside, where 
should have been only nine." Just then a 
fishing-boat r which we hailed, informed us 



24 



SLAVE VESSEL. 



that the " Cleopatra" had sailed a -few days 
before, for Port Natal. The frigate proved 
to be the " Isis," Captain Sir John Marshall, 
from Mauritius. The brig " Acorn" also 
lay at anchor, returned from cruising on the 
west coast of Africa. As soon as the " Pro- 
gresso" anchored, we were visited by the 
health-officer, who immediately admitted us 
to pratique. My friend, Mr. Shea, super- 
intendent of the Naval Hospital, also paid 
us a visit, and I descended with him, for 
the last time, to the slave-hold. Long ac- 
customed as he has been to scenes of suf- 
fering,' he was unable ■ to endure a sight, 
"surpassing," he said, " all he could have 
conceived of human misery," and made a 
hasty retreat. One little girl, crying bitter- 
ly, was entangled between the planks, want- 
ing strength to extricate her wasted limbs, 
till assistance was given her. 

Total number of ■deaths during the Voyage. 



April 13. . . . 


54 . 


Brought 


JP 


. 100 


14. . . 


2 


May 13. ... 3 


16. . . 


1 


14 








3 


17. . . . 


3 


15 








3 


18. . . 


1 ' 


16 








2 


20. . . 


1 


17 








3 


22. . . . 


2 


18 








O 


24. . . '. 


4 . 


19 








2 


25. . . . 


2 


20 








2 


26. . . 


1 ' 


21 








4 


28. . . 


1 


22 








1 


29. . . 


1 


23 








1 


30. . . . 


2 


24 








2 


May 1. . . 


1 


25 








4 


2. . . 


3 


26 








4 


3. . . 


7 


27 








• 5 


4. . . 


3 


28 








5 


7. . . 


3 


29 








4 


8. . . 


3 


30 








4 


9. . . 


. 4 


June 1 








. 8 


10. . . 


. 1 


— 




— 


Inf 


ift} 


d 


:V£ 


.163 



Carried up . 100 
Friday, June 2. — Previously to setting out 
for the village of Wynberg, where I prom- 
ised myself some repose of body and mind, 
I paid a visit to Sir John Marshall, on board 
the " Isis," who welcomed me with his usu- 
al kindness ; and, on my passage back 
to the shore, I once more called on the 
*■' Progresso." Fourteen corpses — six hav- 
ing been added to the eight who died yes- 
terday — lay piled on deck, to be interred 
this afternoon on the beach. A hundred of 
the healthiest negroes were already landed 
at the pier, to proceed in wagons to Cape 
Town. Most of the " familiar faces" were 
gone. My poor little Macarello gave me a 
took of entreaty to be taken away, but he, 
who first attracted our attention by his sleek, 
healthy appearance, is now among the sick. 
Catftla, too, with his bad leg, looked down- 
cast, as indeed he has always done : and 
when I tried to cheer him, the tears ran down 
his cheek. I was not prepared for the 



feeling generally evinced by the negroes on 
coming into port, which is that of evi- 
dent anxiety and apprehension. Whether 
it arise from their thinking less even of 
their present ills than of " others which 
they know not of," or from some particular 
forebodings, I could not gather. The hun- 
dred above-mentioned received each, on 
landing, a good new warm jacket and trow- 
sers, and were placed quite snugly and com- 
fortably in open wagons ; and it was great 
pleasure to see their circumstances so amend- 
ed by the transfer ; yet it was more difficult 
than ever to get a cheerful look from any 
one of them. I subsequently overtook them, 
half-way on my drive to Wynberg, at " Far- 
mer Peck's," a place of refreshment for 
travellers, well known to all who have 
any acquaintance with the Cape, and found 
them not more reconciled to the change in 
their situation. The women had each a 
new white blanket, in addition to an 
under-dress. " Berezida," " Banzuvery," 
" Mandilacota," readily responded to their 
names, but showed little signs of pleasure 
on the occasion. Doubt and fear were pre- 
dominant, and their countenances resembled 
those of condemned victims. 

On my visit to Wynberg, in October 
last, it seemed to me almost a Paradise. The 
season is now changed to the winter of the 
southern hemisphere, and the leaves are 
falling around. There still remain, how- 
ever, some roses, and the air is fragrant with 
the scent of mignonette ; and certainly no 
spot can be better calculated to afford that 
rest to which, after fifty days on board a 
slave- vessel, one has some claim. 



Wynberg, near Cape Toivn, June, 19. 

After the lapse of seventeen days from their 
leaving the vessel, I have this morning vis- 
ited the negroes in the buildings prepared 
for their reception at Papendorf , near the 
sea-shore, about a mile from Cape Town, 
where they are well lodged, fed, and attend- 
ed. All were landed from the " Progresso " 
on the 2nd and 3rd instant, in number 222, 
the remainder of 397, showing a mortality 
while on board of 175. Of the 5D sent in 
the " Cleopatra," one had died during the 
passage, and one after coming into the har- 
bor. On cleaning out the " Progresso," 
subsequently to landing the negroes, the 
body of a lad was found beneath the planks, 
in a state of decomposition. Part of a band 
had been devoured, and an eye completely 
scooped out by the rats. At the time of 
my arrival at Papendorf, a burial was tak- 
ing place, attended by the negroes in pro- 
cession — the ninth which has occurred 



among them since their removal thither. Of 
28 .left at Simon's Bay, not being in a con- 
dition to bear removal, 14 have died to the 
present date. The sick are still numerous. 
It was pleasant to remark to-day, the more 
cheerful, assured look of the liberated ne- 
groes. Their impression at first had been 
that they were destined to be devoured by 
the wite men, and they were reluctant to 
eat, fearing it was intended to fatten them 
for that doom. The attendants, some of 
whom are of their own nation, soon freed 
them from this apprehension. 

Heretofore, it has been the authorized 
practice to apprentice negroes brought to the 
Cape in prizes, as servants or farm-labor- 
ers, for terms of six or seven years, accord- 
ing to their age ; the indentures of such ap- 
prenticeships including various conditions 
favorable to the negro. One of these stipu- 
lates, that the person to whom he is bound 
" shall cause the said apprentice to be care- 
fully instructed, and as speedily as possible, 
in the Christian religion, and to be taken, 
when sufficiently instructed/to be baptized ; 
and also shall permit and suffer and encour- 



SLAVE VESSEL. 25 

age the said apprentice to attend public wor- 
ship . . . and. when he shall have been 
baptized, shall immediately cause notice 
thereof to be given to the collector of Her 
Majesty's customs at the Port of Cape 
Town, in order that the identity of such ap- 
prentice may at all times be known and dis- 
tinguished." 

In consequence of an Order in Council, 
dated January 4th, in the present year, no- 
tice has been recently issued by the local 
government, that negroes under twenty-one 
years are henceforth to be apprenticed as 
household servants only, or in trades re- 
quiring " peculiar art or skill];" male negroes 
of twenty-one and upward, for one year 
only, as farm servants ; females of twenty- 
one and upward, for one year only, as house- 
hold servants. It appears that there is little 
demand among the mechanical trades of the 
colony for such apprentices at the present 
time. The agricultural colonists complain 
that the period of one year, for which the 
adult is allotted to them, is too short to ad- 
mit of their deriving adequate benefit fcom 
his services. 



CONCLUDING REklRKS 



Wynberg, near Cape Town, Sept. 3. 
The circumstances which I have witness- 
ed attendant on the present practice of the 
slave-trade have led me more carefully to 
consider the chief obstacles which impede 
its abolition. And first in order of these, 
appears obviously the impunity permitted 
to those who engage in that traffic. So long 
as slave-traders, though taken in the actual 
perpetration of their crime, are free from all 
apprehension of penalty attached to it, we 
may look in vain for its suppression. To 
such persons no other restraint than fear of 
punishment can be of any weight. It was 
evident, in the case of the Spaniards on 
board the " Progresso," that their only shad- 
ow of apprehension was that of not meeting, 
if sent to Bio Janeiro, equal favor with their 
Portuguese and Brazilian shipmates. The 
old Portuguese sailor, whom the necessities 
of his family had induced to embark in a 
slave vessel, desired nothing better than to 
be sent back to Rio. The other thirteen, 
Brazilians or Portuguese, who had preced- 
ed us to the Cape in the " Cleopatra," we 
learnt, on our arrival, had already dispersed 
wherever it pleased them, there being no 
authority at tthe Cape to deal with them as 
criminals. The captain, whom they reported 
to have perished in the surf near Quilimane, 
i but who was concealed among them, em- 
barked for Rio, with four of his compan- 
ions, in an English brig, having obtained 
money, as has been since discovered, from 
an English mercantile house in Cape Town. 
It is not to be presumed thatiiis motives for 
concealing himself arose from any other 



fear than that of inconvenient detention un- 
til the condemnation of the vessel should 
take place.* Here, then, is the evil which 
first claims a remedy in carrying into effect 
the spirit of existing enactments for the pun- 
ishment of the slave-trader, so that he may 
no longer with impunity make a mock of 
the laws and treaties ratified by all the civi- 
lized nations of the globe. 

The motives to such a course derive, were 
it necessary, increased weight from the con- 
sideration that the sufferings and mortality 
of the negroes, connected with their trans- 
port, are, by the measures at present pursu- 
ed to check it, not lessened, but aggravated. 
It is too manifest, that under circumstances 
similar to those which I have related, the 
capture of the " prize " must be an event 
far more disastrous to the slave than to the 
slave-dealer. It cannot be supposed that 
the accumulated calamities which ensued 
to the hapless beings on board the " Pro- 
gresso," on their transfer to the protection 
of their liberators, could have taken place 
had they continued in the hands of their 
purchasers. As the latter have the highest 
interest which men can have in the preser- 
vation of an extremely valuable cargo : so 
are they, of all men, most qualified for the 
task, by experience of the system best cal- 
culated to provide for their health and safe- 
ty, and by concurrence of able hands, in am- 
ple number, to carry that system into effect. 
In these respects, the reverse may generally 
be asserted of those, who, on the capture of 
the vessel, by a ship of war, succeed to 
their charge. Those who know the naval 



* The captain of the "Defensive," a second Brazilian slave-prize taken by the "Cleopatra," 
off Quilimane, soon after her return to her cruising-ground, and brought into Simon's Bay on the 
29th ult. (without negroes on board,) treated with the utmost ridicule the notion of his being 
considered in Brazil an offender against the law ; remarking that, after a stay at the Cape, he 



CONCLUDING REMARKS. 



27 



service are aware that a cruiser, especially 
on a sickly station, can often but ill spare 
more hands to send away in a prize than 
are barely sufficient for their proper duties 
in working the vessel. The number thus 
sent away will be further liable to reduction 
by sickness, from the tainted, unhealthy at- 
mosphere to which they are introduced, 
and other causes peculiar to the change of 
their situation. Thus, in the case of the 
" Progresso," every seaman was in his 
turn disabled by illness. .It is also to be re- 
membered, that the officer in command of 
the prize, on whose exertions and discretion 
the welfare of the rescued negroes mainly 
depends, is encompassed by professional 
difficulties of a very engrossing kind, in- 
creased, in many cases, by the novelty of 
an independent command, and the weakness 



of his crew, should sickness occur among 
them, in a vessel unproved as to her sea 
qualities, worse provided in naval stores 
than those to which he has been accustom- 
ed, and on a coast probably strange to him. 
It is not to be expected that any individual 
can, in addition to these causes of embar- 
rassment, be equal, in the care of 500 help- 
less beings, to a burden usually divided 
among 1 5 or 20 persons, well trained to the 
work, and employed in it day and night. 
The advantage of improved medical treat- 
ment offers less alleviation to the sufferings 
of the negroes than would be at first sup- 
posed. All that medical care and skill, as 
adapted to European constitutions and mal- 
adies, could effect, was tried by our assist- 
ant-surgeon on the negroes of the " Progres- 
so," without success, that I am aware of, 



might probably return to Rio and take command of another slave-vessel. He had been an officer 
in the Brazilian navy. The slave-trade, is, I believe, in Brazil looked on rather as a sphere for 
spirited and skillful adventure than as a discreditable line of enterprise. It is rather curious 
that, of the captains of slavers whom I have known, two out of three were proficients on the guit- 
ar. The following air, composed by Captain Arias, a Spaniard, I copy, by permission, from the 
music-book of Miss Apollonia Boonzeier, of Hout's Bay: 

CAPRICHO DEL CAPITAN ARIAS. 



SEE^SESS 




28 



CONCLUDING REMARKS. 



in any one instance. On the other hand, 
the slave-dealers, in their selection and ap- 
plication of the large stores of medicines 
found on board the vessel, may be presumed 
to have been guided by some experience of 
their beneficial effects. In general, it is 
certain that the augmentation of sufferings, 
under the present system employed for the 
suppression of the slave-trade, is such as 
to present an additional -motive for the adop- 
tion of a more efficient course, by taking 
some measures which may give force to the 
penal enactments against persons engaged 
in that traffic* While we boast the name 
of Wilberforce, and the genius and elo- 
quence which enabled him to arouse so gen- 
eral a zeal against the slave-trade; while 



others are disputing with him the claim of 
being " the true annihilator of the slave- 
trade ;" that trade, so far from being annihi- 
lated, is at this very hour carried on under 
circumstances of greater atrocity than were 
known in his time, and the blood of the 
poor victims calls more loudly on us as the 
actual, though unintentional, aggravates of 
their miseries. 

I may in conclusion remark, that, even 
after taking this first necessary step, the 
root of the evil, slavery itself, would still 
remain deeper than any penal measures, 
however strictly enforced, can reach. It 
springs from the present debased, demora- 
lized condition of the native African tribes. 
The prominent feature of social relation, in 



f 



M=3E 



£ 



iv_ 



-ts*'- 



-G>- 



-&- 



des - pier - ta A - di - os, A - di - os,-' Leonor. Des - pier . ta Leo - nor 

on 
I I 

-■£;— •- 




No llores si a saber llegas 

Que me matan por traydor, 
Que el amarte es mi delito 

Yen el amor no hay baldon. 

Despierta, &e. 

Captain Arias, after some months' detention at the Cape, took command of another slave ves- 
sel on the coast of Africa ; but being seized by a sterner captor, the coast-fever, is said to have died 
after two hours' illness. 

In the berth occupied by the eaptain of the " Progresso," I found a gaged' amour, a beautifully 
worked sampler, with the following pretty verse in the centre, in variegated silks: 

" No meio de mil prazeres, 
Que gozares con sabor, 
Ve nesta pequena oferta 
Sinceras provas de amor." 



* May 15, 1820.— The United States legisla- 
ture made the slave-trade piracy, with penalty 
of death. 

March 31, 1824. — Great Britain enacted, that 
any person concerned in the slave-trade from 
January 1, 1825, should, on conviction, "suffer 
death, as pirates, felons, and robbers ought to 
suffer." The penalty was subsequently altered 
to transportation. 

Nov. 15, 1824.— The State of Buenos Ayres 



declared, that their citizens, trading in slaves, 
should be punished as pirates. 

Nov. 23, 1826 —Brazil signed a convention 
with Great Britain, stipulating that the carrying 
on of the slave-trade after three years from that 
date, should be deemed and treated as piracy. 

In 1841, Austria, Prussia and Russia declared 
by treaty the slave-trade piracy. 

In 1842, Portugal became a party to a similar 
treaty. 



eONCIiUBIN© REMARKS. 



29 



many parts, is that of absolute slavery to 
their chiefs. The barter and exchange of 
slaves among them, is as frequent as, in 
Europe, that of dogs or horses. I have 
mentioned the case of a chief from the inte- 
rior, at Quilimane, who, though in no way 
concerned in the exportation of slaves, 
offered, in my presence, four of his train to 
Azevedo, in barter for a paltry musical toy. 
Parents will sometimes bring even their own 
children for sale. The abominable traffic, 
ingrafted on this "degenerate and degraded 
state," confirming and perpetuating its ills ; 
the wholesale shipment of slaves to foreign 
lands, involving the multiplied hardships of 
their journey from the interior to the coast ; 
exposure to aggravated sufferings and mor- 
tality, after embarkation, even under the 
most favorable circumstances; these form 
the catalogue of charges against the slave- 
trader. The predominance of slavery, how- 
ever, in the barbarous countries with which 
he trades, existed previously to his traffic ; 
and, should it cease, would still remain. 
No other measure can reach this evil than 
the introduction among their savage tribes 
of the principles of civilization and Chris- 
tianity, without which blessings their state 
would be but partially amended by the sup- 
pression of the slave-trade. It is, indeed, 



little in our power to speculate at what 
period so glorious an event may take place. 
We may, however, by a retrospect of the 
means blessed by the Almighty in time past 
to the conversion of the heathen, gather 
that they differed in no slight degree from 
any at present in operation for that end. 
Though in modern times the labors of indi- 
viduals have produced partial and temporary 
benefits, and some, whose " record is on 
high," have bequeathed noble examples of 
zeal and devotedness, those labors have left 
on earth no permanent results, their very 
traces having passed away with the zeal 
and devotion which animated them . When 
the spirit which of old converted our own 
and all the other barbarous nations of Eu- 
rope to the faith of Christ, shall again 
animate His church — the only instrument 
which has ever availed to raise a single 
nation from " darkness and the shadow of 
death " — Christianity will again gain ground 
on heathenism , as in former times. A branch 
of that Church, once planted and flourishing 
in our own colony, may soon extend her 
arms to the barbarous nations on each side 
of the adjacent channel, and gather the sa- 
vage tribes of Madagascar and Mozambique 
under the banner of the Cross. There is no 
other that can ever triumph over Slavery 



THE END. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY J. WINCHESTER, 30 ANN STREET. 



New and beautiful Collection 
of Church Music. 

€opjjrig()t of eatty page seatrel*. 

NOW READY, 

At the New World office, 30 Ann-st., New-York, 

THE 

BEETHOVEN COLLECTION 

OF 

SACRED MUSIC, 

Comprising themes now first arranged from the 
instrumental compositions of Beethoven, Hay- 
dn, Mozart, and other eminent compos- 
ers ; and Original Tunes, Chants, and 
Anthems : The whole harmon- 
ized in Four Parts, with an 
Accompaniment for the 
Organ. To which 

is prefixed a 
new Method of In- 
struction in the Rudi- 
ments of Music, and the art 
of Reading with Intonation, by 

E. IVES, Jr., W. AIPERS, & H. C. Till. 

It has long been a source of deep regret, that 
men of great talent and extensive musical know- 
ledge, in this country, should have entirely ne- 
glected so important a branch of musical com- 
position as the services of our churches involve. 
"While the other branches, of music have been 
steadily progressing, this alone has remained sta- 
tionary. Those deeply interested in the subject 
of Church Music have constantly expressed dis- 
satisfaction and regret at its low and almost help- 
less state ; but still no steps were taken to remedy 
the evil, until the present enterprise. 

This book has been prepared by three distin- 
guished and experienced Professors, and differs 
from the ordinary books of church music, in the 
following particulars : 1st. The music which it 
contains is such as can be found in no other book, 
every page of it being copyrighted. 2nd. It is 
complete in its arrangement, the voice parts stand- 
ing in their proper order, with a separate score 
for the Organ. 3rd. The words of the entire 
hymn are printed so as to be easily read with the 
music. 4th. It will contain all the metres used-in 
all the churches of different denominations, as well 
as all the service of the Episcopal Churches, in- 
cluding the Festivals. 5th. It is got up in a far 
superior style to any book of the kind which has 
appeared in this country, being printed on a large 
and open page, with entirely new types. 

The collections hitherto published have been in- 
convenient in form, printed with bad type, absurdly 
arranged, and wholly destitute of an organ accom- 
paniment. They are marked by a worse error even 
than these, viz. : the faulty manner in which the 
tunes are voiced. Little or no attention is paid to 
the register of separate voices. The harmonies 
are poor, monotonous, and devoid of movement. 
Such collections, moreover, tend to keep up the 
old, droning style of singing, and retard the pro- 
gress of good taste. The want of any good book 
heretofore has rendered ii necessary for organists 
and choristers in our large churches to arrange and 
compose their own music. This fact proves how 
much a work like "The Beethoven Collec- 
tion" is needed. 



This collection is not, as its name would seem 
to imply, made up entirely of selections 'from the 
works of Beethoven, but from those of Mozart, 
Haydn, Cramer, Pleyel, Steibelt, Kalliwoda, Car- 
ter, Vulpius, Winter, A. Hesse, Herold, Hoff- 
meister, Ries, Bellini, Vanhall, Hoderman, &c, 
&c. There are many admirable original contribu- 
tions by the Editors themselves, with many of the 
exquisite old German Chorals, harmonized by that 
profound musician, Rink. Besides appropriate 
psalms and hymns for every occasion, it contains 
the whole of. the Church service, with anthems, 
&c, &c, for particular days and seasons of the 
year. 

The work is admirable in form, and is printed as 
clearly as the finest copperplate engraving : the 
parts are arranged in proper order, and the eye is 
not annoyed by the accumulation of useless figures : 
for a full organ part is affixed to every piece of mu- 
sic through the book. The tunes are well voiced — 
great attention having been given to the melodial 
succession of each part — thus rendering the most 
difficult of them comparatively easy of execution. 
Everything is strictly and beautifully harmonized; 
rich, without being abstruse — pleasing, without 
being paltry. The words are selected with great 
care, comprising many ef the most beautiful sacred 
poems in our language. There is an instruction- 
book appended to the work, by Mr. Ives — who 
has had twenty years' experience in teaching — 
which cannot fail to advance the pupil at a perfect 
railroad pace. 

Price $1 a copy; $9 for twelve copies. Choirs 
supplied on liberal terms. Address 

J. WINCHESTER, Publisher, 30 Ann-st. 



LOITERINGS 

OF 

ARTHUR O'LEARY. 

BY CHARLES LEVER, ESQ., 

Author of " Charles O'Malley," " Jack Hinton," 
" Tom Burke," &c. 

This is a capital production, and has been justly 
recommended superior, in every respect, to " Tom 
Burke." 

Price only 12^ cents; $8 per hundred. Agents 
are requested to send their orders without delay. 

Address J. WINCHESTER, 30 Ann-street. 

Now complete— Price One Dollar, 

The only unmutilated and complete translation, 
now before the public, of the 

IYSTEEIES OF PARIS, 

BY EUGENE SUE. 

Translated from the French, by 

HENRY C. DEMING, 

Assisted by Professor Bobdenave, Teacher of 

the French language in the N. Y. University. 

From the Boston Atlas. 

The " Mysteries of Paris " is a picture of hu- 
man life. The humble may read it and glean en- 
couragement from its pages ; the haughty may read 
it, and take warning from its lessons ; the good 
may learn to honor goodness ; and the wicked may 
realize the certain, though perhaps the tardy, con- 
sequences of guilt. It is the book or the people 
and eloquently pleads the cause of the oppressed 
and humble classes. 

Address J. WINCHESTER, 30 Ann-sL 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY J. WINCHESTER, 30 ANN STREET. 



SAVE YOUR MONEY! 

NOW READY, 

At the New. World Office, 30 Ann-st., N. Y. 

BLACKWOOD'S 
EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, 

NO. CCCXL., FOR FEBRUARY. 

CONTENTS— 1. The Heretic— II. Thrush Hunting— 
By Alexander Dumas, HI. High Life in the Last Cen 
tury— IV. News from an Exiled Contributor— V. The 
Prophecy of the Twelve Tribes— VI. A Bewailment from 
Bath ; or. Poor Old Maids— VII. Marston ; or, the Me- 
moirs of a Statesman. Part 8— V1U. Secession from the 
Church of Scotland— IX, Sitting for a Portrait— X. My 
Friend— XI. Prudence— XII. The Land of Slaves— XHI. 
The Priest's Burial— XIV. Free Trade and Protection. 

Orj^SING-LB NUMBERS 18 3-4 CENTS !-3g 

OF THIS BEAUTIFUL 

FAC SIMILE EDITION. 

$2 a year !— Six Copies for $10 ! Send your orders to 30 
Ann-street, N. Y 

Miss Pickering's best Novel, and lier last. 

THE GRUMBLER, 

BY THE LATE MISS ELLEN FIOKEBING. 

This work is the last ever written by the lament- 
ed authoress, and is beyond all question the great- 
est romance of domestic life in the language — bet- 
ter, in the opinion of competent critics, than the 
" Neighbors," by Miss Bremer, and like that pop- 
ular work will be forever established in the favor 
of; the people. It is truly a glorious book, and those 
who read it will be well repaid for the cost. 

The Grumbler forms a neat volume of 160 pa- 
ges ©f the New World Library of Fiction, of which 
iris the 9th No. _ 

ONLY ONE SHILBING. 

LOVE AND MONEY, 

AN EVERY DAY TALE. 

A NEW NOVEL BY MARY HOWITT. 

This is a most excellent work, and will be found 
to possess unusual interest to all lovers of fiction of 
a high and moral character. 

Call early, as the edition is limited. 

MUSIC FOR THE LADIES. 

NOW READY. 

At the New World Office, 30 Ann-street, 

Part I. of 

THE MUSICAL ALBUM 

A.". COLLECTION OF 

Concerted Pieces for Soprano Voices. 

BY E.. IVES, Jr., 

Teacher of Music at the Rutgers Female Institute. 

PRICE TWENTY- FIVE CENTS. 

IS Each number will consist of 24 pages of choice Music 
for the voice and piano-forte, such as no where else can be 
found for four [times the price. Ladies will send to 30 
Ana-street, or to Wadleigh's, 387 Broadway. 

u. J. WINCHESTER, 30 Ann-street. 



NEW, CURIOUS AND INTERESTING! 

SAINT 

PATRICK'S PURGATORY 

An Essay on the Legends of 
PURGATORY, HELL AND PARADISE, 

CURRENT DURING THE MIDDLE AGES. . i 

BY THOMAS WEIGHT, M.A., S.E.A., 
Corresponding Member of the Royal Institute of France. 
£TA more curious, interesting or valuable work, has sel- 
dom appeared. It is printed from the proof-sheets of the 
London copy. In a historical point of view, this work is 
full of interest, as showing how, during the Middle Ages, 
the Christian religion was gradually corrupted by super- 
stitious legends. The principal legend is that of 

St. Patrick's Purgatory in Ireland, 

which is the most remarkable of all the purgatory legends, 
and the only one which has remained in force to the pre- 
sent day. All classes of readers will be both amused and 
instructed by perusmg the strange stories and remarkable 
visions of the unknown world, which were believed by 
large masses of people several hundred years ago. It in- 
deed lacks none of the interest of a Romance. 
BLPrice 12i cents single. To Agents, $8 a hundred. Or- 
ders from Booksellers and Agents promptly supplied. 

SIXTEEN BOOKS FOR $L 

Only Six Cents each ! 

1 he publisher of the New World offers the following 
valuable and interesting books, for the sum of ONE DOL- 
LAR remitted by mail, free of postage. Here is reading 
for a whole winter, for less than the former price of a sin- 
gle work ; and, as the lots of each are small, early orders 
must be given : 

NOVELS. 
THE HOME, by Miss Bremer. 
NINA, by Miss Bremer. 

100 ROMANCES OF REAL LIFE, by Leigh Hunt 
MEREDITH, by the Countess of Blessington. 
MAN OF THE PEOPLE, by Rosenberg. 
FIRESIDE RECOLLECTIONS, by Mrs. Ellis. 
FRANKLIN EVANS, an original novel. 
GODOLPHIN, by Sir E. L. Bulwer. 
THE CONSPIRATOR, an original novel. 
DICKENS'S AMERICAN NOTES. 
HISTORICAL AND SCIENTIFIC. 
LETTERS FROM THE SHORES OF THE BALTIC, 

with Engravings. 
ARNOLDS LECTURES ON HISTORY-A capital 

book. 
LIVES OF THE UUEENS OF FRANCE- Very inte- 
resting. 
METEOROLOGY, and the Laws of Climate-13 [En- 
gravings. 
M. ARAGO'S HISTORY OF COMETS, with En- 
gravings. 
VOVAGE OF DISCOVERY to the North Pole. 

frCf* The retail price of the above works, in the cheap 
form, is $2 50 ! and in the original style could not be pur- 
chased for Thirty Dollars ! Address 

J. WINCHESTER, 30 Ann st. 



!K7" New volumes of the NEW WORLD, BLACK- 
WOOD'S MAGAZINE, and the REPOSITORY OF 
MODERN ENGLISH ROMANCE, commenced with 
January. These three periodicals are sent to one person 
for $5 a year, remitted free of expense. Every new sub- 
scriber to the New World, remitting $3, will receive a 
copy of the "Mysteries of Paris'" gratis. This work 
makes a beautiful volume of 350 pages, the price of which 
is SI in numbers, §1 25 bound. 

Booksellers and Agents can be supplied with cheap 
books, and all orders by mail will be supplied at a liberal 
discount. Address J. WINCHESTER, 30 Ann-st. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY J. WINCHESTER, oU ANN STREET. 



Just Published, 

At the office of the New World, 30 Ann-st., 



Price Si Cents, wStta. am Engraving 



IN A 



SLAVE SH 

In the. Mozambique Channel 

In April and May, 1342. 

ET REV. PASCCB G-HEKTELL KILL, 

Chaplain of H. M. skip Cleopatra. 

This is the narrative of the capture- of a Brazilian slaver 
by the British frigate Cleopatra, Mr. Hill went on board 
the captured vessel, where he remained near two months, 
while bringing her to the English station at the Cape of 
Good Hope. The awful horrors of the slave-trade are set 
forth- in vivid colors, and enough to freeze the blood in 
our veins. The narrative is one of frightful interest, and, 
as a chapter of honors, cannot fail to attract the attention 
of all civilized nations by whom the slave-trade has been 
declared piracy. 

Price 6i: cents ; $4 a hundred. 



VICTOR HUGO'SjJREAT NOYEL. 

ON TUESDAY NEXT, 
Will be published and for sale at the New World Office, 
ISSi .38 Ann-street, and Wadleigh's, 387' Broadway, 5 
A splendid Romance, entitled i-iv-- 

HANS OF ICELAND: 

OR, THE 

DEMON OF THE NORTH. 

Translated from the French of Victor Hugo. 

'"This is a work ©f powerful interest. In speaking of the 
period when the events of this story were supposed to have 
taken place, anjincient historian of Norway says — 1 SSS§s6 
" It was the current belief of the inhabitants of the 
shores of the Baltic at that day. that there existed certain 
beings in those regions, who, though bom of woman, 
owed their paternity to tiends from hell. They were sup- 
posed to roam about the earth, fulfilling their mission of 
evil, by inflictiug the direst calamities upon all who fell 
into their power. Murder and rapine followed in their 
footsteps ; but fearful above all things, was the fate of the 
woman who, through violence or seduction, became the 
victim of one of these unclean and malignant spirits. 
United irrevocably to the monster for life, it was held that 
she became a partner of his awful doom throughout eter- 
nity." 

"One of the most dreaded of these incarnations of the 
evil one, was Hans of Iceland— whose name is still the 
terror of the nursery, and whose deeds are still the theme 
of story and of song. 

f Price 25 cents— $16 a hundred. This work forms No. 11 
of the New World Library of Fiction, making a neat 
volume of 140 pages bourgeois type. 
Address J. WINCHESTER, 39 Ann street. 

THE REPOSITORY OP 
MODERN 

ENGLISH ROMANCE. 

This Monthly is issued immediately after the arrival oi 
the English Steamer, and contains the serial romances of 
all the popular English novelists, such as James, Lever, 
Ainsworth, Dickens, &c, &c. It contains from 32 to 64 
brevier pages per month, at the low price of 

ONE DOLLAR a year, in advance. Six Copies for $5 
CLUBS. 

The New World, Blackwood's Masazinb, and the 
Repository, or the New World, Brother Jonathan 
and the Repository, will be sent to one address fin 
FIVE DOLLARS a year is advance, 



PERIODICALS 

FOR THE PEOPLE, 

PUBLISHED BY 

J. WINCHESTER, 

at No. 30 Ann-st. N. Y. 



THE NEW WORLD. 

A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF 

ftitevatnte, Science, QUtattfr News. 

PARK BENJAMIN, EDITOR; 

ASSISTED BY 

H. C. DEMING AND JAS. MACKAY. 

The " New World" is now universally acknowledged 
to be the most able, interesting, and popular family journal 
m the Union. It combines all the elements of a News- 
paper, Magazine and Review ; having assumed that high 
critical ground heretofore unoccupied in this country. It 
will, besides its able original articles, contain as many ro- 
mantic attractions from the European Magazines as here- 
tofore, together with a brief abstract of all passing events. 

THREE DOLLARS a year, in advance ; and all sub- 
>cribers remitting that sum, free of expense, will be pre- 
sented with a copy of Mr. Deming's elegant translation of 
the " Mysteries of Paris," the most thrilling novel ever 
written, and which the Boston Atlas pronounces to be 
' The Book of the People." 



BROTHER JONATHAN. 

The Cheapest and best Mammoth Paper 
in the United States. 

HENRY C. DEMING, EDITOR. 

The proprietors of the "New World" have purchased 
all the right and interest of Mr. Edward Stephens in the 
Brother Jonathan, and will henceforth issue it from then- 
office in a large folio form, of nine columns to a page, on 
new and beautiful~bourgeois type. It will occasionally 
be embellished with the finest wood engravings that can 
be procured in the country. It is the determination of the 
proprietors to make it, in every respect, the cheapest and 
best family newspaper in the United States. In this they 
are perfectly confident of success. 

TWO DOLLARS a year, in advance ; and all persons 
remitting that sum free of postage, will receive as a pre- 
mium those three exquisite novels of Frederika Bremer, 
" Home," "The President's Daughters," and " Nina." 



BLACKWOOD'S 

EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, 

lac- Simile CSiMtian. 

This is the most celebrated Magazine in the world, its 
pages being filled by the pens of the ablest and most popu- 
lar writers in Great Britain. Its articles are upon all sub- 
jects, including Reviews, Tales, Poetry, &c, &c. The 
price of this fac-simile edition — containing over 100 doable- 
column brevier pages a month, three times the quantity of 
any $3 Magazine— is only 

TWO DOLLARS a year, in advance. Every person 
obtaining five subscribers, and remitting iglO free of ex- 
pense, will receive a free copy so long as the subscribers 
continue. 

95= The public should beware of another reprint of 
this Magazine, published by a person by the name of 
Scott, at 50 per cent, higher price than our edition costs '. 
Be careful to send your orders to 30 Ann-street. ' 



Books for tin People" published by J. Winchester, 30 Ann- str eat, New- York. 



PRICE 35 CHSTS; 

THE BIBLlTlN SPAIN; 

OR, THE 

JOURNEYS, ADVENTURES AND IMPRISONMENTS 

OF AN ENGLISHMAN, 

IN AN 

ATTEMPT TO CIRCULATE THE SCRIPTURES IN SPAIN. 

BY GEORGE BORROW, 

AUTHOR OF THE "GIrSIES OF SPAIN." 

rhis work has been pronounced by all the recent leading Reviews in Great Britain of the highest critical 
authority, the most charming production of the day. In a lato London Quarterly, it is commended in the 
most cordial terms, and largely extracted from. It is, indeed, a spirit-moving and enthralling book— written in 
a style of the most perfect ease and elegance, and full of reeountals of thrilling adventures and picturesque 
descriptions. Though instinct with genuine feeling, (here is nothing of a religious or sectarian character in this 
work ; hut it is Hither a narration of the author's residence and travels in all parts of Spain, during five years in 
which he was the agent of the English Bible Society for the circulation of the Scriptures in the Spanish Penin- 
sula. We subjoin a few extracts from the London press: - 

" We conceive Mr. Borrow has in these pageycome out as an English author of high rank. Considering the 
book merely as one of adventures, it seems to us about the most extraordinary one that has appeared in our 
own, or indeed in any other language, tor a long time past. Indeed, we are more frequently reminded of 'Gil 
Bias,' ia the narrative of this pious, single-hearted man, than in the perusal of almost any modern novelist's 
pages."— [London Quarterly Review. 

" This is a most remarkable book. Highly as we praised the ' Gipsies of Spain,' much as we had reason to 
expect from any subsequent 'jffort of the writer, we were ce.lainly not prepared tor anything so striking as this. 
Apart from its adventurous interest, its literary merit is extraordinary. Never was book more legibly impressed 
with the unmistakeabie mark of genius."— [Examiner. 

"There is no taking leave of a booMke this. Better Christmas fa<re we have .lever had it in our power to 
oiler our readers."— LAthenar-um. 

The following is from the Boston Bulletin ; i 

" Burrow's Bible in Spain, just published in n cheap form, at the New World office, is unquestionably the 
richest, raciest, most interesting boos of travels which the reading world have had placed before them fora long 
time. Issued in London at two guineas, or ten dollars, we believe, it is now within the reach of the American 
reader for twenty-five cents. We know not how it can be afforded at such a price. It is really the cheapest of 
all cheap books, as it is among the best that the press has recently sent forth." 



JPR.I CE 35 CENT; 



THE ZINC All; 

Oil, AN ACCOUNT OF 

THE GIPSIES OF SPAIN. 

WITH AN 

ORIGINAL COLLECTION OF THEIR SONGS AND POETRY. 

BY GSORgFbORROW, 

AUTHOR OF THE "BI3LE IN SPAIN," ETC. 

Every reader of that delightful book— the prize, boolc of the season— "The Bible in Spain"— will hail the 
appearance of another work by the author, in the same cheap and commodious form, with feelings of sincere 
pleasure. Nothing can be more exciting and interesting than this picturesque and vivid narrative of the cus- 
toms, habits, and dwell'-gs of those wild, strange, and gregarious peopie. They are more wonderful than the 
Egyptians of old, or the wandering hordes of Asia and Africa. Mr. Borrow lived among them till they fancied 
him one of themselves; and the reader may well be subject to the same illusion, on account of the perfect 
lie which the author displays, with ail the romantic incidents and adventures of these Ishinaelites of 
modern days. „™™™~*~~ 

• fri/" Both t nes e works have gone through several editions, thus proving their great popularity. They are pub- 
lished in Extra numbers of the New World, and may be sent by mail to any oart of the country. Five copie* 
of 58 Ji for >ne dollar. 



" Periodicals for the People," published by J. Winchester, 30 Ann-st., New-York. 

BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE 

FOR 1844 
£at~& imi I* (Efcitistt. 

TIE CHEAPEST AND BEST MAGAZINE IN THE WORLD. 

In consequence of the great success which has attended the New World edition of Blackwood, it will here- 
after be issued in a style fully equal to the original edition, and in the same shape, without any increase of the 
trice. Nothing need be said in praise of a periodical so universally the subject of admiration. It is enough thut 
the first living writers of Great Britain, male and female, make it the channel of their productions. It is expected 
that the author of " Ten Thousand A- Year" will begin a new story early the present year. 

Blackwood interests all classes alike. Its articles are on all the prominent and interesting topics of the day : 
and the stories and poems it gives, are far superior to those in any other magazine. Science, literature, the fine 
arW, general civilization, the pleasures and education of th« people— in a word, the living philosophy of the 
world may bo seen reflected from its luminous pages. Professor Wilson, who has long rejoiced in tlie nomme de 
plume of " Christopher North," still rules the destinies of Maga. " Age cannot mar, nor custom stale his 
infinite variety." 

Evsry number of Blackwood will comprise from 120 to 128 large and beautiful octavo pages— containing at 
lea:t three times the quantity of reading matter of any S3 or $5 mogazinelpublished in thufcountry— forming two 
splendid volume* a year, of 700 or 809 pages each. 

TERMS.— Two Dollars a year, in advance ; and a free copy tp any one obtaining five subscribers, and remit- 
ting $10. 5Kr* Blackwood's Magazine for 1843 will be sent to naw subscribers for $1. 



SEW VOLUME— NEW SERIES-1841. 

THE REPOSITORY 

OF 

MODERN ENGLISH ROMANCE: 

COMPRISING 

ALL THE BEST SERIAL NOVELS 0E THE DAY, 

BY 

JAME3, DICKENS, LEVER, AINSWORTH, LOVER, 

AND OTHER DISTINGUISHED WRITERS. 



|3ri« <Dne ftLallar % $ zar, in Sttoance. 



Amone the cheap republications of the day, none has been received by the public with greater favor than the 
Monthly Serial Supplement to the New World, containing the newest novels by James, Diekens, Ainsworth, 
Lever, Lover, and others equally popular and prominent. This periodical will henceforth be continued under a 
new title, acrf in a style corresponding with the much-admired Library of Translations from foreign works. It 
will therefore be much more suitable for binding and preservation. The price will notbe altered in consequence. 

No sooner will one popular novel be completed, than another will be begun ; and thus the series be kept up 
always with unflagging spirit. " Arrah Neil," by James, now in the course of publication, has jeen pronounced 
that distinguished author's best production. The number for January will contain the first part of "Saint 
James's ; or, the Court of Queen Anne :" a historical romance, by W. H. Ainsworth, the popular author of 
" Windsor Castle," " Miser's Daughter," &c. Other new romances will follow, as they appear in London. 

The Repository will be issued monthly, after the arrival of the steamer, and will comprise from 32 to 64 pages, 
and will contain, for One Dollar a year, more matter than any magazine in the country. 

TE"IMS.— One Dollar a year ; and a free copy sent to all who obtain five subscribers, and remit Five Dollars 
free of expense. 

£5" The Serial Supplement for 1S43 will be sent to new subscribers for Fifty Cents. 

TAKE NOTICE, 

That the NEW WORLD, BLACK WOOI 'S MAGAZINE, and the REPOSITORY OF MODERN ENG- 
LISH ROMANCE, will be sent to one address for Five Dollars a year. The "Mysteries of Paris" is not 
included in this offer. Address J. WINCHESTER. 30 Ann-street. New- York. 



