CONSTITUTION 



BAPTIST ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 



PROVIDENCE: 



FORMED DECEMBER 12,1839; 



ADDRESS TO THE 



JPIR&T, SfiCOKD, THIRD AND FOURTH BAPTIST 
CHURCHSg. 



PROVIDENCE: 

M. H. BROWN, PRINTER. 

1840. 



res. 75*2%. s~Y **3 



CONSTITUTION, &c. 



Whereas more than two and a half millions of our 
countrymen are held in slavery in this Christian land, ex- 
posed to the cruelty and lust of unprincipled and profligate 
white men, and subject to the cupidity and caprice of ir- 
responsible masters, who claim the right of holding them 
as property and disposing of them a? goods and chattels, 
at public or private sale, who claim their service, strength, 
time and talents, without their consent, without bargain, 
price or adequate compensation ; and also the right of 
sundering the tenderest ties of our nature ; separating, 
and often forever, husbands and wives, parents and chil- 
dren : and whereas by their cruel and unchristian laws, 
they have shut out the light of the gospel from the be- 
nighted understandings of the slaves, depriving them of 
the comforts and consolations of religion, consigning them 
to helpless, hopeless ignorance, and thus virtually de- 
grading them to a state of heathenism. And whereas the 
spirit of slavery has insinuated itself not only into every 
vein and artery of the body politic, but it has sought shel- 
ter in the Bible, found a resting place in the sanctuary, 
apologists in the ministry, and advocates in the churches — 
it has impeded the progress of religion, cherished unholy 
prejudices, palsied missionary efforts, and threatens to 
bring down the wrath of an offended God upon the na- 



lion. And as slavery is a sin, in which the churches 
have largely and criminally participated, we feel it to be 
our duty to do all that we consistently can to induce re- 
pentance, and, by kind, prudent, prayerful and persever- 
ing measures, endeaver to exert a purifying influence up- 
on the churches with which we are severally associated. 
In order that our influence may be more effectually 
felt, and relying for wisdom and success upon Him who 
has commanded us to let our light shine before men — we 
do hereby associate ourselves together, prayerfully and 
under a solemn sense of our responsibility to the Great 
Head of the Church, to promote the immediate and entire 
abolition of slavery and of prejudice against people of 
color, and agree to be governed by the following 

COISTITUTIOH, 

Article 1. This Society shall be called the 
Providence Battist Anti-Slavery Society. 

Art. 2. The object of this Society shall be to 
aid in promoting the immediate and entire abol- 
ition of Slavery in the United States, and espec- 
ially to purify the Churches at the North, as well 
as at the South — to collect and diffuse informa- 
tion of its true character — to show that the duty, 
safety and interests of all concerned require its 
abandonment, and by appeals to the hearts and 
consciences of men, by warning, entreaty, prayer 
and all other kind, lawful and proper means, 
induce an immediate repentance of this sin. 

Art. 3. This Society shall aim to elevate the 
Character and condition of the people of color by 
encouraging their intellectual, moral and relig- 
ious improvement ; it shall labor to remove the 
prejudices of public opinion in regard to this class 



of our population, and secure for them, according 
to their moral and intellectual worth, on equality 
of civil and religious privileges. 

Art. 4. The officers of this Society shall be a 
President, two Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, 
Treasurer, and an Executive Committee of five, 
who together shall form a Board of Managers, 
whose duty it shall be to hold stated meetings, 
and adopt prudent, energetic and Christian meas- 
ures to advance the object of the Society, five of 
whom, regularly convened, shall form a quorum 
for the transaction of business. And in case of 
any vacancy in their body, they shall have power 
to fill the same. 

Art. 5. This Society shall hold stated quar- 
terly meetings on the Thursday after the first 
Sabbath in January, April, July and October ; 
the meeting in Qctsbsr to be considered the an- 
nual meeting, when an annual report shall be 
made, and officers for the ensuing year elected 

Art. 6. All meetings of the Society, and its 
Executive Committee, shall be opened with 
prayer. 

Art. 7. All members of the First, Second, 
Third and Fourth Baptist Churches, and such 
professors as usually commune with them, who 
consent to the principles of this Constitution, i ;-iay 
become members by signing the Constitution', 
and shall be entitled to vote at its meetings. 

Art. 8. The Society shall use its influenu to 
have the monthly concert of prayer for r en- 
slaved, and free people of color, (held 
Monday of e?.ch month,) observed by its 
bers. 

Art. 9. This Constitution may be amen 
in any way not affecting its foundation priori: 
1* 



at any annual meeting of the Society, by a vote 
of two thirds of the members present, provided 
the amendments proposed have been submitted, 
in writing, at a prior quarterly meeting of the 
Society. 

OFFICERS. 

John S. Eddy, President. 

William H. Hudson, > Vice . VresidenU _ 
Joseph Bogman, 5 

George L. Nottage, Secretary. 

Thomas Oakes, Treasurer. 

John Clemmons,^ 

John Kieth, 

Thomas Luther, y Committee. 

George Burr, 

Henry Battey, J 

Any members or occasional communicants of the Bap- 
tist Churches in this city,, wishing to unite with this So- 
ciety, and agreeing to the Constitution, can do so by 
banding their names to either of the officers. 



ADDRESS, 

TO THE 

MEMBERS OF THE FIRST, SECOND, THIRD AND FOURTH 

BAPTIST CHURCHES OF PROVIDENCE AND 

OCCASIONAL COMMUNICANTS. 

Dear Brethren, 

In order that prejudice may be removed, and the rea- 
sons for our present mode of action understood, we affec- 
tionately invite your attention to the following exposition 
of our principles and measures. 

The Church of Christ is the instrumentality employed 
by God for the conversion of the world. That this may 
be achieved, she must not only define in what righteous- 
ness consists, but be herself a living manifestation of its 
purity. She must not only refuse to permit sin in her 
pale, but rebuke it without her bounds. She is mighty 
in pulling down the strong holds of iniquity, just in pro- 
portion as she is pure. External opposition can avail 
little against her, in comparison with internal corruption, 
Whatever evil opposes the spread of holiness, must be 
sought out and destroyed. The prominent obstacles must 
be first removed, the inferior afterwards. The apostles ap- 
pear to have acted upon this principle. Among the Jews, 
the barrier in the way of their conversion, was unbelief in 
the Messiah. To obviate this, they reasoned with them 
from the scriptures, showing that Jesus was the very 
Christ. With the Gentiles, idolatry was the opposing 
influence to a purer faith. To them the apostle proved 
the folly of idol worship, seeking thus to turn them from 
worshipping dumb idols, to serve the living God. 

Christianity is enlarged benevolence, having the world 
as the theatre of its operations. It seeks to raise the low- 
est in the scale of humanity to an unfading crown. It 
teaches its votaries rather than to seek to be the greatest, 
to be content in the lowest place, nay, to be the servant of 



8 

all. It breathes in every heart the spirit of impartial 
mercy and justice. Hence, the claims of humanity can 
never be foreign to it. It cannot leave the question un- 
decided whether man has a right to hold his fellow as a 
chattel, or whether Slavery is a righteous or an unrighteous 
system ? Whether a Church member has a right to sell 
his brother, to separate families, or to bequeath them at 
death to an unknown posterity? Whether Christians have 
a right to keep immortal beings ignorant of science and 
religion, and render that a sealed book which Christ has 
commanded all to search ? These are questions which 
Christianity cannot but decide ; and to decide them in 
accordance with the principles of Christ, is the duty of 
the Church ; and not only so, but to make her convic- 
tions known, that repentance may succeed to guilt, wher- 
ever such enormities are perpetrated, is no less her duty. 
American slavery does all this, and worse. Its influ- 
ence upon the oppressor is to develop the worst passions 
of his nature ; and upon the oppressed, to crush the as- 
pirations of immortality, to wither his affections, and to 
make him in fact what it proclaims him to be — a brute ! 
It renders void all the commandments of the moral law. 
It sunders the dearest ties of affection and of blood. Up- 
on society its iufluence is more pestiferous than the mias- 
ma. It generates every vice, fosters idleness, develops 
profligacy, and annihilates freedom of speech and of the 
press. And more than this, it lays its hand upon the 
eternal interests of its plundered victims. This is its 
crowning act of guilt. It manufactures and keeps them 
heathen by the strong arm of oppressive law. Though 
the flowers of liberty, bloom upon her altars, none shed 
their fragrance for the slave. Though the cup of Free- 
dom passes round, it comes not to him. Though the 
doors of the sanctuary stand open, he must not enter : 
freely as the Bible circulates through the land, it passes 
not to him, and though the beams of the sun of right- 
eousness stream all around, it scarce permits a ray to 
pierce the gloom of his prison house; till worn with toil, 
his body sinks unlamented into the grave, and his soul 
ascends to the bar of judgment, unprepared for its retri- 
butions ! 



The antipodes are not more diverse than the spirit 
which it fosters, and that which Christianity enjoins. It 
makes the Church of Christ an anomaly in the sight of 
God and man. It annihilates the spirit of vital godliness 
and pure philanthropy in the hearts of her members. 
It makes the minister of Christ a trader in the bodies and 
souls of men, and an upholder of such iniquities by rev- 
elation. It makes the folfowers of Christ plunderers of 
the dearest rights of their fellows, and advocates of the sys- 
tem which enjoins it. It quenches in the Christian heart 
the warm gushings of sympathy towards the " flock of the 
slaughter whose possessors slay them and hold themselves 
not guilty, and they that sell them say, Blessed be the 
Lord ; for I am rich ; and their own shepherds pity them 
not." 

With such a system as this, dear brethren, we have 
much to do. We conceive that duty to God, whose pro- 
fessed servants we are, will not suffer us to remain neu- 
tral on such a subject. We cannot remain inactive, and 
obey the commands of God. " Thus saith the Lord, ex- 
ecute ye judgment and righteousness, and deliver the 
spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, and do no 
wrong." ic Open thy mouth for the dumb, in the cause 
of all such *as are appointed to destruction ; open thy 
mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the 
poor and needy" " If thou forbear to deliver them that 
are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be 
slain ; if thou sayest, Behold we knew it not, doth not 
He that pondereth the heart consider it ? And he that 
keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? And shall he not 
render to every man according to his works ?" " Cry 
aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and 
show my people their transgressions, and the house of 
Jacob their sins." " Thou shall in any wise rebuke thy 
neighbor, and. not suffer sin upon him" " And have 
no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but 
rather reprove them." " Do unto others as ye would 
that others should do unto you, for this is the law and the 
prophets." " Remember those that are in bonds as bound 
with them.'" " Wash you ; make you clean ; put away 
the evil of your doings from before my eyes; cease to do 



10 

evil, learn to do well : seek judgment, relieve the oppres- 
sed; judge the fatherless, plead for the widow." " If 
ye love me, keep my commandments." The benevolent 
nature of our faith, regard for the purity of Zion and the 
direct commands of Jehovah, all require our immediate 
action. We have not so learned Christ, as to behold 
unmoved the immolation of millions in our country at the 
altar of despotism. We feel ourselves bound to spread 
light, to lift the voice of prayer and of warning and re- 
buke. A wild appeal of the incarcerated sons and daugh- 
ters of humanity, imploring temporal and eternal salva- 
tion, ascends to us. The reforming spirit of the age, 
shaking off the abuses of centuries, bids us labor. The 
missionary spirit, seeking to raise the bowed down, and 
to cheer the hopeless, will not suffer our neutrality. The 
extended agitation of the public mind, both here and in 
Europe, shows that the time has come. Increasing light 
brings increasing responsibilities, and to close our ears to 
the cries of the perishing, would be traitorous to human- 
ity, to truth and to God. 

It is the design of our association to promote this ob- 
ject. We conceive that thousands of our fellow Christ- 
ians are ignorant, and many we fear wilfully so, of the 
true nature of Slavery, and their duty with regard to it. 
We propose to endeavor to remove this ignorance by the 
circulation of publications depicting its true character, and 
its appropriate remedy. When circumstances justify the 
measure, we shall hold public meetings for the same end. 
We believe that intelligence thus circulated will exert a 
healthy influence upon all within its reach. Increasing as 
it spreads, carried home from the convictions of Christian 
hearts, its influence will be transforming on the members 
of Southern Churches. To say that it will not, is to slan- 
der their love of truth, their perception of the claims of 
mercy, and reciprocation of Christian kindness and fidel- 
ity. Be that, however, as it may, we shall have discharg- 
ed our duty, and are willing to leave the results with 
Him who holds the hearts of all men in his hands. Be- 
lieving also in the efficacy of prayer, we propose to " re- 
member those that are in bonds as bound with them," 
when we frequent the mercy seat. We have confidence 



11 

in the " God of the oppressed" as the avenger of the 
innocent, as well as the deliverer of the poor. We shall 
plead that mercy may descend both upon the master and 
the slave ; that by the gracious influences of his Spirit, 
He would soften the hearts of the former, and prepare the 
latter for freedom. If prayer can save a nation from ru- 
in, and stay the arm of vengeance, we shall not cease to 
pray Almighty God, to work in the hearts of his people 
to do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly before him. 

Such, dear brethren, are our principles and measures. 
Whatever objections may be made to them now, we be- 
lieve that they would meet with none in the Millennium. 
We see not how any reasonable objection can be brought 
against them. Their tendency simply is to lead men to 
act out the heaven-born principles of Christianity. We 
cannot conjecture how any devoted follower of Christ 
could, putting his objections in words, present them before 
God as sufficient reasons for his inactivity or opposition 
to our efforts. Can our brethren oppose us in the spirit 
of prayer, and with reference to the decisions of eternity? 
Were they in the place of the oppressed, would they 
consider us wrong in our labor of love ? The objections 
to our course of action, we know are many, but to us 
they have little weight. With a sincere desire of remov- 
ing them as far as possible, we will enumerate some of 
the most prominent. 

" We are told that our principles should never be 
brought into the Church, as they cause divisions, and 
promote a spirit unfavorable to piety!" To us, it 
seems that a correct appreciation of our principles, 
and the ends of Church organization, by our breth- 
ren, would obviate the force of the objection. — 
Our principles can never be separated from Christ- 
ianity, and it remain as pure as when it proceeded 
from the lips of its founder. Humanity and Christianity 
can never be divided. If the Church is set for the re- 
formation of the world, whither should we carry our 
principles but into the Church ? Will it annihilate Christ- 
ian feeling to lisien to the woes of the slave, or to discuss 
his rights ? Will supplication for the perishing quench 
the atdor of devotion ? Will it offend Christ's little ones 



13 

to be urged in brotherly kindness to feel for the outcasts 
from Christian sympathy and heavenly hope ? Indeed, if 
Christians cannot act as God requires, we have cause of 
alarm ior the Churches. What! will it disturb the peace 
of the Churches to advocate as Christian men the first 
principles of humanity ? To denounce robbery for burnt 
offering ! — the transforming of men to brutes, and the 
withholding of the scriptures from men as immortal as 
ourselves ! To whom should we look for aid in this enter- 
prize, if not to Christians ? Who should feel, if they will 
not ? Will the worldling — the infidel — the mere politician? 
Shall they be permitted to surpass us in benevolence ? 

No, brethren, we hope better things. If truth excites 
wrong feelings, it is not answerable for the result. The 
excitement bespeaks a wrong state of heart, which must 
be repented of. The meek and lowly Saviour excited 
opposition : was he therefore wrong ? If speaking the 
truth in love on the most important moral question, which 
presents itself for Christian reflection, causes divisions in 
Churches, we deeply lament it, but we cannot neglect 
our duty. The path of duty is always the path of safety. 
Our principles promote no spirit unfavorable to piety or 
revivals. Benevolence does not dampen, but rather de- 
velops piety. Piety is love to God, manifesting itself 
in deeds of mercy towards man. If our brethren in the 
school of Christ, are willing to imbibe his spirit, and 
knowing their duty, willing to perform it, they will have 
no fears that the cause of mercy will divide the Churches. 

" Again, we are told, that, admitting the correctness 
of our principles, we are wromg in our adoption of 
measures" This objection does not surprise us, it is as 
old as reform itself. It arises from a misconception of 
the evil we would remove. Viewing Slavery as a sin, 
we know no remedy for it but repentance. To produce 
repentance, we must show guilt. The antidote of error 
is truth, but truth must be applied to the conscience by a 
power foreign to itself. In a word, we view the princi- 
ples of the gospel, when carried out, as the legitimate 
cure for Slavery. In the light of conscience — of investi- 
gation — of eternity — we can discover no measures more 
efficient, more compatible with truth, than those which 



13 

we have adopted. Our principles and measures are one 
and indivisible. They are seeking the overthrow of Sla- 
very by light, truth, and love. If our measures are wrong, 
the suggestion of better ones on the part of our breth- 
ren, would be grateful to us. Yet this, to our know- 
led ere, has never yet been done, and hence we consider 
it our duty to adhere to those which we have adopted. 
Made mighty by Omnipotence, they have been blessed 
to the liberation of myriads of captives in the British 
West-India Islands, as well as of hundreds of slaves in 
our own country. They are the same measures as those 
employed in the furtherance of every other moral enter- 
prize — the power of rebuke, of remonstrance, of prayer, 
of speech, and of the press operating upon the consciences 
of men. We rarely hear of an individual embracing our 
principles, and yet finding fault with our measures. A 
captious spirit is not an honest one. It will grant the 
importance of an object, the need of action, but — always 
shrinks from the performance of it when pointed out. 
Place before you, brethren and sisters in Christ, the mil- 
lions of the enslaved driven by the cupidity of man to 
the regions of gloom and horror ; reflect that a Redeem- 
er's blood was shed for them; that obligation weighty 
as eternity rests upon you to act for their deliverance ; 
and we believe that your objections to our measures will 
speedily be removed. 

Another objection is, that our efforts do more injury 
than good, and will fail of producing any beneficial 
result. From what facts this objection has been adduc- 
ed, we are at a loss to determine. Previous to this 
it should have been asked, are our principles cor- 
rect, and are we under sacred, obligations to spread, 
them 1 If God commands, man must obey. We are 
short-sighted creatures at the best, and our wisdom fool- 
ishness with God, and hence our duty is to walk by faith, 
and not by sight. Had Moses reasoned as do our objec- 
tors, he would doubtless have considered his task a hope- 
less one, when perceiving the burdens of his countrymen 
increased by his exertions, and their maledictions sur- 
rounding him. " The Lord look upon you, and judge 
you, because you have made our savor to be abhorred 
•2 



14 

in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his $er~ 
cants, to pat a sword in their hands to slay us" Yet 
Moses was right, and the complaints of his countrymen 
were soon exchanged for the song of deliverance. We 
cannot judge correctly from the appearance of things. 
Medicine often, sickens before it cures. That which ap- 
pals the timid and the faithless, often encourages the bold 
of heart. That our efforts do more injury than good, is 
not probable from facts. It is not seen in the multitu- 
dinous societies formed for the overthrow of Slavery 
throughout the land, in the gathering of devout hearts to 
the place of prayer for the oppressed, and in the signs of 
the times ominous of good to the enslaved. It is not 
heard in the jubilations of the emancipated of the isles 
of the sea, and in the giant march of the genius of uni- 
versal emancipation, shaking to the dust the temples of 
despotism ; nor in the triumph of error over brute force. 

w Truth crush'd to earth will rise again, 

The eternal day of God is hers, 
While Error wounded writhes in pain, 

And die3 amid her worshippers/' 

Brethren, we have faith in truth. If the foolishness 
of preaching is the chosen means of God's appointment 
for the world's conversion, we fear not the success of our 
cause. The interest which is excited in our country on 
this subject, will never subside until the evil is removed. 
It cannot exist under the focus of light which philanthropy 
and Christian faithfulness is pouring upon its abomina- 
tions. Had our efforts commenced thirty years ago, 
think you that they would have prolonged the existence 
of Slavery ) Wouid a torrent of holy indignation against 
it, gushing from devout hearts in all the walks of life, and 
from pulpits occupied by a holy ministry, hefve thus far 
been lost upon oppression ? We think not. To say, then, 
that the same measures are ineffectual now, is to dishon- 
or God's chosen instrumentality for the world's reform, 
and unless he has reserved our guilty land for the sorest 
judgments, we will continue to labor in the hope, that 
national conviction of guilt may be succeeded by nations! 
repentance, and Slavery no more blast the temporal and 
eternal hopes of man. 



15 

No reasonable objection can be raised to our mode ef 
associated action. Ours is an age of associations for the 
promotion of benevolent enterprize. The Missionary, 
Bible, Tract, and Temperance Societies are examples. 
Sfial! we be told that the Church is Anti-Slavery in her 
constitution, and that therefore, our association is gratui- 
tous? We answer, that neither the Northern nor the 
Southern Churches are practically so. They rather up- 
hold, than condemn the system. To better this state of 
things is the duty of every Christian. If it is right for 
one Christian to preach the truth on this subject, it is 
equally incumbent on all. Union is strength. If it is 
right for Christians to form associations to circulate 
tracts to show men the evils of swearing, of drunken- 
ness, of living in sin ; we see not why it is not equal- 
ly right for them to form associations to circulate the 
same winged messengers of truth, showing the sin of 
reducing God's image to merchandize. If associated 
action is right for the suppression of Intemperance, we 
see not why it is not proper for the, removal of Sla- 
very. 

Nor do we think it objectionable to our enterprize, 
that we seek the moral elevation of the people of col* 
or. The pure missionary spirit requires us to seek the 
moral elevation of all men. The existence of the col- 
ored race upon this continent will in all probability be 
co-existent with the white. The Gospel knows not 
the distinctions of prejudice^or cast. The same Christ- 
ian principle which is to melt off the chains of cast 
on the plains of India, and reduce all classes to one 
level of humanity, has like triumphs to achieve in 
America. That unholy prejudice which grinds our col- 
ored brother to the earth, has no affinity with the spi- 
rit of Him, who " though he was rich, for our sakes 
became poor," and " made himself of no reputation, 
but took upon him the form of a servant;" and to 
seek its annihilation is certainly the duty of those who 
profess to imbibe his spirit, and to imitate his example. 
It is for reasons like these, dear brethren, that we 
invite your co-operation. On the guilt of Slavery, few 
among us pretend 4o doubt. It is pronounced almost 



16 

unanimously to be sin. In accordance with sound theol- 
ogy, the remedy which we propose is* confession and re- 
pentance. That immediate repentance of this sin is safe, 
is proved by the requirements of God's law, and by the 
example of the West-India Islands. It is demonstrated 
to be safe to pay the laborer his hire, to cease from sun- 
dering the family connections, to guard the helpless by the 
shield of law, to permit men to frequent the sanctuary and 
to search the scriptures. That this may be realized up- 
on American soil, we invite your sympathy and aid in 
spreading truth by the pulpit, by the press, by the action 
of the Churches, by remonstrance, by petition, and by 
prayer to God. We ask not your aid in the fulmination 
of personal denunciation, in raising the whirlwind of an- 
gry passions, or in kindling the fires of intemperate zeal, 
but in bringing the professed followers of Christ to listen 
to the " still small voice" of conscience. By the com- 
mon sympathies of our nature ; by your sense of eternal 
right ; by your regard for your country's weal, and the 
purity of Zion ; by the agonies of the Redeemer of a 
lost world ; by the consolation of Christ, and the fellow- 
ship of the Spirit ; by the example of Him who came to 
" proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the 
prison to them that are bound," we ask you to feel for 
the ™ souls of the poor innocents/' and the outcasts 
from Christian sympathy ! 

How long halt ye between two opinions? You acknow- 
ledge our principles to be correct, and as such will stand 
when the earth reels, and blaze in the radiance of heaven 
when the stars go out. And can you then oppose us in 
the propagation of them ? It was because these principles 
were trampled on, that God drowned the old world, " being 
filled with violence ;" smote the first born of Egypt dead, 
and whelmed Pharaoh and his hosts in the Red Sea. The 
same God of the oppressed still reigns, unchanged and un- 
changeable. It is upon these principles that the super- 
structure of the moral universe is reared, and can their ad- 
vocacy rend the Church of the living God 1 Tell us not 
then of the consequences ! They will be safe to God, to 
man, to the Church and to the world. 

Neutrality here is criminal. " Thou shalt in any wise 
rebuke thy neighbor,and not suffer sin upon him." More than 



17 

three hundred thousand slaves are held by the evangelical 
Christians of our country, and have we not a duty to per- 
form to them ? Philanthropy looks on and weeps, and the 
impartial and expansive power of Christianity meets in Sla- 
very with an obstacle dark as the grave ; while the voices 
of the'age, the opening visions of the future, and the clus- 
tering interests of eternity, lift up the cry, " Loose thyself 
from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion." 

The Christians of the North must exert their influence 
on their Southern brethren for the removal of this giant sin, 
by coming forth strong in the spirit of Christ, and with the 
armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left. 
The watchmen on the walls of Zion must lift up the warn- 
ing voice. Upon them is rolled the responsibility of arous- 
ing the Church, and uttering the commands of Jehovah. 
They must instruct their flocks in their duty. A voice of 
remonstrance and of prayer must go forth through associa- 
tions, conferences, conventions, and presbyteries. Before 
this Slavery must fall. Conviction will not always sleep. 
The doom of despotism is written in the signs of the times, 
and in the spreading light of truth and of Christianity ; 
and in the hour when" we are called to give an account of 
our stewardship, it will be joyful to reflect, that to hasten, 
its consummation, we have done what we could. 

In behalf of the Baptist Jinti- Slavery Society, 

JOHN S. EDDY, President. 

George L. Nottage, Secretary. 



