
.6 







^# 



^-/^X3l&7® 



-vT 



t 



^ 



\ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/colonialslaverydOOknib 



COLONIAL SLAVERY. 



DEFENCE OF THE BAPTIST MISSIONARIES 



THE CHARGE OF INCITING 



LATE REBELLION IN JAMAICA ; 



DISCUSSION 



BETWEEN THE 



REV. WILLIAM KNIBB AND MR. P. BORTHWICK, 

AT THE ASSEMBLY ROOMS, BATH, 

On Saturday, December 15, 1832. 

Taken in Short-hand by Mr. T. Oxford, of Clifford's Inn, 



SECOND EDITION. 



LONDON 



PUBLISHED AT THE TOURIST OFFICE, 27, IVY LANE, 

PATERNOSTER ROW; 
AND SOLD BY SHERWOOD, GILBERT, & PIPER, AND ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



Price Eight Pence, 



SLAVERY. 

Just published, in one 8vo. volume, closely printed, price 8s^ 

THE REPORT 

FROM THE 

SELECT COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS, 

ON THE 

EXTINCTION OF SLAVERY THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH DOMINIONS. 

With a Copious Index. 

Witnesses examined : W. Taylor, Esq., Rev. John Barry, Rev. Peter Duncan, Rev, 
Thomas Cooper, Rev. John Thorp, Rev. W. Knihb, Hon. C. Fleming, Capt. C. H. 
Williams, W. Alers Hankey, Esq., J. D. P. Ogden, Esq., R. Scott, Esq., J. Simpson, 
Esq., W. Shand, Esq , Rev. J. Skipman, Rev. R. Young, Rev. J. T. Barrett, W. Burge, 
Esq., M.P., J. B. Wildman, Esq., and others. 

Published at the Office of the Tourist, 27, Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row; sold also by Sherwood 
Gilbert, and Piper, and all other Booksellers. 



THE TOURIST, 
a Uit£tmi> ant* &tttt'giatat}> SJouwal, 

(UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE AGENCY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.) 
Embellished with superior Wood Engravings. 

PRICE ONE PENNY. 

Or in Monthly Parts, including a Supplement, price Sixpence. 

This Periodical, together with the most interesting and authentic Anti-Slaven 

Intelligence, contains Literary, Scientific, and Antiquarian Articles, in a popula 

style; Reviews of Books; Poetry; and Miscellaneous Matter of Instruction am 

Amusement. 

Published, every Monday, by John Crisp, J27, Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row, where all Advertise 
ments and Communications for the Editor are to be addressed. 



Where also may be had in a full Qiiarto Size, 
A LITHOGRAPHIC 

PORTRAIT OF THE REV. W. KNIBB, 

Price 2s. 6d. 
Published by Mr. Room, 17, Old Bond Street. 



DISCUSSION 

BETWEEN 

THE REV. W. KNIBB AND MR. P. B0RTHW1CK, 

AT THE 

ASSEMBLY ROOMS, BATH, 
On Saturday, December 15, 1832. 



On t the proposition of Mr. Borthwick, W. T. Blair, Esq. was requested to take the 
chair. 

The chairman then addressed the meeting to the following effect : — 

With the knowledge that Mr. Borthwick has of my sentiments upon the subject which 
has brought us together this morning, I cannot but regard his having made the proposition 
which has just been submitted to you — I am bound, indeed, to consider it as an evidence of 
the good feeling with which that gentleman comes to this discussion ; and, whatever my 
individual feelings and opinions may be, I shall endeavour to justify the confidence which 
you have placed in me, in having called me to preside at this meeting, by expressing the 
most perfect impartiality in discharge of the duties which may devolve upon me. 

As I am not here as an advocate, but merely as an umpire, or referee, as to any points 
of order which may arise, so long as I maintain that character, I rely upon receiving from 
this large and respectable assembly every assistance in securing for both parties the most 
patient and quiet hearing, which is absolutely necessary to the just appreciation of the me- 
rits of one of the gravest and most important questions that can be brought before you. 
To the speakers on both sides, if they will allow me, I take the liberty of saying, What- 
ever be the temptation, avoid all personalities, and repress, as far as possible, all angry and 
vindictive feelings. Let the discussion be conducted (and I know the subject is an ex- 
citing one) with the feelings and spirit of Englishmen ; but, in doing so, let us seek to 
preserve the courtesies of gentlemen, and the temper and integrity of Christians. Then, 
whatever your difference of opinion may be, though your conclusions be the very antipodes 
of each other, the interests of truth must be promoted by fair and public discussion, and 
there will be no occasion for regret afterwards on either side. 

One word, with your permission, before I sit down, respecting myself. To guard 
against any of those imputations of self-interest, or party-feeling, which I know are some- 
times cast on such as take a more prominent part than others in the great questions which 
agitate mankind, I deem it not altogether superfluous to observe that I have no personal 
interest whatever in the question — none that can, in the slightest degree, be promoted by 
it, however it may be decided. I am not, and never was, the paid or unpaid agent of any 
society ; I have no party purpose to serve, political or commercial; I feel the duty, and the 
interests of humanity alone impel me to perform it — of lending my aid towards the extinc- 
tion of an evil which the gentlemen, both on my right and left, agree ( I am bound to 
believe) as constituting one of the foulest blots on human nature, and a deep stain on our 
national character. And, as to the time, to use the language of the late House of Com- 
mons, in the instructions to Mr. Buxton's committee — " as early as may be with safety to 
all parties concerned." With these few observations, I now call on Mr. Knibb to address 
the meeting. 

Rev. W. Knibb then addressed the audience as follows : — 

Mr. Chairman, — My fellow-countrymen, — I appear before you, on the present occasion, 
to answer those charges which have been publicly made against me by the accredited agent 
of the West Indian party, within the walls of this room. I wish, before I commence, to 
remove an impression which I expect has been created — that I have frequently been chal- 
lenged to a public discussion, and that I have refused to meet my opponents. When I 
was in Scotland, charges were then made against me ; and, through the public prints, I 
challenged any man, or set of men, on earth, to come forward like men, and prove the 
same. When I was at Cheltenham, I as publicly challenged the advocates of slavery 



2 

there. But it is not to be expected that I can run up and down the earth to meet chal- 
lenges of which I never hear except through the public prints. Mr. Borthwick would fain 
have you believe that he has been traversing the earth in search of me, and that I, appalled 
at the sound of his approach, have fled before him. Had he wished, really wished to meet 
me, why did he not cross the Tweed? — he knew I was in Scotland. One of the most 
serious charges he brings forward is said to have occurred in Edinburgh ; but be knows too 
well what awaits him there, ever to trust himself near Dalkeith. There is nothing more 
delightful to me than to appear before a British audience to clear my character from the 
charges that have been brought against me, and to advocate the cause of the oppressed, the 
injured, the despised, the persecuted African. All I ask is justice for Africa; all I ask is 
for justice founded upon principle. Well am I aware of the scorn that will be cast upon 
my character : and well am I aware of the oblocmy that will attach to my name ; but I 
fear it not ; I have counted the cost : and, as long as blood flows in these veins, as long as 
this heart beats, it shall beat for liberty and for the injured slave. Scorn, contumely, and 
reproach, have been cast upon me by a corrupt press ; but I am confident no one in this 
assembly will expect that I should step out of the path of duty to notice every anonymous 
slander which inveterate malice may choose to cast at me. Let my enemies come forward, 
let them disprove and contradict one of my statements, and then let them brand me, but 
not till then. 

I will now proceed to answer the charges preferred against me by my opponent: — The 
first is, that I stated at Reading that I had seen more than one hundred slaves hanging on one 
gallows. I never said it. I did not see the Reading speech till yesterday, nor did I 
know that it was in the form of a pamphlet ; but I sent to Reading for it, and you shall 
hear what those who print it say : — " For eight long years my heart was bleeding continu- 
ally. I have witnessed scenes of cruelty enough to make angels weep and devils tremble. 
In the small village where I lived, there has been more than a hundred hung on one gallows, 
and five hundred flogged indecently beneath it." There is no statement here that I saw 
the whole of it done. (I did not say there were Jive hundred flogged, I said three hundred, 
and those who have drawn up the report made the mistake.) Now then, from the Jamaica 
Courant of the 8th of February — a paper notoriously opposed to me, and a paper in which 
it has been asserted that I ought to diversify the hanging woods of Trelawney — in that 
paper it is said that the executions at Montego Bay, up to Saturday, were ninety-four 
(after that time many more were executed), and that the floggings were from fifteen to 
twenty a day. Now, if we allow seven days to elapse after the formation of the court- 
martial (for eight men were hung on the 3d of January) and allow thirty days, it will make 
the number five hundred and ten. 

A placard, it appears, has been issued at Cheltenham, taken from the New Baptist Mis- 
cellany, in which I addressed British Christians on the subject of slavery. With respect 
to that placard, I know not who printed it, but I have no doubt it is a correct copy of what 
I asserted. In it I state, in the town in which I and my brother missionary were prisoners, 
more than one hundred were hung on one gallows, many were shot, and above three hun- 
dred flogged underneath the gallows, till the ground was covered with their blood. I do 
not say that I saw the whole of it — it is not asserted that 1 did. Then why is it stated 
that I said one thing before the Committee of the House of Commons, and in public ano- 
ther thing, when I never asserted any thing of the kind ? I will show, from my evidence 
before the House of Commons, what I there said. ' ' How many were there at whose 
execution you were personally present ? I did not go to see many ; I walked by when 
numbers were hanging ; several of the soldiers who were there and staid under the gallows, 
as their duty compelled them to do, told me what I am stating. 

" When you are speaking of the exhibition of great courage by those unhappy persons 
at the time of their execution, you do not speak of what you yourself saw, but of that which 
was told you by others ? I was requested to state what I had seen and heard j no man of 
feeling would go down to see his fellow-creatures hung every day." 

Let the public judge if there is any discrepance in these statements. I have asserted 
that there were more than one hundred hung at Montego Bay ; the newspapers assert that 
ninety-four were hung before the 7th of February, and after that many more were hung. 
But think not, fellow-countrymen, that Montego Bay was the only place where slaves 
were hung; many were hung at Lucea, and at Savanna-la-mar; and a person who shot 
eleven himself told me that nearly three hundred were put to death at Latimu Estate. At 
Falmouth, I can state (for I have a copy of the proceedings of the court-martial), fifteen 
were shot, six hung, thirty-six flogged, and a few reprieved ; and, lest it should be said that 
I have stated more than is the truth, 1 will read the number of lashes : — William Young, 
three hundred lashes; John Barnet, five hundred; John Shaw, five hundred; Thomas 

Reid, five hundred; John Baillie, five hundred; Robert Lament, three hundred; 

Providence, two hundred lashes j" and so, more or less, to the whole, except those who 
were hanged or shot. 



My opponent next states, that I should have been executed but for the leniency of the 
planters, ami the inadmissibility of slave evidence. Now, fellow-countrymen, let me tell you, 
slave evidence ivas admitted against me ; on slave evidence a bill was found by the grand 
jury; but when. they brought me to trial they had no evidence against me. The names of 
the slaves were Venture, Paris, Adams, and J. Erskine, from Lima estate. After the 
?wlli prosequi was entered against me, I went to see a prisoner who was condemned to 
death ; when Venture and Paris came to me with tears, and stated that they never had 
said a word against me, and that when they would not say something, they were kicked out 

of the jury room, and called "d d Baptist liars." 

The next charge brought against me is, that I have been guilty of misprision of treason, 
because I said to the negro, " Did you ever hear the buchra tell you any thing that was 
good?" I said, " Did you ever hear your busha tell you any thing that was good?" JBuckra 
means a white man ; busha means a man who superintends the Hogging of men and women. 
I solemnly aver that when those two or three negroes came to me, three months before the 
insurrection, and asked me whether it was true what their busha was always saying, that 
negro was to be free after Christmas, I told them it was not true. I never had the least 
idea that they were going to rebel ; and — hear me Britons — they did not rebel, The men 
who came forward were Pompey, Gardiner, Daniel Black, Richard Wood, George Mathew, 
Guy, Ben, James Chrystian, Larchin Armstrong, and John Gailand : and they have all 
been rewarded for saving their master's property in the midst of the rebellion. 

Here allow me to read, from the evidence collected for my trial, the statement procured 
by my attorney from Joy, alias William Leigon, against whose fidelity no charge has ever 
been brought. " Remembers asking Adam Gordon — Is it true what we hear that free 
paper is come ? Mr. Knibb was very angry and said, ' When did you ever hear any such 
thing from ministers ?' He answered, • No ; the reason, Jack, is when Busha and Book- 
keeper flog us, they say we are going to be free, and before it comes they will get it out of 
us.' Mr. Knibb said, ' No, never let me hear such arguments again, it is not true ; 
Busha tell you make you fool, there is no free coming, go home and mind your master's 
work.' " 

The next charge my opponent brings forward is, that the whole of the insurrection was 
planned in a Baptist chapel, and by a Baptist leader. This is a FALSEHOOD. After 
the rebellion had taken place 1 was appointed, by the Honourable William Miller, to ex- 
amine some of the prisoners, and among them I examined Samuel Sharp, Guthrie, Edward 
Hiiton, Dove, and Gardiner. The insurrection was planned at a place called Retrieve, 
and you shall presently hear how it was done. But, to nullify this charge, I state publicly 
that there was not a single Baptist leader engaged in it. It will be said that Dove was a 
black leader ; he was not a black man at all, nor was he a leader at all. It will be said that 
Gardiner was a black leader : he was not, nor had had he ever been constituted one by any 
missionary in connexion with our denomination. 

The next charge is, that the most horrible cruelties were perpetrated by the black Bap- 
tists, especially by a young lady. If they have been guilty of this, let them suffer ; but this 
I can state, that during the whole time I was in Jamaica I never heard that any young lady 
was thus treated. * I know a man was inhumanly murdered ; and — hear it — a Baptist man 
of the name of James Hair saved the life of the widow and her three children, and has 
been rewarded for it. 

The next charge is, that I stated at a meeting in Edinburgh that the man who planned the 
rebellion was a fine negro, and that he deserved an imperishable monument for his conduct. I 
will state what I did say to the best of my recollection, for I am not ashamed to say before 
Mr. Borthwick, and all his friends, what I say behind them. Frequently during my tour, 
especially in Birmingham, in London, and in Manchester, I have been called to order by 
the audience for daring, before a British public, to call that man a rebel who only fought 
for his freedom. But I merely stated this at Edinburgh, when asked to state before the 
audience the cause of the late rebellion — that when I was examining Samuel Sharp he 
stated to me, in the presence of William Miller, Esq., that they had heard the king had 
given them their freedom — that they had worked long enough) for nothing, that they would 
not work after Christmas till paid for it. He stated that they had not the least intention 
of rebelling; and then I asked him, " Now, Sharp, did ever any minister, of any denomi- 
nation whatever, ever tell you a word about freedom?" Then I said to Mr. Miller, "If 
you will allow me, while he answers that question, I will withdraw." " No," said Mr. 
Miller ; " I have the utmost confidence in you, Mr. Knibb." The answer of Sharp was 
this : " Minister, you did not know it ; we kept it from you, knowing you would not 

* I have since discovered that this charge rests solely upon an anonymous letter published 
in one of the pro-slavery papers. I dare the foul calumniator to prove the truth of his asser- 
tions ; name the Baptist who was thus guilty, the man, the place, the time, or for ever rest 
under the most loathsome of all epithets. 

b2 



<4 

approve of it." And when Samuel Sharp was hanged at Montego Bay, on the very gal- 
lows he said this : " I have sinned against the laws of my country, and by those laws I 
ought to die ; but I cannot see that I have sinned against my God. All I wished was to 
be free ; all I wished was to enjoy that liberty which I find in the Bible is the birthright of 
every man. I have a humble hope, through Christ, of eternal life ; but I cannot say ex- 
actly that I am going to heaven. Follow the white minister who came out to teach you ; 
he will teach you nothing but good." I believe I stated at Edinburgh that if Samuel 
Sharp had been a Polish nobleman, and had taken the same measures to free the Poles 
from the grasp of the Russians, as he took to free his countrymen from the unjust grasp of 
the slave-owner, many in England woidd have said, that, instead of being considered a rebel 
he deserved an imperishable monument. 

It is asserted by my opponent that language like this is treason ; then try me for treason. 
It is asserted that language like this is sedition ; then try me for sedition, and a jury of my 
countrymen will award me that justice which is my due. Am I to speak to Britons in the 
same language that I use to obsequious slaves? Am I to stand before a British audience, 
and speak in the same manner that I would to a slave congregation in Jamaica? Would 
Mr. Borthwick do so? Dare Mr. Borthwick go to my congregation and tell them that 
hanging was too good for me? If he did, my free members and the slaves would say to 
him, " Hainan made a gallows for Mordecai, and he was hanged on it himself." 

I have now I believe answered every charge my opponent has brought against me, and 
shown their fallacy. My character he has attacked in the most violent manner. Did I 
wish to retaliate, nothing were more easy. I have been at Dalkeith, I know the tergiver- 
sations of Mr. B., and if he has any regard to himself, I would warn him to let the cha- 
racters of others alone. I congratulate the West Indians on their champion. Their cause 
I have no doubt will prosper in his hands ; but when I think of the petty frauds they 
indulge to support their death-struck cause, I cannot forbear exclaiming, " Poor West 
Indians, poor West Indians, by the straitness of the siege wherewith thine enemies have 
besieged thee, an ass's head is sold for four-score pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a 
cab of dove's dung for five pieces of silver." 

I will now proceed to state to you the causes of the late insurrection, as far as they have 
come under my observation, and endeavour to clear the Baptist missionaries, and the other 
missionaries, from the charges brought against them. I am aware lhat it is now asserted 
that the Wesleyan missionaries are clear in this matter. The advocates for colonial 
slavery have found the Christian world too strong for them ; they wish to divide us ; but I 
have the authority of the Wesleyan minister of this city to say that he wishes none of their 
praise. If the Wesleyan missionaries were innocent, why were they tarred and feathered ? 
If the Wesleyan missionaries were innocent, why were their chapels pulled to the ground ? 
If the Wesleyan missionaries were innocent, why is Mr. Murray now forbidden to preach 
at Montego Bay ? If the Wesleyan missionaries were innocent, why did the House of 
Assembly declare that they were guilty ? I know it may be said, perhaps (for every thing 
can be denied that is wished to be denied), that Mr. Bleby was not tarred ; you shall see, 
then. Here is the handkerchief with the tar upon it (Mr. Knibb produced the handker- 
chief before the meeting). This was a Methodist missionary of the name of Bleby. I 
have a right to bring documents — I have a right to prove my assertions. I know full well 
what means will be taken when I leave this room to contradict this statement ; but you 
can say you saw the handkerchief and saw the tar. 

It has been asserted that missionaries talk of persecution if their feet get wetted. For 
the negro, for the slave, for the African female, I could suffer any thing ; but I am a 
Briton ; I have a Briton's rights, and I will surrender those lights with nothing but my 
death. Is it nothing to be taken from your house, your wife, and children, without any 
charge being brought against you, and forbidden to see them ? Is it nothing to be taken 
twenty-two miles, under a burning sun, guarded by bayonets ? Is it nothings when 
you fall through fatigue, to be told by a wretch in the shape of a man, " If you don't stand 
up I will stab you?" Is it nothing for a person to enter into your house and tar and 
feather you? Is it nothing for an armed banditti to go to a missionary's dwelling, at ten 
o'clock at night, as they did at Mr. Bleby's and there break his doors and windows, and 
deliberately fire across the bed on which his wife, and an infant not a month old, were 
lying ? Is this nothing ? Is it nothing that, when a poor negro sounds the alarm with 
his congshell, that negro should be stabbed in six different places ? I have seen him, and 
I know it was done. 

When I first heard of the intended insurrection it was through the medium of the Rev, 
Geo. Blyth, who came to the house in which I was residing, and told me that the negroes 
in the neighbouring parishes were in a state of great excitement, and requested my influ- 
ence to endeavour to undeceive them. I sent Louis Williams immediateJy. I sent 
Andrew Dixon, Richard Brown, and every person connected with the church 1 could find, 
and begged them to go to different estates and assure the negroes they were mistaken. I 



l'odc myself the same day two and twenty miles, and the next morning before breakfast I 
rode ten. I took with me Samuel Vaughan, a person of colour. I went from place to 
place, and from negro to negro, and assured them they were wrong. A congregation of 
one thousand was collected at the opening of Salter's Hill chapel, and, from a brief that 
was drawn out when I was a prisoner, I will read the instructions I gave them : — 

" My dear hearers, and especially those of you who attend constantly at the chapel, and 
are members of Crooked Spring, or other Baptist churches, pay great attention to what I have 
to say. It is now seven years since I left England to preach the gospel in Jamaica, but 
never did I enter a pulpit with such painful feelings as at present. Till yesterday I had 
hoped that God had blessed my labours, and the labours of those who have preached to you, 
especially those of Mr. Cantlow, who is now in England, who loves you, and who prays for 
you, and who writes and tells me that he hopes again to come among you. But I am pained, 
pained to the soul, to hear that many of you have agreed not to go to your work after 
Christmas, and I fear that it is too true. I have learned that some wicked persons have told 
you that you were free, that the king of England has sent it out. Hear me : I love your 
souls, I would not tell you what is false for the world. It is not true ; it is false — false as 
hell can make it. I entreat you not to believe it, but go to your work as formerly. If you 
have any love to Jesus Christ, to religion, to your minister, or to those kind friends in 
England who have given you a thousand pounds to help you to build this chapel, and who are 
now sending a minister for you, do not be led away by wicked men. God commands you to 
be obedient to your owners ; if you do as he commands you, you may expect his blessing ; if 
you do not he will call you to an account for it at the judgment day. If you refuse to go to 
work and are punished you will suffer justly ; and every friend you have must and will turn 
his back upon you." 

After I had delivered this address I went among the negroes and took Samuel Vaughan 
with me ; and if it is denied, my brother, Samuel Vaughan, shall come home and tell you. 
We went from one place to another among the negroes, and begged and entreated them by 
every means in our power not to be deceived. I then rode back; and as soon as I had 
communicated to Mr. Manderson (who is a magistrate and has honour enough to tell the 
truth) what I had done, I rode home to my dwelling. I sent then through various persons 
to other estates ; and, though Mr. Knibb has been charged with being the author of the 
rebellion, every estate where Mr. Knibb had a member still stands. Yes : not a single 
estate has been burnt where I had a member of my church, though I had members on more 
than seventy plantations. And not only this, but the members of my church brought 
down the first rebels that were taken, and have been rewarded for it : you shall have their 
names. Their names were Joseph Henry, James Virgo, and Cameron from Green Park 
estate in Trelawney. They came and asked me if they would do right by protecting their 
master's property. I said, " Yes, defend your master's property to the last." Let this be 
denied, and give me the opportunity, and these men shall come and clear the character of 
the repudiated and calumniated missionary. 

It has been asserted — not here, but in Jamaica — that all the persons convicted as rebels, 
or nearly so, were Baptists. I had a church of nine hundred and eighty-three members, 
and only three of these members were tried by the court martial at Falmouth. Their 
names I will mention : I love names ; let us have names, and then contradict me on fair 
ground if you can. Edward Grant, head driver on Georgia estate, to be confined in St. 
Ann's workhouse for life :" that is, to be worked in chains for life ; that is the English of 
it. Edward Grant is a poor old man, seventy years of age : not a single thing on the 
estate on which he lived was burnt. " John Kelly, a slave to Georgia estate," he was a 
member of my church ; he received two hundred lashes, and is to be confined and worked 
in chains for life. On the estate on which John Kelly lived not a single thing was 
touched. " John Lawrence, a slave to Tilston estate;" he received four hundred lashes, 
and is to be worked in chains for three years. The negroes from that estate sent down to 
me and said, through Louis Williams, " John Lawrence tried all he could to keep us in 
order; but they took him because he was a Baptist." You see that not one of the mem- 
bers of my church, when brought even before a court-martial, could be found guilty of a 
crime for which they could hang him; though I assure you that very little guilt was suffi- 
cient to hang a Baptist under the iron hand of martial law. (Here some person in the 
room hissed.) Hiss as much as you please ; I could hiss too. Hissing will not bring back 
murdered Baptists into life. 1 tell you plainly that John Headley, Esq, from New York 
told me that he was present at the trial of some of the poor negroes in Montego Bay, 
that they proved nothing against them, except that they were Baptists, and that they 
died Stephen-like. 

I shall now notice the evidence that has been brought against us for the purpose of 
criminating the Baptists. The Report of the Committee of the House of Assembly of 
Jamaica does not place the whole blame of the rebellion on the Baptists ; they set the 
Baptists in most honourable company. They first state that "the primary and most 



6 

powerful cause arose from an evil excitement created in the minds of the slaves generally by 
the unceasing and unconstitutional interference of His Majesty's ministers with our local 
legislature :" and yet you will be told the planters have done every thing to ameliorate the 
state of the slaves. Then, after this, the Anti-Slavery Society comes; then comes some 
evil disposed persons ; and then Baptists, Wesleyan Methodists, and Moravians. Now 
for the evidence. 

I say, without fear of contradiction, that the evidence sent home is false ; that it is gar- 
bled ; that it does not convict a single Baptist missionary ; that it is evidence that would 
not be received in any court of justice in the world. It is garbled. The only man who 
regularly attended any Baptist chapel who was examined was Richard Brown : his 
evidence does not appear. Why was it left out? Let the public judge. Here is the 
evidence of Captain Hugh Ritchie Wallace, a captain on half-pay, of His Majesty's 
Seventh Fusileers. He says, " I attribute the cause to the unconstitutional interference 
of the British Parliament with regard to the melioration, and the unfortunate concessions 
of the Island legislature, which have led the slave to believe a great boon was about to be 
conferred upon him, and which he has been informed by the sectarians was his uncompen- 
sated freedom. I ground the latter part of my answer to the question on the following 
fact. A slave, who gave himself up to the attacking party at Vaughan's Field, which 
slave was delivered over to the detachment which I was serving in, stated, that Parson 
Burchell, a Baptist preacher, had, in the presence of a great number of slaves, told them 
he was about to sail to England to bring back their freedom from the king. Some persons 
may make a distinction between sectarians ; for my part, I regard them all," Wesleyans of 
course included, " as emissaries from those who seek to ruin the colony. The precepts of 
the Baptists, I am told are more bloody ; but all, with heaven in their eyes, but hell in 
their hearts, seek our destruction," and so he goes on. He is then asked, " Can you 
inform the Committee of the name of the slave who made such statement, and the pro- 
perty to which he is or was attached?" "I cannot tell his name," — mark why he cannot 
do it — " because I forget it ; but he belongs as was stated by him to Vaughan's Field, in 
the parish of St. James, in the possession of — Hamilton, Esq. Hugh Hutchinson, Esq., 
of the parish of St. Elizabeth, has a copy of the evidence in his possession." Why was 
he not called to give it ? I think when they were so anxious they ought to have sent for 
it : I am sure it would have been sent for in England. 

Another witness states that the Moravians were the cause of the rebellion by their 
" helpers." One man, Robert Watt, Esq., (in Jamaica they call him " weak rum-and- 
water,") states, that wherever the Baptists had a footing, there the places were burnt. His 
evidence is as follows : " Can you state any matter or thing touching or concerning the 
cause of the recent rebellion among the slaves in this island which can elucidate the same, 
or forward the inquiry now proceeding before this committee for that purpose? — if yea, 
state the same fully and at length." " The Baptist missionaries have been the sole cause 
of it, from every thing that I have learned on the subject, wherever they had a footing, or 
Were in the habit of visiting, were the places that were burnt, and all the head people were 
their class-leaders, as I think they call them." 

Now then for the truth. I was the only minister who preached on that part of the 
island on estates. I preached on Oxford estate, on Cambridge estate, and on Arcadia 
estate, and those estates were saved ; they remain to this day monuments of the affection 
and fidelity of the Christian slaves. I received only yesterday the following letter from 
the proprietor, and his evidence, I am sure, in this assembly will be deemed conclusive : 

" Sidmouth, Dec. 10, 1832. Sir, I only received your letter late"yesterday afternoon, and 
readily comply at my earliest opportunity with your desires to communicate the information 
I have received of the conduct of the negroes on Oxford and Cambridge estates during the 
late lamentable insurrection in the island of Jamaica; both my brother and my agent des- 
cribe it as extremely exemplary, and they state that notwithstanding the necessary absence of 
the white servants during the period of their service in the militia, and the estates being con- 
sequently left in the possession of the slaves, they not only protected the properties, but, I 
believe, carried on in some measure the business of the estates. I should have wished to 
have availed myself of this opportunity of writing to you more fully on this subject ; but, to 
be candid, not knowing in what way my letter may be used, j and being very reluctanr to be 
brought before the pnblic, as my disposition is to pass through the world discharging my own 
duties unheeded, I must forbear. I am, Sir, your most obedient Servant, E. M. Barrett." 

I have a letter, too, from that gentleman's brother, sent me when I was in Jamaica. 

"Cornwall, Feb. 23, 1832. Dear Sir, I avail myself of the return of your messenger to 
Montego Bay, to express to you the sincere pleasure I feel in hearing of your release from the 
restraint which has been put upon you and your brother missionaries. I assure you that never 
from the beginning, nor do I at this time, attribute to you, or Mr. Burchell, any blame as 
directly producing or promoting the late melancholy disturbance. Having this feeling, I 
deeply regret that the feelings of the country should so strongly mark yourself and the other 



Baptist ministers out as objects of persecution. My opinion, an opinion resulting from my 
own frequent and confidential intercourse, not only with my own negroes, but with the negroes 
of various other estates, is, that religion had nothing to do with the late disturbances ; but, 
on the contrary, its absence was a chief cause of them. No people could have conducted 
themselves better than all the negroes upon Cambridge and Oxford estates, and, in like man- 
ner, the people upon Retreat Pen. Even at the period when the prejudice ran strong against 
you, and when it was scarcely politic for a negro to say any thing in your favour, I have, 
upon every occasion, when I have inquired from any of the members of your congregation, 
upon any of my properties, whether you had ever taught them to expect freedom, the answer 
has invariably been such as to convince me the charges against you were ill founded." 
Here is another letter I received from three gentlemen at Falmouth. 

January 4, 1832. My dear Sir, — It was only when we returned from Cinnamon Hill last 
night, that we heard of your accusation and arrest. We deeply sympathize with you and 
your brethren in your present trouble. We have heard this morning of apprehensions being 
entertained for your safety, and use the utmost haste to assure you we are convinced you have 
not been either intentionally, or directly, guilty of creating the present insurrection. We are 
prepared to repair to Montego Bay, and witness to this effect, and as far as our knowledge 
goes, to your peaceable character as a Christian and a minister. We are, dear Sir, with most 
sincere feelings for your afflictions, H. M. Waddell, J. M. Barrett, and George Blyth." 

Mr. Waddell and Mr. Blyth are Presbyterian ministers, and Mr. Barrett is a large 
proprietor. 

The next communication, I shall read, is from my own church ; surely they ought to 
know what is done. It is a curious document, was penned by the descendant of a slave, 
and entirely drawn up by himself. Perhaps it will not by some be deemed sufficient ; it is 
sufficient for all sensible men. The negroes who attended my church ought to know best 
what I taught them. It is addressed " To their Reverences, the Secretaries of the Bap- 
tist Missionary Society. The humble petition of the Baptist church, at Falmouth." I 
shall only read part of it : " That your petitioners, with the deepest heartfelt grief, lament 
the circumstance of an unnatural rebellion having recently existed in the island among the 
slave population, principally in a neighbouring parish, and partly in this, whereby evil and 
great suspicions have fallen on their worthy pastor, and other ministers of religion, which 
have sprung from no other source than the corrupt and depraved hearts of those enemies to 
all righteousness, who, being led captive by the devil at his will, demolished the sanctuaries 
of the Lord, heaped calumny and reproach upon the preachers of the gospel ; and, by the 
basest means, by bribing, instruction, and subornation to perjury, endeavoured to destroy, 
not only their reputation, but also their lives ; but which, through divine providence, were 
over-ruled, and their innocence made appear clear as the unclouded noonday sun, by juries, 
before which their slandered characters have been fairly tried." This document is signed 
by numbers of slaves, and free persons, who belonged to the church under my care, and 
who ought to know better than persons in England what were the instructions I commu- 
nicated. Here is a letter from the daughter of a Scotch nobleman, a member of my church, 
and she shall speak too. 

" Immorality is now stalking forth through the land, the Sabbath is disregarded and pro- 
faned ; we continue to meet for prayers, but cannot tell how long we may be permitted, as 
the members of the lawless mob are determined to take down the house if we continue to 
hold our meetings. Our situation is very distressing ; separated from you, deprived of the 
means of grace. May the Lord give us his Spirit to endure all things patiently ! Blessed be 
God we have not a High Priest who cannot be touched with a feeling of our infirmities, but 
one who was in all points tempted like as we are. I often feel that God will again bless us 
with the public means of grace, often feel assured of having you with us again, but it is not 
always so ; at times faith wavers on account of the many oppositions, but God has said, 
though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished. You desire our prayeys; 
such as they are, you have them to our life's end. The separation we are called to endure, 
we trust, will turn out for the furtherance of the Redeemer's kingdom." 

Miss Mackenzie has been in the island of Jamaica from her birth, and has attended the 
chapel constantly ; she has one or two slaves of her own, left her by her father, who is a 
nobleman now residing in Scotland. Would she send this letter, do you think, did not the 
same affection reign among them now as did when their minister was present with them ? 

The next document I produce is from the free-coloured and black inhabitants, who, I 
hesitate not to say, saved our lives from blood-thirsty white men. I have been given to 
understand that the free-coloured and black persons are against us : let them speak for 
themselves. 

" Resolved, at a public meeting in Kingston, August 11, 1832, That a most iniquitous 
spirit of persecution, slander, and malicious accusation has marked the conduct of a great 
majority of the white colonists for many years past, against those missionaries and other 
Christian ministers, who have been found willing and peculiarly capable to impart religious 
instruction to the slave population. 



8 

" Resolved, That it has been with the most unqualified disgust that we and other natives 
of the soil have witnessed the virulence with which, unsupported by even one solitary iota of 
proof or shadow of reason, these white colonists have attributed the late rebellion to the 
unoffending missionaries. 

" Resolved, That the free coloured and black population are, from long experience, con- 
vinced of the many advantages, moral and religious, obtained by the slaves in this island, 
from the labours of these maligned missionaries ; they are firmly of opinion that, but for 
their inculcation of the peaceful precepts of Christianity, the late rebellion would have been 
more general, and that, in place of vituperation, they merit the thanks of the colonists. 

" Resolved, That this meeting, far from attributing the late rebellion to the labours of 
the missionaries, is satisfied that that disastrous occurrence was mainly owing to the violent 
and intemperate resolutions adopted, at different times, at various parochial meetings, by the 
white inhabitants." — Jamaica Watchman, Aug. 11, 1832. 

The next evidence I have is that of the Hon. William Miller, major- general of the dis- 
trict, Custos of the parish of Trelawney, and one of the largest attorneys of estates in the 
whole island of Jamaica. He writes thus : " I had several interviews and conversations 
with Mr. Knibb, soon after my arrival here, and he was perfectly correct in stating, that 
I had taken pains to inquire among the slaves on several of the properties under my charge, 
whether the missionaries had ever held out hopes of freedom to them, but they one and all 
exonerated them. I remain, Gentlemen, your very obedient servant, William Miller." 

The last evidence I shall produce, in confirmation of the innocence of the missionaries, 
is this, that the Colonial Secretary has declared that every subsequent document that has 
arrived from Jamaica has clearly proved the entire innocence of the missionaries of every 
denomination. 

The House of Commons' Committee called before them Mr. Hankey, the proprietor 
of the estate on which I preached, called Arcadia. He was asked, 

" Do you feel a confidence in Mr. Knibb's integrity, and his determination to discharge 
his spiritual duties ? — I do. 

" You would be desirous of employing him to instruct your own people? — Certainly, my 
confidence in Mr. Knibb is unshaken. 

" Is it your opinion, generally, that either, if we retain slavery, we must renounce the 
teaching of Christianity; or, if we determine on the teaching of Christianity, we must aban- 
don slavery?" (Hear the answer of a slave owner.) — " If you determine to evangelize the 
negro, by a fair and open inculcation of Christianity, in all its precepts and doctrines, slavery 
must fall." 

The next head that I shall come to (and on this I shall be brief), is the means which 
were employed to criminate missionaries. They searched our houses, took away every 
letter we possessed — those which had passed between husband and wife, parents and chil- 
dren. (It was well they did so : they cannot now say they did not try every means. ) The 
next means they took was stealing our Bibles. When George Gordon burnt down Salter's 
Hill Chapel, then they stole the Bible. They turned down the leaf at the 8th of Joshua, 
sent it down to Montego Bay, and said that we had told the slaves that Ai meant Montego 
Bay, and that, if they lay in ambush, the Lord would deliver it, into their hands. Now, 
that chapter must be read somewhere, and it so happened that it came in the regular order 
of the Church of England, and was read at this very time in the parish church in Montego 
Bay. The next means they took was to designate us astrologers ; this, I believe, belongs 
to a man of the name of Coates. Thus he says that, when they saw a star get into the 
moon, the king would sign the slave-paper. The next means they took to criminate mis- 
sionaries was imprisoning our poor members. I saw them in their dungeons ; I saw them 
in their chains ; I saw them there weeping on account of their missionaries, and my bro- 
ther Burchell, when lying on the prison floor, heard three of these devoted Christians 
singing in the dead of night, — 

" Oh, Thou, from whom all goodness flows, 
I lift my heart to Thee ; 
In all my sorrows, conflicts, woes, 
Dear Lord, remember me." 

I have the evidence of one poor man taken down while his back was bleeding. His 
name was — Riley. Mr. Burchell saw the blood streaming from his back. 

" One evening, while I was in bed, I was taken up, and conveyed to the court house, 
when one of the magistrates asked me, what brought me there ? I said, they bring me here 
through spite. Several said this is a great preacher ; I was then asked if I knew the people 
on Cowpark ; I said, yes. The man then shook his head, and said, I have been looking for 
you these four years to shoot you ; I'll send you to hell presently. Another gentleman then 
came and said, I know you are a good servant ; what brought you here ? I said, they say 
I is a preacher. He said, A preacher, well, then, I wish they zoould cut your liver out. 



9 

" }. ^as then handcuffed, and sent to jail, where I was kept handcuffed for eighteen days, 
when 1 was taken out, and put in a room with four gentlemen. One of them said, I need 
not hide any thing from you, in four days you will be hung, and there is only one way of es- 
caping it, to tell of any one who tell you to do wrong. 1 said, Yes, sir, I will tell the 
truth. 1 am a member of the Baptist church, in Montego Bay, and Mr. Burchell used to 
send me to Lanchs River and Cowpark, to see if the members of the church acted right or 
wrong, and if they do any thing that is bad, to come back and tell him ; those that do bad 
are turned out of the church. One of them said, We don't loant that. What did Burchell 
tell you before he go away, did he not tell you you were to be free after Christmas'! I said, no, 
he never told me any thing of the kind. He then said, Burchell did tell them so, and now 
this fellow pretends he never heard it, and we have the house full, leaders all own it.* I 
said, Mr. Burchell is not my God, lie is my minister, and if he had said so, I would tell 
you ; but he never did, and I cannot, and I will not, tell a tie upon him. He then said, They 
make Parson Burchell Jesus Christ. One of them said, I told you Burchell would bring 
you to the gallows. I was then handcuffed for three days longer. . 

" On the 14th of March, I was examined again, when one of the gentlemen said, I have 
proof enough to hang you, but I will give you a punishment and send you home; but, if I 
ever find that you are teaching or preaching religion again, you shall be hung. They flogged 
me the same day." 

Is not this, ladies and gentlemen, a convincing proof of the leniency of those planters, 
to whom the veracious Mr. Borthwick would persuade you, I, and my brother Burchell, 
are indebted for our lives ? Take the statement also, of a free man, of the name of 
Thompson, copied by myself. 

" On Saturday, the 7th of January, I was taken up ; a few minutes after my arms were 
tied behind me, and I was railed on as a preacher, saying a jackass will make abetter preacher; 
they then asked if I was a member of the Baptist church. I said, Yes. I was then taken 
and tied to a negro, and was much abused ; after walking some miles, my feet and arms 
were tied, and the end of the rope carried up aloft, so that * * * * The next morning I 
was carried to Falmouth, and asked if I had not heard my minister preach to the negroes, 
and tell them the king had given them their freedom ; and that, if their masters did not give 
it them, they were to set fire to the estates. I told them, No, I had heard the contrary, 
that they were to be obedient to their masters. 

" He then said, SirWilloughby Cotton has advertised for you or your head, for two hun- 
dred and fifty dollars,! and I would advise you to speak the truth, and you will be beloved 
by all respectable people. Sir W. Cotton will forgive you and make you a present. I said, 
I know the value of the soul, and I am not going to tell lies to betray any innocent person, 
to cause my soul to dwell in everlasting damnation. I was kept in prison several days, and 
treated in a very harsh manner." 

Were not these merciful planters exceedingly anxious that these missionaries should 
escape? I could bring evidence to numbers of other cases like this if time would allow me.fc 

It has been asserted next by my opponent, that I have told the slaves that they do not 
owe any allegiance. / never said so ,■ I dare Mr. Borthwick to prove such an assertion ; 
but the Jamaica Courant has said so, and I will prove it. 

In the Jamaica Courant — a paper that certainly has not much love for sectaries — published 
March 1, there is this article: " On an attentive reperusal of the governor's opening speech 
to the legislature, we are sorry to remark, that his excellency persists in his allusions to the 
machinations which have been employed to seduce the slaves into rebellion, to talk of their 
allegiance J! and the duty they owe to their masters. The Earl of Belmore has been long 
enough in Jamaica to know, that the slaves owe no allegiance, and that the contract between 
their owners and the government of the mother country, provides only for their obedience to 
their masters ; and we deprecate the idea of inculcating upon the negro mind the bare suppo- 
sition, that the king has any control whatever over him ; and, we have no doubt, that to the 
frequency with which such doctrines have been held out by the sectarians, is mainly to be 
attributed the cause of the late rebellion." 

The next evidence that has been sent home is from Commodore Farquar. He says it 
was raised, in a great measure, by the Baptists. We challenged him to prove it ; and, 
unworthy of a British officer, he slunk from the task, saying he was not accountable for 
what appeared in the public prints. When nothing else would do, dark, corrupt, hellish 
bribery was resorted to. A man was brought forward, of the name of Samuel Stennett, 
who deposed that he heard Mr. Burchell and Gardiner say, that if the slaves did not ob- 
tain their freedom by Christmas, we were to fight and pray for it. On that testimony they 
were committed to prison. We went to prayer ; and, however men may scorn prayer, 
there is a God who judgeth in the earth. A few days before the trial, Samuel Stennet 

* This was a pure unadulterated falsehood. W. Knibb. 
t Another falsehood. 

i See the examination of Captain Williams, in the Minutes of Evidence before the House 
of Commons, No. 4318 to 4322. 

c 



10 

came forward to J. Manderson, Esq., and J. Rebourn, Esq., and said, " Gentlemen, 1 

have told a lie, and have been bribed by so and so, and so and so, to do it. George D , 

J M , and J B told me, that they would give me ten pounds a year 

for life, and fifty pounds down, if I would do it, and I make this confession to relieve 
a burdened conscience." There were many other instances of this kind which I will pass 
over. 

In order to show that rebellious and blasphemous language is used in Jamaica, I will 
read one paragraph from the Jamaica Courant, of the 20th of January: — " The preachers 
will soon find themselves wrong ; for although we admit, that the supineness with which 
their conduct has been viewed, may have led them to draw such a conclusion, they may, 
however, shortly find themselves mistaken, as impunity in crime has made them treason- 
able ! And for the proof of this assertion, we look to the confessions of the miserable 
wretches who have been sacrificed to please Jesus Christ and Parson Burchell! !" I could 
tell you other things respecting this. 

I now come to defend the slave, and I will defend him : as long as breath is in this 
body, the African shall find in me a firm and unflinching friend. Obloquy may come upon 
me, scorn may pour forth its venom, talent may be employed to blacken my character; I 
court their scorn. The man who sells the infant and the child — (and I have seen them 
sold together) — the man who fastens the chain upon the simple and unoffending African— 
the man who degrades and brutalizes bis fellow men — and the man who would, for one 
moment, continue the accursed system, write him my foe ; write him my enemy ; but never 
let him curse me with his friendship. 

But it is said they are not fit for freedom. If the tender emotions of the soul make 
them fit — if an unconquerable love to Jesus Christ make them fit — if an exemplification 
of those virtues which adorn the Christian character make them fit — if an invincible affec- 
tion of parent to child, and child to parent make them fit — if an undeviating attachment to 
the ministers of Christ make them fit — then they are fit for freedom. But if they were 
to assemble in open day, as the magistrates in Jamaica have done, and pull down Baptist 
and Methodist chapels — if they were to tar and feather missionaries, and attempt to set 
them on fire — if they were to imprison, on perjured testimony, the servants of God — if 
they were to combine, in an unholy phalanx, for the purpose of exterminating every one 
not of their own creed — if they were to employ an agent to say, there was any justice in 
making white men slaves in Algiers, then I would say they are unfit for freedom. 

But then, it is said, the slaves must be religiously instructed first : and who is to do it? 
Missionaries of all denominations, if Dissenters, are to be expelled the island, even at the 
will of those who are so wishful to afford moral and religious instruction ; but they, with 
paternal care, will educate the negro ; now, we will find out what this instruction is. You 
are told of the number of churches in Jamaica ; suppose churches were as numerous as the 
stars, if the negroes could not go to them, what good would they do ? In the parish of 
Trelawney there are twenty-five thousand and some odd slaves, and about four thousand 
free persons. There are two churches ; one of them is in Falmouth, (containing about 
four thousand inhabitants,) and it will seat perhaps six hundred; the other is at Stewart 
Town, a small house holding about three hundred — not more I am sure — I have been in 
both. There is not at present in the church of England, accommodation for more than 
nine hundred persons out of seven or eight-and- twenty thousand : there is a church that is 
being built at Rio Bean, which, when it is finished, will hold three hundred more. You 
have been told of the numerous kirks in Jamaica ; there is only one finished, and that is 
in Kingston ; and it is in evidence before the House of Commons, that a slave was scarce- 
ly ever found in it. There are Presbyterian places of worship, but they are not Scotch 
kirks ; they are supported by the voluntary contributions of the people in Scotland, and 
not by the Jamaica legislature. I know if I say anything against the religious instruction 
of the slaves, it will be said, I do so because I am a dissenter. I will just read what Mr. 
Wildman, a proprietor, in his evidence before the House of Commons,* says: — 

" Has any marked or great increase of exertion taken place in supplying religious instruc- 
tion in the island of Jamaica, since the passing of those resolutions? — No. 

" Has there been a marked increase of exertion in any quarter? — Yes; the Church Mis- 
sionary Society have been exceedingly active since that time. 

" When you say the Church Missionary Society, do you confine it to that body ? — Oh, no. 

" To whom do you extend it? — I shall extend it also to the sectarians. 

" Great exertions have been made by sectarians to instruct the people? — Certainly. 

" On the part of the established church, has there been any great increase of exertion in 
the island of Jamaica? — If I were to give a candid opinion, I think the appointment of the 
bishop has very materially impeded the progress of instruction in Jamaica. 

" Are you a dissenter or a member of the established church ? — A very zealous member of 
the established church, and very much opposed in some respects to the dissenters. 

* See the Report of the Committee before the House of Commons, No. 8162 to 8172. 



11 

" Yet, being yourself a zealous member of the established church, having knowledge of 
\]\c island of Jamaica since the passing of those resolutions, and since the appointment of the 
bishop, is the conclusion at which you arrive, that religious instruction on the part of the 
Church of England has advanced or retrograded in the island of Jamaica? — It has not ad- 
vanced in any degree at all adequate to the expense of the new establishment. 
• " You state that the appointment of the bishop has upon the whole formed an impedi- 
ment ; will you assign your reason? — The bishop has thought it dangerous to interfere with 
the vices of the people ; he has not proceeded at once to endeavour to do away with the gross 
immoralities he witnessed, but he has rather thought it necessary to temporize, and to leave 
them in their present state." 

In speaking of the exertions of the Church Missionary Society, he says, they have been 
very considerable and very successful ; and in going forward he declares that the sectarians 
he much approved of, for the purpose of affording religious instruction. He is then asked, 
" Not adverting to particular instances, but speaking generally of the life and conduct of 
the ministers of the establishment, and the sectarian teachers in Jamaica, during your stay, 
consistently with your own knowledge, you being a member of the establishment, with all 
your prejudices in favour of the established church, which should you say were the most 
efficient teachers of the black population — the ministers of the establishment or the secta- 
rians? The sectarians decidedly; they give themselves up very devotedly to the work, 
and, in many instances, have been eminently successful." 

The audience will bear in mind that this is stated by a person in connexion with the es- 
tablished church. ' 

Now, then, for the catechist, of which you have heard so much. This is from Mr. 
Wildman's evidence again, * given before the Committee of the House of Commons : 

" Encouragement is not given, is it? (That is, to religious instruction.) — I consider not 
by any means universal ly. 

" Do you believe it is thwarted ? — Very much. 

" In what manner? — In the first place, there is a decided hostility to the instruction in 
letters ; many of the proprietors give nothing but oral instruction, which I consider quite a 
farce and a deception ; they take an hour for visiting the estate to give oral instruction ; 
the negroes perhaps have a mile or a mile and a half to come home; during that hour the 
man gets them together slowly enough, for the purpose of catechising them, and before 
they have an opportunity of entering into the business for which they have met, the hour is 
expended, and away they go again; so that I consider that quite a deception. 

" The result of your experience among the negroes in Jamaica is, that oral instruction is 
quite insufficient for the communication of knowledge? — Perfectly so : it is carried on by 
agents, who must necessarily debar every attempt at instruction ; it is only given by book- 
keepers, who are themselves living in the grossest state of immorality : it is impossible that 
instruction can ever be derived from such sources. 

" The promulgation of scriptural doctrines from such sources — not practising what they 
teach, you think must bring religion into contempt? — Into utter contempt." 

And thus he goes on, " The lives of the whites,t' he says, " are perfectly scandalous in 
themselves ; therefore, for them to inculcate morality in the slave cannot be otherwise than a 
gross absurdity." 

It is asserted that the planters only want to get rid of the sectarians : they shall speak for 
themselves. " One of our first and strongest efforts should be to destroy those organs of sedi- 
tion and blasphemy which have assisted in disseminating that poison ; to support or counte- 
nance, in short, no press or person that shall advocate the hateful cause of the Dissenters ! and 
to petition the assembly to place our own clergy under the control of our own people, and their 
representatives in vestry, even to the expulsion of those missionaries and curates who are 
still here, paid by, and under the influence of, our enemies, and who have already been de- 
tected in their vile vocation. The old church government and discipline were better than 
the present : let, then, the old laws revive. The episcopal government has here been an ex- 
periment which has failed ; for under it sectarianism has increased ten-fold, and flourished 
even amongst the ministers of our own church. In fact, sectarianism came in with that sys- 
tem : let them expire together." — Jamaica Courant, March 3rd, 1832." 

But we are told the slaves are not fit for freedom. Aye, but they are. At one moment 
you are told that a slave can go and pick up a land-crab, which will make a greater delicacy 
than is ever seen on a nobleman's table ; and at the next you are told that if he is made 
free he will starve. Let those who are so fond of reconciling every thing reconcile these 
two. You are told that the negroes will not work if they are made free. Who knows 
that ? How can you tell what a man will do till you try him ? The reasoning is merely 
hypothetical at the best. It is contrary to sound reason, it is contrary to common sense, 
and it is contrary to fact. Hayti is brought forward. There is evidence before the House 

* See the Report of the Select Committee before the House of Commons, No, 7773 to 7777. 



12 

of Commons, given by Admiral Fleming,* showing that the Haytians do work ; and, to 
give you an idea of the comparative state with Jamaica, beef is two-pence a pound in 
Hayti, and twelve-pence in Jamaica. They will not work ! But they have worked. How 
do the free people support themselves? I assure you they don't go and pick up crabs. 
How do they support themselves ? By working for wages. Is any one going to tell me 
that though a man will work if flogged, he will not if he is paid for it ? These persons 
know they will not work themselves, and therefore they say the negroes will not. Not 
work ! But they have worked ; and every official document that comes home proves the 
value of the free labourer where he is made free. I have had the happiness to free one 
myself. There was, a little time ago, a female (and one of this audience might have been 
in the same situation), the daughter of an Englishman or a Scotchman, taken, and sold, 
and placed in jail ; and what for, think you ? Because her owner died in debt. There 
were no pigs to sell, there was no furniture to sell, but there was a woman to sell. She 
was a member of my church, and with her I had sat at the table of the Lord. I went to 
the jail, and saw her there, not for any crime of her own, for she had been a faithful slave. 
She was brought out along the street in which I lived, and put up for sale in the very 
street in which I dwelt. Having no money myself (though the advocates of the system 
say I have .£12,000 : I wish they had to make up the deficiency), I borrowed some money, 
and I bought her. Ah, then, you say, I am a slave-owner ! I am not ; I would rather be 
a slave myself than either advocate the continuance of slavery, or fatten the chain around a 
fellow-creature. The moment she came to my house, I said, " Amelia Sutherland, you 
are free — your shackles are off; I would not hold you an instant." Did she become idle? 
Of course she did ! — so idle that she immediately set hard to work. She said, " I am 
thankful : I will pay you all back if I can ;" and she paid me four shillings a week as long 
as I continued in the island. Let this be denied, and Amelia Sutherland shall come over 
and confront her enemies. Lee it be denied that I liberated her ; go to the records in 
Spanish-town, and there read, " The Rev. William Knibb bought a young Mulatto woman 
for so much ;" and coupled with that you will see, " I, William Knibb, set free for ever, 
from all manner of servitude, a certain Mulatto woman." She is free, British females — as 
free as you are ; and, if she is married, she can call her children her own, and no white 
wretch can go and take them from her. Richard Brown purchased himself by a long course of 
exertion. Did he become idle? Of course he did ! — such idle vagabonds never do any 
thing, if we are to believe the slave-owner, when they are free, except pick up land-crabs, 
which afford them a greater delicacy than you find on a nobleman's table. He set hard to 
work, like a good husband bought his wife, and paid £80 for her. He then became so 
idle that he bought a piece of ground, and built a house, for he was a carpenter; and then, 
such was his tender affection, that he took into his house his aged mother, supported her, 
closed her eyes in death, and I buried her. 

Oh, but they are not fit for freedom ! — they will murder all the whites if you give 
them their liberty ! Why don't they do it now? You are told that there are 800,000 
human beings in slavery. They are not quite so close together as we are : the ocean 
separates them, and plantations divide them. In Jamaica there are 300,000 slaves ; half 
of these are women : the " conquerors, returned from the seat of war," are not to fear 
them; a great number are children : the conquerors " returned from the seat of war will 
not fear them ;" a great number are old slaves, and who fears them ? — Surely, not the con- 
querors returned from the seat of war ; a large quantity of them are Christian slaves, and 

* " Can you give the Committee any information as to the industry of the inhabitants of 
Hayti 1 — During the year 1827, I understood there was considerable difficulty in getting la- 
bourers, but afterwards 1 heard of none ; both white and black people assured me, that there 
was no difficulty in getting people to labour, and they appeared to me to be industrious. 

" Did they work for wages'? — Yes. 

" Do you recollect what was the amount of wages ? — I do not know, it was paid ia kind ; 
there was sometimes ground given for it, and sometimes victuals, and sometimes clothes. 

" You are aware that the system was, that the agricultural labourer should receive a cer- 
tain proportion of the produce of the land 1 — -Yes, that was the law. 

" Did they work by compulsion 1 — No, I never saw any people working by compulsion ; I 
have been told that deserted soldiers, and people who were about the country, without any 
fixed residence, or any fixed employment, what would be called vagabonds or vagrants in this 
country. 

" Were they kept to work under the lash ? — I never heard of that. 

" Are you aware that there is a prohibition against all corporal punishment in that coun- 
try ? — Yes, I know there is. 

" Did they appear to j ou to be living comfortably? — Yes; the happiest, the richest, the 
best fed, and the most comfortable negroes that I saw in the West Indies were in Hayti, even 
better than in the Caraccas. 

" Were they decidedly betler than the slaves in Jamaica ? — No comparison." 



13 

they will not do what is bad if they could. ] advocate immediate emancipation. Let 
justice prevail, though the earth be destroyed. I advocate immediate emancipation, be- 
cause it is just. The advocacy of gradual emancipation, in my opinion, involves in itself 
a sin. If slavery be a sin, we have no right to tolerate it for a moment; if it be not a 
sin, we have no right to touch it. I say that slavery is a sin — a foul blot upon our nature ; 
it is a sin that hangs heavily upon our national character; and let us sing as long as we 
will, " Britons never will be slaves," if at the same time we bind, in adamantine chains, 
the docile African, I say it is cowardice to fetter those who have no defence ; I say it is 
dastardly to make a man a slave because he has not the power to defend himself; and I 
believe not the professions of those men who keep their own children in slavery. There 
are now in Jamaica some thousand slaves the children of Britons. The whole truth shall 
come out, if I perish in proclaiming it. Here no assassin waits to stab me to the heart ; 
here no one dare come to tar and feather me, and set me on fire ; here no one can take 
me from my peaceful home, and insult and maltreat me ; here, in a free country, I can 
speak what I please; to its laws 1 am amenable; and his Majesty's government will 
know how to silence me if they find me uttering sedition. But not all the contempt of 
the proud, not all the scorn of the rich aristocrat, shall for one moment silence me, in 
advocating the justice, the necessity, the mercy of the immediate emancipation of every 
son and daughter of Africa. 

Now, then, before I enter on the treatment of the slaves, I will read for your instruc- 
tion, and for the edification of my opponents, what a slave-owner* says upon the subject. 
I read from the evidence annexed to the Report of the House of Commons' Committee, 
August 10th, 1832. 

" What are the punishments in use in the island of Jamaica now? — They are very cruel 
ones. 

" Will you state what they are? — The general system of flogging is to give them a certain 
number of stripes with a long whip, which inflicts a dreadful contusion ; and then they fol- 
low that up by a very severe flogging with ebony switches, the ebony being a very strong, 
wiry plant, with small leaves like a myrtle-leaf, and under every leaf a very sharp, tough 
thorn; and then, after that, they rub them with brine. 

" In what part have you known that practised? — I can speak of it as having been prac- 
tised on every part of the island. 

" To your own knowledge? — I never saw it done ; I could not have borne it ; but I have 
seen the slaves who have complained of its having been done, and shown me their persons ; 
and my own people have complained most woefully of it ; they strike them a number of 
times with one, and then throw that away and take another ; also, they punish them in the 
bilboes in the most unmerciful manner. (It is a proprietor of slaves, a churchman, and not 
a Methodist parson, who says this.) 

" That is a species of stocks? — Yes ; there is an iron clamp goes round the foot, and it 
is put into a bar, so that they may have ten or a dozen on the same bar; they let them out 
for their work, and put them in again when that is over, and keep them for three weeks 
together. 

" Can they recline at night? — Yes, they do recline ; the bench is an inclined plane, and 
the iron bar is along the bottom of it, when the foot is clamped on upon the iron bar, and 
the negro lies back ; the punishments in the workhouses, also, are dreadful. 

" The workhouses, as far as you know them, would not be sufficient in point of accom- 
modation for the reasonable treatment of the slaves in case there should be any great insur- 
rection there, would they? — Oh, dear, no. 

" Are there not gaols in addition to the workhouses? — Yes. 

" Is the state of the gaols good in general ? — I have never been in any but one, and that 
was extremely filthy ; that was at Halfway Tree, near my own house ; I had occasion to 
commit a negro there, and she was reported to me to be in so bad a state that I made a point 
of inspecting the gaol in consequence, and found it in a most filthy state, and the punish- 
ments were very little short of the inquisition ; they were actually tortured there ; the mode 
of flogging was to put a rope round each wrist, and a rope round each ancle, and then they 
were what the sailors call bowsed out with a tackle and pullies. 

" Did this fall under your own observation? — I never saw it performed, but I know it 
from having been applied to by my own negroes when they have been sent there. 

" Did you ever make any complaint of this state of the workhouse in St. Ann's? — I did 
to the custos, and to the parish generally. 

" What was the result of that complaint? — The result was, that the system of the block 
and tackle was defended as being a humane practice, that it prevented their turning and get- 
ting a blow in a tender part ; but when I went to examine the gaol, a negro was called to 
come and lie down, that I might see how it was done ; a skin was put down upon the 
gravel ; he was laid upon the skin, and then this tackle was applied to him ; and though I 

* James BeCkford Wildman, No. 8239 to 8251. 



14 

was looking on, and several others at the time, a negro took hold of the rope to draw it up r 
the man gave a yell that quite made me start." 

I hold in my hand a document, in confirmation of this, from Charles Johnston, of the 
city of Edinburgh, who is just returned from Jamaica. He cannot come here ; but I 
pledge myself to bring him before Mr. Borthwick, if he will meet me in that Modern 
Athens. Now for the splendid habitation of the negroes, which Mr. Borthwick 
describes as having four rooms and a saloon, being furnished with silver candlesticks, and 
four-post mahogany bedsteads. This man has been on the plantations ; he has been a 
book-keeper there. Mr. Borthwick, I believe, has never seen a negro in Jamaica, or a, 
sugar-cane. 

" The watchmen's huts," says Mr. Johnston, " are in general miserable abodes of 
wretchedness. They are built of bamboos, and thatched with the branches of the cocoa- 
nut and underwood. Within is generally a bench of boards, covered with matting, where 
reposes the aged African, to seek, in slumber, some alleviation of his woes. There is no 
chimney whatever in the hut ; a fire of burning embers is collected on the floor, around 
which may be seen lying his terrier dogs, his assistants in destroying the rats which infest 
the cane-pieces ; suspended from the roof, or arranged on the shelf of his humble abode, 
are the calebashes, which serve him for culinary utensils ; a piece of a herring, far gone in 
decay, in one corner ; a little sugar, or decayed, maggotty rice, in another. Happy, indeed! 
Can happiness be connected with such assured wretchedness? NO ! Their food is utterly 
insufficient to support their toil-worn frames. The herrings they receive are actually putri- 
fied, of the consistence of soap, and these, along with cocoes, a very indigestible esculent 
root — are their richest fare — so rich, that a beggar in Scotland would consider himself 
insulted by the proffer of them." (Now then, we have a dish that " would grace a noble- 
man's table.") " They vary this sort of meal, occasionally, by the dainty morsel of a grilled 
rat ; nay, even cats are by them esteemed delicacies. I can't speak as to cats ; but many a 
time and oft, while ' grieving' (Scottice) the gang, during operations in the mountains, 
have I seen a spitful of rats roasting on the same fire that my own dinner was cooking upon. 
I recollect one of these poor creatures (who, were he to appear before a British public with 
the detail of his woes, would strike compassion into all hearts, saving that of a slave- 
holder), coming to me one day, with a very piteous expression of countenance:—' Ah, 
massa !' says he, ' me caught tree rats, and cat nyam (eat) all but one head.' Thus, this 
poor fellow might perhaps be starving for days to come after this incident ; perhaps had been 
so days previous. The head of a rat is but a poor mouthful, I should think, to a hungry 
man. They never taste butcher's meat, unless in circumstances such as I now proceed to 
narrate. I having had the superintendence of some hundred cattle, one of them, by 
accident, had its leg broke, and, upon informing the overseer, I was desired to see it killed, 
but to take care that no negro should have a single morsel of its flesh. Such were my 
orders, and of course I was obliged to act up to the letter, or turn ' walking buckra,' which 
would have broke my heart, I dare say, and been productive of no good to the slaves. 
Well ; the animal was skinned and cut in quarters, and buried three or four feet deep in a 
dunghill. 'J he overseer and book-keeper never dreamed of its being disturbed. Judge what 
must have been the surprise of the former, when, the next morning, as he was taking his 
ride, on passing the watchman's hut, he observed a large piece of the animal hung up as a 
prize — a great prize — by its occupant. The poor fellow was, of course, severely flogged, 
and the piece again buried. 

" The children are made to work at the early age of five years; they are either sent to 
gather sour oranges for the hogs, or hoes are put into their hands, and they assist in clearing 
and weeding the canes, or in putting the overseer's garden in order. An old dame, armed 
with a whip and switches of bamboo, is their stern conductress. Frequently have I pitied 
the poor things ; to see their little bodies in one universal tremor of fear, casting their 
glances askance to assure themselves that the ' schoolmistress' was at a respectful distance. 
The happy hours of childhood in free countries, alas ! are never enjoyed by them. Their 
little hearts are saddened and grieved : night may bring temporary relief, but they are 
awakened in the morning, by the thundering of the driver's whip, to the stern realities of 
their bitter lot. In tears and distress they resume their labours. Some, not so fortunate as 
their fellows, may have indulged in a longer sleep ; but woe to them when they arrive at the 
scene of operations ! — their treatment is cruel. The old dame begins the drama by abusing 
them roundly with her screeching tongue, that, shrilly as the peacock's, forebodes the storm. 
She orders the trembling little culprit to be seized by its companions, and instantly 
belabours it with blows till its flesh quivers with pain. No wonder, then, that the negroes 
should sometimes be cruel (although this is very rare), when their best feelings are seared 
from their infancy ; and, therefore, what goodness of heart and feeling they do possess, in 
spite of obstacles, they have not to thank their task-masters for it. But it is well known 
that it is the interest of the whites thus to degrade their minds. Let but the schoolmaster be 
abroad in Jamaica, and slavery is no more — a thing of other days. But I have not done with 



LS 

punishments. One little girl there was on our estate who was flogged and abused in a cruel 
manner, almost daily. Her life was, indeed, a routine of wretchedness and misery. She 
was actually quite lame from the effects of the lush, and frequently have 1 seen her rolling on 
the road, feigning sickness, to escape the daily punishment in store for her, well knowing 
that I would pass that way. But what could 1 do ? Little, indeed, however willing, and 
lenient I endeavoured at all times to be. Those who know any thing of the life of a book- 
keeper know full well that he must obey, or decamp from the estate. 

" The slaves are given to understand that they may have redress from the attorney, at his 
periodical visits to the estate, -provided they can prove they have been ill-used. But how is 
the boon (if such it may be called) rendered nugatory ! A mulatto slave, who had received 
some unkind treatment from the overseer, on threatening to complain to the attorney, was 
laid down by that ' dignitary,' with her face to the earth, and received the usual panacea of 
thirty-nine stripes. 

" i have seen the old man of seventy flogged ; the infant of five years flogged ; the slender 
youth; and he in pride of manhood; the young woman, just budding into life; and she 
who had reared a large family — nay, I have seen her who was with child flogged, cruelly 
flogged, because the overseer, forsooth, did not believe that she was in that state, which, of 
all others, demands the kindest treatment. 

" The flogging and striking is not always confined to the fleshy parts of the back, alihough 
that is generally the part; and, indeed, is so always when the full quantum of punishment 
is given. I have seen the drivers striking with bamboos on the nose and neck, or even on the 
breasts of female slaves. I should not have dwelt on this last, but I have occasionally seen 
girls so used. The fleshy parts of the back are generally quite ploughed in furrows by the 
whip ; it produces almost the same effects as if one was to take a knife and cut the part in 
scores — so well is the whip used. It is a tremendous length, and the driver makes it whirl 
round his head ; every crack went like steel to my heart. I was actually astonished and 
alarmed when I first saw its infliction, how a single white could actually use such power in 
the teeth of hundreds of slaves. After the flesh is so cut and torn, rum and salt pickle are 
rubbed upon the wounds. 

" The negroes are uniformly engaged in the forenoon of Sunday potting sugar — I never 
saw any exception, during crop, which is the only time they are so employed. The mill, too, 
is generally put about at sun-set on the Sabbath — for the slave it is no holiday. 

" I should be considered a madman were I to pronounce the slaves happy, after having 
entered thus far into the details of their condition. They are not happy — generally and 
specifically, I say they are not. It would be an easy matter to prove the assertion, were I 
enabled to do so at this time. They say themselves they are not happy, and one would 
think that they should be best qualified to judge on that point. ' Better me dead !' is a 
common exclamation of theirs." 

At the conclusion, he says he is "sure they would work for wages." He declares, he 
is willing to meet any man, or set of men, who dare to deny his statements; and he says, 
that " the negroes may rely on my voice being ever raised in their defence, and no less 
my humble, but willing pen, in spite of obloquy and scorn. So help me, God ! " 

(Signed) " Charles Johnston." 

I know very well that Charles Johnston cannot come here. He is the son of a dissenting 
clergyman in Edinburgh. Though it cannot be expected that I should follow Mr. Borth- 
wick wherever he chooses to go, yet, if he will cross the Tweed, if he will go to Edin- 
burgh, or to Dalkeith, I will meet him ; I will bring before him Charles Johnston, a young 
man who has been in Jamaica, and knows the working of the system ; he shall declare 
whether I forged this, or whether he wrote it. 

But it will be said that these punishments are not continued. I hold in my hand an 
account of a slave who has been flogged even to death, for refusing to lend a horse that 
belonged to his wife, because it had a sore back. 

I read from the Jamaica Watchman, Sept. 5th, 1832. 

" To the Editor of the Watchman, — Sir, Seeing in your paper of the 11th instant, a 
letter, signed ' Q. in a Corner,' relating some particulars of the death of a slave, named 
Alexander Kelly, at Wey Hill, in St. Mary's, after a flogging, I beg to furnish you with a 
full statement of that affair. 

" Alexander Kelly, the slave of a poor blind man of colour, in St. Thomas in the Vale, 
had, with the permission of Mr. Alexander Gilzean, his manager, and also attorney for Wey 
Hill, married a woman on the last mentioned place, named Elizabeth. Elizabeth possessed 
a horse, which was kept on the property with the attorney's permission. — On a Friday after- 
noon, about a month ago, Alexander Kelly rode the horse from Highgate, where he was 
employed, to Wey Hill. An application was immediately made to him for the horse by the 
muleman, under the overseer's order, to carry coffee down to Kingston. He declined givinc 
it, but led it up to the overseer, Mr. John West, and showed the sore back of the animal as 



16 

the reason for His refusal. The overseer, however, tried to force the rope out of his hand, 
and insisted on his giving up the animal. Alexander still refusing, the overseer called for 
some persons to put him into the stocks, at the same time striking him! On the persuasion 
of one of the slaves (William King), he went quietly to the stocks, into which both his feet 
were put. The next night his hands were tied, and on Sunday night handcuffs were put on. 
At 12 o'clock on Monday he was laid down on the barbicue, in a roasting sun, the handcuffs 
being still on. He was flogged with the driver's long whip, and then a bundle of guava 
switches was flogged out, by one or two at a time, on the same place — viz., his posteriors ! 
On the flogging being discontinued, Alexander cried out for water to be thrown over his 
head ; he could not rise, and the driver and another were obliged to lift him, and support 
him back again to the stocks, into which he was again put with the handcuffs still on ! The 
overseer superintended the whole. In a short time, about half an hour, the man died in the 
stocks in handcuffs ! An inquest was held on the Tuesday afternoon, Mr. John Blake act- 
ing as Coroner, and several overseers and book-keepers in the neighbourhood, the friends and 
associates of Mr. West, composing the jury. A Doctor (Roberts) opened the head and 
body, and declared there was no violence nor disease. Whether the verdict was as stated by 
' Q. in a Corner ' I know not ; but if a flogging under a burning sun, and confinement in 
stocks and handcuffs, be the ' visitation of God,' then all will concur in the verdict ; but if 
these things cannot come forward under that expression, the Attorney General ought to inquire 
into the matter. I have only to add that, if there be need, I can furnish the names of all the 
witnesses to the whole affair, and the names of the jury. It is said that Mr. West had the 
permission of Mr. Gilzean for flogging the man, but the latter had not seen Alexander, nor 
been at Wey Hill during the period in question. 

"I am, Sir, your obedient Servant, 

" Philanthropos." 

I have seen the female slave flogged myself; and, though I have not beheld many cases, 
it is not because there were not many to be seen, but, because no man of common feeling 
would go to see them. Look at Catharine James, a most interesting female, a member of 
my church ; she stated to me that, for endeavouring to preserve her daughter in the paths 
of virtue, and to teach her fellow slaves to pray, she was put into a dungeon (and every 
estate has its dungeon), and there she was kept for more than eight months. One day, 
the door was open, and she ran out (and who would not have run out ? I think Mr. Borth- 
wick would — I know I would ; you may call it sedition if you like ; you may call it trea- 
son if you like ; but I would have run out). She was caught ; she was brought down to 
the town of Falmouth, and was sentenced to be worked in chains for her life. She is 
working in chains to-day ; she will be working in chains to-morrow ; she will be worked 
in chains till, at the uplifted voice of a free people, slavery is abolished from the earth. 
British females, it is in your power to abolish this system : when at the altar of your 
household joys, vow one by one, vow altogether, and vow with heart and voice, eternal en- 
mity against oppression by your brother's hand, till man nor woman, under British laws, 
nor son nor daughter, born within her empire, shall buy, or sell, or hold, or be, a slave. 

There is David Black : he was flogged, most cruelly flogged. At the end of a month, 
he came down to me handcuffed ; his back was then so sore he could not put on his clothes, 
and his wife for decency's sake had pinned her's round him. He had walked thirteen miles 
under a burning sun, handcuffed. I never saw such an emaciated being. The crime he 
had been accused of was, as he and his fellow slaves stated to me, that he had been praying 
with his fellow slaves, after their work was over ; — for this he was flogged, and handcuffed 
for a month. What would have been your feelings on such an occasion? Mr. Borthwick 
would have flung himself into one of his theatrical attitudes, and said, " What, see a man 
flogged, and not speak at the time !" I do not wish to speak against any man's character, 
though mine has been attacked behind my back. Why have I been called a traitor ? Why 
has it been said that the gallows is too good for me? I have used no personalities — I 
could if I would ; I say nothing now about Mr. Borthwick's character, though I will when 
he is in Edinburgh. He did it behind my back, but I care not for that ; his cause needs 
it — mine does not. But to return to the case of David Black, and, if it be denied, we will 
have David Black home. There is such a place as England, and there is here such a 
thing as free speaking. 

I said to him, " David, what have you done ?" " Don't ask me," says he, "ask those 
who sent me here." I asked a man who was with him what he had. " Pray, minister, 
that is all." I said no more ; away went my poor fellow Christian to the workhouse. 
When I arrived the chain was about his neck, and he was working on the common way, 
with his wife's petticoats around his lacerated body. 1 went the next morning to see him, 
and the governor said, " I have orders to flog that negro privately, as soon as his back is 
well." Yes, I have been an eye-witness of these things, and a heart-witness too; and, 
now, I challenge the whole world to prove that I ever in Jamaica said a single word that 



17 

could induce any slave to suppose that freedom was his due. Before I left Jamaica, I 
published a document in the Jamaica Watchman, (and to that document I placed my 
name,) in which I assured them that I was coming home for the purpose of exposing their 
cruelties. I dared them, three weeks before I left, to produce any charge against me ; 
and, by this time, they know that William Knibb is performing his duty. 

It will be said, in answer to the evidence in the House of Commons, and to this young 
man, the book-keeper, that gentlemen have travelled through Jamaica, and have brought 
home a very different tale. It is not enough to go to Jamaica, to know what slavery is. 
May not a person ride through Bath every day, and know none of the miseries of the 
poor ; and none of the wretchedness of the sick ? You must know the negro ; you must 
enter into his feelings, and into his wants, before he will tell you any thing about himself; 
he knows too much of white men, by unhappy experience, ever to trust them till he is 
acquainted with their character; and when I hear of captains and other men coming home, 
and stating, " 'pon honour," that the slaves are happy, and thus fixing the condition of 
800,000 of their fellow-creatures, it reminds me of a verse I have somewhere met with : — 

" Purblind to poverty the worldling goes, 

And scarce sees rags an inch beyond his nose ; 
But from a crowd can single out His Grace, 
And cringe and bow to fools who strut in lace." 

I call upon you by the tender sympathies of your nature — I call upon you by that man- 
ful feeling which Britons have ever expressed — I call upon you by the love of liberty which 
now animates every breast, to leave no method untried till colonial slavery shall have 
passed away, and become a tale of yesterday. Already, the system shakes to its founda- 
tion ; the passing of the Reform Bill will hasten its destruction. It needs but the united 
effort, (and do not the elections show it?) and soon the accursed system will be cast down ; 
over it we will wave the banner of freedom ; our chapels, again erected, shall stand monu- 
ments of that freedom ; and, as we retire from the spot on which we have achieved the 
greatest victory that ever signalized our land, we will sing, " Glory to God in the highest ; 
on earth peace ; good-will towards men." The advocates of colonial slavery know well 
they are not celebrating the triumphs of their system, but are assisting at its funeral obse- 
quies ; the sooner we arrive at the tomb the better, and then, with one uplifted voice, and 
with one consecrated heart, we will exclaim, " ashes to ashes, and dust to dust." 

I now leave this respectable assembly, repeating that from henceforth I will never take 
notice of any anonymous newspaper aspersion. If my enemies come forward manfully, 
manfully I will meet them ; but, if they are so dastardly as to shield their arrows under 
anonymous signatures, they shall meet from me with that scorn which they deserve. On 
Monday, I return to Scotland ; the next place I shall stand in will be Glasgow : there will 
I lift up my voice for injured Africa ; and all I claim shall be that my African brother may 
stand in the family of man ; that my African sister may call her child her own ; and that 
both may have free permission to bow their knee at the footstool of that God who has made of 
one blood all nations that stand on the face of the earth. Aid me, British Christians, by 
your prayers ; aid me by your exertions ; aid me by your sympathies ; and, ere that devoted 
servant of God, Wilberforce, descends to the tomb, let the attendant angel, as he descends 
to waft his spirit to the abodes of the blessed, whisper in the ears of the dying saint, that 
Africa is free. 

(Mr. Knibb here produced an iron collar, with projecting spikes, ten inches in length.) 

Here is a nice plaything, one of the blessings of slavery ! This collar was taken off the 
neck of a negro, by Mr. Jeremie, who is gone out to teach the people, in Mauritius, 
obedience. This collar was given by Mr. Jeremie to Dr. Lushington ; the slave who wore 
it had worn it, night and day, for some months, and his back was lacerated from the top to 
the bottom. I have been asked why I brought it ? I had read in the papers that my 
opponent was to have a piece of plate presented to him for his valuable exertions in the 
cause of slavery. Silver and gold I have none, but this I have, and Mr. Borthwick has 
my permission to wear it for six months, that thus he may speakfeeling/y on the system of 
which he is the champion. 

After much expression of indignation from the audience, Mr. Borthwick commenced 
his address. 

Mr. Borthwick. — Before I proceed to the examination of the statements, which have 
just been made by Mr. Knibb, it is meet and well that I should set myself right on one 
or two points. The first is in reference to the challenge, or challenges, anonymously 
given, to which Mr. Knibb referred, when he opened his address. I have never, in the 
course of my life, either written a letter to a newspaper, or written a pamphlet or book, or 
in any way appeared before the public, without my name and address ; therefore, whatever 

D 



18 

be the challenges or accusations of which Mr. Knibb complains, I have nothing to do with 
them. So much on the part of Mr. Knibb ; now, for myself. 

It will be recollected that, in the course of an address to an English audience in this 
room, on behalf of the West India body, I declared that, knowing something, as I have 
known much, of that class of society which is known in England by the term " evangeli- 
cal," and of that class of men in that society which associates itself with sectarians, that 
I could not allow myself to believe that any missionary, belonging to any denomination 
whatever of British sectarians, could directly lend any influence to the rebellion in Jamaica. 
(Mr. Borthwick then gave some explanation as to the cause of his absence from Bath on 
the previous Tuesday, when he had been expected to meet Mr. Knibb ; but, as that had 
little or no reference to the subject in hand, it is omitted here.) 

I shall now proceed to examine Mr. Knibb's statements ; and, in the first place, as to 
Reading. Mr. Knibb is reported to have said there, that, " during eight years, to the 
credit of the missionaries, they kept their tongues silent when their hearts were bleeding ; 
during eight years mine bled incessantly. Now I submit that the insurrection did not last 
for eight years, and because the insurrection did not last for eight years, it must have been 
in reference to these eight years, and not to the insurrection, that the gentleman referred, 
when he said his heart was bleeding continually. For what was his heart bleeding inces- 
santly ? "I witnessed scenes of blood enough to make angels weep and devils tremble. 

" During the late rebellion, three hundred men," (it seems to have been misprinted five 
hundred ; it is possible the printer would print five hundred for thee hundred ; therefore, on 
that charge, I acquit Mr. Knibb — indeed, on that ground, there was nothing against him.) 
But the point lies here ; in speaking to an English audience, this gentleman says, " My 
heart was bleeding eight years, in consequence of the cruelties done ;" and, when he adds on 
that, " During the late insurrection I witnessed scenes of cruelty which would have made 
angels weep and devils tremble," with what meaning was it said? Why, to enlist the good 
feelings of the people of England against the planters ! To what point did the whole of the 
gentleman's speech to-day tend? Was it not to show that cruelty dwelt in the minds of the 
planters 1 What means the yell that is set up when I say that the meaning and spirit of the 
words, as well as their literal and grammatical sense, imply that the missionaries were obliged 
to check their common feelings by the cruelties which they witnessed, but which they did not 
condemn, in consequence of one of two things ; either because they did not stand in the land 
of freedom, and durst not, for fear of their lives, or because (which would have been the right 
motive, had it been so) they did not wish, even under these cruelties, to excite jealousy or 
commotion on the part of the slave. If Mr. Knibb's sympathies were so liberally drawn 
upon in Jamaica, for more than eight years, it must have been by acts of cruelty — must it 
not I And if by acts of cruelty his sympathies were drawn upon by for eight years, he must 
have seen more than not many of them. This is the inconsistency with which I charge Mr. 
Knibb ; that, having said at Reading he had witnessed scenes of cruelty during the late 
rebellion, which would have made angels weep, and devils tremble, before the House of 
Lords, on his oath, Mr. Knibb said he had not seen many. If it be intended by Mr. Knibb 
that he did not see them, but knew of them, why did he use the words, " I have witnessed 
scenes of cruelty ?" 

I believe, a point to which I have referred in this statement is one to which I owe it 
alike to this audience, to Mr. Knibb, and to myself, to refer ; and that one is, the argument 
by which Mr. Knibb endeavoured to confine the cruelties to which he referred to the 
period of the insurrection only ; which cruelties being confined to that period, I say, go to 
contradict that part of the sentence which refers to the eight years' residence. With regard 
to the insurrection, however, I have to submit that the question, as put to the reverend 
gentleman, before the House of Lords, did not confine his answer to any particular period 
of his history in Jamaica ; it was general. The words are, " Did you witness many acts of 
cruelty on the slaves in the West Indies yourself?" and the answer is, " No, not many." 
Now, if it be said that Mr. Knibb, not having witnessed many scenes of cruelty in the 
West Indies himself, yet had his sympathies drawn upon for eight long years, I would say 
that the scenes of cruelty must have happened seldom and far between. I speak now, not 
to the point of fact, but to the variation between the gentleman's statements. Mr. Knibb 
admits, in his speech to-day, that he has seen females flogged ; but, if he had not seen 
many, it was because he did not choose to witness such things. Now, I perfectly agree 
with him, that whatever be the justice or injustice of flogging, no man of good feeling- 
would, unless he were necessarily present, bring himself forward to witness such punish- 
ment. But I say that " I have witnessed scenes of cruelty," or " I have seen it," are 
two statements which, taken together and opposed to the statement in the House of 
Lords, appear to me to require more ingenuity than Mr. Knibb has to-day exercised to 
reconcile them. It is a thing I never denied, that a man may see some, and yet not see 
many; and that he may be justified in saying he has seen cases of very horrid cruelty; and 
yet that he has not seen many cases of very great cruelty ; these two may be perfectly con- 



I!) 

sistent. But when they are coupled with the spirit and meaning of the declaration at 
Reading, that for eight years his heart was bleeding, these form, in my judgment, a distinct 
contradiction, not in terms only, but in meaning. 

With regard to the hanging of one hundred men, and the flogging of three hundred men 
and women, I have one word of remark, before I proceed. When a country is in a state 
of insurrection, when civil war rages in a country, what is the usual practice of all nations 
under the sun? Why, to establish courts-martial, is it not? Well, courts-martial being 
established, what inquiry do they make as to persons accused? What is the law of arms 
on that subject ? Nor more nor less than this — that every man found armed against the 
commonwealth, against the constitution of the country, is considered guilty, and imme- 
diately condemned to death. This may be cruel or it may not be cruel ; but, whatever it 
be, it is the law of all nations under the sun, and not peculiar to the West Indies. 
Now, then, if a hundred men, or twenty hundred men, if never so many men had been 
bung on one gallows, in consequence of being found armed against the king of England, 
and his authorised representatives — and, above all, if, in the course of that warfare, youth 
and old age, women and children, suffered under a blood-thirsty vengeance — if we find this 
so, why, instead of aggravating the circumstance that the martial law took effect there, it 
lessens the cruelty of it, and shows that the planters in Jamaica, or the magistrates, or 
officers, who condemned these slaves to be hung, did what every magistrate, every officer, 
under such circumstances, is bound, in all nations of the world, by oath to God and to 
man, to do. 

But this does not contradict the statement before the House of Lords. Well, if it do 
not, why bring it forward ? Why come before an English audience, panting — and nobly 
panting, whatever be the cause that has excited the desire in their minds — for the freedom 
of the slave, and telling them, as an inducement to make them immediately and uncondi- 
tionally free, that a hundred men were hung on one gallows, and three hundred men and 
women indecently flogged beneath it ? It is putting an impression on the minds of the 
audience, which impression is at variance with the truth. That acts of cruelty, perpetrated 
by the planters, would have weight, and strong weight, too, in the question of emancipa- 
tion, I am willing to grant ; but still I say that cases of alleged cruelty, which are neither 
more nor less than punishments for avowed rebellion, and on men in arms against the 
country, destroying the property of the country, reeking their vengeance on the helplessness 
of infancy, and on the purity of innocency — to use this as an argument is not consistent 
with fair and true representation, but precisely the contrary. Thus much have I to say 
about the statement at Reading, about its consistency with itself and its avowed object, 
and about its consistency with the declaration of Mr. Knibb before the House of Lords. 

But Mr. Knibb says he has been accusedof misprision of treason becausehe talked in an in- 
flammatory style to the negroes. The speech from which I read had been delivered at a Bap- 
tist Missionary Society in London, I believe, or, at all events, in England. That speech 
has been printed in Jamaica, in a supplement to the Jamaica Gazette, and there the words 
as they stand are — " Did you ever know buckra man tell you any thing to do you good ?" 
Mr. Knibb says he did not say buckra, but busha, and that buckra is the general term for 
a white man, busha is the term for a man that flogs men, women, and children. Now, if 
Mr. Knibb meant even to say to the slaves — " Did you ever know the busha (or overseer) 
tell you any good thing," can you reconcile that statement with St. Paul's declaration, " Be 
obedient even to the froward and unmerciful?" Remember, I am, for the sake of argu- 
ment, taking for granted what Mr. Knibb took for granted, but which I shall disprove 
when I come to speak at the end of the general question. I am taking for granted, for the 
time, that the overseers are what Mr. Knibb describes them to be, and that busha does 
only mean a man who flogs men and women. Even taking it in that sense, I say, it is 
diametrically opposed to the spirit and meaning of the benevolent declaration of St. Paul, 
that advice to the people which tends to promote peace and good will. 

Aye, but they take advantage of such a circumstance as this to say that Christianity will 
destroy slavery. I know it will ; and I have pleaded for the destruction of slavery by the 
means of Christianity, and by that alone, however Mr. Knibb may choose to stigmatize me 
as a pleader for slavery. I do not plead for slavery. Is it not before the public, in every 
speech of mine that has been properly published, that I plead for the extinction of slavery 
and nothing else ? I plead for the extinction of slavery upon a system and a plan which 
would annihilate it at an earlier period than has ever been shown us even by Fowell Buxton 
himself; a system that would begin to-day to loosen the bond of slavery, and which would 
gradually, under Christian, moral, and political means, emancipate them from year to year, 
until the child, who is now born, should not be a man, when there ceased to be one slave 
in the colonies. That is the time, and that is the plan. An honourable gentleman says, 
I want them for twenty years longer. Eloquent arguer ! I want them for twenty years 
longer, that never had a slave in my life ! Those whom I represent, do they want them 
for twenty years longer? No. How long? Till, and no longer, it shall be consistent 



20 

with the safety of the slave, and nothing more. I plead for the abolition of slavery, and 
upon consistent ground ; and I was remarking that the only ground of inquiry which I 
would make, as to the best means of securing the safety of the planter, would be to secure 
the safety of the slave. If the slave be safe, the planter must necessarily be safe ; if the 
slave be perfectly free, the planter must have his compensation in that fact alone. It is on 
record, and on official record, that when Wilmot Horton called upon Mr. Macauley and 
others to produce their evidence before His Majesty's Privy Council, that free labour 
could be given, and when these men could not produce their evidence, and after six long 
months' trial could not furnish their legal advocate with the means of giving evidence ; I 
say that then Wilmot Horton declared the only thing the planters wanted was not a com- 
pensation in money, but a compensation in the safety of the slave. 

Then the next, and by far the most important point between Mr. Knibb and myself, is 
in reference to the Edinburgh Evening Post. It will be remembered that, when I alluded 
to that statement first, I said, if Mr. Knibb uttered the words there attributed to him, he 
was guilty of sowing sedition. I beg that the Reverend Gentleman will now take my 
words from my own lips, in order that he may not say, I did speak behind him what I will 
not ray before him. If Mr. Knibb used these words, he uttered what was subversive of 
the established laws of his country, what tended to the destruction of the throne of his 
King, what tended to introduce ruin, and anarchy, and bloodshed, not in Jamaica alone, 
but in England too. It will be remembered also, that at that time I said, that till I saw 
these words, I had always uniformly acquitted Mr. Knibb. 1 am sure that Mr. George 
Thompson, a most eloquent speaker, one of the Agency Anti-Slavery Society's lecturers, 
would prove the truth of what I say, for in answering him I have said so constantly. 

Now this is a grave point; and I beg the audience will do Mr. Knibb every justice with 
respect to it as they may do me. Mr. Knibb says that the words as I find them in the Edin- 
burgh Evening Post are not correct. The words in the Edinburgh Evening Post are 
these : " The negro who planned the whole insurrection in Jamaica, and a fine fellow he 
is too, deserves an imperishable monument erected to his memory." Mr. Knibb complains 
of the article in which this occurs; I have nothing to do with the observations which are 
made in this newspaper. The words are as I have read them : and it is necessary and due 
to myself, as well as necessary and due to Mr. Knibb, that I should say, with regard to 
the other parts of the paper, I have nothing to do with them; nor with regard to Mr. 
Knibb's private character, which he and some others say I calumniated; I declare it is an- 
true ; 1 never spoke a word of Mr. Knibb's private character, but always carefully said 
that I knew him only in his public character as a speaker against the West Indian cause. 
In that public character 1 am Mr. Knibb's determined opponent ; and wherever and 
whenever I can detect inconsistency in his argument I will expose it, as well as where I 
can detect truth I will yield to it. With his character, or with that of any man who speaks, 
I have nothing to do. I have subjects of much greater importance to draw my attention. 

(The Reverend Jacob Stanley here interrupted the speaker, and requested the chairman 
to allow him to ask Mr. Borthwick a question : " Is the private character of any individual 
affected by being publicly declared a self-convicted liar? Does not that affect a man's 
private character?" Mr. Borthwick proceeded.) 

An honourable gentleman has asked me, and I will answer him — " Is the private 
character of any gentleman affected by any person publicly saying of him that he is a self- 
convicted liar?" Now I am perfectly willing to answer that if you will hear me, and say, 
yes ; a man's private character is necessarily involved in his public character ; and if pub- 
licly, a man is shown to be a self-convicted liar, he is not to be very much trusted in 
private life. The words referred to were never used by me, except when I placed Mr. 
Knibb on one of two horns of a dilemma, arising out of counter-statements of his ; the one 
in reference to the very thing of which I am now speaking, and the other implying public 
cowardice in his public character. I will repeat the circumstance presently, in the*course 
of the argument, and then gentlemen will have an opportunity of seeing whether I said 
right, or whether I said wrong ; but if I ever used the term " liar," or any such thing, in 
reference to Mr. Knibb as a private man, I should hold myself unworthy of appearing 
before you. 

Now then I will proceed with the statement ; and I beg that the chairman will take 
notice that I will not be interrupted again by persons asking irrelevant questions. 

The Chairman. — Allow me to say, I should not have approved of this question being 
put, but on the question being put, Mr. Borthwick asked whether it was a question in 
explanation. s 

Mr. Borthwick. — None of us put questions to Mr. Knibb, and why should I be so in- 
terrupted ? 

Now, with respect to the statement before us in the Edinburgh Evening Post; I was 
called first of all in question as to whether any such statement as this had been made. 



21 

Very fortunately a friend of mine, George Saintsbury, Esq., stood forward and gave the 
only satisfaction that could be given on such an occasion. He pledged himself to put fifty 
pounds into the hands of the Mayor of this town, which were to be forfeited to any 
charity that that magistrate should deem best, if the paper was not forthcoming, on con- 
dition that the gentleman who called in question its existence would do the same. But 
that was not forthcoming ; the paper was at the next meeting. 

The next attack made, was on the veracity of the statement in the paper. Now, Mr. 
Knibb says he did not use the words as they are set down here, but that he put it hypo- 
thetically. He said that if the Negro Sharp, who planned the rebellion, had been a Polish 
nobleman, and had been struggling for freedom against Russian bondage, why then he 
would have deserved an imperishable monument to be erected to his memory. 
Mr. Knibb. — I said that this audience might say so. 

Mr. Borthwick. — Now I beseech the audience to mark his words. He, Mr. Knibb, 
did not say that the negro would even in that case have deserved it, but a British audience 
would have said so. (Some persons cried, " So they would.") Well, I would say it too, 
that any man struggling to free his country from oppression, would certainly deserve an 
imperishable monument to he. erected to his memory, whether a Pole, or a native of any 
other nation brought into the position of Poland. But I hold it an unfair way of 
arguing to take advantage of that. The declaration is, that if he had been so and so, he 
would have deserved so and so. Why, that was a sapient remark, that must have been 
marvellously applicable to the condition of the slave. The Poles were right, and, therefore, 
if Samuel Sharp had been a Pole, he would have been right too. But, does that prove 
that he would have been right in struggling for his freedom in Jamaica? Mr. Knibb says, 
No, he did not say that ; nor did he say he would have been justified if he had been a 
Pole. When I am taking it so, I am taking it hypothetically, as Mr. Knibb says he 
stated it. Let me show you that that hypothesis would be very strange. I suppose then 
(for it is hypothetical) that Mr. Knibb comes to the audience, and says hypothetically, "If 
Samuel Sharp, the negro that planned the insurrection, had been a Polish nobleman, a 
British audience would have cheered him on." Is the inference drawn from that intended 
as an approbation of the conduct of Samuel Sharp, or is it not ? If it mean an approbation 
of his conduct, it is no matter whether it is put hypothetically, or how it is put; but if, on 
the other hand, it was not meant to be an approbation of the conduct of Samuel Sharp, if 
it be not meant as saying he deserved an imperishable monument, what does it mean ? If 
it do mean to approve Samuel Sharp, it is no matter whether it is put hypothetically or 
not; if it mean not to approve Samuel Sharp, what was its meaning at all? 

But, ladies and gentlemen, an excellent friend of mine, the same honourable gentleman 
who first brought forward the Edinburgh Evening Post, who pledged himself to the amount 
of his fifty pounds to be forfeited to the poor, that same gentleman, Mr. George Saints- 
bury, wishing to establishing the fact, wishing that no injustice might be done to Mr. 
Knibb, nor any injustice done to me in this business, wrote to Edinburgh to ascertain 
what were the facts of the case. A letter comes from Edinburgh by this day's post, and 
was put into my hand just before I came into this room. That part of the letter, connected 
with this question, contains the following deposition : — " Before William Blackwood, 
Esq., one of His Majesty's Justices of the peace for the city of Edinburgh, personally ap- 
peared Thomas Duncan, who, being duly sworn on the holy Evangelists, maketh oath and 
saith, that he was present at a meeting of the Edinburgh Anti- Slavery Society, on or 
about the 19th day of October last, when the Rev. Edward Craig presided; that after the 
chairman had opened the business of the meeting the Rev. William Knibb, late Baptist 
missionary at Jamaica, addressed it at great length : and, among other violent expressions, 
made use of the following words, or words to the same effect:" — (Great disapprobation 
was expressed by the audience when these last words were read. When it had subsided 

Mr. Borthwick proceeded) Ladies and gentlemen, though you have heard the beginning 

you durst not hear the end. Honourable gentlemen complain of what is only the legal 
technicality of the document. Does not every lawyer know, that these words are con- 
stantly inserted in every legal instrument ? First they take advantage and say, the paper 
is not here at all ; then they object to the oath because of its legal technicality. Does it 
not say above, "on or about the 19th day?" Though every body knew it was on the 19th. 
Every legal instrument from a will downward — from the charter of the crown to the lowest 
legal instrument, is drawn in that technical form. " And amongst other violent expres- 
sions made use of the following words, or words to the same effect, which words the depo- 
nent took down at the time — that Sharp, as the deponent understood it, who had planned 
the rebellion in Jamaica, deserved an imperishable monument. (Signed) Thomas Duncan. 
Sworn before me, this 12th day of December, 1832, William Blackwood, Justice of 
the peace." Mr. Duncan, who took the oath, is one of the Directors of the Bank of 
Scotland. 
Then here is a further affidavit from another gentleman : " Before William Black- 



22 

wood, Esq. (the same Justice of the peace), one of His Majesty's Justices of the 
peace for the city of Edinburgh, personally appeared, the Rev. Archibald Brown, at 
present of the city of Edinburgh, in North Britain, and late senior Minister of the 
National Kirk of Scotland, in the united colony of Demerara and Essequibo, who, 
being sworn, maketh oath and saith, that he was present at a meeting of the Edin- 
burgh Anti-Slavery Society, held on or about the 19th day of October last, at which 
meeting the Rev. Edward Craig, of the Episcopal Chapel, Broughton-street, presided, 
and that he heard the Rev. William Knibb, late Baptist missionary in Jamaica, in the 
course of his address, make use of the following words, or words to the same effect." — 
The same disapprobation was manifested at these words as was before shown). The 
nature of the document, and the wording of the oath, is precisely the wording of 
. every oath on which the free subjects of the British Crown are tried at home, neither 
more and less. "The Rev. William Knibb, late Baptist missionary in Jamaica, in 
the course of his address made use of the following words, or words to that effect, to 
wit, ' the negro^who planned the insurrection, and a fine fellow he ie too, deserves to 
have an imperishable monument.' (Signed) Archibald Brown. Sworn before me, 
William Blackwood, Justice of the peace, this 12th day of December, 1832." 

These are two oaths, confirmatory to the letter, almost confirmatory to a word, and 
to the meaning in every iota of it, of what is said in the Edinburgh Evening Post. I 
am, therefore, under the necessity of doing one of two things, either I am to believe 
that Mr. Knibb did, or that he did not, use these words, or words to that effect, in re- 
ference to Mr. Samuel Sharp, the slave who planned the insurrection ; I am either to 
believe it or I am not; and in order to know what I am to do in this important question, 
I must examine the evidence on both sides : surely that is but fair justice. On the 
one side I find Mr. Knibb saying, he did not use the words otherwise than hypotheti- 
cally, and that he introduced the supposition, that Samuel Sharp, was a Polish noble- 
man. On the other side, first of all the paper, and then the oaths of two gentlemen 
are brought forward to prove, that he did use the words in reference to Samuel Sharp, 
and there is nothing hypothetical stated, and nothing about a Polish nobleman is intro- 
duced. I do not mean to say that the Polish nobleman, as a figure, might not have 
been introduced by Mr. Knibb ; God forbid that I should call any man's word in 
question to such an extent as that. But I must say this, that with every wish to give 
Mr. Knibb's declaration its just and full meaning on the first supposition, that he 
stated it hypothetical^, it goes to one of two things, as I said, either it is intended as 
a sort of compliment to Samuel Sharp, or it is not. If it be intended to be applied to 
him without the hypothesis, then it is rebellious ; if it be not intended, it means nothing. 
Then, on the other hand, If I am to believe the oaths of these two gentlemen, the one 
a highly respectable citizen of Edinburgh, and a director of the Bank of Scotland, the 
other a Scotch clergyman, long residing in the West Indies — if I am to believe these 
two gentlemen on their oaths, their statements being confirmatory of the general state- 
ment in the paper ; why then, undoubtedly, the thing is not hypothetically rebellious, 
but simply and plainly rebellious. (Great disapprobation was expressed by the 
audience at this remark.) 

The Chairman. — If these interruptions continue, as I fear they frequently proceed 
from Mr. Knibb's friends, independent of their actual impropriety, allow me to say, 
they cannot be doing his cause a greater injury, than in thus occupying the time of the 
meeting, and preventing him or his friends from offering a rejoinder. 

Mr. Borthwick. — Mr. Knibb next states, that he has been called to order, before an 
English assembly, for having dared to call that man a rebel who struggled for his free- 
dom. That man, whoever he be, who owes obedience to the British Crown (and Mr. 
Knibb does not deny that the slave owes obedience to the British Crown) — that man, 
whoever he be, a master or slave, a peer or a peasant, who attempts, by force of arms, 
to destroy the authority of the British Crown, is a rebel : and there is not a man in this 
assembly, I am sure, who would take the part of such a man. 

The negroes, in the late insurrection, concocted it after morning prayers had been 
held at the Baptist Chapel. Mr. Knibb says some one has reported to him that I 
said it was concocted in a Baptist chapel (many persons called out— "So you did") — 
I did not. 

Rev. Mr. Price.— You did say so. 

Mr. Borthwick. — I said this, and I will repeat it, and prove it too ; that the insur- 
rection was concocted, after morning prayers at a Baptist chapel, by men who had at- 
tended these morning prayers. I will read the evidence on which I said it, and you 
shall see that if I had said " in the walls of the chapel," my evidence would have been 
just the contrary of my assertion. Here is the evidence of Robert Gardiner just 
before his death, taken by the reverend clergymen of the parish, the Rev. T, Stewart. 

" The whole business of t'ne rebellion was settled upon in Montego Bay. I had often 



23 

heard the thing spoken of in a casual manner before Christmas, but I never gave much 
heeding to it ; the first time I heard that the time was fixed, and the tiling determined 
upon, was at Christmas, at Montego Bay. It was determined upon after we had been 
to morning prayers at our chapel (Baptists)." 

Will honourable gentlemen doubt this, upon the oath of one of the parties con- 
cerned, who surely ought to know 1 Will they take against the oath of this party con- 
cerned, the evidence of a mere ex parte statement, unsupported by oath ? If they can 
lean only tell theni that my way of judging evidence is very different from theirs. 
Their general, Sharp, the fine fellow, who, if he had been a Polish nobleman, would 
have deserved an imperishable monument. Is there a difference_Jhen, after all, even 
on my opponents, showing, between a Polish nobleman and a slave? Is morality one 
thing to a nobleman, and another thing to a slave? Do the principles of justice and 
right shift with the changes of a man's position ? Can a matter be rebellious in one 
place, and just, noble fighting for freedom in another? No, verily: even-handed 
justice is alike in Africa and in India — in the colonies of Great Britain, and in Great 
Britain itself. 

" General Samuel Sharp, belonging to Mr. Gray; Taylor to Mr. Boyd, the Saddler ; 
Johnstone to Retrieve (who was afterwards killed in the battle of Montpelier) ; Guthrie 
to Colonel Grignon ; Dove to Belvidere ; Sharp to Hazelymysh ; myself, and some 
other of the head people, were present. General Sharp spoke first: he said, ' the thing 
is now determined upon, no time is to be lost ; the King of England and the parlia- 
ment have given Jamaica freedom, and it is held back by the whites; we must at 
once take it. The King sent the law since March last, and it has been withheld by 
the whites : rise at once and take it.' Sharp kept on talking in this way, which roused 
us and made us nearly mad ; at last he stopped, and I said, Sharp, I do not like this 
business at all — let us do away with it ! Sharp then became very furious, and said 
' What is to become of all the men I have sworn ; then they might as well obey me 
as to die from not doing so?' George Duncan also said, he did not like the business. 
Guthrie then said, the thing must be done, and was very violent. Guthrie then 
wanted us to take ' pot luck' with him at three o'clock, in his room at Montego Bav. 
We went; Guthrie then commenced talking of the thing again ; he asked us what we 
would drink : we said wine ; he filled our glasses, and then took up his, and said, ' In 
a few days may we get our rights, and may Little-breeches (that being the name 
Colonel Grigson was called by among us), and the other gentlemen who oppose us 
lay at our feet.' I would not drink the toast, and declared I would have nothing 
to say to it, which Duncan, and old Carpenter belonging to Hazelymish, can prove • 
they then laughed at me, and then drank the toast. Taylor also said, 'Let us not 
spill a drop of blood ; if we do, it will bring a prosecution upon our church (the 
Baptists). (The word is written pro-secution ; whether it is per-secution or not I don't 
know ; I say this to give you the benefit of whatever doubt there may be about the mis- 
printing.) Guthrie then said, ' I will be up on Tuesday to Barney side, and I will be 
on your side on Wednesday (meaning Greenwich, &c). I will put the first ball into 
the man (meaning Gregson).'" 

And yet this was only to refuse to work without wages ! 
Mr. Knibb. — It was Guthrie said that — not Sharp. 
Mr. Borthwick. — I read it so. 

Mr. Knibb. — I said that Sharp said so to me in the gaol ; and Mr. Miller is my 
authority. 

Mr. Borthwick. — Guthrie said, " I will be up on Tuesday, to Barney-side and I 
will be on your side on Wednesday, (meaning Greenwich, &e.,) I will put the first ball 
into the man (meaning Colonel Grignon)." And yet they were only strua-<rij no - for 
freedom ; they were only going to say we will not work any more. A gentleman is 
here on the platform who was in Jamaica during the whole time of the rebellion : and 
let me here remark,- — in reference to Mr. Knibb's saying that the members of his con- 
gregation were not engaged in the rebellion, and that the estates on which Mr. Knibb 
preached were not destroyed — in the parish of Trelawny, there are something like nine- 
y-six estates, and out of the whole, not four at the utmost were burnt at all. 
Mr. Knibb. — There was not one burnt down. 

Mr. Borthwick. — Mr. Knibb says there was not one burnt down. Mr. Knibb must 
see that what he has said is in my favour. I said there were not four at the utmost ■ 
Mr. Knibb says there was not one : my arguments therefore becomes the stronger! 
There are about ninety-six estates in Jamaica, in the parish of Trelawney (a parish in 
Jamaica is like a county in England) — in that parish Mr. Knibb takes credit to himself 
for having preserved three estates. Why, there was none burnt down, according to his 
own shewing; if, in the whole parish of Trelawney, there was not one estate burnt 
down it does not argue any thing at all in favour of Mr. Knibb that the slaves, to 
whom he preached, did n?t burn down their estates, seeing the others did not burn 
down any. 



24 

Mr. Knibb. — I acknowledge no such thing. 

Mr. Borthwick. — Mr. Knibb says he had members in various parts over the whole of 
that parish. I have no doubt of that; but I could name the estate of Pitfall, on which 
were many chapels of his connexion, and the negroes all round went to them. It 
belonged to Mrs. Hay ; she did not allow her negroes to go, but took them to the 
church, to which she went herself, the established church of her native land. Now 
her negroes were so far from rebelling, that they preserved her property, and some of 
them sacrificed their lives in defence of it ; they defended it from the attacks of those 
around them who went to the chapels referred to. I do not wish to bring these as any 
proof upon the subject, further than as having their mutual weight against that which 
Mr. Knibb brings forward, in reference to the members of his church : but let Mr. 
Knibb understand fully what it is I have said. Let the gentleman give my words their 
proper weight and their proper application. I have not been speaking about what was 
done in Trelawney, but I spoke of what was done over the whole island of Jamaica. 
When I did so, I brought the evidence from various parts, and I brought it from the con- 
fessions of leaders of the rebellion themselves, in that solemn moment when they were 
going to die. Mr. Knibb has mentioned Mr. Manderson, and a case of singular noble- 
ness of conduct, in reference to a slave and a Baptist, for whom Mr. Manderson is wil- 
ling to come forth, and prove the truth with his oath. I will give him, in reference 
to the same gentleman, a case weighing directly against it; and that is one in which 
Mr. Grant, a magistrate, was deeply concerned. Mr. Grant was present. When going 
to some place on military duty, a body of men were attracted by the cries of a soldier 
in great distress. Coming to the place, where they found him, they discerned a slave 
struggling with him to kill him. They found that the slave had been attempting to set 
fire to a house, and that the soldier had discovered him. They succeeded in preserving 
the soldier from the grasp of the murderer; and, having found the man there alone, 
they asked him what was his object. Ha unequivocally declared it was to extirpate 
the whites altogether, and added, too, he was sorry he had been prevented doing what 
he meant to do. When he was tried and condemned, he said, " I am going to heaven ; 
I am the soldier of Jesus Christ and Parson Burchell ; you cannot hurt me ; the hand 
of Jesus Christ is come down to take me up ; I will soon be with my Saviour and you," 
(I quote the words exactly as they are sworn to) " and you d — d bucker men will be 
doomed to hell." It is undoubtedly fair that I bring this single case (which is but a 
single case) against the single case of Mr. Knibb. Mr. Grant is willing to come for- 
ward with his oath to support this statement ; and, if required, I will write by the 
earliest conveyance to Jamaica, and obtain Mr. Grant's oath ; the whole of this having 
passed in the presence of Mr. Manderson. (Some one asked the name of the slave.) 
The slave's name, I am sure I do not know. I give you the name of Mr. Manderson, 
and Mr. Manderson will take his oath to the whole fact — Mr. Manderson, a man of 
colour, and a member of the assembly at Jamaica ; is not that evidence ? 

I will now read you the names of the persons who made confession on oath with 
regard to the rebellion. If Mr. Knibb call in question the fact, I will read the evidence 
itself. The names of the persons are, Robert Gordon, — — Manby, a prisoner under 
sentence of death in Savannah gaol, Thomas Dove, Alexander Burnet, George Stilton, 
John Bell, James Ricketts, James Fry, William Evans, alias Alexander Evans, 
further confession of James Fry, Charles Carter, Robert Morris, William Black, Wil- 
liam Aikins, John Morris, Edward Morris, Robert Morris, John Davies, Joseph 
Linton. Linton's is of great importance, because it shows that the two principles on 
which the rebellion was conducted were these : In the first place, that they should 
banish from the colony all white and free people ; in the second place, that the inferior 
slaves should not obtain their freedom. The confession of Linton is this: " If I chose 
I could tell a great deal about the business, but, as I am going to die, let it. all go with 
me ; 1 do not like to speak of ' Gardner's friends, trumps ;' if he and they escape judg- 
ment here, they cannot escape it in the day of judgment. If I had been sentenced to 
transportstion or flogging, perhaps I might have told more than the people think for; but 
if I do so now, people will say that I did so because I was afraid to die, and because 
I knew that I could not be present to prove it. I will tell this only : we were all sworn 
upon the Bible to do our best to drive white and free people out of this country. The 
head people among all of us negroes were then to divide the estates among us, and to 
work them with the common negroes, who were not to get their freedom, but work 
then as they do now. I might as well tell the truth, though they would have had bad 
treatment from us, we could not treat them as white people now treat them ; we would 
have been obliged to rule them hard to keep them down; but this is nothing ; we all 
believed this freedom business, from what we were told, and from what we heard in 
the newspapers, that the people in England were speaking up very bold for us ; we all 
thought the king had been upon our side. Gardner constantly kept telling us that he 
and the other head people had been told that the king had given orders for his soldiers 
here not to fight against us, and that he was sending out powder and arms, and the 



25 

governor was to go away and leave the country to us. In about three or four years 
the ae'groeg would break out again, for they cannot help believing that the king has 
given them freedom, especially as they hear so much about it in the newspapers. Those 
who cannot read always give a 5d. to those who can, to read the papers to them, when 
they hear they contain good news for them. Besides this, our religion says we cannot 
serve two masters, but must only serve Jesus Christ." 

In regard to Mr. Knibb's defence of his view of the slave question ; to wit, that of 
immediate and unconditional emancipation, I am perfectly prepared to enter upon it at 
any time and at any place where I can possibly meet him consistently with the engage- 
ment I have already made. In the mean time I will mention to Mr. Knibb before this 
audience, that, whenever, however, and wherever I meet him, I do not conceal my name 
or my place of abode ; I do not attack anonymously, but come forward openly. When 
in Cheltenham I spoke on the question of negro slavery, and gave the views I have 
attempted to maintain here, two gentlemen pledged themselves to me that during the 
month of December Mr. Knibb should meet me at Cheltenham. I replied that give 
me a week's notice, and wherever I am I will meet Mr. Knibb.) 

I am now about to sum up what I have been saying. The bargain between me and 
Mr. Knibb was, that I should occupy the same time that he did, and I must abide by it 
to the letter : I have always stood by every thing I have said to the letter. 

(Much dissension was expressed at these observations. The speaker was unable^ by 
the opposition, to address the meeting further than to say that the time during which 
he had to reply to Mr. Knibb was expired. After a short conversation between Mr. 
Knibb and Mr. Borthwick, it was agreed that Mr. Borthwick should proceed a quarter 
of an hour longer, on condition that Mr. Knibb should reply. 

Mr. Borthwick. — "Am I to speak," says Mr. Knibb, " the same language to a British 
audience which I would hold to a slave in the West India Colonies ? Am I to speak 
to free-born Britons as I would speak to obsequious slaves?" I say, " Unless you be 
a tyrant, yes." I am asked, would I speak to bond-slaves as I would to freemen. I 
say I would. If a freeman ask me what is rebellion, I tell him it is taking up arms 
against the government of his country : if a slave ask me what is rebellion, I say it in 
taking up arms against the crown of his country. And if a man say one thing is 
Jamaica and another in England, what can be the cause of it? Why, that in England, 
says Mr. Knibb, I speak in a free land, and in Jamaica I do not. I tell Mr. Knibb it 
is not true. Religion is in Jamaica the same as in England ; and, blessed be religion, 
wherever she goes, for every wound she has a balm, whether it be the wound of a slave, 
or the wounds of persons iu any station of life whatever. Religion changes not with 
clime, or colour, or country; no, nor with position in society. But the question 
between us is, What are the dictates of religion and sound policy with regard to what 
ought to be done to the slave now ? I have endeavoured to show on former occasions 
that a false religion will ever be productive of bad effects, as a sound religion will ever 
be productive of good effects. What evidence does Mr. Knibb produce to support his 
assertions on this subject ? He tells us that the officers of the army and navy are not 
to be credited on this point. Why? Because he quotes a sentence from an English 
satirist, speaking of " fools that strut in lace." Fools that strut in lace, or in black 
coats, certainly are not to be believed : but will Mr. Knibb stand up with his single 
personal humanity,, and oppose himself as a man, as a Briton, as a Christian — in any 
sense, I care not how he puts it — and call on an English audience to believe that so 
large a portion of their countrymen as the officers of the army and navy are " fools 
strutting in lace ?" Are the officers of the armyj and navy, men whose honour is pro- 
verbial, not to be believed ? I ask you, Will you believe the testimony of one, or ten r 
or twenty men, when that one, or ten, or twenty men, come and tell you that the ap- 
pointment of the Bishop in Jamaica has stopped religion ? Though Mr. Knibb gives 
it the sanction of his name by reading it here — yet what is he or Mr. Wildman, or ten, 
or twenty more, added to them, when compared to the whole mass of men, including 
the Bishop, his clergy, the officers of the army and navy, and the men of independent 
fortunes, that have gone out to visit the country ? 

It has been asserted that I said if Mr. Knibb had got justice he would have been 
hung. My statement was no more nor less than this — -and I give my authority for it 
— Mr. William Gladstone of Liverpool, who was present at the time referred to. That 
gentleman mentions the following circumstance, to which I referred publicly, and to 
which 1 am happy thus publicly again to refer, that Mr. Knibb may know exactly what 
1 did say. When the slaves were brought forward to give evidence against Mr. Knibb, 
I stated that they were discrepant in reference to time, and I stated that Mr. Knibb, in 
consequence of the discrepancy, together with other circumstances, was acquitted. I 
said he was rightly acquitted, and I added, moreover, that with Mr. Knibb, so far as 
Jamaica was concerned, I had no quarrel ; my quarrel with him rested entirely and 
solely on his speeches spoken in this country, of which I declared my public opinion, 
and which opinion I confess I have not yet seen any cause for changing at all. If any 



26 

man understood me to say or to insinuate that some underhand means or improper 
means were used to acquit Mr. Knibb, I can only say that my words were, His counsel 
did well, and the jury did well, when they acquitted him. 

Rev. Mr. Cater. — I declare that Mr. Borthwick did, ^in this room, charge Mr. Knibb 
with insurrection in Jamaica, and I will swear it on my oath. 

Mr. Borthwick. — I said this, that it was an extraordinary thing to accuse the plant- 
ers of injustice, and of seeking their lives by persecution, when we find the men so 
accusing the planters, sound in life and limb, untouched in mind or body. I say, what 
is the proof they give us of persecution ? It has been said that Mr. Knibb put it to me 
whether I should like to be taken from my wife and children, and carried to such and 
such a place. I say that, if my country were in a state of insurrection, and I was called 
before a tribunal, and suffered what Mr. Knibb suffered, I would not consider it per- 
secution. I say again, and I will repeat it, that Mr. Knibb, or Mr. Burchell, and all 
of them together, who make such declarations as these, only say this — that they come 
home to argue against the men who, according to their own showing, acquitted them 
when their lives were in their power. 

(Much disapprobation was again manifested, during which the Chairman announced 
that nearly thirty minutes instead of a quarter of an hour had elapsed since Mr. B. 
resumed his address. The Chairman then requested that those who were satisfied 
with Mr. Knibb's explanation, would hold up their hands. The contrary was after- 
wards put, and the result on both sides was received with immense cheering by the 
respective parties. The Chairman then declared the meeting to be dissolved, A scene 
of great uproar followed, which continued for some time, and, when it was somewhat 
abated, Mr. Knibb addressed the meeting, another Chairman — Mr. Hunt — having been 
appointed.) 

Mr. Knibb. — My opponent has asserted in his reply that, prior to my speech in Edin- 
burgh, he had uniformly acquitted me, and appealed to that eloquent pleader on behalf 
of the helpless slave, George Thompson, Esq., for the truth of his assertions. 

If this be true, why did Mr; Borthwick state, that if slave-evidence hud been ad- 
mitted against me, that I should have been executed ? And when I replied to this, by 
affirming [that slave-evidence was admitted, why did he [reply here this day, that my 
acquittal was owing to a discrepancy in "the two witnesses who were examined on my 
trial, and that the jury very properly gavejme the advantage of that which they could 
not prevent, and leaning to the side of mercy, acquitted me ? The fact is, that I never 
was tried at all — no witnesses were examined — no discrepancy appeared — no jury 
shed tears of mercy, anolle prosequi was entered by the law-officer of the Crown, and 
the case was dismissed. If my opponent knew this, it was worthy of his cause to en- 
deavour to deceive you ; if he did not, his ignorance is only equalled by that audacity 
which prompted him to speak on a subject of which he knows nothing. 

But did not my opponent state at Warrington that I was wandering through the 
country with a rope round my neck, which justice needed but to grasp for my destruc- 
tion? — Did not this very George Thompson, Esq., to whom he has appealed, then put 
the question to a numerous assembly, which of the two deserved death, myself or Mr. 
Borthwick ; and was it not unanimously decided, by a show of hands, in the presence 
of my opponent, that the exaltation he awarded to me was his just and proper due ? My 
opponent knows these things ; and yet, after having endeavoured to blast my character, 
he would fain have you believe that his first efforts were made to proclaim my inno- 
cence. The assertions of the denials of such a being are unworthy of regard ; and I 
feel at a loss to reply to a man who appears to glory in setting truth at defiance. 

My opponent, in his play with " shadows," has laid much stress upon my speech in 
Reading, as contrasted with my evidence before the Lords and Commons' Committees. 
This speech 1 did not correct for the press, nor can I be certain that it was printed ver- 
batim, but respecting which I have not the least desire to disown a siDgle sentiment. 
Though I have not seen many instances of cruelty, yet in Jamaica there is daily much 
to make the heart of the philanthropist bleed, that does not come under that exact de- 
nomination. The degradation of man, the prostration of the image of God at the shrine 
of Mammon — the public sale of the mother and the child — the debasement of the female 
character, and the innumerable evils inseparably connected with a system which 
affronts the Majesty of Heaven, and classes with the brute the noblest work of his 
hands. But I have heard the moans of the tortured slave, when I have not seen the 
prostrate victim ; my ear has been pierced with the shrieks of the African female, when 
I have not seen the lacerated body, writhing in bloody agony. I have seen the victim 
of despotic power, when he has risen from the hand of oppression, and breathed his 
sorrows into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. I have heard — frequently heard — the 
soul-sick( j ning sound of the cart-whip, when it has aroused the unhappy slave to his 
daily task, or fell, with a deadening murmur, upon the back of the hapless sufferer ; 
daily have I beheld children, females, and men chained like cattle in the streets, yea, 
the children of Britons in this degrading condition, while the demoralizing and pesti- 



27 

ferous influence of slavery, in all its rank luxuriousness, has painfully convinced me, 
that I dwelt in a land from which freedom was banished, and which crime and oppres- 
sion revelled as in their native dwelling-place. There the image of God is fallen ; there 
the oppressor and the oppressed are alike depraved; man tramples upon man, and, be- 
cause his fellow is cursed with a skin not coloured like his own, chains him, manacles 
him, and dooms him to a greater degree of suffering than is ever allotted to the greatest 
adepts in crime. 

When I have adverted, in my public addresses, to the lamentable waste of life in 
reference to the late insurrection, or to the horrors of martial law, during which the 
blood of Africa was so wantonly and profusely shed, it has ever been with a view of 
preventing a similar catastrophe, by urging upon all the immediate and total destruction 
of that abomination of abominations, colonial slavery, which was the cause, the fruitful 
and direct cause, of all these varied enormities. 

My opponent asserts that the insurrection was concocted after morning prayers in a 
Baptist chapel, and produces the confession of the dead to prove the assertion. The 
meeting, to which he alludes, was held on Christmas Sabbath, two days before the in- 
surrection broke out, and the conversation he refers to occurred in consequence of Mr. 
Gardiner's preaching on the subject of obedience ; this, Sharp, Gardiner, and Dove, 
informed me themselves. I disdain to answer dying confessions, knowing, which I 
do, the manner in which they were obtained. The slaves must, indeed, be possessed 
of extraordinary abilities, if in two days they can plan a rebellion, which was declared 
to be deeply laid, and as extensive as the Island. 

The insurrection was not planned, either at or after morning prayer, at any Baptist 
chapel, but at a place called Retrieve ; this I know to be the fact, and I challenge and 
dare any one to disprove it. 

I again aver that I have not the least recollection of having used the language at- 
tributed to me by the Editor of the Evening Post. The sentiment conveyed is not 
mine. This a few days will determine ; till then every impartial man will suspend 
his judgment, especially when he learns that my opponents have only sworn that I 
stated something like it : that one of them, the regularly ordained minister of the 
Established Church of Scotland, I publicly defeated, when he stood forward as the 
Champion of Slavery in Edinburgh ; and when I pledged myself either to procure 
counter declarations, or acknowledge my inability to do so.* 

■ Did I wish to retaliate upon my opponent, nothing were more easy. His speeches, 
as reported, are as full of sophistry and untruth as their limits will admit; but, for the 
present, I forbear. The man who figured at Dalkeith, who played his part in Edin- 
burgh, and pursued the even tenor of his way safe from false alarms in Cambridge, 
and who is now speaking of a system he has never seen, and fixing the happiness or 
misery of eight hundred thousand beings of whom he knows nothing, may well be left 
to that contempt which is ever the lot of the presumptuous and the vain. 

Let all the Mr. Borth wicks on earth try to continue the system of Slavery, by plead- 
ing for gradual emancipation, they cannot succeed. The fiat of destruction against 
oppression has gone forth ; Slavery has heard the award of her doom. Attempt to 
arrest the sun in his course, to stay the wheels of nature, or to dry up the ocean, ere 
you convince a free and enlightened people that Slavery is the only blessing that has 
survived the fall, or that the happiness of a nation depends upon the oppression of man. 
Africa, thou shalt be free ! Britons, Patriots, Fathers, Females, join me in my en- 
deavours to rid my country of this Moloch of iniquity ! Let not fear, let not scorn, let 
not danger deter your justice, — long-deiayed justice demands it — mercy beseeches it 
— every feeling of humanity urges us forward to the contest — and every attribute of 
Deity is engaged on our side. If we are united, the bonds of the slave will be broken, 
his fetters will be snapped, the tears of the female African shall cease to flow. The 
trumpetof Jubilee shall sound. The banner of freedom shall be unfurled : and, beneath 
its life-giving shade, Africa shall arise and call you blessed. Anarchy and confusion 
shall be banished from the earth, peace shall be restored, joy shall beam in every eye, 
happiness reign in every heart, and plenty shall open her stores to bless mankind, while 
the God and Father of the oppressed shall smile upon the work which justice demanded, 
and which Britain has achieved. Remember that I plead for liberty, for liberty for 
those who have never forfeited it by any crime they have committed, and that, without 
this blessing, Africa must be miserable. For 

'Tis liberty alone that gives the flower 
Of life its lustre and perfume, 
And we are weeds without it. 

(The chairman then put it to the meeting whether they were satisfied that Mr. Kniob 
was guiltless of the charges brought against him or not. On a show of hands, he de- 

* See Apj endixi 



28 

clared he considered it his duty to pronounce that there was a decided majority in favour 
of Mr. Knibb.) 

The Chairman. — I rejoice in this decision, because the characters of missionaries 
and christians were mingled up with it. It is an awful thing to think that men, who 
went to preach the gospel, should cherish rebellion ; but we are glad to know that such 
is not Ihe fact. I know you are determined that slavery should be extinguished : two 
hundred members of the new parliament are already pledged to use all their efforts to 
put an end to this abomination ; two hundred and fourteen in England, to say nothing 
of Scotland and Ireland; and we are sure they will not be backward in this great 
cause. Whatever difference there may be in this system of treatment, or that system of 
treatment, it is still slavery which contains such elements of tyranny, iniquity, and 
oppression, that we cannot continue it. Mr. Borthwick tried to get into Parliament on 
the other side, and they refused him. Can you believe the man who says, he was not 
here to-day to defend slavery? If he was not, what was he here for? He was here 
to-day to defend slavery and slave-owners, specimens of whom we have seen here to- 
day. We have seen how they judged us and would not allow us to open our mouths, 
even after we had procured a hearing for them, and given them half an hour beyond 
what they had a right to. Mr. Borthwick's gradual abolition means perpetual bondage. 

Rev. Mr. Price. — When, in the history of this country, was it known that the plant- 
ers talked about gradual emancipation? Not until the British public, with one heart 
and one voice, demanded the immediate abolition of slavery. Prior to this period 
they were the avowed enemies of emancipation, whether immediate or remote ; declar- 
ing that the latter equally with the former was inconsistent with their rights of pro- 
perty, and would prove destructive to the slave. They have now adopted our term in 
part, but it is only as a means of delusion — a fair sample of that frankness and recti- 
tude by which colonial advocacy has been so eminently distinguished. But we should 
be the veriest idiots that live if we permitted ourselves to be thus deluded. Past 
experience of colonial craft and meanness afford us effectual protection from future 
injury. Gradual abolition can only serve to irritate the master, and to keep alive in 
the agitated breast of the negro that conflict of hope and fear which threatens a 
destructive eruption. The misery of the slave, I 'doubt not, has been lately more 
acutely felt than formerly ; and that wretchedness will continue to increase until 
British justice shall invest him with the privileges of freedom. Had an opportunity 
been allowed at the close of Mr. Borthwick's reply, I would gladly have refuted, by 
Parliamentary documents, whatever was important in his statements. This would be 
an easy task ; for never before did a public speaker display such recklessness in his 
assertions as our opponent has done. I have read in the course of these discussions a 
new chapter in the history of the human mind ; but, I regret to say, the information 
obtained has served to lower rather than to heighten my estimate of man. I could not 
previously have believed that a public advocate, retained by a wealthy and influential 
body, would have displayed such an utter ignorance, or want ?of principle, as Mr. 
Borthwick has done. On one or other of these charges he must be convicted, for his 
statements are so far from truth, his assertions are so opposite to the facts of the case, 
that he can only escape the charge of wilful misrepresentation by admitting that of 
disgraceful ignorance. I wondered at the hardihood of the man who could make the 
assertion which Mr. Borthwick has made, that all the compensation which the planters 
ask, is safety to their slaves. Does he imagine- we are fools ? Does he calculate on 
our ignorance being equal to his own, if a worse charge do not apply to him? Does 
he really believe we have come to Bath to meet the advocate of slavery without look- 
ing into a single document, or acquainting ourselves with one feature of the case ? 
Such, I would have him know, is not our ordinary course ; and. if he does not now 
stand before this audience convicted of uttering statements which he cannot prove, it 
is only because his friends would not allow us an opportunity to reply in his hearing. 
But what c;>n you think of this statement of my opponent, when the official docu- 
ments before me contain numerous claims, from the planters and their authorised 
agents, for (full pecuniary compensation. Take, for instance, the Observations of the 
Committee of the Crown Colonies, forwarded to Lord Goderich on the 22nd Feb. 
IS32, and contained in the paperof March 29th, 1832, in which the claim is preferred 
in terms as explicit as language can supply. Who, then, I ask, are we to believe— 
Mr. Borthwick or his employers ? I freely acknowledge that I prefer the latter. Their 
authority is highest, and the claim which it sanctions is recorded in a public document. 
Let our opponent settle the matter with those who have retained him, before he repeats 
his assertions. One thing follows from Mr. Borthwick's statement, and it is this, 
whenever emancipation takes place, if it do not prove destructive to the negro, the 
planters, if he be true, will say nothing about compensation. The first session of a 
reformed Parliament will distinguish itself, I trust, by doing justice to the slave. The 
determination of the British mind is taken ; and his Majesty's Government will not, I 
verily believe, falter. They are too far committed by their general principles ; they are 



29 

men of too upright and noble minds ; and some of them have taken too prominent a part 
in the defence of the negro's rights, to allow my mind to hesitate for a moment about the 
course they will pursue. There are measures devising (hear it ye planters, and trem- 
ble !) which shall proclaim to the African that he is free. Yes ; the virtuous and the 
wise of all classes are about to make one simultaneous effort to extort from the tardy 
justice of the British Parliament the restitution of the negro's freedom* 

I listened with the utmost attention to the reply of Mr. Borthwick, and now unhesitat- 
ingly affirm, that not one of the main positions or facts of my brother's case has been 
touched. Was the flogging and indecent exposure of females denied? Was the rubbing 
of saltpetre or rum into their mangled flesh denied ? Was the separation of husband 
and wife, of parent and child, denied ? Was the general brutality and licentiousness of 
the white population, the ferocious and assassin -like character of that population, dis- 
proved? Were the meanness, rancour, and bribery, by which the character of Christian 
Ministers was assailed and their lives attempted, disproved? — With all the hardi- 
hood of assertion which I have seen displayed, this would have exceeded all. No ; 
our cause is omnipotent. Never did I feel it so triumphant as when the planters and 
their friends refused to hear either Mr. Knibb or myself in reply. They must have been 
conscious at that moment of a secret misgiving. The badness of their cause, rather than 
any deficiency of confidence in their advocate, led to their determination. They hate 
the light, and they come not to it lest their deeds should be reproved. I rejoice in the 
opposition we have experienced, and shall retire from Bath with full conviction that 
those men dared not hear the reply we had to make. One opponent expected to divide 
the Christian world, and thus to conquer. But the hollowness of his forbearance could 
not escape the keen glance of the Wesleyans ; and they refused to accept his offers of 
peace. They pointed totheir demolished chapels, to their imprisoned and brutally- 
treated Missionaries, and asked why this had been if they were held as guiltless. On 
a former occasion, it was asserted by Mr. Borthwick, in answer to a question from 
myself, that neither he nor any of the colonists suspected the Wesleyans of having been 
implicated in the rebellion. In my reply I referred him to the Report of the Jamaica 
Rebellion Committee, to the imprisonment of Messrs. Box and Greenwood, and to the 
tarring and feathering of Mr. Bleby. To these statements he deemed it wise to attempt 
no reply in his rejoinder. I rejoice, on the present occasion, to perceive members of, 
different religious bodies around me. The Churchman and Dissenter, the Arminian, 
and Calvinist, the Paedobaptist and Baptist, here find common ground on which they can 
consistently meet. It is not a sectarian question which is involved in this struggle — 
Christianity itself is threatened, and the virtuous of every party are, in consequence, 
ready for the defence. 

The Colonists much mistake if they imagine themselves able to banish religion from 
Jamaica. They must root out piety from the soil of Britain, they must render us as 
indifferent to the spiritual interests of mankind as themselves, before they can accom- 
plish such a purpose. No ; it cannot be. The attempts madness, and it will entail 
disappointment and perplexity on themselves. To the planters I would say, Mendi- 
cants that you are on the British public ; receiving individually, on an average, several 
hundreds annually in the shape of protecting duties and bounties ; if the alternative be, 
as your own conduct affirms, that either religion or slavery must be relinquished, we 
will not, we cannot hesitate one moment. You have forced a selection, and shall no 
longer be in doubt respecting our choice. Do what you may, the presence of Chris- 
tianity shall be with you. Planted by the hand of Providence, and watered by the 
rains of Heaven, it shall spring up and bear fruit to the glory of our God. I do not 
wonder at the half-expressed sneer of some gentlemen whom I see. They cannot 
endure that Christianity should be referred to. They have attempted to drive it from 
Jamaica, and, if their power were equal to their impiety, they would banish it from 
Britain. But the nation's voice is now heard, and it will carry the assurance of coming 
good to the dark regions of the earth, which are full of the habitations of cruelty 
Already do the advocates of slavery begin to tremble, for the signs of the times pro- 
claim that their end draweth near. We hear the voice of their humiliation when they 
ask us not to persist in our measures. They seek to supplant our pity for the negro 
by compassion for themselves. But their entreaties shall be in vain. Our course is 
determined ; and, by the help of our God, we will continue it till slavery shall cease. 
In conclusion, permit me to impress on all present another duty which you will 
speedily be called on to discharge. Immediately that you hear of the question being 
introduced into either of the Houses of Parliament, let the table of that House groan 
beneath the weight of your petitions. Let his Majesty's enlightened administration feel 
that they are sustained and carried onwards in this great measure by the unequivocal 
expression of public feeling. Then will the negro population bless your name; the 
interests of humanity will be advanced ; and the curse of a righteous God will be 
averted from our beloved but guilty land. 

Rev. T. Spencer. — In appearing at this meeting, although a minister of the i 

I 



30 

Establishment, I consider myself as much in my place as if I were a Baptist Minis- 
ter. If a clergyman of the Church of England were to go to Jamaica, and preach 
the whole truth respecting the sins of the white man and of the slave, they would 
cast him out as they would a Baptist, a Methodist, or a Moravian. They have given 
out that they will get rid, as far as it is in their power, all that are under the Bishop 
himself, unless they are of the old school (we know that that is as old as Cain) : that 
is, that they will themselves flog their slaves, that they will not reprove sin, and that 
they will not take any part in behalf of liberty ; unless they will act thus, they will 
hate them as much as they hate Mr. Knibb. It has been thought right, that we should 
express our sentiments of Mr. Borthwick's conduct, as to how far it was an honourable 
undertaking when he sold himself to defend the iniquitous system, and how far he has 
endea-oured to get a fair bearing. He courted opposition, and frequently said things 
calculated to provoke : he knew that, if he could succeed in this, he should be able to 
say, he gave up because he would not hear him out ; and if he could get the meeting 
to be dissolved, he would get rid of certain questions. We ought, therefore, as a body, 
to express our sentiments of Mr. Borthwick ; either we approve of his conduct or we 
do not. 

(Three groans were then given for Mr. Borthwick ; and, after three cheers for Mr. 
Knibb, the meeting separated.) 



APPENDIX. 



The following Counter Declaration, referred to in Mr. Knibb's second Reply to Mr. 
Borthwick, has since been obtained. 

72, Queen-street, December 21, 1832. 

My dear Sir,— Since you sent me the enclosed letter from Mr. Knibb, this morning, I have 
repeatedly endeavoured to recollect what could have been the expressions used by him, 
which have been perverted as he states ; for I had not formerly heard of the allegation 
that he had made such a statement. My endeavours, however, have been perfectly fruit- 
less ; and I do not believe it is possible for my confidence to be stronger in any thing of the 
kind than it is in this — that he used no expressions having even the smallest tendency to- 
wards such a statement as he mentions to have been attributed to him. I have the firmest 
conviction that, if he had, I should have been struck with them, as they would have met 
my strongest disapprobation ; and I cannot be more sure than I am of my attention having 
been such as to prevent their having escaped me if they had been uttered. I now refer to 
the meeting of the 19th October last, in Dr. Brown's chapel, as it seems that is the meet- 
ing at which it is said the expressions were used. You know, I think, that I was close by 
Mr. Knibb all the time he spoke. The only other public meeting at which I was present 
with Mr. Knibb — one sermon excepted— was that of the 3rd instant, in Mr. Lamont's 
chapel ; and my testimony regarding what he then said would be the same, had I occasion 
to give it, with what I have now given regarding the meeting of the 19th October. 

(Signed) James Ogilvey. 

The expression in Mr. Knibb's letter, referred to in the prefixed from Mr. Ogilvey, is — 
" Mr. Borthwick had procured the affidavit of Brown, who interrupted me, and of some 
other person, that I used the phrase attributed to me in the Evening Post, that ' the man 
who planned the rebellion was a noble fellow, and deserved an imperishable monument,' " 
or words to that effect. It refers to the meeting held at Dr. Brown's. 
Edinburgh, Dec. 22, 1832. Certified by H. D. DrcKiE, to whom the letter was addressed. 



. Edinburgh, December 29, 1832. 
I fully concur in the foregoing certificate by Mr. Ogilvey. 

(Signed) H. D. Dickie. 

My dear Sir, — Mr. Ogilvey has shown me Mr. Knibb's letter to you, and, at the same 
time, requested me to say if I recollected his using the expression, in his speech at the 
Anti-Slavery Meeting in Dr. Brown's church, which has been attributed to him. 

I am sure I paid great attention whilst Mr. Knibb was speaking, and I have taxed my 
memory as much as I can, but I declare that I have no recollection of his using sucli an 
expression. I have also inquired of several friends who were there, but they all declare 
they never heard it. The ordained Minister of the Church of Scotland, who, 1 understand, 
has asserted that he heard Mr. Knibb use the expression, "is favoured above many of his 
brethren of that Church of the present day ; for, whilst they have ears but cannot, or will 
not, hear sounds loud as thunder, which are roaring around them, his ears, or, as Dr. Ritchie 
would call them, " lugs," are so long that they catch sounds which no one else can. 

I am, dear Sir, yours truly, 
H. D. Dickie, Esq. (Signed) William Alexander. 



