AN ADDRESS 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION 



DELIVERED ON THE 



iFHiEg'S' ©If ^w©w^m mm. 



BEFORE THE 



UNION ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY OF PHILADELPHIA, 



BY JAMES R. MTILIiSON, D. D. 



" LET THE OPPRESSED GO FREE." 



PHILADELPHIA. 
PUBLISHED BY REQUEST. 

31 E K R I H E AV AND G U N N, PRINTERS, 
No. 7 Carter's Alley. 



1838. 



-O^^ 



AN ADDRESS 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION 



DELIVERED ON THE 



IFHIE^'I? ®W ^WC&W^Sg mB% 



BEFORE THE 



UNION ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY OF PHILADELPHIA, 



BY JAMES R. "IVILIiSON, D.D. 



" LET THE OPPKESSED GO PltEE." 



PHILADELPHIA: 
PUBLISHED BY REQUEST. 

MERRIHEW AND GUNN, PRINTERS, 

No. 7 Carter's Alley. 

1838. 



,^1,h-S7 Ao.^ 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/addressonwestindOOwill 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 



"Rejoice with them that do rejoice; and weep with them 
that weep." To day there are in the British West India Islands 
five hundred thousand freemen, who were yesterday slaves.* 
They were nominally apprenticed freemen, but really slaves. 
To day they are in the full enjoyment of all the rights which 
belong to the free. At the hour of twelve, last night, their 
chains fell off, and their hearts are now overflowing with joyful 
emotions, awakened by the great deliverance that God hath 
wrought for them. After the hour of midnight, this morning, 
the stars shone on those islands with more brilliancy, and the 
moon with greater splendor ; their sun rose and shone to-day 
with a brighter effulgence ; the gales among their lemon and 
orange groves breathe a sweeter fragrance ; the tints of the flowers 
that adorn their fields and gardens, have put on more softness 
and beauty, and the feathered songsters pour forth floods of 
sweeter melody from the groves. The emancipated thousands 
oft raise their free arms toward heaven in joyful wonder that they 
can now call them their own, and exert their energies accord- 
ing to their own volitions, and for their own interest. In trans- 
ports of gladness, parents embrace their children, husbands 
their wives, and children their parents as their own, from whom 
they cannot now be separated by the will of a cruel master. 
" God hath done great things for them, whereof they are glad," 
and he commands us to rejoice with them. The spirit of slavery 
must have blighted the charitable sympathies of the heart that 
refuses to sympathize in their joys. 

We are also called to weep with them that weep. In our own 
land, more than two millions of our race are still groaning in cruel, 
relentless, and almost hopeless bondage. They hear only the 
sound of the lash, and the clanking of their chains. The Southern 
winds that bear on their wings the songs of the free, are at the 
same time charged with the mournful wailings of the wretched 
slave. The sorrows of the bondmen are deepened, and their 

•It appears by recent intelligence tliat tlic whole of the slaves in the British 
colonies, about 800,000, are emancipated. 



4 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

woes embittered, when they contrast the hopelessness of their op- 
pression with the present joy, and cheering future prospects of 
their brethren who have tasted the sweets of freedom. He has 
not the heart of a Christian, nor the kindness of a man, who does 
not weep with them, sympathizing in their sorrows. We will 
"rejoice with them that do rejoice — and weep with them that 
weep." 

These sympathetic affections were implanted in our nature, 
and their exercise commanded of God, not that they may 
waste themselves in transient emotions, without exciting to efforts 
for the relief of those children of sorrow who are called to weep- 
ing. The highly important event that has this day occurred in 
the islands situated near the borders of our slaveholding states, 
is designed of God, who rules in the kingdom of providence, to 
encourage and quicken the efforts of every friend of human liberty 
and the rights of man, " to loose the bands of wickedness, to 
undo the heavy burden, to break every yoke, and to set free the 
oppressed." The great work of God's providence which we 
are met to celebrate, demonstrates that he will not suffer enlight- 
ened, benevolent, philanthropic efforts to be unavailing. Heaven 
has answered the arguing of the panders of oppression, rebuked 
their sophistry, and silenced their clamorous opposition to the 
cause of liberty, by matters of fact which cannot be concealed, 
misinterpreted or refuted. 

We must be indulged in a brief historical sketch of the doings 
of Providence which have prepared the way for the events of 
this day, and led to their consummation. In the month of August 
1833, the British parliament passed an act declaring that, after 
the first of August 1834, the name of slavery should cease in all 
the colonies of Great Britain — that those who had been slaves 
should from that time be called freemen — that the 800,000 slaves 
of the West India Islands should be apprenticed to their former 
masters — that they should labor for them forty-five hours each 
week — and that the remainder of the time should be their own, 
to labor for themselves. This state of things was to continue 
until the first of August 1838, when the non-prsedials were to 
enjoy all the rights of freemen, while the praedials were to con- 
tinue in their apprenticeship until the first of August 1840, when 
they also were to become to all intents free. The non-praedials em- 
braced all those (classes of) slaves, who did not labor in the 
fields, or the house servants, and those who labor in mechanical 
employments. The praedials were that class that in our slave- 
holding states are known by the name of field slaves. The for- 
mer class, it was thought, would be prepared for the enjoyment 
and proper use of freedom two years sooner than the latter. By 
the act, the planter was deprived of the power to inflict corporeal 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 5 

punishment on his apprentice for any offence ; and was enjoined 
to continue tlie same allowances of food as during slavery. As 
an indemnity to the planters for the loss of the labor of their 
slaves, the sum of twenty millions of pound sterling, or about 
one hundred millions of dollars, was granted to them. The Bri- 
tish nation, by this prodigious sum, redeemed the 800,000 
slaves in their colonies. 

All the islands except Antigua, Bermuda, and the little island of 
Barbadoes, accepted the terms, and the slaves became apprentices 
on the first of August, 1834. We shall shortly give an account of 
the manner in which the apprenticeship scheme wrought. At pre- 
sent your attention is invited to the island of Antigua. It is one 
of the windward, or easterly islands ; about eighteen miles long, 
and fifteen broad. The coasts are mountainous ; the interior low 
and undulating. The whole population is about 37,000, of 
whom 30,000 were slaves, 2,500 whites, the remainder free 
colored people. Less than one fourteenth of the whole popula- 
tion are whites. The great staple of the island is sugar, of 
which the average yearly crop is 15,000 hogsheads. Instead of 
accepting the apprenticeship system, the planters of Antigua 
emancipated all their slaves on the first of August, 1834. The 
colored population were not in that island better prepared for im- 
mediate and total emancipation, than in the other islands, nor 
than the slaves of the United States are ; the physical force, as 
fourteen to one, was in their hands ; and yet their masters en- 
countered what they deemed the hazard of setting them all free 
in one hour. Now, if that act, under such circumstances, suc- 
ceeded M'^ell, far better than the gradual emancipation by the ap- 
prenticeship ; if no evil resulted either to the slaves, or the mas- 
ters ; and if the prosperity, peace and comfort of the whole popu- 
lation was promoted by that deed of immediate emancipation, 
then it follows, as an inference irresistible, that it is not only safe, 
but for the best interest of all, that the slaves in the slaveholding 
states and territories of the Union should be at once and alto- 
gether set free. And all this is fully substantiated. 

1. The slaves in Antigua passed instantly from the state of 
slavery to that of freedom, without tumult or disorder ; and their 
deportment during four years since their emancipation has been 
more orderly than when they were slaves. The governor of the 
island bears ample testimony to this. The Christmas holidays, 
during the continuance of slavery, had been marked with riot 
drunkenness, and every species of immorality and disorder. 
The safety of property, and personal security were preserved 
by a strong military force. But not so after the act of emanci- 
pation. "An intelligent gentleman," (say Thome and Kimball,) 
"informed us that the negroes, while slaves, used to spend, du- 



6 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

ring the Christmas holidays, the extra money which they got 
during the year. Now they save it to buy small tracts of land 
for their own cultivation." " The governor informed us that the 
police returns did not report a single case of arrest during the 
holidays. He said that he had been well acquainted with the 
country districts of England, he had also travelled extensively 
in Europe, yet he never had found such a peaceable, law-abiding 
people as those of Antigua."* It has been plead, many believe, 
and a majority fear, that were the slaves of the Southern states 
set free at once, they would become a riotous, disorderly, and 
tumultuous rabble, whose outbreakings nothing could restrain, 
and that the effect must be the entire ruin and disorganization of 
society. It seems to be in vain to reason with these groundless 
alarms, that liberty is not the parent of disorder — that where 
rational liberty is enjoyed, she is the friend, the patroness, and 
safeguard of peace, harmony, and good order — that it is a libel 
on human liberty to charge it with being the author of evil. If 
liberty be such an enemy to society, then let her be banished 
from the earth, and let the world be governed by a stern despotism. 
For this, no one will contend. But still, the liberty of the slave, 
it is said, would be most mischievous. We test this matter by 
Antigua. All has been orderly, no tumult, no breaking out of 
the disorderly passions, to disturb the repose of social life. On 
the contrary^ the turbulent passions have been calmed, and all 
society wears a more quiet, orderly, and peaceful aspect. Is 
there any reason, why the same cause in the Southern states 
should not produce the same effect ? Would emancipation in 
Virginia, render those turbulent, whom it made orderly in Anti- 
gua? The truth is, when you make a slave a freeman, you 
place before him a host of motives to good conduct, which he 
never saw before, and which, had he seen, he would have disre- 
garded. Very few of all the motives which operate on men for 
the preservation of good order, can operate on a slave. What 
has occurred as to this matter in Antigua, is according to the 
stable laws of nature ; it is not a strange phenomenon, but an 
event occurring in the natural order of cause and effect. 

2. It is plead that, were the slaves of the South emancipated, 
they would inundate the free states with idle, disorderly, and 
profligate paupers. This silly fear operates with more force in 
Pennsylvania than in those states that are distant from the slave- 
holding territories. By the operation of various causes, slaves, 
in many cases, do become free in the slave stales. And the con- 

* Thome and Kimball, p. 10. This ir.ost interesting and well substantiated work 
should be read by every man. 



AVEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 7 

dition of the few free colored people, among many slaves, is 
rendered miserable by cruel laws, and public sentiment still more 
cruel. They are in constant danger of being reduced again to 
slavery, and it is exceedingly difficult for them to procure em- 
ployment. It is the policy of slavemasters to render the condition 
of colored freemen as wretched as possible. Of course, as soon 
as a slave becomes free, it is natural that he should seek to 
better his condition by migrating to the North. Slaves, too, 
■will often make their escape from their masters, and many of 
these fugitives from oppression are never recovered by their 
masters. On these accounts, it is admitted that Pennsylvania 
does suffer some inconvenience from that class of people. It 
is true these living witnesses of the degrading effects of slavery 
ought to awaken, in all, a greater detestation of the evil, and 
excite to efforts for its reformation. But the spirit of slavery has 
blunted the moral sensibilities of the nation, dried up the fountains 
of sympathetic benevolence, and led many to reason more from 
interest than from duty. Were it true that many of the colored 
population, when set free, would prefer to reside among us, and 
that some inconvenience would arise from that quarter, it would 
furnish no valid reason why the duty of restoring to them their na- 
tural right to liberty, should not be performed. All the states, in 
adopting the Federal Constitution, in which the principle of 
slavery is embodied, participate in the sin of holding the African 
race in bondage. And were some present trouble to result from 
the immediate removal of the evil, all should be willing to submit 
to it, for the glory of God, for the welfare of two millions of 
colored people, and for the good of the commonwealth. 

But there would be no such evil as is feared in this quarter. 
On the contrary, we have ample testimony in the history of the 
last four years in Antigua, that the inconveniences at present 
experienced would be removed. Dr. Daniel, an attorney for 
several estates on the island, says of the attachment of the color- 
ed race to the place of their birth and residence : " Love of home 
is remarkable in the negroes. It is a passion with them. On 
one of the estates, of which I am an attorney, a part of the 
laborers were hired from other proprietors; they had been for a 
great many years living on the estate, and they became so 
strongly attached to it that they all continued to work on it 
after emancipation, and they still remain on the same property. 
The negroes are loath to leave their homes, and they very seldom 
do so, unless forced away by ill treatment. H. Armstrong, Esq., 
S. Barnard, Esq., Jas. Howell, Esq., S. Bourne, Esq., and many 
other gentlemen of very reputable character, bear witness to 
the same facts. All affirmed " that the negroes were peculiarly 



8 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

sensible to the influence of local attachments. One gentleman 
observed that it was a very common saying with them, ' Me 
nebber leave my bornin ground,^ i. e., birth-place."* A 
very few of them, soon after their emancipation, went to 
other islands, but the greater part shortly returned. In this 
matter there was no restraint imposed on them, but what arose 
out of circumstances, and their strong local attachments. They 
were left at perfect liberty to migrate to Trinidad, Hayti, or any 
other island. But they preferred their native place. Why should 
they not? The African race are as little inclined to rove as any 
other people. While the Irish, Germans, and others, emigrate 
to America, many thousands every year, the great mass of the 
free colored people in the United States are exceedingly averse 
to remove to the colony on the coast of Liberia, though they are 
transported free of expense, the promise of land made them, and 
every possible inducement held out. The corrupt popular sen- 
timent, that first wrongs, and then despises the African race, and 
the oppressive operation of unequal laws, impose on them great 
disabilities. They know and acutely feel them all, yet they pre- 
fer their humble lot in the land of their nativity to all the golden 
visions presented to them in Liberia. Why? Because they 
are not a roving people. As they remained in Antigua, after 
emancipation, so they would, on the same principles, in the 
Southern states, were they all set free to-day. There would, 
evidently, be fewer emigrations of colored people to the North- 
ern states than there are now, were they all free. But, after all, 
why this dread of a free colored population among the abettors 
of slavery? Slaveholders do not complain of the African race 
living among them in a state of slavery; and the advocates of 
slavery among us in the free states do not appear to think the 
Southern planters afflicted by two millions of colored people 
living among them. This whole outcry originates in a deep 
contempt and hatred of two millions of men; and a fear that, if set 
free, they will participate in that religious, intellectual, and moral 
culture that elevates humanity. Did they even emigrate as free- 
men to the Northern states, neither they nor we would suffer by 
it ; but they will not. 

3. It is assumed that, were the slaves all emancipated at once, 
they would be idle and dissolute paupers, that could not be in- 
duced to labor for wages; that they have been so long accustomed 
to fear and scourges, no other means could make them indus- 
trious. All this show of reasoning, or rather all this bold asser- 
tion, is contrary to the principles of our nature, and in the face of 

* ^Thome and Kimball, p, 46, 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 9 

all fact, even before the Antigua immediate emancipation. Are 
the free Americans less industrious than the oppressed people of 
Ireland — than the serfs of Russia and Poland 1 What is it that 
in all ages and nations has parlysed the arm of industry — that has 
propagated an idle and lazy race ? It is oppression. The re- 
wards of industry, where men are allowed to eat the fruits of 
their own labors, are among the powerful motives which, ac- 
cording to the will of the Creator, excite men to active and 
vigorous efforts. When these are taken away, no other means 
can supply their place, as all history bears witness. Hence, the 
truth, so often uttered by slaveholders themselves, that one free- 
man, in our free states, performs as much labor as two slaves. 
The slaves are human beings, and why should not like causes 
produce like effects ? Those who will not hear reasoning will 
perhaps, listen to matters of fact. After they were emancipated, 
in Antigua, they repaired in the morning to the fields, where 
they had been accustomed to labor for their masters without 
wages ; there they stood, hoe in hand, waiting for the appearance 
of the overseers. Those who had been slave-drivers, soon found 
they were no more than agents. They asked the negroes why they 
had notcommenced work as usual? They replied, " that they were 
tvaiting to know what wages would be offered them.'''' It was 
the first time they had ever had an opportunity of asking that 
question. True to human nature, they now are ready to make 
a bargain. What an interesting moment in their lives ! Who 
can think of it without emotion ? Wages were offered, they 
accepted, the contract was concluded ; and then, for the first 
time, they cheerfully began to labor for themselves, for their 
wives, and for their children. Would they be likely to work 
less cheerfully under such a change of circumstances ? There is 
a superabundance of testimony that they perform much more 
labor than when slaves. " The governor stated that he was 
assured by planters from every quarter of the island, that the 
negroes were very industriously disposed." Mr. Ralph Highin- 
bolham, the United States' Consul, states, " That they, as a 
body, are more industrious than when slaves, for the obvious 
reason that they are working for themselves.^'' The Hon. N. 
Nugent says, " The most general apprehension prior to eman- 
cipation was, that the negroes would not work after they were 
made free ; that they would be indolent, buy small parcels of 
land, and squat on them, to the neglect of the sugar cultivation. 
Time, however, has proved there was no foundation for this 
apprehension. The estates were never in better order than 
they are at present. If you are interrogated, on your return 
home concerning the cultivation of Antigua, you can say that 

2 



10 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

every thing depends on the iveather. If we have no rain, the 
crops must inevitably fail. But we can always depend on the 
laborers. On account of the stimulus to industry, which wages 
afford, there is far less feigned sickness than there was during 
slavery. When slaves, the negroes were glad to find any ex- 
cuse for deserting their labor, and they were incessantly feigning 
sickness. The sick house was thronged with real and pretended 
invalids. After '34, it was wholly deserted. The negroes 
would not go near it; and, in truth, I have lately used it for a 
stable." Mr. Watkins testifies, that "his people have become 
much more industrious since they were emancipated ; that he 
has been induced to extend the sugar cultivation over a number 
of acres more than have ever been cultivated before." Mr. 
Cranston : " My estate was never in a finer state of cultivation 
than it is now, though I employ fewer laborers than during 
slavery. I have occasionally used job, or task work, and with 
great success. When I give out a job, it is usually accomplished 
in about half the time that it would have required by giving the 
customary wages ; the people will do as much in one week, at 
job work, as they will in two, working for a shilling a day. I 
have known them when they had a job to do, turn out before 
three o'clock in the morning, and work by moon-light."* Such 
are the declarations of men of the largest property and highest 
standing, who had possessed the present free men as slaves, and 
who had been most vehemently opposed to emancipation. With 
great discernment, and their hearts being turned and directed in 
the providence of God, for great and important purposes, they 
preferred immediate to gradual emancipation. He must be worse 
than ignorant and stupid, who will continue to affirm that the 
immediate emancipation of all the slaves in the United States 
would convert them, from being industrious laborers, into idle, 
lazy, and vagrant nuisances. 

4. The free colored people of Antigua are respectful in their de- 
portment to the white population. Freedom has not made them 
insolent. The whites possess the learning, the refinement of 
manners, the intelligence, and the property ; and these always 
command respect from the ruder and poorer classes. Besides, 
it has become the interest of the planters to be more respectful 
in their deportment towards their laborers, and this produces 
courtesy among the colored people. Dr. Daniel declares, "that 
the gift of unrestricted freedom, though so suddenly bestowed, 
has not made the negroes more insolent than they were while 
slaves, but has rendered them less so.'''' James Howell, Esq.: 
" A short time after emancipation, the negroes showed some 

* Thome and Kimball, pp. 40, 4l. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 11 

disposition to assume airs and affect a degree of independence ; 
but this soon disappeared, and they are now respectful and civil. 
There has been a mutual improvement in this particular. The 
planters treat the laborers more like fellow men, and this leads 
the latter to be respectful in their turn. Mr. Bourne: "The 
negroes are decidedly less insolent now, than they were during 
slavery." Mr. Watkins : " The negroes are now all cap in 
hand; as they know that it is for their interest to be respectful 
to their masters."* There is not the least ground for the outcry 
made by the pro-slavery Jiewspapers and people, that the free color- 
ed people among ourselves are insolent. What is regarded as 
impudence in a negro, would be esteemed quite civil in a white 
person of the same rank and appearance. Many people would 
have all the African race to forget that they are men and freemen. 
Nothing less would please such oppressors in heart, than that 
every colored man, whatever his worth, should do homage as a 
slave to the white man, however base and contemptible. This 
unholy sentiment would scon be dismissed from the minds of 
white men, as it has been in Antigua, were all the slaves made 
freemen. Did white men among us treat the African race more 
respectfully, which they soon would do were there no slaves in 
the land, they would in turn deserve, and would experience, 
more civility from people of color. Insolence, petulence, and 
ambition, are probably less characteristic of the African race, 
than of any other people. 

5. The emancipated slaves in Antigua are grateful for their 
liberty. I remember to have heard it plead, more than thirty 
years ago, in debate in Jefferson College on the subject of imme- 
diate emancipation, that though the slaves have all a right to 
their freedom, and though in granting it they would receive no more 
than justice, yet they would regard it as a boon and be grateful 
for it as a favor ; and that this sentiment of gratitude would have 
a favorable influence on their whole social character. This is a 
just view of the character of man, and of the motives by which 
he is influenced to action. The gratitude of the colored people of 
Antigua, is, however, much more to God than to their masters. 
One of them said, "The liberty we have received from the king, 
we can never sufliciently thank God for. Whenever we think 
of it, our hearts go out in gratitude to God." Whenever the sub- 
ject of their emancipation is mentioned among them, they are 
ready to break out in such expressions of grateful emotion, as 
"Tank de good Lord." "Bless de Saviour." "Praise de 
blessed Saviour." There were reasons why they should not be 

♦ Thome and Kimball, p. 47. 



12 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

SO grateful to their masters as they would otherwise have been. 
They knew that had it not been for the act of the British par- 
liament, their masters would have retained them in bondage. 
Perhaps, too, they were shrewd enough to perceive that in pre- 
ferring immediate emancipation to the apprenticeship system, 
the planters were not moved by a regard to the gOQd of their 
slaves, " Yet a grateful and contented spirit certainly charac- 
terizes the negroes of Antigua. They do not lightly esteem 
what they have got, and murmur because they have no more. 
They do not complain of small wages, and strike for higher. 
They do not grumble about their simple food and their coarse 
clothes, and flaunt about sz.y\\\g freemen ought to live better. It 
was the common saying among them, as we were told by the 
missionaries, ' well, we wust be satisfied and content.'' "* This 
humble, thankful, and contented disposition, is one of the best 
guarantees that their deportment in society will be orderly, that 
they will see well to their own affairs, that they will improve in 
their characters, and that their comforts will increase. 

6, In the term of four years, their intellectual, moral, and reli- 
gious character has greatly improved. The abettors and apolo- 
gists of slavery discourse more plausibly, and with more show 
of a regard to righteousness, when they plead that the interests 
of the slaves would be harmed by immediate emancipation, than 
they do on any other topic. It is true, indeed, that all this plea 
is based on this .Jesuitical maxim — " The end sanctifies the 
means," i. e. " that we may do evil that good may come, whose 
damnation is just." Nearly all colonization men, and clerical 
apologists for slavery, commence their addresses by declaring 
that slavery is a great evil, a foul blot on the national character, 
and contrary to the rights of man. They then go on to plead, 
with heated zeal, that the welfare of the country, the good of the 
masters, and above all, the interest of the slaves, require that it 
shall be continued, whether for ten or a thousand years they do 
not tell us. It is a pretty bold undertaking, especially for a pro- 
testant clergyman and doctor of divinity, to attempt to convince a 
Christian people that it is the safer course for the commonwealth 
to continue in sin — and the best, nay the only way to promote 
the interest of two millions of men, is to deprive them unjustly 
of their rights. Now, all this pretence of argument, divested of 
all rhetorical flourish, and "oppositions of science, falsely so call- 
ed," is simply to prove that it is best to go on in sin. One 
would be ready to think that a proposition so monstrous, how- 

* Thome anil Kimball, p. 47. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 13 

ever disguised, would be regarded with detestation by every de- 
cent man, not to say by every one who professes to be a Chris- 
tian. But it really seems that it betrays into error thousands of 
the simple. The providence of God, in the island of Antigua, 
has furnished facts on these topics, that must, wherever known, 
disabuse the mind of every honest man. 

The intellectual improvement of the people of Antigua, has 
been promoted by their emancipation. 

Let us again refer to the immortal work of Thome and Kim- 
ball.* The following is an extract from the reply of Mr. Charles 
Thwaites to queries on education. "1. What has been your busi- 
ness for some years past in Antigua ? A superintendent of 
schools, and catechist to the negroes. 2. How long have you 
been engaged in this business ? Twenty-four years. The first 
four years engaged gratuitously, ten years employed by the 
Church Missionary Society, and since by the Wesleyan Mission- 
ary Society. 3. How many schools have you under your charge? 
Eight, with 1850 scholars; day schools seventeen, with 1250 scho- 
lars ; night schools on twenty-six estates, 396 scholars. The total 
number of scholars under instruction, is about 3,500. 4. Are 
the scholars principally the children who were emancipated in 
August, 1834? Yes, except the children in St. Johns, who 
were free before. 5. Are the teachers negroes, colored, or 
white ? One white, four colored, and sixteen black. 6. How 
many of the teachers were slaves prior to the first of August, 
1834? Thirteen." 

" Education has becon^e very extensive since emancipation. 
There are probably not less than six thousand children 
who now enjoy daily instruction." " We learned that the Bi- 
ble was the principal school-book taught in all the schools 
throughout the island." " Before emancipation," as was de- 
clared by Mr. Newby, the oldest Moravian missionary on the 
island, and a venerable man, " such was the opposition among 
the planters, it was impossible to teach the slaves excepting by 
night, and secretly. The children were not allowed to attend 
day school after they were six years old. Now the schools are 
open to all, at all times. The governor, the magistrates, the 
planters, and the parents, all vie with each other in the promotion 
of education. Before the passage of the act of emancipation, 
the planters had begun to relax the rigor of their opposition ; 
being driven from it by the prevalence of abolition doctrines in 
England." They never carried their opposition to so enormous 
and infamous lengths, as is done in many of our Southern states. 

* Tliome and Kinilj;ill, i)i). .31, 32. 



14 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

The Legislature of Antigua never forbid by statute the education 
of children ; much less did they make it criminal, and visit it 
with heavy pains and penalties. If the cause of learning is so 
greatly promoted in Antigua, where the restraints were not so 
great as in the slaveholding states of this country, how much 
more would the colored race advance in intellectual improvement 
were all the slaves of the United Slates emancipated. The 
Southern Legislatures, like the Antigua planters, would then be 
as zealous in the promotion of their education, as they now are 
to keep them in a state of savage ignorance. As no one will or 
can possiby question this, after the example of Antigua, how can 
any friend to human learning, any professor of religion, who 
desires all to have access to the Holy Scripures, plead for the 
continuance of slavery one hour ? 

7. That slavery is adverse to the diffusion of religious know- 
ledge among those who are held in bondage, is almost a self- 
evident proposition. An enslaved and oppressed population are 
generally ignorant, and of course irreligious and immoral. Set 
them free, it is said, and they become lazy, idle, and disorderly, 
and the consequence of all this will be greater ignorance and ir- 
religion. That they would become more ignorant than the great 
body of the slaves in the Southern states are, is nearly impossible ; 
and as they are now in a state of pagan darkness, they cannot 
become more destitute of the knowledge and power of the true 
religion than they are at present. If emancipation will not in- 
crease their means of instruction in the way of salvation by 
Christ Jesus, they must for ever remain without God, and with- 
out hope in the world. The attention given to religious ordi- 
nances by the free colored people in the United States, is incom- 
parably greater than it is among the slaves. 

8. Events in Antigua are every day bearing testimony to the 
salutary influence of immediate emancipation on the religious 
condition of the people. In a letter dated Dec. 2, 1834, but 
four months after emancipation, and addressed to the missionary 
board in England, the Rev. B. Harvey thus speaks of the Mora- 
vian missions : — " With respect to our people, I believe I may 
say, that in all our places here they attend the meetings of the 
church more numerously than ever, and that many are now in 
frequent attendance who could very seldom appear among us 
during slavery. The same statements substantially were made 
to us by Mr. H. — showing that instead of any falling off, the 
attendance was still on the increase." "The whole number of 
blacks receiving religious instruction from the Christian bodies, 
making allowance for the proportion of white and colored, in- 
cluded in the three thousand Wesleyans, is about twenty-two 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 15 

thousand — leaving a population of eight thousand negroes in An- 
tigua, who are unsupplied with religious instruction." "The 
negroes are uncommonly punctual and regular in their attendance 
upon divine worship, particularly on the Sabbaih. They always 
show a readiness to contribute to tlie support of the gospel."* Ac- 
tivity has been given to the circulation of the Holy Scriptures 
among the people of Antigua, The attention of the white peo- 
ple, their late masters, who, during slavery, had, like the Roman 
Pontiff, considered the circulation of the Bible among their 
slaves as the greatest enemy of their " domestic institutions," 
and had discouraged it, as soon as emancipation was efTected, was 
directed to the importance of using means for the moral improve- 
ment of the great mass of their citizens ; and they knew that the 
Holy Scriptures was the best means to accomplish this. They 
contributed largely to the funds of the Bible Society ; and en- 
couraged the introduction of the Bible into the common schools. 
Those who had been eager to shut out all the rays of religious 
knowledge from the minds of their slaves, became zealous in 
their efforts to furnish the means of spiritual illumination. In 
one word, the slaves who sat in darkness, as soon as they were 
emancipated, saw a great light springing up. This is the bright- 
est feature in the whole aspect of West India emancipation. God, 
who in his providential benignity delivered them from the thral- 
dom of slavery, and broke the yoke of man's oppression, has 
furnished them with the means which he uses to bring men out 
of spiritual bondage into the glorious liberty of the sons of God. 
All this gives promise that Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her 
hands to God, and that great princes shall arise out of the Af- 
rican race. 

We have more need of emancipation, to accomplish these be- 
neficent objects, — immediate and total emancipation, — than they 
had in the West Indies. 

Within less than three years after the deed of emancipation, 
between two-thirds and three-fourths of the whole colored popu- 
lation are found to be under the means of religious instruction. 
Will any one presume to affirm that there is as large a propor- 
tion of slaves in our slaveholding states that enjoy these means of 
coming to a knowledge of the way of salvation ? Does any one 
really believe, or hope that there will be such an effort among 
slave masters to instruct their bondmen in the way of life, while 
slavery continues ? 

That the moral deportment of the Antiguans improves with the 
increase of their facilities to attain religious knowledge is con- 

* Thome and Kiniball, p. 25. 



16 WEST INDIA EMANGIPATION. 

firmed by the amplest testimony. Crimes of every description are 
less frequent. "The abolition of slavery, gave the death-blow 
to many open vices, over-grown as they had become. Imme- 
diate emancipation, instead of lifting the floodgates of profligacy, 
was the only power strong enough to shut them down ! It re- 
stored the proper restraints on vice, and supplied the proper in- 
centives to virtue. The controllers of moral action, self respect, 
attachment to the law, and veneration for God, which slavery 
annihilated, freedom has resuscitated, and now they stand round 
about the emancipated with flaming sword, deterring from evil, 
and with cheering voice exhorting to good. It is explicitly af- 
firmed that the grosser forms of immorality, which in every 
country attend upon slavery, have, in Antigua, either shrunk into 
concealment or become extinct."* Can any thing be more natu- 
ral than all this ? We all know, where slavery prevails, there 
vice in its most odious and disgusting forms presents an unblush- 
ing front, both among masters and slaves. While the cause ex- 
ists, the baleful efl'ects, with unerring certainty, will follow. Re- 
store the proper incentives to moral deportment, and furnish the 
means of knowing the truth, and the law of God, by his appoint- 
ed means of grace, and beneficent results will follow. " Every 
thing shall live, whithersoever the waters of the river of life come." 
These beautiful waters never irrigate, reclaim and fertilize those 
lands that slavery renders barren and desolate wastes, until this 
insuperable barrier is removed. 

9. The female character is improved, and elevated in Antigua 
by immediate emancipation. Slavery and barbarism degrade — 
they always, and inevitably degrade the character of woman. 
Look at the condition of the colored female, among American 
slaves, and how uterly sunk in the very lowest depths of degra- 
dation ! Humanity blushes and hides its face in shame. This 
evil never can be reformed, while slavery continues ; for it con- 
ceals or takes away the incentives to modesty, delicacy, and 
every thing that purifies, exalts, and adorns the character of wo- 
man. Many people seem to wish this female degradation to 
continue. They cry out that if the slaves are immediately 
emancipated, it will result in the amalgamation of the two races 
by inter-marriages. What ! do they fear that should colored 
females become free women, instead of slaves, they would 
forthwith become so beautiful, graceful, and attractive by their 
charms that their sons would prefer them for wives, before the 
young white females ? Must they keep the slaves degraded lest 
they should either force or seduce white men to select them as 

* Thome and Kimball, p. 27. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 17 

partners for life ? In truth there never was a more idle and sense- 
less clamor, than the cry of amalgamation raised to render the 
doctrine of immediate emancipation odious. No emancipation- 
ist ever plead for it ; no one ever was known to act on it in 
pactice. But they are desirous that more than a million of fe- 
males of the African race in our country shall have access to the 
means of intellectual refinement, and of polished manners. They 
believe that the Creator has endowed them with faculties render- 
ing them susceptible of improvement, and thereby indicat- 
ing his will, that they should not be kept in a state of physical, 
intellectual, moral, and religious debasement. But what has 
immediate emancipation done for them in Antigua? It has been 
the occasion of doing every thing for them by making them free ; 
opening the portals of knowledge to them, by furnishing them 
with the means of grace, and promoting marriage. All that has 
been stated in the discussion of the preceding topics, applies to 
them in common with the males. But in relation to marriage, 
there is something peculiarly emphatic in the amelioration of 
their character and condition. "AH persons, of all professions, 
testify to the fact that marriages are rapidly increasing. In 
truth there was scarcely any such thing as marriage before the 
abolition of slavery. Promiscuous intercourse of the sexes was 
almost universal." In the report of the Antigua branch association 
of the Society for advancing the Christian faith in the British 
West Indies, (for 1836,) the following statements are made ; 
" The number of marriages in the six parishes of the island in 
the year 1835, the first entire year of freedom was 476, all 
of which, excepting about fifty, were between persons formerly 
slaves. The total number of marriages solemnized in the church 
during the nine years ending December 31, 1832, was 157; in 
1833, the last entire year of slavery, it was sixty-one. Thus it 
appears that the whole number of marriage durings ten years 
previous to emancipation (by far the most favorable ten years) 
was but half as great as the number for a single year following 
emancipation." 

The governor, in one of our earliest interviews with him, said : 
" The great crime of this island, as indeed of all the West India 
colonies, has been licentiousness, but we are certainly fast im- 
proving in this particular."* Before the deed of emancipation, 
mothers often sold their daughters to those who could give the 
highest price for them. The buyer was generally a manager or 
overseer. Now the mother is desirous to obtain a marriage set- 
tlement for her daughters. The planters in the island were, 

* Thome and Kimball, \i. '26. 
3 



18 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

with few exceptions, unmarried men, and led very licentious 
lives. Men of large families frequently kept two or three color- 
ed mistresses, with the most open and unblushing effrontery. 
By far the largest part of the population of the island are of ille- 
gitimate birth. This abominable profligacy of manners is the 
native offspring of slavery, and is amalgamation of the most 
odious and detestable character. A very great reformation has 
been effected in four years, as the fruit of immediate emancipa- 
tion. The condition of females, and indeed of society must be 
debased, wherever the divine institution of marriage is either 
disregarded or lightly esteemed. All know that this is the case 
among the slaves in the United Stales. In the course of an 
ordinary life, one colored man will often be the husband (if it be 
not an abuse of the name to apply it in this manner) of three or 
four wives, and one woman acknowledged as the wife of as 
many husbands. In truth, the word marriage is not much used 
among perhaps a majority of the slaves; they speak of ^'■taking- 
up'''' with one another, instead of entering into the marriage 
relation, as they know it is in the power of the master to break 
up the connexion, as soon as he chooses to sell either of the 
parties. The prodigious increase of the mulattoes, quadroons, 
&c., in the Southern states, is unquestionable evidence that the 
debasement of morals by this vice is little less than it was in 
Antigua. How shall this debasing and most detestable immorality 
be reformed, and the female, as well as the male, be rescued from 
degradation and infamy ? We have the answer in the emancipa- 
tion of the Antigua slaves. Formerly, people of all colors " pro- 
claimed their sin as Sodom;" now it is either in a great measure 
concealed, or abandoned. Messrs. Thome and Kimball assure ns, 
that there is the fairest prospect of the young females now growing 
up under the culture of literature and religion in Antigua, and 
being virtuous and respectable. What are we to think of those 
ministers of the gospel, doctors of divinity, and other professors 
of religion, who, in the face of all these facts, plead for the con- 
tinuance of slavery for generations to come, perhaps for ever ? 
Were there no obstacle to the improvement of the slaves prepa- 
ratory to emancipation, this one would prove insurmountable. 
The female character must continue to be debased while slavery 
continues ; and while the female character is dishonored, the 
ignorance and wretchedness of the slave population cannot be 
reformed. 

The consequence of these salutary reforms in Antigua, has 
been to multiply the comforts of the emancipated. They are 
industrious and economical; their food is better, and their clothes 
and cottages are cleaner and neater. Instead of spending their 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 19 

time on the Sabbath, and their hours of relaxation, in low and 
vulgar amusements, and in drinking intemperateiy, they expend 
their earnings in procuring for themselves the comforts of life, 
and enjoy their leisure hours with families that they can call 
their own, and in whom they feel an increased and before un- 
known interest. Whatever attaches any one to home, increases 
his means of happiness ; for if the comforts of social life are not 
found at home, they are few indeed. No one could have antici- 
pated so many and such happy results from the deed of emanci- 
pation, as experience has demonstrated that it produces. Hardly 
any evil existed, which it has not already greatly mitigated, and 
hardly any thing to be desired, which it has not improved. It 
may be confidently affirmed, that not one evil has resulted from 
this great and beneficent change, which, in one moment trans- 
formed thirty thousand slaves into freemen; which elevated them 
from the rank of chattels into that of men and citizens, and which 
restored them to themselves. The lamp of freedom has kindled 
the lights of learning, and the darkness of many generations has 
fled away. More than all, "the sun of righteousness has arisen 
on them with healing under his wings." 

If the slaves have been so greatly benefitted, it has not been 
to the disadvantage of their masters. They too have been much 
the gainers, and have in nothing suffered loss. 

1. There have been no attempts on the part of the emanci- 
pated to avenge past injuries. They have all been forgotten in the 
transporting joys of emancipation. We are often told that were 
all our slaves at once emancipated, they would break forth in 
transports of rage, and deluge the land with blood, and fill it 
with carnage. Many simple people seem really to believe that 
all this would happen, however contrary it is to the known laws 
of human nature, and the constant operation of moral causes. 
Antigua furnishes amass of facts to allay all these idle fears, and 
silence all these senseless alarms. " For some time previous to the 
first of August, forebodings of disaster lowered over the island. 
The day was fixed! Thirty thousand degraded human beings 
were to be brought forth from the dungeon of slavery, and turned 
loose on the community! and this was to be done 'in a moment, 
in the twinkling of an eye!' How did they conduct themselves? 
What was their deportment? Were these gloomy apprehensions 
and dreadful anticipations realized? Not in the least ; all was 
directly the reverse. On the evening which preceded the day of 
their emancipation, many of the candidates for liberty assembled 
in a spacious church, which was filled to overflowing. They 
spent the time in songs of joyfid expectation, and in prayer, till 
the hour of midnight approached, when the missionaries pro- 



20 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

posed that all, as soon as the clock of the cathedral would begin 
to strike the hour of twelve, should kneel, and receive from God 
the boon of freedom in silence. Accordingly, as the loud bell 
tolled its first note, the immense assembly fell prostrate on their 
knees. All was silence, save the quivering, half-stifled breath 
of the struggling spirit. The slow notes of the clock fell upon 
the multitude; peal on peal rolled over the prostrate throng in 
tones of angels' voices, thrilling among the desolate chords and 
weary heart-strings. Scarce had the clock sounded its last note, 
when the lightning flashed vividly around, the loud peal of thun- 
der roared along the sky — God's pillar of fire, and trump of 
jubilee ! A moment of profoundest silence passed — then came 
the burst; they broke forth in prayer; they shouted, they sung 
' glory,' ' allelulia ;' they clapped their hands, leaped up, fell 
down, clasped each other in their free arms, cried, laughed, and 
went to and fro, tossing up their unfettered hands ; but high 
above the whole, there was a mighty sound which ever and anon 
swelled up — it was the utterings, in broken negro dialect, of 
gratitude to God. 

"After this gush of excitement had spent itself, the congrega- 
tion became calm, the religious exercises were resumed, and the 
remainder of the night was occupied in singing and prayer, in 
reading the Bible, and in addresses from the missionaries, 
explaining the nature of the freedom just received, and exhorting 
the freed people to be industrious, steady, and obedient to the 
laws, and to show themselves in all things worthy of the high 
boon that God had conferred on them."* How very far different 
was all this from spending that night memorable to Antigua, 
in plots and conspiracies. The first of August was Friday, and 
a release from labor was proclaimed until the Monday following. 
Saturday, all was quiet — no revelling, nothing but natural and 
joyful congratulations upon the wondrous deliverance that had 
been wrought, in their redemption from bondage. The Sabbath 
came, and the churches all over the island were crowded. The 
planters united with the colored freemen, who the Sabbath pre- 
ceding had been their slaves, and with cheerful countenances 
saluted them as friends. 

These emotions of joy and gratitude cannot dwell in the same 
bosoms with the malignant and vengeful passions. The island 
to this moment continues tranquil. There have been no rebel- 
lions, no conspiracies for four years, no striking for higher 
wages, nor any occurrence to awaken between the white popu- 
lation and the negroes, hostile feelings. The physical power is 

* Thome and Kimball. 



WEST INDIA EMAXCIPATION. 21 

in the hands of the colored people, for they are about fourteen 
times as numerous as the whites. Can there be any possibility 
of danger in the United States, where the negroes are but one 
sixth of the whole population, or even in the slaveholding states, 
where the whites are nearly double the number of the slaves? 
In Antigua, they have the power, but not the will to harm the 
planters; would they have the will in our own country, where 
they could not have the power? The law, were they free, 
would have more power over them than the whip of the slave- 
driver, now that they are slaves. Gratitude, their own interest, 
the power of the white population, and the influence of public 
sentiment and law, would secure the country against all danger 
from two and a half millions of colored people, were they even 
disposed to avenge themselves on their former masters for past 
wrongs. But the example of Antigua demonstrates that the 
desire of vengeance, if it exists, is extinguished by emancipa- 
tion. 

2. The planters of Antigua have not only been living without 
molestation from the emancipated, but they are delivered from 
the fear of danger. Wherever there are many slaves, their 
masters live in constant terror. Their conscience admonishes 
them that they daily wrong the slave. They feel in themselves, 
that were they the slaves and the colored people their masters — 
that were they treated as they treat their slaves, it would beget 
enmity. They know that, in such a change of relations, 
nothing but force could hold them in bondage. Hence the 
dread of insurrection that haunts them. Mr. John Randolph, 
more than twenty years ago, said, on the floor of Congress, 
" That every rustling of the leaf by the wind, heard in the night, 
made the mothers of Virginia press their babes closer to their 
bosoms." During the last war, even in Kentucky, the slave- 
holders slept in bed-rooms furnished with swords, and fire-arms 
charged. They do so now in many parts of the slaveholding 
states. Armed men patrole by night the estates of the planters. 
The same terrors harrassed the planters of Antigua, before the 
deed of abolition. A merchant who had resided more than thirty 
years in Antigua, writes : " There is no sense of personal dan- 
ger, arising from insurrections or conspiracies among the blacks. 
Serious apprehensions of this nature were formerly entertained, 
but they gradually died away during the first year oj freedom.''''* 
When the planters were asked whether they apprehended any 
danger, it excited a smile of surprise that such a question should 
be asked. What a change in the comfort of social life ! Before 

• Thome and Kinibiill, \\. 38. 



22 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

emancipation, they were in habitual terror. H. Armstrong, Esq., 
said : " That during slavery, he used frequently to lie sleepless 
on his bed, thinking about his dangerous situation — a lone white 
person far away from help, and surrounded by hundreds of 
savage slaves ; and he had spent hours thus, in devising plans 
of self-defence in case the house should be attacked by the ne- 
groes. If they come, he would say to himself, and break down 
the door, and fill my bed-room, what shall I do ? It will be use- 
less to fire at them ; my only hope is to frighten the supersti- 
tious fellows by covering myself with a white sheet, and rushing 
into the midst of them, crying ' ghost, ghost.' Now, Mr. A. 
sleeps in quietness, without conjuring up a ghost, to guard at his 
bed side." One gentleman in St. John's affirms, " that now the 
security of property is much greater in Antigua than in England."* 
During the christmas holidays, while slavery existed, the whole 
island was under military law. At present, the military are not 
ever called out. Had the Southern planters of the United States 
no other object, a regard to their own peace of mind — to rid 
themselves from the terrors that embitter their lives, should in- 
fluence them to emancipate immediately all their slaves. That 
they are haunted by such terrors, they are not generally willing 
to confess, since the commencement of the abolition controversy. 
But their appeals to public sympathy against abolitionists reveal 
the secret. " These incendiaries will stir up the slaves to cut 
all our throats; they are scattering firebrands to kindle the flames 
of a servile war !" All this is so far from being true, that there has 
been no insurrection since the Southampton insurrection, which 
happened before the existence of an abolition society was known 
at the South. How is this to be accounted for? Previously to 
that time scarcely a year passed without not only the bruit, but 
the actual formation and partial execution of plans for the re- 
covery of liberty, by destroying the lives of the slave-masters. 
Even the hope of emancipation, though faint, preserves all now 
in a state of peace and quietness. The fear of evil resulting 
from performing an act of duty, from ceasing to commit sin, is 
an impeachment of the law and government of God. Many, 
who admit that slavery is a violation of the law of Heaven, a 
gross outrage on the rights with which God has endowed man, 
and a blot on the national escutcheon, affirm withal that the re- 
formation of the evil would be attended with the most disastrous 
consequences. What is this, but to maintain that it is better to 
violate than to obey the law of God? That ignorant and profane 
men should utter such preposterous opinions, does not excite asto- 

*Thome and Kimball, p. 38, 39, 



•WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 23 

nishment, but when they proceed from the lips of professors of the 
Christian religion, it is just ground of surprise. By the facts 
that have occurred in Antigua, God in his providence has refuted 
the impious slander on his moral government. 

3. The property of the planters has improved in value since 
the emancipation of the slaves. There are two reasons for this ; 
the freemen do more work now than when they were slaves, 
and they are more provident and careful. If the slave works 
by the job, he is stimulated to exertion by the reward ; and when 
he works by the day, it is his interest to work well and be care- 
ful, as these are the means of securing reputation and employment. 
So abolitionists have always reasoned. But now, we can appeal 
to facts. " Dr. Nugent stated that the expenses of cultivation 
were greatly diminished." " A. merchant of St. John's informed 
us that real estate had increased in value at least fifty per 
cent. He mentioned the fact, that an estate which, previous to 
em ancipation, could not be sold for six hundred pounds current, had 
lately brought two thousand pounds current."* This improvement 
is advancing every year, as the planters are introducing the plough 
and other labor-saving machinery. It is not too much to say that, 
were all the facts in relation to property, safety, and comfort, 
alone, as they exist in Antigua, placed before the minds of all 
the slave-masters in our country, and duly weighed, they would 
immediately emancipate all their slaves. I had, a few days 
ago, a conversation with a Mississippi planter, in a steam-boat 
on the North river. His first question was : " In what state are 
we ?" It seemed fair to infer, from a question of this kind, that 
he was a very ignorant man; and he was so, as respected all 
that related to the Northern states. But he was soon found to 
to be well informed respecting the Southern states. Do South- 
ern people feel very strongly that the free states are a part of 
their country ? He was desirous to know what the profits of 
the New York farmers were on such farms as we saw in Dutchess 
county. When told that a farmer, possessing one hundred and 
fifty or two hundred acres, would support his family in great 
comfort, and in one year clear from five hundred to upwards 
of one thousand dollars, he said that one farmer in the neighbor- 
hood of Natchez would clear annually ten thousand dollars. 
He was told, this would be by the labor of two or three hundred 
people. No, said he, thirty laborers would clear that amount 
to a planter. One hand will make ten bales of cotton on good 
ground in a favorable season, and it will sell for fifty dollars; so 
that we make fifteen thousand dollars out of the labor of thirty 

* Thome and Kimball, pp. W — 49. 



24 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

people. He was reminded that there must be some children 
and superannuated people. Oh yes, said he, we must keep 
about fifty people, to have thirty productive laborers. These do 
not cost us more than two thousand dollars a year, and our 
family expenditures are not annually more than three thousand 
dollars, — at least, a family can live very well, and not spend 
more. I said, there is something in all this which I cannot under- 
stand. It appears that, in one of the West India islands, An- 
tigua, where the slaves were all set free nearly four years ago, 
the properly of the planters has increased in value, and they 
cultivate their plantations at less expense than they did when 
their laborers were all slaves. He inquired what wages the 
working people received ? When he heard the amount, he said 
if he could hire laborers at twenty-five cents a day, he would 
prefer it to slave-labor. But how is that? Twenty-five cents 
a day is more than you say the expense of supporting one slave 
is in the same time. Very true, he replied, but there is an item 
which you do not recollect. We have been paying, until within 
about a year, one thousand six hundred dollars for a good '■'•uwrk 
handy* We have, for many years, been paying twenty-five 
per cent, interest. Multitudes of laborers are bought on borrowed 
money. The interest of the purchase money amounts to four 
hundred dollars. It is very common, he added, to hire a man 
from his owner for three hundred and fifty dollars a year. When 
a negro dies, it is dead capital, and another sixteen hundred 
dollars must be paid to supply his place ; I should greatly prefer 
hiring men at a quarter of a dollar a day to my present way of 
cultivating my estate. At that moment it seemed to have sug- 
gested itself 10 him that he was in conversation with a Northern 
man, who, probably, thought he had no right to a man after he had 
paid his sixteen hundred dollars, and that it is not honest to give a 
man in food and clothing less than forty dollars, when his 
labor is worth five hundred. " Sir," said he, " they [meaning 
the slaves] are in a better condition than if they were free." 
The last proposition of this slave-master was no more consistent 
with reason, than his first, that the planter in Mississippi cleared 
ten thousand dollars a year, was consistent with accuracy. But 
though, as was evident from his whole manner, he had been 
educated in all the habits of slaveholders, yet half an hour's con- 
versation on the Antigua emancipation, of which he seemed to 
have had no previous knowledge, convinced him that slave-labor 
is less profitable than free. Why are slave masters and pro- 
slavery men determined to remain ignorant on these topics, and 

* Slave is a word wliich many Southerners endeavor to avoid using. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 25 

to extinguish all the lights of discussion? Men love sin, and sin 
delights in darkness. 

4. The best evidence of the improved condition of the planters of 
Antigua is, that they are all now delighted with the change, and 
are zealous abolitionists. Before the act of emancipation passed 
in the British parliament, they were unanimous and vehement in 
their opposition to any interference with " their domestic insti- 
tution." They had paid their money for their slaves, and they 
were of course their own property; they had been secured in their 
title by the British government, who had maintained an armed 
force on the island to suppress slave insurrection; slavery was an 
ancient institution which had descended to them from their an- 
cestors ; and without slave labor, sugar could not be cultivated. 
All V,' ho opposed them in the possession of property that had been 
legalized, were disorganizers, fools, fanatics and incendiaries. The 
slaves when freed would be infuriate wild beasts of prey, who 
would soon glut themselves with the blood of all their former 
masters. No lecturer on abolition would have dared to set foot 
on Antigua, while the subject was under discussion in parliament; 
his life would have been the forfeit. Now the masters rejoice in 
the change as much as the slaves, and perhaps more. The su- 
perintendent of police, in his report to the governor, dated St. 
John's, Sept. 4th, 1836, and of course more than two years after 
the deed of immediate emancipation, among many other items 
of similar import makes this remarkable declaration: "Every 
friend to this country, and to the liberties of the world, must view 
with satisfaction the gradual improvement in the character and 
behavior of this class of the community, under the constant ope- 
ration of the local enactments." Again, in a report of January 
4th, 1837: " Sir, it is with feelings of the most lively gratification 
that I report for your notice the quiet and peaceable termination 
of the Christmas vacation, and the last year, which were con- 
cluded without a single serious violation of the governing laws." 

" I cannot refrain from cordially congratulating your excellen- 
cy on the regular and steady behavior maintained by all ranks 
of society, at this particular period of the year. 

" Not one species of crime which can be considered of a hein- 
ous nature, has yet been discovered ; and I proudly venture to de- 
clare my opinion, that in no part of his majesty's dominions has 
a population of thirty thousand conducted themselves with more 
strict propriety, at this annual festivity, or been more peaceably 
obedient to the laws of their country." Mr. Hickham, the au- 
thor of tills report, has been thirty-eight years a resident in the 
island ; and most of that time engaged directly in the manage- 

4 



26 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

ment of estates.* He is of course thoroughly acquahited with 
the condition of society. 

" Not long before emancipation, Mr. Scotland was imprisoned 
for befriending the negroes; after emancipation, Mr. Corbett was 
imprisoned for wronging them."t Dr. Daniell says: "We all re- 
sisted violently the measure of abolition; we regarded it as an 
outrageous interference with our rights, with our property." Mr. 
I. Howell, — "Before emancipation there was the bitterest oppo- 
sition to it among the planters. But after freedom came, they 
were all delighted with the change. I felt strong opposition my- 
self, being exceedingly unwilling to give up my power of com- 
mand. But I shall never forget how differently I felt when free- 
dom took place. I arose from my bed on the first of August, 
exclaiming with joy, I am free, 1 am free; / was the greatest 
slave on the estate, but now I am free."± In view of such testi- 
mony, and after more than two years of experience, can any one 
doubt that the condition of the masters was greatly improved — their 
estates, their safety, their peace of mind — all their earthly comforts? 
How should the property and the comfort of the Antiguans be 
so greatly improved by a measure which would mar these in the 
United States ! The relation of the tyrant, despot, and cruel 
taskmaster, to the oppressed, has always been painful to the op- 
pressor. It is an unnatural relation, contrary to the law of so- 
ciety impressed on the constitution of man by the Creator. All 
sin leads to misery in the very nature of things ; for God's law, 
of which sin is a violation, is adapted in the wisdom and good- 
ness of the Supreme Legislator to the promotion of human 
happiness. " The ways of wisdom are pleasantness, and all her 
paths peace." Slaveholders make themselves miserable while 
they wrong and degrade their slaves by holding them, not by 
right, but by lawless violence, in bondage. A more natural state 
of society has been introduced in Antigua, and it has removed a 
mass of misery, and diffused comfort through all society. It 
would do so here. 

5. The moral character of the planters is in the way of im- 
provement. Those fierce and tyrannical traits that distinguish 
the slaveholder and the slave-driver, in his intercourse with his 
slaves, have suddenly disappeared. The very fact that the labor- 
ing class are now freemen begets respect. They are now men, 
and no longer mere things that may with impunity be trodden 
down and trampled upon. It has become the interest of the 
planter to treat with courtesy those who labor on his estate as hired 

* Thome and Kimball, pp. 44, 45. | Ibid. p. 51. + Ibid. p. 49. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 27 

servants, who may leave him at any time on a month's notice. It 
is an evidence of this, that on the Sabbath following the Friday of 
emancipation, the whites attended church with the colored peo- 
ple, and spoke to them in a friendly manner, and, in one word, 
they sought by all judicious means to conciliate their favor. The 
improvement of the emancipated in their moral character and de- 
portment puts the vices of the opulent to the blush. 

It has been already stated that few of the planters, before eman- 
cipation, were married men. They lived in the most shameful 
libertinism. This vice, among the whites, begins to be abashed. 
In a short time as large a proportion of the colored females will 
be wives, as in civilized societies elsewhere. The improving vir- 
tue of the emancipated tends to the reform of the planters. Il- 
legitimacy, in less than three years after emancipation, had be- 
come a dishonor. This is one of the deep stains of slavery in 
Antigua, that will require a generation to wash out. " His ex- 
cellency, the governor, intimated as much, by his repeated 
assurances for himself and his compeers of the first cir- 
cles, that there was no such feeling in the island as preju- 
dice against color. The reasons, for excluding the colored 
people from their society, he said, were wholly diflerent from 
that. It was chiefly because of their illegitimacy.'''' Now, 
the floodgate of libertinism, by which all other vices flow 
in upon society, is in a great measure let down; and a healthier 
state of morals begins to appear. The interest which the 
planters take in the establishment of schools for the cultivation 
of the minds of the children, in the circulation of the Bible 
among all classes, and in temperance associations, are visibly im- 
proving the state of morals among the higher classes. All this 
would follow immediate emancipation in the United States. That 
there is much open, very gross, and loathsome immorality in the 
slaveholding states every one knows. The sons of slaveholders 
are educated, if education it may be called, in idleness; this leads 
to intemperance, gaming, and other gross vices. Fathers set be- 
fore their sons examples of gross and shameless licentiousness. 
The children of the masters know that they have brothers and 
sisters, the children of their fathers, among the slaves. How 
blasting and withering must be the eff'ect of all this on all the 
moral sensibilities of the tender mind ! Nothing could tend to 
brutalize it more directly. The son sees his father sell and tear 
from the arms of their distracted mothers his own flesh and blood, 
literally, and commit them to the manacles and tlie lash of the 
merciless slave dealer, that they may be driven away, like cattle 
in the drove, to a distant market! Can a son see his father do 
all this, without a frown from society around him, and not be 



28 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

hardened and debased? Is he not likely to grow up a shameless 
libertine and relentless tyrant 1 Let facts in the South bear wit- 
ness. Even members of the protestant churches are known to be 
guilty of ihese gross and most abominable vices, without being sub- 
jected to the censures of the church, or even the admonitions of 
the clergy. " shame, where is thy blush !" One is filled with 
horror at the recital of such enormities. And yet, does any one 
believe that a reformation of these monstrous immoralities will 
ever be effected as long as slavery continues ? Can any one point, 
on the whole page of history, to a people that have practised such 
slavery, and yet have been free from these pollutions ? There is 
but one remedy — abolish slavery, as in Antigua, at one blow, and 
thus "lay the axe to the root of the tree." 

It is thus that the God of heaven has kindled a beacon fire in 
the West Indies, that sheds its light on the dark abodes of slave- 
ry, "on the places full of the habitations of horrid cruelty" — 
a light that has attracted the gaze of the nations — a light that the 
oppressor and all his auxiliaries cannot extinguish. They may 
riot in mob violence; they may burn the halls of liberty; they may 
close the door on the right of petition; they may threaten to re- 
strain and demolish the press ; and they may even drink the blood 
of the slain ; but they cannot extinguish the fires of liberty kin- 
dled by the hand of the Almighty, in the isles of the sea. They 
will continue to burn and reveal the iniquity of the oppressor; to 
shine, and make known the best means to accomplish the refor- 
mation of the evils wrought by oppression. 

In the West Indies, we have also had a scheme of gradual 
emancipation weighed in the balances and found wanting. All 
the other West India islands, save Antigua, accepted the appren- 
ticeship system, and put it into operation on the first of August, 
1834. Jamaica, Barbadoes, and the other British islands that came 
at that time under the act of August, 1833, contained slaves of the 
African race amounting to near eight hundred thousand. All 
these, though nominally set free on the first of August, 1834, were 
yet obliged by the act to work for their former masters forty-five 
hours a week, under the name of apprentices, until the first of 
August, 1840, except the non-prsedials, or those who were not 
field slaves, who amounted to more than forty thousand. All of 
that class were to become to all intents free men on this day. The 
prsedials or field apprentices, were allowed to work for them- 
selves the remaining hours of the week, which were computed 
to amount to one day out of six. The overseers were not al- 
lowed to use the ivhlp. All ofTences were to be reported to spe- 
cial magistrates, who were appointed by the crown, not of the 
former slaveholders, in the colonies. It was thought that if delin- 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 29 

quenoies should come under the cognizance of the ordinary local 
magistrates, or of persons appointed from among the slave masters, 
they might be influenced by an undue bias, in favor of the plant- 
ers and against the apprentices. The special magistrates were 
armed with power to inflict corporeal punishment on those who 
were proved to be off'enders. They had jurisdiction also over 
the masters, to prevent and punish cruelties in the treatment of 
the apprentices. A.nd any one of the apprentices, who had the 
means and was desirous of purchasing, at any time, entire free- 
dom, had a right to do so, at a price set by appraisers, appointed 
for that special object. The master must sell him his time at the 
price fixed. 

Here was a scheme of gradual emancipation that seemed to be 
well guarded. It was not what the abolitionists of Great Britain 
sought. They petitioned for immediate and total emancipation; 
but still much was gained ; and it was a system which intelligent 
men might adopt, especially such as were not deeply impressed 
with the greatness of the evil of sinning against God, by violently 
withholding their inalienable rights from his creatures. The sys- 
tem seemed to be protected by many efficient safeguards from 
working great harm to the apprentices. But still it was essen- 
tially defective. It was perhaps impossible at the time to devise 
any scheme of removing gradually the yoke of bondage from 
the neck, that could give greater promise of working well. In 
so far as it adopted the doctrine of gradual emancipation, it ac- 
cords with the plans of the colonization society; and the evils 
with which it was found to be chargeable may be fairly plead 
against colonization. It was not altogether unproductive of good, 
though pregnant with many evils. 1. The condition of both the 
apprentices and masters was in some degree improved. The 
Archdeacon of Barbadoes, the Rev. Edward Elliot, informed 
Messrs. Thome and Kimball, "that the number of churches and 
clergymen had increased since emancipation; religious meetings 
were more fully attended, and the instructions given had mani- 
festly a greater influence. Increased attention was paid to edu- 
calioa also. Before emancipation, the planters opposed educa- 
tion, and, as far as possible, prevented the teachers from coming 
to the estates. Now, they encourage it in many instances, and 
where they do not directly encourage, they make no opposition. 
He said that the number of marriages had very much increased 
since the abolition of slavery."* "Mr. C, an American mer- 
chant, spoke of the advantages of emancipation with much feel- 
ing." " Emancipation is as great a blessing to the master as to 

* Tlionie and Iviinbull, p. 54, 



30 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

the slave. Why, it was emancipation to me. I assure you the 
first of August brought a great, great relief to me. I felt myself, 
for the first time, a freeman on that day. You cannot imagine 
the responsibilities and anxieties which were swept away with 
the extinction of slavery."* 

The first of August in Barbadoes and all the other islands, as it 
had done in Antigua, passed off without any riot or tumult of any 
kind ; and from that day to this there have been no insurrectionary 
movements in any of the British islands. Indeed, there have been 
more mobs and riots in the city of New York within the last 
four years, than among all the apprentices in the British West 
Indies. Slavery and the slavery spirit are the parents of insur- 
rections and tumultuary movements. Feeling the manacles slip- 
ping off their hands, the apprentices waited in patience and quiet- 
ness the completion of the deliverance. Hence, there have 
been fewer thefts, more respect for law and trustworthiness among 
them, and much great security for person and property, than there 
were before emancipation. 

Thus we see that a little infusion of freedom diminishes the 
bitterness of the cup of slavery. It is worthy of grateful obser- 
vation, that God remarkably countenances even very small acts 
of duty in rulers and in nations. Ahab humbled himself, and God 
gave to his house a reprieve. The posterity of Jehu reigned 
over the ten tribes of Israel to the fourth generation, for their 
zeal against idolatry, though it was but temporary. The people 
of Nineveh, humbled themselves at the preaching of Jonah, and 
the Lord delayed long the execution of the threatened judgment. 
He that gives a cup of cold water to one of these little ones shall 
in no wise lose his reward. Though no more than one sixth 
part of all the apprentices had a right to, was restored to them, 
yet God, in his most benign and gracious providence, made them 
feel that the whole condition of society among all ranks was 
greatly ameliorated. Wives could not be sold from their hus- 
bands, nor children wrested from the arms of their parents. The 
constabulary force in the islands was diminished, and society 
wore a more benign and peaceful aspect. 

2. The greater part of the disabilities of slavery still remained. 
This must of course have been so, as five sixths of the labor of 
the apprentices went to the master and not to the lawful owner. 
And there were remaining disabilities, in their foreign as well as 
in their domestic relations. As for example, the Island of 
Jamaica was not permitted to trade with Hayti. That island, 
after passing through violent revolutionary wars, in the latter 

* Thome and Kimball, p. 55. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 31 

part of the revolution in France, to whom it belonged, became inde- 
pendent, and of course its slaves, freemen, about thirty-seven years 
ago. The African race have possessed St. Domingo during all 
this period, and have governed it in their own way. Its exports 
are large. And though Jamaica is in its neighborhood, and 
greatly needs many of the Haytien exports, yet all intercourse 
between the two islands was strictly prohibited. No British 
vessel from Jamaica might touch at any port in Hayti, and no 
vessel from St. Domingo, or that had entered any of its ports, 
might be entered in those of Jamaica. St. Domingo, because 
its people were free, was an infected island, and all intercourse 
with it forbidden by law. These restrictions continued as long 
as the apprenticeship lasted. The freedom of the apprentices was 
nominal, not real. They must have no opportunity of making 
their escape to Hayti, or of knowing the state of things among 
the freemen there. As soon, however, as the Legislature of 
Jamaica, resolved to anticipate the act of Parliament, and set her 
360,000 apprentices free this day, her leading men began to 
devise measures for the removal of all restrictions on trade with 
St. Domingo; and about the same time the Queen's cabinet 
were taking measures to open the ports for trade with that 
island. They no longer dread the air of a free island as infec- 
tious, dangerous and pestilential. The moral, physical, intel- 
lectual and commercial decrepitude always produced by slavery, 
continued still to curse the islands, as long as the apprenticeship 
continued. 

3. The harsh treatment of the laborers, on the part of masters, 
was mitigated, not reformed. The slaves had been informed of 
the discussions in England, thought they had a right to be free, 
and hoped for complete emancipation ; at all this the masters 
were irritated. Indeed, the American merchant before alluded 
to in Barbadoes, was of opinion that had the bill been thrown 
out of Parliament, and no relief granted them, there would have 
been a general insurrection in the island. The planters, gene- 
rally, deprecated every interference in all the colonies, and when 
the apprenticeship act took effect, it was forced upon them ; 
and in many instances, perhaps in a majority, they exercised 
the power remaining with a harshness that greatly irritated the 
apprentices. Mothers were not as formerly allowed to nurse 
their children until they were three months old ; but they were 
forced out to labor in the fields, when their infants were not more 
than a week old. No one can conceive the cruelties practised 
by slave-masters on females, soon after their confinement. A 
few years ago, at Ballston Springs, a planter received a letter 
from his overseer, slating that a very valuable female slave had 



32 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

died a few days before, in consequence of having been exposed 
to rain in the labors of the field too soon after confinement. He 
stated it to many gentlemen around him. He told us that she 
was a very valuable breeder — that he had ordered the overseer to 
be careful and not expose her unnecessarily until she was able 
with safety to handle the hoe — that his driver had disobeyed his 
orders, and proceeded to load him with as many curses as slave- 
holders usually do in such cases. Though this display of his 
cruel tender mercies was exceedingly disgusting and loathsome 
to all present, yet the party concerned seemed perfectly unaware 
that there was any thing harsh or indelicate in the affair. The 
sufferings of the poor woman did not move him, but the loss of 
a valuable breeder. While slavery continues, the slave master 
has the same motive to use him well, that a man has to treat his 
horse well ; though it is strange that it appears to have far less 
power over him. That motive was almost wholly taken away 
from the master of the apprentice. If the child died for want of 
a mother's care, the planter suffered no loss ; for it would be quite 
free before it would become able to labor. The time formerly 
allowed for the meals was shortened. The practice of allowing 
one slave to supply a gang with water for refreshment was 
abandoned ; and the laborers were often compelled to work when 
faint with thirst. The usual scanty allowance of food was often 
diminished. Add to all this, that the apprentices were harassed 
with petty complaints to the special magistrates for small delin- 
quencies in labor, for acts of neglect in the most trifling matters, 
and for some disrespectful word or look. " The complaints to the 
magistrate on the part of the planter, were very numerous at 
first, but they soon greatly diminished. They were of the most 
trivial and even ludicrous character. One of the magistrates 
says, the greater part of the cases that came before him, were 
from old women who could not get their coffee early enough in 
the morning ! and for offences of equal importance." It was 
soon found that many of the special magistrates were inclined to 
favor the planters, for the same reason that some of the young 
clergy from the free states become friends of slavery as soon as 
they are settled in the South, because they are well fed at the 
tables of the masters. The apprentices said, as soon as a special 
magistrate had partaken of a sumptuous dinner, with a planter, — 
"New massa no7V be poison.'''' Frequently very severe punish- 
ments were awarded for small offences. In some instances the 
lash was not less sparingly applied at the sentence of the magis- 
trate, than it had been at the caprice or passion of the overseer. 
The tread-mill — that dreadful instrument of torture, kindred to 
the wheel on which heretics were broken by the inquisition, 



WEST INDIA EMA^XIPATION. 33 

was in use as a mode of punishment. Females were forced to 
endure it sometimes to the instant of child birth. Some dropped 
down dead the moment they were relieved from its agonies. 
These punishments were inflicted not for high crimes and misde- 
meanors, but for mere delinquencies in accomplishing tasks, or 
some saucy word spoken to an overseer. " Still, slavery, thou 
art a bitter draught." The effect of these vexatious and cruel 
doings was to produce a very irritated and irascible state of feel- 
ing, both on the part of the apprentices and the planters. The 
former were told they were free, and hence did not bear so tame- 
ly the cruelty of their tormentors. The latter were incensed that 
the apprentices should presume to think, speak, or act as free- 
men — that they were not in every respect as abject in their sub- 
mission, as they had been before emancipation; on the other 
hand, the apprentices, considering themselves as no longer slaves, 
bore with less patience harsh and cruel treatment, than they had 
formerly done. They had now rights acknowledged by law, 
whereas in slavery they had none — they, with most of their la- 
bor, were held in law to be the property of their masters. They 
were tenacious in maintaining the few rights guaranteed by the 
act of emancipation, and would not tamely submit when they 
were invaded. These mutual causes of irritation produced an- 
gry feelings, alienating the parties from each other. And should 
any disturbances arise from the entire emancipation of the ap- 
prentices, it must be ascribed to the mischievious effects of the 
scheme of gradual emancipation. The people of Barbadoes, Ja- 
maica, and the other islands, would have all conducted themselves 
as peaceably as those of Antigua, had they all been set free on 
the 1st of August, 1834. The governor of Barbadoes said: — 
" He. thought the negroes in Barbadoes, and in the loindivard 
islands generally, were as ivell prepared for freedom, as the 
slaves of Antigua.* 

4. The apprentices did not advance in qualifications for the en- 
joyment of freedom, under the operation of the apprenticeship 
system. They were subject to the same restraints, except the 
suffering of corporeal punishments at the caprice of their mas- 
ters, as when they were held under the name of slaves. There was 
a great relief as to their personal sufferings, and their constant 
misery from the dread of the lash, but it was the mere remo- 
val of suffering. The great mass of them had no means of in- 
tellectual, moral or religious improvement. Had it not been for 
the delusion under which the public mind and the members of 
parliament labored, that it would neither be for the interest of 

• Tliome and Kimball, p. 55. 
5 



34 WKST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

the slaves, nor safe for the masters, to free them at once, they 
would probably have all been fully emancipated on the first of 
August, 1834. That delusion vanished, when the results of im- 
mediate emancipation in Antigua were made known. It was 
clearly perceived in Great Britain, that no advantage was gained 
in the improvement of the apprentices preparatory to their full 
enjoyment of liberty. 

5. That this scheme of gradual emancipation was a failure 
appears most clearly from the results. The people of Great Bri- 
tain having been fully awakened to a sense of the evil of slavery, 
and having paid one hundred million dollars for its extinction, 
kept their eye steadily on the colonies. They affirmed that the 
masters had violated the contract. Petitions were poured in upon 
Parliament from all quarters of the empire for the immediate ter- 
mination of the apprenticeship. The British government do 
not and dare not treat petitions and set at nought popular sentiment, 
as is done by the American Congress. A bill was introduced by 
Lord Glenclg, for the better protection of the apprentices against 
the severity of the masters and the partiality of the special ma- 
gistrates. The passage of this bill was made the pretext in the 
colonial legislatures for terminating the apprenticeship on the first 
of August, 1838, and granting entire emancipation. Acts to this 
effect were passed by the legislatures of Barbadoes, Demarara, 
Montserrat, St, Vincents, Tortola, Nevis, Dominica, St. Chris- 
tophers, Tobago, and Jamaica, in which there are four hundred 
and ninety-three thousand eight hundred colored people. In all, 
the proportion of the negroes to the whites is as eighteen to one. 
Had they thought it more profitable to continue the apprentice- 
ship, or had immediate emancipation been deemed unsafe, they 
would never have passed such acts. They had the example of 
Antigua before them, during the four years of the apprenticeship; 
they had examined the whole subject, and the result of all was 
a decision that immediate emancipation is preferable to gradual. 

Measures have been adopted by the government of Great Bri- 
tain to complete this noble work in the crown colonies, i. e. such 
as have no colonial legislatures. These are Berbice, Cape of 
Good Hope, Honduras, Mauritius, St. Lucia, and Trinidad. The 
whole number of slaves set free is eight hundred and thirty-one 
thousand one hundred and five. This is a solemn declaration of 
the most enlightened part of the British people, comprising nearly 
all the professors of religion, and respectable professional and li- 
terary men, of the British parliament, of slaveholders and of the 
colonial legislators, that immediate emancipation is altogether to 
be preferred to gradual. No question in political morality ever 
underwent a more severe examination. The best talent was en- 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 35 

listed in the investigation; it was agitated by the press, in the 
pulpit, in popular assemblies and in private circles ; to all this 
was added actual experiment. The decision has been in favor 
of immediate abolition. It is, and will be, and must be respected. 
By the providence of God, and by the most enlightened public 
sentiment, every scheme of gradual emancipation has affixed to 
it the seal of condemnation — among others that of colonization. 
The act of apprenticeship, was in every respect better than the 
gradual emancipation of the American Colonization Society. 

1. The advocates of the colonization scheme professedly plead 
for a continuance in sin. They are of late cautious of admitting 
at the South that slavery is a sin. But in the free states, they 
all do so. Public sentiment would not permit them to do other- 
wise. Had colonization not been regarded as a means of abolish- 
ing a great evil, no favor would ever have been shown it north of 
Mason's and Dixon's line. It is, they say, a sin. Even Professor 
Hodge says, "he as sincerely desires the extinction of slavery 
as any abolitionist;" for he considers it an evil. Yet every co- 
lonizationist maintains that the slaveholders not only may but ought 
to continue in the commission of tliis sin, till all the slaves can be 
transported to Liberia. It is evident that two and a half millions 
of people cannot be removed at once — and that many years must 
elapse before it can be effected. They therefore maintain that it 
is a duty to commit sin. The act of the British Parliament is 
not chargeable with this gross absurdity. The slaves were all 
declared to be freemen on the first of August, 1834. They were 
to be retained for six years in the condition of apprentices for 
their own good, as they were erroneously thought to be incapa- 
ble of enjoying the rights of freemen. 

2. The colonizationists press the Bible into the advocacy of 
sin. Professor Hodge maintains that slavery is sanctioned by 
the Holy Scriptures. They say that ths whole spirit of Chris- 
tianity is adverse to slavery as practised in the United States, and 
if left to its silent operation, without the impertinent arguments 
and discussions of abolitionists, it would in time extinguish the 
evil. How the spirit of Christianity will effect any object in 
society without being uttered, and reform any social evil without 
reproving it, is a mystery. It does not so reform intemperance, 
Pagan idolatry, and Sabbath violation, without open rebuke. But 
what is most preposterous, the colonizationist maintains that the 
Bible sanctions what the spirit of Christianity will abolish, i. e. 
the Bible, the foundation of Christianity, abolishes itself! The 
emancipation act was never chargeable with this impiety, it ad- 
mitted that slavery is a sin, and professedly abolished it in a day, 



36 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

without being reduced to the necessity of pleading Bible authori- 
ty for its continuance. 

3. The colonizalionist professes to accomplish what he knows 
can never be effected. No sensible man now believes that all the 
colored people will ever be transported to Africa. As the annual 
increase of the African race within the United States is about 
eighty thousand, it would require one hundred and sixty-six 
years to colonize in Africa one year's increase, according to the 
rate at which for twenty-two years they have been colonized. It 
professes to mitigate the evils of slavery by colonization, where- 
as the direct tendency of all colonization measures is to aggravate 
the evil. They administer soporific doses to the conscience of 
the oppressor and multiply the advocates of sin. None of these 
things are chargeable on the gradual emancipation attempted in the 
West Indies. They professed no more than what there was a rea- 
sonable prospect, of accomplishing. They did not aggravate the 
evils of oppression. The effect of that system, imperfect as it 
was, and badly as it worked, proved to be the death blow to 
slavery in four years. In twenty-two years colonization has done 
less than nothing for its destruction. 

4. Colonization forcibly expatriates native Americans. This 
may seem to be too harsh an accusation against the Colonization 
Society, which professes to colonize those who are willing to 
become residents of Liberia, A few, and they are but few, 
slaves have been emancipated by slave-holders and transported 
to Africa. But on what terras were they set free? On condi- 
tion they should submit to be colonized. A culprit walks into 
court to be tried, or to receive the sentence of death. He exer- 
cises his will in a volition at every step ; but still he is forced. 
The choice is between walking and being forcibly dragged. 
So it is with those who are emancipated for colonization. Their 
free papers are, in some instances, not put into their hands, until 
they are on board the vessel that transports them to Africa. 
They are forced either to remain in bondage, or leave their 
native land. Were this choice given to Mr. Clay, the President 
of the Colonization Society, either to live the remainder of his 
life a slave to his negro Tom, or reside in London ; no doubt 
he would be willing to repair to London. Yet he and all his 
friends would say he was foicibly expatriated. It is well known 
that the great body of the free colored people are most earnestly 
opposed to the colonization scheme. The slaves are so too ; 
but some of them prefer expatriation to slavery. With this 
iniquity the apprenticeship was not chargeable. Yet with her 
means, it would be much eaisier for Great Britain to colonize at 
Sierra Leone, the eight hundred thousand Africans, who were 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATIOX. 37 

lately slaves in her colonies, than for the United States to con- 
vey two millions five hundred thousand of the same race to 
Liberia. Let us test this scheme of colonization by substituting 
the Irish, or Germans, in the place of the Africans. Its wick- 
edness and absurdity would be perceived by the most ignorant 
without any reasoning. But the Africans are black ! True. And 
where is it found written in the Holy Scriptures, or revealed in the 
law of nature, that a man with a dark skin has fewer rights 
than a man with a white one ? 

5. The Colonization Society throws obstacles in the way of 
furnishing the means of intellectual improvement to the free 
colored people. Its constant cry is, they can never rise in the 
scale of human worth in the United States. They are and must 
ever remain while here a degraded caste. They are careful to 
verify this, by excluding them from the schools, academies, and 
colleges.* They who " do such things,'''' are colonizationists. 
The professed object of the apprenticeship system, was the im- 
provement of the Africans to prepare them for enjoying the 
rights of free citizens. 

6. Colonization pleads, in fact, for the perpetuation of slavery. 
The object of the apprenticeship was its abolition. It ought 
not to be doubted that some honest and good people, in tiieir 
simplicity and ignorance, do still hope by colonization the evil 
of slavery may be reformed. All the leaders and better informed 
supporters of the society know better. It is not to be supposed 
that any clergyman in the United States, who advocates that 
scheme, can be so ignorant, as for a moment to entertain the 
hope that the planters of the slave-holding states will free their 
slaves and send them to Liberia ; or that the means can be fur- 
nished for establishing two and a half or three millions of our 
people in Africa. The experience of twenty-two years has de- 
monstrated its utter impracticability. The number of slaves in 
the country is now twice as great as it was when the Coloniza- 
tion Society was organized. When, at this rate, would the evil be- 
come extinct ? Colonizationists are too obstinate to abandon their 
favorite doctrine that all are to be held in bondage until there is 
provision made for their transportation. Of course, slavery 
must continue for ever. They do not, indeed, in so many 
words, acknowledge tliis ; for if they did so, the whole of the 
free states would abandon them. The defections have already 
alarmed them. They perceive that the Abolition Society has 

* We have liefinl of a Sabbatli-scliool expelling colored cliildren ; and of the 
elders of a congregation giving notice to colored memhers, thai they must not 
attend uimt'cli. 



38 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

enrolled more than three tinnes as many members in seven 
years, as they have done in twenty-two. They are aware that 
this proceeds from opposition, in the minds of more than nine- 
tenths of the people of the free states, to slavery, as a great national 
evil, and deeply disgraceful to a land boasting of its free institu- 
tions. Hence they dare not plead directly for the perpetuation of 
what nearly all, of what they themselves, have a thousand times 
acknowledged to be an aggravated sin against God, and a most 
shameful outrage on the rights of man. But they plead for what 
is equivalent, and what they cannot but know to be equivalent 
to its continuation to the end of the world. They are in favor 
of slavery. 

What colonizationist has ever signed a petition for the aboli- 
tion of slavery in the district of Columbia? Has Mr. Clay, 
has Dr. Proudfit, has Mr. R. J. Breckenridge, has Mr. Gurley ? 
"Who in all their ranks has ? They cannot. Not one of the seven 
thousand slaves in the District can be set free, until provision is 
made for his colonization. To furnish these means at the ratio 
of past years, would require twenty years. In truth, it would 
require about one hundred years, computing by the rate of the 
increase of slaves, and the past operations of the society, to 
extinguish slavery in that small District alone. They do not 
wish to see all their funds absorbed in that small portion of the 
dominions of slavery. It would unmask their battery. They 
would have no means of warring with abolitionists, no covert 
means of defending slavery. If they were really adverse to 
slavery, as they say they are in the introductions to their ad- 
dresses, why do they not aid in its removal from the seat of 
government? Their own scheme has seduced them, and they 
are endeavoring to seduce others into an approbation of " the 
domestic institutions of the South," which " holds men to labor 
or service." Their admission that it is a sin is no more than a 
rhetorical flourish, when they go on to plead for it the sanction 
of the Holy Scriptures and the law of nature, classing it among 
the natural relations of human society. They are substantially 
pleading for the continuance of what God in his merciful provi- 
dence has abolished by the edict of a monarchical government, to 
put to shame a republican commonwealth, which outrages its 
own doctrine of liberty, by embodying in its constitutions, and 
maintaining by its laws, and upholding by its mobs, the most 
wanton outrages on the rights of man. 

Thanks to God he has furnished by the late events in the West 
Indies, on the very borders of our slaveholding domains, the re- 
futation of all the flimsy sophisms of colonizationists and of all 
other advocates of oppression. They cry out amalgamation. We 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 39 

den}'' that we are its advocates. We point to the Covenanters and 
the Quakers, who have been abolitionists for more than a gene- 
ration — who have plead for and practised on the doctrine of im- 
mediate emancipation — andask them, who ever heard of a Co- 
venanter or a Quaker marrying an African? We can now ask 
them, who has heard of any white man in Antigua choosing a 
colored woman for his wife? They say the slaves would become 
idle vagabonds, and nuisances to society. We can now ask them, 
have they become so in Antigua? They say property would be 
depreciated. We ask them, has it depreciated in Antigua? They 
affirm that were the slaves emancipated at once, they would cut 
the throats of their masters. We ask them, have they done so in 
Antigua? There where there are fourteen negroes to one white 
man, for four years they have remained in an entirely peaceful 
state. How idle then must be the clamor, that two millions of 
Africans, if set free, would make war upon fourteen millions of 
white men ! Who will listen to the panders of oppression, when 
they cry out, set these people free and the South will in one day 
become a smoking ruin — a Zalmunnah — a field of blood. The fe- 
rocious tigers will not be glutted with all the blood of the South ; 
they will march their armies North ; Philadelphia and New York 
will be made desolations ; and we will all be butchered, or — mar- 
ried to black women! Men of sense will no longer dare to utter 
these senseless clamors. 

These dispensations of God's providence show the wisdom of the 
measures of the abolitionists, and illustrate the value and efficacy of 
these associations. When Wilberforce and Clarkson commenced 
their opposition to the slave trade, they experienced all the oblo- 
quy, and vituperation which have been heaped on abolitionists in 
the United States. But their cause gained strength every year, for 
God blessed their efforts, their zeal and their perseverance. In- 
telligence was diffused abroad in the nation, men's judgments con- 
vinced, and their sympathies enlisted in behalf of " the poor and 
needy, who had no help of man." "Might," there as here, was "on 
the side of the oppressor." But they boldly persevered. They 
organized societies,* they employed the press in issuing books 

* Many professors of religion have of late manifested violent opposition to anti- 
slavery associations, on the ground that some members are not in all their princi- 
ples orthodox. Persons who, in all business transactions, in labor, in trade, and 
in schools, are connected with men of no religion, or those unsound in some articles 
of faith, profess to discover that any association with the same class of persons, for 
the purpose of effecting the deliverance of the oppressed, is evil. How it is dan- 
gerous to have any connexion with a class of men for the purpose of imparting relief 
to the sufl'ering, and tiuile safe and proper to have far more intimate and firqucnt 
intercourse with them to acquire property, or to communicate or receive instruc- 
tion in learning, it is difficult to conceive. 



40 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 

and pamphlets, for, there as here, at first the political press M^as 
opposed to them; they petitioned Parliament, and they employed 
agents as lecturers to popular assemblies. To use a modern po- 
pular phrase, they agitated. It was necessary. In the moral 
atmosphere, as in the physical, when it becomes morbid, it must be 
purified by the agitation of the storm. Hence the agitation pro- 
duced in the pagan world by the gospel, and that of papal Eu- 
rope by the evangelical doctrines which the reformers promulged. 
In these conflicts of truth and error, the cause of God prevailed. 
In Great Britain, the contest between liberty and oppression has 
eventuated in the triumph of the rights of man. It is an earnest 
of victory here, if we persevere. It must be eftected, however, 
by the unflinching exposure of all corruption, whether on the 
plantation of the slaveholder, in the halls of legislation, in popu- 
lar sentiment, in the sacred desk, or in the civil and ecclesiasti- 

When Bible societies were organized, no objection was heard from any quarter 
against associating with others in circulating the Scriptures, except fiom the High 
Church Episcopalians. All the churches in New England, and those of all Presby- 
terian denominations, were opened for meetings of Bible societies, and the addresses 
of agents. This country is Protestant. There was neither odium, nor danger, in 
making efforts to diffuse among all ranks the Holy Scriptures. When temper- 
ance societies were formed, for the purpose of arresting the progress of one sin 
forbidden in the word of God, some began to discover that it was not orthodox to 
associate with many of those who were its members. This objection often came 
from men who had seen no evil in partaking of a social glass, and even setting in 
bar-rooms to drink with the same persons, before they had abandoned the use of the 
intoxicating cup. It required some sacrifice to make a professed and open opposi- 
tion to the habitual use of intoxicating drinks; there were so many tipplers, so many 
manufacturers, and so many venders. However, the vice of drunkenness is so odious, 
and the evils which it works are so extensive and so prominent, that mobs, arsons, 
and murders were not resorted to for the suppression of temperance efforts. In 
New England, and in all branches of the Presbyterian church, the houses for public 
worship were every where opened for tempei-ance meetings and addresses. 

Anti-slavery societies were organized for the reformation of one other sin forbid- 
den in the Bible. Those who had been the most prominent in the Bible and tem- 
perance societies, were also the leading members of abolition societies. But it was 
now discovered that there was a compromitment of principle in associating for the 
extinction of slavery, with the men who in Bible and tempei'anoe societies had not 
been objected against. The sin of slavery is practised by so many ministers and 
professors, it is sanctioned by so many laws, and so many are connected with slave- 
holders, in trade, by marriage, and in political parties, that an attempt to reform the 
evil has been met by the fiercest denunciation of the highest functionaries both ci- 
vil and ecclesiastical. Reputation, property, and even life have been put in jeo- 
pardy. Cowardice is so unwortliy that men are not willing to acknowledge even to 
themselves that they act under its influence, and in this business some other motive 
must be assigned. The most convenient was, the danger of associating with persons 
not in all points orthodox. The churches in the eastern states and elsewhei'e were 
closed against anti-slavery societies, on the ])rofessed principle that all their mem- 
bers were not orthodox. Is that the real motive? It is true that good people will 
be cautious how they expose themselves to temptation ; but the temptations in 
private life, in business, and in intermarriages are incomparably greater, than in as- 
sociations for great, benevolent, and most praiseworthy objects, by means and on 
conditions agreeable to the law of God. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 41 

cal courts of judicature. If the evil is allowed to entrench itself 
in any strong hold without resistance, it will live, acquire strength 
and prevail. 

Abolitionists in England attacked slavery in all its strong holds, 
and they have driven it out of the empire. This illustrious con- 
summation in which Ave rejoice was, indeed, the work of God ; 
but he wrought by means. He engaged the intellectual powers, 
and the prayers of the friends of human liberty ; he wrought by 
the parliamentary act of emancipation; he put it into the hearts 
of Antiguans to emancipate in a moment their slaves ; he influ- 
enced the emancipated to conduct well ; he used Lord Glenelg's 
bill, and the advice of the Queen's cabinet to the colonial legis- 
latures, to abolish the apprenticeship by proclaiming entire and 
immediate emancipation. Had any one of all these elements been 
wanting, the memorable deed would not have been done. Asso- 
ciations and addresses, such kind of things as we are doing this 
evening, gave the impulse to their mighty movements. We see 
the results and rejoice in them. It is often asked, what have abo- 
litionists done? The cause of abolition in Britain and America 
is one. We have been the instruments in God's hand of eman- 
cipating eight hundred thousand slaves. If colonization has eman- 
cipated four thousand, and they will not claim more, it would 
require two hundred years to effect what a few years have accom- 
plished by abolition. Our emancipated have neither been trans- 
ported to Botany Bay, nor to Liberia ; they live in peace on their 
native soil. 

The voice of truth and the trumpet of liberty cheer us on- 
ward. We will obey the summons. We invite, we admonish 
others to hear and obey. The call of God on the oppressor " to 
break every yoke" becomes daily louder. It begins to speak in 
tones of thunder. Woe to him who refuses to hear. 

The voice of Providence has been speaking to our land in no 
equivocal accents, for these six years. In 1832, Heaven em- 
ployed the friends of immediate emancipation to call on oppres- 
sors to ",let the people go, out of the house of bondage." It was 
treated with scorn. Cholera, the plague in its most dreadful form, 
that and the following year scourged the land. The call has been 
uttered every year since, in deeper, louder, and clearer tones. 
Still it has been received with derision. Every year has been dis- 
tinguished by the judgments of heaven. The springs have been 
tardy, the winters have been unusually severe, unseasonable 
frosts have destroyed the fruits of the garden, orchard and field. 
Droughts, intemperate heat, mildew, and hitherto unknown in- 
sects have wasted the harvests. Conflagrations of appalling cha- 
racter, both for their number and magnitude, and the wild spirit 

6 



42 WEST INDIA EMANCIPATIOIV. 

of speculation, and misrule have spread ruin and dismay over the 
land. If the voice of Providence, of truth and humanity, now ca- 
reering on the wings of the wind from the isles of the ocean, pass by 
unheeded, what are we to expect from the rod of God, in coming 
years? " Lord, when thy hand is lifted up, they will not see: 
but they shall see, and be ashamed for their envy at the people." 
" For behold the Lord coraeth out of his place to punish the in- 
habitants of the earth for their iniquity. The earth shall disclose 
her blood and no more discover her slain."* 

It is vain for men to hope for the blessing of Heaven while 
they continue in sin. " The tabernacles of robbers may prosper 
for a season ;" but the day of reckoning must come. In An- 
tigua, there has been no acknowledgment of sin, no humbling 
themselves before God for the sin of having furnished a mart for 
slaves, and for having so long oppressed the poor and needy ; 
and though in the providence of God, the emancipated have been 
peaceful and industrious to a degree that exceeds the most san- 
guine expectations of even abolitionists, yet as the act of eman- 
cipation was merely from selfinterest. Heaven has chastised the 
planters. The island has been greatly afflicted with drought. 
To procure the blessing of God, sinners must look to God, by 
faith in Christ the Redeemer, humble themselves before his 
throne in the confession of their sins, and break them off by 
righteousness. To accomplish this is our aim, in seeking the 
reformation of a great national evil. We seek the glory of God, 
together with the peace and prosperity of the land — to relieve 
the oppressed, and bring both them and their oppressors to give 
glory to the God of Heaven. 

We are encouraged to hope for success, both by passing 
events and from the consolatory predictions of the spirit of in- 
spiration. We see in part the accomplishment of the prophecy : 
" Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands to God. "t Ethiopia 
is Africa, and her enslaved sons are now set free in every part 
of the most powerful empire on earth. This is an earnest of 
the full accomplishment of the promise. These 800,000 free 
men will educate ministers of the gospel, and send them to 
make known a crucified Saviour, in the land of their fathers' 
sepulchres. How much more reasonable is it to look to this 
quarter for evangelizing Africa, than to a miserable, misgoverned 
and abortive colony, that in its cupidity is now seizing the lands 
of the natives by violence, and provoking a war with all its 
neighbors ! 

* Isa. xxvi. 11, 21. It appears by late investigation, that one thousand Africans 
pei'ish daily by the slave trade. 
\ Psalm Ixvii. 31. 



WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION. 43 

Eut we shall soon see more than the colored people of the 
British colonies unfettered, and admitted into the schools of 
learning, and the temples of the living God. Nearly three mil- 
lions of the African race in our own country " will soon stretch 
out their hands to God." The trumpet of jubilee has sounded. 
In Judea, it never sounded in vain. By the plagues of Egypt, 
God taught the Israelites what they were to expect did they 
refuse to free their bondmen when they heard the jubilee trum- 
pet. They remembered and obeyed. God has demonstrated 
that it is not now sounding in vain. Its notes shall continue to 
reverberate until every ear shall hear, until its cheering notes 
shall gladden all the wretched slave quarters from the Pennsyl- 
vania line* to the mouth of the Mississippi, and from the 
Atlantic to the Rocky Mountains. For this let us continue to 
strive with increasing zeal, and for this let us pray. We shall 
be heard and we shall prevail ; for we have the assurance of the 
the Amen, the faithful and true witness. " I will also make thy 
oncers peace and thy exactors righteousness. Violence shall 
no more be heard in thy land." Isa. Ix. 17, 18. "Lord thou 
hast heard the desire of the humble : thou wilt prepare their 
heart, thou wilt cause their ear to hear, to judge the fatherless 
and the oppressed, that the man of earth may no more oppress." 
Ps. 17, 18, " For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of 
the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord ; I will set him in 
safety //-om him thatpuffeth at him." Psl. xii. 5. 

* A familial' phrase in Pennsylvania for Mason and Dixon's line. 



