
>v> 



^^ ^ €^^1^^^ Q^^ ^p ^^^^^^ 2i^ 



c 7 







»>i^\ «.?K \ 



A N 

E S S A Y 

O N T H E 

SLAVERY AND COMMERCE 

OF THE 

HUMAN SPECIES, 

\ 
PARTICULARLY 

THE AFRICAN, 

TRANSLATED FROM A 

LATIN DISSERTATION, 

WHICH WAS HONOURED WITH 

THE FIRST PRIZE 

IN THE 

UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE^ 

FOR THE YEAR I785, 

WITH ADDITIONS. 

Neque premendo aliijn me extulijfe ve/iw.— Livv. 



LONDON, printed: 
PHILADELPHIA: 

EE-PRINTlCn r,7 JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, IN MARKET- STREET, BETWEEN 

SECOND AND THIRD-STRF.ETS. 

MDCCI.:SXXVI. 



TO THE 
RIGHT HONOURABLE 

WILLIAM CHARLES COLYEAR, 

EARL OF PORTMORE, 

VISCOUNT MILSINTOWN. 

MY LORD, 

THE dignity of the fubjed: of this little Trea- 
tife, not any periuafion of its merits as a literary 
compofition, encourages me to offer it to your 
Lordfhip's patronage. The caufe of freedom has 
always been found fufficient, in every age and 
country, to attradl the notice of the generous 
and humane ; and it is therefore, in a more pe- 
culiar manner, worthy of the attention and fa- 
vour of a perfonage, who holds a diflinguifhed 
rank in that illuflrious ifland, the very air of 
which has been determined, upon a late invef- 
tigation of its lav/s, to be an antidote againfl 
flavery. I feel a fatisfadlion in the opportunity, 
which the publication of this treatife oifords 
me, of acknowledging your Lordfliip's civilities, 
which can only be equalled by the refpecft, with 
which I am, 

Your Lordfliip's 

much obliged, 

and obedient fervant, 

THOMAS CLARKSON. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/essayonslaveryco1786clar 



H 



PREFACE. 



AS the fubjeft of the following work has fortunately 
become of late a topick of converfation, I cannot 
begin the preface in a manner mo-re fatisfaftory to the 
feelings of the benevolent reader, than by giving an ac- 
count of thofe humane and worthy perfons, who have 
endeavoured to draw upon it that Ihare ot the publick 
attention which it has obtained. 

Among the well difpofed individuals, of different na- 
tions and ages, who have humanely exerted themfelves to 
fupprefs the abjeft perfonal flavery, introduced in the ori- 
ginal cultivation of the European colonies in the wellern 
world, Bartholornew de las Cafas, the pious bilhop of 
Chiapa, in the fifteenth century, feems to have been the 
firft. This amiable man, during his refidence in Spanijh 
America, ^/as fo fenfibly affected at the treatment v.^hich 
the miferable Indians underwent, that he returned to 
Spain, to make a publick remonftrance before the cele- 
brated emperor Charles the fifth, declaring, that heaven 
would one day call him to an account for thofe cruelties, 
which he then had it in his power to prevent. The 
fpeech which he made on the occafion, is now extant, 
and is a moft perfecl picture of benevolence and piety. 

But his intreaties, by the oppofition of avarice, were 
rendered ineffeclual: and I do not find by any books 
which I have read upon the fubjeft, that any other per- 
fon interfered till the lafl century, when Morgan Godwyn, 
a j5r////Z) clergyman, diftinguifhed himfelf in the caufe. 

The prefcnt age has alfo produced fome zealous and 
able oppofers of the colonial flavery. For about the mid- 
dle of the prefent century, John Woolman and Anthony 
Benezet, two refpedable members of the religious fo- 
ciety called Quakers, devoted much of their time to the 
lubjed. The former travelled through moft parts of 

Norih 



vi PREFACE. 

North America on foot, to hold converfations with the 
members of his own fed, on the impiety of retaining 
. thofe in a ftate of involuntary fervitude, who had never 
given them offence. The latter kept a free fchool at 
Fhiladelphia, for the education of black people. He 
took every opportunity of pleading in their behalf. He 
pubiiflied feveral treatifes againfi: llavery, * and gave an 
hearty proof of his attachment to the caufe, by leaving 
the whole of his fortune in fupport of that fchool, to 
which he had fo generouily devoted his time and atten- 
tion when alive. 

Till this time it does not appear, that any bodies of 
men had colleftively interefted themfeives in endeavour- 
ing to remedy the evil. But in the year 1 754, the reli- 
gious fociety, called Quakers, publickly telllfied their 
lentiments upon the fubje£l, || declaring, that " to live 
*' in eafe and plenty by the toil of thofe, whom fraud 
'' and violence had put into their power, was neither 
*' confiftent with Chriftianity nor common juftice.*^ 

Impreffed with thefe fentiments, many of this fociety 
immediately liberated their flaves; and though fuch a 
meafure appeared to be attended with confiderable lofs 
to the benevolent individuals, who unconditionally pre- 
fented them with their freedom, yet they adopted ic with 
pleafure : nobly confidering, that to" poffefs a little, in 
an honourable way, was better than to poffefs much, 
through the medium of injuftice. Their example was 
gradually followed by the reft. A general emancipation 
of the flaves in the poffeffion of (Quakers, at length 
took place ; and fo effectually did they ferve the caufe 
which they had undertaken, that they denied the claim 
of memberfhip in their religious community, to all fuch 

as 

* A Defcription of Guinea, with an Inquiry into the Rife and Pro- 

grefs of tlie Slave Trade, &c. A Caution to Great Britain and 

her Colonies, in a Ihort Reprefentation of the calamitous State of 
the enflaved Negroes in the Britiili Dominons. Befides feveral 
fmaller pieces. 

I! They had cenfured tlie African Trade in the year 1727, but had 
taken ::o publick notics of the colonial ilavery till this time. 



PREFACE. vii 

as fhould hereafter oppofe the fuggeftions of juflice in 
this particular, either by retaining ilaves in their poffef- 
fion, or by being in any manner concerned in the ilave 
trade. 

But though this meafure appeared, as has been ob- 
ferved before, to be attended with confiderable lofs to 
the benevolent individuals who adopted it, yet, as virtue 
feldom fails of obtaining its reward, it became ultimate- 
ly beneficial. Many of the Haves, who were thus un- 
conditionally freed, returned without any fohcitation to 
their former mailers, to ferve them, at ftated wages, avS 
free men. The work, which they now did, was found 
to be better done than before. It was found alfo, that 
a greater quantity was done in the fame time. Hence 
lefs than the former number of labourers was fufficient. 
From thefe, and a variety of other circumftances, it ap- 
peared, that their plantations were confiderably more 
profitable, when worked by free men, than when v/ork- 
cd, as before, by Ilaves; and that they derived there- 
fore, contrary to their expectations, a confiderable ad- 
vantage from their benevolence. 

Animated by the example of the Quakers, the mem- 
bers of other feds began to deliberate about adopting 
the fame meafure. Some of thofe of the church of 
England, of the Roman Catholicks, and of the Pref- 
byterians and Independants, freed their Ilaves in Fen7i- 
fylvania. It was agitated in the fynod of the Prefbyte- 
ans, to oblige their members to liberate their Haves. 
The queftion was negatived by a majority of but one 
perfon, as I am informed; and this oppofition feemed to 
arife rather from a diflike to the attempt of forcing fuch 
a meafure upon the members of that community, than 
from any other confideration. I have the pleafure of 
being credibly Informed, that the manumiflion of Ilaves, 
or the employment of free men in the plantations, is 
now daily gaining ground in North America. Should 
llavery be abolifhed there, (and it is an event, whicb, 
from thefe circumftances, we may reafonably exped to 
be produced in time) let it be remembered, that the 
C)uakers will have had the merit of its abolition. 

N9r 



vin PREFACE. 

Nor have their brethren here been lefs affiduous in 
the caufe. As there are happily no flaves in this country, 
fo they have not the had fame opportunity of fhewing 
their benevolence by a general emancipation. They 
have not how^ever omitted to ihew it as far as they have 
been able. At their religious meetings they have regu- 
larly inquired if any of their members are concerned 
in tne iniquitous African trade. They have appointed 
a committee for obtaining every kind of information on 
the fubjeft, with a view to its fuppreffion, and, about 
three or four years ago, petitioned parliament on the 
occafion for their interference and fupport. I am forry 
to add, that their benevolent application was ineiieftual, 
and that the reformation of an evil, productive of con- 
fequences equally impohtick and immoral, and generally 
acknowledged to have long difgraced our national cha- 
rafter, is yet left to the unfupported efforts of piety, 
morahty and juflice, againll intereft, violence and op- 
preffion; and thefe, I blulh to acknovi^ledge, too ftrong- 
ly countenanced by the legiflative authority of a coun- 
try, the bafis of whole government is liberty. 

Nothing can be more clearly fhewn, than that an in- 
exhauftible mine of wealth is negleded in Africa^ for 
the profecution of this impious traffick; that, if proper 
meafures were taken, the revenue of this country might 
be gready improved, its naval ftrength increafed, its 
colonies in a more flourifhing fituation, the planters 
richer, and a trade, which is now a fcene of blood and 
defolation, converted into one, which might be profe- 
cuted with advantage and honour. 

Such have been the exertions of the Quakers in the 
caufe of humanity and virtue. They are dill profecut- 
ing, as far as they are able, their benevolent defign ; 
and I ihould flop here and praife them for thus continu- 
ing their humane endeavours, but that I conceive it to 
be unneceiTary. They are ading confiftently with the 
principles of religion. They will find a reward in their 
own confciences; and they will receive more real plea- 
fure from a fingle relieftion on their condufl:, than they 
can poiTibly experience from the praifes of an hoft oi 
■wrkers. 



PREFACE. ix 

In giving this Ihort account of thofe humane and 
worthy perfons, who have endeavoured to reftore to 
their fellow creatures the rights of nature, of which 
they had been unjuftly deprived, I fhould feel myfelf 
unjuft, were I to omit two zealous oppofers of the colo- 
nial tyranny, confpicuous at the prefent day. 

The firft is Mr. Granville Sharp, This Gentleman 
has particularly diftinguifhed hiiuFelf in the caufe of 
freedom. It is a notorious fa6l, that, but a few years 
fince, many of the unfortunate black people, who had 
been brought from the colonies into this country, were 
fold in the m^etropolis to merchants and others, when 
their mafters had no farther occafion for their fervices; 
though it was always underftood that every perfon was 
free, as foon as he landed on the Britifli fhore. In con- 
fequence of this notion, thefe unfortunate black people, 
refufed to go to the new mafters, to whom tbey were 
configned. They were however feized, and forcibly 
conveyed, under cover of the night, to fliips then lying 
in the Thames, to be retranfported to the colonies, and 
to be delivered again to the planters as mgrchantable 
goods. The humane Mr. Sharpe, was the means of 
putting a flop to this iniquitous trafiick. Whenever he 
gained information of people iri fuch a fituation, he 
caufed them to be brought on fhore. At a confiderable 
expence he undertook their caufe, and was inftrument- 
al in obtaining the famous decree in the cafe of So?ner~ 
fett^ that as foon as any perfon whatever fet his foot in 
this country, he came under the protedion of the Bri- 
tijld laws, and was confequently free. Nor did he inter- 
fere lefs honourably in that cruel and difgraceful cafe, 
in the fummer of the year 1781, when an hundred and 
thirty two negroes, in their paffage to the colonies, were 
thrown into the fea alive, to defraud the underwriters; 
but his pious endeavours were by no means attended 
with the fame fuccefs. To enumerate his many laud- 
able endeavours in the extirpation of tyranny and op- 
prelTion, would be to fwell the preface into a volume: 
i'uffice it to lav, that he has written feveral books on the 
B fubjea. 



X PREFACE. 

fubjeft, and one particularly, which he diftinguiflies by 

the title of " A L'unitaiion of Jlavery." 

The fecond is the Rev. James Kamfay. This gentle- 
man refided for many years in the V/eJi-Indies, in the 
clerical office. He perufed all the colonial codes of law, 
with a view to find if there were any favourable claufes, 
by which the grievances of flaves coulci be redreffed; 
but he was fevercly difappointed in his purfuits. He 
Dublilhed a treatife, fince his return to England, called 
An E/Jay on the treatment and Converfion of African Slaves 
in the Britijh Sugar Colonies^ which I recommend to the 
perufal of the humane reader. This work reflefts great 
praife upon the author, fmce, in order to be of fervice 
to this fingulariy opprefi'ed part of the human fpecies, 
he compiled it at the expence of forfeiting that friend- 
ihip, which he had contrafted with many in thofe parts, 
during a feries of years, and at the hazard, as I am cre- 
dibly informed, of fuffering much in his private pro- 
perty, as well as of fubjedling himfelf to the ill will and 
perfecution of numerous individuals. 

This E^ay on the 'Treatment and Converfion of African 
Slaves^ contains fo many important truths on the colo- 
nial llavery, and has come fo home to the planters, (be- 
inp- written by a perfon who has a thorough knowledge 
of the fubjedt) as to have occafioned a confiderable 
alarm. Within the lafl eight months, two pubhcations 
have exprefsly appeared againft it. One of them is in- 
titled ^^ Curfory Pumarks on Mr. Ramfay's Effay;" the 
other an Apology for Negroe Slavery.** On each of thefe 
I am bound, as writing on the fubjeft, to make a few 
remarks. 

The curfory remarker infmuates, that Mr. Ramfay's 
account oi" the treatment is greatly exaggerated, if not 
wholly falfe. To this I lliall make the following reply. 
I have the honour of knowing feveral difmterefted gen- 
tlemen, who have been acquainted with the Weft Indi- 
an iilands for years. I call them difmterefted, becaufe 
they have neither had a concern in the African trade, 
nor in the colonial Havery : and I have heard thefe unani- 

moufly 



PREFACE. 



Xi 



moufly aiTert, that Mr. Ratn/ay's account is fo far from 
being exaggerated, or taken from the mod dreary pic- 
tures that he could find, that it is abfolutely below the 
truth; that he mud have omitted many inftances of cru- 
elty, which he had feen himfeit; and that they only 
wondered, how he could have written with lb much mo- 
deration upon the fubjeft. They allow the Curfory Re-. 
fiiarks to be excellent as a compufition, but declare that 
it is perfectly devoid of truth. 

But the curfory remarker does not depend fo much 
on the circumftances which he has advanced, (nor can 
he, fmce they have no other exiftence than in his own 
brain) as on the inflrument detfadion. This he has ufed 
with the utmoft virulence through the whole of his pub- 
lication, artfully fuppofmg, that if he could bring Mr. 
Ramjay^s reputation into difpute, his work would fail of 
courfe, as of no authenticity, i fubmit this fimple que- 
fhion to the reader. When a writer, in attempting to 
filence a publication, attacks the character of its author, 
rather than the principles of the work itfelf, is it not a 
proof that the work itfelf is unqueftionable, and that 
this writer is at a lofs to find an argument againft it? 

But there is fomething fo very ungenerous in this 
mode of replication, as to require farther notice. For 
if this is the mode to be adopted in literary difputes, 
what writer can be fafe? Or who is there, that will not 
be deterred from taking up his pen in the caufe of vir- 
tue? There are circuuiftances in every perfon's life, 
which, if given to the publick in a malevolent manner, 
and without explanation, might cffentialiy injure him in 
the eyes of the world; though, were they explained, 
they would be even reputable. The curfory remarher 
has adopted this method of difpute; but Mr. R.amfay 
has explained himfeif to tiie latisfadion of ail parties, 
and has refuted him in every point. The name of this 
curfory remarker is Tobin: a name, which 1 feel myfelf 
obliged to hand down with detcftation, as far as I am 
able; and with an hint to future writers, tliat they will 
do themfelves more credit, and fcrve more effcftually 
the caufe which they undertake, if on fuch occafions 

they 



xii PREFACE. 

they attack the work, rather than the charader of the 
writer, who affords them a fubjed for their lucubrati- 
ons. 

Nor is this the only circumftance, which induces me 
to take fuch particular notice of the Curfory Remarks. 
I feel it incumbent upon me to refcue an injured perfon 
from the cruel afperfions that have been thrown upon 
him, as I have been repeatedly informed by thofe, who 
have the pleafure of his acquaintance, that his charader 
is irreproachable. I am alfo interefled myfelf. For if 
fuch detraction is paffed over in filence, my own repu- 
tation, and not my work, may be attacked by an ano- 
nymous hireling in the caufe of flavery. 

The Apology for Negroe Slavery is almoft too defpica- 
ble a compofition to merit a reply. I have only there- 
fore to obferve, (as is frequently the cafe in a bad caufe, 
or where writers do not confine themfelves to truth) that 
the work refutes itfelf. This writer, fpeaking of the 
ilave-trade, aiferts, that people are never kidnapped on 
the coaft of Africa. In fpeaking of the treatment of 
ilaves, he aiferts again, that it is of the very mildeft 
nature, and that they live in the moft comfortable and 
happy manner imaginable. To prove each of his afier- 
tions, he propofes the following regulations. That the 
Jlealing of fiaves from Africa fhould be felony. That 
the premeditated murder of a Have by any perfon on 
board, fliould come under the fame denomination. Tlfat 
when fiaves arrive in the colonies, lands fliould be al- 
lotted for their provifions, in proportion to their number^ 
or commiffioners Ihould fee that a fufficient quantity of 
found ivholefotne provifions is purchafed. That they 
fnould not work on Sundays and other holy days. That 
extra labour, or night-zvork^ out of crop^ fliould be pro- 
hibited. That a limited, number of ftripes fhould be in- 
fiicled upon them. That they finould have annually a 
fait of clothes. That old infirm (laves fhould be properly 
cared for J &c."f— —NoWit can hardly be conceived, that 
if this author had tried to injure his caufe, or contra- 
dict himfelf, he could not have done it in a more effec- 
tual iriannefj than by this propofal of tliefe fajutary 

regulations. 



PREFACE. xiii 

regulations. For to fay that Haves are honourably ob- 
tained on the coaft; to fay that their treatment is of the 
mildeft nature, and yet to propofe the above-mentioned 
regulations as neceffary, is to refute himfelf more clear- 
ly, than I confefs myfelf to be able to do it: and I have 
only to requeft, that the regulations propofed by this 
writer, in the defence of flavery, may be confidered as 
fo many proofs of the aifertions contained in my own 
work. 

I fhall clofe my account with an obfervation, which 
is of great importance in the prefent cafe. Of all the 
publications in favour of the flave-trade, or the fubfe- 
quent flavery in the colonies, there is not one, which 
has not been written, either by a chaplain to the African 
fadlories, or by a merchant, or by a planter, or by a 
perfon whofe intereft has been connected in the caufe 
which he has taken upon him to defend. Of this de- 
fcription are Mr. Tobm, and the Apologijl for Negroe Sla- 
'ver-j. While on the other hand thofe, who have had as 
competent a knowledge of the fubje£l, but not the fame 
intereji as themfelves, have unanimoufly condemned it; 
and many of them have written their fentiments upon 
it, at the hazard of creating an innumerable hoft of 
enemies, and of being fubjeded to the moil malignant 
oppofition. Now, which of thefe arc we to believe on 
the occafion? Are we to believe thofe, who are parties 
concerned, who are interefled in the practice ? — But the 
queflion does not admit of a difpute. 

Concerning my own work, it fcems proper to obferve, 
that when the original Latin Differtation, as the title 
page exprefles, was honoured by the Univerfity of Cam- 
bridge with the firfl of their annual prizes for the year 
1785, I was waited upon by fome gentlemen of refped:- 
ability and confequence, who requefted me to publifh it 
in Englifli. Tiie only objection which occurred to mc 
was this; that having been prevented, by an attention 
to other fludies, from obtaining that critical knowledge 
of my own language, Vvhich was necelfary for an Eng- 
lifh compofition, I was fearful of appearing before the 
publick eye: but that, as they flattered me with the 

hope. 



xlv PREFACE. 

hope, that the publication of it might be of ufe, I would 
certainly engage to publilh it, if they would allow me to 
poitpone it for a little time, till I was more in the habit 
of writing. They replied, that as the publick attention 
was now excited to the cafe of the unfortunate Africans^ 
it would be fervino; the caufe with double the eifedt, if 
it were to be pubiifhed within a few months. This ar- 
gument prevailed. Nothing but this circumftance could 
have induced me to offer an Englifli compofition to the 
infpedion of an hoft of criticks: and 1 truft therefore 
that this circumftance will plead much with the benevo- 
lent reader, in favour of thofe faults, which he may 
find in the prefent work. 

Having thus promifed to pubiifh it, I was for fome 
time doubtful from which of the copies to tranflate. 
There were two, the original, and an abridgement. 
The latter (as thefe academical compofitions are gene- 
rally of a certain length) was that which was fent down 
£0 Cambridge, and honoured with the prize. I was 
determined however, upon coufulting with my friends, 
to tranflate from the former. This has been faithfully 
done with but few * additions. The reader will pro- 
bably perceive the Latin idiom in feveral paiTages of the 
work, though I have endeavoured, as far as I have been 
able, to avoid it. And I -am fo fenfible of the difadvantages 
under which it mud yet lie, as a tranflation, that I wiih 
I had written upon the fubjed, without any reference at 
all to the original copy. 

It v^ill perhaps be aiked, from what authority I have 
collected thofe fa<5ls, which relate to the colonial flavery. 
I reply, that I have had the means of the very befl of 
information on the fubjedb; having the pleafure of being 
acquainted with many, both in the naval and military 
departments, as well as with feveral others, who have 
been long acquainted with Atnenca and the Weji-Indian 

iflands. 

* The inftance of the Dutch colonifts at the Cape, in the firft 
part of the EfTay,- the defcription of an African battle, in the fe- 
cond; and the poetry of a negroe girl in the third, are the only 
confiderable additions that have been made. 



PREFACE. XV 

iflands. The facts therefore which I have related, are 
compiled from the difinterefled accounts of thefe gentle- 
men, all of whom, I have the happinefs to fay, have 
coincided, in the minutefl manner, in their defcriptions. 
It mull: be remarked too, that they were compiled, not 
from what thefe gentlemen heard, while they were refi- 
dent in thofe parts, but from what they actually faw. 
Nor has a fmgle inflance been taken from any book 
whatever upon the fubjedt, except that from Conftderati- 
ons fur la Colonie dc St. Dominigite, in the latter part of 
.Chap, ix, and this book was pubiilhed in France, in the 
year 1777, by authority. 

I have now the pleafure to fay, that the accounts of 
thefe difmterefled gentlemen, whom I confulted on the 
occafion, are confirmed by all the books which I have 
ever perufed upon flavery, except thofe which have been 
written by merchants^ planters^ &c. They are confirm- 
ed by Sir Hans Shane's Voyage to Barbadoes; GriffitJ? 
Hughes's Hiftory of the fame ifland, printed 1750J an 
Account of North America, by Thomas Jefferies; 1761 ; 
a'l Benezet's works, &c. &c. and particularly by Mr. 
Rawjafs Eifay on the Treatment and Converfion of the 
African Slaves in the Britifh Sugar Colonies; a work 
which is now firmly eftablilhed ; and, I may add, in a 
very extraordinary manner, in confequence of the con- 
troverfy which this gentleman has fullained with the 
Curfory Remarker, by which feveral fafts which were 
mentioned' in the original copy of my own work, before 
the controverfy began, and which had never appeared 
in any work upon the fubjetl, have been brought to 
light. Nor has it received lefs fupport from a letter, 
publifhed only lafl week, from Capt. J. S. Smith, of 
the Royal Navy, to the Rev. Pvlr. Hill; on the former 
of whom too high encomiums cannot be bellowed, for 
(landing forth in that noble and difinterefled manner, 
in behalf of an injured charatSler. 

I have now only to folicit the reader again, that he 
will make a favourable allowance for the prefent work, 
not only from thofe circumflances which I have menti- 
oned, but from the confidcration, that only two months 

are 



xvi PREFACE. 

are allowed by the Univerfity for thefe their annual 
compofitions. Should he however be unpropitious to 
my requeft, I mufl confole myfelf with the reflexion, 
(a refled;ion that will always afford me pleafure, even 
amidfl the cenfiires of the great,) that by undertaking 
the caufe of the unfortunate Africans^ I have under- 
taken, as far as my abilities would permit, the caufe of 
injured innocence. 

London, June ift, 1785. 



CONTENTS. 



CONTENTS. 



PARTI. 

The Hiftdry of Slavery. 

CHAP. I. Introdudion. — Divifion of llavery into 
voluntary and involuntary. — The latter the lubjeift 
of the prefent vpork — Chap. II. The firft clafs of in- 
voluntary flaves among the ancients, from wzr. — Con- 
jecture concerning their antiquity. Chap. III. The 

fecond clafs from piracy. — Short hiftory of piracy.—.^-— 
The dance karpoea. — Confiderations from hence on the 

former topick. Three orders of involuntary flaves 

among the ancients. — Chap. IV. Their perfonal treat- 
ment. — Exception in JEgypt.—- Exception at Athens. — ■ 
Chap. V. The caufes of fuch treatment among the an- 
cients in general. — Additional caufes among the Greeks 
and Romans. A refutation of their principles. — Re- 
marks on the writings of j^fop. — Chap. VI. The an- 
cient flave-trade. — Its antiquity. — ^gypt the firft mar- 
ket recorded for this fpecies of traffick.— Cyprus the 

fecond. — The agreement of the writings of Mofes and 
Homer on the fubjed:. — The univerfal prevalence of the 
trade. — Chap. VII. The decline of this commerce and 
llavery in Europe. — The caufes of their decline. — Chap. 
VOL Their revival in Africa. — -Short hiftory of their 

revival. ■ Five clafies of involuntary flaves among the 

moderns. — Cruel inftance of the Dutch colonifts at the 
Cape. 

PART II. 

The African Commerce or Slave-Trade. 

C H A P. I. The hiftory of mankind from their firft 
fituation to a ftate of government. — Chap. II. An ac- 
count of the firft governments. — Chap. III. Liberty ii 

natural right. That of g^ovfrrnment adventitious. — 

C Govern- 



xviii CONTENTS. 

Government, its nature. — Its end.— Chap. IV. Man- 

kind cannot be confidered as property. ^ An objedion 

anfwered. Chap. V. Divifion of the commerce into 

two parts, as it relates to thole who fell, and thofe who 
purchafc the human fpecics into flavery.-— Ihe right of 
the iellers examined with refpeft to the tvo orders of 
African flaves, *'• of thofe who are pubhckly fczed by 
" virtue of the authority of their prince, and of thofe, 
*' who are kidnapped by individuals. — Chap. VI. Their 
right with refped; to convicts.— From the proportion of 
the punifliment to the offence.— — From its object and 
end. — Chap. VII. Their right with refped to prifoners 
of war.— ——The jus captivitaris, or right of capture ex- 
plained— -its iojuftice.— Farther explication of the right 

of capture, in anfwer to fome fuppofcd objedions. 

Chap VIII, Additional remarks on the two orders that 
were firft mentioned. — The number which they annually 
contain.— ii defcription of an African battle.-- Additi- 
onal remarks on prifoners of war. — On convid;?. — Chap. 
IX. The right of the purchafers examined.—^ — -Conclu- 
fion. 

PART III. 

The Slavery of the Africans in the European Colonies. 

CHAP. I. Imaginary fcene in Africa. — Imaginary 
converfation with an African. — His ideas of Chriftiani- 
ty, — — A Defcription of a body of flaves going to the 
iliips.— Their embarkation.- — Chap. II. Their treatment 

on board. ^The number that annually perifli in the 

voyage.— Horrid inftance at fea. — Their debarkation in 
the colonies.— Horrid inftance on the (hore.— Chap. III. 
The condition of their pofterity in the colonies. — The 
lex nat-ivitatis explained. — Its injuflice. — Chap. IV. The 
feafoning in the colonies.— The number that annually 
die in the feafoning —The employment of the furvivors. 
— The colonial difcipline. — -Its tendency to produce cru- 
elty. — Horrid inilance of this effed. — Immoderate la- 
bour, and its confequences.— V/ant of food and its con- 
lequences.— Severitity and its confequences.— The for- 
lorn 



CONTENTS. xix 

lorn fituation of flaves. — An appeal to the memory of 
Alfred. — Chap. V. The contents of the two preceding 
chapters denied by the purchafers. — Their firft argument 
refuted — Their fecond refuted. — Their third refuted, — 
Chap. VI. J hree arguments, which they bring in vindi- 
cation of their treatment, refuted.-— Chap. VII. The 
argument, that che Africans are an inferiour link of the 
chain of nature^ as far as it relates to their genius, re- 
futed. — The caufes of this apparent inferiority 4— Short 
dilTertarion on African genius. — Poetry of an African 
girl. — Chap. VI IL The argument, that they are an infe- 
riour link of the chain of nature, as far as it relates to 
colour, &c. refuted. — Kamination of the divine vi^ritings 
in this particular. — DilTertation on the colour. — Chap. 

IX. Other arguments of the purchafers examined. 

Their comparifons unjuft. Their aflertions, with re- 

fpedl to the happy fitutation of the Africans in the colo- 
nies, without foundation. Their happinefs examined 

with refped to manumiffion. — With refped: to holy-days. 
■ — Dances, &c. — An eftimate made at St. Domingo. — 
Chap. X. The right of the purchafers over their flaves 
refuted upon their own principles. — Chap. XI. Dreadful 
arguments againft this commerce and flavery of the hu- 
man fpecies. — How the Deity feems already to punifh us 
for this inhuman violation of his laws.— Conclufion. 



AN 



A N 

E S S A Y 

O N T H E 

Slavery and Commerce 

O F T H E 

HUMAN SPECIES. 

In three parts. 



PART I. 
THE HISTORY OF SLAVERY. 

C H A P. I. 

WHEN civilized, as vvell as barbarous nations, 
have been found, through a long fucceffion of 
ages, uniformly to concur in the fame cuRoms, there 
feems to arife a prefumption, that fuch cuftoms are not 
only eminently ufeful, but are founded alfo on the princi- 
ples of juftice. Such is the cafe with refpecl io Slavery: 
it has had the concurrence of all the nations, which hif- 
tory has recorded, and the repeated praftice of ages 
from the remotcft antiquity, in its favour. Here then is 
an argument, deduced from the general confent and 
agreement of mankind, in favour of the propofed fub- 
jcct: but alas! when we refleft that the people, thus re- 
duced to a flate of fervitudc, have had the fame feelings 

with 



aa On the Slavery and Commerce 

with ourfelves; when we reflect that they have had the 
fame ptopenfities to pleafure, and the fame averfions from 
paui; another argument feems immediately to arife in op- 
pofition to the former, deduced from our own feehngs 
and that divine fympathy, which nature has implanted 
in our breads^ for the moil ufeful and generous of pur- 
pofes. To afcertain the truth therefore, where two fuch 
oppofite fources of argument occur; where the force of 
cuflom pleads ftrongly on the one hand, and the teelings 
of humanity on the other; it is a matter of much import- 
tance, as the diginity of human nature is concerned, and 
the rights and liberties of mankind will be involved in 
its difcuffion. 

It will be neceffary, before this point can be determin- 
ed, to confult the Hiftory of Slavery, and to lay before 
the reader, in as concife a manner as poffible, a general 
view of it from its earlieft appearance to the prefent day. 

The firft, whom y^e fhall mention here to have been 
reduced to a ftate of fervitude, may be comprehended 
in that clafs, which is ufually denominated the Mercena- 
ry. It confifted of free-born citizens, who, from the 
various contingencies of fortune, had become fo poor, 
as to have recourfe for their fupport to the fervice of the 
rich. Of this kind were thofe, both among the Egyp- 
tians and the Jews, who are recorded in the * facred 
writings, -f The Grecian 1 betes alfo were of this difcrip- 
tion, as well as thofe among the Romans, from whom 
the clafs receives Its appellation, the H Mercenarii. 

We may obferve of the above-mentioned,, that their 
fituation was in many inftances fimilar to that of our own 

fervants. 

* Genefis, Ch. 47. Leviticus xxv. v. 39. 40. 

\ The Thetes appear very early in the Grecian Hiftory. Od. Ho- 
mer. A . 642. 

II The mention of thefe is frequent among the claffics ; they were 
called in general mercenarii, from the circumftances of their hire, as 
*' qiiibus, non male preecipiunt, qui ita jubent uti, ut mercenariis, 
" operam c'xigendam, jufta prosbenda. Cicero de off." But they 
are fometimcs mentioned in the law books by the name of liberi, from 
the circumftances of their binh, to diftinguiih them from the alieni, 
or foreigners, as Juflinian. D. 7. 8. 4. — Id. 21. i. 25. &c. &c. &c. 



OF THE Human Species. 23 

fervants. There was an exprefs contract between the 
parties: they could, mo(t of them, demand their dif- 
charge, if they were ill ufed by their refpedive mailers 5 
and they were treated therefore with more humanity than 
thofe, whom we ufually diflinguifh in our language by 
the appellation of Staves. 

As this clals of fervants was compofed of men, who 
had been reduced to fuch a fituation by the contingences 
of fortune, and not by their own mifconducl; fo ihere 
was another among the ancients, compofed entirely of 
thofe, who had fuffered the lofs of liberty from their own 
imprudence. To this clafs may be reduced the Grecian 
Prodigals^ who were detained in the fervice of their cre- 
ditors, till the fruits of their labour were equivalent to 
their debts ; the delinquents, who were fentenced to the 
oar; and the German enthufiajis, as mentioned by Ta- 
citus, who were fo immoderately charmed with gaming, 
as, when every thing elfe was gone, to have flaked their 
liberty and their very felves. " The lofer," fays he, 
*' goes into a voluntary fervitudc, and though younger 
" and ftronger than the perfon with whom he played, 
" patiently fuffers himfelftobe bound and fold. Their 
" perfeverance in fo bad a cuftom is ftilcd honour.— 
" The Haves, thus obtained, are immediately exchanged 
" away in commerce, that the winner may get rid of 
" the fcandal of his victory." 

To enumerate other inftances, would be unnecefTary: 
it will be fufficient to obferve, that the fervants of this 
clafs were in a far more wretched fituation, than thofe 
of the former; their drudgery was more intenfe; their 
treatment more fevere; and there was no retreat at plea- 
fure, from the frowns and lafhes of their defpotick ma- 
flers. 

Having premifed this, we may now proceed to a gene- 
ral divifion of flavery, into voluntary and involuntary. 
The voluntary will comprehend the two clalTcs, which 
we have already mentioned; for, in the firfl inflance, 
there was a contrad, founded on confent; and in the fe- 
cond, there was a choice of engaging or not in thofe 
practices, the known confequences of which were fervi- 

tude. 



'i4 On the Slavery and Cojm merge 

tude. The involuntary, on the other hand, will compre- 
hend thofe, who were forced, without any fuch condition 
or choice^ into a (ituation, which as it tended to degrade 
a part of the human fpecies, and to chfs it with the bru- 
tal, muO; have been, of all human fituations, the mofl 
wretched and infupportable. Thefe are they, whom we 
ihall confider foley in the prefent work. We fliali there- 
fore take our leave of the former, as they were mention- 
ed only, that we might ftate the queftion with greater 
accuracy, and be the better enabled to reduce it to its 
proper limits. 



CHAP. II. 

The firft that will be mentioned, of the involuntary, 
were prifoners of war,^ " It was a law, ellabhfhed from 
" time immemorial among the nations of antiquity, to 
" oblige thofe to undergo the feverities of lervitude, 
*' whom viftory had thrown into their hands." Con- 
formably with this, we find all the Eaftern nations unani- 
mous in the practice. The fame cuftom prevailed among 
the people of the Weft; for as the Helots became the 
flaves of the Spartans, from the right of conqueft only, 
fo prifoners of war were reduced to the fame fituation 
by the reft of the inhabitants of Greece. By the fame 
principles that actuated thefe, were the Romans alfo in- 
fluenced. Their Hiftory will confirm the fa6t: for how 
many cities are recorded to have been taken; how many 
armies to have been vanquillied in the field, and the 
wretched furvivors, in both inftances, to have been 
doomed to fervitude? It remains only now to obferve, in 
ihewing this cuflom to have been univerfal, that all thofe 
nations which affifled in overturning the Roman Empire, 
though many and various, adopted the fame meafures ; 
for we find it a general maxim in their polity, that 
whoever fl:iould fall into their hands as a prifoncr of war, 
Ihould immediately be reduced to the condition of a 
Have. 

* Xenoph. L. 7. fin. 



OF THE Human Species. 25 

It may here, perhaps, be not unworthy of remark, 
that the involuntary were of greater antiquity than the 
voluntary Haves. The latter are firft mentioned in the 
time of Pharaoh: they could have arifen only in a ftate 
of fociety; when property, after its divifion, had become 
fo unequal, as to multiply the wants of individuals; and 
when government, after its eftablifhment, had given fe- 
curity to the poifeflbr by the punifhment of crimes. — 
Whereas the former feem to be dated with more propri- 
ety from the days of Nirarod; who gave rife probably 
to that infeparable idea of vidory dindijervitude^ which we 
find among the nations of antiquity, and which has ex- 
ifted uniformly fmce, in one country or another, to the 
prefent day. * 

Add to this, that they might have arifen even in a 
flate of nature, and have been coeval with the quarrels 
of mankind. 

CHAP. III. 

But it was not vi6lory alone, or any prefuppofed right, 
founded in the damages of war, that afforded a pretence 
for invading: the liberties of mankind: the honourable 

• • • 1 • 1 

light, in which piracy was confidered in the uncivuized 
ages of the world, contributed not a little to xhcjlavery 
of the human fpecies. Piracy had a very early beginning. 
*' The Grecians," f fays Thucydides, " in their primi- 
*' tive (late, as well as the contemporary barbarians, who 
" inhabited the fea coafts and iflands, gave themfelves 
" wholly to it ; it was, in fliort, their only profelfion 
" and fupport." The writings of Homer are fufficient 
of themfelves to eftablifli this account. They fhew it to 
' have been a common practice at fo early a period as that 
of the Trojan war; and abound with many lively de- 
fer ipti on s 

* " ProLul Ninirod firft the bloody chace began, 
" A mightyhuntcr, and his pray was man." 

Pope. 

\ Thucydidcb-. L. i. fub initio. 
D 



i6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

fcriptlons of it, which, had they been as groundlefs as 
they are beautiful, would have frequently fpared the figh 
of the reader of fenfibility and refieftion. 

The piracies, which were thus pradlifed in the early 
ages, may be confidered as publick or private. In the 
former, whole crews embarked for the -j- benefit of their 
refpeftive tribes. They made defcents on the fea coafts, 
carried off cattle, furprifed whole villages, put many of 
the inhabitants to the fword, and carried others into fla- 
very. 

In the latter, individuals only were concerned, and the 
emolument was their own. Thefe landed from their {hips, 
and, going up into the country, concealed themfelves in 
the woods and thickets; where they waited every op- 
portunity of catching the unfortunate Ihepherd or huf- 
bandman alone. In this fituation they fallied out upon 
him, dragged him on board, conveyed him to a foreign 
market, and fold him for a flave. 

To this kind of piracy Ulyffes alludes, in oppofition to 
the former, which he had been juft before mentioningj 
in his queflion to Eumoeus. 

* " Did pirates wait, till all thy friends Were gone, 
" To catch thee fingly with thy flocks alone; 

" Say, did they force thee from thy fleecy care, 
" And from thy fields tranfport and fell thee here?" 

But no picture, perhaps, of this mode of depredation, 
is equal to that, with which } Xenophon prefents us in 
the fimple narrative of a dance. He informs us that the 
Grecian army had concluded a peace with the Paphlagoni- 
ans, aud that they entertained their embaffadors in con- 
fequence with a banquet, and the exhibition of various 
feats of adivity. " When the Thracians," fays he, had 
*' performed the parts allotted them in this entertainment, 
*' fome -3inianian and Magnetian foldiers rofe up, and, 

" accoutred 

I Idem.^-^ — -— ' " the ftrongefij" fays he, " engaging in thefe 
adventures. 

* -Homer. Odyfs. L. 15. 385. 
Xenoph., L. 6. fub initio. 



OF THE Human Species. 27 

" accoutred in their proper arms, exhibited that dance, 
'' which is called Karpoea* The figure of it is thus. One 
'' of them, in the charafcer of an hufbandman, is feen 
** to till his land, and is oblerved, as he drives his plough, 
*' to look frequently behind him, as if apprehenfive of 
" danger. Another immediately appears in fight, in the 
*' charafter of a robber. The hufoandman, having feen 
*' him previouily advancing, fnatches up his arms. A 
" battle enfues before the plough. The whole of this 
*' performance is kept in perfect time with the mufick of 
" the flute. At length the robber, having; got the bet- 
" ter of the hufbandman, binds him, and drives him off 
" with his team. Sometimes it happens that the huf- 
" bandman fubdues the robber: in this cafe the fcene'is 
*' only reverled, as the latter is then bound and driven 
" off by the former." 

It is fcarcely neceflary to obferve, that this dance was 
a reprefentation of the general manners of men, in the 
more uncivilized ages of the world ; fhewing that the 
hufbandman and fhepherd lived in continual alarm, and 
that there were people in thofe ages, who derived their 
pleafures and fortunes from kidnapping and enjlaving their 
fellow creatures. 

We may now take notice of a circumftance in this nar- 
ration, which will lead us to a review of our firfl afferti- . 
on on this point, " that the honourable light, in which 
" piracy was confidered in the times of barbarifm, con- 
'* tributed not a little to the Jlavery of the human fpe- 
" cies." The robber is reprefented here as frequently 
defeated in his attempts, and as reduced to that deplora- 
ble fituation, to which he was endeavouring to bring 
another. This Ihews the Irequsnt difficulty and danger 
of his undertakings: people would not tamely refign their 
lives or liberties, without a Ibuggle. They were fome- 
times prepared; were fuperior often, in many points 
of view, to thefe invaders of their liberty; there were 
an hundred accidental circumftances frequently in their 
favour. Thefe adventurers therefore required all the 
{kill, ftrength, agility, valour, and every thing, in fliort, 
that may be fuppofed to conftitute heroifm, to conduct 

them 



28 On the Slavery and Commerce 

them with fuccefs. Upon this idea piratical expeditions 
firfl came into repute, and their frequency afterwards, 
together with the danger and fortitude, that were infepara- 
bly connected with tliem, brought them into fuch credit 
among the barbarous nations of antiquity, that of all 
human profellions, piracy was the mod honourable. * 

The notions then, which were thus annext-d to pira- 
tical expeditions, did not fail to produce thofe confe- 
quences, which we have mentioned before. They af- 
forded an opportunity to the views of avarice and 
ambition, to conceal themfelves under the maik of vir- 
tue. They excited a fpirit of enterprize, of all others 
the mofl irrefiftible, as it fubfifted on the ftrongeft prin- 
ciples of a£lion, emolument and honour. Thus could 
the vileft of paffions be gratified with impunity. Peo- 
ple were robbed, ftolen, murdered, under the pretended 
idea that thefe were reputable adventures: ^every enor- 
mity in {hort was committed, and dreifed up in the ha- 
biliments of honour. 

But as the notions of men in the lefs barbarous ages, 
which foUoweds became more corrected and refined, 
the pra6lice of piracy began gradually to difappear. It 
had hitherto been fupported on the grand columns of 
emolument and honour. When the latter therefore was 
removed, it received a confiderable fliockj but, alas! it 
had ftill a pillar for its fupport! avarice^ which exifts 
in all dates, and which is ready to turn every invention 
to its own ends, (trained hard for its prefervation. It 
had been produced in the ages of barbarifm; it had 
been pointed out in thofe ages as lucrative, and under 
this notion it was continued. People were ftill ftolen; 
many were intercepted (fome, in their purfuits of plea- 
fure, others, in the difcharge of their feveral occupati- 
ons) by their own countrymen; who previoufly laid in 
wait for them, and fold them afterwards for fiave? ; while 
others feized by merchants, v;h6 traded on the different 
coafts, were tore frcm their friends and conoedions, 

and 

^'' Thucydides. L. r. fub initio. Sextus Empiricus. Schol. &c. &c. 



OF THE Human Species. 29 

and carried into flavery. The merchants of Theffal)'-, 
if we can credit * Arillophanes who never fpared the 
vices of the times, were particularly infamous for the 
latter kind of depredation; the Athenians were notori- 
ous for the former; for they had pradifed thefe robbe- 
ries to fuch an alarming degree of danger to individuals, 
that it was found neceifary to enad a j- law, which pu- 
niftied kidnappers with death. — But this is fufficient for 
our prefent purpofe ; it will enable us to affert, that there 
were two claffes of tn-voluniary fiaves among the ancients, 
'•^ of thofe who were taken pubHckly in a ftate of war, 
" and of thofe who were privately ftolen in a ftate of 
" innocence and peace/*' We may now add, that the 
children and defcendents of thefe compofed a third. 



CHAP. IV. 

It will be proper to fay fcmething here concerning 
the fituation of the unfortunate men, who were thus 
doomed to a life of fervitude. To enumerate their va- 
rious employments, and to defcribe the miferies which 
they endured in confequence, either 'from the feverity, 
or the long and conflant apphcation of their labour, 
would exceed the bounds we have prcpofed to the pre- 
fent work. We fhall confine ourfelves to their perfonal 
treatment^ as depending on the power of their mafiers, 
and the protedion of the lav>r. Their treatment, if con- 
fiJered in this light, will equally excite our pity and ab- 
horrence. They were beaten, ftarved, tortured, mur- 
dered at difcretion: they were dead in a civil fenfe; 
they had neitiier name nor tribe; were incapable of a 
judicial procefs; were in lliort v/ithout appeal. Poor 
unfortunate men! to be deprived of all pollible protec- 
tion! to lufTer the bitterelt of injuries without the pof- 
fibiiity of redrefs! to be condemned unheard! to be 

murdered 

* Anfvoph. Phit. Aa. 2. Scene 5. 
t Zeiioph. L. I. 



30 On the Slavery and Commerce 

murdered with impunity! to be confidered as dead in 
that ftate, the very members of which they were fup- 
porting by their labours! 

Yet fuch was their general fituation : there were two 
places however, where their condition, if confidered in this 
point of view, was more tolerable. The -Egyptian Have, 
though perhaps of all others the greateil drudge, yet if 
he had time to reach the * temple of Hercules, found a 
certain retreat from the perfecution of his mafter; and 
he received additional comfort from the refledion, that 
his life, whether he could reach it or not, could not be 
taken with impunity. Wife and falutary law! how of- 
ten muft it have curbed the infolence of power, and 
flopped thofe paffions in their progrefs, which had other- 
wife been deflruftive to the Have! 

But though the perfons of Haves were thus greatly 
fecured in jli^gypt, yet there was no place fo favourable 
to them as Athens. They were allowed a grq^ter liber- 
ty of fpeech; f they had their convivial meetings, their 
amours, their hours of relaxation, pleafantry, and mirth ; 
they were treated, in fliort, with fo much humanity in ge- 
neral, as to occanon that obfervation of Demoftheries, in 
his fecond Philippick, " that the condition of a flave, 
'* at Athens, was preferable to that of a free citizen, 
" in many other countries." But if any exception hap- 
pened (which was fometimes the cafe) from the general 
treatment defcribed; if perfecution took the place of 
lenity, and made the fangs of fervitude more pointed 
than before, | they had then their temple, like the 
iE^ryprian, for refuge; where the legiflature was fo at- 
tentive, as to examine their complaints, and to order 
them, if they were founded in juftice, to be fold to 
another mailer. Nor was this all: they had a privilege 

infinitely 

* Herodotus. L. 2. 1)3. 

I " Acq id ne vos mireinini, Homines fervulos, 

" Potare, amare, atq ad ccenam condicere. 

'" Licet hoc Athenis. 

" Plautus. Sticho. 
I AriRoph. Horffi. Hupolit. - ' 



OF THE Human Species. 31 

infinitely greater than the whole of thefe. They were 
allowed an opportunity of working for themfeves, and 
if their diligence had procured them a fum equivalent 
with their ranfom, they could immediately, on paying 
it down, * demand their freedom for ever. This law 
was, of all others, the moft important; as the profpedt 
of liberty, which it afforded, muft have been a conti- 
nual fource of the mod pleafmg refledions, and have 
greatiy fweetened the draught, even of the moft bitter 
flavery. 

Thus then, to the eternal honour of ^gypt and 
Athens, they were the only plaKzes that we can find, 
where Haves were confidered with any humanity at all. 
The reft of the world feemed to vie with each other, in 
the debafement and oppreflion of thefe unfortunate peo- 
ple. They ufed them with as much feverity as they 
chofe ; they meafured their treatment only by their own 
paffion and caprice; and, by leaving them on every oc- 
cafion, without the poffibility of an appeal, they render- 
ed their fituation the moft melancholy and intolerable, 
that can poffibly be conceived. 



CHAP. V. 

As we have mentioned the barbarous and inhuman 
treatment that generally fell to the lot of (laves, it may 
not be amifs to inquire into the various circumftances 
by which it was produced. 

The firft circumftance, from whence it originated, 
was the commerce', for if men could be confidered as 
pojjejjions', if, like cattle^ they could be bought and fold^ 
it will not be diSicuIt to fuppofe, that they could be 

held 

* To this privilege Plautus alludes in his Cafinoy where he intro- 
duces a flave, fpeaking in the following manner. 
" Quid tu mc vero libcrtate territas? 
" <^uod fi tu nolis, filiufquc etiam tuus 
" Vobis invitis, atq ainborum ingratiis, 
" Une libella liber pojjiim fieri. 



32 On the Slavery and Commerce 

held in the fame confideration, or treated in the fame 
manner. The commerce therefore, which was begun 
in the primitive ages of the world, by claffing them with 
the brutal fpecies, and by habituating the mind to con- 
fider the terms of brute and Jldve as fynonimous^ foon 
caufcd them to be viev/ed in a low and defpicable light, 
and as greatly inferiour to the human fpecies. Hence 
proceeded that treatment, which might not unreafona- 
bly be fuppofed to arife from fo low an eftimation. 
They were tamed, like beafts, by the flings of hunger 
and the lafli, and their education was direfted to the 
fame end, to make them commodious inftruments of 
labour for their pofielTors. 

- This treatment, which thus proceeded in the age'' of 
barbarifm, from the low eftimation, in which Haves were 
unfortunately held from the circumftances of the com- 
merce, did not fail of producing, in the fame inftant, 
its own effect. It depreffed their minds; it numbed their 
faculties; and, by preventing thofe fparks of genius 
from blazing forth^ which had otherwife been confpi- 
cuous; it gave them the appearance of being endued 
with inferior capacities than the reft of mankind. This 
effect of the treatment had made fo confiderable a pro- 
grefs, as to have been a matter of obfervation in the 
days of Homer. 

* For half his fenfes Jove conveys away, 
Whom once he dooms to fee the Jervile day. 

Thus then did the commerce^ by claffing them originally 
with brutes, and the conf>:'quent treatment, by cramping 
their abilities and hindering them from becoming conj-picu- 
ous, give to thefe unfortunate people, at a very early pe- 
riod, the moa unhvoin-^hlc appearance. The rifmg ge- 
nerations, who received both the commerce and treat- 
ment from their anceftors, and vv'ho had always been ac- 
cuftoraed to behold their effecls^ did not confider thefe 
effects as incidental: they judged only from what they faw; 
they believed the appearances to be real', and hence arofe 

the 

* Homer. Odyf. P. 323. 



OF THE Human Species. 33 

the combined principle, that flaves were an inferiour or- 
der of men, and perfectly void of underjianding. Upon 
this principle it was, that the former treatment began to 
be fully confirmed and eftabiiflied; and as this -principle 
was handed down and diffeminated, fo it became, in fuc- 
ceeding ages, an excufe for any feverity, that defpotifm^ 
might fugged. 

We may obferve here, that as all nations had this ex- 
cufe in common, as arifing from the circwnjiances above- 
mentioned, fo the Greeks firft, and the Romans after- 
wards, had an additional excufe, as arifing from their own 
'vanity. 

The former having conquered Troy, and having united 
themfelves under one common name and intereft, began, 
from that period, to diftinguifti the reft of the world by 
the title of barbarians; inferring by fuch an appellation, 
* " that they were men who were only noble in their 
own country; that they had no right, from their na- 
ture, to authority or command; that, on the contrary, 
fo low were their capacities, they were dejiined by na^- 
ture to obey, and to live in a ftate of perpetual drudgery 
and fubjugation.'* Conformable with this opinion was 
the treatment, which was accordingly prefcribed to a bar' 
barian. The philofopher Ariftotle himfelf, in the advice 
which he gave to his pupil Alexander, before he went 
upon his Afiatick expedition, | intreated him to " ufe 
" the Greeks, as it became a general, but the barbarians^ 
" as it became a majier ; confider, fays he, the former 
" 2.% friends and dome/licks -, but the latter, as brutes and 
" plants \^^ inferring that the Greeks, from the fuperiori- 
ty of their capacities, had a natural right to dominion, and 
that the reft of the world, from the inferiority of their 
own, were to be confidered and treated as the irrational 
part of the creation. 

Now, if we confider that this was the treatment, which 
they judged to be abfolutely proper for people of this 
defcription, and that their flaves were uniformly thofe, 

whom 

* AriRotle. Polit. Ch. 2. ct infeq. 

I Plutarch, dc Fortun. Alexand. OraL i. 



34 On the Slavery and Commerce 

whom they termed ^^r^«r/^«j; being generally fuch, as 
•were either kidnapped from Barbary, or purchafed from 
the barbarian conquerors in their wars with one another^ 
we fhall immediately fee, with what an additional excufe 
their own vanity had furriifhed them for the fallies of ca- 
price and pallion. 

To refute thefe cruel fentiments of the ancients, and 
to fhew that their flaves were by no means an inferiour 
order of beings than themfelves, may perhaps be con- 
fidered as an unneceflary tafk; particularly, as having 
lliewn, that the caufes of this inferiour appearance were 
incidental y arifing, on the one hand, from the combined 
efFeds of the treatment and commerce^ and, on the other, 
from Hjanity and pride, we feem to have refuted them al- 
ready. But we trufi; that fome few obfervations, in vin- 
dication of thefe unfortunate people, will neither be un- 
acceptable nor improper. 

How then fhali we begin the refutation? Shall we fay 
with Seneca, who faw many of the Haves in queftion, 
^* What is a knight, or a libertine, or dijlavef Are they 
" not names, alfumed either from injury or a??ibiitionf 
Or, fliall we fay with him on another occafion, " Let us 
" confider that he, whom we call our Have, is born in 
'* the fame manner as ourfelves; that he enjoys the fame 
" fivy, with all its heavenly luminaries; that he breathes, 
** that he lives, in the fame manner as ourfelves, and, 
" in the fame manner, that he expires." Thefe con- 
fiderations, we confefs, would furniih us with a plentiful 
fource of arguments in the cafe before us; but we de- 
cline their affiiiance. How then fliall we begin? Shall 
we enumerate the many inftances of fidelity, patience, 
or valour, that are recorded of the fervile race? Shall 
we enumerate the many important fervices, that they 
rendered both to the individuals and the community, un- 
der whom they lived ? Here would be a fecond fource, 
from whence we could colled fufficient materials to fhew, 
that there was no inferiorjty in their nature. But we de- 
cline to ufe them. We fliall content ourfelves with fome 
few inflances, that relate to the genius only: we fhall 
mention the names of thofe of a y^rW/i? condition, whofe 

writingfs, 



-C)"'3 



OF THE Human Species. 35 

writings, have efcaped the wreck of time, and having 
been handed down even to the prefent age, are now to 
be feen, as fo many living monuments, that neither the 
Grecian, nor Roman genius, was fuperiourto their own. 

The firft, whom we fhail mention here, is the famous 
^fop. He was a Phrygian by birth, and Hved in the 
time of Croefus, king of Lydia, to whom he dedicated 
his fables. The writings of this great man, in what- 
ever light we confider them, will be equally entitled to 
our admiration. But we are well aware, that the very 
mention of him as a writer of fables, may depreciate 
him in the eyes of feme. To fuch we ihall propofe a 
quellion, " Whether this fpecies of writing has not been 
*' more beneficial to mankind; or whether it has not 
'•* produced more important events, than any other?" 

With refpecl to the firft confideration, it is evident 
that thefe fables, as confiding of plain and fimple tranf- 
actions, are particularly eafy to be underftood; as con- 
veyed in images, they pleafe and feduce the mind; and, 
as containing a ?no?'al, eafily deducible on the fide of 
virtue; that they afford, at the fame time, the moft 
weighty precepts of philofophy. Here then are the two 
grand points of compofition, " a manner of expreflion 
*' to be apprehended by the loweft capacities, and * 
" (what is confidered as a viclory in the art) an happy 
" conjunclion of utility and pleafure.'' Hence Quintili- 
an recommends them, as fingularly ufeful, and as ad- 
mirably adapted, to the puerile age; as a juft gradation 
between the language of the nurfe and the preceptor, 
and as furnifhing maxims of prudence and virtue, at a 
time when the fpeculative principles of philoiophy are 
too difficult to be underftood. Hence alio having been 
introduced by moft civilized nations into their fyftem of 
education, they have produced that general benefit, to 
which we at firft alluded. Nor have they been of lefs 
confequcnce in maturity ; but particularly to thofe of infe- 
riour capacities, or little erudition, whom they have fre- 
quently 

* Omne tiilit punduni, qui niifcuit utile dulci. Horace. 



36 On the Slavery and Commerce 

quently ferved as a guide to conduO: them in life, and 
2.S a medium, through which an explanation might be 
made, on many and important occafions. 

With refpecl to the latter confideration, which is eali- 
ly deducible from hence, we fiiail only appeal to the 
wonderful efFeft, which the fable, pronounced by De- 
mofthenes againil Philip of Macedon, produced among 
his hearers; or to the fable, which wasfpoken by Mene- 
nius Agrippato the Roman populace; by which an illite- 
rate multitude were brought back to their duty as citi- 
zens, when no other fpecies of oratory could prevail. 

To thefe truly ingeii'wus, and Fhilofophical v/orks of 
^fop, we fhail add thofe of his imitator Fhsdr/us, which 
in purity and elegance of ftyle, are inferiour to none. 
We fhall add alfo the Lyrick Poetry of Alckman, which 
is no fervile corapofition ; the fublime Morals of Epifte- 
tus, and the incomparable comedies of Terence. 

Thus then does it appear, that the exciife which was 
uniformly flarted in defence of the treatment of Haves, 
had no foundation whatever either in truth or juftice. 
The inftances that we have mentioned above, are fuf- 
ficient to lliew, that there was no inferiority, either in 
their nature, or their underflandings: and at the fame 
time that they refute the principles of ihe ancients, they 
aflord a valuable ielTon to thofe, v/ho have been accuf- 
tomed to form too precipitate a, judgment on the abilities 
of men : for, alas i how often has fecret angu'ijh depreffed 
the fpirits of thofe, whom they have frecpiently cenfur- 
ed, from their gloomy and dejefted appearance! and 
how often, on the other hand, has their judgment re- 
fulted from their own vanity and pride! 



CHAP. VL 

We proceed' now to the confideration oi iht comjnerce: 
in confequence of which, people, endued with the fame 
feelings and faculties as ourfelves, were made fubjecl to 
the laws and limitations of pojfejjion, 

I'his 



OF THE Human Species. ^'j 

This commerce of the human fpecies was of a very 
early date. It was founded on the idea that men were 
p-operty; and, as this idea was coeval with the firfl or- 
der of in-voluntatj flaves, it muft have arifen, (if the 
date, which we previoufly affixed to that order, be right) 
in the firfl pradices of barter. The Story of Jofeph, as 
recorded in the fa9red writings, whom his brothers fold 
from an envious fufpicion of his future greatnefs, is an 
ample teflimony of the truth of this conjcciure. It fhews 
that there were men, even at that early period, v/ho 
travelled up and down as merchants, colleding not only 
balm, myrrh, fpicery, and other wares, but the human 
fpecies alfo, for the purpofes of traliick. The inflant 
determination of the brochers, on the firft: fight of the 
merchants, io Jell him ^ and the immediate acquiefcence 
of thefe, who purchafed him for a foreign market, prove 
that this commerce had been then eUabiilhed, not only 
in that part of the country, where this tranfaclion hap- 
pened, but in that alfo, whither the merchants were then 
travelling with their camels, namely, iEgypt: and they 
Ihew farther, that, as ail cuftoms require time for their 
eftablifhment, fo it mull have exifted in the ages, pre- 
vious to that of Pharaoh; that is, in thofe ages, in 
which we fixed the firft date of involuntary fervitude. 
This commerce then, as appears by the prefent inftance, 
exifted in the earliefl practices of barter, and had de- 
fcended to the iEgyptians, through as long a period of 
time, as was fafficient to have made it, in the times al- 
luded to, an eftabliflied cuftom. Thus was iEgypt, in 
thofe days, the place of the grealeft refort; the grand 
emporium of trade, to which people were driving tlieir 
merchandize, as to a centre; and thus did it afford, 
among other opportunities of traflick, the ftrjl market 
that is recorded, for the fale of the human fpecies. 

This market, which was thus fupplied by the conftant 
concourfe of merchants, who reforted to it from various 
parts, could not fail, by thefe means, to have been con- 
iiderable. It received, afterwards, an additional fupply 
from tliofe piracies, Vvhich we mentioned to have exifled 
in the uncivilized ages of the world, and which, in i"a£t, 

it 



3S On the Slav£ry and Commerce 

it greatly promoted and encouraged; and it became, 
from thele united circumilances, fo famous, ^as to have 
been known, within a few centuries from the time of 
Pharaoh, both to the Grecian colonies in Afia, and the 
Grecian iflands. Homer mentions Cyprus and j^lgypt 
as the common markets for Haves, about the times of 
the Trojan war. Thus Antinous, offended with Ulyffes,' 
threatens to fend him to * one of thefe places, if he 
does not inftantly depart from his table. The fame poet 
alfo, in his f hymn to Bacchus, mentions them again, 
but in a more unequivocal manner, as tlie common mar- 
kets for ilaves. He takes occafion, in that hymn, to 
defcribe the pirates method of fcouring the coaft, from 
the circumllance of their having kidnapped Bacchus, 
as a noble youth, for whom they expected an immenfe 
ranfom. The captain of the veffel, having dragged him 
on board, is reprefen^ted a§ addrelling himfelf thus, to 
the fleerfman: 

" Haul in tlie tackle, hoifl aloft the fail, 

" Then take your helm, and watch the doubtful gale! 

*' To mind the captive prey, be our's the care, 

*' While you to JEgypt or to Cyprus fteer- 

" There ftall he go, unlefs his friends he'll tell, 

*' Whofe ranfom-gifts will pay us full as well." 

It may not perhaps be confidered as a digrelTion, to 
mention in few words, by itfelf, the wonderful concor- 
dance of the writings of Mofes and Homer with the cafe 
before us: not that the former, from their divine autho- 
rity, want additional fupport, but becaufe it cannot be 
unpleafant to fee them confirmed by a perfon, who, be- 
ing one of the earlieft writers, and living in a very re- 
mote age, was the firft that could afford us any additional 
proof of the circumftances above-mentioned, -^l^gypt 
is reprefented, in the firft book of the facred writings, 
as a market for flaves, and, in the 4 fecond, as famous 

for 

* Horn. OdyfT. L. 17. 4,10. 
I L. 26. 

■ i Exodus. Ch. I. 



OF THE Human Species. 2)9 

for the fevcrity of its fervitude. f The fame line, which 
we have already cited from Homer, conveys to us the 
fame ideas. It points it out as a market for the human 
fpecies, and by the epithet of " bitter JEgy^t,*' ( | which 
epithet is pecuharly annexed to it on this occafion) al- 
ludes in the ftrongefl manner to that feverity and rigour, 
of which the facred hiftorian tranfmitted us the firfl ac- 
count. 

But, to return. Though ^gypt was thd firfl market 
recorded for this fpecies of traffick; and though -ZEgypt, 
and Cyprus afterwards, were particularly diftinguiihed 
for it, in the times of the Trojan war; yet they were 
not the only places, even at that period, where men were 
bought and fold. The Odylfey of Homer fhews that it 
was then practifed in many of the iflands of the ^goean 
fea; and the Iliad, that it had taken place among thofe 
Grecians on the contirvnt of Europe, who had embark- 
ed from thence on the Trojan expedition. This appears 
particularly at the end of the feventh book. A fleet is 
defcribed there, as having juft arrived from Lemnos, 
with a fupply of wine for the Grecian camp. The mer- 
chants are defcribed alfo, as immediaetly expofmg it to 
fale, and as receiving in exchange, among other articles 
of barter, " a number of /la-ves.'' 

It will now be fuflicient to obferve, that, as other 
flates arofe, and as circumftances contributed to make 
them known, this cuftom is difcovered to have exifted 
among them; that it travelled over all Alia; that it 
fpread through the Grecian and Roman world ; was in 
ufe among the barbarous nations, which overturned the 
Roman empire ; and was praftiled therefore, at the fame 
period, throughout all Europe. 

CHAP. 



f Vide note ifl. page 38. ■' 

i This ftrikes us tlic more forcibly, as it is filled, " beatitlful and 
well watered," in all other paffages where it is mentioned, but this. 



40 On the Slavery and Commerce 



CHAP. VIL 

This JIavery and commerce, which had continued for 
fo long a time, and which was thus praftifed in Europe 
at fo late a period as that, which fucceeded the grand 
revolutions in the weftern world, began, as the northern 
nations were fettled in their conquefis, to decline, and, 
on their full eftablifliment, were abolilhed. A differ- 
ence ot opinion has arifen refpefting the caufe of their 
abolition; fome having afferted, that they were the ne- 
ceffary confequences of the feudal fyjiem ; while otherSj 
fuperiour both in number and in argument, have main- 
tained that they were the natural effefts of Chrijiianity. 
The mode of argument, which the former adopt on this 
occafion, is as follows. " The mvdtitude of little States, 
'^* which fprang up from one great one at this ^ra, oc- 
" cafioned infinite bickerings and matter for contention. 
" There was not a ftate or feignory, which did not want 
" all the hands they could mufter, either to defend their 
" own right, or to difpute that of their neighbours. 
^^ Thus ever^r man was taken into the fervice: whom 
" they armed they mull truft: and there could be no 
*•' truft but in free men. Thus the barrier between the 
" two natures was thrown dou'n, and flavery was no 
" more heard of in the weJiJ^ 

That this was not the neceffarj confequence of fuch a 
fituation, is apparent. The political ftate of Greece, 
in its early hiftory, was the fame as that of Europe, 
when divided, by the feudal fyftem, into an infinite 
number of fmali and independent kingdoms. There 
was the fame matter therefore for cootention, and the 
fame call for all the hands that could be muftered: the 
Grecians, in fhort, in the herotck, were in the fame fitu- 
ation in thefe refpecls as the feudal barons in the Gothick 
times. Had this therefore been a necefjary effeft, there' 
had been a ceiTation of fervitude in Greece, in thofe 
ages, in which we have already fhewn that it exifted. 

But 



OF THE Human Species. 41 

But with refped to Cbriflianity, many and great are 
the arguments, that it occafioned io dehrable an event. 
It taught, " that all men were originally equal j that the 
" Deity was no refpecter of perlbns, and that, as all 
" men were to give an account of their .adions here- 
" after, it was neceffary that they fhould be free.'* Thefe 
doctrines could not fail of having their proper influence 
on thofe, who firll: embraced Chrijiianity ^ from a con- 
viclion of its truth; and on thofe of their defcendents 
afterwards, who, by engaging in the crufades, and ha- 
zarding their lives and fortunes there, fhewed, at leafij 
an attachment to that religion. We find them accord- 
ingly actuated by thefe principles: we have a pofitive 
proof, that the feudal fyjiem had no fhare in the honour 
of fuppreffing flavery, but that Chrijiianity vjz.-i the only 
caufe; for the greateft part of the charters which were 
granted for the freedom of flaves in thofe times (many of 
which are ftill extant) were granted, ''' pro amore Dei^ 
" pro mercede animc^y They were founded, in fliort, 
on religious confiderations, " that they might procure 
" the favour of the Deity, which they conceived them- 
" felves to have forfeited, by the fubjugation of thofe, 
" whom they found to be the objects of the divine be- 
" nevolence and attention equally with themfelves." 

Thefe confiderations, which had thus their firft origin. 
in Chri/lianity, began to produce their effefts, as the 
different nations v/ere converted; and procured that 
general liberty at laft, which, at the clofe of the twelfth 
century, was confpicuous in the weft of Europe. What 
a glorious and important change! Thofe, who would 
have had otherwife no hopes, but that their miferies 
would be terminated by death, were then freed front 
their iervile condition; thofe, who, by the laws of war, 
would have had otherwife an immediate profped of fer- 
vitude from the hands of their imperious conquerors, 
were then exchanged; a cuftom, which has happily de- 
fcended to the prelent day. Thus, *' A numerous clafs 
*' of men, who formerly had no political exii'u:;[ice, and 
'• were employed merely as inflruments of labour, be- 
" came ufeful citizens, and contributed towards, aug- 

F " menting 



42; On the Slavery and Commerce 

" meriting the force or riches of the fociety, which 
'' adopted them as members ;" and thus did the greater 
part of the Europeans, by their conduct on this occa- 
fion, affert not only liberty for themfelves but for their 
fellow-creatures, alfo. 

CHAP VIII. 

But if men therefore, at a time when under the in- 
fluence of religion they exercifed their ferious thoughts, 
aboliflied flavery, how impious muft they appear, who 
revived it; and what arguments will not prefent them- 
felves againft their conduct 1 * The Portugueze, within 
two centuries after its fuppreffion in Europe, in imita- 
tion of thofe piracies, which we have fhewn to have 
exifted in the uncivilized ages of the world, made their 
defcents on Africa, and committing depredations on 
the coaft, f firji carried the wretched inhabitants into 
flavery. 

This praftice, however trifling and partial it might 
appear at firfl:, foon became ferious and general. A 
melancholy infl:ance of the depravity of human nature ; 

as 

* The following iTiort hiflory of the African fervitude, is taken 
from Aftley's Collection of Voyages, and from the united teftimonies 
df Smyth, Adanfon, Bofman, Moore, and others, who were agents 
to the different faftories eflabllflied there,* who refided many years 
in the country ; and publifhed their refpe6live hiftories at ttieir re-» 
turn. Thefe writers, if they are partial at all, may be confidered 
as favourable rather to their own countrymen, than the unfortunate 
Africans. 

t We would not wifh to be underftood, that flavery was unknown 
in Africa before the piratical expeditions of the Portuguefe, as it ap- 
pears from the NuMaiis Geography, that both the flavcy and com- 
merce had been eftablillied among the nafives with one another. 
We mean only to affert, that the Portuguefe were the firfl of the 
Europeans, who made their p2>at?Va/ expeditions, and Iliewed the way 
to ihzt flavery, which now makes fo difgraceful a figure in the weftern 
colonies of the Europeans'. In the term " Europeans," wherever it 
ihall occur in the remaining part of this fjrfl differtation, we 
include the Portuguefe, and thofe nations only, who followed thei^ 
example. 



OF THE Human Species. 42 

as it fliews, that neither the laws nor religion of any- 
country, however excellent the forms of each, are fuf- 
ficient to bind the confciences of fome ; but that there 
are always men, of every age, country, and perfuafion, 
who are ready to facrifice their deareft principles at the 
llirine oi gain. Our own anceftors, together with the 
Spaniards, French, and mod of the maritime powers of 
Europe, foon followed the piratical example; and thus 
did the Europeans, to their eternal infamy, renew a cuf- 
torn, which their own anceftors had fo lately exploded, 
irom a confcientioufnefs of its impiety. 

The unfortunate Africans, terrified at thefe repeated 
depredations, fled in confufion from the coaft, and 
fought, in the interiour parts of the country, a retreat 
from the perfecution of their invaders. But, ala«, they 
were miferably difappointed! There are few retreats, 
that can efcape the penetrating eye of avarice. The 
Europeans ftill purfued them; they entered their rivers; 
failed up into the heart of the country ; furprized the 
unfortunate Africans again; and carried them into 
llavery. 

But this condud:, though fuccefsful at firft, defeated 
afterwards its own ends. It created a more general alarm, 
and pointed out, at the fame inftant, the beft method of 
fecurity from future depredations. The banks of the 
rivers were accordingly deferted, as the coafts had been 
before ; and thus were the Chrijiian invaders left with- 
out a profpeft of their prey. 

In this fituation however, expedients were not want- 
ing. They now formed to themlelves the refokition of 
fettling in the country; of fecuring themfelves by forti- 
iied pofts; of changing their fyftem of force into that 
of pretended liberality; and of opening, by every fpe- 
cies of bribery and corruption, a communication with 
the natives. Thefe plans were put into immediate exe- 
cution. The Europeans ereded their * forts; landed 

their 

* The Portuguefe crc6tcd their firfl fort at D'Elmina, in the year 
1 48 1, abniit forty years akcr Alonzo Gonzales had pointed the 
Southern Africans out to his countrymen as articles of commerce. 



44 On the Slavery a-nd Commerce 

their merchandize; and endeavoured, by a peaceable 
deportment, by prefents, and by every appearance of 
munificence, to feduce the attachment and confidence 
of the Africans. Thefe fchemes had the defired efFcft. 
The gaudy trappings of European art, not only caught 
their attention, but excited their curiofity: they dazzled 
the eyes and bewitched the fenfes, not only of thofe, 
to whom they were given, but of thofe, to whom they 
were fhewn. Thus followed a Ipeedy intercourfe with 
each other, and a confidence, highly favourable to the 
views of avarice or ambition. 

It was now time for the Europeans to embrace the 
opportiinity, which this intercourfe had thus afforded 
them, of carrying their fchemes into execution, and of 
fixing them on fuch a permanent foundation, as fhould 
fecure them-fature fuccefs. They had already difcover- 
ed, in the different interviews obtained,' the chiefs of 
the African tribes. They paid their court therefore to 
thefe, and fo compleatly intoxicated their fenfes with the 
luxuries, which they brought from home, asto be able 
to feduce them to their defigns. A treaty of peace and 
commerce was immediately concluded: it was agreedj 
that the kings, on their part, (liould, from this period j 
fentence frijoners of war and convids to Evropean fer- 
<^i!:iJe ; and that the Europeans fhould fuppiy them, in 
return, with the luxuries of the north. This agreement 
imniediatelv took place; and thus begun {h-^i co?iwierce^ 
which makes fo confiderable a figure- at the prefent 
day. 

But happy had the Africans been, if thofe only, who 
liad been luftly convided of crimes, or taken in a jufi; 
vv-^ar, had been fentenced to the feverities of fervitude! 
Hov7 many of thofe miferies, which afterwards attended 
them, had b<een never known; and how would their 
bidory have faved thofe fighs and emotions of pity, 
which muft now ever accompany- its perufal. The Eu- 
ropeans, on the eftablilliment of their weilern colonies, 
required a greater number of. Haves than a ilrs6t adhe- 
rence Vo the; treaty cQulu produce. I'he ,prip,ces there- 
fore had onVy the choice of rehnc|ui(liiRg the commerce, 

or 



OF THE Human Species. 45 

or of confenting to become unjuft. They had long ex- 
perienced the emoluments of the trade; they had ac- 
quired a tafte for the luxuries it afforded ; and they now 
beheld an opportunity of gratify ihg it, but in a more 
extenfive manner. Avarice therefore, which was too 
powerful for jufiice on this occalion, immediately turn'ed 
the fcale: not only thofc, who were fairly convicted of 
offences, were now fentenced to fervitude, but even 
thofe who were fufpeded. New crimes were' invented-, 
thaf: new punifliments might fucceed. Thus was every 
appearance foon conftrued into reality; every fliadow 
into a fubilance; and often virtue into a crime. 

Such alfo was the- cafe with refpecl to prifoners of war. 
Not only thofe v/ere now delivered into llavery, who 
were- taken in a flate of publick enmity and injuf- 
tice, but thofe alfo, v/ho, confcious of no injury what- 
ever, were taken in the arbitrary fkirmilhes of thefe 
nJenal fovereigns. War was now made, not as. former- 
ly, from the motives of reta'iation and defence, but for 
the fake of obtaining prifoners alone, and the advan- 
tages rcfulting from their fale. If a fnip from Europe 
came bufinto fight, it was now confidered as a fufficient 
motive tor a war, and as a fignal only for an inftantane- 
ous commencement of hollilities. 

But if the African kings could be capable of fuch 
injuftice, what vices are there, that their confcienccs 
v/ould reftrain, or what enormities, that we m.ight not 
expect to be committed? When men once confent to be 
unjuft, they lofe, at the fame inftant with their virtue, 
a confiderable portion of that fenfe of fhame, v/hieh, 
till then, had been found a fuccefsful protestor againft 
the fallies of vice. From that awful period, almolt eve- 
ry expedation is forlorn: the heart is left unguarded: 
its great prote<Stor is no more: the vices therefore, 
which fo long encompafled it in vain, obtain an eafy vic- 
tory: in crouds they pour into the defencelefs avenues, 
and take pofftliion of the foul: there is nothing now 
too vile for them to meditate, too impious to perform. 
Such was the fituation of the defpotick fovereigns of 
Africa. They had once ventured to pafs the bounds of 

virtue. 



46 On the Slavery and Commerce 

virtue, and they foon proceeded to enormity. This was 
particularly confpicuous in that general conduft, which 
they uniformly obferved, after any unfuccefsful conflid". 
Influenced only by the venal motives of European traf- 
fick, they firit made war upon the neighbouring tribes, 
contrary to every principle of juftice; and if, by the 
flight of the enemy, or by other contingencies, they 
were difappointed of their prey, they made no hefita- 
tion of immediately turning their arms againfl their 
own fubjefts. The firfl villages they came to, were al- 
ways, marked on this occafion, as the tiril objefts of 
their avarice. They were immediately furrounded, were 
afterwards fet on fire, and the wretched inhabitants 
feized, as they were efcaping from the flames. Thefe, 
confiding of whole families, fathers, brothers, hufbands, 
wives, and children, were inftantly driven in chains to 
the merchants, and configned to fiavery. 

To thefe calamities, which thus arofe from the tyran- 
ny of the kings, we may now fubjoin thofe, which arofe 
from the avarice of private perfons. Many were kid- 
napped by their own countrymen, who, encouraged by 
the merchants of Europe, previouily lay in wait for 
them, and fold them aftervi^ards for flaves; while the 
feamen of the different fliips, by every pofTible artifice, 
enticed others on board, and tranfported them to the 
regions of fervitude. 

As thefe praftices are in full force at the prefent day, 
it appears that there are four orders of involuntary fiaves 
on the African continent; of* convids ; oi prifoners of 
ivar ; of thofe, who are publickly feized by virtue of 
the autbcrlty of their prince; and of thofe, who are 
privately kidnapped by individuals. 

It remains only to obferve on this head, that in the 
faie and purchafe of thefe the African comm.erce or 

Slave 

* In the ancient fervitude, ive reckoned conviSls among the vohm- 
tary ilaves, becaufe they had it in their power, by a vnrtuous con- 
duft, to have avoided fo melancholy a fituation; in the African, we 
include them in the involuntary, becaufe, as virtues are frequently 
conftrued into crimiCs, from, the venal motives of the trafBck, no 
perfon whatever polTelTes fuch a power or choice. 



OF THE Human Species. 4^ 

Slave Trade confifls ; that they are deUvered to the mer- 
chants of Europe in exchange for their various commo- 
dities ; that thefe tranfport them to their colonies in the 
weft, where their JJavery takes place; and that a fifth 
order arifes there, compofed of all fuch as are born to 
the native Africans, after their tranfportation and flave- 
ry have commenced. 

Having thus explained as much of the hiftory of 
modern fervitude, as is fufficient for the profecution of 
our defign, we ihould have clofed our account here, 
but that a work, juft publilhed, has furnillied us with 
a fmgular anecdote of the colonifts of a neighbouring 
nation, which we cannot but relate. The learned * au- 
thor, having defcribed the method which the Dutch co- 
lonifts at the Cape make ufe of to take the Hottentots 
and enllave them, takes occafion, in many fubfequent 
parts of the work, to mention the dreadful efFeds of 
the practice of flavery; which, as he juftly remarks, 
" leads to all manner of mildemeanours and wicked- 
" nefs. Pregant women," fays he, " and children in 
" their tenderedft years, were not at this time, neither 
" indeed are they ever, exempt from the efFefts of the 
" hatred and fpirit of vengeance conflantly harboured 
" by the colonifts, with refpeft to the f Boiliies-man 
•' nation ; excepting fuch indeed as are marked out to be 
•' carried azvay into bondage'* 

'' Does a colonift at any time get fight of a Bofiiies- 
" man, he takes fire immediately, and fpirits up his 
'' horfe and dogs, in order to hunt him with more ar- 
"' doar and fury than he v.'ould a wolf, or any other 
" wild beaft? On an open plain, a few colonics on 
" horftback are always fure to get the better of the 
" greateft number of Bofliles-men that can be brought 
" together; as the former always keep at the diflancc 

"of 

* Andrew Sparrman, M. D. profclTor of Pbyfick at Stockholm, 
fellow of the Royal Ac:idcniy of Sciences in Swcdeu, and infpec- 
lor of its cabinet: of naciiiai hidory, \vhor(? voyage was tranilateel 
into Engiifh, and publiAed In 1785. 

[ Bolhics-man, or v/M Hottentot. 



48 On the Slavery and Commerce 

" of about an hundred, or an hundred and jfifty paces' 
" (juft as they find it convenient) and charging their 
*' heavy fire-arms with a very large kind of .fliot, jump 
" off their horfes, and reft their pieces in their ufual 
*^ manner on their ramrods, in orders that they may fhoot 
" with the greater certainty; fo that the bails difcharged 
" by them will fometimes, as I have been afl'ured, go 
*' through the bodies of fix, feven, or eight of the ene- 
" my at a tin^e, efpecially as- thefe latter know no better 
'' than to keep clofe together in a body."- -— 

" And not only is the capture of. the Hottentots con- 
'^ fidered by them merely as a party of pleafure, but in 
" cold blood they deftroy the bands which natyre has 
" knit between their hufbands, and their wives and 
" children, &c." 

With what horrour do thefe pafTages feem to ftrike us! 
What indignation do they feem to raife in our breafts, 
when we refleO:, that a part of the human fpecies are 
confidered as game, and that parties of flea fare are made 
for xhtir: dejirudion! The lion does not imbrue his claws 
in blood, unlefs called unon by hunger, or provoked 
by interruption; whereas the mercilefs Dutch, more fa- 
vage than the brutes themfelves, not only murder their 
fellow-creatures without any provocation or neceffity, 
but even make a diverfion of their fufferings, and enjoy 
their pain. 



End of the Firft fart. 



PART 



PART II. 



THE 



AFRICAN COMMERCE, 

o R 

SLAVE TRADE. 

CHAP. I. 

AS we explained the Hiftory of Slavery in the firft 
part of this Effay, as far as it was neceffary for 
our purpofe, we Ihall now take the queftion into confi- 
deration, which we propofed at firft as the fubjed: of our 
inquiry, viz. how far the commerce and flavery of the 
human fpecies, as revived by fome of the nations of Eu- 
rope in the perfons of the unfortunate Africans, and a3 
revived, in a great meafure, on the principles of anti- 
quity, are confiftent with the laws of nature, or the 
common notions of equity, as eftablifhed among men. 

This queftion refolves itfelf into two feparate parts for 
difcuflion, into the African commerce (as explained in the 
hijlory of flavery) and the fubfequent flavery in the colo- 
nies^ as founded on the equity of the commerce. The for- 
mer, of courfe, will be firft examined. For this pur- 
pofe we fliall inquire into the rife, nature, and defign of 
government. Such an inquiry will be particularly ufeful 
in the prefent place j it will afford us that general know- 
ledge of fubordination and liberty, which is neceifary 
in the cafe before us, and will be found, as it were, a 
fource, to which we may frequently refer for many and 
valuable arguments, 

G It 



CO On THE Slavery and Commerce 

It appears that mankind were originally free, and that 
they poffeffed an equal right to the foil and produce of 
the earth. For proof of this, we need only appeal to 
the divine writings ; to the golden age of the poets, which, 
like other fables of the times, had its origin in truth; 
and to the inftitution of the Saturnalia^ and of other 
fimilar feftivals; all of which are fo many monuments 
of this original equahty of men. Hence then there was 
HO rank, no diflinclion, no fuperiour. Every man wan- 
dered where he chofe, changing his refidence, as a fpot 
attraded his fancy, or fuited his convenience, uncon- 
trouled by his neighbour, unconneded with any but his 
family. Hence aifo (as every thing was common) he 
colleded what he chofe without injury, and enjoyed 
without injury what he had collefted. Such was the 
firft fituation of mankind ; * a flate of dijfociation and 
independence. 

In this dilTociated flate it is impoffible that men could 
have long continued. The dangers to which they muft; 
have frequently been expofed, by the attacks of fierce 
and rapacious beafls, by the proedatory attempts of 
their own fpecies, and by the difputes of contiguous 
and independent families ; thefe, together with their in- 
ability to defend themfelves, on many fuch occafions, 
muff have incited them to unite. Hence then was focie- 
iy formed on the grand principles of prefervation and de- 
fence: and as thefe principles began to operate, in the 
different parts of the earth, where the different famihes 
had roamed, a great number of thefe foeieties heg2.n to 
be formed and eftabliihed ; which, taking to themfelves 
particular names from particular occurrences, began to 
be perfectly diflincl from one another. 

As the individuals, of whom thefe focieties were com- 
pofed, had afibciated only for their defence, fo they iex- 
periencedj at firfl, no change in their condition. They 

were 



* This conclufion concerning the diHociated fiate of mankind, is 
confirmed by all the early writers, with whofe defcriptions of primi- 
tive times no other conchifion is reconciieable. 



OF THE Human Species. 51 

were flill independent and free; they were ftill without 
difcipline or laws ; the had every thing ftill in common ; 
they purfued the fame manner of life; wandering only, in 
herds^ as the earth gave them or refufed them fuftenance, 
and doing, as a publick body, what they had been accuf- 
tomed to do as individuals before. This was the exa6t 
fituation of the * Getse and Scythians, of the f Lybians 
and Goetulians, of the { Italian Aborigines, and of the 
jl Huns and Alans. They had left their original ftate of 
dijjociaiion, and had ftepped into that, which has been 
jult defcribed. Thus was the fecond fituation of men a 
Itate of independent fociety. 

Having thus joined themfelves together, and having 
formed themfelves into feveral large and diflind: bodies, 
they could not fail of fubmitting foon to a more confide- 
rable change. Their numbers muft have rapidly increaf- 
ed, and their focieties, in procefs of time, have become 
fo populous, as frequently to have experienced the want 
of fubfiflence, and many of the commotions and tumults 
of inteftine ftrife. For thefe inconveniences however 
there were remedies to be found. Agricidture would fur- 
nifli them with that fubfiftence and fupport, which the 
earth, from the rapid increafe of its inhabitants, had be- 
come unable fpontaneoufly to produce. An ajjignation 
oi property would not only enforce an application, but ex- 
cite an emulation, to labour ; and government would at 
once afford a fecurity to the acquifitions of the induftri*- 
ous, and heal the inteftine diforders of the community, 
by the introdudlion of Laws. 

Such then were the remedies, that were gradually ap- 
plied. The focieties, which had hitherto feen their mem*, 
bers, undiftinguiflied either by authority or rank, ad- 
mitted now of magiftratical pre-eminence. They were 
divided info tribes; to every tribe was allotted a particu- 
lar diftrict for its fupport, and to every individual his 

particular 

♦Juftin. L. 2. C. 2. fSalluft. Bell. Jug.» 

t Salluft. Bell. Catil. 

Il Ammianus Marccllinus. L. 31. C. 2. et infeq. 



5a On the Slavery and Commerce 

particular fpot. * The Germans, who confifled of many 
and various nations, were exadly in this fituation.— 
They had advanced a ftep beyond the Scythians, Goetu- 
lians, and thofe, whom we defcribed before; and thus 
was the third fituation of mankind a ftate of fubordinate 
Jociety. 

CHAP IL 

As we have thus traced the fituation of man from un- 
bounded liberty to fubordination, it will be proper to 
carry our inquiries farther, and to confider, who firfl 
obtained the pre-eminence in thefe primcBval focieties, 
and by what particular methods it was obtained, 

There where only two ways, by which fuch an event 
could have been produced, by compulfton or confent,-- 
When mankind iiril faw the neceffity of government, it 
is probable that many had conceived the defire of rul- 
ing. To be placed in a new fituation, to be taken from 
the common herd, to be the firft, diftinguiflied among 
men, were thoughts, that mult have had their charms. 
Let us fuppofe then, that thefe thoughts had worked fo 
unufually on the paiTions of any particular individual, 
as to have driven him to the extravagant defign of ob- 
taining the pre-eminence by force. How could his de- 
sign have been accomplifhcd? How could he forcibly 
have ufurped the jurifdiftion at a time, when, all being 
equally free, there was not a fingle perfon, whofe affifl- 
ance he could command ? Add to this, that, in a ftate 
of univerfal liberty, force had been repaid by force, and 
the attempt had been fatal to the ufurper. 

As empire then could never have been gained at firfl 
by compulfton^ fo it could only have been obtained by 
confeni ; and as men were then going to make an import- 
ant facrifice, for the fake of their mutual happinefs, fo 
he alone could have obtained it, (not whofe ambition 

had 

* Agri pro Numero Cultorum ab univerfis per vicos occupantur, 
qiios mox inter fe fecundum dignationem partiuntu/r, Tacitus. Co 

2.6. de Mor. Gerrn. 



OF THE Human Species. 53 

had greatly diftinguiflied him' from the reft) but in 
whofe wifdom, jujiice. prudence ^ and virtue, the whole 
community could confide. 

To confirm this reafoning, we lliall appeal, as beforej 
to fa6ts ; and fhall confult therefore the hiftory of thofe 
nations, which having juft left their former (late ot in- 
dependent focieiy^ were the very people that eflabliilied 
fubordination and government. 

The commentaries of Casfar aftorded us the following 
accounts of the ancient Gauls. When any of their 
kings, either by death, or depofition, made a vacancy 
in the regal office, the whole nation was immediately 
convened for the appointment of a fucceflbr. In thefe 
Rational conventions were the regal offices conferred. 
Every individual had a voice on the occafion, and eve- 
ry individual was free. The perfon upon whom the 
general approbation appeared to fall, was immediately 
advanced to pre-eminence in the (late. He was uni- 
formly one, whofe actions had made him eminent ; whofe 
condu(5l had gained him previous applaufe; whofe valour 
the very aflembly, that elected him, had themfelves wit- 
iiefTed in the field; whofe prudence, wifdom and juilice, 
having rendered him fignally ferviccable, had endeared 
him to his tribe. For this reafon, their kingdoms were 
not hereditary; thefon'did not always inherit the virtues 
of the fire ; and they were determined that be alone 
fliould poflefs authority, in whofe virtues they could con- 
fide. Nor was this all. So fenfible were they of the im- 
portant facrifice they had made; fo extemely jealous 
even of the name of fuperiority and power, that tliey 
limited, by a variety of laws, the authority of the very 
perfon, whom they had juft elected, from a confidence 
of his integrity; Ambiorix himfelf confeffing, " that 
*' his people had as much power over him, as he could 
*' poffibly have over his people.'* 

The fame cuftom, as appears from Tacitus, prevailed 
alfo among the Germans. They had their national, 
councils, like the Gauls; in which the regal and ducetl 
offices were confirmed according to the majority of 
voices. They elected alfo, on thefe occafions, thofe only, 

whom 



54 On the Slavery and Commerce 

whom their virtue, by repeated trial, had unequivocally 
diftinguiflied from the reft; and they limited their au- 
thority fo far, as neither to leave them the power of in- 
flifting imprifonment or ftripes, nor of exercifmg any 
penal jurifdiclion. But as punifliment was neceffary in 
a ftate of civil fociety, " it was permitted to the priefts 
*' alone, that it might appear to have been infli6led, by 
*' the order of the gods, and not by any fuperiour au- 
''' thority in man.*' 

The accounts which v.^e have thus given of the anci- 
ent Germans and Gauls, will be found alfo to be equally 
true of thofe people, which had arrived at the fame ilate 
of fubordinate fociety. We might appeal, for a teflimony 
of this, to the hifiory of the Goths ; to the hiftory of 
the Franks and Saxons ; to the hiftory in fliort, of all 
thofe nations, from which the different governments, now 
confpicuous in Europe, have undeniably fpruug. And 
we might appeal, as a farther proof, to the Americans, 
who are reprefenfed by many of the moderns, from 
their own ocular teftimony, as obferving the fame cuf- 
toms at the prefent day.. 

It remains only to obferve, that as thefe cuftoms pre- 
vailed among the different nations defcibed, in their 
early ftate of fubordinate fociety, and as they were more- 
over the cuftoms of their refpeftive anceftors, it appears 
that they muft'have been handed down, both by tradi- 
tion and ufe, from the firft introduction of govern- 
ment. 

CHAP. IIL 

We may now deduce thofe general maxims concern- 
ing fubordinaimi, and liberty^ which we mentioned to 
have been effsntialiy conneded with the fubjed, and 
which fome, from fpeculation only, and without any al- 
lufion to fads, have been bold enough to deny. 

It appears firft, that liberty is a natural^ and govern' 
ment an adventitious right, becaufe all men were origi- 
nallv free. 

It 



OF THE Human Species. §g 

It appears fecondly, that government is a * coiitrafi ; 
becaufe, in thefe primoeval fubordinate focieties, we have 
feen it voluntarily conferred on the one hand, and ac- 
cepted on the other. We have feen it fubjcft to various 
reftridlions. We have feen its articles, which could 
then only be written by tradition and ufe, as perfeft and 
binding as thofe, which are now committed to letters. 
We have feen it, in fhort, partaking of the fcederal na- 
ture, as much as it could in a ftate, which wanted the 
means of recording its tranfaftions. 

It 

* The author has lately read a work, intitled Paley's Moral and 
Political Philofoph)', which, in this one refpedl, favours thofe which 
have been hinted at, as it denies that government was a contraft. 
" No fecial compadl: was ever made in faft," — " it is to fuppofe ic 
" poflible to call favages out of caves and deferts, to deliberate 
" upon topicks, which the experience and fludies, and the refine- 
*' ments of civil life alone fuggefl:. Therefore no government in 
*' the univerfe begun from this original." But there are no grounds 
for fo abfurd a fuppofitlon ; for government, and of courfe the fa- 
cial compacl, does not appear to have been introduced at the time, 
when families coming out of their caves and deferts, or, in other 
words, quitting their former dijjociated ftate, joined themfelves to- 
gether. They had lived a confiderable time in fociet^, like the Ly- 
bians and Goetulians before-mentioned, and had felt many of the 
difadvantages of a want of difcipline and laws, before government 
was introduced at all. The author of this Effay, before he took 
into confideration the origin of government, was determined, in a 
matter of fuch importance, to be biaffed by no opinion whatever, 
and much lefs to indulge himfelf in fpeculation. fie was determined 
folely to adhere to fact, and, by looking into the accounts left us of 
thole governments which were in their infancy, and, of courfe in 
the leart complicated ftate, to attempt to difcover their foundation : 
he cannot fay therefore, that upon a very minute perulal of the ex- 
cellent work before quoted, he has been fo far convinced, as to re- 
traft in the leaft from his fentiments on this head, and to give up 
maxims, which are drav/n from hiftorical fafts, for thofe, which are 
the refult of fpeculation. He may obferve here, that whether go- 
vernment was a contra£i or not, it will not affeft thercafoning of the 
prcfent Eflfay; fince where ever the contract is afterwards mention- 
ed, it is inferred only that its object was '' the happinefs of the peo- 
ple," which is confefiedly the end of government. Notwithftand- 
ing this, he is under the neccflity of inferting this little note, though 
he ahnoft feels himfelf ungrateful in contradidin^ a. v.'O.rk, which 
has afforded him fo much entertainment. 



^6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

It appears, thirdly, that the grand obje£l of the co?r^ . 
irady is the bappinefs of the people j becaufe they gave 
the fuprernacy to him alone, who had been confpicuous 
for the fplendour of his abilities, or the integrity of his 
life : that the power of the multitude being directed by 
the wijdom and juftice of the prince, they might expe- 
rience the mod effeftual protedion from injury, the 
higheft advantages of fociety, the greatefl poffible hap- 
pinefs. 

CHAP. IV. 

Having now colle6led the materials that are necefTary 
for the profecution of our defign, we fliall immediately 
enter upon the difcuffion. 

If any man had originally been endued with power, 
as with other faculties, fo that the reft of mankind had 
difcovered in themfelves an innate necejfity of obeying 
this particular perfon 5 it is evident that he and his de- 
fcendants, from the fuperiority of their nature, would 
have had a claim upon men for obedience, and a natural 
right to command: but as the right to empire is advert- 
titious ; as all were originally free; as nature made every 
man's body and mind his own; it is evident that no juft 
man can be configned to Jlavery, without his own cori' 
fent. 

Neither can men, by the fame principles, be confi- 
dered as lands, goods, or houfes, among poffejjions. It 
is neceffary that all property fliould be inieriour to its 
pojfeffhr. But how does the f^ave differ from his majier^ 
but by chance f For though the mark, with which the 
latter is pleafed to brand him, fliews, at the firii: fight, 
the difference of their fortune; what mark can be found 
in his nature, that can warrant a diftinclion? 

To this confideration we fhall add the following, that 
if men can juftly become the property of each other, 
their children, like the offspring of cattle, muff inherit 
their paternal lot. Now, as the adlions of the father 
and the child mufl be thus at the fole difpofal of their 
common raafterj it is evident^ that the authority of the 

one^ 



OF THE Human Species. 57 

one, as a parent^ and the duty of the other, as a child^ 
muit be inftantly annihilated; rights and obligations, 
which, as they are founded in nature, are implanted in 
our feelings, and are eftabliftied by the voice of God, 
mufl: contain in their annihilation a folid argument to 
prove, that there cannot be any •property whatever in 
the humayi [pedes. 

We may confider alfo, as a farther confirmation, that 
it is impoflible, in the nature of things, that liberty can 
be bought or fold! It is neither faleable, nor purchafable. 
For if any one man can have an abfolutc property in the 
liberty of another, or, in other words, if he, who is 
called a majier, can have a jujl right to command the 
a6tions of him, who is called a Jlave, it is evident that 
the latter cannot be accountable for thofe crimes, which 
the former may order him to commit. Now as every 
reafonable being is accountable for his aftions, it is 
evident, that fuch a right cannot jufily exift, and that 
human liberty, of courfe, is beyond the poffibility either 
oi fale or purchafe. Add to this, that, whenever you 
fell the liberty of a man, you have the power only of 
alluding to the body: the mind cannot be confined or 
bound : it will be free, though its manfion be befet with 
chains. But if, in every fale of the human fpecies, you 
are under the necefTity of confidering your llave in this 
abftracled light; of alluding only to the body, and of 
making no allufion to the mind ; you are under the ne- 
ceffity alfo of treating him, in the fame moment, as a 
brute^ and of abufmg therefore that nature, which can- 
not otherwife be confidered, than in the double capacity 
of foul and body. 

But fome perfon, perhaps, will make an objeftion to 
one of the former arguments. " If men, from the fu~ 
*' periority of their nature, cannot be confidered, like 
*' lands, goods, or houfes, araon^'' pofTcfTions, fo neither 
*'* can cattle: for being endued with life, motion, and 
" fenfibility, they are evidently fuperiour to thefe."— 
But this objedion will receive its anfwer from thofe ob- 
fervations which have been already made; and will dif- 
cover the true realon, why cattle are jufily to be efti- 
H mated 



^S On the Slavery and Commerce 

mated as property. For firft, the right to emph'e over 
brutes, is natural^ and not adventitious, like the right 
to empire over men. There are, fecondly, many and 
evident figns of the inferiority of their nature; and 
thirdly, their liberty can be bought and fold, becaufe, 
being void of reafon, they cannot be accountable for their 
adions. 

We might Hop here for a confiderable time, and de- 
duce many valuable leflbns from the remarks that have 
been made, but that fuch a circumftance might be con- 
fidered as a digreflion. There is one, however, whichj 
as it is fo intimately connected with the fubjeft, we can- 
not but deduce. We are taught to treat men in a dif- 
ferent manner from brutes, becaufe they are fo manifeft- 
ly fuperiour in their nature ; we are taught to treat brutes 
in a different manner from (tones, for the fame reafon j 
and thus, by giving to every created thing its due re- 
fped, to anfwer the views of Providence, which did 
not create a variety of natures without a purpofe or de- 
fign. 

But if thefe things are fo, how evidently againfl rea- 
fon, nature, and every thing human and divine, muffc 
they 2.6:, who not only force men into JIavery, againft 
their own con/ent, but treat them altogether as brutes, 
and make the natural liberty of man an article of pub- 
lick commerce! and by what arguments can they pofli- 
bly defend that commerce, which cannot be carried on, 
in any fmgle inftance, without a flagrant violation of the 
laws of nature and of God? 



C H A P. V. 

That we may the more accurately examine the argu- 
ments that are advanced on this occafion, it will be pro- 
per to divide the co?nmerce into two parts; firft, as it 
relates to thofe who fell, and fecondly, as it relates to 
thofe who purchafe, the human fpscies into ilavery. To 
the former part of which, having given every previous 
and neceffary information m the hiftory of fervitude, 
we ihall immediately proceed. 



OF THE Human Species. 59 

Let us inquire firft, by what particular right the liber- 
ties of the harmlefs people are invaded by the prince. 
" By the right of empire,'* it will be anfwered; " be- 
" caufe he poflefles dominion and power by their own 
*' approbation and confent." But fubjeds, though un- 
der the dominion, are not the property, of the prince. 
They cannot be confidered as his pojjejfions. Their na- 
tures are both the fame; they are both born in the fame 
manner; are fubjecl to the fame diforders; mull apply 
to the fame remedies for a cure; are equally partakers 
of the grave: an incidental diftinftion accompanies them 
through life, and this is all. 

We may add to this, that though the prince poflefles 
dominion and power, by the confent and approbation of 
his fubjeds, he poflelTes it only for the mofl: falutary 
ends. He may tyrannize, if he can: he may alter the 
form of his government: he cannot, however, alter its 
nature and end* Thefe will be immutably the fame^ 
though the whole fyfl;em of its adminifl:ration fhould 
be changed; and he will be flill bound to defend the 
lives and properties of his fubjefts, and to make them 
happy 

Does he defend thofe therefore, whom he invades at 
difcretion with the fword? Does he protect the property 
of thofe, whofe houfes and efFcds he configns at difcre- 
tion to the flames? Does he make thofe happy, whom 
he feizes, as they are trying to efcape the general devafl:" 
ation, and compels with their wives and families to a 
wretched fervitudef He acts furely, as if the ufe of em- 
pire confilted in violence and oppreflion; as if he, that 
was mofl exalted, ought, of neccffity, to be mofl: un- 
juft. Here then the voice of nature and juflice is againft 
him. He breaks that law of nature^ which ordains, 
" that no juft: man fliall be given into flavery, againlt 
" his own confent:'* he violates the lirft IdiW oi Juflice, 
as eflabliflned among men, " that no perfon fliall do 
" harm to another without a previous and fufficient pro- 
*' vocation;'* and he violates alfo the flicred condition of 
empire, made with his anceftors, and neceflarily under- 
flood in every fpecies of government, '• that, the power 

"of 



6o On the Slavery and Commerce 

" of the multitude being given up to the wifdom and 
" juftice of the prince, they may experience, in return, 
" the moft effedlual protection from injury, the high- 
*' eft advantages of fociety, the greateft pcflible happt- 

But if kings then, to whom their own people have 
granted dominion and power, are unable to invade the 
liberties of their harmlefs fubjefts, without the highefl 
injujiice; how can thofe private perfons be juftified, who 
treacheroufly lie in wait for their fellow-creatures, and 
fell them into flavery? What arguments can they pofli- 
bly bring in their defence ? What treaty of empire can 
they produce, by which their innocent victims ever re- 
figned to them the leaft portion of their liberty f In vain 
will they plead the antiquity of the cuftom: in vain will 
the honourable light, in which piracy was confidered in 
the ages of barbarifm, afford them an excufe. Impious 
and abandoned men ! ye invade the liberties of thofe, 
who, (with relpeCl to your impious felves) are in a ftate 
of nature, in a ftate of original dijociation, perfectly m- 
dependeni^ perfectly free. 

It appears then, that the two orders of flaves, which 
have been mentioned in the hiftory of the African fer- 
vitude, " of thofe who are publickly feized by virtue of 
*' the authority of their prince; and of thofe, who are 
*' privately kidnapped by individuals," are collected by 
means of violence and oppreftion ; by means, repugnant 
to nature, the principles of government, and the commoe 
notions of equity, as eftabliihed among men. 

CHAP. VI. 

We come new to the third order of involuntary flaveSj, 
" to convids.'* The only argument that the fellers ad- 
vance here, is this, " that they have been found guihy 
*' of offences, and that the piinilhrnent is juft." But 
before the equity of the fentence can be allowed, two 
queftions muft be decided, whether the punifhment is 
proportioned to the offence, and what is its particular oh- 
kd and end? 
" To 



OF THE Human Species, 6i 

To decide the firft, we may previoufly obferve, that 
the African fervitude comprehends banijhment, a depri- 
-vation of liberty, and many corporal fufferings. 

On bamjhment, the following obfervations will fuffice. 
Mankind have their local attachments. They have a 
particular regard for the fpot, in which they were born 
and nurtured. Here it was, that they firft drew their 
infant-breath: here, that they were cherifhed and fup- 
ported: here, that they paifed thofc fcenes of childhood, 
which, free from care and anxiety, are the happieft in 
the life of man; fcenes, which accompany them through 
life; which throw themfelves frequently into their 
thoughts, and produce the moft agreeable fenfations. 
Thefe then are weighty confiderations; and how great 
this regard is, may be evidenced from our own feelings ; 
from the teilimony of fome, who when remote from 
their country, and in the hour of danger and difrrefs, 
have found their thoughts unufually direfted, by fome 
impulfe or other, to their native fpot; and from the ex- 
ample of others, who, having braved the ftorms and ad- 
verfities of life, either repair to it for the remainder of 
their days, or defire even to be conveyed to it, when 
exiftence is no more. 

But feparately from thefe their local, they have alfo 
their perfonal attachments; their regard for particular 
men. There are ties of blood; there are ties of friend- 
ihip. In the former cafe, they mull of neceflity be at- 
tached: the conftitution of their nature demands it. In 
the latter, it is impolTible to be otherwife; fmce friend- 
fliip is founded on an harmony of temper, on a concord- 
ance of fentiments and manners, on habits of confi- 
dence, and a mutual exchange of favours. 

We may now mention, as perfectly diflinft both from 
their local and perfonal, the national attachments of man- 
kind, their regard for the whole body of the people, 
among whom they were born and educated. This re- 
gard is particularly confpicuous in the conduct of fuch, 
as, being thus nationally connected, refide in foreign 
parts. How anxioudy do they meet together! how much 
do they enjoy the fight of others of their countrymen, 

whom 



^2 On the Slavery and Commerce 

whom fortune places in their way! what an eagernefs do 
they fhew to ferve them, though not born on the fame 
particular fpot, though not connnefted by confanguinity 
or friendfhip, though unknown to them before! Neither 
is this affection wonderful, fmce they are creatures of 
the fame education; of the fame principles; of the fame 
manners and ka];)its; call, as it were, in the fame mould; 
and marked with the fame impreffion. 

If men therefore are thus feparately attached to the 
feveral obje£ts defcribed, it is evident that a feparate ex- 
clufion from either mull afford them confiderable pain. 
What then muft be their fufferings, to be forced for ever 
from their country, which includes them all? Which 
contains the fpot^ in which they were born and nur- 
tured ; which contains their relations and friends ; which 
contains the whole body of the people^ among whom 
they were bred and educated. In thefe fufferings, which 
arife to men, both in bidding, and in having bid, adieu 
to all that they efteem as dear and valuable, banijhment 
confifts in part; and we may agree therefore with the 
ancients, without adding other melancholy eircumftances 
to the account, that it is no inconfiderable puniihment 
of itfelf. 

V\rith refpeft to the lofs of liberty, which is the fecond 
confideration in the punifhment, it is evident that men 
bear nothing worfe; that there is nothing, that they lay 
more at heart; and that they have lliewn, by many and 
memorable inilances, that even death is to be preferred. 
How many could be named here, who, having fuffered 
the lofs of liberty, have put a period to their exiilence! 
How many, that have willingly undergone the hazard 
of their lives to deftroy a tyrant! How many, that have 
even gloried to periih in the attempt! How many bloody 
and publick wars have been undertaken (not to mention 
the numerous fervile infurredions, with which hiltory is 
ftained) for the caufe of freedom! 

But if nothing is dearer than liberty to men, with 
which, the barren rock is able to afford its joys, and 
without which, the glorious fun ifliines upon them but in 
vain, and all the fweets and delicacies of life are tafle- 

lefs 



OF THE Human Species, 67, 

lefs and unenjoyedj what punifhment can be more fevere 
than the lofs of fo great a bleffing ? But if to this depri^ 
vation of liberty, we add the agonizing pangs of banijh*- 
vient ; and if to the complicated flings of both, we add 
the inceflant Jiripes, wounds, and miferies, which are un- 
dergone by thofe, who are fold into this honidi fervitudcy 
what crime can we poffibly imagine to be fo enormous, 
as to be worthy of fo great a punifhment/ 

How contrary then to reafon, juflice, and nature, 
muff thofe aft, who apply this, the feverefl of human 
punifhments, to the. mofl infignificant offence! yet fuch 
is the cuflom with the Africans: for, from the time, in 
which the Europeans firfl intoxicated the African princes 
with their foreign draughts, no crime haS been com- 
mitted, no fhadow of a crime devifed, that has not im- 
mediately been punifhed with fervitude. 

But for what purpofe is the punifhment applied? Is it 
applied to amend the manners of the criminal, and thus 
render him a better fubjecl? No, for if you banifh him, 
he can no longer be a fubjeft, and you can no longer 
therefore be foUcitous for his morals. Add to this, that 
if you banifh him to a place, where he is to experience 
the hardfhips of want and hunger (fo powerfully does 
hunger compel men to the perpetration of crimes) you 
force him rather to corrupt, than amend his manners, 
and to be wicked, when he might otherwife be jufl. 

Is it applied then, that others may be deterred from 
the fame proceedings, and that crimes may become lefs 
frequent ? No, but that avarice may be gratified ; that 
the prince may experience the emoluments of the fale: 
for, horrid and melancholy thought! the more crimes 
his fubjecls commit, the richer is he made; the more 
abandoned the fubjeft, the happier is the prince ! 

Neither can we allow that the punifhment thus applied, 
tends in any degree to anfvver the piiblick bappinefs; for 
if men can be fentenced to flavery, right or wrong; if 
fhadows can be turned into fubflances, and virtues into 
crimes; it is evident that none can be happy, becaufe 
none can be fecure. ^ 

But 



64 On the Slavery and Commerce 

But if the punifiiment is infinitely greater than the of- 
fence, (which has been fhewn before) and if it is in- 
fliftedj neither to amend the criminal, nor to deter 
others from the fame proceedings, nor to advance, in 
any degree, the happinefs of the pubhck, it is fcarce ne- 
ceffary to obferve, that it is totally unjuft, fmce it is re- 
pugnant to reafon^ the dilates of nature, and the very 
principles of government. 



CHAP. VII. 

"We come now to the fourth and laft order of flaves, 
to prifoners of war. As the fellers lay a particular flrefs 
on this order of men, and infer much, from its antiquity, 
in fupport of the juftice of their caufe, we fhall examine 
the principle, on which it fubfifted among the ancients. 
But as this principle was the fame among all nations, 
and as a citation from many of their hiftories would not 
be lefs tedious than unneceiTary, we lliall feleft the ex- 
ample of the Romans for the confideration of the cafe. 

The law, by which prifoners of war were faid to be 
fentenced to fervitude, was the * law of nations. It was 
fo called from the univerfal concurrence of nations in the 
cuftom. It had tv^o points in view, the perfons of the 
captured, and their effects ; both of which it immediate- 
ly fentenced, without any of the ufual forms of law, to 
be the property of the captors. 

The principle, on which the law was eflabliflied, was 
the right of capture. When any of the contending par- 
ties had overcome their opponents, and were about to 
deftroy them, the right was confidered to commence 5 
a right, which the vi£tors conceived themfelves to have, 
to recall their fwords, and, from the confideration of 
having faved the lives of the vanquifhed, when they 
could have taken them by the laws of war, to commute 

hkod 

* Jup Gentium fervi noftfi funt, qui ab hoftibus capiiintur. Jufl^ 
nian, L. i. 5. 5. i. 



OF THE Human Species. '6$ 

Mood for fervice. Hence the Roman lawyer, Pompbniusj 
deduces the etymology oi Jlave in the Roman language* 
* " They were called fervi^ fays he, from the follow- 
*' ing circumftance. It was ufual with our ccmmand- 
" ers to take them prifoners, and fell them: now this 
" circumdance implies, that they muil have been pre- 
'* vioufly prcfer-ved, and hence the name." Such then 
was the right of capture . It was a right, which the circum- 
llance of taking the vanquiihed, that is, ol prefernjing them 
alive, gave the conquerors to their perfons. By this 
right, as always including the idea of a previous prefer- 
vation from death, | the vanquiflied were laid to bejlaves^ 
and, " as all flaves,'* fays Juflinian, " are themfelves 
" in the power of others, and of courfe can have no- 
*' thing of their own, fo their effeds followed the con- 
" dition of their perfons, and became the property of 
" the captors." 

To examine this right, by which the vanquiflied were 
faid to be flaves, we fliall ufe the words of a celebrated 
Roman author, and apply them to the prefent cafe. | 
'' If it is lawful," fays he, " to deprive a man of his 
" life, it is certainly not inconfiftent with nature to rob 
" him;" to rob him of his liberty. We admit the con- 
clufion to be juft, if the fuppofition be the fame : we allow, 
if men have a right to commit that, which is confidered as 
a greater crime, that they have a right, at the fame inftant, 
to commit that, which is confidered as a lefs. But what 
fhall we fay to the bypothefis f We deny it to be true. The 
voice of nature is againft it. It is not lawful to kill, but on 
necejfity. Had there been a necefTity, where had the 
wretched captive furvived to be broken with chains and 
fervitude? The very act of faving his life is an argument 
to prove, that no fuch neceffity exifted. The conclufion 

1 is 

* Sirvofum appellatio ex co fiiixit, quod impcratores noflil cantivod 
vendere, ac per hoc fcrvare, ncc occidcre fdlcnt. 

I Nam five vicloribus jure captivitatis fcrviirciit, &.c. Juftin, J.. 4< 
. ct paflim apiid fcripcores anti(]Uos, 

f Nequc eft contra naturam fpoliarc eiim, fi nofli?, quei*n hone!- 
I^iirn c(l nccare. Cicero de oHiciis. L. 3. 6. 



66 On the Slavery and Commerce 

is therefore falfe. The captors had no right to the lives 
of the captured, and of courle none to their liberty: 
they had no right to their blood, and of courie none to 
their fervice. Their right therefore had no foundation 
in juftice. It was founded on a principle, contrary to 
the law of nature, and of courfe contrary to that law, 
which people, under different governments, are bound 
to obferve to one another. 

It is fcarce necelTary to obferve, as a farther teftimony 
of the injuflice of the meafure, that the Europeans, af- 
ter the introdudion of Chriftianity, exploded this prin- 
ciple of the ancients, as frivolous and falfe; that they 
fpared the lives of the vanquiflied, not from the fordid 
motives of avarice, but from a confcientioufnefs, that 
homicide could only be juftified by necejjity, that they 
introduced an exchange of prifoners, and, by many and 
wife regulations, deprived war of many of its former 
horrours. 

But the advocates for flavery, unable to defend them- 
felves againft thefe arguments, have fled to other re- 
fources, and, ignorant of hiftory, have denied that the 
right of capture was the true principle, on which flavery 
fubfifted among the ancients. They reafon thus- "The 
learned Grotius, and others, have confidered flavery as 
the jufl: confequence of a private war, (fuppofmg the 
war to be jufl and the opponents in a fl:ate of nature,) 
upon the principles of reparation and pimiJJyment. Now 
as the law of nature, which is the rule of condud to 
individuals in fuch a fituation, is applicable to members 
of ^ a different community, there is reafon to prefuaie, 
that thefe principles were applied by the ancients to their 
prifoners of v;ar; that their effeds were confifcated by 
the right of reparation, and their perfons by the right of 
punijhfiient,''' 

But fuch a prefumption is falfe. The right of capture 
was the only argument, that the ancients adduced in 
their defence. Hence Polybius; " What mufl: they, 
*' (the Mantinenfes) fufler, to receive the punifnment 
*' they deferve? Perhaps it will be faid, that they mufi 
^' be fold, when they are taken, "with their wives and 

" children 



or THE Human Species. 67 

*' children into JIavery : But this is not to be confidered 
*' as a puniiliment, fmce even thofe fuffer it, by the laws 
" of war, who have done nothing that is bafe." The 
truth is, that both the offending and the offended parties, 
whenever they were vidorious, inflifted ilavery alike. 
But if the offending party inflided ilavery on the perfons 
of the vanqiflied, by wdiat right did they inflict it? It 
mufl: be anfwered from the prefumption before-menti- 
oned, " by the right of reparation^ ov of punijhment :^^ 
an anfwer plainly abiurd and contradiftory, as it fuppofes 
the aggreffor to have a right, which the injured only could 
polfefs. 

Neither is the argument iefs fallacious than the pre- 
fumption, in applying thefe principles, Vi]\\zh.m2. publick 
WLir could belong to the publick only, to the perfons of 
the individuals that were taken. This calls us again to 
the hiftory of the ancients, and, as the rights of repa- 
ration and punilhment could extend to thofe only, who 
had been injured, to feled a particular initance for the 
confideration of the cafe. 

As the Romans had been injured without a previous 
provocation by the condud of Hannibal at Saguntum, 
we may take the treaty into confideration, which they 
made with the Carthaginians, when the latter, defeated 
at Zama, fued for peace. It confided of three articles. 

* By the firll, the Carthaginians were to be free, and to 
enjoy their own conflitution and laws. By the fecond, 
they were to pay a confiderable fum of money, as a 
reparation for the damages and expence of the war: and, 
by the third, they vi'ere to deliver up their elephants and 
iliips of war, and to be fubjeft to various reftriftions, as 
a punilhment. With thefe terms they complied, and the 
war was finilhed. 

Thus 

♦ I. Uc libcri fuis legibus viverent. Livy, L. 30. 37. 

2. Decern millia talentum argenti defcripta pcnlionibus acquis in 
'.:nno!) quinquaginta folverent. Ibid. 

^. Et naves rortratay, praeter decern triremes, tradercnt, elcphan- 
tofquc, qiios iiaberent doniitos ; neque doniarciit alios : Bellum ncvc 
ill Africa, neve extra Africam, injiilRi P. R. gcrcrent, &c. . Ibid. 



6t^ On the Slavery and .CoMr4ERCE 

Thus then did the Romans make that diftinftion be- 
tween private and publick war, which was neceffary to 
be made, and which the argument is fallacious in not 
fuppofing. The treafury of the vanquiftied was marked 
as the means of reparation-^ and as this treafury was fup- 
plied, in a great meafure, by the impofition of taxes, 
and was, wholly^ the property of the publick^ fo the pubiick 
made the reparation that was due. The elephants alio, and 
Jhips of war, which were marked as the means of punijlj- 
ment^ wcrt publick property ; and as they were confiderable 
inftruments of fecurity and defence to their poffefTors, 
and of annoyance to an enemy, fo their lofs, added to 
the reflriftions of the treaty, operated as a great and 
publick punifliment. But with refpeft to the Carthagini» 
an prifoners, who had been taken io the war, they were 
retained in fer-vitude: not upon the principles of repara- 
tion and punijhment^ becaufe the Romans had already re- 
ceived, by their own confeffion in the treaty, a fufficient 
fatisfaftion : not upon thefe principles, becaufe they were 
inapplicable to individuals : the legionary foldier in the 
fervice of the injured, who took his prifoner, was not 
the perfon, to whom the injury had been done^ any more 
than the foldier in the fervice of the aggreffors, who 
was taken, was the perfon, who had committed the of- 
fence: but they were retained in fervitude by the right of 
capture-, becaufe, when both parties had fent their mili- 
tary into the field to determine the difpute, it was at the 
private choice of the legionary foldier before-mentioned, 
whether he would fpare the life of his conquered oppo- 
nent, when he was thought to be entitled to take it, if 
he had chofen, by the laws of war. 

To produce more inftances, as an illuftration of the 
fubjecl:, or to go farther into the argument, would be 
to trefpafs upon the patience, as well as underftanding 
of the reader. In a fiate of nature^ where a man is 
fuppofed to commit an injury, and to be unconnefted 
with the reft of the world, the aft is private, and the 
right, which the injured acquires, can extend only to 
himfelf: but in a fate of fociety, where any member or 
members of a particular community give offerjce to thofe 

of 



OF THE Human Species. 6^ 

of another, and they are patronized by the llate, to 
which they belong, the cafe is altered; the acl becomes 
immediately publick^ and the puhlick alone are to expe- 
rience the confequences of their injuftice. For as no 
particular member of the community, if confidered as 
an individual, is guilty, except the perfon, by whom the 
injury was done, it would be contrary to reafon and 
juftice, to apply the principles of reparation and punijh- 
ment, which belong to the people as a colleclive body, 
to any individual of the community, who (hould happen 
to be taken. Now, as the principles of reparation and 
puntfi.ment are thus inapplicable to the prifoners, taken 
in :• publick war, and as the right of capture, as we have 
fhewn before, is infufficient to intitle the victors to the 
fer-vice of the vanquifhed, it is evident that Jlavery can- 
not juffly exifl at all, fince there are no other maxims, 
on which it can be founded, even in the mod equitable 
wars. 

But if thefe things are fo; if flavery cannot be de- 
fended even in the mofl equitable wars, v\^hat arguments 
will not be found againft that fervitude, which arifes 
from thofe, thai are iinjujif Which arifes from thofe 
African wars, that relate to the prefent fiibjed? The 
African princes, corrupted by the merchants of Europe, 
feek every opportunity of quarrelling with one another. 
Every fpark is blown into a flame; and w^ar is under- 
taken from no other confideration, than that of procuring 
fla'ves : while the Europeans, on the other hand, happy 
in the quarrels which they have thus excited, fupply 
them with arms and ammunition for the accomplilhment 
of their horrid purpofe. Thus has Africa, for the fpace 
of two hundred years, been the fcene of the moft ini- 
quitous and bloody wars; and thus have many thoufands 
of men, in the mofl iniquitous manner, been fent; into 
fervitude. 



CHAP. 



On the Sla-very and Commerce 



CHAP. VIII. 

We fliall beg leave, before we proceed to the argu- 
ments of the pur chafers, to add the following obfervati- 
ons to the fubftaiice of the three preceding chapters. 

As the two orders of men, of thofe who are privately 
kidnapped by individuals, and of thofe who are pub- 
lickly feized by virtue of the authority of their prince, 
compofe together, at leaft, * nine tenths of the African 
fiaves, they cannot contain, upon a moderate computa- 
tion, lefs than ninety thoufand men annually tranfport- 
ed: an inimenfe number, but eafily to be credited, when 
we relied that ihoufands are employed tor the purpofe 
of ftealing the unwary, and that thefe diabolical prac- 
tices are in force, fo far has European injujiice been 
fpread, at the diftance of a thoufand miles from the fac- 
tories 

* The total annual exportation from Africa, is eftimated here at 
100,000 men, two thirds of whom are exported by the Britith mer- 
chants alone. This cftiraate is lefs than that which is ufually made, 
and has been publiihed. The author has been informed by difinterefted 
people, who were in moft of the Weft India iflands during the late 
war, and who converfed with many of the moft intelligent of the 
negroes, for the purpofe of inquiring by what methods they had ori- 
ginally been reduced to flavery, that they did not find even' two in 
twenty, who had been reduced to that fituation, by any other means 
than thofe mentioned above. The author, defirous of a farther 
confirmation of this circumftance, flopped the prefs till he had writ- 
ten to another friend, vi^ho had refided twenty years in the Weft-In- 
dies, and whofe opinion he had not yet afked. The following is 
an extract from the anfwer. " I do not among many hundreds re- 
*' collect to have feen but one or two fiaves, of thofe imported 
" from Africa, who had any fears to ihew, that they had been in 
'' war. They are generally fuch as are kidnapped, or fold by their 
" tyrants, after the deftruc^ion of a village. In iTiort, I am firmly 
" of opinion, that crimes and war together do not funiiih one Have 
" in an hundred of the numbers inh-oduced into the European colo- 
" nies. Of confequence the trade itfelf, were it poffible to fup- 
*' pofe convifts or prifoners of war to be juftly fentenced to fervi- 
" tude, is accountable for ninety-nine in every hundred fiaves whom 
" it fupplies. It is an infult to the publick, to attempt to palliate 
" the m-fthod of procuring them.". 



OF THE Human Species. 71 

tories on the coafl. The flave merchants^ among whom 
a quantity of European goods is previoufly divided, tra- 
vel into the heart of the country to this amazing diftance. 
Some of them attend the various markets, that are efta- 
bhflied through fo large an extent of territory, to pur- 
chafe the kidnapped people, whom the /Jave-hunters are 
continually bringing in; while the reft, fubdividing their 
merchandize among the petty fovereigns with whom 
they deal, receive, by an immediate exertion of fraud 
and violence, the ftipulated number. 

Now, will any man affert, in oppofition to the argu- 
ments before advanced, that out of this immenfe body 
of men, thus annually collected and tranfported, there 
is even 072e, over whom the original or fubfequent feller 
can have any power or right? Whoever aflerts this, in 
the firft inftance, mult contradi6t his own feelings, and. 
muft confider himfelf as a juft objeft of prey, whenever 
any daring invader Ihall think it proper to attack him. 
And, in the fecond inftance, the very idea which the 
African princes entertain of their villages, as parks or 
refervoirs^ ftocked only for their own convenience, and 
of their fubjecls, as wild beajis, whom they may purfue 
and take at pleafure, is fo fhocking, that it need only 
be mentioned, to be inftantly reprobated by the rea- 
der. 

The order of flaves, which is next to the former in 
refpett to the number of people whom it contains, is 
that of prifoners of war. This order, if the former 
ftatement be true, is more inconfiderable than is gene- 
rally imagined; but whoever reflects on the prodigious 
{laughter that is conftantly made in every African fkir- 
mifli, cannot be otherwifc than of this opinion: he will 
fmd, that where ten are taken, he has every reafon to 
prefume that an hundred perilh. In fome of thefe flvir- 
mifhes, though they have been begun for the exprefs pur- 
pofe of procuring JJaves, the conquerors have fufFered 
but few of the vanquifhed to efcape the fury of the fword ; 
and there have not been wanting inftances, where they 
have been fo incenfed at the refiftance they have found, 
that their fpirit of vengeance has entirely got the better 

of 



72 On THij Slavery and CoMMEkcE 

of their avarice, and they have murdered, m cool btoodjs 
every individual, without difcrimination, either of age 
or fex. 

* The following is an account of one of thefe Ikir- 
iniflies, as defcribed by a perfon, who was witnefs to the 
fcene. " I was fent, v/ith ieveral others, in a fmall 
'' floop up the river Niger, to purchafe flaves : we had 
<' fome free negroes with us in the praftice; and as the 
*^ veffels are liable to frequent attacks from the negroes 
" on one fide of the river, or Moors on the other, they 
*' are all armed. As we rode at anchor a long way up 
" the river, we obferved a large number of negroes in 
*' huts by the river's fide, and for our own fafety kept 
" a wary eye on them. Early next morning we faw 
*' from our maft-head a numerous body approaching, 
*' with apparently but little order, but in clofe array. 
*' They approached very fafi, and fell furioufly on the 
*' inhabitants of the town, who feemed to be quite 
^'^ furprized, but neverthelefs, as foon as they could get 
" together, fought ftoutly. They had fome fire-arms, 
*' but made very little ufe of them, as they came diredly 
*' to clofe fighting with their fpears, lances, and fabres. 
'' Many of the invaders were mounted on fmall horfes; 
" and both parties fought for about half an hour M'ith 
" the fiercefL animofity, exerting much more courage 
*' and perfeverance than I had ever before been witnefs 
" to amongft them. The women and children of the 
" town cluftered together to the water's edge, running 
•^^ flirieking up and down with terrour, v/aiting the event 

" of 

* The writer of the letter of which this is a faithful extraft, and 
who was knovsfn to the author of the prefent EfTay, was a long time; 
on the African coaft. He had once the misfortune to be iTiipwrecked 
there, and to be taken by the natives, who conveyed him and his 
companions a confiderable way up into the country. The hardfliips 
which he underwent in the march, his treatment during his captivity, 
the fcencs to which he was witnefs, while he refided among the in- 
land Africans, as vvell as while in the African trade, gave oceafion 
to a feries of very interefting letters. Thefe letters were fent to the 
author of the prefent Eifay, with liberty to make what ufe of them 
he chofe, by the gentleman to whom they were written. 



OF THE HumaJt Species. >7^ 

" of the combat, till their party gave way and took to 
*' the water, to endeavour to fwim over to the Barbary 
*' fide. They were clofely purfued even into the river 
" by the viftors, who, though they came for the pur- 
*' pofe of getting /laves, gave no quarter, their cruelty 
*^' even prevailing over their avarice. They made no pri- 
*' foners, but put all to the fword without mercy. Hor- 
*' rible indeed was the carnage of the vanquifhed on 
" this occafion, and as we were within two or three 
*' hundred yards of them, their cries and flirieks affed:- 
*' ed us extremely. We had got up our anchor at the 
" beginning of the fray, and now ftood clofe in to the 
" fpot, where the vidlors having followed the vanquifh- 
" ed into the water, were continually dragging out and 
" murdering thofe, whom by reafon of their wounds 
*' they eafily overtook. The very children, whom they 
" took in great numbers, did not efcape the malfacre. 
*' Enraged at their barbarity, we fired our guns loaden 
*' with grape-fhot, and a volley of fmall arms among 
*' them, which effedually checked their ardour, and 
*' obliged them to retire to a diftance from the fhore : 
" from whence a few round cannon £hot foon removed 
*' them into the woods. The whole river was black 
" over with the heads of the fugitives, who were fwim- 
" ming for their lives. Thefe poor wretches, fearing 
" us as much as their conquerors, dived when we fired, 
" and cried mod lamentably for mercy. Having now 
*' effectually favoured their retreat, we flood back- 
*' wards and forwards, and took up feveral that were 
'■• wounded and tired. All whofe wounds had difabled 
" them from fw'imming, were either butchered or 
" drowned, before we got up to them. With a jufHce 
'' and gencrofity, never I believe before heard of among 
" flavers, we gave thofe their liberty whom we had 
" taken up, fetting them on fhore on the Barbary fide, 
" among the poor refidue of their companions, who 
'' had furvived the flaughter of the morning.'* 

We fhall make but two remarks on this horrid in- 
flance of African cruelty. It adds, firft, a confiderable 
weight to the ftatements that have been made ; and 

K confirms. 



74 On the Slavery and Commerce 

confirms, fecondly, the conclufions that were drawn in 
the preceding, chapter. For if -we even allow the right 
of cjipture to be iuft, and the principles of reparation 
and punifhment to be applicable to the individuals of 
a community, yet would the former be unjuft, and the 
latter inapplicable, in the prefent cafe. Every African 
war is a robbery; and we may add, to our former ex- 
preflion, when we faid, " that thus have many thou- 
*' fands of men, la the moil iniquitous manner, been 
" fent into fervitude," that we.bpiieve there are few 
of this order, who are, not as much the exaniples of 
injuilice, as the people that liave been kidnapped; and 
who do not additionally convey, when we confider them 
as prifoners of war, an idea of th€ moft complicated 
fcene of murder. 

Tht order of convids^ as it exifts almoft folely among 
tliofe princes, whofe dominions are contugious to the 
European factories, is from this circumllance fo incon- 
fiderable, when compared with either of the preceding, 
that we fliould not have mentioned it again, but; that 
we were unwilling to omit any additional argument 
that occurred againft it. 

It has been ihewn already, that the punifhment of 
ilavery is infiiQ:ed from no other motive, than that of 
gratifying the avarice of the prince, a confideration fo 
deteftable, as to be fufficient of itfelf to prOve it to be 
tmjuft; and that it is fo difproportionate, from its nature^ 
to the offence, as to afford an additional proof of its 
injuflice. We fhall add now, as a fecond argument, its 
difproportion from its continuance : and we fnall derive a 
third from the confideration, that, in civil fociety, every 
violation of the laws of the community is an offence 
againft the Jlate. * 

Let us fuppofe then an African prince, difdaining for 
once the idea of emolument; let us fuppofe him for once 

inflamed 

* Were this not the cafe, the government of a country could 
have no right to take cognizance of crimes, and punilh them, but 
every individual, if injured, would have a right to punifli the ag- 
greflbv with his own hand, which is contrary to the notions of al 
civilized men, whether among the ancients or the moderns. 



OF THE Human Species. 75 

inflnmed with the love of his country, and refolving to 
punifh from this -principle alone, " that by exhibiting an 
*' example of tcrrcur, he may preferve that bappinefs of 
" tlje fuhlick^ which he is bound to fecure and defend 
" by the very nature of his contratSt; or, in other words, 
" that he may anfv.'er the end of government." It ac- 
tuated then by this principle, he fhould adjudge llavery 
to an offender, as a; juft punifliment for his offence, for 
whofe benefit miift the convict labour? If it be imfwer- 
ed, " tor the benefit of the ftate," we allow that the 
punifliment, in whatever light it is coniidered, will be 
found to be equitable : but if it be anfwered, " for the 
'• benefit of any indi'vldual whom he pkafes io appoint,** 
we deny it to be juft. The * ftate alone is coniidered 
to have been injured, and as injuries cannot pojjtbly he 
transferred, the ftate alone can juiliy receive the advan- 
tages of his labour. But if the African prince, when 
he thus condemns him to labour for' the benefit of an 
unoffended individual, fhould at the fame time fentence 
him to become \i\% '^property, that is, if iVe tliould make 
the perfon and life of the convict at the abfolute difpofal 
of him, for whom he has fentenced' him to labour; it 
is evident that, in 'addition to his former injuftice, he 
is ufurping a power, which no ruler or rulers ot a ftate 
can poffefs, and which the great Creator of the univerfe 
never yet gave to any order whatever of created beings. 

That this reafoning is true, and that civilized nations 
have confidered it as' fuch; will be beft teflified by their 
practice. We may appeal here X.oXSx'sxfM'very, which 
is now adjudged to delinquents, as apunilhment, among 
many of the (tates of Europe. Thel'e delinquents are 
fentenced to labour at the oar^ to work in mines, and on 
fortifications^ to cut and clear rivers, to make and repair 
roads, and to perform other works of national utility. 
They are employed, in fliort, in the publick workj be- 

caufe, 

* This fame notion is entertained even by the African princes, 
who do not permit the jierfon injured to revenge his injury, or to 
receive rl-.e convict as his (lave. But if the very perfon who has 
been injured^ does not poflcfs him, much Icfs ought any otlier per- 
fon whatfoever. 



^6 On ti^e Slavery and Gjmmerce 

caufe, as the crimes they have committed are confidered 
to have been crimes againft the pubhck, no individual 
can juftly receive the emoluments of their labour; and 
they are neither fold, nor made capable of being trans- 
ferred, becaufe no government whatfoever is inverted 
with fuch a power. 

Thus then may that flavery, in which only the idea of 
labour is included, be perfedly equitable, and the de- 
linquent will always receive his punifliment as a man', 
whereas in that, which additionally includes the idea of 
-property, and to undergo which, the delinquent mud 
previoufly change his nature, and become a brute, there 
is an inconfiftency, which no arguments can reconcile, 
and a contradidion to every principle of nature, which 
a man need only to appeal to his own feelings immedi- 
ately to evince. And we will venture to affert, from 
the united obfervations that have been made upon the 
fubjeft, in oppofidon to any arguments that may be 
advanced, that there is fcarcely one of thofe, who are 
called African convi^s, on whom the prince has a 
right to iriflict a punifhment at all; and that there is no 
one whatever, \yhpm he has a power of fentencing to 
labour for the benefit of an unoffended individua,!, and 
much iefs whom he has a right to fell. 

* Having now fully examined the arguments of the 
fetters^ and having made fuch additional remarks as were 
neceffary, we have only to add, that we cannot fuffici" 
ently exprefs our deteftation at their conduct. Were the 
reader coolly to refle6t upon the cafe of but one of the 
unfortunate men, who are annually the victim's of ava- 
rice^ and confider his fituation in life, as a father, an 
hufband, or a friend, we are fure, that even on fuch a 
partial refleftion, he muft experience confiderable pain. 
What then mull be his feelings, when he is told, that, 

fince 



* There are Inftances on the African continent, of parents felling 
their children. As the flaves of this defcription are fo few, and are 
fo irregularly ob ?.ined, we did not think it worth our while to con- 
llder rhem as forming an order,- and, as God never gave the parent 
a power over his child to make him miferable, we truft that any fai'- 
ther mention of them will be unneceffary. 



OF THE Human Species, ^7 

iince the Have-trade began, f 7iine millions of men have 
been torn from their dearefl conncdions, and fold into 
llavery. If at this recital his indignation fhould arife, 
let him confider it as the genuine prodiiclion of nature ; 
that fhe recoiled at the horrid thought, and that ihe ap- 
plied inftantly a torch to his breaft to kindle his refent- 
ment; and if, during his indignation, fhe ihould awaken 
the figh of fympathy, or feduce the tear of commifera- 
tion from his eye, let him confider each as an additional 
argument againft the iniquity of the fellers, 

CHAP. IX. 

It remains only now to examine by what arguments 
thofes who receive or purchafe their fellow-creatures into 
flavery, defend the commerce. Their firft plea is, " that 
"they receive thofe with propriety, who are convicted 
" of crimes, becaufe they are delivered into their hands 
^' by thmr ozvn ?nagijirates.'* Bat what is this to you 
receivers? Have the unfortunate convicls been guilty of 
injury to you? Have they broken your treaties? Have 
they plundered jo^/^ ihips? Have they carried your wives 
and children into flavery, that you jfhould thus retaliate? 
Have they offended you even by word or gefture? 

But if the African convicT:s are innocent with refpedl 
to you; if you have not even the fhadow of a claim 
upon their perfons; by what right do you receive them? 
" By the laws of the Africans/' you will fay; " by 
*' which it is pofitively allowed." — But can laws alter 
the nature of vice? They may give it a fandion perhaps: 
it will [fill be immutably the lame, and, though dreflcd 
in the outward habiliments ot honour^ will dill be inlrin- 
fically hafe. 

But alas! you do not only attempt to defend your- 
fclves by thefe arguments, but even dare to give your 
adlions the appearance of lenity, and affume 7nerit from 
your bafcncfs! and how firlt ought you particularly to 
blufh, when you aifcrt, " that priibners of war are only 
" purchafed from the hands of their conquerors, to de- 
" liver them from death.** Ridiculous defence! can the 

mo ft 

t Abbe Raynal, Hift. Phil. vol. 4. P. 154. 



78 On the Slavery and Commerce 

mod credulous believe it? You entice the Africans to 
war; you foment their quarrels; you fupply them with 
arms and ammunition, and all — -Irom the motives of be- 
nevolence. Does a man fet fire to an houfe, for the pur- 
poie of refcuing the inhabitants from the flames? But 
if they are only pur chafed, to deliver them jrom death ; 
why, when they are delivered into your hands, as pro- 
teiPcors, do you torture them with hunger? Why do you 
kill them with fatigue? Why docs the whip deform their 
bodies, or the knife their limbs? Why do you fentence 
them to death? to a death, infinitely more excruciating 
than that from which you fo kindly faved them? What 
anfvver do you make to this? for if you had not hu- 
manely prefcrved them from the hands of their conquer- 
ors, a quick death perhaps, and that in the fpace of a 
moment, h?d free.d them from their pain: but on ac- 
count of your favour and benevolence^ it is known, that 
they have lingered years in pain and agony, and, have 
been fentenced, at laft, to a dreadful death for the moft 
infignificant oflence. 

Neither can we allow the other argument to be true, 

on which you found your merit; " that you take them 

" from their country for their own convenience ; be- 

"• caufe Africa, fcorched with inceilant heat, and fub- 

" jetl to the molt violent rains and tempefls, is unwhole- 

""' fome, and unfit to be inhabited." Prepoflerous men! 

do you thus judge from your ovvu feelings? Do you thus 

judge from your own conititution and frame? But it you 

fuppofe that the Africans are incapable of enduring their 

own climate, becaufe you cannot endure it yourfelves; 

why do you receive them into ilavery? Why do you not 

meafure them here by the fame (iandard? For if you 

are unable to bear hunger and thirft, chains and irapri- 

fonment, Vi'ounds and torture> why do you not fuppole 

them incapable of enduring the fame treatment? Thus 

then is your argument turned againll; yourfelves. But 

confider the anfwtr which the Scythians gave the iEgypti- 

ans, when they contended about the antiquity ol their 

original, * " That nature, when ihe firft diliinguilhed 

" countries 

* Juflin, L. 2. C. r. 



OF THE Human Species. 79 

" countdes by different degrees of heat and cold, tem- 
*' pered the bodies of animals, at the fame inftant, to 
*' endure the different fituations: that as the climate of 
*' Scythia was feverer than that of ^gypt, fo were the 
" bodies- of the Scythians harder, and as capable of en- 
" during the feverity of their atmofphere, as the ^gyp- 
" tians the temperatenefs of their own '* 

But you may fay perhaps, that, though they are ca- 
pable of enduring their own climate, yet their (ituation 
is frequently uncomfortable, and even wretched: that 
Africa is infefted with locufts, and infefts of various 
kinds; that they fettle in fwarms upon the trees, deflroy 
the verdure, confume the fruit, and deprive the inhabi- 
tants of their food. But the fame anlwer may be ap- 
plied as before; " that the fame kind Providence, who 
tempered the body of the animal, tempered aifo the bo- 
dy of the tree; that he gave it a quality to recover the 
bite of the locuft, which he fent; and to realfume, in a 
fhort interval of time, its former glory.*' And that fuch 
is the cafe experience has fhewn: for the very trees that 
have been infefled, and dripped of their bloom and ver- 
dure, io furprizingly quick is vegetation, appear in a 
few days, as if an infeft had been utterly unknown. 

We may add to thefe obfervations, from the teftimony 
of thofe who have written the Hiffcry of Africa from 
their own infpeftion, that no country is more luxurious 
in profpecls, none more fruitful, none more rich in herds 
and flocks, and none, v/here the comforts of life can be 
gained with fo little trouble. 

But you fay again, as a confirmation of thefe your 
former arguments, (by which you v.^ould iiave it under- 
ftood, that the Africans themfelves are feniible of the 
goodnefs of your intentions) " that they do not appear 
" to go with you againft their will." Impudent and 
bafc afl'crtion ! Why then do you load them with chains? 
Why keep you your daily and nightly vi'atchcs? But 
alas, as a farther, though a more melancholy proof, of 
the falfehood of your affertions, how many, when on 
board your Ihips, have put a period to their exiftence? 
Plow many have leaped into the fca? How many have 

pined 



So On the Slavery and Commerce 

pined to death, that, even at the expence of their lives, 
they might fly from your benevolence? 

i)o you call them obitinate thee, becaufe they refufe 
your favours? Do you call them ungrateful, becaufe 
they make you this return? Hovs^ much rather ought 
you receivers to blufh! Mow much rather ought you 
receivers to be confidered as abandoned and execrable; 
who, when you ufurp the dominion over thofe, who are 
as free and independent as yourfelves, break the firft 
law of juilice, which ordains, " that no perion Ihall do 
" harm to another, without a previous provocation;*' 
who oifend againit the diftates of nature, which com- 
mands, " that no juft man Ihaii be given or received 
" into flavery againit his own confent;" and who vio- 
late the very laws of the empire that you alfume, by 
configning your fubjecls to miiery. 

Now, as a famous Heathen philofopher obferves, from 
whofe mouth you (ball be convicted, * " there is a con- 
" fiderable difference, whether an injury is done, during 
" any perturbation of mind, which is generally fliort 
" and momentary; or whether it is done with any pre- 
*' vious meditation and defign; for, thofe crimes, which 
" proceed from any fudden commotion of the mind, 
" are lefs than thofe, which are lludied and prepared," 
bow great and enormous are y6ur crimes to be con- 
iidered, who plan your African voyages at a time, when 
your reafon is found, and your fenfes are awake; who 
coolly and deliberately equip your veflels; and who fpend 
years, and even lives, in the traflick of human liberty. 

But if the arguments of thofe, who Jell or deli-ver 
men into flavery, (as we have Hiewn before) and of thofe, 
who receive or purchafe them, (as v/e have now fliewn) 
are wholly falfe; it is evident that this commerce, is not 
only beyond the poilibility of defence, but is juftly to 
be accounted wicked, and juftly impious, fmce it is 
contrary to the priciples of lazu 2.nd. government, the 
didates of reafon, the common maxims of equity, the 
laws of nature, the admonitions of confcience^ and, in 
ihort, the whole dodrinc of natural religion, 

PART 

* Cicero de Officiis. L. i, C. 8. 



PART III. 



T PI E 



SLAVERY OF THE AFRICANS 

IN THE 

EUROPEAN COLONIES. 

CHAP. I. 

HAVING confined ourfelves wholly, in the fecond 
part of this Eflay, to the confideration of the co7n- 
mcrce^ we (hall now proceed to the confideration of the 
jlcvoery that is founded upon it. As this flavery will be 
confpicuous in the treatment^ which the unfortunate Afri- 
cans uniformly undergo, when they are put in the hands 
of the receivers^ we iliall defcribe the manner in which 
they are accuftomed to be ufed from this period. 

To place this in the cleareft, and mod confpicuous 
point of view, we fliail throw a confiderable part of our 
information on this head into the form of a narrative: 
we fhall fuppofe ourfelves, in fliort, on the continent of 
Africa, and relate a fcene, which, from its agreement 
with unqueflionable facts, might not unreafonably be 
prefumed to have been prefented to our view, had we 
been really there. 

And firft, let us turn our eyes to the cloud of duft 
that is before us. It feems to advance rapidly, and, ac- 
companied with difmal fhrieks and yeliings, to make 
the very air, that is above it, tremble as it rolls along. 
What can poilibly be the caufe.'' Let us inquire of that 

L melancholy 



82 On the Slavery and Commerce 

melancholy African, who feems to walk dejefted near 
the fliorej whofe eyes are ftedfaftly fixed on the ap- 
proaching object, and whofe heart, if we can judge 
irom the appearance of his countenance, mud be great- 
ly agitated. 

" Alas!'* fays the unhappy African, " the cloud that 
" that you fee approaching, is a train of wretched flaves. 
*' They are going to the fliips behind you. They are 
" deflined for the Englifli colonies, and, if you will 
*' ftay here but for a little time, you will fee them pafs. 
" They were laft night drawn up upon the, plain which 
" you fee before you, where they were branded upon 
" the bread with 2Xi hot iron-, and when they had un- 
" dergone the v;hole of the treatment which is cuftom- 
" ary on thefe occafions, and which I am informed 
" that you Englifhmen at home ufe to the cattle which 
" you buy, they were returned to their prifon. As I 
^'^ have iome dealings wdth the members of the faftory 
" which you fee at a little diftance, (though thanks to 
" the Great Spirit, I never dealt in the liberty of my 
" fellow creatures) I gained admittance there. I learn- 
*' ed the hiilory of fome of the unfortunate people, 
*=' whom I faw confined, and will explain to you, if my 
" eye (liould catch them as they pafs, the real caufes of 
*' their fervitude.'* 

Scarcely were thefe words fpoken, when they came 
difl:in«5lly into fight. They appeared to advance in a 
long column, but in a very irregular manner. There 
were three only in the front, and thefe were chained 
together. The reft that followed feemed to be chained 
by pairs, but by preffing forward, to avoid the laili of 
the drivers, the breadth of the column began to be 
greatly extended, and ten or more were obferved 
abreaft. 

While we were making thefe remarks, the intelligent 
African thus refumed his difcourfe. " The firft three 
'"^ whom you obferve, at the head of the train, to be 
" chained together, are prifoners of war. As foon as 
" the fliips that are behind you arrived, the news was dif- 
'* patched into the inland country j when one of the 

petty 



OF THE Human Species. 82 

^} 

" petty kings immediately aflembled his fubjects, and 

" attacked a neighbouring tribe. The wretched people, 

" though they were furprized, made a formidable re- 

" fiilance, as they reiblved, almoft all of them, rather 

" to loie their lives, than furvive their liberty. The 

" perfon whom you fee in the middle, is the father of 

" the two young men, who are chained to him on each 

" fide. His wife and two of his children were killed 

" in the attack, and his father being wounded, and, on 

" account of his age, incapable of fervitude, was left 

" bleeding on the foot where this tranfadlion happen- 

" ed." 

" With refpecl to thofe who are now paffing us, and 
*' are immediately behind the former, I can give you 
" no other intelligence, than that fome of them, to 
" about the number of thirty, were taken in the fame 
" fkirmifh. Their tribe was faid to have been numerous 
" before the attack; thefe hov/ever are all that are left alinje. 
" But with refpect to the unhappy man, who is now 
*' oppofite to us, and whom you may diftinguifh, as he 
*' is now looking back and wringing his hands in de- 
" fpair, I can inform you with more precifion. He is 
*' an unfortunate convict. He lived only about five 
" days journey from the faftory. He went out with 
" his king to hunt, and was one of his train; but, 
" through too great an anxiety to afi'ord his royal nia- 
" fter diverfion, he roufed the game from the covert 
" rather fooner than was expected. The king, exaf- 
" perated at this circumftance, fentenced him to ilavery. 
" His wife and children, fearing left the tyrant iliould 
" extend the punifhment to themfelves, which is not un- 
" ufual^ fled directly to the woods, where they were 
" all devoured." 

" The people, whom you fee clofe behind the un- 
" happy convift, form a numerous body, and reach a 
" confiderable way. They fpeak a language, which no 
" perfon in this part of Africa can underftand, and their 
" features, as you perceive, are fo diffv^rent from thofe 
" of the reft, that they almoft appear a diftinct race of 
" men. From this circumftance I recollect them. They 

" arc 



84 On the Slavery and Commerce 

" ,are the fubjefts of a very diftant prince, who agreed 
*« with the Jlave merchants^ for a quantity of fpirituous 
*' liquors, to, furniih him with a ilipuiated number of 
" flaves. He accordingly furrounded, and fet fire to 
" one of his own villages in the night, and feized thefe 
" people, who were unfortunately the inhabitants, as 
*' they were efcaping from the flames. 1 firft faw them 
" as the merchants were driving them in, about two 
" days ago. They came in a large body, and were 
" tied together at the neck with leather thongs, which 
" permitted them to walk at the diftance of about a 
*' yard from one another. Many of them were loaden 
'^ with elephants teeth, which had been purchafed at the 
" fame time. All of them had bags, made of fkin, 
" upon their llioulders; for as they were to travel, in 
" their way from the great mountains, through barren 
" fands and inhofpitable v/oods for many days together, 
" they were obliged to carry water and provifions with 
*' them. Notwithflanding this, many of them perifhed, 
*' fome by hunger, but the greatefl number by fatigue, 
" as the place from whence they came, is at fuch an 
*=' amazing diftance from this, and the obilacles, from 
" the nature of the country, fo great, that the journey 
'' could fcarcely be completed in feven moons." 

When this relation was finiihed, and v/e had been 
looking ftedfaftly for fome time on the croud that was 
going by, we loft fight of that peculiarity of feature, 
which we had before remarked. We then difcovered 
that the inhabitants of the depopulated village had all of 
them paffed us. and that the part of the train,' to which 
we were now oppofite, v/as a numerous body of kid- 
iiappSd people. Here we indulged our imagination. 
We thought we beheld in one of them a father, in ano- 
ther an hufband, and in another a fon, each of whom 
was forced from his various and tender connexions, and 
without even the opportunity of bidding them adieu. 
While we were engaged in thefe and other melancholy 
refietlions, the whde body of ilaves had entirely paffed 
us. We turned almoPt infenfiblv to look at them a.^ain, 
when we diicovered an unhappy man at the end of the 

train, 



OF THE Human Species. 85 

train, who could fcarcely keep pace with the reft. His 
feet feemed to have fuftered much from long and con- 
r^ant travelling, for he v/as limping painfully along. 

" This man, relumes the i\frican, has travelled a 
" confiderable way. He lived at a great diftance from 
" hence, and had a large family, lor whom he was dai- 
" ly to provide. As he went out one night to a neigh- 
" bouring fpring, to procure water for his thirfty chil- 
" dren, he was kidnapped by two JIave hunters, who 
fold him in the morning to fome country merchants 
for a bar of iron, Thefe drove him with other Haves, 
procured almofl in the fame manner, to the neareft 
market, where the Engiifli m.erchants, to whom the 
train that has juft now palfed us belongs, purchafed 
him and two others, by means of their travelling 
agents, for a p/JioL His wife and children have been 
long waiting for his return. But he is gone for ever 
'' from their fight: and they mull: be now difconiblate, 
" as fhey mull be certain by his delay, that he has fal- 
" len into the hands of the Chri/lians. 

" And now, as I have mentioned the name oi Chri- 
" ftians, a name, by which the Europeans diftinguifh 
" themfelves from us, I could wifh to be informed of 
'•' the meaning which fuch an appellation may convey.' 
" They confider themfelves as men, but us unfortunate 
" Africans, whom they term Heathens, as the beafh that 
" ferve us. But ah! how different is the fad! What is 
*' Chrijlianity\ but a fyftem of murder and oppreffion? 
" The cries and yells of the unfortunate people, who 
" are now foon to embark for the regions of fervitudc, 
" have already pierced my heart. Have you not heard 
" me figh, while we have been talking? Do you not fee 
" the tears that now trickle down my cheeks? and yet 
" thefe hardened Chrijiians are unable to be moved at 
" all: nay, they will fcourge them amidfi: their groans, 
" and even fmile, while they are torturing them to death. 
" Happy, happy Heathenifm? which can deteft the vices 
" of Chriflianity, and feel for the diftrellcs of man- 
" kind." 

" But" 



S6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

" But" we reply, " You are totally miftaken: Chrif- 
itanity is the mod perfe£l and lovely of moral fyilems. 
It blelTes even the hand of perfecution itfelf, and re- 
turns good for evil. But the people againft whom 
you fo juftly declaim, are not Chrijlians, They are 
infidels. They are monjiers. They are out of the 
common courfe of nature. Their countrymen at home 
are generous and brave. They fupport the fick, the 
lame, and the blind. They fly to the fuccour of the 
diftrefled. They have noble and ftately buildings for 
the fole purpoie of benevolence. They are in fhort, 
of all nations, the moil remarkable for humanity and 
juftice." 

" But why then," replies the honeft African, " do 
they fuffer this? Why is Africa a fcene of blood and 
defolation? Why are her children wrefted from her, 
to adminiiler to the luxuries and greatnefs of thofe 
whom they never offended? And why are thefe dif- 
mal cries in vain?" 

" Alas!" we reply again, " can the cries and groans, 
with which the air now trembles, be heard acrofs this 
extenfive continent? Can the fouthern winds convey 
them to the ear of Britain? If they could reach the 
generous Englifliman at home, they would pierce his 
heart, as they have already pierced your own. He 
would fympathize with you in your diflrefs. He 
would be enraged at the condu^l of his countrymen, 
and refifl their tyranny."- - 
But here a (hriek unufually loud, accompanied with a 
dreadful rattling of chains, interrupted the difcourfe. 
The wretched Africans were jufl about to embark: they 
had turned their face to their country, as if to take a 
laft adieu, and, with arms uplifted to the iky, were 
making the very atmofphere refound with their prayers 
and imprecations. 



CHAP. 



OF THE Human Species. ,87 



CHAP. II. 

The foregoing fcene, though it may be faid to be 
imaginary, is ftridly confiftent with faft. It is a fcene, 
to which the reader himfelf may have been witnefs, if 
he has ever vifited the place, where it is fuppofed to He; 
as no circuraflance whatever has been inferted in it, for 
which the fulled and moft undeniable evidence cannot 
be produced. We (hall proceed now to defcribe, in 
general terms, the treatment which the wretched Afri- 
cans undergo, from the time of their embarkation. 

When the African flaves, who are collefted from va- 
rious quarters, for the purpofes of fale, are delivered 
over to the receivers, they are conduced in the manner 
above defcibed to the fhips. Their fituation on board 
is beyond all defcription: for here they are crouded, 
hundreds of them together, into fuch a fmall compafs, 
as would fcarcely be thought fufficient to accommodate 
twenty, if confidered as free men. This confinement 
foon produces an effeft, that may be eafily imagined. It 
generates a peftilential air, which, co-operating with bad 
proviiions, occafions fuch a ficknefs and mortality among 
them, that not lefs than * twenty thoufand are generally 
taken off in every yearly tranfportation. 

Thus confined in a peftilential prifon, and almofl en- 
tirely excluded from the chearful face of day, it remains 
for the fickly furvivors to linger out a miferable ex- 
iflence, till the voyage is finifhed. But are no farther 
evils to be expeded in the interim, particularly if we 
add to their already wretched fituation, the indignities 

that 

* It is univeiTally allowed, that at leaft one fifth of the exported 
negroes perifh in the paflagc. This eftimatc is made from the time 
in which 'hey arc put an board, to the time when they are difpofed 
of in the colonies. The French are fuppofed ro lofe the greatell; 
number in the voyage, but particularly from this circumftance, be- 
caufe their flavc fliips are in general fo very large, tlia: many of the 
ilavcs that have been put on board fickly, die before the cargo can 
be completed. 



88 On the Slavery and Commerce 

that are daily offered them, and the regret which they 
mud conftantly feel, at being for ever forced from their 
connexions? Thefe evils are but too apparent. Some 
of theui have refolved, and, notwithfcanding the threats 
of the receivers, have carried their refolves into executi- 
on, to ftarve themfelves to death. Others, when they 
have been brought upon deck for air, if the lead oppor- 
tunity has offered, have leaped into the fea, and termi- 
nated their miferies at once. Others, in a fit of defpair, 
have attempted to rife, and regain their liberty. But 
here what a fcene of barbarity has conftantly enfued.— = 
Some of them have been inftantly killed upon the fpot; 
fome have been taken from the hold, have been bruifed 
and mutilated in the moll barbarous and fliocking m.an- 
ner, and have been returned bleeding to their compani- 
ons, as a fad example of refiftance; while others, tied 
to the ropes of the fliip, and mangled alternately with 
the whip and knjfe, have been left in that horrid fituati- 
on, till they have expired. 

But this is not the only inhuman treatment which they 
are frequently obhged to undergo; for if their fliould be 
any necefTity, from tempeftuous v/eather, for lightening 
the iliip; or if it lliould be prefumed on the voyage, that 
the provifions w\\\ fall fliort before the port can be made, 
they are, many of them, thrown into the fea, without 
any compunclion of mind on the part oi the receivers^ 
and without any other regret for their lofs, than that 
which ^i;^rzV^ infpires. \¥retched furvivors! what muft 
be their feelings at fuch a fight! how muft they tremble 
to think of that fervitude which is approaching, when 
the very dogs of the receivers have been retained on 
board, and preferred to their unoifending countrymen. 
But indeed fo lightly are thefe unhappy people efteemed, 
that their lives have been even taken away upon fpecu- 
latioa : there has been an inftance,* within the lail five 

years, 

* This inflance happened in a iTiip, commanded by one Colling- 
vvood. On the 29th of November, 1781, fifty-four of them were 
thrown into the fea alive,- on the 30th forty-two more; and in about 
three days afterwards, tv/enty-fix. Ten others, who were brought 

upon 



OF THE Human Species. 89 

years, of one hundred and thirty-two of them being 
thrown into the fea, becaufe it was fuppofed that, by 
this tricky their value could be recovered from the in- 
furers. 

But if the fliip fliould arrive fafe at its deftined port, 
a circumftance which does not always happen, (for fome 
have been blown up, and many loft) the wretched Afri- 
cans do not find an alleviation of their forrow. Here 
they are again expofed to fale. Here they are again fub- 
jecled to the infpe^lion of other brutal receivers^ who 
examine and treat them with an inhumanity, at which 
even avarice fhould blufh. To this mortifying circum- 
Itance is added another, that they are picked out, as the 
purchafer pleafes, with out any confideration whether 
the wife is feparated from her hufband, or the mother 
from her fon : and if thefe cruel inftances of fepararion 
fhould happen; if relations, when they find themfelves 
about to be parted, Ihould cling together ; or if filial, 
conjvigal, or parental affedion, fliould detain them but 
a moment longer in each other's arms, than thefe fecond 
receivers fliould think fufficient, the lafh inftantly fevers 
them from their embraces. 

We cannot clofe our account of the treatment, which 
the wretched Africans undergo vv/^hile in the hands of the 
jirjl receivers^ without mentioning an inftance of wanton 
barbarity, which happened fome time ago; particularly 
as it may be inferted with propriety in the prefent place, 
and may give the reader a better idea of ihe cruelties, 
to which they are continually expofed, than any that he 
may have yet conceived. To avoid making a miitake, 
\ve fl'iall take the liberty that has been allowed us, and 

M tranfcribe 



upon the deck for the fame piirpofe, did not wait to be hand-cufl'ed, 
but bravely leaped into the fea, and fhared the fate of their com- 
panions. It is a fact, that the people on board this iliip had not 
been put upon fhort allowance. The excufe which this execrable 
wretch made on board for his conduc?!:, was the following, " %]iut if 
" the Jlaves, who were then field j, had dkd a natural deaths the lojs would 
" have been the ownen; but as they were thrown alive ivto the fea, i', 
" would fall upon the underwriter:.'" 



gd On the Slavery AxN'd Commerce 

tranrcribe it from a little manufcript account, with v/hicb. 
we have been favoured by a * perfon of the ftncleil in- 
tegrity, and who was at that time in the place where the 
tranfaction happened. " Not long after/' l^iys he, 
(continuing his account) " the perpetrator of a cruel 
*' murder, committed in open day light, in the mod 
" publick part of a town, which vyas the feat of ^;overn- 
" nient, efcaped every other notice than the curies of a 
" few of the more humane witneffes of his barbarity. 
" An officer of a Guinea iliip, who had the care of a 
" number of new Haves, and was returning from the 
" fale-yard to the veffel with fuch as remained unfold, 
^^ obierved a ftout fellow among them rather flow in his 
'' motions, which he therefore quickened with his rattan. 
" The Have foon afterwards fell down, and was raifed 
" by the fame application. Moving forwards a few 
*' yards, he fell down again; and this being taken as a 
^^ proof of his fulien perverfe fpirit, the enraged officer 
" iurioully repeated his blows till he expired at his feet. 
" The brute coolly ordered fome of iht furviving Haves 
" to carry the dead body to the water's fide, where with- 
" out any ceremony or delay, being thrown into the fea, 
" the tragedy was fuppofed to have been immediately 
" finiilied by the not more inhuman iliarks, with which 
'' the harbour then abounded. Thefe voracious fiili 
" were fuppofed to have followed the veifels from the 
" coafl of Africa, in which ten thoufand Haves were 
" imported in that one feafon, being allured by the 
" ftench, and daily fed by the dead carcaffes thrown 
" overboard on the voyage." 



* This gentleman is at prefent refident in England. The author of 
this EfTay, applied to him for fome information on the treatment of 
flaves, fo far as his own knowledge was concerned. He was fo obli- 
ging as to furnifli him with the written account alluded to, interfperf- 
ed only with fuch infiances, as he himfelf could undertake to anfwer 
for. The author, as he has never met with thefe inftances before, 
and as they are of fuch high authority, intends to tranfcribe two or 
three of them, and infertthem in the fourth chapter. They will be 
found in inverted commas. 



OF TfiE Human Species. 91 

if the reader fliould obferve here, that cattle are bet- 
ter proteded in this country, than Haves in the colonies, 
his obfervation will be juft. The bead which is driven 
to market, is defended by law from the goad of the dri- 
ver; whereas the v/retched African, though an humau 
being, and whofe feehngs receive of courfe a double. 
poignancy from the pov/er of refleclion, is unnoticed in 
this refpecl in the colonial code, and may be goaded and 
and beaten till he expires. 

We may now take our leave of the firjl receivers > 
Their crime has been already eftimated; and to reafon 
farther upon it, would be unneceffary. For where the 
condu6l of men is {0 manifeftly impious, there can be no 
need, either of a fingle argument or a refleftion; as 
every reader of fenfibility will anticipate them in his own 
feelings. 

C'^ H A P. III. 

When the wretched Africans are thus put into the 
hands of thtfecond receivers, they are conveyed to the 
plantations, v/here they are totally confidered as cattle, 
or beajls of labour ; their very children, if any fiiould be 
born to them in that fituation, being previoully deftined 
to the condition of their parents. But here a queftion 
arifes, v/hich will interrupt the thread of the narration 
for a little time, viz. how far their defcendants, who 
compofe the fifth order of flaves, are juflly reduced to 
fervitude, and upon what principles the receivers defend 
their condud. 

Authors have been at great pains to inquire, why, 
in the ancient fervitude, the child has uniformly follow- 
ed the condition of the mother. But we conceive that 
they would have faved themfelves much trouble and have 
done themfelves more credit, if inflead of endeavouring 
to reconcile the cuRom with heathen notions, or their 
own laboured conjedlures, they had fliewn its inconfift- 
ency with reafon and nature, and its repugnancy to com- 
mon judice. Suffice it to fay, that the whole theory of 
the ancients, with refpecl to the defcendants of Haves, 

may 



92' On the Slavery and Commerce 

may be reduced to this principle, " that as the parentSj 
" by becoming property, were wholly confidered as cat- 
" tie, their children, like the progeny of cattle, inherited 
" their parental lot.'' 

Such alfo is the excufe of the tyrannical receivers be- 
fore-mentioned. They allege, that they have purchafed 
the parents, that they can fell and diipofe of them as 
they pleafe, that they poifefs them under the fame laws 
and limitations as their cattle, and that their children, 
like the progeny of thefe, become their property by 
birth. 

But the abfurdity of the argument will immediately 
appear. It depends wholly on the fuppofition, that the 
parents are brutes. If they are brutes, we fhall inftantly 
ceafe to contend: if they are men, which we think it 
not difficult to prove, the argument muft immediately 
fall, as we have already fliewn that there cannot juftly 
be any property whatever in the human /pedes. 

It has appeared alfo, in the fecond part of this Elfay^ 
that as nature made every man's body and mind his 
own^ fo no juft perfon can be reduced to flavery againil 
his own conjent. Do the unfortunate offspring ever coji- 
fent to be Haves?— They are flaves from their birth.— 
Are they guilty of crimes, that they lofe their freedom? 
■ — They are Haves when they cannot fpeak- — Are their 
parents abandoned? The crimes of the parents cannot 
juillv extend to the children. 

1 hus then muft the tyrannical receivers, who prefume 
to fentence the children of flaves to fervitude, if they 
mean to difpute upon the julfice of their caufe; either 
allow them to have been brutes from their birth, or to 
have been guilty of crimes at a time, when they were 
incapable of offending the very King of Ki?igs, 



CHAP. iV. 

But to return to the narration. When the wretched 
Africans are conveyed to the plantations, they are con- 
fidered as beajls of labour, and are put to their refpec- 

tive 



OF THE Human Species. 93 

tive work. Having led, in their own country, a life of 
indolence and eafe, where the earth brings forth fpon- 
taneoufly the comforts of hfe, and fpares frequently the 
toil and trouble of cultivation, they can hardly be ex- 
peeled to endure the drudgeries of fervitude. Calcula- 
tions are accordingly made upon their lives. It is con- 
jedlured, that if three in four furvive what is called the 
fe.afoning^ the bargain is highly favourable. This feafon- 
ing is faid to expire, when the two firft years of their 
fervitude are completed: It is the time which an African 
mud take to be fo accuftomed to the colony, as to be 
able to endure the common labour of a plantation, and 
to be put into the gang. At the end of this period the 
calculations become verified, * twenty thoujand of thofe, 
who are annually imported, dying before the feafoning 
is over. This is furely an horrid and awful confidera- 
tion: and thus does it appear, (and let it be remember- 
ed, that it is the loweil calculation that has been ever 
made upon the fubjeft) that out of every annual fupply 
that is fhippc^d from the coafi: of Africa, f forty thoufand 
lives are rei^ularly expended, even before it can be 
faid, that there is really any additional ftock for the co- 
lonies. 



* One third ot the whole number imported, is often computed 
to be loft in ihe feafoning, which, in round numbers, will be 2^000. 
The lofs in 'he feafonii.g depends, in a grea'; meafure, on two cir- 
cumftanccs, viz. on the number of what are called refufe flaves that 
are imported, and on 'he (juani'y of new lands in the colony. In 
the French windward iflands of Martinico, and Guadaloupe, which 
arc cleared and iiighly cultivated, and in our old fmall iflands, one 
fourth, including refufe flaves, is confidered as a general proporti- 
on. But in St. Domingo, where there is a great deal of new land 
annually taken into culture, and in other colonies in the fame fitua- 
tion, the general proportion, including refufe flaves, is found to 
be one third. This thereiore is a lower cflimatc than the former, 
and reduces the number to about 23000. We may obfcrve, thai; 
this is the common eftimate, but we have reduced it to 20000 to 
maicc it free from all objeclion. 

f Including the number that pcrifli on the voyage, and in the fea- 
foning. It is generally thought that not half the number purchafed 
can be confidered as an additional flock, and of courfc that 50,000 
are confumcd within the iirfl two years from their embarkation. 



-54 On the Slavery and Commerce 

When the feafoning is over, and the furvivors are 
thus enabled to endure the ufual tafk of flaves, they are 
confidered as real and fubftantial fupplies. * From this 
period therefore we fhall defcribe their fituation. 

They are fummoned at five in the morning to begin 
their work. This work may be divided into two kinds, 
the culture of the fields, and the coUedion of grafs for 
cattle The laft is the moil laborious and intolerable 
Employment; as the grafs can only be collefted blade 
by blade, and is to be fetched frequently twice a day 
at a confiderable diiiance from the plantation. In theie 
two occupations they are jointly taken up, with no other 
intermlffion than that of taking their fubfiftence twice, 
till nine at night. They then feparate for their refpec- 
tive huts, when they gather fticks, prepare their fupper, 
and attend their families. This em.ploys them till mid- 
night, when they go to reft. Such is their daily way of 
life for rather more than half the year. They are fixteen 
hours, including two intervals at meals, in the fervice 
of their mafters: they are employed three afterwards in 
their own neceffary concerns; five only remain for ileep, 
and their day is finifiied. 

During the remaining portion of the year, or the 
time of crop, the nature, as well as the time of their 
employment, is confiderably changed. The whole gang 
is generally divided into tv^o or three bodies. One of 
thefe, befides the ordinary labour of the day, is kept 
in turn at the mills., that are ccaftantly going, during 
the whole of the night. This is a dreadful encroach- 
ment 

* That part of tlie account, that has been hitherto given, ex- 
tends to all the Europeans and their colonifis, Avho are concerned 
in this horrid praftice. But we are forry that we muft now make a 
diftindlion, and confine the remaining part of it to tlie colonifts of 
the BritilTi Weft India iflands, and to thofe of the fouthern pro- 
vinces of No'th America. As the employment of flaves is differ- 
ent in the two parts of the world laft mentioned, we fhall content 
ourfelves with defcribing it, as it exifts in one of them, and we 
fhall afterwards annex fuch treatment and fuch confequences as are 
applicable to both. We have only to add, that the reader mufi 
not confider our accounts as univerfall'j, but only generally, true. 



OF THE Human Species. g^ 

ment upon their time of reft, which was before too 
fhort to permit them perfedly to refrefli their wearied 
limbs, and aftually reduces their fleep, as long as this 
fealon lafts, to about three hours and an half a night, 
upon a moderate * computation. Thofe who can keep 
their eyes open during their nightly labour, and are 
willing to refift the drowfmefs that is continually coming 
upon them, are prefently worn out; while fome of 
thofe, who are overcome, and who feed the mill be- 
tween afleep and awake, fuffer, for thus obeying the 
calls of nature,- by the -{- lofs of a limb. In this man- 
ner they go on, with little or no refpite from their work, 
till the crop feafon is over, when the year (from the time 
of our hrft defcriptioc) is completed, 

J To fupport a life of fuch unparalleled drudgery, we 
fliould at leaft expect to find, that they were comforta- 
bly clothed, and plentifully fed. But fad reverfe! they 
have fcarcely a covering to defend themfelves againft the 
inclemency of the night. Their provifions are irequent- 
ly bad, and are always dealt out to them with fuch a 
fparing hand, that the means of a bare livelihood are 
not placed within the reach of four out of five of thefe 
unhappy people. It is a fact, that many of the diforders 
of flaves are contracted from eating the vegetables, 
which their little fpots produce, before they are fufHci- 
ently ripe: a clear indication, that the calls of hunger 
are frequently fo prefhng, as not to fuffer them to wait, 
till they can really enjoy them. 

This fituation, of a want of the common neceffaries 
of life, added to that of hard and continual labour, 
muft be fufficiently painful of itfelf. How then muft 

the 

* This computation is made on a fiippofition, that the gang i> 
divided into three bodies; we call it therefore moderate, becaufe 
the gang is frequently divided into two bodies, which mull there- 
fore fet up alternately every other night. 

\ An hand or arm being frequently ground ofF. 

X The reader v/il! fcarcely believe it, but it is a fact, that a (lave's 
annual allowance from his mafter, for provifions, clothing, medi- 
cines when fick, k<:. is limited, upon an average, to thirty lliill- 
ings. 



g6 On the Slavery and CoMMEkcE 

the pain be fharpened, if it be accompanied with fe ve- 
rity ! if an unfortunate flave does not come into the field 
exaftly at the appointed time, if, drooping with fick- 
nefs or fatigue, he appears to work unwillingly, or if 
the bundle of grafs that he has been coUeclmg, appears 
too fmall in the eve of the overfeer, he is equally fure 
of experiencing the whip. This inftrument erafes the 
fldn, and cuts out fmall portions of the flefti at almofl 
every ftroke; and is fo frequently applied, that the 
fmack of it is all day long in the ears ot thofe, who 
are in the vicinity of the plantations. This feverity of 
maflers, or managers, to their flaves, which is confider- 
ed only as common difciphne, is attended with bad ef- 
fects. It enables them to behold inftances of cruelty 
without commiferation, and to be guilty of them with- 
out remorfe. Hence thofe many a£ts of deliberate mu- 
tilation, that have taken place on the ilighteft occafions: 
hence thofe many afts of inferiour, though fliocking, bar- 
barity, that have taken place without any occafion at 
all: * the very flitting of ears has been confidered d,s an 
operation, fo perfectly devoid of pain, as to have been 
performed for no other reafon than that for which a 
brand is fet upon cattle, as a mark of property. 

But this- is not the only effeft, which this feverity pro- 
duces: for while it hardens their hearts, and makes them 
infenfible of the mifery of their fellow-creatures, it be- 
gets a turn for wanton cruelty. As a proof of this, we 
ihall mention one, among the many iniiances that occur, 
where ingenuity has been exerted in contriving modes of 

torture. 

* •' A boy having received fix flaves as a prefent from his father, 
'' immediately flit their ears, and for the following reafon, that as 
" his father was a whimfical man, he might claim them again, un- 
" lefs tiiey were marked." We do not mention this inftance as a 
cantirmation of the palfage to which it is annexed, but only to Ihev/ 
how cautious we ought to be in giving credit to what may be ad- 
vanced in any work written in defence of flavery, by any native of 
the colonies: for being trained up to fcenes of cruelty from his 
cradle, he may, confiftently with his own feelings, reprefent that 
treatment as m.ild, at which we, who have never been ufed to fee 
them, ihould abfolutelv iliudder. 



OF THE HumAn Species. 97 

torture. " An iron coffin, with holes in it, was kept by 
" a certain colonift, as an auxiliary to the lafli. In this 
" the poor viftiin of the mailer's refentment was in- 
clofed, and placed fufficiently near a fire, to occafion 
extreme pain, and confequently fhrieks and groans, 
until the revenge of the mailer was fatiated, without 
any other inconvenience on his part, then a tempora- 
ry fufpenfion of the flave's labour. Had he been flog- 
ged to death, or his limbs mutilated, the interefl of 
the brutal tyrant would have fufFered a more irrepara- 
" ble lefs. 

" In mentioning this inflance, we do not mean to in- 
" fmuate, that it is common. We know that it was re- 
*' probated by many. All that we would infer from it 
is, that where men are habituated to a fyflem of fe- 
verity, they become wantonly cruel, and that the mere 
toleration of fuch an inflrument of torture, in any 
country, is a clear indication, that this wretched clafs 
of men do not there enjoy the protedion of any laws, that 
may be pretended to have been enabled in their favour^ 
Such then is the general fituation of the unfortunate 
Africans. They are beaten and tortured at difcretion. 
They are badly clothed. They are miferably fed. Then- 
drudgery is intenfe and inceilant, and their refl fhort. 
For fcarcely are their heads reclined, fcarcely have their 
bodies a refpite from the labour of the day, or the cruel 
hand of the overfeer, but they are fummoned to renew 
their forrows. In this manner they go on from year to 
year, in a ftate of the lowefh degradation, without a fmgle 
law to protecl them, without the poffibiiity of redrefs, 
without a hope that their fituation will be changed, un 
lefs death ihould terminate the fcene. 

Having defcribed the general fituation of thefe un- 
fortunate people, we fliali now take notice of the com- 
mon confequences that are found to attend it, and relate 
them feparately, as they refult either from long and pain- 
ful /^z/;o«r, 2, want of the common neceffarie^ of lilc:, ov 
continual feveritV' 

Opprefted by a daily talk of fuch imVaoderate laboiu 
as human nature is utterly unable to perform, many of 

N ' them 



98 On the Slavery and Commerce 

them run away from their mafters. They fly to the re- 
cefles of the mountains, where they choofe rather to 
live upon any thing that the foil affords them, nay, the 
very foil itfelf, than return to that happy fituation, which 
is reprefented by the receivers^ as the condition of a 
Have. 

It fometimes happens, that the manager of a moun- 
tain plantation, falls in with one of thefe; he immedi- 
ately feizes him, and threatens to carry him to his for- 
mer mailer, uniefs he will confent to live on the moun- 
tain and cultivate his ground. When his plantation is 
put in order, he carries the delinquent home, abandons 
him to all the fuggeftions of defpotick rage, and accepts 
a reward for his honefly. The unhappy wretch is chain- 
ed, fcourged, tortured ; and all this, becaufe he obeyed 
the diftates of nature, and wanted to be free. And 
who is there^ that would not have done the fame thing, 
in the fame fituation ? Who is there, ' that has once 
known the charms of liberty, that would not fly from 
defpotifm? And yet, by the impious laws of the recei- 
vers, the ^ abfence of fix months from the lafh of tyran- 
ny is death. 

But this law is even mild, when compared with another 
againft the fame offence, which was in force fometime 
ago, and which w^e fear is even nom in force, in fome 
of thofe colonies which this account of the treatment 
comprehends. " Advertifements have frequently ap- 
" peared there, offering a reward for the apprehending 
" of fugitive flaves either alive or dead. The following 
" inftance was given us by a perfon of unqueftionable 
" veracity, under whofe own obfervation it fell. As he 
" was travelling in one of the colonies alluded to, he 

" obferved 

* In this cafe he is confiJered as a criminal againft the ftate. The 
marfhal, an officer anfwering to our ilierifF, fuperintends hi? executi- 
on, and the mailer receives the value of the Have from the publick 
treafury. We may- obferve heie, that in all cafes where the delin- 
quent is a criminal of the ftate, he is executed, and his value is re- 
ceived in the fame manner. He is tried and condemned by two or 
three jullices of the peace, and without any intervention of~ajiify. 



OF THii Human Species. 99 

" obferved fome people in purfuit of a poor wretch, 
" who was feeking in the wildernefs an afylum from his 
" labours. He beared the dilcharge of a gun, and foon 
" afterwards fhopping at an houfe for refrefhment, the 
" head of the fugitive, (lili reeking with blood, was 
" brought in and laid upon a table with exultation. 
" The production of fuch a trophy was the ^vooi required 
" by law to entitle the heroes to their reward." Now 
reader determine if you can, who were the raofl ex- 
ecrable ; the rulers of the ftate in authorizing murder, 
or the people in being bribed to commit it. 

This is one of the common confequences of that im- 
moderate fliare of labour, which is impofed upon them ; 
nor is that, which is the refuk of a fcanty allowance of 
food, Icfs to be lamented. The wretched African is 
often fo deeply pierced by the excruciating fangs of hun- 
ger, as almoft to be driven to defpair. What is he to do 
in fuch a trying fituation ? Let him apply to the receivers, 
Alas! the majefty of receiverjhip is too facred for the ap- 
peal, and the intrufion would be fatal. Thus attacked 
on the one hand, and {hut out from every poffibility of 
relief on the other, he has only the choice of being 
Itarved, or of relieving his neceflities by taking a fmall 
portion of the fruits of his.. own labour. Horrid crime! to 
be found eating the cane, which probably his own hands 
have planted, and to be eating it, becaufe his neceflities 
were prefling! This crime however is of fuch a magni- 
tude, as always to be accompanied with the whip; and 
fo unmercifully has it been applied on fuch an occafion, 
as to have been the caufe, in wet weather, of the delin- 
quent's death. But the fmart of the whip has not been 
the only pain that the wretched Africans have experi- 
enced. Any thing that pafTion could feize, and convert 
into an inflrument of puniihment, has been ufed; and, 
horrid to relate! the very knife has not been overlooked 
in the fit of phrenzy. Ears have been flit, eyes have 
been beaten out, and bones have been broken; and fo 
frequently has this been the cafe, that it has been a mat- 
ter of conftant lamentation with difmterefted people, 

who 



loo On the Slavery and Commerce 

who out of curiofity have attended the * markets to 
•which thefe unhappy people weekly refort, that they 
have not been able to turn their eyes on any group of 
them whatever, but they have beheld thefe inhuman 
marks of paffion, defpotifra, and caprice. 

But thefe inftarces of barbarity have not been able to 
deter them from fimilar proceedings. And indeed, how 
can it be expefted that they Ihould? They have ftill the 
fame appetite to be fatisfied as before, and to drive them 
to defperation. They creep out clandeftinely by night, 
and go in fearch of food into their mafter's, or fome 
neighbouring plantation. But here they are almofi: 
equally fure of fuffering. The watchman, who will be 
punifhed himfelf, if he negleds his duty, frequently 
feizes them in the fact. No excule or intreaty will avail; 
he muft punifh them for an example, and he muft punifh 
them, not with a ftick, nor with a whip, but with a 
cutlafs. Thus it happens, that thefe unhappy flaves, if 
they are taken, are either fent away mangled in a barba- 
rous manner, or are killed upon the fpot. 

We may now mention the confequences of the feveri- 
ty. The wretched Africans, daily fubjefted to the lafh, 
and unmercifully whipt and beaten on every trifling oc- 
cafion, have been found to refifl their oppofers. Un- 
pardonable crime! that they ihould have the feelings of 
nature! that their breafts fhould glow with refentment 
on an injury! that they ihould be fo far overcome, as to 
refill: thofe, whom they are under no obligation ta obey^ and 
wdiofe only title to their fervices confifts in a violation of the 
rights of men! What has been the confequences ? But here 
let us fpare the feelings of the reader, (we wifh we could 
fpare our own) and let us only fay, without a recital of 
the cruelty, that they have been murdered at the difcretlon 
of their ma/Iers, For let the reader obfcrve, that the life 
of an African is only valued at a price, that would 

fcarcely 



* Particularlj^ in Jamaica. Thefe obfervations were made by dn- 
Interefted people, who were there for three or four years during 

the late war. 



OF THE Human Species. ioc 

fcarcely purchafe an horfe; that the mafter has a power 
of murdering his Have, if he pays but a trifling fine; 
and that the murder mufl be attended with uncommon 
circumftances of horrour, if it even produces an inqui- 
ry. 

Immortal Alfred! father of our invaluable conflituti- 
on! parent of the civil bleffings we enjoy! how ought 
thy laws to excite our love and veneration, who hall for- 
bidden us, thy pofterity, to tremble at the frown of ty- 
rants! how ought they to perpetuate thy name, as ve- 
nerable, to the remoteft ages, who has fecured, even 
to the meaneft fervant, a fair and impartial trial! How 
much does nature approve thy laws, as confiftent with 
her own feelings, while (he ablolutely turns pale, trem- 
bles, and recoils, at the inftitutions ot thefe receivers! 
Execrable men! you do not murder the horfe, on which 
you only ride; you do not mutilate the cow, which on- 
ly aff)rds you her milk; you do not torture the dog, 
which is but a partial fervant of your pleafures: but thefe 
unfortunate men, from whom you derive your very 
pleafures and your fortunes, you torture, mutilate, mur- 
der at difcretion! Sleep then you receivers, if you can, 
while you fcarcely allow thefe unfortunate people to reft 
at all! feaft if you can, and indulge your genius, while 
you daily apply to thefe unfortunate people the flings 
of feverity and hunger! exult in riches, at which even 
avarice ought to ihudder, and which humanity mufl. 
deteft! 



CHAP. V. 

Some people may fuppofe, from the melancholy ac- 
count that has been given in the preceding chapter, that 
we have been abfolutely dealing in romance: that the 
fcene exhibited is rather a dreary picture of the imagina- 
tion, than a reprefentation of faft. Would to heaven, 
for the honour of human nature, that this were really 
the cafe! We wilh we could fay, that we have no tefli- 
mony to produce lor any of our allertions, and that our 

defcriptioa 



102 On the Slavery and Commerce 

defcription of the general treatment of flaves has been 
greatly exaggerated. 

But the receivers, notwithftanduig the ample and dif- 
interefted evidence, that can be brought on the occafion, 
do not admit the defcription to be true. They fay firftj 
'■'- that if the flavery were fuch as has been now repre- 
" fented, no human being could poffibly fupport it 
*^ long.'^ Melancholy truth! the wretched Africans ge- 
nerally perilh in their prime. Let them refleO: upon the 
prodigious fupplies that are annually required, and their 
argument will be nothing lefs than a confeffion, that the 
ilavery has been juftly depifted. 

They appeal next to every man's own reafon, and 
defire him to think ferioully, whether " felf-intereft 
*' will not always reftrain the mafter from a£ls of cruel- 
^* ty to the Have, and whether fuch accounts therefore, 
" as the foregoing, do not contain within themfelves, 
^^ their own refutation." We anfw^er, " No.'* For if 
this reflraining principle be as powerful as it is imagin- 
ed, why does not -the general condu6t of men afford 
us a better picture? What is imprudence, or what is 
vice, but a departure from every man's own intereft, 
and yet thefe are the characteriilicks of more than half 
the world? — — 

— But, to come more clofely to the prefent cafe, felf- 
intereji will be found but a weak barrier againft the fallies 
o{ pajjion: particularly where it has been daily indulged 
in its greateft latitude, and there are no laws to reftrain 
its calamitous effedts. If the obfervation be true, that 
paffion is a fhort madnefs, then it is evident that ielf- 
intereft, and every other confideration, mufl be loft, fo 
long as it continues. We cannoft have a ftronger inftance 
of this, than in a circumftance related in the fecond 
part of this Effay, " that though the Africans have 
gone to war for the exprefs purpofc of procuring flaves, 
yet fo great has been their refentment at the refiftance 
they have frequently found, that their pajjion has entirely 
got the better of their intereji, and they have murdered 
all without any difcrimination, either of age or fex." 
Such may be prefumed to be the cafe with the no lefs 

favage 



OF TiiE Human Species. 103 

lavage receivers. Imprefied with the moft haughty and 
tyrannical notions, eafily provoked, accuftomed to in- 
dulge their anger, and, above all, habituated to fcenes 
of cruelty, and unawed by the fear of laws, they will 
hardly be found to be exempt from the common fail- 
ings of human nature, and to fpare an unlucky Have, 
at a time when men of a cooler temper, and better 
regulated paffions, are fo frequently blind to their own 
intereft. 

But if pajfion may be fuppofed to be generally more 
than a balance for intereji, how muft the fcale be turn- 
ed in favour of the melancholy pifture exhibited, when 
we refled th^it felf-frefervation additionally fteps in, and 
demands the moft rigorous feverity. For when we con- 
fider that where there is one mafter, there ^s^ fifty flaves; 
that the latter have been all forcibly torn from their 
country, and are retained in their prefcnt fituation by 
violence; that they are perpetually at war in their hearts 
■with their oppreffors, and are continually cheriihing the 
feeds of revenge; it is evident that even avarice herfelf, 
however cool and deliberate, however free from paf- 
fion and caprice, muft facrifice her ov/n fordid feelings, and 
adopt a fyftem of tyranny and oppreffion, which it muft 
be. ruinous to purfue. 

Thus then, if no picture had been drawn of the fitua- 
tion of flaves, and it had been left foiely to every mari's 
fober judgment to determine, what it might probably 
be, he would conclude, that if the fituation were juft- 
ly defcribed, the page muft be frequently ftained with 
acts of uncommon cruelty. 

It remains only to make a ti^pty to an objeftion, that 
is ufually advanced againft particular inflances of cruel- 
ty to flaves, as recorded by various writers. It is faid 
that " fome of thefe are fo inconceivably, and beyond 
" all example inhuman, that their very excefs above the 
" common meafure of cruelty fhews them at once ex- 
" ag^erated and incredible." But their credibility fhall 
be cftimated by a luppofition. Let us fuppofc that the 
following inftance had been recorded bf a writer ,of the 
higbeft reputation, *' that the mafter of a fliip, bound 

' to 



104 On the„.Slavery and Commerce 

" to the weftern colonies with flaves, on a preftlmptioil 
*' that many of them would die, felefted an hundred 
" and thirty two of the mofl fickly, and ordered them 
" to be thrown into the fea, to recover their value from 
*' the infurers, and, above all, that the fatal order was 
" put into execution.'* What would the reader have 
thought on the odcafion? Would be have believed the 
fad? Ic would have furely daggered his faith; becaufe 
he could never have heard that any one man ever was, and 
could never have fuppofed that any one man ever could 
be, guilty of the murder ol fuch a number of his fellow 
creatures. But when he is informed that fuch a fad as 
this came before * a court of juftice in this very coun- 
try ; that it happened within the laft five years ; that 
hundreds can come forwards and fay, that they heard 
the melancholy evidence with tears; what bounds is he 
to place to his belief? The great God, who looks down 
upon all his creatures with the fame impartial eye, feems 
to have infatuated the parties concerned, that they might 
bring the horrid circumflance to light, that it might be 
recorded in the annals of a publick court, as an authen- 
tick fpecimen of the treatment which the unfortunate 
Africans- -undergo, and at the fame time, as an argu- 
ment to fliew, that there is no fpecies of cruelty, that is 
recorded to have been exercifed upon thefe wretched 
people, fo enormous that it may not readily he believed. 

C H A P. VI. 

If the treatment then, as before defcribed, is con- 
firmed by reafon, and the great credit that is due to 
difmterefted writers on the fubjeft; if the unfortunate 
Africans are ufed, as if their flefh were flone, and their 
vitals brafs; by what arguments do you receivers defend 
vouf conduct? 

You 

* The aftion was brought by the owners againfl; the under-wri- 
cers, to recover the value of the murdered flaves. It was tried at 
Guildhall 



OF THE Human Species. 105 

You fay that a great part of your favage treatment 
confifts in punifhment for real offences, and frequently 
for fuch offences, as all civilized nations have concurred 
in puniihing. This firll charge that you exhibit againft 
them is fpecifick, it is that of theft. But how much 
rather ought you receivers to blufli, who reduce them 
to fuch a fituation ! who reduce them to the dreadful 
alternative, that they muft either 7?^^/ ox. -perijh! How 
much rather ought you receivers to be confidered as rob- 
bers yourfelves, who caufe thefe unfortunate people to 
be Jiolen! And how much greater is your crime, who 
are robbers of hwnan liberty! 

The next charge which you exhibit againft them, is 
general, it is that of rebellion ; a crime of fuch a lati- 
tude, that you can impofe it upon almofl every action, 
and of iuch a nature, that you always annex to it the 
mofh excruciating pain. But what a contradidlion is this 
to common fenfe! Have the wretched Africans formally 
refigned their freedom? Have you any other claim upon 
their obedience, than that of force? If then they are 
your fubjefts, you violate the laws of government, by 
making them unhappy. But if they are not your fub- 
jedts, .then, even though they fhould refift your proceed- 
ings, they are not rebellious. 

But what do you fay to that long catalogue of of- 
fences, which you punifh, and of which no people but 
yourfelves take cognizance at all? You fay that the wif- 
dom of legiflation has inferted it irt the colonial laws, 
and that you punifh by authority. But do you allude 
to that execrable code, that authorifes murder? that 
tempts an unoffended perfon to kill the flave, that ab- 
hors and flies your fervice? that delegates a power,, 
which no hoft of men, which not all the world, can 
pofTefs ?— '—— 

Or, — What do you fay to that daily unmerited feve- 
rity, which you confider only as cotmuon difcipliner 
Here you fay that the Africans are vicious, that they are 
all of them ill-dilpofed, that you muff of necefhty be 
fevere. But can they be well-difpofed to their opprefl- 
ors? In their own country they were juft, generous, 
O' hofpi tabic: 



io6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

hofpitable: qualities, which all the African hi ilorians' al- 
low them eminently to poffefs. If then they are vici<iitiS5. 
they mufi: have contracTted many of their vices from your- 
felves; and as to their own native vices, if ariy have 
been imported with them, are they not amiable, when 
compared with yoors? — ' 

Thus then do the excufes, which have been -hitherto 
made by the r^riJn-^r^, force a relation of fuch circum- 
ftances, as makes their condufk totally inexcufable, and, 
iii(l:ea4 of diminiiliing at all, highly aggravates' their 



guiiEV 



^^We come now to that other fyftem of . reafoning, 
w'bich is always applied, when the former is confuted; 
'* that the Africans are an inferioiir link of the chain of 
" nature, and are made for flavery." 

This alTertion' is proved by two arguments; the firfl 
of which was advanced alfo by the ancients, and is 
dtawn from the inferiority of their capacities. 

Let us allow then for a moment, that they appear to 
have no parts, that they appear to be void of under- 
ftanding. And is this wonderful, wheh you receivers 
deprefs their fenfes by hunger? Is this wonderful, when 
by inceffant labour, the continual application of the laih, 
and ihe moil: inhuman treatment that imagination can 
devife, you overwhelm their genius, and hinder it from 
breaking forth ?— No,— You confound their abilities by 
the feverity of their fervitude: for as a fpark of fire, if 
crudicd by too great a weight of incumbent fuel, cannot 
be blown into a flame, but fuddenly expires, fo the hu- 
man mind, if depreiled by rigorous fervitude, cannot 
be excited to a difplay of ihofe faculties, which might 
otherwife have flione with the brightefi: luftre. 

Neither is it wonderful in another point of view. For 
what is it that awakens the abilities of men, and diftin- 
guifhes them from the common herd? Is it not often the 
amiable hope of becoming ferviceable to individuals, or 
the ifate? Is it not often the hope of riches, or of pow- 
er? 



OF THE Human Spfcits. 107 

er? Is it not frequently the hope of temporary honours, 
or a lading fame? Thefe principles have all a wonderful 
efFe<!^ upon the mindi. Xhey call upon ic to exert its 
faculties, and bring thofe talents to the publick view, 
which had otherwife been, concealed. But the unfortu- 
nate Africans have no fuch incitements as thefe, that 
they ihould Ihew their genius. They have no hope of 
riches, power, honours, fame.. They have no hope but 
this, that their mifcries will be foon terminated by 
death. 

And here we cannot but cenfure and expofe the raur- 
murings of the unthinking and the gay ^ who, going on 
in a continual round of plealure and profperity, repine 
at the will of Providence, as exhibited in the fliortnefs 
of human duration. But let a weak and infirm old age 
overtake them: let them experience calamities: let them 
feel but half the mifei-ies which the wretched Africans 
undergo, and they will praife the goodnefs of Provi- 
dence, who hath made them mortal; who hath prefcrib- 
ed certain ordinary bounds to the life of man; and who, 
by fuch a limitation, hath given all men this comforta- 
ble hope, that however perfecuted in life, a time will 
come, in the common courfe of nature, when their fuf- 
ferings will have an end. 

Such then is the nature of this fervitude, that we can 
hardly expeiSt to find in chofe, who undergo it, even the 
glimpfe of genius. For if their minds are in a continu- 
al (late of depreffion, and if they have no expeftations 
m life to awaken their abilities, and make them eminent, 
we cannot be furprized if a fallen gloomy flupidity fliould 
be the leading mark in their charrcler; or if they fliould 
appear inferiour to thofe, who do not only enjoy the in- 
valuable bleflings of freedom, but have every profpeft 
before their eyes, that can allure them to exert their fa- 
culties. Now, if to thefe confiderations we add, that 
the wretched Africans are torn from their country in a 
ftate of nature, and that in general, as long as their 
flavery continues, every obftacie is placed in the way ot 
their improvement, we Ihall have a fufficient anfwer to 
any argutnent that may be drawn from the inferiority of 
their capacities. 



io8 On the Slavery and Commerce 

It appears then from the circuniftances that have been 
mentioned, that to form a true judgment of the abilities 
of thefe unfortunate people, we muft either take a ge- 
neral view of them before their llavery commences, or 
confine our attention to fuch, as, after it has commenced, 
have had any opportunity given them of fhewing their 
genius either in arts or letters. If, upon fuch a fair and 
impartial view, there fhould be any reafon to fuppofe, 
that they are at all inferiour to others in the fame fitua- 
tion, the argument will then gain fome of that weight 
and importance, which it wants at prefent. 

In their own country, where we are to fee them firft, 
we muft expefl; that the profpeft will be unfavourable. 
They are moftly in a favage Hate. Their powers of mind 
are limited to few objeCls. Their ideas are confequently 
few. It appears, however, that they follow the fame 
mode of life, and exercife the fame arts, as the ancef- 
tors of thofe very Europeans, who boaft of their great 
fuperiority, are defcribed to have done in the fame un- 
cultivated flate. This appears from the Nubian's Geo- 
graphy, the writings of Leo, the Moor, and all the fub- 
fequent hiflories, which thofe, who have vifited the Afri- 
can continent, have written from their own infpedliion. 
Hence three conclufions; that their abilities are fufficienr. 
for their fituation ; — that they are as great, as thofe of 
other people have been, in the fame flage of fociety ; — 
and that they are as great as thofe of any civilized peo- 
ple whatever, when the degree of the barbarifm of the 
one is drawn into a coniparifon with that of the civiliza- 
tion ot the other. 

Let us now follow them to the colonies. They are 
carried over in the unfavourable fituation defcribed. It 
is obferved here, that though their abilities cannot be 
eftimated high, from a want of cultivation, they are 
yet various, and that they vary in proportion as the na- 
tion, from which they have been brought, has advanced 
more or lefs in the fcale of fecial life. This obfervation, 
which is fo frequently made, is of great importance: for 
if their abihties expand in proportion co the improve- 
ment 



OF THE Human Species, 109 

ment of their ftate, it is a clear indication, that if they 
were equally improved, they would be equally ingeni- 
ous. 

But here, before we confider any opportunities that 
may be afforded them, let it be remembered that even 
their moft poliflied fituation may be called barbarous, 
and that this circumftance, fhould they appear lefs do- 
cile than others, may be confidered as a fufficient anfwer 
to any objedion that may be made to their capacities. 
Notwithftanding this, when they are put to the mechani- 
cal arts, they do not difcover a want of ingenuity. — 
They attain them in as fhort a time as the Europeans, 
and arrive at a degree of excellence equal to that of their 
teachers. This is a faft, almoft univerfally known, and 
affords us this proof, that having learned with facility 
fuch of the mechanical arts, as they have been taught, 
they are capable of attaining any other, at leaft, of the 
fame clafs, if they fhould receive but the fame inftruc- 
tion. 

With refpeft to the liberal arts, their proficiency is 
certainly lefs ; but riot lefs, in proportion to their time 
and opportunity of ftudy ; not lefs, becaufe they are lefs 
capable of attaining them, but becaufe they have feldom 
or ever an opportunity of learning them at all. It is yet 
extraordinary that their talents appear, even in fome of 
thefe faiences, in which they are totally uninllrufted. 
Their abilities in mufick are fuch, as to have been ge- 
nerally noticed. They play frequently upon a variety of 
inflrumcnts, without any other afliflance than their own 
ingenuity. They have alio tunes of their own compofi- 
tion. Some of thefe have been imported among usj 
are now in ule; and are admired for their fprightlinefs 
and eafe, though the ungenerous and prejudiced impor- 
ter has concealed their original. 

Neither are their talents in poetry lefs confpicuous. 
Every occurrence, if their fpirits are not too greatly de- 
prefTed, is turned into a fong. Thefe fongs are faid to 
be incoherent and nonfcnfical. But this proceeds prin- 
cipally from two caufes, an improper conjun6Vion of 
words, arifing from an ignorance of the language in 

which 



no On the Slavery and Commerce 

whkh they compofe; and a wildnefs of thought, ^rifing 
from the different manner, in which the organs of rude 
and civilized people will be ftruck by the fame objeft. 
And as to their want of harmony and rhyme, which is 
the laft objedion, the difference of pronunciation is the 
caufe. Upon the whole, as they are perfectly Confiftent 
with their own ideas, and are ftriftly mufical as pro- 
nounced by themfelves, they afford us as high a proof 
of their poetical powers, as the works of the moft ac* 
knowledged poets. 

But where thefe impediments have been removed, 
•where they have received an education, and have known 
and pronounced the language with propriety, thefe de- 
fe6:s have vanifhed, and their produftions have been lefs 
objectionable. For a proof of this, we appeal to the 
Writings of an * African girl, who made no contemp- 
tible appearance in this fpecies of compofition. She was 
kidnapped when only eight years old, and, in the year 
176 1 5 was tranfported to America, where fhe was fold 
with other Haves. She had no fchool education there, 
but receiving feme little inftrudion from the family, 
with whom Ihe was fo fortunate as to live, flie obtained 
fuch a knowledge of the Englifli language within iixteen 
months from the time of her arrival, as to be able to 
fpeak it and read it to the aftonifliment of thofe who 
heard her. She foon afterwards learned to write, and, 
having a great inclination to learn the Latin tongue, fhe 
was indulged by her mafter, and made a progrefs. Her 
Poetical works were publilhed v;ith his permiffion, in the 
year 1773. They contain thirty-eight pieces on different 
fubjefts. We fhall beg leave to make a ihort extraft 
from two or three of them, for the obfervation of the 
reader. 

From 

*• Phillis Wheatlej-, negro flave to Mr. John Wheatley, of Bo- 
fton, in New- England. 



OF THE Human Specjes. i||, 

* From an Hymp^'tP the' Evening. 

" Fill'd with tfi'6'^raffe'of h'im who gives the light, .,^ 

" And draws thPfabfe curtains of the night, ,[ 

" Let placid flumbers footh each weary mind, 

" At morn to waKe more heav'niy and refin'd; 

" So lliall the labours of the day begin, 

" More pure and guarded from the fnares of fin. 

&c. &c. 

From an Hymn to the Morning. 

" Aurora hail! and all the thaufand dies, •" ' 

" That deck thy progrefs through the vaulted ikies! 

*' The morn awakes, and wide exte :ds her rays, 

" On ev'ry leaf the gentle zephyr plays. 

" Harmonious lays the feather's race refume, 

" Dart che bright eye, and ihake the painted plume. ' ' 

i "' "' ■ &c. &c. 



From Thoughts on Imagination. 

" Now here, now there, the roving fancy flies, - 
. " Till fome lov'd objed ftrikes her wand'ring eyes,. 
*' Whofe filken fetters all the fenfes bind, 
" And foft captivity involves the mind. 

" Imagination ! _. 

* Left it fhould be doubted whethei',thefe Poems are genuine, 
we iTiall tranfcribe the names of thqfe^, 'tfrfo figned a certificat^'yf- 
their authenticity. •■'";r;: ;: i . ::; ' ■ .;•;:.: 

His Excellency Thomas Hutchinfon, Governor. 

The Honourable Andrew Oliver, Lieutenant Govcroor. 

The Hon. Thomas Hubbard, The Rev. Cha. Chauncy, D, D. 

The Hon. John Erving, The Rev. Mather Byles, D. D. 

The Hon. James Pitts, The Rev. Ed. Pemberton. D. D. > 

The Hon. Harrifon Gray, The Rev. Andrew Elliot, D.D. 

The Hon. James Bowdoin, The Resr. Sam. Cooper, D. D. 

John Hancock, Efq. The Rev. bamuel Mather, 

Jofeph Green, Efq. The Rev. John Moorhead, 

Richard Carey, Efq. Mr. John Whcatlcy, her MaHcr. 



1-12 On the Slavery and Commerce 

*' Imagination! who can fing thy force, 

" Or who defcribe the fwiftnefs of thy courfe? 

" Soaring through air to find the bright abfodcj 

" Th' empyreal palace of the thund'ring God, 

*' We on thy pinions can furpafs the wind, 

" And leave the rolling univerfe behind : 

" From flar to ftar the mental opticks rove, 

^' Meafure the ities, and range the realms above. 

" There in one view we grafp the mighty whole, 

" Or with new worlds amaze th' unbounded foul. 

^ &c. &c. 



Siich is the poetry which we produce as a proof of 
our aflertions. How far ic has fucceeded, the reader 
may by this time have determined in his own riind. — - 
We Ihall therefore only beg leave to accompany it with 
this obfervation, that if the authorefs -was dejigned for 
Jlavery, (as the argument muft confefs) the greater part 
of the inhabitants of Britain muft lofe their claim to 
freedoni. 

To this poetry we fliall only add, as a farther proof 
of their abilities, the Profe compofitions of Ignatius 
Sancho, who received fome little education. His letters 
are too well known, to make any extract, or indeed any 
farther mention of him, neceffary. If other examples 
ot African genius Ihould be required, fuffice it to fay, 
that they can be produced in abundance; and that if we 
is^ere allowed to enumerate inflances of African grati- 
tude, patience, fidelity, honour, as fo many inltances of 
good fen fe, and a found underftanding, we fear thatthou- 
fands of the enlightened Europeans would have occafior^ 
to blulh. 

But an objeftion will be made here, that the two per- 
fons whom we have particularized by name, are prodi'- 
gies, and that if we were to live for many years, we 
ihould fcarcely meet with two other Africans of the fame 
defcription. But we reply, that confidering their fuua- 
tion as before defcribed, two perfons, above mediocrity 
in the literary way, are as many as can be expe61:ed with- 
in a certain period of years; and farther, that if thefe 

are 



OF THE Human Species. 113 

are prodigies, they are only fuch prodigies as every day 
"would produce, if they had the fame opportunities of 
acquiring knowledge as other people, and the fame ex- 
pectations in life to excite their genius. This has been 
conftantly and folemnly aflerted by the pious Benezet, f 
•whom we have mentioned before, as having devoted a 
confiderable part of his time to their inftrudion. This 
great man, for we cannot but mention him with vene- 
ration, had a better opportunity of knowing them than 
any perfon whatever, and he always uniformly declared, 
that he could never find a difference between their capa- 
cities and thofe of other people; that they were as ca- 
pable of reafoning as any individual Europeans; that 
they were as capable of the higheft intelleftual attain- 
ments; in fhort, that their abihties were equal, and that 
they only wanted to be equally cultivated, to afford fpe- 
cimens of as fine produftions. 

Thus then does it appear from the teftimony of this 
venerable man, whofe authority is fufScient of itfelf to 
filence all objeftions againft African capacity, and from 
the inftances that have been produced, and the obierva- 
tions that have been made on the occafion, that if the 
jninds of the Africans were unbroken by flavery; if they 
had the fame expectations in life as other people, and 
the fame opportunities of improvement, they would be 
equal, in all the various branches of fcience, to the Eu- 
ropeans, and that the argument that ftates them " to 
" be an inferiour link of the chain of nature, and de- 
*' figned for fervitude,'* as far as it depends on the /;z- 
feriority of their capacities^ is wholly malevolent and 
falfe. * 



t In the Preface. 

* As to Mr. Hume's affertions with refpeft to African capacity, 
we have palTetl them over in filence, as they have been fo admirably 
refute-d by the learned Dr. Beattie, in his EfTay on Truth, to which 
we refer the reader. The whole of this admirable refutation ex- 
tends trom p. 458, to 464. 



G H A P. 



114 ^N THE Slavery and Commerce 



CHAP. VIII. 

The fecond argument, by which it is attempted to be 
proved, " that the Africans ^re an inferiour hnk of the 
" chain of nature, and are defigned for llavery,'* is 
drawn from colour, and from thofe other marks, which 
diftinguifh them from the inhabitants of Europe. 

To prove this with the greater facility, the receinjers 
divide in opinioo. Some of them contend that the Afri- 
cans, from thefe circumftances, are the defcendants of * 
Cain: others, that they are the pofterity of Ham; and 
that as it was declared by divine infpiration, that thefe 
ihould be fervants to the reft of the world, fo they a:e 
defigned for ilavery; and that the reducing of them to 
fuch a fituation is only the accompliihment of the will 
of heaven: while the reft, confidering them from the 
fame circumftances as a totally, diftinft fpecies of men, 
conclude them to be an inferiour link of the chain of 
nature, and deduce the inference defcribed. 

To anfwer thefe arguments in the cleareft and fulleft: 
manner, we are under the necelhty of making two fup- 
pofitions, firft, that the fcriptures are true; fecondly, 
that they are falfe. 

If then the fcriptures are true, it is evident that the 
pofterity of Cain were extinguiihed in the flood. Thus 
one of the arguments is no more. 

With refpeO: to the curfe of Ham, it appears alfo that 
it was limited; that it did not extend to the pofterity of 
all his fons, but only to the f defcendants of him who 
was called Canaan: by which it was foretold that the 
Canaanites, a part of the pofterity of Ham, fliould ferve 
the pofterity of Shem and Japhet. Now how does it 
appear that thefe wretched Africans are the defcendants 
of Canaan? — By thofe marks, it will be faid, which dif- 
tinguifli them from the reft of the world.- -But where 

are 

* Geneiis, ch. iv. 15. 
t Genefis, ch. ix. 25, 26, 27, 



OF THE Human Species. 115 

are thefe marks to be found in the divine writings? In 
what page is it faid, that the Canaanites were to be 
known by their colour, their features, their fo.r7n, or the 
very hair of their heads, which is brought into the ac- 
count? But alas! fo far are the divine writings from 

givina: any fuch account, that they fhew the affertion to 
be falfe. They fliew that the J defcendants of Cufli 
were of the colour, to which the advocates for llavery 
allude; and of courfe; that there was no fuch limitation 
of colour to the pollerity of Canaan, or the inheritors 
of the curfc. 

Suppofe we fliould now fhew, upon the moft undeni- 
a,ble evidence, * that thofe of the wretched Africans, 

who 



% Jeiemiah fays, ch. xiii. 23, " Can the ^Ethiopian change his co- 
" lour, or the leopard his fpots?" Now the word, which is here 
tranflated JEthiopian, is in the original Hebrew " the defcendant of 
" (■'tijlp,'' which ihews that this colour was not confined to the de- 
fcendants of '^anaan, as the advocates for llavery alTert. 

* It is very extraordinary that the advocates for flavery iTiouId 
confider thofe Africans, whom they call negroes, as the defcend- 
ants of Canaan, when few hiftorical fafts can be fo well afcertained, 
as that out of the defcendants of the four fons of Ham, the defcend- 
ants of Canaan were the only people, ("if we except the Carthagini- 
ans, who were a colony of Canaan, and were afterwards ruined) 
v/ho did not fettle in that quarter of the globe. Africa was incon- 
trovertibly peopled by the pofterity of the three other fons. We 
cannot ftew this in a clearer manner, than in the words of the 
learned Mr. Bryant, in his letter to Mr. Granville Sharp on this fub- 
jeft. 

" We learn from fcripture, that Ham had four fons, C]ms, Mizra- 
" im. Phut, and Canaan, Gen. x. 5, 6. Canaan occupied Palejline, and 
" the country called by his name: Mizraim, Egypt: but Pliut paffed 
" deep Into Africa, and, I believe, moft of the nations In that part of the 
" world are defcended from him; at leab more than from any other 
*' perfon." Jofephiis favs, " that Phut was the founder of the nations 
" in Libya, and the people were from him called Phuty.'' Antiq. L. i, 
" c. 7. " By Lybia he underftands, as the Greeks did, Africa in gc- 
" nerai; for the paticular country called Lybia Proper, was peopled 
" by the Lubim, or Lehabini, one of the branches from Mizraim. 
" Cliron. Pafchale, p. 29. 

" The fons of Phut fettled in Mauritania, where ivas a country 
" called PhifAn, and a river of the like denomination. Mauritania: 

" Fluvius 



ii6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

who are fmgled out as inheriting the curfe, are the de- 
fcendants of Guih or Phut; and that we fhould lliew 
farther, that but a fingle remnant of Canaan, which was 
afterwards ruined, was ever in Africa at all. — Here all 

is confternation. 

But unfortunately again for the argument, though 
wonderfully for the confirmation that the fcriptwes are 
of divine original, the whole prophecy has been com- 
pleted. A part of the defcend^nts of Canaan were 
hewers of wood and drawers of water, and became tri- 
butary and fubjeO: to the Ifraehtes, or the defcendants 
of 3hem. The Greeks afterwards, as well as the Ro- 
mans, who were both the defcendants of Japhet, not 
only fubdued thofe who were fettled in Syria and Pale- 
ftine, but purfued and conquered all fuch as were then 
remaining. Thefe were the Tyrians and Carthaginians : 

the 



" Fluviiis ufque ad prsefens Tempus Phut dicitur, omnifq; circa eum 
" Regio Phutenfis. Hieron; Tradit. Hebroe3e.---Amnem, quem vocant 
" Fwt" Pliny, L. 5. c. 1 Some of this family fettled above ^gypt, 
" near Ethiopia, and were ftyled Troglodytas. Syncellus, p. 47. 
*' Many of them pafled inland, and peopled the Mediterranean 
*' country." 

*' In procefs of time the fons of Chus alfo, (after their expulfion 
>' from Egypt) made fettlements upon the fea coaft of Africa, and 
" came into Mauritania. Hence we find traces of them alfo in the 
*' names of places, fuch as Churis, CJmfares, upon the coaft : and a 
^' river Cfmfa^ and a city Cotta, together with a promontory, Cotis, 
*' in Mauritania, all denominated from Chus; who at different times, 
*' and by different people, was called Chts^ Cuth, Ccfh, and Cotis.— 
"' The river Cufa is mentioned by Pliny, Lib. 5. c. i. and by Ptolo- 
'' my.''' 

" Many ages after thefe fettlements, there was another eruption 
*' of the CuJJjites into thefe parts, under the name of Saracens and 
^' Moors, who over-ran Africa, to the very extremity of Mount Atlas. 
" They pafTed over and conquered Spain to the north, and they ex- 
^' tended themfeives fouthward, as I faid in mv treatife, to the rivers 
*' Senegal and Gambia, and as low as the Gold Coajl. I mentioned this, 
*' becaufc I do not think that they proceeded much farther: moft of 
" the nations to the fouth being, as I imagine, of the race of Phut. 
*' The very country upon the river Gambia on one fide, is at this day 
" called Phuta, of which Bluet, In his hiftory of Juba Ben Solomon, 
" gives an account." 



OF THE Human Species. 117 

the former of whom were ruined by Alexander and the 
Greeks, the latter by Scipio and the Romans. 

It appears then that the fecond argument is wholly 
inapplicable and falfe: that it is falfe in its application, 
becaufe thofe, who were the objc6ls of the curfe, were 
a totally diflind people: that it is falfe in lU proof ^ be- 
caufe no fuch diftinguiihing marks, as have been fpeci- 
fied, are to be found in the divine writings : and that, if 
the proof could be made out, it would be now inappli- 
cable, as the curfe has been long completed. 

With refpe£i; to the third argument, we muft now fup- 
pofe that the fcriptures are falfe; that mankind did not 
all fpring from the fame original; that there are different 
fpecies of men. Now what mud we juftly conclude 
from fuch a fuppofition? Mull we conclude that one fpe- 
cies is inferiour to another, and that the inferiority de- 
pends upon their colour, or their features, or their form? 
— No — We muft now confult the analogy of nature, 
and the conclufion will be this: " that as Ihe tem.pered 
the bodies of the different fpecies of men in a different 
degree, to enable them to endure the refpedive climates 
of their habitation, fo fne gave them a variety of colour 
and appearance with a like benevolent defign." 

To fum up the whole. If the fcriptures are true, it 
is evident that the pofterity of Cain are no more; that 
the curfe of Ham h-AS been accomplimcd; and that, as 
all men were derived from the fame ftock, fo this vari- 
ety of appearance in men mud either have proceeded 
from fome interpofition of the Deity j or from a co-ope- 
ration of certain caufes, which have an efl'ect upon the 
human frame, and have the power of changing it more 
or lefs from its primitive appearance, as they happen to 
be more or lefs numerous or powerful than thofe, which 
a£l:ed upon the frame of man in the firif feat of his ha- 
bitation. If from the interpofition ot the Ueity, then 
we muft conclude that he, who bringeth good out of 
evil, produced it for their convenience. If, from the 
CO operation of the caufes beiore related, what argu- 
ment may not be found againll any focitty of men, who 
ftiould happen to diiler, in the points alluded to, from 
ourfelves? 



ii8 On the Slavery and Commerce 

If, on the other hand, the fcriptures are falfe, then it 
is evident, that there was neither fuch a perfon as Cain^ 
nor Ham, nor Canaan ; and that nature beftowed fuch 
colour, features, and form, upon the different fpecies of 
men, as were bed adapted to their fituation. 

Thus, on which ever fuppofition it is founded, the 
whole argument mull: fall. And indeed it is impoffible 
that it can Hand, even in the eye of common fenfe. — 
For if you admit the form of men as a juftification of 
llavery, you may fubjugate your own brother: if fea^ 
tures,' then you muft quarrel with all the world: if co- 
bury where are you to flop? It is evident, that if you 
travel from the equator to the northern pole, you will 
find a regular gradation of colour from black to white. 
Now if you can juftly take him for your Have, who is 
of the deepeft die, what hinders you from taking him 
alfo, who only differs from the former but by a fhade. 
Thus you may proceed, taking each in a regular fuccef- 
fion to the poles. But who are you, that thus take into 
flavery fo many people? Where do you live yourfelf? 
Do you live in Spain, or in France, or in Britain f If in 
either of theie countries, take care left the whiter natives 
of the north fhould have a claim upon yourfelf.— But the 
argument is too ridiculous to be farther noticed. 

Having now filenced the whole argument, we might 
immediately proceed to the difcuffion of other points, 
without even declaring our opinion as to which of the 
fuppofitions may be right, on which it has been refuted; 
but we do not think ourfelves at liberty to do this. The 
prefent age would rejoice to find that the fcriptures had 
no foundation, and would anxioufly catch at the writings 
of him, who fliould mention them in a doubtful man- 
ner. We fnall therefore declare our fentiments, by 
afferting that they are true, and that all mankind, how- 
ever various their appearance, are derived from the fame 
flock. 

To prove this, we fhall not produce thofe innumera- 
ble arguments, by which the fcriptures have ftood the 
left of ages, but advert to a fmgie fact. It is an uni- 
verfal law, obfervable throughout the whole creation, 

that 



OF THE Human Species. I'lg 

that if two animals of a different /pedes propagate, their 
offspring is unable to continue its own Jpecies. By this ad-» 
mirable law, the different fpecies are preferved diftin^t; 
every poflibihty of confuiion is prevented, and the world 
is forbidden to be over-run by a race of monfters. Now, 
if we apply this law to thofe of the human kind, who 
are faid to be of a diftindl fpecies from each other, it 
immediately fails. The mulattoe is as capable of conti- 
nuing his own fpecies as his father; a clear and irrefra- 
gable proof, that the f fcripture account of the creatiori 
is true, and that " God, who hath made the world, 
" hath made of * one blood all the nations of men that 
" dwell on all the face of the earth." 

But if this be the cafe, it will be faid that mankind 
were originally of one colour; and it will be alked at 
the fame time, what it is probable that the colour was, 
and how they came to affume fo various an appearance? 
To each of thefe we ihall make that reply, which we 
conceive to be the mod rational. 

As mankind were originally of the fame flock, fo it 
is evident that they were originally of the fame colour. 
But how fhall we attempt to afcertain it? Shall we Eng- 
lijhmen fay, that it was the fame as that which we now 
find to be peculiar to ourfelves?— No — This would be 
a vain and partial confideration, and would betray our 

judgment 

t When America was firfl: difcovered, it was thought by fome, 
that the fcripture account of the creation was falfe, and that there 
were different fpecies of men, becaufe they could never fuppofe 
that people, in fo rude a ftate as the Ambricpns, could have tranf- 
ported themfelves to that continent from any parts of the known 
world. This opinion however was refuted by the celebrated Cap- 
tain Cooke, who fhewed that the trajefl between the continents of 
Afia and America, was as fhort as foiiio, which people in as rude 
a ftate have been aftually known to pafs. This affords an excellent 
caution againft an ill-judged and hafty ccnfure of the divine writ- 
ings, becaufe every difficulty which may be itartcd, cannot be in- 
ftantly cleared up. .. ,,' . ,,. 

* The divine writings^ which afTert jtiiat all men were derived 
from the /a»ic flack, fhcw alfo, in the fame inftancc of Ciufl}^ p. w^, 
that fomc of them had changed ihcir original complexion. 



120 On the Slavery and Commerce . 

iiidgment to have arifen from that falfe fondnefs, which 
habituates us to fuppofe, that every thing belonging to 
ourfelves is the perfefteft and the bell. Add to this, 
that we fliould always be liable to a juit reproof from 
every inhabitant of the globe, whofe colour was differ- 
ent from our own; becaufe he would juftly fay, that he 
had as good a right to imagine that his own was the pri- 
mitive colour, as that of any other people. 

How then fliall we attempt to afcertain it? Shall we 
look into the various climates of the earth, fee the co- 
lotir that generally prevails in the inhabitants of each, 
and apply the rule? This will be certainly free from par- 
tiality, and will afford us a better profped of fuccefs: 
for as every particular diftrid has its particular colour, 
fo it is evident that the complexion of Noah and his 
fons, from whom the reft of the world were defcended, 
was the fame as that, which is peculiar to the country, 
which was the feat of their habitation. This, by fuch a 
mode of decifion, will be found a dark oUve ; a beauti- 
ful colour, and a juft medium betv/een white and black. 
That this was the primitive colour, is highly probable 
from the obfervations that have been made ; and, if ad- 
mitted, will afford a valuable leffon to the Europeans, 
to be cautious how they deride thofe of the oppofite 
complexion, as there is great reafon to prefumc, that 
the pureji * white is as far removed fro?n the primitive 
colour as the deepeji black. 

We come now to the grand queflion, which is, that 
if mankind were originally of this or any other colour, 
how came it to pais, that they fhould wear fo various an 
appearance? We reply, as we have had occafion to fay 
before, either by tke interpojition of the ^Deity ; or by a co- 
operation of certain caufes^ which have an effed, upon the 
human frame, and have the power of changing it more or 

lefs 

■^ This following are the grand colours difcernible in mankind, 
between which there are many fliades 
White ■) 

>— Olive- 
Brown S 




OF THE Human Species. 121 

kfs from its primitive appearance, as they are more or lefs 
numerous or powerful than tho/e, which aded upon the 
frame of man in the firji feat of his habitation. 

With refpecl to the Divine interpoiition, two epochs 
have been affigned, vi'hen this difference of colour has 
been imagined to have been fo produced. The firfl: is 
that, which has been related, when the curfe was pro- 
nounced on a branch of the pofterity of Ham. But this 
argument has been already refuted ; for if the particular 
colour alluded to were affigned at this period, it was 
affigned to the defcendants of Canaan, to diftinguiffi them 
from thofe of his other brothers, and was therefore liviited 
to the former. But the defcendants of * Cufh, as we 
have fhewn before, partook of the fame colour ; a clear 
proof, that it was neither affigned to them on this occa- 
fion, nor at this period. 

The fecond epoch is that, when mankind were dif- 

perfed on the building of Babel. It has been thought, 

that both national features and colour might probably have 

been given them at this time, becaufe thefe would have 

affifted the confufion of language, by caufmg them to 

difperfe into tribes, and would have united more firmly 

the individuals of each, after the difperfion had taken 

place. But this is improbable: firft, becaufe there is 

great reafon to prefume that Mofes, who has mentioned 

the confufion of language, would have mentioned thefe 

circumflances alfo, if they had adually contributed to 

bring about fo fingular an event: fecondly, becaufe the 

confufion of language was fufficient of itfelf to have 

accomplifhed this; and we cannot fuppofe that the Deity 

could have done any thing in vain: and thirdly, becaufe, 

if mankind had been difperfed, each tribe in its peculiar 

hue, it is impoffible to conceive, that they could have 

wandered and fettled in fuch a manner, as to exhibit 

that regular gradation of colour from the equator to 

the poles, fo confpicuous at the prefent day. 

(^ Thefe 

* See note, p. 115. To this we may add, that the reft of the 
defcendants of Ham, as far as they can be traced, are now alfo black, 
as well as many of the defcendants of Shim. 



122 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Thefe are the only periods, which there has been even 
the ftiadow of a probability for aiiigning; and we may 
therefore conclude that the preceding obfervations, to- 
gether with fuch circumftances as will appear in the pre- 
fent chapter, will amount to a demonftration, that the 
diiference of colour was never cauled by any ioterpoii- 
tion of the Deity, and that it mufl have proceeded there- 
fore from that incidental co-operation of caufes^ which has 
been before related. 

What thefe caufes are, it is out of the power of human 
wifdom pofitiv?!y to affert: there are fads, however, 
which, if properly weighed and put together, will throw 
confiderable light upon the fubjeft. Thefe we fhall fub- 
mit to the perufal of the reader, and fliail deduce from 
them fuch inferences only, as almoil every perfon mufl; 
make in his ov/n mind, on their recital. 

The firfl point, that occurs to be afcertained, is, 
" What part of the fkio is the feat of colour?" The 
old anatomifts ufually divided the fkin into two parts, 
or lamina; the exteriour and thinnefl, called by the 
Greeks Epidennis, by the Romans Cuticula, and hence 
by us Cuticle ; and the interiour, called by the former 
Der?na^ and by the latter Cutis, or true Jhin. Hence they 
muft neceffarily have fuppofed, that, as the true Jkin v!2iS 
in every refpefl: the fame in all human fubjefts, however 
various their external hue, fo the feat of colour muft 
have ex'fted in the Cuticle, or upper furface. 

Malphigi, an eminent Italian phyfician, of the lafl 
century, was the firft perfon who difcovered that the 
fKin was divided into three lamina, or parts; the Cuticle, 
x\it true JJiin, and a certain coagulated fubflance fituated 
between both, which he diftinguifhed by the title of 
Mucofum Corpus'-^ a title retained by anatomifts to the 
prefent day: which coagulated fubftance adhered fo firm- 
ly to the.C^/?V^, as, in all former anatomical preparations, 
to have come off with it, and, from this circumflance, to 
have led the ancient anatomifts to believe, that there were 
. but two lamina, or divifibie portions in the human fkin. 

This difcovery was fufHcient to afcertaio the point in 
queftiQn: for it appeared afterwards that the Cuticle, 

when 



OF TfiE Human. Species. 123 

when divided according to this difcovery from the other 
lamina, was femi-traniparent; that the cuticle of the 
blacked negroe was of, the fame tranfparency and colour,-^ 
as that of the purefl: white ; and hence, the true Jhins 
of both being invariably the fame, that the mucofum 
corpus was the feat of colour. 

This has been farther confirmed by all fubfequent 
anatomical experiments,, by which it appears, that, what- 
ever is the colour of this intermediate coagulated fubT 
Ifance, nearly the fame is the apparent colour of the up-" 
per furface of the fKin. Neither can it be otherwifejj^ 
for the Cuticle, from its tranfparency, mud neceffarily. 
tranfaiit the colour of the fubflance beneath it, in the 
fame manner, though not in the fame deg^^ree, as the 
cornea tranfmits the colour of the iris of the eye. This 
tranfparency is a matter of ocular demonftration in white 
people. It is confpicuous in every bluih; for no one 
can imagine, that the cuticle becomes red, as often as 
this happens: nor is it lefs difcoverable in the veins, 
which are fo eafy to be difcerned ; for no one can fup- 
pofe, that the blue ilreaksj which he conftantly fees in 
the fairefl complexons, are painted, as it were, on the 
furface of the upper fkin. From thefe, and a variety 
of other * obfervations, no maxim is more true in phy-- 
fiology, than that on the muco/um corpus depends the coleur 
of the human body; or, in other words, that the mucofiiini 
corpus ht'ing of a different colour in difi'erent inhabitants 
of the globe, and appearing through the cuticle or upper 
furface of the ikin, gives them that various appearance, 
which (Irikes us fo forcibly in conteniplatirig' the humau 
race. 

As this can be incontrpvertibly afcertiined, it is evi- 
dent, 

* Difeafes have a great cfFe6l upon the mucofum corpus, but parti- 
cularly the jaundice, which turns it yellow. Plcnce, being tranfniitted 
through the cuticle, the j'ellow appenrance of the whole bod/. - - 
But this, even as a matter of ocular dcnionftratioti, is no con lined 
folely to white people; negroes themfelvcs, while affcded with cliefc 
or other diforders, changing their black colour for that which the 
ilifeafc has conveyed to the mucous fubftancc. 



124 On the Slavery and Commerce 

dent, that whatever caufes co-operate in producing this 
diflferent appearance, they produce it by a6l:ing upon the 
mucofum corpus, which, from the alinoft incredible man- 
ner in which the * cuticle is perforated, is as acceffible 
as the cuticle itfelf. Thefe caufes are probably thofe 
various qualities of things, which, combined with the 
iilfluence of the fun, contribute to form what we call 
climate. For when any perfon confiders, that the mucous 
fubftance, before-mentioned, is found to vary in its co- 
lour, as the climates vary from the equator to the poles, 
his mind muft be inftantly ftruck with the hypothefis, 
and he muft adopt it without any hefitatioh, as the 
genuine caufe of the phasnomenon. 

This fact, f of the variation of the mucous fuhjlance ac- 
cording to thefiiuation of the -place ^ has beert clearly afcer- 
tained in the numerous anatomical experiments that have 
been made ; in which, fubjeds of all nations have come 
under confideration. The natives of many of the king- 
doms and Ifles of Afia, are found to have their corpus 
mucofum black. Thofe of Africa, fituated near the line, 
of the fame colour. Thofe of the maritime parts of the 
fame continent, of a dullcy brown, nearly approaching 
to it ; and the colour becomes lighter or darker in pro- 
portion as the diflance from the equator is either greater 
or lefs. The Europeans are the faireft inhabitants of the 
world. Thofe fituated in the moft fouthern regions of 
Europe, have in their corpus mucofum a tinge of the dark 
hue of their African neighbours: hence the epidcmick 
complexion, prevalent among them, is nearly of the co- 
lour of the pickled Spanifh olive; while in this country, 
and thofe fituated nearer the north pole, it appears to be 
nearly, if not abfolutely, white. 

Thefe 

* The cutaneous pores are fo excelUvely fmall, that one grain of 
fand, (according to Dr. Levvenhoeck's culculations) would cover 
many hundreds of them. 

\ We do not mean to infinuate that the fame people have their coYpus 
mucnfum ftnfibly vary, as often as they go into another latitude, but 
that the fad is true only of different: people, who have been long 
eftablillied in different latitudes. 



OF THE Human Species. 125 

Thefc are * fadls, which anatomy has eftabliflied ; and 
we acknowledge them to be fuch, that we cannot diveft 
ourfelves of the idea, that climate has a confiderable 
{iiare in producing a difference of colour. Others, we 
know, have invented other hypothefes, but all of therh 
have been inftantly refuted, as unable to expiain the dif- 
ficulties for which they were advanced, and as abfolutely 
contrary to fa6t: and the inventors themfelves have been 
obliged, almoft as foon as they have propofed them, 
to acknowledge them deficient. 

The only objection of any confequence, that has ever 
been made to the hypothefis of climate, is this, that peo- 
ple under the fame par elleh are not exadly of the fame colour. 
But this is no objeftion in fad: for it does riot follow 
that thofe countries, which are at an equal diftarice from 
the equator, fhould have their climates the fame. In- 
deed nothing is more contrary to experience than this. 
Climate depends upon a variety of accidents. High 
mountains, in the neighbourhood of a place, make it 
cooler, by chilling the air that is carried over them by 
the winds. Large fpreading fucculent plants, if among 
the produclions of the foil, have the fame effeft: they 
afford agreeable cooling fhadcs, tind a moift atmofphere 
from their continual exhalations, by which the ardour of 
the fun is confiderably abated. While the foil, on the 
other hand, if of a fandy nature, retains the heat in an 
uncommon degree, and makes ti)e fummers confidera- 
bly hotter than thofe which are found to exifl in the 
fame latitude, where the foil is different. To this prox- 
imity of what may be termed burning fands^ and to the 
fulphurous and metallick particles, which are continual- 
ly exhaling from the bowels of the earth, is afcribed 
the different degree of black)iefs, by which fome African 
nations are difiinguifhable from e.ich other, though un- 
der the fame parallels. To thefe obfervations, we may 

addj 

* We beg leave to return our thnnks here to a gentleman, emi- 
nent in th'_- medical line, who fiuiiUhed ub with ihe abovementioned 
fatls. 



126 On the Slavery and Commerce 

add, that though the inhabitants of the fame parallel 
are not exaftly of the fame hue, yet they differ only 
by (hades of the fame colour; or, to fpeak with more 
precifion, that there are no two people, in fuch a fitu- 
ation, one of whom is white, and the other black. 
To fum up the whole— —Suppofe we were to take a 
comrnon globe; to begin at the equator; to paint every 
country along the meridian line in fuccefTion from thence 
to the poles; and to paint them with the fame colour 
which prevails in the refpeftive inhabitants of each, we 
lliould • fee the black, with which we had been obliged 
to begin, infenfibly changing to an olive, and the olive, 
through as many intermediate colours, to a white: and 
if, on the other hand, we (hould complete any one. of 
the parallels according to the fame plan, we iliould fee 
a difference perhaps in the appearance of fome of the 
countries through which it ran, though the difference 
would confift wholly in {hades of the fame colour. 

The argument therefore, which is brought againft the 
hypothefis, is fo far from being an objedion, that we 
ihall confider it as one of the firft arguments in its fa- 
vour: for if climate has really an influence on the ?«&'- 
€ous fuhftance of the body, it is evident, that we mull 
not only expeft to fee a gradation of colour in the inha- 
bitants from the equator to the poles, but alfo * differ- 
ent ffiades of the fame colour in the inhabitants of the 
fame parallel. 

To this argument, we (hall add one that is incontro- 
vertible, which is, that when the black inhabitants of 
Africa are tranfplanted to colder, or the white inhabitants 
of Europe to hotter climates, their children, born there, 

are 



* Suppofe we were to fee two nations, contiguous to each other, 
of black and white inhabitants in the fame parallel, even this would 
be no objedion, for many circumftances are to be confidered. A 
black people may have wandered into a white, and a white people 
into a black latitude, and they may not have been fettled there a fuf- 
Ikient length of time for fuch a change to have been accompliilied 
in their complexion, as that they ihould be like the old eftabliflied 
inhabitants of the parallel, into which they have lately come. ■ 



OF THE Human Species. 127 

are of a different colour from themfehes; that is, lighter 
in the firit, and darker in the fecond inftance. 

As a proof of the firft, we ihall give the words of the 
Abbe Raynal, in his admired publication. * "The 
" children," fays he, " which they, (the Africans) pro- 
" create in America, are not fo black as their parents 
" were. After each generation the difference becomes 
" more palpable, it is poffible, that after a numerous 
*■' fucceltion of generations, the men come from Africa 
*' would not be diftinguifhed from thofe of the country, 
*.' into which they may have been tranfplanted." 
.This circumflance we have had the pleafure oif 'hear- 
ing confirmed by a variety of perfons, who have been- 
witneffes of the fact; but particularly by many f intelli- 
gent Africans, who have been parents themfelves in 
ji?}ierica, and who have declared that the difference is fo 
palpable in the northern pro'uinces, that not only they 
themfelves have conflantly obferved it, but that they 
have heard it obferved by others. 

Neither is this variation in the children from the co- 
lour of their parents improbable. 1 be children of the 
blackeji Africans are \ born white* In this flate they con- 
tinue for about a month, when they change to a pale 
yellow. In procefs of time they become brown. Their 
fkin flill continues to increafe in darknefs with their age, 
till it becomes of a dirty, fallow black, and at length, 
after a certain period of years, gloffy and fhining. Now, 
if climate has any influence on the mucous fuhflance of 

the 



* Juftamond's Abbe Raynal, v. 5. p. 193. 

t The author of this Eflay made' it his biifinefs to inquire of the 
mort intelligent of thofe, whom he could meet with in. London, as 
to the authenticity of the fact. All thofe from America affured him 
that it was ftric'tly true; thofe from the Weft-Indies, that they had 
never obferved it there,* but that they liad found a fenfible differ- 
ence in themlelves fince they came to England. 

if This circumftance, which always happens, fliews that they, are 
defcended from the fame parents as ourfelves; for had they been a 
diftinct fpecies of men, and the blacknefs entirely ingrafted in theii 
conllitution and frame, there is great reafoii to prcfume, that their 
children would have been born hlnc};. 



128 On the Slavery and Commerce 

the body, this variation in the children from the colour 
of their parents is an event, which niufl: be reafonably 
expeded : for being born white, and not having equally 
powerful caufes to a£l upon them in colder, as their pa- 
rents had in the hotter climates which they left, it muft 
neceflarily follow, that the fame effeft cannot poflibly 
be produced. 

Hence alfo, if the hypothefis be admitted, may be 
deduced the reafon, why even thofe children, who have 
been brought from their country at an early age into cold- 
er regions, have been * obferved to b^ of a lighter co- 
lour than thofe who have remained at home till they ar- 
rived at a ftate of manhood. For having undergone 
fome of the changes which we mentioned to have at- 
tended their countrymen from infancy to a certain age, 
and having been taken av/ay before the reft could be 
completed, thefe farther changes, which would have 
taken place had they remained at home, feem either to 
have been checked in their progreis, or weakened in 
their degree, by a colder climate. 

We come now to the fecond and oppofite eafej for a 
proof of which we fhall appeal to the words of Dr. Mit- 
chell, in the Philofophical Tranfaclions. f " The Spani- 
*' ards who have inhabited America under the torrid zone 
" for any time, are become as dark coloured as our na- 
*^ tive Indians of Virginia, of which, Irnyfelf have been 
*^ a ivitnefs', and were they not to intermarry with the 
** Europeans^ but lead the fame rude and barbarous lives 
*^ with the Indians, it is very probable that, in a fuccef- 
*' {ion of many generations, they would become as dark 
^' in complexion." 

To this inftance we fhall add one, which is mentioned 
by a J late writer, who defcribing the African coafl, and 

the 



* This obfervation was communicated to us by the gentleman in 
the medical line, to whom we returned our thanks for certain anato- 
mical fafts. 

t Phllof. Tranf. No. 476. feft. 4. 

% Treatife upon the Trade from Great Britain to Africa, by an 
African merchant. 



OF THE Human Species. 129 

the European fettle ments there, has the following paflage. 
" There are feveral other fmall Portugueje fettlements, 
" and one of fome note at Mitomba, a river in Sierra 
" Leon. The people here called Fortuguefe^ are princi- 
" pally perfons bred from a mixture of the firft Fortu- 
" guefe difcoverers with the natives, and now become, 
^' in their complexion and woolly quality of their hair, per- 
*' fed negroes, retaining however a fmattering of the 
'' Portuguefe language." 

Thele fafts, with refpeft to the colonifts of the Euro- 
peans, are of the highelt importance in the prefent cafe, 
and deferve a ferious atteniion. For when we know to 
a certainty from whom they are defcended; when we 
know that they were, at the time of their tranfplanta- 
tion, of the fame colour as thofe from whom they feve- 
rally fprung; and when, on the other hand, we are cre- 
dibly informed, that they have changed it for the native 
colour of the place which they now inhabit; the evi- 
dence in fupport of thefe fa6ls is as great, as if a perfon, 
on the removal of two or three families into another 
climate, had determined to afcertain the circumftance; 
as if he had gone with them and watched their children; 
as if he had communicated his obfervations at his death 
to a fucceifor; as if his fuccelTor had profecuted the 
plan, and thus an uninterrupted chain of evidence had 
been kept up from their firft removal to any determined 
period of fuccceding time. 

But though thefe fads feem fufficient of themfelves to 
confirm our opinion, they are not the only fa6ls whifh 
can be adduced in its fupport. It can be lliewn, that 
the members of the njery fame family, when divided 
from each other, and removed into different countries, 
have not only changed their family complexion, but that 
they have changed it to as many di^erent colours as they 
have gone into different regions of the world. We can- 
not have, perhaps, a more ftriking inftance of this, 
than in tlie Jews. Thefe people are fcattered over the 
face of the whole earth. They have preferved them- 
felves diftinft from the reft of the world by their religi- 
on; and, as they never intermarrv with any but thofe ot 

R ' their 



130 On the Slavery and Co'mmerce 

their own fe6l, fo they have no mixture of blooH in their 
veins, that they Ihould differ from each other: and yet 
nothing is more true, than that the * EngUJh Jew is 
white, the Portugiieje fwarthy, the Armenian ohve, and 
the .trabian copper ; in Ihort, that there appear to be as 
many different fpecies of Jews, as there are countries 
in which they refide. 

To thefe fa6ls we fhail add the following obfervation, 
that if we can give credit to the ancient hiftorians in ge- 
neral, a change from the darkeft black to the purefl 
white mufl: have adually been accompiiflied. One in- 
ftance, perhaps, may be thought fufficient. | Herodotus 
relates, that the Colcbi were black, and that they had 
crijfed hair. Thefe people were a detachment of the 
Ethiopian army under Sefojlris, who followed him in his 
expedition, and fettled in that part of the world, where 
Colchis is ufually reprefented to have been fituated. Had 
not the fame author informed us of this circumftance, 
we fliould have thought it J ftrange, that a people of 
this defcription Hiould have been found in fuch a lati- 
tude. Now, as they were undoubtedly fettled there, 
and as they were neither fo totally deftroyed, nor made 
any fuch rapid conquefts, as that hiftory fhould notice 
the event, there is great reafon to prefume, that their 
dcfcendants continued in the fame, or fettled in the ad- 
jacent country; from whence it will follow, that they 
mud have changed their complexion to that, which is 
obfervable in the inhabitants of this particular region at 
the prefent day ; or, in other words, that the black in- 
habitant 



* We mean fuch only as are natives of the countries which we 
mention, and whofe anceftors have been fettled there for a certain 
period of time, 

t Herodotus. Euterpe, p, 8o. Editio Stephani, printed' 1 570. 

% This circumftance confirms what we faid in a former note, p, 

126, that even if two nations were to be found in the fame parallel, 

.one of whom was biacl^, and the other whi e, it would form no ob- 

jedion againft the hypothefis of climate, as one of them mighc have 

beffu new fettlers from a diftant country. 



OF THit Human Spfci-s. 131, 

habitant of Colchis muft have been changed into the * 
fair Circajjian. 

As we have now fhewn it to be highly probable, from 
the fads which have been advanced, that climate is the 
caufe of the diiFerence of colour which prevails in the 
different inhabitants of the globe, we Ihall now fiiew its 
probability from fo fimilar an effeft produced on the mu- 
com fuhjiance before-mentioned by fo fimilar a caufe, that 
though the fact does not abfolutely prove our conjecture 
to be right, yet it will give us a very lively conception 
of the manner, in which the phsenomenon may be cauf- 
ed. 

This probability may be (hewn in the cafe of frecklesy. 
■which are to be feen in the face of children, but of fuch 
only, as have the thinnefl and molt tranfparent fkins, 
and are occafioned by the rays of the fun, flriking forc- 
ibly on the mucous fuhjiance of the face, and drying the 
accunmlating fluid. This accumulating fluid, or per- 
fpirable matter, is at firfl colourlefs ; but being expofed 
to violent heat, or dried, becomes brown. Hence, the 
mucoium corpus being tinged in various parts by this 
brown coagulated fluid, and the parts fo tinged appearr 
ing through the cuticle^ or upper furface of the fkir, 
arifes that fpotted appearance, obfervable in the cafe re- 
cited. 

Now, if we were to conceive a black f^in to be an 
univerfal freckle^ or the rays of the fun to afl fo uni» 
verfally on the mucous fuhjiance of a perfon's face, as to 
produce thefe fpots fo contiguous to each other that they 
fhould unite, we fhould then fee, in imagination, a face 
fimilar to thofe, which are daily to be feen among black 
people: and if we were to conceive his body to be ex- 
pofed 

* Suppofe, without the knowledge of any hiftorian, they had 
made fucli confideiable conquells, as 10 have fettled rhemfelves at 
the diftanceof 1000 miles in any one direftion from ColcJils, ftill they 
muft have changed their colour. For had they gone in an Eaftein or 
Wcftern di region, they miifl: have been of the fame colour as ihe 
Circ'ijfims; if to the north, whiter; if to the fouth, of a copper. 
There arc no people within that diUancc of Colchis, who are black. 



132 On the Slavery and Commerce 

pofed or acted upon in the fame manner, we Ihould then 
fee his body affuming a fimilar appearance; and thus we 
fliould fee the whole man of a perfed; black, or refem- 
bhng one of the naked inhabitants of the torrid zone. 
Now as the feat of freckles and of blacknefs is the fame j 
as their appearance is fimilar; and as the caufe of the 
firft is the ardour of the fun, it is therefore probable 
that the caufe of the fecond is the fame: hence, if we 
fubftitute for the word '•'■ fun,** what is analogous to it, 
the word climate^ the fame efFe£l may be fuppofed to be 
produced, and the conjefture to receive a fan£tion. 

Nor is it unlikely that the hypothcfis, which confiders 
the caufe of freckles and of blacknefs as the fame, may 
be right. For if blacknefs is occafioned by the rays of 
the fun ftriking forcibly and univerfally on the mucous 
fttbftance oi thQ body, and drying the accumulating fluid, 
■\?/e can account for the different degrees of it to be found 
in the different inhabitants of the globe. For as the 
quantity of perfpirable fluid, and the force of the folar 
rays is fucceflively increafed, as the climates are fuccef- 
fively warmer, from any given parallel to the line, it 
follows that the fluid, with which the mucous fuhjlance 
will be ftained, will be fucceffively thicker and deeper 
coloured ; and hence, as it appears through the cuticle, 
the complexion fucceflively darker; or, what amounts 
to the fame thing, there will be a difference of colour in 
the inhabitants of every fucceflive parallel. 

From thefe, and the whole of the preceding obferva- 
tions on the fubjeft, we may conclude, that as all the 
inhabitants of the earth cannot be othervvife than the 
children of the fame parents, and as the difference of 
their appearance mufl have of courfe proceeded from 
incidental caufes, thefe caufes are a combination of thofe 
qualities, which we call climate \ that the blacknefs of 
the Africans is fo far ingrafted in their conftitution, in 
a courfe of many generations, that their children wholly 
inherit it, if brought up in the fame fpot, but that it is 
not fo abiolutely interwoven in their nature, that it can- 
not be removed, if they are born and fettled in another; 
that Noah and his fons were probably of -an olive com- 
plexion ; 



OF THE Human. Species. 133 

plexion; that thofe of their defcendants, who went far- 
ther to the fouth, became ot a deeper ohve or copper'^ 
while thofe, who went ftili farther, became of a deeper 
copper or black; that thofe, on the other hand, who 
travelled farther to the north, became lefs olive or brown, 
while thofe who went ftill farther than the former, became 
lefs brown or white ; and that if any man were to point 
out any one ot the colours which prevails in the human 
complexion, as likely to turnilh an argument, that the 
people of fuch a complexion were of a different fpecies 
from the reft, it is probable that his own deicendants, 
if removed to the climate to which this complexion is 
peculiar, would, in the courfe of a few generations, de- 
generate into the fame colour. . 

Having now replied to the argument, " that the Africans 
" are an inferiour link of the chain of nature/' as far 
as it depended on their capacity and colour^ we fhali now 
only take notice of an expreffion, which i\it receivers 
before-mentioned are pleafed to make ufe of, "that they 
" are made for flavery." 

Had the Africans been made for /Javery^ or to become 
the property of any fociety of men, it is clear, from the 
obfervations that have been made in the fecond part of 
this Elfay, that they mufl have been created devoid of 
reafon: but this is contrary to fad. It is clear alfo, that 
there muft have been many and evident figns of the in- 
feriority of their nature, and that this fociety of men mufl 
have had a natural right to their dominion: but this is 
equally falfe. No fuch figns of inferiority are to be found 
in the one, and the right to dominion in the other is 
incidental: for in what volume of nature or religion is 
it written, that one fociety of men Ihould breed /laves 
for the benefit of another? Nor is it lefs evident that 
they would have wanted many of thofe qualities which 
they have, and which brutes have not: they would have 
wanted that fpirit of liberty, that * fenfe of ignominy and 

Jhanie, 

* There are a particular people among thofe tranfported from 
Africa to the colonics, who imiiiediaccly on receiving puniAment, 
deltroy thcmfelves. 1 his is a fart which the receivers are unable to 
contradict. 



134 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Jhamey which fo frequently drives them to the horrid 
extremity of finilhing their own exiftence Nor would 
they have been endowed with a contemplative power; for 
fuch a po ver would have been unneceiTary to people in. 
fuclia fituation ; or rather, its only ufe could have been to 
incrcafe their pain. We cannot fuppofe therefore that 
God has made an order of beings, with fuch mental 
quahties and powers, for the fole purpofe of being ufed 
as beajis^ ox in/iruments of labour. And here, what a 
dreadful argument prefents itfelf againft you receivers? 
For if they have no underftandings as you confefs, then 
is your conduct impious, becaufe, as they cannot per- 
ceive the intention of your punifliment, your fev.erities 
cannot make them better. But if, on the other hand, 
they have had underftandings, (which has evidently ap- 
peared) then is your conduct equally impious, who, by 
deftroying their faculties by the feverity of your difci- 
pline, have reduced men, who had once the power of 
reafon, to an equality with the brut« creation. 



C H A P. ■ IX. 

The reader may perhaps think, that the receivers have 
by this time expended all their' arguments, but their 
flore is not fo eafily exhaufted. They are well aware 
that juftice, nature, and relig'on, will continue, as they 

have ever uniformly done, to oppofe their conduft. 

This has driven them to exert their ingenuity, and has 
occafioned that multiplicity of arguments to be found 
in the prefent qucftion. 

Theie arguments are of a different complexi.^n from 

the former. They confid in comparing the ftate of 

Jlaves with that of fome of the claffes of Jree men, and 

in certain fcenes of felicity, which the former are faid 

to enjoy. 

It is affirmed that the punifiiments which the Africans 
undergo, are lefs fevcre than the military ; that their 
life is happier than that of the Englifh peafantj th^at they 
have the advantages of manumiihun j that they have 

their 



OF THE Human Sppcies. 135 

their little fpots of ground, their holy-days, their dances; 
in fhort. that their life is a fcene of feftivity and mirth, 
and that they are much happier in the colonies than in 
their own country. 

Thefe reprefentations, which have been made out 
with much ingenuity and art, may have had their weight 
with the unwary; but they will never pafs with men of 
confideratinn and lenfe, who are accuflomed to eftimate 
the probability of things, before they admit them to be 
true. Indeed the bare aflertion, that their fituation is 
even comfortable, contains its own refutation, or at 
leaft leads us to fufped that the perfon, who alTerted it, 
has omitted fome important confiderations in the ac- 
count. Such we (hall fhew to have been actually the 
cale, and that the reprefentations of the receivers, when 
ftripped of their glofly ornaments, are but empty de- 
clamation. 

It is faid, firft, of military punijhments, that they are 
more fevere than thofe which the Africans undergo. — 
But this is a bare aflertion without a proof. It is not 
Ihewn even by thofe, who aflert it, how the fad: can be 
made out. We are left therefore to draw the compari- 
fon ourfelves, and to fill up thofe important confiderati- 
ons, which we have juft faid that the receivers had omit- 
ted. 

That military punifhments are fevere we confefs, but 
we deny that they are feverer than thofe with which they 
are compared. Where is the military man, whofe ears 
have been flit, whofe limbs have been mutilated, or 
whofe eyes have been beaten out? But let us even allow, 
that their punifhments are equal in the degree of their 
feverity : ft ill they muff lofe by comparifon. The foldier 
is never puTiifhed but after a fair and equitable trial, and 
the decifion of a military court; the unhappy African, 
at the difcertion of his Lord. The one * knows what 
particular conduct will conftitute an offence; the other 

has 

* The articles of war are frequently read at the head of every 
rcgimDiit in the fervice, ftating thofe particular actions v/hich arc to 
be confidered as crimes. 



536 On the Slavery and Commerce 

has no fuch information, as he is wholly at the difpofal 
of paffion and caprice, which may iinpofe upon any ac- 
tion, however laudable, the appellation of a crime. The 
former has it ot courfe in his power to avoid a punifh- 
ment; the latter is never fafe. The former is puniftied 
for a real, the latter, often, for an imaginary fault. 

Now will any perfon aflfert, on comparing the whole 
of thofe circumftances together, which relate to their 
refpe<5live punifhments, that there can be any doubt, 
which of the two are in the word fuuation, as to their 
penal fyftems? 

With refpe6l to the declaration, that the life of an Afri- 
can in the colonies is happier than that of an EngUJh 
peafant, it is equally falfe. Indeed we can fcarcely with- 
hold our indignation, when we confider, how fharae- 
fuUy the fituation of this latter clafs of men has been 
mifreprefebted, to elevate the former to a ftate of ficti- 
tious happinefs. If the reprefentations of the receivers 
be true, it is evident that thofe of the moft approved 
writers, who have placed a confiderable (hare of hap- 
pinefs in the cottage^ have been miftaken in tKeir opini- 
on; and that thole of the rich, who have been heard to 
figh, and envy the felicity of the peafant^ have been 
treacherous to their own fenfations. 

But which are we to believe on the occafion? Thofe, 
who endeavour to drefs vice in the habit of virtue ^ or 
thofe, who derive their opinion from their own feelings? 
The latter are furely to be believed; and we may con- 
clude therefore, that the horrid pidure which is given 
of the life of the peafant^ has not lb juft a foundation as 
the receivers would lead us to fuppofe. For has he no 
pleafure in the thought, that he lives in his own country^ 
and among his relations and friends? That he is actually 
fres^ and that his children will be the fame? That he 
can never be fold as a beafl? That he can fpeakhis mind 
^without the fear of the hfh? That he cannot even be 
itruck ivith impunity? And that he partakes, equa ly 
"with his fuperiours, of the protection of the law? — Now, 
there is no one of thefe advantages which the African 
poflelTes, and no one, which the defenders of flavery 
Sake into their account. 



OF THE Human Species. 137 

Of the other comparifons that are ufually made, we 
inay obferve in general, that, as they confifl in compa- 
ring the iniquitous praftice of (lavery with other iniquit- 
ous practices in force among other nations, they can 
neither raife it to the appearance of virtue, nor exte- 
nuate its guilt. The things compared are in thefe in- 
ftances both of them evils alike. They call equally for 
redrefs, and are equally difgraceful to the * governments 
which fuffer them, if not encourage them, to exift. 
To attempt therefore to juftify one Ipecies of iniquity, 
by comparing it with another, is no juflification at all; 
and is fo far from anfwering the purpofe, for which the 
comparifon is intended, as to give us reafon to fufpeft, 
that the comparer has but little notion either of equity 
or honour. 

We come now to thofe fcenes of felicity, which flaves 
are laid to enjoy. The firfl advantage which they are 
faid to experience, is that of manumijjlon. But here the 
advocates for llavery conceal an important circumftance. 
They expatiate indeed on the charms of freedom, and 
contend that it muft be a bleffing in the eyes oi thofe, 
upon whom it is conferred. We perfectly agree v/ith 
them in this particular. But they do not tell us that 
thele advantages are confined; that they are confined to 
fome favourite domefi^ick; that not oyie in an hundred en- 
joy them; and that they are never extended to thofe, 
who are employed in the cidtivation of the field, as long 
as they can work. Thefe are they, who are moft to be' 
pitied, who are deflined to perpetual drudgery; and oi 
whom no one whatever has a chance of being freed from 

S his 

* We canOiOt ^ipit h,ere to mention one of the cuiloms, which has 
been .often brought as a palliation of flavery, and whiich ji'-vailed 
hUt a little time ago, and we are doubtful whether it does not pre- 
vail iiow, in the metropolis of this country, of kidnapping men^for 
the fervice of the Eafi-Jndia Company. Every fubjeft, as long as 
he behaves well, has a right to the protection of government; and 
the t:.c:t permilTion of fuch a fcenc of iniquity, \\-\\cn it becomes 
known, is a« much a breach of duty in government, as the condufl 
of thofe fubjc'^s, v/ho, oi] other occaflons, would be termed, and 
puniflied as, rebellious. 



238 On the Slavery and Commerce 

his fituation, till death either releafes him at oncej or 
age renders him incapable of continuing his former la- 
bour. And here let it be remarked, to the di [grace of 

the receivers^ that he is then made free, not ^as a re- 

ivard for his pajl fervices^ but, as his labour is then of 
little or no value, -to fa-ve the * tax. 

With the fame artifice is mention alfo made of the lit- 
tle fpots, or gardens^ as they are called, which flaves are 
faid ro poffefs from the liberality o^ the receivers. But peo- 
ple mud not be led away by agreeable and pleafant 
founds. They muft not fuppofe that thefe gardens are 
made {or flowers ; or that they are places oi amufement ^ 
in which they can fpend their time in botanical refearchcs 
and delights. Alas they do not furnifli them with a 
theme for fuch pleafing purfuits and fpeculations! They 
niuft be cultivated in thofe hours, \yhich ought to be 
appropriated to -|- reft; and they muft be cultivated, not 
for an amufement, but to make up, if it be poj/ible^ the 
great deficiency in their weekly allowance of provifions. 
Hence it appears, that the receivers have no merit what- 
ever in fuch an appropriation of land to their unfortunate 
ilaves: for they are either under the necefiity of doing 
this, or of lofing them by the jaws of famine. And it 
is a notorious ia6l, that, with their u'eekly allowance, 
and the produce of their fpots together, it is often with 
the greateft difficulty that they preferve a wretched ex- 
iftence. 

The third advantage which they are faid to experience, 
is that of holy-days^ or days of refpite from their ufual 
difcipline and fatigue. This is certainly a great indul- 
gence, 

* The expences of every parifh are defrayed by a poll-tax on negroes, 
to fave which they pretend to liberate thofe who are part labour; 
but they ftill keep them employed in repairing fences, or in doing 
fome trifling work on a fcanty allowance. For to free a fieid- 
negroe, fo long as he can work, is a maxim, which, notwithfla ding 
the numerous boafted manumiflions, no mafter ever thinks of adopting 
in the colonies. 

t They muft bs cultivated always on a Sunday, and frequently in 
thofe hours which Aould be appropriated to Jleep, or the wretched 
pOiTeiTors muft be inevitably j/^sn-^rf. 



OF THE Human Sptci'^s. 139 

g^nce, and ought to be recorded to the immortal honour 
of the receivers. We wifh we could exprefs their libe- 
raUty in thofe handfome terms, in which it deferves to be 
reprefented, or applaud them fufficiently for deviating 
for once from the rigours of fervile difcipline. But we 
confefs, that we are unequal to the tafk, and niuft there- 
fore content ourfelves with oblerving^, that while the 
horfe has one day in Jeven to refrefli his hmbs, the happy 
African has but one in * Jifty-two, as a relaxation from 
his labours. 

With refpeft to their dances.^ on which fuch a particular 
(Irefs has been generally laid, we fear that people may 
have been as Ihamefully deceived, as in the former in- 
ftances. For from the manner in which thefe are gene- 
rally mentioned, we fliould almoft be led to imagine, 
that they had certain hours allowed them for the purpofe 
of joining in the dance, and that they had every comfort 
and convenience, that the people are generally fuppofed 
to enjoy on fuch convivial occafions. Butthis is far from 
the cafe. Reafon informs us, that it can never be. If 
they wifti for fuch innocent recreations, they mud enjoy 
them in the time that is allotted them for fleep; and fo 
far are thefe dances from proceeding from any uncom- 
mon degree of happinefs, which excites them to convivi- 
al fociety, that they proceed rather from an uncommon 
depreffion of ipirits, which makes them even facrifice 
their freft, for the fake of experiencing for a moment 

a more 

* They are allowed in general three holy-days at Chriftnias, bat 
in Jamaica they have two alfo at Eafter, and two at Whitfuntide: fo 
that on the largeft fcale, they have only feven days in a year, or one 
day in fifty-two. But this [^ on a fuppofition, that the receivers do 
not break in upon the afternoons, which they are frequently too apt 
to do. If it lliould be faid that Sunday is an holy-day, it is not true; 
it is fo far an hoh-day, that they do not work for their mafters; 
but fuch an holy-day, that if they do not employ it in the cultivation 
, of their little fpots, they mufi: he Jlarved. 

t '• hcfe dances arc ufually in the middle of the night; and fo dc- 
firous are thefe unfortunate people of obtaining but a joyful hour, 
that they not only often give up their llcep, but add to the labours 
of the day, by going fcvcral miles to obtain it. 



140 On the Slavery and Commerce 

p, more joyful oblivion of their cares» For fuppofe any 
one of the receivers^ in the middle of a dance, were to 
addrefs his flaves in the following manner: " Africans!' 
^' 1 begin at laft to feel for your fituation ; and my con- 
" feience is feverely hurt, whenever I refled that I have 
" been reducing thofe to a ftate of mifery and pain, 
«' who have never given me ofrence. You feem to be 
^' fond of thefe exercifes, but yet you are obliged to 
*' take them at fuch unfeafonable hours, that they im- 
" pair your health, which is fufficiently broken by the 
" intolerable {hare of labour which I have hitherto ini- 
pofed upon you, I will therefore make you a propofal. 
Will you be content to live in the colonies, and you 
fhall have the half of every week entirely to your- 
felves? or will you choofe to return to your miferablej 
" wretched country?"— But what is that which ftnkes 
their ears? Which makes them motionlefs in an inilant? 
Which interrupts the fellive fcene? — - — their country? 

' tranfporting found!- -Behold! they are now flying 

from the dance: you may fee them running to the Ihore, 
and, frantick as it were with joy, demanding with 
open arms an inftantaneous palfage to their beloved na- 
tive pl.^ins, 

Sucii are the colonial delights, by the reprefentation of 
which the receivers would perfuade us, ihat the Africans 
are taken from their country to a region of convitiality 
and mirth; and that like thofe, who leave their ufual 
places of refidence for a fummer's amufemenc, they are 
conveyed to the colonic?— -fo bathe^ — to dance^ — to keep 
holy-day, — -to be jovial — -But there is fomething fo truly 
ridicu ous in the attempt to impofe thefe fcenes of feli- 
city on the publick, as fcenes which fall to the lot of 
Haves, that the receivers muff have been driven to great 
extremities, to hazard them to the eye of cenfure. 

The laft point that remains to be confidered, is the 
fliameful afiertion, that the Africans are much happier in- 
the colonies, than in their own country. But in what does 
this fuperiour happiricfs confift:? In thofe real fcenes, it 
muit be replied, which have been juft mentioned; for 
thefe, by the confelTion of the receivers, conftitute the 

happinefs 



OF THE Human Species. 141 

happinefs they enjoy.— ^But it has been {hewn that thefe 
have been unfairly reprefented; and, were they reaHzed 
in the mod extenhve latitude, they would not confirm 
the facl. For it, upon a recapitulation, it confifts in the 
pleafure of manum'ijjion^ they furely mud have paffed their 
lives in a much more comfortable manner, who like 
the Africans at home^ have had no occafion for fuch a be- 
nefit at all. But the receivers^ we prcfume, reafon upon 
tiiis principle, that we never know the value of a bief- 
fmg but by its lofs. This is generally true : but would 
any one of them make himfelf a jJave for years, that he 
might run the chance of the pleafures of manumijfionf 
Or that he might tafte the charms of liberty with a 
greater relijh? Nor is the aifertion lefs falfe in every other 
confideration. For if their happinels confifts in the few 
ho!y-days, which in ttje colonies they are permitted to enjoy 
what mud be their fiiuation in their own country^ where 
the whole year is but one continued holy day, or celTati- 
on trodi difcipline and fatigue? — If in tne poffeffion oj a 
mean and confraded fpot^ what maft be their fituation, 
where a whole region is their own, producing almofl 
fpontancf^afly the comforts cf life, and requiring for its 
cultivation none of thofc hours, which iliould be appro- 
priated ioJJeep? — If in the pleafures of the colon al dance ^ 
what mull it be in their own country^ where they may 
dance for ever; where there is no ftated hour to inter- 
rupt their telicity, no incolera^le labour immediately to 
fucceed their recreations, and no overfeer to receive 
them under the difcipline of the lafli? — If thefe thf^refore 
are the only circumfiances, by which the affertion can 
be proved, we may venture to fay, without fear of oppo- 
fition, that it can never be proved at all. 

But thcfe are not the only circumftances. It is faid 
that they are barbarous at home. — But do you receivers 
civilize them? — Your unwillingnefs to convert them to 
Chriftianity, becaule you fuppofc you muft ufe them 
more kindly when converted, is but a bad argument 
in favour of the fact. 

It is affirmed again, that their manner of life, and 
their fituation is fuch in their own country, that to fay 

they 



142 IOn the Slavery and Commerce 

they are happy is a jeft. " * But who are you, who 
" pretend to judge of another man's happineis? That 
" ftate which each man, under the guidance ot his ma- 
" ker, forms for himfelf, and not one man for another? 
" To know what conftitutes mine or your happinefs, is 
'* the fole prerogative of him who created us, and caft 
" us in fo various and different moulds Did your Haves 
" ever complain to you of their unhappinefs, amidft 
" their native woods and defarts ? Or, rather, let me 
" afk, did they ever ceafe complaining of their condition 
*' under you their lordly maflers? Where they fee, in- 
" deed, the accomodations of civil life, but fee thenn all 
" pafs to others, themfeives unbenetited by them. Be 
" fo gracious then, ye petty tyrants over human free- 
" dom, to let your flaves judge for themfeives, what it 
" is which makes their own happinefs, and then fee 
" whether they do not place it in the return to their own 
" country, rather than in the contemplation of your 
*^' grandeur, of which their mifery makes fo large a 
«' part." 

But fince you fpeak with fo much confidence on the 
fubjed, let us afk you receivers again, if you have ever 
been informed by your unfortunate Haves, that they had 
no connexions in the country from which they have for- 
cibly been torn avi^ay: or, if you will take upon you to 
affert, that they never figh, when they are alone; or 
that they never relate to each other their tales of mifery 
and woe. But you judge of them, perhaps, in an hap- 
py moment, when you are dealing out to them their 
provifions for the week; and are but little aware, that, 
though the countenance may be cheered with a moment- 
ary fmile, the heart may be exquifitely tortured. Were 
you to fhew us, indeed, that there are laws, fubjeft to 
no evafion, by vvhich you are obliged to clothe and feed 
them in a comfortable manner ; were you to (hew us 

that 



* Eiiliop of Gloucefler's fermon, preached before the fociety for 
the propagation of the gofpel, at the-aniiiverfary meeting, on the 
21II: of February, 1766. 



of'the Human Species. 143 

that they are * protected at all; or that even one in a 
ihoufand of thofe mafters have f fufFered death, who have 
been guilty of premeditated murder to their flaves, you 
would have a better claim to our belief: but you can 
neither produce the inflances nor the laws. The people, 
of whom you fpeak, are Jlaves^ are your own property, 
are wholly at your own difpofah, and this idea is fufficient 
to overturn your aflertions of their happinefs. 

But we fhall now mention a circumftance, which, in 
the prefent cafe, will have more weight than all the ar- 
guments which have hitherto been advanced. It is an 
opinion, which the Africans univerfally entertain, that, 
as foon as death fhall releafe them from the hands of their 
opprelTors, they ihall immediately be wafted back to 
their native plains, there to exift again, to enjoy the 
fight of their beloved countrymen, and to fpend the 
whole of their new exiftence in fcenes of tranquillity 
and delight: and fo powerfully does this notion operate 
upon them, as to drive them frequently to the horrid 
extremity of putting a period to their lives. Now if 
thefe fuicides are frequent, (which no perfon can deny) 
what are they but a proof, that the fituation of thofe 
who deftroy themfelves muft have been infupportably 
wretched: and it the thought of returning to their coun- 
try after death, when they have experienced the colonial joys^ 
conftitutes their fupreme feHcity, what are they but a 
proof, that they think there is as much difference be- 
tween the two fituations, as there is between mifery 
and delight? 

Nor 



* There is a law, (but let the reader remark, that it prevails bue 
in one of the coloncs,) againft mutilation. It coolc its rile from the 
frequency of the inhuman pra6lice. But though a mafter cannot there 
chop off the limb of a flave with an a.KC, he may yet work, flarve, 
and beat him lo dcatn with impunity. 

\ Two inltances are rcrorded by the receivers, out of about fiftj- 
thoujand, where a white man has fuffercd death for the murder of a 
nej^roe; but the receivers do not tell us, that thefe fuffercd more 
becaufe they were the pefts of fociety, than becaufe the murder of 
Jlaves yyas a crime. 



144 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Nor is the alTertion of the receivers lefs liable to a 
refutation in the inftance of thofe, who terminate their 
own exiftence, than of thofe, whom nature releafes from 
their perfecutions. ITiey die with a fmile upon their 
face, and their funerals are attended by a vaft concourfe 
of their countrymen, with every poffible * demonftrati- 
on of joy. But why this unufual mirth, if their departed 
brother has left an happy place? Or if he has been laken 
from the care of an indulgent mafter, who confulted 
his pleafures, and adminiftered to his wants? But alas, 
it ariies from hence, that he has gone to his happy country: 
a circumflance, fufficient of itfelf, to fileucc a myriad 
of thofe fpecious arguments, which the imagination has 
been racked, 'and will always be rackeJ to produce, in 
favour of a fyflem of tyranny and opprellion. 

it remains only, that We fhould now conclude the 
chapter with a faft, which will {hew that the accountj 
which we have given of the fituation of flaves, is flriclly 
true, and will refute at the fame time all the arguments 
■which have hitherto been, and may yet be brought by 
the receivers^ to prove that their treatment is humane. 
In one of the weftern colonies of the Europeans, j fix 
hundred and fifty thoufand flaves wefe imported within 
an hundred years; at the expiration of which time, 
their whole pofterity were found to amount to one hun- 
dred and forty thoufand. This fad will afcertain the 
treatment of itlelf. For how fhamefully mu(t thefe un- 
fortunate people have been oppreiTed? What a dreadful 
havock malt famine, fatigue, and cruelty, have made 
anion? them, when we confider, that the defcendants 

of 



* A negroe- funeral is confidered as a curious fight, and is attend- 
ed with finging, dancing, mufick, and eveiy circumftance that can 
iliew the attendants to be happy on the occailon. 

■\ In g6 years, ending in 1774, 800,000 flaves had been imported 
into the French part of St. Domingo, of which there remained only 
290,000 in 1774. Of this laft number only 140,000 were Creoles, 
Or natives of the ii]and, i. e. of 650,000 flaves, the whole pofterity 
were 140,000. Confider ations Jw la Colonie de St. Domingue, publifted 
by authority in 1777. 



OF THE Human Species. 14.5 

^t fm hundred and fifty thoiifand people in the prime of 
life, gradually imported within a century, are lefs nu- 
merous than thofe, which only * ten thoufand would 
have produced in the fame period, under common ad- 
vantages, and in a country congenial to their confti- 
tutions ? 

But the receivers have probably great merit on the oc- 
cafion. Let us therefore fet it down to their humanity. 
Let us fuppofe for once, that this incredible walle of 
the human fpecies proceeds from a benevolent delign; 
that, fenfible of the miferies of a fervile ftate, they re- 
folve to wear out, as faft as they poffibly can, their un- 
fortunate ilaves, that their miferies may the fooner end, 
and that a wretched pofterity may be prevented from 
Sharing their parental condition. Now, whether this is 
the plan of reafoning which the receivers adopt, we can- 
not take upon us to decide j but true it is, that the 
effeft produced is exaftly the fame, as if they had reafon- 
ed wholly on this benevolent principle. 



CHAP. X. 

We have now taken a furvey of the treatment which 
the unfortunate Africans undergo, when they are put 
into the hands of the receivers. This treatment, by the 
four firft chapters of the prefent part of this EiTay, ap- 
pears to be wholly infupportable, and to be fuch as no 
human being can apply to another, without the impu- 
tation of fuch crimes, as fliould make him tremble. — 
But as many arguments are ufually advanced by thofe 

T who 



* Ten thoufand people under fair advantages, and in a foil conge- 
nial to their conftitutions, and where the means of fubfiftcncc are 
cafy, lliould produce in a century 160,000. This is the proportion 
in which the Americans increafed; and the Africans in their own 
country increafc in the fame, if wq'' in a greater proportion. Now 
as the climate of the colonies is as favourable to their health as that 
of their ov/n country, the caufcs of the prodigious decreafc in the 
one, and increafc; in the other, will be more confpicuous. 



140 On the Slavery and Commerce 

v/ho have any intereft in the praftice, by which they 
would either exculpate the treatment, or diminifti its 
feveriry, we ailotted the remaining chapters for their 
difcuirion. In thefe we confidered the probability of 
fuch a treatment againft the motives o[ intereft; the 
credit that was to be given to thofe difinterciied writers 
on the fuhjeft, who have recorded particular inJtances 
of barbarity, the inferiority of the dfricans to the hu- 
man fpccies; the comparifons that are generally made 
vvith refpecl to their fituation ; the pofitive fcenrs of feli- 
city which they are faid to enjoy, and every other argu- 
ment, in fliort, that we have found to have ever been 
advanced in the defence ot llavery. lliefe have been 
all confidered, and we may venture to pronounce, that, 
inftead of anfwering the purpcfe for v^hi-h they were 
intended, they ferve only to bring fuch circumifances 
to light? as clearly fhew, that if ingenuity were racked 
to invent a fituation, that wcmld be the mod diffcreiling 
and infapportable to the human race; it could never in- 
vent one, that would fuit the defcription better, than 
the ~-™- cclonial Jlavery. 

If this then be the cafe, and if flaves, notwitliftand- 
ing all the arguments to the contrary, are exquifitcly 
miferable, we afe you receivers, by what right you re- 
duce them to fo wretched a Situation? 

You reply, that you buy them; that your money con- 
ftitutes your rights and that, like all other things which 
you purchafe, ihey are wholly at your own difpofal. 

Upon this principle alone it was, that we profeifed to 
vie^v your treatment, or examine your right, when we 
faid, that * the queftion refolved itfelf into two feparate 
" parrs for difcuffion; into the African commerce, as 
" explained in the hifiory of flavery, and the fubfrquent 
*' llavery in she colonies, as funded on the equity of the 
" coinmerce" Now, fmce it appears that thss com- 
merce, upon the fuileil inveftigation, is contrary to " j 
"^ The principles cf law and gcvernmentj the di dates of 
^' reaJoUy the common ma>:ims of equily^ the laws of nature^ 

* Page A9. \ Page 80. 



OF TH2 Human Species. 147 

*' the admonitions of confcience^ and^ in fuort^ the whole 
" dodriiie of natural religion,"' it is evident that the right, 
which is founded upon it, muft be the fame; and that if 
thofe things only are lawful in the fight of God, which 
are either virtuous in themfeives, or proceed from vir- 
tuous principles, you have no right over them at all. 

You yourfelves alfo confefs this. For vs^hen we afli 
you, whether any human being has a right to fell you, 
you immediately anf^er, No; as if nature revolted at 
the thought, and as if it was fo contradictory to your 
own feelinp:s, as not to require confideration. But who 
are you, that have this cxclufive charter of trading in 
the liberties oi" mankind? When did nature, or rather 
the Author of nature, make fo partial a diftinftion be- 
tween you and them? When did He fay, that you fhould. 
have the privilege of felling others, and that others 
iliould not have the privilege of felling you? 

Now fince you confefs, that no perfon whatever has a 
right to difpofe of you in this manner, you muft con- 
fefs alfo, that thofe things are unlawful to be done to 
you, which are ufually done in conf^quence of the fale. 
Let us fuppofe then, that in ccnfequence of the com- 
merce you vv^ere forced into a fliip; that you were con- 
veyed to another country; that you were fold there; 
that you were confined to inceffant labour ; that you 
were pinched by continual hunger and thirfc; and fub- 
jecl to be v/liipped, cut, and mangled at difcretion, and 
all this at the hands of thofe. whom you had never of- 
fended ; would you not think that you had a right to 
rcHft their treatment? Would you nor refill it with a fafe 
confcience? And would you not be furprized, if your 
refiHiance fh -uld be termed rebellion? — By the former 
premifes you niuft anfwcr, Yes. — Such then is the cafe 
with the wretched Africans. They have a right to refifl 
your proceedings. They can refift them, and yet they 
cannot jultly be confidered as rebellious. For though 
Vv'c fuppofe them to have been guilty of crimes to one 
anotiicr; though v/e fuppofe them to have been the mofl 
abandoned and execrable of men, yet are they perfectly 
innocent with rcfp^ct to you receivers. You have no 

right 



148 On the Slave6.y and Commerce 

right to touch even the hair of their heads without their 
own confent. It is not your money, that can invefl: you 
with a right. Human liberty can neither be bought nor 
fold. Every lafh that you give them is unjuft. It is a 
lafli againfl nature and religion, and will furely ftand re- 
corded againft you, fince they are ail, with refped to 
your impious felves, in a ftate of nature ; in a ftate of ori- 
ginal diflbciation; perfedly free. 



CHAP. XI. 

Having now confidered both the commerce 2iud Jlavery^ 
it remains only to colled fuch arguments as are fcattered 
in different parts of the work, and to make fuch addi- 
tional remarks, as prefent themfelves on the fubject. 

And firfl, let us alk you, who have ftudied the law of 
nature, and you, who are learned in the law of the land, 
if all property muff not be inferiour in its nature to its 
poffeflbr, or, in other words, (for it is a cafe, which 
every perfon muft bring home to his own bread) if you 
fuppofe that any human being can have a property in 
your (elves? Let us afk you appraifers, who fcientifically 
know the value of things, if any human creature is equi- 
valent only to any of the trinkets that you wear, or at 
moft, to any of the horfes that you ride: or in other 
words, if you have ever confidered the moft coflly things 
that you have valued, as equivalent to yourf elves? Let 
us aflv you rationahfts, if man, as a reafonable being, is 
not accountable for his aclions, and let us put the fame 
queftion to you, who have fludied the divine writings? 
Let us afk you parents, if ever you thought that you 
poffeffed an authority as fuch, or ii ever you expeded a 
duty from your fons ; and let us afli you fons, if ever 
you felt an impulfe in your own breafts to obey your pa- 
rents. Now, if you fhould all anfwer as we could wilh, 
if you fhould all anfwer confiftendy with reafon, nature, 
and the revealed voice of God, what a dreadful argument 
Vi\\\ prefent itfelf againft the commerce and flavery of the 
human fpecies, when we refled, that no man whatever 

"^ c|i,n 



OF THE Human Species. 149 

can be bought or reduced to the fituation of a flave, 
hut he muji injiantly become a brute, he muji inflantly be 
reduced to the 'value of thofe th'mgs, which were ?nade for 
his oivn life and convenience ; })e muji infiantly ceafe to be 
accountable for his adions^ and his authority as a parent^ 
and his duty as a fon, mud be injiantly no more. 

Neither does it efcape our notice, when we are fpeak- 
ing ot the fatal wound which every foc:al duty muit re- 
ceive, how confiderably Chriftianity fufFers by the con- 
duct of you receivers^ For by profecuting this impious 
commerce, you keep the Africans in a (late of perpetual 
ferocity and barbarifm ; and by profecuting it in fuch a 
manner, as muft reprefent your religion as a fyftem of 
roubery and oppiefTion, you not only oppofe the propa- 
gatioii of the gofpel, as far as you are able yourfelves, 
but throw the mod certain impediments in the way of 
others, who might attempt the glorious and important 
tafk. 

Such alfo is the efxeft, which the fubfequent llavery 
in the colonies mull produce. For by your inhuman 
treatment of the unfortunate Africans there, you create 
the fame infuperable impediments to a converfion. For 
how mufr ttiey detefl the very name of Chrijiians, v/hen 
you Chrijiians are deformed by fo many and dreadful 
vices? How mull they detefl that fyftem of religion, 
which appears to refilt the natural rights of men, and 
to give a iancl.ion to brutality and murder? 

But, as we are now mentioning Chriftianity, we mufl 
paule for a little time, to make a few remarks on the 
arguments which are ufually deduced from thence by the 
receivers^ in defence of their fyftem of oppreflion. For 
the reader may readily luppofe, that, if they did not he- 
fitate to bring the Old Teftament in fupport of their 
barbarities, they would hardly let the Ne-iu efcape 
them. 

St. Paul, having converted Oncfimus to the Chriftian 
faith, who was a fugitive ftave of Philemon, fent him 
back to his mafter. This circumftance has furniflied the 
receivers with a plea, that Chriftianity encourages llave- 
ry. But they have not only ftrained the nalfages v. hich 

they 



150 On the Slavery and Commerce 

they produce in fupport of their affertions, but are ig" 
noraint ot hiflorical iadls. The benevolent apoftle, in 
the letter which he wrote to Philemon, the maiter of 
Oiiejimus^ addrcffv's him to the following effeft: " I fend 
" him back to you, but not in his former capacity, * not 
" now as a fervant, but above a Jervant^ a brother be^. 
" loved, in this manner I bcfeech you to receive him, for 
" though 1 couH enjoin you to do it, yet I had r;Uhtr it 
" fliould be a matter of your own will, than ot necejfity " 

It appears that the fame Onefimus, when he was fent 
back, was no longer a /lave, that lie was a miniller of 
the g'fptL that he was joined with ^ychiciis in an eccle- 
fialfical commillion to the church of the ColoJJians, and 
was afterwards bifhop ot Ephelus. If language there- 
fore has any meaning, and if hillory has recorded a ta6t 
wr/ich may be believed, there is no cafe more oppofite to 
the doftrine of the receivers, than this which they pro- 
duce in its fupport. 

It is laid again, that Chriftianity, among the many 
important precepts which it contains, does not furnidi us 
with one for the abolition of llavery. But the reafon is 
obvious. Slavery at the time of the introduction of the 
gofpel was univerfaliy prevalent, and if Chriftianity had 
abruptly declared, thnt the millions of flaves thould have 
been made tree, who were then in the world, it would 
have been univerfaliy rejefted, as containing' doctrines 
that were dangerous, it not deRruclive, to fociety In 
order therefore that it might be untverfally received, it 
never meddled, by any pofitive precept, with tlie civil 
' inftitutions of the times: but though it does not exprefs- 
ly fay, that " you (hall neither buy, nor fell, nor pof- 
" fffs a ilave,'" it is evident that, in its general tenour, 
it fufiiciently militates agamfl the cuftom. 

The firft doiStrine which it inculcates, is that of bro- 
iherly love. It commands good will towards men. It 
enjoins us to iove our neighbours as ourlelves, and to 
do unto all men, as we would that they Ihould do unto 
us. And how can any man fulfil this fcheme of univerlal 

benevolence, 

* Epift. to iPhilemon. 



OF THE Human Species. 152 

benevolence, who reduces an unfortunate perfon againjl 
his iviil, to the ?Jiq/i in fuppor table of all human conditi- 
ons ; who confiders him as his private property, and 
treats him, not as a brother, nor as one of the fame pa- 
rentage with himfelf, but as an animal of the brute cre- 
ation f 

But the mod important doftrine is that, by which we' 
are allured that mankind are to exift in a future ffcate, 
and to i^ive an account of thofe actions, which they have 
feverally done in the flelh. This ftriKes at the very root 
of flavery. For how can any man be juftly called to an 
account for his aftions, whofe actions are not at his own 
difpofalf This is the cafe with the * proper flave. His 
liberty is abfolutely bought and appropriated ; and if the 
purchafe is juji and equitable^ he is under the necejjity of 
perpetrating any crime, which the purchafer may order 
him to commit, or, in other words, of ceafmg to be 
accountable for his adions. 

Thefe dodrines therefore are fufficient to fhew, that 
flavery is incompatible with the Chriftian fyftr.m. The 
Europeans conficiered them as fuch, when, at the clofe 
of the twelfth century, they rtiilted their hereditary 
prejudices, and occafioned ifs abolition. Hence one, 
amoniT many other proofs, that Chriftianicy was the pro- 
duction of infinitew'ifdom; that though it did not take 
fuch exprefs coiinizance of the wicked national inftitu- 
tions of the timers, as fliould hinder its reception, it Ihould 
yet contain fuch doctrines, as, when it Ihould be fully 
eftablifhed, would be fufficient for the abolition of them 
all. 

Thus then is the argument of you receivers ineffeftual, 
and your conduct impious. For, by the profecution of 

this 

* The African flave is of this defcription; and we could wilTi. in all 
our arguments on tJ.c preftnc fiibjccl, o be underftood as havi j.'; fpoken 
only of proper Jlives. The flave who is condemned to the oar, to 
tie fortifications, and orlier publicic works, is in a difFcrem predica- 
menr. His liberty is not appropriated, and therefore none of :hofc 
confequences can be juflly drawn, which ^lave been deduced in ihc: 
prefent cafe. 



1,52 On the Slavery and Commerce 

this wicked flavery and commerce, you not only oppofe 
the propagation of that gofpel which was ordered to be 
preached unto every creature, and bring it into con- 
tempt, but you oppofe its tenets alfo: firfl, becaufe you 
violate that law of univerfal benevolence^ which was to 
take away thofe hateful diftindions of Jew and Gentile, 
Greek and Barbarian, bond and free, which prevailed 
when the gofpel was introduced j and fecondly, becaufe, 
as every man is to give an account of his actions hereaf- 
ter, it is neceirary that he fhould be free. 

Another argument yet remains, which, though nature 
will abfolutely turn pale at the recital, cannot poffibly 
be omitted. In thofe wars, which are made for the fake 
of procuring flaves, it is evident that the conteil mufl 
be generally obftinate, and that great numbers mull be 
flain on both fides, before the event can be determined. 
This we may reafonably apprehend to be the cafe : and 
we have * fliewn, that there have not been wanting in- 
flances, where the conquerors have been fo incenfed at 
the refiftance they have found, that their fpirit of ven- 
geance has entirely got the better of their avarice, and 
they have murdered, in cool blood, every individual, 
without difcrimination, either of age or fex. From thefe 
and other circumftances, we thought we had fufficient 
reafon to conclude, that, where ten were fuppofed to be 
taken, an hundred, including the vitlors and vanquifh- 
ed, might be fuppofed to perifh. Now, as the annual 
exportation from Africa confids of an hundred thoufand 
men, and as the two orders, of thofe who are privately 
kidnapped by individuals, and of thoie, who are pub- 
lickly feized by virtue of the authority of their prince, 
compofe together, at leaft, nine-tenths of the African 
flaves, it follows, that about ten thoufand confift of con- 
vifts and prifoners of war. The lafl order is the mofi: 
numerous. Let us fuppofe then that only fix thoufand 
of this order are annually fent into fervitude, and it 
will immediately appear that no lefs than ftxty thoufand 

people 

* See the deCcription ot au African battle, p. 72=- 



o 



OF THE Human Species. 15 

people annually perifli in thofe wars, which are made 
only for the purpofe of procuring flaves. But that this 
number, which we believe to be by no means exagge- 
rated, may be free from all objeftion, we will include 
thofe in the eftimate, who die as they are travelling to 
the ihips. Many of thefe unfortunate people have a 
journey of one thoufand miles to perform on foot, and 
are driven like fheep through inhofpitable woods and de- 
ferts, where they frequently die in great numbers, from 
fatigue and want. Now if to thofe, who thus perilh on 
the African continent, by war and travelling, we fubioin 
* thofe, who afterwards perifli on the voyage, and ia 
the feafoning together, it will appear that, in every 
yearly attempt to fupply the colonies, an hundred thou- 
fand mud perifli, even before one ufeful individual can 
be obtained. 

Gracious God ! how wicked, how beyond all exam- 
ple impious, mufl be that fervitude, which cannot be 
carried on without the continual murder of fo many and 
innocent perfons! What punifliment is not to be expeft- 
ed for fuch mondrous and unparalleled barbarities! For 
if the blood of one man, unjuftly fhed, cries with fo 
loud a voice for the divine vengeance, how fliall the cries 
and groans of an hundred thoufand men, annually mur- 
dered^ afcend the celeflial manfions, and bring down 
that punifhment, which fuch enormities deferve! But 
do we mention punifliment? Do we allude to that pu- 
nifhment, which fiiall be infiifted on men as individuals, 
in a future life? Do we allude to that awful day, which 
fliall furely come, when the mafter fhall behold his mur- 
dered negroe face to face? When a train of mutilated 
flaves fhall be brout^ht againft him? When he Inall ftand 
confounded and abafhed? Or, do we allude to that pu- 
nifhment, which may be inflicted on them here, as mem- 
bers of a wicked communiry? For as a body politick, 
if its members are ever fo numerous, may be confidered 
as an whole, acting of itfelf, and by itlt:lf, in all aflairs 
U in 

■^- The loweft computation is 40,000, fee p. 93. 



154 On the Slavery and Commerce 

in which it is concerned, fo it is accountable, as fuch, 
for its condudl; and as thefe kinds of polities have only 
their exiftence here, fo it is only in this v/orld., that, as 
fuch, they can be punifhed. 

" Now, whether we conlider the crime, with refpeft 
" to the individuals immediately concerned in this moft: 
" barbarous and cruel traffick, or whether we confider 
*' it as * patronized and encouraged by the laws ot the 
" land, it prefents to our view an equal degree of enor- 
'V mity. A crime, founded on a dreadful pre-eminence 
*' in wickednefs,— a crime, which being both of indi- 
*' viduals and the nation, mud fometime draw down 
" upon us the heavieff judgment of Almighty God, who 
" made of one blood all the fons of men, and who gave to 
*' all equally a natural right to liberty ; and who, ruling 
*^ all the kingdoms of the earth with equal providen- 
" tial juitice, cannot I'ufFer fuch deliberate, fuch mon- 
" ftrous iniquity, to pafs long unpunidied. f 

But alas! he feems already to have interfered on the 
occalion! The I violent and fupernatural agitations of 
all the elements, which, for a feries of years, have pre- 
vailed in thofe European fettlements, v/here the unfortu- 
nate Africans are retained in a (late of flavery, and 
■which have brought unfpeakable calaniities on the inha- 
bitants, and publick loffes on the ilates to v/hich they 
feverally belong, are fo many awful vifitations of God 

for 

* The legiflatiire has fquandered away more money in the profe- 
cution of the Have trade, withhi twenty years, than in any other 
trade whatever, having granted from the year 1750, to the year 
1770, the fum of 300,000 pounds. 

\ Sermon preached before the Univerfity of Cambridge, by the 
■Rev. Peter Peckard. 

f The tiril: noted earthquake at Jamaica, happened June the 7th 
1692, when Port Royal was totally funk. This was fucceeded by 
one in the year <697, and by another in the year 1722, from which 
time to the prefent, thefe regions of the globe feem to have been 
feverely vifited, but particularly during the lail: fix or feven years. 
See a general account of the calamities, occafioned by the late tre- 
mendous hurricanes and earthquakes in the Weli-Indian illands, by 
Mr. Fowler. 



OF THE Human Species. 155 

for this inhuman violation of his laws. And it is not 
perhaps unworthy of remark, that as the fubjecls of 
Great-Britain have two thirds of this impious commerce 
in their own hands, fo they have fuffered in the fame 
proportion, or * more feverely than the refl. 

How far thefe mistortunes may appear to be acls of 
providence, and to create an alarm to thofe who have been 
accuftomed to refer every effed to its apparent caufc; 
who have been habituated to flop there, and to overlook 
the finger of God, becaufe it is flightly covered under 
the veil of fecondary laws, we will not pretend to deter- 
mine? but this we will affert with confidence, that the 
huropeans have richly deferved them ail; that the tear of 
fympathy, which can hardly be reftrained on other me- 
lancholy occafions, feems to forget to flow at the relation 
of thefe; and that we can never, with any (hadow of 
juftice, wilh profperity to the undertakings of thofe, 
whofe fuccefs muft be at the expence of the happinefs of 
miiiions of their fellow-creatures. 

But this is fufficient. For if liberty is only an ad- 
ventitious right; if men are by no means fuperiour to 
brutes; if every fecial duty is a curfe; if cruelty is high- 
ly to be efteemed ; if murder is ftridly honourable, and 
Chriftianity is a lye; then it is evident, that the African 
flavery may be purfued, without either the remorfe of 
confcience, or the imputation of a crime. But if the 
contrary of this is true, which reafon muft immediately 
evince, it is evident that no cuftom eftabliflied among 
men vi^as ever more impious; fmce it is contrary to rea- 
fon. juftice^ nature^ the principles of law and goveriiment, 
the whole doclrine, in Jhort, of natural religion, and the 
revealed voice oj God. 

* The many fhips of v/ar belonging to the Britifh navy, which 
were loft wifh all their crews in thefe dreadful hurricanes, will i'uf: 



ficiently r ^ ■♦z.-t^-/; fa61:. 




BOOK 

» 
TO BE SOLD, BY 

JOSEPH CRUKSHANK. 

1^ SSAY on the Treatment and Converfion of Afri- 
-IZj ^^^^ Slaves in the Britifii Sugar Colonies. By the 
Rev. J Ramfay, Vicar of Teflon in Kent, who refided 
many Years in the Weft Indies. Price lo/'. 

Poems on Various Subjefts, religious and moral. By 
Phillis V/heatley, negro Servant to John Wheatley of 
Bofton in New England. Price if. 

The Plain Path to Chriftian Perfection, fliewing, that 
we are to feek for Reconciliaton and Union with God, 
folely by renouncing ourfelves, denying the World, 
and following our bleffed Saviour in the Regeneration, 
Trarillated from the French, To which is annexed. 
The Plainnefs and Innocent Simplicity of the Chrif- 
tian Religion with its falutary Effefts compared to 
the corrupting Nature and dreadful EfFefts of War. 
Collefted by Anthony Benezet. Price 2j6. 

Letters on the Improvement of the Mind, addreffed to 
a young Lady, by Hefter Chapone. Letter I. On the 
firft Principles of Religion. II. and III. On the Study 
of the Holy Scriptures. IV. and V. On the Regula- 
tion of the Heart and AfFedions. VI. On the Go- 
vernment of the Temper. VII. On Economy. VIII. 
On Poiitenefs and Accomplifhments. IX. On Geo- 
graphy and Chronology. X. On the Manner and 
Courfe of reading Hifiory. And the conclufion.-— 

Price 3/9. i722, frti 

'be feem to ha 
particularly u, ^„ Jaft Ox or feven 

_ odnt of (lie calamitico, ^cafioned by the la. 
.. -iurncanes and earthquakes in the Weft-Indian illanas, dv 



