s 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lettertothomascl1832crop 



(^ f /^Lit t soiu. 



A LETTE 



THOMAS CLARKSON, 



JAMES CROPPER. 



PREJUDICE VINCIBLE ; 



THE PRACTICABILITY OF CONQUERING PREJUDICE BY 
BETTER. MEANS THAN BY SLAVERY AND EXILE; 



IN RELATION TO THE 



AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 



BY C. STUART. 



' Open tby mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy," 

Paov. xxxi. 



3Lto*rpool; 

SPRINTED BY EGERTON SMITH AND CO., LORD-STREET 
1832. 



INDEX. 



Letter to Thomas Clarkson, by James Cropper ■ 3 

Description of Liberia 6 

Fundamental Principle of the American Colonization Society 6 

General Observations 6 

Quotations from Reports of the American Colonization Society 1 

Real and proposed remedies, contrasted 8 

Sentiments of the free coloured people of the United States 10 

Assertions and Evidences 14 

Evil incident to all colonies on the African coast as long as negro slavery lasts 18 

Evidences in favour of the free coloured people 19 

Contrast between Jamaica and the slave United States » 19 

Our duty -. , c , . . . 20 



A LETTER TO THOMAS CLARKSON, 



JAMES CROPPER. 



Liverpool, WlJi month, 2d, 1832. 
My dear Friend, 

It has caused me deep regret to see thy name amongst those of many long-tried 
fiiends of humanity as supporters of the American Colonization Society. 
Though I am not surprised that many, under the mask of a voluntary and pros- 
perous settlement of free blacks on the coast of Africa, — a measure in which 
every friend of humanity must rejoice — have been led to support a scheme the 
nature and effects of which are of a very different character. 

In judging of this scheme we ought never to lose sight of two facts with respect 
to the enslaved Africans in the United States, in which the enormities of that free 
country have exceeded those of any other. The first is, that slaves are regularly 
bred for sale. The second, that in many of the States the laws affecting free 
blacks are of so violently persecuting a character as to compel those who obtain 
their liberty to leave those States. From the former of these causes, instances must 
often occur (from the state of morals in slave countries) of fathers selling their own 
children !! From the latter has originated the Colonization Society; it arose out 
of these prejudices against colour, and is a direct attempt to extend the same 
principle to transportation. 

Why are slave-holders so anxious to send away free people of colour ? Because 
their slave institutions would be endangered by the competition of respectable 
free black labourers; and they dread still more their education and advancement 
in science. If they were desirous to serve the free blacks they would instruct them 
at home, (not a few of them, but every one that they send,) and not send them 
in ignorance to a barbarous country. 

To this real scheme of transporting the people of colour a professed one is at- 
tached, for the ultimate extinction of slavery, by the transportation of the whole 
black population to the coast of Africa ; and we are gravely told that one hun- 
dred thousand slaves are ready to be given up, if means can be found of sending 
them to Africa! A most extraordinary statement, and one for which I believe 
there is no foundation, in either fact or probability. Can it be believed that the 
slave-holders of the United States are ready to give up their property, worth at 
least five millions sterling ? — a liberality unheard of since the founda- 
tion of the world. In all the rest of the United States, enough to pay the expense 
of their emigration cannot be raised, and hence it is sought for in England. 
If there was any truth in this wonderful statement, We must all of us have been 
sadly deceived about the debasing effects of slave-holding on the minds of those 
engaged in it. No other occupation ever produced such extraordinary liberality. 

It would be interesting to know to what class these men belong. Is it the prac- 
tice of selling their own children which has produced this extraordinary effect? 

B 



Or are these men amongst the slave-buyers, who purchase them for no other pur- 
pose, than to give them their freedom so soon as the means of sending them to 
Liberia can be found? Is it not strange indeed, that any man can be bold enough 
to make assertions so obviously at variance with truth. 

To whatever extent this transportation of slaves was carried, the slave-holders 
know that the price of those slaves which remained would be enhanced, and their 
condition embittered, by the removal of all hopes of liberty, so precious to the 
human soul. The free coloured people being kept few and poor, will be pre- 
vented from rising, by fair competition, to the equal rank and honour to which 
that competition naturally conducts, when not marred in its progress by some 
such scheme as the American Colonization Society. No wonder that with the 
exception of some who do not understand the plan, the planters are friendly to 
the colonization scheme. But the free people of colour are opposed to this 
scheme. They have committed no crime, and do not like to be transported and 
to suffer the highest penalty of the law next to death. 

To whatever extent the United States expatriate their cotton cultivators they 
destroy one of the chief sinews of their own prosperity, and increase the tempta- 
tion to other states to renew the slave trade by fresh importations. The whole re- 
venue of the United States, for fully thirty years to come, would be required 
to purchase the slaves and to transport them and the free blacks to Africa. Such 
an idea as the extinction of slavery by means of the Colonization Society can 
never have been seriously contemplated. No I perpetuation, and not extinction 
of slavery, is its object ! 

The first command ever given to man was " Be fruitful and multiply." Who 
can doubt that it is for his interest to obey this and every other command of 
God ? but in no case is it so manifest as when in a state of slavery. The value of 
men, as of every other commodity, is governed by their plenty or scarcity ; where 
they are so abundant that parishes are willing to pay the expenses of emigration 
to get rid of them, there must be an end of slavery. Every increase of numbers 
tends, whilst it is a proof of better treatment, to promote the mitigation and final 
extinction of slavery : and it must be admitted that the Americans evince this 
proof of good treatment. 

The slaves in the United States have rapidly increased, and this increase has 
been highly beneficial to the cause of humanity. It is estimated that they have 
increased since 1808, (the time of both our and their abolition of the slave trade,) 
from 1,130,000 to 2,010,000, and they have more than trebled the growth of cot. 
ton since the peace in 1814, and have reduced its price to one-third of what it 
then was, though the Brazils, with all their slave trading, have only added one- 
fourth part to their growth of cotton in the same time Hence it is plain, that if 

there has been any increase in the cotton cultivators of Brazils, few or no slaves 
can have been imported for its cultivation. May we not then say that the in- 
crease of the slave population of the United States has done more than all our 
enormous expenditure for the suppression of the African slave trade? 

It cannot but be interesting to thee to know what would have been the effect of 
a similar increase in the English West Indian slaves. Had they increased in the 
same proportion as those of the United States (since the abolition of the slave 
trade) their numbers would have been 728,317 more than they now are, which, 
if employed in the cultivation of sugar, would have been sufficient to have pro. 
duced an increase of 240,000 tons annually, whilst all the slave trading of the 
Brazils and, Cuba and the French colonies have only added 115,000 tons to their 



growth. Such an increase of sugar would have greatly reduced its price, and con- 
sequently the price of slaves, and thereby have destroyed the slave trade for the 
growth of sugar, as it has long since extinguished that for the cultivation of in- 
digo, and more recently for the growth of cotton. 

The disguise is now removing, and the real tendency of the society is becoming 
apparent. A bill was reported to the House of Delegates of Virginia for sending 
the free blacks away by force ; but though this compulsory clause was rejected, it is 
added that several other motions were made, and decided by majorities which 
amply proved the determination of the House, to adopt some measure for the 
removal of the free blacks. These legislators admit that the free blacks will not 
leave the land without some sort of force ; which may either be absolute, or by 
rendering their situation absolutely intolerable. 

Great injury has been done to the cause of negro emancipation by the encou- 
ragement which the agent of this most diabolical scheme lias received from the 
sanction of thy name. The term diabolical is not too severe; for never did Satan, 
with more success, transform himself into an angel of light than in the gloss which 
has covered its deformities. 

These persecuted free blacks view the whole plan with the abhorrence which is 
justly due to it, and with which we should view a plan of general transportation 
from the land of our nativity. The slave-owners are its advocates and supporters. 
Surely the name of Clarkson will be withdrawn from the ranks of the oppressors, 
and will be found, as it has ever yet been, amongst the friends of the oppressed 
African race. 

Let us repair the injury which has been done on both sides of the water by this 
unholy connexion between slave-holders and philanthropists ; for since this scheme 
has been on foot its deadening influence on the energies of the friends of huma- 
nity in the United States has been most manifest. 

Let there no longer be any doubt which side is taken by the philanthropists of 
England. Let them declare their deep feeling of sympathy with these sorely- 
persecuted and oppressed people ; and such an example will be followed in the 
United States, where the friends of humanity will hasten to leave the ranks of the 
oppressors, and the cause of justice will again flourish. 

May I particularly request thy attentive perusal of the following twenty pages, 
written by my friend Charles Stuart, one of the most devoted Christians I have 
ever known, and an unwearied advocate of the oppressed Africans. 

I am, with great regard, 

Thy sincere friend, 

JAMES CROPPER. 



PREJUDICE VINCIBLE, .&c. 



Conflicting statements having been placed before the public on the subject of 
the American Colonization Society, the writer is led by what he deems 
a solemn regard for tiuth and duty, to offer the following evidence in relation to it ; 

Liberia is an American settlement on the western coast of Africa, about 20O 
miles southward of Sierra Leone, in lat. 6 deg. 30 min. N. and Ion. 11 deg. W. 
Its principal point is Cape Mesurado, on which Monrovia, its capital, is built. 
The settlement comprises a small domain, immediately around Monrovia, pur- 
chased from the native chiefs, and is loosely said to consist of a much larger ter- 
ritory, because the native chiefs have merely put themselves, during pleasure, un- 
der its protection. Cape Mesurado is a fine elevated spot, completely ventilated and 
drenched with the fresh, moist, sea air, extending two or three miles. The rest 
of the territory differs in nothing materially from the fertile and imperfectly- 
cultivated continental sea coasts of the regions of the equator. Vessels of mode- 
rate burthen only can enter its harbour. 

The American Colonization Society founded and supports Liberia. It was 
commenced in 1817, and of late has obtained considerable attention. Its funda- 
mental principles are embodied in the two first articles of its constitution, and are 
as follow : 

Article 1, — " This society shall be called ' The American Society for Coloniz- 
ing the Free People of Colour of the United States.' " 

Article 2. — " The object to which its attention is to be exclusively directed is 
to promote and execute a plan for colonizing (with their consent) the free people 
of colour residing in our country, in Africa, or such other place as Congress shall 
ch'em most expedient," &c. 

The broad facts of the case are these : 

The whole population of the United State6 is about 13,000,000. Out of this, up- 
wards of 2,000,000 are held in a most degrading and brutal state of personal slavery, 
under laws worse than even those of the wretched slave colonies of Great Britain. 

Out of the whole, 330,000, though free, are in most cases only partial ly so ; 
and are exposed to an exceedingly malignant and destructive persecution, merely 
because they have a skin differently coloured from the remaining eleven and a 
half millions of their fellow-subjects. 

Both these two persecuted classes are rapidly increasing. Their increase terri- 
fies the slave party, and fills them with anxious musings of danger. 

The glaring contradiction of a. fi ee people being a slave-holding people; of 
eleven or twelve millions of men, calling themselves the most free in the world, 
keeping upwards of 2,000,000 of their unoffending fellow- subjects in the most 
abject and degrading slavery, affects many, and urges them to seek a remedy. 
The word of God stands out before others, and bids them blush and tremble at 
the guilt and danger of their country, while the smothered cry of the oppressed 
and unoffending poor rises incessantly to God against her. 



From this state of things it was that the American Colonization Society 
arose ; by this state of things it is that the American Colonization Society 
subsists. It is agreeable to the slave-master, for it calms his fears. It offers a. 
remedy to the man who mourns over the dishonour and inconsistency of his 
country ; and to the man who fears God, it commends itself by pretending to do 
all that it can for the unoffending poor. 

The views of its advocates are frankly expressed in its own constitution 
as above quoted, and in its own reports. I refer to them all, particularly to 
the three last, 13th, 14th, and 15th, and submit from them the following quota- 
tions : 

1. 13th Report, page 44 : — " The present number of this unfortunate, degraded, 
and anomalous class of inhabitants cannot be much short of half a million, and 
the number is fast increasing. They are emphatically a mildew upon our fields, 
a scourge to our backs, and a stain upon our escutcheon. To remove them is 
mercy to ourselves, and justice (!!!) to them." 15th Report, page 24 : — " The 
race in question were known, as a class, to be destitute, depraved, the victims of 
all forms of social misery. The peculiarity of their fate was, that this was not 
their condition by accident or transiently, but inevitably and immutably, whilst 
they remained in their present place, by a law as infallible in its operation as any 
of a physical nature." In same, 15th Report, page 25: — " What is the free black 

to the slave ? A standing, perpetual excitement to discontent The slave 

would have then little excitement to discontent, but for the free black ; he would 
have as little to habits of depredation, his next strongest tendency, but from the 

same source of deterioration !!! In getting rid, then, of the free blacks, 

the slave will be saved from the chief occasions for suffering, and the owner from 
inflicting severity." 

2. 15th Report, page 26: — " If none were drained away, slaves became 
inevitably and speedily redundant, &c. &c. When this stage had been reached, 
what course or remedy remained? Was open butchery to be resorted to, as 
among the Spartans with the helots ; or general emancipation and incorporation, 
as in South America; or abandonment of the country by the mastersT 1 * Either 
of these was a deplorable catastrophe : could all of them be avoided ? and if they 
could, how ? " There was but one way, and it was to provide and keep open a 
drain for the excess of increase, beyond the occasions of profitable employment, 
&c. &c. This drain was already opened." The African Repository , vol. 7, 
page 246, says, " Enough, under favourable circumstances, might be removed 
for a few successive years, if young females were encouraged to go, to keep the 
whole coloured population in check!!!" How dreadful thus coolly to rend 
asunder the sexes which were made to be each other's mutual strength and solace 
through earth's dangerous pilgrimage!! And in page 232, anticipating within 
two generations a result of forty whites to one black, it declares that all uneasi- 
ness would then be at an end. 

3. In 14th Report, pages 12 and 13 : — " And the slave-holder, so far from 
having just cause to complain of the Colonization Society, has reason to congra- 
tulate himself that in this institution a channel is opened up, in which the public 
feeling and public actioD can flow on without doing violence to his rights ! The 
closing of this channel might be calamitous to the slave-holder beyond his con- 
ception ; for the stream of benevolence that now flows so innocently in it might 
then break out in forms even far more disastrous than abolition societies and all 
their kindred and ill-judged measures." 



* In contemplating these alternatives, how can we sufficiently admire the good- 
ness of God in having provided that the increase of slaves shall necessarily lead to 
emancipation and incorporation ! and how can we be sufficiently struck with horror 
at the deliberate and insolent cruelty of man, in devising schemes like this for the 
perpetuation of slavery !— J. C. 



Report of Pennsylvania Colonization Society for 1830, page 44.—" The Society 
proposes to send, not one or two pious members of Christianity into a foreign 
land, but to transport annually, for an indefinite number of years, in one view of 
its scheme, 6000, in another 56,000 missionaries (!!!) of the descendants of Africa 
itself, to communicate the benefits of our religion, and of the arts. And this co- 
lony of missionaries," &c. That is, six or fifty six thousand of the degraded and 
anomalous wretches who are said to be a mildew upon the fields of America, and a 
scourge to the backs, and a stain upon the escutcheon of the white people of the 
United States, are to be transformed annually, by transportation to Africa (with 
their own consent,) into an army of missionaries, communicating the benefits of 
religion and the arts !!! 

In further pursuing this subject, I purpose, 

1. To contrast the evils which need a remedy, and the remedy needed, with 
the remedy proposed by the American Colonization Society. - 

2. To ask how far the remedy thus proposed may fairly be expected to remove 
the evils in question. 

3. What are the feelings of the free-coloured people themselves respecting this 
remedy ? 

4. Have we any other evidences ? 

5. What is our duty ? 

1. The Evils which need Remedy needed. 
a Remedy. 



1. The brutal and de- 
grading personal slavery of 
upwards of 2,000,000 un- 
offending subjects of the 
United States. 



2. The cruel and crimi- 
nal prejudice against the 
free-coloured people, and 
the dreadful persecution to 
which it subjects them. 



s. The African slave 
grade continued. 



The immediate aboli- 
tion, by a well digested 
legislative enactment in 
each slave State and in 
Congress, of the brutal, 
criminal, and ruinous 
system of negro slavery, 
and the immediate sub- 
stitution in its place, of a 
law worthy of a great, 
free, and enlightened 
country. 

The union of Chris- 
tians and philanthropists 
of every class, especially 
of the Ministers of the 
Gospel, to brand that base 
and destructive preju- 
dice every where with the 
infamy which it deserves, 
and to extend the cherish- 
ing arms of heavenly love 
to comfort, support, and 
establish in their native 
country all who are out- 
raged by it. 

The immediate and 
universal abolition of its 
only source and support, 
negro slavery. 



Remedy proposed by the 
American Colonization 
Society. 

The sending to Africa 
under circumstances as 
favourable as in their 
power, of as many of the 
enslaved and unoffending 
negroes as their own mas- 
ters may please to eman- 
cipate for that purpose. 



The sending to Africa, 
under circumstances as fa- 
vourable as in their power, 
of as many of the sufferers 
as they can get to go or to 
send. 



The settlement of a free 
coloured colony, under 
circumstances as favour- 
able as in their power, up- 
on the coast of Africa. 



'*. The moral wretched- 
ness of Africa. 



Select missionary ef- 
forts, such M are using 
elsewhere, multiplied and 
extended. 



5. The ruinous condi- 
tion of the slave States. 



The conversion of their 
slave labourers into free 
labourers, — of their un- 
willing into willing hands 



6. The terrors of the 
slave-masters. 



The sending to Africa 
of a mixed crowd of 
wretches declared to be too 
bad, generally speaking, 
to be safely allowed to re- 
main in their native coun- 
try, under the presump- 
tion that landing them in 
Liberia will qualify them 
to be missionaries of the 
Gospel. 

The removal from the 
United States as quickly 
as possible of a vast pro- 
portion of all its labour- 
ing strength. 

Removing, as conde- 
scendingly as possible, as 
many of the objects of 
their terrors as they wish 
to get rid of, that they may 
keep the remainder as long 
as they please, without 
fear. 



Undissembling repen- 
tance, and fruits meet 
for repentance ; and for 
this purpose the conti- 
nual setting before them 
of their sin ; and, moral- 
ly speaking, giving them 
no peace in their iniquity. 

Such, I think, are the chief evils set forth in this Society's reports. Such are 
the plain and simple remedies which duty undeniably requires ; and such are 
the remedies proposed by the American Colonization Society. 

2 — How far may the remedies thus proposed be fairly expected to remove the 
evils in question ? 

I put it to the independent understandings of my fellow-men ; I entreat them 
to weigh each evil for themselves, with its remedy, real and proposed ; and I ask, 
as far as the American Colonization Society succeeds, what must be the condition 
of the mass of wretches that continue enslaved, when year after year, all hopes 
of liberty are more and more extinguished, and nothing but strengthening des- 
potism remains ■? When every brute shall be more and more at liberty to pollute 
them with impunity, and when every barrier to holier alliances shall be more and 
more proudly closed ? 

1. What kind of a remedy will it be to the brutal enslavement of two millions, 
increasing at the rate of 50,000 annually, that annually a few hundreds (or thou- 
sands if it should ever be) have their slavery commuted into transportation. The 
few who are benefited not being righted, but only suffering a lesser instead of a 
greater wrong ; while the two millions who remain are still increasing in number 
and sinking in degradation? 

2. What kind of a remedy is it to the dreadful persecution which the 3 or 4 or 
500,000 free-coloured people are suffering in the United States, that a fragment 
of them are removed annually to a foreign land, ■with their own consent, while 
the multitude who remain are subjected to aggravated persecution ? 

3. How can the African slave trade be effectually prevented, while negro 
slavery, its only source, remains ? or what power can the Americans have in at- 
tempting to abolish the slave trade in Africa, excepting that of mere brute force, 
■while they have a slave trade at home, more criminal than that §f Africa, and 
almost as cruel? 



10 

4. How can the moral wretchedness of Africa be remedied by an influx of tje^ 
graded and untutored minds ? And what will the Africans think, when in^ 
formed that these Americans., who are so busy about freedom on the African 
coast, are slave-masters, or encourages s of slave-masters at home ? 

5. How can the ruinous condition of the slave states be remedied by transporting 
almost the whole of their labouring strength to a distant country ? 

6. And what good will it be doing the slave-holder to give him peace in his 
sins ? To make it as pleasant and as safe for him as you can, to continue to plun- 
der and to oppress the unoffending poor ? Will that be loving him ? Will his 
soul bless you for such love, when his whiter skin no more elates him with pride, 
and he meets his slave, no longer a slave or a negro, but like himself, a deathless 
soul, to be judged, without respect of persons, by the impartial law of unal- 
terable righteousness? 

3. — What are the feelings of the free -coloured people themselves respecting this 
remedy ? 

In 1817, at the first formation of the American Colonization Society, they thus 
expressed themselves at a public meeting, at Bethel Church, in Philadelphia, 
James Forten being their Chairman :— 

" Whereas, our ancestors (not of choice) were the first successful cultivators of 
the wilds of America, we their descendants feel ourselves entitled to participate in 
the blessings of her luxuriant soil, which their blood and sweat manured ; and 
that any measure, or system of measures, having a tendency to banish us from 
her bosom, would not only be cruel, but would be in direct violation of those 
principles which have been the boast of this republic. 

"Resolved, — That we view with deep abhorrence the unmerited stigma 
attempted to be cast upon the reputation of the free people of colour, by the 
promoters of this measure, ' that they are a dangerous and useless part of the 
community,' when in the state of disfranchisement, in which they live, in the 
hour of danger they ceased to remember their wrongs and rallied round the 
standard of their country. 

" Resolved,— That we never will separate ourselves voluntarily from the slave 
population in this country ; they are our brethren by the ties of consanguinity, of 
suffering, and of wrong 5 and we feel that there is more virtue in suffering pri- 
vations with them, than fancied advantages for a season. 

" Resolved,— That having the strongest confidence in the justice of God, and 
in the philanthropy of the free states, we cheerfully submit our destinies to the 
guidance of Him, who suffers not a sparrow to fall without his special pro- 
vidence." 

And this meeting, immediately afterwards, put forth the following address : — 

TO THE HUMANE AND BENEVOLENT INHABITANTS OF THE CITY AND 
COUNTY OF PHILADELPHIA. 
EXTRACTS. . 

" We have no wish to separate from our present homes for any purpose what- 
ever. Contented with our present situation and condition, we are not desirous 
of increasing their prosperity but by honest efforts, and by the use of those oppor- 
tunities for their improvement, which the constitution and laws allow to all. 
It is, therefore, with painful solicitude, and sorrowing regret, we have seen a 
plan for colonizing the free people of colour of the United States, on the coast of 
Africa. 

" We humbly, respectfully, and fervently intreat and beseech your disappro- 
bation of the plan of colonization now offered by the 'American Society for 



11 ' 

colonizing the free people of colour of the United States.' Mere, in the city 
of Philadelphia, where the voice of the suffering sons of Africa was first heard ; 
where was first commenced the work of abolition, on which Heaven has smiled, 
for it could have had success only from the Great Master ; let not a purpose be 
assisted which will stay the cause of the entire abolition of slavery in the United 
States, and which may defeat it altogether; which proffers to those who do not 
ask for them, what it calls benefits, but which they consider injuries, and which 
must insure to the multitudes whose prayers can only reach you through us, 
misery, sufferings, and perpetual slavery. 

(Signed) " Jajies Forten, Chairman. 

"Russel Parratt, Secretary." 

EXTRACT FROM AN ADDRESS TO THE CITIZENS OF NEW YORK, JAN, 1831. 

" It is evident to any impartial observer, that the natural tendency of all their 
speeches, reports, sermons, &c. is to widen the breach between us and the 
whites, and give to prejudice a tenfold vigour. It has produced a mistaken sen- 
timent towards us. Africa is considered the home of those who have never seen 
its shores. The poor, ignorant slave, who, in all probability, has never heard 
the name of Christ, by the colonization process is suddenly transformed into a 
'missionary,' to instruct in the principles of Christianity, and the arts of civilized 
life. The Friends have been the last to aid the system pursued by the society's 
advocates. And we say (for we feel it) that in proportion as they become colo- 
nizationists, they become less active and less friendly to our welfare, as citizens 
of the United States. 

" There does exist in the United States a prejudice against us; but is it un- 
conquerable? Is it not in the power of these gentlemen to subdue it? If their 
object is to benefit us, why not better our condition here? What keeps us 
down but the want of wealth ? Why do we not accumulate wealth ? Simply 
because we are not encouraged. If we wish to give our boys a classical educa- 
cation, they are refused admission into your colleges. ' It' we consume our 
means in giving them a mercantile education, you will not employ them as 
clerks; if they are taught navigation, you will not employ them as captains. 
If we make them mechanics, you will not encourage them, nor will white 
mechanics work in the same shop with them. And, with all these disabilities, 
like millstones, about us, because we cannot point out our statesmen, bankers, 
and lawyers, we are called an inferior race. 

"These gentlemen know but little of a large portion of the coloured popu- 
lation of this city. Their opinions are formed from the unfortunate portion of 
our people, whose characters are scrutinized by them as judges of court. Their 
patrician principles prevent an intercourse with men in the middle walks of life, 
among whom a large portion of our people may be classed. We ask them to 
visit the dwellings of the respectable part of our people, and we are satisfied that 
they will discover more civilization and refinement than will be found among 
the same number of white families of an equal standing. 

" Finally, we hope that those who have so eloquently pleaded the cause of the 
Indian, will, at least, endeavour to preserve consistency in their conduct. They 
put no faith in Georgia, although she declares that the Indians shall not be 
removed but with their own consent. Can they blame us if we attach the same 
credit to the declaration, that they mean to colonize us only with our consent f 
They cannot, indeed, use force; that is out of the question. But they harp so 
much on 'inferiority, prejudice, distinction,' and what not, that there will be 
no alternative left us but to fall in with their plans. We are content to abide 
where we are. We do not believe that things will always continue the same. 
The time must come when the declaration of independence will be felt in the heart 
as well as uttered from the mouth ; and, when the rights of all shall be properly 
acknowledged and appreciated. God hasten that time I This is our home, and thjg 



12 

our country. Beneath its sod lie the bones of our fathers : for it some of them 
fought, bled, and died. Here we were born, and here we will die." 
"Dec. 25, 1830. (Signed) "Samuel Ennals, Chairman." 

EXTRACT FROM THE BROOKLYN ADDRESS, JUNE, 1831. 

•' We truly believe that many gentlemen who are engaged in the Colonization 
Society are our sincere friends and well-wishers; they wish to do something for 
us, consequently they have subscribed largely to it, because there was no other 
plan on foot. Some of them have been deluded into its schemes, with a view of 
thoroughly civilizing and christianizing Africa, by our free people of colour and 
emancipated slaves, who may, from time to time, be colonized on its coasts, 
with their own consent. We conceive that such measures are fraught with incon- 
sistency, and in no way calculated to have such an effect. To send a parcel of 
uninstructed, uncivilized, and unchristianized people to the western coast of 
Africa, with Bibles in their hands, to teach the natives the truths of the Gospel, 
social happiness, and moral virtue, is mockery and ridicule in the extreme. 

" Missionary families should be well instructed in the rudiments of our holy 
religion, that their example may shine forth as lights in that much neglected and 
benighted land. 

" Many wish us to go to Africa, because they say that our constitutions are bet- 
ter adapted to that climate than this. If so, toe ■would ask why so many of our 
hearty, hale, and healthy, brethren, on arriving in that country Jail victims to the 
malignant fevers and disorders prevalent in those regions^ We would observe 
that none are exempt from being touched with the contagion. It operates more 
severely upon those from the higher latitudes. 

" Brethren, it is time for us to awake to our interests, for the Colonization So- 
ciety is straining every nerve for the accomplishment of its objects. They have 
got the consent of eleven States, who have instructed their senators-to do some- 
thing in the next Congress for our removal. Maryland calls imperatively on the 
general government to send us away, or else they will colonize their own free 
blacks. They have, by their influence, stopped the emancipation of slaves in a 
measure, except for colonization purposes. 

" We pray the Lord to hasten the day when prejudice, inferiority, degrada- 
tion, and oppression will be done away, and the kingdoms of this world become 
the kingdoms of our God and his Christ." 

(Signed) *' H. C. Thompson, Chairman." 



EXTRACTS FROM THE NEW HAVEN ADDRESS, AUGUST, 1831. 

*' Resolved, — That we consider those Christians and philanthropists, who are 
boasting of their liberty and equality, saying that all men are born free and 
equal, and yet are endeavouring to remove us from our native land, to be in- 
human in their proceedings, defective in their principles, and unworthy of our 
confidence. 

" Resolved, — That we consider those colonizationists and ministers of the 
Gospel, who are advocating our transportation to an unknown clime, because our 
skin is a little darker than theirs, notwithstanding God has made of one blood 
all nations of men, and has no respect of persons, as violators of the command- 
ments of God and the laws of the Bible, and as trying to blind our eyes by their 
vain movements — their mouths being smooth as oil, and their words sharper than 
any two-edged sword. 

" Resolved, — That it is our earnest desire that Africa become speedily civilized, 
and receive religious instruction ; but not by the absurd and invidious plan of 
the Colonization Society, namely, to send a nation of ignorant men to teach a 
nation of ignorant men. We think it most wise for them to send missionaries. 

"Resolved,— That we know of no other place that we can call our true and 
appropriate home, excepting these United States, into which our fathers were. 



13 

brought, who enriched the country by their toils, and fought, bled, and died 
in its defence, and left us in its possession ; and here we will live and die." 
August 8, 1831. (Signed) " Henry Berrian, Chairman." 

EXTRACT FROM PITTSBURGH RESOLUTIONS, SEPTEMBER, 1831. 

" Resolved, — It is the decided opinion of this meeting that African coloniza- 
tion is a scheme to drain the better-informed part of the coloured people out of 
these United States, so that the chain of slavery may be riveted more tightly. 

** Resolved,— That we, the coloured people of Pittsburgh, and citizens of these 
United States, view the country in which we live as our only true and proper 
home. We are just as much natives here as the members of the Colonization 
Society. Here we were born, here bred; here are our earliest and most pleasing 
associations; here is all that binds man to earth, and makes life valuable. And 
we do consider every coloured man who allows himself to be colonized in Africa, 
or elsewhere, a traitor to our cause. 

" Resolved, — That we, as citizens of these United States, and for the support of 
these resolutions, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, do 
mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honour, 
not to support a colony in Africa nor in Upper Canada, nor yet emigrate to Hayti. 
Here we were born ; here will we die ; and let our bones lie with our fathers. 

Sept. 1, 1831. (SignedV "J. B. Vashon, Chairman." 

EXTRACTS FROM THE WILMINGTON ADDRESS, DELAWARE, JULY, 1831. 

" We are natives of the United States ; our ancestors were brought over to this 
country by means over which they had no control ; we have our attachments to 
the soil ; and we feel that we have rights in common with other Americans ; and 
although deprived, through prejudice, from entering into the full enjoyment of 
those rights, we anticipate a period, when, in despite of the more than ordinary 
prejudice which has been the result of this unchristian scheme, " Ethiopia shall 
stretch forth her hands to God." But that this formidable society has become a 
barrier to our improvement, must be apparent to every individual who will but 
reflect on the course to be pursued by the emissaries of this unhallowed project, 
many of whom, under the name of ministers of the gospel, use their influence to 
turn public sentiment to our disadvantage, by stigmatising our morals, misrepre- 
senting our characters, and endeavouring to show what they are pleased to call 
the sound policy of perpetuating our civil and political disabilities, for the avowed 
purpose of indirectly forcing us to emigrate to the western coast of Africa. That 
Africa is neither our nation nor home, a due respect to the good sense of the 
community forbids us to attempt to prove;, that our language, habits, manners, 
morals, and religion, are all different from those of Africans, is a fact too noto- 
rious to admit of controversy. Why then are we called upon to go and settle in 
a country where we must necessarily be and remain a distinct people, having no 
common interest with the numerous inhabitants of that vast and extensive country ? 
Experience has proved, beyond a doubt, that the climate is such as not to suit the 
constitutions of the inhabitants of this country. The very numerous instances of 
mortality amongst the emigrants who have been induced to leave this their na- 
tive for their adopted country, clearly demonstrate the fallacy of those statements 
so frequently made by the advocates of colonization in regard to the healthiness 
of Liberia. 

"That we are in this country degraded, we are truly sensible; that our forlorn 
situation is not attributable to ourselves is admitted by the most ardent friends of 
colonization ; and that our condition cannot be bettered by removing the most 
exemplary individuals of colour from amongst us, we are well convinced, from 
the consideration that in the same ratio that the industrious part would emigrate? 
in the same proportion those that would remain would become more degraded,. 



14 

wretched, and miserable, and consequently less capable of appreciating the many, 
opportunities that are offered for the moral and intellectual improvement of our 
brethren. s 

" But if this plan is intended to facilitate the emancipation of those who are held 
in slavery in the south, and the melioration of their condition, by sending thern 
to Liberia, we question very much whether it. is calculated to do either. That 
the emancipation of slaves has been measurably impeded through its influence, 
except where they have been given up to the Board of Managers, to be colonized 
in Africa, to us is manifest. 

"Our highest moral ambition, at present, should be to acquire for our children 
a liberal education, give them mechanical trades, &c, and thus fit and prepare 
them for useful and respectable citizens. 

(Signed) " A. D. Shad, ") 

P. Spencer, > Committee." 
W. S. Thomas, ) 

EXTBACT FROM NEW BEDFORD RESOLUTIONS, JANUARY, 1832. 

" Resolved, — That the Society, to effect its purpose, the removal of the free peo- 
ple of colour, (not the slaves) through its agents, teaches the public to believe that 
it is patriotic and benevolent to withhold from us knowledge, and the means of 
acquiring subsistence, and to look upon us as unnatural and illegal residents in 
this country; and thus, by force of prejudice, if not by law, endeavour to 
compel us to embark for Africa, and that too, apparently, by our own free will 
and consent. 

Jan. 23, 1832. (Signed) "R. Johnson, Chairman." 



Mr. Fisher, member of the Virginian House of Delegates, says — " If we wait 
till the free negroes consent to leave the state we shall wait until time is no 
more. They never will give their consent." 

Other resolutions similar to the above, of the same persecuted class throughout 
the United States, show how they are writhing beneath the colonization process. 
4. Have -we any other evidence 9 
The following, from a mass far too voluminous here to introduce, is offered :— . 

1 The American Colonization Society is pledged not to oppose the system 

of slavery. 

2. — It apologises for slavery and slave-holders, and speaks peace to them in 
their sins. 

3. — It regards slaves as property. 

4. — It increases the value of slaves as slaves. 

5. It is an enemy to the immediate substitution of righteous and equal law, 

for the unrighteous authority of the slave-masters. 
6. — It is nourished by fear and selfishness. 

7. It pretends to aim at the utter expulsion of the blacks; that is, of about 

one-sixth of the whole population of the United States from their native country _ 
8. — It disparages, traduces, and persecutes the free blacks. 
9.— It prevents the instruction of the blacks. 
10. — It deceives and misleads the nation. 

11 It makes a disgraceful and criminal peace between the advocates of the 

blacks and their oppressors. 

A few words, and but a few, in proof of each of these assertions. All who 
wish for more ample testimony, and who feel the dearest interests in time and 



15 

in eternity of a multitude of their fellow-men, motive enough for research, may 
find such testimony abundantly in a pamphlet, for sale at No. 9, Cornhill, 
Boston, United States, by Pierce and Parker, and entitled " Thoughts on 
African Colonization," by William Lloyd Garrison. Price 624 cents, or about 
Is. 6d. English. 

1. — The American Colonisation Society is pledged not to oppose the system of 
slavery. 

" From its origin and throughout the whole period of its existence it has con- 
stantly disclaimed all intention whatever of interfering, in the smallest degree, 
with the rights of property, or the object of emancipation, gradual or imme- 
diate. Throughout the whole period of its existence, this disclaimer has been 
made, and incontestible facts establish its truth and sincerity." — From a speech 
by Henry Clay, the champion of the American Colonization Society. 

2. — It apologises for slaves and slave-holders, and speaks peace to them in their 
sins. 

" Our brethren of the south have the same sympathies, the same moral sen- 
timents, the same love of liberty, as ourselves. By them, as by us, slavery is felt 
to be an evil, a hindrance to our prosperity, and a blot upon our character. But 
it was in being when they were born, and has been forced upon them by a pre- 
vious generation." — Rev. Dr. Nott. 

3 — It recognises slaves as properly. 

" It was proper again and again to repeat that it was far, far from the in- 
tention of the Society to affect in any manner the tenure by which a certain 
species of property is held. He was himself a slave-holder, and he considered 
that kind of property as inviolable as any in the country." — Henry Clay. 

"Something he must yet be allowed to say, as regarded the object the 
Society was setup to accomplish. This object, if he understood it aright, involved 
no intrusion on property, nor even upon prejudice.'" — Mr. Archer, 15th Report. 

4. — It increases the value of slaves, and therefore gives the masters new motives 
io etain them. 

" They will contribute more effectually to the continuance and strength of this 
system (i. e. negro slavery) by removing those now free, than by any, or all 
other methods, which can possibly be devised. Such has been the opinion ex- 
pressed by southern gentlemen of the first talent and distinction." " Our belief 
is the same as theirs." African Repository, p. 227, vol. 1. 

"The execution of this scheme would augment, instead of diminishing, the 
value of property left behind." — Idem, vol. 2, p. 22. 

5. — It is an enemy to the immediate substitution of righteous and equal law, for 
the unrighteous authority of the slave-master. 

" To eradicate or remove the evil immediately is impossible, nor can any law 
of conscience govern necessity." — African Repository, vol. 1, p. 251. 

" The scope of the Society is large enough, but it is nowise mingled or con- 
founded with the broad sweeping views of a few fanatics in America, who would 
urge us on to the sudden and total abolition of slavery." — Idem, vol. 3, p. 197. 

6. — It is nourished by fear and selfishness. 

" Another reason is the pressing and vital importance of relieving ourselves as 
soon as practicable from this most dangerous element in our population." — 14>lh 
Report. 

" To remove these persons from among us will increase the usefulness and im- 
prove the moral character of those who remain in servitude, and with whose 
labours the country is unable to dispense."— African Repository, vol. 3, p. 67. 



16 

" Hatred to tbe whites, with the exception in some cases of an attachment id 
the person and family of the master, is nearly universal among the black popu- 
lation. We have then a foe, cherished! in our very bosoms; a foe willing to 
draw our life-blood whenever the opportunity is offered, and in the meantime 
intent upon doing us all the mischief in his power." — Southern Religious 
Telegraph. 

And what wonder, while this foe is cherished, in the manner in which the poo* 
negro is cherished ! The people of the United States are not so remarkable for 
loving to be trampled upon, and for kissing the foot which spurns them, that 
they have any reason for surprise when they find that other men as good as any, 
and with as full and as unforfeited a title to social liberty as the best, love to be 
trampled upon and outraged as little as they do. The way to remedy sin is not 
to persist in it, or to substitute one wrong for another. 

7. — It covertly aims at the utter expulsion of the blacks, that is, about one' 
sixth of the whole population of the United States. 

" No scheme of abolition will meet with my support that leaves the emancipated 
blacks among us."— Af. Rep. vol. 2, p. 188. 

" How important it is, as it respects our character abroad, that we hasten to 
clear our land of our black population. 

" What right, I demand, have the children of Africa," that is, the coloured 
natives of the United Stales, " to a homestead in the white man's country," that is, 
in the country which the white man has torn from the red man, and from which, 
after having accomplished all his own nefarious purposes with him, he is hasten- 
ing to exile the black ? 

"The abolition of slavery was no object of desire to him, unless accompanied 
by colonization. So far was he from desiring it, unaccompanied with this 
condition, that he would not live in a country where the One took place without 
the other." — Mr. Mercer's Speech in Congress. 

8. — It disparages, traduces, and persecutes the free blacks. 

"Free blacks are a greater nuisance than even slaves themselves." — Af. Rev. 
vol. 2, p. 328. 

" The free blacks in our country are, as a body, more vicious and degraded 
than any other which our population embraces."— Idem. vol. 5, p. 24». 

" The increase of a free black population among us has been regarded as a 
greater evil than the increase of slaves." — Idem, vol. 3, p. 374. 

" Of all the descriptions of our population, and of either portion of the African 
race, the free people of colour are by far, as a class, the most corrupt, depraved, 
and abandoned."— Idem, vol. 6, p. 12. 

9. — It prevents the instruction of the blacks. 

" The habits, the feelings, the prejudices of society, prejudices which neither 
refinement, nor argument, nor education, nor religion itself, can subdue, mark 
the people of colour, whether bond or free, as the subjects of a degradation, 
inevitable and incurable.' 1 '' 

" Christianity cannot do for them here what it will do for them in Africa. 
This is not the fault of the coloured man, nor of the white man, nor of Chris- 
tianity, but an ordination of Providence, and no more to be changed than the 
laws of nature !" — 15th Report, nth page. 

When, ah when, will sinners cease to palm their sins upon God ! 

" If the free coloured people were generally taught to read it might be an in- 
ducement to them to remain in this country, (that is, in their native country!!) 
We would offer them no such inducement." — Southern Religious Telegraph, 
February 19, 1831. 

" The public safety of our brethren at the south requires them (the slaves) to 
be kept ignorant and uninstructed." — G.P. Dissosway, Esq. an eminent Colonic 
stati&nist. 



17 

*' It is the business of the free (their safety requiies it) to keep the slaves in 
ignorance. But a few days ago, a proposition was made in the Legislature of 
Georgia to allow them so much instruction as to enable them to read the Bible; 
v hich was promptly rejected by a large majority." — Proceedings of New York 
State Colonization Society at its second anniversary, 

E. B. Caldwel, the first secretary of the American Colonization Society, in his 
speech at its formation, recommended them to be kept " in the lowest state of 
ignorance and degradation, for Gays he) the nearer you bring them to the condi- 
tion of brutes, the better chance do you give them of possessing their apathy !!" 
10. — It deceives and misleads the notion. 

At one time the colonizationists say, " Admitting that the colonization scheme 
contemplates the utter abolition of slavery, yet that result could only be produced 
by the gradual and slow operaion of centuries." — African Repository, page 217. 
And yet, by a scheme like this, it satisfies its proselytes that they are doing their 
duty, and that they are g 'ing to abolish slavery ! 

Again, — Mr. Clay, their champion, says, "Every emigrant to Africa is a 
missionary, carrying with him credentials in the holy cause of civilization, re- 
ligion, and free institutions." — And multitudes believe him ! 

Again, — " As to the morals of the colonists, I consider them much better thas 
those of the people of the United States. That is, if you take an equal number 
of inhabitants from any section of the Union, and you will find more drunkards, 
more profane swearers and sabbath breakers, &c. than in Liberia. The Sab- 
bath is more strictly obssrved than I ever saw it in the United States." — J, 
Mechlin, jan. Governor of Liberia. 

Now, leaving magic out of the case, let us allow this to be ttue, and what 
pitiable and criminal insanity does it mark in the United States, to transport such 
a people, — or having transported them, not to send the ships of the nation to en- 
treat them back instantly to evangelize their native country. Or let us deem it 
false, and how base and cruel is the decoy, which is thus held out to us, to 
patronize a system so nefarious. 

The American Colonization Society tells us, that the exiles in Liberia consist of 
emancivated s 'aves. But this is a deception. They consist chiefly of free people of co- 
lour. Now why have they not really sent, and only sent, emancipated slaves instead 
of fre? people of colour, seeing they have, as they say, so many thousands offered 
to tL?m for that purpose ? Will they reply, " We have sent free people of 
eclour, because they are more virtuous, and it was necessary to lay an intelligent 
and virtuous foundation ?" Then how obvious and cruel is their slander, as above 
quote:!, against the free people of colour! Or will they reply, "Oh, we have 
made a careful selection between the virtuous and vicious?" Then where will 
the selection be when they begin to transport Mr. Clay's six or fifty six thousand 
missionaries yearly ! 

The American Colonization Society pretends that it costs but twenty dollars 
each to send the exiles to Liberia. On the other hand, we have a report to the 
Senate of the United States, made in 1828, by Mr. Tazewel, arguing that the 
. expense must be 100 dollars per head, perhaps twice as much,— and very con- 
vincing reasons are given in favour of this estimate. 

Again, the American Colonization Society pretends that it has abolished the Afri- 
can slave trade to a vast extent, But in their African Repository, vol. 5. p. 274, 
I read "Ithas been declared felony, it has been declared piracy; and the fleets of 
Britain and America have been commissioned to drive it from the ocean. Still, 
in defiance of all this array of legislation and armament, slave ships ride trium- 
phantly on the ocean ; and in these floating caverns from sixty to eighty thousand 
wretches are borne annually away to slavery or death. Of these wretches a fright- 
ful number are, with an audacity that amazes, landed and disposed of within the 
jurisdiction of this republic." 

" The fact that mucn was done by Mr. Ashmun to banish it from the territory 



,18 

under the colonial jurisdiction, is unquestionable, but it now exists even on this 
territory ; and a little to the north and south of' Liberia it is seen in its true cha- 
racters, of fraud, rapine, and blood. In the opinion of the late agent the present 
efforts to suppress this trade must prove abortive."— 13th Annual Report. 

" Some appalling facts in regard to the slave trade have come to the knowledge 
of the Board of Managers, during the last year. With undiminished atrocity and 
activity is this odious traffic now carried on all along the African coast. Slave 
factories are established in the immediate vicinity of* the colony ; and at the Gal- 
linas (between Liberia and Sierra Leone) not less ban 900 slaves were shipped 
during the last summer, in the space of three weeks." — 14//} Ann. Report, 1831. 

And here it may be well to observe, that as long as negro slavery fasts, all co. 
lonies on the African coast, of ■whatever description, must tend to support it, be- 
cause, in all commerce, the supply is more or less proportioned to the demand. 
The demand exists in negro slavery ; the supply arises from the African slave 
trade. And what greater convenience could the African slave traders desire 
than shops well stored all along the coast, with the very articles which their trade 
demands. That the African slave traders do get thus supplied at Sierra Leone 
and Libera is matter of official evidence;* and we know, from the nature of human 
things, that they widget so supplied, in defiance of all law or precaution, as long 
as the demand calls for the supply, and there are free shops stored with all that 
they want at hand. The shopkeeper, however honest, would find it impossible 
always to distinguish between the African slave trader or his agents and other 
dealers. And how many shopkeepers are there any where that would be over 
scrupulous in questioning a customer with a full purse ? 

11. The American Colonization Society makes a disgraceful and criminal peace 
between freemen and slave-masters. 

One extract may suffice. It is from the 13th Report, page 12. Mr. Freiing- 
hausen, one of the finest minds in the United States, is speaking. 

" Yes, Sir, I ascribe it chiefly to the kindly influence of this Society, that the 
indiscriminate clamours, once so liberally dealt out, have all died away. I hail 
tlie return of better feelings, of juster views. We now, Sir, regard the mischief 
as of common and universal concern. The language of harsh and unjust crimi- 
nation and reproach is succeeded by that of sympathy and kindness!'"— That is, 
formerly freemen used to feel and speak like freemen, like real lovers of 
righteous liberty, in their intercourse with slave-holders. But now the freeman 
smiles courteously upon the oppressor of his unoffending brother, and joins in all 
his slaveholding sympathies ! Such is the American Colonization Society. 

But the free blacks have not always been thus traduced and persecuted, There 
have been occasions when the truth has been wrung out, and when, under the 
power of the emergency, their persecutors themselves have left an imperishable 
record of their own infamy, whenever they dare to slander, as they are doing, 
this afflicted and outraged class. 

In the great plague in Philadelphia, (yellow fever,) just after the revolutionary 
war, the mayor of the city officially acknowledged the public gratitude due to the 
free coloured people, for their eminent services in the very jaws of death. 

In the Friend, an American paper of Jan. 28, 1832, speaking of the late 
dreadful fire in Raleigh, Virginia, we read " Too much praise cannot be be- 
stowed on the coloured population, who used every exertion in their power to be 
serviceable." 

During the public emergency at New Orleans, in the last war, the free 



* In reference to the fact here stated, see Parliamentary Papers, No. 364, " Slave 
Trade, Sierra Leone," ordered to be printed by the House of Commons, tith April, 
1832, page 11, Mr. Hilary Teage. 



li) 

coloured people were called upon in common with the whites, and their ser- 
vices were thus recorded by General Jackson : — 

" Soldiers, — When on the banks of the Mobile, [ called you to take up arms, 
inviting you to partake the perils and glory of your white fellow citizens, I 
expected much from you, for I was not ignorant that you possessed qualities 
most formidable to an invading enemy. I knew with what fortitude you could 
endure hunger and thirst, and all the fatigues of a campaign. I knew well how 
you loved your native country, and that you had, as well as ourselves, to defend 
what man holds most dear, his parents, relations, wife, children, and property. 
You have done more than I expected. In addition to the previous qualities I before 
knew you to possess, I find, moreover, among you a noble enthusiasm, which 
leads to the performance of great things. 

"Soldiers, — The President of the United States shall hear how praiseworthy 
was your conduct in the hour of danger ; and the representatives of the Ame- 
rican people will, I doubt not, give you the praise your deeds entitle you to. 
Your General anticipates them in applauding your noble ardour. 

" The enemy approaches i his vessels cover our lakes ; our brave citizens are 
united, and all contention has ceased among them. Their only dispute is, who 
shall win the prize of valour, or who the most glory, its noblest reward ? 

"By order, (Signed) Thomas Butler, Aid-de-Camp." 



In Philadelphia, by the census of 1830, the proportion of the free- coloured 
people to the whites, was about one-ninth. But in the same year, during the 
time of the greatest need, the proportion of the free coloured out-of-door paupers, 
receiving regular weekly supplies, only about one-twenty-ihbd, that is, in 
proportion to their several numbers, there was twice as much extreme pauperism 
amongst the whites as amongst the free blacks. One cause of this disproportion 
deserves to be particularly noticed ; it is, that they have numerous societies 
amongst themselves for mutual aid ; and this, while they are commonly confined 
to the lowest offices of the community, and the most honourable and profitable 
professions are generally closed against them. 

In the winter of 1830, wood for fuel became excessively dear at Rochester, 
a flourishing town in the State of New York. A benevolent society was quickly 
formed, and a general visitation commenced. The visitors entered in their 
course the house of a free coloured labouring man, and found that he was pos- 
sessed of a large store of the finest wood. They offered to purchase it from him ; 
he refused; they tempted him with a higher price, he calmly and steadily re- 
fused. "But you must let us have it," they said, " for hundreds of the poor 
are perishing of cold." "Oh," said the man, "is that what you want it for ? 
then take half of it freely? I want no price." He gave the half, and would 
receive nothing. And these are the people whom the colonizationists are tra- 
versing land and sea to get transported from their native country. 

Not long ago, our own whites were as insanely cruel in principle in our own 
wretched slave colonies, only no process equally cruel had occurred to them for 
the development of their dreadful insanity. But now, righteousness has so far 
prevailed, that these same abhorred and slandered free-coloured people have 
been placed upon a par in law with the whites ; and the first men in the assem- 
bly of Jamaica, I mean the first in manly and generous principle, as far as 
their public conduct in the assembly qualifies us to judge of them, are actually 
coloured men. Yes, the names of Watkis and of Maunderson, in these parti- 
culars, will live in the hearts of every lover of righteousness, while the remem- 
brance of the supporters of slavery, whenever truth and law shall prevail over 
prejudice and tyranny, shall present no fairer picture than that of the felon— 



20 

felons in heart and in deed, and only not called and treated as felons, for a 
time, because the lawless laws of their country, then put darkness for light, and 
light for darkness: then called evil good, and good evil. Is not the African 
slave trade now called felony? And what has made it more felony now, than 
it was while it teas honourable and legal ? Do human laws alter the nature of 
things, or can man subvert the constitutions of his Maker? And what rai/dif- 
ference is there between negro slavery and the African slave trade? What, but 
that negro slavery is the parent, and the African slave trade the child worthy 
of its sire. What, but that negro slavery is the cause, and the African slave 
trade the consequence worthy of its cause. Is not the one as fundamentally 
as the other, a system of robbery and wrong ? What article of property in the 
world is so inalienably his, and so sacredly dear to every man, as his own 
personal liberty ? and if the man who purloins my purse, or plunders or 
burns my house — these unspeakably lesser and poorer things — be worthy of the 
last penalty of the law, of what is the man worthy, whoever he be, and what- 
ever be the law for the time, — of what, I say, is he worthy who plunders his 
unoffending and guiltless neighbour of his personal liberty ? Or, if this be not 
felony — felony I mean in the nature of things — unalterably and everlastingly 
felony — and felony of the highest grade, next to intentional and malignant mur- 
der — what is felony ? Where shall we find right ? and what can be wrong ? 
Or, what would then be wanting, but the opportunity, the power, and the 
legality, to sanction the most atrocious deeds? 

5 Now, what is our duty? 

Is it to encourage a society which is riveting his chains upon the unoffending 
slave ; and which is embittering and strengthening the most atrocious of all 
prejudices against the persecuted free black man ? 

Is it to encourage a society, which while it assails slavery in Africa, is spread- 
ing the kindliest shadow of its wings over a worse slavery in the United States ? 

Is it to encourage a society, which can so impudently presume upon our igno- 
rance, as to represent a low, fertile, moist, and imperfectly cultivated region 
within eight degrees of .the equator, as a Paradise of healthfulness, to a class of 
people, tens of thousands of whom are the natives of the finest regions of the tem- 
perate climates, and of highly cultivated states ? 

Is it to encourage a society which so daringly traduces another colony, as 
to pretend that Liberia is the most healthful, while every one who pleases may 
know, that the sea- face and the upper settlements of the mountain ridge of Sierra 
Leone, is as healthful as Cape Messurada, and is ten times as extensive ; while 
the whole of the remainder, whether of Sierra Leone or Liberia, has alike the 
putrid climate which is common all over the world to lands of the same descrip- 
tion similarly situated ? 

Is it to encourage a society, which recognises the right of the slave-master, 
as a right which ought to be soothed ; as a right which righteous law ought not 
instantly to overturn, and from rebuking] which in its pride, truth and love 
should refrain ? 

i Is it to encourage a society which carries death to the spirit of Christian enter- 
prise, by substituting a plan which so harmonises with wickedness, that sinners 
the most unbending in this respect can delight in it ? 

Is it to encourage a society which invites us to lend our aid to the moral 
and religious degradation of our honoured brethren of the United States ; to sap 
with their worst enemies the glorious principles of Christian truth which are 
growing there ; to sanction free men in holding slaves, and Christians ! ! in plun- 
dering without compunction, God's unoffending and prostrate poor ? 



21 

But, what is our duty ? 

Britons, Christians, awake ! The time past of our lives is enough to have 
wrought the will of the Gentiles. We ought not to seek, we do not want the 
aid of Satan in doing the work of God. Ours is the business to abolish negro 
slavery in our own colonies, — to abolish it instantly and utterly, — to substitute 
at once, for the Ivwless laws which display its guilt and record its infamy, laws 
which shall be worthy of a great, free, and Christian people. This is our duty. 
Every moment that we delay, our guilt is increasing ; and more and more deeply 
is entering into the ears of Jehovah of hosts, the cry of the labourer whose 
wages we are keeping back by fraud : of the slave, whose innocent blood we are 
shedding. Britons, Christians, awake ! Still it is day ; still the opportunity 
lasts. Awake ! awake ! lest, like the thunderbolt which ushered in the waters 
of the Flood, the dreadful words should break too late upon our ears, " Oh, 
Britain, Britain ! thou that plunderedst my unoffending poor, and dravedst them 
by thousands to death ; thou that reviledst and resistedst them that were sent 
unto thee; how often would I have gathered thee, even as a hen gathereth her 
chickens, but ye would not. " Behold, your house is left unto you desolate."— 
Matt, xxiii. 38. 

Let us remember, that preparing to do right is continuing to do wrong ; that 
we cannot at once serve God and mammon ! In relation to the American Colo- 
nization Society, let us prove that we love the members which compose it, by not 
suffering sin upon them, but by doing all that we can to bring them to repentance, 
that they may neither perish nor destroy ; but may obtain everlasting life, through 
him who died that sinners might not die ; and who says to us, with all the pathos 
of heavenly love, " Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought to love one another." 

In relation to the free coloured people, if we wish to help them, let us help 
them to be happy in their native country, instead of helping to drive them volun- 
tarily into exile in a distant and barbarous land. Their real friends at home are 
actively aiding them to rise there, by assailing the brutal prejudice which out- 
rages them, and by helping them with the means of religious, moral, and intel- 
lectual culture. Amongst themselves they are alert in forming societies for their 
mutual provision, edification, and comfort. With the aid of their real friends 
amongst the whites, they are erecting schools and preparing to found a college. 
And in view of their present degradation through the insane prejudice which 
outrages them, and particularly of the aggravated wrongs to which they have 
become subjected by the horrible growth of colonization principles, they have 
resolved, as a body, while the laughing white man still holds his processions, 
and clamours out his joy by ten thousand commingled voices on his occasions of 
revelry, they have resolved, I say, when the anniversaries of their few privileges 
return, (the dearer because few,) to express their gratitude, without parade and 
•without tumult, to the God who is everlastingly the friend of the poor, and the 
avenger of the oppressed. — And shall we join in goading such a people as this to 
fly from their native country, — and then cry, even in the face of everlasting 
truth, " They are doing it voluntarily !.'!" 

In relation to the enslaved Americans. — Let us give what we can give to the 
societies in the United States which seek their emancipation at home, instead of 
their exile far away, amongst an uncivilised people. Let us remember that exile 
is exile, though it be better than slavery. And if any defender of slavery, or 
excuser of guilt, should start up and say, that this is out of the question, because 
the United States Government has no legal right to abolish slavery at home, let 
him know, that the United States Government, being eminently a Government of 



22 

public opinion, may be moulded, as it has been formed, by public opinion ; that 
all that is requisite, is to correct public opinion ; that the way to do this is not 
to pander to its wickedness, but to assail its wickedness by the all-conquering 
weapons of truth and love; that meanwhile each State has even now the legal 
title within its own jurisdiction ; that the free people of each State have the power 
to reform their Governments; and that the general Government has already the 
right in its own territory of Columbia. 

Of the New England Anti-Slavery Society, the principles are as unobjectionable 
as is simple and everlasting truth. The President is Arnold BufTum ; the secretary 
is William Lloyd Garrison; the treasurer, Michael H. Simpson, Boston, Mas. 
sachusetts. The annual subscription is two dollars, or about nine shillings ; and 
the life subscription, fifteen dollars. This is the channel in which Christian and 
British love may flow towards the blacks, whether of America or of Africa, with- 
out inconsistency and without hypocrisy. I say, of America and of Africa alike ; 
for the cultivation of the blacks of the United States, in their own glorious 
country, will better provide for the missionary service of Africa than all the colo- 
nisation missionaries in the world. 

And if it should yet be said, " But the white people of the United States are 
so invincibly the slaves of this most base and cruel prejudice, that they never will 
avail themselves of their glorious privileges to put it down, or to give their Go- 
vernments the power which is requisite," our plain answer is, — There are Bibles 
in America ; there are ministers in America; God is in America; and God has 
children in America; and God can win the civilised sinner, as well as the savage, 
to repentance. It is as true in America as elsewhere, that " Great is truth, and 
truth shall prevail ;" and if the ministers of the Gospel have not yet proclaimed 
it, let them henceforward lift up their voice, like a trumpet, and show to the 
people their sins ; and let every one who can read open his Bible and read, and 
take his Bible to the poor slave who cannot read, and read to him, " The wea- 
pons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down 
of strong holds; casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalt eth 
itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to 
the obedience of Christ." — 2 Cor, x. 4, 5. 

In relation to Africa itself, let us freely assist in pouring missionaries on her 
shores ; but not such missionaries as the American Colonization Society recom- 
mends. Young women, torn away from their country and their friends, that their 
race may perish from the scenes of their childhood ; — thousands, or tens of thou- 
sands of writhing and untutored minds, who have fled into exile in order to 
escape from slavery ;— speculators in commerce, or hunters of land, to whom 
commercial or agricultural enterprise is dearer far than immortal souls ; — mul- 
titudes of needy and ignorant poor, who can have neither leisure nor knowledge 
to set up for instructors. But missionaries, such as Christian love elsewhere sup- 
plies, — such as there are in Liberia, — such as there are in Sierra Leone and on 
the Gambia, — such as there are at home and abroad,— but such as are always 
few ; the jewels amongst mankind, — which can be got wholesale, by thousands 
and tens of thousands, no where. 

And in relation to the people at large of the Unired States, what are they but 
our brethren, — of one race and of one sort with ourselves ? Where is the man in 
Britain who has not a father, mother, brother, sister, friend, in the Uniied 
States ? Who but they are sending out with us the f>lorioud Bible over the whole 
world ? Who keep pace with us, or go before us, but they, in every effort of 
Christian love? From whence, like the United States, do we hear the soul 



23 

humbling and soul ennobling voice of Revivals ? And do we not owe our Tem- 
perance Societies to them ? Shall we then foster in the United States a source of 
ruin, beneath which we ourselves are writhing, and to the deadly guilt of which 
we have awakened ? Shall we encourage the United States in stiffening their 
necks against God and against their unoffending brother ? Shall we speak peace 
to the oppressor while he is impenitent? or shall we assist in outraging the weak 
because the strong invite us courteously to their whitewashed revel? No. The 
United States are worthy of better things. By the ties of blood, — by the stronger 
ties of love, woven for ever round many of our hearts, — by the ties of Christ, 
stronger than all, — we owe better things to the United States. Let us remonstrate 
with them ; let us rebuke them even as brother rebukes the brother whom he loves ; 
let us recal them to Jesus, from whose woid and whose example, in this respect, 
they are so fearfully wandering ; let us set them the example even as the father 
should set the example of all righteousness to the child of his heart ; and if they 
will still cause the poor negro to perish ; if they will still refuse to allow him any 
alternative but slavery, persecution, or exile, let the applause and the reward be 
theirs alone. We shall have cleared our skirts of their blood, in having done all 
that we could do to win them to repentance and to love. Of their blood did I 
say ? And will they die ? I cannot believe it. Truth is striding forth in his 
glory amongst them ; love has softened, and is softening, many of their proudest 
hearts. The Gospel is proclaimed in their ears by men like Paul : and from the 
gray hair and from the lisping lip ; from the vigour of maturity and from the 
freshness of youth ; where the sunrise assembly is convened for prayer, and where 
the silence of the closet witnesses the communion between His children and their 
God, a heart- voice is arising from black and white alike that never rises in vain. 
No : the people of the United States — Davids in the matter of Uriah, though 
they be, in relation to the black man — the people of the United States cannot 
perish ; for there are praying souls amongst them, souls that agonize for their 
people, with their God. And even now, perhaps, some Nathan is receiving his 
commission to cry, with converting power, to the slave- master, and to the colo- 
nizationist, " Thou art the man !" 

Finally : Let not the coloured man, whether enslaved or free, be discouraged — 
God left his own chosen people 400 years in Egypt, (Gen. xv. 13.) while the 
Egyptians and the Amorites were, year by year, filling up the measure of their 
iniquities and making themselves altogether meet for destruction. The same God 
is God still, and still the poor and the oppressed are as much his care as ever ; 
and still as much as ever He resisteth the proud, and is the enemy of the oppressor. 
Bear up, brethren ! God has children and servants both amongst yourselves and 
abroad, who enter into all your sympathies, and who are carrying you on their 
hearts in prayer, to His mercy-seat. Take courage! verdant as the bay-leaf, 
though be the flourishing of the wicked for a season, yet he shall perish. He is 
heaping treasure together for the last days. James v. 3. Thus saith the Lord' 
" I, even I, am He that comforteth you. Who art thou, that thou shouldst be 
afraid of a man that shall die, and of the son of man that shall be made as grass ; 
and forgettest the Lord thy Maker, that hath stretched forth the heavens and laid 
the foundations of the earth, and fearest continually every day because of the fury 
of the oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy. And where is the fury of the 
oppressor!" Isa. li, 12, 13. 

Be of good courage, brethren ! Christianity is shaking off its dust: the rot. 
tennesss of the whited sepulchres is coming out ; the Gospel is resuming its heal- 
i ng power ; there is balm in Gilead ; there is a physician there. The moral sense 



24 

of the world is awakening ; — Despotism is quailing — Falsehood is uncovering— 
Truth is about to triumph — Liberty to be restored — and Piejudice, that fiend of 
darkness, that bane of the earth, that brand of the white man, searing him with 
infamy ; that bane of the black man, tightening his chains or condemning him to 
exile — Prejudice shall be abolished, and over it, as over Babylon, soon shall be 
written, " Prejudice, the tyrant of the tyrant — the waster of the poor — the liar — 
the coward — the mother of abominations, is fallen, is fallen!" 

And here, in concluding, let us once more advert to the alternatives mentioned 
in page 7, viz. — open butchery, — emancipation and incorporation, — abandonment 
of the country by the masters, — or draining off the blacks, by transporting them 
to a distant and barbarous land. 

And, while we admire and adore the benevolent designs of an all-gracious God, 
as manifested in South America, by the emancipation and amalgamation of the 
whole coloured race; — let us abhor and reject the object of the American Colo- 
nization Society, which would frustrate those benevolent designs, and keep the 
family of man asunder, by preventing the increase of the coloured people, whether 
enslaved or free, and by getting rid of their finest minds, that those, who remain 
behind, may always continue a separate and degraded class. 



EGE'lTON SMITH AM) CO. PRINTERS, LORD-STKEETj LIVERPOOL. 



