Letter from W. L. 6. to 



Mr.gbenezer Dole, Ha Howe 11, Maine. 



^■T^j/-^ 



Boston, July 11, 1831, 



Respected Friend: 

On ffiy return from Phi ladelpiiia.ffiy disappointnient was ex- 
cessive on learning that you had just left our goodly city. To tell you 
hov/ happy your presence would have made me, requires a higher language than 
the English tongue. As it is, I can only seize this opportunity to write a 
few poor, unsatisfactory words on paper, by which to express the hope that I 
may be enabled to see you in Hallowell,in the course of the ensuing auturfin. 
My worthy partner, Mr. Knapp, gives roe a aiost exhilarating account 
of the intensity of your feelings^ in regard to the awful condition of the 
poor slaves. Torn as is your fesiing heart by a distant contemplation of 
their sufferings, hov^ dreadful would be its agony^if you were an eye witness 
to the. horrid scenes which are constantly occurring at the South? The in- 
fernal engine of African oppression is in perpetual motion — it has no 
weekly Sabbath:— and every day^ hundreds of new-born victims are thrown un- 
der its wheels, and crushed. At. tlmes^l dare not gaRge its atrocities, nor 
meditate upon its wickedness. The brain becomes heated with an intense fire, 
and the heart liquid as water. Yst there are those who can look upon this 
bloody system with "philosophic composure"! and even professing Christians 
can coldly talk of its gradual abolition ! ay, and many of them are busy in 
denouncing me as a madman and fanatic, because L demand an immediate compliance 
with the requisitions of Justice^ and the precepts of our Lord Jesus Christ ! — » 



I' 

II 



^^^m 






Yet, C to adopt the words of another ) the thing I say is true. I speak the 
truth, though it is most lamentable. I dare not hide it, I dare not palliate 
it— else the horror with which it covereth me would iiiake me do so. Woe un- 
to such a systeE ! Woe unto the rnen of this land who have been brought un- 



I: Hi 



y^ 



iiiii. \ Ger its operation ! It is not felt to be evil, it is not acknowledged to be 
evil, it is not preached against as evil; and therefore it is only the more 
inveterate and fearful an evil. It hath becoiiie constitutional . It is fed 
from the stream of our life, and it will grow more and more excessive, until it 
^can no longer be endured tf God^nor borne with by man. 

But, dreadful as is the aspect of slavery in its cruelty to the 
outward man, it is heightened when we look at tt« effects upon the inward noan. 
It is the ruin of souls which is fe# most afflictive. The system is one not 
only of robbery, but of heathenisiu; for it is full of darkness, ignorance and 
wo . 

i I am truly rejoiced to learn that you are no colonizationist, I 
say re JoicedHDecause, after tne most candid and prayerful investigation, I am 
persuaded the Colonization Society is based upon wrong principles; and, as for 
its leading doctrines, my judgment tells me they are abhorrent. Like many 
other good people,! was, myself^ for a tinie deceived with regard to its charac- 
ter and tendency. I took the scheme upon trust; but my eyes are now open. 
I find, wherever I go, that thorough-going abolitionists do not support the 
Society. .Great changes are taking place on this subject. The Society is 
fast losing many of its most worthy supporters; and by and by, I trust, none 
but slave owners will be found in its support. Among those who have left 
it, is Arthur Tappan,who is a host in him'seif. / 

The contemplated College for colored students^ at New Haven, will 
doubtless receive your approbation. Such an institution, once fairly in op- 



t . 



f- 



eration.wiil work wonders. 

/_You will be pleased to learn^ that an American An ti -Slavery Society 
is in enibryo at Philadelphia. Its objects will oe various and energetic. / 
I find you have laid riie under fresh obligations. I stagger be- 
neath the weight of so much kindness, but hope I may be able to square t 



he 



account. 



I take the liberty of sending you two copies of my address, deliv- 
;red in various cities before the free people of color. May it bi productive 



of good. 



Probably^ ere this the Pennsylvania Society has transmitted to you 
copies of the tract which took your $50 preiiiiuffi. It vms written 
Lewis, a member of the Society of Friends. It is 
nas not scriptural pungency enough. 



by Evan 
a very good production, but 
Tnere were only four coaipetitors for 
the prize. I was not able to be one of the 
haps I may write a tract on th 



ffi, contrary to ray intentions. Per- 
is subject^ as soon as leisure will permit. 
I remain your fellow laborer and debtor. 



'A'ni Lloyd Garrison. 



