RARE 

BOCK 

DEPT 



[^ 



, A/ ^ A^^^^ C&^ ' 



"^ 



t 



' ^K^ 4-2^^- 10 



V'V 



V^'# /l < 'OI^KJ\^^^^mCf CIVl\//v\, >N \ ^> f^4 , 



'V 




Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/antislaverymonth2729maca 



ANTI-SLAVERY 



MONTHLY REPORTER, 



VOLUME IL 



Commeming.'june \t2J, and ending May 1829. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED FOR THE LONDON SOCIETY FOR THE MITIGATION AND ABOLITION OF 
SLAVERY IN THE BRITISH DOMINIONS. 

AND TO BE HAD AT THE ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 18, ALDERMANBURY J 

OF MESSRS. HATCHARD, 187, PICCADILLY ; MESSRS. ARCH, CORNHILL ; AND OF ALL 

BOOKSELLERS ; AND AT THE DEPOTS OF ALL THE ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATIONS 

THROUGHOUT TIIE KINGDOM. 



M.DCCC.XXIX. 



^c^-Q ^ *X L/ 



-/. 



Oril^ 



iS 



J"' "1 



'.^"^e^W^^ /' #^^ ^^^^ ^ 'jirJ 







BAGSTEK AND THOMS, PRINTERS, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE, LONDON, 



-H'?5? 



CONTENTS. 



No. ■ Page 

XXV.— 1827. June. Case of Betto Douglas, a St. Kitt's Slave . 1—7 

United States of America ..... 7 

Slave Population in the West Indies ... 8 
XXVI. — Juhj. West Indian Statistics — Tables shewing the effect of 

Sugar Culture on Population, &c. . . . — 18 

East and West India Trade . . . . » 18 

Christianity in Barbadoes ..... 20 

Anti-Slavery in America ..... 21 

Slavery in Jamaica ...... 23 

XXVII. — August. Petition and Memorial of Planters of Demerara 

and Berbice on Manumission Clause examined . . 25 — 72 
XXVIII. — September. Further Progress of Colonial Reform : — Gene- 
ral Observations^Antigua, Bahamas, Barbadoes, Berbice, 

Bermuda, and Cape of Good Hope . . . 73 — 95 

Brazilian Mining Company ..... 96 

Case of Betto Douglas corrected .... 95 

Rev. W. M. Harte of Barbadoes .... 96 

XXIX. — October. Further Progress of Colonial Reform, Part II. — 
Demerara, Dominica, Grenada, Honduras, Jamaica, Mau- 
ritius, Montserrat, Nevis, St. Christophers, St. Lucia, St. 

Vincent's, Tobago, and Tortola - . . . 97 — 119 

West Indian Reporter, No. VIII. . . . . 119 

XXX. — November. Further Progress of Colonial Reform, Part III. 
— Trinidad — Reports of the Bishops of Jamaica and Bar- 
badoes ....... 121—136 

Report of African Institution — Young's Case . . 136 — 138 

Surrey Anti-Slavery Meeting .... 138—143 

,Dublin Anti-Slavery Meeting . . . . 143 

The Slave Grace ...... 143 

XXXI.r-December. A Summary View of the Progress of Reform 

since May, 1823 ...... 145—153 

Privy Council Inquiry respecting Manumission . . 153 — 158 

Defence of Mr. Buxton and his Friends . . . 158 

XXXII. — 1828. January. On the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery 161 — 174 
Observations on the present State of the Anti-Slavery Question 174 

List of Anti-Slavery Works . . . . . 175 

XXXIII. — February. The Jamaica Legislature and Mr. Huskisson . 177 — 182 
Compulsory Manumission ..... 182 

XXXIV. — March. Discussions in the House of Commons — State- 
ments of Mr. Secretary Huskisson considered — Mr. Hor 
ton's Motion on Compulsory Manumission 
Table exhibiting the Manner in which the Propositions of 

the Government have been carried into effect 
Sugar Duties and Bounties .... 

XXXV. — April. Summary View of the present State of the Anti-Sla- 
very Question — Effects of Bounties and Protecting Duties 205 — 212 

XXXVI. — May. Proceedings of the Fourth General Meeting of the 
Society : — Speeches of Mr. Brougham, Mr. Wilberforce, 
Mr. Denman, Sir James Mackintosh, Mr. Buxton, Honour- 



185—202 



203 
204 



able and Rev. G. Noel, Rev. J. W. Cunningham, Mr 

and the Duke of Gloucester 
Public Meetings in the Country 
New Works on the Slavery Question 

XXXVII. — June. Review of Mr. Dwarris's Pamphlet 
Culture of Sugar by Free Labour in Mexico 
Intelligence ..... 



Sykes, 



213—236 
236 
236 

237—250 
251 
252 



CONTENTS. 

No. Page 

Supplement to No. XXXVII. — View of the Law and Practice in the 
Spanish Colonies respecting the Manumission of Slaves — 
Objections to Compulsory Manumission considered . 253 — 2C0 

XXXVIII. — July. New Slave Laws of Jamaica and St. Christophers 

examined ....... 261 — 276 

XXXIX. — August. Review of the last Session of Parliament: — 
Speeches of Sir J. Mackintosh, Lord Calthorpe, Duke of 
Wellington, Sir G. Murray, Mr. Buxton, and Mr. Peel, 
with general Remarks ..... 277 



292 
293—308 



309—326 
326 
328 

329 
332 
340 
340 



329 
332 



341—370 
370 

373—395 
396 

396 



XL. — September. Review of the last Session of Parliament : — Speeches 
of Lord Seaford, with cursory Observations upon them 

XLI. — October. State of Religion among the Slaves in the West In 
dies — Report of the Society for the Conversion, &c. of 
Negro Slaves — Want of Sabbath for them . 
Bermudian Slaves ..... 

East India Slavery ..... 

XLII. — November. Correction of Errors in No. XL, and in No. XLI 
Letter of a Coi-respondent on Compensation . 
Slave Laws of the Mauritius, and Sir R. Farquhar . 
Jamaica Oppression ..... 

XLIII. — December. Correspondence of the Government with the Co 
lonies: Jamaica, Bahamas, Barbadoes, Antigua, St. Kitfs 
Trinidad, St. Lucia, Demerara, Berbice, and Mauritius 
Fresh Persecution of Missionaries in Jamaica 

XLIV. — 1829. January. A Picture of the Negro Slavery existing 
in the Mauritius ..... 

Mr. Barclay's alleged Refutation of Mr. Stephen 
Society for the Conversion and Religious Instruction and 
Education of the Negro Slaves 

Supplement to No. XLIV. — January. Vindication of the Review of 
Report of the Incorporated Society for the Conversion, &c. 
of Negro Slaves, contained in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
No. XLI. from the attack of the British Critic for Jan. 1829 397—412 

XLV. — February. Proceedings of the Incorporated Society for the 

Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts . . 413 — 427 

The West India Committee and its Mercenaries of the Press ; 

Mr. Franklin, Mr, M'Queen, &c. .... 427 

Colonial Statistics, viz. Antigua, Mauritius, (fresh Proofs of 

Horrors there,) Montserrat, and St. Lucia . . 430 

Conduct of the Assembly of Jamaica . . . 432 

XLVI. — March. Dr. Burgess, the present Lord Bishop of Salisbury, 

on Colonial Slavery ..... 433—437 

Appeal to the Bench of Bishops on Colonial Slavery, by Gran- 
ville Sharpe ....... 438 

Fresh Atrocities in Berbice ..... 439 

Recent Intelligence from Jamaica. 1. Colonial Policy at the 

present Crisis. 2. Conduct pursued towards Missionaries 441 — 444 

Cape of Good Hope — Society for Redeeming Slaves . 444 

XLVII. — April. Defence of the Society for the Conversion of Slaves 

and of that for the Propagation of the Gospel considered . 445 — 462 
Cruelties of Mr. and Mrs. Moss, of the Bahamas, towards a 

Female Slave ...... 462—468 

XLVIIL— May. The British Critic's Second Attack on the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, in Vindication of the Conversion and 
Propagation Societies, considered and repelled . . 469 — 488 

General Index to Anti-Slavery Reporter, Vols. I. and II. 



ANTI-SLAVEIIY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 25.] For JUNE, 1827. [No. 1. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will he ready for delivery on the 
first day of every moath. Copies vpill be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a Sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
•wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



C4SE OF BETTO DOUGLAS, A ST. KITT'S SLAVE— UNITED 
STATES— SLAVE POPULATION OF WEST INDIES. 

We have before us the official details, (No. 187 of 1st May, 1827,) 
as recently printed by order of the House of Commons, of a case from 
the Island of St. Kitt's, which affords some striking illustrations of the 
spirit and influence of slavery — not merely as it prompts the master to 
acts of cruelty and oppression, but as it operates to subvert and vitiate 
the best sympathies of our nature, to such an extent as to render slave- 
holders, generally speaking, unfit to discharge the functions of legisla- 
tion or of judicature towards the enslaved population. The particu- 
lars of the present case are as follow : — 

Betto Douglas is a Mulatto slave, about fifty-two years of age, be- 
longing to the Earl of Roraney. Some years previous to the present 
transactions she had requested Mr. Goldfrap, one of Lord Romney's 
attorneys on his estates in St. Christopher's, to solicit for her the pro- 
prietor's permission to be allowed to purchase the freedom of her two 
sons. The request was complied with ; and this poor slave had the 
delight of thus securing the freedom of her offspring, probably under 
an impression that she might not live long enough to effect her own 
liberation as well as theirs, Mr. Goldfrap, in a letter to Governor Max- 
well states, that he had on that occasion strongly recommended Betto 
Douglas to Lord Romney's favourable consideration, which recommen- 
dation his lordship seemed to construe as a wish that she should be 
manimiitted ; and, as Mr Goldfrap, who at that time ceased to be his 
agent, understood, had issued orders to his new attorney to that effect. 

Several years however elapsed, and no steps for her enfranchisement 
were taken. She had been allowed to reside in a house, apart from the 
estate, but was obliged, by the new agent, to pay a certain sum (three 
dollars and a half) per month to Lord Romney. The following is her 
own account when interrogated before the magistrates : — " Mr Cardiu 
told me I must go and work out for three and half dollars a month. I 
told him I was not able to give that price : and he would msist, and I 
went. And after I found it was so hard, I went to him again, and told 
him the times were hard — I was not able to give that price — that I sold 



2 Case of Betto Douglas, 

all I had to pay the money : and he would insist. I then said I had 
nothing to give him, unless I went upon the highways, and committed 
something bad. He would insist upon the money. I then went to 
Master Richard ; I tell him to speak, to his father, and tell him how 
hard the times were — and he promised to do so. I told him his father 
had told me that he had directions to manumit me, and I'd thank him to 
speak to him. The month following that, I strove and made up three 
dollars and a quarter, and carried that to him : and he told me if I 
did not give him the other quarter he would stop my allowance." 
" When owing two months' hire, I went to Mr. Cardin with four dol- 
lars, saying, I could pay no more. He refused to receive the four 
dollars, but confined me two weeks in a room ; and my children went 
and borrowed three dollars, and made up the seven dollars for the two 
months' hire. I paid for the time I was in confinement, and received 
no allowance of any kind." 

For about three years matters went on in this way. The monthly 
pittance of three dollars and a half was wrung from the toil, or the 
prostitution* of this poor creature, or supplied by the affection of her 
children and relatives. But in February, 1825, these resources failed; 
and being hard pressed for the arrears by Mr. Cardin, and having 
the assurance of his predecessor Mr. Goldfrap, that he believed her to 
have had from Lord Romney a promise of manumission, Betto Douglas, 
by the advice of that gentleman, presented a petition to the Governor, 
praying for his interposition, in order to procure for her relief and 
justice. 

Governor Maxwell, with a promptitude highly honourable to his cha- 
racter, immediately instituted an inquiry into the facts of the case. 
But though Mr Goldfrap, in his letter already mentioned, corroborated 
the woman's claim for enfranchisement, so far as his recollection of Lord 
Romney's kind intentions went, the other persons, to whom reference 
was made in the petition, contradicted her allegations ; and as no written 
evidence could be produced in suppoi't of her pretensions, the claim was 
rejected, and she was advised by the Governor to return to her duty ou 
his Lordship's estate. 

Whether, as the female slave alleged in her declaration, some of the 
persons whose evidence opposed her claim, could have supported it 
except for the dislike " to interfere with people's business," and to " go 
against Mr. Cardin," we will not undertake to determine ; but it is 
obvious that she was herself fully persuaded that her manumission was 
unjustly withheld from her by Mr. Cardin, after being granted by Earl 
Romney; and this persuasion she continued to cherish, even after the 
Governor had dismissed the case for want of proof. 

On returning to Earl Romney's estate, Mr. Cardin insisted on Betto 
Douglas going on hire, and continuing the monthly payment of three 
and a half dollars as formerly. This it would seem she objected to- 
alleging her inability to make it up. The course pursued with her is 
thus described in her subsequent examination : " Daring the time I 

* The declaration that she could not make up the sum " unless she went 
upon the highways," &c. appears to indicate some such wretched resource as ia 
here stated. 



A Slave belonging to Lord Romney. 3 

was last in confinement, after the petition to the Governor, I was 
carried before Mr. Stedman Rawlins at Miss Douglas's ; and from 
thence I was carried to the estate, and confined in the stocks, from the 
17th May to the 2d December. I then owed for three months' hire. 
I was put in stocks one foot night and day, except on several occasions 
when Dr. Rawlins gave me physic." Some rumour of this severe treat- 
ment having reached the Governor, he directed the circumstances to be 
inquired into by the magistrates ; in consequence of which the slave 
was liberated from imprisonment in the stocks, after a confinement of 
six months : and on the 16th and 20th of January, 1826, an investi- 
gation of the treatment to which she had been subjected was gone into. 
The conduct of the magistrates on this occasion was very far from 
satisfactory. After examining the woman, and hearing Mr. Cardin's 
exculpatory statement, a ^e\f questions were asked of the witnesses 
brought forward in his defence ; but they seem to have carefully avoided 
calling such witnesses or touching on such points as might lead to a 
confirmation of his illegal conduct ; and this defective investigation 
having been concluded, they gave the following decision : 

" The magistrates having taken into their consideration the com- 
plaint preferred against Mr. Cardin, are of opinion that the duration of 
Betto Douglas's confinement in the stocks not being proved, they can- 
not decide the question of the punishment being excessive ; but they 
at the same time cannot refrain from remarking, that Betto Douglas's 
conduct has evinced great insubordination, highly injurious to the pro- 
perty, and recommend that the said Betto Douglas be returned to the 
estate, and placed at such light work as Mr. Cardin may please to 
direct. 

" We the magistrates having reconsidered the point of Cawky 
Connor's evidence, are still of opinion that it is not sufficiently strong 
to govern them in their opinion as to the particular period of Betto 
Douglas's confinement." 

The Cawky Connor here referred to was the person who carried the 
daily allowance to the prisoner ; and she stated distinctly, that the 
period of confinement " might be about six months." 

The attorney-general was so little satisfied Avith this decision that he 
resolved to prefer a bill of indictment against Mr. Cardin, for illegal 
treatment, at the ensuing Court of King's Bench and Grand Sessions. 
A bill was accordingly preferred ; but here likewise the spirit of the 
system was triumphant : the Grand Jury unanimously threw out the 
bill, and made a special presentment to the Court, in the following 
terms :— 

" In returning the bill of indictment, ignored unanimously, the 
Grand Jury feel themselves called upon respectfully to state to the Court 
their regret that a prosecution should have been founded upon so fri- 
volous a complaint, and supported only by the slender evidence ad- 
duced before them, whereby the feelings of an honourable, humane, and 
respectable man have been considerably wounded unnecessarily, and 
his character (which from the evidence before us appeared unimpeach- 
able) attempted to be assailed. 

'^ The Grand Jury also beg leave to express to the Court the feelijjg' 



4 Case of Betto Douylas, 

of indignation that this course of proceeding has excited ; and they 
lament that the time and money of the country should have been thus 
sacrificed in investigating such frivolous and unfounded complaints as 
the present matter is founded upon." 

Such was the conduct of the Magistrates and Grand Jury of St. 
Christopher's, in a case where very illegal and cruel conduct to a slave 
was as clear as day ; and where, if more direct proof had been wanted, 
it could readily have been obtained. Instead, however, of animadvert- 
ing on such gross partiality and injustice, in the strong terms which 
naturally suggest themselves, we turn with much satisfaction to the 
opinions expressed by Governor Maxwell and Eetrl Bathurst in the 
correspondence appended to this case. 

The Governor, in transmitting the documents to Lord Bathurst ob- 
serves : " The several inclosures will inform your Lordship of the real 
circumstances of the case, which contain strong evidence of the illegal 
treatment of the old woman ; but this sort of confinement being a com- 
mon usage, it is from custom considered justifiable and proper. But 
this opinion is strongly reprobated by the Attorney-general, and some 
humane thinking gentlemen in the island." 

In reply Earl Bathurst remarks, that he had " read these documents 
with great regret and concern ;" — that " the fact of Betto Douglas 
having been actually confined night and day in the stocks for a period 
of six months, appears to be established ;"— that " it must also be 
observed, that if the magistrates considered the evidence incomplete 
they had ample means of procuring additional testimony. They might 
have put the question distinctly to Mr. Cardin, junior, who as overseer 
of the estate, must have known the truth, and to Mr. J. Rawlins, the 
attending physician on the plantation : and had any doubt remained, 
it was palpably their duty to send for other free persons resident on the 
estate, whereby the truth of this simple fact might have been substan- 
tiated or disproved. It is inexplicable why these obvious means of in- 
quiry were neglected." 

Of the extraordinary presentment of the Grand Jury his Lordship 
states, that he had " perused it with extreme surprise." He then goes 
on to remark:---" They express their regret that a prosecution should 
have been founded upon what they term ' so frivolous a complaint;' 
yet the complaint which they thus designate as ' frivolous' was ex- 
pressly stated in the indictment sent up to them, as nothing less than 
the confinement in the stocks of a female slave for twenty hours in each 
day, during a period of six months and eleven days. If it be said that 
such punishment was sanctioned by usage, and that its severity was 
rather nominal than real, it is to be remarked, that the Chief Justice 
in his charge to the Grand Jury, uses the following expressions : * It is 
due to the cause of truth and justice to inform you, that the records 
of this Court, and the Court below, to which the punishment of slaves 
is more immediately confined, do not afford an instance of such severe 
and protracted punishment for any offence whatever.' 

" The Grand Jury state that the charge was supported only by slender 
evidence ; and that the feelings of an honourable, humane, and respect- 
able man have been considerably wounded unnecessarily; and his 



A Slave belonyiny to Lord Romney. 5 

character, which from the evidence before us appears unimpeachable, 
attempted to be assailed. 

" I am bound to give the gentlemen of the Grand Jury credit for 
the conscientious discharge of their duty, especially when I remember 
that this presentment was made under the sanction of an oath. But it 
is impossible not to observe, that as it is plainly no part of the func- 
tions of a Grand Jury to examine witnesses in favour of the accused, 
particularly as to general character and reputation, I am at a loss to 
understand on what this part of their presentment was founded, 

" In conclusion the Grand Jury express ' indignation' at the course 
of proceeding adopted, and at the use of the public money in what they 
again term * a frivolous and unfounded complaint ;' observing, however, 
that they do not mean to cast any imputation on the character of the 
Attorney-general. 

" It is far from my wish to use any expressions which could be pain- 
ful to the feelings, or injurious to the reputation of any gentleman in 
the colony; but I cannot withhold the expression of my deepest regret 
that such proceedings as those on which I have observed should have 
occurred. 

" I have not particularly adverted to the offence with which Betto 
Douglas was charged by Mr. Cardin, because it is not very easy, nor 
perhaps very material, to discover the precise nature of it. But it 
would appear from the language of Mr. Cardin himself, as quoted by 
Mr. William Wharton Rawlins, that she was kept in confinement, * in 
consequence of her refusal to continue the payment of the hire' she 
had been in the habit of giving her master. 

" If this was really the offence, it would be superfluous to observe 
how utterly the punishment was disproportionate to such an offence." 

Of the justice and propriety of these observations every one must 
cordially approve; and the discountenance shewn in this case, both 
by Governor Maxwell and Lord Bathurst, to the oppressive spirit of the 
Colonial proprietary, and to the unrighteous spirit of the Colonial ju- 
dicatures is highly creditable to his Majesty's Government. But the 
root of the evil lies too deep to be cured by such lenitive applications. 

Even if we allow that the old woman's claims for enfranchisement 
were illusory (though supported by Lord Romney's former agent) what 
a picture does not this case present to us of the meanness, as well as 
the misery of the slave system ! A poor worn-out female (for even 
the bench of magistrates recommend her to be employed only in light 
work) is refused the freedom which the strong recommendation of a 
former manager, and the reply of the noble proprietor had long led her 
to expect ; and in order at the same time to silence her pretensions, 
and to wring from her the paltry pittance of nine pounds a year, to aug- 
ment Earl Romney's income, this poor creature is first threatened with 
being flogged and worked in the field, and is afterwards imprisoned, and 
confined in the stocks for six continuous months. 

She had already meritoriously exerted herself, while health and 
strength were continued to her, and before the ravages of age had en- 
feebled her frame, to effect the redemption of her two sons — magna- 
nimously preferring their emancipation to her own. And when this 



6 Case of Betlo Domjlas. 

meritorious conduct had produced an impression on the agent of 
Lord Romney, and on his Lordship also, leading them to use lan- 
"•uage calculated to excite a confident expectation of receiving her 
own gratuitous manumission from the bounty of his Lordship — she is 
threatened, at her advanced age, with flogging and the field, for daring 
to prefer such a claim : and she is required, as the only means, of 
escape from that, or from some still worse fate, to pay to Lord Romney 
a sum of three dollars and a half monthly, procure it as she may. She 
fails to fulfil the condition : and what is the result ? She is incarce^ 
rated, on the sole authority of Lord Roraney's agent. She is incarce- 
rated, her feet in the stocks, with a brief interval in each day, night 
and day for six long months. And when an attempt is made, by course 
of law, to relieve this poor creature from such a merciless infliction, 
the grand jury (to say nothing of the magistracy) representing, without 
doubt, the predominant feeling of the white population of St. Christo- 
pher's, are roused to "indignation" by the attempt ; stigmatize the pro- 
secution as if it were a public nuisance ; and reconsign the wretched 
Betto to the tender mercies and considerate care of Mr. Cardin. 

We have often been accused of unfairly dwelling on individual in- 
stances of cruelty, as if they proved any thing more than that, in every 
community, there were to be found cruel individuals. We have been 
reproached on such occasions with Mother Brownrigg, or some other in- 
mate of the murderer's cell in England. But suppose Betto's case had 
occurred on Lord Romney's estate in Kent^ instead of his estate in 
St. Christopher's, and that, invested with his Lordship's authority, his 
bailiff" had treated her as she has been treated by Mr. Cardin ; and sup- 
pose a similar indictment had been preferred against the bailiff before 
the grand jury at Maidstone, what would have been the fate of that in- 
dictment, and what the situation of the bailiff", as compared with that 
of his colonial compeer? Would he have found the charge scouted as 
trivial ; the bill on that ground ignored, though there Avas not, and 
could not be any opposing evidence ; the prosecution denounced and 
presented as a nuisance ; the respectability of the accused affirmed in 
the face of positive evidence establishing the facts of the case ; and 
the wretched complainant remanded to the custody and uncontrolled 
authority, and arbitrary disposal of her oppressor ? So far from this, 
the general indignation of the community would have been roused 
against the bailiff"; and he might have deemed himself fortunate in es- 
caping from the rage of the multitude without the loss of life or limb. 
Let us only imagine such a transaction to take place in England, where 
the peasantry, we are told, are far worse off" than the slaves in the West 
Indies ! Only suppose an elderly woman, the mother of a family, to be 
treated by any nobleman in the land, or by any nobleman's bailiff", as 
poor Belto was treated in St. Kitt's ; and what could save the conduct 
of either the one or the other from the vengeance of the law, and from 
the universal execration of the community ? 

Can any thing shew more strongly than this contrast, which any 
Englishman may realize to himself, the state of feeling which exists in 
Colonial communities, as to all that affects the wretched slave, when 
his claims are brought into competition with the authority or the pride 



United States of America. 7 

Qi" the interests of the master or manager; or when a black or a brown 
complexion, nay, when even a single tinge of African blood stands op- 
posed, before a jury of planters, to the unlimited power, and the not-to- 
be questioned superiority of the white ? 

Let us mark too in this transaction the real source of those revenues, 
which enable the owners of West Indian estates to vie with the proudest 
nobles of the laud in every luxurious enjoyment ; wliicii enable them even 
to purchase those seats in parliament that give security to their uncon- 
trolled power of exaction ; and thus enable them also to maintain a sys- 
tem which violates with impunity every obligation of justice and humanity, 
every maxim of constitutional law, and every precept of the gospel. 
The real source of those revenues is to be found in the compelling 
power of the whip and the stocks and the dungeon, which may, at will, 
be put in operation to secure to the absent owner an income of nine 
pounds a year from the toil of a wretched female, who has already worn 
out her strength, not only by the labours of nearly half a century for 
her master's benefit, but by effecting besides the redemption of her 
two sons from the stocks and the cartwhip ; and the very dregs of 
whose age and feebleness are to be drained in contributing to his mul- 
tiplied enjoyments, by toiling under a vertical sun, and under the whip 
of the driver, for his sole advantage. 

Is it necessary to add one word more to the facts of the case ? They 
speak more strongly than any comment could possibly do. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 
The Government of the United States have abolished the African 
slave trade, and have manifested a very laudable zeal in effecting its 
entire suppression, although their squeamishness as to the concession 
of a mutual right of search has tended greatly to impede the attain- 
ment of that object. But there is another species of slave trade, which 
is carried on to a great extent in the southern parts of the Union. Not 
only are numbers of free persons, both black and coloured, kidnapped, 
and carried into those Western States where slavery is permitted, and 
there sold into interminable bondage ; but a system has risen up, by 
which in those states, where the soil has become so deteiiorated as no 
longer to allow exportable produce to be profitably cultivated, the profit of 
the slave-holder arises from his breeding slaves for the new and more 
fertile states, where the productiveness of the soil promises to repay 
the costly expedient of slave-labour. There is something very revolt- 
ing to any mind of feeling or principle in owing the necessaries and 
comforts of life to the forced and uncompensated labour of slaves. But 
the idea of deriving one's income from the rearing of human beings for 
sale, in the same way and on the same principles as horses or cattle, or 
pigs or sheep, are reared for the shambles, involves in it something in- 
conceivably degrading, not only to the subjects of such an employment 
of capital, but to those whose capital is so employed. It is even af- 
firmed, that the income of not a few of the statesmen and senators of 
the United States arises from this opprobrious source. Their slaves are 
employed in cujtivating provisions_ chiefly for their own use, and the 



8 United States of America. 

profit of ihe proprietor is drawn from the sale of a certain proportion of 
their offspring to the Western traders, a mode of increasing his wealth 
attended with circumstances of the most demoralizing description, which 
have the effect of sinking the unhappy slave still nearer to the level 
of absolute brutality. 

There is too much true religion and right feehng in the United States 
to permit such a system as this to proceed without the loudest reproba- 
tion. Accordingly, societies have been formed, at different times, with 
a view of testifying against its abominations, and of exciting efforts for 
their suppression throughout the Union, Among other means of 
awakening the dormant consciences of the Americans, a newspaper has 
been established at Baltimore, the capital of Maryland, itself a slave- 
holding state, which appears once a fortnight, and is entitled, " The 
Genius of Universal 'Emancipation." Its motto is taken from the de- 
claration of American Independence, and is as follows : " We hold these 
truths to be self-evident — that all men are created equal, and endowed 
by their Creator with certain inalienable rights—that among these are, 
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." 

From this paper we propose to insert from time to time, a few mis- 
cellaneous extracts, which will serve to throw light, both on the atro- 
cities of the internal American slave-trade, and the state of public 
feeling in the United States upon the subject. 



SLAVE POPULATION IN THE WEST INDIES. 

We have been attacked for giving an unfair and delusive view of the 
state of the slave population in the West Indies, and of the extent and 
causes of its decrease. Our reply will consist in an abstract of the 
statistical returns furnished by the colonists themselves, and which will 
be found fully to bear out our statements. This abstract is now in a 
state of preparation. 

This, and all other publications of ihe Society, may lie had at their office, 
18, Aldennunbury ; or at Messrs, Haft-hard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill, 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at ihe depots of the And' 
Slaverj Society Ihrongliotit the kingdom. 



BAnSTF.n and TJIOTMS, Piiiiler.f, II, Barf/iohmrx Clo^e. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 26.] For JULY, 1827. [No. 2. Vol. ii. 



The *' Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will he ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at tlie rate of four shillinos per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing; to receive a rej^ular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention tlie con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



WEST INDIAN STATISTICS ;— EAST AND WEST INDIA TRADE;— 
CHRISTIANITY IN BARBADOES ;— ANTI-SLAVERY IN AME- 
RICA ;— SLAVERY IN JAMAICA. 

I. — West Indian Statistics. 

A BOLD attempt having been made of late to refute the positions 
we have maintained, that the slave population of the West Indies is 
decreasing, and that such decrease is mainly connected with sugar-cul- 
tivation, it appears to be the least exceptionable mode of arriving at 
the truth, to exhibit in a tabular form the statistical facts, bearing on 
the subject, which may be gleaned from the returns furnished by the 
colonial authorities, and laid before parliament, since the beginning of 
1823.* With respect to the actual amount of the slave population at 
the two periods chosen for comparison, viz. 1818 and 1824, we have 
followed, as closely as possible, the abstracts obtained from the Colo- 
nial Registry Office in London. As the registrations, however, from 
which these abstracts have been formed, took place in the different 
colonies very irregularly, it has not always been easy to make the table 
perfectly to conform in all its pans to the above period. In the case, 
however, of any colony where the registration, instead of having taken 
place in 1818, took place in 1817 or 1819, our plan has been to make 
the year of comparison in the former case 1 823, and in the latter 1825 
so as to have in every instance an interval of six years. 

It is obvious, however, that a simple comparison of the amount of 
the population, at these two periods, will do little towards ascertaining 



* The parliamentary documents from which the various particulars are 
drawn, aie chiefly the following :— No. 80 of 4th March, and No. 347 of 14th 
May, 1823 ; No. 421 of 14th June, and No. 439 of 18th June, 1824; No. 350 
and 353 of 9th May, and No. 400 of 19th May, 1826 ; and No. 127 and 128 of 
1st March, 1827. 

e 



10 West Indian Statistics. 

the actual increase or decrease of the whole slave population, or its 
coraparative increase or decrease in each of the colonies, without a cor- 
rect return of the number of the slaves manumitted, as well as of those 
who have been transferred from one colony to another, during the above 
term. The utmost pains have accordingly been taken to fix these data, 
although, as will be seen in the course of our inquiry, not always with 
perfect success. We shall take care to notify, as we proceed, the 
reasons we may have for suspecting inaccuracy m the returns. 

These data, assuming them to be correct, will of course give us the 
real increase or decrease of the slave population, not only in the aggre- 
gate, throughout the whole of our AVest Indian Colonies^ but in each 
colony separately, during the six years in question ; and thence may be 
deduced, by a simple process, the rate of the annual increase or decrease 
in each colony. This we have calculated decimally, as being the most 
correct and intelligible mode of exhibiting it. 

To make the table as complete as possible, we have added the ave- 
rage amount of sugar imported into Great Britain and Ireland for five 
years, being the years 1822 to 1826. Our reason for limiting it to these 
five years,^ and taking them as the basis of our calculation, is, that it 
is only for these particular years that we have been able to obtain the 
importations into Ireland, as well as into Great Britain. If we could 
have obtained the imports of sugar into Ireland for the years which pre- 
cede the above period, we should have preferred an average of the six 
years from 1819 to 1824 inclusive, which would have exactly corre- 
sponded in point of time with the population returns, to that of the five 
years from 1822 to 1826, inclusive. At the same time, we are |^r from 
apprehending that by the substitution of the one for the other the result 
would be materially varied. — The last column exhibits, (also in the de- 
cimal form) the number of cwts. and parts of cwts, of sugar imported, 
into the united kingdom, from each colony, for each slave of its popu- 
lation. 

We are well aware that no very minute or rigorous inference& can be 
drawn from this kind of comparison, necessarily attended as ft is with 
some degree of uncertainty, and liable to be affected by a variety of 
causes, wholly independent of the particular species of cultivation in 
which the slaves maybe engaged.* It will nevertheless be worth while 
to note the general results from such a comparison ; and they seem to 
us to lead irresistibly to the conclusion of the comparatively deatliful 
nature of sugar-cultivation, more especially in fertile soils. 

The table is as follov/s : — 



* Besides sugar, some of the Colonies produce large quantities of coffee, while 
others as Antigua, Barbadoes, Grenada, Montserrat, Nevis, St. Kitt's, 
St. Vincent's, Tobago, and Tortola, produce very little or none. Demarara pro- 
duces about 35,000 cv/t, Dominica about 12,000, Berbice about 20,000, Ja- 
maica about 160,000, Trinidad about 2000, and St. Lucia about 1500, in each 
year. In the first four of these Colonies the quantity is sufficiently large to pro- 
duce a considerable effect. From Demarara, there has also been an export of 
sugar to Holland, of which we have no account. 






Ig-Iws^^ 



fljgo 



O 

d 




. o © © 
© ifl t^ 

' 00 (N 35 


, ««©©©©!« m, o 
•"l '^ "^ ®. ®J '*. '^ ". '^ 

Tt'<ailO»OW5©CCll5"H 




o 
i-i 


none 
285,077 
56,137 


none 
697,243 

41,337 
222,601 


fl©(NTliC5Q0'OpHrHt- 





P^ -a fe ^ 



t-00©--l©©TS'©lO''S'« 
pH©©©©©»-Hl-HI>i©N 



o 


i § i s 


00 >n 


<1> 


1 -<>* 










a " S V, 


' (M © 


rt 


•2 s S"S 





I I 



! ! 






1-1 (M 



I 1 



I i 



GD O CO OJ 
i» » © t^ ■ 
© CO Ci 



I-l I GO I 1-1 



O O CO T? 

CO Oi CO ■^ 

1-1 Tf 



g S ^ 1 
§.2x3 



-H 1-^ t- JO 

t- 00 1-1 <o 

o> <N o 



0>-HSOOO©©CCi«rli Oii-i 

oms^O'ot-.oco'ii'a' tc55^ 
o^cO'OF^'n eOOcol t^ 



•s -S 



m o 1 lo 
OS Oi I — 
rH 1-1 a* 



©iat-.Ob«(N<MCD«5aOt-i-it». 

Cl'^aOlOOCOOCS'^OOOlfllM 

(^(^©NaocOTliTfOseoiNTiioi 

(NIMCO 05 ,^r^i-lo»-H 



1 I 



I 1 



TSitotOT)<?ot-n<(M©eoco©05»>©eoaDO 

p=iQO,— (.— H|>.fr^i^t>.»OiOt«TfCOi— ICOQO'Tfi^ 
e0i~'Q0fflp^05t-01'^(N'Mi-l<Ot-Q0OTl"rH 



CO 



rH 1— I M '^ 



04U5C0CDCOt»CsO5©©©<Mt"S^CO©OSt- 
CDi0050t^OiCiO©»0^^©COCO'^CSOCO 
(M_iri't-i-iaDCT>© t-^"" * O '^'^*V*iv^^ 
5sr-rtJ"co lO t- t>"cD IN<£OC>©>0>0"550'^ 



^ 



o 



2 <i m 5 S 
H a BS cj p; 



S " ^ 5 5 7 "fciill-?^ < H S 

<t!aMMeClOP05H>-;Sgi«3:gaiHHE-i 



12 West Indian Statistics. — Population. 

From this statement it appears that the whole decrease of the slave 
population in our West India colonies has amounted in six years to about 
28,000, being 3i per cent., or ^ per cent, per annum. When we com- 
pare this with the growth of the slave population in the United States 
of America, where the increase proceeds at the rate of nearly 2 J per 
cent, per annum, it involves a destruction of life equal to 3 per cent, 
per annum. At the American rate of increase the slave population of 
the British West Indies which in 1818 was 746,651, ought in 1824 to 
have been 858,648. Its actual amount in that year was only 713,317, 
leaving a deficit of 145,331, as compared with that rate of increase, 
which, with all the common disadvantages of a state of bondage, marks 
the superiority of the United States in the physical treatment of their 
slaves, and especially in respect to the larger quantity of their food, 
and the smaller portion of labour exacted from them ; for on these 
must the rate of increase or decrease mainly depend. Now there must 
be something peculiarly deleterious in the British colonial system which 
can produce such fearful results — results which form of themselves a 
complete answer to every attempt, however confidently made, and by 
whatever shew of evidence supported, which goes to exculpate that 
system from the charge of cruelty, or to represent its administration 
as humane and lenient^ 

But to return to the table, on which a few remarks will be neces- 
sary. — From Bermuda there is no information that can be relied upon 
beyond the amount of its population in 1818. In the absence of that* 
information, we assume it to be the same in 1824, calculating that the 
manumissions and the exports, whatever they may be, may be equal 
to the probable increase during that time. — The slave population 
of Honduras is said to be about 2700 in 1818 and 2468 in 1823. We 
have taken it at 2450 in 1824. The manumissions are stated to have 
been 141 in five years. We assume them to have been 169 in six years. 
The rate of mortality is certainly higher than we should have expected, 
were it not that the male slave population is double that of the female, 
only one-third of the whole slave population being females. 

In Jamaica we have the manumissions in an intelligible shape only 
for five years, namely, from 1821 to 1825 inclusive, and they amount 
to 2133. We assume the manumissions for six years to be a fifth 
more, namely, 2559. 

In the case of St. Lucia the manumissions are also given only for the 
five years from 1821 to 1825. We have added to that number for 
the year preceding, 1820, the number manumitted in 1821. No account 
is given of the exports and imports of slaves from and to this island. 
Whether that omission will account for its great rate of mortality we 
know not, but it is very large in proportion to its produce. 

From Tobago we are without any proper account either of the manu- 
missions effected, or of the imports and exports of slaves. These, if 
known , might probably reduce the enormous rate of decrease in this island, 
which is larger than that of any other colony, excepting Trinidad. 

It is obvious that the returns of the transfer of slaves from one 
colony to another are imperfect. The number imported into the diffe- 
rent colonies is 13,663. The number exported ought, of course, to 



West iiidian Statistics. 



13 



correspond with the imports, but it is only 1 1,098. An excess of 2565 
is therefore to be accounted for. These may have been exported from 
the colonies of Bahama, Bermuda, Berbice, Dominica, St. Lucia, Tobago, 
and Tortola, It would be vain, however, to speculate on the portion 
of that export which belonged to each of these different colonies. If it 
could be known, it would probably add to the rate of increase in Ba- 
hama, Bermuda, and Dominica, and lessen the rate of decrease in Ber- 
bice, St. Lucia, Tobago, and Tortola. The general result, however, 
is in no way affected by this uncertainty. The aggregate decrease in 
the whole of the Islands will remain the same, although its rate in par- 
ticular colonies might be modified by a more correct return of the 
slaves exported from each. 

Having made these general observations, we shall now advert to 
some further particulars respecting each of the West Indian colonies, 
which we think may throw additional light on their real circumstances. 
Most of these particulars have already appeared in the Reporter, No. 19, 
to which we beg to refer. It will nevertheless, be convenient, for the 
purpose of easier reference, to arrange some of them in a tabular form. 
The returns, however, of the white and the free coloured population are 
so very defective, that in stating it, we have been obliged for the most 
part, to proceed, not upon clear documentary evidence, but on the best 
information we have been able to procure. The dubious numbers are 
all marked with an asterisk to denote their being conjectural, and not 
the result of actual official returns. 



Name 


WHiite 


Free Black, 
and 


Paupers, 1821—1825. 


1 u 

s - & 


' Slaves 
icution, 
1825. 


_• 

Average 


of 


Population, 


Colour d 




Free Black, 


Xi « CO 


I I 2 


price of 
Slaves sold. 


Colony. 


1824. 


Population. 

182-1. 


White. 


and 
Coloured. 


1 Is 


III 


1821 to 
liS5. 














£. s. 


Antigua .... 


*2000 


3895 


uo return no return 


none 


no return 


— 


Bahamas.... 


*700 


2199 


13 


15 


7 


83 


21 16 


Barbadoes , . 


*16000 


*4500 


1098 


1 


1 


1773 


28 


Berbice 


*C00 


835 


17 


2 


none 


449 


90 


Bermuda ... 


*4800 


*500 


no return 


no return 


no return 


no return 


— 


Demarara .. . 


»2500 


4727 


51 


26 


none 


3678 


86 


Dominica .. . 


*800 


3102 


30 


10 


129 


854 


30 


Grenada .... 


883 


3497 


none 


none 


14 


2119 


30 IG 


Honduras .. . 


*igo 


1750 


2 


5 


1 


tl51 


62 15 


Jamaica if. . . 


*25000 


*35000 


295 


148 


6049 


5158 


45 12 


Montserrat. . 


*500 


685 


no return'no return 


none 


no return 


— 


Nevis 


*800 


*1800 


25 


2 


5 


155 


35 


St. Ritt's 


*1800 


*2500 


115 


14 


18 


611 


24 3 


St. Lucia .. . 


1105 


3036 


none 


none 


none 


no return 


— 


St. Vincent's 


1301 


2824 


no returnino return 


4 


948 


16 15 


Tobago 


*d50 


*1500 


none 


none 


none 


no return 


— 


Tortola 


*400 


607 


29 


4 


none 


209 


17 10 


Trinidad .... 


*3500 


*15000 


none 


none 


12 


2148 


no return 



t These sales in execution go no farther back than 1821. If the same pro- 
portion for three years more were added, it would make 241. 

% Jamaica, it will be seen, exhibits a large number of marriages as compared 



14 West Indian Statistics. — Remarks. 

From the above statistical details, a few plain inferences seem fairly 
deducible. 

1 . It is evident that the slave-population of the West Indies continues 
to decrease. 

This single fact we hold to establish incontrovertibly against the sys- 
tem of slavery prevailing in our colonies, the' charge of cruelty, and 
to disprove the evidence which has been alleged in favour of its general 
lenity. The treatment of the slaves, we are confidently told, has greatly 
improved of late. Who are they who tell us so ? They are the resi- 
dent planters, the very men whose character and conduct are involved 
in the question, and who have not only now, but in every successive 
stage of this discussion, from 1787 downwards, used precisely the 
same language. The declarations of the colonial legislatures, of the 
resident planters, of naval and military officers, of medical men, and 
even of clergymen, were to the full as strong in favour of the lenity of 
the system in the early periods of the controversy as in the present day. 
One main cause of this unvarying eulogy, doubtless is, that, at all times, 
men, who are interested in upholding any system, are found very dex- 
terous in palhating every circumstance connected with it which might 
endanger its stability. It is obvious that this tendency will be greatly 
increased, when those who have an interest in the system are actually 
engaged in its administration. Their reputation is then involved in its 
defence. Their pride and self-love impel them to support it, and to 
resent every attack upon it as a personal attack on themselves. But 
besides this, it is perfectly natural that men should mistake the growing 
and almost unavoidable diminution of their own sensibility to its 
evils for an improvement of the system itself. They can recollect the 
horror and disgust they felt when first introduced to the sight of the 
human team in the field — to the driver and his cart-whip, the stocks 
and the hot-house, the indecent exposures, and the merciless lacera- 
tions, which form component parts of the system. Ten or twenty years 
have quieted these involuntary risings of nature. The sights which origi- 
nally shocked them have become familiar. At first they were mere spec- 
tators, they have since become the administrators of slavery ; and they are 
willing to flatter themselves that the abatement of the pain they once ex- 
perienced in contemplating it, is to be ascribed, not to that growing cal- 
lousness of feeling which necessarily springs from familiarity, but to the 
amelioration of the system under their own more lenient and improved 

with all the other West India colonies. But of that number, 4640 took place in 
two parishes, Kingston, and St.Thomas in the East, and 405 in a third parish, 
St. Andrew's ; in which three parishes the Wesleyan Methodists had long es- 
tablished their missions. In the other eighteen parishes, the marriages in 18 
years were 1004 ; and their population being about 290,000, this amounts to 
about one annually among each 5000 slaves. For the division of these among 
the different parishes, see Reporter, No. 19. p. 268. 

The account of sales in execution from this island has reference only to the 
years 1818 to 1822 inclusive. If extended, at the same ratio, to the remaining 
three years of the series, the number would amount to 8253. Besides the slaves 
sold in execution, 550 slaves were seized and sold for taxes, in Jamaica, during 
the years 1821—1825, the average value of each of whom, at public gale, was 
45/. 12«. sterling. 



West Indian Statistics. — Remarks. 15 

managemeat. We do not deny that in particular cases great improve- 
ments may have been intended and attempted ; but we doubt whether 
even in these cases much has been effected. But there has been no 
proof exhibited hitiierto, beyond the vague declarations of interested 
parties, to warrant the belief, that, either in law or in practice, colonial 
slavery has undergone any substantial amelioration. In this absence of 
all satisfactory affirmative evidence, the negative evidence arising from 
decrease of population, seems quite conclusive, even if we had not had 
given to us any of those recent instances of oppressive legislation and of 
cruel practice, which stand recorded in the preceding Numbers of the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter.* Even the population of Great Britain and 
Ireland, whom the West Indians represent as starving, increase, — while 
the peasantry of the West Indies, whom they describe as well-fed, and 
slightly worked ; as living happily, and even luxuriously, are decreasing. 
These too decrease, while the free Maroons on the mountains of Ja- 
maica, though unhappily strangers to the vaunted blessings enjoyed by 
the slaves around them, increase ; nay, they have continued to decrease, 
while the ^^ wretched" smA '^^ oppressed" inhabitants of Hayti have 
been more than doubling their numbers ; and while among the slaves 
of the United States, the increase has been rapidly progressive. — 
The climate of Jamaica and that of Hayti are the same. In Jamaica, 
the negro population has been diminishing from year to year. In 
Hayti, the negro population has doubled its numbers in about twenty 
years, (from 1805 to 1825 ;) its amount being now about a million. That 
of Jamaica, which in the same period of time, and at the same ratio of 
increase, ought to have risen to upwards of 700,000 ; does not exceed. 
335,000. There is, therefore, a positive waste of life occasioned by the 
Jamaica system, as compared with that of Hayti, even on its hmited scale 
of population, of 365,000 human beings in twenty years. How is this 
phenomenon to be explained ? It can be explained only in one way. 
The toil of the Jamaica negro is uncompensated : it is extracted from 
him by the impulse of the lash: he is overworked : he is underfed. — 
The toil of the Haytian negro is amply rewarded : it is voluntary : his 
labour is suited to his strength, and his food is measured by his wants. 
The negro in Jamaica is an inferior animal, divested of all civil and 
political existence, and who dares not raise an arm, in defence of his 
property or even of his life, against the meanest white person in the 
island. The negro in Hayti is a member of the state, and is amenable 
only to the law which protects him, and which negroes, chosen by him- 
self, have framed for the common good. 

2. It is evident that, independently of the other evils of slavery, 
sugar-planting generally, as it is conducted in the British West Indies, 
is decidedly unfriendly to human life. This arises, in part, from the 
oppressive labour which attends the digging of the trenches for receiving 
the cane, and which is executed not by ploughs and cattle, but by men 
and women ; and, in part, from the privation of their natural rest, to 
which the slaves are subjected in crop time, extending to a period of 
four or five months of the year, during which they are obliged to 
labour for half the night as well as for the whole of the day. 

^* See particularly No. 5, 6, 11^ 16, 18, 19, and 25. 



16 West Indian Statistics. — Remarks. 

3. It is further evident that the destructive influence, on human life^ 
of sugar-planting as it is carried on in the West Indies, is aggravated 
by that very circumstance of fertiUty of soil, which seems most to 
swell the gains of the planter ; and, on the same principle, is further 
aggravated by the extent of the protection afforded to his produce 
against competitors, and of the bounties allowed to him upon it. It is 
not only that these advantages enable him to live at a distance from his 
slaves, who are thus left to the care of mere hirelings ; but that they 
form a strong temptation to an increased exaction of slave labour. Ac- 
cordingly we find, that where the lands are most productive, yielding the 
largest return for the labour of each slave, and a proportionately larger 
share of whatever gain arises from protection and bounty, the ratio of 
mortality is the highest. We do not mean to say that the advantages 
of the planter, and the mortality of the slave, bear such a uniform rela- 
tion to each other, as may be made the subject of a very exact calcu- 
lation. The general tendency of things, however, is not the less 
apparent. If we inspect the first of the tables inserted above, it is 
impossible not to be struck with the mortality which takes place in 
Demarara, Grenada, St. Vincent's, Tobago, and Trinidad, the very 
colonies which produce by far the largest quantities of sugar, in propor- 
tion to their population ; as compared with any of the other colonies, 
and particularly with Barbadoes and Dominica, which raise compara- 
tively little sugar, and with the Bahamas, which raise none at all. If 
any of our readers are desirous of investigating the principle which thus 
connects the gains of the planter, and the high prices of his produce, 
with the misery and mortality of his slaves, we would only refer them 
to the second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society, pp. 16 — 33 ; and 
to the Reporters, No. 19, pp. 283—285; No. 22, p. 321, 322; and 
No. 24, p. 386. — If we are correct in the view we have taken of this 
subject, shall we blame those, as guilty of exaggeration who affirm, 
though in strong language, that the sugar of our plantations is produced 
by the blood of the slaves ; or, as unreasonably squeatnish, who object 
to aggravate the evil, either by consuming that sugar themselves, or by 
acquiescing in those fiscal regulations which factitiously enhance its 
value ? This view of the subject supplies, moreover, a satisfactory 
answer to ihe argument, on which too many repose as a justification of 
their supineness in this cause, namely, that it is so obviously the interest 
of the master to treat his slaves well, that no foreign interference is 
required to that end ; for it shews that various adventitious circum- 
stances may concur, as unhappily they do concur in the case of our 
sugar Colonies, to bring the profit of the master and the well-being of 
the slave into direct and immediate collision. 

4. The progress of manumission in the different Colonies is another 
subject of curious inquiry. We will not pretend to say in what degree 
it has been affected by the comparative fertility of the soil, and the con- 
sequent high price of slaves ; or by the taxes formerly imposed on 
manumission, and which of course operated in the same way as a high 
price ; or by what other causes conjoined with these. But the following 
facts, connected with the subject, are worth preserving. We resort 
again to the tabular form for exhibiting them. 



West Indian Statistics. — Re7narks. 



17 



■ 


Rate per cent., ex. 




sterling amount of 




pressed in decimals, 


Average price of 


taxes and tees pay- 


Name of the Colony. 


of manumissions in 
six y ears , 1 S 1 9,-1825, 


Slaves in 
sterling monej'. 


able in 1S21— 1525, 
on eacli manumis- 




on tlie wliole poyni- 




sion. 




lat'on. 










£. s. 


£. s. d. 


Antio-ua . . . 


3.00 


— 


" 1 16 


Bahamas . . . 


2.50 


21 16 


5 


B;irbadoes. . . 


0.80 


28 


34 7 6 


Berbice . . . 


0.25 


90 


39 5 


Demarara . . 


0.26 


86 


30 5 


Dominica . 


1.75 


30 


8 15 


Grenada . 


1.84 


30 16 


1 18 


Honduras* . • 


6.00 


62 15 


10 6 


Jamaica . . 


0.74 


45 12 


7 6 & 


Montserrat . 


1.06 


— 


2i. 6rf. per sheet. 


Nevis .... 


0.65 


35 


2s. per sheet 


St. Kitt's . . . 


1.69 


24 3 


11 


St. Lucia . . . 


4.15 




before 1824, £42 






16 15 


now, £2 7s. 


St. Vincent's . . 


1.35 


17 10 


4 


Tortola . . . 


1.50 




19 6 


Trinidad . . . 


3.00 




no tax. 



5. It is further evident, that all the alarms, respecting the effect of 
manumissions in producing pauperism, which formerly furnished the 
pretext for imposing a tax upon them, and which is still one of the 
reasons alleged for resisting the compulsory manum«ssion clause, have 
no foundation whatever in fact. In a free black and coloured popula- 
tion, amounting to about 88,000, only 227 appear to have received even 
occasional relief as paupers, being one in each 387 individuals ; while 
of about 63,400 whites, 1675 have received such relief, being one in 
38. The whole of the manumitted slaves and their descendants, there- 
fore, in the West Indian Colonies, are placed more above want than 
even the whites ; and it is well known that a large proportion of them 
are industrious and wealthy, notwithstanding the many civil and 
political disabilities by which their efforts are most unjustly and in- 
juriously repressed. 

6. It is unnecessary to advert to the very low state of religious and 
moral feeling in the West Indies, which is evinced by the small number 
of marriages of slaves in the different Colonies, and by the general 
absence of all legal sanctions to such marriages ; circumstances which 
incontestably establish the prevalent disregard of the colonial legislatures, 
and the colonial proprietary, to the best injterests of the slave popula- 
tion. We see again in this fact a confutation of that argument, which 



* In Honduras the slaves are not only fed by the master, but they have two 
days of the week, Saturday and Sunday to themselves. This accounts for the 
large proportion of manumissions in that Colony, notwithstanding the compa- 
ratively high price which slaves bear. 



1! 



East and West India Trade. 



would lead us implicitly to rely on the master, for either clearly per- 
ceiving his own interests, or for promoting those of his slave. 

7. There is only one other point, connected with the above details, to 
which we would now again direct the attention of our readers, and it is 
this singular fact already touched upon in theReporter, No. 19 ; — namely, 
that while the mortality of the slaves seems to keep pace with the produc- 
tiveness of the soil, and the consequent high profits of the master, the 
distress of the planter seems also to run parallel with those apparently 
favourable circumstances in his lot. The proportion of slaves, sold in 
execution, is greatest in those Colonies where their price is the highest 
and the quantity of produce they rear the largest. This may only 
prove, perhaps, that the more fortunate adventurers in the West Indian 
lottery, are incited, like all other gamblers, by their very success, to 
indulge in habits of greater profusion, and to become more careless and 
improvident in the management of their aiFairs. But even if this 
should be the real solution of the phenomenon, does it not still shew 
that the natural course of the moral government of the world is framed 
with a singular aptitude to disappoint the cupidity of those, whose object 
it is to enrich themselves by the rigorous exaction of the uncompensated 
labour of their fellow-creatures? 



II. — East a'sh West India Trade. 

From a Paper ordered to be printed by the House of Commons on 
the 15th of May, 1827, No. 345, we extract the following particulars 
of the East and West India Trade. 

Exports from the United Kingdom to the East Indies, China, &c. 







Manufactured Cot- 


Value of manufac- 


"VilOV 


Total Value. 


tons of all kinds. 


tured Cottons. 


1 ear. 


Official. 


Yards. 


Official. 


1814 


£1,696,404 


818,208 


£88,195 


1815 


2,064,566 


1,355,476 


109,644 


1816 


2,185,642 


1,705,758 


142,811 


1817 


2,779,626 


5,316,729 


432,123 


1818 


3,185,751 


8,842,046 


698,817 


1819 


2,373,556 


7,127,661 


556,116 


1820 


3,272,811 


14,325,276 


1,138,701 


1821 


4,303,045 


19,896,014 


1,531,293 


1822 


3,875,934 


20,741,843 


1,639,001 


1823 


4,355,431 


23,291,734 


1,741,057 


1824 


4,394,800 


24,524,573 


1,765,346 


1825 


3,945,076 


23,059,283 


1,715,222 


1826 


4,877,133 


26,225,103 


2;066,596 



East and West hidia Trade. 



19 



Exports from the United Kingdom to the West Indies, 





Total Value. 


Manufactured Cot- 


Value of manufac- 


Year. 


Official. 


tons of all kinds. 
Yards. 


tured Cottons. 
Official. 


1814 


£6,622,138 


32,878,565 


£2,975,067 


1815 


7,196,081 


38,338,786 


3,454,549 


1816 


4,853,228 


21,624,669 


1,988,902 


1817 


7,015,591 


42,062,402 


3,724,380 


1818 


5,989,707 ■ 


30,843,995 


2,671,934 


1819 


4,692,414 


17,936,644 - 


1,551,203 


1820 


4,561,246 


19,676,487 


1,689,882 


1821 


5,311,677 


27,037,914 


2,341,425 


1822 


4,370,100 


20,389,362 


1,739,938 


1823 


4,899,271 


24,787,214 


2,107,376 


1824 


5,167,931 


27,551,050 


2,301,931 


1825 


4,997,270 


27,211,696 


2,346,787 


1826 


4,647,293 


19,292,606 


1,648,979 



Official Value of Imports into the United Kingdom from the East and 

West Indies.* 



Year. 


East Indies. 


West Indies. 


1814 


£6,298,386 


9,022,309 


1815 


8,038,736 


8,903,260 


1816 


8,310,697 


7,847,895 


1817 


7,687,278 : 


8,326,926 


1818 


7,337,689 


8,608,790 


1819 


7,537,563 


8,188,539 


1820 


7,562,647 


8,354,512 


1821 


6,233,571 


8,367,477 


1822 


5,106,400 , 


8,019,764 


1823 


6,918,540 


8,425,259 


1824 


7,312,355 


9,065,546 


1825 


6,582,058 


7,932,832 


1826 


8,002,838 


8,283,507 



' * There is much uncertainty in these official values. Coffee from the West 
Indies', for example, is valued at 71. per cwt., when its real average value is not 
3/. per cvft. Indigo, on the other hand, from the East Indies, is valued at 
2s. 9rf. per lb., when its real average value is at least double that sum. The 
import of that article in 1826 was 7,673,* 10 lbs. The difference of value is 
1,088,125Z. on that article alone, which ought to be added to the East Indian 
valuation ; whereas, for the 226,000 cwt. of coffee imported from the West 
Indies, there ought to be a deduction of 904,000L at least, thus altering the 
comparative amounts to the extent of two millions in favour of the East Indies. 



20 



III. — Christianity in Barbadoes. 

The Rev. W. M. Harte, the Rector of the parish of St. Lucy in 
this island, the same individual who dared, two years ago, to intermarry 
the only couple of slaves ever married in Barbadoes, has given some 
fresh cause of morlal offence to his parishioners. Accordingly, on the 
21st day of April 1827, a meeting of the Vestry, called by public ad- 
vertisement " to take into consideration the highly improper conduct of 
Mr. Harte in the performance of his duties," took place. Sir R. A. Al- 
leyne in the chair; who, we are told, " in a most feeling, impressive, 
and eloquent manner, expressed his sentiments of the unexampled and 
glaring misconduct of the R.ector." " His behaviour was such as to 
excite feelings of a very opposite nature than should be entertained for 
a minister of the Gospel, a disciple of that Christ who taught humility 
and obedience to those whose civil condition had placed them in subor- 
dinate situations." A Mr. Griffith affirmed, that though " the Rector 
had had every encouragement afforded him, on his first undertaking to 
instruct the black population, he was now sorry to say, his late con- 
duct did not merit the confidence of their proprietors, as his doctrines 
were subversive of that order which should exist between master and 
slave." And a Mr. O'Neale expressed his " indignation at the insults 
offered the parishioners by the Rector." — These angry and criminatory 
speeches were followed by a set of resolutions, unanimously adopted by 
the Meeting, to this effect. 

Resolved, \st. — "That the inhabitants of this parish are fully im- 
pressed with the importance of imparting religious knowledge to their 
slaves, and are ready to aflford them all safe facilities of obtaining this 
kind of instructiour 

'ind, — " That in all communities, distinctions of rank are necessary to 
the safety and well-being of society, and more especially in such a one 
as ours, where the hand of nature has drawn a mark of distinction be- 
tween the proprietor of the soil and his dependants. 

3r(/.— " That any attempts proceeding from the ministers of religion 
to destroy these distinctions, to amalgamate and level the two classes of 
our country, must tend to endanger the safety and property of the white 
inhabitants, and cannot be otherwise than injurious to the civil condi- 
tion and religious improvement of the black population, by exciting in 
their minds discontent and views inconsistent with their situation ; and 
in the proprietors a just jealousy against the designs and motives of 
those who are appointed to the office of the religious instruction of 
their slaves. 

4f/i. — "That it is with deep concern that the inhabitants of this parish 
have observed the frequent attempts made, by the rector of the parish, to 
destroy the distinctions which they deem so necessary to their safety; 
more especially evinced by his offensive sermon on Easter Sunday, and 
his disgraceful conduct whilst administering the most Holy Sacrament 
of the Lord's supper, thereby endeavouring to alienate their slaves from 
a sense of their duty, by inculcating doctrines of equality inconsistent 
with their obedience to their masters and the policy of this island. 



Christianity in Barbadoes. — United States. 21 

5th. — " That the inhabitants are therefore under the painful necessity 
of declaring thus unequivocally their determination to refuse the Rev, 
Wm. M. Harte admission into their estates, and to prevent, as much as 
possible, all intercourse between him and their slaves. 

Qth. — '' That copies of these Resolutions be sent to his Excellency the 
Governor anvd the Lord Bishop of the Diocese, and that the inhabitants 
of this parish venture to hope that his Lordship will restore the peace 
and tranquillity of the parish by adopting such measures as may, in his 
vpisdom, seem expedient to relieve them from those insults and injuries 
of which they so justly complain — a termination of which, can only be 
effected by the removal of Mr. Harte, the present incumbent, who has 
deservedly lost the confidence, respect, and regard of every white inha- 
bitant in this parish." 

We have read over and over again what is reported to have passed on 
this occasion, in order to discover, if possible, what might be the specific 
offence for which the Reverend Rector of St. Lucy has been thus visited 
with the ire of his white parishioners ; but we remain wholly in the dark 
respecting it. Was it that the transactions so obscurely alluded to, were of 
a kind which it would not have been very creditable to these Barbadian 
Christians to have more distinctly specified ? Did they feel it more con- 
venient to deal in general abuse than to state facts ? Or were the crimes 
which have led to these vindictive denunciations nameless? Had 
Mr. Harte ventured to preach to his hearers from either of these texts; 
" Remember the Sabbath-day to keep it holy;" — or, " Masters give 
unto your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that ye also 
have a master in heaven;" "neither is there respect of persons w^ith 
him ;" — or, " As ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so 
unto them ; for this is the law and the prophets ? " Or did he endeavour 
to impress it on the minds of white and black alike that, whatever dis- 
tinctions might exist between them on earth, none would exist in heaven 
except what resulted from " faith working by love" and obedience to 
God ? Or did he invite browns and blacks, as well as whites, to ap- 
proach the table of the Lord, and to eat of that bread and drink of that 
cup which shadows forth their common salvation ? It must have been 
some such heinous offence as this, too horrid to be even named, which 
has brought down vengeance on the devoted head of Mr. Harte. 
Sensuality, intemperance, profaneness, neglect of pastoral duties^ 
might have passed as venial infirmities; but such daring attempts to 
destroy the necessary distinctions between black and white, deserve 
nothing less than exclusion from all intercourse, whether with bond or 
free, in the island of Barbadoes. 



IV. — Anti-Slavery iisr America. 

Extracts from the Genius of Universal Emancipation. 

"The following advertisement is taken from a late New Orleans paper, and is 
copied that our readers may have an idea <if the cruelties and indignities t© 
which the hapless African is too often subjected : — 



22 Extracts from an American Newspaper o 

"Ninety-Eight Negroes for sale. — The subscriber has just received by the 
brig Lady Monroe, from Baltimore, Ninety-Eight Negroes ; amongst which are 
a number of prime field hands — a blacksmith — a rough carpenter — a bricklayer 
— carriage drivers — house servants — sempstress and washer-woman. All of 
which will be sold low for cash, or on short credit for good paper, by 

JOHN WOOLFOLK, (of Baltimore.) 
122, Chartres-st. New Orleans. 

" Mr. John Woolfolk, the man whose name is attached to the foregoing adver- 
tisement, has, for a series of years, been engaged in the Domestic Slave Trade. 
His very appearance strikes the hapless negro with terror and dismay. He was 
concerned in the cargo of slaves who recently mutinied whilst on their passage 
from Louisville to New Orleans, and put to death the crew of the barge that 
was conducting them to their destined abodes of pain and misery. Recently he 
flourished in Baltimore during a riot, when an attempt was made to rivet the 
chains of legal bondage on two or three kidnapped negroes, who- had, through 
the agency of their friends, made an effort to escape from their cruel and hard- 
hearted oppressor. He is a man dead to every ennobling principle ; and it is 
hoped that he will yet pay the penalty due to every wretch who follows such an 
infamous vocation. 

" It is time that a stop were put to the Domestic Slave Trade, and as some of 
the slave-holding states have already suppressed it, it is hoped that the remain- 
der of them will follow the example, and thus for ever destroy a traflic, which 
is equally repugnant to every principle of humanity, and to our free institutions. 
By this advertisement it will be seen, that human beings, composed of like ma- 
terials with ourselves, are sold at the south like merchandize — treated like brutes 
of creation — contemned and despised, simply because it pleased an all-wise 
Creator to give them a black complexion." 

We give, as a proof of the interest which the subject excites at the 
present moment in the United States, the following further extracts : 

" Within the space of about three weeks, accounts have been received, at the 
office of the Genius of Universal Emancipation, of the formation of TWELVE 
new associations, upon the plan of the Anti-Slavery Society of Maryland." 

" Some of these associations are not yet completely organized, but are expected 
to be in a short time. Of the diflerent religious professors, who are engaged in 
the good work, the Methodists and Fiiends are the most active. Yet there are 
many Presbyterians and Baptists, and a few of other denominations, who have 
turned their attention to it. 

"It may truly be said that there never was a period mentioned in the history 
of the United States, when the tenth part was done (if we except the time when 
the ' Missouri Question' agitated the stagnant pool of the public mind,) rela- 
tive to the investigation of the subject of slavery, that is now doing. The people 
are rousing from their lethargy ; and as their eyes are turned towards the hor- 
rible object, they must perceive its barbarous, oppressive, and dangerous ten- 
dency. They will then arise in their might, and raze to the ground the tower- 
ing fabric of oppression and cruelty. No half-way measures — no time-serving 
policy will do when the public mind becomes duly enlightened. Our great 
schemers, who direct public affairs, and are willing to do any thing upon this 
subject that sounds large, and leaves the evil untouched, must go to work properly 
in a way that will be effectual, or they will find themselves speedily shorn of 
their influence and permitted to frequent the walks of private life. 

" In short, it is hoped that the advocates of universal emancipation will take 
courage and renew their labours in the holy cause. They cannot fail of success 
if they persevere in their undertakings." 

The following is one of the rules of the Reformed Methodist Church 
of the United States. 

" Article 8th. No person holding a slave, shall be admitted into society, on 
any condition. Any member of the society, buying a slave, shall be immediately 
expelled from it. All persons receiving money, as heirs, in consequence of the 
sale of slaves, shall be immediately expelled from the society." 



Slavery in Jamaica. ^'i 

, We have also, in the same paper, a spirited appeal to the religious of 
erery name, of which this is a brief extract : — 

" Where are all the societies denominated christian ? Where are those churches 
that have raised their voices in behalf of the political rights of white men ? Are 
they invoking the constituted authorities of our country in behalf of the greatest 
sufferers of the race of man ? are they imploring relief for the victims of oppres- 
sion and avarice ? Are the professed ministers of religion faithfully unveiling to 
their fellovr men the unhallowed and abominable fruits of slavery ? Do tbey 
show them in language not to be misconstrued, the absolute impossibility of 
being Christians and slaveholders at the same time ? And do they thereby ex- 
cite among their hearers the spirit of inquiry, the spirit of humanity and justice, 
towards this oppressed and deeply injured race ? Do they show them that to 
live by a perpetual warfare, robbery, and plunder, is not only anti-christian 
but devilish ; and that such as are in the daily practice of oppressing the weak 
and outraging their just and inalienable rights — are perverting the order of 
God — and that where He is, they never can appear ? " They that are unjust let 
them be unjust still," is a denunciation most appropriate in this instance, for 
principles never change : the names may change. Was this the case, were 
the high professors of religion honestly and fearlessly to embark in the cause 
of peace and righteousness on earth, there would unquestionably be less pro- 
fession of religion or less slavery ; for it is a truth that cannot be denied, that 
two such heterogeneous plants as Religion and Slavery cannot subsist in the 
same soil." 



V. — Slavery in Jamaica. 

We have often called the attention of the public to the Jamaica 
Gazettes, and the evidence they contain of the abominations of the Slave 
system. The following extracts from one of the latest which has 
reached us, namely that of the 5th of May, 1827, will shew how little 
improvement has yet been effected. 

Portland, May 2, 1827. 
Venditionis returnable June Grand Court, 1827, 

Edmund Phillips, a black, a carpenter ; aged 31 years; 

Charles Phillips, ditto, ditto ; aged 29 years. 

James Phillips, ditto, a field-negro ; aged 44 years. 

Jane Phillips, ditto, ditto ; aged 34 years. 

Frances Phillips, ditto, a drudge ; aged 10 years. 

Margery Phillips, ditto ; aged 8 years. 

Catherine Williams, ditto ; aged 5 years. 

William Knox, ditto ; aged 2 years. 

An Infant, ditto ; aged 1 month. 

Eleanor Thomas, ditto, a field negro ; aged 37 years. 

Charlotte Wilson, ditto ; aged 10 years. 

Robert E. Phillips, ditto ; aged 7 years. 

Mary Ann Phillips, ditto ; aged 4 years. 

William Phillips, ditto; aged 2 years. 

Elizabeth Phillips, ditto, a drudge ; aged 38 years, 

Sarah Phillips, ditto, ditto; aged 14 years. 

George Phillips, a sambo ; aged 4 years. 

An Infant, a black ; aged 2 months. 

Selina Phillips, ditto, a field negro ; aged 23 years, 

Harriet Phillips, ditto, ditto ; aged 20 years. 

lyiary Fisher, ditto ; aged 4 years. 

Sarah Valentine, ditto ; aged 2 years. 

Richard Miller, ditto ; aged 8 months. 

Ann Phillips, ditto, a drudge ; aged 49 years. 



24 Slavery in Jamaica, 

Sam, ditto, an invalid ; aged 48 years. 

William Allen, a black, a waiting boy ; aged 14 years. 

Henry, ditto, ditto ; aged 11 years. 

Leonard Wiiitehard, a sambo, ditto ; aged 14 years. 

Sam James, ditto, ditto ; aged 10 years. 

Hannah Franks, a black, a drudge ; aged 15 years. 

We add a few new specimens of apprehended runaways, viz.— 

In Kingston Workhouse, May 4, 1827. 

Liverpool, a Naga, 5 feet 7 inches, has a large sore on the small of the right 
leg, to Mr. Thomson, Morant-Bay. 

William, alias John William, a young creole negro man, 5 feet IJ inch, has 
lost some of liis upper front teeth, and lias a large scar near the small of the 
left leg, and wears an ear-ring in the left ear; he says that he is a Maroon of 
Moore-Town, which is much doubted, as he does not know the name of the 
Superintendent, nor has he any ticket or document to shew that he is a Maroon ; 
now says that his mother's name was Uessy, and was a Maroon of Accompong- 
Town, and that he has been told he was her first child, but that she died before 
he could walk, since which time he has been staying with a free black man, 
named Clark, who lived with his mother, and resided at SantaCruz Park, 
St. Elizabeth's, at which place he was born. 

John Williams, a creole negro man, 5 feet 5\ inches, lost one of his upper 
front teeth, says that he is free, and that he was born at Free-Town, Clarendon, 
that his grandmother, whose name was Old Amelia (now dead), was fre'e, before 
his mother (who is now living at Free Town, and whose name is Sarah), was 
born ; ordered by the sitting Magistrates to be detained until he produces some 
document of his freedom. 

In St. James's Workhouse, April 27, 1827. 

James Campbell, a creole, 5 feet 3 inches, marked apparently MEYLERS- 
FIELD on right shoulder, to Meylersfield estate. 

John, a Moco, 5 feet 3 inches, to Mr. Enley, BufF-river plantation, St. Mary's. 

Joe, a Creole, 5 feet 6^ inches, marked TH on right shoulder. 

Betsey, a Bermudian, 5 feet 3 inches, white scars on throat and breast, to 
Mr. Hilton, Comfort-Hall. 

In Port-Royal Workhouse, April 19, 1827. 

John Hercules, a creole, 5 feet 8 inches, no mark, to Prospect, St. Thomas in 
the East. 

Edwin Scott, a creole, 5 feet 5^ inches, says he is free, but can produce no 
document thereof, says that Mr. MoncriefF, of St. Ann's, is his guardian ; when 
taken up he had a ticket for six months, signed by \Vm. Davidson. 

Jamaica, a creole, 6 feet 4j inches, marked GOE on right shoulder, has a cut 
over the forehead, to Mr. Rennie, Pigeon-Hill, St. John's, 

In St. Thomas' in the Vale Workhouse, May 2, 1827. 

John Sharp, a Mundingo, .5 feet 4 inches, has a withered arm, says he is a 
discharged soldier of the 5th West-India Regiment, but has no document thereof. 

Tom Park, a Creole, 5 feet 6 inches, says he is free, but has no document 
thereof. 

William Thompson, an Eboe, 5 feet 6 inches, says he is free, hut has no docu- 
ment thereof; that he is a discharged soldier from the 2d AFest-India Regiment 
by Major Wilkie, and that his papers are at Holland Bay. 



NEW WORKS ON SLAVERY. 

MEMOIRS of a WEST INDIA PLANTER. By the Rev. John Riland, of 
Yoxall, Staffordshire. .5.9. 

The YOUNG LOGICIANS, or Schoolboy conceptions of Rights and 
Wrongs, with a particular reference to Coleridge's " Six months in the 
West Indies." Part I. is. 

London: Uagner and Tlioms, 11, Bunlwlomew Close. 



ANTI-SLxWERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 27.] For AUGUST, 1827. [No. 3. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will he ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies vcill be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavei'y Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



THE PETITION AND MEMORIAL OF THE PLANTERS OF DEMA- 
RARA AND BERBICE ON THE SUBJECT OF MANUMISSION, 
: EXAMINED.* 

In pursuance of the Resolutions adopted by Parliament in May, 
1823, on the subject of Slavery, his Majesty's Government introduced 
into Trinidad, by an Order of Council, a law to the following effect : — 
That in case any Slave shall be desirous to purchase the freedom of 
himself or herself, or of his or her wife or husband or child or brother or 
sister, or reputed wife or husband or child or brother or sister, it shall 
and may be lawful for any such Slave so to purchase the freedom of 
himself or of any such other person as aforesaid; and if the owner of 
the Slave shall be unwilling to effect his or her manumission ; or shall 
be unable to execute a valid manumission ; or shall not be known, or 
be disputed ; or if the owner demand, as the price of freedom, a greater 
sum of money than may be the fair and just value of such Slave, then 
the Chief Judge, after issuing certain notices and summonses, shall 
cause the Protector of Slaves and the owner to nominate each an 
appraiser, the Judge himself nominating an umpire, who on their oaths, 
shall make a fair and impartial appraisement ; and the amount of such 
appraised value being duly paid either to the owner, or, if the ownership 
be in dispute, to the Treasurer of the Colony, for the benefit of the 
real owner, such Slave shall be free to all intents and purposes whatso- 
ever. — This is the substance of the law on the subject of manumission, 
omitting the more formal details of the enactment. 

His Majesty's Government having imposed the above law on the 
colony of Trinidad, required that it should also be adopted in the co- 
lonies of Demarara and Berbice. With this requisition the Court of 
Policy of Demarara positively refused to comply ; on which Lord 
Bathurst, on the 9th July, 1825, intimated to them, that his Majesty's 
Government regarded the clause respecting manumission which they 
had so absolutely rejected, as " a vital part of their whole measure" 

* A Pamphlet, bearing this title, has just been published. As it enters on a 
variety of important topics connected with Slavery, the Editors cannot better 
promote the object of their work than by transcribing it. 

D 



26 Conduct of the Court of Policy as to Heform. 

which " could not be dispensed with." " No system of measures" he 
affirmed, " would satisfy the feelings of the country, or execute the pur- 
poses of Parliament, which did not contain some direct provision by 
which tbo termination of Slavery may be gradually accomplished." 
" From the final accomplishment of this object," he again assured the 
Court of Policy, that " this country will not be diverted." " I now," 
he added, " for the last time, bring these regulations under the consider- 
ation of the Court of Policy, with no other alternative, in the event of 
their declining to admit them, than that of my humbly submitting to 
his Majesty the expediency of enacting them by direct Royal 
Authority ." 

With a view of averting the execution of this threat, the Planters of 
Demarara, and also of Berbice, have presented a Petition and Memorial 
to his Majesty in Council, exhibiting the grounds on which they appre- 
hend utter ruin to themselves and their property, if the intention of 
Lord Bathurst shall be carried into effect. The Petitioners have been 
heard by Counsel in support of their petition, and the matter now 
remains for the consideration and final decision of his Majesty's 
Government. 

Under these circumstances it may be useful to pass in review the 
leading statements and arguments of the Petitioners and their Counsel, 
especially as they involve almost all the great questions at issue between 
the West Indian Planters and the Abolitionists. But before entering 
on these questions, it will be proper to advert to one or two topics 
which have been brought forward, with the view of vindicating the 
Petitioners, from any unfavourable imputation to which they might be 
exposed, by their resistance to the wishes of his Majesty's Government, 
on this occasion. 

They assert, in the first place, their ready co-operation in all the 
other measures of Reform proposed by his Majesty's Government. 

" The Court of Policy" they say, " has evinced the most anxious 
desire to act up to the Resolutions of Parliament." And Mr. Adam, 
the leading Counsel of the Petitioners, going even beyond the Peti- 
tioners, stated, on their behalf, that it was to this single clause re- 
specting manumission, that the Planters of Demarara had refused to give 
their assent; and that on every other point they had set themselves with 
hearty goodwill to carry into eflfect the wishes of Government. 

This statement however is contradicted by the official correspon- 
dence.* So far were the Court of Policy from readily adopting all 
the clauses proposed by Lord Bathurst, with this one exception, that his 
Lordship, in his dispatch of 20th November 1824, was under the ne- 
cessity of refusing his assent to their draft of the 25th of June, 1824, 
and of preremptorily insisting on a more exact adherence to the terms 
of the Trinidad Order in Council. 

The omissions and alterations in that draft, as compared with the 
Order, were numerous and important ; and Lord Bathurst distinctly 
stated, that if the Court of Policy did not proceed forthwith to adopt 

* Papers presented to Parliament by His Majesty's command J825, pp. 196, 
226, and additional papers 1825, p. 259, 279- 



Alleged Humanity of the Slave System. 27 

the improvements he now suggested, His Majesty's Government " would 
feel it to be their paramount duty to issue without further delay an 
Order of Council for the purpose of carrying them into effect." 

This intimation was not without its effect on the Court of Policy. In 
a subsequent draft transmitted to Lord Bathurst on the 14th of March 
1825, they introduced some important changes in compliance with 
his Lordship's suggestions. But even this amended draft, which has 
since, with a slight alteration, become the law of Demarara, falls far short 
of the propositions of His Majesty's Government on some other points, 
as well as on that of manumission. Without attempting to particularize 
the various defects, and injurious modifications of particular clauses, it 
will be sufficient to state, that Sunday markets have not been abolished, 
nor has Sunday labour been effectually prohibited ; that in affecting to 
give a legal sanction to the marriage of slaves they have introduced pro- 
visions which go far to render it of no avail ; and also that the law as 
to the slave's right of property is left in a very imperfect state.* Be- 
sides all this that important Clause of the Trinidad Order, the 21st, 
obliging the owner to account for the illegal laceration of his slave, is 
entirely omitted. 

It cannot therefore be with truth affirmed, that the manumission 
clause is that alone to which the Colonists of Demarara have refused 
their assent; or that they have manifested any very hearty goodwill 
in complying with the wishes of Government. 

A second topic hinted at in the Memorial, but much insisted upon by 
the leading counsel, was the great comfort and happiness enjoyed by 
the slave population of Demarara and Berbice, under the mild and 
benign government of their masters. On this point a full investiga- 
tion was boldly challenged. 

Unhappily for the credit of this part of their vindication, there is 
already before the public opposing evidence of a nature which would not 
be invalidated by the concurrent testimony of every planter in the two 
colonies, in favour of the mildness and lenity of their administration. 
The actual decrease of the slaves in Demarara, has amounted to 8,754 
in the six years, from 1818 to 1824, being nearly at the rate of two per 
cent, per annum. f And this enormous decrease has taken place while 
the free negroes of Hayti, and indeed of all parts of the world besides, 
and the slaves in the United States, and in the Bahamas have been in- 
creasing at the rate of from 2 to 2g per cent, per annum. There is no 
possibility of explaining this phenomenon on any principle which is 
compatible with the alleged humane treatment of the slave. 

* The slave among other things is not allowed to hold land as in Trinidad. 
This is a very important and injurious distinction. Few things would have more 
tended to make manumission a source of improvement to (he slave, than his pre- 
vious possession of land of his own, prepared to receive him, and which he could 
immediately begin to till. It is from want of such means of beneficial employ- 
ment, that on his enfranchisement, he sometimes falls into idle and vicious 
habits. See on this point the parliamentary papers of 1S26, under the head of 
St, Lucia, p. 76, 77. 

t See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No, 26, p, 11, &c., and the documents there 
referred to. 



28 Alleged Humanity of the Slave System. 

But in addition to this fact which, of itself is demonstrative of the 
deathful tendency of the Demarara system of management, there is 
much corroborative testimony to the same effect. The Negro Slavery 
Tract, No. I, contains a particular account of that system by an 
eye-witness highly worthy of credit, the late Missionary Smith. The 
returns from the Fiscal of Demarara, as they stand in the parliamentary 
papers ordered to be printed 1st March 1825, No. 66, may also be re- 
ferred to. But above all may an appeal be made with confidence to 
the Report of the Fiscal of Berbice, (Parliamentary papers of 23rd of 
June 1825, numbered 476,) and to the attempted vindication of that 
report by the Fiscal himself, laid on the table of the House of Com- 
mons, May 19, 1826, (No. 401.) A full view of these two Reports will 
be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporters, No. 5. and 16, In the latter 
it is observed that " to the sickening influence on the mind of the de- 
tails contained in these reports, no declamation could add force. They 
beggar the most intense epithets, and produce an impression which no 
description, however eloquent, could hope to rival in poignancy and 
effect. And it is the climax of these horrors that most of them are 
not only not judicially punished, but are not legally punishable."* 

* It was not intended to ilhistrate these general observations by any specific 
instances, but the single fact which follows, and which is only one of many, 
will serve to throw so much light both on the law and practice of Slavery in 
these Colonies, that it would be wrong to withhold it. 

In the Fiscal's first Report, p. 14, is contained a statement to the following effect. 

" Complaint of the woman Minkie, belonging to Thomas C- Jones : — Says, 
Mr. Jones took her out of the barracks on Tuesday ; ' after I got home he sent 
me to Mr. Henery ; he would not buy me. He sent me to another gentleman. 
I do not know his name, but he lives iu town ; they both said my master asked 
too much money for me, and sent me back. I begged for a pass to look for an 

owner ; he said no, he would put me down and cut my , and would give rae 

more than the law gives. I was then laid down and tied to three stakes, and 
Chance flogged me with a cart-whip ; I got a severe flogging ; I saw Mr. Lay- 
field at his door with another gentleman, and Mr. Kerschner, the baker, saw it 
from his window. Mr. Jones bought me from Mr. Logie of Demarara. I have 
marks of severe punishment visible on me, old and recent floggings, all inflicted 
by Jones.' 

" Exhibits her posteriors, which are covered with a plaister, by order of the 
doctor, and apparently lacerated to that degree that the court judged it expe- 
dient to direct her not to uncover it." (p, 14.) 

" Mr Jones said he had flogged her, and broke her mouth for her insolence. 
He had thirty -nine laid on her, and they tccre ivell inflicted. When he sent for 
her, he had no intention of flogging her ; but after sending her to three persons 
for sale, and not succeeding, he told her she had often deserved a flogging ; 
he then directed her to be flogged, and that they should be well laid on, which 
was done." 

The result of this case is given in the Fiscal's Second Report, (p. 10.) and 
it is the more worthy of attention because it is actually given as a vindication 
of the Colonial system from the charge of cruelty ; whereas in truth it only 
furnishes another striking illustration of the cruel and oppressive nature of that 
system, and completes the picture of horror which the previous details had 
presented. " His Honour, the President, and the Court," we are told, "were 
highly indignant at the treatment of this female. No evidence, liowever, could 
be obtained to convict the proprietor (Mr. Jones) of having inflicted a severer 
punishment than that prescribed by law." It is added that, "the Court were 
fully satisfied that the unfortunate female slave had been flogged in a most 
severe and cruel manner, and to her sufferings, by her master's own confession " 



Right of Property in Slaves. 29 

But before we proceed to consider the main question involved in the 
Memorial, that of manumission, it seems necessary to advert to what 
is affirmed by its authors on the subject of their right of property 
in their slaves. That right, they say, " rests on the very same 
foundation with every other description of property knoivn to the 
law." And in a former statement by the Court of Policy of Demarara, 
it is asserted, in confirmation of their doctrine, that " Slaves in this 
Colony are chattels as much as any other moveable property " the 
interest of an owner in his slave being that o^ fee simple absolute. 

Without meaning at all to enter on the great moral question, of the 
right which any man can possess of reducing his unoffending fellow 
creatures, and their still more unoffending offspring, to perpetual 
slavery, it may nevertheless be allowed us to doubt the legal sound- 
ness of these strange dicta of the Court of Policy, and which they 
ought to have proved rather than asserted. It rests with them to 
point out the chapter of either Dutch or English law in which such a 
position is to be found. Mr. Adam did not attempt it. 

But even if so strange a position could be shewn to have a place 
under the Dutch law, it would not necessarily become law under the 
British rule, any more than the Spanish law of torture, which existed in 
Trinidad, could continue to be law subsequently to its becoming a 
British colony. The Dutch law would have permitted the Slave Trade 
in Demarara : but could a claim have been therefore preferred by that 
Colony to the continuance of the Slave Trade after it had capitulated to 
the British arms; much less after its cession to Great Britain, when of 
course the right of sovereignty and of legislation became fully vested in 
the British Crown? 



(who indeed, seemed to glory in his barbarity) " was added the breaking of her 
mouth in a most brutal manner." In conclusion, her master was directed to 
take her from the custody of the under sheriff, on payment of the fees. She was 
returned, that is to say, into the power of this monster, by order of the Court. 

Now let any one consider all the horrors of this clear and unambiguous case 
of cruelty, and the impunity which has attended it, and then say, whether 
the detestable system which can screen such conduct from justice, is not 
only to be endured by the country, but praised by the petitioners. The 
savage master was not proved, it seems, to have offended against the law, — 
this is true ; for he had done nothing more than the law expressly authorised 
every master to do. At his own caprice, for no earthly crime that even he 
himself could specify, he lacerated " in a most severe and cruel manner," the 
naked body of this unprotected and unoffending female ; but as it could not be 
proved that the number of stripes exceeded thirty-nine, however " well they 
were laid on," to use his own brutal expression of triumph ; however deep 
they cut into the flesh, and though he broke her mouth besides ; — no punish- 
ment could reach him ; nay, the law actually protected and sanctioned his 
crime. We have been told, by no mean authority in colonial matters, as a 
palliation of these evils, that atrocities are perpetrated in England as well as 
in the West Indies ; but we challenge all the advocates of the colonial system 
to produce any case, be it in law or practice, which will bear the remotest 
comparison to this transaction. It is an admirable illustration of the innate 
flagitiousness of that institution, which still finds so many plausible advo- 
cates among us, and which, owing to their delusive statements, is still 
Permitted to flourish in mischieYOus vigour in one of the fairest portions of the 
British Dominions. 



30 Nature and Ibnitatioyis of Property in Slaves. 

Supposing even a law authorising the Slave Trade had been in full 
force in that Colony, at the time of its capture by Great Britain, could 
this circumstance have been pleaded for one moment as a ground for 
continuing that traffic after the Colony had become British ? 

If it were even admitted, therefore, which it is not, that the law of 
property in Slaves had been such in Demarara under the Dutch rule as 
the Court of Policy represent it to have been, it would by no means 
follow that that law could continue to operate there under British rule, 
any more than the law of torture could continue to operate in Trinidad. 

But it is not true, that, either under the Dutch or the British Govern- 
ment, the nature of an owner's property in his slaves is declared by law 
to be of that absolute and unqualified description which the Demarara 
planters have asserted. It does not rest " on the very same foundation 
with every other description of property known to the law." Slaves are 
not in law " chattels, as much as any other moveable property." Nei- 
ther is a master's interest in his slave " that of a fee simple absolute." 
On the contrary, in the case of slaves, the law has assumed a power of 
interference and control which is not assumed with respect to any 
other description of property. An owner may extinguish the life of his 
oxen, or his dogs, or his horses; he may refuse to feed them ; he may 
allow them to perish from neglect ; he cannot be restrained from working 
them by night or by day ; he cannot be compelled to give them the 
rest of the Sabbath ; he cannot be called upon to answer their com- 
plaints : — and with respect to his chattels generally, he may break them 
in pieces, destroy or consume them, without any responsibility, and 
without control from law, so long as he does not thereby injure the 
property of his neighbour. There are, therefore, very material points 
of distinction between all other kinds of property and a property in 
human beings. 

But this is not all : no other description of property, no other chattel, 
has responsibilities inherent in it, and rights arising out of those respon- 
sibilities, similar to those which are inherent in the slave : for though 
he be a slave, he has been born a subject of the Divine Government, 
answerable, in common with every human being, for his moral conduct. 
Every British slave is also a subject of the British crown, owing alle- 
giance to him who wears it, bound to obey the laws, and amenable to 
trial and punishment for the breach of them. A slave moreover may be 
a Christian, a husband, a wife, a parent, a child; and in each of these 
relations, as well as in that of an accountable moral agent, and of a 
British subject, may possess responsibilities of the highest order, which 
he may be bound to fulfil, in preference to every other obligation what- 
ever, and which his owner therefore may lawfully be compelled to 
respect. It cannot be, that the British and Christian owner of a slave 
can, justly and legally, be invested with any rights of property which 
are inconsistent with these inalienable responsibilities. It cannot be, 
that, under the British crown, any such alleged rights of property can 
exist, without a plain and palpable violation of those fundamental prin- 
ciples of law which, however varied may be the form of their applica- 
tion, are essential to all British legislation. The assertion of such 
rights as these, by whomsoever made or whencesoever deduced, is an 



Limitations of Right of Property in Slaves. 31 

intolerable usurpation on the laws of God and the rights of human 
nature — on the rights of British sovereignty, and the fundamental 
principles of British jurisprudence. 

The Petitioners and their Advocate have therefore clearly gone too 
far in the assertion of their unqualified right of property in slaves ; and 
there must, of necessity, exist certain important limitations of that right, 
to which there is no parallel in the case of other descriptions of property. 

The principle here contended for may be illustrated by what has 
recently passed in respect to Trinidad. When it was first proposed by 
Lord Bathurst to the Planters of that Colony, that Sunday should be 
wholly relinquished to the slave, as his own right and property, and 
that equivalent time for the purposes to which his Sunday had hitherto, 
for the benefit of the owner, been applied, should be allowed him in its 
stead, the Colonists preferred a claim to compensation for what they 
alleged to involve a deterioration of their property, being an abduction 
of a portion of that labour which they had hitherto appropriated to 
their own use. His Lordship's reply to this claim was, that such a 
regulation as he proposed could give to the Planters no just claim for 
compensation. Whatever might be the master's right of property in 
the slave, the slave, his Lordship maintained, had also " his rights." 
The master was bound to feed his slave, either by an adequate allow- 
ance of provisions, or by giving him land and time to raise them. But 
Sunday was the slave's day, and could not be required by the master 
for his own purposes. That day, he therefore argued, must belong to 
the slave entirely for his own profit and advantage ; and even where 
the master adopted the system of feeding his slaves, by allotting to 
them provision grounds, he could even then have no possible claim to 
the Sunday for the cultivation of such provision grounds, nor to any 
compensation for the requisite time during the six working days which 
he might appropriate to the slave in the lieu of Sunday for that pur- 
pose. And he added the expression of his hope, " that no Christian 
master would so far forget himself as to claim indemnity for what 
his religion" (the law of his God) " must have taught him he ought 
never to have required ;" his Lordship, in short, thus pronouncing the 
practice to be a usurpation on the rights of our fellow creatures, and a 
violation of the divine law. 

In the case of Trinidad, the British Government had not hitherto 
forbidden the master to require that his slave should cultivate, on the 
Sunday, the provisions which were to support him while at work in the 
cane piece during the other six days of the week ; and in point of fact, 
he had been in the regular habit of requiring it. And yet no one will 
venture to say, that his Majesty's Government acted either illegally or 
unjustly, in forbidding the planters of Trinidad to continue to compel 
the slave to work for them on the Sunday ; in obliging them, never- 
theless, either to find him in food, or in time and land for its cultiva- 
tion; and in rejecting, at the same time, their claim to any pecuniary 
indemnity whatever on account of such an arrangement. 

It is obvious that this reasoning is no less applicable to every Slave 
Colony belonging to the British crown than to Trinidad ; and the prin- 
ciple on which it proceeds, and on which the decision of his Majesty's 



32 Liynitations of Right of Property in Slaves. 

Government in this instance rests for its justification, is one which may 
legitimately be extended to a variety of other points connected with the 
right of property in slaves. 

It will not be asserted, that in Demarara, any more than in Trinidad, 
the master's right of property extends to compelling the slave to labour 
for him on the Sunday. Even if such a practice had immemorially 
existed, it would not thereby have been rendered rightful, neither would 
its instant and entire abolition, by the power of the state, give the owner 
any just claim to compensation. It would not be enough for the 
Demarara Planters to apply to this case the language which on the 
general question of Slavery they have addressed to the mother country: 
" You encouraged us to buy slaves, and to employ them in cultivation ; 
and now, if you interfere in their management, or deprive us of any 
part of their time, which we have hitherto appropriated to our own use, 
you must first provide compensation." To such a claim the mother 
country would clearly be entitled to reply, " I encouraged you, it is 
true, to buy slaves and to employ them in cultivation; and I therefore 
feel that, in forcibly putting a period to Slavery, I am bound to bear 
the loss in common with you. But / gave you no licence to deprive 
the slave of his Sunday. / gave you no authority to exact his toil on 
that day for your own benefit. I did not even know you had done so. 
Sunday is his own, by every law divine and human; and you not only 
have no right to claim indemnity for his being restored to the possession 
of it, but you ought to indemnify him for your unjust and protracted 
usurpation of it for your own benefit." 

But may we not go still farther, and ask whether there be any thing 
in the right of property possessed by the Demarara Planter over his 
slave, which, while the mother country may lawfully interfere to secure 
to that slave the full enjoyment of the repose of the Sabbath, does not 
equally permit her to interfere to secure to him all his equally indubi- 
table rights, and to redress all his real wrongs, whatever may be the 
alleged pecuniary loss arising from such interference? 

Suppose, for example, it were clearly proved, that in Demarara the 
established hours of labour were so many, or the tasks exacted from the 
labourer so severe, or the food given to him so scanty, that the lives of the 
slaves were greatly shortened thereby; the mortality thus produced far 
exceeding the average rate of mortality under similar circumstances: — 
in that case, would not the supreme authority have a right to say to the 
planter. You shall increase the food of the slaves ; you shall abridge 
their hours of labour; you shall lighten their tasks? And would it be 
deemed a satisfactory plea against the legality of such an interference, 
were the planters to say, " The slaves are our fee simple absolute ; our 
chattels: they have hitherto yielded us, say thirteen or fourteen or 
fifteen hours labour in the day, and have received from us fourteen 
pounds of flour, or so many plantains a week. If you cut down the 
labour to ten hours instead of fifteen, and raise the allowance to twenty- 
one pounds of flour instead of fourteen, we shall be immense losers ; — • 
we shall be ruined ; and must have compensation for our loss. The 
produce of our estates will be diminished one-third, and the charge of 
feeding our slaves will be increased one-half — and to this extent we 



Equitahleness of the proposed Measure. 33 

must be indemnified ; for the guilt of Slavery is yours as well as ours. 
You must therefore bear the loss, and give us compensation." To such 
a claim as this also, might it not be justly said in reply, " No — you are 
bound, and always were bound, to act justly and humanely towards your 
slaves ; you are bound not to wear out their lives prematurely by excessive 
labour ; you are bound to feed the human cattle who till your grounds 
with food sufficient for them. All this you are bound, and have always 
been bound to do, independently of any specific law ; and if you have 
not done it, you have been equally guilty of violating the rights of the 
slaves with those who have deprived them of their Sunday. If we gave 
you a licence to buy and hold slaves, we gave you no licence to over- 
work or underfeed them; to kill them by inches; to extinguish their 
procreative powers, or destroy their health, or waste their lives by 
severity of labour and scantiness of food. You must regulate both their 
food and their labour, not by your past scale of profits, nor by your 
past practice, but by a consideration of what is right in itself ; and, for 
doing this, v/hich you ought always to have done, you cannot claim, 
neither siiall you receive any compensation, but, on the contrary, 
punishment, if not for your past misconduct, yet for any future failure 
in your duty," 

Now this hypothetical case is, in some material respects, the case of 
Demarara and of our other Colonies. The labour exacted from the 
slaves, and the food given them, be they more or less than has been sup- 
posed, are proved, by the result, to be inconsistent with a healthful state 
of population, and to produce effects that are wasteful of human life. And 
will it be permitted that the right of property which the Demarara Planters 
claim in their slaves shall be pleaded in bar of the measures neces- 
sary for preventing this waste, Avhatever pecuniary loss may attend those 
measures ? And if not, \vhat line is to limit the right of interference? 
Is not the State bound to cause the Planters to adopt measures for the 
intellectual and moral improvement, as well as for the physical comforts 
of their slaves ; and may they not be fairly subjected to the same obli- 
gation of providing the means of education and instruction, for the 
labourers who till their grounds, which attaches to the landowners of 
Great Britain ? 

Thus it is clear, therefore, that there are various and peculiar modifi- 
cations which go to affect that alleged right of property in human beings, 
which the Demarara Planters affirm to be absolute and unconditional, 
and to stand on the very same foundation with every other description 
of property ; and for which modifications no compensation can be 
claimed, on account of any loss they may cause to the master. 

Subject, however, to these general qualifications, we are ready, for 
the purpose of the present discussion, to admit that the Planters of 
Demarara have a vested interest in their slaves, which the legislature is 
bound to respect ; and that if, by any of its acts, their property in slaves 
should be so dealt with as to subject them to pecuniary loss, the general 
principles of English legislation require that a fair compensation should 
be awarded to them. This principle, we admit also, has been recognized 
in the Resolutions of May, 1833. But then its recognition there does 
pot imply, as the Petitioners allege, that indemnity should precede, but 



34 Objections to facilitating Manumission. 

that it should, as in every other case, accompany or follow, the parti- 
cular act by which injury may be inflicted. Admitting the slave to be 
property, it is surely enough that he should stand on the same equitable 
footing with every other species of property which, with a view to the 
public good, it may be necessary to appropriate to public purposes. If 
an Act of Parliament, for example, takes from an individual a portion of 
his land, it insures him a fair indemnity, by judicial appraisement. And, 
it is on this recognized principle that the Government have proceeded 
in framing the clause mentioned above, in the Trinidad Order in Council, 
respecting the manumission of Slaves. In order to prevent this measure 
of public policy, which the Government and the Parliament have adopted, 
from being attended with loss to individuals, they have provided, that no 
man shall be divested of his slave without an equivalent, and have fixed 
the mode of ascertaining by an impartial appraisement what that equi- 
valent shall be. 

, It is not easy to conceive any mode by which indemnity could have 
been more completely secured to the owner than this ; and yet the 
Demarara Planter bitterly complains of it as unjust. He complains, 
that is to say, that with a view to a great measure of State policy, his 
slave, who is his property, may be taken from him without his consent, 
and even against his consent. This may be hard ; but still it is no more 
than is done, when any measure of public policy requires it, with respect 
to all those other descriptions of property to which he himself anxiously 
assimilates his slave. If one of his houses must be pulled down, or one 
of his fields taken from him, for some public purpose, he is divested of 
such property, without his consent, and even against his consent; and 
is obliged to accept in return, the price of it, not as estimated by 
himself, but as estimated by disinterested appraisers, who assign to him 
the fair marketable value of the article of which he has been so deprived. 
And the Demarara Planter, who maintains that his slave stands on the 
very same footing with every other species of property, cannot complain 
that that slave should be dealt with in the same way as his horse, or his 
house, or his field, which may be required for the public service. 

The Demarara Planters, indeed, vehemently maintain that the pro- 
posed system, trenches upon their right of property. But, if the same, 
equitable mode of assessing the loss, and providing an indemnity is 
pursued in this as in every other instance, in which private considerations 
are made to give way to public interests, it is not very obvious that they 
can have any just ground of complaint. 

It is due, however, to the Planters of Demarara and Berbice, to con- 
sider more particularly the specific objections they make to this measure, 
and to ascertain how far they are well or ill founded. 

These objections are of two kinds : — First, objections which apply to 
the general policy of any measures for facilitating or quickening the 
enfranchisement of the slaves ; and secondly, objections which respect 
the sufficiency of the indemnity which it is proposed to give to the 
master. We shall consider these in their order. 

I. Objections to the general policy of facilitating manumission. 

1. The first objection of the petitioners to the general policy of 
adopting the clause in the Trinidad Order on the subject of manumis- 



The Masters not to be trusted as Reformei's. 35 

sion, is, that it is a departure from that wise and sound maxim, pro- 
nounced, they say, to be so by Lord Bathurst, which has enounced, 
that " the condition of the slave is only to be improved through the 
medium of his master ;" whereas, in this case, the benefit, if benefit it be, 
is to be conferred independently of the master and even against his will. 
Of this pretended maxim, however, both the wisdom and the truth may 
be justly questioned. That the happiness of the slave is in the /jozfer of 
the master, cannot indeed be denied. Possessed of despotic authority 
the master has it without doubt in his poiver to render the condition of 
his slave miserable. He has it also in his power, though not in the 
same degree (for slavery is a very intractable subject) to improve the 
condition of his slave, and to alleviate its hardships. But the present 
question refers not so much to the power, as to the tvill of the master. 
And in that view, it may without hesitation be affirmed, that if " the 
condition of the slave is only to be improved through the medium of 
the master," it will never be improved at all. Since the world first began, 
when have men been known voluntarily to divest themselves of despotic 
authority, or to abridge their capacity of inflicting pain ? What is there 
which equally with despotism, corrupts the human heart, and disinclines 
it to the benevolent work of raising,protecting, and comforting its degraded, 
impotent, and wretched thralls ? The history of the world, still more 
the history of slavery in all ages, and above all the history of West India 
slavery, furnish one unvarying contradiction to this unfounded maxim. 
The conduct of the dominant party in the West Indies, from the mo- 
ment that slavery was first instituted there to the present hour, is an 
unequivocal demonstration of its falsehood. Its absolute refutation 
may be read in the barbarous and sanguinary laws, which from the first 
have polluted and which still pollute the colonial statue books, (all of 
them framed by the masters alone ;) — in the cruelties nicknamed exem- 
plary, with which it was customary in all the colonies to punish the 
slightest movement against the m.aster's authority, or the attempt to escape 
from it ; * — in the furious clamours raised against every effort, however 
temperate, to reform this nefarious svstem ; — in the determined resistance 
shewn to all improvement whenever resistance was deemed safe and 
practicable, or in the artful evasion of it, when open resistance was 
hazardous ; — in the reluctance with which any concession to humanity 
and justice, however small, has at any time been made; — and in the 
determined struggle still maintained, to prevent all legislative ame- 
liorations, or, if forced to adopt them in form, to render them wholly 
inefficient in their spirit and operation. We believe it would be difficult 
to find a single instance, even of any specious though hollow and worth- 
less semblance of improvement, which has not been forced upon the 
masters by a higher power, or extorted from them by the fear of that 
power's authoritative interference. Even in Demarara and Berbice, the 
only alleviations of slavery introduced there, have emanated directly, 
not from the masters, but from the States General of Holland. 

It were easy to cite numerous authorities in confirmation of this view 
of the subject. But let one suffice. It is that of Mr. Canning, one of 

* See Edwards's History, Book IV. Chap. iii. Negro Slavery Tract, No. vi. &c. 



36 Coercion not indispensable in Tropical Climates. 

our most distinguished and now most lamented statesmen, who in an 
admirable speech on the Slave Trade in the year 1799, thus adjured the 
House of Commons ; " Trust not the masters of slaves" said this en- 
lightened statesman^ " in what concerns legislation for slavery. How" 
ever specious their laios may appear, depend upon it they must be in-i 
effectual in their operation^ It is in the nature of things that they 
should be so." " There is something in the nattire of absolute autho- 
rity, in the relation between master and slave, which makes despot-' 
ism, in all cases, and under all circumsta?ices, an incompetent and 
unsure executor, even of its own provisions in favour of the objects of 
its power." The philosophical truth and accuracy of these sentiments 
are as unquestionable, as the eloquence with which they are expressed. 
They irresistibly carry conviction along with them. In them he "being 
dead, yet speaketh." 

It is the more necessary to expose the unsoundness of this vaunted 
tnaxim of the Demarara planters, because some such delusive view of 
the subject may have unhappily been imbibed even by some of ouv 
statesmen, who, in opposition to all fact and experience, as well as ta 
all general principle, may have permitted themselves to hope that ari 
improvement in the condition of the slaves is to be effected through the 
medium of the masters. They ought at length to be aware that by 
the masters it will never be effected. How it may be effected without 
them, and even against them, is a question on which we have no ob- 
jection fully to enter. At present it would lead us away from our 
purpose. We will only remark that, with respect to the particular 
measure now under discussion, namely that of securing to the slave 
a legal right to effect his redemption at a fair price, without the consent 
of his master, it will never, we fear, be conceded by the planters of 
the British West Indies^ and least of all by those of Demarara. It 
must be made the subject of positive enactment by a superior authority. 
Thus it was in the Spanish and Portuguese Colonies ; and thus it must 
be in ours, if we would not abandon the single slender hope which 
it affords of putting an end, at any time however distant, to the evil of 
Colonial Slavery. 

2. A second objection may be thus stated. In the lowlands of 
tropical climates, steady labotir in the sun is only to be obtained by 
Tneans of coercion ; therefore the cultivation of the West Indies could 
not possibly be maintained, if the slaves were converted into freemen ; 
as in that case they would not be induced to labour beyond what was 
required to sustain life. The authority chiefly adduced by the learned 
counsel Mr. Adam, in support of this opinion, was that of Major Moody, 
on whose testimony great stress was laid. Those who wish to see 
that gentleman's views fully examined and refuted, may consult the 
Edinburgh Review, No. XC. 

The proposition thus enounced, however, is contradicted by ex-^ 
perience. The climate of Hindostan lies in the same latitude, and is 
as oppressively hot as that of our West India Colonies. Yet it does 
not prevent the natives of that country, who are not slaves, but 
freemen, from labouring assiduously and steadily, not only in manufac- 
tures, but in agriculture also. The inhabitants of even temperate 



Coercion not indispensable in Tropical Climates. 37 

climates do not labour more strenuously in the cultivation of the soil 
than do the inhabitants of the southern provinces of China. And if 
it be alleged that there the great density of the population, pressing 
on the means of subsistence, produces all the effect of physical coer- 
cion, yet the same reasoning can neither be applied in the same degree 
to Hindostan, nor to two other instances which we are about to cite. 
The first is given to us by Baron Humboldt, and is as follows. Speak- 
ing of tropical South America, he says, 

" We observed with a lively interest the great number of scattered 
houses in the valley inhabited by freed-men. In the Spanish colonies, 
the institutions and the manners are more favourable to the liberty of 
the Blacks than in the other European settlements. In all these ex- 
cursions we were agreeably surprised, not only at the progress of agri- 
culture, but the increase of a free, laborious population accustomed to 
toil, and too poor to rely on the assistance of slaves. White and 
Black farmers had every where small separate establishments. Our 
host, whose father had a revenue of 40,000 piastres, possessing more 
lands than he could clear, he distributed them in the valley of Aragua* 
among poor families who chose to apply themselves to the cultivation 
of cotton. He endeavoured to surround his ample plantations with 
freemen, who working as they chose either on their own land or in the 
neighbouring plantations, supplied him with day-labourers at the 
time of harvest. Nobly occupied on the means best adapted gra- 
dually to extinguish the slavery of the Blacks in these colonies, Count 
Torur flattered himself with the double hope of rendering slaves less 
necessary to the landholders, and furnishing the freed-men with oppor- 
tunities of becoming farmers. On departing for Europe, he had par- 
celled out and let a part of the lands of Cura. Four years after, at his 
return to America, he found on this spot, finely cultivated in cotton, 
a little hamlet of thirty or forty houses, which is called Punta Zamuro, 
and which we afterwards visited with him. The inhabitants of this 
hamlet are nearly all Mulattoes, Zumboes, or free Blacks. This ex- 
ample of letting out land has been happily followed by other great 
proprietors. The rent is ten piastres for a vanega of ground, and is 
paid in money or in cotton. As the small farmers are often in want, 
they sell their cotton at a very moderate price. They sell it even before 
the harvest ; and the advances thus made by rich neighbours, place the 
debtor in a state of dependence, which frequently obliges him to offer 
his services as a labourer. The price of labour is cheaper here than in 
France. A freeman working as a day-labourer (Peon) is paid in the 
valleys of Aragua and in the Llanos four or five piastres a month, 
not including food, which is very cheap on account of the abundance 
of meat and vegetables. I love to dwell on these details of colonial 
industry, because they prove to the inhabitants of Europe, what to the 
enlightened inhabitants of the colonies has long ceased to be doubtful, 
that the continent of Spanish America can produce sugar and indigo 



* Situated in the province of New Granada, between the latitudes of 4° and 
§o North. 



38 Agricultural Industry of the Natives of Java. 

by free hands, and that the unhappy slaves are capable of becoming 
peasants, farmers, and landholders." 

The second instance is of a still more decisive kind. It refers to the 
Island of Java, which lies between the latitudes of 6° and 9° South, 
and which must therefore be one of the hottest countries in the world. 
In what we are about to state respecting it, we quote the History of that 
Island by Sir Stamford RafHes. Its population according to him amounts 
to between four and five millions, (vol. i. p. 65.) of whom only 27,000 
are slaves, and these are held by the Europeans and Chinese alone, and 
are not employed in agriculture, but almost exclusively for domestic 
purposes. The cultivation of this rich and extensive Island is wholly 
carried on by a free peasantry who reside in villages, and whose happy 
condition Sir Stamford seems to delight in describing. (lb. p. 76 to 82.) 

" In the first establishment or formation of a village on new ground, 
the intended settlers take care to provide themselves with sufficient 
garden ground round their huts for their stock, and to supply the ordi- 
nary wants of their families. The produce of this plantation is the 
exclusive property of the peasant, and is exempted from contribution 
or burden ; and such is their number and extent that in some regencies 
they constitute a tenth part of the area of the whole district. The spot 
surrounding his simple habitation, the cottager considers his peculiar 
patrimony, and cultivates with peculiar care. He labours to plant and 
to rear in it those vegetables that may be most useful to his family^ 
and those shrubs and trees which may at once yield him their fruit and 
their shade ; nor does he waste his effbrts on a thankless soil. The 
cottages or the assemblage of huts that compose the village, become 
thus completely screened from the rays of a scorching sun, and are so 
buried amid the foliage of a luxuriant vegetation that at a small distance 
no appearance of a human dwelling can be discovered, and the resi- 
dence of a numerous society appears only a verdant grove or a clump 
of evergreens. Nothing can exceed the beauty or the interest which 
such detached masses of verdure, scattered over the face of the country, 
and indicating each the abode of a collection of happy peasantry add 
to scenery otherwise rich." 

" Every village forms a community within itself, having each its vil- 
lage officers and priest. Here is found that simple form of patriarchal 
administration, which so forcibly strikes the imagination of the civilized- 
inhabitants of this quarter of the world, and which has so long been the 
theme of interest and curiosity, to those who have visited the Indian 
Continent." lb. p. 82. 

" The natives of Java are, in general, better clothed than those of 
Western India." " It is part of the domestic economy that the women 
of the family should provide the men with the cloths necessary for their 
apparel, and from the first consort of the Sovereign to the wife of the 
lowest peasant, the same rule is observed. In every cottage there is a 
spinning wheel and loom ; and in all ranks a man is accustomed to 
pride himself on the beauty of a cloth woven either by his wife, mistress, 
or daughter." lb. p. 86. 

" The island of Java is a great agricultural country : its soil is the 
grand source of its wealth. In its cultivation the inhabitants exert 



Agricultural Industry of the Natives of Java. 39 

their chief industry , and upon ifs produce they rely, not only for their 
subsistence, but for the articles of foreign luxury or convenience which 
they purchase. -The Javans are a nation of husbandmen, and exhibit 
that simple structure of society incident to such a stage of its progress. 
To the crop, the mechanic looks immediately for his wages, the soldier 
for his pay, the magistrate for his salary, the priest for his stipend, and 
the Government for its tribute. The wealth of a province or village is 
measured" (not by its slaves, though it is a tropical island, but) " by the 
extent and fertility of its land, its facilities for rice irrigation, and the 
number of its buffaloes." lb. p. 106. 

Nine-tenths of the population are employed in agriculture. lb. p. 107. 
Again, " Java is a great agricultural country. It has been considered 
as the granary of the Eastern Islands." lb. p. 1 95. 

" The sugarcane is extensively cultivated in this island," p. 125, " and 
may be grown to any extent demanded," p. 212. "There are nume- 
rous manufactories for its juice, principally owned by the Chinese, both 
in the vicinity of Batavia and in Jopara and Pasuruan, and partially in 
other districts of the Eastern provinces. Previous to the disturbances in 
Cheribon, sugar likewise, was manufactured in that district in consider- 
able quantities, and furnished an important article of export." P. 125. 
See also p. 176. " Large quantities of Java sugar have been exported 
to Bombay ; " p. 212 ; and 7000 tons of it were sold in one year to the 
Americans alone. P. 213. 

" The land allotted to each separate cultivator is managed by himself 
exclusively, and the practice of labouring in common, which is usual 
among the inhabitants of the same village, on continental India, is here 
unknown. Every one, generally speaking, has his own field, his own 
plough, his own buffaloes or oxen, prepares his farm with his own hand, 
or the assistance of his family at seed time, and reaps it by the same 
means at harvest." P. 146. 

Sir Stamford Raffles then proceeds to shew how the industry of the 
Javan cultivators had been repressed by the shameless exactions of the 
native Governments and the Dutch Company, who " employed all the 
machinery of despotism to squeeze from the people their utmost mite of 
contribution, the last dregs of their labour." P. 151. 

This system of gross oppression and undefined exaction was put an 
end to by the British Government. The effect, we are told, exceeded 
the most sanguine expectations. Sir S. Raffles himself was a pleased 
spectator of its beneficial tendency, and of the security and satisfaction 
it universally diffused ; promoting the prosperity, improvement, and 
happiness of the people, increasing the revenue, augmenting the export- 
able produce, and diminishing crime. If the Dutch Government did but 
adhere to the same just and wise policy, as it seems they profess to do, 
the happiest effects, he conceived, would follow. P. 160, &c. 

A part, at least, of the following apology, of this truly able and excel- 
lent and lamented individual, on behalf of the Javans, will be found to 
apply with equal force to the charges of the Demarara Planters against 
the free negro of the West Indies. 

" Much has been said of the indolence of the Javans by those who 
deprived them of all motives for industry. I enter a broad denial of the 



40 Sugar Culture by the Natives of Java. 

charge. They are as industrious and laborious as any people could be 
expected to be in their circumstances of insecurity and oppression, or as 
any people would be required to be, with their advantages of soil and 
climate. If they do not labour during the whole day, it is because such 
persevering toil is unnecessary, or would bring them no additional enjoy- 
ments. The best refutation of the charge of indolence is to be found 
in the extent of their cultivation, the well-dressed appearance of their 
rice fields, and the abundant supplies of their harvests. They generally 
rise by day-light. At half-past six they go out to the rice fields, where 
they employ their buffaloes till ten ; when they return home, bathe, and 
refresh themselves with a meal. During the violent heat of the noon 
they remain under the shade of their houses or village trees, making 
baskets, mending their implements of husbandry, or engaged in other 
necessary avocations, and at about four return to the sawahs (or rice 
fields) to labour them without buffaloes or other cattle. At six, they 
return to their homes, sup, and spend the remainder of their time till 
the hour of rest, (which is generally between eight and nine,) in little 
parties for amusement or conversation, when the whole village becomes 
a scene of quiet content, and pleasure. The same round of toil and 
relaxation is observed during the season for garden culture, dry field 
labour, or other employments. Under this system the villagers seem to 
enjoy a greater degree of happiness than they could derive from those 
increased means that would result from increased exertion. I can bear 
testimony to their general cheerfulness, contentedness, and good humour; 
for having visited their villages at all seasons, and often when least ex- 
pected, or entirely unknown, I have always found them pleased and satis- 
fied with their lot when engaged at their work, or social and festive in 
their hours of pleasure." P. 232. 

Can it be doubted that the moderate and regular labour of this free 
peasantry, as described by Sir Stamford Raffles, under which they in- 
crease, by his account, very rapidly, is to be infinitely preferred, even 
with a view to its commercial and political advantages, to the incessant 
compulsory toil of the Demarara slaves, which is no less rapidly wear- 
ing them down and wasting their numbers. 

The testimony of Mr. Bo tham, before the Privy Council in 1789, will 
furnish a very convenient supplement to that of Sir Stamford Raffles. 
He is speaking of considerable sugar estates which exist near Batavia. 
"The proprietor," he says, "is generally a rich Dutchman, who has 
built on it substantial works. He lets the estate (say of 300 or more acres) 
to a Chinese, who lives on and superintends it, and who relets it to free 
men in parcels of 50 or 60 acres, on condition that they shall plant it 
in canes, for so much for every pecul (133^ avoirdupois) of sugar pro- 
duced. The superintendant collects people from the adjacent village 
to take off his crop. One set of taskmen, with their carts and buffaloes, 
cut the canes, carry them to the mill and grind them ; a second set boil 
them ; a third clay and basket them for market, at so much a pecul. 
Thus the renter knows with certainty what every 'pecul will cost him.- 
He has no unnecessary expense ; for when the crop is over, the task- 
men go home ; and for seven months in the year, there only remain 
on th£ estate the cane planters preparing the next crop. The price 



Alleged inairable Indolence of the Negro Slaves. 41 

of common labour is from 9df. to 10c?. a day; but the taskmen gain 
considerably more, not only from extra work, but from being considered 
artists in their several branches." " The cane is cultivated to the utmost 
perfection in Batavia. The hoe, almost the only implement of the west, 
is there scarcely used. The lands are well ploughed by a light plough 
with a single buffalo." Much more is added on the culture of the cane 
and the manufacture of sugar and rum, which the West Indians would 
do well to study. 

Satisfactory, however, as these examples may prove to candid and 
dispassionate minds, they will probably be objected to by the Demarara 
Planters, as not bearing a strict analogy to the case of the West Indies. 
Whatever may be the fact in other parts of the world, and with respect 
to other races of men, they are disposed to maintain, that the negro race 
whether slave or free, can only be excited to exertion by coercive means. 
No industry is to be expected from them beyond what may be required 
for the bare supply of their animal wants. In a climate which renders 
ease so desirable, and toil so painful, they will not be influenced by the 
motives which, in other cases, stimulate to exertion, and lead to the ac- 
cumulation of wealth; and will be rather content to live in idleness, 
looking beyond this for no enjoyments, and aiming at no improvement. 

Such is in substance the view which has been taken of this question 
by the Demarara planters, and which was urged with much force by their 
leading advocate ; it deserves therefore a careful consideration. 

3. Let us first consider the question as it respects the negro in a state 
of slavery, and enquire whether there be any motives besides those of 
coercion, or the cravings of mere animal appetite, which are capable of 
exciting him to industrious effort. 

Here however we think it right to guard against that abuse of terms 
which, in the West Indian vocabulary, dignifies with the name of indus- 
try, the labour extracted from the slaves by the cartwhip. Industry implies 
not a forced but a willing effort ; an effort made, not for the purpose 
merely of escaping the lash, or of satisfying hunger, but for that of 
attaining some desired and higher good. If therefore we are to estimate 
the industry of which the negroes are capable, we admit that we must 
take into account, not their forced services, but their voluntary sacrifices 
of time and ease, and those voluntary exertions that are called forth 
by the same moral motives which influence free agents in the other 
classes of mankind. 

In order to refute the position respecting the incurable indolence of 
the negro, it would be sufficient to cite the facts brought forward, on a 
variety of occasions, by the West Indians themselves. They tell us, 
with almost one voice, that the slaves are fully fed and clothed by their 
masters — a circumstance which, according to the theory we are com- 
bating, would take away all motive to labour which was not the result 
of coercion. And yet they tell us, that, nevertheless, multitudes of them 
employ their small pittance of leisure time so industriously, and to such 
advantage, that they abound in wealth and luxuries. The slaves are 
restrained by the most severe laws, not only in Demarara and Berbice, 
but in all the other Colonies, from growing sugar, cotton, coffee, cocoa, 

F 



42 Alleged incurable Indolence of the Negro Slaves. 

or any other exportable produce ; * but we are told that they raise^ In 
considerable quantities, for their own benefit, whatever they dare to 
cultivate, such as vegetable provisions, fruit, &c. besides breeding pigs 
and poultry, with all which they largely supply the Sunday markets. 
If this statement be true, and it is the statement of the West Indians 
themselves, then it is obvious that the negroes are susceptible of the 
force of moral motives ; for without this, what could be the induce- 
ment for men in a tropical climate, who are exhausted by constant and 
hard labour to which they are driven by the cart-whip, and who are 
not compelled (as is asserted) by hunger, or any other physical want^ 
to employ that fragment of leisure, which they might naturally be ex- 
pected to give to the paramount enjoyment of repose, in raising those 
quantities of yams, plantains, oranges, pine apples, pigs and poultry, 
with which they so abundantly supply the markets, and for which they 
obtain mere superfluities and luxuries in exchange. Abundance of West 
India testimony has been adduced to prove that such is the case. Hosts 
of affidavits to that effect have been transmitted from Jamaica, Barbadoes, 
and even Demarara ; and these affidavits are confirmed by Major 
Moody, who, in one of his elaborate Reports, has endeavoured, with ex- 
traordinary ingenuity and perseverance, to prove that the negro will not 
labour voluntarily, or for wages ; and yet, as if he were fated to save 
his opponents the trouble of demolishing his theories, he brings forward, 
in the very same Report, a statement of the large property possessed by 
the twelve or fifteen hundred families of slaves who inhabit Tortola, 
which was the fruit of their own voluntary industry, during their 
short intervals of relaxation from their master's service, they also being 
fed and clothed by their masters. The statement is so curious, and so 
decisive of the very point at issue, that it deserves to be exhibited 
entire on this occasion. 

STATEMENT OF VISIBLE PROPERTY POSSESSED BY THE SLAVES 

OF TORTOLA. 

38 Horses at 11. 10s. each 
938 Head of horned cattle, at 51. 
2125 Goats at 10s. 
1208 Pigs at 10s. 
33,120 Poultry at Is. 6d. 

23 Boats, at 51. . . . 
Fish pots and fishing tackle . 
Buildings, chiefly in town 
Furniture, utensils, &c. 

£15,032 

* The following is the law of Demarara on this point. — " All slaves, as well 
males as females, are prohibited from selling or bartering, with any one what- 
ever, any produce — sugar, coffee, cocoa, indigo, rokow, syrup, rum, bottles or 
flasks, or any thing else; being permitted to sell only vegetables and ground 
provisions, the produce of their gardens, or stock which they are allowed to 
rear; on pain of being severely flogged on the plantations to which they belong, 
for the first offence ; and for the second to be punished by sentence of the Court, 
according to the exigency of the case." 



sterling. 


£285 





4690 





1002 


10 


604 





2484 





115 





123 


10 


700 





4968 






Alleged incurable Indole7ice of the Negro Slaves. 43 

" In the above," it is added, " I have not estimated the disposable 
portion of esculents and fruits, and of cotton, raised by slaves. They 
cultivate on their own account, about 1,675 acres of land, which is 
estimated to yield annually, 31. lOs. sterling per acre, in total, 5,862^. 10s, 
After supporting themselves, the surplus they dispose of at market, 
which amounts to a very considerable sum. The industrious also 
possess, in cash, considerable sums. I am fully satisfied they are 
possessed of capital, arising from the sale of stock and crop, to fully 
the amount of 500QI. sterling." — Parliamentary papers of X^th of 
March, 1825, No. 115, p. 152. 

No one, of course, can be so absurd as to argue, that although the 
enslaved negroes of Tortola work, thus diligently, without the propelling 
power of the cart-whip, or the urgency of hunger, in order to obtain 
luxuries or accumulate wealth, yet that they will not work for the same 
wealth, if offered them in the shape of wages. It would require some- 
thing more than the new ^^ philosophy of labour," of which so much 
has been heard of late, to convince any man of sense in this country, 
that if a negro will work industriously, from moral motives, on a 
Sunday or half Saturday, though subjected to severe, compulsory, and 
uncompensated toil on all other days, he will not feel the influence of 
the same motives if presented to him on the days now occupied in his 
master's service. 

We might be content to end the discussion here, our point being 
proved by the West Indians themselves. It may be useful, however, to 
shew, and particularly in reference to the present question, to what a 
degree the industry of the enslaved negro may be excited, when, by 
facilities being granted to manumission, a rational hope is held out to 
him of obtaining it by his own exertions. 

We affirm then, that when facilities have been given them of obtain- 
ing their freedom, their voluntary industry has been thereby greatly aug- 
mented. In Demarara, indeed, every possible obstacle has been placed 
in the way of the slave obtaining his liberty. He has had no time 
allowed him as in other Colonies, all his time being occupied exclusively 
in his master's service. He has had no provision grounds of his own 
allotted to him ; but, like the horse or the mule of his master, has had 
his daily food dealt out to him from the stores or the plantain walk of the 
estate. With such a destitution of all means of accumulating property, 
the price to be paid for his liberty has been enhanced three or four fold 
as compared with some other Colonies, by the value his labour acquires 
from the fertility of the soil he cultivates. Even if his master has 
desired to emancipate him, the law has obstructed his purpose, and the 
consent of the Governor, and the Court of Policy has been made indis- 
pensable. To the naturally high price of the slave, there has also been 
superadded an enormous tax, the amount of which must also have been 
earned by the poor slave before he could achieve his liberty. Such was 
the state of things in Demarara as respected manumission, prior to 1826. 
Can we wonder then, that under these circumstances, the whole number 
of manumissions which had taken place in Demarara, in a population of 
upwards of 75,000 slaves in the five preceding years, from 1821 to 
1825, should have been only 142, (twenty-eight annually) being at the 



44 Proof of voluntary hidustry in the Slave. 

rate of ^ per cent, per annum, or one per cent, in twenty-eight years. 
And of this small number of manumissions, almost all were owing, not 
to the industry of the enslaved negro, but to the vices of the free white. 
They consist chiefly of the enslaved concubines, or of the illicit offspring 
of enslaved mothers by European fathers. The number of those who 
have redeemed themselves by the produce of their own industry, and 
the savings of their own frugality, out of this large mass, appears to 
have been, at the utmost, eleven or twelve.* 

Is it surprising that, under these hopeless, not to say desperate cir- 
cumstances, the Demarara Planters should have witnessed few or no 
proofs of industry in the negro slave ? What object has he had before 
him, exhausted with incessant toil for his master's sole benefit, to excite 
his industry ? Freedom seemed placed beyond his reach, and to be, in 
fact, unattainable. For, even if he should have been able to scrape 
together the means of purchasing it, at the enormous price it bore, 
and of paying besides the enormous tax upon it, his master might 
have refused to grant it ; and even if his master should have agreed 
to give him his liberty, it might have been refused to him by the 
Court of Policy. It would be the very height of absurdity to affect 
to expect industry from persons placed under such a constitution of 
things as this. 

Now let us contrast with Demarara, the small colony of Honduras. 
There, no unnecessary obstacle appears to have been raised to manu- 
missions, excepting what might have arisen from the largeness of the 
price demanded for it by the cupidity of the individual owner, or from 
the indolence of the slave himself. No tax is imposed upon it. The 
slaves, besides being supplied with provisions, are allowed the use of 
land, and time to cultivate it. Two days in the week, Saturday and 
Sunday, are wholly given up to them, during which they may employ 
themselves in any way they may deem most advantageous, not being 
debarred, as in Demarara, from any of the ordinary sources of profit 
enjoyed by the Avhites. They may hire themselves to their own masters, 
or to any one else who will employ them ; or they may cultivate the 
ground for their own use, or for purposes of sale ; or they may rear 
stock, t And what is the result of these facilities of acquiring property, 
and of the absence of all factitious impediments to manumission ? It is 
an annual enfranchisement of more than one per cent, of the popu- 
lation. In Demarara, the annual enfranchisement is one in about 2800. 
In Honduras, it is more than one in 100, being more than twenty-eight 
times as many in proportion as in Demarara. 

There is another remarkable difference between Demarara and Hon- 
duras. The manumissions in Demarara are chiefly effected by white 
fathers, or paramours, and seldom by the labour of the slaves 
themselves. In Honduras the manumissions are, in many cases, the 
fruit of the industry and frugality of the manumitted individuals ; by 
means of the one day in the week, exclusive of Sunday, which is appro- 
priated to their own purposes. The value of such a privilege is incalcu- 

* Parliamentary Papers for 1827, No. 128, p. 25. 

t Sec Parliamentary Papers, No. 433, of lOlh June, 1818, p, 115, &c. 



Proof of voluntary Industry in the Slave. A5 

lable. It extinguishes half the difference between a state of slavery 
and freedom ; and yet it is a privilege which, it is to be feared, neither 
the planters of Demarara nor of the other West India Colonies will 
be willing to give to their slaves, although both Mr. Canning and 
Lord Bathurst assured Parliament and the country, that a day in lieu 
of the Sunday, would be given to them.* 

The extraordinary effect produced by the possession, exclusively for 
their own purposes, of that single day, will be better understood when 
we look at the prices which, through the industrious employment of it, 
the slaves of Honduras have been able to give for their freedom, and 
the enormity of which ought not to be overlooked. One man is stated 
. to have paid 225/. for his freedom, another 250Z. and another 300/. 
'D«e man, continuing a slave himself, buys his wife's freedom for lOOZ. ; 
and another that of a son at the same price. Several women pay for 
themselves 100/. each, and one as much as 200/. These prices, however, 
high as they are, f are brought within the reach of the slaves, simply in 
consequence of the scope afforded to their industry, by giving them a 
day in the weeek besides Sunday. The time allowed even to them, it 
must be admitted, is scanty enough. Five days of the week are given 
wholly to the master, and only one to themselves besides Sunday ; and 
yet, other difficulties and discouragements being removed, hope is 
awakened ; and, under its influence, such is the industry and the pro- 
vidence they exercise, that they are enabled not only to aim at great 
accumulations, but to effect them. Let it be kept in view that, under 
this better system, manumissions have proceeded with 28 times the 
rapidity at Honduras as in Demarara. And no one has ventured to 
allege that this comparative rapidity of manumissions has ever en- 
dangered the peace, or marred the prosperity, or aggravated the demo- 
ralization of the colony of Honduras. 

This view of the subject is abundantly confirmed by what has oc- 
curred in Demarara itself since the 1st of January 1826. On that day 
the new Order in Council came into operation there, and although it 
did not contain the clause which gives to slaves the right of redeeming 
themselves at a fair appraisement, and without the consent of the 
master; yet it took away the power of preventing manumissions which 
had been enjoyed by the Governor and the Court of Policy, and it 
entirely abolished those iniquitous taxes and fees which had hitherto 
so greatly enhanced the cost of freedom. Even of these new facilities, 
limited as they are, the effect has been most remarkable. Between the 
1st of January and the 31st of May 1826, a space of only five months, 
the number of manumissions have amounted to 243, being one hundred 
more than had been manumitted in the preceding five years. 

Let us look at another case, that of Trinidad. In this Island out of 
a population of about 23,500, 631 manumissions were effected in the 
five years from 1821 to 1825, being at the rate of 126 annually, 

* See Speech of Mr. Canning, Debate of May 15, 1823, p. 31, — and preface 
to that debate, p. xxxi. 

t The above sums are in Honduras currency, the proportion of which to 
sterling is either about 150/. per cent, as in Jamaica, or 200/. per cent, as in the 
other Islands, probably the former. 



46 Proof of voluntary Industry in the Slave, 

or more than | per cent, per annum, when in Demarara containing 
75,000 slaves the rate during the same period was about 28 annually, 
or l-28th per cent, per annum, being a rate more than fourteen times 
as great in Trinidad as in Demarara. 

In Trinidad, however, there existed no obstacle to manumission 
excepting either the unwillingness of the master, in cases where manu- 
mission was to be his gift ; or the indolence of the slave, when the 
purchase was to be effected by the fruit of his industry. Of the 631 
persons thus emancipated 324 purchased their own freedom at the 
aggregate cost of ,50,434Z. currency, or an average of 154?. 14s. cur- 
rency, or about 701. sterling each. The effort of industry to which 
these 326 individuals were excited in order to raise this sum, they 
would have had little or no motive to make, but for the comparative 
facilities afforded to manumission in this island by the absence of all 
tax upon it, and for the state of the law which gives to the slave 
the right of redeeming himself and the members of his family. 

In Trinidad, however, the slaves labour under some serious disadvantages 
as compared with the slaves in Honduras. Their labour for their masters 
is far more destructive of life, and consequently it must be far more 
adverse to the capacity of voluntary effort. It is so destructive, that in 
Trinidad the decrease amounts to 2| per cent, per annum, while in 
Honduras it is only f per cent. The dreadful mortality of Trinidad is 
obviously the effect of sugar culture on a soil peculiarly fertile ; and it 
must necessarily tend to that exhaustion of the physical strength which 
takes away the power as well as lessens the inclination of voluntary ex- 
ertion. The slaves in Trinidad, moreover, are not fed by the master as in 
Honduras, except perhaps with a little salt fish. They support themselves 
by food raised on land allotted to them, and which they have had Sun- 
day, and some additional days in the year, but not a whole day in 
each week, to cultivate. The slaves in Honduras, besides being fed by 
the master, have had Sunday and another day in the week for their 
own purposes. Neither the Sunday however, nor the additional week 
days, (the number of which is not stated, but it is supposed to be six- 
teen) given to the slave in Trinidad, were given him for his own purposes, 
but to raise the food required for his whole sustentation, which whole sus- 
tentation it is in fact the master's duty to provide. His means of accumu- 
lation therefore, as compared with the slave in Honduras, have been very 
greatly abridged ; and yet such has been the effect produced, in excit- 
ing his industry, by the removal of all other obstructions to manumis- 
sion, that a sum of about £10,000 currency, a year, has been applied, 
by slaves in Trinidad, to their own redemption, during each of the years 
from 1821 to 1825. 

These facts, and if we were to go through the whole of the West India 
islands they might be multiplied, will sufficiently shew, that when, by 
giving facilities to manumission, the spring of hope is once permitted 
to operate on the mind of the enslaved negro, such an impulse is given 
to his industry, — to his voluntary exertion, — as produces almost incre- 
dible results.* 

• See Anti-Slavery Reporters, Nos. 19 and 26, for further facts respecting 
manumission. 



Proof of Industry in the enfranchised Negro. 47 

4. But the Demarara planters will probably admit that the negro slave 
will make great exertions for the sake of purchasing his freedom ; but 
that, having obtained it, he will no longer labour for any other object 
beyond the supply of his animal necessities, but will cease to be indus- 
trious, and relapse into absolute indolence. This seems to be what 
they mean, when they affirm that by giving facilities to manumission the 
industry of the free negro " will be impaired, he being so averse to 
labour in the field, that he cannot be induced to work for hire, or 
to carry on the cultivation of the country in a regular or effectual 
manner." 

Here it would have been important to know, what actually had been 
the inducements held out to the free negro, to tempt him to labour for 
hire in the field ; because, unless they have been of a kind equal if 
not superior to what were presented to him by other and easier em- 
ployments, the fact that he has not been induced to labour in the field 
for hire proves nothing against his industry. Nay, it may be a proof 
of the very contrary. It may be a proof that such are his resources, 
and such his successful exertions, in other more profitable lines of em- 
ployment, as to raise him above the necessity of submitting to the coarse 
and ill-paid drudgery of field labour for hire. Major Moody, who, 
from the coincidence of his opinions with those of the petitioners, is an 
unexceptionable witness on this point, states that the wages of field 
labour in the Virgin Islands vary from about 6^d. to \3d. a day, accord- 
ing to the strength and capacity of the individual. What it may be in 
Demarara we know not, but the Protector of slaves in Berbice having 
fixed at a guilder, (equal to 17|<Z. sterling,) the hire of a slave for a day, 
when he works voluntarily for his master, we may regard this as the 
extent of the inducement which would be held out to the free negro, in 
that colony and Demarara, for his labour in the field, from morning to 
night, under a tropical sun. Surely it would not be very creditable 
to the good sense of the free negro, if he we were to submit, on such 
terms, to the incessant drudgery of field labour, provided easier, and 
at the same time more gainful, employment was open to him. What 
should we say of the good sense of any man in England, who should 
prefer hedging and ditching at Is. a day, to some lighter and pleasanter 
occupation which should yield him two or three shillings a day ? The 
very supposition is absurd. Before, therefore, the Demarara Planters 
can urge it as a proof of the want of industry in a free negro that he 
refuses to labour in the field, for any hire which they may have offered 
to him, they ought to have shewn that he was not more profitably, as 
well as pleasantly, employed in some other way. 

Moreover, when the planters of Demarara and Berbice state so tri- 
umphantly the fact, that, in these colonies, " the free negro cannot 
be induced to work in the field for hire," they ought to have told us of 
what materials the 5,500 persons are composed who form the whole of 
the enfranchised population of both the Colonies. They ought to 
have told us what proportion of them consists of the female concu- 
bines of white men, and what of the oflTspring of their illicit concubi- 
nage; how many of them also are mechanics capable of earning perhaps 
5s. or 6s. a day ; how many of them cultivate profitably their own allot- 



48 Free Negroes averse to Field Labour. 

ments ; and how many of them are raised, by their circumstances, or by 
their exertions in other ways, above the necessity of field labour. They 
ought also to have told us how many individuals there are among them, 
capable of field labour, who are reduced to the necessity of resorting to 
that lowest and most fatiguing and least profitable species of drudgery ; 
and who do not earn more, in some easier and less irksome way, than 
they could do by labouring, during 10 or 12 hours a day, in a tropical 
sun, for Is. S^d. Let the enfranchised individuals be specified who, 
though capable of field labour, yet prefer a state of comparative desti- 
tution to working for hire ; and then there will be at least some facts to 
investigate in support of the theory of the petitioners. 

But though, among the enfranchised population of Demarara and 
Berbice, there may be none who will condescend to steady labour in the 
field, from morning to night, for a guilder a day, yet we have this proof 
that industry is not absolutely extinct among them ; that while 68 white 
individuals, in the years 1821 to 1825, received relief as paupers, only 
28 enfranchised persons received such relief during the same time ; the 
whole white population in the two Colonies being about 3000, and 
the whole enfranchised population about 5500. The 28 enfranchised 
persons also, who received relief, were almost exclusively women and 
children, most probably the deserted and destitute concubines or 
children of the pauper whites. 

But supposing that in Demarara and Berbice, the pecuniary induce- 
ments to labour in the field for hire were much more tempting than they 
can be shewn to be, yet there are several circumstances attending 
agricultural labour in these Colonies, which could not fail to have had a 
powerful influence in deterring free persons from engaging in it. The 
labour of the field was conducted under the whip. And although, in 
associating himself to the human team so worked, the free negro might 
have stipulated for the integrity of his skin, yet to have taken his place 
among them at all would seem to imply that he had bound himself to per- 
form the same tale of labour with them. Without such an understanding, 
a planter would hardly have admitted among his slaves so pernicious an 
example, as that of a fellow-labourer pausing on the hoe, or relieving his 
fatigue by a temporary cessation from his toil. Most unquestionably, the 
steady and continuous labour of the Demarara field slave is what no 
man would submit to, who was not either impelled by the whip in the 
field, or liable to be punished by its infliction in case of failing to 
complete his task. Neither health nor strength could long endure it 
without sinking ; a fact abundantly proved by the waste of human life 
which is caused by sugar planting in that Colony. The decrease of 
the whole slave population in Demarara appears to amount to about 2 per 
cent, per annum. Of the mortality which creates this large decrease, a 
great proportion is said to take place on the sugar plantations; so 
that it would probably be found, that the decrease directly caused by 
field labour on these, was swelled to 4 or 5, or even to 10 percent, per 
annum, while in other lines of employment there might even be an 
increase ; which, nevertheless, left an average decrease on the whole to 
the enormous extent of about 2 per cent, per annum. Now, it is not 
pretended that any of these slaves are killed outright by the employ- 



Free Negroes averse to Field Labour. 49 

ment of sugar planting, or by the actual inflictions of the cart-whip ; 
but the truth is, that the exaction of labour being beyond their strength, 
they are killed off by degrees. They are worn down by the effort to 
which they are incessantly stimulated ; and at length they give way 
under it. As their strength begins to sink, the excitement of the whip 
is more needed ; and some time may elapse before the person who 
administers it can satisfy himself, whether the diminished exertion of the 
slave be the effect of want of power, or of want of will, until at length 
the breaking frame leaves no room for doubt. Such has been the history 
of negro life and negro suffering in thousands and thousands of instances. 
And to such a state, who that was free would voluntarily subject 
himself? It would be hke dooming himself to a lingering death — to death 
by a kind of mitigated torture. Who, indeed, would voluntarily expose 
himself to be the sharer, though on better terms, or even the constant 
spectator, of such a system; to be the witness of all the brutal violence, 
in language and conduct, on the part of drivers, overseers, managers, &c. 
which is of its very esseiice, as hitherto administered? 

Reasons enough have now been given to shew, why the freed negroes 
of Demarara and the other Colonies should decline the inducements (if 
any were ever offered them, which we greatly doubt) to engage for hire 
in the labour of the field. But it by no means follows, that they may 
be therefore justly charged with want of industry. For what are the 
indications of industry which would be required of any class of men, in 
any part of the world? Would it not be that they were free from want, 
that they lived in comfort, and that they accumulated property ? Now 
these tests of industry will be found to exist, generally, among the en- 
franchised population, not only of Demarara anc Berbice, but of all the 
other West Indian Colonies. 

That they are generally placed above want appears from this, that 
though their number amounts to about 90,000, yet of that number only 
227 appear to have received even occasional relief, as paupers, during 
the years 1821 to 1825, and these chiefly the concubines or children of 
destitute whites : while, of about 65,000 whites, in the same time, 1675 
received relief. The proportion, therefore, of enfranchised persons 
receiving any kind of aid, as paupers, in the West Indies, is one in 
nearly 400 ; whereas the proportion among the whites of the West 
Indies is about one in forty ; and, in England generally, one in twelve 
or thirteen, in some counties one in eight or nine- 
There can be no doubt, therefore, that the enfranchised population of 
the West Indies are subsisted by their own efforts ; and it is no less cer- 
tain, that they obtain their subsistence without the necessity of resorting 
to the lowest and most degrading descriptions of employment. They are 
placed, in short, by their own unassisted exertions, above the necessity 
of engaging for hire in daily agricultural labour. In whatever degree 
they may employ themselves, and employ themselves profitably, in cul- 
tivation on their own account, they are not driven to engage for hire in 
those plantation labours in which the slaves are now exclusively 
occupied. This fact is not only admitted by the Demarara Planters, 
but it is made the very ground on which they impute to the free negro a 
total want of industry. But may it not possibly be a proof of the elevation 



50 Proof of Industry in the enfranchised Negro. 

consequent on freedom, and of the industry rather than the indolence of 
the enfranchised ? They maintain themselves in independence, without 
submitting to the laborious, fatiguing, degrading, and deathful employ- 
ment of the slave. And this is the charge against them! And not 
only do they subsist, but they subsist in comfort; and even accumulate 
wealth. And this they do, though pressed down by civil and political 
disabilities of the most discouraging kind ; and, although the scope of 
their industry is narrowed, and its efforts are repressed, by cruel and 
invidious exclusions and distinctions. It even argues considerable 
energy and elasticity of character, that they should have at all sur- 
mounted the obstacles which have so sternly opposed their progress to 
comfort and wealth. 

If any proof of this statement were wanting, it would be sufficient to 
cite the uncontradicted details, laid before Parliament, in the last Session, 
by Lord Harrowby, in the House of Lords, and by Dr. Lushington, in 
the House of Commons, respecting the state of the enfranchised 
population of Jamaica, being nearly a moiety of that of the whole 
of the British West Indies. Not only was no attempt made to con- 
tradict those details, but their truth was admitted by Mr. Pallmer, him- 
self a Jamaica Planter, and who had resided for a considerable time in 
that island. Uncontradicted admissions to the same effect might be 
cited from the discussions which have taken place, even in the Assembly 
of Jamaica, on the claims of the enfranchised inhabitants of that island 
to be relieved from their civil disabilities. 

The Colony of Trinidad contains a still larger proportion of 
enfranchised persons than Jamaica. They outnumber by four to one 
the whites, and are outnumbered by the slaves in the proportion of only 
three to two. The whites are 3500, the slaves about 23,000, and the 
free blacks, and people of colour, upwards of 15,000, some say 17,000. 
And what is the condition of these last ? There is not a single pauper 
among them, not a single individual receiving aid from public charity. 
They live comfortably and independently, and nearly half of the pro- 
perty of the Island is said to be in their hands. There, it is admitted on 
all hands, that the enfranchised Africans and their descendants have 
long since emerged from barbarism, have become enlightened, have 
acquired wealth, are highly respectable in character, and are rapidly 
advancing in knowledge and refinement. Of these facts his Majesty's 
Government are fully apprized. 

In St. Lucia, the enfranchised part of the population is three times 
the number of the whites, and more than one-fourth of the number of 
the slave population.* The Governor, General Mainwaring, distinctly 
states, that there is not a single pauper in this Colony. Mr. Jeremie, 
the Chief Justice of that Colony, thus expresses himself respecting 
them : " The emancipated negroes have been taxed with laziness ; but 
scarcely is a road opened, in any part of the country, but the borders 
are occupied by free settlers." He also combats the objections urged 
against affording facilities to manumission ; some of them the very 
same with those taken by the Demarara Planters. He argues strenu- 

* Papers laifl before Parliament in 1825, p. 233. 



Proof of Industry in the enfranchised Negro. 51 

ously for giving to slaves a rig-ht of property in land, that when enfran- 
chised they may possess a domicile, and land of their own to till. 
Much of the imputation on the industry of the free negroes, and of 
their alleged aversion to agricultural labour, he conceives to arise either 
from their not being permitted to retain and pay rent for those provision 
grounds which they had cultivated with care as slaves, or from the 
great difficulty they experience, in consequence of the prejudice existing 
against their holding lands, in finding another spot and obtaining a sure 
title to it, where they may begin cultivation on their own account. The 
slaves, when manumitted, lose the land which had cost them so much 
trouble to cultivate. The masters, either from prejudice, or from some 
strange and unaccountable policy, instead of encouraging them to re- 
main on the estate to which they might thus become attached, and 
where they would be ready to lend their assistance when wanted, it 
seems, expel them from it. If, however, they were permitted to con- 
tinue to hold, when free, paying a small rent for it, the same spot of 
land they had previously improved, or were encouraged to have another 
prepared to which they could remove, the ground he conceives for this 
charge of indolence would be taken away. He thinks it quite unlikely, 
in that case, "that persons so shrewd as slaves are, by habit abstemious 
and frugal, fond of hoarding their earnings, will become less solicitous 
about money and wealth, when they can devote more time to amassing 
it, and when they hold it by a safer tenure. 

In Grenada, the enfranchised population is four times the number 
of the whites, nor is there one pauper among them. 

In June 1823, a petition was presented by this class to the Assembly 
of Grenada affirming their loyalty and general good conduct, the large- 
ness of their contributions to the revenue, and their importance to 
the defence and security of the Colony. They distinctly stated that 
they possessed no small portion of the property in the Colony, and that 
of the capital town in it two thirds actually belonged to them. This 
petition was submitted to a Committee of the Assembly, and on their re- 
port the Assembly resolved "that the free coloured inhabitants of these 
islands are a respectable, well-behaved, class of the community, and 
possessed of considerable property in the Colony ; " and then followed 
some further resolutions in favour of their claims, which resolutions 
however do not appear to have been as yet acted upon. 

Now it might, without doubt, be said of the enfranchised negroes 
of Grenada as of Demarara, that not a single individual among 
them had ever been known to employ himself in daily agricultural 
labour in the field for hire ; but would it be a fair inference from 
this fact that their industry had been extinguished, or even impaired, 
by their manumission? On the contrary, what more satisfactory 
proof of industry could possibly have been exhibited than the fact 
that, slaves as they or their parents had recently been, they were 
now living in comfort and independence, " respectable," " well-be- 
haved," and " possessed of considerable property ? " No explanation 
can possibly be given of this result which does not involve both their 
capacity and willingness of exertion, and which does not prove that 
the enfranchised negroes of the West Indies are not wanting in in- 



52 Proof of Improvement in the enfranchised Negro. 

clustry. The only fact which is adduced in opposition to this con- 
clusion is, that the free negroes do not work in the field of the planta- 
tions for hire ; a fact which is admitted, but which is so far from 
proving a want of industry, that it does not even prove that they do 
not employ themselves industriously, extensively, and beneficially in 
agricultural pursuits on their own farms, or in other ways. 

But another irresistible proof of the state of comfort in which the en- 
franchised population of the West Indies are placed, may be found in 
the rapid increase of their numbers by natural propagation. And this 
progressive increase is rendered the more remarkable by the circum- 
stance of the progressive decrease of every other class of the commu- 
nity, of the whites on the one hand, and of the slaves on the other. 
Even the Maroons of Jamaica increase rapidly while the slaves around 
them decrease. 

In Berbice itself the number of enfranchised persons had increased 
in the five years, 1821 to 1825, from 669 to 835, although in that time 
there had been only 49 manumissions.* Here we have an increase by 
births of 117 on 669 in five years, being at the astonishing rate of 3g per 
cent, per annum ; while the slaves have been decreasing in Berbice, and 
still morein Demarara, in which last colony their decrease has been pro- 
ceeding at the enormous rate of nearly 2 per cent, per annum. 

5. Statements similar to this in effect might be multiplied. Every 
colony in the West Indies would supply materials. And yet in the face 
of such facts do the Demarara planters take it upon them to tell His 
Majesty in Council that enfranchisement instead of promoting industry, 
comfort, civilization and moral improvement, tends on the contrary to 
generate idleness, profligacy, barbarism and crime. This statement 
rests on no authority whatever. The point however is so important that 
we must beg leave, though at the risk of being tedious, to make a few 
farther observations on the subject. 

Proofs that the enfranchised population are not wanting in industry 
have been already exhibited. Their reputation for loyalty at least is 
untainted. They have never been charged with conduct or with pur- 
poses adverse to the public safety. And as to crimes of another descrip- 
tion, though it would be too much to expect that among so large a 
body, and especially a body so very unfavourably circumstanced with 
respect to the means of education and instruction, criminals should not be 
found, yet it is confidently believed that the proportion of enfranchised 
persons; convicted of crimes in the West Indies, is smaller than that of 
any other class, whether free or enslaved. And for the elucidation of 
this fact it may be sufficient to refer to the records of the West Indian 
judicatories generally. We have only found one actual return on this 
subject among the Parliamentary papers. It is from the Island of 
.Jamaica. The enfranchised inhabitants of that island are considerably 
more numerous than the whites. And yet by a return from several of its 
parishes ordered to be printed by the House of Commons, on the 12th 
.July 1815, (No. 478) it appears that the proportion of criminal convic- 
tions of whites, and of enfranchised persons, was as 24 of the former to 

* Parliaincnt;iry Papers, No, 53, 9th May, 182C. 



Proof of Civilization iti the enfranchised Negro. 53 

8 of the latter. We have been assured that the proportions would not 
be found materially different in the other colonies. 

As to what respects general civilization also, it may be equally demon- 
strated, that under great and numerous disadvantages, disadvantages 
imposed upon them by the system of oppression and degradation to 
which they are forced to submit, they have not only not retrograded since 
their enfranchisement, but have considerably advanced. Of this the 
comfort in which they live, the increase of their numbers, their compa- 
rative freedom from crime, their peaceable demeanour as subjects, and 
their accumulation of property, furnish incontestable and conclusive 
evidence. But in addition to these, the progress of light and knowledge 
among them, and their thirst for the benefits of education, for them- 
selves and their children, are quite decisive, and do not permit a single 
doubt to hang upon the question. 

And if we contemplate, in this view, the disadvantages and obstacles 
with which they have had to contend, the credit due to them for having 
made any advance whatever in civilization is very considerably enhan- 
ced. They have been oppressed, degraded, discountenanced and tram- 
pled upon. They have been shut out from evei'y office of trust or emolu- 
ment ; from every thing which might stimulate them to acquire knowledge 
or to cultivate their intellectual powers. They have had the very 
worst moral examples exhibited to them by the whole body of their 
superiors, who have been, in fact, the very instruments of poisoning the 
sources of moral improvement, by seducing their women into a participa- 
tion of their worst vices, and by thus spreading the taint of profligacy, 
like a moral leprosy, over the whole face of society.* They have thus 
been not only habituated to the spectacle, and exposed to the contami- 
nating example of the grossest immoralities from infancy, but their 
women have been taught to regard a participation in them as the only 
path to wealth and distinction ; as a subject of glory instead of a subject 
of reproach or shame. They have been deprived of every incentive to 
honourable conduct, not only by being shut out from all places of trust 
and emolument, but by being denied every active right of citizenship 
whatever, having been, for the most part, excluded, until recently, even 
from giving evidence in Courts of Justice, in cases where whites were 
concerned. Besides this, until within the last two years, no measures 
were even begun to be taken by the local governments to furnish them 
with the means of education, or with moral and religious instruction of 
any kind. The cultivation of their minds, or of their manners, was 
not only utterly neglected but actually perverted. They have had no 
communion with their superiors but that of vice ; no control on the part 
of their rulers but what tended to sink them deep in debasement. 

And yet notwithstanding all this, they have been emerging from their 
original state of incivilization with a progress which has gone beyond all 
reasonable anticipations. We refer to the living mass for the proof 
of our position. Many of them will now bear an advantageous compa- 
rison, not only in respect of wealth, the fruit of industry, but in respect 
of their moral qualities, and even of their intellectual acquirements, with 

* See Bryan Edwards, Stewart, Williamson, Bickell, Cooper, kc. &c. 



54 Proof of Civilization m the enfranchised Negro, 

multitudes of the whites who contemn them as an inferior race, and 
who would deem themselves degraded by sitting down with them at the 
same table. 

In confirmation of this view of the subject, besides appealing to the 
testimonies already adduced, and particularly to Bryan Edwards's His- 
tory of the West Indies, we would refer to Mr. Coleridge, who, in his " Six 
Months' Tour," (a work which is very far from being, in general, a safe 
authority,) establishes, in an unequivocal manner, the respectability 
of the coloured classes; and, above all, to the Commissioners of legal 
inquiry who have, of late, visited the West Indies, — to Mr. Henry, Mr. 
Coneys, and Mr. Dwarris. This last mentioned gentleman is, himself, 
a West Indian, and the proprietor of an estate in Jamaica, and though 
he has risen superior to some of the prejudices of his fellow Colonists 
he has, nevertheless, exhibited sufficient proof of the remaining influence 
of colonial feeling on his mind, to render him an invaluable witness in 
such a case as the present. A passage at the close of his third Report 
will amply confirm our general statements, respecting the growing im- 
provement and civilization of the enfranchised classes, while it will give 
a striking view of the debasement to which the injustice and pride of the 
white class have reduced them, and which is rendered not the less 
striking by the very doubts and fears of Mr. Dwarris. 

Mr. Dwarris thus expresses huTiself: 

" The policy and justice of admitting the free people of colour (whose 
numbers are continually increasing,) to an extension of civil privileges, 
and, indeed, the title of some among them, to a participation in all poli- 
tical rights, is very clear to a dispassionate observer in this country. 
But so strong are the prejudices existing in the West Indies, founded 
chiefly on physical peculiarities of the African race, and so impossible is 
it to alter the habits and feelings of a people, by merely changing their 
laws, that, upon this subject, I am quite at a loss what to recommend."* 
" That the truly respectable, the well-educated, well-principled, and 
well-conducted, among the coloured inhabitants of these w^ands, should 
be left precisely on the same footing, in respect of civil disabilities, with 
the newly-emancipated slave, is a conditition of society, which, without 
any violent shock to ancient prepossessions, might, I venture to think, 
admit of some alleviation. f 

" There are islands, where, from the thinness of the white population, 
it is already felt to be desirable to admit free persons of colour upon 
coroner's juries. There is, in other islands, a manifest indisposition in 
the white inhabitants to be frequently summoned at the sittings of the 
Courts ; and, indeed, the only objection to the institution or revival of 
quarter sessions, in Colonies where it was felt to be greatly wanted for 
the trial of petty offences, was the inconvenience apprehended, by per- 



* It is, at least, unquestionable, that a law which should admit enfranchised 
persons duly qualified as to property to sit on juries, and to exercise the elective 
franchise might easily be enforced in the Courts of the King ; and also that 
their rights of person and property might be adequately protected by independent 
judges, named by the Ci'own. 

t There lias, therefore, been, according to Mr. Dwarris, a great progression in 
civilization among tlie enfranchised class. 



Proof of Civilization in the enfranchised Negro. 55 

sons engaged in commercial or agricultural pursuits, from being so 
frequently called upon to attend as jurors. In these inferior Courts, in 
the first instance, free persons of colour possessing a certain qualification 
in property, and never having themselves been in the condition of 
Slavery,* might, it does appear to me, and I state it with submission, 
be not only unobjectionably, but with very great advantage, admitted to 
act as jurymen. In process of time," and why not now ? "I further 
expect that the white inhabitants will gladly avail themselves of their 
assistance on all petty juries, reserving to themselves, as possessing the 
greatest property and consideration in the country,t the exclusive 
privilege of acting upon grand and special juries. For the rest, time, 
improved feelings in the one class, and continued good conduct in the 
other, will gradually produce a salutary influence, and be much more 
efficacious in the result, than any forced changes in favour of a particular 
class. J As a matter of natural right, if it were insisted on, these persons 
Undoubtedly ought to compose half the jury when coloured people are 
on trial, or have their interests at stake ; but were this measure suddenly 
attempted, I firmly believe, under existmg feelings, that no white 
person would sit with them in the same jury-box. The terms in which 
their very friends in the Colonies advocate their cause, betray the deep- 
rooted feelings of repugnance and disgust which too certainly exist." 

" In conclusion, I can only repeat my earnest recommendation to this 
deserving class, to continue the same unimpeachable demeanour, they 
have hitherto preserved ; and my conviction, that they will, in such 
case, not only establish, incontestably, their fitness for the situations from 
which they are excluded, but, eventually, conciliate the esteem and con- 
fidence of their countrymen, whose prejudices they will have insensibly 
subdued." 

That, however, they never will do, until the law shall have authori- 
tatively spoken on the subject. The West Indian white feels now, and 
while the legislature shall continue to concede to his absurd and un- 
reasonable prejudices, will continue to feel, the same kind of repulsion 
to seeing a man of colour placed on the same civil or political level with 
himself, which, in this country, makes persons of refined habits to shrink 
from the contact of squalidness and rags. 

Now, even Mr. Dwarris, who, with all his liberality, retains some 
share of Creolian prejudice, does not scruple to assert that the "justice 
of admitting the free people of colour, whose numbers are continually 
increasing, to an extension of civil privileges ; and indeed the title of 
some among them to a participation in all political rights," are un- 
questionable. And he thinks it need not give any very violent shock to 

* Why should the having been a slave, if a man has, by his own good con- 
duct, attained to freedom, and acquired the property qualifying him for the 
exercise of its rights, be made a bar to that exercise ? 

t Is this the fact ? On the contrary, are not the whites in general mere ad- 
venturers, having no stake whatever in the country as compared with the en- 
franchised class ? 

X That is true, as far as objections to matrimonial unions, association, &c. are 
concerned ; these must be left to time ; but not so as to the enjoyment of 
rights, and the infliction of wrongs: — the one ought to be secured, and the other 
to be prevented by laws, and that forthwith. 



56 Proof of Civilization in the enfranchised Negro. 

ancient prejudices, " that the truly respectable, the well-educated, well- 
principled, and well-conducted among the coloured inhabitants," — (for 
it seems there are such among them) should be released from their 
present disabilities. He proposes, therefore, that certain classes of the 
enfranchised should be admitted gradually to certain privileges, but 
under rather absurd restrictions and limitations. With these remnants 
of West Indian feeling we have nothing to do at present. Our object 
is to record the decisive testimony of Mr. Dwarris, not to the alleged 
progressive decline in civilization of the enfranchised classes, but to 
their progressive advance in civilization. Nay, of those who have been 
the longest emancipated, he is so far from stating them to have retro- 
graded, that he says of them, that they are " a deserving class," who 
have preserved " an unimpeachable demeanour," and who he has no 
doubt, if tried, " will establish incontestably their fitness for the situa- 
tions from which they are now excluded." After all these statements, 
is it possible to maintain that there is a shadow of ground for the asser- 
tion of the Demarara Petitioners, that enfranchised slaves, instead of 
becoming useful members of the community, would become " a burden 
to the public, and depraved and unhappy in themselves ?" 

Upon the whole, it cannot be denied that the enfranchised population 
of the West Indies rank infinitely higher than the enslaved population, 
in respectability, in wealth, in intelligence, and in all that goes to con- 
stitute the real prosperity of a community. Nor can it be questioned, 
that if the enslaved population were all elevated, by the same or similar 
means, to the condition to which the enfranchised population have 
attained, a great accession of individual happiness and of colonial pros- 
perity would be the inevitable result. 

It was well and ably remarked by Lord Chief Ju'fetice Best, in a 
recent address to the Grand Jury of Wiltshire, that a country can then 
only be said to be prosperous, not when there are a few rich men and the 
rest are in a state of dependence, but when the mass of the people are 
in the enjoyment of easy and comfortable circumstances. And this is 
most obviously the point to which the measure of giving facilities to 
enfranchisement tends to bring the state of society in the West Indies. 

In reply therefore to the allegations of the Petitioners, we affirm, and 
we think we have proved by the most undeniable testimony, that the 
manumitted population of the West India Islands, instead of being idle 
and disorderly, are an industrious and orderly class ; that, instead of 
being contented with a bare subsistence, they vie in the acquisition of 
comforts and luxuries with the Whites; that, instead of retrograding 
in wealth, their property has been rapidly accumulating, while that of 
the Whites, they themselves being witnesses, has been deteriorating; 
and that, instead of sinking in the scale of civilization, they have been 
fast advancing in moral and intellectual improvement. If, therefore, 
they have preferred other occupations to the tilling of the soil, for such 
hire as has been offered to them, (if indeed any offer of the kind has- 
been made them) it must be because the occupations they have pre- 
ferred have afforded them a higher profit. And it is surely more 
rational to refer their choice to this cause, a cause both adequate and 
undeniable, than to a want of industry, the existence of which is dis- 



Effett of the Agricultural Code of Hayti. 57 

proved by such a multitude of circumstances as have been here de- 
tailed. 

6. A farther ground of objection to the policy of facilitating manu- 
mission, has been drawn from the agricultural code which ivas 
promulgated in Hayti in the course of the last year. On this code 
the learned Counsel Mr. Adam, dwelt at considerable length as prov- 
ing, beyond dispute, all for which his clients contended, as to the in- 
curable indolence of the enfranchised negro, and the impossibility of 
obtaining from him any productive labour without severe coercion. 

In order to sustain, in the slightest degree, this view of the Haytian 
Code, those who have adopted it, have been under the necessity of 
resorting to a mistranslation of one of the terms which occur in 
it ; and on this mistranslation, in point of fact, does their whole 
argument rest. They have laboured, for obvious reasons, to discover 
if possible the existence of the driving system in that code, and in 
order to this they have adopted the clumsy expedient of rendering the 
French word " Conducteur," into the English word " Driver ; " 
whereas all who know any thing of the French language, know that 
the term for what we call a " Driver " is not " Conducteur," but 
" Commandeur ;" the word " Conducteur " as applied to men answering 
to the English term " Foreman." 

A mere term, after all, proves nothing. In the English Islands, the 
" Driver " has various essential attributes of which the " Conducteur " 
in Hayti is wholly divested. This last has in the first place no driving in- 
strument ; he is without his cart-whip, that execrable engine of exaction 
and oppression, that " base, cruel, debasing instrument of torture," 
to use the energetic expressions of Mr. Barret, a planter of Jamaica, 
in a speech made last year in the Assembly of that island, ^' the fellow 
of the rack and the thumb screw " — for the abolition of which 
" every heart that is not callous pants," the lacerations of which, he 
tells us are inflicted " at the pleasure of an individual, at his sole com- 
mand, as caprice or passion dictates " sometimes by whites of the 
lowest order ; sometimes by one slave (the Driver) " at his discretion 
on another slave." 

Nor let it be supposed that the abseace or presence of the cart- 
whip constitutes a trivial difference. It is most vital. For what has 
been the main cause why negro life has been wasting, and still is 
wasting, with a fearful rapidity, in our slave colonies ? It has been 
the presence of the cart-whip, m the hands of the driver. — And what 
has been the main cause that, in the last twenty-two years, while the 
British slave population has been mouldering away, the negro population 
of Hayti has more than doubled its numbers ? It has been the 
absence of that torturing impulse. This single fact may satisfy us, 
and will satisfy every statesman as well as philanthropist, of the 
infinite distance there is between our West India system, and the 
system prevailing in Hayti ; — that the population of Hayti is rapidly 
increasing, while that of our slave and sugar coloaies continues, from 
year to year, and from day to day, to diminish. 

The Learned Counsel dwelt on the extreme severity of the Haytiaa 
Code; and yet all its severities put together do not equal the crueltj^ 



58 Effect of the Agricultural Code of Hayti. 

barbarity, and reckless despotism of a single clause (the 37th) in the 
very latest specimen of Colonial Reform, given us by the Legislature 
of Jamaica, in their meliorating Act of December 1826; a clause too, 
which, as if in mockery of the wretched slave, professes to be framed 
" in order to restrain his arbitrary punishment." These are its terms. 

" And IN OllDER TO KESTRAIN ARBITRARY PUNISHMENTS, be it 

further enacted, that no slave, on any plantation or settlement, or in any 
of the workhouses or gaols in this island, shall receive any more than 
TEN LASHES at One time and for one offence, unless the owner, attorney, 
guardian, executor, administrator, or overseer, of such plantation or 
settlement, having such slave in his care, or keeper of such workhouse^ 
or keeper of such gaol shall be present; and that no such owner,, 
attorney, guardian, executor, administrator, or overseer, workhouse- 
keeper, or gaol-keeper, shall, on any account, punish a slave with more 
than THIRTY-NINE LASHES at One time and for one offence, nor inflict, 
nor suffer to be inflicted, such last-mentioned punishment, nor any other 
number of lashes on the same day, nor until the delinquent has recovered 
from the effect of any former punishment, under a penalty not less than 
ten pounds, nor more than twenty pounds, for every offence," &c. — 
Such is the law passed, by the enlightened Legislature of Jamaica, in 
December, 1826, and which is applicable to every slave, man, woman, 
or child in that island. By that law the driver may inflict ten lashes; 
— and the owner and overseer, nay, the gaol-keeper and workhouse- 
keeper, the attorney, guardian, and administrator may, each and every 
one of thera^ inflict thirty-nine lashes on the bare posteriors of any 
and every slave, man, woman, or child in the island, without a trial, 
without the order of a magistrate, for no defined offence, but merely 
because he (the owner, &c.) is offended ; nor can he, hy any law, be 
called to answer for such conduct. Nay, the clause is framed for the 
express purpose of protecting him against all responsibility for so 
doing. 

Now, what are the severities of the Haytian Code, which can for one 
moment be compared to this savage enactment? Its worst severities 
are directed against idleness and vagrancy ; against those who have no 
visible means of subsistence ; and even these worst severities are but a 
mitigated imitation of the English law on the same subject. We refer 
in proof of this to the Code itself, which is inserted entire in the 23d 
No. of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, in which will also be found the cor- 
responding regulations, as given by Judge Blackstone, of that English 
law, which, the learned commentator tells us, " abhors and will not 
endure the existence of Slavery within this nation." The regulations 
will be found in his first book, p. 424 to 427 of the 11th edition. The 
following brief extracts from it will suffice for the present purpose. 

" All single men between twelve years old and sixty, and married 
ones under thirty years of age, and all single women between twelve 
and forty, not having any visible livelihood, are compellable, by two 
Justices, to go out to service in husbandry, or certain, specific trades, 
for the promotion of honest industry ; and no master can put away 
his servant, or servant leave his master, after being so retained, either 
before or at the end of his term, without a quarter's warning, unless 



Effect of the Agricultural Code of Hayti. 59 

\3p0n reasonable cause, to be allowed by a Justice of the Peace ; but 
they may part by consent, or make a special bargain." Again : " A third 
species of servants are labourers, who are only hired by the day or the 
week, and do not live intra mcenia, as part of the family ; concerning 
whom the statutes before cited, (5 Eliz. c. 4. and 6 Geo, III. c, 26,) 
have made many very good regulations : 1, Directing that all per- 
sons who have 7io visible effects may be compelled to work: 2, De- 

Jining ho^v long they niust continue at work in summer and in 
winter : 3, Punishing such as leave or desert their work : 4, Empow- 

• ering the Justices at Sessions, or the Sheriff of the county to settle 
their wages : and, 5, Inflicting penalties on such as either give or 
exact more ivages than are so settled" 

It cannot be shewn that there is a single regulation in the Haytian 
Code more severe than this. Above all, there is not to be found in it a 
licence for any arbitrary punishment whatever, by either proprietor, 
manager, overseer, or *' conducteur." The law, and the law alone, 
fixes both crime and punishment; and the penalties in no case consist 
of the flagellation cither of men or women. That coarse, revolting, 
■and demoralizing species of arbitrary infliction, which universally per- 
vades our Slave Colonies, and to which they all cling with extraordinary 
tenacity, even in the case of the delicate female frame, is in Hayti 
wholly unknown. The provisions of the Haytian Code also extend 
alike to the master and to the labourer, both being alike the objects of 
its protecting and its restraining power; nor is a particle of discretion 
as to punishment conceded to the master, beyond what is enjoyed by 
his meanest labourer. Indeed, the rights and comforts of this last 
class seem to have been watched over with peculiar care. The Haytian, 
even if reduced to the necessity of agricultural labour, may choose his 
■employment and his employer. He may engage for a shorter or a 
longer time, as suits his convenience. He may contract to receive a 
fourth part, or a half, of all the pi'oduce he raises ; and in the first of 
these cases, which is the most frequent, he is not only lodged, but fed, 
on the plantation, from the produce of his own labour, not during his 
own tim.e, but during five days in the week which alone he has con- 
tracted to give to his employer. Observe the force of the regulation on 
this point, Art. 36. " On every rural establishment they" {viz. the pro* 
prietors or renters) " shall be bound to cnhivate provisions, Sfc. sufficient 

for the sustenance of the persons employed there." This is to be the 
first care. (Article 19,) The labourer for a fourth is also to be furnished, 
gratuitously, with all his tools, (Article 62.) and with medical attendance 
and medicine, (Article 67.) and has the benefit, without any diminution 
of his share of the produce, of all the cattle and machinery on the 
estate, and of the expense of its management, (Articles .51, 65, and Q6.) 
And, possessing all these advantages, he receives, besides, his fair share 
of the fourth part of the gross produce raised by him and his fellow 
labourers, (Article 52.) The proprietor is further bound to furnish the 
labourer with land for his own use, to be cultivated by himself, and for 
himself, during his frequently recurring holidays, his Sundays, and his 
regular day in the week of rest from plantation labour, (Art. 38, 39.) 
On five days of the week he works for his employer and himself in 



60 Eff<^<^t of the Agricultural Code of Hayti. 

common : he has his full subsistence from the labour of these days, 
besides his share of all marketable produce grown on the plantation. 
And he has, moreover, land, and abundant time in the week for its 
cultivation, whereby to increase his comforts or to add to his capital. 
Such also is the consideration which the law bestows on the formation 
and promotion of industrious habits, by their only effectual spring, 
a sense of self-interest, that even the infirm, and the children of early 
age, while fed by the provisions of the plantation, are encouraged to ex- 
ertion, by shares of all the other produce of it, proportioned to the 
efforts, however feeble, which they are able to make. And even the 
women who have contracted to labour, for a term of years, in return 
for their provisions and their share of the other produce, are not de- 
prived of the benefit of this contract, by the incapacities of a pregnant 
state, but, though relieved on that account, for a time, from their share 
of the labour, are still allowed to share in the proceeds of that labour. 

Every Haytian parent, too, though himself attached to agriculture, 
has it in his power to send his children to tov^n to be educated, or to 
be taught a profession or trade, on his simple request to a Justice of 
the Peace (Art. 5.) ; a regulation which of itself seems to secure the 
moral and intellectual progress of this people. 

But the grand security of Haytian freedom and happiness is to be 
found in the absence of all those invidious distinctions, arising from the 
colour of the skin as being the livery of slavery, which proves the curse 
of the African and his descendants in our slave colonies. In the 
Haytian Courts of Justice, the evidence of no man or woman whatever 
is precluded. There, all, of all ranks, stand on an equal footing ; and 
this circumstance, when superadded to the absence of the cartwhip, 
and to the substitution, for its stimulus, of self-interest as the spring of 
effort, makes a difference in the two states of being so large a& 
scarcely to admit of calculation or comparison. 

The public has been amused of late with theories respecting the effect 
of the smell, colour, hair, features and other peculiarities of the negro 
race, in preventing them from rising in the scale of civilized society; 
To Hayti these theories can have no application. The pecuharities t© 
which such powerful effects have been assigned, are there the common 
inheritance of high and low, rich and poor. The governors and the 
governed, the framers of the laws and the meanest subjects of them, are 
of the same flesh and blood, and smell and colour. That corporeal 
degradation and intellectual debasement, which mark the condition of 
the negro slave, are not, in Hayti, as in our colonies, the adjunct either 
of a black skin or a negro descent. The chain which, in the latter, binds 
the negro to the earth, in the former is broken \ and the lowest Haytiari 
has the same prospect of seeing his son rise to distinction in his native 
island, as the meanest British parent has of seeing his descendant attain 
to eminence in the various walks of life in this great and civilized 
empire. 

Mr. Adam indeed strongly objected to the Haytian system as servile 
and despotic, because the police of the plantations was chiefly adminis- 
tered by the military authorities. The truth is, however, that the situa- 
tion of the Island requiring a military force for the preservation of its 



Ruin to the Colonies frorti Manumission. 61 

independence, and the ablest and most intelligent persons in the island 
being enrolled in the army, such an arrangement was recommended both 
by its economy, the same machinery serving a double purpose ; and by 
its expediency, the reponsibility of military men, and their habits of 
regularity being such as to afford a better security, than in present cir- 
cumstances could otherwise be obtained, against either neglect of duty 
or abuse of power. But whatever be the evils of that arrangement, they 
affect equally the proprietor and the peasant, who are both alike subject 
to the inspection of these responsible superintendants. And there is this 
undeniable proof of its working well — that while the negro population of 
our colonies has in the same period been rapidly diminishing, the negro 
population of Hayti has, since 1804, more than doubled its numbers. 

7. The Memorialists further object that the proposed measure will 
produce complete and speedy ruin to the Colonies. 

This is obviously the language of passion and exaggeration and not of 
reason. Is it not a sufficient reply to such an argument to refer to the 
experience of the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, where still greater fa- 
cilities, than those now objected to, have long being given to manumission, 
and on terms also far more favourable to the slave and less advantageous 
to the master ? What proof of ruin do those colonies exhibit ? Nay what 
proof of ruin does Trinidad exhibit, as compared with any other of our 
slave colonies, although manumissions, in the very mode now proposed, 
have been multiplying there, until the number of the enfranchised is 
approaching to that of the enslaved population? 

The apprehended ruin is to arise, we presume, from the diminution of 
the number of labourers on an estate, caused by the increase of manu- 
missions. A diminution however of these labourers has long been 
taking place in Demarara, attended with far less advantageous circum- 
stances, but of which the Memorialists have made no complaint as tend- 
ing to their ruin ; — we mean the diminution of the slave population by 
mortality ; a diminution too, for which, unlike that occasioned by manu- 
mission, no indemnity can be claimed. 

Let us suppose that, during the six years from 1818 to 1824, manu- 
missions had taken place in Demarara, under the operation of some such 
law as is now objected to, to the amount of 8,574 slaves; for whose 
redemption an average price of £90 sterling (being about the average 
price of the Marshal's sales) had been paid, making a sum, on the whole, 
of £771,660. In this case, the capital of the Demarara planters might 
be somewhat changed in its nature, but it would not be diminished in 
its amount. The owners of the emancipated slaves, if they could not 
replace them from the numerous sales of the Marshal which take place 
in that colony, or from other sources, would still have the value of the 
emancipated slaves as a source of income. Even if slaves were so 
scarce that none were to be procured but at a high price, this would be 
no disadvantage to him who received, for his enfranchised slave, the full 
market value whatever that might be. 

The fact, however, differs very widely from the supposition here made. 
The slave population indeed has not been diminished to the extent sup- 
posed, by manumission, during the years 1818 to 1824 — but, during 
those years, it has been diminished to that extent, to the extent that ia 



62 Danger to the Colonies from Manumission. 

to say of 8,574 individuals, by the excess of deaths over births.* And 
this excess of mortahty therefore has actually occasioned a loss to the 
Demarara planters of about £77 1 ,660, for which they can obviously claim 
no indemnity whatever. It is somewhat strange then that these gentlemen 
should complain so vehemently of what they call the compulsory manu- 
missions of the British govei'nment, though it provides a full indemnity 
for each ; and yet should make no complaint of the far more extensive 
manumissions, also compulsory, effected by that unceremonious and irre- 
sistible emancipator, Death; who however gives himself no trouble in 
appraising the value of those whom he enfranchises, or in compen- 
sating the owner for his loss. 

Now let us only suppose another possible case ; (one indeed we grieve 
to say, which is wholly contrary to the fact;) that the mild administration 
of Slavery, of which the Demarara planters boast so loudly, had spared 
that waste of life which the six years in question have witnessed ; but 
that the numbers of their slaves had still been diminished to the same 
extent, though not by death, yet by manumission ; would they in that case 
have had any cause to complain of ruin ? They would have been richer by 
£771,660 than they now are ; while humanity would have had more in 
"which to rejoice, and less over which to mourn. 

The apprehensions of ruin, from the measures in question, may still be 
professed by the planters of Demarara and Berbice, but surely they 
cannot be seriously entertained by any rational being. 

8. The Memorialists express their fear lest the proposed measure should 
^'endanger the lives of the white inhabitants of Demarara andBerbice." 

What but the blindness and unreasonalDleness of prejudice can 
account for such a groundless fear ? What instance can be adduced 
of danger to the public peace from the most liberal extension of the 
right of redemption to slaves ? What danger has ever followed the 
very measure so strongly deprecated ? It has always been the law 
of the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, and yet the internal peace of 
those colonies has been more stable than that of any others ; nay to 
this very law have they been indebted for their security. Experience 
therefore is decidedly opposed to this objection. Even in Trinidad, 
although the enfranchised part of the community have had much to 
complain of in the conduct of the whites ; and though in number they 
exceed the whites in the proportion of five to one, yet in 1816, and 
afterwards in 1823, while every other colony in the West Indies was 
agitated by alarms, in Trinidad they enjoyed a state of perfect tran- 
quillity. The colonies which experienced any real agitation, were the 
very two colonies where hindrances to manumission had been multi- 
plied with the most jealous care, Barbadoes and Demarara. 

In Barbadoes, the tax on manumissions had been raised to 200Z. on 
men, and 300L on women. In Demarara, not only were heavy imposts 
arbitrarily imposed on each act of manumission as it occurred, by 
the Governor and Court of Policy, but without their formal licence, 
no slave could be manumitted at all. An owner was actually deprived 

* See Anti-Slavery Reporters, Nos, 19 and 26, and the Parliamentary docu- 
ments there referred to. 



Alleged moral Evils of Manumission. 63 

of tlie power of giving freedom to his slave, without the consent of 
the Court of Pohey, lest he should thereby endanger the public peace. 
In this single opprobrious fact we see tire proof and also the cause 
of the absurd prejudice, and of the idle and unfounded alarms, which 
prevail in Demarara respecting manumission. The law has strength- 
ened the prejudice, and the prejudice has increased the alarm. — The 
Demarara law is remarkable. It enacts, that " As the power of 
granting manumissions to slaves, is solely vested in the Governor and 
Court of Policy, all acts and deeds of whatsoever nature, executed by 
unauthorized individuals, and pretending to convey the right of free- 
dom to slaves, are illegal, and the same are hereby declared to be null 
and void, and of no effect whatever ; and any person who shall 
presume to infringe this sole and undoubted power, by granting or 
executing a release from servitude to any slave, &c., shall be subjected 
to a fine of 1000 guilders." 

Can any thing be conceived more monstrous than such a law ? 
And it is the members of the very Court that framed it, who pretend 
to instruct the King's Privy Council, and the Ministers of the Crown, 
in sound views of policy. We may dismiss this futile objection 
without any further observation. It is wholly unsupported by facts ; 
it is contrary to all experience ; and it is clearly and decidedly opposed 
to every sound principle of general policy. 

9. Still more unfounded, if possible, are the anticipations of moral 
evil which the Demarara Planters deduce from the increased facility of 
enfranchisement. The moral benefits of Slavery, and the moral evils of 
freedom, are topics reserved for the Planters of Demarara and Berbice, 
and for the new school of moral and political philosophy which some of 
their friends have laboured so assiduously to establish for their advantage.* 
Their newborn solicitudes for the interests of morality, are, however, 
somewhat suspicious, especially when we call to mind the entire absence, 
for so many years, of all attempts on their part to improve the moral 
condition of their slaves ; their marked dislike of religious instruction ; 
their utter neglect of the institution of marriage ; and the universal 
concubinage of all classes which has been substituted for it. 

The Demarara Planters not only profess to think that Slavery is 
more favourable to the improvement of the moral character than free- 
dom ; (their avowed plan being to keep their slaves, slaves still, for the 
very purpose of improving their moral character, and thus fitting them 
for freedom) but they seem to hold that even the hope of obtaining 
freedom, though by a long course of industry and frugality, is pregnant 
with moral mischiefs. To state the proposition would be to refute 
it, even if our whole experience of the effect of enfranchisement, not only 
in the West Indies, but in all parts of the world, did not force upon us 
an opposite conclusion. It may be affirmed that there is no instance, in 
history, of a body of slaves, remaining in slavery, being raised in morals 
and civilization to a level with freemen. The change has either been 
effected, as in England, by giving ready facilities to individual manu- 

* See the writings of Major Moody and Mr. M'Donnel, some articles in the 
Quarterly Review, &c. &g. 



64 Alleged disadvantages of Maynimission to the Slave. 

mission ; or as in Hayti, by a revolutionary convulsion ; or as in Lithu- 
ania, by a decree of the State, at once conferring freedom on the whole 
body of the slaves. 

The Memorialists profess to have at heart the objects of civilizing the 
slave, and of improving his mind and morals, as introductory to 
emancipation. This sounds well, but it is a mere delusion. The objects 
they thus propose to effect we believe to be utterly unattainable, except 
by some general legislative measure of emancipation, or by some plan, 
like what they now so vehemently resist, which places a slave's enfran- 
chisement within the reach of his own exertions. 

10. The zeal of the Memorialists, in the cause of morality, is further 
evinced by their objecting to the slave's right of redemption, on account 
oiits tendency to encourage the prostitution of the enslaved females to 
white men. Unfortunately, however, for this argument, the prostitution 
of female slaves already exists to the full demand of the white popu- 
lation. And, as for the " check to illicit connexion, which" it is most 
untruly asserted, " at present subsists, in the dread of bringing into 
existence an offspring whose lot is Slavery," we do not believe that 
such a consideration has had the very slightest effect, as a " check," on 
the licentiousness of the whites ; licentiousness being, with very rare 
exceptions, universal among them. And if it really possessed any force, 
it must operate in a still greater degree against marriage with slaves. 

The Court of Policy must have felt the extreme ridiculousness of such 
an argument as this, and they must have relied for its effect on the utter 
ignorance prevailing in the Privy Council of the real state of West 
Indian society. Could they have named a single individual on whom 
this alleged check had operated ? 

11. The Memorialists further object to the proposed plan, as tending 
to diminish the number of voluntary and gratuitous manumissions. 
Such manumissions, however, proceed, for the most part from consider- 
ations which are not likely to be permanently affected by the slave's 
possessing a right of self-redemption. A keeper will still be equally 
desirous, as he now is, of enfranchising his concubine, or a father his 
child, or a master a faithful and attached servant, if neither the con- 
cubine, the child, or the servant, should have the power as well as the 
right of self- redemption. If the proposed plan, indeed, by bringing 
additional pvirchassrs into the market, should raise the market value of 
a slave, it will, of course, add to the master's reluctance to part with 
him. But voluntary manumissions, if they proceed to the same extent 
with redemptions by the slave himself, must equally affect the value of 
slaves generally, and tend equally in this way to abate the rapidity of 
manumissions. With their usual inconclusiveness of reasoning, how- 
ever, the Memorialists seem to imagine, that though the system of self-^ 
redemption will liberate a smaller number of slaves than the system of 
voluntary manumission, yet that it will produce a greater effect in en- 
hancing their market value ! 

12. The plan of self-redemption, we are further told, offers a pre-' 
mium to idleness, and must produce discontent ; for it affixes a higher 
price to the industrious than to the idle and profligate. 

It offers, however, a far higher premium to industry and fru- 



Alleged disadvantages of Manumission to the Slave. 65 

gality, than it does to idleness and waste. The industrious and 
well-behaved may indeed expect to pay a high price for their 
freedom; but the idle and dissolute must know that they have 
no chance of obtaining it at all. An industrious slave will sooner 
raise 120Z. for his redemption, than an idle slave will raise 20^. Un- 
doubtedly it is a hardship on any man that he should have to pay for 
his good conduct, and some consideration ought to be given by 
Government to this subject. Still the most deserving slaves will, 
under the operation of the proposed plan, be much better oft' than 
heretofore, and therefore can hardly be discontented with so favourable 
a change in their lot. The objections, on this account, to the measure, 
fade into nothing, when that is compared with the existing system, and 
with its stern exclusion of the slave from all hope of freedom by his 
own exertions. 

13. The proposed plan we are further told, would be an encourage- 
ment to theft on the part of the slave, in order to acquire the 
means of effecting his enfranchisment. 

This, however, has not been found to be the case in the colonies 
where the largest facilities have been given to manumission ; as in the 
Spanish and Portuguese colonies, and in Trinidad. If facts of this 
kind could have been produced, they would not have been kept back : 
our ears would have been stunned with them. Besides, is there no 
police in the West Indies ? Do thefts meet with impunity there ? And 
if they do not, is it to be apprehended that those negroes, who 
seriously set themselves to obtain their freedom, will risk all their 
past progress, and all their future hopes, by the commission of 
felony? Such are not in general the men who commit felonies. 

14. The slave, it is also argued, will be obliged to deny himself 
comforts in order to accumulate his price. He will thus have ac- 
quired habits of parsimony, but not habits of enjoyment, and to these 
last alone can we t7mstfor correcting his natural itidolence. 

In opposition to this dogma of the new '^ philosophy of labour," 
we maintain that habits of industry, frugality, and providence, are far 
more to be trusted for correcting the slave's disposition to indolence, 
and for raising him in the scale of civilization, than habits of enjoyment, 
as they are called, which are in fact habits of prodigality. The real 
prosperity of the individual, as well as of the state, can only arise 
from accumulation, which is also the true path, politically speaking, 
to solid enjoyment, in the case of black as well as white. 

15. A further objection to the proposed plan, is, that the young 
and able, and especially young females, will be redeemed, ivhile the 
old and infirm tvill be left. 

If, however, the compensation is adequate, this can be no injury to 
the planter, who will be able to purchase other young persons with the 
money. The market price must always accurately measure the real 
loss to the planter. It cannot be alleged that slaves are not to be 
bought in Demarara. During the five years from 1821 to 1825, there 
were sold in that colony, by the marshal alone, 2,705 slaves. The 
mail who had received the full and fair value of a slave, would surely 

I 



66 Alleged Evils of Manumission to Master and Slave'. 

have no difficulty in replacing him, if he went to a sale with the 
money which he had just received for him in his hand. 

16. The security of the mortgagee, it is further asserted, luill be 
lessened, if not destroyed by this plan. 

This plan, however, neither lessens nor destroys the security of the 
mortgagee. It only substitutes one security, and that a more stable one, 
for another. It tends indeed to increase, instead of to lessen, the value of 
the security arising from property in slaves, because it admits into the 
market fresh parties as purchasers, which must inevitably raise the mar- 
ket price of slaves, and therefore be in favour of the security. 

17. The plan is dangerous by the excitement it will produce among 
the slaves. 

This objection has been already answered under a farmer head. But are 
there no other dangers to be apprehended than those which proceed from 
a hope in the slaves of being able to redeem themselves ? Is there then 
no danger in shutting out all such hope ? 

18. The proposed plan is likeivise objected to as discouraging 
taskivork. 

If however the use of the whip in the field be effectually and practi- 
cally abolished, as the Memoriahsts take credit to themselves for havmg 
done, it is so obviously their interest to adopt taskwork, that no fears 
need be entertained on that point. Accordingly, Sir Ralph Woodford 
tells us that, in Trinidad, since the abolition of the driving whip, " Task- 
work is becoming general." — Besides, if the compensation awarded to the 
master, in the appraised value of his slave, be, as has been shewn, an 
adequate compensation, why should the master discourage taskwork;, 
especially if that method affords to the slave, as is asserted, the means 
of sooner accumulating his price ? In that case we can conceive no 
aiotive but pure spite against freedom which should lead to such a 
result. 

Our fear with respect to taskwork is of a very different description from 
that expressed by the Memorialists ; it is the imminent danger that the 
tasks will be excessive. Let it be remembered that the master is con- 
stituted the sole judge of the quantum of labour to be required from the 
slave, under the penalty of such corporal punishment as the master 
may inflict. Let it be remembered also that there is not, in the West 
Indies as in the United States, an obvious and easy method of checking 
the tendency in the master to undue exaction. Multitudes of the agri- 
cultural labourers in the United States are white. It would be too 
gross and palpable a violation of justice, to be often attempted, that tasks 
should be imposed on the black man, which the white man of equal 
strength, labouring on the same or an adjoining plantation, was unable 
to execute. This circumstance it is which in America has made task- 
work such a benefit to the slave, that, notwithstanding his slavery, he 
multiplies his numbers rapidly. If we could discover any such natural 
check to undue exaction in the West Indies, we should entertain fewer 
apprehensions of the abuse of taskwork to purposes of oppression ; but 
in the existing state of things there, it is impossible to contemplate the 
subject without earnestly hoping that the government would turn its. 



Proposed plan injurious to Great Britain, 67 

auxioHS attention to the means of guarding against the evils which may 
arise from that system, recommended as it undoubtedly is by many 
considerations, but yet liable as it also is to the most serious abuses. 

19. Lastly, the proposed plan is objected to because, by the emancipa- 
tion of tJie slaves, the West India colonies will cease to be of any value 
to Great Britain. 

At present it must be admitted that the value of these colonies, as to 
what respects the slaves belonging to them, is now constantly deterior- 
ating, and tends gradually to annihilation. Their rapid decrease by death 
cannot be made the subject of indemnity. But supposing them to de- 
crease, however rapidly, by manumission, their value will in that case be 
refunded to the master, and to the empire, by the hand of the slaves 
themselves ; who, by the very process, will also have become an increas- 
ing population of active and industrious freemen, each of them of far 
greater value, in a national point of view, than when he remained in 
bondage. Can any one doubt for a single moment, that, whether as the 
creators of wealth, or as the consumers of merchandize, the 35,000 en- 
franchised individuals of Jamaica, and the 15,000 of Trinidad, are not 
at this moment of more importance to the mother country, (and if the 
disabilities under which they labour were removed, would not become 
infinitely more important still) than twice or thrice the number of miser- 
able slaves ? What country in the world has ever lost ground by the 
exchange of slavery for freedom, especially when brought about by the 
tranquil operation of legal facilities afforded to its acquisition? 

We have now gone through the whole of the objections made by the 
Planters of Demarara and Berbice to the general policy of the proposed 
plan for facilitating manumission. We have done this in order to expose 
their fallacy, although we might have fairly declined to enter upon the 
subject at all. The policy of the measure is no longer a point sub judice, 
having been already decided upon not only by His Majesty's Govern- 
ment, but by the unanimous voice of Parliament, who have stamped with 
their entire approbation those very principles of policy to which the 
Memorialists so strenuously object. Indeed without adhering to this 
course of policy, as Lord Bathurst, himself has justly remarked, " no 
system of measures would satisfy the feelings of the country, or execute 
the purposes of Parliament." To recede from it alsoAvould be to violate 
every pledge v/hich has been given to the country both by the Crown 
and by the legislature, who have solemnly announced it as their deter- 
mination that the slave shall have the right of redeeming himself or his 
family ; and that the master shall be bound to receive, in lieu of the persons 
so redeemed, their fairly appraised value. The planters of Demarara and 
Berbice, however, deny that the appraised value of the slave is an ade- 
quate indemnity to the master; and this denial raises the only question 
which, in fact, is now really open for discussion. The question of 
policy has been already decided, and there can be no hope of changing 
that decision.* 

* We say nothing at present, though much might be said, on the impolicy of 
trifling with the hopes and fears of the slaves, and of the danger to the masters 
of arraying themselves against the universal wish of ihe nation, as well as 
against the excited expectations of the slave population. Such conduct seems 
like absolute infatuation. 



68 Alleged hisufficiency of the mode of Indemnity coyisidered. 

II. We come now therefore to the second main point which, at setting 
out,(seep. 13)vve proposed to consider, namely, the alleged insufficiency 
of the indemnity proposed to be given to the Master for the manumis- 
sion of his slave. And this which is in truth, the only point really at 
issue, need not occupy us long, for it lies in a narrow compass. 

The Memorialists allege that the market value of the slave will not in- 
demnify the master for the loss of that slave's labour ; and they fortify 
this view of the subject by referring to a statement of Lord Bathurst in 
an Instruction to the Governor of Demarara, in which after intimating 
that he considers the master entitled to have the loss he may sustain by 
the act of manumission fairly estimated with a view to his adequate 
compensation, he adds, " But if in the process of time it should unfortu- 
nately be found that the slaves, thus manumitted, altogether abandon 
their owners, and refuse to work as free persons, the owner not having 
the means to supply the loss of his slaves, and not being able to engage 
any free labourers for his sugar plantations, the price, which must then 
be assigned to the loss of each slave, must have a direct reference to 
that state in which the plantation will be placed by the progressive 
reduction of the means of conducting it." 

It might have been easily foreseen that a statement so vaguely and 
obscurely expressed, on a subject also which so very deeply affected the 
prejudices and feelings of the West India planters, would have been 
liable to misconstruction. On that account its appearance in such a 
form is greatly to be deplored. 

At the same time, it must be admitted, that Lord Bathurst has been 
very unfairly dealt with by the West Indians. They have represented 
him as maintaining that the value of the slave is not to be estimated by the 
market price, but by a calculation both of the present and prospective gain 
"which the master may make of him. If this indeed were his Lordship's 
meaning, nothing could have been said in his defence, as such a mode 
of valuation would be both impracticable in itself, and unfair and iniqui- 
tous towards the slaves. The market price can be the only sure crite- 
rion of the value of the slave, and must always measure with sufficient 
accuracy the average gains of the master. And this, it now appears, 
was the precise and deliberate view of the case taken by his Lordship, 
For the construction to which we have adverted having been recently 
reduced to practice in Trinidad, in a case to which we shall presently 
refer, his Lordship, in a letter to Sir Ptalph Woodford, dated Oct. 30, 
1826, has explained his real meaning, which the parties, he says, 
proceeding " on an entu-e misapprehension and misapplication of the 
instruction by which they profess to have been guided, had wholly 
misconstrued." That instruction, he states, was not at all intended to 
affect present existing valuations, but to refer to a state wholly future, 
prospective and contingent, and which, even in that remote and, at most, 
possible event, was applicable to no slaves but those engaged in " the 
field labour of sugar plantations." " Generally speaking/' his Lord- 
ship adds, " the market price of slaves is the fairest criterion of their 
value, and it is that by which appraisers should principally regulate 
their valuations* The various considerations mentioned in my dis- 

* It is not obvious on what ground it is that his Lordship introduces the 



Alleged [nsuffieiency of the mode of Indemnity considered. 69 

patch ive7'e 7iot brought forward to supersede this criterion, but as 
those which might progressively affect the market price, and thereby 
make the fixing now a uniform price objectionable. By the term market 
price, it is not intended to refer to special sales which may have taken 
place under special circumstances, but to that price for tvhich a slave 
bona fida equivalent could be purchased at the time of the appraise- 
ment, and in that case, whether the proprietor receives an actual sub- 
stitution of an equivalent slave, or a sum of money, for which, at his 
option, an equivalent slave can be equally procured, his interests are 
equally preserved. Even on the supposition that no equivalent slave 
could be procured, the principle of appraisement would in no degree be 
changed. The price of the manumission in that case would be a sum 
which would be either an equivalent for the increased expense which the 
Proprietor would incur from employing a free person, in services in 
which it is known by experience that free people can be employed ; or as 
a compensation, whatever may be the loss of the slaA'e's labour in those 
services for which it may be found that free labour will not be available ; 
or in those for which free labour may be only partially or inadequately 
substituted."* 

Little need be added with a view of supporting this unanswerable 
reasoning of his Lordship. Conceding, for the sake of the argument, 
the Planter's right to complete indemnity, we would remark, that it is 
perfectly obvious, that if free labour could be obtained at the same 
expense and with the same profit as slave labour, no compensation 
whatever would be due to the Planter for the liberation of his slaves. 
If, on the contrary, free labour were not obtainable at all, an equitable 
compensation would include the value of such property as would be 
made valueless by his emancipation. Between these extremes there is a 
variety of gradations, for which it would be difficult previously to 
provide. But the market price of the slave, and that alone, solves the 
difficulty. And if, in the progress of emancipation, the Planters find it 
impossible to obtain free labour at all, the market price of the slaves 
must rise, so as to cover even the value of the estate, so far as that may 
be unaffected by other extrinsic circumstances. But, on the other hand, 
in proportion as it becomes more easy to obtain free labour, must the 
price of slaves decrease in the market, till at last it may fall to 
nothing. 

It is obvious, therefore, that the market price of slaves is the only 
just criterion by which the completeness of the indemnity to the owner 
can be measured; and the moment we admit of a departure from this 
criterion, we open a door for the grossest injustice and oppression. It 
is by this rule that the valuation of an English Jury, sworn to decide 
justly between litigant parties, is guided; and it is by the same rule 
that, in the West Indies, the sworn appraisers ought to be guided in 



qualifying phrases, " generally " " principally." We can perceive no adequate 
reasons for such qualifications. 

* What are those kinds of employment for which free labour may not be made 
available ? 



70 Alleged Insujficiency of the mode of Indemnity considered. 

their estimate of the slave's value. They cannot, indeed, depart from 
this rule on either side of the Atlantic, without incurring the guilt of 
gross injustice, if not of perjury. 

A most striking illustration of the view now given of this subject 
has just been furnished in Trinidad, and has appeared in papers re- 
cently laid before Parliament by his Majesty's command. (Part II. 1827.) 

Pamela Monro, a female slave, eighteen years of age, whose mother 
was desirous of manumitting her, was ordered to be appraised in the 
usual way, by two appraisers, Thomas Le Gendre and William H. 
Burnley, Esqs. These appraisers, not attending simply to the plain terms 
of the oath they had taken, but having recourse to sophistical inferences 
from the misinterpreted instruction of Lord Bathurst, declare their judg- 
ment to be, that " Pamela Monro is fully ivorth the sum of 1200 
Mexican dollars perfect (viz. 260/. sterling), and they do place that 
value upon her." That is to say, instead of giving, according to the 
tenor of the law, the fair and real value of this young woman in the 
market, which might be about 80Z. or 85/. sterling, they form an 
imaginary and constructive valuation, which amounts to more than 
three times her fair and real value; a decision which has of coui'se 
doomed the wretched Pamela to remain a slave. 

The Protector of Slaves, Mr. Gloster, having been applied to on 
this occasion, has stated, that the appraisement of this poor girl far 
exceeded any other since the promulgation of the Order in Council. 
The very highest appraisement of any slave, even of the most valuable 
class, had been 169/., and he was a head boiler, and a tolerable mason, 
carpenter, and blacksmith, whom his owner considered it impossible to 
replace. Another slave, who acted as a store-keeper and out-door 
collecting clerk, and who was in every respect a confidential servant, 
had been sold for 162/. 10s. sterling. Four head drivers had been also 
appraised, all very intelligent and confidential persons; one of them, 
capable of conducting a Cocoa Estate, at 150/. sterhng; another at 
140/. ; another at 120/. ; and a fourth (luhom his former tnaster at this 
very time employs as an overseer for daily wages) at 97/. 10s. sterling. 

The observations of the Protector of Slaves on this whole transaction 
are invaluable ; and they amply confirm our views of the subject, 
while they prove the utter fallacy of those advanced by the Memorialists 
and their Learned Counsel. They are as follows : 

" The appraised value of slaves manumitted, under the provisions of 
the Order in Council, for the first eighteen months after it came into 
operation, does not average much more than one-half of the general 
average for the last twelve months." — (That is to say, since the above 
quoted and unhappily misconstrued dispatch of Lord Bathurst became 
public.) " The selling or market price of slaves, however, has not ex- 
perienced a commensurate rise; and therefore it is evident, that the 
magnitude of the appraisements lately made are not occasioned by 
the increased value of slaves. 

" While the market price of slaves continues as at present, I would 
consider the application of other principles of appraisement to any 
common case, as an injtistice to the slave, and an encroachment on the 
rights conferred upon him by the law. 



Alleged Insufficiency of the mode of Indemnity considered. 71 

" To my apprehension, the only fair criterion by which the value 
of a slave can be ascertained, is the usual market price ; and although 
that price has risen considerably within the last twelve months, the 
criterion afforded by it is far exceeded by the generality of appraise- 
ments. 

" It is also certain that the market price will rise in proportion to 
the decrease of the number of, or difficulty of procuring, -plantation 
slaves. It is, therefore, unjust to add to the real value, or market 
price, of the slave piir chasing his freedom, a portion of the value of the 
estate to which the slave is attached, until it becomes impracticable to 
continue the cultivation of the estate, in consequence of the impos- 
sibiHty of procuring a substitute for the slave who is to be enfranchised.* 

" The opposite opinions are very generally diffused, and, however 
controvertible they may be by argument, / cannot indulge even the 
hope that they will be easily eradicated, or prevented from operating 
very seriously to the disadvantage of the slaves desirous of becoming 
free." 

" The principle," (which principle was assumed and avowed by the 
appraisers of Pamela Monro) " that the value of the slave should be 
estimated at the amount of the capital required to yield a revenue equal 
to the hire which could be obtained for the slave, is evidently fal- 
lacious, from the fact that, every day, instances occur of slaves being 
bought for four hundred dollars," (a third of the appraised value of 
Pamela Monro) " who, as Mr. Burnley mentions," (of Pamela) " may 
be immediately hired at the rate of six dollars, or II. 6s. sterhng per 
month, fed, clothed, and the capital guaranteed ; the corresponding 
capital to which, at six per cent., (the ordinary rate of interest in 
Trinidad) is 1200 dollars, or 2601. sterling, the appraised value of 
Pamela Monro. Yet surely, it could not be pretended that the latter 
sum was the real value of a slave that was bought for one third of 
the sum, (400 dollars) and that could not be resold at an advanced 
price. This, I submit, proves that the market price is the only just 
and fair criterion for determining the value of a slave." 

This luminous and convincing exposition of the case is highly 
creditable to its author, Mr. Gloster ; and the more so, because, bein^ 
himself a West Indian, he was likely to be powerfully influenced by 
opinions which he states to be so widely diffused around him, and sc* 
interwoven with the interests and the prejudices of his brethren. 

So undeniably just and reasonable in itself is the proposed method 
of ascertaining the indemnity due to the planter for the loss of his slave^ 
that it is precisely the method which has been prescribed, by every 
legislature in the West Indies, whenever a slave is taken from his 
master for any public purpose, or is executed, or banished for a criminal 
offence. The value, in such case, is assessed by a Jury according to 
the fair market price. Had Pamela Monro, instead of being a claimant 
for freedom, been condemned to the gallows, she would have been 
equally lost to her owner; but in that case, would Messrs. Le Gendre 

* And not even then, for even in that case the market price would still be the 
srriterion of value. 



72 Conclusion. 

and Burnley, or any other appraisers, have awarded to him, on their 
oaths, 1,200 Mexican dollars, as her fair and just appraisement? 

On the whole, we think it has been clearly demonstrated, that the 
allegations and complaints of the memorialists have no just foundation; 
that the prayer founded upon them ought not to be listened to; and 
that His Majesty's Government are bound, not only by their own 
pledges, but by the most forcible reasons of state policy, as well as 
of humanity and justice, to persevere in their proposed plan of manu- 
mission. 

It no less clearly appears, however, from what has passed in Tri- 
nidad, that even the binding solemnity of an oath, may not secure, in 
the execution of that plan, a fair measure of justice to the slave ; 
and that if the Government and Parliament wish to fulfil their pledges, 
steps must forthwith be taken to obviate the effects of such open and 
deliberate deviations from fairness and impartiality. And if even the 
sane!- ns interposed, in such a case as this, are unequal to resist the 
inriuence of that sympathy, which the holders of slaves feel in favour of 
the master, and against the slave ; how can the Government and the 
Parliament continue to entrust to the conscience and feeling of such 
men, the more difficult and delicate and complicated task of legis- 
lating for their wretched dependants? Do not such transactions as these, 
as well as such petitions and memorials as we have been considering, add 
irresistible force to the conclusion at which the country at large has 
long since arrived — that "It would be the height of fatuity to continue 
to look for any useful reforms from the masters of slaves. The work 
must be undertaken and executed by the British Parliament. They 
alone are competent to the task. And in no other way can the 
slightest hope be entertained, either of effectually mitigating the 
rigours of colonial bondage, or of finally abolishing that opprobrious 
state of society." 



Notwithstanding the pains we have taken to confute the objections 
of the Memorialists to the proposed plan of Manumission, it is neces- 
sary we should guard against being considered as acquiescing in the 
justice of the principle of the measure itself. We deem it, indeed, 
an infinite improvement on the former system. But the obligation to 
indemnify the planter, for the liberation of his slaves, does not justly 
attach to them, but to the public in common with the planter. Indeed, 
if there be any one of the parties more clearly entitled to indemnity 
th?.n another, it is the slave himself, who, by the present arrangement, 
has this injury added to all his other wrongs, that he is condemned to 
pay the penalty of the criminal conduct of his oppressors. 

This, and all other pulAications of the Society, may he had at their office 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly , and Arch's, Cornliill. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the Icingdom. 

Lmdoyi;~BAO!iTEll&;_ TIIOMS, Printers, 11, Bart/wlomerv C/ose . 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No, 28.] For SEPTEMBER, 1827. [No. 4. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



FURTHER PROGRESS OF COLONIAL REFORM ; — BRAZILIAN 

MINING COMPANY;— CASE OF BETTO DOUGLAS CORRECTED; 
—REV. M. W. HARTE, BARBADOES. 

It will be recollected that in the House of Commons on the 1st of 
March 1826, and afterwards at the close of the session, Mr. Canning, 
after stating in strong terms his disapprobation of the past conduct of 
the colonial legislatures,* expressed a hope that, if a little more space 
were given them for a fair trial, the best effects might follow. 
" If, however," he added, " due advantage is not taken by them of 
that^space which shall be allowed them, it may then become the duty, 
if not of Parliament to take the matter out of the hands of Govern- 
ment, at least of Government to call upon the Parliament to arm them 
with additional power. It is, therefore, the purpose of the Govern- 
ment at home, to take such steps as shall bring the intentions of the 
colonial legislatures to a fair trial. It is their purpose to direct the 
introduction of a bill into each of the legislatures, in its next session, 
embodying the Trinidad Order in Council, so as to ensure the ac- 
ceptance, rejection, or modification of the recommendations which it 
contains. 1 should much regret that Parliament should take any step 
to intercept the course of a plan which, if it succeeds, will be more 
acceptable than any forcible measure ; and if it should fail, Parliament 
will at least have the consolation of not having resorted to the ultimate 
measures, until they had exhausted the expectation of any thing being 
done by the colonies themselves. Coercion must be apphed to con- 
firmed obstinacy ; but the degree of contumacy has not yet arisen to 
call for its exercise." f 

To the same effect, on the 7th of March 1826, Earl Bathurst, in the 
House of Lords, observed that — " Bills embodying the various pro- 
visions of the Trinidad Order in Council, would now be sent to the 
Governors of the several West India Colonies, by whom they would 



* Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. X. p. 100. t Ibid. p. 101, and 102, 

K 



74 Proceedings of His Majesty^s GovenunenL 

be proposed to the consideration of their legislative assemblies, and the 
Government would soon be in possession of their decisions upon them. 
From the earnest manner in w^hich the subject w^ould be recommended 
to their attention, he did hope that it would have a successful result. 
But should it prove otherwise, it would then be for their Lordships to 
consider what course it would be expedient to adopt, to carry their 
measures into effect," * 

The result of this new effort of the Government was made known 
to Parliament, not at the beginning of the session of 1827, as was ex- 
pected, but at its very close, when it was impossible to make any use of 
the communication. This circumstance, together with the unsettled 
state of His Majesty's Government, which had rendered vain the hope 
of any beneficial discussion of the subject in Parliament, obliged the 
friends of Colonial Reform, though most reluctantly, to postpone to a 
future session any parliamentary movements for the promotion of that 
object. 

The information which has at length been laid before Parliament 
and the public, on this great question, is contained in 600 closely- 
printed folio pages, under the following title, 

" Papers presented to Parliament by His Majesty's Command, in 
explanation of the measures adopted by His Majesty's Government, 
for the melioration of the condition of the slave population in His 
Majesty's possessions ; in continuation of the papers presented in the 
year 1826— Part I. and Part H. 1827." 

The proceedings in each of the colonial legislatures are introduced 
by certain circular communications from Lord Bathurst to the Governor 
of each colony. These circulars exhibit slight variations from each 
other, arising from the somewhat varying circumstances of the different 
colonies, but as in all essential points they are identical, it will be suffi- 
cient to state the substance of any one of them, in order to show the 
nature and bearing of the instructions which have been issued by His 
Majesty's Government, in fulfilment of the above pledge to Parliament. 
These circular despatches bear date the 19th of March, and the 
21stof May, 1826. 

In the former. Lord Bathurst recapitulates the steps he had already 
taken to bring the subject before the colonial legislatures, and having 
adverted to the continued non-fulfilment of his hopes of amelioration, 
goes on to observe, that he has now to communicate to them the 
unanimous concurrence of the House of Lords, in the Resolutions of 
the House of Commons, of the 15th of May, 1823. 

" In order to enable you," his Lordship proceeds, " to bring the 
whole subject under the consideration of the assembly, in a more 
distinct shape, I shall take an early opportunity of sending out to you 
all the measures contained in the Trinidad Order of Council, classed 
under separate heads, and accompanied with such explanations as may 
be necessary, with a view of placing in a clearer light the effect of 
some of those provisions which I have reason to believe have been mis- 



. * Anti-Slavery Reporter, No, 10. p. 109. 



Pt'oceedings of His Majesiy's Government. 1h 

understood. On the receipt of this communication you will be able 
lo take the proper steps for having bills drawn up for carrying these 
measures severally into effect, in such manner as may be most con- 
formable to the existing laws. When these bills have been duly pre- 
pared, you will cause them to be brought under the consideration 
of the assembly, so that the assembly may have them separately 
before them, and either pass them in the shape in which they will be 
introduced, or make such amendments, or modifications of their pro- 
visions as the assembly may deem expedient, unless (what I anxiously 
deprecate) they should come to the decision of rejecting them. 

" The assembly will then be placed in full possession of all which 
His Majesty's Government contemplate for carrying into effect the 
resolutions of the two houses of Parliament ; and the result of their 
deliberations will enable His Majesty's Government to judge whether 
it will be necessary to take any other course for the attainment of that 
object. If you should have it in your power to announce to me, that the 
Council and Assembly have agreed to bills substantially carrying into 
effect all the measures which have been brought under their con- 
sideration, it will only remain for me, in communicating to you His 
Majesty's allowance of these bills, to congratulate you and the legis- 
lature on the establishment of a system, both for the improvement 
of the condition of the slave population, and for providing for the 
manumission of the slaves or their families on a principle of equitable 
appraisement : — which system will then have fully carried into effect the 
resolutions of the two Houses of Parliament. Nothing will then 
remain but to provide for the improvement of the judicial system, and 
for its accommodation to the present wants of the whole community, 
including the slave popuulation." 

The circular despatch of the 21st of May 1826, announces the trans- 
mission of the promised bills. 

" These enclosures," Lord Bathurst says, " relate to the eight fol- 
lowing subjects: 1st, the office of Protector or Guardian of Slaves; 
2nd, the admission of the evidence of slaves in civil and criminal cases ; 
3rd, the manumission of slaves ; 4th, the intermarriage of slaves ; 
5th, the observance of Sunday, and the abolition of Sunday markets 
on that day ; 6th, the acquisition of property by slaves, and the esta- 
blishment of saving banks for the better protection of it ; 7th, the 
separation of families under judicial process ; and 8th, the punishment 
of slaves, with the record to be kept of such punishments, when in- 
flicted by the authority of the owner." 

These drafts of bills, his Lordship states, are accompanied by ex- 
planatory notes, and by copies of his official correspondence on this 
subject with the Governors of Trinidad and Demarara, from which, he 
adds, will be learnt the views taken, by Government, of theVarious 
objections urged against the provisions of the Order in Council, and of 
the points in that order which are of primary and essential importance. 
His Lordship then proceeds thus — 

'' I am perfectly aware of the difficulty, if not impossibility, of 
framing in this country, on so comprehensive a subject, enactments 
which are to have their operation in ■ . I am aware also, that 



76 Proceedings of His Majesh/s Government. 

upon some of the topics comprised in these enclosures, the wishes 
of His Majesty's Government have akeady, to a certain extent, been 
anticipated by the existing laws, and that, without a very intimate 
and practical acquaintance with those laws, it may, perhaps, be im- 
practicable to frame, with safety, new legislative provisions on the 
same or similar subjects. 

" In transmitting, therefore, to you, the enclosed papers, I do not pro- 
pose them as drafts which could be passed without a careful revision, 
nor probably, without some material alterations. My object in this 
communication has rather been to explain anew, under separate 
heads, and in the fullest manner, the measures which His Majesty's 
Government desire to introduce ; and I have for this purpose adopted 
the form and language of legislative acts, because in no other way 
could those views be explained with equal accuracy and precision. 
His Majesty will, however, be ready to confirm any laws in which the 

legislature of may effectually imbody these principles, and give 

effect to those intentions, however much such laws may depart from the 
enclosed papers in arrangement, language, or minor details." 

The Governors are further directed to consult the law officers of the 
Crown, as to the form and structure of the proposed laws, and then 
to introduce them to the legislatures, " with such discretion, and 
with such a regard to their constitutional privileges, as to afford no 
reasonable cause for any jealousy or complaint on their part." 

They are likewise instructed to report fully, and with as little delay 
as possible, the progress which may have been made, and also the 
reasons which may have prevented the adoption of any of the clauses, 
distinguishing what may have been enacted and what rejected ; and in 
cases where former acts may be thought to have rendered further legis- 
lation unnecessary, copies of such previous acts are to be sent. 

" I have thus once more," observes his Lordship in conclusion, 
" directed your attention to this most important subject; and I cannot 
close the present despatch without again reminding you, that His Majesty's 
Government will feel the most lively interest in the result of the 
deliberations of the legislative council and assembly in the ensuing 
session. I am not disposed to anticipate the continued rejection of 
enactments so earnestly and anxiously looked for by both Houses 
of Parliament, and by every class of society in this kingdom. On the 
contrary, I must still hope that it will shortly be in my power to lay, 
before His Majesty, Acts fully carrying into effect the spirit of the 
various provisions, which, by His Majesty's commands, I have now the 
honour to transmit to you." 

Before we proceed to state the effect produced by this communication, 
it will be necessary to make a few remarks on the communication itself. 
Lord Bathurst directs that the bills, for carrying his propositions into 
effect, be drawn up in such a manner as shall be " most conformable to 
the existing laws." This instruction may possibly mean no more than 
that the terms used, or the forms prescribed, in the new acts, shall 
be in conformity with existing usage. But if it is to be understood 
as implying the necessity of conforming to the principles and the 
spirit of the existing slave laws, we should greatly question its expe-^ 



ObservatioJis on Lord Bathurst's Despatches. 11 

diency. No one who has formed an adequate conception of the unjust 
and barbarous character of those laws can hope for improvement in 
such a course ; on the contrary, he will feel that it is only by a wide 
departure from their principles, and a general counteraction of their 
spirit, that any real amelioration is to be effected. 

Lord Bathurst informs the Assemblies, that the eight Bills which he 
has sent to them will put them " in full possession of all which His 
Majesty's Government contemplate for carrying into effect the resolu- 
tions of the two Houses of Parliament." This is certainly a startling 
statement. Are we to understand it as a renunciation, on the part of 
His Majesty's Government, of any progressive measures of improve- 
ment (judicial reforms excepted) beyond those provided for in these 
Bills ? If so, it appears to be a manifest departure from the Resolu- 
tions of 1823, and from the assurances given to Parliament and the 
public on the subject by H^is Majesty's Government. On the 16th of 
March, 1824, when Mr. Canning detailed to the House of Commons 
the particulars of the Trinidad Order in Council, which he represented 
as the intended model of reform for all the Colonies, and which, though 
with material drawbacks, now forms the very corpus of Lord Bathurst's 
eight Bills, he was strongly urged by Mr. Baring, Mr. Manning, Mr. 
Blair, and other West Indians, to draw there the line, and fix at once 
where concession was to stop, so as to settle the question for ever. 
Mr. Canning repelled this proposition with considerable warmth. 
There were persons, he said, connected with the West Indies, who 
wished to force Government to give a pledge that no more should be 
done than was now proposed ; but he would not commit himself on the 
subject. He would not consent to be fettered by any engagements 
express or implied. He would not be led by either side, or in either 
sense, to declarations from which it might be impossible to advance 
and dangerous to retreat. It would be improper either to declare an 
intention of stopping at the present point, or to hold out pledges of 
ulterior and accelerated measures. We must proceed with extreme 
circumspection, watching the signs of the times, and taking advantage 
of every occurrence ; but we must reserve to ourselves a discretion and 
a freedom of action, which it would be madness to throw away.* 

But does not this despatch of Lord Bathurst commit the very error 
which Mr. Canning so energetically deprecated? His Lordship says 
that he has put the Governors in full possession of all the measures 
contemplated by his Majesty's Government ; and he afterwards adds, 
still more unequivocally, that the system embraced by the eight Bills, 
(the Bills themselves falling short of the original Order in Council for 
Trinidad,) is considered by him as fally carrying into effect the resolu- 
tions of Parliament ; and that when it is adopted, nothing will remain 
to be done but to improve the judicial administration. If we are right 
in apprehending that, in thus fettering himself, Lord Bathurst has in- 
curred the very evil against which Mr. Canning was careful to guard, 
and has abandoned the ground which the Government engaged to 
maintain ; then it would seem expedient, that when the subject is next 

* Debate of 16th of March, 1824, p, 71. 



7g Observations on Lord Bathurst's Despatches. 

brought before Parliament, care should be taken to obtain a disavowal 
of so questionable a proceeding. 

Lord Bathurst's compliment to the Colonial Assemblies, as if in their 
existing statutes they had anticipated, to a certain extent, the wishes of 
His Majesty's Government, though wholly unmerited, may be passed 
over in silence ; but when he speaks of the difficulty, if not impossi- 
bility, of framing, in this country, enactments which are to operate in 
the West Indies ; and of the impracticability of framing new legislative 
provisions on the subject of slavery ; we cannot suppress our astonish- 
ment. Is not this virtually to abandon the moral right, at least, of 
legislative interference, on the part of this country, in the concerns of 
the West Indies ? And what possible ground can there be for such a 
proposition ? If it were true. Lord Bathurst himself has incurred a 
heavy responsibility ; for, in fact, the general tenor of his official conduct 
has been in contradiction to it. The Trinidad Order in Council, which 
contained an entire new slave code, was framed, not in that island, but 
in his Lordship's office in Downing Street. What extraordinary revo- 
lution then has taken place to render that work of legislation so 
difficult, impossible, impracticable, in 1826, which, in 1824, was so 
easily executed, and also, in the estimation of his Lordship, so wisely 
and skilfully executed, as to serve for the future and finished exemplar 
of all colonial slave legislation ? The despatch seems wholly to have 
overlooked the fact that this code, so framed in Downing Street, was 
imposed on the colony of Trinidad without qualification or reserve. 
His Majesty's Government, therefore, must have been convinced of the 
wisdom, safety, and practicability of this legislative act, and of its 
adaptation to the circumstances of the Colonies, or they never would 
have adopted it as their own measure, and peremptorily enforced its 
reception in Trinidad, even in direct opposition to the opinions of the 
whole body of the Planters. Nor does this conviction of its wisdom 
seem to have been altered by a more matured experience, for its adop- 
tion is still urged on all the Colonial Legislatures, as the only means of 
escape from the direct interference of Parliament. The language of 
the despatch, therefore, on this subject, seems altogether inexplicable ; 
or if the despatch really expresses his Lordship's sentiments, it is 
difficult to imagine how he could have been induced first to issue a 
finished enactment on this impracticable subject in the island of 
Trinidad, and, after the lapse of two years, again to recommend that 
enactment, divided into eight Bills, to the adoption of the local legis- 
lature of every Slave Colony belonging to His Majesty. But indepen- 
dently of this circumstance, it seems not very reasonable to plead 
incompetency, in the Councils of this country, considering the aid they 
may command, for that task of legislation which is delegated so unhesi- 
tatingly to the Planters of the Bahamas, Bermuda, Tortola, &c. &c. 

Before we quit the consideration of this despatch, it is necessary to 
re-state the points in which the Trinidad Order in Council itself, and 
consequently the Bills framed according to the latest modification of 
it, fall below the expectations originally held out to Parliament and 
the public, by His Majesty's Government, on the subject of Colonial 
Reform. 



Defects of the Trinidad Order in Council. 79 

1 . Though entitled an Order for " promoting the religious instruc- 
tion,'^ as well as " improving the condition of the slaves," it never- 
theless comprises no provisions whatever either for their education or 
for their religious instruction, 

2. It does not abolish Sunday markets, but, on the most unsatis- 
factory grounds, continues still to sanction them. It proposes, indeed, 
at some undefined future time, to abolish them ; but three years have 
passed, and not only are Sunday markets still legal, but they are so 
regulated by law as to produce great additional hardship and inconveni- 
ence to the slaves, whom the Order was expressly intended to benefit.* 

3. Equivalent time was to have been allowed the slave, in lieu of 
Sunday, for raising food and for marketing. This stipulation has not 
been fulfilled, either in the Trinidad Order or in any of the Bills 
founded upon it. f 

4. The evidence of slaves is admitted, but with such exceptions as 
greatly detract from the utility of the measure. X 

5. The slave, in obtaining rights of property, continues debarred, 
under heavy penalties, from raising or vending any article of export- 
able produce. § 

6. The separation of families by sale is only prohibited in the single 
case of judicial sales. || 

7. Slaves may still be sold detached from the estate to which they 
belong. 

8. No record, as respects arbitrary punishments by the master, is 
required, except in the case of plantation slaves. II 

9. The Protector of Slaves, though he may not be a proprietor of 
slave plantations, in the particular colony in which he acts as Protector, 
may hold personal slaves there to any amount, and may hold slave 
plantations in every other colony. ** 

10. The Assistant Protectors of Slaves may possess slaves, whether 
predial or domestic, without any limitation. ff 

But besides these deviations from the course which it was originally 
proposed to pursue, there are some other points materially affecting the 
happiness of the slave which are wholly omitted. One is, that the hours 
of labour are not fixed. H Another, that in all questions of slave or 
free, the onus probandi is still made to rest on the slave, and not on 
the claimant of his services. It is a further most serious blemish in 
the Order of Council, that it sanctions the cruel and unjust principle 
of authorizing the infliction of severe corporal chastisement on the 
complaining slave, who, under all his disadvantages as a witness, shall 
not have proved the truth of his complaint. §§ 

However excellent may have been the intention of the framers of the 
regulations in the Trinidad Order, respecting manumission, they have 

* See for a more detailed view of this subject the Anti-Slavery Monthly 
Reporter, No- XL p. 132—135. 

t Ibid. p. 134. t Ibid. p. 136—138. § Ibid. p. 139, 147. 

II Ibid. p. 139. % Ibid. p. 140, 141. ** Ibid. p. 142. 

tt Ibid, p, 143. tt Ibid. p. 143. §§ Ibid. p. 144. 



80 Further progress of Reform — Antigua, Bahamas. 

failed in guarding them from most enormous abuse. We need only 
refer,' in proof of this, to the case of Pamela Monro, in our preceding 
number. * 

Having thus given as succinct an account, as is consistent vvrith 
clearness, of the proceedings of His Majesty's Government, in carrying 
into effect the promise made to Parliament, in the session of 1826, 
on the subject of Colonial Reform ; we shall now shew the effects 
which have resulted from these proceedings in each of the Slave 
Colonies respectively, taking them, for the sake of convenience, in their 
alphabetical order. 

I. Antigua. 

The circular communications of Lord Bathurst, as above described, 
having been submitted to the Assembly of Antigua, were received in 
such a manner as induced Sir Patrick Ross, the Governor, to signify 
to his Lordship, in a letter of the 8th August, 1826, that he entertained 
" the strongest doubts of the deliberations of the Assembly of Antigua, 
on this important subject, terminating in a manner at all answerable to 
the expectations of His Majesty's Government and of the British 
Parliament." This unfavourable anticipation of the Governor has 
proved to be correct. The legislature of Antigua have done nothing.f 

n. Bahamas. 

On the 8th of January, 1827, Mr. Munnings, the acting Governor, 
informed Lord Bathurst, that the eight Bills transmitted by his Lordship, 
having been first adapted to the circumstances of the Colony by the 
law officers of the crown, were brought by the Attorney General before 
the Assembly, and, after having undergone the investigation of a 
Select Committee, were rejected by the House. J The Report of the 
Select Committee exhibits the reasons which led to this rejection. They 
are in substance as follows : 

1. The office of Guardian and Protector of Slaves is uncalled for, 
while it would burden the Colony with an expense which it is unable 
to bear. And as it is thus impracticable to establish in these islands any 
system of slave guardianship, none of the enactments connected with 
that system can of course be carried into effect there. § 

2. To keep on plantations a record of punishments, to be periodically 
transmitted to England, is, from local circumstances, particularly the 
illiterate state of the planters, wholly impracticable. || 

3. With respect to the punishment of female slaves also, the Com- 
mittee deem it impracticable to substitute any other mode in the place 
of flogging. Indeed, all intelligent slave owners hold, they say, that 
females generally require more frequent corporal correction than males, 
for with them originate a large proportion of the crimes for which 
males suffer. They question whether confinement would be any punish- 



* See Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter, No. XXVIT. p. 70. 

t Papers printed by His Majesty's command, 1827, Part II. p. 27 — 47. 

i Ibid. Part I. p. 132. § Ibid, p, 157, 158. || Ibid. p. 158, 



Pi'ogress of Reform — Bahamas, 81 

ment at all to a negro slave ; * nay, by being confined, females would 
enjoy at their ease an exemption from labour, while their husbands 
and children and aged parents would be the real sufferers, f 

4. The Committee have no objection to abolish the driving whip, 
local circumstances rendering it less requisite in the Bahamas than in 
the other islands. But the use of the whip as a punishment for crime, 
they gravely plead for, on the ground of its being a scriptural ordi- 
nance. And they tell the Government, that the proposed reform 
should have begun at home, in the army and navy, " it being idle to 
expect efficacy from a naked precept, at such open variance with their 
own example." % 

5. They decidedly object to the interval of twenty-four hours between 
the perpetration of an offence and its punishment. They approve the 
principle, but cannot admit the practice on account of its inconve- 
nience. § 

6. They also decidedly object to the clause which decrees the for- 
feiture, to the Crown, of slaves cruelly and illegally punished. They 
have no objection that the suffering slave should be sold to a better 
master, but they cannot understand why the injured party should be 
made free.jj Then follows a striking specimen of West Indian logic, 
which, while it proceeds as usual on false assumptions, incautiously be- 
trays that state of ungoverned feeling, among the planters, which impe- 
riously calls for the very restraints which they deprecate. " So long," 
they say, " as any considerable portion of the slave population would, if 
free, be unable or unwilling to subsist otherwise than by rapine, theft, 
or other crimes, IT the Committee consider all emancipations but those 
on the score of character, or merit of some kind, as a public injury :" 
and, they add, " if freedom be the reward of insolence or other provo- 
cation on the part of the slave, sufficient to transport every choleric 
-owner beyond the bounds of discretion, it would, of course, be the very 
worst class of slaves that would be likely to become first free." ** 

* Ibid, p. 159. What a debased and brutalized state of society does this 
argument indicate ! When, however, it is the object of these gentlemen to shew 
tliat a Protector of Slaves is unnecessary, they tell us (p. 157.) of " the superior 
moral condition and intelligence of the Bahama slaves, in comparison with those 
in the sugar colonies generally." And yet they must go on iiogging women ! 
And to these highly moral slaves confinement is no punishment ! 

t Are negroes then wholly destitute of natural afifection ? The Planters know 
too well the contrary. What more common or more effective expedient are 
they in the habit of adopting, for bringing back to all the horrors of a cart- 
whipping a runaway son or husband, than that of placing a mother or a wife in 
the stocks till his return ? And what influence could such an expedient have, 
if to these females confinement were no punishment ? 

i Ibid, p. 169. § Ibid. 

II Is no compensation then due to the maimed or mutilated slave ? 

^ This assumption is proved to be untrue by that part of this very Report, 
which affirms the great progress made by " the negro race generally," in " their 
taste for the comforts of civilized life," and " the means of acquiring them ; " 
and in "the improvement of their physical condition," with which "their ad- 
vancement in morals and religion has happily kept pace." (p. 15G.) What 
reliance can be placed on the statements of men, who, in the compass of two 
pages, can so grossly stultify and falsify themselves ? 

** Ibid, p. 159. Are there then no laws in the Bahamas to punish delinquency, 

L 



82 Progress of Reform — Bahamas. 

The Committee, however, recommend, that the consolidated slave law 
of 1824, of which an account has been already given,* should be 
amended in several specified particulars. An act to that effect vpas 
accordingly passed in December, 1826, which it will be now necessary to 
examine. We would premise, however, that this is a most inconvenient 
mode of legislation in the case of enactments which are to regulate 
the conduct of masters and slaves, and in which every thing should be 
as clear and simple as possible. An act of seventy-seven clauses was 
passed in 1824; and, in 1826, another act of fifty-seven clauses more is 
framed to alter, explain, and amend the first, thus perplexing and in- 
volving instead of smoothing and simplifying the avenues to justice. 

This course is the more to be lamented, because one of the very rea- 
sons which the legislature of the Bahamas assigns for rejecting the 
proposed record of punishments on plantations is, that ^^ few planters, 
or at least _/ew of the persons in charge of plantations in the Bahamas, 
are capable of keeping records of any kiiid ;" and that they " are sel- 
dom in a situation to get literal (quere literate ?) assistance," to supply 
their own lack of learning; in plain and correct English they cannot, 
generally speaking, read or write, f Now, what will those learned per- 
sons, to say nothing of their slaves, make of the 137 clauses which have 
been framed, certainly with much technical amplification and ambiguity, 
to regulate the ordinary duties of masters and slaves ? It is literally 
throwing dust in the eyes of the Parliament and people of England. 
We can say, with truth, they have puzzled us most completely, and yet 
the Assembly gravely assure us that the colony has no need of an oflRcial 
protector of slaves, and they actually refuse to appoint such an officer. 
We should have supposed that, in proportion to the admitted extent of 
their own woful ignorance, would have been the desire of obtaining, in 
the shape of an officer selected by the crown, some literal assistance. 
But to proceed to this bill of amendments. % 

Section 1 , does not repeal, but merely suspends all the former bar- 
barous enactments of the negro code, excepting the single consolidated 
act of 1824, which, however, retains in full and undiminished action 
no small part of these barbarities. || 

Sect. 2, invalidates all future manumissions unless effected by will, 
nuncupative or written, or by deed ; or which may have been executed 
in fraud of creditors. This is narrowing, not enlarging the right of 
manumission. 

Sect. 3, enacts that so much of a particular section of the Act of 
1824, as declares void all manumissions of slaves who are incapable of 
labour by sickness, age, or infirmity, should be suspended during the 
continuance of this Act. 

that masters must be thus allowed to wreak their uncontrolled fury on their 
slaves, in the very moment of exasperation ? Jiy the same criterion of" merit, 
which the Bahama legislature would make the sole condition on which freedom 
should be given to the slave, ought these choleric owners themselves to be 
doomed to slavery as unfit to enjoy freedom. 

* See the " Slave Colonies of Great Britain," p. 4 ; and the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, No. 11, p. 151. 

t Papers by Command, 1827, Part I, p. 158. | Ibid, p. IGl— 180. 

II See the Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 4 — H. 



Progress of Reform — Bahamas. 83 

This clause curiously illustrates the indifference to negro feeling and 
negro comfort, which prevails among the white legislators of the Ba- 
hamas. In 1824, they make void a certain class of manumissions by a 
stroke of their pen. Persons already in possession of that best earthly 
boon, freedom, are suddenly divested of it without any more ceremony 
than would be employed in altering the merest matter of form. No in- 
quiry is instituted as to the rights affected by it, no measure of compen- 
sation (about which they can clamour so loudly in their own case,) 
thought of for the suffering parties ; but a stern, unqualified decree of 
disfranchisement issues forth from those petty despots, and at once 
strips a number of his Majesty's liege subjects of all the rights they had 
acquired by enfranchisement, and reduces them a second time to the 
level of brute beasts. After two years, however, this sentence, at the 
suggestion of Lord Bathurst, is reversed, and these disfranchised indivi- 
duals are restored to such freedom as the inheritors of negro blood are 
permitted to enjoy in the Bahamas. But, even this freedom is to last 
only " during the continuance of this Act," an act which perhaps may 
have been already disallowed, or if not, the duration of which is actually 
limited by one of its clauses to the month of January, 1829. What a 
strange style of legislation is this ! What an outrage on all the feelings 
of its subjects, or rather its victims ! What a violation of every principle 
of the commonest humanity and justice ! 

Sect. 4, is also an amendment of a part only of a former clause ; and 
its object is to deprive the keepers of jails or workhouses of the power 
of inflicting corporal punishments, on slaves committed to their custody, 
without the authority of the owner or manager, or of some court or 
magistrate. But this is no very material improvement, jail floggings 
having been generally inflicted by the jailors, only at the desire of 
the owners or managers, or of a magistrate or court. 

Sect. 5, slaves alleged, or suspected to be runaways, may, by a single 
magistrate, be committed to jail for one year, or " otherwise disposed of 
by him according to law ;" and at the end of the year, if not claimed, 
shall, by the magistrate, be either discharged from custody, or " other- 
wise dealt Avith according to law." The clause, however, in the Act of 
1824, ordering them to be sold as slaves, if not claimed within the year, 
is to be suspetided " during the continuance of this Act." How very 
vague and uncertain, as well as cruel and unjust, are such enactments 
as these ? 

Sect. 6, is equally vague and confused, referring to parts of no less 
than three sections of the former act, which it suspends or modifies. It 
inflicts fine, banishment, and even imprisonment for life, on persons 
of free condition ; and as much as 200 lashes on slaves, who " should 
knowingly aid, abet, harbour, or conceal a runaway slave." 

Sect. 7, contains such an unjust provision, that even the Acting 
Governor, Mr. Munnings, himself a planter, is ashamed of it.* It enacts 

* " I could have wished," he says, " that this clause had been left out of the 
Act ; but, as punishment by flogging was uot insisted on, and as free persons of 
colour have got rid of some old obnoxious Acts, which were in force against 
Ihem, I do not deem this clause an objection sufficiently strong to prevent my 
assenting to the Act." Papers, &c. 1827, Part I. p. 133, 



84 Progress of Reform — Bahamas, 

that " any free negro, mulatto, mustee, Indian, or other person of 
colour," who " shall use a?^^/ threats of unlawful violence, or ani/ scan- 
dalous or other abusive language, to any white person or persons," he 
" shall and may, on complaint, under oath of the party meyiaced or in- 
sulted, be lawfully tried for the same" by two magistrates, or by 07ie 
magistrate, and tioo zvhite freeholders, and, on conviction, be fined 
£20. or confined for non-payment, for six months. 

Sect, 8, makes it a misdemeanour to employ the driving whip to 
compel labour, a practice, which from local circumstances, was little, if 
at all, in use in the Bahamas ; as there, the Assembly tells us, from the 
smallness of the properties, the slaves on plantations are domesticated 
with their owners, while numbers are employed in navigation. — In point 
of fact, their labours are of a kind which precludes their being driven. 
To this necessary peculiarity in the condition of the Bahama slaves, may 
be attributed their rapid increase. 

Sect. 9, preserves to the master or overseer the power of inflicting 
thirty-nine lashes on any slave, without specifying the offence, pro- 
yided the slave's former lacerations shall be healed, and provided the 
owner or overseer himself be present to witness the infliction. He need- 
not, however, be present when the jailer or workhouse-keeper inflicts 
such punishment by his authority. 

Sect. 10, provides, that henceforward women are not to be stripped 
mid fogged, in the presence of any males, except the person or persons 
ordering the punishmejit, and the person or persons infi<:ting the 
same ! ! 

Sect. 11 and 12, make it lawful for an owner to commute flogging 
for other modes of punishment, (a power he could, of course, always 
lawfully exercise,) under certain regulations ; among others, that if preg- 
nant women are so punished as to cause the risk of abortion, the person 
inflicting the punishment shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanour. 

Sect. 13 — 20, form a most complicated series of provisions on the sub- 
ject of Slave Evidence, so complicated as to render the pretended con- 
cessions which they involve, an utter nullity. All slaves, not natives of 
Africa,* who have been five years in the colony, who have been suffici- 
ently instructed in religion to understand the nature of an oath, and 
are certified to be so by any clergyman of the Church of England or 
minister of the kirk of Scotland, f shall, during the continuance of this 
Act, be admitted as witnesses in all civil and criminal causes. — But 
then follow the exceptions, that is to say, the cases in which even the 
slaves who may come under the above rigorous description, are debarred 
from giving evidence. 1. All prosecutions of free persons, by way of 
libel, plaint, or otherwise, in cases of penalty, or forfeiture, or otherwise, 
when the facts are tried, or liable to be tried, otherwise than by a jury 
at common law, 2. All prosecutions of free persons, by way of 



* Thus shutting out at once all Christian slaves, who may have been intro- 
duced into the colony from Africa, even in infancy. 

t Mr. Munnings complains that the power of giving these certificates is 
restricted to clergijmen, in consequence of which no slaves can obtain them, but 
*.hose living at New Providence and Turks Islands, p. 13:5. 



Progress of Reform — Bahamas. 85 

ex-officio information or otherwise, in any court of law or equity, even 
when parts of the case may be tried by a jury. 3. All prosecutions 
against the owner of the slave offered as a witness. 4. All prosecutions 
of white persons charged with offences punishable by death. 5. All 
facts which may have occurred prior to the date of the certificate of 
competency. 6. All cases, whether civil or criminal, involving either 
directly, or indirectly, or by implication, incidentally, or in any manner 
whatsoever, any facts touching any right or claim, or supposed right or 
claim of any slave, to be, or become free or in any manner exempt 
from servitude, or in any manner to affect the full and complete title, 
claim, &c. of any owner of such slave. 7. All cases of wills, or deeds, 
or other instruments manumitting slaves, or relating to the manumission 
of slaves. 8. All examinations de bene esse, or otherwise than viva voce, 
and in open court. 

Besides these sweeping exceptions, which seem to comprise all that 
had previously been conceded in favour of the slave, the clergyman's 
certificate is not to preclude any magistrate, or jury, from examining 
the witness as to competency, on his voir dire or otherwise ; or as to 
the degree of his religious knowledge. And, moreover, a clause (the 
20th) is framed for the express purpose of tranquillizing the over- 
tender and too scrupulous consciences of the Bahama Planters. Lest 
any of them should be disturbed by an apprehension whether the evi- 
dence of any one or more witnesses, when not contradicted, is not 
legally entitled to full faith and credit, though the court and jury may 
have cause to question their veracity, and in order " to remove the 
objections to the admission of slave evide?ice," it is therefore enacted 
that it shall be competent for all courts, magistrates, inquests, juries 
grand, special, or petty, to discredit or reject, wholly or in part, the evi- 
dence of all witnesses examined before them, although not contradicted 
or impugned by other evidence, if only there be any fair ground of im- 
probability, or of bad character, or of presumption of wrong motives, on 
which they may conscientiously refuse credence to the evidence in 
question. — We have here a new chapter in the law of evidence. 

Sect. 21, restrains certain classes of enfranchised persons from being 
admitted to prove any facts bearing, directly or indirectly, on the free- 
dom of any alleged slave, or affecting the life of any white person, or 
affecting the person, liberty, or property, of their late owners. 

Sect. 22 — 25, contain regulations respecting the manner of proceeding 
by subpoena, or by writ of Habeas Corpus, to obtain the evidence of 
slaves. 

Sect. 26 — 31, contain regulations of a complicated and ineffective 
kind as to the marriages of slaves. Parts of the Act of 1824, are first 
suspended. Then slaves are permitted to intermarry, with consent of 
their owner ; and the marriage may be performed by any licensed free 
white public teacher, or by a magistrate; and is to be registered. But 
such marriage is not to convey any rights inconsistent with the slaves' 
duties to his owner, or to the Government. 

Sect. 32, makes void all separate sales of husbands and wives, or re- 
puted husbands and wives, and their children under fourteen years of 



86 Progress of Reform — Bahamas. 

age. This is done, however, not by a direct enactment, but by a 
reference to the former Act. 

Sect. 33 — 35. Sunday labour is not expressly forbidden, but Sunday 
markets are restricted to the hour of nine in the morning- — a mode of 
proceeding which both continues the desecration of the Sabbath, and is 
most onerous and inconvenient to the slave. 

Sect. 36. Slaves are permitted to possess all kinds of property real 
and personal, except arms and ammunition, and to bring and defend 
actions by their -prochain ami, who must, however, be a free person 
appointed by the court. 

Sect. 37 — 42, respect a bank of deposit for the slaves, with rules for 
disposing of and judicially attaching their property; and contain some 
restraining clauses which go far to defeat the whole scheme. 

Sect. 43, enables owners to prevent their slaves from growing, 
raising, or dealing in the same articles with their masters, as salt, corn, 
cattle, live stock of any kind for market, cotton wool, &c., but not to 
prevent them from growing sugar cane, or raising fruit or vegetables, or 
ground provisions.* 

Sect. 44 — 51, regulate the manumission of slaves. — All fees and 
taxes are abolished, except 4s. sterling for recording the manumission. 
Slaves may purchase their own freedom, and that of wives and children, 
at such price as may be agreed between the parties interested. If they 
differ as to price, two magistrates may name a referee for each of the 
parties, who, if they disagree, may name an umpire. These are to 
swear that they will fairly, justly, and equitably estimate the compen- 
sation, "not merely according to their views of the probable market 
price of such slave, if exposed to sale as such, but with due regard also 
to such further remuneration as the owner may shew himself entitled to, 
in consequence of any loss or damage he may sustain by reason of his 
being deprived of the services of such slave." This novel principle of 
appreciation obviously goes to destroy the beneficial effect of the other 
regulations respecting manumission, (See the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
No. 27, p. 68, &:c.) But it is scarcely less destructive of it than the 
provision in the 51st clause, that no children under fourteen years of 
age shall be manumitted, under any circumstances whatsoever, without 
the consent of their owner ; and further, that no slave shall obtain his 
freedom without his owner's consent, unless he shall shew that the 
funds for his redemption have been honestly acquired. — It is perfect 
mockery to call such laws, laws for facilitating manumission. 

Sect. 52 — 56, are provisions of mere form. 

Sect. 57, limits the duration of the Act to the 28th of January, 1829, 
or to the end of the then next session of Assembly. 

We have gone into a great length of detail in analysing this law, be- 
cause it is really one of the best, perhaps the very best, of the amelio- 
rating acts, which have been passed in the West Indies. And yet, what 
is it, when carefully examined, but mere unmeaning verbiage ; enact- 

" * And yet planters vehemently complain of the want of industry in the negro. 
Why then these prohibitions ? 



Progress of Reform — Barbadoes. ' 87 

ments which enact nothing ; apparent concessions which are drawn back 
by the multiphcity and largeness of the exceptions ; and pretended 
reforms which leave every evil of slavery untouched ? And let it not be 
forgotten that, besides all this idle and useless parade of legislation, cal- 
culated for no purpose but to blind the eyes of the people of this country^ 
there still stands in full and stern authority the whole code of 1 824, of 
which we have already given a detailed account in " The Slave Colonies 
of Great Britain, or a picture of Negro Slavery, drawn by the Colonists 
themselves," p. 4 — 11. 

III. Barbadoes. 

In the pamphlet entitled, " The Slave Colonies of Great Britain," 
(p. 11 — 20.) was given, in considerable detail, the provisions of the 
Consolidated Slave Law of Barbadoes, passed in March, 1825. The 
law itself, of which the Barbadians boasted, as an effort of liberal and 
humane legislation, which, " in the night-fall of their existence," would 
endear to posterity the remembrance of those who had given life to 
that splendid code, was nevertheless, as Mr. Brougham well charac- 
terized it in the House of Commons, little better than a mass of' the 
most revolting enormities. Lord Bathurst appears to have enter- 
tained a similar opinion of it. His Lordship regrets to say, that he 
finds in it " noyie of the recommended reforms" while it contains some 
provisions which oblige him to submit it to the legislature for revision.* 
By way of aiding them in that revision, he transmits a copy of his 
circular communication and of the eight Bills accompanying it. These 
Bills, however, were not submitted to the Barbadoes legislature by the 
Governor, Sir Henry Ward, who, apparently under some unaccountable 
feeling of alarm, withheld them, lest he should give offence to the 
Assembly. The Assembly, however, were evidently fully apprized of 
their tenor, and with that knowledge, a new consolidated slave law 
was passed by them in October, 1826, embracing all the reforms they 
thought it right to adopt. To this act, we are sorry to say, the 
Governor has affixed his signature. 

The first thing we have to remark in this new code is the omission 
of two clauses in that of 1825, which seemed to favour the slave. 
The Assembly probably thought that the concessions extracted from 
them by the alarm of the moment were too large, and that it became 
necessary therefore to retract them. These clauses are the 4th, and 
the 64th ; the first securing a right of appeal to the Governor for a 
writ of error in the case of capital convictions of slaves ; the second 
providing that capital executions shall be solemn and by hanging only. 
These provisions, salutary as far as they went, are repealed by the 
present Act. The various horrors, therefore, which Mr. Dwarris so 
forcibly describes as attending the conviction and execution of slaves 
in Barbadoes, are again in operation. 

There is only one omission in favour of the slave. It is the 47th 



Papers presented by His Majesty's command, 1827, Part I. p. 197. 



88 Progress of Reform — Barhadoes. 

clause, which inflicted the punishment of death on slaves who should 
hear other slaves speak any words tending to mutiny or rebellion, with- 
out revealing them. 

The only additions which even in sound are of any importance are 
the following : 

1. The Governor, the Senior Member of Council, the Speaker of the 
Assembly, the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, and the Attorney General, 
are appointed a Committee of Protection for Slaves, " for the full and 
effectual securing to slaves the rights and privileges afforded to them 
by this Act," (an Act which in fact affords them scarcely any right or 
privilege ;) and this Committee are empowered to appoint a Secretary, 
cognizant of law, with a salary of 400Z. currency a-year, or 260/. 
sterling, who is to be the legal adviser and advocate of slaves, and to 
assist with his legal advice, and without fee or reward, all slaves accused 
of any heinous offences or felonies, or claiming to be free, or complain- 
ing of cruelty or injustice; and who is also to prosecute for the maim 
or murder of a slave. And this " Acting Protector of Slaves," whose 
functions are limited to these points, is to report from time to time 
his proceedings to the Committee of Protection. 

This provision cannot be considered as in any measure a substitute 
for the regulations of the Trinidad Order in Council respecting a Pro- 
tector, It is little more than a substitution, in a more convenient form, 
for the third clause of the Act of 1825, which allowed to slaves the aid 
of a solicitor at the public expense. But then no means are provided 
for enforcing the due performance of the . duties of this officer ; nor is 
any penalty attached to their neglect. We may therefore assume how 
they will be performed, for a population of 80,000 slaves, by a legal 
practitioner, probably in high practice, whose only remuneration 
amounts to 400Z. currency a-year. 

2. It is enacted, that the evidence of slaves shall be admitted in all 
cases of civil action for trespass or assault ; and in all cases of misde- 
meanour, felony, murder, or any other offence, except forgery ; pro- 
vided they shall produce a certificate of baptism from the resident 
clergyman of the parish, and also a clergyman's certificate of com- 
petent religious knowledge ; and provided too, in every case, the owner 
of the slaves, or any other persons, may be summoned and examined as 
to their character; and provided further, that no white or free person 
shall be convicted on the testimony of slaves unsupported hy other 
evidence. The testimony of slaves may, however, be taken against any 
person of free condition, who shall be proved to have associated with 
slaves in cock-fighting, gambling, getting drunk, or in any crime. 

3. Owners of diseased slaves, suffering them to go at large, to infest 
the highways, are to forfeit £10. for each offence. 

4. Owners depriving slaves of personal property, honestly acquired, 
shall forfeit double the value ; but they may (not impound but) destroy 
any hogs, sheep, goats, or poultry belonging to slaves trespassing on the 
plantations. 

5. By the former law, all runaways, not claimed, were to be sold for 
slaves at the end of a year. Now, if a person committed as a runaway 
claims to be free, the marshal is to advertise for proof, and, if at the end 



Progress of Reform — Barbadoes. 8S 

of three months, none is produced, the Governor and Council shall 
examine the matter, and unless it is proved that the person claiming to 
be free, is bona fide a slave, he shall be set at liberty as free ; but if not 
a native of the Island he may be forthwith deported. 

6. A tread-mill is to be erected, and to be used in certain cases as a 
commutation for other modes of punishment. 

7. In cases of cruelty, to which only £25 currency had been attached as 
a penalty, it is now made not less than £25 nor more than £ ] 00 currency. 

8. The only remaining changes consist in a few new penal inflictions 
on the slave. He is to be flogged, if he conceals a slave guilty of any 
offence, or sends him off the island, or if he tempts a slave to leave his 
master's service. It is also provided, that if a slave, possessed of per- 
sonal property, shall be convicted of a theft, his property may be taken 
to defray the expenses of prosecution, and to indemnify the party injured. 

Besides this principal Act, there is a supplemental one passed on the 
same day, entitled "an Act for encouraging the baptisms and marriages 
of slaves, and for the due observance of the I-ord's Day," and which 
enacts, though without any sanctions or penalties, that *' owners" (adopt- 
ing the ineffective language of the legislature of Jamaica for 130 succes- 
sive years,) " shall, as much as in them lies, endeavour to instruct their 
slaves in the principles of the Christian religion," and shall cause to be 
baptized, by a clergyman of the established church, all slaves hereafter 
to be born, and all, already born, " who shall be made sensible of the 
duties of the Christian faith ;" and -permitting " any clergyman of the 
established church" to solemnize the marriage of any slaves, " being the 
property of the same owner," " producing the consent, in writing, of 
the owner," — it being provided that such marriage shall confer on 
slaves no rights inconsistent with the rights of their owners. Of such 
baptisms and marriages so solemnized, a register is to be kept. — By the 
same Act, all Sunday markets are declared unlawful, on pain of for- 
feiture of the goods exposed to sale, and of a fine of £5 to free persons, 
and of a whipping to slaves. And yet no other day is appointed for 
marketing, nor any other day given to the slave for that purpose. It is 
well that it is provided that this Act shall not be in force till his 
Majesty's pleasure is known ; being obviously one of oppression and 
cruelty to the slave, who is to be flogged if he comes to market on a 
Sunday, and who has, nevertheless, no other time allowed him for 
coming to market. * Inducing or compelling Sunday labour is also 
forbidden, with certain exceptions. 

A Bill for abolishing the tax on manumission, and for giving to per- 
sons who have been heretofore manumitted \vithout paying that tax, 
the right, of which they had been debarred by an Act passed in 1817, 
of givmg testimony in Courts of Justice, has not passed into a law. f 

* Sir Henry Warde seems almost to think (p. 204.) that it is some reparation 
for this act of injustice that a certain Dr. Maycock made a speech at a public 
meeting, in which he expressed a hope that time would be given to the slave in 
lieu of Sunday, by the considerate humanity of the masters. And yet, in 
expressing that hope. Dr. Maycock admits, that had it been required to give 
other time in lieu of Sunday, as a condition of abolishing the Sunday market, it 
would have long continued a disgrace to the island. 

t Papers presented by Command, 1827. Part 1, p. 204. 



90 Progress of Reform- — Barbadoes. 

With these trivial modifications the )Slave law of Barbadoes remains 
in the opprobrious state in which it was left by the Act of 1825 ; and if 
any one wishes to see what are the barbarities of that Act, he has only 
to turn to the publication already referred to, " The Slave Colonies of 
Great Britain," p. 11 to 19. 

The Assembly have attempted to vindicate their conduct in having thus 
disappointed the wishes of his Majesty's Government, and of the nation.* 

1. " The safety of the inhabitants, the interest of their property, and 
the welfare of the slaves themselves," have prevented their yielding "to 
Earl Bathurst's recommendations to prohibit the punishment of women 
by flogging, and the use of the whip in the field. To forbid, by legis- 
lative enactment, the flogging of fenaale slaves, would, in the judgment 
of the Assembly, be productive of the most injurious consequences;" 
especially in the case of owners possessed of only one or two female 
slaves, domestics. 

2. " Considerations no less powerful prevailed respecting the disuse 
of the whip in the field." The power of summary punishment by flog- 
ging, " the Assembly considers to be inseparable from a state of slavery." 

3. The recording of punishment by whipping, limited to a given 
number of stripes, they think unadvisable ; because, in the hands of a 
relentless executioner, a small number of stripes might be so inflicted as 
to amount to cruelty ; and the ends of humanity are best consulted by 
leaving it to the justices to decide whether a punishment, whatever be 
its mode or quantity, be cruel.f 

4. " Compulsory manumission is such a direct invasion of the right 
of property," that the Assembly felt they could not, without " violating 
the sacred trust reposed in them, contemplate a measure absolutely 
destructive of that right, by investing slaves with the power, at their 
own will, and against the will of their owners, of purchasing their 
freedom."! 

5. The Assembly, though they have not established Savings' Banks, 
yet have, " in the spirit of true sincerity, provided for slaves the full 
security and enjoyment of their property." || 

6. They excuse their not taking any new measures to prevent the 
separation of families by judicial sale, by alleging that a law to that 
effect was passed in 1688. The law, however, has been absolutely a 
dead letter, witness, among many facts of recent occurrence, the 
transaction inserted in the margin, and taken from the Parliamentary 
papers of 1826, No. 353. § 

* Papers presented by Command, p. 271 — 274. 

t Surely the tender mercies of these legislators are cruel. 

X See in reply to the whole of this argument, the Reporter, No. 27, passim. 

II There is no such provision in the Act. The Council framed a clause to that 
effect, but it was rejected by the Assembly. 

§ On the 7th of August, 1823, nineteen individuals became escheats of the 
Crown ; and in eleven days from that time, namely, on the 18th of August, 1823, 
they were all sold by public auction, with the exception of two who effected 
their escape, and the net proceeds of their sale were paid into the Treasury of 
Great Britain. The transaction, bad enough in itself, is in no small degree 
aggravated, when we consider all tlie circumstances of it, and especially the 
cruel separation of families which was sanctioned by the agents of the Crown. 



Progress of Reform — Barhadoes. 91 

7. They also claim credit for the miserable and inefficient substi- 
tution of their " acting protector," for the system of protection proposed 
by Lord Bathurst. 

8. And they boast of their provisions respecting the testimony of 
slaves (see above) as going beyond those of his Lordship. 

The Speaker of the Assembly concludes his labours with lauding 
" the honest and conscientious feeling" of its members, which had 
led them " to go the utmost lengths that prudence would allow, in 
giving effect to the wishes of his Majesty's Ministers, to whom they now 
look with confidence, that the time they have so anxiously passed in 
maturing the measure, will, through their advice, receive the high 
reward which his Majesty's most gracious confirmation of the Bill 
would confer." p. 274. 

And yet the very next proceeding of this Assembly is to reject a Bill 
sent to them from the Council for abolishing the whip in the field, and 
the flogging of females ; and for conferring on slaves a right of property. 

The following are the particulars of this opprobrious sale, as they are given 
under the official signature of " Lionel Parke, Receiver General of his Majesty's 
Casual Revenue." 

1. Quow, aged 55, father of Caesar, sold to Thomas Louis, for £45. 

2. Caesar, aged 27, son of Quow, to Samuel Henery, for £90. 

3. Orange, aged 67, mother of October, to B. T. Young, for £5. 

4. October, aged 44, son of Orange, to C. Crouch, for £46. 

5. Abel, aged 49, husband of Lubbah, and father of Thomas, Kitty, and 
Becky, sold to Henry Tudor, for £32. 10s. 

6. Lubbah, aged 40, wife of Abel, and mother of his children, sold also to 
Henry Tudor, for £38. She appears to have been put up separately, and. Mr. 
Tudor appears to have bid high in order to obtain her. 

7. Thomas, aged 16, son of Abel and Lubbah, sold to H. Mozely, for £51. 

8. Kitty, aged 13, daughter of Abel and Lubbah, to Joshua Levi, for £46. 10s. 

9. Becky, aged 6, daughter of Abel and Lubbah, to Mr. Alsup, for £28. 
Again, Deborah, Sukey, Betsey, Polly, and Thomas, are brothers and sisters. 

Sukey has one child, Betsey three, and Polly one. They are thus disposed of, 

10. Deborah, aged 28, is sold to W. Straker, for £15. 

11. Sukey, aged 26, mother of James William, < are sold, in one lot, to 

12. James William, aged 1 J, son of Sukey, \ Thos. Howell, for £51. 
is. Betsey, aged 34, mother of Caroline, Grace, ~\ 

and Medorah, ...... fare sold, in one lot, to 

14. Caroline, aged 4, daughter of Betsey, . . j James Lealted, for £50. 

15. Grace, aged 2^, daughter of Betsey, . .} 

16. Medorah, aged 9, daughter of Betsey, is sold to William Austin, for 
£51. 10s. 

17. Thomas, aged 15, brother of Deborah, Sukey, &c. is sold to John 
Straker, for £52. 10s. 

The fate of the remaining two is the only part of the detail which is "at all 
satisfactory. 

18. Polly, aged 39, mother of Richard, . . ,1 absconded, and cannot 

19. Richard, aged 11, son of Polly, . . . ) be found. 

The price at which these persons were sold is stated in Barbadoes currency, 
and amounts to £602, or about £401, sterling. How much of this money, after 
passing through the hands of Escheators, Receivers, Marshals, Counsel, 
Attorneys, &c. came into the Royal Treasury of Great liritain, we should be 
curious to know. It is the price of blood, and we trust will not rest there 
without inquisition. What is it but a Slave Trade, more disgraceful than even 
that of Africa, by which the king of Great Britain has been made to enrich bim-- 
self by the sale into perpetual slavery of seventeen of his liege subjects, whose 
dearest ties have been burst asunder by the process ? 



92 Progress of Reform — Berbice. 

IV. — Berbice. 

A new slave code, on the general model of the order in council for 
Trinidad, though widely departing from it in some respects, has been 
in operation in Berbice since the 1st of November, 1826.* 

Besides the defects which are common to this law and that of 
Trinidad, as they are specified above, p. 79, there are in the former, 
the following material variations from the latter, 

1. The Trinidad Order requires that the Protector should be em- 
powered to act for and defend the slave in all suits, criminal as well as 
civil. The Berbice Order confines his interference to civil cases, and gives 
to the court of criminal justice the power of appointing and paying 
an advocate, for the slave, in each special case of criminal charge. 

2. In Bei'bice, even on Sunday, the slaves cannot leave the estates 
without leave, and are made subject in that respect to " such regula- 
tions as are established by law." But what are those regulations, 
and why do they not appear in this new code which ought to compre- 
hend all the laws to guide the conduct of master and slave ? It 
may be that regulations may exist which, not being specified, but 
having the force of law, may go far to defeat the provisions of the 
code. It is obvious that all the slaves on an estate may, by a refusal 
of leave to quit the estate on Sunday, be shut out from all religious 
worship and instruction. This case at least should be excepted from 
restraint, as at the Cape of Good Hope. (See below.) 

3. Masters are permitted to occupy the morning hours of the Sunday, 
until eight o'clock, in distributing their allowances to the slaves. The 
three best hours of the day are thus unjustly taken from the slave 
and given to his master, while the day itself is desecrated by this 
unnecessary secular employment. 

4. The Sunday markets (which ought clearly not to exist at all in 
any colony) are prolonged in Berbice to eleven o'clock, being an hour 
later than in Trinidad. 

5. The clause forbidding the use of the driving-whip, in the field, 
is greatly wanting in precision as compared with the Trinidad Order. 
Its framers seem to hurry over this tender ground. 

6. The interval between the commission of a crime and its punish- 
ment is shortened in Berbice ; and six slaves are admitted as wit- 
nesses of the infliction, instead of the presence of a free person being 
absolutely required as in Trinidad. 

7. With respect to the record of punishments, the Berbice Order 
does not confine it to plantations, but extends it to all persons having 
gangs of more than six slaves. There ought however to be no limi- 
tation. Either the magistrate alone should punish ; or the master 
should be obliged to record and report the punishments he inflicts. 

8. That most important clause of the Trinidad Order, the 21st,^ 
obliging the owner to prove that fresh traces of laceration in his 
slave have not been unlawfully inflicted by him is entirely omitted. 
It forms a part of the Cape of Good Hope Order. 

* See Papers presented by Command, 1827, Part ii. p, 189—229. 



Progress of Reform — Berbice. 93 

9. Marriages are confined in Berbice to slaves belonging to the same 
owner. In Trinidad there is no such limitation, nor at the Cape. 

10. The time o^ field work is confined between the hours of six in the 
morning, and six in the evening, with an interval of two hours. In Tri- 
nidad the law fixes no limit. But neither in Trinidad nor in Berbice is any 
limit placed on any other Xhdia. field work, such, for example, as carrying 
fodder for the cattle, after field labour is over, which is one of the most 
galling aggravations of the harsh lot of the field slave ; also the 
wearing and exhausting night labours of crop. It is a mockery to 
frame a limitation of this nature in terms so ambiguous as to open the 
door to the worst oppressions, without any direct breach of the law. 

11. A regulation is introduced to secure the non-separation of 
families by judicial sale, which is of great importance and ought ta 
be universally adopted ; namely the keeping, on each estate, of an 
accurate and complete record of married persons or reputedly married 
persons and their children, a copy of it to be transmitted to the 
office of the Protector, and there registered with a view to facilitate in- 
vestigation. 

12. A most unwarrantable power is given to owners of plantations 
to destroy, in case of their non-removal from the estate on the owner's 
requisition, of the live stock of slaves ; just as if it were too much 
for the owner to cause them to be sold, for the benefit of the slave, 
rather than wantonly destroyed. 

13. In the case of what is called compulsory manumission, the 
appraisers, appointed to value the slave, are absurdly made to swear 
not only that they will make a fair and impartial appraisement of the 
slave, with a reference to his strength, acquirements, &c., but with 
a reference also " to the absolute value of such slave to his owner, 
and the loss which such owner would sustain by the loss of the services 
of such slave ; " just as if the market price were not the true and only 
criterion of a slave's value. This, however, is a mere trifle compared 
with the iniquity of a subsequent clause, which provides that no slave 
shall be alloiued to purchase his freedom without the consent of his 
owner, unless he can prove that the money for the purpose has been 
honestly acquired, either by his own earnings, or by bequest or suc- 
cession; and that he has conducted himself honestly and faithfully 
for the five preceding years, and that he shall not have been con- 
victed of any crime, or punished by any court or magistrate, for 
seven years preceding. — It is quite impossible that the Government 
and Parliament of England can tolerate such a monstrous enactment, 
which goes to nullify their own recorded purposes, and which would 
put it out of the power of an angel, in a state of slavery, to avoid' 
incurring the fatal disqualification of the Berbice code. Suppose a 
man had been treasuring up his earnings for many years, adding to it any 
little gifts he might have received, the gifts would vitiate the whole 
mass and doom him to perpetual slavery. He must bring nothing to 
aid the purchase which has not been obtained by bequest or suc- 
cession, or by his own honest industry. And what is the legal definition- 
of " honest industry," or of " honest and faithful conduct," any failure 
in which is to be followed by such tremendous consequences ? The 



94 Progress of Reform — Bermuda, Cape of Good Hope. 

man is to be retained in slavery, not because he has committed some 
specific criminal or fraudulent acts, which disqualify him for the pos- 
session of freedom, but because he cannot sufficiently frove that his 
conduct has been honest and faithful, (that he has never told a lie, 
or broke and sucked one of his master's sugar canes !) during five 
years, and that his accumulated earnings, of perhaps 20 or 30 years, 
have not been tainted vk^ith fraud, or contaminated by a gift ! 

The new code was read to the slaves on the several estates in 
Berbice, and explained to them by the magistrates of districts, before 
it came into operation. The colony, the Governor assures us, was per- 
fectly tranquil, " and the new code appeared, every where, to have 
produced the most beneficial effects." p. 222. The testimony of the 
different civil magistrates is, generally speaking, to the same effect. 

The Protector has fixed the wages to be paid to slaves, labouring on 
Sundays for the preservation of the crops, at a guilder, or about 17|d, 
sterling, for a day, estimated at ten hours of labour, and in the same 
proportion for a shorter or longer period. 

In three weeks from the first day of the operation of this code^ 
which was on the 1st of November, 1826, 500 guilders had already 
been deposited in the Saving's bank by a few slaves. 

V. — Bermuda. 
There is no return whatever from this Colony. 

VI. — Cape of Good Hope. 

An Ordinance resembling very closely that of Trinidad, Avas promul- 
gated at the Cape of Good Hope, in June, 1816. It will be only ne- 
cessary to notice its deviations from the Trinidad model. 

1. Sunday markets are declared to be absolutely abolished, prohibited 
and unlawful ; and yet, strange to say, the sale of vegetables, meat, 
and other articles of provision, is permitted on that day except during 
Divine service. This is building up with one hand and pulling down 
with another. — A part of the enactment, and one which we should 
be glad to see imitated in every colony is, " that no slave shall be de- 
prived by their masters of the right of attending at church, or other 
place of religious worship, on Sundays, under a penalty of 20s. for each 
offence, unless justifiable cause can be shown." — But here again, no 
time in lieu of Sunday is given to the slave. 

2. The time of labour, not of field labour merely, as in the West 
Indies, but of labour generally, is fixed at not more than ten hours, from 
the 1st of April to the 30th of September, nor more than twelve 
from the 1st of October to the 31st of March, except during seasons of 
extraordinary pressure, when a fair remuneration must be made the 
slave for extra labour. 

3. The flogging of adult females, we are sorry to say, may still be 
practised privately. 

4. Corporal punishment must be inflicted, except in some special 
cases, by the hand of the owner, employer, or overseer himself. 

5. In Trinidad sixteen years of age is the limit under which children 
are not to be sold separate from their parents. But at the Cape 



Brazilian Mining Company — Betto Douglas. 05 

the limit is only ten years, and even under that age they may be 
separated by sale, if it can be shewn that it is for the wellbeing of the 
children to be so sold. 

6. Slave owners are required, but not under any penalty, not only 
to have slave children baptized but to send them to school. 

7. The property of slaves, dying intestate, is to go to a fund for re- 
deeming female slave children by fair appraisement. 

8. No slave is to be rejected as a witness, by reason of slavery, 
if sufficiently instructed to understand the nature of an oath, except 
only in civil suits in which his owner is concerned. — This is by far the 
most liberal provision yet made in any slave colony on this subject. 

[Further progress of Colonial Reform to be continued in the next 
Number.} 



BRAZILIAN MINING COMPANY, 
We have been heavily charged by the West India Reporter, in its 
last Number, with a wish to suppress, from some sinister motive, 
the alleged criminal, nay, if true, felonious conduct of the above Com- 
pany in purchasing, from the slave ships in Brazil, new negroes for 
working their mines. We certainly have felt no wish to screen that 
body from any part of the obloquy, or of the penalties, which appro- 
priately attach to such conduct ; — and what conduct can be worse 
than for a body of Englishmen, to involve themselves consciously, 
and deliberately, in the guilt and infamy of such a transaction, which 
the justice of our laws now ranks with piracy ? But we confess 
that we have been less anxious to declaim against the alleged crime^ 
than to attain the means of insuring its conviction. 



CASE OF BETTO DOUGLAS. 

We have been informed that our statement of this case involves a 
mistake. This woman is there represented to have purchased, of Lord 
Romney, the freedom of her two sons ; whereas the fact is now stated 
to be that these two sons are still the slaves of Lord Romney. The 
mistake, however, assuming it to be one, originates wholly with Mr, 
Goldfrap, the agent of Lord Romney, who in his letter to Governor Max- 
well, inserted in the papers laid before the House of Commons,* says, 
" I wrote to his Lordship, at the request of Elizabeth Douglas, to heg 
that he would permit her to purchase her two sons. In the same letter, 
I gave that woman an excellent character as well deserving his Lord- 
ship's consideration. His Lordship wrote me that he had written to 
Mr. Davis," (his new attorney) " to carry into execution all my wishes." 
But be the fact in question misapprehended or not, it does not affect the 
enormity of the case, of which it is merely an incident. It does not 
diminish, for example, the cruelty of the man who confined this poor 
wretched creature, for six months, in the stocks, for failing to pay him 
fifteen shillings a month ; neither does it palliate the conduct of the 
grand jury who presented, as a nuisance, the Governor's reference of 
that atrocity to a court of justice. 



* Of 1st May, 1827, No. 287, not 187, as erroneously printed in No. 25. 



96 

REV. W. M. HARTE, OF BARBADOES. 

In the Reporter, No. 26, p. 20, are inserted the proceedings of 
the Vestry of St. Lucy, severely condemning the conduct of their 
Rector Mr, Harte, for attempting to destroy the necessary distinctions 
of society, both " by his offensive sermon on Easter Sunday, and his 
disgraceful conduct in administering the Lord's supper." Mr. Harte 
has since published his defence in a letter to the Bishop, and the Bishop's 
judgment upon it is no less creditable to himself and to Mr. Harte, 
than it is discreditable to the vestry of St. Lucy's parish, '* I have no 
hesitation," observes his Lordship, " in saying, that I can perceive 
nothing in your conduct, which either deserves my censure, or justifies 
the very strong language used against you by certain of the inhabi- 
tants of your parish. The Sermon preached by you on Easter day, 
I have read. It is a plain and powerful denunciation against sin, but 
contains nothing in my opinion, in matter or in language, that can be 
called offensive, save to an offending conscience. And with respect to 
the mode of administering the holy communion, as detailed by yourself, 
and confirmed by the testimony of your curate, I feel myself called 
upon to slate that the same mode has been pursued under my own 
eye in the Cathedral, as most suitable to the nature and dignity of the 
sacrament, and to the spirit of that Gospel which knows no distinctions 
in matters of grace." 

The testimony of the curate is, that he was present at the adminis- 
tration of the Lord's supper, on Easter Sunday, and administered 
the cup, and that he never saw more decorum and solemnity than was 
observed by Mr. Harte, on that and every similar occasion. " In no 
instance whatever were the consecrated elements ever administered to 
a black or coloured perso7i before a white." (We rightly conjectured 
that some such allegation as this must have constituted the unpar- 
donable crime of Mr, Harte, against which Sir R. A. Alleyne inveighed 
with such bitterness.) " I recollect that on the day alluded to, the 
table was once filled with white communicants ; but as there was not 
a sufficient number to fill it a second time, the negroes and coloured 
people knelt at the south end of the table, some of whom might have 
received, and I believe did receive the bread, from Mr. Harte, at the 
same time that I was administering the wine to the remainder of the 
white communicants.'^ 

The defence of Mr. Harte, which is an able and lucid statement of 
facts, drawn up in a mild and truly christian-like spirit, may hereafter 
furnish some curious illustrations of the semi-savage manners, and 
the hostility to religion, prevailing in this island. 

This, and all other 'publications of the Society, may he had at their office, 
18, Aldermanhury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards,!^!, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London .-—'BAGSTER Si. THOMS, Primers, 14, BarthoUmew Close , 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 29.] For OCTOBER, 1827. [No. 5. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies Vi'ill be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, vphen not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d, per sheet of sixteen pages. 



FURTHER PROGRESS OF COLONIAL REFORM, Part II. (Continued 
from No. 28, page 95. J— WEST INDIAN REPORTER. 

IN the last number we exhibited a succinct view of the measures 
of His Majesty's Government, with respect to Colonial Reform, accom- 
panied by some observations on the tenor of Lord Bathurst's Instruc- 
tions to the Governors of the Colonies. We then proceeded, after 
briefly specifying the defects in the Trinidad Order in Council, to shew 
whether in any, and in what respects, that model had been followed in 
the following Colonies, viz. 1. Antigua, 2. Bahamas, 3. Barbadoes, 
4. Berbice, 5. Bermuda, 6. The Cape of Good Hope. We now pro- 
pose to give a similar view of the reforms which have been effected, or 
yather which have not been effected, in the remaining Slave Colonies. 

VII. Demeraua, 

Such copious details respecting the Demerara Slave Code may be found 
in "The Slave Colonies of Great Britain," p. 21 to 33 ; in the 11th 
Number of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, p. 145 to 151, and m the 27th 
Number of the same work, that little need now be said upon it. The 
papers recently laid before Parliament contain little more than pro- 
longed discussions of the Court of Policy on the same points of objec- 
tion, particularly that of manumission, which are treated of in the 
above-mentioned publications, and in the last of them at considerable 
length. In those discussions Mr. President Wray, well known for the 
part he bore in the trial of the Missionary Smith, takes a prominent but 
not a very useful share. Professing, for example, to be a friend to the 
principle of manumission as proposed by the Government, he contrives, 
with great adroitness, to propose modifications of it, which, if adopted, 
would effectually destroy its efficacy.* With him, indeed, appear to 
have originated those monstrous provisions respecting manumission 
adopted into the Berbice Code, on which we have already remarked,t 
and which make the manumission clause in that Code almost a 
nullity. They are, in fact, little more than a transcript from his 
speeches, which, it must be acknowledged, display much ingenuity in 

* Papers, &c. of 1827, Part ii. p. 171 and 183. t See No. 28. p. 95^ 



98 Progress of Reform — Dominica. 

embarrassing a plain question, and in frustrating the very principle he 
professes to advocate. 

The Court of Policy persist in refusing to pay the slaves for their 
Sunday labour in potting sugar, and drying cotton and coffee ; or to 
permit them to hold property in land;* and they re-assert their opinion 
that the principle of manumission against the will of the master is a 
direct violation of the sacred right of property.f But this point can 
require no farther discussion, after what it has already received : J it is 
now in issue before his Majesty's Government, the Parliament, and 
the country. 

VIII. Dominica. 

The usual circular communications were sent to the Governor of 
Dominica by Earl Bathurst, but were not brought before the Assembly 
until the 13th of February, 1827. The eight Bills were then proposed, 
but were all rejected. The Assembly expressed an intention to bring in 
a law of their own for further meliorating the condition of the slaves, 
but it was postponed, on the pretence of waiting till they knew whether 
the Acts they had already passed would be confirmed by his Majesty. 
" After all," says the Governor, General Nicolay, " I must confess that, 
although several of the amendments recommended might very likely be 
acceded to, I much doubt whether the Assembly will, in any shape, 
effectually embody in their laws, a provision for the appointment of a 
Protector and Guardian of slaves; a measure of primary importance, 
and on which many of the other suggested improvements depend.'' ^ 

The Assembly have not been left long in doubt as to the fate of 
their former Bills, for in a despatch which bears date the 3rd of April, 
1827, Lord Bathurst informs the Governor that " His Majesty is 
graciously pleased to acknowledge laith commendation the disposition 
which the legislature of Dominica have manifested in many of the 
provisions of these acts to imp>-ove the condition of the slave popula- 
tion; and considering that they are in general' framed in such a 
manner as to promote the well-being of that class of society, his 
Majesty has, with the advice of his Privy Council, been pleased to 
confirm them." " His Majesty's Government will, however, anxiously 
expect a revision of these Acts, with a view to the remedy of the various 
defects and omissions which I have pointed out."|| 

The Acts spoken of, are an Act of November, 1825, for abolishing 
all fees and taxes on manumission, to which, of course, no objection 
could be made ; and " an Act for the further encouragement, pro- 
tection, and better government of slaves, and for the general amelio- 
ration of their condition," passed in January, 1826. It is only on this 
last Act that it will be necessary to make any observations. 

Lord Bathurst himself states the following long list of defects in this 



* Papers of 1827. Part ii. p. 173, 174. t Ibid. p. 186. % See No. 27; passim. 

§ Papers, &c. 1827, Part ii, p. 5. The importance of the measure sufficiently 
accounts for the universal and vehement opposition it meets with in the 
colonies. 

II Ibid. p. 8. 



Progress of Reform — Dominica. 99 

very Act which, with a strong expression of commendation, he had 
advised his Majesty to confirm. 

1. It is silent on the important subject of Marriage,* 

2. It is silent on the important subject of a Protector of Slaves. 

3. Sunday Markets are there contemplated as permanent. 

4. Compulsory labour, on the Sunday, seems to be allowed. 

5. The use of the whip in the field, is not only not prohibited, but 
indirectly sanctioned. 

6. The owner, &c. may still arbitrarily inflict thirty-nine lashes on 
any slave ; and ten of these may be inflicted without any of the delay 
required in the case of a greater number. 

7. The presence of a free witness at punishments is not required. 

8. The flogging of females, instead of being prohibited, is expressly 
allowed. 

9. No limit is fixed to the severity of any punishment, except that of 
whipping. 

10. No record of punishment is required to be kept. 

11. A slave's exhibiting recent traces of illegal punishment is not 
made to raise any presumption of guilt against the owner or manager. 

12. No penalty is attached to^a slave, who inflicts on another slave, 
an illegal punishment. 

13. However repeatedly persons may inflict illegal punishments, they 
are not liable to any forfeiture of their slaves, nor to any incapacity of 
holding them, on account of such conduct. 

14. Even in cases of atrocious cruelty and mutilation, where a jury 
may order the slave to be taken from his master, he is not to be made 
free, but sold, and the offender is to receive his price.f 

15. A slave is expressly authorized to punish his fellow slaves by 
whipping. 

16. A slave may be condemned to work in chains by a single 
magistrate, if convicted before him, as he may be on the evidence of a 
fellow slave, of habitual bad conduct. 

17. The rules for the non-separation of the same family, " are des- 
titute of all sanctions for securing the observance of them."I The sepa- 
ration of husbands and wives, and of children from their father, and 
even from their mother after twelve years of age, is not forbidden. 

18. The taking property from slaves is not made penal, unless it is 
taken forcibly ; and the only property which it is penal even thus to 
take away, is such only as the slave may possess both by law and 
custom ; but there being no positive law on the subject, of course no 
penalty can ever be enforced. 

19. No provision is made for securing or recovering debts or bequests 

* And this is the more remarkable, because in the preceding Acts of Domi- 
nica, annulled by this Act, provisions for the marriage of slaves, and for 
punishing the violation of their marriage bed, used to hold a conspicuous place, 
although, as might be expected, they were uniformly a dead letter. 

t This also is the course pursued in almost all the other Colonies. 

t The same may be predicated of ninety-nine out of one hundred, of all the 
meliorating laws, so called, enacted in the Slave Colonies. They are utterly 
destitute, as Mr. Burke well observed, of all executory principle. 



100 Progress of Reform — Dominica. 

owing to slaves ; nor, in short, is any remedy provided for any civil 
wrongs they may sustain either from their owners or others. 

20. No provision is made for the manumission of slaves without the 
owner's consent, or in cases where the property in them is settled, tied 
up, or litigated. 

21. As to the evidence of slaves, no registry is ordered to be kept of 
witnesses declared to be competent. The slave is not permitted to give 
evidence for or against his owner in any criminal case. The evidence of 
a single slave, even if supported by free evidence, is not received; the 
confirmation of it must come from a fellow slave. 

22. Baptism is made indispensable to giving evidence; whereas, an 
unbaptized slave, understanding the nature of an oath, appears to be 
an unobjectionable witness. 

23. The rejection of slaves' evidence, if not offered within twelve months 
after the offence, is a rule which maybe productive of extreme injustice. 

24. The rules as to food, clothing, &c. are not expressed in suffici- 
ently precise and definite terms. 

25. The Act appears to authorize the employing slaves fourteen 
hours and a half every day in crop, and eleven hours and a half daily 
at all other times ; and this is in addition to many indispensable minor 
and domestic offices ; so that it is difficult to understand how such 
exertion can be compatible with the health of the slaves.* 

26. The Act confounds crimes of very different degrees of malignity, 
— burglary, for instance, with breaking into any house, and robbing 
therefrom. 

27. The attempt to commit a crime is often punished, in this Act, 
with the same severity as if the crime had been committed. 

28. The amount and nature of punishment is generally not fixed, 
but left to the discretion of the Court. 

29. Some terms are used to describe capital crimes which have no 
fixed meaning, as " mutiny," " mutinous," " ringleaders," &c. 

30. Whenever a slave is executed, an indemnity is provided for the 
owner by the public ; a regulation, in many cases, unjust, in many 
more inexpedient.f 

31. The Act denounces heavy punishments, in language most ob- 
scure and indefinite, on the use of certain words. But banishment, 
unlimited fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the Court, do not 
appear appropriate punishments for any words not treasonable or se- 
ditious. 

Now, these thirty-one distinct and heavy heads of charge are brought 

* Lord Bathurst's statement of the case is below the truth. The prescribed 
hours of field labour in the Dominica and Jamaica Acts, are from five in the 
morning to seven in the evening, all the year round, with an interval of half an 
hour for breakfast, and two hours at noon. Besides this, there is the collecting 
of grass for cattle when the field work is over. After which, their own minor 
and domestic occupations are to be attended to. And during crop, half the 
night must be added to this enormous sum and continuity of labour. Well may 
the negro race decrease ! 

t This most unjust principle of colonial law is to be found in all the colonial 
slave codes; but it appears to have hithertQ escaped the vigilance of the colo^ 
nial department. 



Progress of Reform — Dominica. 101 

against this Act by Lord Batliurst himself.* No one who reads them 
can fail to wonder at the commendation bestowed upon it by his Lord- 
ship, and will look in vain for those provisions which entitled it to His 
Majesty's approbation, as manifesting "the disposition of the legisla- 
ture" to " improve the condition of the slave population," and as being 
so framed "as to promote the well-being of that class of society." In 
truth, the Act contains, in the whole, only forty-one clauses, to almost 
every one of which, that does not respect mere matter of form, his 
Lordship has preferred the most vital and fundamental objections. And 
yet he confirms the Act with marks of the royal favour. It will cer- 
tainly require some explanation to satisfy any common understanding 
that the name of His Majesty has not been unadvisedly employed, in 
this instance. And to refer again to the statement in his Lordship's 
Circular, there surely would have been no impracticability, nor even 
any difficulty, to have framed in Downing-street an Act which should 
have less flagrantly violated every principle of justice than this latest 
edition of the consolidated slave law of Dominica, which His Majesty's 
name has been brought forward to confirm, and to put in operation. 

It is to be apprehended that the Assembly of Dominica have com- 
pletely imposed on Lord Bathurst by the plausibility of their pretensions. 
They have long signalized themselves by a sort of legislative legerde- 
main. In 1788, they outdid all the other assemblies in their pretended 
measures of reform. But in 1804, sixteen years after, when Lord 
Camden required General Prevost, then Governor of Dominica, to in- 
form him what had been done in consequence of the meliorating law of 
1788, the honest soldier bluntly answered that it had not at all been 
carried into effect. Nay, the Act itself, he said, " appears to have 
been considered, from the day it was passed until this hour, as a poli^ 
tical measure to avert the interference of the mother country in the 
management of slaves." (House of Commons papers of 1805, No. 39, 
pages 34 and 36.) 

But though the Act of 1788 was, to all intents and purposes, a dead 
letter, it was thought unsafe to retain it. It was accordingly repealed, 
with all its fair sounding provisions, by a new slave Act passed in 1821, 
into which a summary, and most unobtrusive clause was introduced, 
(the 35th,) repealing the whole without a single word of preamble or 
remark, of reservation or exception. And yet, when the House af 
Commons, in 1825, called upon the Dominica authorities to state 
what were the laws of that island by which " the marriage of slaves is 
authorized and sanctioned, and their connubial rights recognized and 
secured," they had the effrontery to produce the repealed law of 1788 
on the subject, confiding in the prevailing ignorance on this side of the 
Atlantic ; — thus taking credit to themselves for provisions, which, while 
they existed, were a dead letter, and which they themselves had deli- 
berately annulled five years before.f This, however, is only one of the 



* Papers, &c. 1827, Part ii. p. 6—8. 
' t See Papers ordered to be printed by the House of Commons, 9th May, 
1826, No. 353; and Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 19, p. 266, 26T. 



102 Progress of Reform — Grenada, Honduras, Jamaica. 

many attempts which are daily made to blind the eyes of the parlia- 
ment and people of England with respect to colonial matters. 

IX. Grenada, 

In the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11. p. 155 to 162, will be found 
a full account of the defective, or more properly speaking, the oppro- 
brious nature of the new slave law of Grenada, passed in May, 1825, 
and also of the strange arguments by which the acting Governor, Mr, 
Paterson, endeavoured to vindicate its provisions. Of this Act, how- 
ever, as of that of Dominica, already referred to. Lord Bathurst informs 
the Governor, that " the many beneficial provisions have entitled it to 
His Majesty's approbation." He hoped, doubtless, that this flattering 
commendation would dispose them to receive with more deference and 
courtesy the eight Bills he had sent them. But the gentlemen of Grenada 
seem quite as inaccessible to the voice of flattery, as they are to the 
claims of justice and humanity, in what respects the law of slavery. 
In the month of September, 1826, the eight Bills were submitted to 
the Assembly, and leave being asked to bring them in, they were, one 
and all, rejected by considerable majorities. 

The praise of His Majesty's Government is too easily obtainable, if 
it may be earned by such miserably ineffective and evasive provisions, 
as form the latest edition of the Slave Code of Grenada. To lavish 
praise on such a performance, is to confound the distinctions of right 
and wrong, of justice and injustice. And it is a grievous disappoint- 
ment of the just expectations of Parliament and the public, when co- 
lonial legislatures receive gracious acknowledgments from His Majesty, 
while pursuing a conduct which is directly opposed to the reiterated 
recommendations of the Crown itself, to the recorded resolutions of 
Parliament, and to the universal prayer of the British nation. 

X. Honduras. 
There is no report from this Colony. 

XI. Jamaica. 

The Assembly of Jamaica rejected, without any reserve, the whole 
of the eight Bills transmitted to them by Lord Bathurst., They profess, 
however, to have adopted into a new consolidated slave law* all that 
was essential in these bills in the way of reform. It will now be seen 
how that professed purpose has been carried into effect. 

1. No Protector of slaves has been appointed, but the Justices and 
Vestry of each parish, (in other words, the owners and managers 
against whom it is the object of the office to protect the slaves) are, 
in the terms of the Act of 1816, appointed a council of protection. 
(Clause 34.) This is like constituting the wolf the guardian of the fold. 
'. 2. Slave evidence is admitted in certain criminal cases, provided the 
slave produce a certificate of baptism, and the magistrate or court is 
satisfied of his knowledge of an oath, and of his competency and cre- 
dibility. But no free person shall be convicted on slave testimony, un- 

=^ Papers, &c. for 1827, Pftrt i. p. 69—102. 



Progress of Reform — Jamaica. 1 08 

less two slaves, examined apart, testify to the same circumstances ; and 
unless the complaint be made within twelve months of the commission 
of the crime ; and in no case of conviction, on slave testimony, for 
cruelty, shall the Court be at liberty to declare any slave free. (Clauses 
130—135.) 

3. No right is given to slaves to purchase their freedom, except with 
the owner's consent; but when the owner is consenting, facilities are 
afforded for effecting the manumission, notwithstanding incumbrances 
or disputed claims. (Clauses 67 — ^76.) 

4. No legal validity or effect is given to the marriage of slaves ; only 
clergymen are permitted (but without any fee) to celebrate the marriage 
of slaves wlto have been baptized, and who present a written permis- 
sion from their owner, provided the clergyman shall be satisfied, on 
examination, that they have an adequate knowledge of the obligations 
of the marriage contract; (Clause 4 ;) but no record of such marriages 
is ordered, 

5. Sunday markets are to cease at eleven o'clock. Slaves are pro- 
tected from being levied upon on Saturday, but that day is not given to 
them. Slaves are not to be hired on Sunday without the owner's 
consent. Sugar mills, as by the old law, are not to work between seven 
o'clock on Saturday night and five on Monday morning. (Clauses 
6—10.) 

6. No right of property is conferred on the slave, although it is 
declared, (Clause 16) that it is expedient to do so ; (the declaration of 
the expediency of a law to that eiFect being substituted for the law 
itself.) The only enactment on the subject is, that, if any one deprives 
a slave of property lawfully possessed by him, (and how can any 
property be lawfully possessed by him to whom the law gives no right 
of property?) he shall forfeit £10, over and above the value of the 
property taken, (thus commuting an act of robbery into a mere civil 
trespass, which no means are afforded the slave of obtaining a re- 
medy for, as he cannot sue for the penalty.) An executor may pay to a 
slave a legacy left to him, but the slave is expressly debarred from any 
action at law or equity for the same. (Clause 17.) Indeed no means 
of civil suit are allowed him in any case. What then becomes of his 
alleged right of property ? — No Savings' Banks are instituted. 

7. That when families are taken together in execution, they shall be 
sold together, is no new law, but the old law of the island. (Clause 5.) 
It is unnecessary to shew that this is no guarantee whatever against the 
separation of families by judicial sale. 

8. Neither the driving whip, nor the flogging of females, is abolished ; 
nor is any record of punishments required. Workhouse punishments, 
unauthorized by a magistrate, are limited to ten days' confinement, and 
twenty lashes. Every driver may still inflict ten lashes, and every 
owner or overseer thirty-nine lashes at his discretion, on any slave, of 
any sex or age, without specification of offence, or legal responsibility 
of any kind. Branding a slave is now made punishable. (Clauses 
34—38.) 

It is obvious from this statement that not one of Lord Bathurst's 
propositions has been adopted by the Jamaica legislature. In fact, on 



104 Progress of Reforms-Jamaica. 

comparing this new Act with the Act of 1816, it will be found, that 
with the exception of the few changes already noted, there has been 
no substantial improvement of the legal condition of the slave, nor 
any substantial alleviation of the penal rigours of his state. The new 
Act consists of 139 clauses, 28 of which are occupied with the points 
which have been already adverted to, and upwards of 90 are either re- 
petitions of the clauses of former Acts, with such slight alterations, as 
are chiefly verbal, or have respect merely to matters of form or legal 
process. Of the remaining clauses, four consist of improved regula- 
tions for the arraignment and trial of slaves ; two respect the food and 
clothing of the slaves, and are merely revived clauses of former Acts 
that had been dropped because of their inefficiency ; five are framed 
for the more effectual recovery and punishment of runaways ; two are 
against the unlawful assembling and gambling of slaves ; two provide 
for the better disposal of convicts condemned to labour ; and one au- 
thorizes the parochial magistracy to employ either a barrister or attor- 
ney to attend the trial of slaves for capital offences, with a view to their 
defence. 

In one of the clauses regulating the trial of slaves, (113) it is pro- 
vided that the Governor's warrant shall be required for the execution of 
all capital sentences on slaves, except in the very case where such an 
interposition is most imperiously called for, namely, in cases of rebellion 
or rebellious conspiracy, in which the warrant of the Justices is made 
sufficient, without any reference to the Governor. 

One point still remains. The old and cruel law is now renewed (85) 
which enacts that " any slaves found guilty of preaching or teaching 
as Anabaptists or otherwise, without a permission from their owner 
and the Quarter- Sessions," shall be punished at the discretion of any 
three magistrates, by whipping or hard labour in the workhouse."^ To 
this disgraceful clause two new ones are now added. The 86th enacts, 
that " whereas the assembling of slaves and other persons after dark 
at places of meeting belonging to dissenters from the established reli- 
gion, and other persons professing to be teachers of religion, has been 
found extremely dangerous ; and great facilities are thereby given 
to the formation of plots and conspiracies ; t and the health of slaves 
and other persons has been injured in travelling to and from such places 
at late hours in the night,"J " all such meetings between sunset and 



* What is this but bloody persecution ? A negro is not to teach his fellow to 
fear God, or to turn from his sins to his Saviour, but at the risk of having his 
flesh torn by the cart-whip, or being subjected to hard labour in chains, at the 
discretion of the magistrates. Such is the benign spirit of the legislators of 
Jamaica towards a population, whom they have kept, for ages, in the darkness 
of heathenism ! 

t Nothing can be more untrue than the whole of the above preamble. It has 
not even a shred of evidence on which to rest. 

t The health which suffers nothing from toiling in the field till night-fall, and 
then collecting and carrying fodder, and besides this, working hard half of every 
night during crop, is to be ruined by sitting for half an hour, or an hour, 
in a house or chape), to receive religious instruction, or to join in religious 
worship ! 



Progress of Reform — Jamaica. 105 

sunrise shall be held and deemed unlawful."* The penalty on the 
sectarian minister, acting contrary to this Act, is from £20 to £50, 
or a month's confinement in gaol. This, however, is not to prevent 
any licensed minister from performing divine worship at any time before 
eight in the evening at any licensed place, or to interfere with the cele- 
bration of the rites of the Jewish and Catholic religions. f 

The 87th clause is a still more outrageous infringement of the rights 
of conscience, and the principles of toleration. It is to this effect, 
" And whereas, under pretence of offerings and contributions, large 
sums of money and other chattels have been extorted by designing men 
professing to be teachers of religion, practising on the ignorance and 
superstition of the negroes in this Island, to their great loss and im- 
poverishment ; I and whereas, an ample provision is already made by 
the public and by private means for the religious instruction of the 
slaves ;" § Be it enacted that, '■'it shall not be lawful for a7iy dissent- 
ing ?ninister, religious teacher, or other person whatsoever, to demand 
or receive any money or other chattel whatsoever, from any slave for 
affording such slave religious instruction, by way of offering, contribu- 
tion, or on any other pretence whatsoever," under a penalty, on convic- 
tion before three Justices, of £20 for each offence, half to be paid 
to the informer, who is hereby declared a competent witness, \\ or, in 
default of payment, imprisonment in the common gaol for not more 
than one month. 

It might not be expedient to express all the indignation which such 
an atrocious enactment as this is calculated to excite. Nor is it neces- 
sary. Such an enactment no Bi'istish minister would advise His Majesty 
to confirm. It must, as a matter of course, be disallowed. 

The above review of the proceedings of the Jamaica legislature, una- 
voidably leads the mind to the consideration of a petition which the 
Assembly of that island addressed to His Majesty in their last Session, 
and which has been blazoned in every newspaper in the kingdom, as a 
conclusive vindication of their conduct, and a triumphant refutation of 
every adverse statement. It cannot be denied that if the statements of 

* The hours of field labour in Jamaica are fixed by law, from five in the. 
morning to seven in the evening. How then can religious meetings be held, 
except during the proscribed hours, that is to say, between sunset and sunrise? 

t The reader will observe the superior favour and indulgence shewn to the 
Catholic and the Jew over the Protestant Christian. 

X This heavy charge has an evident reference to the Methodist and Baptist 
Missionaries in the island of Jamaica, and it is incumbent on them to repel the 
calumny, and to vindicate the labour of love in which they are engaged, and the 
means they employ to promote it, from such false and foul aspersions. 

§ This assertion must have been known to be utterly untrue. It is proved to 
be so by the Bishop's report of last year, wherein he states, that for a population 
of 400,000, which Jamaica contains, there are places of worship only for 11,500 ; 
and " that the parishes in the interior are absolutely ivithoiit the semblance of the 
forms of religious ivorship." 

II This must mean that slaves, who are excluded from giving testimony in all 
other civil suits, shall be admitted as informers and witnesses against a Mis- 
sionary, if he shall dare to permit a slave to contribute to the expense of his 
own instruction, or of the chapel erected for his use, or to testify by a small 
contribution, his desire of communicating to others, still more wretched than 
himself, the light of the gospel with which he has been blessed. 

o 



106 Progress of Reform — Jamaica — Petition of Assembly. 

that petition be true, the view now given of the nature and tendency of 
the recent legislation of Jamaica must be false. 

It is not meant here to allude to the extravagant and rhodomontade 
delineations of the content and happiness in which Jamaica, " rich in 
the produce of her soil and the extent of her trade " once flourished ; 
because, during the last sixty years, there have issued periodically from 
this Assembly, in the shape either of petitions, or reports, or addresses, 
the very same complaints which fill the present petition, — of dila- 
pidated resources, decayed commerce, productions overburdened with 
imposts, universal gloom, inevitable ruin in its most dreadful forms, ad- 
vancing with rapid strides, — and the English vocabulary ransacked for 
terms to depict the depth and intensity of their poverty and distress. 
This is the natural tone of the mendicant who thrives by the loudness 
of his wailings, combined with a certain air of sturdiness and menace 
■which frightens the timid into granting the relief they fear might be 
extorted, if entreaty should prove fruitless. — The Assembly remind 
the King of the imposts paid on their produce, imposts, however, which 
they forget to tell him that the country, not they, have paid. They also 
forget to count up the sums which, in the shape of bounties and pro- 
tecting duties, have been enabling the planters, for whom they are 
acting, to raise in this country splendid palaces, to maintain sump- 
tuous establishments, and to purchase seats in Parliament, while these 
their agents in Jamaica are exacting from the whip-galled and wasting 
population, the sugar for which we are made to pay so dearly. 

Then follows the usual vehement vituperation of Mr. Canning, and 
of the House of Commons, and of the erring philanthropists, and of the 
interested and designing calumniators, who have combined in a foul 
conspiracy to extinguish slavery, and thus to effect the ruin of the West 
Indians. All this may be passed over in silence. It must have lost its 
effect on the public mind. The threatened ruin so often declared to be 
impending, nay, to have actually arrived, can now no longer alarm. 
Even insurrections and conspiracies, so often got up and played off to 
serve a temporary purpose, have lost their terrors. They find it necessary 
to occupy new ground, and to plead not their dangers, but their merits, 
their merits too as zealous philanthropists, and liberal and enlightened 
legislators, from whose " humane and benevolent disposition," (such are 
the terms in which they extol themselves,) " enactments have emanated 
spontaneously," which have rendered " our slave code " " as perfect 
as circumstances will permit." — That their movements in the way of 
reform have been spontaneous, those who have watched the progress of 
events, since the commencement of the slave-trade controversy in 1787, 
will feel to be about as true as that their slave code has now reached to 
the highest pitch of attainable perfection. But let us examine their 
claims on their own shewing. 

1. '• The consolidated slave law passed in 1816," they affirm, "re- 
ceived an unqualified approbation from many of your Majesty's 
Ministers, as containing many salutary and humane provisions." 

If such praise were ever bestowed upon it by any but West Indians, 
it must have been bestowed in gross ignorance of its contents. Many 
of its provisions, instead of being salutary and humane, were most 



Progress of Reform — Jamaica — Petition of Assembly. 107 

noxious and inhuman, and those which bore a contrary aspect were 
devoid of all sanction and of all efficiency ; witness the clause which 
has stood on their statute book since 1696, requiring all owners, &c., 
to endeavour, as much as in them lies, the instruction of their slaves in 
Christianity ; while they have continued to deny to them both the mar- 
riage tie, and the Christian sabbath, and have never dreamt of communi- 
cating to them the slightest particle of religious instruction, till driven 
to it by public clamour. Those who wish to appreciate the merits of 
that boasted code, may consult with advantage Stephens' Delineation 
of the Law of West India Slavery, and the Appendix E, to the pub- 
lished Debate on Slavery of the 15th of May, 1823. They will also 
find a luminous comment upon it, in a Letter of Lord Bathurst to the 
Governorof St. Vincent's, dated the 3rd of April, 1827, (Papers of 1827, 
Part ii. p. 110 — 114,*) containing Observations on the Law of that 
Island, of 1825, which is actually an improved version of the law of 
Jamaica of 1816. 

2. ''Since that period, the persons of females have been protected 
by legal enactments in conformity with the spirit of the Act of Eliza- 
beth:' 

There is a very convenient ambiguity in this statement. The real 
meaning of it is, that female children, under ten, and female slaves 
generally, are now protected from rape, (clauses 32, 33,) there having 
been no law to that effect before 1823, and the Jamaica legislature hav- 
ing then been called upon by General Conran and Lord Bathurst to pass 
such a law. But let it not be supposed that the persons of females are 
protected either from indecent exposure or from the lacerations of the 
cart-whip. On the contrary, they are still liable, equally with the men, 
to the same 39 lashes of that torturing instrument, inflicted on their 
bared bodies, at the bidding of any free ruffian in the island, who, as 
owner or overseer, may be in authority over them. (Clause 37.) 
The Assembly, when called upon in the last session, refused not only 
to exempt them from this savage infliction, but even to prohibit the 
exposure of their naked limbs during the process of punishment, the- 
place on which it is inflicted being the most fleshy part of the thighs, 
which they are stretched prone on the earth in order to present more 
fully, uncovered, both to the gaze of the spectator, and to the incisions 
of the driver. 

3. " Seyitence of death, by judicial authority, cannot be enforced 
withotit the sanction of the Governor." 

Deception lurks even in so plain a statement ; for if the Act, (clause 
99,) is consulted, it will be found that that very case is exempted from 
any necessity of reference to the Governor, which, of all others, most 
requires to be under his control, and where the inflamed passions of 
the planters are most likely to operate in causing unjust and precipi- 
tate executions, namely, " the case of slaves convicted of rebellion and 
rebellious conspiracy " in which case it is enacted, that " the Court 
shall, and may proceed to pass sentence, and to carry the same into 
execution as heretofore," provided only the occasion be not pressing, 

* An abstract of this letter will be found under the head St. Vincent's, below. 



108 Progress of Reform — Jamaica — Petition of Assembly. 

when the Court may, if it thinks proper, refer the matter to the 
Governor. 

4. ^^Manumissions have been encouraged and facilitated." 

That has not been done, which can alone give due facihties to manu- 
mission, namely, compelling the master to accept a fair price for the 
liberty of his slave. 

5. " The slave has been exempt from the effect of legal process on 
Saturday, that he may dispose of the produce of his labour on that 
day, and devote his Sunday to religious worship." 

The circumstance that the slave is exempt, on Saturday, from legal 
seizure for the debts of his master, enables the master to employ him 
off the estate on that day, without the risk of losing him. But it does 
not enable the slave to employ it either in going to market, or in culti- 
vating his own provision grounds. The law saves the master from hav- 
ing his slave wrested from him on that day; but that this may be of any 
use whatever to the slave, he must not only be saved from legal process 
for his master's debts on that day, but he must have the day allotted to 
him by law, which it is not. Without this appropriation of it, it is 
positively of little or no benefit to the slave ; and therefore the measure, 
vaunted as it has been, is only a fresh attempt to throw dust in the 
eyes of the people of England. 

6. " Curates, throughout the several parishes of the island, have 
been appointed for the special purpose of instructing our slave popu- 
lation in the tenets of the Christian faith." 

The Curates' Act was passed in 1816. In October, 1825, the 
Bishop reports to Lord Eathurst that " the parishes in the interior 
are absolutely without the semblance of the forms of religious 
worship." The testimony of Mr. Stewart also, himself a West Indian, 
is, in this respect, equally decisive. The Curates' Act made the per- 
mission of the planters necessary to the instruction of their slaves. 
Probably from this cause, — but if not, yet, '■'■from whatever cause," 
says Mr. Stewart, writing in 1823, the Act " has been rendered, in a 
great measure, abortive." Either the lukewarmness of the curates, 
or the unwillingness of the planters, has " operated to render the in- 
tentions of the legislature nugatory." In truth, he adds, " very few of 
the slaves have it in their power to attend Church," "for Sunday is 
7iot a day of rest and relaxation to the plantation slave, he must 
work on that day or starve." {Stewart's View of Jamaica, p. 157.) 

7. " Fees on baptism and marriage have been abolished." 
That is true. 

8. " The slave has been made capable of receiving bequests of per- 
sonal property to any amount." 

Yet the very clause (17) which authorizes an executor to pay a 
bequest to a slave, provides " that 7iothing herein contained shall be 
deemed to authorize the institution of any action or sicit at law or in 
equity, for the recovery of such legacy, or to make it necessary to 
make any slave a defendant to a suit in equity." In a colony where 
it is notoriously difficult to recover debts at all, and where executors 
are proverbially unfaithful, what chance has the poor slave, under such 



Progress of Reform — Jamaica — Petition of Assembly. 1 09 

circumstances, of reaping any benefit from such an enactment ? It is 
altogether a mockery. 

9. " In the present session we have expunged all those enactments 
ivhich the policy of a remote period rendered imperative, but which, 
in the present day, are no longer called for, and appear harsh." 

This is certainly a great misrepresentation. The only provision of 
the Act of 1816, which might appear harsh towards a slave, and 
which has been expunged from the Act of 1826, is that, in clauses 39 
and 40, which prohibited any master, under a penalty of £30, from 
permitting a slave to possess either horse or mule. And even this con- 
cession was no spontaneous act on the part of the Assembly. Lord 
Bathurst had refused to sanction their deficiency Law, if this harsh re- 
striction were retained. 

The only other clauses of the Act of 1816, which have been ex- 
punged from that of 1826, are clauses not harsh, but favourable to the 
slave, namely the 9th, requiring, under a penalty of £50, an annual 
return, on oath, of the births and deaths of slaves on plantations ; 
the 10th authorizing the ov/ner to deduct the penalty of £50 from the 
Overseer's salary, if the neglect were his ; the 11th giving a reward of 
£3, to be divided to mothers, midwives, and nurses, for every child 
born on a plantation ; and the 73rd, which directed magistrates to com- 
mit runaways to workhouses only, and not to gaols. 

Is not the statement of the Assembly, then, utterly untrue, which 
says, that " during the present session, they have expunged all those 
enactments " of former times, which appear harsh ? 

10. *' We have afforded still greater protection to the slave by im- 
posing further restrictions on the mode of pmiishment ." 

Loudly called to it by the public voice at home, they have made it 
penal to brand a slave ; but no other new restriction whatever has been 
imposed on the arbitrary power of punishment by the master, overseer, 
or driver. The power to fog, to incarcerate in the stocks, and to 
drive i?i the field, all men, women, and children, is just the same as 
under the former Act. The master, however, cannot now, as formerly, 
by his own authority, commit his slaves to gaol for more than ten days, 
or give them there more than twenty lashes. 

It is true, there are some modifications of the trials and public 
punishments of slaves ; that is to say, in a few cases two magistrates 
are now required to convict where one was before suflficient or three where 
only two were before necessary. In some cases the extreme severity of 
capital punishment is mitigated to transportation or hard labour for life; 
and in a few, the discretion formerly allowed, is somewhat limited. 

11. " They have extended to him, in common with every British 
subject, the benefit of a Grand Jury ''' 

This is the first fruits of Mr. Denman's motion, in March, 1826, on 
the disgraceful trials which took place in Jamaica in 1823 and 1824. 
But this benefit of a Grand Jury is expressly limited to crimes which 
subject slaves to death, transportation, or confinement to hard labour 
for life, or for a longer period than a year. 

12 " An advantage has also been conferred, which no British sub- 
ject in the United Kingdoyn enjoys, of having counsel assigned, with 



110 Progi'ess of Reform — Jamaica — Petition oj^ Assembly. 

liberty to address the jury in behalf of the slave who may be put on 
his trial for any capital offence" 

The case is overstated. The magistrates in every parish " are em- 
powered and required" (but without being liable to any penalty for not 
doing it) to employ either a barrister or attorney, at such rate of remu- 
neration as they may see fit, to be paid by the parish, to attend the 
trial of all slaves for capital offences, and to take their defence. 
(Clause 102.) — But to say that this confers on the poor slave advan- 
tages which no British subject enjoys, is surely rather an extravagant 
position. It ought to be remarked, that in the West Indian courts all 
free criminals may have the benefit of counsel to plead for them. 

13. " The Sunday market has been abolished after the hour of 
eleven." 

This is no abolition of the Sunday market ; on the contrary, it 
legalizes and sanctions it. (Clause 6.) The six best hours, nearly one-half 
of the sacred day, are consumed in the most secular and distracting of 
all employments, independently of travelling to the market and back, 
five, ten, fifteen, or twenty miles ; to which, by law, are now superadded 
all the temptations to dissipation and debauchery, and to the neglect 
of religious worship, which Sunday markets must bring with them. 

14. " Marriage atnong our slaves has been encouraged." 

Never was any assertion less true than this. It is actually rather 
discouraged. The first recognition of such a thing among slaves as 
marriage, that fundamental institution of society, by the legislature of 
Jamaica, is in this Act of 1826 ; and even there, no legal sanction is 
given to it, no connubial rights are conferred by it. There is merely 
a permission to clergymen to perform the ceremony, in the case of 
slaves who have been baptized, and who, on examination, being found to 
understand the nature of the marriage contract, produce the written con- 
sent of their owner. No means are prescribed for preserving a I'ecord 
of such marriages ; or for controlling the owner's refusal of his consent. 

15. " The separation of fainilies, under judicial or other process, 
has been prohibited." 

What other process is here meant it is impossible to divine. The 
only provision on the subject is to be found in the fifth clause, and 
that refers exclusively to sales under levies by the marshal, or the col- 
lecting constable; no mention whatever being made of any other kind 
of sale. Now the Assembly actually rejected a clause proposed to 
them, to prohibit the separation of families by private sale. Besides, 
this is no new clause. It only renews what has long been the law, 
that when a family is seized together it shall be sold together. Nay, it 
is so far from eff'ectually preventing separations, that it expressly bars 
against its being understood to interfere with levies on individual 
slaves. And in point of fact, the levies by the collecting constables 
are almost always on individual slaves, who, of course, are sold singly ; 
and it often, nay generally happens, that even on the occasion of 
seizures by the marshal, it is not the whole family, but an individual or 
two of it, who are taken. 

16. " The maintenance of infirm slaves has been enforced." 

This is no new law, but the mere repetition, totidem verbis, of what 



Progress of Reform — Mauritius, Montserrat. Ill 

has always stood in the statute book. The 19th clause of 1826 cor- 
responds to the 13th of 1816. 

17. " The acquisition of personal property has been sanctioned and 
secured by law''' 

The clause here alluded to, the 16th, gives neither sanction nor 
security to the property of slaves. — See above, p. 103. 

18. " We have declared slaves competent to give evidence in crimi- 
nal cases." 

Slaves are not allowed to give evidence in any civil cases, and only 
in certain specified criminal cases, and even then under very material 
restrictions, which will be found above, p. 102. 

Is it not a most indecorous proceeding, to use the mildest term 
which befits the occasion, in a body like the Assembly of Jamaica, to 
approach the throne with an official representation so full of mis- 
statements, and in some instances so directly at variance with the 
truth, as many parts of this Petition? And while they have thus 
exaggerated and misrepresented what has actually been done, they 
have entirely omitted to notice what has been left undone. They have 
omitted to state their general rejection of the reforms recommended by 
his Majesty. They have omitted also to mention the many harsh, not 
to say barbarous enactments, Avhich have been retained on their 
statute book ; such as the number of hours in the day assigned to the 
slaves for field labour, independently of night work, grass collecting, 
and other minor labours of their own ; the power given to a single 
magistrate to punish at his discretion a slave complaining of his master, 
who does not prove his complaint ; the sale into slavery of persons 
apprehended as runaways, who affirm they are free, but fail in proving 
their freedom, although claimed by no one ; the punishment of slaves 
" offering any violence to or towards any white or free person," with 
death, &c. ; the punishment also with death of pretenders to witch- 
craft ; the punishment of teaching or preaching by flogging, &c. ; 
the debarring of slaves from contributing to any religious or charitable 
object ; the punishment of slaves having less than 201b. of meat of any 
kind in their possession with 39 lashes, and above 201b. with any 
infliction short of death ; the indemnifying of owners for the value of 
slaves executed or transported ; the authorizing of the execution of 
slaves convicted of rebellion, or rebellious conspiracy, without any re- 
ference to the Governor ; the prohibiting of any slave, however atrocious 
may be the cruelty with which he has been treated, from being set at 
liberty, if any slave shall have been a witness at the trial ; with other 
enactments of the same kind. 

XII. Mauritius. 

There is no return whatever from this island. In the next session 
of parliament there will probably, however, be a full developement of 
the peculiarly cruel character of the slavery which exists there. 

XIII. Montserrat. 
From this island, also, there is no return. 



112 Progress of Reform — Nevis, St. Christophers. 

XIV. Nevis. 

About twenty folio pages are devoted to Nevis, which do not, how- 
ever, furnish the sUghtest official information.* They contain some 
merely inchoate measures, which have not been in any instance carried 
into effect ; and even these notices are furnished not through the regu- 
lar official channel of the Governor, but through the private and 
luiofficial channel of the agent for Nevis, Mr. Colquhoun. But what- 
ever may be the correctness of Mr, Colquhoun's information, it serves 
no purpose, except uselessly to fill up twenty folio pages of printing 
with an unfinished and abortive Bill, f We should have been sorry, 
indeed, had that of Nevis proved otherwise than abortive, as it went to 
legaUze Sunday markets, the flogging of women, driving in the field, with 
many more of the well-known abominations of the slave system, and as 
it made no real and efficient improvement, even where it seemed to 
touch upon the reforms recommended by Lord Bathurst. The follow- 
ing ingenious method of complying with his Lordship's wish to abolish 
driving in the field, may be taken as a specimen of the legislative 
dexterity of the Nevis Assembly. " And be it further enacted, that it 
shall be henceforth utterly unlawful to carry, use, exercise, or employ 
the whip, commonly called the cart-whip, either as an emblem of au- 
thority, or as an instrument of punishment, or of driving or coercing of 
slaves to their labour, and the same is hereby abolished. But nothing 
herein contained shall extend, or be construed to extend, to prevent 
any master, or manager of slaves within this island, from permitting, or 
causing to be carried and exercised or employed, such emblem of 
authority, and moderate and innoxious means of stimulating the idle 
or the lazy to due exertion, as he in his discretion may think ft, so as 
that such emblem of authority, or means of stimulating exertion, he 
not repugnant to the rational and acknowledged principles of hu- 
manity." 

It were curious to inquire what those rational and acknowledged 
principles of humanity are, which are recognized in the colony which 
witnessed, and nevertheless refused to punish, the atrocities of a 
Huggins. 

XV. St. Christophers. 

On the 7th of October 1826, Governor Maxwell informed Lord 
Bathurst that he had laid the bills recommended by his Lordship before 
the legislature, and that he feared the greatest objection would be 
felt to the appointment of a Protector of slaves. This, he adds, " I 
must regret, as I feel convinced that without some provision of this 
kind, the slaves will not have the protection and support to which their 
forlorn situation so justly entitles them."| The whole of the recom- 
mended measures, however, appear to have been as unpalatable to 
the Assembly of St. Kitt's as that of a Protector. They have as yet 
adopted none of them. On the 5th of May, 1827, no progress 
whatever had been made.§ 

* Papers, he. 1827, Part ii. p. 73—92. t Ibid. p. 309. 

X Ibid. p. G9. 5$ Ibid. p. 309. 



Progress of Reform — St. Lncia. 113 

XVI. St. Lucia. 

By referring to the pamphlet entitled the " Slave Colonies of Great 
Britain," p. 73 — 76, it will be seen with what earnestness the Go- 
vernors of St. Lucia, General Mainwaring, and Colonel Blackwall, 
making common cause with the planters, struggled to preserve entire 
some of the worst abominations of the slave system. Much has never- 
theless been done since that time to improve the state of the law in this 
island, though it has not been without many opposing efforts ; as if, in 
parting with one abuse after another, their very heartstrings had been 
torn asunder. And yet, on the 15th of August 1826, General Main- 
waring writes that " since the promulgation of the slave law, now three 
months in operation, the greatest harmony and good feeling exist in 
the colony." — Nay, '' the happiness, quiet, and good order of the plan- 
tations have been fully proved to me by the reports of the Comman- 
dant, and of a commission," who had made the tour of the island, 
and inspected every estate.* The General, however, can hardly forgive 
the abolitionists, for having interfered to produce this state of things 
(taking it to be a real and not an imaginary picture,) for on having been 
forced reluctantly by Lord Bathurst to make a few material improve- 
ments in the code, which he had at first promulgated in a somewhat 
imperfect state, he tells his Lordship that the members of the council 
who have acceded to these improvements are slave holders ; and he 
hopes, that having done so, they " will be met by a corresponding 
feeling on the part of the anti-colonists at home ; when I trust the 
West India question will be set at rest in a manner which I hope will be 
satisfactory to your Lordship."t 

We fear that the gallant General, who has kindly volunteered 
this remark, may still have to experience some annoyance from 
the troublesome interference of these anti-colonists, as he calls them, 
within the bounds of his government. 

It is not a very easy matter to give a clear view of the present state of the 
law in St. Lucia, as the text of the new code is so broken into parts, 
and so overloaded with notes, and so interrupted with arguments and 
observations, as to bear to the cursory reader a very perplexed aspect. 
The original Ordinance has also been largely amended since its first 
promulgation, so that a revised' and compacted edition of the whole 
is necessary before its real drift can be properly appreciated. Certainly 
great pains appear to have been bestowed upon it by Mr. Jeremie, the 
President of the Royal Court, who nevertheless shews a disposition to 
defer too readily to the unreasonable apprehensions of the planters 
around him. J 

* Papers, &c. of 1827, Part ii. p. 139. t Ibid. p. 157. 

t This gentleman occasionally gives way to prejudices which are unworthy 
of him. He accuses the abolitionists (going quite out of his way for the pur- 
pose) of contradicting themselves, and of distorting facts to serve their present 
object ; but the instances he gives have really no foundation whatever in 
truth. Who, for example, among them has ever alleged as a reason for giving 
rights to the slaves, that they are " well informed," " absolutely learned," — 
or as an excuse for the Demerara insurrection, "What could be expected from 

P 



114 Progress of Refonn — ^S*^. Lucia. 

The following are the points in which the St. Lucia Ordinance now 
differs from that of Trinidad, and, for the most part, as will be seen, 
very greatly to the advantage of the former. The authorities for 
what follows will be found in the papers for 1826, p. 1 to 104, and in 
those for 1827, Part ii. p. 157 to 160. 

1. The law with respect to the non-separation of families, by judi- 
cial sales, is more effectually guarded from violation than even in 
Trinidad. If the creditor shall seize one of a family, the owner 
shall be bound, on pain of forfeiting them, to produce the rest, that 
they may be sold in one lot. The prohibition to separate families 
extends also to sales by private and voluntary agreement. The 
transfer of part of the family shall be taken and considered as a 
transfer of the whole, and that without any increase of price being 
paid to the person who had unduly retained them. 

2. Slaves cannot be separated by seizure and sale from the planta- 
tions to which they belong, 

3. Sunday markets are continued till eleven in the forenoon. 

4. The rules respecting labour, which at Lord Bathurst's suggestion 
have since been somewhat though very inadequately modified, shew 
clearly the intensity of the toil exacted from the slaves, and account, 
in some measure, for the extraordinary mortality which occurs in 
St. Lucia. " Masters are expressly enjoined not to work their slaves 
on Sundays yVow midtiight to midnight." Slaves shall not be worked 
before day-break, nor after night-fall, " except ivhen employed at the 
sugar-mills and in other manufactories, or extraordinary occasions 
of forced crops absolutely requiring continued labour." But even 
then " the same slaves shall not be worked during two nights consecu- 
tively, except when the gang shall have been divided into watches, and 
then, the same watch shall not be worked more than half the night." 
This rigorous exaction has since been qualified by an amendment 
which says, that eight consecutive hours of rest shall be secured to the 
slave in the 24 hours. 

5. The clothing fixed for the slaves for each six months is, for the 
men, one shirt and trowsers ; — for the women, one chemise and petti- 
coat. 

6. The master is exempted from feeding his slaves, except with cod 
fish, if he gives them a day every week out of crop, and half a day in 
crop, besides Sunday, for working their provision grounds. If he 
gives them an additional day in the week, over and above the day out 
of crop and half a day in crop, he is exempted from feeding them 
at all. 

7. Once in each year Commissioners shall inspect the plantations. 
The three owners whose gangs have most increased shall have prizes of 
4000^ 2000, and 1000 livres, provided their plantations have been ad- 

a benighted negro ?" The abolitionists know too well the deplorable ignorance 
of the slaves ever to have asserted the extent of their learning. And with 
respect to the Demerara insurrection, their surprise certainly was that be- 
niglited negroes should have acted so well under such strong excitement, rather 
than that their conduct required a disparaging apology. This gentleman has, 
nevertheless, rendered most essential services to the interests of humanity. 



Progress of Reform — St. Lucia. 115 

ministered according to law, and provided there has been no well- 
founded complaint against them on the part of any of the slaves. The 
mother in these three gangs having the largest number of living chil- 
dren shall be manumitted together with one of her children, at the 
public expense. 

8. The barbarous principle of paying to the owner the value of his 
slave who is condemned to death and executed, or who being a run- 
away, is killed in flight, is retained in this code. 

9. The slave's right of property is better secured to him in St. Lucia 
than elsewhere ; and he has this further advantage conceded to him, 
that he may have " an action in his own name when he claims his free- 
dom as a right." 

10. " Slave evidence is admissible in all cases, civil and criminal, 
except against the slave's master." 

1 1 . The penal laws against slaves are dreadfully severe ; and it is 
much to be lamented that they should have been confirmed by Lord 
Bathurst; we trust they will be revised. A fugitive slave for a second 
offence suffers a montlis solitary confinement and 100 lashes; for a 
third 200 lashes and three years hard labour in the chai?i gang ; for 
the fourth death. A slave assisting another in escaping, or attempt- 
ing to escape from the colony, shall suffer 200 lashes and three years 
hard labour. — A slave carrying steel arms of any description shall be 
deemed a felon. — A slave striking his owner, or his owner's v/ife or 
child, is guilty of felony, and in cases of aggravation shall suffer death. 
Slaves taken up masked, or trading, or selling sugar cane, coffee, &c. 
without their master's permission, or found straggling without a pass- 
port, &c. &c., shall be subject to penalties not exceeding 150 lashes 
and three years hard labour in the chain gang. 

12. A slave marrying a free owner becomes free, and the issue though 
born before marriage is free also, 

13. Persons in holy orders may baptize as free, children under the 
age of one year, though born of mothers in a state of slavery, the 
owner consenting thereto. 

14. In all cases, he who affirms that a person is his slave is bound, 
except he be in actual possession, to prove his allegation ; the presump- 
tion being in favour of natural liberty. 

15. No authority whatever shall reduce to slavery a person free by 
birth or manumission, or by 15 years prescription. 

16. Notwithstanding all Mr. Jeremie says in favour of the measure, 
we think it a most mischievous law which constitutes the owner, instead 
of the crown, the heir of an intestate slave.* 

17. No less objectionable seems the power which Mr. Jeremie would 
give to the Commissaries of quarters, of inflicting forty lashes on the 
female slave. We trust that his reasoning on the subject will not in- 
duce Government to depart from their principle. f 

An account is given in these papers of an enquiry into some cases of 
cruelty, one of which appears to have been very satisfactorily establish- 
ed. It is that of Maria Rose, who had been handcuffed by the 

* Papers, &c. 1827, Part ii. p, 163. t Ibid. p. 155. 



116 Progress of Reform — St. Vincent's. 

order of a Mr. M'Gowan, and her feet being tied, her arms were 
raised above her head, and hung by the handcuffs to a nail, in such a 
manner that her heels were elevated considerably above the ground ; 
the whole of her weight resting either upon the handcuffs, which were 
hung upon the nail, or upon her toes ; in which position she remained 
for nearly two hours.* The Attorney General was ordered to prosecute 
M'Gowan, who was found guilty, and sentenced to pay £50 ; but the 
punishment being thought inadequate, there had been an appeal from 
the sentence. 

XVII. St. Vincent's. 

The legislature of this Island threw out the eight Bills, proposed to 
them by Lord Bathurst^ without a division,t conceiving that they had 
already gone as far v/ilh their ameliorations as prudence would allow, in 
the Act of December, 1825, of which a brief sketch will be found in 
the 11th number of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, p. 163. Its imperfec- 
tions, however, v/ill be still more clearly seen by referring to a despatch 
of Earl Bathurst, of April 3rd, 1827, in which, while he leaves the Act 
to its operation, he takes occasion to make a variety of observations 
upon it to the following effect. J 

Several of the measures, he observes, recommended by the Govern- 
ment, and approved by Parliament, are either wholly omitted, or imper- 
fectly accomplished. — No protector of slaves is appointed; Female 
flogging is not prohibited ; No presumption against the master is made 
to arise from traces of recent punishment ; The separation of famihes, 
by judicial process, is not prevented ; Saving banks are not instituted ; 
No incapacity of holding slaves is made to follow cruelty, however fre- 
quent ; The provisions respecting the property of slaves, are most de- 
fective and inadequate ; So are the regulations respecting marriage, the 
observance of the Sunday, the prevention of compulsory labour on that 
day, and the abolition of Sunday markets; Equally imperfect and inef- 
ficient are the provisions respecting manumission ; Men and women are 
punished alike, while the master's power of punishing them extends to 
39 instead of 25 lashes ; No time is interposed between the offence and 
the infliction; The presence of a free witness is not required ; The re- 
cord of punishments proposed is wholly inadequate to its purpose; The 
whip in the Jield may still be used by a free person, or the cat by a 
slave. 

His Lordship further points out many defects in their criminal laws, 
such as punishing the intent to commit a crime in the same manner as 
the crime itself ; also punishing capitally the superstition of Obeah, 
any personal " injury" done by a slave to a free person, the " imagin- 
ing the death of a white person," and the holding meetings " for any 
unlawful and dangerous purpose ;" and he complains, generally, of 
the vague and indefinite expressions which are used to describe even 
capital offences. To two other points we were glad to find his Lordship, 
at length, strongly objecting. One is, the practice of indemnifying the 
owner for the loss of his slave, in cases of capital conviction; a mea- 

* Ibid. p. 141. 1 Ibid. p. 312. X Ibid. p. 110—114. 



Progress of Reform — Tobago. 117 

sure which, as a general rule, he conceives " may be productive of 
great mischief and injustice, depriving the master of a strong motive for 
preventing the commission of crime by his negroes, and depriving 
the slave of the protection which the self-interest of the master might 
otherwise afford him." " His own neglect of domestic discipline and 
instruction, may have occasioned the offence for which the slave has 
suffered." 

The other point to which he objects is the system of punishing 
slaves who complain against their masters, but fail in proving the truth 
of their complaints. " Unless punishments of this kind," he remarks, 
" are administered with extreme caution, they will have a direct ten- 
dency to prevent the most just and reasonable complaints. The law 
ought not to authorize the punishment of a complaint, simply because 
no conclusive proof is adduced to justify it." It should be proved to be 
" groundless or frivolous, if not malicious, before the party complaining 
is punished for preferring it." 

And yet this very principle, against which Lord Bathurst here so 
justly and forcibly remonstrates, now forms a part of the Trinidad Or- 
der, having been added to it by proclamation, on the 23rd of June, 1824. 

His Lordship further exposes the total inefficiency of the law of slave 
evidence as it now stands. No slave can give evidence who is not baptized 
by a clergyman, or whom a clergyman does not certify to be of good cha- 
racter, and to understand the nature of an oath ; thus disqualifying the 
unbaptized, and the disciples of all other religious teachers than those 
of the established church. " What is still more objectionable, is the 
necessity imposed of obtaining another certificate, to the same effect, 
from the proprietor, or manager of the slave," who may have a motive 
to prevent the slave from being heard as a witness. A slave, moreover, 
cannot be a witness in any civil case ; or, in any criminal case, against 
his owner, manager, &c. His evidence is besides clogged with many 
other difficulties. 

Lord Bathurst has rendered a most essential service to the cause of 
humanity, by recording these observations, which are, almost all, just as 
applicable to Jamaica, and indeed to the other slave colonies, as to St. 
Vincent's. It is a most painful consideration that laws, of which such 
things can with truth be asserted, should now be in operation under 
the deliberate sanction of His Majesty's Government. 

XVIII. Tobago. 

Nothing has been done by the legislature of this colony, in consequence 
of the recommendations of His Majesty's Government, in March and May, 
1826. There has arisen, however, much interesting discussion on the 
part both of the Council and of the Assembly, between whom there ex- 
ists a difference of opinion on most of the topics embraced by Lord 
Bathurst's eight Bills. Of those Bills, however, it is due to his Lord- 
ship to state the sentiments entertained by Mr. Macbean, the enlight- 
ened lawyer who fills the office of Attorney-General in Tobago. " To 
me," he says, " they appear throughout framed with the most anxious 
care to prevent any serious injury to the proprietor, while they certainly 
contain many enactments which, if carried judiciously into effect^ 



118 Progress of Reform — Tobago. 

would confer lasting benefits on the slave." His Lordship might, 
therefore, have confided more implicitly in the capacity which exists 
in this country, of legislating more justly and beneficially for all 
parties concerned, than the colonial legislators, in general, have shewn 
themselves qualified or disposed to do. And not only does Mr. Macbean, 
but the legislative Council of Tobago, seem to be of the opinion that 
the Bills which have emanated from Downing Street, are quite as well 
calculated for the meridian of the West Indies,.as if they had proceeded 
from an assembly of planters. The Council express a most decided 
opinion, that " many of the proposed new regulations may be adopted 
with perfect safety, and some prospect of advaiitage to the slave ; and 
none of them are so objectionable, but that, under proper modifications, 
their principles may not be, in some measure, adopted." They approve 
of the appointment of a Protector armed with suitable powers. Slave 
evidence they wish to be received in all criminal courts, without any re- 
straints which do not apply universally. They have some reserves, 
but of a somewhat unreasonable kind, on the subject of manumission.* 
They have no objection to legalize the marriage of slaves. Sunday 
markets are already abolished, and they approve of enforcing the ob- 
servance of that day. They accede to the conferring of rights of pro- 
perty on slaves, and to the establishing of saving's banks. They recom- 
mend the non-separation of families by judicial sale, but, (somewhat 
squeamishly, considering all things,) they object to the admission of re- 
puted wives and husbands within the pale of the immunity ; although it 
is a fact quite notorious, and recorded by the very authorities of Tobago 
themselves, that no marriage of slaves has ever taken place there. f 

On the only remaining point, the mode and degree of punishments, 
the Council approve of putting down the driving v/hip ; but they do not 
approve of postponing punishments for 24 hours, or of ceasing to flog 
females. Females, however, they observe, with a commendable tender- 
ness, might be flogged with a cat instead of a whip, and indecently 
exposed to no male eye, but those of the person ordering the infliction, 
the driver, and another witness ; that is, three men at least. They do not 
object to a record of punishments, but they decidedly object to allow- 
ing fresh lacerations, unaccounted for, to raise a presumption of illegal 
punishment against the master ; or to allowing either atrocious cruelty to 
produce the forfeiture of the sufferer to the Crown, or a repetition of 
such cruelties to disqualify the perpetrator of them to hold slaves. 

They decidedly object also to some of the more prominent barbarities 
of the former code, retained in the improved Act of 1823, such as mak- 
ing the wounding of any free person, and the compassing of the death of 

* They would permit no female to be freed who gained money by concubinage ; 
that is to say, in other woi-ds, they would have no female slave freed, for all the 
female slaves in Tobago live, and have always lived, in concubinage. There is 
even now no law authorizing the marriage of slaves in Tobago, and the report 
made thence to Parliament is, that in that colony no marriage of slaves has ever 
been celebrated. And yet they gravely propose, that no female shall be freed 
who Jives ia concubinage ! And why is not the same principle applied to the 
men ? They equally live in concubinage. 

t The eflfect, therefore, of such an exception, would be that the law would be 
a dead letter. It would apply to no one husband or wife in Tobago ! 



" Progress of Reform — Tortola — West Indian Reporter. 119 

a free person, capital offences ; and also to the monstrous inconsistency, 
" that two or more slaves who could give evidence to convict of 
murder a fellow slave, should be counted as nothing, in the scale of 
legal demonstration, should the accused happen to be a person of free 
condition." " This glaring absurdity of rejecting or receiving testimony, 
according to the colour or condition of the individual, ought immediately 
to be remedied."* 

To these opinions of the Council, those of the Assembly form a fre- 
quent contrast. The Assembly are of opinion that the Act of 1823 
" embraced almost every measure which could tend to the happiness 
and comfort of the slave." The appointment of a Protector they regard 
as wholly uncalled for. Compulsory manumission they conceive would 
be the entire destruction of slavery, root and branch. They see, how- 
ever, no evil likely to ensue from admitting the evidence of slaves in ail 
cases. They evidently prefer the present state of concubinage among 
the slaves to marriage.f They do not object to preventing unnecessary 
labour on Sunday, and to giving rights of property to slaves, or forming 
saving banks ; but they hesitate as to not separating reputed husbands 
and wives. To the whole system of reform, in respect to the whip, 
flogging females, keeping a record of punishments, visiting cruelty with 
the forfeiture of the slave, &c., they most strenuously object.J 

Thus stands the matter in Tobago, while with all their professions of 
humanity, their slave population decreases at the rate of 2 per cent, per 
annum. 

XIX. Tortola. 
There is no return from this island. 

The remainder of this analysis, which refers only to the proceedings in 
the island of Trinidad; and to the Reports of the Bishops of Jamaica 
and Barbadoes, is deferred to the succeeding Number. In the mean 
time, we beg to make a few very brief observations on the last Number 
of the West Indian Reporter. 

West It^dian Reporter, No. VIII. 

1 . This Reporter charges us with having neglected, since the com- 
mencement of our labours, to notice the proceedings of the Clergy in 
the colonies. He does us great wrong. We have devoted a whole 
Number, the 13th, to the Bishops and Clergy, besides various inci- 
dental notices respecting them, as for example, in our very last Num- 
ber. We mean also to appropriate to them a part of our next Number; 
and shall be most happy, on all occasions, to record any effective service 
they may render to the slaves. 

* Papers of 1827, Part ii. p. 128. 

t What nation in the earth is so savage as not to understand the nature and 
duties of marriage? And yet the legislators of Tobago wish their slaves to serve 
a long apprenticeship of cohabitation, before they are allowed to be man and 
wife. What is marriage, but cohabitation legalized, and rendered permanent 
and exclusive ? 

% Papers, &c. 1827, part ii. p. 115—138. 



120 West Indian Reporter. 

2. The Act of St. Vincent's, which this Reporter tells us Lord 
Bathurst has highly eulogized, he will find, by turning back four pages, 
contains, in the estimation of his Lordship, many very serious subjects 
of reprehension, 

3. All the efforts of this Reporter will not suffice to varnish over the 
outrage on the Methodist chapel in St. Ann's, Jamaica. The main 
attack on Dr. Lushington's speech proceeds, too, on a misrepresentation 
of it. Dr. Lushington did not say, though he is stated to have said, 
that the Assembly voted to the Rev. Mr. Bridges £500 a year, but merely 
£500 ; and that they did vote that sum is admitted. 

4. It is adduced as evidence of calumny, that we should have 
affirmed, that to the slave population in the West Indies, the cultivation 
of sugar has proved a deathful employment. The facts which shew it 
to have been so were not invented by us, but furnished by the West 
Indians themselves. 

5. It is given as a farther proof of calumny, that we have repre- 
sented the toil of the Jamaica slave as "uncompensated," and as " ex- 
tracted from him by the impulse of the lash." The next Number of 
the West Indian Reporter will, probably, inform us of the rate of the 
Jamaica slave's wages, and of the impulse which has been substituted 
for that of the lash. 

6. We are charged with having denied, in our 27th Number, the 
claim of the West Indians to compensation for the loss of the labour of 
their slaves. And yet, it is certain, that the main object of that Number 
is to shew that, by the very regulations to which the West Indians have 
objected, they are most amply compensated. They, however, are not 
satisfied, unless we admit it to be just, that that compensation should 
come to them from the sweat and blood of the oppressed and injured 
party. 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office, 
18, Aldermanhury ; or at Messrs. HatchardSjlSl, Piccadilly , and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London:— BAG STER 4, TIIOMS, rriuters, 14, Bart/iolomeTU Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 30.] For NOVEMBER, 1827. [No. 6. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready i"or delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



THE FURTHER PROGRESS OF COLONIAL REFORM, Part III. 
C Continued from paire 119.)— REPORT OF AFRICAN INSTITUTION- 
SURREY AND DUBLIN ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS ; THE SLAVE 
GRACE, &c. 

In the two preceding Numbers we have shewn the precise amount 
(partaking of the character of a negative quantity) of the improvements 
adopted in nineteen of the slave colonies belonging to the British Crown. 
The case of the twentieth, and that by no means the least important, 
remains to be considered. 

XX, Trinidad. 

Tlie returns from this Island contain a variety of miscellaneous in- 
formation. We will take it in its order. 

I , The Council on the motion of Mr. Burnley have requested Earl 
Bathurst to permit the publication^ in the Gazette of the Island, of all 
complaints of master and slave against each other, and of the decisions 
upon them, with the view of silencing calumny, and shewing that no 
reforms were necessary in a colony where slaves are already so well 
protected by law. Lord Bathurst has complied with the request. Let the 
apparent inference however from this publication be ever so favourable 
to the planter, in a colony where a slave, making a complaint which he 
fails to prove, is liable to punishment for having made it, it is sur- 
prising that it should not have occurred to Mr. Burnley and the coun- 
cil, that that inference will weigh but as a mere feather in the scale 
against the fact of an annual decrease of the slave population, by the 
excess of deaths over births, to the enormous extent of '2| per cent, per 
annum. This circumstance being lately mentioned to a planter of 
Trinidad, who has resided in that colony for twenty-five years, he re- 
marked very emphatically, " You need not wonder at that mortality : 
it is the sugar which kills them : more of it is made in proportion in 
Trinidad, than anywhere else." This is literally the case. More sugar 
is made in Trinidad per negro than in any other British colony. It 
amounts to about twelve cwt. for each slave. 

II. A further proof of the necessity of interference in the government 
of the slaves in Trinidad is furnished by a recent occurrence detailed in 

Q 



12^ Progress of Reform — Trinidad — Manumission. 

the papers before us, pp. 265 — 27 1 , and in which Mr. Burnley himself 
acted a prominent part. 

Pamela Monro, a female slave, eighteen years of age, whose mother 
was desirous of manumitting her, was ordered to be appraised in the 
usual way, by two appraisers, Thomas Le Gendre and William H. 
Burnley, esqs. These appraisers not attending simply to the plain 
terms of the oath they had taken, to make " a fair and impartial ap- 
praisement ;" but having recourse to sophistical and constructive in- 
ferences from a misinterpreted instruction of Lord Bathurst, declare 
their judgment to be, that " Pamela Monro is fully worth the sum of 
1200 Mexican dollars perfect (viz, 260Z. sterling), and they do place 
that value upon her." The fair and real value of this young woman in 
the market, might be about 80Z. or 85/. sterling : the appraisers form 
an imaginary valuation of her, which amounts to three times this sum ; 
a decision which has of course doomed the wretched Pamela to remain 
a slave. 

The Protector of Slaves, Mr. Gloster, having been applied to on this 
occasion, stated that the appraisement of this poor girl far exceeded 
any other since the promulgation of the Order in Council. The very 
highest appraisement of any Slave, even of the most valuable class, had 
been 169/., and this man was a head boiler, and a tolerable mason, 
carpenter, and blacksmith, whom his owner considered it impossible 
to replace. Another slave, who acted as a store-keeper and out-door 
collecting clerk, and who was in every respect a confidential servant, 
had been sold for 162Z. 10s. sterling. Four head drivers had been also 
appraised, all very intelligent and confidential persons ; one of them, 
capable of conducting a cocoa estate, at 150/. sterling; another at 
140/. ; another at 120/. ; and a fourth (whom his former master at 
this very time employs as an overseer for daily wages) at 97/. 105. 
sterling. 

The observations of the Protector of Slaves on this transaction are 
invaluable. They are as follows : 

" The appraised value of slaves manumitted, under the provisions of 
the Order in Council, for the first eighteen months after it came into 
operation, does not average much more than one-half of the general 
average for the last twelve months," — (That is to say, since the unhap- 
pily misconstrued despatch of Lord Bathurst became public.) " The 
selling or market price of slaves, however, has not experienced a com- 
mensurate rise; and therefore it is evident, that the magnitude of the 
appraisements lately made are not occasioned by the increased value of 
slaves. 

" While the market price of slaves continues as at present, I would 
consider the application of other principles of appraisement to any com- 
mon case, as an injustice to the slave, and an encroachment on the 
rights conferred upon him by the law. 

" To my apprehension, the only fair criterion by which the value 
of a slave can be ascertained, is the visual market price ; and although 
that price has risen considerably within the last twelve months, the 
criterion afforded by it is far exceeded by the generality of appraisements. 

" It is also certain that the market price will rise in proportion to the 



Progress of Reform — Trinidad— Manufrmsion. 123 

decrease of the number of, or difficulty of procuring, plantation slaves. 
It is, therefore, unjust to add to the real value, or market price^ of 
the slave purchasing his freedom, a portion of the value of the estate 
to which the slave is attached, until it becomes impracticable to con- 
tinue the cultivation of the estate, in consequence of the impossibility of 
procuring a substitute for the slave who is to be enfranchised.* 

" The opposite opinions are very generally diffused, and, however 
controvertible they may be by argument, / cannot indulge even the 
hope that they will be easily eradicated, or prevented from operating 
very seriously to the disadvantage of the slaves desirous of becoming 

" The principle," (which principle was assumed and avowed by the 
appraisers of Pamela Monro) " that the value of the slave should be 
estimated at the amount of the capital required to yield a revenue equal 
to the hire which could be obtained for the slave, is evidently fallacious, 
from the fact that, every day, instances occur of slaves being bought 
tor four hundred dollars," (a third of the appraised value of Pamela 
Monro) " who, as Mr. Burnley mentions," (of Pamela) " may be 
immediately hired at the rate of six dollars, or 11. 6s. sterling per 
month, fed, clothed, and the capital guaranteed; the corresponding 
capital to which, at six per cent., (the ordinary rate of interest in Tri- 
nidad) is 1200 dollars, or 260^. sterling, the appraised value of Pamela 
Monro. Yet surely, it could not be pretended that the latter sum was 
the real value of a slave that was bought for one third of the sum (400 
dollars) and that could not be resold at an advanced price. This, I sub- 
mit, PROVES that the market price is the only just and fair criterion 
for determining the value of a slave." 

This luminous and convincing exposition of the case is highly credit- 
able to its author, Mr. Gloster ; and so undeniably just and reasonable 
in itself is this method of ascertaining the indemnity due to the planter 
for the loss of his slave, that it is precisely the method which has been 
prescribed, by every legislature in the West Indies, whenever a slave is 
taken from his master for any public purpose, or is executed, or banished 
for a criminal offence. The value, in such case, is assessed by a Jury 
according to the fair market price, and they are not allowed to go beyond 
it. Had Pamela Monro, instead of being a claimant for freedom, been 
condemned to the gallows, she would have been equally lost to her 
owner; but in that case, Messrs. Le Gendre and Burnley would not 
have been permitted to award, even on their oaths, more than a third 
part of 1,200 Mexican dollars, as her fair and just appraisement. 

It appears from what has passed in Trinidad on this occasion, that 
even the binding solemnity of an oath does not secure a fair measure of 
justice to the slave; and that if the Government and Parliament wish to 
fulfil their pledges, steps must forthwith be taken to obviate the effects 
of such deviations from fairness and impartiality. And if even the 
sanctions interposed, in such a case as this, are unequal to resist the 



* And not even then, for even in that case the market price would still 
the criterion of the value. 



124 Progress of Reform — Trinidad — Evidence. 

influence of that sympathy, which the holders of slaves feel in favour of 
the master, and agahist the slave ; how can the Government and the 
Parliament continue to intrust, to the conscience and feeling of such 
men, the more difficult and delicate and complicated task of legislating 
for their wretched dependants 1 

III. From the first promulgation of the Trinidad Order, we have not 
failed to insist strongly on the injustice of that part of it which regulates 
the evidence of slaves, as being at war with every sound principle of 
jurisprudence, and as being a deterioration instead of an improvement of 
the condition of the slaves of Trinidad. On the 9th of July, 1823, the 
Council of that island declared that it was already the law there, that 
the testimony of slaves should be received quantum valeat. Notwith- 
standing this previous state of the law, the Order in Council promul- 
gated in March, 1824, lays the right of slaves to give evidence under 
many grievous restraints. First, the certificate of a teacher of religion 
is required. Such certificates, however, have not been obtainable in 
Trinidad, where teachers of religion are still more rare, it would seem, 
than in our other colonies. Accordingly, only one such certificate has 
been produced in Court since the promulgation of the Order. That is 
to say, only one slave has become competent, according to the new law, 
to do that which all slaves might have done before its enactment. It 
is true, that the Order contains a proviso, that the regulation, as to certi- 
ficates, should not " take away or diminish any power which any criminal 
court has now to admit, in any case, the evidence of persons in a state 
of slavery." This proviso, however, has appeared to the colonial Courts 
to do no more than to authorize them to exercise a discretion as to 
receiving or rejecting slave evidence, and, under this impression, they 
have thought that they best used that discretion, and best fulfilled the 
intentions of His Majesty's Government by rejecting the evidence of all 
slaves, as incompetent, who are not fortified with the required certificate. 
The Chief Judge distinctly says, that he regarded the general principle 
inculcated in the Order to be that slaves are, in themselves, incompetent 
witnesses. He should therefore have thought that he was counteracting 
His Majesty's intentions, had he substituted his own views of competency 
for what the Order seemed to regard as alone indicative of competency, 
namely, the certificate of a teacher of religion. Lord Bathurst expresses 
himself greatly dissatisfied with this interpretation of the law, and yet it 
seems the fair and natural construction : and therefore, to us, the terms 
of the Order have always appeared most unjust and illiberal. 

It is quite obvious that all attempts to modify the established rulQS of 
evidence, so as to meet the unreasonable prejudices of the planters, can 
only issue, like the attempt in Trinidad, in complete failure. There is but 
one principle which, in regulating this subject, can be safely acted upon, 
and that is, for tribunals to admit freely all witnesses, of whatever class" 
or colour, judging of their competency and credibility by the ordinary 
rules of evidence. The arguments of Mr. Peel on this subject, in his 
Speech of the 1st of March, 1826, are quite unanswerable.* And we 



See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 10. p, 103. 



Progress of Reform — Trinidad — Vieivs of Sir R. Woodford. 125 

trust that when the Trinidad Order is revised, as is stated to be the in- 
tention of Government, they will attend to Mr. Peel's just and luminous 
suggestions on this point. Would any man in his senses propose to 
confine the right of giving testimony, in the courts of British India, to 
baptized persons, or to persons instructed in Christianity, as is done in 
Trinidad ? The religious pretence on which this strange restriction is 
founded, is, without doubt, a very convenient plea for getting rid of an 
obnoxious measure, on the part of those too whose own total neglect of 
religious instruction, and even whose hostility to it have alone produced 
the ground for that plea. When the Order is revised, we trust that this, 
and the many other defects in the evidence clauses, as well as in the 
Order generally, will not be overlooked.* Among those defects the 
hitherto total absence of the means of religious instruction, the autho- 
rized and protracted continuance of Sunday markets, and the with- 
holding of the promised day, in lieu of Sunday, from the slaves, are 
points particularly worthy of early attention, All the local authorities 
combine in representing the destitution of the means of religious in- 
struction as most deplorable. 

IV. Sir Ralph Woodford having been called upon, with a view to the 
proposed revision, to forward suggestions on the subject, has addressed 
a letter to Mr. W. Horton, in which will be perceived, with no small re- 
gret, a strong leaning in favour of the master's convenience as against 
the slave's comfort. The following instances will serve to illustrate this 
feeling. 

1. He proposes that work should cease at eight on Saturday night, 
histead of sunset, and that it should commence at four on Monday 
morning, instead of sunrise. 

2. He proposes that only the night, and not twenty-four hours, 
should elapse before a crime is punished. 

3. He proposes that returns of punishment should not be made 
oftener than twice or even once a year. 

4. He wishes the regulations respecting returns of punishment to be 
relaxed. 

5. He objects to the 21st clause, (the most valuable clause in the 
whole code,) which raises a presumption against the master on the ex- 
hibition of recent lacerations on the body of the slave. 

6. He doubts the propriety of the marriages of slaves, and thinks the 
people averse to them.f 

7. He proposes that slaves, having money in the Savings' Banks, 
might commute their corporal punishments for money. 

8. He would compel slaves to account for the manner in which they 
earn the sums carried to the Savings' Banks. 

9. He even wishes the rules respecting Manumission to be modified, 
so as to meet the views of the planters. 



* See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. XI. p. 132. 

t In what other country in the world, civilized or savage, is marriage not 
cherished ? Its absence in Trinidad, in conjunction with the heavy sugar 
culture, and the cruel exaction of labour caused by it, sufficiently accounts for 
the mortality there. 



126 Progress of Reform —Trinidad — Free Labour. 

10. The clause requiring a bond to be given on the manumission of 
young children, to prevent their being hereafter burdensome, he says is 
avoided by having infants registered, as free, in the Church register, 
when baptized ; meaning, of course, to intimate his wish, (a most 
revolting wish !) that this humane proceeding should be prevented by 
law ; in this respect, directly opposing the more merciful course adopted 
by Mr. Jeremie in St. Lucia. 

11. He objects to the fines and forfeitures for cruelty as too heavy, 
and as unreasonably menacing. 

12. He objects to the restriction on slaves working for hire on Sun- 
days, and says, it is easily and generally evaded. They pot sugar on 
Sundays, for which they get a good lump of sugar. All industrious 
slaves vi^ork in their grounds on Sunday, and some hire others on that 
day, and even/Vee people, to work their grounds during the week.* 

13. There seems to remain a strong hankering after the flogging of 
women. " It requires," says the Governor, " great patience to bear 
with the provoking tongues and noise of the vs^omen ; " and yet he 
admits that those who were most averse to the Order have confessed 
that their fears on the subject had not been realized. 

The Governor states, that the negroes were generally conducting 
themselves well, and that task work was becoming general. The 
women, he says, are every where complained of as unmanageable. The 
planters, doubtless, wish to resume the practice of flogging them. 

He is very anxious that there should be no fresh discussions in 
this country respecting slavery. In that case he thinks that things 
would go on quietly. — No doubt they would, and the slaves would go 
on quietly to die off" at the rate of nearly three per cent, per annum. 
But Sir Ralph is greatly mistaken, if he supposes that this is a state of 
things which can, in deference to his wishes or those of the Planters of 
Trinidad, be suffered to proceed qidetly. 

V. Sir Ralph Woodford has addressed a letter to Mr. Wilmot Horton, 
on the subject of free labour. f Having had, he says, " an oppor- 
tunity afforded him of obtaining accurate information of the compara- 
tive disposition of the Spanish peons (or free labourers) to labour and 
idleness, and that upon an extensive number, and a work on which 
they were certain of their pay in cash," he sends a statement of the 
days they worked in 1825, being somewhat more than half the working 
days in the year. Now this statement, pretending to accuracy of in- 



• We have no doubt that the principle on which the Order of Coundl has pro- 
ceeded, in respect to the observance of Sunday, is altogether vicious, and that it 
requires a complete change. Sunday markets should have been wholly abolished, 
and a day in lieu of Sunday given to the slave, and then all that the law had to 
do was to prevent the master from compelling the slaves to work for his benefit 
on the Sunday, except when the occasion was pressing ; and then to pay tliem a 
liberal sum (not in "lumps of sugar," but in money) for their labour. All the 
other useless and unavailing restrictions, as to slaves working voluntarily, might 
then have been done away, only providing, as in this country, for the decent 
external observance of the Sabbath. See this subject fully discussed in the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11. p. 132 — 135. 

t Papers, &c. 1827, Part ii. p. 258. 



Progress of Reform — Tri?iidad — Task-Work. 127 

formation, really affords no information at all. It does not tell us what 
were the wages afforded to the peons in this particular work, nor the 
proportion which these wages bear to the profit of other and easier 
employments. It does not tell us whether they had grounds of their 
own, which it was their interest to cultivate, and for which it was 
necessary to detach a portion of their time. But we are drily told that 
they worked only fourteen or fifteen days in the month at this particu- 
lar employment, and are left to infer that it was their idleness which 
prevented them from working more. This is clearly not the fairest 
method that could have been adopted of elucidating the subject of 
free labour. If the weight of official authority is to be brought to bear 
against freedom, care at least should be taken that the materials for 
forming a correct judgment should be given, and that the decision 
of so grave a question should not be left at the mercy of the italics in 
a letter of Sir Ralph Woodford. 

VI. These illustrations of the subject of free labour are followed by 
a communication, disclosing some important facts made known to Sir 
Ralph Woodford by a Mr. Peschier, who is employed under him in 
managing an estate and a gang of slaves sequestered to His Majesty 
in Trinidad.* The Crown, it thence appears, is the owner of slaves 
who are worked for its profit, in the same way as are the slaves of the 
planters generally, and so worked as to produce exertion beyond their 
physical strength ; and this last fact is as coolly spoken of as if it 
involved nothing opprobrious. The tasks set the slaves, we are dis- 
tinctly told by Mr. Peschier, were such that, in order to execute them 
so as to redeem a small portion of the day for their own objects, they 
were led to work beyond their strength. Now, in this country, it is 
well known that men who undertake task work are often induced to 
work beyond their strength ; but that is because they are paid in pro- 
portion to the work they perform. If the negroes of Carapechaima 
Hall (for such is the name of the king's slave plantation) were paid in 
proportion to their labour, there would be found, in the natural desire 
of accumulation, a sufficient motive for a degree of exertion which might 
tend to impair their physical strength. But the case of these royal 
slaves is different. They receive no remuneration for their labour. 
Their exertions are for His Majesty's profit, not for their own; and 
they are not voluntary, but compulsory. The tasks they had to per- 
form were tasks imposed on them by the manager appointed by the 
representative of the king, and which they were bound to fulfil, in 
the course of the day, on pain of being flogged. These tasks, it 
seems, were such as to require a degree of exertion beyond their 
physical strength, in order to gain a little time for their own use. 
In this case one would have expected that Mr. Peschier would have 
thought of lessening the tasks which were productive of these inju- 
rious effects. Such however was not his policy. He adopted the expe- 
dient, not of lightening the labour of the slaves, but of dividing their day's 
task into three portions, and obliging them to perform one portion 



Papers, &c. 1827, Part ii. p. 259. 



128 Progress of Reform — Trinidad — Task- Work. 

of it before breakfast, about half past eight in the morning ; another 
by noon ; and the third after two o'clock. 

The whole of this detail will be found to throw much light on several 
controverted topics. 

1 . It has been maintained that in the low lands of tropical climates, 
the negro will not work without compulsion. But compulsion was not 
the motive which stimulated the negroes in this instance to the extra- 
ordinary exertion of which Mr. Peschier complains. The dread of the 
stocks in the evening, and of the cart-whip in the morning was suffi- 
cient, without doubt, to induce them to finish the task allotted them 
in the course of the day, if it were practicable to do so ; and Mr. Pe- 
schier must have supposed that they could do this with ease, and 
without over-exertion, otherwise he would have diminished the task. 
Why then did they over exert themselves ? Why did they impose 
on themselves the pain of a more intense degree of labour in a tropical 
sun, when a less intense degree of it might have sufficed ? It was 
obviously to gain for themselves time which they thought they could 
usefully or pleasantly employ for their own benefit or gratification. 
The inducement they had to work so much harder than was necessary, 
was obviously the prospective advantage resulting from it ; in short 
the wages, of some kind or other, derivable from the use of the hour or 
two hours which they might be able to redeem, by increased exertion, 
from the king's cane piece. And is not this an affirmative solution 
of the whole question, whether the negroes are or are not susceptible 
of any other stimulus to industry than coercion ? 

2. One would have expected that such promising indications of a sus- 
ceptibility of higher motives than those of brute force, would have induced 
Mr. Peschier not to have checked, but rather to have encouraged the 
feelino-. Instead of this, a plan is adopted which at once extinguishes every 
effort of industry on the part of the slave ; leaves him no motive but the 
whip for completing his task ; and frustrates every rising hope he might 
have indulged, of eventual benefit to himself, from increased exertion 
in the service of the king. The proceeding is of a character both harsh 
and sordid, and its effect is both degrading and demoralizing. To 
have lessened the too oppressive task, and thus to have given fresh 
vio-our to the nascent elation of hope, would have been the course 
which humanity and sound philosophy would have dictated. But this 
would have ill suited the meridian of Trinidad. There, the negro, like 
the "-alley slave at his oar, must be fixed to the hoe and to the cane 
piece from morning to night. He must not be allowed the luxury of 
purchasing, by quickened exertion, a consecutive hour or two in the 
day, to cultivate his own garden, or to visit a friend, or to enjoy his 
own 'domestic circle, or to fulfil any other object on which he may 
have set his heart. The elasticity of mind which such new facilities 
of enjoyment would produce, could not fail to redound to the 
master's advantage as well as to that of the slave. But it seems to be 
utterly beyond the contemplation of men habituated to West Indian 
feelings and principles, to regard the negro as a being to be operated 
upon by moral motives; and when the influence of such motives 
begins to be developed by circumstances, as in the present instance^ 



Progress of Reform — Trinidad — State of Crime. 129 

the object of the master is not to foster, encourage, and direct, but to 
crush and destroy them. 

3. And if on an estate belonging to the King, and superintended 
by the King's representative, we witness such oppressive proceedings, 
such excessive tasks, such disregard of the feehngs of the slaves, such 
indifference to their moral elevation, such an exclusive anxiety to con- 
vert the whole capabilities of their bodily frame to the profit of the 
owner ; what may be expected from the planters in general ? Can we 
hope that they should not act still more entirely on the same selfish and 
sordid principles ; and that they should not still more sternly exclude 
every consideration but that of their own profit ? And when we see 
such a scene laid open to us as that which is exhibited on the King's 
plantation of Carapechaima Hall, can we any longer wonder that the 
.excess of deaths over births, among the slaves in Trinidad, should 
amount to 2| per cent, per annum? 

4. We are led in the last place, by this communication, to recur to a 
position which was insisted upon on a former occasion,* namely, that 
the master, being the sole judge of the quantum of labour to be required 
from the slave, under the penalty of such corporal punishment as he may 
choose to inflict, the danger to be guarded against, in the introduction 
of task work, is the excessiveness of the tasks. Interwoven as this sub- 
ject is with the happiness and life of the slave, it is impossible to con- 
template it without expressing an earnest hope that Government would 
turn its anxious attention to the means of guarding against the evils 
which may arise from the system of taskwork ; for, though it possesses 
many advantages, it is nevertheless liable to many most serious abuses. 

VII. Another topic in the communications from Trinidad respects the 
state of crime among the slave population. The whole number of slaves 
is about 22,000. Of these there were committed to gaol in two years, 
from June 1824 to June 1826, 616 males, and 249 females. But 
of this number, 148 men, and 103 women, were committed merely 
for insubordination to their masters, and 319 men, and 116 women for 
absenting themselves, probably from fear of punishment, or to escape the 
severe exaction of labour or other ill-treatment. The whole number, 
besides, of committals for crimes, as assaults, petty thefts, &c., was 148 
men, and 30 women, — being at the rate of 89 committals in a year. 
The rest, amounting to 686 in two years, or 343 in one year, appear 
to have proceeded entirely from the effects of plantation discipline. 

This, however, is but a very insignificant branch of the history of 
crime in Trinidad. On examining the general result of the record, 
kept in the Protector's office, of offences committed and punished on 
the plantations, during the same two years, they are found to amount to 
the enormous number of 1 1,131 . Now the returns, made to the Protector, 
are not of the whole slave population, but only of that on plantations ; 
and if the slaves, not belonging to plantations, are reckoned at a fourth 
of the whole, there will then only remain a population of 16,500, by 
whom this amount of crime has been committed. It is, however, only 

* Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. XXVII. p. 66. 
R 



1 30 Progress of Reform — Trinidad — Crimes of Females. 

the adult, or rather the working population who should be taken into 
this account. Estimating these at the large rate of two-thirds of the 
whole, the number of those will be reduced to 11 ,000, who can, with 
any propriety, be viewed as the offending mass to whom the record of 
the Protector can have any reference. In two years, therefore, we 
have 11,131 offences recorded of 11,000 individuals. That is to say, 
(taking the average,) it is as if every individual plantation slave in 
Trinidad, capable of offending, had, in the course of two years, been 
guilty of some offence, and had been punished for it by the sole au- 
thority, and at the sole discretion of the master or manager. Here we 
seem to have a picture either of extraordinary viciousness on the part 
of the slave, or of reckless and unmeasured oppression and tyranny on 
the part of the master. The great mass of delinquencies, however, and 
of consequent punishments, seem to arise, not out of any peculiar depra- 
vity on the part either of the master or slave, but out of the very in- 
stitution of slavery itself, and out of its cruel and irremediable tenden- 
cies to evil. Take as an example, some of the items of this black 
catalogue. 

Refusing to work, and disobedience 1,825 

Insolence, insubordination, &c 1,423 

Absconding 1,181 

Neglecting duty, neglecting to throw grass, coming too 

late to work, &c. &c 3,215 



7,644 
The acts of stealing and theft amount to 773. Among the remain- 
ing offences are some of a very singular character. We shall instance 
a few of them. 

Biting overseer 1 

Biting driver ^ 1 

Holding and tearing driver's shirt 4 

Seducing other men's wives 10 

Infidelity to husbands 15 

Neglecting prayers . 121 

Refusing to keep the sabbath I 

Idleness and laziness 34 

Refusing to take medicine 9 

Setting a bad example to children 3 

Practising obeah 4 

Lying • •. • 42 

False complaints 109 

Indecent language, &c 40 

False pretence of sickness 30 

Of late, and since it has been proposed to abolish female flogging, 
the public has been deafened with loud complaints of the superior 
viciousness of the female slaves. An opportunity is now given of 
examining their truth. Those, indeed, who have watched the course of 
the West Indian controversy from its commencement, must have per- 
ceived how constantly the most material facts have been grossly mis- 



Progress of Reform — Sunday Labour in Trinidad. 131 

represented, either from ignorance or design, by those who alone had 
access to know them, that is to say, the resident colonists. For a great 
length of time they made the people of England believe that the decrease 
on their plantations arose from the excess of the men, as compared with 
the women. When, by means of registration, correct returns were at 
length obtained, it was found that, not in the aggregate only, but in 
almost every colony, the females exceeded the males. — So now, it is 
repeated to satiety that the women slaves are worse than the men, 
more frequent offenders, more insubordinate, and more liable to punish- 
ment. It has been already seen how this assertion is met by the gaol 
returns. In these, the number of female prisoners amounts to a little 
more than a third of the men. So in the Protector's return, the num- 
ber of male offenders is 6,223, of women 4,908. There are indeed 
some particular delinquencies, in which the women outnumber the men ; 
and these, it must be admitted with regret, for the credit of the sex, are — 
refusing to work, insolence, quarrelling and fighting with one another, 
lying too long in the morning, neglecting their prayers, and indecent 
language and behaviour. 

VIII. Subsequently to the appearance of the papers laid before Par- 
liament by his Majesty's command, another document connected with 
the Island of Trinidad, has been printed by order of the House of Com- 
mons, entitled, " Copy of all Laws and Regulations which prescribe the 
time to be allowed to Slaves in Trinidad, for the cultivation of their pro- 
vision grounds." It was ordered to be printed June 12, 1827, and is 
numbered 465. The Guardian of Slaves states it to be the only regu- 
lation existing in the island of Trinidad on that subject, and to be part 
of an ordinance issued by General Picton on the 30th of June, 1800, 
soon after the colony came into the possession of Great Britain, It is 
as follows : — 

" Exclusive of the allowance of salt meat or fish, (in which there 
can be no exemption,) every working negro of fourteen years and up- 
wards, shall have a portion of land allotted to him adequate to produce, 
by cultivating it, a sufficiency of ground provisions for himself and his 
family; and to furnish him the more effectual means of doing so, he 
shall be allowed the Saturday, from noon, to work in his grounds, 
from the first day of July to the first day of January, if he belongs to 
a sugar plantation ; and from the first day of January until the first 
day of July, if he belongs to a coffee, cocoa, or magnioc plantation. 
He will have also his Sundays, and the four great annual holidays of 
Christmas-day, New-Year's-day, Good-Friday, and Corpus-Christi." 

By the existing law of Trinidad, therefore, a part only of 26 days 
in the year, besides Sunday, and four holidays, is given to the 
slave for the purpose of maintaining "himself and his family." After 
working in the cane or coffee field from five in the morning till noon, on 
Saturday, he is then dismissed to his grounds. And if the usual interval 
of two hours' rest at noon is allowed him, which, after seven hours con- 
tinuous labour in the sun, seems indispensable, the time which he can 
employ in his grounds will not exceed five hours at the utmost. So 
that, with the exception of a little salt fish, the Avhole amount of what 
is allowed to the slave in order to obtain food for himself and his family, 



1 32 Progress of Reform — Sunday Labour in Trinidad. 

is 130 hours' labour in the year, being not equal to more than ten 
or twelve of those days which he gives to his master. 

When the Trinidad Order in Council was first promulgated, a strong 
suspicion was entertained that the slave had been unfairly dealt with 
on this point, and the total silence of the Order respecting it, did not 
tend to dissipate that feeling. Accordingly, in the Second Report of 
the Anti-Slavery Society, published in 1825, (p. 72,) the subject was 
thus adverted to. " By the Trinidad Order, no day in lieu of Sunday 
is given to the slave. If there exist, therefore, no other order to that 
effect, the slave will be as much compelled by the necessity of the 
case to labour for his subsistence on that day, which is, in fact, labour- 
ing for his master's benefit, as if the master stood over him with the 
whip. He must work on that day or starve. But what is actually, 
according to the law of Trinidad, the number of week-days in the 
year allowed to the slaves for labouring in their provision grounds ? The 
number is said to be 26. It is obvious, however, that if 26 days be the 
time really allowed to the slave in Trinidad, besides Sunday, then they 
have 56 days less in the year than the Spanish law is understood to 
allow them. By that law, as well as by the law of Brazil, slaves are 
allowed a day in every week, besides Sundays, and 30 holidays m the 
year ; and it merits inquiry how it is that, under the British Govern- 
ment, they should have been deprived of the full time to which the 
Spanish law, which is the law of the island of Trinidad, entitles them. 
In any case, now that Sunday has ceased to be a day of compulsory 
labour, it seems no more than strict justice, in addition to the number 
of week days hitherto enjoyed by the slaves, that a full and fair equi- 
valent should be allowed them for the Sunday, otherwise they will 
either be much worse off for the means of subsistence than they were 
before, or they will still be driven to the necessity of employing the 
day of rest in labouring for their subsistence ; — which is, in fact, doing 
that which the Order in Council, in terms, prohibits, labouring for 
their master s benefit on that day." 

The subject has since been repeatedly and earnestly pressed on the 
attention of the public. But nothing has been done, and when after 
much delay, information has at length been obtained, as to the real state 
of the law, it appears that ihe Anti-Slavery Society had been too libe- 
ral in their estimate of its humanity, and that instead of 26, only 13 
short days in the year are allowed the slave to cultivate provisions for 
himself and his family. 

Can any thing be conceived more oppressive than the conduct of 
Great Britain has been, in this particular, towards the slaves of Trini- 
dad, — an island which it was one of Mr. Canning's early objects in life 
to make the scene of an experiment in free labour ? The Spanish law, 
as well as that of Brazil, gave- to the slaves 134 days in the year which 
he could call his own, namely a day in the week, besides the Sundays, 
and 30 holidays. It had scarcely come into British possession when a 
proclamation from General Picton reduced that time to 69 days in 
the year, namely 51 Sundays, 4 holidays, and 13 days besides. 

In 1824, however, came forward, in the shape of the Trinidad Order 
in Council, those grand measures of negro amelioration, which were 



Report of the Bishop of Jamaica. 133 

thoroughly to reform the abuses of the slave system. But by this 
Order, the slave, instead of being benefited by the grant of additional 
time, is deprived of the 52 Sundays as days of labour, and no other 
days are given to him in their stead. He is thus left with only his 13 
common days and four holidays, — so that even if Christmas-day, Good- 
Friday, &c., are devoted to toiling in his grounds, he has only 17 days 
which he can lawfully employ in raising food for himself and his family, 
instead of 1 34 in the first instance, and 69 in the second. 

Well might Sir Ralph Woodford specify as one of the first practical 
difficulties attending the Order in Council, " the prohibition of Sunday 
labour."* And, as might be expected, under the circumstances of the 
case, he states, that " working in their grounds is common to all in- 
dustrious negroes on the Sunday; " and that even " the restriction on 
slaves working on Sundays for hire " is " generally evaded." He 
therefore proposes that the restriction should be wholly done away. 
To these frank admissions. Sir Ralph Woodford ought, in fairness, to 
have added another ; — that, under the existing regulations, if the slave 
did not employ the Sunday in his grounds, he must starve; and that 
nothing could have been more absurd than to assume, as the Order in 
Council seems to have done, that labour on the Sunday (from which 
labour the slave had hitherto principally derived his subsistence) could 
be abolished, unless equivalent time were given in lieu of it. 

The appearance of this document has thrown new light on the 
lengthened communications which have taken place, during the last 
three years, between Lord Bathurst and Sir Ralph Woodford on the 
subject of Sunday labour. The whole of these communications wear 
now something like the air of a piece of grave irony played off upon 
his Lordship ; the planters of Trinidad stickling on one side for their 
right to the slaves' labour in his grounds on the Sunday; Lord Bathurst, 
on the other, proving most irrefragably, that they have no right to it ; 
and yet, all the while, the slaves, according to Sir Ralph Woodford, 
adopting, ex necessitate rei, a practical conclusion in favour of the 
planter, and against his Lordship. His Lordship's reasons against 
Sunday labour are unanswerable ; but as the slave has no other time 
allowed him, he must labour on that day or starve. Accordingly, he is 
compelled to labour on that day, if not, as formerly, by the flogging 
which awaited his neglect, yet by the gnawings of hunger, and the 
cries of his famished children. 

Having now given an abstract of the proceedings with respect to 
reform which have occurred in the different colonies, it only remains to 
notice the reports which have been laid before Parliament from the twa 
West Indian Bishops. 

Report of the Bishop of Jamaica. 

With a single exception, all that is interesting in the communications 
of this prelate has respect to the parish of St. Thomas in the East: for 



* Papers of 1827, Part ii. p. 254.— See also above, p. 126. 



134 Report of the Bishop of Jamaica. 

we make no account of mere -projects for erecting chapels and founding 
schools, which are, as yet, only in prospect, and not in actual existence 
and operation. What we desiderate from the Bishop is not so much 
a report of " the growing disposition " of the colonists " for instruct- 
ing the slave and coloured population," nor even of the numbers bap- 
tized and married, (for all this involves no sacrifice on the part of the 
planters,) but of the actual number of slaves, and also of free coloured 
persons, who are really enjoying the benefits of instruction; distin- 
guishing those who attend the Sunday schools, and also the week-day 
schools ; stating the frequency, and length, and hours of their attend- 
ance ; the nature of the instruction they receive ; and whether it be 
oral only ; the time and means bestowed upon it ; the progress made 
in acquiring the rudiments of knowledge, &c. ; — also the numbers who 
attend religious worship, and the beneficial effects produced by the 
lessons of Christianity on their hearts and lives, together with an ac- 
count of the obstacles which impede the progress both of education and 
religious instruction. On these points we have nothing which is specific 
and satisfactory — all is vague and indistinct. We hear of three deacons 
and five priests being ordained ; of oral instruction on a Sunday in one 
parish, St. Thomas in the East, of which alone we seem to hear ; of a 
Church missionary, who, on a single estate, is exerting himself laud- 
ably ; and of a second parish, in which there is a beginning of effort 
on the part of a curate. With these exceptions, all seems future and 
contingent. In a state of things like this, where there prevails so 
universal a destitution of religious light, it is almost ludicrous to observe 
the style of the Bishop's official communications with the Secretary of 
State. He seems to announce it as a triumph of religion that he has 
excluded from schools all books but those of the Society for promoting 
Christian knowledge. At the very moment that he is admitting the 
deplorable want of Christian instruction in the Bahamas, he speaks, 
with a kind of horror, of a layman who had been appointed a preacher 
by the local authorities, and who, officiating in a place of worship that was 
unconsecrated and private property, read every part of the Church 
service, including the absolution ! to a large congregation, and ex- 
pounded the Scriptures. " / can, of course," says the Bishop, " have 
no jurisdiction over this layman, but I cannot help observing on the 
irregularity of a person not in holy orders, thus ministering publicly 
in the congregation." And was this not better than having no minis- 
trations at all? And was it not a subject of rejoicing instead of 
censure, that a christian congregation had been formed, and the prayers 
of the Church devoutly used, and the Scriptures expounded, even by a 
layman, rather than that the worship of God should have fallen into utter 
neglect? At the same time the Bishop candidly confesses that this 
layman, who, by the way, is a free black, of the name of Joseph 
Watkins, is a person, to the excellence of whose character it is his 
duty to bear testimony, and whose disciples, for he examined them 
himself, he found strictly brought up in the principles of the Established 
Church. And yet, instead of at once obviating all difficulty, and pre- 
venting all future irregularity, by at once ordaining this excellent and 
useful individual as a Minister of the Church of England, he propounds 



•Repoi't of the Bishop of Barhadoes. 135 

it as matter of grave consideration to Lord Bathurst, whether Cate- 
chist would not be a more appropriate title for Joseph Watkins, than 
that of Preacher, which the Bahamas' legislature have bestowed on 
him with a salary of £50 currency a year. The Bishop ought to have 
at once laid his hands on him, thanking God for having unexpectedly 
raised up such an instrument of good in that land of spiritual darkness. 

Report of the Bishop of Barbadoes. 

The Report of the Bishop of Barbadoes is still more meagre than 
that of his brother bishop, consisting of little more than proposals 
for building churches and parsonage houses, and memorials to the 
Secretary of State for public money to aid in defraying the cost 
of their erection. Schools and places of worship are spoken of, 
as about to be established ; but we hear of scarcely any actually in 
operation, excepting one erected, on his estate in St. Vincent's, by Mr. 
Wilson the member for York, who, it seems, is a planter of that 
island. The legislatures of several of the islands, have also been 
voting sums of money in aid of the funds for erecting places of worship, 
parsonages, &c. 

It seems to be the policy of the bishops to say nothing of the 
people of their diocese but what is favourable : we hear much of their 
good dispositions, their liberal intentions, their kindnesses, and courte- 
sies ; but not a word of opposition or counteraction. In pursuance 
of this policy, a strict silence has been observed as to what passed 
during the bishop's visit to Demerara, and his rude reception there ; 
and not one syllable has been allowed to transpire of the difficulties 
experienced in Barbadoes, where the instruction, of which so hopeful a 
promise was given in the report of last year, has been retrograding, 
instead of advancing. In that report, the bishop spoke, in high terms 
of satisfaction, of the efforts making by the Rector of St. Lucy's parish, 
the Rev. Mr. Harte, for the improvement of the slaves, all of whom, with 
scarcely an exception, were then stated to be under religious instruc- 
tion. Since that time, however, these fair appearances have vanished ; 
and Mr. Harte, for no cause but his zeal in the performance of his 
duty, has become a proscribed man, the only planter in the parish 
who continued to admit him to his estate, Mr. Leacock, having, on 
that account, been in a manner excluded from society. It may be 
unfair to blame the bishops for their silence on such points ; but 
then let us at least understand the principles on which their reports 
are framed. For, of course, it is only by knowing the whole of the 
case, that a just estimate can be formed of the real progress which is 
making ; and it is clear, that if only the favourable side of things be 
exhibited, and the unfavourable be systematically withheld, Parlia- 
ment, and the public, will, in fact, though not in intention, be widely 
misled. 

It appears that it must have been on some such principle as this, 
that the bishop's relation composed his " Six Months' Tour in the 
West Indies ; " and the effect of which, therefore, (whatever may have 
been the writer's purpose and motive, which we mean not to arraign,) 
has been, undoubtedly, greatly to deceive and mislead the public. 



136 General Result — African InsMution. 

Nothing can be clearly and satisfactorily known, respecting the pro- 
gress of education and instruction, until the bishops shall require from 
all their clergy, catechists, and teachers, periodical returns, detailing 
all the particulars necessary to be known ; such as will admit of it 
being ranged in a regular, prescribed, tabular form, so as to obviate the 
vagueness, and indistinctness, which attach to the present mode of 
communication. And such returns are due to parliament, and the 
pubHc, who are defraying much of the expence of the ecclesiastical 
establishment, and of the plans formed for the diffusion of religious 
knowledsre among: the slaves. 



What, then, is the result of all the hopes and promises held out to 
us in the Session of 1826? Bitter disappointment. — The contemptuous 
and contumacious rejection on the part of the slave-holders of every 
overture of mercy. — The fatal prolongation, for an indefinite period, of 
that murderous system which has so long been desolating one of the 
fairest portions of the globe. — Can we remain satisfied with this result? 
It is impossible. At least, if our fellow-men must continue miserably 
to perish by inches, under the scourge, to glut the cupidity of those 
whose gains, drawn from our pockets, enable them to control the 
councils of the empire ; — if we cannot induce Parliament to protect 
820,000 of the King's subjects from the cruelty and rapacity of which 
they are the admitted and innocent victims ; — if we cannot succeed in 
our efforts to abolish those fiscal regulations by which we are made to 
indemnify the slave-holder for his merciless and lavish waste of life,* 
and to save him from the effect of all those outrages on law and justice^ 
on religion and humanity, which render colonial slavery, if not the 
greatest curse which has ever afflicted mankind, at least the greatest 
slain which has ever disgraced the deliberate choice of a nation calling 
itself Christian :— if this is so to be, then must those, who have 
united to abolish this evil, bethink themselves of the means to which 
they may most promptly and concurrently resort. — But this grave 
question must be reserved for another occasion. In the mean time, let 
us be vigilant. 

African Institution. 

The Twenty-first Annual Report of this Society has recently been 
given to the public. It contains much that is of a highly interesting 
nature, and we earnestly recommend it to general attention. We must 
be satisfied, at present, with a single extract, which bears more di- 
rectly than any other part of it on the main object of the Anti-Slavery 
Society. It refers to the Trial of a Captain Young. 

" The first trial which has occurred under the Act of Parliament 
which constitutes Slave-trading a capital crime, took place at the Ad- 
miralty Sessions, held at the Old Bailey, on the 24th of October, 
1826. The facts of the case were these. Thomas Young sailed from 



* See Edinburgh Review, No. 92. 



African Institutmn. 137 

Liverpool in a vessel called the Malta, to trade for the produce of Africa. 
While trading- in the river Gaboon, he took eight women on board, as 
hostages for the payment of advances of goods made to native chiefs. 
The debts for which they were specifically pledged being paid, they 
ought all, according to African law, to have been released. Four of 
them, however, were retained in custody, not on account of any 
failure on the part of the person pledging them to discharge his obliga- 
tions ; but because another chief of the same place had contracted a 
debt to Mr. Young, which he had neglected to pay. On this ground, 
four of the women were detained in custody ; and when the Malta was 
about to quit the coast, they, not having been redeemed by their rela- 
tions, were sold to a Spanish slaver for about thirty dollars each, Th« 
great distress of the women on the occasion was given in evidence. 
The plea of Mr. Young, but unsupported by any evidence, was, that 
he had not sold these women, but merely transferred them to the 
Spanish captain for the amount of his debt, the Spanish captain en- 
gaging to restore them to their relations on being repaid his advance.* 
The jury appear to have given credit to this statement, for they re- 
turned a verdict of not guilty : and it is probable they gave the more 
weight to it, as this was the first time that any prosecution of slave- 
trading as a capital offence had taken place. Possibly also, in a case 
of this kind, considerations might involuntarily have obtruded them- 
selves on the minds of the most conscientious juror, to incline the 
balance in favour of the accused. It might occur to him, as an ano- 
maly in our law, that Mr, Young should suffer death for having done 
that on the coast of Africa, which in our colonies, on the opposite 
shore of the Atlantic, is done daily, not only with impunity, but le- 
gally. It might seem to him not quite consonant to natural justice, 
at least not quite consistent with a rational legislation, that Mr. Young 
should be hanged for the very same act (morally speaking) in one de- 
gree of longitude, which many British subjects, of high consideration 
in society, were allowed, in a different degree of longitude, openly and 
constantly to commit, without incurring either penalty or discredit. 

" Property, it has been said, is the creation of law ; still the dicta 
of law cannot obliterate the traces of natural equity ; and if we suppose 
a juror to have called to mind, that some of the very individuals Avho 
had framed the law which condemned Thomas Young to death, for 
buying and selling his fellow-creatures in Africa, were themselves in 
the avowed and regular practice of buying and selling their fellow- 
C)-eatures in the West Indies, he might have been led, without any 
very grave impeachment of his integrity, to have shrunk from dealing 
out to this unhappy individual so unequal a retribution. 

" But whether such a view of the subject presented itself to the 
minds of the respectable jurors who acquitted Mr. Young, or not, it 
is still one which lies at the very root of the whole question of the 

* If the plea of the captain were true, it would not render him less liable to 
the penal sanctions of (he Act. He had treated and dealt with them as slaves : 
and if so vague a plea weie to be admitted as a sufficient defence, British ships 
might visit the coast on pretence of trading for ivory ; exchange their merchan- 
dise for slaves, under the uame of hostages; and then part with them for dollars 
to Spaniards or Frenchmen. 

s 



f38 Surrey Anti-Slavery Society. 

Slave Trade. It is in Slavery that the Slave Trade has its origin : it is 
the market provided by the slave-holder which furnishes the direct in- 
centive to all the crimes of a trade in slaves ; to the murders and 
conflagrations which attend their capture ; to the condensed horrors of 
the middle passage which follow it; and to the misery and desolation 
of a continent. And if so, is the conduct of Great Britain quite con- 
sistent, in cherishing, and even encouraging Slavery, with all its 
attendant sales and transfers of human beings, in our colonies, while 
on principle she repudiates and proscribes and capitally punishes the 
Slave Trade in every other part of the world ? Let it not be supposed, 
that it is intended to blame the righteous zeal which has been manifested 
in the suppression of the Slave Trade, and which has produced such splen- 
did results. But has not our own success, with respect to the Slave Trade, 
been greatly impeded, and is it not now impeded, by the selfish inconsis- 
tency of our conduct in respect to slavery ? It may be doubted, whether 
there be a single argument, which can be advanced for maintaining slavery 
in our colonies for a single day after it is in our power to abolish it, which 
will not be found to be as valid a plea, morally considered, for con- 
tinuing to strip Africa of her inhabitants, to supply Cuba, or the 
Brazils, or even our own colonies, with labourers. The atrocities of 
the Slave Trade may, it is true, practically far exceed those of Slavery: 
yet the principle of both is identically the same ; equally opposed to 
humanity and justice, and to every principle of the Gospel ; and 
equally indefensible on every plea of financial and commercial expe- 
diency. And who, after all, will venture to affirm, that, viewed in the 
whole range of their results, the atrocities of the Slave Trade, though 
more palpable to observation, and striking more directly and forcibly 
on the senses, outweigh, in the sum of misery they produce, the evils 
of Slavery — of a protracted and irremediable and perpetual servitude, 
living through the life of the slave, and renewed in his children, and 
children's children, to the latest generation ? Let any man think but 
of the perpetually impending scourge, the interminable toil to which it 
urges, the stocks, the blows, the contempt, the degradation, the 
hunger, the lassitude, the disease, the agony of broken and bleeding 
hearts, and all the nameless and scarcely conceivable inflictions which 
await those, whose own destinies, and those of every endeared relative — 
wife, husband, child — are bound up in the will of any individual who 
claims them as his slaves, without any effectual, nay, any possible, 
protection from law against his tyranny and caprice. Let any one but 
think of all this, and he will perhaps see no very cogent reason for 
exempting the Slavery which exists in our colonies, from a moral re- 
probation to the full as severe as we pass on the Slave Trade, or for not 
exhibiting it alike as an outrage on every principle of justice, humanity, 
and true religion." 

Surrey Anti-Slavery Society. 
A meeting of this Society was held at Epsom on the 25th of October, 
Henry Drummond, Esq., in the Chair, when a set of Resolutions 
was moved as the ground of a Petition to Parliament, of which, without 
pledging ourselves to vindicate every expression it contains, we are 
induced to lay a large part before our readers. 



Surrey Anti-Slavery Society. 139 

After two preliminary resolutions, the Meeting proceed as follows : — 

" 3. That the rights of unoffending Foreigners are consecrated by the 
law of nations, and the law of God; and that British born subjects owe 
their rights and privileges as Englishmen to the place of their birth, and 
not to the colour of their skins. That white men born in the British 
West Indian colonies, possess only the same foundation for their claim 
to the character and immunities of Englishmen as the negroes and men 
of colour born in the same colonies. That personal freedom is the in- 
heritance and birth-right of every British subject. That neither the King 
nor the Parliament^ and still less can the Colonial Assemblies, in their 
petty municipal jurisdictions, legally or constitutionally, at their mere 
will and pleasure, deprive innocent human beings of their personal rights, 
and reduce them to a state of slavery; and that no custom or usage can 
be pleaded in support of an act of robbery and violence, opposed to the 
fundamental laws and constitution of the country, to the law of nations, 
and .to the law of God. 

" 4. That this Meeting have heard with more of indignation than sur- 
prise, that the Court of Policy of Demerara, as well as the local autho- 
rities of the other colonies, refuse to comply with, or evade and render 
abortive, the wishes of his Majesty's Government for permitting negroes 
and men of colour to purchase for themselves or their dearest relatives 
an exemption from the miseries of unrequited toil under a burning sun, 
without hope, and without end; from the sufferings of a lingering but 
premature decay, proved by the excess of deaths among them, compared 
with those who are in possession of their freedom; from the privation of 
all that renders life desirable to an intelligent being ; and from the cer- 
tainty of being put to death, as though they were rebels, if they should 
question the right of their fellow-subjects to buy and sell them, like 
cattle, and to inflict an accumulation of wretchedness upon them by the 
law of the strongest, of which the tyranny of the Turks in Greece was 
but a shadow. 

" 5, That such a state of things is nothing less in its principles and in 
its consequences than a civil war raging under the immediate eye of 
Government, between one class of Englishmen and another class. That 
while England is sending out her fleets to put an end to a struggle for 
superiority in Greece, and to a sacrifice of lives, in no I'espect more 
loudly demanding her immediate interference, the cruelties of slavery are 
doing the work of the sword within the territories of the British Crown. 
That while the free blacks of the Haytian Republic have doubled their 
numbers in twenty years, and are rising fast into notice as an industrious 
and civilized nation — while the enfranchised negroes and free men of 
colour, rapidly increase and prosper in the West Indian colonies, the 
case is widely different with the same description of individuals held in 
a state of slaveiy. That the appalling waste of human life among those 
whom they boldly called their slaves, was long a favourite argument of 
the colonists in support of the inhuman Slave Trade, That it appears, 
from official documents laid on the table of the House of Commons, 
that in Trinidad, the excess of deaths over the births amo«ig the enslaved 
population, is fast working out their total annihilation. That in De- 
merara, it appears from evidence equally authentic, that the excess of 
the deaths over the births among the same unhappy class, from 1818 to 
1824, amounted to 8,754, upon a population of 75,000 enslaved per,^ 



140 Surrey Anti-Slavery Society. 

sons, being a rate of destruction in that colony of the lives of the weaker 

party of his Majesty's subjects by the stronger that in years 

would unpeople the earth. 

" 6. That this Meeting never supposed that men who contend for the 
right of reducing the helpless and unprotected to a state of slavery, and 
of hanging them for not submitting quietly to the injustice, would wil- 
lingly consent to adopt any measures for improving the condition of 
their victims. That the reluctance of the Demerara Planters and of 
the other Colonists in the present instance, is only another proof, if any 
were wanting, of the gross delusion practised on the British public by 
those who maintain that the business of legislating for the protection of 
the negroes should be left in the hands of the Planters and their agents 
i» the Colonial Assemblies, wliose gains are in proportion to their usur- 
pations ; and of whom some, Avhen it was proposed by his Majesty's 
Government that Sunday should be wholly given up to the enslaved 
negroes as a day of rest and relaxation, actually preferred a claiia for 
compensation ; while others refused to make any alterations. 

" '7. That this Meeting cannot exclude from their recollection, that 
the Colonists, far from respecting the rights of strangers to them in 
blood, have even consigned to the same state of unlawful bondage their 
oxn-i miilaito children, born of kidnapped English and foreign vvoinen,. 
evincing thereby a want of sympathy and natural feeling unknown to 
the untaught savage, and only to be found in the very men in whose 
equity and moderation, as practical legislators, the people of England 
are urged to place conndence. 

" 8. That the Colonial Legislatures have repeatedly and plainly shown, 
that they will only make such alterations in favour of the negroes as are 
consistent with what they are pleased to consider a due regard to their 
own right of property in their persons, meaning evidently only such 
alterations as are consistent with that usurpation of the rights of others, 
v/hich every improvement in the condition and mental capacity of tlie 
negro necessarily tends to render less profitable and more difficult to 
be enforced. 

" &. That as an excuse for refusing to allow these children of dismay 
to purchase their exemption from such complicated evils with money 
earned during extra hours of labour, borrowed from their repose, it ap- 
pears that the white colonists have thought it not unworthy of them- 
selves and of their cause to assert, that men capable of such spontaneous 
industry, under every disadvantage, would cease to labour if they were 
allowed their freedom — an assertion, to which may be opposed the ex- 
isting prosperity of the Black Republic of Hayti, the recent and uncon- 
tradicted statements in Parliament of the good conduct of the enfran- 
chised population in Jamaica; the distinct admission of the fact by one 
of the most prominent advocates of the interests of the colonial Pro- 
prietors, speaking in his place in the House of Commons ; the resolu- 
tion of the^Grenada Assembly, in 1823, declaring that the free colonial 
inhabitants of that island are a respectable well-behaved class of the 
community, and possessed of considerable property in the colony ; and 
the official documents transmitted to this country, from which it ap- 
pears, that of 90,000 negroes and persons of colour who are in possession 
of their liberty in the British West Indian colonies, only 227 received 
even temporary relief as paupers during the years 1821 to 1825; while. 



Surrey Ajiti-Slavery Society. 141 

of about 65,000 whites, in the same period, 1675 received rehef, the 
proportion of enfranchised persons receiving reUef being about one in 
400, and of whites about one in 40 ; and that the charge of profligacy 
and idleness is advanced with a singularly ill grace, in opposition to a 
measure which presupposes the unfortunate negroes to have wrought 
out their exemption from endless persecution by their activity, diligence, 
and self-denial. 

" 10. That palpable and deliberate misrepresentations of tlie cha- 
racter and disposition of the hundreds of thousands of black Englishmen 
and foreigners, whom the colonial assemblies have converted into cattle 
and beasts of burthen on account of the darkness of their skins, are only 
part of the same dishonest policy which has induced the colonial Le- 
gislatures to deny, even to the emancipated negroes and men of colour, 
those ordinary privileges and that common measure of respect which are 
essential to the comfort and happiness of all men ; to set a mark on 
them as a stigmatized and worthless race, and, by divesting them as far 
as possible of every motive and opportunity for making good use of their 
freedom, to bring that freedom into discredit. That only within these 
few months a Minister of the Estabhshed Church at Barbadoes has been 
censured in the most severe terms by the Vestry of his parish, as a pro- 
moter of insubordination and sedition, for permitting their fellow -sub- 
jects and fellow-sinners — the negroes and people of colour — to kneel 
before their Creator at the same time with white communicants, though 
placed below them at the sacramental table, and humbly receiving the 
consecrated elements after them. 

"11. That liberal as were the terms on which his Majesty's Govern- 
ment proposed that the negroes and people of colour should be per- 
mitted to purchase their own live bodies from those who had bought 
them, knowing they were stolen, the intimation from the Government 
at home has been met by a refusal on the part of the colonists, in which 
this Meeting cannot but recognise the natural fears of men conscious of 
their own monstrous tyranny and usurpation, and terrified at the thought 
of placing individuals whom they have so grievously injured on a level 
with themselves, and in a condition to call them to account. 

" 12. That in the nature of things men cannot easily be brought really 
to improve the condition of those whom they think it their interest to 
brutalize and keep in intellectual darkness, that they may with more 
facility be made to labour without recompence, for the profit of the 
authors of their calamities. That the colonial assemblies have gone 
much too far in making laws for hanging and burning dark-coloured 
Englishmen, for the sole offence of asserting their natural and unques- 
tionable rights, or of even hearing others talk of doing so, without 
giving information, to permit a hope that those assemblies will ever enact, 
or willingly execute any provisions in favour of the objects of their 
despotism ; and that, in the apprehension of this Meeting, the Court of 
Policy of Demerara, in refusing to allow the negroes and people of 
colour to purchase their exemption from oppression, and in declaring in 
their Memorial to his Majesty in Council, that their right of property 
in his subjects rests on the very same foundation with every other de- 
scription of property known to the law, aflbrd proof as pregnant of the 
utter delusion of allowing the oppressors to legislate for the oppressed, 
as the refusal of the Assembly at Jamaica, and of the other colonial 



14^ Surrey Anti-Slavery Society. 

Legislatures in the last Session, to exempt females from the savage 
inflictions of the cart whip on their bared bodies, or from the indecent 
exposure of their persons to men during the process of whipping. That 
these are the tender mercies of those practical men, as they are exult- 
ingly termed, whom the participators in their polluted profits in this 
country wish to uphold as the only proper persons to be entrusted with 
the duty of improving the condition of the West India negroes and 
people of colour. 

" 13. That this Meeting cannot bring themselves to believe that the 
Members of the Court of Policy in Demerara, or of any of the other 
colonial Legislatures, are so profoundly ignorant, as really to imagine 
that any British subject can, except by the law of superior strength, 
hold his innocent fellow-subject as a chattel and slave on British ground, 
and under a British King, or that they are conscientiously persuaded 
that this pretended claim ' rests on the same foundation with every 
other description of property known to the law.' That this Meeting do 
not hesitate to assert, that a negro or man of colour held in slavery is a 
stolen human being, and that the pretended Proprietor is no other than 
an unpunished receiver, who buys what he knows the vendor had forcibly 
wrested from the right owner. That, as far as properly founded law is 
to be considered, the negro is his own property ; that he has an inalien- 
able and incontestable right of property in his own person — in his own 
freedom — in his right to the fruits of his own industry — in his rights as 
an innocent British subject by the law and constitution of his country, 
or as an unoffending foreigner by the law of nations — in his rights as a 
father, as a husband, as a son — and above all, in his rights as a rational 
and responsible being. That these rights, at least, are the inherent pro- 
perty of the poorest negro in the King's dominions, and that it is in 
opposition to rights so sacred and so paramount, that his oppressor 
dares to found a claim upon the merit of having either stolen, or pur- 
chased from the stealer, the labour and the strength, the rights and the 
liberties, the person and the hapless posterity of a desolated plundered 
fellow-creature. That a claim so entirely at variance with every just 
principle, can never be made good until an answer has been given to the 
plain question of Mr. Fox — ' Why that wrong should be tolerated in 
the West Indies for which a man would be hanged in England?' 

" 14. That the right of property asserted by the planters in Demerara 
in kidnapped aliens, and in their own countrymen, is a fearful speci- 
men of the pervading principle of all the colonial legislatures — a prin- 
ciple, which, if it should ever be tolerated by any Ministers or by any 
legislative authorities in England, would shake the British Constitution 
-to its foundation, and proclaim to the astonished world that its watch- 
ful guardians never slept except when rich men trampled underfoot the 
stranger, and him that is ready to perish. 

" 15. That of all delusions and schemes for perpetuating evils which 
it is impossible openly and directly to justify, it is not easy to conceive 
one more fitted to beguile the people of this country, and to gain time 
on the demands of justice, than the artful assumption that the condition 
of the negro is only to be improved through the medium of the con- 
trivers of his wrongs in the colonial legislatures. That the white co- 
lonists, by their habits of inveterate tyranny, their heartless policy, their 
prejudices, their interests, and their fears, themselves have furnished an 



Dublin Anti-Slavery Society — -The Slave Orace. 143 

linequivocal answer to this tricking expedient ; and that this Meeting 
are fully persuaded that enactments framed in the Parliament of Eng- 
land, can alone effectually protect the 820,000 enslaved inhabitants 
of the British colonies, as well from the pretended ameliorations, as from 
the positive despotism and tyranny of the buyers and sellers of their 
fellow-subjects, whose notions of proprietary interests are founded on 
transactions which, out of their own unrighteous jurisdictions, would 
constitute a capital felony. — That this Meeting, therefore, conceive it to 
be their duty to petition both Houses of Parliament, in the energetic 
■words of the late Mr. Canning, ' Not to trust the masters of slaves in 
■what concerns legislation for slavery ; but to do their part themselves, 
and not to continue any longer to delegate the trust of doing it to those 
who cannot execute that trust fairly.' " 

DuBLiisr Anti-Slavery Society. 

A numerous and respectable meeting was held at the Rotunda in 
Dublin, on the 17th inst., the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor in the 
Chair, at which it was resolved unanimously to " petition the Imperial 
Parliament at its ensuing Session to take measures for the abolition of 
West India Slavery, which is as contrary to our temporal interests as 
to the spirit of our religion." An able Report was read by Mr. Abell, 
the Secretary, and several excellent speeches were made on the occa- 
sion. 

The Slave Grace. 

The public are fully apprized of the circumstances of this case. A 
female Mulatto, born in Antigua, of the name of Grace, came to 
England some years ago as an attendant on her mistress ; and after a 
considerable residence in this country, was induced to return to An- 
tigua, on an understanding which is asserted by Grace, but has not 
been proved, that she should henceforward enjoy, in Antigua, the liberty 
of which she was put into possession by her arrival in England. On 
her return to Antigua, however, her former owner claimed a right to 
her services as his slave, and she conceiving herself aggrieved by that 
claim, applied to the Collector of the Customs, who seized her as a 
person illegally imported and held as a slave, and prosecuted her in 
the Court of Vice-Admiralty, as a forfeiture to the King. The Judge 
of the Vice-Admiralty decreed that she should be restored to her master. 
By directions of Lord Bathurst, an appeal was prosecuted from that 
sentence to the High Court of Admiralty in this country. The case was 
argued at great length before Lord Stowell, who, after delivering a 
long and elaborate judgment, affirmed the sentence of the court below. 
We shall forbear from any remarks of our own in the present Number 
on this proceeding, and only insert, being all indeed we have room for^ 
the following brief extract from the communication of a Correspondent, 
which has just reached us, and which^ though it only touches on a 
part of the question, will be found highly deserving of notice. 

" Sir — In the course of the judgment recently given in the High 
Court of Admiralty, in opposition to the dictum of Lord Mansfield, 
'^that slavery is so odious, that it cannot be established without a 
positive law,' Lord Stowell observes, that ' ancient custom is generally 
recognized as a just foundation of all law.' If either of these positions; 



144 The Slave Grace. 

were true as applied to the practice of slavery, the Algerlnes might 
plead their aucient customs and their positive laws, and the attack on 
their harbour and ships a few years ago, by the British fleet under Lord 
Exmouth, would resolve itself into an act of unjustifiable aggression, 
and of murder on the part of the English Government. The error of 
lawyers when adverting to the subject of slavery, is apt to be that of 
applying those maxims of municipal law, with which they have been 
chiefly conversant, to the rights which belong to all men by the con- 
dition of their existence, and are termed natural rights. The laws of 
civil society, which give to men their rights of property, may un- 
doubtedly regulate and modify rights so originating for the general 
benefit of the community ; and if the subject under the consideration 
of the noble Judge of the Admiralty and of Lord Mansfield, had been 
an hogshead of sugar or a bag of cotton, custom would have done 
much, when applied to such objects ; and positive law would have done 
every thing, because such objects have no inherent rights of their own. 
But the natural rights of human beings, ' the rights of life and liberty,' 
are not within the reach of human laws, and can only be invaded by 
the law of the strongest — by robbery and violence. This distinction 
betvi^een natural and citil rights is known to every tyro that has opened 
the first volume of Blackstone. Sommerset, the black, did not acquire 
those natural rights, which belong to every human being from the moment 
of his birth, by arriving on the shores of England ; he merely reached 
a spot where the ' wicked cease from troubling' them. There are two 
classes of negroes in the West Indies — unoftending foreigners brought 
thither by an act of piracy against their inclination, and British subjects 
born within the King's allegiance, who are as entirely Englishmen as 
the white natives of those islands. Lord Stowell is too well ac- 
quainted with the Law of Nations to contend, that unoffending foreigners 
can legally be converted into slaves within the territories of England. 
Such a principle would not only be in itself immeasurably wicked, but if 
carried into practice, in respect of the subjects of any power capable 
of resenting the aggression, it would be the cause of an immediate 
war. The bombardment of Algiers has proclaimed this doctrine from 
the cannon's mouth. Of the negroes born within the King's allegiance, 
v/ill Lord Stowell, or would Lord Mansfield if he were now alive, 
assert, that as innocent British subjects, they can be deprived of their 
undoubted birthright, and converted into slaves, by the mere operation 
of a long continued course of robbery and violence ?— No, for such a 
custom can have no presumption of a lawful origin. Would either of 
those eminent men have maintained, in their legislative capacities, that 
the petty municipal assemblies of the colonies, or that even the Par- 
liament of England could pass an act for depriving 800,000 British 
subjects of their rights and liberties ? — Surely not, for on that principle, 
the Colonial Assemblies, and the Parliament of England, might out-law 
the entire population of the British Empire, in mere wantonness," 



Loudon : Bagater and TJfbms, Printers, H, Bsutliolomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 31.] For DECEMBER, 1827. [No. 7. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Societv, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



I. A SUMMARY OF THE PROGRESS OF REFORM » SINCE MAY, 
1823.— II. PRIVY COUNCIL INQUIRY RESPECTING MANUMISSION ; 
—DEFENCE OF MR. BUXTON AND HIS FRIENDS. 

On the 15th of May, 1823, Resolutions were adopted by the House 
of Commons, on the proposition of His Majesty's Ministers, and were 
subsequently agreed to by the House of Lords, the purport of which was, 
that " effectual and decisive measures," should be taken " for meliorat- 
ing the condition of the slave population in His Majesty's Colonies," 
in order that by " a determined and persevering , but judicious and 
temperate enforcement of such measures," the slaves might be pre- 
pared "for a participation in those civil rights and privileges which 
are enjoyed by other classes of His Majesty's subjects," " at the ear- 
liest period compatible with the well-being of the slaves, the safety of 
the Colonies, and a fair and equitable consideration of the interests 
of private property." 

In pursuance of these Resolutions, His Majesty's Ministers declared 
it to be their intention to introduce into the different slave Colonies the 
following Reforms, viz. 

I, To provide the means of education and religious instruction to 

the slaves. 
n. To put an end to Sunday markets. 

in. To make Sunday, instead of being to the slaves a day of labour 
in their provision grounds, a day of rest and rehgious observ- 
ance. 
IV. To allow the slaves equivalent time, in lieu of Sunday, for cul- 
tivating their provision grounds, and for marketing. 
V. To admit the testimony of slaves, under certain restrictions, in 

civil and criminal cases. 
VI. To legalize marriage among the slaves, and to protect their con- 
nubial rights. 

* We have thought it right to exhibit, in this condensed form, the substance 
of the details on the progress of Reform contained in the three preceding Num- 
bers of this work, references to which are inserted for the convenience of those 
who may wish to investigate the subject closely. 



146 Summary of the Progress of Reform. 

VII. To prevent the separation of families by sale. 
VIII. To prevent the sale of slaves detached from the plantation to 
which they belong. 
IX. To protect the slaves, by law, in acquiring, possessing, and 

transmitting property. 
X. To establish Savings' Banks for the safeguard of their property. 
XI. To abolish all taxes on Manumission. 

XII. To grant to the slaves a right of redeeming themselves, or any 
of their family, at a fair appraisement. 

XIII. To limit the power of arbitrary punishment possessed by the 

master and his agents, and to restrain its abuse. 

XIV. To provide that a regular record should be kept, and a regular 

return made of all arbitrary punishments by the master or his 
agents. 
XV. To abolish entirely the practice of flogging females. 
XVI. To abolish entirely the use of the driving whip in the field, as 
a stimulus to labour. 

XVII, To appoint Protectors of the slaves in every colony. 

XVIII. To provide that, in future, no person being a proprietor of 

slaves, or interested in slave property, should be appointed 
by the Crown to the offices of Protector of Slaves, Governor, 
Judge, Fiscal, Attorney General, Bishop, Clergyman, or salaried 
teacher, and generally to any function connected with the 
administration of the slave laws. 

XIX. To provide that, in questions involving the slavery or freedom 
of individuals, the presumption of law shall be in favour of 
freedom. 

XX. To purify the administration of Justice. 



Let us now consider how these various Reforms have been accom- 
plished, — and. First, in the Colonies where the Crown possesses the 
sole power of legislation. 

1. Trinidad. 

Many of the above points of reform were embodied in an Order of 
Council, which was laid before Parhament on the 16th of March, 1824, 
and then announced as the model which the other Slave Colonies were 
to follow. 

In this Order, however, the heads I. II. and IV. were, in effect, 
omitted. The head XIX. was also omitted, but it had been previously 
provided for in the Slave Registry Act of this Colony. The head XX. 
has not, as yet, been proceeded upon in any one Colony. 

The head III. was partially carried into effect. Sunday labour for the 
master's benefit was, in terms, prohibited; but the head IV., giving time 
in lieu of Sunday, having been omitted, the enactment, under head III. 
has been rendered wholly inoperative. Though Sunday markets were 
temporarily legalized, and no time in lieu of Sunday was granted to 
the slaves for cultivating their provision-grounds, yet it was made un- 
lawful to cultivate these on Sunday, that labour being obviously for the 
master's benefit. The slaves were consequently reduced to the alter- 



Crown Colonies — Trinidad. 147 

native of violating the law, or starving. The former alternative was, 
of course, universally preferred.* 

The head V. has been very imperfectly fulfilled, many objectionable 
restrictions on the admission of slave testimony being introduced into the 
Order. It appears by the latest returns, that after the Order had been 
in operation upwards of three years, only one slave had acquired, under 
its provisions, the right of giving testimony. It is obvious that all other 
regulations, in favour of slaves, must be greatly impeded, if not wholly 
frustrated, if that which proposed to give them the right of testimony 
in Courts of Justice has proved inoperative. f 

The manner in which the Order has been framed under the heads VI., 
IX., X., XL, XV., XVI., and XVII., seems liable to no just exception. 

The same remark would have applied to the head XII., on Manumis- 
sion, but for the official returns recently received on the subject from 
Trinidad, It thence appears that the enactment had failed, in attaining 
its object of securing to the slaves the proposed right of manumission, 
" at a fair appraisement ; " sworn appraisers deeming it no viola- 
tion of their solemn oaths, to value slaves desiring their liberty, and 
willing to pay a fair and equitable price for it, at twice, and even three 
times the highest amount for which they could be sold in the market, 
or for which they might be replaced in the same market.:|: 

The provision VII., on the separation of families, is very imperfectly 
executed. Mr, Canning, in his speech of the 16th of March, 1826, dis- 
tinctly stated, that it was the purpose of the Order to prohibit, generally, 
the separation of families by sale. As the Order now stands, the pro- 
hibition is confined to their separation by judicial sale. This is the 
more to be regretted, as the limitation is opposed to the former Spanish 
law, which did not allow of families being separated by sale in any 
case. § 

The effect of the valuable means adopted to restrain the master's 
abuse of power, under the head XIII,, is very materially counteracted 
by a provision subsequently introduced, which proceeds on the unjust 
and cruel principle, common to all the slave Colonies, that the slave, 
who fails in proving a complaint he may have preferred against his 
master or his master's agents, shall have to undergo punishment. Such 
a principle would be most unjust even in England. How much more 
where the testimony, not only of the complaining slave, but of all his 
fellows, is generally inadmissible. || 

The record and report of arbitrary punishments required under the 
head XIV., are required only from the owners of plantations ; all other 
slave-holders are exempted from the operation of the law. This is a 
grievous defect.^T 



* See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11, p. 132—135 ; No. 28, p. 79; and No. 
30, p. 131—133, 

t See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11, p. 136—138 ; and No. 30, p. 124, 125. 

X Ibid. No. 11, p. 139 ; No. 27, p. 68—72 ; and No. 30, p. 122. 

§ Ibid. No. 11, p. 139; and the Anti-Slavery Society's Second Report, p. 74, 
75. 

n Ibid. No, 11, p, 144. 

IT Ibid. No. 11, p. 141 ; and No. 2S, p, 79. 



148 Summary of the Progress of Reform. 

The head XVIII. has been very partially carried into effect. The 
Protector of slaves in Trinidad is debarred, indeed, from holding plan- 
tations in that Colony, worked by slaves ; but he may hold such planta- 
tions in every other Colony ; and even in Trinidad he may hold any number 
of slaves that are not predial ; a jobbing gang, for example. The Deputy 
Protectors, also, on whom, of necessity, the slaves must chiefly depend 
for the redress of their grievances, are placed under no restriction 
whatever in this respect.* 

Besides these defects, the Trinidad Order has omitted to fix any 
limit to the hours of labour, f In this Colony, also, as in all the other 
slave Colonies, the slaves are debarred, under heavy penalties, from 
raising or vending any article of exportable produce. % 

We have dwelt at so much length on the defects of the Trinidad 
Order, as being the example held out by His Majesty's Government to 
the imitation of the other slave Colonies, and because all its defects, 
with one or two exceptions, apply to all the Colonies subject to the 
• legislation of the Crown, in which any reform of the slave code has 
been hitherto attempted. 

2. Berbice. 

The new slave code of Berbice contains one slight improvement as 
compared with that of Trinidad. It establishes a regular record of the 
marriages, or reputed marriages, of slaves throughout the Colony. 

In several very important respects, it falls far short of the Trinidad 
Code. For example : — 

1. The Protector's power of defending the slave is confined to civil, 
and does not extend to criminal cases. 

2. Sunday markets (II. and III.) are not only continued as in Tri- 
nidad, but the master is authorized to occupy a portion of the Sunday 
in serving out to the slaves their weekly allowance of food, while the 
slave cannot quit the estate even to attend divine service, without the 
master's written leave. 

3. An important clause in the Trinidad code, (the 21st,) punishing 
the abuse of power in the master, (XIII.) is wholly omitted. 

4. Marriage (VI.) is more restricted than in Trinidad. 

5. Manumission, without the owner's consent, (XII.) is rendered 
nearly unattainable. The slave is to be appraised, not at his fair market 
value, but at a rate, which is to cover the estimated prospective loss 
of the master. The slave must also prove that his price is the fruit of 
his own honest earnings, or of a bequest; and that he has conducted 
himself honestly, committed no crime, and sustained no punishment 
during the five preceding years. § 

3. The Cape of Good Hope. 

The slave code of this Colony has fallen below that of Trinidad in 
still retaining the -private flogging of females, (XVI.) and in permitting 

* See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11, p. 142, 143 ; and No. 28, p. 79. 

+ Ibid. No. 11, p. 14.S, 144, and 149. 

X Ibid. No. 11, p. 138, 139, and 147 ; and No. 28, p. 79. 

§ Ibid. No. 28, p. 92, 93. 



Crown Colonies — Chartered Colonies. 149 

children to be separated from their parents by sale, at the age of ten 
instead of sixteen years. (VII.) 

It has improved on the Trinidad model ; 1 st, in abolishing, though 
still imperfectly, Sunday markets, (II.); 2nd, in securing to the slave 
a right of attending divine worship on that day, (III.) which they cannot 
lawfully do in Trinidad, or in any of the other Colonies, without the 
master's written leave ; 3rd, in admitting him freely to give testimony 
in Courts of Justice, (V.) except in civil suits affecting the master ; 
4th, in obliging the master to use his own hand in inflicting any 
punishment on his slave, and in not punishing slaves failing to prove 
their complaints, (XIII.) 

The intestate property of slaves, instead of going to the master, as 
in St. Lucia, goes to form a fund for redeeming female slave children at 
a fair appraisement. * 

4. Demerara. 

The new slave code of this Colony falls materially below even that of 
Berbice. It does not recognize the slave's right of manumission, even 
in the worthless and evasive manner of the Berbice Order, f 

5. Honduras. 

6. Mauritius. 

Nothing has been done in the way of reform in either of these 
Colonies. 

7. St. Lucia. 

This is the only Colony in which any approach is made towards 
giving to the slaves adequate time in lieu of Sunday, (III.); in which 
the separation of families by sale, whether judicial or otherwise, (VII.) 
is wholly prohibited ; in which slaves are not allowed to be sold de- 
tached from the estate, (VIII.); and in which a right of action is 
given to the slaves themselves. 

St. Lucia is the only Colony, besides the Cape of Good Hope, in 
which slave testimony is freely received, except in civil suits against the 
master ; and the only one, besides Trinidad and Grenada, where the 
presumption of law is in favour of freedom, (XIX.) 

The penal laws against slaves are, nevertheless, dreadfully severe ; and 
women may still be flogged by order of a magistrate. I 

Such is the state of things as to reform in the seven slave Colonies, 
where the Crown possesses an unrestricted right of legislation. Let us 
now look to the chartered Colonies, or Colonies having legislative 
assemblies of their own, and to which the Crown has repeatedly and 
anxiously recommended the adoption of the Trinidad model. This 



* Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 28, p. 94, 95. 
t Ibid. No. 27, p. 26, 27. 
t Ibid. No. 29, p. 111—115. 



150 Summary of the Progress of Reform. 

recommendation was urgently renewed by Lord Bathurst, in May, 
1826. Its result is as follows : 



8. 


Antigua. 


~\ 


9. 


Bermuda. 


i 


10. 


MONTSERRAT. 


f These six Colonies have done 


11. 


Nevis. 


^ nothing. 


12. 


St. Christophers. 


\ 


13. 


Virgin Islands. 


J 



There are seven others that have done something, of v/hich the 
miserable amount will presently be seen. 

14. Bahamas. 

By this legislature alone has head XVI., namely, the abolition of the 
driving-whip, been assented to. But that, in the Bahamas, by the ad- 
mission of the legislature itself, is no sacrifice. The mode in which 
the slaves are employed in this Colony does not admit of the use of the 
driving-whip, a circumstance which explains one cause of the great 
comparative increase of its slave population. 

The heads VI., (marriage); VII., (non-separation of families) ; IX., 
(the right of property) ; and X., (savings' banks), have been partially 
carried into effect. 

The legislature have pretended to adopt, but have most effectually 
evaded the head V., (slave testimony) ; and the head XII., which re- 
spects manumission, and on which they have framed their law accord- 
ing to the Berbice model. 

The other points of reform have been rejected.* 

15. Barbadoes. 

In this island Sunday markets (XI.) have been abolished, but no time 
being given in lieu of Sunday, the law bears hard on the poor slave. 

The heads V., (slave testimony); VI. (marriage); and VII., (the 
separation of families,) are treated of in the new act, but so feebly and 
imperfectly, as to amount to little or nothing. 

An evasive substitution is attempted for a Protector, (XVII. j by 
means of a council of protection, which may consist of slave holders, 
aided by a law secretary. 

The other heads of reform have been rejected, f 

16. Dominica. 

The heads V,, VII., and IX., (testimony, separation, and property,) 
are so treated as to evade the propositions of Lord Bathurst. His other 
recommendations have been rejected, and even some deteriorating 
changes introduced. I 

17. Grenada. 

The heads V., VII., and IX., to which may be added VI., (marriage,) 
have been dealt with in the same evasive manner as in Dominica. 

The number of lashes a master or his agent may inflict, is reduced 
from 39 to 25. (XIII.) 

A slave may not carry a driving whip in the field ; a palpable eva- 

* Anti-Slavery Reporter, No, 28, p. 80—87. 
tlbid. No. 28, p. 87— 91. 
tlbid.No. 29, p. 98—101. 



Chartered Colonies. 151 

sion of head XV. ; as if a free person could not wield a whip as well as 
a slave. 

This Colony is honourably distinguished by having adopted head 
XIX.* 

The remaining heads of reform have been rejected, f 

18. Jamaica. 

The heads V., VI., and VII., are dealt with in the new Slave Law 
of 1826 in the same ineffective manner by the Jamaica legislature as by 
that of Dominica, and of Grenada. 

The remaining heads have been rejected : while some fresh restric- 
tions have been laid on religious instruction by Missionaries.^ 

This Jamaica Law (of 1826) has been disallowed by his Majesty. 
19. St. Vincent's. 

This Colony differs from Grenada in not lowering the scale of 
arbitrary punishment below its former limit of 39 lashes ; in not pro- 
hibiting in any way the separation of families by sale (VII.); and in 
not having adopted the head XIX. Its evasions and rejections in other 
respects are the same. § 

20. Tobago. 

The legislature of Tobago has abolished Sunday markets, but has 
given no time in lieu of it. 

It has reduced the limit of arbitrary punishment by the master or 
his agent from 39 lashes to 20. 

The heads V., and IX., (testimony and property) are treated in the 
same evasive manner as in the Colonies of Grenada and St. Vincent's. 

The other heads of Reform have been rejected. || 

The following table will shew at a single glance the whole facts of 
the case. The figures at the top of each column refer to the heads of 
Reform enumerated at pages 145 and 146. The Roman capitals 
A. P. and I. are used for the sake of brevity, to mark, under these 
several heads, the degree of progress made in the legislation of each 
Colony. 

A. denotes the Adoption of the particular head of Reform. 

P. its Partial Adoption. 

I. its Inefficient Adoption. 

The, Slave population of each Colony is also given. IF 

* This improvement was omitted in the Reporter, No. 29, and in the Pam- 
phlet, " Further Progress," &c. The reader is particularly requested to supply 
the omission. 

t Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11, p. 155—162 ; and No. 29, p. 102. 

X Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 29, p. 102—111. 

§ Ibid. No. 11, p. 163, 164; and No. 29, p. 116, 117. 

II Ibid. No. 11, p. 154, 155 ; and No. 29, p. 117—119. 

1[The Table will shew, that in seven Crown Colonies (slaves 260,900) the A's 
are 38, the P's 30, and one I. The blanks are 71, two Colonies not reporting. 
— In thirteen Chartered Colonies (slaves 578,100) the A's are only 7, the P's 14, 
and the I's (blanks in fact) 16. The other blanks are 224, including six Colo- 
nies not reporting. Many of the P's are very partial indeed ; and even of the 
A's most are nullified by the non-adoptipnof other measures essential to their 
operation. 



CHARTERED COLONIES. 

8. Antigua . . . 32,000 

9. Bahamas . . . 10,000 

10. Barbadoes - - - 79,000 

11. Bermuda ... 5,200 

12. Dominica . - . 15,500 

13. Grenada - . . 24,500 

14. Jamaica - . . 336,000 

15. Montserrat - - 6,000 

16. Nevis .... g^oOO 

17. St. Christophers . 18,500 

18. St. Vincents - - 23,500 

19. Tobago - . . 13,500 

20. Virgin Islands . - 5,400 


CROWN COLONIES. 

, _, Nurnier of Slaves. 

1. Trinidad . . . 22,500 

2. Berbice . . . 23,000 

3. Cape of Good Hope . 35,500 

4. Demerara . - . 74,000 

5. Honduras . - . 2,400 

6. Mauritius - . - 80,000 

7. St. Lucia . . . 13,500 


In this Table, the Roman capitals A. P. and I. 
are used for the sake of brevity, to mark, under 
these several heads, the degree of progress made in 
the legislation of each Colony. 

A. denotes the Adoption of the particular head of 
Reform. 

P. its Partial Adoption. 

I. Its Inefficient Adoption. : * 


c 


— ■ 





I. 'I'o provide the means of 
Education and religious In- 
struction to the Slaves. 




,;!>.,■.....>■. 


, . , . \> , , 


II. To put an end to Sunday 

Markets. 






, , , , ^, hi 


III. To make Sunday, to the 
Slaves, a day of rest and of 
religious observance. 







^ 


IV. To allow Slaves time, in 
lieu of Sunday, for cultivat- 
ing grounds and marketing. 




1 HHI-H' ' ' '^t-H*-*' 'Tjl-I' 


;>• • ^^'^j^ 


V. To admit the testimony of 
Slaves, under restrictions, in 
civil and criminal cases.. 




1 >1_|' ' "1— II— 1' 'hj'^' 


> • ' ^>'-n> 


VI. To legalize marriage a- 
mong Slaves, and to protect 
their connubial rights. 




, . ^, . , ^nj^. ^^.■, 


!> 1 1 'TJ nd h3 hi 


VII. To prevent the separa- 
tion of Families by sale. 







>>•<,.., 


VIII. To prevent the sale of 
Slaves detached from plan- 
tation to which they belong. 




• MHH. ,— .l-IH-l. < ^ • 


> ' • ^>^>> 


IX. To protect the Slaves in 
acquirmg, possessing, and 
transmitting property. 




..•■•• T3 ' 


> > • ^f>ndp> 


X. To establish Savings'Banks 
for the safeguard of their 
property. 




. < X' ' ' >>' ' • >' 


^ , . >;> >t> 


XI. To abolish all taxes on 
manumission. 






> ' . . i>i-i>- 


XII. To grant to the Slaves a 
right ot redeeming them- 
selves.or any of their family. 




• hd • 


1-3 , 1 . > • hd 


XIII. To limit the power of 
arbitrary punishment, and 
to restrain its abuse. 







•Tj . ' 'z^^^^'Ti 


XIV. That a record be kept, 
and return made, of all ar- 
bitrary punishment. 







^:j ■ . >^>> 


XV. To abolish entirely the 
practice of flogging females. 




, 1 HH 1 , . 1 l-H . > " >■ i' 


> . . >»> 


XVI. To abolish entirely the 
use of the driving whip, as a 
stimulus to labour. 




• 


^ , , >>t^;(*^ 


XVII. To appoint Protectors 
of the Slaves in every Co- 
lony. 







iTj 1 . hdhd^^hd 


XVIII. That no Protector of 
Slaves, or other Fu nctionary, 
be allowed to hold Slaves. 




> 


> > 


XIX. The presumption of law 
shall be in favour of free- 
dom. 










XX. To purify the adminis- 
tration of Justice. 















153 

Remarks on the preceding Table. 

It may possibly be alleged, that the blank exhibited under head I* 
is unfair, as the recent appointment of Bishops and additional Clergy-= 
men invalidates the statement thus made on the subject of education 
and religious instruction. These appointments, however, are the 
work, as far as they go, of the Government at home; and to what a 
small extent they have hitherto operated, may be seen in the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, No. XIIL -passim, and in No. XXX. p. 133 — 136. 
What we particularly intend by exhibiting this clause as unfulfilled, 
is that no new legislative measures whatever have been taken either by 
the Crown or by the Colonial legislatures for promotitig the education 
and instruction of the slaves. The efforts of Methodists and Moravians 
are not to be ascribed to the Colonial authorities, by whom indeed in 
Jamaica they have been impeded. And while Sunday continues to be 
legally desecrated by markets and labour ; and while children from 
the age of five are kept in the field all day (see the Bishop of Jamaica's 
report in Reporter, No. XIII. p. 191 — 193,) it is vain to talk of edu- 
cating the young or instructing the old. Something appears to have 
been done at the Cape of Good Hope alone, but what its amount is 
does not clearly appear. 

Under the other heads, it is only in five of the Colonies subject to 
the legislation of the Crown that any reforms of an effective kind have 
been even commenced, and even there how large are still the blanks, 
and how partially and how inoperatively have many of the measures 
apparently adopted been carried into effect ! In none even of the 
Crown Colonies in the West Indies have Sunday markets been abo- 
lished, or has the religious observance of Sunday been secured, or has 
time been given to the slave in lieu of Sunday, to say nothing of other 
most essential points. 

In two of the Crown Colonies, and in six of the chartered, nothing 
whatever is as yet reported to have been done ; and in the remaining 
seven chartered Colonies what a mockery do their attempts at reform 
exhibit ! The only really effective measure is that single clause of the 
Grenada Act which, in questions of slavery or freedom, throws the 
onus probandi on the claimant of the slave. The abolition of Sunday 
markets in Barbadoes and Tobago, however desirable a measure in 
itself, is rendered an act of severity to the slave by the non-allowance 
of time in lieu of Sunday ; while all that is enacted about slave testi- 
mony, and marriage, and property, and the cartwhip, is mere evasion; 
the sound of reform without a particle of its substance. 



Inquiry before the Privy Council Respecting compulsory 
Manumission. 
The Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 27, informed our readers, that the 
planters of Demerara and Berbice had presented a petition and memo- 
rial to His Majesty in council, setting forth the grounds on which they 
apprehended ruin to their property if that part of the Trinidad order 
Were enforced which gave to slaves a right, without the consent, and 

u 



154 ' Inquiry before the Privy Council] 

even a9:ainst the will of their masters, of purchasing their freedortJ 
by the fruit of their own industry. In support of this petition and 
rnemorial counsel were heard before the Privy Council in July last. 
The statements then made on behalf of the petitioners appeared to be 
so devoid of all solid foundation, that it seemed at first sight unneces- 
sary to undertake their refutation; but when the prevailing ignorance 
of colonial affairs was duly considered, it was feared that these state- 
ments, if uncontradicted, might, even with some influential persons, 
pass for proof. It was therefore deemed expedient publicly to expose 
their fallacy. With this view, in the Reporter, No. 27, every allegation 
of the petitioners was distinctly met, and, as it appears to us, satisfac- 
torily disproved. Indeed after the lengthened investigation this sub- 
ject has since undergone, and the fresh evidence both oral and docu- 
mentary that has since been adduced, we shall still continue confidently 
to refer to that publication, as a full and sufficient answer to every 
objection which has hitherto been preferred to the principle of the com- 
pulsory manumission clause of the Trinidad order. 

As this work is accessible to ail our readers, it would be altogether 
superfluous to go again over the same line of argument. We would 
therefore only remind them, that that argument rests throughout either 
on the evidence of official documents, or on the testimony of writers 
of the very highest authority. 

No order on the subject of compulsory manumission has passed in 
Demerara. In Berbice the principle was introduced into the new code, 
but under such modifications as rendered it perfectly nugatory.* 

But even this restricted and modified enactment, Vi'hich seemed to 
make the compulsory manumission of a slave absolutely impossible, 
was still more than the prejudices of the slave holders of Berbice, in 
their impatience of freedom, could tolerate. They loudly remonstrated 
against it; and, in deference probably to their importunity. His 
Majesty's government was induced to suspend its operation until they 
should have an opportunity of producing evidence in support of their 
remonstrance before the Privy Council. That evidence has been pro- 
duced ; and the result has been a signal failure of its object. With 
the whole range of the West Indies before them, with a command of 
all the sources of local information, with a full opportunity of collect- 
ing and arranging their materials, and adapting them to the exigencies 
of their case, they have not only failed to establish their own positions, 
but they have actually contrived to save their opponents the trouble 
of disproving them, the four witnesses they brought forward not only 
contradicted each other, on some of the most material parts of their 
case, but produced the impression, that their opposition to the measure 
was founded not in any fair ground of fact or argument, but either 
in the blindness of prejudice, the alarms of selfishness, or the contracted 
habits of mind which are the inevitable effect of familiarity with the 
administration of such a system as that of colonial slavery. 

The result of an argumentative investigation of this kind might have 
been anticipated; and, in point of fact, it not only has served to 



See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 28, p, 93. 



respecting Compulsory Manumission. 155 

exhibit the fallacy of the views of the petitioners, but it has led to 
conclusions almost diametrically opposed to those they aimed at. 

We demur indeed entirely to the propriety or utility of producing 
individuals nursed in the school of colonial slavery, or deeply interested 
in its continuance, to argue on oath that slavery is a better and more 
advantageous state than freedom, which was substantially the issue. 
Suppose a similar objection had been taken to the law of marriage. 
Should we have tolerated a regular attempt on the part of the planters 
to prove, that the state of promiscuous concubinage prevailing in 
Berbice and Deraerara was preferable to the institution and protection 
of the marriage tie ? And yet such an opinion is manifestly held by 
a vast number of West Indian colonists; we may say by the majority ; 
otherwise marriage would have long since been legalized. Nay, of the 
prevalence of this very opinion the present inquiry has furnished, in- 
cidentally, not a few indications. — Now what would be said to an 
attempt to prove, by the evidence on oath of West India planters who 
had been living all their lives in concubinage, that marriage was a 
mischievous institution, and that the interests of society required that 
concubinage, with all its blessings, should continue inviolate? And 
yet would this have been more extraordinary than to decide general 
views of colonial policy, involving questions of slavery and freedom, on 
the oaths of large slave proprietors, or practised slave-drivers? 

We must content ourselves for the present with these general ob- 
servations, reserving our more detailed view of the subject until the 
promised publication of the whole proceedings shall take place. It will 
then be more clearly seen how much beyond the previous hope the 
cause of truth, and freedom, and justice, has gained by this discussion. 

In the mean time we are unwilling to withhold from our readers a 
few of the important facts which this inquiry has dragged into light; 
and which, had any farther testimony been wanting to give validity to 
our former statements, would have supplied it in abundance. 

I. Our readers are aware, that in the Island of Trinidad, the slave 
population has been decreasing, and is now decreasing at the enormous 
yearly rate of 2|- per cent. In the course of an inquiry which was set 
on foot by the planters of that island in 1825, for the evident purpose 
of accrediting slavery and discrediting freedom, this fact proved some- 
what embarrassing ; particularly as the different witnesses who were 
examined were most decidedly of opinion, that harsh or cruel treat- 
ment, and the over- working and under-feeding of slaves Avere utterly 
unknown in Trinidad, and could therefore have nothing whatever to 
do with this extraordinary mortality. It was attributed by one to 
night dances, by another to licentiousness, by a third to carelessness 
of their health, and by all, as the prime cause of decrease, to the dispa- 
rity of the sexes ; the great excess of males over femrJes at once solving 
the difficulty.* It might have been expected, that in a question of 
this kind, on which so much depended, instead of being content with 
vague conjectures on the subject, the Inquest would have resorted for 

* See Extracts from the Minutes of Evidence taken by the Committee of 
Council of Trinidad, for inquiring into the Negro Character, No. 179, of 
14th June 1827. 



156 Inquiry before the Privy Council 

information to the authentic records of the population of the Colony. 
Such a course, however, would not have answered their purpose; for 
we find, on referring to the parliamentary returns of 1826, No. 353, 
in which the slave population of Trinidad for the year 1825, the very 
year of the inquiry, is given, that the proportion of the sexes is thus 
stated;— Males 11,908, Females 11,209— Total 23,117. The dispa- 
rity, therefore, is obviously too trivial to have any perceptible influence 
on the rate of population. As for the licentiousness which is assigned 
as a concurrent cause of the decrease of the negro race, what is this 
but a part of that system of impiety, cruelty, and degradation, which 
has continued to depopulate our Colonies, and which is the direct 
result of the criminal neglect and profligate example of the whites ? 

II. But let us contrast with this rapid waste of human life two cases 
placed before us in the same volume of evidence, furnished to us by 
the planters of Trinidad. The one is that of a gang of slaves which 
had been most inhumanly transported, three years before, from the 
Bahamas to Trinidad. About 30 years earlier, their owner, Mr. Burton 
Williams, had become possessed, in the Bahamas, of 107 slaves. 
During the period which preceded his migration thence to Trinidad, 
he states, that these 107 slaves had multiplied, by natural increase, to 
331, more than trebling their number in that time. Mr. Burton Wil- 
liams is pressed to supply some explanation of this extraordinary 
increase, as contrasted with the rapid decrease which takes place 
among the slaves of Trinidad. He is evidently much puzzled to do so 
in a manner that will redound to the credit of the planters of the latter 
island ; but if his statements be carefully weighed, the real solution will 
be found to be, that the land of Trinidad is extremely fertile, and is 
employed in sugar culture ; and that the land of the Bahamas is less 
fertile, and will grow only corn and cotton. And yet in the Bahamas 
the slaves must have been most abundantly fed. This gang could not 
Otherwise have grown in 30 years from 107 to 331.* 

The second instance is still more to our purpose. 

About the year 1816 a number of American blacks, who had taken 
refuge with our forces during the late war, were brought to Trinidad, 
and, being joined there by some African women liberated from a slave- 
ship,' were formed into a settlement where they still reside. Their 
number is stated to have been originally 774, consisting, it would 
appear, of about 350 men and only 200 women, the rest being chil- 
dren. The official return of the number of these settlers at the close 
pf 1824 was 923, being an increase, in eight years, of 149, or 20 pet- 
cent., being about 2^ per cent, per annum. Now in this case the dis- 
parity of sexes was greater than in the case of the Trinidad slaves, and 
therefore at least an equal probability existed of the prevalence of 
licentious habits, with all their injurious effects ; and yet the advan- 
tage, on the side of these free negroes, amounts to the astonishing 
difference, in the rate of increase, of 5-^ per cent, per annum, (p. 1 — 5, 
and p. 30— 32.) \ 

On looking into the details some of the causes of this diflPerence are 
'H^ery obvious. To mention only a few of them : — 



See Minutes of Evidence, p. 17 



respecting Compulsory Manumission. 157 

1 . The free settlers are generally observant of the marriage tie, and 
live decently together (p. 3). — The slaves in Trinidad have had no 
marriage. 

2. The/ree women are careful of their children, and feed and clothe 
them well. (p. 3.) — The slave women have no time for this purpose. 

3. Though theyVee women work in their own grounds, they do not 
generally hire themselves out to labour in the field, but attend to their 
domestic concerns, (p. 32.) — The slave women are compelled to be in the 
field from morning to night, besides the night-work of crop time. 

4. The free settlers enjoy the rest of Sunday. " They never work 
on Sunday in their own grounds." (p. 5.) " They generally hear a 
lecture from one of their preachers; the rest of the day they pass 
quietly;" some dance, (p. 32.)— The slaves must till their grounds on 
that day, or starve. 

5. The slaves " in many instances work eighteen out of twenty- 
four hours, which constant labour \hefree settlers will not submit to." 
(p. 33.) 

In the midst of much general abuse, and heavy charges of idleness, 
profligacy, and wretchedness, poured out upon the free, the above 
points of difference are most clearly established; and they go far to 
account for the comparative waste of slave life in Trinidad, more espe- 
cially when coupled with sugar cultivation in a fertile soil.* 

III. We have been assured, on the very highest colonial authorities, 
including Major Moody, that a day, or half a day of labour in the 
week will supply abundance of food to a negro ; and that, therefore, 
in a tropical sun, he cannot be induced, when free, to labour stea- 
dily for wages. Something of this kind is repeated in the evidence 
from Trinidad. We should therefore naturally have expected, that the 
refugee negroes, of whom we have been speaking, being free, would, 
according to the new theory of the philosophy of labour, have limited 
themselves to. the exertions necessary for the supply of their actual 
wants ; especially as the fertile land of Trinidad, of which they had 
abundance granted to them, would supply them with food at a very 
trifling expense of time and labour. But here, in the midst of many 
contradictions, and much manifest misrepresentation, a few important 
facts stand prominently forward. 

Mr. Mitchell, the superintendant of the negro refugees, himself a 
sugar planter, and who had resided in Trinidad for 27 years, thus writes 
to Sir Ralph Woodford on the question, " whether sugar estates 
could be carried on entirely by free labour." " I do not think," he 
says, '' they could, in the manner the work is carried on at present, 
making large quantities of sugar in a given time, in many instances 
working eighteen out of twenty-four hours, which constant labour the 

* The evidence of the Keeper of the Royal Gaol (p. 40), throws much light 
on this point. He is asked, " What is your opinion as to the difference of 
labour between working on the tread-mill, and working in the field ?" " I 
think," he says, " there is no comparison in the labour. Even when the 
prisoners are working on the mill, the labour is, in my opinion, lighter than 
labour in the field." He adds, that in the gaol, " he has occasionally seen an 
air of dejection on the free people, but has observed nothing of this kind 
among the slaves." To them, it would appear, therefore, that the gaol is rather 
a state of enjoyment, even with its tread-mill. 



158 Inquiry before the Privy Council. 

Jree settler will not stibmit to, whose easy circumstances render him 
independent. But I am of opinion, that estates with few slaves are 
greatly assisted by free labourers, as in the quarter of North Naparima, 
where, in many instances within my knowledge, the canes are planted 
and cut down, while the staves, hoops, and heading, are split by them. 
And was the free population greater than it is in the colony, I have 
no doubt sugar estates, carkying oisr labour from sunrise to 
SUNSET, might be worked by them, whilst the planter would receive a 
moderate indemnification for his outlay." (p. 33.) 

Much to the same effect might be produced from this important but 
reluctant mass of testimony, only a part of which, selected, it would 
appear, by the Council of Trinidad, a council of slave-proprietors, has 
been yet permitted to see the light. 

But on the point of sugar culture by free labour, a still more decisive 
testimony has been unexpectedly brought to light by means of this 
inquiry. It consists of a despatch from Mr. Ward, our Envoy to 
Mexico, addressed to Mr. Canning, in reply to questions put to him 
by that lamented statesman ; and it establishes the fact in the clearest 
manner, that, at the present moment, the cultivation of sugar is 
very extensively carried on in Mexico by means of free labourers 
working steadily for hire in large gangs. But we must reserve this 
interesting topic for a future occasion. 

IV. We shall advert at present to only one more point in the 
minutes of the Council of Trinidad, as it has a direct reference to the 
subject of compulsory manumission and its effects. 

Mr. Mitchell, the gentleman already referred to, gives it as his opi- 
nion, that the best means of fatting the slave for liberty are, first, 
" religious instruction ;" and next, " giving a stimulus to his exertion 
by holding out a prospect of his acquiring his liberty by industry and 
care." And the most effectual way of doing this he conceives would 
be, " to purchase for him, in the first instance, a day in the week, or 
a sixth part of his value,* on which capital he would, in a few years, 
work out his freedom ; and, when free, reimburse the advance of his 
original purchase to government." He adds, that the manumitted 
slaves in his quarter do not work out as field labourers. " Those who 
do not cultivate their own ground as free settlers generally work as 
journeymen tradesmen." He knows of no instance of a manumitted 
slave not being able to maintain himself when free. (p. 33 and 34). 

Another gentleman, Mr. Lamont, who had resided 22 years in Trini^ 
did, testifies to the superiority of manumitted slaves over the general 
class of free labourers from the Spanish main ; and gives as the reason, 
that " most of them have purchased their freedom by their industry 
and saving habits; and that the others were gratuitously freed by their 
owners, in consequence of long and faithful services." (p. 45.) 

Before we conclude this article, it may be expected that we should 
make some allusion to a circumstance which occurred in the course of 
the inquiry before the Privy Council, and which has been represented 
as indicating a backwardness on the part of the abolitionists to sup- 
port, by evidence, the views they have promulgated on the subject of 

* It ought to be a fifth part of his value, for he is already entitled of right t& 
one day in the week in lieu of Sunday. 



Defence of Mr. Buxton and his Friends. 159 

manumission and free labour. On the day on which the evidence for 
the petitioners was brought to a close, the newspapers represented 
a member of the Council as complaining that no one came forward 
with counter evidence. This complaint was supposed to point to 
Mr. Buxton and his friends ; and not a few were disposed to infer, 
from their having dechned the challenge, that they must have done so 
under a conviction of the weakness of their cause. What Mr. Buxton 
and his friends may think it right hereafter to say from their places in 
Parliament in defence of the line they took on this occasion, we pretend 
not to anticipate; but we can conceive many sound reasons which 
might have induced them to refuse the call said to have been 
addressed to them. Mr. Buxton and his friends, it is well known, 
had from the first declined to sanction the proposed inquiry by taking 
any part in it. If, however, such a determination had been deliberately 
and avowedly adopted by them before the inquiry commenced, it would 
have argued" no very consistent or well-formed purpose had they been 
provoked, by any such call, to swerve from it; particularly after the 
inquiry had almost reached its termination, and when not the slightest 
preparation had been made to fulfil the task said to have been thus pro- 
posed to them. We can easily imagine, however, what may have been 
some of their reasons both for not complying with any such call, and 
for their original determination to take no part in the inquiry. 

1 . They might have supposed, that the object, from first to last, which 
such an inquiry was intended by the petitioners and their supporters to 
promote, was delay ; and they might have felt it to have been their 
duty to lend no aid, directly or indirectly, to such an object. 

2. They might have conceived, that they had already established their 
case to the satisfaction (to say nothing of the public) of both the Parlia- 
ment and the Government of the country ; both having, after due deli- 
beration and inquiry, so far assented to its truth and justice, as to 
resolve, with an unanimity scarcely broken by a murmur on the part 
of the West Indians in parliament, to adopt forthwith a variety of the 
reforms suggested by Mr. Buxton and his friends (see above, p. 145), 
and among the rest the very measure which was the subject of inquiry. 

3. With respect also to the measure at issue, they might have pro- 
duced, as a valid reason for considering it as a settled point, that His 
Majesty's government, through the organs of Mr. Canning and Lord 
Bathurst, had repeatedly declared it to be " a vital part of their whole 
scheme," which " could not be dispensed with," and without which 
" no system of measures would satisfy the feelings of the country, or 
execute the purposes of Parliament ;" and that therefore to submit it at 
this late hour to a new inquiry, would hardly be doing justice to the 
memory of one distinguished statesman, or t© the feelings of another; 
and still less to their own obligations as men intrusted with the con- 
duct of a great cause. 

4. They might further have pleaded their fears, that if they should 
consent to become parties to such an inquiry, they might be virtually 
surrendering the pledges already obtained ; at least they might be con- 
tributing indefinitely to protract their fulfilment, seeming bound in 
consistency to wait the result of the inquiry, to Avhich they had con- 
sented, before they agitated the subject in Parliament. 



1 60 Defence of Mr. Bitxton and his Friends. 

5. They might also have been of opinion, that having obtained! 
certain concessions in favour of the slave population, they had no right 
to compromise the vital interests of that numerous class, by agreeing 
to any proceeding which brought into question, and eventually might 
endanger its full right to each and all of these concessions. 

6. And supposing there v^ere no validity in these several reasons,, 
they might still have been of opinion, that to institute a grave and 
solemn inquiry before the King in Council, in order to ascertain what 
would be an equitable compensation to a slave-holder for the redemp- 
tion of his slave (which was in fact the professed and precise object of 
the inquiry), was a course wholly uncalled for ; the question, though 
a very fit question to be settled by a court and jury, or by three honest 
and impartial appraisers, after a due investigation of the special facts- 
of each case, being scarcely fit to exercise the legislative functions either 
of the Privy Council or of Parliament. 

7. Besides this, they might have thought that, the point more imme- 
diately at issue being one, not of fact, but of speculation ; to proceed to 
settle it by evidence upon oath seemed an anomalous and question- 
able proceeding, by which, in certain supposable cases, under the 
sanction of that solemnity, a more ready currency might be given to 
the effusions of party spirit, passion, prejudice, or selfishness. 

8. The question at issue also, being one of a speculative kind, they 
might have thought, was more likely to be satisfactorily decided by a 
reference to general principles ; to official documents exhibiting plain 
and unsophisticated facts ; and to the results of historical experience ; 
than by a reference to the necessarily contracted and partial observa-- 
tions of prejudiced and interested individuals. 

9. They might moreover have thought, that in a case where the 
petitioners stood opposed to the concurrent wishes, and to the declared 
purposes of the Government and the Parliament, as well as of the 
nation, the whole burden of proof lay upon them ; but that being a case 
which it was impossible to establish by evidence, the attempt to pro- 
duce counter evidence would be like fighting with a shadow. 

10. Mr. Buxton and his friends might farther have pleaded, that the 
whole of the statements which they had to produce had been already 
placed before the public, and were chiefly drawn from official docu- 
ments, which had either been laid by the Colonial Department on the 
table of Parliament, or were to be obtained through that department. 

11. They might also have seen grounds, from the first, for believing 
that the petitioners would not only fail in establishing their own case,, 
but would, by their statements, give additional confirmation to the case 
of their opponents ; and that therefore to meet them by counter evi- 
dence, was altogether a work of supererogation. 

12. And if there were any good grounds for such an anticipation 
before the inquiry commenced, they must have been abundantly con- 
firmed in that opinion before the period of the alleged challenge; as by 
that time the failure of the petitioners' case had become matter of 
history ; and every previous hope, that those views of the subject, enter- 
tained by Mr. Buxton and his friends, would be strengthened, had been 
surpassed by the event, as the preceding pages sufficiently shew, 

London: Bagster and Thorns, Printers, .^4, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 32.] For JANUARY, 1828. [No. 8. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



ON THE DEMORALIZING INFLUENCE OF SLAVERY.*— OBSER- 
VATIONS ON THE PRESENT STATE OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY 
QUESTION. 

Slavery has been distinguished into two kinds, domestic and 
predial. Domestic slavery, in the West India colonies has been repre- 
sented as mild, in comparison with predial slavery ; and, therefore, the 
chief objections against colonial slavery have been derived, in general, 
from the severe condition of predial slaves. But while much has been 
said against slavery on account of the cruelty almost inseparable from 
it, its demoralizing effects, though forming a still more powerful objec- 
tion, have been, perhaps, inadequately estimated. , 

Several causes may be assigned for this omission. It may have 
partly arisen from the palpable nature of the facts relating to bodily 
suffering, and the greater aptitude of such facts to excite sympathy. 
It may have arisen also from this, that few of the benevolent indivi- 
duals, chiefly engaged in bringing about the abolition of the slave-trade, 
had an opportunity of seeing the effects of slavery with their own eyes, 
so as to be fully qualified for the task of exhibiting all the painful and 
degrading disclosures connected with the interior of the system. 

To speak correctly, however, slavery in the Cape of Good Hope 
differs from that of the West Indies, in that it is domestic rather than 
predial. Almost all the slaves of that colony dwell on the premases of 
their respective masters, and are under their immediate superintend- 
ance. 

It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the love of power is one of 
the strongest passions in the human breast ; and the more nearly that 

* The facts contained in this article were furnished by several individuals of 
the highest respectability, who had sufficient opportunities of acquiring cor- 
rect information on the spot. To the accuracy of the statements I can also 
myself bear witness from personal observation and diligent inquiry, during a 
residence of six years at the Cape of Good Hope ; and should any of them 
meet with contradiction, I am prepared to produce additional evidence of 
the most unquestionable character in proof of their authenticity. 

London, 18, Aldermanbury, Tho. Pringle. 

Dec. 27, 1827. 

X 



162 On the Demoralizing Ivfluence of Slavery. 

power approaches to absolute despotism, the more it is desired and en- 
joyed. It has been remarked by Tacitus, one of the most shrewd 
observers of human nature, that there is nothing so sweet to the human 
heart, as the gratification which arises from the consciousness of having 
the life of a fellow-creature at one's disposal. And it is this prevailing 
love of power which presents, perhaps, the greatest obstacle to the abo- 
lition of slavery in our slave colonies.* Power, in the hands of men, 
is in no instance so much subject to abuse, as in its exercise over their 
own species ; a circumstance which, of itself, forms no inconsiderable 
argument against slavery. An individual would be considered almost a 
demon, who should take pleasure in tormenting any of the brute tribes ; 
and yet to find a pleasure in the sufferings of human beings, and even 
in teazing and tormenting them, is no uncommon thing to be witnessed 
in the present state of colonial society, ki a sale of slaves in Cape 
Town, a colonist, who was bidding hard for a slave that was exhibited 
on a table for sale, was asked by the slave, why he bid for him. The 
reply was, " That I may have the pleasure of being revenged on you 
for your insolence to me, when I visited at the house of your mistress." 
The answer made by the slave was, "You may save your money; you 
shall never have me in your power ; for I shall put an end to my exist- 
ence, the first moment I have the. opportunity after I find I am your 
property." The threat, and the manner in which it was spoken, ended 
the competition ; and the slave was knocked down to another bidder. 
The love of money, and perhaps some fear of his own life, overcame, 
in this instance, the thirst of revenge ; but it shews the hardening effects 
of slavery that there was no murmur of disapprobation expressed on 
this occasion against the individual who made use of such language. In 
a transport of passion a man may shoot his favourite horse or dog ; but 
no man ever purchased a horse or dog for the mere pleasure of tor- 
menting him. Farmers and others may have cut their horses or oxen 
with their whips, and the poor animals may have fallen victims to the 
exertions this mode of excitement was designed to call forth ; but what 
man ever ordered his horse to be flogged successively for days together, 
and the lacerated flesh to be rubbed with pepper and salt, and the flog- 
ging repeated till life was extinguished ? And yet such atrocities are 
not at all uncommon when human beings are liable, as slaves are, to be 
the victims of the unbridled passions of their fellow-men. 

What, indeed, it may be asked, is the most conspicuous ingredient 
in the world's history ? What is it that glares out the most hideously 
from the darkness in which so great a portion of it has been enveloped, 

* When the recent Slave Ordinance (framed on the model of the Trinidad 
Order in Council) was promulgated at the Cape, a great sensation was excited 
among the slave owners, who viewed the measure as a preparatory step to- 
wards emancipation ; and the clause, allowing the slave to purchase his own 
freedom, was specially objected to. Mr. Cloete, a landholder, near Cape- 
Town, was violently declaiming against this ordinance, when a gentleman said 
to him, "But if any of your slaves obtain the means of paying you the full 
market price for their freedom, are you not sufficiently compensated ? " " No; " 
replied the slave-owner ; " for their mere labour I may be compensated, but 
what will compensate for the deprivation of the power I have now over them — 
the power not merely of a master but of an owner ? " 



On the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery. 163 

but the incessant rage of miserable mortals against their fellow-mortals — 
" hateful and hating one another ? " — The whole field seems covered 
with inflictors and sufferers, not seldom interchanging those characters. 
Look which way we will, it is still a scene of cruelty, oppression, and 
slavery ; — of the strong trampling on the weak, and the weak attempt- 
ing to avenge themselves on the strong ; — of rancorous animosities and 
murderous competitions ; — of treacheries and massacres ; — of wars 
between hordes, or cities, or empires; wars seldom, in spirit, intermitted, 
and combining all the means of destruction which the ingenuity of rage 
and vengeance can devise. In short, cruelty is, generally speaking, 
natural to the heart of man ; a fact evident even in the sports and 
amusements of the multitude. When vicious propensities have been 
restrained by education, the sympathies of the heart are, without doubt, 
improved ; but the native disposition frequently bursts through all re- 
straint, and displays its genuine and natural character. If cock-fighting 
and bull-baiting, amusements so rapturously enjoyed by the vulgar, no 
longer please minds tinctured with literature and softened by moral 
culture, yet even such minds, are far from feeling, as they ought, the 
sufferings of others. It may be pleaded in apology, that it is not the 
sufferings of the animals, in such exhibitions as those alluded to, which 
give the intense pleasure experienced by the spectators ; but the force, 
the dexterity, the perseverance, the determined spirit manifested in the 
conflict. Granting this, it yet cannot be denied, that the bare circum- 
stance of seeking pleasure, which must be purchased by the infliction 
of so much positive pain on any species of creatures, if it does not 
indicate a temper delighted by the suffering of others, shews, at least, a 
selfishness which consults its own gratification only, and cares not at 
what expense it is obtained. 

But though rational beings are thus found to derive pleasure from 
the sufferings of irrational creatures ; yet these creatures furnish no 
scope for the exercise of revenge or of mortified pride. With respect to 
our fellow-men, however, the case is different; and it is most humiliating 
to state, that in slave colonies, cruelties are frequently exercised upon 
human beings of a kind which, had they been inflicted on the brute 
creation, would have excluded the perpetrators of them from society. 
Man is a tyrant, it is true, to the inferior animals ; but, unrestrained 
by law, he becomes a wolf to man ; and, under the influence of violent 
passions, liable to be excited by the most trifling circumstances, is not 
to be intrusted with power over the liberty and life, the soul and body, 
the happiness or misery of his fellow-man. 

But to come to the Cape of Good Hope. It has been argued by 
several late writers, and especially by the Quarterly Review,* that since 
the emigration of British settlers in 1820, the influx of free labourers 
from Europe will be a great means of hastening the abolition of slavery 
in that settlement. We have no faith in this remedy. Free labour and 
slavery are, it is true, destructive of each other ; but, like the mixture of 
an alkali and an acid, the ascendancy of one over the other, will depend 
upon their comparative quantity and power. If the proportion of free 

* See Quarterly Review, vol. XX, p. 455. 



164 On the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery. 

labourers in a colony is much greater than that of slaves, the Reviewer's 
position maybe tenable; but if, on the other hand, the number of 
slaves in a colony is much greater than that of free labourers, the 
reverse of the Reviewer's anticipation is rather likely to follow. Slavery 
may go to destroy free labour, and the free labourers may either eventu- 
ally become themselves slave-holders, or be reduced to a condition little 
superior to that of the slaves.* Slavery, we admit, may be expected to 
decrease in every country, where free labourers are much more numerous 
than slaves ; but in such a country as South Africa, where those in a 
state of slavery form more than nineteen parts out of twenty of the 
labouring class, the value of slaves, and consequently the system of 
slavery existing in that colony, are not likely to be materially affected 
by any importation of free labourers which can be expected very 
speedily to take place. 

Men accustomed to govern slaves are unfit to manage free labourers ; 
and they prefer having under them slaves, on whom they can vent their 
irritable passions without any fear of consequences, to free labourers, 
with whom they must be under restraint. The slave masters, particu- 
larly such as emigrate from England, beat and cut their slaves because 
they do not perform as much labour as free servants ; and they quarrel 
with their free labourers, because they will not be treated like slaves. 
The free labourer from England is no sooner articled to a master than 
he finds he must herd with slaves, and expect the same kind of usage. 
If he cannot brook this degradation, he quarrels with his master, and 
has his condition made worse, till he loses all respect for himself, and 
sinks under his misfortunes. Disappointed in his expectations, and 
wearied out with the painful and degrading circumstances in which he 
is placed, his first thought is commonly that of returning home ; but 
it requires a sum of money, to defray the expense of a passage to 
England, which few of the emigrants can raise; and they have scarcely 
any alternative between starvation and a continuance in a situation 
abhorrent to their feelings. There is, however, a wonderful facility in 
the human mind to accommodate itself to its circumstances, and in 
many cases it is well that it is so : but what excites our approbation, 
where this change takes place without any sacrifice of principle, be- 
comes matter of regret, when, as in the present instance, it is attended 
with mental and moral degradation. Finding that he cannot return to 
his native country, and despairing of rising above the wretchedness into 



* This observation does not exactly apply to the new British Settlement on the 
eastern extremity of the colony, where slave-labour is now precluded by a judi- 
cious clause introduced into the grants of lands, by which the employment of 
any slave in their cultivation is deemed a sufficient ground for cancelling the pos- 
sessor's right to them. It is, however, a strange and unfortunate anomaly, that 
while this beneficent precaution was about being adopted by the Home-Govern- 
ment, with a view to restrain the increase of slavery in South Africa, immense 
tracts of new land were apportioned out by the Colonial Administration to 
Dutch-African boors, without any restriction whatever on the employment of 
slaves ; and that even in the midst of this British Settlement, the Magistrates 
and Functionaries of Government are permitted to retain in their houses and 
on their farms crowds of slave labourers. 



On the Demoralizing Infiuence of Slavery. \ Q5 

which he has sunk, the emigrant has recourse for comfort to the exces- 
sive use of wine and spirits, and engages either in promiscuous intercourse 
with the female slaves, or forms a connexion with an individual slave, 
and thus fixes his condition for life. 

Slaves of European descent are, at the Cape, more valuable to their 
proprietors than others, and if a European, in the condition we have 
described, is considered by his master likely to improve the breed of his 
slaves, he meets with milder treatment. But such free labourers, whe- 
ther they confine themselves to one slave woman, or indulge in general 
licentiousness, contribute to the increase, not to the diminution of 
slavery. The condition of the mother determines the condition of her 
offspring. The children of a Hottentot woman by a slave are born 
free; but if they are supported by the master of the father, they are 
held as apprenticed bondsmen, till they are eighteen years of 
age. If the mother is a slave, the children are born in a state of 
slavery. From the great number of males in proportion to the females, 
who emigrate from Europe to South Africa; from the principles and 
habits of the young men who become emigrants; from the gross sen- 
suality prevalent in slave colonies ; and from the temptations held out 
to our labourers to form the degrading connexions alluded to, the error 
of the Quarterly Reviewer, when he absurdly asserts that in twenty 
years there will probably not be a slave remaining in the colony, might 
have been discovered a priori. But in opposition to his unwarranted 
assertion, we take the higher ground of incontrovertible facts. 

When a slave touches the British shores he is free; but when a free 
labourer comes to South Africa, he is, or becomes virtually a slave, and 
the posterity he leaves behind him, with few exceptions, are, in reality, 
a race of slaves. To say nothing of the degrading treatment a free 
labourer receives in a slave colony, the temptations to vice are so great, 
that very few of our mechanics and free labourers are able to withstand 
them. If the emigrant has power to escape the common degradation, 
and to surmount the hardships of his lot, he may rise in the world, 
acquire property, and become himself a slave proprietor. If, on the 
other hand, he is not sufficiently fortified by good principles against 
temptation, he seeks to indemnify himself for all he suffers, by an indul- 
gence in the low gratifications within his reach. What is the conse- 
quence ? He sinks into a state of mocal debasement, stands on a level 
with the slave ; and is valued by the proprietor of slaves only according 
" to his capacity of improving the breed of his human stock. 

The loose character of the female slaves in Cape Town is well known : 
they are trained to prostitution. They are well fed it is true, but it is 
for the purpose of licentiousness. While young, they are well clothed, 
but it is for the purpose of sensual attraction. One remark of the 
Reviewer's, that the slaves are not all black ; that many of them are 
copper-coloured; and many of them as white as Europeans, is just, and 
can easily be accounted for. The truth is, many of them are as white 
as their mistresses, and as finely clothed. The Reviewer does not 
appear to have been aware, when he brings forward this circumstance 
with an air of triumph, that he was then adverting to one of the strongest 
evidences of the demoralizing effects of slavery ; and one of the 
strongest arguments against the system. 



166 On the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery. 

Slaves, particularly females, bring a very high price, when they are 
white, and at all handsome; and when such children happen to be 
born, it is a matter of general joy in the family, and of congratulation 
in the neighbourhood. In one instance, which came under the observa- 
tion of the writer, in one of the most genteel families in Cape Town, an 
Irishman is kept, for no other apparent purpose but that of improving 
the stock of slaves. The children of this man are the fairest and hand- 
somest slave children I have seen in South Africa. They are, in fact, 
white. 

While it is obvious, from these considerations, that the Slave System 
is not likely to be speedily or greatly reduced by the introduction of 
European labourers, it may be right to advert to one method of eman- 
cipation, the operation of which, however, it will be perceived, is too 
limited to affect the state of slavery at the Cape in any sensible manner, 
namely, those cases in which the father may be able to purchase the 
freedom of the mother and their children. 

Enghshraen plunge, without thought, into illicit connections with 
slaves ; but many of them become soon alive to all the horrors flowing from 
such connections. When the proprietor of the female slave, to whom 
such a man may be attached, has a mind to interrupt their intercourse ; 
when the object who has, by this time, seized his affections, is sold to 
another master, or, sinks under severe treatment; or, when the chil- 
dren become interesting, and he hears them calling him father, while 
he has the mortification to see these children slaves ; he begins, too late, 
to lament his folly. But what is he to do ? He has no money to re- 
deem them ; and if there be a condition on earth more wretched and 
bitter than that of slavery, it is the condition of that man, who, 
having himself tasted the sweets of liberty, sees the woman he loves a 
slave, and her children slaves also. In some few instances the father is, of 
course, able to give the mother and the children their freedom ; but the 
following occurrence (sufficiently notorious in Cape Town,) will_ shew 
how seldom this can be effected. To avoid unnecessary pain to indivi- 
duals, in relating the circumstances, the names are suppressed. 

Mr. , shortly after his arrival at the Cape, formed a connection 

with a very handsome and interesting slave girl, whom he loved. Three 
beautiful children were the fruits of the connection. The young man 
had been what may be called fortunate in the world ; he has, at present, 
a good appointment ; and has had it in his power to save some money. 
While he continued poor, or until it was known he had saved money, 
his intercourse with this young woman was not restricted ; but, when it 
became known, that he would soon have -the means of redeeming the 
mother and the children, he felt himself subjected to a train of mortifi- 
cations, which he could not well brook. The first thing he decided on, 
was to purchase his children; and, for their redemption, he has been 
obliged to pay the enormous sum of nine thousand rix-doUars ; (£675.) 
and six thousand rix^dollars (£450.) have been refused for the mother. 
Calculating upon his means, and upon the strength of his affection for 
the mother, it is probable, that the owner may exact from him fifteen 
thousand rix-doUars, before he can take the mother of his children 
under his own roof. If any thing could add to the aggravated cha- 
racter of this transaction, it is this : the slave woman, upon whom 



On the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery, 167 

this price has been put, is universally believed to be the sister of the gen- 
tleman who offers her for sale ; the daughter of his own father, left by 
that father to his son, as a part of his portion ! 

One of the demoralizing effects of slavery is the aspect under which 
the slave proprietor is led to contemplate human beings in general. 
When men purchase their fellow-creatures like cattle, they imper- 
ceptibly come to view them in the light of cattle. The slave is always 
associated in the mind of the proprietor with his value in colonial cur- 
rency, or in sterling money ; and he perceives no evils in slavery but 
such as affect his interest. A friend of mine, (H. W. Money, Esq. of the 
East India Company Civil Service,) on seeing, one day, a poor blacli fellow 
suffering, remarked, in the hearing of his mistress, " What a wretched 
system is slavery!" To this remark, the lady instantly replied, 
'* Wretched, mdeed, sir ! the worst system upon earth ! that fellow cost 
my husband 4000 rix-dollars ; and what a dreadful thing it is to think 
that all this money may be lost in a moment by his death." The first 
thing you hear of on the death of a slave is, " That is a dead loss of 
3000 or 4000 rix-dollars, to the poor man, his master." 

One of the most respectable individuals among the Colonists, after 
having given the writer an account of the numerous qualifications of 
one of his slaves, and after having shewn him several proofs of his skill 
and industry, concluded by remarking, " I have not yet got over the 
death of that slave : I would not have parted with him if any man had 
offered me seven thousand rix-dollars for him." This remark used to 
be repeated almost every time we met, for years after the death of the 
slave ; and the painful part of the event, the amount of the loss sus- 
tained by his death, never failed to be mentioned in the same feeling 
manner. The inhabitants of the Cape may have been too severely cen- 
sured, when they have been represented as monsters, by superficial 
observers, for this mode of expressing grief on the loss of their slaves. 
Such expressions, under such circumstances, do not indicate any pe- 
cuhar excess of depravity in the persons using them; they are common 
to all slave colonies, and arise directly and naturally out of the slave 
system. 

That men, in all countries, attach more importance to their own pro- 
perty, than they do to the happiness or lives of their fellow-creatures, is 
too obvious to require proof. Generally speaking, where are the shop- 
keepers, or farmers in England, who are not more grieved by the loss of 
four or five hundred pounds sterling, than they are by the death of a ser- 
vant, whose place they can supply the next hour ? But the evil in ques- 
tion is indissolubly linked with the slave system, whether thai system 
exists in the West Indies or in Africa, and its baneful influence per- 
vades every part of the society in which it exists. When men re- 
gard a certain portion of the human race as their slaves, the comfort 
and improvement of that degraded part of humanity become secon- 
dary and inferior considerations, and are sure to be sacrificed to the 
economy of the establishment, and to the best means of improving the 
breed. Slavery hardens the heart ; destroys all its sympathies with the 
suffering of our fellow-creatures, who may be placed, by Providence, in 
humble circumstances; and, in a great measure, excludes from the breast 



168 0)1 the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery. 

the workings of pity for that class of beings. The mind, accustomed to 
view men as slaves, and slaves as cattle, or property, will be brought, by 
insensible degrees, to regard the whole working class in nearly the same 
light, and the sufferings of the slave, and of the free labourer too, will be 
regarded with indifference. In cases, where both are afflicted, so that 
life is in danger, there will, indeed, be a marked difference. While the 
condition of the slave will excite the deepest interest, that of the 
free labourer will scarcely move any sympathy. But the concern mani- 
fested in such circumstances for the slave is perfectly compatible with that 
insensibiUty to human misery, generated by the slave system. Bryan 
Edwards must have been very much at a loss for facts to substantiate 
the humanity of the West Indian Planters to their slaves, when he 
brought forward, for this purpose, the following sentence : — " The cir- 
cumstances, wherein the slaves are most indebted to the owners' liberality, 
are, I think, those of medical attendance, and accommodation when 
sick." In this point, especially when the sickness appears 'dangerous, 
the Cape Colonists may, perhaps, deserve commendation full as strong 
as the West Indian Planter ; but, considering the value of the slave to 
the owner, the merit to be allowed, in cases of this nature, is rather of 
an equivocal kind, and militates nothing against the force of the general 
argument. With his eyes open, and with his stock of imported bene- 
volence unimpaired, a very short residence in a slave colony will be suffi- 
cient to satisfy any reflecting man on this subject. 

There are, doubtless, many respectable men among slave proprietors ; 
and some slaves may be found possessed of good moral qualities ; but the 
effect of slavery, as a system, is to give a stamp of low cunning to the 
character of both. The relation of master and slave gives rise to a 
continued exercise of skill on each side. The thoughts of the master 
are perpetually engrossed with the best means of turning the labour of 
his slaves to advantage, and of securing his property against their 
depredations ; while the thoughts of the slaves are generally occu- 
pied about the most dexterous methods of deceiving their master, and 
robbing him of his property. A slave has, in fact, no character, and 
the motives which operate upon a free peasantry have no influence in 
his case ; his ambition has no scope beyond the gratification of his 
animal propensities, and he has few scruples about the means he employs 
to accomplish his object. From infancy, slaves are trained up to lie 
and steal ; and, when they are detected, they feel no shame ; they re- 
ceive the punishment of the offence with sullenness, or a pardon without 
gratitude ; and, in either case, perhaps, retire from their master's presence, 
with a determination to avail themselves of the first opportunity, to re- 
new the practice for which they had experienced their severity or their 
clemency. 

The conversation of the Colonists frequently turns upon the manage- 
ment of the slaves, and the different methods they employ to promote 

their industry, or restrain their propensities to stealing, Mr. , (a 

Cape-Dutch Gentleman, of the writer's acquaintance,) has a number of 
slaves, who all eat and sleep under one roof. Adjoining to the slave- 
lodge, there is a house from which it is separated by a low partition, to 
which the master has access without being noticed by the slaves 



Oji the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery. 169 

When any thing is stolen in the course of the clay, in the evening he 
calls his slaves together, and interrogates them respecting the stolen 
articles. If he does not obtain the information he requires, they are 
dismissed, and he retires to his secret observatory, that he may over- 
hear their conversation ; and he seldom needs to remain long, before he 
obtains a clue for the wished for discovery. Next morning, he sends 
for one who is not implicated in the theft, questions him, and promises 
a reward for the additional information required. In this way the 
offender is convicted, and the punishment takes place before the other 
slaves of the family. When this method fails, he assembles his slaves 
next morning; informs them that all their indulgences are to be 
stopped ; that they are not to go to town to see their friends, nor to 
liave any treatment but that of culprits till the stolen articles are reco- 
vered. 

When plans of this nature are well executed, the criminal can have 
little chance of escape, and the certainty of detection must prevent the 
frequency of the crime. The colonists being brought up from their 
infancy among slaves, know much better how to manage them than 
Englishmen ; and this circumstance explains an observation frequently 
made, that the generality of the English treat the slaves with greater 
cruelty than the colonists. Acquainted with the habits and practices 
of the slaves, the colonist carries his point by address, and he adopts 
a preventive system ; but the Englishman, finding himself over-reached 
and unable to find a remedy, loses the command of his temper, and 
is not unfrequently, by this circumstance, betrayed into brutal violence. 

But while the master by such methods, secures himself against the 
dishonesty of his own slaves, he finds it more difficult to secure his 
property from the slaves of his neighbours. If the slave proprietors 
do not encourage their slaves to plunder their neighbours, they are, 
at least, deeply interested in concealing the theft, and in defeating 
the ends of justice.* If a slave is convicted of stealing to any valu- 
able amount, he may be condemned to imprisonment, to work in irons, 
to be sent from the colony, or to be hanged. Under such circum- 
stances, the proprietor is exposed to a serious loss. He may have 
been ignorant of the theft committed by his slaves ; but he may be 
ruined by the consequences of it. The evil efiiects which must arise 
from such a system, are too obvious to make it necessary to enlarge 
upon them. An illustration in point occurred a short time ago. Mr» 
F,, a shop-keeper in Cape-Town had his store or warehouse broken 
open, and money and goods to a considerable amount were abstracted. 
He immediately waited upon the Public Prosecutor, requesting an order 
to search for the stolen goods. The order requested was somehow 
delayed, till it was made known to the Gentleman whose slaves were 
suspected, and till the slaves had it in their power to prepare for the 
domiciliary visit, with which they were threatened. After calling a second 
or third time requesting the order, the injured party was told by the 
public prosecutor, that he himself had waited upon the master of the 

* This is applicable to the Cape of Good Hope, in a greater degree than to 
the West Indies. If a slave is condemned to suffer death in the West Indies, 
his master is indemnified out of the public purse. Bat at the Cape no compen- 
sation is, ia such cases, made to the master. 

Y 



170 On the Demoralizmg Influence of Slavery. 

slaves, and inquired into the affair, and that he was satisfied the goods 
had not been stolen by the suspected persons. The reason for this 
mode of proceeding was inteUigible enough : the man whose slaves were 
accused in this instance, was a man of influence in the colony. 

Persons coming to settle in South Africa, from such a country as 
England, where tlie peasants attach as much importance to character 
as their masters, have no idea of the difficulty of managing large con- 
cerns that depend upon the labour of slaves. — The vices of the system 
are imputed to the individual, and the masters, under the influence of 
this error, are, on their first attempt, generally found vacillating be- 
tween undue familiarity and severity. Ignorant of the force of long- 
established habits, and of the state of the human mind in slavery, they 
flatter themselves that every thing is to be gained by lenient means ; 
but when they find their property purloined; or think that the labour 
obtained from their slaves is small in quantity ; they are apt to give them 
up as incorrigible, and to lay it down as a settled maxim, that nothing 
will do with slaves but the horse-whip. 

When a master, at first even disposed to be lenient, sees his property 
wasting, his farm unproductive, and himself verging to bankruptcy, 
(it may be through his own mismanagement, though he may attribute it 
to the indolence and dishonesty of his slaves) while his neighbours, who 
neither clothe nor feed their slaves so well nor treat them with the 
same kindness, preserve their property, obtain a greater quantity 
of labour, and are prospering in their circumstances ; he is apt to 
form a bad opinion of the slave character. He will then be heard con- 
fessing that, on his arrival in the colony, he formed an erroneous 
opinion of slavery, and of slave treatment ; that he imagined every 
thing might be done by kindness ; and that he was too severe upon the 
discipline of the old colonists : but he now sees that these people are fit 
for nothing but for being slaves, and that nothing will do with them but 
the lash. This conversion from his former opinions to the established 
opinions of the experienced colonists, gives rise to a correspondent 
practice. The indulgence with which he may have treated his slaves 
in the first instance, is exchanged for severity, and in every case, where 
he may be driven by his passions to exercise brutal cruelty on his 
slaves, or where his general conduct may be rigorous, harsh, and 
oppressive, he satisfies his conscience, and consoles himself, while he 
refers to the indulgence with which his slaves were at a former time 
treated, with thinking that he is the most tender-hearted man alive, 
and that the severities to which he is now obliged to subject his slaves, 
are the necessary result of their own obstinacy and depravity. 

A brutal depravity of character is indeed inseparable from slavery — and 
this depravity is frequently urged as an apology for the cruelty of the 
masters ; but the evils in both cases ought, in candour, to be ascribed to 
the system, and they form an irresistible argument for its total and speedy 
abolition. Men must be in another condition than that of slavery, 
before they can be effectually acted upon by any consideration but 
that of fear ; and masters must be more than men are in general, to be 
long obliged to manage slaves without being changed into tyrants. 

When we think of the horrors experienced by the unhappy African, 
when torn from his native soil, or of those he endures in the middle pas- 



On the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery. 171 

sage, or when fainting under the whip of a cruel task-master in a foreign 
land, our sympathy with the oppressed, and our indignation against 
their oppressors, unfit us for contemplating more than half the evils of 
the slave system. In the scene of excitement presented to us, we have no 
sympathies to waste upon the agents of these cruelties. While we look 
at the brutality of the oppressor, we forget how large a share of that 
brutality is to be ascribed to the system we deprecate ; and that many 
of the individuals who call forth our detestation, were, perhaps, before 
they had the misfortune to engage in this vile traffic or to become the 
owners and drivers of slaves, as humane, and as kind-hearted, as those 
who hold their conduct in abhorrence. Nero wept when first called 
upon to put his fiat to the sentence of death. 

The following fact stated upon the unquestionable evidence of Capt. 
W. F. Owen, of the Royal Navy,* will be deemed a not unappropriate 
illustration of this subject. 

Senor, Manuel Pedro d'Almeydra, is a native of Portugal, and now 
a considerable merchant at Mozambique, on the eastern coast of Africa. 
In the early part of his life, he commanded a slave vessel which traded 
between the eastern coast of Africa and South America. During this 
period, on some of his visits to the Cape of Good-Hope, while engaged 
in this traffic, he became acquainted v/ith a respectable family at the 
Cape, and married one of the daughters, a lady of good character 
and amiable disposition, and who possessed also considerable talents, 
polished manners, and a good address. Before he obtained the consent 
of the lady, he was obliged to promise that he would relinquish the 
slave-trade, and employ his vessel in some other branch of commerce. 
After marriage, however, his wife went to sea with him ; and from at- 
tending to navigation as an amusement, she soon made it a serious occu- 
pation; and while she continued at sea, the whole management of the 
ship devolved upon her. She used to take lunar observations, and to 
keep the ship's reckoning much better than Captain d'Almeydra, and 
he trusted every thing to her. Habit, which soon reconciled her to a life 
at sea, ere long reconciled her also to the slave trade. After several 
years, in which they were successful, they settled at Mozambique, and 
are, at present, people of the first influence at that settlement. When 
His Majesty's ships, the Leven and Barracouta, employed in surveying 
the coasts of Africa, were at Mozambique in 1823, the officers were 
introduced to this family, and it was an opinion agreed in by all, that 
Donna Sophia d'Almeydra was the most superior woman they had seen 
from the time they had left England. Captain Owen, the leader of this 
expedition, expressing to Senor d'Almeydra, his detestation of slavery, 
the Senor replied, " You will not be long here before you change your 
sentiments. Look at my Sophia there. Before she would marry me, 
she made me promise that I should give up the slave trade. When we 
first settled at Mozambique, she was continually interceding for the 
slaves, and she constantly wept when I punished them, and now she is 
among the slaves from morning to night; she regulates the whole of 
my slave establishment ; she inquires into every offence committed by 

* This distinguished Officer was recently engaged for several years in sur- 
veying the eastern coasts of Africa, and was known to the writer of this 
paper during his residence at the Cape. 



172 On the Demoralizing Influence of Slavery . 

them, pronounces sentence upon the offender, and stands by and sees 
him punished." 

' While the same vessels were at Delagoa Bay, a party of thirteen 
black people were surprised in the neighbourhood of the fort. After 
having- been flogged with extreme severity, they were cast into a dun- 
geon, out of which they were dragged, when their wounds began to 
putrify, and thrown under the bushes where they were left to perish. 
The people treated in this manner, were free people : the whole transac- 
tion took place by the order of the Governor ; and no motive could be 
assigned for it, but his caprice. What Christian parent, who hears of 
such a tragedy, would not, were he forced upon such a dreadful alter- 
native, rather have his sons among the murdered, than that they should 
have been the murderers ? Yet it is probable, that the Governor and 
the bloody ruffians who were his associates, might have been respect- 
able members of society, had they remained in Europe, and never en- 
gaged in this infernal traffic. It is highly probable that, had a prophet 
met those young men when leaving home, and for the first time em- 
barking for the coast, and had he told them, that they would one day 
commit such things, they would have replied, in the words of Hazael, 
" are thy servants dogs to commit such things ? " 

It has been remarked by an intelligent and unprejudiced observer, 
that the Portuguese, on the African coasts, are remarkable for every 
vice which degrades human nature, without one redeeming virtue. But 
is not this likely to be the tendency of things in every place, whe- 
ther Portuguese or English, French, Spanish, or Dutch, where 
slavery exists ? 

The desperation to which the miserable slaves are often driven, 
and the want of sensibility to their feelings which becomes habitual 
to their masters, might be illustrated by a thousand cases ; but I shall 
add only one, which occurred at the Cape not many years ago, and 
fell under my own observation. 

The master of a slave woman, who had three children, had repeat- 
edly threatened to separate her from her offspring, by selling them to a 
distant proprietor. Finding, at length, that he was about to put his 
threats into execution, the wretched mother carried her children down 
to the shore, — flung the whole of them from the rocks into the sea, — 
and precipitated herself after them. She was observed by some per- 
sons at a distance: help was procured — but the life of the mother 
alone was saved. She was reserved, however, only to be subjected to 
an ignominious death, as an example to deter other slaves from similar 
crimes. The affair was much talked of in Cape Town for several 
days, and much regret and sympathy were expressed — not, however, 
for the unhappy slave or her children — but only for " that unfortunate 
man Brink ! " who had thus " lost at one stroke property worth moire 
than five thousand rix dollars ! " 

When men reason upon abstract principles, their reasonings respect- . 
ing the rights of others are generally correct ; but they seldom live 
long in a slave colony before their principles are undermined, and all 
their former reasonings vanish, — When they have seen the wealth, and 
the luxurious tables of the colonists, and have tasted their hospitality, 
the contrast between the master and the slave insensibly operates in 



On the Demoralizing" liifluence of Slavery, 173 

favour of the former. And with the favourable opinion they now en- 
tertain of their new friends, they very soon imbibe their prejudices. 
The change which, perhaps, had its commencement in some such way, 
is gradually carried on by the influence of the same causes ; and the 
stranger no sooner becomes a slave proprietor, or is obliged to hire 
slaves to do his work, than it is seen that a new moral colouring has 
been given to the frame of his mind, his actions, and his conversation. 
The writer of this article has seen, in the course of five or six years, 
as great a change upon English ladies and gentlemen of respectability, 
as that described to have taken place in Donna Sophia d'Almeydra i 
and one of the individuals he has in his eye, while he writes this 
passage, lately confessed to him this melancholy change, remarking at 
the same time, " how altered I am in my feelings with regard to sla- 
very. I do not appear to myself the same person I was on my arrival 
in this colony, and if I would give the world for the feelings I then had, 
I could not recall them." 

We had lately at the Cape a General Officer in the army, who, on 
his arrival in the colony, expressed considerable commiseration for the 
oppressed aborigines of the country. But this Gentleman had not 
breathed the Cape atmosphere mare than a twelvemonth, when his 
generous sentiments underwent a remarkable change, and he reprobated, 
m the strongest terms, the conduct of an individual for bringing to the 
ears of Government the delinquency of a public functionary, who had 
been, for many years, one of the greatest oppressors of the enthralled 
Hottentots. The motives of the person conducting the prosecution 
were arraigned ; and it was affirmed he could have no end but the grati- 
fication of a malicious passion in complaining of the magistrate, and 
that he ought to be sent out of the colony as a disturber of its peace. 
The Gentleman who made these remarks was, at one time, loud in his 
expression of indignation against the oppressions he witnessed ; but he 
had been subsequently entertained at the table of this very provincial 
functionary, and had heard him tell his own story, and the cruel 
oppression of 30,000 people was forgotten in his commiseration for 
the wounded feehngs of his unprincipled but insinuating host. 

I shall, at present, close these illustrations of the demoralizing effects 
of slavery, with the dying testimony of one who fell a victim to them. 
The person alluded to was Mr. L. Gebhardt, son of the Rev. W. L. 
Gebhardt, clergyman of the Paarl, who was executed in Cape-Town 
in 1822, for the murder of a slave. To a question put to him a few 
minutes before he ascended the scaffold, by the Rev. W. Wright, the 
colonial chaplain at Wynberg, asking his opinion of slavery, he replied, 
" Sir, slavery is a bad system, it is even worse for the masters than it is 
for the slaves ! " Were it necessary to add any thing to the dying testi- 
mony of this unfortunate youth, it would be sufficient to say, that the 
statement of this declaration, after the execution, gave great offence to 
the Colonial Authorities. More evil was feared from such a declaration, 
than they anticipated good from the example afforded by this unprece- 
dented execution. This fact furnishes an additional proof of what has 
never been attempted to be concealed, that this execution was not so 
much intended to repress cruelty to the slaves, as to support the slave 
system. The death of the slave happened at an unfortunate time for 



174 On the Present State of the Anti-Slavery Cause. 

his master, just as the news of the proceedings of the British Parha- 
ment in relation to slavery, and of the appointment of the Commis- 
sioners of Inquiry, reached the colony, and when all the abettors of 
the Slave System, from the highest to the lowest, were trembling for its 
safety. 

Few Englishmen come to the Cape, who are not, in the first instance, 
shocked at the sight of the evils of slavery. There is something, 
however, so insidious in its nature, and so congenial also to certain 
dispositions of mind, that this repugnance is, in general, speedily 
overcome ; and, as a last proof of its demoralizing effects, I shall only 
add to the facts already stated, that I have never met with any class 
of men, in that colony, so much intoxicated with the love of this 
baneful system, so enraged against every one who condemns it, so loud 
in their execrations of the abolition of the slave trade, or so anxious 
to have it revived in all its former extent, as many of the natives of 
our own free country. 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE PRESENT STATE OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY 

CAUSE. 

Our four last Numbers, and especially that for December, No. 31, 
have given to our readers full and precise information respecting the 
progress of Reform in our various slave colonies, and have irrefragably 
established the fact, that, after nearly five years of effort and of expec- 
tation, no substantial mitigation of the evils of slavery has yet taken 
place, nor any material advance been made towards its extinction. It has 
now, indeed, become perfectly manifest to all, as it has long been to us 
that no rational hope can be indulged of attaining these ends while we 
pursue our present policy ; while, that is to say, in the first place, we 
leave it to the Colonial Authorities to legislate for their bondmen ; and 
Vi^hile, in the second, we most strangely and inconsistently continue, by 
means of our bounties and protecting duties, to indemnify the planter for 
the waste of negro life which we affect to deplore, and to uphold, and 
even to aggravate the worst evils of the colonial system. Thus, do 
we not only make ourselves large participators in all the guilt of slavery ; 
but we impose upon ourselves heavy pecuniary burdens for its support, 
while, at the same time, we greatly aid in cramping and irripeding the 
growth of our manufacturing and commercial prosperity. It is impossible 
not to perceive that such a course of proceeding, if persisted in, must, of 
necessity, issue, as it has hitherto done, in the disappointment of every 
hope of improvement cherished by the public, and in the frustration of 
every promise of reform made by the Crown. 

We are, at the same time, disposed to hope, that whoever the Mi- 
nisters of the Crown may be, they will be sincerely desirous of redeem- 
ing the solemn pledges given both by his Majesty's Government, and 
by Parliament, on this subject, and of accomplishing that great work 
of national justice and mercy to which they stand so deeply committed 
before the country and the world ; and, we believe, that, if prevented 
from doing so, it will only be by means of the formidable opposition 
which colonial prejudices and colonial interests may excite. How 
this opposition may best be overcome, and the Government encouraged, 



On the Present State of the Anti-Slavery Came. 175 

and their hands strengthened to execute their avowed purposes, is 
a grave and weighty question. For our own parts, shouici obstacles 
continue to intervene, we know of no measure so likely to be efficacious 
in removing them as that the people at large should again convey, to both 
Houses of Parliament, the same concurrent, simultaneous, and earnest 
expression of their wishes on the subject, which has already marked so 
clearly the deep interest they feel in it. We have thought, indeed, that 
generally and unequivocally as the national sentiment has been de- 
clared, in the immense mass of petitions which, during the last three 
years, have been laid on the tables of Parliament, any further movement 
of the same kind might be spared. We cannot, however, deny that 
circumstances may occur, and perhaps, in no long time, which may ren- 
der the renewal of that declaration necessary. And should this neces- 
sity arise, we can have no doubt that any call founded upon it will be 
promptly and zealously answered. In the mean time, it is of impor- 
tance to maintain, in full vigour, and to diffuse still more widely, 
the public feeling on this question. The measures adapted to this end, 
will, of course, depend on local circumstances ; and the friends of the 
cause in each district will best decide for themselves, on the propriety 
of holding public meetings, from time to time, where the subject may be 
fully and openly discussed; or of adopting such other means of spreading 
information, and of fixing the public attention, as may be deemed most ex- 
pedient. But, whatever course it may be thought right to take, it cannot 
be too strongly impressed on all our minds, that the occasion is urgent 
and critical, and the object to be contended for most momentous. It in- 
volves the fate of multitudes of our fellow-subjects now living, and of 
millions yet unborn ; — their rescue from the yoke of a cruel and abject 
bondage ; — the vindication of their inalienable claim to the protection 
of British law, and to the enjoyment of Christian light. It involves, 
moreover, in no slight degree, the comfort of our own labouring popula- 
tion, and the substantial interests of the empire ; not its commercial 
and financial interests merely, but those higher interests which are in- 
separably linked with His favour, by whom kings reign, and nations 
exist and flourish. — Let but the friends of humanity and justice, be 
firm, vigilant, and united, and they may look forward, with the Divine 
blessing, to the most satisfactory results. 

For the convenience of those who may be desirous of having ready 
access, at the present moment, to information on the various questions 
connected with slavery, we subjoin a memorandum of such of the 
Society's Publications, as bear on the several subjects which are likely 
to come under discussion. 

I. General Nature and Effects of Colonial Slavery. 

Stephen's Delineation. — Wilberforce's Appeal. — Clarkson's Thoughts, 
' Negro Slavery, or a view of that State in the United States and the West 

Indies, particularly Jamaica. 
^ Debate of May 15th, 1823, and Appendix. 

Slave Colonies of Great Britain, or a Picture of Negro Slavery, by the Colo- 
nists themselves. 

Negro Slavery Tracts, No. I. X. XL XIV, and XV. 

Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 2, 6, 10, 11, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23. 26, 27, 28, 29, 
30, 31, and 32. 

Brief View of Negro Slavery, in a sheet. 



176 Ofi the Present State of the Anti-Slavery Cause. 

II. Religious State of the Slaves. — Unchristian Nature and Demora- 
lizing Effects of Slavery. 

' Stephen's Delineation. — Wilberforce's Appeal. — Negro Slavery, or a View,&c. 
Debate of 15th May, 1823, Appendixes, F. H. I. and N. and the Postscript. 
Negro Slavery Tracts, No. I. V. IX. XIII. XIV. and XVI. 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 13, 19, 26, 28, 30, and 32, 
The Reverend Daniel Wilson's Thoughts on Slavery. 

III. Severities and Atrocities of Slavery in Law and Practice. 
Stephen's Delineation. — Negro Slavery, or a View, &c. 
Slave Colonies of Great Britain, &c. — Extracts from Jamaica Gazettes. 
Negro Slavery Tracts, No. I. VI. VIII. X. XI. and XIV. 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, Nos. 4, 5, 7, 10, 11, 16, 18, 19, 24, 25, and 30, 

(p. 122 and 127.) 

IV. Progress of Reform, and Resistance of Colonists to it. 

Debate of I5th May, 1823, the Preface, and Appendix D. 

Negro Slavery, or a VievF, &c. concluding part. 

Stephen's England enslaved by her own Colonies. 

First, Second, and Third Reports of the Society. 

Slave Colonies of Great Britain, &c. 

Anti-Slavery Reporter, Nos. 3, 6, 10, 11, 14, 15, 21, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 31. 

V. Colonial Population, 8fC. — Free and Slave Labour — Impolicy of 
Slavery — Evils of Colonial Monopoly. 

' East and "West India Sugar. 

Letter to W. W. Whitmore, Esq. , ,r 

Hodgson's Letter to Say. . 

Cropper's High and Low Prices. 
• Ditto, Relief of West India Distress. 

Ditto, Support of Slavery. 

First and Second Reports of the Society, including their Appendixes. 

Address to the People of Illinois. 

Negro Slavery Tracts, Nos. III. and IV. 

Anti-Slavery Reporter, Nos. 15, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 30, and 31 . ' 

Impolicy of Slavery, in a sheet. — East India Sugar, in a quarter sheet. 

VI. Speeches on Slavery, and Defence of Abolitionists. 

Parliamentary Debates of 15th May, 1823 ; 16th March, 1824 ; and 23rd June, 

1825. 
Speeches in Appendix to First and Second Reports. 
Speech of J. J. Gurney, Esq. 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, Nos. 1, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 18, 21, (p. 306.) 24, and 31. 

The above list is confined to the Anti-Slavery Society's Publications. 
A great variety, however, of other most valuable works have recently 
issued from the press. Many of them have proceeded from the nu- 
merous Anti-Slavery Associations spread over the kingdom, and espe- 
cially from those of Aberdeen, Birmingham, Bath, Bristol, Edinburgh, 
Liverpool, Newcastle, &c. &c. &c. Besides which,- not a few indi- 
viduals, of both sexes, whose names do not appear in the above list, 
have, by their respective productions, rendered the most essential ser- 
vices to the cause, among whom it is almost superfluous to specify the 
names of Bickell, Cooper, Fisher, E. Heyrick, Koster, H. More, 
Riland, E. Schimmelpenning, Sturge, Townsend, L. Townsend, Wat- 
son, Winn, &c. &c. It would be unjust to overlook, in this hasty enu- 
meration, the able and useful labours of the Edinburgh Review and the 
Christian Observer. 



London:— BAG STER Si, THOMS, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close . 



ANTI-SLAVERY 



MONTHLY REPORTER, 



No. 33.] For FEBRUARY, 1828, [No. 9. Vol. ii. 

The " Antt-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
€rst day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
&alf a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
Teyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



1. THE JAMAICA LEGISLATURE AND MR. HUSKISSON. 
II. COMPULSORY MANUMISSION. 

I. THE JAMAICA LEGISLATURE AND MR. HUSKISSON. 

Our readers are already informed, that the slave law passed by the 
Legislature of Jamaica in December, 1826, has been disallowed by the 
Crown. This disallowance was announced in a despatch from the 
Right Honourable W. Huskisson, Secretary of State for the Colonies, 
to the Governor of the Island, dated the 22d of September last, in 
which the reasons for that measure are fully and ably stated. We pro- 
ceed to lay the substance of this important document before our readers. 

Mr. Huskisson, cifter expressing his Majesty's satisfaction with certain 
" valuable improvements " * that had been introduced into this act, 
observes that it was, nevertheless, " impossible to overcome the objec- 
tions to which other enactments of it were open." He then proceeds 
thus : — 

" Among the various subjects which this act presents for consideration, none is 
more important in itself, nor more interesting to every class of society in this 
kingdom, than the regulations on the subject of religious instruction ; t which 
must be considered as an invasion of that toleration to which all His Majesty's 
subjects, whatever may be their civil condition, are alike entitled. The pro- 
hibition of persons in a state of slavery assuming the office of religious teachers 
might seem a very mild restraint, or rather a fit precaution, against indecorous 
proceedings ; but, amongst some of the religious bodies who employ Missionaries 
in Jamaica, the practice of mutual instruction is stated to be an established 
part of their discipline. So long as the practice is carried on in an inoffensive 
and peaceable manner, the distress produced by the prevention of it will be 
compensated by no public advantage. 

" The prohibition of meetings for religious worship between sun set and sun- 
rise will, in many cases, operate as a total prohibition, and will be felt with 
peculiar severity by domestic slaves inhabiting large towns, whose ordinary 
engagements on Sunday will not afford leisure for attendance on public worship 
before the evening. It is impossible to pass over without remark the invidious 
distinction which is made not only between Protestant Dissenters and Roman 
Catholics, but even between Protestant Dissenters and Jews. I have, indeed, 

* Almost all those " improvements " are in point of fact of old date. Tliose that a/e 
?iew chiefly respect the mode of the trial of slaves. 
t See the Reporter, No. XXIX. pp. l04, los. 

Z 



178 The Jamaica Legislature and Mr. Huskisscm. 

no reason to suppose that the Jewish teachers have made any converts to their 
religion among the slaves, and probably therefore, the distinction in their favour 
is merely nominal ; still it is a preference, which, in principle, ought not to be 
given by the legislature of a Christian country. 

" The penalties denounced upon persons collecting contributions from slaves, 
for purposes either of charity or religion, cannot but be felt, both by the teachers 
and by their followers, as humiliating and unjust. Such a law would affix an 
unmerited stigma on the religious instructor ; and it prevents the slave from 
obeying a positive precept of the Christian religion, which he believes to be 
obligatory on him, and which is not inconsistent with the duties he owes to his 
master. The prohibition is, therefore, a gratuitous aggravation of the evils of 
his condition." — 

" I cannot too distinctly impress upon you, that it is the settled purpose of 
His Majesty's Government to sanction no colonial law which needlessly infringes 
on the religious liberty of any class of His Majesty's subjects ; and you will 
understand that you are not to assent to any bill, imposing any restraint of that 
nature, unless a clause be inserted for suspending its operation until His 
Majesty's pleasure shall be known." 

Mr. Huskisson then animadverts on the substitution of a council of 
protection for an independent protector. The council, he says, will con- 
sist of those whom a protector was intended to watch ; — their duties are 
confined to cases of extreme bodily injury, and only to be discharged " if 
they think proper ;" — no returns are to be made by them, nor any 
journal kept of their proceedings ; — the measure proceeds on no fixed 
and uniform principles; — and the number of the council is such as 
to destroy individual responsibility.** He objects also to the inefficiency 
of the provisions for the due observance of Sunday, and to the continu- 
ance of Sunday markets, it being " impossible to sanction this syste- 
matic violation of the law prevailing in every other Christian country." 
He next thus adverts to the subject of arbitrary punishment. 

" Punishments inflicted by the domestic authority of the owner are not 
i-equired to be made the subject of a report to any public officer, nor does the 
Jaw require that any interval should elapse between the commission of the crime 
and the infliction of the punishment. The presence of free witnesses at the 
infliction of punishments is not declared necessary, nor would the law be broken, 
whatever might be the severity of the punishment, if it were inflicted by any 
other method than that of whipping or imprisonment. The use of the whip in the 
field is not forbidden. Women are not exempted from punishment by flogging. 
Nor is any presumption of guilt to arise, if the slave shall make a ' probable, 
particular, and consistent' charge against his owner, confirmed by the exhibitiQU 
of his person bearing the marks of recent and illegal punishment. 

" In all these respects the provisions of this act fall short of the recommenda- 
tions of His Majesty's Government, t 

" The act appears to sanction an unlimited delegation of the power of punish- 
ment, so that even a fellow-slave might be entrusted with it, provided that the 
correction does not exceed ten lashes. In the presence of the owner or manager 
thirty-nine lashes may be inflicted by his authority, — an extent of power which 
cannot be necessary, and which might probably be the source of serious abuse." 

Private persons, he adds, may commit slaves to prison without the war- 
rant of a justice; and the gaoler, as well as the owner, may inflict 
punishment by whipping in prison without trial. Such an extension of 
domestic authority, he regards as unnecessary and objectionable. 

" The fine of 10/. for inflicting repeated punishments for the same offence can 
scarcely be incurred in any case, since no record is to be kept ascertaining the 



* See the Reporter, No. XXIX. p. 102, and 108. 
Rei)orlei-, Wo. XXI. p. 305, &c.; and No. XXIX. p. 103, a 



,\u\ 107. 



The Jamaica Legislature and Mr. Huskisson. 179 

grounds of any particular punishment, and the party accused may impute to his 
slave whatever offences he may think proper, without the necessity of proving 
them. The fine on a workhouse-keeper inflicting an excessive number of lashes 
is 10/., a punishment which may, in some cases, be entirely disproportionate to 
so serious an offence, 

" The complaint, which the slave is authorized to make before any three 
Magistrates, would not," he justly fears, " be a very effectual means of redress. 
As they must always be three proprietors of the same parish, there is a manifest 
danger of the influence of local partialities. As every groundless complaint is 
to be punished, it is to be feared that many well-founded complaints will not be 
preferred. The mere failure of evidence in support of a complaint is surely not 
enough to justify the punishment of the party complaining. The owner should 
be bound to prove that the complaint was malicious or frivolous."* 

He then objects, in a clear and satisfactory manner, to the vague and 
inefficient provisions respecting marriage, the separation of families, 
and the property of slaves. He cannot see any ground for the 
nmnerous and irrational impediments thrown in the way of the 
marriage of slaves, nor can he understand the necessity of examining 
them as to the obligations of the marriage contract. He blames also the 
confining the power of marrying to the clergy, and the want of a registry 
of slave marriages. — The law, as to the separation of families, wants 
precision, and has no adequate sanction. — And the property of slaves is 
left in an unprotected state. " No action is given to them, or to any per- 
son on their behalf, for the defence or recovery of it. The single case 
in which any remedy is provided, is that in which the property of the 
slave is taken away. No mention is made of that much more important 
class of cases in which property may be withheld. The slave could not 
under this law recover a debt, nor obtain damages for the breach of a 
contract." The mode of proceeding prescribed in such cases, affords no 
adequate remedy — " nay, the slave could not make the complaint, except 
upon the condition of receiving a punishment if the Justices should 
deem it groundless. The slaves are also excluded from acquiring any 
interest in land, — a restriction at once impolitic and unnecessary." 

On what has been termed the compulsory manumission of slaves, 
this act is silent, and Mr. Huskisson defers entering on the subject. 

On the subject of gratuitous and voluntary and testamentary 
manumissions 

" The regulations," he thinks, " are such as must, of course, operate as a great 
discouragement to enfranchisements in all cases. Without this inconvenience, 
an effectual security might have been taken against the abuse of emancipating 
slaves incapable, from their age or infirmities, of procuring their own subsistence. 

" It is to be feared," he adds, " that serious inconvenience may arise from 
the neglect of the proposal to provide a method by which a slave could ascertain 
what particular person was entitled to receive the price of his freedom. In the 
case of plantation slaves, the title is usually the same with the title to the land 
itself, and cases are stated to have occurred in which a slave has lost the whole 
earnings of his life by paying the price of his liberty to the wrong person." 

On the evidence of slaves, he approves of the advance made towards 
a better system ; but the present law, he observes, 

" Appears to contemplate the admission of the evidence of slaves in those 
cases of crimes only in which they are usually either the actors or the sufferers, 
excluding their evidence in other cases,^ — a distinction which does not seem to 

* Reporter, lifo. XXVIII. p. 79. ; and No. XI. p. 144. These remarks aptly illnstrate the 
general worthlessness of what are called ameliorating laws in the Colonies. 



180 The Jamaica Legislature and Mr, HusMison, 

rest on any solid foundation. Tliere is not any necessary connexion between 
the baptism of a witness and his incredibility. The rule which requires that 
two slaves at the least shall consistently depose to the same fact, on being 
examined apart, before any free person can be convicted on slave testimony, will 
greatly diminish the value of the general rule. In some particular cases, such 
for example as the case of rape, such a restriction might secure impunity to 
offenders of the worst description. The rejection of the testimony of slaves 
twelve months after the commission of the crime would be fatal to the ends of 
justice in many cases, nor is it easy to discover what solid advantage could 
result from it in any case. 

" If the owner of a slave is convicted of any crime on the testimony of that 
slave, the Court has no power of declaring the slave free, although it may exer- 
cise that power when the conviction proceeds on other evidence. Highly 
important as it is to deprive a slave of every motive for giving false evidence 
against his owner, that object might be secured without incurring the inconve- 
nience of leaving the slave in the power of an owner convicted of the extreme' 
abuse of his authority. 

" In rejecting the proposal for establishing a record of the names of all slaves 
sufficiently instructed to be competent witnesses, the colonial legislature appear 
to have neglected the means of providing a cheap and effectual encouragement 
to good conduct, and of investing the religious teachers of th« slaves with a 
powerful and legitimate influence over them." 

He highly commends the clause requiring the gratuitous baptism of 
slaves, and the regulation by which slaves are allowed one day in each 
fortnight to cultivate their provision-grounds, exclusive of Sundays, 
except during the time of crop, the smallest number of days to be al- 
lowed in one year being 26.* It may, however, he thinks, be necessary 
that some more effectual means should be devised for enforcing obedience 
to this law. 

" The enactment requiring a monthly inspection of the provision-grounds, and 
the delivery of an adequate supply of provisions, when there is not a sufficient 
quantity of such grounds, is calculated to produce the most beneficial effects,, 
and might be rendered still more valuable by some alteration in the terms of the 
oath, which are susceptible of a construction remote from the real intention of 
the framers of the law. Great advantage may be anticipated from the regula- 
tions for the support of the mothers and nurses of large families, and for the 
protection of old and infirm slaves. t 

" The provisions for the prevention of excessive labour contemplate the work- 
ing the slaves for eleven hours and a half daily out of crop, and place no limit 
to the continuance of their work during crop-time. Considering the climate in 
which the labour is to be performed, and that, after the work of the field is oveiv 
there will yet remain to be done many offices not falling within the proper 
meaning of the term 'labour,' I should fear that the exertions of the slaves, if 
exacted up to the limits allowed by this law, would be scarcely consistent with 
a due regard for the health of the labourer.''^ 

He then makes some remarks on the inadequacy ^nd defectiveness of 
the laws for protecting the persons of slaves from mutilation and other 
injuries, and expresses satisfaction with the rules regarding runaways 
claiming to be free. " The provisions of the trial of slaves in criminal 
cases would also appear," he adds, "to be a material improvement on 
the former law. 1 perceive, however, that the evidence of slaves on 
such trials is to be admitted against slaves. It is not said that such 

* This part of the act is not new, as seems to be implied. It has. been tlie law for many- 
years. The time given to the .slave is still however very far too scanty. 

■\ These also are old, not new laws ; which have long existed inoperatively. 

X The eleven hours and a half of daily labour in a tropical climate, which Mr.Huskis- 
.son justly thinks so excessive, is field laXionr, and is exclusive of the time consumed in going 
Uo and returning from the field; and is also exclusive of the onerous work of procuring 
grass for the cattle at night, and of the night labour of crop. It might be expected that 
thi.^ state rif things would shock Mr. Huskisson,. 



The Jamaica Legislature and Mi\ Huskisson. 181 

evidence shall be admitted for them, although of course this must 
have been the intention. It is to be regretted that no provision is made 
for securing the attendance of judges, regularly educated to the legal 
profession, on slave trials." 

" The crime of harbouring runaways may be punished with^ much more 
severity, when the offender is a slave, than when he is a free man,— a distinc- 
tion which reverses the established principle of justice, that the malignity of 
crimes is enhanced by the superior knowledge and station of the criminal. 

" In many cases both the nature and amount of the punishment to be inflicted 
on the offending slave are referred exclusively to the discretion of the Court. I 
am not aware of any necessity for so unlimited a delegation of authority. 

" Among capital crimes are enumerated rebellion and rebellious conspiracy. 
As these are terms unknown to the law of England, it is not fit they should 
remain on the Statute-book without some legislative definition of their meaning. 

"Felony seems to be generally declared capital, when committed by slaves. 
The case of the clergyable felonies is not noticed." 

He regards the enactments by which assault and offering violence to 
a free person are declared capital, as severe, and as framed with an ex- 
treme laxity of expression ; and he makes the same complaint of the 
laws respecting Obeah, which include many acts, " against which it 
could not have been really intended to denounce the punishment of 
death," and many that are innocent, and some even meritorious.* 

" The owner of a slave condemned to death or transportation, is in all cases 
to be indemnified at the public expense for the loss of his property. His Ma- 
jesty's Government have repeatedly expressed their disapprobation of this rule 
of law. It weakens the motives for maintaining good domestic discipline, and 
for preventing the commission of crimes by the authority of the owner. It is 
unjust to indemnify any man at the public expense for a loss, in which his own 
culpable neglect of duty may have involved him. To the slave it is unjust to 
deprive his owner of all pecuniary interest in the preservation of his life; and 
when the crime of the slave is, as it often may be, the direct consequence of the 
owner's positive misconduct, it is in the highest degree impolitic to relieve the 
owner from the loss. The power of remitting the sentences of slaves con- 
demned to hard labour for life, is to be exercised only when the slave evinces in 
every respect a complete reformation of manners. I fear that few men undergo 
such a total change of character as this under any circumstances, and that a 
prison is among the last places in which it is to be expected. Independently 
of this consideration, I apprehend that this clause may, in some degree dero- 
gate from the power, which, under His Majesty's instructions, you possess of 
pardoning offenders, or remitting their punishments." 

It is impossible not to admire the just and statesman-like views con- 
tained in this despatch, and the clear and manly manner in which they 
are expressed. Its appearance in Jamaica, however, instead of having 
a soothing effect, has excited as much violence and clamour as the 
Resolutions of 1823. Every parish in the island appears to have 
met and promulged vehement remonstrances on the subject, instructing- 
their representatives firmly to refuse the slightest concession on the liti- 
gated points. — Now, whoever duly considers the calm, cautious, and 
temperate style of Mr. Huskisson's reasoning, and the obvious justice 
of every suggestion which his despatch contains, will at once see how 
utterly hopeless it is to expect the substantial amelioration of slavery 
from the masters of slaves. Many were led to suppose that the in- 
flammatory language of the abolitionists was the real cause of the 
irritation of the planters, who, at the same time, were, in their hearts^ 

* The Obeah laws of Jamaica are a disgrace to a Christian Statute book. 



1 &2 Compulsory Manumission. 

anxious for reform. But their reception of the measured, and even 
delicate representations of the Secretary of State, proves that their 
objection to reform is radical, and relates, not to the mode of its being 
proposed, but to its substance. They are fully resolved that if the ne- 
groes are to be "subjects of his Majesty " they shall be so only in name, 
and shall enjoy no one substantial right involved in that designation. 

The House of Assembly have adopted a series of resolutions in 
answer to Mr. Huskisson, which they conclude with stating, that "they 
cannot pass a new bill, containing the amendments suggested by Mr. 
Huskisson, without sacrificing their independence and endangering the 
safety of the island." The slave population, they add, " must again be 
governed by the act of 1816," — an act, however, which we do not think 
materially worse than that which has been disallowed. 

n. COMPULSORY MANUMISSION. 

It will be seen above that Mr. Huskisson has postponed the discussion 
of this subject, but his notice of it leads us to the consideration of a 
question arising out of it, which was much discussed during the inquiry 
before the Privy Council on the Demerara and Berbice petitions. The 
question to which we allude may be thus stated : — Is the market price 
of a slave an adequate compensation to the master for his loss of 
the slave's services by a compulsory mamimission ? The planters vehe- 
mently maintain the negative of this proposition. In opposition to them, 
there are some who hold that the market price is, in general, an ade- 
quate compensation, but that its sufficiency may be affected by the 
facility or the difficulty of procuring the substitution of free labour. 
Our view of the case differs from both these parlies. We do not 
conceive that the question of the sufficiency or insufficiency of the 
market price of a slave to compensate the master for his manumission, 
(we now view him merely as an article of property) depends on the 
facility or the difficulty of procuring free labour. That consideration 
will, no doubt, affect the market price of a slave ; but not the question 
whether the market price be or be not an adequate remuneration to the 
master for the loss of his slave's services. Nay, we believe it may be 
clearly shewn, that under the provisions of the Trinidad Order, the 
market value of the slave will be an adequate compensation to the 
master, whether free labour is procurable or not. The degree in which 
free labour may be procurable, would, without doubt, tend to raise or 
lower the market price of a slave, and might even reduce that price to 
nothing ; but, in either case, we would still maintain, that the market 
price will fairly compensate to the master the loss of his slave. 

It will not be denied that the market price of an article is fixed by an 
agreement between the seller and the buyer ; and that in any article of 
which the supply is unlimited, the market price will be the lowest sum 
at which the seller can afford to furnish it; while, on the other hand, 
in any article, of which the supply is limited, and is also inferior to the 
demand, the market price will be the highest sum which the buyer can 
afford to give. Now this last is the case with respect to slaves in the 
West Indies, on the assumption that free labour is unattainable there, 
and that slaves are the only labourers. Consequently, under such cir- 
cumstances, there would be no limit in those colonies to the rise of the 



Compulsory Manumission. 183 

market price of slaves, but the willingness of the planter to pay it. 
We say the willingness of the planter, for in the case of a manumission 
effected by an appraisement at the fair market value, his power is in-* 
disputable, since he must necessarily have in his hands, unemployed, 
the sum which he has received for his slave, and which, in the esti- 
mation of the appraisers, is the fair value of another such slave in the 
market. His only consideration then will be, how far it is his in- 
terest to employ that sum in the purchase of another slave, or to em- 
ploy it in some other way. As long as the purchase of another slave is 
the most profitable employment of his capital, he will so employ it. If 
the labour of the slave should yield less than he might obtain by the 
employment of his capital in another way, he will, of course, abstain 
from purchasing the slave, and the rise in the price of slaves will then 
have reached its limit ; which limit, as we shall proceed to shew, will, 
even on the supposition that free labour cannot be substituted, be found 
to include the value of the whole capital on the estate. 

The ordinary mode of estimating the value of a planter's capital, on 
sugar estates in the West Indies, is by taking it at double the value of 
his slaves. We will assume that estimate to be correct, though it is 
probably exaggerated, and we will suppose the following case founded 
upon it. We will suppose a planter to possess an estate on which are a 
hundred slaves worth £100 each, or £10,000. By the usual mode of 
valuation, as stated by Mr. Macdonnel, in his evidence before the Privy 
Council, such an estate would be considered as worth £20,000, half 
of it being the value of the slaves, and the other half the value of the 
other property. If we estimate the rate of profit at six per cent, the income 
of such an estate would be £1,200 per annum. Now, let it be further 
supposed, that by violence, or disease, or some other accident, which 
did not afi:ect the other part of his capital, the owner of this estate 
were deprived of his one hundred slaves in one night ; and let it be in- 
quired what sum he would be willing to give for another gang of the 
same size, supposing him to have suflficient capital unemployed in his 
possession. It is manifest here, that if free labour is not to be obtained, 
his land and works would be useless, and return him nothing without 
slaves ; but that by purchasing another gang he would derive from the 
estate his former income of £1,200 per annum. It is further clear that 
if he possessed the sum unemployed, it would be his interest rather to 
give £20,000 for the slaves alone, than to allow his estate to be idle, 
since he would thus still obtain for it the regular return of £1,200, or 
6 per cent on his investment. If he could effect the purchase for a less 
sum, he would make more than 6 per cent. ; but the amount named 
would be the limit beyond which he would not have an inducement to 
extend his offer. 

If, therefore, a planter could not procure slaves in the market at a 
cheaper price, the manumission price of slaves must necessarily attain 
this height, and of course the planter, whose slaves are manumitted, 
would be compensated even according to his own views of the equity of 
the case. However, a little consideration will shew that the rise of 
price would be constantly checked by the supply of fresh slaves in the 
market ; and that the possessor of a valuable estate would be able to 



184 Compulsory Mamimission. 

replace his slaves at a price much lower than the loss he sustairis by 
their manumission. The witnesses examined spoke as if it would be the 
interest of every one to buy, and of no one to sell. But this is impos- 
sible ; for it is impossible that the returns from all estates in any colony 
should be the same ; and it is quite undeniable that it must be the in- 
terest of the owners of less productive estates to sell their slaves at a 
price below that at which it would be the interest of the owners of 
more productive estates to purchase them. 

Let the average return of capital on Demerara estates be 6 per cent., 
or £12 per slave ; and let there be two estates, on one of which the 
return is as high as £18, and on the other as Ioav as £6 a slave. Now, 
as long as the price of the slave does not exceed £100, it is not the 
interest of the proprietor of the poorer estate to sell off his gang and 
break up his estate, because the average rate of profit in the colony will 
not give him for the money he obtains from their sale, a return exceeding 
that which he now derives from his estate. But if the market price of 
the slave should rise from £100 to £120, it would then be his interest 
to sell. From an estate of 100 slaves his present income is £600, but 
if he can obtain £12,000 for his slaves, his income from that capital 
will be £720. Thus it is evident, that as the market price of the slave 
rose, the demand on the part of the rich estate would be constantly 
met by a supply from that which was poorer ; and that as the poorer 
estates were successively thrown out of cultivation, the proprietors would 
be able to realize the value of their property, and to transfer it to any 
other more safe and durable investment. 

The great error of the witnesses is the not perceiving, that in naming 
the amount of loss which the planter sustains by the manumission of 
his slave, they name, at the same time, the sum at which it would be 
worth his while to replace him. And in naming that sum they neces- 
sarily name the market price, in other words, the sum they would 
actually receive for his manumission. Or, if the market price be below 
the sum which it is worth the planter's while to give, it is only because 
the market is so supplied with slaves as to enable him to replace at 
less cost the services of the slave who has been manumitted. 

The whole of this reasoning is on the supposition that free labour is 
not to be procured. If free labour can be procured, of course the 
market price will not exceed that amount which will represent the dif- 
ference between the wages of free labour, and the cost and maintenance 
of the number of slaves required to perform the same work. And there 
can be no question that, if population increases, this difference will con- 
stantly diminish, until, at last, it vanishes, and the planter will have no 
interest in retaining his slaves in bondage. The Trinidad Code, there- 
fore, leaves the question of free labour to be determined by the event, 
and provides a system of compensation, which, under any result, 
will be adequate. 

We have thus briefly exhibited the principles which appear to us 
decisive of the question of adequate compensation ; but we cannot quit 
the subject without expressing the shame we feel at being compelled 
to argue such a question in so cold and arithmetical a manner. 

I.oiKlnii : Printed by Bagster and Tlioms, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 34.] For MARCH, 1828. [No. 10. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be leady'for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's offipe. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of \d. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



DISCUSSIONS IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS : STATEMENTS OF 
MR. SECRETARY HUSKISSON, CONSIDERED : MOTION OF MR, 
HORTON :— SUG4R DUTIES. 

On the 6th and Sth instant, some conversation occurred in the 
House of Commons on the subject of Colonial Slavery, in which 
various Members took a part. — Mr. Brougham put a question to Mr. 
Huskisson as to whether any measures had been taken by the legisla- 
tures of the colonies, in reference to the slave population, which could 
be considered so satisfactory by his Majesty's Government, as to super- 
sede the necessity of their acting on the pledge they had given to resort 
to the interference of Parliament. 

In replying to th<^ inquiry of Mr. Brougham, Mr. Huskisson is 
reported to have stated, that the Government was bound to carry 
into effect the resolutions of May, 1823, and to enforce the due exe- 
cution of the measui'es necessary to that end ; — that, in addition to the 
papers already before Parliament, he should shortly lay on its table 
further information respecting the progress which had been made in 
the work of improvement during the past year ;* — that, in some of the 
colonies, having no local legislatures, and which were immediately subject 
to the legislation of the Crown, the measures of reform proposed by the 
Government, except on the point of compulsory manumission, had been 
carried into complete effect; — and that in the colonies having legis- 
latures of their own, where considerable opposition had been manifested 
to the wishes of Government, it was to be recollected that little or no- 
thing could be done to carry the projected reforms into effect without 
the concurrence of the colonial authorities: withovit this, we might ruin 
the colonies without benefiting the slaves. 

Such being the statements which have been attributed to Mr. Hus- 
kisson, and which have gone forth to the public as his, it becomes ex- 
pedient to examine them with care. 

We shall first advert, at some length, to that part of the newspaper 
report vv^hich represents the Right Honourable Gentleman as affirming 
that, in some of the colonies, having no local legislatures, except on the 

* Mr. Brougham gave notice, that if the information was not satisfactory, he 
should move the House on the subject of Slavery, soon after the recess. 

2 A 



186 Defects of the Trinidad Law— Religion — Sunday. 

point of compulsory mannraission, the various reforms proposed by 
Government had been carried into complete effect. 

We greatly doubt, however, whether such a representation is fairly 
applicable to any of those colonies, or even to Trinidad itself. And it 
being of high importance at the present moment to ascertain the fact, we 
shall first examine the provisions of the Slave Code of Trinidad, that 
being the model which has been held forth for all the other slave colo- 
nies, in order to ascertain in what degree the declared purposes of the 
Government have been there completely accomplished.* 

We freely admit that various improvements of great moment have 
been introduced into the Slave Code of Trinidad by the Order in 
Council of March, 1824. Still it will be found, on examination, that 
several most material points of reform which his Majesty's Government 
pledged itself to effect, have been omitted in this Code, and that, 
in some respects, the slaves of Trinidad have been placed by it in a 
worse condition than before its enactment. This we shall now proceed 
distinctly to shew. 

1. The Trinidad Order in Council of March, 1824, is termed an 
Order for " promoting the religious instruction,^' as well as for "■ im- 
proving the condition of the slaves." It does not, hov/ever, contain a 
single clause, which has for its object to secure or to promote the edu- 
cation or religious instruction of slaves, whether young or old. In the 
latest oflficial communications also received from Trinidad, and which 
have been laid before Parliament, is contained a letter of the Attorney- 
General, Mr. Fuller, to the Governor, Sir Ralph Woodford, which recog- 
nizes the fact that no effective practical measures had been taken to 
that end. (Papers of 1827, Part II. p. 250.) 

2. With respect to Sunday, it was further proposed by his Majesty's 
Government, first, to abolish Sunday markets and Sunday labour, 
making Sunday a day of repose and religious observance ; and secondly, 
to give the slaves equivalent time, in lieu of Sunday, for cultivating their 
grounds and for marketing. Sunday, as is well known, had hitherto 
been the day on which chiefly the slaves raised the provisions required 
for their own support aud that of their families. It was therefore 
necessary, if Sunday were applied to its proper uses, to allow the slaves 
equivalent time during the week. And the necessity of such an arrange- 
ment was expUcilly acknowledged by his Majesty's Government, as 
clearly appears from the correspondence of Earl Bathurst with the local 
authorities of the island. " The master," says his Lordship, in a de- 
spatch dated 11th September, 1824, "is entitled to the labour of his 
slave for six days in the week, but he is not entitled to more, and out 
of the profits of his six days the slave must be supported. The seventh 
day must belong to the slave for his own profit and advantage. I can 
perceive no difference in point of principle, between the practice of pur- 
chasing food for negroes, who are exclusively employed for six days in 
the week in the service of their masters, during the whole week ; and of 

* We have done this on several former occasions, (see the Reporters, No. XI. 
No. XXVIII. No. XXX., &c.) but it seems necessary now to bring the 
matter prominently forward, with a view to the approaching discussions in Par- 
liament, and with a direct reference to the reported statement of Mr. Huskisson 
on the subject. See below p. 203, for what has actually been done. 



Defects of the Trinidad Law — Su?iday, and day in heu of it. 187 

appropriating an adequate portion of time, during the six days, for the 
cultivation of their grounds." It is therefore evident, adds his Lord- 
ship, that the master who adopts the system of provision-grounds as in 
Trinidad, " can have no possible claim for the services of his slave on 
the Sunday," either for work to be performed exclusively for his master, 
or which is intended to relieve the master from the charge of supporting 
his slave. He denies also the master's claim to compensation for the 
day he may allot to him in lieu of Sunday, expressing his hope that 
" no Christian master will so far forget himself as to claim indemnity for 
the loss of that which his religion must have taught him he ought never 
to require." (Papers for 1825, p. 171, and p. 124.) 

The intention of the Government, therefore, clearly was this, that the 
slave should be exempted from the necessity of labouring on Sunday in 
his provision-grounds, which was, in fact, to labour for his master's 
benefit; and that equivalent time should be allowed him for that pur- 
pose on some other day. 

Such had also been the humane principle of the Spanish Slave Code, 
by which the slaves were entitled to all the Sundays, and about thirty 
holidays in the year as their own, and were allowed one day in each 
week besides, to be employed in cultivating their provision-grounds — 
the whole of the time thus assigned to them, amounting to about one 
hundred and thirty-four days in the year.* 

This salutary law appears to have fallen into disuse on the capture of 
Trinidad by Great Britain; and General Picton on the 30th June, 
1800, issued an ordinance on the subject, which is stated to be still the 
law of the island, requiring the master to give to the slave land, on 
which to cultivate provisions for himself and his family, and twenty-six 
afternoons in the year for its cultivation, besides his Sundays and four 
holidays. The fifty-two week-days allowed by the Spanish law were 
thus reduced to thirteen, and the thirty holidays to four. (Paper of 
June 12, 1827, No. 465.) 

Thus stood the law when the Order in Council of March, 1824, 
was promulgated. That Order, which was to have put an end to Sun- 
day markets, instead of abolishing them, has actually enacted their 
continuance for an indefinite period, and has given to them, for the first 
time, a legal sanction. It prohibits, undoubtedly, ail compulsory 
labour on the Sunday, and forbids the hiring of slaves to work on that 
day, except in certain prescribed cases. It nevertheless gives to the 
slave no time, in lieu of Sunday, either for cultivating his grounds or 
for going to market. Sunday labour is, indeed, prohibited, but nothing 
is done to make that prohibition effectual or even practicable. Accord- 
ingly, Sir Ralph Woodford, in his recent despatches, informs the Secre- 
tary of State, that the prohibition of Sunday labour has not been car- 
ried into effect ; (indeed, how was it possible ?) and he adds, that 
" working on their ground^ is common to all industrious negroes on 
Sunday," and that " the restriction on slaves working for hire," is 
" generally evaded." (Papers for 1827, Part II. p. 258.) 

And what other result could have been expected from the defective 

* See " View of the Law and Practice of the Spanish Colonies," 5fc. 



188 Defects of the Trinidad Law — Evidence of Slaves. 

legislation adopted on this subject ? If equivalent time be not given to 
the slave in lieu of Sunday, he must of necessity cultivate his provisions 
on that day or starve. The thirteen common days and four holidays, 
which are all that are nov/ allowed to him by law, and which were 
deemed necessai'y to the subsistence of himself and his family, even 
when the fifty-two Sundays in the year were considered as belonging to 
the master, and which, therefore, he could compel the slave to employ 
in raising his food, are obviously wholly inadequate to the purpose. A 
law, prohibitory of Sunday labour, under such circumstances, is a mere 
mockery, as the slave must work on that day or starve. 

Nothing, indeed, can meet the bare justice of the case, or prevent the 
condition of the Trinidad slave from being permanently deteriorated by 
the provisions of the Order in Council, or redeem the pledges of the 
Government, and satisfy the expectations of the country, but to add to 
the prohibition of compulsory labour on the Sunday, the absolute abo- 
lition of Sunday markets, and the grant of a day in the week, (in addi- 
tion to the seventeen days now allowed to the slaves,) in the lieu of 
Sunday, for going to market, and for raising their food. And if such a 
regulation be not adopted, many, if not all of the other improvements, 
will be deprived of much of their value, and even sink into comparative 
unimportance. Without it, religious instruction will be impossible, 
while the perpetual toil of the slave, thus compelled to labour during 
seven long days in the week, must continue, as at present, to wear down 
his physical powers, and to consign him to a premature grave. The 
want of such a regulation, joined to the general intensity and conti- 
nuity of labour, is obviously one cause why the rate of decrease among • 
the slaves in Trinidad is so enormous, while the free negroes around 
them are rapidly increasing. 

3. The next important defect in the Trinidad Order, respects the 
admissibility of the evidence of slaves. Before that Order was pre- 
pared, information was required as to the state of the existing law on 
this point. The Council of Trinidad, in a minute of the 9th of July, 
1823, state, by way of reply to the inquiry, that "A law to this effect 
is already in force ; " " and that their testimony (that is, the testimony 
of slaves,) is received quantum valeat." (Papers of 1824, p. 105.) 

The Order of Council, however, has materially restricted this right. 
It rejects the evidence of slaves in all civil suits in which the master is 
concerned. It rejects it also in trials afTecting the life of a white man, 
the very case in which, above all others, it was essential to admit such 
evidence. Under the operation of this exception, a white man (and 
why not also a free brown or black man ?) may murder a slave with im- 
punity, though a hundred or a thousand slaves were present to witness 
the deed. Nay, as the law now stands, it may even furnish a temptation 
to commit that crime. An act of cruelty to a slave on the part of a 
white man, may be prosecuted to conviction, and punished on slave 
testimony ; and if a second act of cruelty should be so proved against 
him, he forfeits the whole of his slaves, and becomes incapable of either 
holding slaves himself, or of being employed by another in their manage- 
ment. If, however, he should find that he has exposed himself to so 
serious a penalty by a second act of cruelty, on the trial of which slaves 



Defects of the Trinidad Law — Evidence of Slaves. 189 

are competent witnesses, has he not a strong temptation held out to him 
to kill the victim of his cruelty outright, as in that case he would be 
secure from the effect of slave testimony ? 

But the Order in Council contains a still more serious restriction 
on the admissibility of slave evidence, which has hitherto served nearly 
to frustrate its whole effect. By this restriction, wholly unknown to the 
Spanish law, a certificate of competency from a clergyman, or other 
religious teacher, is required to entitle a slave to give evidence in any 
case, civil or criminal. In no other part of His Majesty's dominions 
than the slave colonies, we believe in no part of the world besides ; cer- 
tainly, neither in the courts of any other British possession, nor in those of 
Great Britain, has any such condition of admissibility been ever exacted. 
Pagan and Mohammedan witnesses are there admitted as freely as 
Christians. Indeed, Mr. Peel and the present Lord Chancellor, in 
fhe House of Commons, on the 1st of March, 1826, both declared them- 
selves adverse to such a restriction ; and that this is the opinion of Mr. 
Huskisson himself, may be inferred from his admirable despatch to the 
Governor of Jamaica of the 22d of September, 1827, in which, com- 
menting on the Slave Act of that island, he says that he does not per- 
ceive " any necessary connection between the baptism of a witness and 
his credibility." 

To all this, it may be replied, that the Order in Council sufficiently 
obviates all the supposed inconveniences of this i-estriction, and replaces 
the slave on the same footing in which he stood prior to its enactment, 
by providing that " Nothing herein contained shall extend to take away 
or diminish any power or authority which any court of criminal juris- 
diction now hath, to admit, in any case, the evidence of persons being in 
a state of slavery." But this clause (which refers only to criminal, and 
not at all to civil courts) has not been considered by the judges in their 
practice, as intended to interfere with the positive enactments of the 
Order. Though invested with a certain latitude of discretion, they have 
decided that this discretion would be best exercised by adhering to 
what they conceived to be the clear intentions of His Majesty's Govern- 
ment on the subject, namely, by excluding from the right of giving evi- 
dence all slaves who had not obtained a certificate of competency from 
their clergyman or other religious teacher. Accordingly, Sir Ralph Wood- 
ford, the Governor, states himself to have felt that " unless it had been 
in the contemplation of His Majesty's Government to exclude all other 
slave evidence," " it could never have been intended to require, as a 
sine qua no?i, a qualification for which the means of attaining it are 
totally inadequate ; " while Mr. Fuller, the Attorney-General of the 
island, adds the important fact, that in upwards of two years from the 
date of the Order, only four slaves, out of 23,000, had obtained certi- 
ficates, qualifying them to give evidence in Courts of Justice. (Papers 
of 1 827 , Part II. p. 246, and p. 256.) 

With respect, therefore, to this highly important point of reform, the 
condition of the Trinidad slaves has not been improved, but deteriorated, 
by the operation of the Order in Council. And, indeed, unless the simple 
and intelligible principle of admitting, as witnesses, all classes of per- 
sons who are not excluded from giving evidence by some legal incom- 
petency, "leaving the question of their credibility to be decided, as in 



190 Defects of the Trinidad Law — Slaves Cotnplainiwj . 

our own country, by the Judge and Jury, it is clear that every attempt 
to modify the estabhshed rules of evidence, so as to meet the prejudices 
of the planters, can only issue, like the attempts in Trinidad, Jamaica, 
and the other colonies, in complete failure. 

4. The injurious effects of the modifications, thus introduced into the 
Trinidad law of evidence, have been aggravated by a supplemental 
Order of Council, promulgated on the 23d of June, 1824, which enacts, 
that should the complaint of a slave to a magistrate, that an illegal 
punishment had been inflicted upon him, be proved, the accused shall 
be liable to a fine not exceeding ten pounds, being about £4. 9s. ster- 
ling ! but that should the complaint prove " groundless or malicious," 
the magistrate shall return the slave, with a written declaration to his 
master, who, thereupon, may punish the slave at his discretion, to the 
extent of twenty-five lashes, or, if he thinks the slave deserving of a 
higher punishment, may refer the case to the proper tribunal. Now 
when it is recollected that the Assembly of Barbadoes have testified 
that, in the hands of a relentless executioner, a small number of stripes 
may be so inflicted as to amount to cruelty,* what may we not expect 
will be the severity of these twenty-five stripes, which it is left to the 
master's discretion to inflict, on a slave who has been guilty of the in- 
dignity of dragging him before a magistrate ? And this punishment, 
capable of being so aggravated, at the will of an irritated individual, as 
to amount, even in the view of the Barbadoes assembly, to cruelty, may 
be inflicted on a slave for faihng to prove the truth of his complaint, 
though neither he nor any of his fellow slaves may be qualified to give 
evidence respecting it; and this too, not after a regular arraignment and 
trial, affording him time and opportunity for his defence, and all fair 
means of disproving malice ; but because, on the trial of another, he 
has failed, as prosecutor, to establish his case in evidence. Such a law 
would actually seem to be contrived in order to prevent the slaves from 
ever preferring their complaints to a magistrate. 

In this view of the subject, Mr. Huskisson himself, it may be pre- 
sumed, would acquiesce ; for in commenting, in his letter of the 22d of 
September, 1827, on a similar clause in the Jamaica act, he remarks, 
" As every groundless complaint is to be punished, it is to be feared 
that many well-grounded complaints will not be preferred. The mere 
failure of evidence in support of a complaint is surely not enough to 
justify the punishment of the party complaining. The owner should 
be bound to prove that the complaint was malicious or frivolous." 

In conformity with this undeniably just principle, it is clear that the 
Trinidad Order, of the 23d of June, 1824, ought to be forthwith re- 
pealed, as most injurious and oppressive in its tendency, especially 
when connected with the operation of those modifications of the law of 
evidence under which only four slaves, out of 23,000, had become qua- 
lified to give their testimony in Courts of Justice. 

5. The Trinidad Order in Council, of March, 1824, gives to the slaves 
very ample rights of property, empowering them to acquire, hold, and 
transmit land and every other species of property real and personal. 
This is, without doubt, an important enactment, and if the equivalent 

* I'apers of 1827, Part I. p. 271. 



Property of Slaves — Separation oj" Families. 191 

time in lieu of Sunday, to which the slave is entitled, were effectually 
secured to him, and his industry were relieved from a restriction placed 
upon it by the law of Trinidad, as well as of every other British slave 
colony, it could not fail to produce the most beneficial consequences. 
The restriction alluded to, and which existed prior to the promulgation 
of the Order in Council of March, 1824, prohibits the slaves, under 
severe penalties, from cultivating any of the staple productions of the 
island, any articles, in short, of exportable produce. 

The apparently universal extension of the slaves' right of property, 
implied in the terms of the Trinidad Order, naturally led the planters 
to inquire whether it had not abrogated this prohibitory law. To their 
inquiry, the answer of Lord Bathurst is, (an answer, however, the legal 
soundness of which may be questioned,) that the Order in Council does 
not " revoke the existing law, whereby slaves are prohibited from 
cultivating for their own profit any of the staple commodities of the 
island."* The precise terms of this prohibitory law are not stated in 
any official document ; but it .may be inferred that it does not differ 
materially from the law of Demeraraon the same subject, which is also, 
with slight variations, the law of all the British slave colonies. It is to 
the following effect : " All slaves, as well males as females, are prohi- 
bited from selling or bartering with any one whatever, any produce, 
sugar, coffee, cocoa, indigo, cotton, rokow, syrup, rum, bottles, flasks, 
or any thing else, (being permitted to sell only vegetables, or ground 
provisions, the produce of their garden or stock which they are permitted 
to rear,) on pain of their being severely flogged on the plantation to 
■which they belong, for the first offence ; and for the second to be punished 
by sentence of the Court, according to the exigency of the case." 

Under the operation of such a law what efforts of voluntary industry, 
or what fruits of accumulation, are to be expected from slaves, whose 
fragment of time allowed for the cultivation of their grounds (no time 
being yet given them in lieu of Sunday) does not suffice, except by the 
exhausting labour of seven days in the week, to supply even the most 
pressing wants of nature ? 

6. In March, 1824, Mr. Canning stated, that it was one of the provi- 
sions of the Order for Trinidad to prohibit the separation of families by 
sale. And this was no more than strict justice required, as the Spanish 
law, which previously existed, had prohibited all such separation, whe- 
ther in the case of private or of judicial sales. f 

The Order in Council, however, has departed from this principle, and 
has limited the prohibition of the separation of families to judicial sales 
alone, leaving the far more numerous sales which take place at the will 



* Lord Bathurst's Letter of the 14th of July, 1824, Papers for 1825, p. 166. 

+ So jealous was the Spanish law on this point (see the Cedula of 31st May, 
1789,) that it enacted that " Slaves are not to be hindered from marrying with 
slaves of other masters," and in case of their doing so, it provided that " if the 
estates are distant from one another, so that the new married couple cannot 
fulfil the object of marriage, the wife shall follow her husband, whose master 
shall buy her at a fair valuation, (by appraisement) and if the master of the 
husband does not agree, the master of the wife shall have the same facility." 
And the same principle was made to regulate the sale of husband and wife, 
residing on neighbouring estates, but belonging to different owners, 



192 Trinidad — Punishments — Protectors. 

of the owner, and which were equally the object of the Spanish proht- 
bitory law, to be regulated by individual discretion or caprice. 

It cannot be denied that this also is a material deterioration in the 
legal condition of the Trinidad slave, produced by that Order in Coun- 
cil which was intended for its improvement. 

It is further necessary, in order to give effect even to the present 
limited law, which only prohibits the separation of husband, wife, and 
children, or of reputed husband, wife, and children, by judicial sales, 
that a provision should be added, for ascertaining and recording these 
different relations, whether by repute or otherwise. 

7, The Trinidad Order in Council contains very salutary provisions 
on the subject of arbitrary punishments which exceed three lashes, 
and particularly in requiring the attendance of a free witness, and the 
due record and periodical return, on oath, of every such punishment, and 
its circumstances. It is much to be regretted, however, that the neces- 
sity of such a record and return is confined to plantations. A large 
proportion of the slaves in Trinidad are not attached to plantations, but 
consist of jobbing gangs, mechanics, domestics, &c., all of whom are 
shut out from the operation of this beneficial restraint on the arbitrary 
power of the master, while, from being more under his eye, they are 
more exposed to the effects of his passion and caprice than even plan- 
tation slaves. If the regulations cannot be applied to cases of this 
description, ought not the infliction of punishment, at least beyond 
three lashes, to be taken out of the hands of the master and placed en- 
tirely in those of the magistrate ? 

8. His Majesty's Government have recognized the important prin- 
ciple, that a man is disqualified for the office of a protector of slaves, 
by being himself an owner of slaves. The application of this principle, 
however, is so modified in the Order of Council for Trinidad, as to 
divest it of much of its practical utility. The Chief Protector, indeed, 
is prohibited from owning, or being concerned in managing, a planta- 
tion cultivated by slaves in that colony. He is not debarred, however, 
from being an extensive proprietor of slave plantations in any other 
colony, and he may thus be as deeply interested in the maintenance of 
the slave system generally as any Planter in the island. And, though 
he may not possess a slave plantation in Trinidad, he may yet be an 
owner of slaves in that island to a large extent. He may be the pro- 
prietor of a jobbing gang, or of a gang of mechanics, and his domestic 
establishment may be filled wholly by slaves ; or he may have been for 
years the manager of slaves until he has become imbued with the worst 
vices and prejudices of the system. 

Thus stands the lav/ with respect to the Chief Protector, but it is 
still more objectionable as it respects the Assistant Protectors. They 
may be the possessors of plantations within the colony, and of any 
number of predial as well as personal slaves. And, as on thesff 
Assistant Protectors, must, of necessity, devolve the main duties of the 
office, it is plain, that, by this constitution of things, the whole in- 
tentions of the Government with respect to the effectual protection of 
the slave may be 'frustrated. Mr. Dwarris, in his first Report, p. 96, 97, 
gives a remarkable exemplification of this tendency in the island of 
Grenada. But it is still more important to refer to the authority of Mr, 



Trinidad — Cruel Intensity of Labour. 193 

Huskisson himself. Animadverting, in his despatch to the Governor of 
Jamaica of the22d of September, 1827, on the clause in the Act of that 
island, which substituted a parochial Council of Protection for the inde- 
pendent protector recommended by the Crown, he justly objects to 
the change, because the Council of Protection in this case consistsof 
those (meaning, of course, the planters,) " whom a protector was in- 
tended to watch," " while -heir number is such as to destroy individual 
responsibility." 

9. A further defect, perhaps the greatest, in the Trinidad Order in 
Council, is the omission of any regulation restricting the hours of labour 
of the slaves. If we assume their hours of labour in the field not to 
exceed the legal limit affixed to them by the law of Jamaica, we shall 
have full eleven hours and a half, namely, from five in the morning till 
seven in the evening, with intervals amounting together to two hours 
and a half. And these eleven hours and a half of labour in i\ie field 
are exclusive of the time required for going to and returning from it, 
and for the different domestic offices which, of necessity, are daily re- 
curring. Besides which, after the field labour is over, the slaves have 
to undergo the heavy and oppressive task of collecting and carrying to 
the homestall a load of fodder for the cattle and horses, and there 
waiting till the whole gang is again collected, and the roll called over ; 
a task which, after a fatiguing day's labour in the field, is of a most vexa- 
tious and harassing kind, while it gives occasion to frequent punish- 
ments. (See Papers of 1825, p. 73—213.) But this is not all. In the 
time of crop, which lasts from a third to a half of the whole year, the 
regular hours of occupation in the master's service extend to about 
six hours more, that is to say, to half the night, so that in the time of 
crop, nearly eighteen hours at least are directly occupied with the 
master's work, independently of all the other objects which must ne- 
cessarily occupy the slaves, and abridge their hours of rest. 

That such is a fair account of the excessive continuity of labour ex- 
acted from the slaves in Trinidad, is shewn by the evidence taken by a 
Committee of the Council of Trinidad, extracts from which have been 
printed by an order of the House of Commons of the 14thof June, 1827, 
(No. 479.) Mr. Mitchell, a sugar planter, who had resided in Trinidad 
for twenty-seven years, distinctly states, as a reason why free negroes 
cannot be induced to carry on the whole of the labours of sugar estates 
in Trinidad, that the present manner of conducting them, namely, 
" making large quantities of sugar in a given time; in many instances 
working eighteen out of twenty-four hours" (alluding, of course, to 
the four or five, or six months of the crop), is such " constant labour as 
the free labourers will not submit to." p. 33. 

This testimony is confirmed by the slave code of Jamaica. Mr. 
Huskisson thus remarks upon it, " The provisions for the prevention 
of excessive labour contemplate the working the slaves," (the law says 
" field work") " eleven hours and a half daily out of crop, and place no 
limit to the continuance of their work in crop time. Considering the 
climate in which the labour is to be performed, and that after the work 
of the field is over, there will yet remain many offices not falling 
within the term "(field)" labour, 1 should fear that the exertions of the 

2 B 



'194 Trinidad — Compulsory Manumission. 

slaves, if exacted up to the limits allowed by this law, would be scarcely 
consistent with a due regard for the health of the labourer." 

What would Mr. Huskisson have said if he had known the whole of 
the case, the collecting and carrying of fodder, the labour of full half 
of every night in crop time, and all the other items which unite to 
harass and overload the slave, and to render additional inflictions of the 
■whip necessary to stimulate his wearied and exhausted frame? 

Does not this system of excessive exaction, with scarce a breathing 
time during 18 hours of the 24, and without the intervention of a 
day of rest, joined to all the other disadvantages which have been ad- 
verted to, sufficiently account for the continued decrease of the slave 
population? In the fertile soil of Trinidad, producing 12 cwts. of 
sugar for each slave, that decrease amounts to 2| per cent, per annum ; 
in Demerara, Tobago, St. Vincents, and Grenada, producing from 8 to 
10 cwt. of sugar for each slave, it amounts to from 1^, to upwards of 
2 per cent, per annum ; in Jamaica, producing only from 4 to 5 cwt. 
of sugar for each slave, it amounts to about half per cent, per annum ; 
while in the Bahamas, producing no sugar at all, and among the free 
maroons of Jamaica, and the free negroes of Trinidad, and even the 
slaves of the United States, there is no decrease, but on the contrary, 
a rapid increase of population, amounting to from 2 to 2^ per cent, 
per annum. 

10. There remains only one other point in the Trinidad Order in 
Council, of March, 1824, to which it is necessary to advert, and that 
is the clause which empowers the slave to effect the redemption of him- 
self and of certain members of his family at a fair appraisement. 

The Spanish law on this point is fully detailed in the " View of the 
law and practice in the Spanish colonies respecting the manumission of 
slaves." It will there be found that the provisions of the Order, how- 
ever they may go beyond the measure of liberality which the planters 
of this or the other colonies are willing to adopt, falls far below that of 
the Spanish law, to the benefits of which the slaves of Trinidad were 
fully entitled prior to the Order in Council. .Still the provisions of that 
Order, when viewed as of general example, and as serving to introduce 
a similar principle into the English slave code, must be considered as 
important. That principle, however, has hitherto been adopted in no 
other colony than Trinidad ; and in Trinidad itself, notwithstanding the 
clearness of its law on the subject, it has been perverted, by the inge- 
nuity of avarice and despotism combined, into an engine of oppression 
to the slave, and of exorbitant gain to the master. 

The appraisers appointed under this law swear that they, shall make 
" a fair and impartial appraisement" of the person to be manumitted. 
Now, if words have a meaning, it would seem impossible for any man 
so far to misapprehend the terms, " fair and impartial appraisement," 
as to suppose that he can be justified, under the solemn sanction of 
such an oath, in affixing to the person of the slave a value which shall 
be double or treble the amount of what is his admitted and undisputed 
value in exchange, in the market of the colony, and in the ordinary 
transactions of commerce between man and man. Such, however, 
seems to have become the convenient mode, by common consent, among 



Compulsory Manumission — Mr. W. Hortons Motion upon it. 195 

the planters of Trinidad, of understanding the obligations of an oath, 
binding them to deal " fairly and impartially" between the master and 
the slave. In ordinary cases such conduct would be considered as par- 
taking of the guilt not only of perjury, but of a foul conspiracy frau- 
dulently to extort money from one party for the benefit of another ; to 
rob the slave in order to enrich the master. For this criminal proceed- 
ing the Order in Council provides no remedy. Surely, some means 
should be forthwith adopted by the Government for repressing this 
flagrant injustice, this notorious violation of its clear enactments, 
openly perpetrated and boldly avowed and defended. 

It must be admitted that, if apology were possible for such a palpable 
deviation from the plainest rules of moral conduct, the planters of 
Trinidad might find it in those subtle reasonings with which certain 
persons of high colonial authority have perplexed themselves and the 
public on this plain question. We allude to such evidence as that 
given by Major Moody before the Privy Council, and to the discussion 
raised by Mr. W. Horton, in the House of Commons on the 6th inst. 
If men of acute and intelligent minds, and accustomed to the consi- 
deration of moral and political questions, can suffer themselves to be 
perplexed with abstractions until they bewilder themselves and all who 
respect their authority, some excuse may be framed for the Trinidad 
planter, who, having, as he conceives, great interests at stake, should, 
in his over anxiety to protect those interests, think himself justified in 
substituting for the intelligible obligations of a solemn oath, the incom- 
prehensible doubts, and the "incommensurable" absurdities which have 
been so strangely imported into this subject.* 

No circumstance appears to us to have occurred, during the five 
years expended in ineftective discussion on the subject of slavery, more 
calculated to alarm the friends of humanity, and to rouse them to re- 
newed exertions to avert the failure of all our hopes, than the efforts 
■which have been made at home and abroad to induce the Government 
to abandon their pledge on the subject of manumission ; for, however 
short it may fall of our expectations, it seems almost to constitute the 
forlorn hope of humanity. But His Majesty's Government, we trust, 
■will be firm to their purpose. They will recollect how frequently and 
deliberately Earl Bathurst, in the name of His Majesty, has declared this 
manumission clause to be " a vital part of their whole measure" which 
" could not be dispensed with," and from the final accomplishment of 
■which " this country will not be diverted." We should have expected, 
therefore, that the Right Honourable gentleman, who, doubtless, assisted 
in framing these despatches, instead of urging on Parliament i\\e possible 
necessity of receding from this pledge, would have proposed some mea- 
sure for"enforcing, by suitable sanctions, the principle so unequivocally 
proclaimed, and so strenuously maintained by Government, and, so far 
as it went, received with satisfaction by parliament and the public. 

* Much has been said of the planter's rights of private property, as guaranteed 
by the Resolutions of IMay, 1823; but are not the slave's rights of private 
property also comprised in that guarantee ? What a clamour would have been 
raised had any infringement of the planter's rights of property taken place, 
^hich should equal in amount or atrocity that violation of right which has. 
marked the appraisement of Pamela Munro, in Trinidad! (See No, XXX^ 
pp. 122, &c.) 



196 Defects of Legislation in Crown Colonies. 

No one can read the account of the operation of this system in the 
Spanish Colonies, and doubt of its practicabiUty and safety, and even 
of its advantage to the planters and to the community at large ; and that 
the market price of slaves, as of all other articles, is an adequate 
compensation to the master for the manumission of his slave, we think 
is irrefragably shewn in our last Number. (No. XXXIII., p. 182.) 

All that remains for the Government to do, seems, therefore, to be 
to fortify and protect their own measure by adequate sanctions. 

Some stress appeared to be laid by Mr. W. Horton on the circum- 
stance that the plan of compulsory manumission had not been ori- 
ginally contemplated by Mr. Canning. This, however, is a mistake. 
Before Mr. Buxton made his motion on the 16th of May, 1823, he drew 
up a list of the objects at which he aimed, of which list a copy was sub- 
mitted by him to Lord Bathurst and Mr. Canning. In his speech, 
which preceded the motion, he expressly stated, that among the objects 
he had in view were, that " all obstructions to manumission should be 
removed ; " and that " the provisions of the Spanish law on manumis- 
sion should be introduced." Of a conference which he had with Mr. 
Canning on the 13th of June, 1823, , a minute is preserved, authenti- 
cated by Mr. Canning's own signature, which proves that this question 
of compulsory manumission, as it is now called, was then made the 
subject of discussion. The following is an extract from this minute : — 

" Lastly, measures for the extinction of slavery. Mr. Canning said 
these measures were of two kinds, 1 st. a power in the slave to purchase 
his freedom a day at a time; 2d. the liberation of all children after a 
certain day." " He told us, that the opinions of Government were not 
fixed as to these points ; that they were of the greatest importance, and 
that Government had taken measures to obtain information on them; 
and could not decide till they were in possession of this information." 

In consequence of the inquiries then set on foot, it doubtless was, that 
Mr. Canning obtained from Mr. Kilbee, the British Commissioner at 
the Havannah,the luminous information which has since been published,- 
and also the answer of the Trinidad Council, admitting, that by the law 
of that island, " every slave, in possession of the means, could purchase 
his freedom at a fair appraisement." (Papers of 1824, p. 106.) 

Such, then, is a view of the principal defects of the Trinidad Order 
in Council, and it is impossible to weigh them without admitting that 
even in that colony the declared intentions of the Government have not 
been carried into complete effect. But if this cannot be justly predi- 
cated of Trinidad, much less can it be affirmed of the other six colonies, 
subject to the legislation of the Crown ; and in some of which the 
power of the Crown, instead of being directly exercised, as in Trinidad, 
has been unhappily delegated to the local authorities ; in fact, to the 
very men the least suited to the task. In such a case, it was not to be 
supposed that the reforms adopted should go beyond that Order which 
was held out as the model for their imitation, although in passing, 
through an ordeal of this kind, it might reasonably be expected that 
some of them would be either entirely set aside, or at least much 
diluted. This has been the case particularly in Berbice and Demerara. 
The compulsory manumission clause has been rejected entirely in the' 



Proceedings of Chartered Colonies. 197 

latter, and after having been first frittered away to utter inefficiency, 
has been suspended in the former. Both have also omitted the im- 
portant clause in the Trinidad Order, the 21st, which was intended 
to restrain the abuses of the master's power. And some of the other 
provisions of the Trinidad Order have also been materially lowered, 
especially those which relate to the observance of Sunday, marriage, 
property, and the powers of the Protector. 

In St. Lucia and the Cape of Good Hope, the kind of improvement 
which has been effected may be considered as nearly on a level with 
Trinidad ; the defects in their legislation also being, with slight vari- 
ations, nearly the same. On the whole, perhaps, St. Lucia may be 
considered as having made the greatest advance of any of the Crown 
colonies towards meeting the wishes of Government. 

In the Honduras and the Mauritius, instead of the intentions of 
Government having been carried into effect, it is not known that any 
thing at all has yet been done there in the way of reform. 

It seems unnecessary to enter into any more detailed examination of 
the state of the law in these six colonies, in order to shew that in 
none of them have the declared wishes and intentions of the Govern- 
ment and Parliament been carried into complete effect. With respect 
to the thirteen slave colonies having legislatures of their own, it has not 
been affirmed by any one that they have complied with the recommen- 
dations of His Majesty. 

What may have occurred since the close of the last session of Par- 
liament, in the way of colonial reform, remains to be seen when the 
papers, promised by Mr. Huskisson, shall have been produced ; but 
judging from an attentive perusal of the colonial Gazettes, we do not 
anticipate one material improvement in any of these colonies. The 
law of Jamaica, which it has been necessary for His Majesty to disallow, 
is, perhaps, on the whole, a better slave code than exists in any other 
of the chartered colonies. And yet what was done by that act for giving 
effect to His Majesty's recommendations? Substantially nothing. It 
exhibits, like all other colonial acts passed since May, 1823, either a 
decided rejection of the reforms proposed, or such a partial, evasive, 
and ineffective adoption of a few of them as equally marks the hostile 
mind of the legislators. The glaring defects of the Jamaica act have 
been justly appreciated by Mr. Huskisson, and we are well persuaded 
that he will not find that the acts of any of the other colonies have 
superior claims to his approbation. Even those clauses of the Jamaica 
act which Mr. Huskisson marks with commendation, are mostly clauses 
not of recent origin, or adopted in compliance with His Majesty's late 
recommendations, but clauses which have stood, though very ineffec- 
tively, for many years in the successive editions of their slave code. 

For the defects in the laws of the Crown colonies, there is an easy 
and obvious remedy. The Crown can at once supply them ; and it can 
also render the laws effectual by such sanctions, and by such a selec- 
tion of functionaries, and by such a reform in the administration of 
j istiro, as shall ensure their due execution. 

"^^ ith the colonies having legislatures of their own, the Parliament 
a 'one can deal effectually, and such was most unquestionably the view 



198 Alleged Necessity of Colonial Concurrence. 

of the subject entertained by Mr. Canning. " I must declare," was 
his language on the 15th of May, 1823, in a speech, the printed report 
of which, published by the Anti-Slavery Society, was corrected by his 
own hand, " I must declare that we have a right to expect from the 
colonial legislatures a full and fair co-operation," and " I must add, 
that any resistance which may be manifested to the express and declared 
wishes of Parliament ; any resistance, I mean, which should partake, 
not of reason, but of contumacy, would create a case upon which His 
Majesty's Government would not hesitate to come down to Parliament 
for counsel." 

In the Conference with Mr. Canning already alluded to, (p. 196,) 
which took place on the 13th of June, 1823, the question was mooted 
of trusting to the colonial assemblies. The following is an extract from 
the minute of that conference. 

" We urged their former professions and the miserable performance 
which had followed ; and again that they might be disposed to act 
honestly, but with great tardiness." 

"To the first point he replied, that it was the express determination 
of Government not to admit of any trifling; and that if any disposition 
of that nature were manifested, Government would introduce measures 
^what he could not say) of compulsion. 

" With regard to indefinite delay, he said that the questions to be 
decided by the colonial legislatures, did not require much delay; — that 
they must make up their minds, and answer yes or no." 

Similar language was held by Mr. Canning on different occasions, 
and particularly in the Session of 1826, when in the House of Com- 
mons (Lord Bathurst speaking to a similar effect in the House of Lords) 
he entreated that some farther space should be given to the colonial le- 
gislatures for another trial ; and that if due advantage was not taken by 
them of that space, " it might then become the duty, if not of Parlia- 
ment to take the matter out of the hands of Government, at least of 
Government to call upon the Parliament to arm them with additional 
power." 

That in the two long years which have elapsed since these last words 
were uttered, nothing effective has been done by the colonial legislatures 
to fulfil the wishes of Government and Parliament, is plain from the 
papers which have been laid before Parliament. A brief abstract of 
the information which those papers convey will be found at the close of 
these observations (p. 203,) and a fuller view in the Reporters, XXVIIL, 
XXIX., XXX., and XXXI. 

The trial, therefore, proposed by Mr. Canning, has been allowed, and 
for a much longer space than he contemplated ; and there has resulted 
from it, as far as has yet appeared, only a renewed rejection of the 
overtures made to them. The proceedings of the legislature of Jamaica 
is a pretty fair specimen of what has passed in the neighbouring 
colonies. 

Has the time, then arrived, when the Government maybe considered 
as bound by their pledges to come to Parliament for fresh powers to 
execute its purposes ? If not, it will be difficult to say in what circum- 
stances, short of actual rebellion, its interference can ever be expedient. 
Mr. Huskisson, indeed, has not said that the time contemplated by Mr. 



Alleged Necessity of Colonial Concurrence. 199 

Canning may not have arrived, but his language on the 5th inst., if 
correctly reported, would seem to intimate that such interference would 
be inexpedient in almost any circumstances, his opinion being that little, 
if any thing, can be accomplished in the way of reform in the char- 
tered slave colonies, except with the concurrence of the colonists. But 
if this reported opinion be correct, how does it happen that Government 
should have deemed it expedient to impose a whole slave code on 
Trinidad, not only without requiring, or waiting for the concurrence of 
the colonists of tliat island, but even against their open and declared 
opinions ; and that Parliament should have approved and sanctioned 
such a course ? What, then, are the peculiar circumstances which 
made it wise and beneficial in the Government to legislate for Trinidad, 
without the consent, and in opposition to the will of its inhabitants, 
which would make it unwise and injurious for the Crown to renew the 
same proceeding in Demerara, or for Parliament to legislate in like 
manner for Jamaica or Barbadoes? TJie power of Parliament is as un- 
questionable in the case of Jamaica as that of the Government is in the 
case of Trinidad ; and why should the exercise of the power of Par- 
liament be more ineffectual in the one case than the exercise of the 
power of the Government is in the other? Or are the proposed enact- 
ments less necessary in the one case than in the other ? Are there not 
in both great and admitted evils to be redressed, which the legislature 
of Jamaica has refused to redress ? Or are these evils to remain unre- 
dressed until those who are interested in maintaining them shall be 
pleased to pass laws for that purpose ? The reported language of Mr. 
Huskisson would seem to imply the affirmative of this proposition. But 
what rational hope is there that the legislatures of Jamaica or Barba- 
does, or of the other colonies, will pass laws enabling His Majesty, for 
example, to appoint independent protectors of their slaves, or to reform 
and purify the administration of justice in all that respects the relation 
of master and slave ? Or may we hope that they will concurrently adopt 
into their code all the other reforms which His Majesty has recom- 
mended, and which have been declared by the Government and the Par- 
liament, in perfect accordance with the universal voice of the nation, 
and even of the West Indian body in this country, to be imperatively 
demanded by justice, humanity, and sound policy? The reality and 
the magnitude of the evils to be redressed stand fully admitted in the 
recorded resolutions and reiterated votes of Parliament, and in the in« 
structions and recommendations of His Majesty's Government during 
the last five years; and still more clearly, if possible, in the resistance 
of the colonies to their removal ; and if any additional evidence to that 
effect were required, it would be found in the luminous despatch of Mr. 
Huskisson, which has been already referred to. 

But notwithstanding these powerful considerations, it will still be 
argued, that without the concurrence of the colonists, nothing effectual 
can be achieved in the way of reform by the intervention of Parliament. 
Was there any want of power discovered in Parliament when it under- 
took to abolish the African Slave Trade, and to enforce its abolition 
within the colonies ? And if Parliament were now to pass an act em- 
powering His Majesty to purify and reform the administration of justice 
in our slave colonies, and to fill their courts with able and independent 



200 Alleged Necessity of Colonial Concurrence. 

judges ; or to appoint protectors of the rights of the slaves, with clearly 
specified powers, in each colony ; it is not very obvious that the salutary 
effect of such an enactment would very materially depend on the assent 
or dissent of the colonists. If a law were superadded which should 
make it imperative on the King's colonial courts to admit the evidence 
of slaves on the same principles which regulate the admission of evidence 
in the courts of this country, in what way could the non-concurrence 
of the colonists affect the validity and the salutary operation of such 
a law? And if, in conjunction with these most essential reforms, acts 
were passed, with suitable sanctions, which should abolish female flogging 
and the driving-whip; which should limit the hours of labour;, which 
should legalize the marriage, and protect the connubial rights of slaves ; 
which should prevent the separation of families ; which should protect 
the slaves in acquiring, possessing, and transmitting property ; which 
should give to them a day, in lieu of Sunday, for cultivating their 
grounds and for marketing ; which should grant to them the right of 
redeeming themselves by a fair appraisement ; which should restrain the 
abuse of the master's power of arbitrary punishment ; and which should 
establish, under the control and supervision of competent courts, and 
independent and responsible functionaries, a regular system of record, 
report, and revision ; — can any man, for a moment, believe that the be- 
neficial tendency of such enactments would be wholly frustrated, be- 
cause the colonists were unwilling to submit to them, or were loud in 
their remonstrances against them? 

If there is to be any legislation at all for the purpose of removing 
these evils, it will be admitted that good laws, honestly framed with a 
view to their removal, and armed with adequate sanctions, must be 
more effectual to that object than bad laws, guarded by feeble or by no 
sanctions, framed by men who profess to see the ruin of their own in- 
terests in the ends to be attained by their enactment, and whose inge- 
nuity, therefore, will be directed to render them as inoperative as is 
consistent with an apparent compliance. So far, at least, as the colo- 
nial statutes are justly chargeable with a want of uniformity and con- 
sistency, with inequality and injustice, and with the absence of adequate 
executory provisions, (and the reports of the legal commissioners fully 
establish the existence of such defects,) it would clearly be in the 
power of Parliament to apply a remedy. The object of Parliament in 
making laws would be to give effect to its own purposes. The object 
of the colonists in all the colonies, it is perfectly evident, would be, if 
they cannot resist, yet to elude their fulfilment. Besides, when it is 
considered how very contracted is the white population of the colonies, 
how many of them are in low and servile situations, and how ievf are 
qualified by their habits, intelligence, and capacity, to form wise and. 
enlightened legislators, in points immediately affecting their pride, their 
passions, and their interests, it can hardly admit of a question, whether 
the task of legislating for the eight or nine hundred thousand black 
and coloured subjects of His Majesty in our slave colonies, shall be 
exercised by their own petty legislators, or by the Imperial Parliament 
of Great Britain. 

We admit, indeed, that the best laws which it would be possible to 



Alleged Necessity of Colonial Concurrence. 201 

frame, might be attended with httle benefit, if the administration- of 
justice in the colonies should remain as it is. But its reform is an es- 
sential ingredient in the whole plan of improvement ; and Governors, 
Judges, Attorney Generals, and Protectors, instead of being planters, 
dependent on assemblies of planters, must be men duly qualified for 
their offices, unconnected with colonial interests, receiving their ap- 
pointments and instructions from the Crown, and responsible to the 
Crown for their conduct. 

But though such a reform in the judicial and executive departments 
of the colonies would undoubtedly do something towards correcting the 
evils of the slave system, it maybe argued that juries must still be com- 
posed of men imbued with colonial prejudices, and ready to frustrate 
the operation of every law that might be obnoxious to them. This, to 
a certain degree, is true. There is, however, a large share of the admi- 
nistration of courts of justice, which is in the hands of judges, inde- 
pendently of juries, and even where it is not, the presence and directions 
of an enlightened and unbiassed judge, and the establishment of a 
proper system of record, revision, and publicity, could not fail to be 
attended with a powerful and salutary influence. 

May not, also, some part of the evil which is contemplated be effec- 
tually obviated by admitting into the list of jurors such free blacks and 
persons of colour as are duly qualified by their property and intelligence? 
Aliens are entitled in our courts to have a moiety of their peers, aliens 
like themselves. It seems to be inconsistent with justice that native 
born subjects of the King, qualified by their property, intelligence, and 
loyalty to act as jurors, should be excluded, merely on account of their 
complexion, from the exercise of one of the dearest rights of the British 
constitution. 

In British India the principle we now recommend has been adopted 
with advantage, and one of the last pledges given by Mr. Canning in 
the name of His Majesty's Government, was, that if the colonial le- 
gislatures should refuse to do justice to the free people of colour by 
admitting them to a fair participation in the civil and political rights to 
Avhich, as British subjects, they were entitled, he should regard it as 
the duty of Parliament to interfere in their behalf. 

Little or nothing, we are told, can be effected in the way of reform in 
the slave colonies without the concurrence of th3 colonists. The very 
statement of such a proposition from such authority, tends to take 
away the hope of any such concurrence. 

May not the West Indians, in fact, understand it as saying to them, 
" so long as you persist in refusing your concurrence, you are safe from 
those innovations which you so much dread?" It seems, indeed, to 
take away the only motive which ever has produced, or perhaps ever will 
produce, any even seeming compliance, on the part of the colonial le- 
gislatures, with the wishes of the mother country ; the dread of parlia- 
mentary interference ; while it goes to vacate at once the pledges 
of Government to parliament and the public, respecting the course to 
be taken in case of continued disappointment. 

Is it not quite a new maxim in legislation, that the concurrence of 
the parties who are to be restrained from wrong, shall be required to 



202 Alleged Necessity of Colonial Concurrence. 

render the laws, imposing the restraint, effectual? What would have «■ 
been said to such a proposition in the case of the Luddites, or of any fl 
other set of evil doers in this country ? 

Let us never lose sight in this view of the memorable words of Mr. 
Canning. "Trust not," said that enlightened Statesman, " the masters 
oj" slaves in what co7icerns legislation for slavery. However specious 
their laws may appear, depend upon it they must be ineffectual in 
their operation. It is in the nature of things that they should be so." 
— " Let then the British House of Combions do their 

PART themselves. LeT THEM NOT DELEGATE THE TRUST OF 
DOING IT TO THOSE WHO CANNOT EXECUTE THAT TRUST FAIRLY. 

Let the evil be remedied by an Assembly of freemen, by the Govern- 
ment of a free people, and not by the masters of slaves. Their 

laws can NEVER REACH, COULD NEVER CURE THE EVIL." 

" There is something in the nature of absolute authority, in the rela- 
tion betiveen master and slave, which makes despotism in all cases, 
and under all circumstances, an incompetent and imsure executor 
even of its own provisions in favour of the objects of its power." 

The eternal truth of these maxims, applied at the time to the Slave 
Trade, loses none of its force when applied to slavery ; and it has been 
abundantly confirmed by the fatal experience of nearly thirty years, 
which have since elapsed, of protracted misery and oppression to the 
slave, and of unceasing resistance on the part of the master to every 
effort to alleviate that misery or to terminate that oppression. What 
indeed now remains to us, but to act on the wise and salutary counsel 
given to us by Mr. Canning, in 1 799, and our past neglect of which 
has entailed so many evils on the wretched African race? Let the 
British House of Commons do their part themselves, and 
let them not continue any longer to- delegate the trust of 
doing it to those who cannot execute that trust 

FAIRLY. 



OQ0'<IO5.T*i'Wt*l-iO<000 



« o : 



Z n " S 



m c 



> W O H > > 5* 
3 n 2 pi S! s t-j 

> z S g to > I- 
" > z 5 j» 2 O 

C2 u " S o C a 

> S O S! X > i. 



> p. a 



O 
H 

> , ►^ O H , , , P3 

en W ^ 

m . I . . ,-5 

, . ■ . O 

o 

KH 

w W 

~>|i. "or ~tn 'oi ~© ~C> "o "«< ^ tO"o O O 

©©ooooooooooo 
©ooooooooooo© 



. ^ 



'Ti^U'D 



>> 



hjM 



Tf^ti 



ITi^t 



-» O) 01 Ji. w bS I— 

r^ > O p: > w fo 

C 2 3 2 ^ 5 

G " G 55 o S O 



!-" 1:; > fo 



O 



a 



w o bs *- w w to^ 



1 fills S^H 

^33 " i =" g- 



~- 


H 




S* 




td 


&.§3. 




■c -»5i. 


(» 



!3> 



I. To provide the means of 
Education and religious In- 
struction to the Slaves. 



II. To put an end to Sunday 
Mark ets. 



HI. To make Sunday, to the 
Slaves, a day of rest and of 
religious observance. 



IV. To allo'sv Slaves time, in 
lieu of Sundaj', for cultivat- 
ing grounds and marketing. 



iTj;>h3'T3 



V. To admit the testimony of 
Slaves, under restrictions, in 
civil and criminal cases. 



I VT. To legalize marriage a- 
hj t> "tJ [S* I moug Slaves, and to protect 
I their connubial rights. 



hit' 



1 MH VII. To prevent the separa- 
tiou of Families by sale. 



VIII. To prevent the sale of 
Slaves detached from plan- 
tation to whicli they belong. 



,^ IX. To protect the Slaves in 
" !&• 'w r* acquirmg, possessing, and 

transmitting property. 



hJ^-hS p> 



X. To establish Savings'Banks 
for the safeguard of their 
property. 



. |> i>. XI. To abolish all taxes on 
manumission. 



XII. To grant to the Slaves a 
I Jt» right of redeeming thera- 
selves,orany of their family. 



> ' V 



XIII. To limit the power of 
arbitrary punishment, and 
to restrain its abuse. 



XIV. That a record be kept, 
'ti M 1^ hd and return made, of all ar- 
bitrary punishment. 



practice of flogging females. 



>>» 



XVI. To abolish entirely the 
use of the driving wiiip, as a 
stimulus to labour. 



»>>- 



1 1 hi hj 



XVII. To appoint Protectors 
of the Slaves in every Co- 
lony. 

XVIIT. That no Protector of 
Slaves,or other Functionary, 
be allowed to hold Slaves. 



XIX. The presumption of law- 
shall be in favour of free- 
dom. 



XX. To purify the adminis- 
tration of Justice. 



204 



Sugar Dutiks and Bounties. 

It is with no small regret, we have heard that it is the intention of 
Government to increase the bounty on sugar, and to introduce other 
arrangements, the effects of which, as it appears to us, are hkely to be, 
not only prejudicial to our commercial interests, but extremely bur- 
densome to the people of this country, and highly injurious to the well- 
being of the wretched slaves in our colonies. 

In 1826, the sugar bounties were reduced to one half of their former 
amount. We trusted that this was but a prelude to the abolition of all 
bounties and of all protections on that article. It now is reported that 
Government are about to retrace their steps ; and that in violation of 
their own avowed principles of commercial policy ; in disregard of the 
many hundred petitions from all parts of the kingdom, addressed to Par- 
liament in the two last years, calling for the abolition of all such re- 
strictions ; in the face of the resistance of the colonies to the wishes of 
the Government, the Parliament, and the Public, on the subject of re- 
form ; they are about to recur to the former scale of bounties, by which, 
in consequence of the improvements introduced into the process of 
refining, we believe, that a much larger sum than before, will be taken from 
the pockets of the people of this country, and transferred into the 
pockets of the British growers of sugar by slave labour. As well might 
that sum be at once proposed to be voted by Parliament to these sugar 
planters. The effect would be the same, though the process, in the 
actual case, may be so complicated as to prevent the mind from being 
equally I'evolted by it. What we above all, however, lament in the 
proposed arrangement, is the necessarily mahgn influence which it will 
exercise on the slave population, by the increased exaction of labour to 
which it will lead, in order that their masters may profit by the enhanced 
prices while they last. 

But we have no room to enlarge. The country may expect soon to 
hear again on this subject, provided the plan so currently talked of shall 
be brought before Parliament. 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office, 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs, Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anfi- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



I/Omloii : Bagster niul Tlioms, Printers, 14 BartlHiloiinew C'osp. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLYREPORTER. 

No. 35.] For APRIL, 1828. [No. 11. Vol. ii. 



The '' Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



SUMMARY VIEW OF THE PRESENT STATE OF THE ANTI-SLA- 
VERY QUESTION;— EFFECTS OF BOUNTIES AND PROTECTING 
DUTIES. 

The sanguine hope which the parliamentary Resolutions of the 15th 
of May 1823, justly excited, that early, effectual, and decisive mea- 
sures would be taken to ameliorate the condition of the slave popu- 
lation of the British Colonies, and to raise them to " a participation 
in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes 
of His Majesty's subjects," has been most painfully disappointed by the 
result. Year after year has passed away without the adoption of those 
effectual and decisive measures for this purpose, to which the Govern- 
ment and the Parliament were then solemnly pledged. No adequate 
remedy has yet been provided for the great and acknowledged evils of 
slavery. Five years have been wasted in fruitless negociations with the 
men who conceive themselves interested in upholding those evils, and 
the prospect of their removal seems, at the present moment, as distant 
as when the pledges in question were first given. 

Neither in Trinidad, which, it was proposed, should furnish a model 
of reform to the other Colonies, nor in any of the Colonies which have 
no legislative assemblies of their own, has the unquestionable power 
of the Crown been adequately exerted to give effect to its own declared 
purposes of justice and mercy. In some of them, certain improve- 
ments in the legal condition of the slave have been rendered almost a 
dead letter by the absence of others, the concurrence of which is necessary 
to their efficiency. Nor is there one of them in which, though they are 
all wholly subject to the legislation of the Crown, the reforms hitherto 
enacted have not fallen far below the promise originally held out to the 
public. Consequently, even in these Colonies, there is as yet little 
abatement of those evils of the system, which first excited the attention 
of Parliament. Even that measure of giving the slave a right to pur- 
chase his own freedom, at a fair appraisement, by the fruits of his in- 
dustry, which Earl Bathurst stated to be an indispensable part of the 
proposed plan of improvement, and from which, he added, neither the 

2 c 



"206 View of the Present State of the Anti-Slavery Question. 

Parliament nor People of this country would be diverted, seems now 
about to be abandoned in deference to the selfish and ignorant clamours 
of the planters. In the Colony of Trinidad itself, where, indeed, this 
important law had been established before its cession to Great Britain, 
it has been rendered nearly inoperative, since the promulgation of the 
late Order in Council, by the unjust conduct of the Planters who 
have been called to administer it. (See the last No. p. 185 — 195.) 

In the Slave Colonies, having assemblies of their own, the state of 
things is still less satisfactory ; and it now seems perfectly clear, that 
without the direct intervention of Parliament, there is not the smallest 
hope of seeing His Majesty's recommendations there carried into effect; 
those assemblies having, with one concurrent determination, either re- 
jected them entirely, or having adopted in lieu of them such partial and 
ineffective measures as serve only to elude and defeat their object. 

In none of the Colonies have adequate means of education or instruc- 
tion as yet been provided for the slaves. In none of them but two, 
Barbadoes and Tobago, has an end been put to Sunday markets ; with- 
out, however, appointing any other market day for the slaves. Sunday 
labour has been no where precluded by giving equivalent time in lieu 
of Sunday to the slave, who is still forced to toil either for his master 
or for his own subsistence and that of his family during seven days of 
the week. The testimony of slaves is not yet admitted in the King's 
Courts to any beneficial purpose. The sacred institution of marriage, 
though with some nominal recognition of it, is still almost entirely neg- 
lected. Families are still allowed to be separated, by all but judicial sales, 
except in St. Lucia. The power of redeeming themselves by the fruits 
of their own industry at a fair appraisement, as well as the real and 
effective rights of property, are still generally withheld from the slaves ; 
while little or nothing has yet been done to prevent the abuse of the mas- 
ter's power of punishment. The practice of flogging females, and the use 
of the cart whip in the field are obstinately retained in all the chartered 
Colonies ; while in none of them have independent and impartial guar- 
dians been appointed to watch over the execution of the laws for the 
protection of the slaves. The presumption of law is still, except in the 
Colonies of Trinidad, St, Lucia, and Grenada, in favour of the slavery, 
and against the freedom of all who have not a white skin. And in all 
the Colonies, the administration of justice is most defective; while the 
laws themselves are harsh, oppressive, and unequal, denying to the 
slaves even the common rights of humanity, and to the free people,, 
whether black or coloured, any fair participation in the civil and political 
privileges of British subjects. 

After the resolutions which have been adopted, and the pledges 
which have been given on this subject, not merely in deference to the 
public opinion, so generally expressed, but apparently from a conviction, 
in the minds of our public men, and even of the West Indians them- 
selves holding seats in Parliament, of the absolute necessity of the pro- 
posed reforms, the above statement will appear to be scarcely credible. 
But, in proof of it, it is only necessary to refer to the official documents 
laid on the table of Parliament, of which an abstract will be found in 
the seven last Numbers of the Anti- Slavery Monthly Reporter;, viz. 



Effects of iBounties and Protecting Duties. 207 

No. 28 — 34.* The existence of the flagrant evils which liave been 
specified as characterizing the system of Colonial Slavery, it is true, has 
been disputed ; but their reality is most unquestionably proved, in op- 
position to all contrary assertions, not only by direct testimony, but by 
the very nature of the reforms recommended by His Majesty's Govern- 
ment, with the consent of the West India body at home, and still more 
by the determined resistance of the Colonists abroad to the adoption of 
them. If the evils proposed to be redressed had 'lot had a real exist- 
ence, the Colonists would have been eager to adopt, in their own vindi- 
cation, the proposed enactments, which, in that case, would have cost 
them nothing. 

It is certainly discreditable to the national character, as well as cri- 
minal in itself, that such a state of things should exist in any part of 
the British dominions ; — that nearly a million of the King's subjects 
should be suffered to continue in a condition of life thus degraded and 
oppressed, outcasts from the pale of the British Constitution, and even 
from that of humanity itself; nay that thousands of children should yet 
yearly be born to no inheritance but that of this hopeless bondage. Is 
it too much then to expect that the requisite means should at length, 
and without further delay, be taken by Parliament, to remedy this tremen- 
dous evil, by carrying into effect, not any new or rash measures which 
have not been fully considered and matured, but the very measures to 
which, with the general concurrence of the West Indian body in this 
country, the Government and the Parliament have been actually pledged 
for the last five years? 

Surely the time is now fully come when the work of reform, so long 
and so distinctly promised, should not be confined, as hitherto, to 
mere ineffective recommendation; but when Government should do that 
in the unchartered Colonies which yet remains undone there, and when 
Parhament should do that in the Chartered Colonies which the Co- 
lonial Assemblies have been called upon in vain to do for themselves, 
and which, if it should be left to them, will never be done at all. f 

But notwithstanding the continued refusal of the Colonial authorities 
to comply with the recommendations of the Government, it is under- 
stood that it is not the intention of His Majesty's Ministers to call for 
the intervention of Parliament, or even to deprive the slave holders of 
the fiscal protection which their produce has been hitherto receiving; but 
that on the contrary it is intended, by reinstating the sugar bounties on 
their former footing, to increase the already large sum, which is an- 
nually transferred from the pockets of the British public into the pockets 
of the growers of sugar by slave labour. 

The marked encouragement thus given to the produce of slave labour 
in preference to that of free labour has, doubtless, hitherto been, and, 
we fear, will continue to be, one great cause of the failure of the hopes 
of the nation on the subject of Colonial Reform. 

This injurious policy commenced in 1815, in favour of West Indian 



* See also for further proofs, if necessary, Nos. 5, 7, 11, 16, 18, 19, 21, and 26. 
-I- See the ever-memorable words of Mr. Canning on this subject, in the last 
No. p. 202. 



208 Vieiv of the Present State of the Anti-Slavery Question. 

sugar, and has since been made to embrace, by an unhappy partiality, 
the only slave Colony possessed by His Majesty to the eastward of the 
Gape of Good Hope, the Mauritius, while the sugar grown by free 
labour, in all other parts of the British dominions, is loaded with addi- 
tional duties for the sole benefit of those who hold 825,000 of their 
fellow-subjects in cruel bondage.* 

Such a course of proceeding is wholly inconsistent with those prin- 
ciples of sound commercial policy which have been recommended from 
the Throne, and recognized and sanctioned by Parliament, It is both 
unjust and oppressive towards more than 80 millions of our Asiatic fel- 
low subjects, whose interests are sacrificed to a few hundreds of West 
Indian and Mauritius sugar planters. It is attended with serious injury 
to the British commercial and shipping interests connected with our 
eastern empire; and it is highly prejudicial to the whole population of 
the United Kingdom. 

The extensive distress which has prevailed among the labouring 
classes of this country, is admitted to have arisen from a want of ade- 
quate employment ; and for this evil some effectual remedy is now 
anxiously sought by Parliament, in emigration, or in some other expe- 
dient equally costly. But what remedy is likely to be more easy and 
effectual for alleviating its pressure, than that of obtaining a freer vent 
for the products of British industry among the swarming population 
of His Majesty's Asiatic dominions? This obvious and practicable 
source of relief, however, is in no small meas'ure precluded by our re- 
fusing to admit the produce of those dominions into the markets of 
Great Britain, on fair and equal terms. 

The impolicy and injustice of thus preferring to the clear claims both 
of our own population, and of our fello\'r-subjects in the East, the in- 
terests of the growers of sugar, coffee, &c. by slaves, are too manifest to 
be insisted upon. But there is a consideration of still deeper importance 
which should induce the people of this country earnestly to press this 
subject on the attention of the legislature, being, indeed, the very 
consideration which chiefly prompted the very numerous and nume- 
rously signed petitions respecting it, addressed to Parliament in the last 
and preceding Sessions. 

The consideration here alluded to, is the undoubted tendency of 
bounties and protecting duties on slave grown produce to perpetuate 
and aggravate the worst evils of that system of Colonial Slavery which 
the people of this country justly regard as being essentially inhuman, 
impolitic, and unjust ; — a flagrant violation of the laws of God and the 
rights of man. 

The regulations which go to encourage the produce of slave labour, 
and proportionably to discourage that of free labour, while they obviously 
tend to involve this country in the guilt of upholding slavery, are 
also wholly and directly at variance with the Resolutions which (in con- 



* The misery and the mortality of the slaves in the Mauritius, we believe 
greatly to surpass what takes place in any of our other Slave Colonies. This 
has partly arisen from the extraordinary cheapness with which, from its vicinity 
to the slave market, the waste of the human stock can there be repaired. 



Effects of Bounties and Protecting Duties. 209 

currence with the almost universal voice of the British nation) Par- 
liament adopted in May, 1823, for mitigating, and ultimately extin- 
guishing the condition of slavery throughout the British dominions. 
For it is unquestionable, that no mere resolutions or declarations, no 
mere recommendations or even enactments can have any material effect 
in abating the malignity of Colonial Slavery, while we distinguish the 
slave holder by peculiar favours, and indemnify him' by a high bonus 
for the waste of negro life, which the forced culture of sugar, as con- 
ducted in our Colonies, must ever occasion. 

It is, therefore, matter of the deepest concern, that the advantages 
hitherto given to the growers of sugar by slaves, instead of being 
wholly abolished, as, from the many hundreds of petitions on the sub- 
ject, might have been hoped, are to be continued and, we are told, even 
increased, in favour of those who hold 825,000 of His Majesty's un- 
offending subjects in bondage ; and that this costly and pernicious 
indulgence is to be extended to them, at the very time that they are 
manifesting a determined resistance to the benevolent recommendations 
of His Majesty to improve the condition of their bondsmen. And does 
it not form an additional objection to the continuance, and still more to 
the increase of this odious and unpopular impost on the people of Great 
Britain, for the exclusive benefit of those who hold their innocent 
fellow-subjects in slavery, that the necessity has been felt of effectual 
retrenchment in every other branch of the national expenditure ? 

If the proposed changes in the sugar duties have been correctly stated 
to the public, and should pass into a law, their effect can only be 
still more to favour, at the expense of the British public, the interests of 
the growers of that article by slave labour, to the injury of all His Ma- 
jesty's subjects who raise it by their own free labour. 

The bonus thus given to the growers of sugar by slaves, will amount 
to a very large sum. Even on the existing scale of duties and draw- 
backs, it is moderately estimated at more than £750,000 ; and if the 
former bounties shall be restored, it will amount to above £1,200,000, 
independently of the sum annually expended in the naval, military, and 
civil establishments of our Slave Colonies, and which is calculated to 
amount to about two millions sterling. 

But whether the sum which is to be divided annually among the 
growers of sugar by slave labour be £750,000, or £1,200,000; to such 
an appropriation of their money the people of this country will ever en- 
tertain objections of the gravest kind ; nor will they perceive any es- 
sential difference between a parliamentary vote of that sum to the 
growers of sugar by slave labour, and a fiscal arrangement which shall 
secure to them the same amount in some other way ; for under what- 
ever complexity of arrangement the transaction may be disguised, its 
real effect is the same. 

It is maintained, indeed, by those who hold their unoffending fellow- 
subjects in bondage, and under the influence of their representations 
by some persons of high name, that the comfort and well being of the 
slave population in His Majesty's Colonies require the continuance and 
even increase of the bounty and protecting duty on slave grown pro- 
duce; because, they argue, whatever lessens the profits of the planter 



210 Vieiu of the Present State of the Anti- Slavery Question. 

and deteriorates his condition, must of necessity abridge the comforts 
and increase the privations of the slave. 

Such a position, however, is founded in the most complete misappre- 
hension of the real effect of such an arrangement, arising probably, on 
the part of some, from their inconsiderately confounding the case of 
free labourers, working voluntarily for wages, with that of slaves com- 
pelled to work by the lash. 

It is not denied, indeed, that high prices and increased profits tend 
to the benefit of the free labourer as well as of the Capitalist who em- 
ploys him; but the result is altogether different in the case of slaves, 
who receive no wages, and who are driven to their work by the whip. 
These stand in the same relation to the planter in which his machi- 
nery stands to the manufacturer, and are equally liable with such ma- 
chinery to be worn down by the increased action which is the infal- 
lible effect of an increased demand for the article produced. When an 
article produced by free labour rises in demand, the labourer obtains 
a part of the increased price in the higher wages which he forces his 
employer to give him. When a similar rise takes place in an article 
produced by slave labour, the planter may put the whole increase into 
his own pocket, and extort whatever labour he may require, out of. 
the slave, by means of the lash. 

That the factitious rise in the price of sug'ar, for example, which is 
caused by monopoly, or by bounties tending to enhance the planter's 
profits, instead of being beneficial, is most injurious to the slave, may be 
established not only by reasoning, but by facts drawn from the official 
documents furnished to Parliament by the Colonists themselves. 

Of these facts, one of the most striking is the increased waste of 
slave life which occurs in every Colony where the superior fertility of 
the soil increases the profits of slave labour, and adds to the quantity 
of the article on which the bounty operates. 

On this point, as well as on the commercial part of the question, very 
full and ample details will be found in the second Report of the Anti- 
Slavery Society, p. 16 — 33, and in the Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter, 
Nos. 17, 22, 24, and 26. On the present occasion, therefore, it may- 
be sufficient merely to advert to the confirmation which the positions 
there maintained derive from the following facts, to which many more 
of the same kind, drawn from a comparison of the production and mor- 
tality of all the Slave Colonies, might easily be added. 

The Bahamas, from the poverty of the soil, produce no sugar nor 
any other article of exportable produce entitled to protection in the 
British market ; but the slave population has there increased more rapidly 
than in any other Colony, namely, at the rate of from 2 to 2g per cent, 
per annum. 

The Colony of Barbadoes, containing 80,000 slaves, produces on an 
average only about 280,000 cwt. of sugar annually, being only about 
3 1 cwt. for each slave, and there we have a small increase of the slave 
population amounting to from 5 to | per cent, per annum. 

The Colony of Trinidad, containing a population of only 23,000 
slaves, makes annually nearly as much sugar as Barbadoes, namely, 
275,000 cwt. being at the rate of nearly 12 cwt. for each slave; but 



Ejects of Bounties and Protecting Duties. 211 

the decrease of the slaves in that island amounts to the enormous rate 
of 2| per cent, per annum. 

Now, if it were true that the greater prosperity and the higher profits 
of the planters tended to promote the greater comfort as well as in- 
crease of their slaves, then the slaves of Trinidad would be much better 
off, and would increase faster than those who cultivate the inferior soil 
of Barbadoes, and still more as compared with those who cultivate the 
Bahamas ; — but the fact is directly the reverse of this assumption. 

The decrease in Trinidad, yielding 12 cwt. of sugar for each slave, 
is 2| per cent, per annum; while in Barbadoes, yielding only 3 J cwt. 
of sugar for each slave, there is a small increase of from J to | per cent.; 
and in the Bahamas, where no sugar at all is grown, there is an in- 
crease of from 2 to 2 1 per cent, per annum.* 

It does not appear that the extraordinary waste of negro life which 
takes place in Trinidad, and in the Colonies similarly circumstanced, 
can be satisfactorily accounted for, except by the strong temptation to 
an undue exaction of slave labour, which is held out to the planters by 
the superior productiveness of their soil, and by the consequently 
superior share they are enabled to obtain of the fiscal advantages 
granted to slave-grown sugar; and which serves to indemnify them for 
the loss of their human stock, and to support them splendidly at 
home, in the utter neglect of their wretched dependents, whom they 
abandon to the tender mercies of hirelings ; while it procures for them 
seats in Parliament, by means of which they may. control the Govern- 
ment, and enrich themselves at the expense of the country. 

An attempt indeed has been made by the planters of Trinidad to 
account for the large decrease among their slaves, by alleging a great 
disparity of the sexes as the cause of it ; but this allegation is contra- 
dicted by the population returns of 1825, from which it will be seen that 
the sexes are nearly equal, the male slaves amounting to 11,908, and the 
female slaves to ll,209.t 

And while the negro slave population in Trinidad is thus rapidly 
wasting away, though the sexes are nearly equal, it appears that a body 
of free negroes brought thither, in 1816, from the United States of 
America and the shores of Africa, with a much greater disproportion 
of the sexes, have, since that time, increased at the rate of 2| per cent, 
per annum, so as to form a singular and instructive contrast with the 
rapid decrease of the negro slaves around them. X 

The same parliamentary document which has made known the last 
mentioned fact, contains a further proof that the waste of negro life 
in Trinidad is really owing to the undue quantity of labour which the 

* It were easy to go through the whole of the Slave Colonies in the same 
manner, comparing for example Dominica, Jamaica, Montserrat, and Antigua, 
yielding from 2^ to 6 cwt. of sugar per negro, and where the decrease varies 
from nothing to half per cent, ; with Demerara, Grenada, St. Vincent's, and To- 
bago, where from 8 to 10 cwt. of sugar are produced per negro, and where the 
decrease varies from IJ to upwards of 2 per cent, per annum— but it will be 
enough to refer the reader to the Reporter, No. 26, p. 11 — 16. 

t See Parliamentary Papers of 1826, No. 353, p. 752. 

i See Parliamentary Papers of 1827, No. 479, p. 2 and 30. 



212 View of the Present State of the Anti-Slavery Question. ■ " 

planters are tempted to exact. Mr. Mitchell, an experienced ', sugar 
planter, who had resided twenty-seven years in Trinidad, certifies, that 
the reason why the free labourers of Trinidad, though ready to work 
for hire on sugar estates, from sunrise to sunset, (a reasonable period 
of labour surely in That climate !) will not submit to the toil of the 
slave, is this, that ihe slave, in many instances, (meaning the period of 
crop, which lasts from four to five months) is forced to work eighteen 
hours out of the twenty-four, " which constant labour the free la- 
bourer," he says, " will not submit to, whose easy circumstances render 
him independent."* 

Is it possible that in such a climate, the exaction of eighteen hours 
labour in the day, without even the rest of a Sabbath to recruit the ex- 
hausted frame, should not produce misery and death ? f 

In Trinidad, also, it is to be remembered that the legal condition of 
the slaves is superior to that of the slaves in the other British Slave Co- 
lonies. It may therefore be fairly ascribed to the irresistible influence 
of those powerful temptations to undue exaction which high prices and 
high profits present, that with a more favourable code of laws the slaves 
should there decrease more rapidly than in any other Colony in the 
West Indies, while the free negroes around them areincreasing in an 
equally rapid ratio. 

These are some of the considerations which seem to require that 
every effort should be made to induce Parliament to take into its own 
hands the work of amelioration, which has been so lamentably retarded 
by being referred to the Colonists; and to fulfil at length the just ex- 
pectations of the public by carrying into complete effect, in every Slave 
Colony belonging to His Majesty, those reforms which have been pro- 
mised, continuing its vigilant intervention until the condition of slavery 
shall cease in every part of His Majesty's dominions; and, in the 
mean time, entirely to do away with all those bounties and protecting 
duties which have been granted in favour of slave grown produce, and 
which, while they increase the sufferings of the slave, tend to involve 
the nation in the guilt of aiding to uphold a system which it has recog- 
nized and denounced as inhuman, immoral, and unjust. 

Is it possible calmly to weigh the preceding statements without feeling 
that they call loudly for the best exertions of every individual who has 
any regard for the favour of God, or for the honour of his country; or 
who has a heart to sympathize in the sufferings of his fellow creatures ? 

* See Parliamentary Papers of 1827, No. 479. p. 33. 

t See this subject elucidated in tiie Reporter, No. 18, where the unquestion- 
ably competent testimony of Major Moody, many years employed in coercing 
the labour of slaves, is adduced in proof of the asserted misery of such conti- 
nuous toil. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office, 
IS, Aldermanburij ; or at Messrs. Hatchard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slaver jj Society throughout the kingdom. 



Londou : Bagster and Thorns, Prioters, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



' " ANTI-SLAVERY ' 

ONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 3G.] For MAY, 1828. [No. 12. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will he ready for delivery on the 
irst day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding- 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY :— SPEECHES OF MR. 
BROUGHAM, MR. WILBERFORCE, MR. DENMAN, SIR JAMES 
MACKINTOSH, MR. BUXTON, HON. & REV. G. NOEL, REV. J. W. 
CUNNINGHAM, MR. SYKES, AND THE DUKE OF GLOUCESTER. 

—PUBLIC MEETINGS IN THE COUNTRY.— NEW WORKS. 

On the 3rd instant, a general meeting of the members and friends of 
the London Anti-Slavery Society, was held in the Freemasons' Hall, 
His Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester in the Chair. The Hall 
was completely filled. The business of the day opened with reading a 
Report, the substance of which will be found in the preceding number 
of the Reporter, (No. 35.) so that it need not here be repeated. Tlie 
only new matter contained in it, respected the increase of those excel- 
lent and useful institutions Ladies' Associations, and the wider cir^ 
culation of the Reporter (only 15,000 being now circulated monthly); 
both which measures were strongly recommended, as means of awaken- 
ing and extending the public interest in this great cause. 

Mr. Brougham rose to move the adoption of the Report. '• I feel," he said, 
" that an apology is justly due to your Royal Highness and this meeting, for 
presuming to address you thus early, and thereby to delay, though but for a few 
moments, the high gratification of your hearing once more lifted up in this place, 
that voice so dear to humanity and freedom, which sounded the trumpet of our 
earliest victory, and is now happily and mercifully preserved to marshal us to 
our latest triumph ! {loud cheers.) The necessity of my quitting you, on an in- 
dispensable avocation of a professional nature elsewhere, is my only justification 
for thus interposing myself to your wishes, though for a very brief space. 

" That we now meet with better hopes of success, I think I may venture to 
assert, when I see so many around me whom opposition has only made more 
zealous and united in their efforts, and whose zeal has not been damped, though 
tried by a test far more severe than open conflict, — I mean disappointment and 
delay : and it furnishes fresh and solid ground of confidence, that even disap- 
pointment and delay have only increased our union and our zeal ! I appeal in 
proof of this to the meeting assembled before me, and I confidently ask you, 
whether it may not be advantageously compared, in point of its number and 
respectability, with any former meeting assembled within these walla on the 
like sacred and animating occasion? 

" But then it may be said, have we no fears in another quarter? Fears there 
may be ; but it will be our own fault if they continue long to disturb us. Let 
us but persevere in our exertions, and let the example of our activity and per- 
severance be followed by the rest of the country, and in those quarters where 

2 D 



214 General Meeting. —Mr. Brougham. Mr. Wilberforce. 

alone opposition may continue to exist— whether it be in the executive or legis- 
lative, it must finally cease :— the public voice duly exerted must finally prevail. 

" I am sure that in prefacing my motion it is wholly unnecessary for me to dwell 
upon any of the topics which the excellent report now read embraces. On those 
topics you will be addressed by those who are to follow me; but this I would 
have yoa keep in mind, that you can expect little to be eifected, unless Parlia- 
ment is made well and betimes acquainted with the clear and unvarying sense 
of the people on this great question;— unless Parliament, and those over whom 
Parliament exercises a wholesome, and upon all occasions a necessary — but 
upon no question so necessary a control, as the question of West India Slavery-— 
I mean the Government of the country — are made acquainted with the firm and 
unalterable resolution of the people of England, that that for which no argument 
can be urged shall cease to stain our legislative enactments, and to be a blot 
upon the character of our country, and a curse to so many of our fellow subjects, 
—shall be made, I say, to cease, and that within a reasonable time— not rashly 
— not suddenly— not without due preparation on the one hand ; but on the 
other, not to be deferred indefinitely as now, until it shall appear that the pro- 
gress we pretended to make is either that of standing stock still, or of going 
right backwards. Unless, I repeat it, the opinion shall be impressed on the 
Legislature of your solemn determination, that early and efficacious measures 
shall be adopted, for accomplishing the wishes of tlie people, and the resolu- 
tions of Parliament on this subject, it is my firm belief that your disappointment 
will be renewed, and that neither Government will effect, nor Parliament en- 
force, those reforms which they have promised to effect in compliance with the 
universal voice of the English people !" 

Mr. Brougham quitted the room amid universal cheering, which burst out 
anew on Mr. Wilberforce rising to second the motion. 

Mr. Wilberforce. " I rise to second the motion of my honourable and too 
partial friend, and in the last sentiment which he has expressed I fully and en- 
tirely concur. Unless the people of this country come' forward with a zeal and 
a unanimity worthy of themselves— worthy of their history— worthy of the coun- 
try to which they belong ; we shall in vain expect, within any time to which we 
can look forward, to see Slavery abolished in our Colonies. 

" Sir, it is, I confess, with a melancholy retrospect that I review the years 
that have passed. If we compare our prospects at the present moment with 
what they were even many years ago, even many years earlier than the period 
to which my honourable friend has adverted, we shall find that we have been 
indeed far from advancing, and that our progress has been of that kind which he 
justly stated to be even worse, than mere standing still ; actually going backward. 
It was not in the year 1823 that Parliament first came to resolutions, which 
afforded a well grounded hope that we should see immediate measures adopted 
in the Colonies for giving effect to our wishes : I must go back to a still earlier 
period, to a pei iod when even one of the most moderate of onr statesmen, of 
those who considered themselves as the most prudent and sober-minded men, 
looked forward to the termination of slavery in a very few years. By those who 
are acquainted with the history of this great cause, it may be remembered that 
in that year in which the grand contest took place respecting the abolition of 
the slave trade, I mean the year 1792, many of our opponents sought to defeat 
our efforts by charging us with intending the immediate emancipation of the 
Negroes. But though we did not bring forward at that time any such proposi- 
sition, yet, it will be remembered that Mr. Dundas, afterwards Lord Melville, 
did, in that very year 1792, standing in his place in Parliament, propose that all 
Negroes that should be born in the West India Islands subsequently to the first 
of January 1800, should be born and live free ; and that from that day not a slave 
should ever be born in the British Dominions. If that proposal had been 
carried into effect, there would at this time scarcely have been a single slave 
existing in our Colonies. And by whom was that proposition proposed— by 
whom was it supported ? Why, by the great opponent of the immediate 
abolition of the slave trade, by Mr. Dundas, the chosen advocate of the 
Colonists, and who came forward expressly in that character; and who yet fixed 
on eight years as the period which he himself proposed publicly to Parliament 
in his place, for commencing the total termination and extinction of slavery. 



General Meeting.— Mr. Wilberforce. 215 

Shall we then be deemed hasty or presumptuous if we expect now, after all the 
time that has passed, to be making some progress to the sam.e end ? It is really 
shocking to think that we should have retrograded so far as we have done ; 
that Englishmen should so far have forgotten their obligations to see that every* 
subject of the empire enjoys the blessings of freedom, as coldly and calmly to 
acquiesce in the prolonged continuance of slavery in the British Colonies ; and 
to be satisfied with a sort of distant view of eventual freedom, feebly and 
languidly speculating and hoping, as if it might, at some time or other, perhaps 
a century or two hence, — ultimately — we know not how or when, — take 
place ! 

" It is really necessary. Sir, that this country should exert itself, and in that 
view I see with pleasure so respectable a meeting as this, because it tends to 
shew that sympathy with the state of our suffering fellow-subjects in the West 
Indies is still felt, is not extinct within us. And it would indeed be 
strange, considering whom I address— a Prince of that house, which is the 
natural defender and patron of our liberties, and which was called over to the 
throne of this country for that very purpose — I say it would indeed be very- 
strange, if under that patronage, with such a feeling in favour of our cause as I 
witness around me; — it would be strange if we were to despair under such 
circumstances as these ! But, Sir, I have lived too long not to know that sen- 
sibility is no match for self-interest; — and if people will not act upon the 
principle of eternal and immutable justice, and consider themselves as bound 
to obey the laws of God, and to respect the true rights of man, they trust 
merely to a superficial and evanescent feeling, which will in the end disap- 
point us, and leave those poor creatures to remain sunk in their present state of 
degradation and misery ! 

" I have said, that in some respects things are even worse than they were, 
rather than better. And here I must say, that it was well advised in the 
Report that we should make ourselves acquainted with the details in the 
different numbers of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, especially the late numbers, in 
which a view is given of the tardy, and in some respects, backward progress of 
Colonial Reform. 

" I know that there is a danger of persons being w'earied, with the same tale, 
month after month on the same subject. But, it would be indeed a disgrace to 
us, if while we can read, without tiring, the productions of fancy and imagined 
tales of distress, we can shut our eyes and ears to the real practical grievances 
and miseries, which are suffered by those whose cause we are bound to vin- 
dicate, and whose claim to be considered and treated as our fellow -creatures, 
and our fellow-subjects, we are bound to respect and enforce. 

" The Reporters tell us that, a year or two ago, my Lord Bathurst, then 
Minister, sent over to the West India Islands, a variety of propositions 
arranged in eight different bills, in which were embodied the great prin- 
ciples of reform which had been declared by Mr. Canning, in 1823, to be those 
on which the Government meant to insist. Every one of those bills was re- 
jected at once by almost all the Colonial Assemblies, — and especially by the 
Island of Jamaica. And not only so, but in that island they substituted another 
measure of their own, called a consolidated slave law ; containing little more 
than a repetition of their former odious and oppressive enactments, some 
being added which really were still more detestable — intrenching more upon 
the rights of men and upon their dearest interests, than it could have been 
thought possible any assembly would have ventured upon, even if not from 
a sense of decency, and respect for the feelings of others — at least from a 
regard to their own character and interests. I allude to the clauses which 
not only restricted the freeness of religious worship and instruction, but 
made it penal for these poor creatures to be found contributing their mite 
to promote any religious object, or to aid in rescuing themselves from their 
state of darkness and ignorance, by any payment to religious teachers 
not of the Church of England ; while at the same time it was notoriously 
impossible, by their own confession, that the slaves should enjoy the ministrations 
of the Clergy of that Church. Even in the island of Jamaica itself, the Bishop 
states that, for a population of 400,000 souls, there is only room in all the 
churches of the island for 11,500 hearers. And even if the poor slaves were to 



'216 General Meeting — Mr. Wilberforce 

r-o to these Churches, they are in far too low a state to receive instruction 
from men educated at Oxford and Cambridge. Ah ! Sir, the teaching they 
retjuire is of a different kind. And there have been persons, blessed be God, 
vi\\o to tbeii' honouv have gone forth to teach them ; — Missionaries who have 
gone forth with the warmth of the true religion glowing in their hearts ; and 
by Avhom benefits have been conferred which have been amply acknowledged 
by Tiie planters themselves, in Antigua especially, and various other islands. 
And Tndependently of all the spiritual benefits they have conferred, it has been 
further acknowledged that they have been of the greatest service in promoting 
the peace and order of the colonies. And so it ever will be ; for that religion 
which conies from God, if cordially embraced, will not only carry people to a 
better world, but it will scatter blessings in profusion on the right hand and 
on the left in all the line of its progress. 

" But to return : the Assembly of Jamaica have gone still further in their 
measures of hostility to religious instruction ; they have passed a law to 
forbid one poor slave from giving instruction to another, and to prevent 
all meetings whatever for religious purposes, after sunset, when we know 
that until after sunset the slaves are always employed in the work of the field. 
Now think only of this. — It would have been some consolation, Sir, to_ think 
that these poor creatures could be compensated for all their suiferings in this 
world by our being allowed to impart to them that religion which would make 
them happy in a better. But for men thus to labour to keep them in darkness 
and ignorance ;— thus to prevent them from becoming acquainted with true 
reli^non ;— thus to debar them from that only solace for their suiferings; — 
tiuit^only principle which can support them Huder the load of the life of anguish 
that they have to endure ! Oh ! there is something in this so monstrous as to 
shock every feeling of humanity, and to indicate a singular hardness of heart 
towards these poor creatures, who seem to be considered as below the dignity 
of human beings, and therefore below the sphere of moral and religious 
instruction. Taking this then as an indication of the state of colonial feeling 
with regard to the slaves, we cannot but view it with the greatest horror, and 
feel more strongly the indispensable obligation we are under to interfere. 
I am happy to say His Majesty's Government has disallowed this atrocious 

law it would be shocking indeed if they had not. It ought to be known 

that a similar attempt was made about fifteen years ago, in the time of a 
former Government. We then opposed it with efiect, and it was repressed. 
But this renewed attempt shews that the same pernicious principle still 
prevails ; and that unless eifovts are made to counteract it, the future conduct of 
the colonists will be of the same character and tending to the same cruel results. 
And this view of the matter it is that I own T feel the most keenly, because, 
althouo-h God forbid that I sho«ld underrate the bodily sufferings of the slaves, — 
although I cannot but feel how oppressively they are treated in respect to the 
amoun't of their labour, and all the particulars which aifect the comfort and 
actually lessen the duration of human life ; yet their intellectual and moral de- 
gradation appears to me a feature in their case, if possible, still more appalling. 

" What, 1 would ask, is it which, in general, prevents the negro slaves in the 
West Indies from keeping up their numbers, though in a climate perfectly con- 
genial to their constitution— while the free negroes around them increase, and 
while even the negro slaves in the United States, a climate far less congenial 
to them, they also increase, and that rapidly ? Whence, I say, can it arise, but 
from their being worn down by the excess of their labour, and by the other seve- 
rities they endure, that even in the congenial climate of the West Indies their 
numbers should decrease, while, in the unfavourable climate of America, they 
increase ? 

" Sir I know not any one feature in this monstrous condition of colonial 
slavery' so shocking as that which was alluded to in the Report, of our not 
having promoted marriage among the slaves. I remember Mr. Park, the African 
traveller, tells us of the sacredness with which the marriage vow is there re- 
garded, and of the strong iniluence of domestic attachments, unfaithfulness in 
the marriage relation being less prevalent than in Europe. And yet we find 
that, in the West Indies, the marriage lie is scarcely known, and that during 
nearly the two centuries that European colonies have existed there, those pooj- 



General Meeting.— Mr. Wilberforce. Mr. Denmaii. 217 

creatures, instead of being raised in the scale of being, instead of receiving from 
their European masters, that instruction which would advance them in religion 
and knowledge, and in the arts of social and domestic life, on the contrary have 
even lost those elements of domestic happiness which they before enjoyed, so as 
to have sunk almost to a level with the brutes in their habits of promiscuous 
concubinage. We must, indeed. Sir, open our eyes to this grievous evil, 
which calls for the strenuous exertions of all the friends of religion, and of the 
happiness of mankind, to apply to it a remedy. 

" Again, let me remind you how much we have retrograded of late. We are 
now, in the year 1828, only looking forward to a slovf progress towards the free- 
dom of the slaves; when, in fact, in the year 1792, thirty-six years ago, it was 
proposed that all slavery should be abolished in our colonies ; and that, even in 
the short space of eight years, that abolition should effectively commence. Let 
this, I say. Sir, shew us that we ought not only to persevere in our efforts, but to 
increase them ; — that we ought to be much more in earnest, than we have been ; 
—that we ought to be striving, as my Honourable Friend has urged, with zeal 
and unanimity ; and that we ought not to suffer ourselves to be deceived by 
evasive assurances, or be led to suppose it possible that slavery should be abo- 
lished by those very assemblies who have so frequently told us that its abolition 
can only be productive of ruin to themselves. 

"Having thus frankly and honestly told us, that they conceive that to give liber- 
ty to the slave, would be to bring ruin to themselves, can you expect they will set 
themselves fairly and honestly to take the measures recommended to them, and 
which are required, to gain that object ? This woiild be to suppose them to act 
contrary to the very principles of human nature, or on principles altogether 
superhuman. No: It is for you, or rather for l*arliament, to do the work ; and 
justice even to the West Indians themselves, requires that it should be 
effected ; for we know well that the Almighty has happily so constituted things, 
under his moral government of the universe, that when we inflict injury on 
our fellow-creatures we cannot escape from still deeper injury ourselves. 
There is a moral retribution which is sure to follow perseverance in evil, and 
which has plainly followed, in the present instance. 

"It is utterly impossible, indeed, that they who live in the administration of the 
petty despotism of a slave community', whose minds have been warped and pol- 
luted by the contamination of slavery, should not lose that respect for their fel- 
low-creatures, over whom they tyrannize, which is essential in the nature and 
moral being of man, to secure them from the abuse of power over their prostrate 
fellow-creatures. We cannot expect they should see things in the light we do 
who have the happiness to live in a free community ; and therefore to expect 
they should adopt the requisite means to abolish slavery, is to expect not only 
an inconsistency, but almost an impossibility. And if we, with all the blessings 
we enjoy, do not feel, in the degree we ought, gratitude to God, and a de- 
sire to communicate to others a participation in our blessings, how can we 
expect those will be disposed to do it who are led by circumstances, by the force 
of habit and the strength of prejudice, to affix so inferior a value to these bles- 
sings — blessings which even we ourselves do not sufficiently estimate. 

" I will now. Sir, detain you no longer ; but only stop to remind you of one 
point of great importance. It appears that the great island of Jamaica has 
recently thrown down its gage, and set the British Government at defiance, dis- 
tinctly declaring that they will not comply with its wishes : that they will do 
nothing. Now, I cannot but hope, that if Government will not. Parliament will 
take up the gage, and will endeavour at length to impart to the poor slaves those 
blessings which have been too long withheld from them, and this object it must 
be your part to effect by every possible exertion. But it must not be a cold or 
lukewarm, or feeble effort : it must be an earnest, active, and zealous co-opera- 
tion of the whole humanity of the land. We must, resistlessly, press onwards, 
knowing the high duty we have to discharge to God and to our fellow-creatures." 

The motion passed unanimously. 

Mr. Denman :— " I have to intreat your indulgence in the performance of 
the important duty, which devolves rather unexpectedly on me, of recom- 
mending to your adoption the great business lor which we are assembled to-day ; 



218 General Meeting. "--Mr. Denman, 

for liere I appreliend we have all come for the purpose of iaquiring why it is 
that the unanimous wishes of the public, seconded by the unanimous resolutions 
of both Houses of Parliament, have not yet been carried into effect, and to 
add what we can of our own exertions towards gaining that great and necessary 
end. No less than five years have elapsed since, after full deliberation — after 
long negociations and discussions, held among all the parties interested, — 
Mr. Canning proposed his resolutions in Parliament. After their unanimous 
adoption, they were sent in the first place as recommendations to the Slave 
Colonies, and there have been, as Mr. Wilberforce truly observed, rejected and 
oast away with scorn by every one of the Colonies. If these resolutions 
derived a just authority from the mode in which they had been prepared and 
matured, from the individual who brought them forward before the country, they 
were not less entitled to respect from the peculiar character of the Minister 
■who assumed the responsibility of proposing them. If Mr. Canning was 
distinguished for high talents and enlightened viev/s, the practical turn of his 
mind was no less remarkable. On every subject, but chiefly on this, that 
great statesman looked with distrust at the application of abstract principles : 
if he did not turn such views into something like ridicule, he felt, and made 
his hearers feel, that they were inappropriate to the business in hand, while his 
mind was beat on the practical good to be attained, and on the necessities which 
the case itself imposed. Open to information and correction, he was in the habit 
of conferring with persons of all possible opinions, and it is well known that 
some of his most intimate friends were directly interested in the fate of the 
Colonies. After all that consideration, after treading the dangerous ground 
with steps so cautious, with the strong wish to produce beneficial results, and 
dismissing to the utmost every thing like wild the'ory and abstract speculation, 
those resolutions were deliberately drawn up and proposed by Mr. Canning, 
which did but echo back the united voice of the whole people qf England. 

" Let me inquire what has since happened to make the people of England 
relax in their efforts, or reverse the judgment that was then pronounced. 
On the contrary, if nothing more had occurred than the scornful rejection of 
them ; if but a passive resistance, if even a bare reluctance, had betrayed 
itself, on the part of the slave Colonies ; that circumstance alone ought to lead 
us to increase and persevere in our efforts to gain this great and holy object. 

" Why do the Colonists hang back, and oppose the wishes of the mqther 
country — from what motives, w'ilh what objects ? I hope that every person who 
hears me is, as both the distinguished speakers who have gone before me have 
recommended, in the habit of looking anxiously at the publications which 
come forth on this subject. I think the authors ot" those publications deserving 
of public gratitude, even if they rendered no more service than that of stating the 
case, and thtjs attracting public attention, while they challenge their adversaries 
to confute them. They give to all the means of ascertaining whether the facts 
brought forward are true, and whether the arguments will stand the test of in- 
quiry and experience ; or whether they are founded in that fallacy which ouv 
opponents are so apt to impute to us, when they ascribe the clamour, that deep 
sensibility sometimes produces, to a conspiracy of fanatics and saints, either in- 
flamed with enthusiasm, and negligent of the just interests of the rest of mankind, 
or ambitious to swell a popular outcry for the purpose of acquiring distinction 
at the expense of their neighbours. These are the imputations cast upon us : 
and how do we meet them ? By referring to the facts on rec(^rd, which we 
undertake to prove, and by pointing out the documents which establish them 
all. But I trust that the studies of those who take an interest in this subject, 
are not confined to works written on our own side of the question. The habit of 
examining what proceeds from the managers of the controversy on the otlier 
side will lead even to still stronger impressions in favour of our cause. This has 
constantly been the case hitherto : it will be the case hereafter : it always 
must be so in every contest between truth and self-interest. 

" This remark leads me directly to a matter of no small importance, which 
has occurred within these few hours. A very distinguished champion of the 
colonial cause has, on the eve of tliis very meeting, most properly and fairly 
addressed the public on the question to be here discussed : ancl has done me 



General Meeti?ig Mr. Denman. 219 

the favour, as he may have to others amongst us, to send me a copy of his 
pamphlet.* Let me bear testimony to the merits of this gentleman. — An 
intimate friend of my own, who possesses great legal talent, and indeed talents 
of every description — of the most honourable principles and unblemished charac- 
ter. He was a Commissioner for Inquiry into the state of the West Indian Courts 
of Justice. From him I was confident w'e should hear nothing but that 
which he believed to be the trutli, although I felt at the time that his opinions 
with regard to the truth might be biassed by his connection with West India 
property. He has done right in calling our attention to what he can advance, 
not acting now as the Judge and Commissioner, but as a planter stating his 
own case and that of the interest to which he belongs. He professes to disclose 
the only practical remedy for the West India disorder, but previously indulges 
in a few observations. 

" A strong exposition is first made of the necessity of setting this question at 
rest ; — but these few words bring me to an issue with Mr. Dwarris in the outset. 
I say, that it is set at rest ! — I say, that the public authority of England, if that 
is any thing in England, has set it at rest for ever ! There is no want of reso- 
lutions — there is no want of principles laid down and of measures to be carried, 
— all we want is the will to carry them into effect, and if that will is wanting, 
power must compel the act. 

" On some general observations which follow on the nature of West India pro- 
perty, I have but a very few words to offer. For instance, estates are said to have 
been granted, and to be yet held, on the express terms of their cultivation by 
slaves. These express terras, however, do not turn out to be the avowed tenure 
of the property, but we are told in a note, that such a condition must be implied 
in the grant, because the lands were granted that they might be cultivated, and 
at the date of the grant there was no other mode of cultivation than by slaves. 
The parent state is reproached too with having upheld the slave trade, and even 
objecting to its cessation in particular cases. Observations of this sort are very 
material, as shewing to what conclusions the argument of the colonial interest 
is always tending. When fairly followed up, they never stop short of perpetuating 
the system of slavery, and even reviving the slave trade itself.^ — Observe what 
has just been cited. If estates were granted on those terms, and if their culti- 
vation could only be kept up by slaves, they would be forfeited by withdrawing 
slave labour. And if the slaves there employed were to become, from any 
cause, insufficient for that purpose, it follows, that the supply must be kept up 
by other means, and that the great fund of Africa must be drawn upon again for 
slaves. Such is the only practical conclusion from premises like these : they 
point directly to perpetual slavery in the islands, and a renewal of the slave trade 
itself. If they are brought forward merely to shew that England did, in former 
times, largely share in the guilt of her colonies, they are useless ; for that fact is 
admitted on all hands. 

" The pamphlet proceeds to set forth what are considered to be the practical 
complaints made against the colonial system in its present state. I shall exa- 
mine them with tliat openness and candour which I should expect from my 
friend Mr. Dwarris, in dealing with any thing that might fall from myself — 
doing no violence, I trust, to those sentiments of private friendship which I 
have so long entertained for him. 

First, he says, tve complain, " That nothing effectual has yet been done in the 
way of improvement by the Colonists themselves ;" — a general assertion which he 
merely combats by a general denial, and a counter declaration that a very 
great improvement has taken place within the last twenty-five or thirty 5'ears. 
It is more important to see how the specific objections are encountered. " Mar- 
riage," he says, " is said not to be encouraged."- — And he admits, that," but few 
marriages are yet registered, and even that few take place" — only denying that 
that fact establishes our charge on this head, that marriage is not encouraged by 
the Colonists. Here is no dispute about the effect : and we say that the cause 
must be sought for in the want of encouragement. Mr, Dwarris insinuates that 
the negro has a great aversion to marriage : yet, after the referenccjust made 



" The West India Question, &c. by Fortunatus Dwarris, Esq.' 



220 General Meeting.— Mr. Denmmi. 

to Park's description, which proves that the disposition and the instinct even of 
the natives of savage Africa impelled them to the conjugal relation, are we to 
be told there is something in their nature which revolts at it? If it is not then 
to their nature ; but to the circumstances in which they are placed, and the 
moral habits engendered in the colonies, that their supposed reluctance must.be 
ascribed, are they or their masters answerable for the result ? And must the 
worst of the slave's sufferings — the want of domestic happiness — be imputed to 
himself, while the master obtains credit for promoting that benefit, which his 
own conduct has, in point of fact, mainly prevented ?* 

The next objection he encounters is, " that slai-es work under the lash." Ob- 
serve the answer. "The cart-whip, either as an instrument of punishment, or 
a symbol of authority, has grown out of use. The cat-o'nine tails is substi- 
tuted for it," — " the cat-o'nine-tails which is used in the British army ;"-— Yes, 
in the army, as a punishment for debasing crimes, and even so, justly ques- 
tioned : — in the colonies, as the daily, hourly, unceasing stimulus to field labour ! 
But if the cart-whip has grown into disuse, it has not disappeared, and " I 
agree, (says Mr. Dwarris) that the exhibition of it should be done away with." 
The exhibition of this cart-whip, which was long declared to be no more than 
an innocent symbol of authority, although for years nothing could wrest it from 
their grasp — this exhibition, it is now confessed, ought to be got rid of: it is 
rather a matter a little offensive to good taste than producing any serious eflect; 
let it go then, as a sacrifice to scrupulous decorum, and let the cat-o'nine-tails be 
placed in the driver's hands ! That driver, with full power over his gang of 
labourers, easily irritated by circumstances of hourly occurrence in the per- 
formance of compulsory labour — is it enough to tell me that cruelty and oppres- 
sion are wearing out, that cases of torture are old stock cases, the stale 
accounts preserved by malignant tradition, for want of similar events in these 
happier days, though, indeed, confirmed and refreshed now and then from Ber- 
bice, and from other quarters ? — Is it not enough to know the nature of man and 
the use he will ever make of absolute power to be assured, while one is master 
and the other a driven slave, while the master refuses to resign the cart-whip, 
or to do more than to reform it into a cat-o'nine-tails, that oppression and 
cruelty must constantly be exercised.! 

It is observed also by Mr. Dwarris, " all the instances of cruelty are immedi- 
ately recorded, and they are perfectly well known immediately in the colony. "t 
— I should be glad to know how this large assumption can be correct. — I 
should be glad to know that there is any security for preserving such a record. 
When the instances alluded to take place, the owner and the driver are both 
interested in suppressing such facts; and who is to tell them ? Not the slave, 
for his evidence cannot be received. Not the slave, for we have it from my 
Honourable Friend's own Report, on a careful inquiry into the subject, that 
with him " his wounds are the only mouths by which he can proclaim his 
wrongs !"§ And, therefore, unless there be something to unseal his lips, and to 
allow him to come forward in a court of justice, and to depose to those acts of 
cruelty perpetrated on himself and others, it is as certain that oppression will 
be kept concealed as that it will be practised. Admit the evidence of the in- 
jured man, and this mighty evil will be greatly lessened ; but the Colonists 
have refused to admit it, except under restrictions, which deprive the boon of all 
its value ; and on this point also I am happy to find Mr. Dwarris enlisted on the 
side of liberality, and denouncing that most hateful barrier between black and 
white, which refuses to accept the truth, in furtherance of justice, when uttered 
by negro lips. 

* See in corroboration the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 19. p. 265 — 272, and 
No. 21. p. ^02.— Editor. 

t In order to see the incorrectness of Mr. Dwarris's statements on this point, 
the reader has only to turn to the Reporter, No. IG. No. 18. No. 21. p. 305 — 307, 
No. 23, p. 3.54, and No. 28. p. 81, 90, 99, 103, &c. &c. &c.— £rf. 

i Mr. Dwarris might have known that every one of the chartered colonies 
has refused to institute such a record. See the Reporter, No. 31. p. 152. — Ed. 

§ See Mr. Dwarris's own strong and striking testimony to this point, in the 
Reporter, No. 7. p. 61—72, and in No. 18. p. 258. — /=:</. 



General Meeting, — Mr. Denman. 221 

" / am disposed to admit" — (this is on the subject of slave labour) — " that the 
measure of labour may now be l^t too much to the discretion of the master. Hard 
masters of estates, weak in hands, may occasionally be guilty of protracting' the 
labour of the slave into the night. This should be prohibited, and no tvork allowed 
to be carried on more than one hour after sunset, under stated penalties. Certain 
and limited task-work should be encouraged, and the slave population protected 
from being over-ivorked not only by the dead letter, but by the living and available 
sanction of the law." So then, a great diflference may exist between the dead 
letter of a colonial law, and its living and available sanction ; and yet not even 
its dead letter can we get for a remedy to 'this acknowledged evil, though all 
the authority of the parent state has recommended, and Parliament has unani- 
mously sanctioned, what the universal feeling of the people of England has 
required to be done ! 

" Mr. Dwarris passes to the subject of Sunday markets ; a most important 
point ; for assuredly tlie observance of the sabbath is above all things essential 
to the civilization of society. He urges that it ought to be protected by law. 
" The Stmday then would be differently employed,"— and Mr. Dwarris, with that 
kind and humane feeling I know him to possess, describes what he has 
witnessed in the Colonies — one of the most pleasing descriptions, one of the 
most beautiful pictures ever painted by man. I will give it in his own eloquent 
terms. "I have always considered that if instead of late, fevered, and tired, the 
slave returned, fresh, soothed, humanized, from his day of rest to his Monday's 
labour, the master would sustain little loss. He would see the negro improve in 
character and condition, enjoy and appreciate domestic comfort, and gradually 
acquire self-respect. His home — his person would be attended to, and become neat 
and clean. He would be seen on the sabbath day nursing his children, (now too 
often neglected) learning to read his bible, or, ~as he made greater proficiency, 
teaching his little ones to read and spell. I saw a Sunday thus spent at Antigua, 
to my very great refreshment and delight." 

" This scene was presented but in one island ; it was but on one Sunday 
that Mr. Dwarris enjoyed this spectacle in his extensive and universal tour. 
He has described the exception, not the rule. While our hearts are refreshed 
and delighted by the picture of this one happy family in the possession of their 
Sunday, let us not forget that above a hundred and fifty thousand families 
would exhibit an entire contrast to all its features. The reverse of the medal 
represents the great mass of the slave population. " Late, feverish, and tired," 
the labourer returns to a home polluted by vice and degradation : his person 
slovenly, his cottage disordered, his wife sinking under domestic cares, his little 
ones neither nursed nor taught by their father, while the heart despairs and 
sickens at toils undergone for another, and the denial of needful repose for a 
single day. 

" ' The presumption of slavery ' also is another admitted evil. Sois ' the separation 
of families' by judicial sale: but (he speaks of this last) if the law is odious and 
cruel, how meritorious is the practice which is opposed to the law, as is generally 
the case in this instance.* Again, '■'■ fines and taxes have been imposed, ivith a 
view to prevent or discourage mamumissions," but the excuse is, that they provide 
security against throwing old, disabled, and impotent slaves as burthens on 
the public. Why then, if that provision is requisite, cannot some law pass to 
restrict the fines and taxes to the particular cases, in which alone they are said 
to be reasonable ? I ask a similar question on every one subject, where an evil 
is acknowledged to exist, and a remedy can be applied. If marriage ought to 
be encouraged, give eflScacy to the laws which profess to grant encouragement. 
If the cart whip ought to be abolished, let the law prohibit its use. If the 
measure of labour is too much at the master's discretion, let the law restrain it. 
If the Sunday ought to be given to the slave, let the law put an end to Sunday 
markets and Sunday labour. If the existing power to separate parents from 
children, and husbands from wives, be justly termed " odious and cruel," let 
the living and available sanction of the law deprive the master of a privilege he 
ought to abhor. If he does abhor it, if he sincerely deprecates the practice, 

* How unfounded this apology is, may be seen in the Reporter, No. 18. 
p. 254. No. 19. p. 272—275. and No. 21. p. 305.— Erfitor. 

2 E 



222 General Meeting Mr. Denman. 

what interest can he have in prolonging his power ? When the custom corrects 
a bad law, the surer corrective of a good one is only so much the more easily 
applied. 

" As to the existing practice and custom, more especially when it is said to be 
better than the law, we shall have constant disputes and debates on points of 
fact not capable of satisfactory proof ; but the great leading fact which condemns 
the existing practice, is placed beyond all controversy. " The population is said 
to decrease," while the extent of what can be said in denial is in these faint terms, 
" the fact is not clearly or universally established."* — Yet there is but one single 
exception to be found, namely, the Island of Barbadoes, of which the peculiar 
circumstances have often been shewn to confirm our opinions on the effect of 
cultivating the sugar plantations by slaves. If we had no registry or returns, 
and knew nothing of the matter but what this pamphlet discloses, could we 
doubt that, under that system which Mr. Dwarris condemns in so many of its 
details, the population is diminishing and human life wasting away ? 

'' If then, he had attended here this day, and stated all the grievances set 
forth in his work, and shewn us that laws ought to be passed for their removal, 
he must have approved the object of our meeting. He could not, in consistency, 
have declined to set his hand to our petition : he would have been one of the 
most powerful advocates in our cause. He points out intolerable evils, so do 
we : he is anxious for an effectual remedy, so are we : he jdesires that it may 
have the living and available sanction of legal authority, we are assembled 
for no other purpose. 

" Much merit is claimed by him for the colonists, on account of the improved 
treatment of the slaves which is now said to prevail. The fact is disputed, and 
in a question of degree depending on matters of fact, there is nothing more 
painful than the perpetual squabble of evidence and argument on that subject. 
If I were asked my own opinion, I should say, I think it probable that some 
amelioration may have taken place, not looking particularly and minutely at facts, 
two different sets of which will hardly brook comparison, but reasoning from 
general circumstances. The use of power has been more narrowly watched : 
sentiments of humanity have probably gained ground, and the real interests of 
men, possessing property in their fellow men, may have become more manifest. 
Allowing, therefore, that improvement may have taken place, when, I ask, ac- 
cording even to Mr. Dwarris, did it take place ? From what time is it dated? To 
what cause is it to be traced ? — It is dated about twenty years ago ! The cause of 
the amelioration is declared to be the abolition of the African slave trade! This is 
distinctly stated by Mr. Dwarris, who does not question even the expediency of the 
abolition, except in so far as it was undertaken suddenly, and without concert ivith 
other nations, and with no fiuarantees for theii reciprocal forbearance. Suddenly ! 
Suddenly! Did the abolition of the slave trade take place suddenly ? It took 
place in the year 1807, and I know that my honourable friend first moved in it 
about the year 1787 ; and yet this is the way in which gentlemen who are inte- 
rested in the existence of slavery, speak of the cold, the gradual, the often defer- 
red, and eluded, though often promised remedy which was so easily carried, when 
once parliament and ministry were in earnest ! He then explains the operation 
of it as the great cause of amelioration, by teaching the proprietors that the 
slaves they then possessed were the limited fund they were to improve and to 
make available, and that the annual accession of new slaves must cease from 
that moment. The reasoning, in theory at least, whatever the facts of the case 
may be, is as just as the admission is important. But surely we must pause to 
contemplate this ground of congratulation, with a sentiment of cordial gratitude to 
the illustrious individual who addressed you last. With what feelings must he 
look back to those eventful days ? — With what feelings must he remember the 
time when that atrocious trade was so suddenly abolished — that is by the sudden 
exertion of twenty years of patient, unrequited, calumniated labour, of frequently 
repeated, and as often disappointed, but never dejected or dismayed, when he hears 
it now admitted by the planters themselves, that he is the greatest benefactor 
of their own plantations ! — that all the evils that were predicted as following on 

* " Not clearly and universally established ! " see the Reporter, No. "26. 
p. II, &c. — Editor. I 



General Meeting. — Mr. Denman. 223 

the abolition have not only been disproved in fact, but that all the good that has 
been done dates from that era, and arises from that measure ! — With what 
honest pride must my Honourable Friend receive so just, but so unexpected a 
tribute. It may, probably, have happened to some one who is present in this 
room to have had the good fortune to contribute to save the life of a fellow 
creature. I can in some degree imagine the delight with which he must look 
back to that moment, when on the bank of a river, or on some similar occasion, 
he has been the happy instrument of rescuing a fellow creature from impending 
death. I can conceive that he will cherish through life the remembrance of his 
good fortune, and that it will afford him joy and comfort under every trial. 
That man will best understand, but even he can only understand imperfectly, 
what Mr. Wilberforce must feel. Think of the triumph he has achieved ! It 
is not a single individual !— not a countryman of his own!— much less any 
body with whom he had ties of connection and of intimacy of any sort; but it 
is in the cause of humanity, actuated by the most sacred motives that can 
animate the heart of man, that that gentleman has rescued from the grave, from 
slaughter, from cruelty and oppression, hundreds of thousands of his fellow 
creatures ! Sir, I hear it with pain represented that all the efforts made in 
this great cause have been wasted. They have not been wasted. With 
respect to the natives of Africa, from whose market the great customer was 
withdrawn when England relinquished the Slave Trade, they were not wasted. 
With respect to the slaves in the West Indies, if their condition has been 
improving, as Mr. Dwarris tells us, from the very hour that great measure 
was accomplished, they have not been wasted. They never can be wasted 
while it is honourable to the heart of man to pay its tribute of applause and 
gratitude to the benefactor of the human race ! They have not been wasted 
when we see that person stand forward a« a great example to ourselves, to our 
children, our country, to the end of time. It will be owing to him — to his former 
exertions, and to the reward they have thus received, that our exertions for 
the future will be encouraged in consistency and perseverance, when we see 
them producing their effect on the objects of his benevolence, and not only 
receiving the praise of its votaries, but extorting in the end even the tardy 
approbation of the baffled adversary. 

" Allow me just to touch on one subject before I conclude, which connects it- 
self in an important degree with the present occasion. I speak of manumission ; 
for I really have not pretended to enter into the main argument of my friend 
Mr. Dwarris's pamphlet. The whole result of it is, that he has devised a 
scheme which he deems more beneficial than the scheme adopted by Parliament, 
and he thinks by getting some more millions, I believe, out of the pockets of the 
People of England, which are to go to the planters, that all necessity for carrying 
the manumission law into effect will be entirely done away. The letter is ad- 
dressed to the Right Honourable the Chancellor of the Exchequer! I own, I 
should think that Right Honourable Gentleman will probably bring the corres- 
pondence to a close, by a very short and conclusive answer. I observe that the 
subject of manumission is treated, in the present pamphlet, as if it were 
altogether surrendered,— as if the order of Council upon it were given up, and 
therefore that Parliament must begin anew, and reconsider all that after great 
consideration it has already done, the question being left entirely open to 
debate and speculation. Yet the resolutions of Parliament stand unaltered ; 
the order in Council is not rescinded ; and nothing has happened to affect 
either, but the "dislike "of the Colonists to some of the provisions. My 
respect for the Colonists does not go so far as to assent to this. The measures 
might at least have had a fair trial, and if in any respect they had been found 
wanting, if either less practical or less useful than they promised, the only 
leoitimate consequence would be, the adoption of other measures for the same 
en'd. But we may take this subject of manumission as a sample of the 
proceedings of the colonial interest. We met before the Privy Council, 
on a petition from proprietors and merchants, urging objections to the 
mode and form of the proposed measure, but all the arguments at last resolved 
themselves into a discovery, that it never could be effected at all ;— " we cannot 
have free labour in the tropical climates : — the compensation for the value of a 
slave is impossible," so that manumission can never be brought about, and the 



224 General Meeting.— Mr. Denman. 

proposers must give it up.— On the contrary, I say, we ought to persist in it. 
Nothing which has taken place shews any impracticability in the project. Thus 
we retort the charge of theory on our opponents, and found our own conclusions 
on ctear experience. We have seen what actually has been the law and practice 
of the Spanish and Portuguese Colonies from the moment of their existence. 
If they can appraise and compensate, why cannot we ?— What is there in the na- 
ture of an English slave that makes him less the subject of appraisement than a 
Spanish or Portuguese slave? As to the other objections, Mr. Huskisson laughed 
them out of society, by his common sense and decisive arguments : and if that 
Rio-lit Honourable Secretary would act as well as he writes and speaks, all dilli- 
cufties would vanish like a cloud. There is a strange supineness in Government 
which must be quickened : Mr. Bwarris's own reports furnish a proof of it. 
He exposed the abuses of their Courts, yet no redress has been attempted :— he 
recommended needful reforms, yet not one has been made. The apology is in 
some degree at our cost, for pressing on the reformation, and beginning at the 
wrong end. It seems that we ought first to have improved the judges, and 
purified the Courts, and afterwards provided good laws for them to administer: — 
as if laws and courts could not be made good at the same time ; as if it were 
impossible to proceed at once in the amendment of both ; or as if any one good 
principle could be called into active operation, without a tendency to aid the 
advancement of every other. 

" There is one favourite topic with our adversaries, on whicli I would counsel 
them to enlarge with caution, though its truth cannot be denied : — the large 
share that rests on the English Government and Nation, in establishing the slave 
system. But do let gentlemen consider, that this argument is urged on the 
attention not only of Parliament and Government, not only of the planters and 
legislators of the West Indies, or even of the people of England, but also on 
the great mass of the population of the colonies ; I mean the Slaves themselves. 
We are told, that those slaves are daily improving in instruction and cultivation 
of mind; that they are learning every day their duties and their rights; that 
their minds are awakened ; and that they look with the most earnest attention, 
to the proceedings of the English Parliament. Even what takes place here to- 
day, may not pass unobserved by them. — How will they be aifected by the 
argument now stated. When they hear that the Government of England are 
accomplices in the wicked conspiracy against their natural rights, consummated 
by conspiracy, piracy, and felony, and deriving a title to their flesh and blood 
from acts that human nature abhors ; what will be their feelings on that 
subject ? They at least have been no parties to this compact ; and when first they 
hear it avowed, it will only aggravate the sense of the wrongs heaped upon them. 
What dangers and tumults may arise, no man with common humanity can con- 
sider without alarm. Their discontent may break out in 'some idle language, 
which is magnified into an insurrection, to be put down by an infamous 
abuse of the judicial process ; by the base perversion of law ; by the horrible 
execution by judicial murderers of the unhappy slaves, whom by wicked evi- 
dence they convict. Such a case, two years ago," (see for a full account of it, the 
Reporter, No. 10. p. 113.) "excited the universal indignation of this Country, and 
of all sides of the House of Commons, The apologists of all abuses were silent 
here. The very persons who ought to have prevented it, and could have done so, 
and therefore were in a great degree chargeable with what occurred, joined in 
the verdict which so loudly condemned it. If such be the sympathy excited in 
this Country, where we hear of the proceedings at the distance of thousands of 
miles, think what must be felt by the three or four hundred thousand slaves of 
Jamaica who were by-standers, and saw their fellow slaves, human beings of the 
same colour and family, of the same quality and condition as themselves, so tra- 
duced, so convicted, so murdered ? When Mr. Canning heard the case made out 
in the House of Commons, the resolution he proposed, was not a censure on the 
details of the process, or on theconduct of individuals: it went to the root of the 
mischief, declaring that that bloody history gave one example more of " the ne- 
cessity of the extinction ;of slavery !" The extinction of slavery then, is our 
object. Our notions are not vague and indefinite, as our enemies declare ; but a 
fair and full notice of them, has at all times been given. The title of this Society, 
which has existed now for more than five years, proclaimed our object ; from 



General Meeting.— Sir James Mackintosh. 225 

which, and from the bold declaration of it, the people of England never will be 
diverted. Nor will they be satisfied by some pretended acquiescence, just on 
the eve of an election, when popularity is to be gained by conciliating the 
wishes of the people. Nor must the middling classes forget, that to their hands 
this great question has always been mainly intrusted, and with them it must 
continue : they have gained all our foi-mer victories, and are equal to achieving 
the rest. Among; the upper classes, a strong momentary sensation may be ex- 
cited ; but there are in too many instances, habits, connections, and interests, 
which will constantly neutralize a great proportion of them, and deter even 
those among them whose hearts are most with us, from attending a meeting 
like this before my eyes. I seem to feel, that the humanity and justice of the 
people of England are represented in your persons. I am proud of the assem- 
blage before me ; its number and high respectability ; the talents and princi- 
ples, by which so many here are distinguished. Nor will I lament, except on 
their own account, the absence of persons of rank, when I turn to the chair and 
see who it is that I have the honour of addressing this day ; a Prince of that 
family who owe their elevation to their love of liberty, and will always be 
proud to take the lead of the English People, in giving effect, extension, and 
security, to the blessings which we prize beyond life itself. I therefore, con- 
clude with proposing, 

*' That this meeting is desirous of expressing anew, their disappointment and 
deep regret,that through the pertinacious resistance of the Colonial Authorities,the 
recommendations of His Majesty, the unanimous resolutions of Parliament, and 
the wishes and prayers of the nation at large, have not hitherto produced their 
due effect, in abating the evils of that system of colonial bondage which has been 
so generally recognised, not only as injurious to the national interests ; but as 
immoral and unjust, repugnant to the principles of British law, and irreconcilable 
with the spirit of that holy religion which we profess. That notwithstanding the 
contumacy of the Colonial Authorities, it is further to be lamented, that no effec- 
tual means have been taken by Parliament, to execute its resolutions ; but that 
on the contrary, the system of slavery continues to be upheld and fostered by laws 
which protect the produce of slave labour, against the competition of the produce 
of free labour, at a heavy annual expense to the people of this country, and to 
the serious injury of His Majesty's Asiatic subjects ; and of the population of the 
United Kingdom. That this meeting feel it therefore to be their duty, again to 
approach Parliament with their earnest solicitations; both to abolish those laws 
in favour of slave-grown produce, which, while at variance with all sound prin- 
ciples of commercial policy, tend to perpetuate and agravate the evils of slavery : 
and also, above all, to enact and enforce such legislative measures for the miti- 
gation and ultimate extinction of slavery, as may redeem the pledges that have 
been given, and fulfil the just expectations of the people of England, on this 
painfully interesting subject." 

Sir James Mackintosh :— " I could have been perfectly satisfied to have tes- 
tified my unalterable adherence to the great and sacred cause which calls you 
together this day, by the silent proof of my attendance in this place ; but I am 
not displeased that the task allotted to me, of seconding the motion of my ex- 
cellent friend, affords me an opportunity of bearing my testimony expressly and 
unequivocally in a few words — I say in a few words, for I am sure it would be 
presumption in me, and indeed, in most men living, to follow on the same side 
with any hope of adding to what has been said, by three such persons as those 
who have already addressed j^ou in succession. I believe that at any period in 
the history of mankind, it would have been difficult for any one to have stood in 
the situation in which I now stand, without feeling himself more inclined to be si- 
lent, than to deliver his sentiments ; but, I rejoice at the species of necessity, which 
obliges me to say sometliing, if it were only to give utterance to the heart-felt 
delight, with which I have once more listened to the harmonious accents of that 
persuasive and affecting eloquence, which has been consecrated by forty years' 
devotion to the cause of humanity and freedom — a longer period I believe than 
any single man, since the first records of authentic history, has devoted to the 
sole and single purpose of promoting the happiness and liberty of mankind! 
I am delighted, far beyond my power of expression, and I almost think beyond 
the pawer of others to express, once more to be able to hail him in language 



226 General Meeti7ig.—Sir James Mackintosh. 

derived from a source which is familiar to him, and which cannot be foreign to 
his recollection. 

" Nor are thy lips ungraceful, friend of man ! 

nor tongue ineloquent/' 

We have again heard that eloquence, which, as I said before, is raised beyond 
the merit of mere eloquence, by its uniform consecration, for so long a period, 
to the highest interests of mankind, and by its never, never having been degra- 
ded to any inferior object. 

" By my friends, who have gone before me, the situation in which we now stand 
has been justly stated. We are not proposing any new system of measures ; — 
we are not originating any novel scheme of reform ; — we are not about to 
suggest to the Government or the Legislature any new plan for putting an end 
to the sutferiugs of so great a portion of the human race ; — we stand upon the 
solemnly recorded and promulgated declarations of King, Lords, and Commons, 
made after long discussion and inquiry; originating, as you have been truly 
told, in the mind of a statesman, who certainly was not led astray by fanaticism 
on this subject,— of whose zeal perhaps we, somewhat unjustly — we, I mean, 
who were more warm, and were less under the necessity, which his situation 
imposed on him, of restraining our feelings ; — of a statesman who acted with a 
view to practical results, and to existing interests ; and who, in proposing these 
very resolutions of May 1823, undoubtedly considered himself as negociating a 
Treaty of peace between the humanity of the people of England, calling for 
abolition, and the well-being and safety of the European inhabitants of the 
West Indies. He considered himself not as the champion of the abolitionists ; 
but as the mediator between them and the planters. You are now therefore con- 
sidering no scheme which originated with us — for the scheme of my Honourable 
Friend behind me (Mr. Buxton) was over-ruled, or rather willingly postponed 
to that proposed by Mr. Canning — but in effect, the treaty of peace negociated 
between the West Indian interest, and the humanity of the people of England, 
by one of whom I never can speak without attachment, esteem, affection, 
and admiration ; by one also, who undoubtedly, as has been said, had some of 
his most intimate and dear friends at the head of the West Indian interest — 
persons who were most dear to him, for their long and disinterested attachment 
to himself and for the many amiable qualities of their personal characters, in 
short, endeared to him by every tie which can render one man dear to another. 
With the mind of a statesman, looking at this large portion of the interests of 
the Empire— with the partiality of a friend towards many respectable and 
excellent private individuals— with the mind of a Bliuister, mediating, and 
negociating between two great opposing parties, he framed those resolutions, 
which we do not now propose to enlarge or alter, but which we are only 
desirous of seeing carried into full and complete effect. The question is, 
whether Pai-liament is to be baffled and defeated, after a notice of five years, in 
a system of reformation, originating in the manner I have described ; or 
whether that system of reformation is to be at length accomplished. 
; " This last result can only I fear be attained by the continued, incessant, and 
unwearied exertions of the whole body of the people of England, You have 
great antagonists to cope with ; you have supposed interests, not I think real 
interests, for I verily believe, on casting up the account, the balance of the real 
interest is in your favour and not against you ; and then you have inveterate 
prejudice, you have the ancient opinions of an opulent and powerful body of 
men who are connected by a thousand ramifications with great numbers of per- 
sons of consideration in this community: — y«u have all these obstacles constantly 
opposed to you, and you have nothing but the honest zeal, and the unshaken 
humanity of the people of England to rely upon ; nothing else from which we can 
hope for decided benefit ; and to this, therefore, and to this alone, we have to 
trust, under the blessing of God, for accomplishing our purpose. You have been 
told, and truly told, that it belongs to all of you to promote this end in every 
possible way, making it your fixed determination to do so, by devoting a 
portion of your time systematically and regularly, to keep in a state of activity 
that spirit of humanity which has gone forth among the people ; for if it be suf- 
fered to languish, undoubtedly the adverse agents, who never rest, must prevail. 
To men is allotted the severe and sometimes harsh virtues of fortitude and jus- 



' Gejieral Meeting.— Sir James Mackintosh. 227 

tice ; to women the happier duties of preserving in the world the existence of 
compassion, of kindness, of benevolence, and of humanity. It is for the exercise 
of these virtues, that I call on women to consider themselves as especially ap- 
pointed to propagate the sentiments of humanity, to awaken them in the bosoms 
of all who are dear to them, over whom they possess any influence, to whom they 
have any means of access; and to prompt them to employ their harsher qualities 
in the stern and arduous conflict, which it is often necessary to maintain, in this 
mixed state of things, in defence of the cause of humanity and virtue. 

" You have heard it said with the greatest truth, as well as energy, that we 
have lived to see an extraordinary occurrence. We have lived to see the advo- 
cates of the West India interest date the amelioration of slavery in the Colonies, 
from the very efl'orts of that most amiable and venerable of men, whom I cannot 
but contemplate— whom I never contemplate, but with delight. They date the 
commencement of the improvement of the West Indies, from his exertions to abo- 
lish the Slave Ti-ade ; v^hich exertions they trammeled, and resisted, and slan- 
dered, from their origin to the moment of their success ; — from which exertions 
they then prophesied the destruction of those very West Indian Colonies which 
they now acknowledge derived thence their first improvement, their first impulse 
towards some sort of civilization. From the same exertions, I will venture to 
say, I hope at least, that many among you may yet live to see the time, when an 
occurrence quite as extraordinary may take place; when the success of your 
exertions to obtain a safe and pacific abolition of slavery may raise slaves to the 
condition, invest them with the rights, and consequently inspire them with the 
feelings of men, . of freemen, and of christians! We may then hope that the 
Europeans of the West Indies, delighted with that most unforeseen progress, 
which will be the necessary consequence of so happy a consummation, will look 
back on the efforts we are now making as having laid the foundation of that 
happier order of society in the West Indies, of which they will find themselves 
to be the safe and happy participators. God forbid, that I should, in this ques- 
tion, undervalue the interest or the security of the English inhabitants of the 
West Indies. They are entitled to our regard as a great body of our countrymen. 
From me, at least, many individuals of them are entitled to the warmest and 
most tender personal attachment. They are entitled to the greatest allowance for 
the prejudices which beset them ; they are entitled to the utmost toleration for 
the errors of judgment into which they almost inevitably fall; they are entitled 
to compassion for being placed in a situation which exposes their virtue at pre- 
sent, and may expose their safety hereafter ; they are entitled, when they conduct 
themselves with benevolence and justice towards the unhappy beings committed 
to their care, to the praise of almost heroic virtue- — to the praise of that species of 
virtue, which, resists the most powerful, and generally the most irresistible 
temptation. They are entitled in fine to every sort of justice. — But then they 
must not expect us to trust a great body of our fellow subjects to the safeguard 
of heroic virtue. We trust men to the protection of law ; we trust them to the arm 
of Government ; we trust them to a coincidence of interest; we trust them to 
a sympathy of feeling, and an identity of interest ; we cannot trust them to that 
which is so rare ; which is admirable, and consequently which is rare ; and 
which can form no security at all for the well being of a multitude of men. But 
above all, I contend, that we are struggling as much for the final well-being of 
the European inhabitants of tlie West Indies, as we are for the present well- 
being of the multitude of men whom they hold in slavery; for surely it is per- 
fectly obvious, in the present state of the world ; in the state of opinion in all the 
other Countries of America which surround our West Indian Colonies ; in the 
midst of the process of reformation and emancipation, which is going on in Spa- 
nish America ; in the face of the great example of a free negro state in Hayti ; that 
if Slavery be not gradually taken aw ay, it will die in convulsions, which I fear 
will involve in ruin the European inhabitants of the West Indies. It is to avert 
that most fatal catastrophe that the object we are pursuing is doubly desirable : 
first, because that object could not be accomplished by other than peaceful and 
legal means, without scenes which must barbarize the emancipated negro : and, 
secondly, because the consequence would probably be, that multitudes of our 
countrymen, who have the misfortune to be inhabitants of that country, and pro- 
prietors of slaves, would be the victims of their own blindness ; of the inactivity 



228 General Meeting—Mr. Buxton. 

of tlie Government in carrying into effect their own resolutions, if they should be 
inactive, and of our lukewarmness — of our criminal lukewarniness — of the crimi- 
iial backwardness of the people of England, if they do not make exertions to ter- 
minate the present sufferings of the slaves, and by that means to secure the final 
safety of the masters !" 

The Resolution was unanimously adopted. 

Mr. Powell Buxton : — " When I undertook to read the report, it certain- 
ly was not my intention to take any farther part in the discussion of this day ; 
but owing to the unavoidable absence of my worthy friend Dr. Lushington, 
I have been called upon, and it is a duty from which I shall not shrink. Each 
of my friends who have preceded me have expressed their mortification and dis- 
appointment that as yet so little has been accomplished in our cause ; and it 
would be disingenuous in me if I were to pretend not to participate in that mor- 
tification and disappointment. The true fact of the case is, that since we ha4 
the solemn pledge of Parliament that immediate and effectual steps should be 
taken, five long years have elapsed, and as yet, nothing has been done towards 
the extinction of slavery, and but little towards its mitigation. On the other 
hand, however, I must confess that we have much to encourage our exertions ; 
and even if it were only that we had met with obstacles, and had to encounter the 
opposition which we had a right to expect ; — if It were only that we had found 
the spirit of resistance rising up in the West Indies, I should say, that in such 
a sacred and glorious cause, such opposition only supplied a stronger induce- 
ment to exertion. But we have also other sources of satisfaction. We have the 
solemn pledge of the Parliament of this nation — of both Houses of Parliament, 
that the day shall come in which the negro shall participate in all those civil 
rights and privileges enjoyed by the rest of His Majesty's subjects ; that the 
day shall come in which that afilicted race, so long the victims of our avarice, 
shall be reclaimed into the family of man. That is the part of the resolutions 
which always gives me the greatest satisfaction. I do not undervalue any 
efibrts that may be made for the immediate mitigation of the system — I most 
heartily wish that that immediate mitigation were more effectual ; but the point 
upon which my mind reposes with the highest pleasure is this, that slavery, by 
the solemn pledge of the British Parliament, is ultimately to be extinguished. 
I feel most firmly, sir, that so long as slavery continues, so long evils— the 
greatest possible evils— must continue ; and that slavery, in its mildest and 
fairest form, and under every possible amelioration, is still and must ever remain, 
a system full of crimes and full of misery. Therefore I think that when we 
want consolation or encouragement under disappointment, we must recur to the 
solemn pledge of Parliament, that slavery shall be at last extinguished. We 
have also other causes of deep satisfaction : one of them, and I advert to it 
more particularly, because I think there may be several persons in this meeting 
to whom it may be unknown, I mean the great victory obtained by a worthy and 
learned friend of mine — a most true and indefatigable friend also of our cause. 
Dr. Lushington. I may speak of him as he is not here, and I speak truly of him 
when I say that he has been a most diligent, useful, indefatigable, and uncom- 
promising friend of that cause. Many of his services are well known and deeply 
felt by some who are now present ; but w hat I particularly allude to is, the Bill 
which he carried through Parliamentfor preventingthe removal of slaves from one 
colony to another. We had abolished the African Slave Trade. We had invited, 
most laudably, the great powers of Europe to unite in describing and punishing 
it as a crime. But yet, in the heart of our own dominions, and under the sanction 
of our own laws, there raged another species of Slave Trade, not so full of phy- 
sical horror I admit, but in cruelty to the mind— in cruelty to the affections, as 
bad or worse than the Slave Trade itself. And in the short period which had 
elapsed from the abolition of the Slave Trade to that date, more than twenty 
thousand human beings had been transferred from one colony to another— always 
for the worse — from a purer climate and n more mitigated slavery to a more 
pestilential climate and a sterner system. That was one of the triumphs we 
obtained ; and if that had been the only one I should say that our exertions had 
been largely rewarded. But there is also another source of great satisfaction to 
me, namely, that the meaning of the word slavery is now understood—that we 
know what the West Indians mean when they speak of their slaves ; and here 



General Meetmr/.—Mr. Buxton 229' 

T must acknowledge that the West rndians have been active and useful coad^ 
jutors to us; — they have published their ovin case — they have told their own 
tale — they have produced the merits of their own system — they have been their 
own historians, and I confess, for one, like my friend Mr. Denman, I wish to 
call no other witnesses ; so that in makihg out a case against the West Indians, it 
is upon their own showing, and under the influence of demonstrations which 
they themselves have furnished. It was not always so. There was a time in 
which we were told that all that was stated with regard to slavery was the in^ 
vention of fanatics and enthusiasts, and persons on whom no confidence could 
be reposed. At that time controversy raged, but that controversy was closed, 
and most satisfactorily, by the credulity of our government, who naturally be- 
lieved all that the West Indians stated. They said to the West Indians, " you 
tell us the cart whip, for example, is merely an implement of threat : abolish it 
by a law. You say females never, in point of fact, are subjected to corporeal 
punishment, we also call on you to abolish that system by law. Conciliate the 
British public by abolishing that which, according to you, does not practically 
exist. Sanctify marriage — keep the Sunday sacred — allow the negro to purchase 
his own freedom with his own money ; just do a few of these things, and the 
public and the nation will be satisfied." But there the controversy ended ; the 
West Indians who had before denied all this to be true, at that moment discovered 
that all we had said was perfectly true. Is there any longer any controversy 
about the cart whip, for example, or is its existence and use any longer disputed ? 
No. But the West Indians tell us plainly that they will not abolish the cart 
whip. Why ? Because it is the life and soul of the system, and that they can 
not extinguish the cart whip without extinguishing slavery itself. So also with 
respect to their Sunday markets, I confess I was quite astonished at their refu- 
sal there. I expected they would accede to it willingly ; but no, they tell us 
plainly they will not. As my worthy friend here has said, they throw down their 
gage in the face of Parliament and defy us to battle. Then as to another 
point, it was boldly and plainly and often declared, that the negroes were at- 
tached to slavery — that it was a thing they preferred to liberty. I recollect one 
person went so far as to say, that if we endeavoured to deprive the negroes of 
the privilege of being slaves, we should have them all in a state of rebellion ! 
Well, but what is tlie language now-a-days. What is the language against which 
my excellent friend, Mr. Denman, has had to contend before the Privy Council ? 
Why, that if you allow the negro the privilege of purchasing his own freedom 
with his own money, so deep is his detestation of his bonds, so fixed is his 
horror of slavery, so great his anxiety to rid himself and his children of that 
curse ; that he will spare every shilling — that he will work every extra hour — 
that he will deny himself every species of gratification in order to obtain it ; and 
that the consequence of the permission will be, that slavery will be extinguished, 
and therefore they object to it ! 

"But I will not pursue these details: I feel for my own part, and I dare say that 
others are sensible of the same, that there is some degree of disadvantage in this 
perpetual recurrence to details. At all events, it is wholesome at times to ad- 
vert to those eternal principles of justice upon which our case ought to stand. 
The West Indians, — I wish to speak of them with no disparagement, — but the 
West Indians complain of this species of meeting, because the blind and insensi- 
ble public are so bigotted against Slavery, that if you mention but the word, they 
are ready to sign any petition, or to enter into any resolutions. Why, Sir, it is 
perfectly true that the public are our friends, and our best friends: but why are 
they our best friends ? Because there is something in the heart of every honest 
man, whose principles have not been corrupted by Slavery — there is something 
in his heart which intuitively perceives the profound injustice of West Indian 
bondage, because it requires no specious argument, no recurrence to details, to 
prove that it is in itself inhuman. The heart of man revolts at the notion that be- 
cause my skin is white I have therefore a right to inflict torments and degradation 
-^torments on the body, and as Mr. Wilberforce, has said, what is far worse than 
physical suffering, degradation of the mind ; and what is far worse than even degra- 
dation of the mind, if any thing can be worse,that darkness of the soul, that religious 
darkness which is allowed to brood over this whole race of men. Because my skin 
is white, I have a right to inflict infamy on a whole race ! And of what are they 

2 F 



230 General Meeting. — Mr. Buxton. 

guilty ? Guilty of wearing the complexion which Nature has given them ! I 
will not pursue this important point further ; bui it is these plain and simple 
truths which form the very strength and sinews of our case. It is when I think 
on the absence of all distinction of natural rights between the black man and the 
white ; that Nature has not given to the white men a right to the bodies of 
black men ; and that, in point of fact, the negro has as much right to the person 
of the planter, as the planter has to the person of the negro ; it is when I am 
deeply sensible of this great truth that I can enter into the details with proprie- 
ty — that I can perceive the gross injustice of refusing to permit the negro to 
purchase his own redemption — that I can perceive the injustice of preventing 
him from having the Sabbath — that I can enter into the political economy of the 
question, and perceive, while Britain professes herself the friend of freedom and 
the enemy of slavery, the gross inconsistency of that policy, which gives pre- 
mium, encouragement, protection and bounty to the produce of slave labour, 
denying all these to the produce of free labour. 

" I will not pursue any of these topics further ; I will only advert to what has 
been stated by my two friends who have last addressed you, namely, that the 
public is our friend, and the friend by whom our cause must be maintained. I 
am sure your Royal Highness will excuse me when I say that not your illustri- 
ous rank, and not that favour which we have invariably received from your 
Hoyal Highness, and to which I am sure I can most truly, not as an ordinary 
and customary compliment, but in sincerity, render you real thanks for real ser- 
vices ; for real protection afforded to the cause ; for real interest, personal and 
deep, taken in the operations and welfare of this Society. But still give me 
leave to say, that not your rank or your favour — not the powers, super-eminent 
us they are, of the Honourable and Learned Gentleman, Mr. Brougham, who has 
left us — not the talents of my worthy friend, Mr. Denman, than whom we have 
never had a more able, strenuous, and uncompromising champion — (and never 
having thapked him privately, I take the opportunity of thanking him thus pub- 
licly, for a speech before the Privy Council, than which a more conclusive argu- 
ment, a more triumphant defence was never made,) — but not his talent, nor the 
energy of another gentleman who sits behind me, than whom, without dispa- 
ragement to any one, no living man has rendered, and is daily rendering greater 
services, one only excepted — and not the talents even of that one if he could be 
restored to us at this moment v-iWh all the vigour and freshness with which he 
once adventured on the glorious career, which ended in the extinction of the 
Slave Trade — not the talents, or the integrity, or the fidelity of any liandful of 
men can, I assure you I speak the truth here, sustain our cause in Parliament 
against the overwhelming influence of the planters and their friends, unless the 
public are the patrons of that cause. You must tight our battle if it is to be 
maintained ; you must aupport us ; and it is to Meetings of this kind that I look 
for ascertaining the point ^vhether the public is or is not our friend? In West 
India newspapers we read that the spirit that animated us has forsooth 
evaporated ; that the public mind has entirely changed its sentiments ; that they 
are rescued from the danger with which they were once menaced ; that a hap- 
pier day is now dawning, in which the venerable, the sacred system of slavery 
shall cease to be endangered by fanatics and innovators. Such is the language 
that runs throughout the papers of all the West India Colonies, and it is for you 
to determine whether it be true. We have, therefore, this day, come before 
you to see whether the public mind is, in point of fact, altered — whether the 
people of this country are become favourers of slavery — whether they are recon- 
ciled to that system — whether they have ceased to feel, and to feel deeply, for 
the unhappy Negro. 

" I now beg to move, ' That the Committee of the Society be authorized 
to frame forthwith a Petition, in accordance with the statement that has 
been made by them to this Meeting, and with the sentiments expressed in 
the preceding resolution, to be presented to Parliament — that to the House of 
Lords by the Duke of Gloucestei-, and that to the House of Commons by Mr. 
Brougham,'" 

The Honourable and Reverend Geraud Noel : — " The honourable gentleman 
who moved the resolution which I stand up to second, declared that the great 
ally to which alone the supporters of this solemn and serious cause are obliged 



General Meeting. —Rev. G. Noel. 231 

to look, is the public opinion. They feel that the mass of the thonghtful and 
humane of this nation, are linked upon their side ; and, Sir, it is simply upon 
that ground, as an humble individual of that mass of the British population, 
that I am encouraged to rise up for a few moments, to second the resolution 
that has been proposed for the adoption of this meeting. The public are indeed 
awake, Sir, to the real and substantial merits of this great question. But while 
I perfectly accord with the declaration, that the public must fight this battle; — 
must coerce by moral feelings the decisions of Parliament ; and give vigour to 
the arm of the executive government, I yet look to something holier and loftier, 
even than this aggregate of humane and excellent persons. I remember that it 
stands recorded on the sacred pages of revelation — -" The patient abiding of the 
meek shall not always be cut ofi"; nor the expectation of the poor perish for 
ever."- — -Therefore it is. Sir, that I expect, that as we are not emiiarked in a 
career of enthusiasm, but rest on the substantial foundation of righteousness, 
justice, and humanity, we are acting beneath the shelter, and with the blessing 
of Him, who looks with equal eye on all his creatures : and if in contemplating 
this question, I take a just view of the whole matter, I do feel that we stand up 
in this place, as much the defenders of the West Indian Planters, as we are of 
the slaves whose cause we seem more directly to advocate ; for it is only by 
putting a period to a system that grinds down to the dust so many of our fellow 
creatures ; it is only by rescuing them from the oppression under which they 
groan, that we can rescue from the displeasure of a retributive Providence, the 
proprietors themselves. It is only by putting an end to a system that is found- 
ed in injustice, and proceeds upon inhumanity, that we can avert that ruin 
which must ultimately fall upon the perpetrators of inhumanity and injustice, 
seeing there is a God who judges righteously, and will bring events to a just 
and perfect issue. I would not speak but with perfect moderation, respecting 
any opposition which is made to our proceedings. I cannot but recollect that 
■we, the people of this country, have trained up the planters to the very position 
which they occupy. At a distance from the scene of that occupation, we have, 
in the pi'ogress of years, come to a juster understanding of the merits of the 
question ; but we must not forget to make due allowance for those who are 
opposed to us, who have come to their properties, backed by the habits of suc- 
cessive generations, and with minds unenlightened, because under the influ- 
ence of that prejudice which, as has been well remarked, has neither eye nor 
ear. — By proceeding licTwever simply on the facts of the case, we keep clear of 
the charge both of calumny and enthusiasm ; and indeed we want no other 
evidence, tlian that evidence v.'hich the planters tiiemselves afford to us. — I feel 
also, that we are acting under circumstances peculiarly hopeful ; for we have 
the declarations of Parliament, on which to take our stand ; and we have the 
feelings of the country with us, to excite our efforts. We have therefore all 
that can give animation to our hopes. And I do feel, if my excellent friend 
(Mr. Wilberforce) will allow me to say it, in bis presence ; I do feel, that we 
derive hope for our cause, by seeing that after the winter season of sickness, 
he has now, in the spring time of the year, put forth anew the blossoms of 
health ; and has appeared among us to marshal us in our course. For my own 
part, I would gladly pledge my liumble eiforts, while I lift up my feeble voice, 
in furtherance of this cause ; and I trust that the friends and. directors of this 
Society, will go forth to the fulfilment of their duties, encouraged and cheered 
by the results of this day ; — cheered by what they have seen and heard ; cheer- 
ed by the concurrent voice and countenance of their fellow citizens ; — and that 
the blessing of God will rest on their labours. 

" I beg for a moment to direct the view of the meeting to a late number of the 
Reporter, in which I find that, in respect to Trinidad, there is an actual dete- 
rioration of the condition of the slaves since the colony came into the possession 
of Britain. And shall it be tolerated by the British Public, that a colony when 
under the dominion of the British Crown, shall be more inhumanly treated 
than when it belonged to a nation where the name of Liberty cannot be pro- 
nounced ; and where the mind is as degraded as the body is enthralled ?— Shall 
we, Sir, have to learn a lesson from the annals of Spanish slavery ? — Forbid it, 
humanity — forbid it, christian patriotism^ — forbid it, the blessings that God has 
showered, in his unmerited mercy, upon this favoured and happy land ! 



232 General Meeting. — Rev. J. W. Cunningham. 

" It is, Sir, a very melancholy consideration likewise, that in the very propor- 
tion in vi^hich the produce of those unhappy islands becomes large and gainful, 
in that proportion, is the misery of the slave augmented. I cannot but look 
with horror at the statement, that in the richest soils of those colonies, in 
Trinidad for example, the waste of human life is the greatest ; and that it is in 
the poverty of the soil, that there is safety and comfort for the slave. — There is 
something melancholy in this consideration, and it is a remarkable circumstance 
connected with the waste of human life, that in that very colony, while under 
the exactions of slave-labour, the waste of human life is upwards of two and a 
half per cent, per annum ; the increase of the free negroes in that same colony, 
is as large as is the decrease of the slaves, namely, two and a half per cent. ; 
and this, not in a different climate, but under the same degree of latitude, in 
the very same island ; and I cannot therefore but think, that the contrast be- 
tween these two circumstances is an argument of a very powerful and con- 
clusive kind, to shew what is the nature of that prosperity — what the nature 
of that increased produce of the earth, which is manured, if I may so say, by 
the blood of those who cultivate the soil. 

" When I refer to the melancholy picture of the West Indies on the sabbath 
day, I feel that as a Christian Minister, I shall be excused if I offer one or two 
observations. It was stated in the pamphlet to which Mr. Denman referred, 
that, in Antigua, Mr. Dwarris, the author, was delighted at the spectacle of 
sabbath happiness, and sabbath comfort, which in one instance he there 
witnessed. I thank him for that illustration, for it tells powerfully upon the 
substantial truth and justice of our cause. Sir, Antigua has long enjoyed the 
privilege of Sunday schools and religious instruction, under Christian Mission- 
aries ; — and it arose, not from the benevolence of the West India planters, that 
such a spectacle was exhibited to that gentleman ;— it arose from the active 
efforts of those men of God, who, though often proscribed and insulted, have 
nevertheless been the benefactors of their species, and who, on the shewing of 
our opponents themselves, are admitted to have produced a migitation of slavery 
by those efforts which they have made, in spite of the wills and wishes of the 
planters. And while I think of this, and the 800,000 British subjects degraded 
by the yoke of slavery, can I forget. Sir, that 

— " there is yet a liberty unsung 
By Poets, and by Senators unpraised : 
'Tis liberty of heart derived from Heaven — • 
Bought with his blood, who gave 
It to mankind." 
And to the possession of that liberty, the gift of the Almighty Author of all 
good, there is an equal access for the African negro and the European white. 
Let then the people of this country stand up as God's ministers of mercy, to 
secure that boon to the slaves against all who would forbid it to be extended to 
them. Let the people of this country stand up between the planters and the 
negroes, and say, while we are not indifferent to the freedom of the body, we yet 
feel that eternity is better than time. We will therefore secure to them, 
above ail, free access to the records of everlasting truth — the magna charta of 
the human race — those records which tell of a peace in life, a hope in death, 
and a joy in eternity." The motion was carried unanimously. 

The Rev. J. W. Cunningham — " When, Sir, I was first requested to address 
a few sentences to tiiis large assembly, I declined it, mainly on the ground, that 
I really felt on this, as on other occasions, that there might be considered to be 
some small impropriety in a Minister of religion placing himself among 
Parliamentary advocates, and mixing too much up with his own profession 
those political considerations with which he may be thought to be less ac- 
quainted. But I will own that I have been induced to comply with the request 
by this consideration, that I really feel it to be one of the great evils connected 
with this question, tliat it has been too much separated from religion, and that 
men have condescended to debate it upon the low ground of political consider- 
ations : for after all, that is a subordinate ground, especially when we are 
entitled to take the broader ground of religious obligation, and to say that we 
are not merely bound as politicians, and as statesmen, and as men of humanity 
to abolish this evil, but we are bound to do it, as we would be answerable to 



General Meeting. — Rev. J. W. Cunningham. 233 

God at the great day of judgment. And, Sir, I must be permitted to say, that 
this is the very view of the question which the people of this country, especially 
all imbued with religious feeling, are bound to take of it. I own, in common 
with the great and powerful advocates whom we have heard to-day, that there is 
every reason, on the ground of our common humanity, that we should try to strike 
off the chains of the oppressed. I am as anxious as any man, to give to my 
fellow creatures civilization, and the possession of liberty, and the sweet joys 
of domestic life ;— and there is no human privilege from which I would shut them 
out. But, I own, that the part of this question which strikes me the most, is 
tiis : that we are excluding the slaves from that knowledge, which is to make 
them happy for eternity ! And to persons who have themselves a religious feeling, 
I must be allowed to say, that they do not appear to me to contemplate the 
question sufficiently in this point of view. During the ensuing week, we shall 
have hundreds and thousands assembled in this Hall, to consider the great 
question of the diffusion of Christianity through the world ; we shall have the 
deepest sympathy excited with regard to Ireland and its inhabitants, with 
respect also to those who the nearest approach the Pole, or who dwell on the 
Line; and we shall have one great common feeling awakened in our large 
assemblies, of anxiety to disseminate religion throughout the earth. I want to 
remind them, that we have nearly a million— a million not of a remote nation — 
not of individuals with whom we have nothing to do — not of persons on whom 
we have never inflicted an injury — but of persons as intimately bound to us, as 
we are to each other— our fellow subjects— men knit to us by the closest bonds 
by which political and moral obligations can bind men together. We have 
nearly a million of those human beings almost shut out from the knowledge, and 
from "the love of God. You will say, perhaps, that Christianity is permitted to 
go among them. I admit, that, to a certain degree it is ; but how is Christia- 
nity presented to them, and who are its propounders ? I answer, men with a 
scourge in one hand, and a chain in the other. How do we present the meek 
and lovely gospel to them ? arrayed in its proper attributes ? with a diadem of 
love upon its head— with mercy in its hand ? No ! but arrayed in all the 
terrors of West Indian Slavery ! It seems to me therefore little more than a 
farce, to tell us that you are offering men Christianity in such a guise ; for. Sir, I 
am bold enough to say, that if that were the proper garb of Christianity, and 
she came to me with those terrors round her head, and that scourge in her hand, 
I should say, were I a slave, " give me any religion but that of Christ. The 
religion of slave traders and slave dealers, if that is indeed the religion of 
Christ, is not a religion with which I desire to have any thing to do." But, 
Sir, I must be permitted to say further, that I was exceedingly struck with this 
fact, that the acts which have lately been passed by the West Indian Legisla- 
tures, and among the rest by Jamaica, have this most extraordinary passage in 
their preamble (seeming to me to convey a sort of insult lo the understandings 
of human beings, which it is very very difficult to bear). " Whereas it is expe- 
dient that" " provisions be enacted to promote religious and moral instruction, by- 
means whereof the general comfort and happiness of the slaves maybe increased." 
And how— how do they do this ? In fact, by persecuting religion. The religion 
too says, " keep the Sabbath," the act says, " break the Sabbath ! " The religion 
says, " marriage is honourable to all men ! " the act says, " we will impose almost 
insuperable obstacles in the way of marriage." The gospel teaches us to honour 
women ; the act replies, " flog women." The religion tells us, " do unto others 
as you would they should do unto you ;" and the act answers, " by strokes of 
the cart whip," or as we have been learning to day, " of the cat-o'-nine-tails." 
.Such then are the Acts, which men, by a bold misnomer have inscribed, Acts 
for the promotion of religious knowledge among the slaves. 

" Sir, there is only one more thing I would take the liberty of noticing. My 
revered friend, Mr. "Wilberforce, said, that the retrospect was most melancholy, . 
and that when he came to look at the question and consider, I think he said, 
that thirty -five years had passed, and that at that period we had really as good 
or better hopes, Avith regard to the emancipation of the slaves than we have at 
this moment. Here, Sir, has been our misfortune ; we have had a great evil to 
cure, and what have we done ? W^e have trusted to compromise — to delay ; we 
have merged the real principles of truth and of wisdom, and resorted to this 



234 Geyieral Meeting. — Mr. Sykes. 

political expedient and that political expedient, deferring that which ought to 
have been done on the instant and delaying the application of the only effectual 
remedy — I mean striking away the chains which no man ought to wear, and ap- 
plying to the case that great broad principle of religion, humanity and truth — 
that the men whom God and nature have made free, no man, and no nation of 
men has a right to make slaves. This is the great simple practical position that 
we are bound to apply, and I rejoice in the honour and privilege which I enjoy 
to-day, of lending my voice in aid of this cause. Let us, then, first asking the 
blessing of Almighty God upon our proceedings, without which they shall never 
prosper, proceed like honest fair dealing men to give that to others which there is 
not one of us that would not sooner die than be deprived of for an hour ourselves. 

" I now proceed. Sir, to perform the task which I am honoured with, of return- 
ing to your Royal Highness the grateful thanks we feel for the kindness and 
the sanction you have always manifested towards this great cause. 

" The resolution I am to move is, ' That the most grateful thanks of this 
meeting be respectfully presented to his Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, 
for the zealous and undeviating support he has given to the objects of this 
society ; for the honour and benefit of his distinguished patronage, and for his 
able and condescending conduct in the chair on the present occasion.' 

" I am sure, Sir, that in saying much upon such a question, I should inflict a 
wound upon yourself ; but I must say as an Englishman — as a man obeying 
that great principle of my religion of honouring the king — loving God and ho- 
nouring the king — feeling attachment to him from my very heart, and desirous 
at all times of rendering my humblest services to the throne to Avhich we owe 
so much, I still must feel that that throne has not a higher honour, or a more 
distinguished privilege, or a brighter jewel blazing in its diadem than this, that 
the members of the royal family have thought themselves ennobled by devoting 
their services to the honour of God and to the comfort of a suffering and bleed» 
ing world." 

Mr. Sykes : — " At this late hour of the evening and totally unprepared as 
I am, the motion being only put into my hand a few moments ago, I should 
think it unpa.rdonable were I to attempt to draw largely on your attention ; 
indeed all those subjects which could interest your feelings and convince your 
understandings have already been so largely gone over by the gentlemen who 
have preceded me, that any observations of mine would be unnecessary. If 
I were to travel into the fruitful regions of colonial bondage, if I were to review 
all those scenes of injustice which for so many long and dreary years have been 
practised on the black population of the West Indies, I should only weaken the 
effect which already must have been produced in your minds by the splendid 
exhibitions of eloquence which you have heard from the different speakers who 
have addressed you. Under these circumstances, the task of speaking to this 
assembly would be painful to me. But when I see what is the nature of the duty 
imposed on me, and that I am only called on to follow the Reverend Gentleman 
who has preceded me in inviting you together with myself to tender our cordial 
thanks to his Royal Highness for the many favours he has conferred on this 
Society, that task, which under other circumstances and at this late hour of the 
afternoon would have been painful to me, is rendered most pleasing and accep- 
table. I therefore, sir, shall only detain this meeting a few minutes longer, 
while I call upon them most cordially to unite with me in thanking your Royal 
Highness for the many benefits we have received at your hands ; and I trust 
that, without offence to your Royal Highness, I may say, the claims we have on 
each other may be considered as in some degree reciprocal. If your Royal 
Highness, by your influence, by the reputation of your virtues, as well as by 
your rank, has been instrumental in sustaining the views of this Society, perhaps 
I may be allowed to say, that your Royal Highness must have derived some 
degree of estimation with the public, and must have derived also to yourself, 
a high degree of satisfaction from having, in the exalted station in which you 
stand, contributed so largely by the influence of your rank and talents, and by 
all those virtues which distinguish the illustrious family from which you spiing, 
to excite the attention of Parliament and the public to the misery which-has 
oppressed so long the black population of the West Indies, in the hope of miti- 
gating its pressure. It is only for this purpose that I have risen, and I am quite 



■ General Meeting. — Duke of Gloucester ' 235 

sure that at this hour of the evening it is not expected by this meeting I should 
go into other topics, thougli if time had been permitted me, and other gentlemen 
bad not already gone over them, I certainly should have much wished to have 
stated the special reasons v\'hich lead me to think this is a time which, above all 
others, calls for the exertions of every friend of humanity in this sacred cause. 
But after all that has already passed, it would only be an improper waste of your 
time if I were now to dilate on this copious subject. I shall, therefore, conclude 
with seconding the motion which has been made by the reverend gentleman, 
and which I am sure will obtain your unanimous and hearty concurrence." 

The motion passed unanimously. 

The Duke of Gloucester : — " Ladies and Gentlemen, However late it is, I am 
sure you will excuse my rising to give vent to my feelings, and attempting to 
express to you how gratefully I am impressed with the very flattering and kind 
manner in which you have Ijeen pleased to agree to the resolution, which has 
been in so gratifying and obliging a manner moved by the Reverend and the 
Honourable Gentlemen. 

" Were it necessary to press on your minds the importance of the question which 
has this day been under discussion, it would be very ill-timed in me to do so, 
after the able speeches that you have this day heard, every thing that could be 
said on the subject having been already said; and feeling sure that it is quite 
unnecessary to say more to urge you to exertion in this great, this holy cause, — 
a cause in which we have long been embarked with that excellent man, ray 
Honourable Friend, whom we have the happiness this day of once more seeing 
among us, and wlio, I hope, will be enabled, by his health, to attend every other 
meeting that may be necessary to be called in furtherance of our object, for I 
know that nothing but ill health will keep him from uniting with us, his heart 
being always with us. You have heard from him who has pleaded the cause now 
forty years, the most earnest entreaties, and you have heard those entreaties ably 
seconded by all who have followed him, that you will, not commence, but follow 
up to their completion, the efforts which have been made during forty years, for 
the extinction of slavery throughout the British dominions. 

" It really appears somewhat extraordinary, that we should be represented, not 
only in the West Indies, but even in this country, as now proposing something 
new ; and that we should be stigmatized as innovators, when a statesman who 
has been dead many years, and who certainly was no advocate of our cause, I mean 
the late Lord Melville, in the year 1792 — thirty-six years ago, told us that the 
state of slavery should begin to be abolished within the period of eight years, 
now twenty-eight years ago. We then were reproached with having begun at 
the wrong end ; we were told not to talk of abolishing the slave trade, but to 
begin by abolishing slavery. Now we are told we are innovators because 
thirty-six years afterwards, we propose the very thing that that person, who cer- 
tainly was no advocate for our views, then recommended, and, indeed, himself 
proposed. The meeting of this day, therefore, is called, not to propose any 
thing new, but merely to follow up that which has been under discussion for 
forty years — that which thirty- six years ago was recommended to you by one of 
our great opponents — that which the House of Commons, five years ago pledged 
itself to carry into execution, and in which the House of Lords two years 
ago unanimously concurred. At that period the minister pledged himself; for 
it was to me the answer was made ; (I had the pledge from the first minister 
himself, I mean my Lord Liverpool,) that if those resolutions were not acted upon 
in twelve months by the Legislative Assemblies, the Government of this country 
would enforce them. That pledge was given to me by Lord Liverpool himself: 
and it was in consequence of his giving that pledge that I requested a noble 
friend of mine, not to oppose the resolutions, he having some objections to them, 
that they might go out, as adopted unanimously, to the West Indies. Two years 
have elapsed since that period. Owing to the circumstance of the last year, to 
which I shall only recur in lamenting the loss we then sustained — a loss, which 
I must say was great, not only to this nation, but to the whole universe, and es- 
pecially to the black population in our colonies, which I may say, Mr. Canning 
had taken under his protection ; — owing to that unfortunate event, nothing took 
place last year. I trust, however, that the pledge that was given two years ago 
is not to be abandoned. I trust the People of England will call on Parliament 



236 Anti-Slavery Meetings in the Country. — New Works. 

to enforce that pledge, and will call on the Government to carry it into execu- 
tion. It is to public opinion that we have mainly to look. Thank God we live 
in a country where public opinion is of immense power. Our Constitution, I may 
say, is founded on public opinion ; all our great measures of improvement have 
been brought about by public opinion ; and it is the happiness of this country 
that we live under a constitution where public opinion can have its proper and 
due weight. It is to that public opinion I now look. I hope and trust, there- 
fore. Ladies and Gentlemen, that the petition which has been proposed this day, 

and I assure you a more honourable task never was conferred on me, none more 

gratifying to me, than to be commissioned by you to deliver to the House of 
Lords that petition— I hope that that petition will be followed, not only by hun- 
dreds, but by thousands of petitions, and that the people of England will act up 
to their character; will not relinquish what they have indeed, I may say, pledged 
themselves to do ; will enforce it on Parliament ; will enforce it on the Govern- 
ment of the country : and that my excellent friend will live to see the day which 
will witness the final triumph of the cause which he has so long and so ably 
maintained. I will not trespass longer on your time, than again to return to you 
my warmest acknowledgment for your kind notice of the part I have taken, in 
which, however, I do no more than express the feelings of an Englishman ; the 
same feeling which actuates all of you ; being most happy to labour with you in 
this great cause, until we shall have to rejoice together in its complete success. 
{long and loud cheers.) 

Anti-Slavery Meetings in the Country. 

We are happy to be able to acquaint our friends, that the present state of the 
Anti-Slavery cause has simultaneously excited a lively sympathy throughout 
the United Kingdom : and that public meetings either have been, or are about 
to be held, in most of our great towns, for the purpose of diffusing information 
among the friends of the cause, and of renewing petitions to the Legislature on 
the subject. We have been struck with that display of a zeal and intelligence of 
the most gratifying kind, which have been called forth at these meetings. The 
subject appears to have made a deep impression, and we have seldom met 
with sounder reasoning, or more affecting appeals to the heart, than have dis- 
tinguished the speeches which have reached us. 

The object of all these meetings has been the same, namely, to consider the 
propriety of imploring Parliament to carry into effect its recorded purposes of 
justice and mercy towards our unfortunate fellow subjects in bondage, and to 
relieve the country no less from the guilt, than from the burdens, incurred by the 
fiscal support and protection given by law to that system of Slavery, against 
which the nation has so concurrently raised its voice. 

Liverpool has taken the lead in this work, and has been followed by 
Birmingham, Ipswich, Norwich, Leeds, Halifax, Newcastle (on Tyne,) Don- 
caster, Chatham, Cork, &c. :— and will doubtless be followed by many more. 



New Works. 



We shall take an early opportunity of noticing the various extraordinary 
misrepresentations which are to be found in Mr. Dwarris's pamphlet, noticed 
above by Mr. Denman. 

Mr. Ward's work on Mexico furnishes as ample proof of the practicability of 
growing sugar in the Western World by free labour, as Sir Stamford Raffles*^ 
work on Java has supplied, with respect to the East. 

We are glad to see a Sermon on Slavery, by the Rev. H. Marriot. 

This, and all other publications of tlie Society, may he had at their office, 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatcha7-ds,\S7, Piccadilly, and Arcli's, Cornhill. 
They may also lie procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti' 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



Ix)n(lon : Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartlioloinew Close 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 37.] For JUNE, 1828. [No. 13. Vol. ii. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Keporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies vcill be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundre<1, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Alderm anbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



REVIEW OF MR.DWARRIS'S PAMPHLET— CULTURE OF SUGAR 
BY FREE LABOUR IN MEXICO.— INTELLIGENCE. 

We proceed to redeem the pledge given in our last Number, on the 
subject of a pamphlet published by Mr. Dwarris, entitled " The 
West India question plainly stated." In this pamphlet he tells us 
frankly that there is " nothing of an official character." It must be 
understood to exhibit " the views and opinions only of a private indi- 
vidual," being made up of " scattered memoranda and excerpta from 
his travelling portfolio, with some later fruits of reflection and dis- 
cussion." Mr. Dwarris, between the years 1822 and 1826, filled the 
office of a Commissioner of legal inquiry in the West Indies, and in 
that capacity has made voluminous reports respecting the state of nine 
of our Slave Colonies. We have carefully looked into these reports, 
and we find that we shall have little more to do, in the fulfilment of 
a great part of our task, than to try Mr. Dwarris the pamphleteer, by 
the evidence of Mr. Dwarris the Commissioner. 

I. One great object of the pamphlet is, to persuade the public, that all 
which has been told them by the Anti-Slavery Society and its friends, re- 
specting the state of colonial bondage, is either wholly untrue or grossly 
exaggerated. Its first complaint against them is, " their hardy and ad- 
venturous assertion, that nothing effectual has yet been done in the way 
of improvement by the Colonists themselves." To this assertion Mr. 
Dwarris opposes another at least equally hardy and as we shall see far 
more unfounded. " Nothing done !" he says, " The short space of a 
quarter of a century has eflPected a revolution in feelings and manners, 
in these remote Colonies, more extensive, signal, and complete, than 
I firmly believe, was ever before known, in the same time, in the 
history of man." p. 15. This extravagant statement stands unsupported 
by a single tittle of evidence. Mr. Dwarris does not shew what was the 
state of law and manners in 1802, in order to contrast it with that 
of 1828, so as to prove the magnitude of this change. And to have 
done this successfully, he must have falsified all preceding West 

2g 



238 Mr. Dwarriss View of the State of Slavery. 

Indian authorities, who have told us, in one unvarying tone of bold and 
hardy assertion, from tlie year 1787 to the present time, of the perfect 
happiness, of the enviable condition of the West Indian slave. The 
language of Mr. Dwarris, hyperbolical as it is, is not stronger than the 
language which was employed by almost all the West Indian wit- 
nesses examined before the Privy Council in 1789.* If there were 
any truth in it, it would prove the preceding race of West Indians, 
who vaunted quite as highly the improvements of their day as Mr. 
Dwarris does those of his, to have been not only falsifiers of fact, but 
monsters of barbarism. Such a statement, therefore, instead of ob- 
taining credit, can only lead to a suspicion that the general fabric of 
West Indian expositions is a mere tissue of exaggeration and false- 
hood, framed for present effect, and calculated to serve a temporary 
purpose. 

But let us attend to some of the facts respecting the existing state of 
things in the West Indies, which have been laid before us by Mr. 
Dwarris the Commissioner, that we may not be said to accuse him 
unjustly of unfairness and exaggeration in his private capacity of a 
pamphleteer. 

In his First Report, p. 62 — 66, the Commissioner gives us the fol- 
lowing portraiture of Barbadoes, and which may be seen more at 
length than we can now give it, by referring to the 7th Number of our 
Reporter, p. 66, and 67. — 

" Slaves in this Island are without lkgal protection ob redress 
FOR PERSONAL INJURIES." " The slave has no remedy, in case of 
the greatest oppression by the master or his delegate, or the grossest 
injury by third persons." " No tribunal is specially appointed for 
inquiring into his wrongs. A slave who is or thinks himself aggrieved, 
looks in vain in this Island for a proper quarter in which to prefer 
his complaint." " A wicked or cruel master or delegate, so that he 
do not kill or maim a slave, may inflict on him any degree of se- 
verity of punishment. No man or set of men has power to call him to 
account for working his slave as long as he likes ; for whipping 
him as much as he pleases ; for chaining, for starving him." " A 
master has uncontrolled, undefined, and absolute power." " In a case 
even of a very grievous bodily injury, inflicted upon a slave by a 
manager, the sufferer himself, or his slave brethren who were present, 
cannot give evidence, even though all the free persons on the pre- 
mises should have been designedly sent out of the way. In such a 
case a slave is not allowed to be a prosecutor. Maimed, disfigured, 
dismembered, his wounds must be the only tongue permitted to relate 
his wrongs." 

Then let us accompany Mr. Dwarris the Commissioner, to the trial of 
a criminal slave as described by himself, in his First Report, p. 48 — 50. 
" No indictment is preferred, no bill found by the grand jury." The 
evidence is not on oath, and even the evidence of his wife is admitted 
against him. On conviction,! " sentence of death must be passed," 

* See Reporter, No. 18, p. /'.'iG, &c. 

t " In cases of conviction," he says, p. 53, " the proceedings are melancholy 
and disgraceful." 



Mr. Dwarris's Vietv of the State of Slavery. 239 

without an appeal from the owner, (the slave having no appeal) the 
execution takes place without delay ; and " there being no assigned 
place or appointed time for the execution of slave malefactors, the 
wretched convict, as soon as sentence is passed, is fastened to the 
nearest tree, unless, which frequently happens, the owner of the soil 
is at hand to prevent it. In such case, the miserable culprit is dragged 
from tree to tree, from estate to estate ; and in one case, of then recent 
occurrence, the constable was at last forced to throw the exhausted 
sufferer off the town bridge, securing the rope by a lamp-post." Even 
in cases where the master, from not having duly provided for the 
support of the slave, has compelled him by necessity to commit a 
robbery, the only difference made by the Court is, that the appraised 
value of the slave, which is usually paid to the master, is paid to the 
party injured ; and yet even in such a case, says Mr. Dwarris, " the 
execution of the slave may still proceed !" 

The Report from which the above extracts are taken, bears the date 
of the 16th of May, 1825. In a subsequent Report, the Third, dated in 
October 1826, he gives the deliberate conclusions to which the in- 
quiries connected with his mission had brought him. We might have 
travelled with him indeed from island to island, and from each have 
produced testimonies varying very little in effect from those which 
we have cited in the case of Barbadoes. We will confine ourselves 
however, at present, to Mr. Dwarris's deliberate exposition of the 
general result of his inquiries. Speaking of the slave law, he says, 
" The remedial laws of the different islands, passed by the local legis- 
latures, were for the most part framed upon the spur of the occasion, 
with little skill and without much connection, and are, as might b& 
expected, rash, crude, and discordant. In practice too they have been 
found to be futile and impracticable." p. 99. 

And this appalling state of things, thus graphically described by the 
pen of an acute and intelligent lawyer, interested in giving a favourable 
view of the case, was such an advance, this same lawyer tells us, in 
improvement, during the preceding quarter of a century, as to be un- 
paralleled in the history of man ! What then must have been the 
state of theWest Indies twenty-five years ago ? — But what means did Mr. 
Dwarris possess of instituting the comparison necessary for such an 
inference ? He had no personal knov/ledge of the previous state of 
West Indian society. He must, therefore, have drawn his conclusions 
from the testimony of resident Colonists, who might easily have 
mistaken for a favourable change in the manners and dispositions of 
the planters, and a consequent amelioration in the condition of the 
slaves, their own increased callousness of feeling, and their own 
growing familiarity with scenes of oppression and cruelty. Had Mr, 
Dwarris himself lived a few years longer in Barbadoes, he would have 
seen the convicted negro dragged from tree to tree, and at length 
thrown like a dog over the lamp-post, with as slight a sensation of 
horror as was felt by the Barbadians themselves. Had he visited that 
Island twenty-five years ago, his description might have been as dark, 
though probably not darker than it now is : but then, before the end of 



240 Mr. Dwari'is versus Master Stephen and Mr. Macaulay. 

tbe time, had he continued to reside there, he would have acquired a 
very comfortable indifference to the horrors of the scene. 

If there were any truth in the strong language of Mr. Dwarris's 
pamphlet, on the subject of improvement, what, we again ask, must the 
state of colonial slavery have been at the earlier period ; at which 
period too the West Indian writers vaunted, as loudly as Mr. Dwarris 
now does, the progress of improvement, and were no less unqualified 
in their condemnation of all who ventured to deny the truth of their 
vaunt? Will it be believed that the same gentleman who, in his ca- 
pacity of Commissioner, thus depicted West Indian slavery as he saw it 
with his own eyes, should, while the sheets of his Reports were still 
wet, have composed and published a pamphlet containing the following 
sentence ? 

" Nothing done ! no change effected ! Look at the representations 
of persons as respectable as Master Stephen, and Mr. Macaulay, as to 
the state of the Colonies thirty years ago. Does any reasonable man 
believe the present condition of the islands to resemble the pictures 
there drawn ? Either these accounts are correct or they are not. If they 
have any pretensions to accuracy, a most astonishing change for the 
better has undeniably taken place. If the portrait was faithful, then to be 
sure, cadit qucestio. But great part of these statements every candid 
reader will readily admit had some foundation in truth ; and the 
mistake of those well-intentioned persons consists in shutting their 
eyes to all recent improvements; in believing that the West Indies have 
been stationary while all the rest of the world was rapidly advancing ; 
in ill-judgingly refusing the Colonists credit for what they have done,, 
in order to compel them to do more which they ought to do." p. 15. 

Mr. Dwarris has not- stated the particular representations of Mr. 
Macaulay, to which he here alludes. And as we have not been able 
to discover that Mr. Macaulay has come forward as a witness in this 
cause, or has published statements respecting it on his own authority, it 
is of course impossible for us to defend him from this vague and unsup- 
ported insinuation. If, however, Mr. Dwarris will have the goodness 
to specify the particular work he has had in his eye, and the particular 
positions in that work which are marked by characters of incorrectness 
and exaggeration, a reply may be given to the accusation. At present 
he has prudently made this impossible. 

The representations of Master Stephen, respecting the West Indies, 
of which Mr. Dwarris complains, are those, we presume, which are to be 
found in his Delineation of the law of Slavery, published in 1824. If 
so, then Mr. Dwarris, though evidently an acute and intelligent lawyer 
himself, seems to labour under a most extraordinary misapprehension 
as to the real purport of this Delineation, which gives an account of 
that law, not as it was in 1794, but as it was in 1824, the very year of 
its publication. The insinuation of Mr. Dwarris, however, is, that 
Master Stephen, professing, expressly, to delineate the law of 
slavery as it existed in 1824, has given a representation which might 
have been true thirty years before, but was not true then. We now call 
upon him as a lawyer, whose professional character is at stake, and 



Mr. Dwarns versus Master Stephen. 241 

also as a gentleman professing fairness and candour, either to retract this 
insinuation as rash and inconsiderate, or to make it good by a distinct 
induction of particulars. The matter at issue is this. Master Ste- 
phen, in 1824, undertook to give to the public a true representation of 
the following points. 1. "The origin and authority of the colonial 
slave laws in general." 2. " The persons who are subject to slavery 
in our Colonies." 3. " The legal nature and incidents of the con- 
dition of the slave in his relations to masters ; to other persons of free 
condition ; and to the police and civil government of the country." 
And, 4. " The state of slavery in respect to its commencement ^and 
dissolution." Has then Master Stephen misled the public by his re- 
presentations on these several points ? Or has he represented the 
actual state of things truly ? Mr. Dwarris insinuates that he has not. 
Let him then produce his proofs ; and if he will do so, of this at least 
we feel satisfied, that he cannot convict Master Stephen of a deviation 
from accuracy, in any one of those points, (being all of which he 
professed to treat) without proving at the same time the inaccuracy of 
his own reports. 

Nearly two years ago Master Stephen was charged, on the authority 
of a Mr. Barclay of Jamaica, with having given a false view of the law 
of West India Slavery. The accuser was called upon to specify a 
single particular on which he could rest this charge, but he declined 
the challenge.* We now renew that challenge. We call on Mr. Dwar- 
ris as a lawyer, and as a man of candour, to shew, (and we leave 
him to select his ground) wherein Master Stephen has untruly exhibited 
the state of the colonial slave law, and in that case we promise to 
meet him fairly. Tf he declines to do this, the purpose for which he 
has thrown out his random charges, against the accuracy of this dis- 
tinguished writer, will then be as manifest to the public, as it already 
is to us. 

In the work of Master Stephen there is this peculiarity, that he has 
drawn the proof of all the propositions he has advanced, not from 
sources which his adversaries may question, but exclusively from the 
Colonial Statute Books, and from the testimony of his adversaries them- 
selves. And if those propositions are tried by the recent Reports of 
Mr. Dwarris, they will, we venture to say, without one material excep- 
tion, be found to be, not only not contradicted, but amply confirmed by 
the unambiguous testimony of that gentleman in his official capacity 
of a Royal Commissioner. 

II. Mr. Dwarris's next charge against the abolitionists is their un- 
truly affirming, that " Slaves cannot legally possess property," for, he 
says, " what they (the slaves) before virtually and practically enjoyed, 
is now, in numerous instances, secured to them by law ; and they can 
also bequeath their acquisitions to others by will. And it should be 
observed, that even before the recent ameliorations, their peculium 
was secured to them, if not by law, by the state of manners." p. 16. 

Now, what is the testimony of Mr. Dwarris, the Commissioner on this 
point ? 

* See Reporter, No. 18, p. 249—254. 



'242 Mr. Dioarris on the Slave's Right of Property. 

He tells us, that neither in Barbadoes, nor in Grenada, nor in 
Tobago, nor in St. Vincent, nor in Dominica, nor in Antigua, nor in 
St. Christopher, nor in Nevis, nor in Tortola, the nine islands he visited, 
can slaves acquire any property by law, except for the benefit of their 
masters, nor can they claim any redress for injuries done them, either 
by their master, or his delegate, or even by third parties, except through 
the master.* And when in the last of his Reports, the Third, p. 106, 
he comes to sum up the whole of the evidence, respecting the slave's 
legal rights of property, he thus expresses himself. " The slaves now- 
labour under prodigious disadvantages. A slave is under a personal 
disability, and cannot sue in any court of law or equity, not even in 
respect of injuries done to him by other slaves. A slave cannot prose- 
cute in the criminal courts. A slave cannot enter into a recognizance." 
"Slave evidence is not admitted against freemen, white or black, even 
against wrong doers. In those cases," (viz. against fellow slaves) " where 
slave evidence is admitted, it very often is not upon oath." " If the 
property of a slave is taken from him, he cannot personally seek re- 
dress. His m.aster, it is said, may bring trespass. This, however, is 
very insufficient ; for he also 77iay not ; and if he does, and none but 
slaves are present at the infliction of the injury, as is likely to be the 
case, there is no satisfactory proof of the fact. The owner, suing for his 
slave, must establish his case by competent evidence, and cannot prove 
the fact by persons under legal disabilities." Mr. Dwarris then goes 
on to prove, by other considerations, that from the non-admissibility of 
slave evidence, " the slave is left defenceless," and concludes the whole 
with this memorable sentence, " From all we saw in all the Islands, it 
was the Jirm conviction of His Majesty's Commissioners, that the foun- 
dation of every improvement, both as regards the white and black 
population of these Colonies, m.ust be laid in an improved admi- 
nistration of justice, and in the admission of slave evidence." p. 107. 

So that this writer, who has so sharply reprehended Master Stephen 
and Mr. Macaulay, for not admitting the unparalleled improvements of 
the last twenty-five years, has summed up his own official representations 
on the subject, by stating that the " found atio7i of every improvement, 
both as regards the white and black population of these Colonies" is 
still to be laid — and if laid at all, "it must be laid," he tells us, " in an 
improved administration of justice, and in the admission of slave 
evidence," both which measures he speaks of as still future. What 
motives can have produced such extraordinary contradictions ? Or who 
shall be dexterous enough to reconcile Mr. Dwarris, the planter and 
pamphleteer, with Mr. Dwarris the Lawyer and Commissioner? 

It may be true, as Mr. Dwarris states, that in general, the slaves 
are allowed to enjoy their peculiu?n without direct control or inter- 
ference, but this by no means affects the question of law. And, as 
Mr. Dwarris himself properly intimates, the question for the legislator 
is not what is done, but what may be done in a case of this description. 
And that it is always in the power of the master, and may often be in his 



* See Mr. Dwarris's First Report, p. 67, 90, 222, 223. Second Report, 
p. 2r,0, 2.51, 252. Third Report, p. 13, 87. 



Mr, Dw arris on the Slave's Right of Property. 243 

inclination to disturb his slave's enjoyment of property is unquestion- 
able. He may do so every time he chooses to sell his slave, or to 
permit him (a very frequent occurrence ! ) lo be levied upon for debt 
or for taxes. He does so whenever he drives him by severity to run 
away, or whenever, *by engrossing his time, he deprives him of the 
power of attending to his stock or to his grounds. He may take from 
him his grounds, and he may kill his stock, without the possibility of 
redress. In the Report of the Berbice Fiscal* we find the slaves of an 
estate complaining that the overseer had killed all their hogs. One 
man, Leander, had ten hogs killed at one time by the manager, and 
for complaining of this act he was put in the stocks. The Fiscal, to 
whom Leander complained, regrets this harsh proceeding, which he does 
not however punish or redress, but rather extenuates. Here we have, 
probably, the accumulations of Leander's whole life destroyed, in one 
hour, by the merciless and irresistible act of the petty despot of the 
plantation ; and for this injury there is no redress ! 

How many similar instances might have been disclosed, had we 
obtained from all the other Colonies the same details which were fur- 
nished, from Berbice, of the transactions of only four years, may easily 
be imagined. But for the indiscretion of the Fiscal of Berbice, the 
numerous and sickening atrocities which took place there, in the only 
four years during which a record had been kept, would have sunk 
into the same deep oblivion which envelopes all the other sad occur- 
rences, not only in that, but in all the other slave Colonies belonging 
to the Crovv'n. 

But besides the insecurity of his property, (for property must neces- 
sarily always be insecure in those circumstances of personal dependance 
and civil disability under which the slave is placed,) the slave is 
actually prohibited, under severe penalties, from possessing or dealing 
in any articles of produce except fruit, vegetables, and ground pro- 
visions, and such stock as he may rear. 

And though it is true that in some of the Crown Colonies, certain 
well-meant though imperfect regulations have been introduced, not by 
the Colonists themselves but by His Majesty's Order in Council, 
for securing the property of the slave; yet even there, he still labours 
under most serious disadvantages ; and even there, a power is possessed, 
by the master or manager, of destroying his stock on the instant, 
without ceremony or form of legal process. f 

In the Colonies having legislatures of their own, the clauses that 
have been introduced into their new codes, on the subject of the pro- 
perty of slaves, are no more than a disgusting and barefaced evasion 
of the recommendations of his Majesty. They set out, in general, with 
a preamble affirming that, by custom, slaves have been allowed to 
possess and enjoy personal property. After this preamble, it might 
have 'been expected, that, as in the Trinidad model, that would have 
been made their right by law, which, it is stated, had formerly been 
enjoyed by permission and sufferance. The enactment which generally 

* See Reporter, No. 5. p. 41, and No. 16. p. 236. 

t See Berbice law, clause 27 — and, to the like effect, Bavbadoes Act, clause 7. 



244 Mr. Dwarris on the Marriages of Slaves: 

follows, however, is not that such custom shall be established by law, but 
that any master or other person, who shall wilfully and unlawfully 
take away from a slave, or deprive him of what he may be lawfully 
possessed of, then such person (not shall be punished as a felon, but) 
shall forfeit ten pounds currency, less than five pounds sterling, over 
and above the value of the property. We are not even told, what it is for 
a slave lawfully to possess property, nor is any legal title conferred 
upon him. No means of suit are afforded him, and he is debarred 
from giving evidence in all civil actions. In short, with scarcely an 
exception, the provisions on this point, are a mere evasion of the King's 
recommendation, and leave the slave in the same helpless and un- 
protected state, as to all essential rights of property, as before.* Nay, 
in some cases, they legalize, as we have seen, the I'ight of unceremoni- 
ously destroying the stock of the slave. Even the act of Tobago, which 
is more fair seeming than the rest, and affects to entitle the slave to 
bring actions personal, points out no means by which he can exercise 
that right, and shuts him entirely out from giving evidence in any civil 
matter. See clauses 35 and 22. 

Now, does it not appear most extraordinary that Mr. Dwarris, him- 
self a lawyer, should have ventured to assert that in numerous instances 
the property of the slave had been secured to him by law ? We 
challenge him to point out those numerous instances, in which, as a 
lawyer, he can afiirm that such security has been given. And as to 
ihevc peculium being secured to them by the state of manners, the very 
same thing was equally affirmed by every West Indian writer, and by 
every West Indian witness examined before the Privy Council and 
Parliament, from 1789 downwards. Where then shall we find the 
mighty revolution as to the slave's rights of property, in any Colony 
where the Colonists and not the Crown legislate, of which Mr. Dwarris 
boasts as having taken place in the last twenty-five years 1 In the 
teeth of his boast, we still affirm, that, in general, " slaves do not 
legally possess property," and we challenge him, as a lawyer, to 
establish the contrary position if he can. 

III. The next point in Mr. Dwarris's indictment against the aboli- 
tionists, is their falsely affirming that " marriage is not encouraged." 
*' I," says Mr. Dwarris, " assert the contrary ; " — a very bold and hardy 
assertion, and which may afford us the means of appreciating the value 
of Mr. Dwarris's unsupported assertion. At the time he penned this 
assertion, he must have had before him the statistical returns, printed 
by order of the House of Commons on the 9th of May, 1826, No. 353. 
What are the facts which these returns disclose ? Neither in Barbadoes, 
nor in Berbice, nor in Demerara, nor in Dominica, nor in Grenada, 
nor in Honduras, nor in Jamaica, nor in Nevis, nor in St. Christopher's, 
nor in St. Vincent's, nor in Tobago, nor in Tortola, was there, previous 
to 1826, any law encouraging, or sanctioning, or legalizing, or even 
permitting the marriage of slaves, or giving them even the shadow of 



* See the law of Grenada, clause 52 ;— of St. Vincent's, clause 5 ;— of Domi- 
nica, clause 13 ;— disallowed law of Jamaica, clause 16 ; — law of Barbadoes, 
clause 7. 



Mr. Dwarris on Driving and the Cartwhip, 245 

protection for their connubial rights. And the very laws which have 
since been enacted, instead of marking a- disposition to encourage 
marriage, betray a desire rather to obstruct and discourage it.* Mr. 
Dwarris says, that the slave is recommeyided to marry, but he does not 
tell us by whom. We have looked in vain for any such recommen- 
dation in the West India statute books. Dominica indeed once passed 
a clause of that kind, namely in 1788 ; but after it had remained for 
thirty-three years a dead letter in their code of law, not one marriage 
having taken place, it was actually repealed in 1821, and has not 
since been re-enacted. ^' In Barbadoes," says the President, (March 
14, 1826,) "there is no law existing by which the marriage of slaves 
is authorized or enforced." We have the same return from Honduras, 
Jamaica, Tobago, Tortola, Nevis, and St, Christopher's. And if we had 
had any returns from Antigua, Bermuda, and Montserrat, they would, 
doubtless, have been to the same effect. 

We seem therefore fully entitled to ask, what confidence can be placed 
in the representations of Mr. Dwarris, when, with these facts before his 
eyes, he can gravely adduce as a proof of the mighty — the unparalleled 
march of improvement in the West Indies, during the last quarter of a 
century, the encouragement given to marriage? (p. 13.) 

It really seems something like a waste of time, to proceed with the 
refutation of Mr. Dwarris's positions, the utter groundlessness of every 
one of which is equally capable of demonstration with the points already 
touched upon. Indeed we stand in perfect astonishm.ent, that any maa 
who possesses his standing in society, should thus expose himself to 
such imputations as are the natural consequences of mis-statements, 
(all too on one side of the question) whether proceeding from ignorance, 
or inadvertence, or from any other less excusable cause, so palpable 
as those we have already noticed, but which certainly are not more so 
than those which still remain to be noticed. All this will at least 
show to what kind of mischievous counteraction the cause of truth 
and justice and humanity is exposed. And it shews, at the same time, 
how cautious we ought to be of the mere assertions of any man, 
however respectable his attainments, however imposing his professions, 
or however high his station in society, who, under the influence of the 
peculiar temptations and prejudices incident to the possession of West 
Indian property, undertakes the task of enlightening the pubhc mind 
on West Indian reform. 

IV. Mr. Dwarris's next charge against the abolitionists is their falsely 
affirming that " the slaves work under the lash." 

His attempt to refute this position exhibits a singular hardihood of 
unfounded assertion. He says, " The power of punishment Mpon 
estates (and especially as delegated to inferior agents) is now much re- 
stricted." We positively deny the assertion, and challenge Mr. Dwarris 
to the proof. There is no such restriction even in the disallowed law 
of Jamaica, a colony containing nearly half of the slaves in the West 
Indies. Neither in' the Bahamas, nor in Bardadoes, nor in Dominica, 



* See Reporter, No. 19, p. 265— 2T2, 
2 H 



246 Mr. Divarris on Driving and the Cart-whip. 

nor in Montserrat, nor in Nevis, nor in St. Kitt's, nor in St. Vincent'Sj, 
had any such restriction taken place at the end of 1 826. In Tobago 
and in Grenada alone has there been an abatement of that tremendous 
power possessed by masters and managers of inflicting thirty-nine lashes, 
and by drivers of inflicting ten, and in the Bahamas even twenty lashes, 
on the bared bodies of every man, woman and child placed under their 
authority, and that for any offence or for no offence, and without any 
legal control or responsibility. Tobago and Grenada alone, of the 
colonies having legislatures of their own, have restricted this terrible - 
power; but even there the regulations which profess to do so are destitute 
of all effectual sanction, as may be seen by referring to the acts them- 
selves. Nay, in Grenada, the former harsh state of things is aggravated 
by a clause (10) empowering the master, who does not think the twenty- 
five lashes to which he is limited a sufficient punishment, to carry his 
slave to a justice, who, by his single fiat, may direct such corporal punish- 
ment not extending to life or limb, as the offence shall in his discretion 
merit, and this without appeal. — Only conceive two neighbouring justices, 
planters, mutually performing for each other this kind office of sum- 
mary execution ! 

Ao-ain Mr. Dwarris tells us, " The cartwhip, either as an instrument 
of punishment or as a symbol of authority has grown out of use : the 
cat-o'-nine-tails which is used in the British army is substituted for it. 
Indeed," he says, " the first frenzy of improvement produced, in the 
island of Dominica, a beautiful specimen of crude legislation upon the 
subject ; the draft of the amended slave bill actually abolished the use 
of the cartwhip for any purpose whatever in that colony." Now let us 
hear Lord Bathurst's estimate of the law passed by the legislators of 
Dominica, of whom Mr. Dwarris speaks as manifesting a frenzied eager- 
ness of improvement : " On the subject of the punishment of slaves, 
I observe," says his Lordship, " that the use of the whip in the field is 
not only not prohibited, but is indirectly sanctioned. The owner is per- 
mitted, by his own authority, to inflict a punishment amounting to 
thirty-nine stripes." " The presence of a free person as a witness is 
not rendered necessary. The use of the whip in correcting females is 
not prohibited, but is expressly allowed. No limitation is affixed to 
the extent and severity of any punishment except that of whipping. 
These acts do not require that any record should be kept of punish- 
ments." " Although a person should be repeatedly convicted of inflicting, 
an illegal punishment he would not incur any forfeiture of his slaves, or 
become incapable of holding such property. In cases of mutilation and 
other cruel punishments, the slave is to be sold, if the jury should cer- 
tify the case to be atrocious; but even in this case of atrocious muti- 
lation, the offender is to receive the price of the slave !" Lord Bathurst 
further objects to the authority given by this act " to a slave, employed 
as a superintendant, to inflict, by whipping, punishment on his fellow 
slave ; and to the permission to work slaves in chains, if convicted before 
a single magistrate, on the evidence of a fellow slave, of habitual bad 
conduct!" See Lord Bathurst's letter to the Governor of Dominica,, 
.3d April 1827. 



Mr. Divarris on Driving and the Cartwhip. 247 

We may now form some idea of Mr. Dwarris's standard of colonial 
amelioration ; — we speak of him in his capacity of planter and pamph- 
leteer ; — and certainly if he deems such provisions as these indications 
of a frenzied zeal for improvement, we cannot wonder at the general 
tone of his recent publication. 

Mr, Dwarris, however, with an air of candour, admits that the whip 
is exhibited in the field, and he agrees it should be done away with. 
But then he says " it is very rarely used." How can he tell this ? 
He assumes the fact: he cannot know it. He only knows that it may be 
used, being always at hand. And what possible evidence can he have 
that it is not ? Its sound will not reach him across the Atlantic. — Then 
he says, that in several islands " the use of the driving whip is regulated 
by law," though, he admits, not effectually. But in which of the colo- 
nies having legislatures of their own, except the Bahamas, where the 
driving whip is of no use, has one effective regulation been adopted on 
the subject ? The only legislatures which have even touched it are 
Grenada and St. Vincent's. Now take Lord Bathurst's view of what 
has been done there, as it is stated in his letter to Sir C. Brisbane, of 
the 3d April 1827. " The provisions as to the use of the whip in the 
field are so constructed that a free negro might use it with impunity, 
and that even a slave might be employed to use it, if it were not carried 
as an emblem of authority, but as a means of impelling other slaves to 
labour. The prohibition extends only to one description of whip, viz. 
' that which is usually called the cartwhip.' " And here we must 
admire the tenderness which exults in the adoption of the cat-o'-nine-tails, 
the instrument used to punish the worst crimes in the army, as a humane 
and improved mode of stimulating the industry, and reproving and 
quickening the sluggishness of the negro. 

It is by such unfounded statements as these, brought forward by men 
pretending to local authority and assuming the air of candour and truth, 
that parliament, and even absent proprietors of slaves, are deluded into 
the belief that the driving whip is, as Lord Seaford strangely asserted in 
1823, not an instrument of coercion but a mere badge of authority. 
The resident colonists, — the managers, overseers and bookkeepers un- 
derstand the matter far better. They are ready to fight for the whip. 
Their language is, that slavery cannot subsist without the whip. Nay, 
*' the use of the whip is believed by those who have most considered the 
subject in this colony to be identified with the existence of slavery." 
We have before us files of the West Indian newspapers wherein such 
language as this is used. '' It is manifest to every individual," says the 
Jamaica Royal Gazette in June 1826, " in the least acquainted with 
this colony, that the dread of the whip is the only prevention of idle- 
ness and insolence." If Mr. Dwarris wishes it we can produce nume- 
rous passages to the same effect, not only from the colonial newspapers 
but from colonial writers of authority ; Collins, Williamson, Stewart, 
Cooper, Bickell, &c. But what can be more decisive on this point than 
the absolute refusal of the Jamaica legislature, in December 1826, to 
abolish either the flogging of women, or punishment or driving by the 
cartwhip ? A clause fof substituting even Mr. Dwarris's favourite cat 



248 Mr. Dwarris on Drivifig and the CartwMp. 

for the cartwhip, as well as one for prohibiting female flogging, -was 
negatived by 28 to 12.* 

The assembly of Barbadoes on the 23d October 1826, in an address 
to the governor give " the reasons which influenced the House in not 
adopting certain of the recommendations of Lord Bathurst." They re- 
garded it, they say, " as a sacred duty to their country, their constituents, 
and themselves, whilst anxiously disposed to meet the wishes of his 
Majesty's government, not to lose sight of the safety of the inhabitants, 
the interests of property, and the welfare of the slaves themselves. Acting 
on these considerations, the assembly, with all due deference to Earl 
Bathurst, found that they could not yield to his Lordship's recommen- 
dations to piohibit the punishment of women by flogging, and the use 
of the whip in the field. To forbid, by legislative enactment, the flogging 
of female slaves would, in the judgment of the assembly, be productive 
of most injurious consequences." " The female slaves evince at all 
times a greater disregard to the authority of their owners than the male 
slaves. To deprive an owner of this mode of enforcing obedience or 
punishing disorderly conduct would tend to encourage a stronger dis- 
position to insubordination." They then argue against the substitution of 
imprisonment as depriving them of the slaves' services, and in the case 
of owners possessed of only one or two domestic female slaves, " it is. 
quite apparent," they say, " how very objectionable must be this change 
from flogging to imprisonment." " Considerations no less powerful," 
they go on to remark, " prevailed with the assembly respecting the dis- 
use of the whip in the field. Whilst the power of summary punishment 
by flogging, when necessary, and which is to be considered to be insepa- 
rable jfrofn a state of slavery, is permitted to slave owners, the assembly 
have provided against the abuse or cruel exercise of it. The recording 
of punishment by whipping, however, being consequent upon limiting 
it to a given number of stripes, and the assembly being of opinion that, 
in the hands of a relentless executioner, a given number of stripes might, 
under the sanction of the law, be so inflicted as to amount to an act of 
cruelty, thought that the ends of humanity would be best consulted, 
and unfeeling owners most effectually restrained, by leaving it to the 
justices," — themselves, it may be, among the unfeeling owners — " to de- 
termine on the fact of cruelty from the circumstances of the case, 
without any reference to the specific mode or quantity of punishment." 

Now Mr. Dwarris might have known all this when he penned the sen- 
tence on which we are commenting. What then are we to think of the 
correctness of Mr. Dwarris's statements ? 

But to proceed with our proofs, which, on this point, are endless. — 
General Mainwaring, the governor of St. Lucia assumes that it cannot 
be intended by Lord Bathurst to exempt females from those measures 
of coercion necessary to ensure the performance of their daily work. 
If the flogging of female slaves on estates be abolished, " I am at a loss," 

* See Reporter, No. 21, p. 305—307, for the language used by the speakers 
on this occasion. Every word tells against Mr. Dwarris. See also the ReporteE,, 
lSo.,18, p. 257— 260. 



Mr. Dwarris on Driving and the Cartwhip. 249 

he says, " to say what punishment the owner can have recourse to." 
He objects equally to the absence of the driving whip. — " Such changes/' 
says the Attorney General of St. Lucia, alluding to the abolition of fe- 
male flogging and the driving whip, " would give the death blow to 
the subordination of the slaves, and would essentially compromise the 
safety of the masters. In short, the total subversion of the colony would 
be the inevitable result of such innovations." And even Mr, Chief Justice 
Pickwood of St. Kitt's, one of the most enlightened of the West Indian 
judges, comes to the conclusion, that the flogging of women cannot be 
dispensed with. 

We subjoin a brief extract from Dr. Williamson, as warm an advocate 
for the West Indian system as Mr, Dwarris himself, who published his 
work in 1817, after a residence of fourteen years in Jamaica, and who 
confirmed his testimony on his return to that island in 1823. We 
quote from his second volume, p. 222 — 225. 

Speaking of the driving whip, he says, " Whether we consider the 
frightful sound which reaches our ears evej'y minute in passing through 
estates, by the crack of the lash, or the power with which drivers are 
permitted to exercise punishment, it would be desirable that such a 
weapon of authority were taken from them." " When a negro seems 
tardy at his work, the driver sounds the lash near him, or lets him feel 
it as he thinks proper." The impression thus "made upon the pas- 
senger, who is probably a stranger, is horrible indeed." Again, " Whea 
punishment is inflicted by flogging," " it cannot be denied that the hmit 
of thirty-nine lashes is often outdone, and by repeatedly punishing 
offenders the parts become insensible to the lacerations which tear up 
the skin. When that barbarous consequence is arrived at, the infliction 
of the lash becomes a matter of indifi'erence to the unfortunate negro, 
and new sources of torture must be found out by which the commission 
of crime may be checked." Again, " If, in a warm day, we pass by a 
gang where they are uncovered behind, it is a reproach to every white 
man to observe in them the recently lacerated sores, or the deep furrows 
which, though healed up, bear the marks of cruel punishment." 

Nor is Mr. Barrett, a member of the Jamaica assembly, speaking in 
1826, less strong and indignant in his terms. "The cartwhip," he 
describes " as a base, cruel, debasing instrument of torture," the felloiw 
" of the rack and the thumb screw ;" " a horrible detestable instrument 
when used for the punishment and torture of slaves." But all his elo- 
quence was unavailing. Driving, and the cartwhip, and the flogging 
of women still maintain their place in Jamaica, and even the substi- 
tution of the cat for the cartwhip was negatived by 28 to L2.* 

But independently of all this, if there was truth in such representations 
as those of Mr. Dwarris, what would become of the lengthened and 
reiterated arguments of Major Moody, Mr. Mac Donnell, and a host of 
writers besides, and among others of Mr. Dwarris himself, to prove 
that negroes will not work without coercion ? Why also should the 
measure of putting down the driving whip and abolishing the flogging 
of women be so generally rejected by the colonial legislatures ? But 

* See Rep ter, No. 21, pp. 306, 307. 



250 Mr. Dwarris on the Tobago Law of Evidence. 

we must take our leave of Mr. Dwarris for the present, without having 
exhausted a tythe of our proofs to show the small value of the unsup- 
ported assertions which, in his capacity of planter and pamphleteer, 
. he has put forth on this and every other part of the case. Before we do 
so, however, we are strongly tempted to adduce one farther illustration 
of Mr. Dwarris's professional inaccuracy, which may be exhibited in a 
brief space. He says, " The legislature of Tobago has consented to 
receive slave evidence in all cases, without any restriction, and to do 
away altogether with the distinction which has heretofore prevailed be- 
tween the admission of the evidence of persons free and bond, leaving 
them equally open to the same common law exceptions." 

Here Mr. Dwarris gives us, as the law of Tobago, what is, in point 
of fact, no more than a speculation, a mere project on the part of the 
House of Assembly, respecting the course which it might be proper to 
pursue, and in which speculation the legislative council of the island 
differ materially from the assembly. The following is the existing, and 
the only existing law of Tobago, on the subject of slave evidence : 

" ClauSuC 22. And whereas it may happen that, in cases of cruelty or 
other injury to slaves by white or free persons, no other evidence than 
that of slaves can be procured, by reason whereof such cruelty cannot 
be punished or redressed : Be it and it is hereby enacted, that in all 
cases where any white or free person is charged with wilful murder or 
mayem of, or cruelty to a slave, it shall and may be lawful, in case no 
white or free person was present or can be produced to prove the facts 
relating to such imputed murder, mayem, or cruelty, to admit the evi- 
dence of two slaves to prove the facts and circumstances attending such 
imputed murder, &c. and that the concurrent evidence of such two 
slaves, if unimpeached as to their credibility, shall have the same effect, 
in point of law, as if a white or free person had proved the same 
facts and circumstances attending such murder, mayem, or cruelty, and 
the slave suffering such mayem or cruelty shall be admitted as one of 
the two evidences." 

Such is actually the law of Tobago at this moment, and yet Mr. 
Dwarris, himself a lawyer, affirms that the legislature of that island 
" has consented to receive slave evidence in all cases, without any re- 
striction." Is not this a most palpable misrepresentation of the case ? 
Slave evidence is wholly excluded in all civil cases ; and in criminal 
cases it is confined to murder, mayem, and cruelty ; and even then is 
only admitted in case no white or free person was present, and in case 
two slaves, unimpeached as to their credibility, shall testify concurrently 
to facts and circumstances. — In short, from the beginning to the end of 
Mr. Dwarris's pamphlet, we scarcely meet with a single sentence which 
does not involve some gross error or mis-statement, which does not 
convey to the reader either a distorted or exaggerated fact, or a false or 
unfounded inference. And yet this is the man who takes it upon him to 
charge Master Stephen's elaborate and authentic delineation of the law 
of slavery with incorrectness and exaggeration ! 



We are glad to suspend the task of castigating the errors of 
Mr. Dwarris, in order to introduce to our readers the facts disclosed by 



Sugar Culture in Mexico by Free Labour. 25! 

Mr. Ward, our late envoy in Mexico, respecting the cultivation, in that, 
part of the world, of 

Sugar by Free Labour. 

" The possibility of cultivating the sugar cane between the tropics by 
a system of free labour," Mr. Ward observes, " has been often can- 
vassed, but I know no country, except Mexico, where the experiment 
has been fairly tried on a large scale.* The plantations were all worked 
in the first instance by slaves, who were purchased at Vera Cruz at from 
three to four hundred dollars each. The difficulty of ensuring a supply 
during a war with a maritime power, and the number of slaves who 
perished from the sudden change of climate on the road from the coast, 
induced several of the great proprietors to endeavour to propagate a 
race of free labourers, by giving liberty to a certain number of slaves 
annually, and encouraging them to intermarry with the native Indians, 
which they soon did to a very great extent. The plan was found to be 
so economical that on many of the largest estates there was not a single 
slave in the year 1808. But the policy of the measure became still 
more apparent in 1810 ; for as soon as the revolution broke out, those 
planters who had not adopted the system of gradual emancipation were 
abandoned, at once, by their slaves, and forced, in some instances, to 
give up working their estates ; while those who had provided themselves 
in time with a mixed cast of free labourers retained, even during the 
worst of times, a sufficient number of hands to enable them to cultivate 
their lands, although on a reduced scale. 

" The great haciendas (plantations) now expend in wages and other 
current charges, from 8 to 1200 dollars a week. The labourers are 
mostly paid by the piece, and can earn, if industrious, from six to seven 
reals per diem, being from three shillings to three shillings and sixpence 
English money. The number of workmen employed upon an estate 
capable of producing 40,000 arrobasf of sugar (about 600 hogsheads) 
is one hundred and fifty, with occasional additions when the season is 
late, or the work has been retarded by accidental causes. They are 
divided into gangs, as in the West Indies, and appeared to me to per- 
form their several tasks with great precision and rapidity." Vol. I. 
p. 67, 68. 

There is however this most remarkable difference between the gangs 
in Mexico and the gangs in the West Indies, that whereas the majority 
of the latter consists of females, who are thus subjected to continuous 
and severe toil under the whip, the Mexican gangs appear to consist 
exclusively of males. t None but men are spoken of by Mr. Ward as 
employed in watering the canes, in cutting them, in feeding the engines, 
in supplying fuel, and in the various processes of the culture and ma- 
nufacture — and " ALL THESE LABOURERS," hc adds, " PROCEED 
WITHOUT DIFFICULTY OR COMPULSION, AND THE SOUND OF THE 

AVHip IS NEVER HEARD !" He spcaks of the labourers indeed as 
debauched, ignorant, and barbarous, as ferocious, addicted to drinking, 

* Mr. Ward has forgotten Hindostan, Java, Siam, &c. 
+ An arroba is about 25 lbs. English. 

% This accounts for the difference in the proportion of births between Mexico 
and our West Indies : in the former one in 18— in the latter, one in 42. 



252 Free Labour Sugar. — Intelligence. 

and low in morals, a descriptibn which finds too faithful a parallel in 
the degraded slave. But they are nevertheless, he adds, " an active, 
and at intervals a laborious race, capable of enduring great fatigue, 
and well suited to the climate they inhabit." p. 69. 

The produce of a hectare (two acres and a half) of land in Vera-Cruz, 
which is a maritime province, he states to be 240 arrobas of raw sugar 
of 25lbs. each, being two tons and a half per hectare, and double the 
produce of Cuba. (p. 62.) In 1802, thirty-five millions of pounds were 
raised for home consumption, besides a million and a half that were 
exported. The amount of produce was greatly reduced during the 
revolutionary war, and much of the capital employed in sugar works 
was destroyed. Many of these however had been re-established, and 
he describes the extensive valley of Cuernavaca and Cuautla as 
occupied " by a succession of estates, all in a state of the most beauti- 
ful cultivation. The valley abounds in water, both for irrigation and 
machinety," which machinery he describes as " fully equal to that 
employed in the British Colonies, where steam engines are not used." 
" None of these estates produce less in the year than 30,000 arrobas of 
sugar, (or 340 tons,) while the annual produce of some of the largest 
may be estimated at from 40 to 50,000." " The sale of the molasses 
alone, is sometimes sufficient to cover the weekly expenditure of the 
estate, leaving only the wear and tear of the machinery to be deducted 
from the produce of the crop of sugar." p. 63 — QQ. 

In the Island of Cuba, Mr. Ward states, that 150 slaves are required 
to produce 1,600 arrobas, or about 180 tons, whereas, in the valley of 
Cuautla, inferior in fertility to the maritime province of Vera-Cruz, 
150 free labourers are found sufficient for an estate, yielding from 
32,000 to 40,000 arrobas, from 360 to 450 tons. The destruction of 
the sugar works appears to have been the greatest in the maritime 
provinces, but if peace continues, and all danger from old Spain 
is at an end, cultivation, Mr. Ward is convinced, must revive there, 
and the export become large. 



Intelligence, 

Petitions against slavery and the duties which protect and uphold it, 
continue to load the tables of both Houses of Parliament. 

The number of Ladies' Anti-slavery Associations increases ; we hear 
of them in various directions. One has recently been established in 
Dublin, at a numerous meeting, the Lord Mayor in the chair, and 
after an able and animated discussion. 

A discussion has taken place on the sugar duties in the House of 
Commons, which is likely to lead, in the ensuing year, to at least a 
material modification of them. The more the case is understood the 
stronger will be the conviction of the injustice and mischievousness of 
the present arrangement. 

Mr. Brougham has announced his intention of moving, on the 1st 
of July, for leave to bring in a Bill to make the evidence of slaves ad- 
missible in all the King's courts. Mr. W. Horton has also given notice 
of a motion on Slavery. 

London : Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



SUPPLE ^lENT 

TO THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY MONTHLY REPORTER, 

FOR JUNE, 1828, No, 37. 



- Mr. WiLMOT HoRTON having given notice of a motion in the House 
of Commons on the subject of compulsory manumission, for the 26th 
instant, it is thought right, previous to the discussion to which it must 
lead, to furnish the public with some information upon it. Gentlemen 
desirous of fully considering the question, may indeed find a complete 
view of it in a pamphlet published by Hatchard, entitled, " The Petition 
and Memorial of the Planters of Demerara and Berbice, on the subject of 
Manumission, examined : being an exposure of the inaccuracy of the 
statements, and the fallacy of the views on which they have proceeded 
in their recent application to His Majesty in Council."* To obviate, 
however, still more completely the alarms and objections of those who 
maintain that the plan of compulsory manumission must be productive 
both of ruin to the planter and of danger to the Colonies, it seems expe- 
dient to add to the facts and reasonings contained in that publication, 
the following Authentic View of the Law and Practice in the Spanish 
Colonies respecting the Manumission of Slaves. We shall thus, at 
least, have before us the lessons of long experience. 

We will begin with settling the important point of the time which is 
allowed to the Slaves for their own purposes in those Colonies, 

Some persons have affected to question, whether it be true that the 
number of days in the year allowed to the Slaves in the Portuguese 
and Spanish colonies, for their own use, be really so many as has been 
asserted — viz, fifty-two Sundays, fifty-two week-days, and at least 
thirty holidays ; in all, 1 34 ; f — and whether those facilities of manumis- 
sion exist there which have been held up as an example, as well as a 
matter of reproach, to Great Britain. The following authorities will 
probably place these points beyond further doubt. 

Mr. Koster, the author of Travels in Brazil, published a pamphlet in 
1816, with his name prefixed to it. It may be found in the sixteenth 
Number of the Pamphleteer. This valuable and accurate writer thus 
states the case of the BraziUan Slave. Besides his food, which is " salt 
meat or salt fish, and the flour of the manioc," " the laws allow him to 
have the Sundays and holidays as his own," p. 313. " The Brazilian 
Slaves, who supply themselves with food, have one day in every week 
for this purpose ; but they are expected not to require any assistance 
from the master." They have also, " in the course of the year, above 
thirty holidays besides Sunday." p. 327. 

The Spanish Cedula of the 31st of May, 1789, says, that on holidays 

* The whole of this pamphlet will be found in the Anti-Slavery Monthly 
Reporter, for August, 1827, No. 27, price 6d. 

t Contrast this liberal provision of the Spanisli law, with the miserable frag- 
ment of time allowed to the slaves in the English Colonies, varying from 13 to 26 
days, beside Sundays. What hope can be indulged of any considerable manu- 
mission of slaves, by their own efforts, under such adverse circumstances? 



254 Law and Practice of Manumission 

" the Slaves shall not be obliged or permitted to work either for them- 
selves or their masters, except at the time of crop, when it is customary 
to grant them liberty to work on holidays." 

This is further confirmed, by a reference to a work published by 
Longman, in 1810, entitled " Present State of the Spanish Colonies, by 
W. Walton, Junior;" in which that gentleman remarks, that " a consi- 
derable impediment to the progress of culture in Spanish possessions, is 
the great number of feast-days that interfere with the labours of the 
field ;" and again, that though Spanish Slaves are denied many " sub- 
ordinate conveniences, they are allowed a much greater surplus of time 
to procure them, and enjoy more indulgences than the Slaves of other 
nations." — Vol. ii. pp. 140, 143. 

The author goes on to say, that " a Slave has the right of redemption ; 
and, in any dispute with his master, has the privilege of choosing an ar- 
bitrator. If he be not contented to live in the servitude of a particular 
person, by whom he may be ill-treated, and can produce sufficient 
motives and another purchaser ; or if he has had sufficient industry and 
economy to have amassed the stipulated sum ; he can demand his free- 
dom, by refunding his purchase-money." An infant, unborn, ceases 
to be the property of the owner, by the deposit of 100 rials ; and after 
birth, by that of twenty-five dollars." 

This general statement is confirmed by a more recent writer, who, In 
letters from the Havannah, dedicated to Mr. Croker, of the Admiralty, 
and published by Miller in 1821, speaks of " the festivals held every 
Sunday and feast-day," when " numbers of free and enslaved assemble" 
for amusement; and he afterwards describes them as " festivalizing on 
a dios de dos cruces, or a church holiday." He also recognizes the re- 
gulation which allows the slave " who is discontented with the treat- 
ment of his owner, to demand a carta, or licence to be sold ; or, in 
other words, to change his service." p. 42. 

" There are many Coloured People," he adds, " whose freedom is the 
purchase of the extra earnings allowed them by law." " The number 
of free People of Colour in this island is nearly equal to the total 
amount of that class in all the islands together. This is attributable to 
the mildness of the Spanish Slave-Code, which softens the rigour of 
their hard destiny." — " Every slave under the Spanish colonial law, who 
tenders his master the sum he was bought at, is entitled to enfranchise- 
ment, nor can his master refuse it. It is equally permitted him to 
purchase a portion of his freedom by instalments, as his ability allows, 
being then said to be coartado, or cut ; and such are, in consequence, 
entitled to a licence to work where and with whom they please, paying 
to their master a rial (6d.) per day, for every hundred dollars remaining 
of their value, beyond the instalment they have paid. Many who are 
not coartado are allowed by their owners to labour where they please, 
under similar conditions; by which means an industrious Slave may, 
in a few years, procure sufficient to ransom himself. The excellence 
of such a regulation it is easy to appreciate. It is both a wise and 
merciful policy. It satisfies the master with a high interest, during 
the period the Slave is working out his freedom ; and it imbues the 
latter with habits of cheerful industry, while he is, as it were, knocking 
off his chain link by link." — pp. 40 — 42. 



in the Spanish Colonies. 255 

A farther confirmation of these statements is to be found in our own 
Privy-Council Report of 1789, part VL, where the following provi- 
sions are represented, as forming a part of the law of the Spanish Co- 
onies, regarding slavery, viz. 

" Any Slave, on proof given to the Governor of bad treatment by 
:he owner, may insist on being transferred to another master, at such 
orice as may be settled between the purchaser and the seller ; and if 
the latter is exorbitant in his demand, the Governor is to name a third 
person as umpire. 

" Any Slave who, by his industry and economy, has raised a sufficiency 
to purchase his manumission, may demand his freedom from his mas- 
ter, on paying an equitable price ; and if the master should prove un- 
reasonable, the Governor, on the application of the Slave, is to appoint 
two appraisers, who are to fix the price." 

But the most conclusive evidence on this subject is to be found in a 
communication from Mr. Kilbee, the Commissioner of the Mixed Com- 
mission Court at the Havannah, to the late Mr. Canning, dated October 
9, 1824, and which stands at p. 120 — 124, of Class A of Papers on 
the Slave trade, presented to Parliament, by His Majesty's Command, in 
the Session of 1825. The following is the substance of this highly 
important official document. 

It has been the practice at all times, of the Courts of Justice in 
Cuba, to sanction such regulations as tend to ameliorate the lot of 
Slaves ; and this has gradually given rise to a system, which, though 
principally founded on custom, has acquired the force of law, and many 
parts of which have been confirmed in Royal decrees. Among other 
beneficial regulations there is a public officer in every district, who is 
the official protector of slaves, and whose presence is necessary at every 
legal decision concerning them. 

Slaves in the island of Cuba may be divided into two classes ; those 
in Venta Real, that is, who may be sold by the master for any sum 
he chooses to demand ; and Coartados, that is, those whose slavery 
is limited by a price being fixed on them which cannot be increased at 
the will of the master. 

Slaves may acquire their liberty by the mere grant of their master, 
or by testament, and the only formality necessary is a certificate, called 
a Carta de Liber tad. No security is required, as in the British islands, 
that they shall not become a charge to the parish.* But masters are 
not allowed to emancipate old and infirm slaves, unless they provide 
for them. 

If a slave can prove that a promise of emancipation has been made 
to him by his master, the latter will be compelled to perform it; and 
wills relating to this subject are always interpreted most favourably to 
the Slaves. 

Slaves may also obtain their liberty by purchase : but the master is 
not allowed to fix an arbitrary price, but if he and the Slave cannot 
agree, two appraisers are named, one by the Master, the other by the 

* This demand of security has been nothing else than a contrivance for 
increasing the obstacles in the way of manumission; the pretence for it, arising 
from the alleged necessity of providing for the pauperised emancipated Slave, 
being wholly without foundation. See Reporter, No. 19. p. 275—279. 



256 Law and Practice of Manumission 

Protector of Slaves, and the judge names an umpire. The law exempts 
all sales of this description from the six per cent, duty attaching to all 
other sales. A master is compelled to sell his Slave if the purchaser 
engages to emancipate him at the end of a reasonable time. Masters 
who use their Slaves ill may be compelled to sell them : and in case 
of their not being coartado, by appraisement. It is the vmiversal custom 
to give liberty to Slaves rendering services to the state, the Government 
paying the master for them. 

A Slave once emancipated cannot be again reduced to slavery. 
Various instances to this effect are cited by Mr. Kilbee ; among others, 
the following : — 

A Slave applied to a judge to be valued, in order to purchase his 
liberty ; the master objected, saying it was impossible he could legally 
have acquired so much money. The court acknowledged, that the ille- 
gal acquirement of the money was a bar to the demand of the Slave ; 
but held, that such illegal acquirement must be proved by the master, 
as it would be hard to oblige the Negro to account for all the money he 
had ever received. 

Next to obtaining his liberty, the great object of the Slave is to become 
coartado. This consists in his price being fixed ; the master giving him 
a document called, escretura de coartacion, by which he binds himself 
not to demand more than a certain sum for the Slave, which sum is 
always less than his actual value, but has no relation to the price paid 
for him. 

As Slaves may acquire their liberty, so may they be coartados at the 
pleasure of their master. They may become so too, by paying a part 
of their value. This arrangement is scarcely ever objected to; if it 
were, the Slave has only to apply to a court of justice through the Pro- 
tector to be valued, and then, on paying fifty or a hundred dollars, his 
master would be obliged to give him an escretura, expressing that he 
was coartado in the difference between the sum paid and his estimated 
value. Thus, if a Slave be valued at 600 dollars, and pay his master 
100, he will remain coartado in 500 ; and no greater price can be de- 
manded, whether he be sold to another master, or he himself purchase 
his liberty. The Slave also who is already coartado in a certain sum, 
maylpay any part of it, not less than fifty dollars, and his master is 
bound to receive it. Again, if a master be about to sell his Slave, the 
Slave may oblige the purchaser to receive any part of the purchase 
money, and to remain coartado in the remainder ; and for the part paid 
no tax is exacted, nor indeed for any money paid by Slaves towards 
obtaining their liberty, for becoming coartados, or for diminishing the 
sum by which they may be already coartados. 

It is a disputed point, whether a Slave can oblige his master to sell 
him if he can find a purchaser who will coartar him. This practice, being 
liable to abuse, is generally discouraged, unless the purchaser be willing 
to coartar the Slave in considerably less than his value ; in two-thirds 
of it, for example ; in which case, no judge would refuse the demand 
for a change of masters ; the meliorating the lot of the Slave, and ad- 
vancing him in the way of obtaining his liberty, being held paramount 
to all other considerations. In all cases, however, where a Slave de- 
mands to be sold to a purchaser who offers to improve his condition. 



in the Spanish Colonies. ' 267 

either by engaging to emancipate him at the end of a reasonable time, 
or by agreeing to coartar him, or by diminishing the sum in which he 
is coartado, the original master will have the preference, and need not 
sell him if he be willing to confer the same benefit on the Slave which 
the purchaser proposes to confer. 

The coartado Slave has this great advantage, that, if hired out by his 
master, or, as is more common, allowed to hire himself out, he is only 
bound to pay his master one real a day for every hundred dollars in 
which he is coartado. Thus, if coartado in 500 dollars, he pays five 
reals a day ; if in 450, four and a half, and so on ; Sundays and cer- 
tain holidays being excluded ; while the master of a Slave in venta real 
is entitled to all the money the latter can earn. 

The law is, that a coartado Slave is as much a Slave as any other, 
except as regards his price, and the quota he is to pay his master, if 
hired out. The master, therefore, is as much entitled in law to his per- 
sonal service, as to that of a Slave in venta real. But this is some- 
what modified in practice. If a Slave descend to his master coartado, 
or become so in his service, the master may require his personal ser- 
vice, and the Slave cannot demand to be allowed to work out. But 
when a coartado Slave is sold, it being the custom for the Slave himself 
to seek for a new master, he uniformly stipulates beforehand whether 
he is to serve personally, or to work out, paying the usual daily quota; 
and judges will always compel the master to observe such stipulation, 
unless the Slave should neglect to pay ; when the only remedy is to 
exact his personal service.- It is not uncommon, therefore, for a master 
wishing to employ his coartado Slave who has stipulated to be allowed 
to work out, to pay the difference between the sum the Slave ought 
daily to pay to him, and the wages usually earned by the Slave. In 
this case alone is the Slave paid for his labour by the master, except, 
indeed, he is employed on Sundays or holidays. 

During illness coartado Slaves who work out are exempted from 
paying any thing to their master, who, on the contrary, is bound to 
maintain and assist them as other Slaves. 

The sum in which a Slave is coartado, may be augmented by the 
amount of any damages the master may be made to pay on his account, 
by a court of justice. But if the Slave neglects for some time to pay 
the daily sum due to his master, this cannot be added to his price, be- 
cause it was his master's fault not to have had recourse in time to the 
proper remedy of compelling the Slave's personal service. 

The law which so eminently favours the Slave, does not neglect his 
offspring. A pregnant Negress may emancipate her unborn infant for 
twenty-five dollars ; and between the birth and baptism, the infant may 
be emancipated for fifty dollars ; (double the price as stated by Mr. 
Walton : see p. 254,) and at any other time during childhood, its value 
being then low, it may acquire its liberty, or be coartado like other Slaves. 

In administering this system in the country parts, where there are 
few magistrates, there may be abuses ; yet in the Havannah, and other 
large towns, it is efficiently observed. Indeed, to the honour of the 
island be it said, this is the branch of the laws which is best and most 
impartially administered. 

Wages are high in Cuba ; a common field Negro earns four reals a 



258 Objections ta^ofnpulsory Manumission considered. 

day and is fed; a mechanic ten reals to three dollars a day ; and a re- 
gular house-servant twenty to thirty dollars a month, besides being fed 
and clothed. With such wages the coartado Slave is well able to pay 
the daily quota to his master, and to lay by something for the attain- 
ment of his liberty. This could not be done were wages much lower.* 

The large White population, too, is a great advantage to the Slaves, 
from the facility thereby afforded to change masters, and thus remedy 
many of the evils attending their state. The lot of household slaves, who 
derive most benefit from this circumstance, is particularly favourable. 
They are almost always taught some trade, and by well employing their 
leisure hours they may easily acquire their liberty in seven years. Field 
Slaves, too, have their advantages. They are by law entitled to a cer- 
tain quantity of ground, with the produce of which, and the breeding of 
pigs and poultry, they may well look forward to acquiring money to 
become coartado, and even to being emancipated. It is also highly 
advantageous to the Slaves that public opinion is favourable to grantmg 
them their liberty ; and all respectable men would feel ashamed to throw 
obstacles in the way of their becoming free ; on the contrary, masters 
are generally very willing to assist their Slaves in the attainrnent of this 
most desirable object. The effects of this system are seen in the state 
of the population. The last census makes the Whites 290,000, the 
free People of Colour, 115,000, and the Slaves, 225,000- 

Such is in substance Mr. Kilbee's statement ; and it may well put to 
shame both the law and the practice of Slavery in the British Colonies, 
and in the United States. 

We are aware that Mr. W. Horlon maintains that the experience of 
the Spanish and Portuguese Colonies furnishes no satisfactory analogy 
in the present case. He argues, that while the Slave trade continues 
to furnish the planters in those colonies with fresh hands, no loss will 
arise from adopting the principle of compulsory manumission ; whereas, 
in the English Colonies, the planters are shut out from this compensa- 
tory source of supply. And yet the main objections of that gentleman, 
as well as of the West India planters generally, have been directed to 
the injury arising from the circumstance that those most likely to obtain 
their freedom, by the compulsory enactment, will be the skilled labourers 
on an estate, namely, the carpenters, coopers, boilers, &c. whose value, 
one says, is quite " incommensurable." But the case is the same in 
the Spanish and Portuguese Colonies : it is the more advanced and 
civilized and instructed negro who achieves his freedom, and whose 
place, according to the supposition, is supplied by the unskilled labours 
of the newly imported African. In the English Colonies, however, 
the persons to be obtained as substitutes are in a comparative state of 
advancement, as to skill in the various branches of colonial inanipula- 
tion ; and if the place of the manumitted slave is to be supplied at all, 
it must be by persons much more qualified to supply it beneficially, than 
the negro emerging from the hold of a slave ship. 

Besides, if the Spaniards and Portuguese are acute enough to be 
able to measure the value of the slaves they manumit, it seems 
strange that that skill should be unattainable by us. 

* But then his price would be lower. 



Objections to Compulsory Manumission coyisidered. 259 

Still it is argued, that if manumissions are multiplied, a supply oi 
labourers will not be procurable in the British Colonial market, and that, 
at least, if procurable, it will be at prices most disadvantageous and 
ruinous to the planter. To this we answer, No. The mode prescribed 
by the Trinidad Order in Council for appraising of the manumitted 
slave is of itself a security against this consequence. He is to be ap- 
praised justly and fairly ; that is to say at the market price, and 
that market price is, of course, the sum at which a substitute may be 
purchased. On this point the reasoning of Mr. Gloster, the Protector 
of slaves in Trinidad, is quite decisive. It may be seen, at the close of 
the pamphlet referred to above, or in the Reporter, No. 27, p. 70, 

Notwithstanding, however, the luminousness and force of Mr. Glos- 
ter's reasoning, it is still maintained, by some, and this seems to be the 
opinion of Mr. W. Horton, that the mode prescribed in the Trinidad 
Order of compelling the manumission of a slave, by appraisement at the 
market price, does not certainly provide an adequate compensation to 
the master for the loss of the slave's services. We have already at- 
tempted, and, we apprehend with success, to expose the utter untenablc- 
ness of such a position, and being unwilling now to renew the discussion, 
we refer with entire confidence to what we have written upon it in the 
Reporter, No. 33, p. 182, and which remains hitherto unrefuted. As 
it occupies only two or three pages, we may hope that those who wish 
to understand the question will turn to it. We think that it is there 
most incontestably proved that, under the provisions of the Trinidad 
Order, the market value of the slave forms an adequate compensation 
to the master for the loss of the slave's services, and that it does so, 
whether free labour be procurable or not. That such free labour will 
be procurable, no man who will peruse with attention the passages in 
the preceding Reporters pointed out in the note beloM',* can entertain 
a serious or rational doubt. The point seems placed, indeed, almost be 
yond controversy, if mere prejudice were not at all times an overmatch 
for fact and argument. 

We have seen how strenuously the West Indians resist all fair expe- 
dients for opening the door of hope to their slaves, and how pertinaciously 
they reject or evade every recommendation for giving them the effective 
protection of law. In "these points, passion and prejudice may lead 
them to act from a fear of injury to their interests. But what shall we 
say of their no less pertinacious refusal to adopt reforms of the most 
obvious and essential moment to the promotion of those interests? 
To say nothing of those impolitic laws which repress the efforts of the 
enfranchised, and produce the very want of free labour of which they 
complain ; — what is it, we would ask, which retains the agriculture of the 
West India Colonies in that low and wretched state of improvement which 
they universally exhibit? While in the manufacture of sugar the aid 
of powerful machinery is employed, so as to add largely to the demands 
on the labour of the slave, the toil of agriculture, which mainly occupies 
and mainly oppresses him, is relieved by no such helps. The miserable 
hoe raised by the feeble hands of men and women, driven forward by 
the lash, is still in general their only instrument in turning up the soil, 

*See No. 27, pp. 40, &c. ; No. 31, p. 155—159, and No. 37. p. 251. 



260 Objections to Compulsory Manumission considered.^ 

to the neglect of cattle and ploughs. As a West Indian writer, well 
acquainted with the real state of things in the Colonies, has well and 
forcibly observed :* — " One great error into which we have fallen, is 
that of saving the labour of cattle at the expense of the labour of men. 
In all civilized countries men have been relieved from labour by means 
of the brute creation ; and have prospered in the same ratio. Here" (he 
speaks of Jamaica,) " the brute creation are saved by the labour of the 
former." " The better system might easily be effected by the intro- 
duction into general use of the plough and other instruments of agri- 
culture, in place of persevering in the system of scratching the earth 
with the hoe, a system which it is wonderful common sense has not 
pointed out to be radically wrong." " It would have the salutary effect 
of reducing the labour of the people, and enable them to devote more 
attention to the cultivation of provisions for themselves and food for the 
cattle. In every point of view it would be beneficial." — And why is 
not the advice of their countryman adopted by the West Indians ? It 
can only be accounted for by the withering influence of slavery, ope- 
rating in all directions to restrain every effective effort at agricultural 
imj)rovement, and which while they are straining every nerve to pre- 
vent the possibility of one link being struck off the chains of their bonds- 
men, condemns themselves to an almost equally hopeless inferiority, at 
least to a stationary position, in the general progress we now witness 
in every other part of the world. To talk of being deprived of the means 
of cultivation by such a trivial abstraction of human labour as the 
Manumission clause may occasion, v/hile the plough is not yet resorted 
to, only shews the miserable narrowness of those resources which the 
miserable system of slavery leaves to its victims, whether those victims 
be the masters or the slaves. 

Let us, however, guard ourselves against being supposed, in conse- 
quence of the line of ol)servation we have pursued on this subject, to 
approve or to sanction that principle of the Trinidad Order which 
ihrows upon the slave, the aggrieved and injured party, the 07ius of 
indemnifying the planter for his liberty, and which thus condemns him 
to a prolonged period of forced and unremunerated toil, in order to pay 
the penalty of the criminal conduct of his oppressor ; and which penalty 
the nation, as partners in the crime, ought to divide with the planter, and 
not to lay on the slave. And yet even these hard and cruel conditions 
are such an advance on our former system with respect to the slave ; — so 
decidedly preferable to the entire extinction of all hope of freedom by 
which that system is characterized; that we are unwilling to permit even 
the slender alleviation it affords to the slave's condition to be withheld 
from him by the clamour and prejudice, the absurdity and nonsense, 
the pretended physical facts, and the metaphysical subtleties and ab- 
stractions, which, for the last five years, have been unceasingly em- 
ployed to puzzle and perplex a plain question, and to retain the wretched 
negro in interminable and hopeless bondage. 

* See Marly, or a Planter's Life in Jamaica, p. 265, &c. This work has only 
appeared a few months. 



LeiiJon : Bafrstc-r and Tbomr., Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 38.] For JULY, 1828. [No. 14. Vol. if, 

NEW SLAVE LAWS OF JAMAICA AND ST. CHRISTOPHER'S, 
EXAMINED. 

So much has recently been said in both Houses of Parliament, by 
persons of high authority, of the general excellence of the Provisions 
of the Slave Law of Jamaica, passed in December, 1826, but disallowed 
by His Majesty on account of its religious intolerance; as well as 
of the still higher claims to approbation of the new Slave Law of 
St. Christopher's ; that we are induced to lay before our readers a de- 
tailed examination of both these Acts. It seems of great importance 
that the public should not be misled by its reverence for any autho- 
rities, however high, into a belief which is inconsistent with the facts of 
the case : and it seems important also, that those authorities, if they 
should find that they have been induced to make statements which are 
inaccurate, should have an opportunity of correcting them, as well as of 
ascertaining the sources of the misinformation by which they have been 
themselves deceived. We now proceed to the proposed examination. 

L Jamaica Slave Law, of 1826. 

On the 11th May, 1826, Earl Bathurst transmitted to the Governor 
of Jamaica, drafts of eight bills, with the view of their being submitted, 
to the Legislature for its consideration and adoption. The bills so 
submitted were rejected by it without hesitation or exception. 

In lieu of these bills, a new consolidated Slave Law was passed, m 
December, 1 826, in which the Legislature professed to have embodied 
every part of Lord Bathurst's suggestions which it could venture to 
adopt. It will be necessary to examine in detail what part of thera 
was actually engrafted on the new Law. 

1. Protector and Guardia7i of Slaves. 

Lord Bathurst proposed that an Officer should be constituted with 
this designation, who should be armed with power to secure to the slaves 
the benefit of the various measures of improvement deemed essential by 
His Majesty's Government, and to protect and guard them from op- 
pression and wrong; — and that this Officer (nominated by the Crown, 
and removable at pleasure when guilty of negligence, or misconduct,) 
should be a person wholly unconnected with the possession or even 
the administration of slave property. 

The legislature of Jamaica rejected this proposition, and in lieu of it 
constituted the vestry of each parish, consisting, exclusively, of the 
White Planters, a Council of Protection to hear and determine one 
single case of complaint on the part of the slave. But even this was 
no new enactment. It had stood as part of the law for a long time, 
and may be found in the Act of 1816, (§ 25 and 26), as well as in that 
of 1826, (§ 34 and 35.) 

It is impossible to place the utter uselessness of these clauses in a 
clearer light than Mr. Huskisson has placed it in his despatch of Sept. 
22d, 1827, (see page 3 of the papers lately presented to Parliament) 

2 K 



26^ Slave Laio of Jamaica — Protector — Punishmeiit. 

•' The Council of Protection,'* he says, " cannot be considered an 
effectual substitute for the office of a distinct and independent Protector. 
It will consist of those individuals over whom the Protector was to 
exercise his superintendance. Their duties are limited to the single case 
of extreme bodily injury, and are to be discharged only if they think 
proper. The periodical returns, required from the Protector upon oath, 
are not to be made by the Council, nor are they even bound to keep a 
journal of their proceedings. No provision is made for executing the 
duties of the office, in different parts of the colony, upon fixed and uni- 
form principles ; and the number of persons united in this trust is such 
as entirely to destroy the sense of personal and individual responsi- 
bility." 

The refusal of the Jamaica legislature on this point is not a matter of 
trivial moment, a mere insulated item in the list of omissions. The 
functions of Protector are essential to the efficiency, and even to the 
vitality, of every ameliorating provision. Had all the other proposed 
improvements been adopted, they must still have proved ineffective 
without an independent functionary watching over the due execution 
of the laws, recording, reporting, and prosecuting offences, redress- 
ing grievances, vindicating rights, &c. Even with such a protector, 
to enforce the laws in their favour wovdd prove an arduous and difficult 
task. But without him the laws would go to sleep from the moment of 
their enactment. In 1788, almost all the colonial legislatures were in- 
duced to pass ameliorating laws, with a view of preventing Parliament, 
by this appearance of reform, from abolishing the Slave Trade. Credit 
was given them at the time for the humane tendency and design of 
these enactments. But sixteen or seventeen years afterwards, when 
Parliament called for mformation as to the practical effect of these laws, 
it turned out to be the fact, as may be seen in the parliamentary returns 
of 1804 and 1805, that, from the time they passed, not one of them had 
been enforced or even thought of. The answer of General Prevost, the 
governor of Dominica, might have sufficed for all the islands. None 
of the reforms, he tells us, had been carried into effect, " the Act having 
been considered from the day it was passed, until this hour, as a poli- 
tical measure to avert the interference of the mother country in the 
management of slaves." 

2. — Restraining Arbitrary Punishments. 

Lord Bathurst proposed, in one of the drafts of bills sent out by 
him, materially to restrain the power of arbitrary punishment possessed 
by the master or his delegate, and, while the intensity of such punish- 
ments should be limited, to secure a regular record and return, duly au- 
thenticated, of all that should be inflicted. 

The legislature of Jamaica refused to adopt this proposal. In the 
law of 1826, as in all the preceding slave codes of that island, the 
master or his delegate is authorized to inflict at his discretion, on the 
body of every man, woman, and child, thirty-nine lashes, for any 
offence, or for no offence, without trial, and without being obliged to 
assign a reason, or being liable, in any way, to be called to account, for 
so doing. He has, besides, the power of inflicting other punishments, 
without any limit short of mutilation and dismemberment or what a 
j ury.anay deem wanton cruelty ; and he may imprison in the stocks for 



Driving — Flogging Females — Siindui/, .^c. 26S 

any length of time. In short, the old law of Jamaica on this subject 
remains in its full force. 

The remarks of Mr. Huskisson (No. 33. p. 178,) will shew still more 
clearly the complete failure of the Jamaica legislature to mept the 
wishes of His Majesty on this important point. 

3. — The Driving Whip. 
Lord Bathurst proposed that the driving system sliould be abolished 
The legislature of Jamaica has refused to comply with this proposal. 

4. — Flogging of Females. 
Lord Bathurst proposed that flogging females should be prohibited. 
The legislature of Jamaica rejected a motion to that effect. It even 
refused, when called upon to do so, to forbid that indecent exposure of 
the persons of women, which the present mode of punishing them 
renders necessary; that mode being to extend them prone on the 
ground, at full length, and, baring their bodies, to inflict upon them the 
lacerations of the cart-whip, 

5. — Abolition of Sunday Markets and Sunday Labour. 

The Sunday labour of the slaves has hitherto been chiefly that of 
marketing, and of cultivating on that day, (twenty-six other days 
in the year, having been allowed them by law,) their own provision 
grounds for the regular subsistence of themselves and their families. It 
was the purpose of His Majesty's Government, as may be clearly seen 
in Lord Bathurst's circular despatch of July 9, 1823, that some other 
day should be substituted in lieu of Sunday with a view to those im., 
portant objects; and that Sunday should be exclusively appropriated to 
the purposes of rest from labour and of moral and religious instruction, 
Without such substitution these purposes were obviously unattainable. 
The slaves had hitherto been obliged and required to appropriate the 
Sunday to raising their food. If they should be made to rest from la- 
bour on that day, without having equivalent time given them on another 
day in which to raise their food, they would be exposed to famine. To 
make the Sunday, therefore, a day of repose, without the substitution 
of another day, was obviously impossible. 

But neither in Jamaica, nor in any other island where the slaves 
subsist on food raised by themselves, has this recommendation of the 
Government been carried into effect, so that no alternative is left to them, 
but that of either starving, or continuing to work their provision grounds 
on the Sunday as before. 

These remarks apply also to Sunday markets, which are the only 
markets to which the slaves have access ; and to which, therefore, they 
must continue to resort until another day is appointed by law. No such 
appointment, however, has taken place in Jamaica. No day is there 
allowed to the slaves in lieu of Sunday, either for marketing, or for 
cultivating their provision grounds; and therefore they must, of neces- 
sity, continue to do both on that day. The only change the law has 
undergone, is one which bears extremely hard upon the slave without 
any compensatory benefit of any kind. But on this head we must 
refer our readers to the Reporters, No. 11, p. 132 — 135, No. 29, 
p. 110, No. 30, p. 132, and No. 34, p. 186. In short, nothing hag 
been done in Jamaica, respecting it, that does not deteriorate ra-. 



264 Jamaica — Right of Redemption — Separations — Properly. 

ther than improve the condition of the slave. ■ And when it rs con- 
sidered that the rest of the Sunday is essential, nay, indispensable to 
the communication of that moral and religious instruction which has 
been uniformly represented by the Government, in their despatches and 
speeches, as the basis of all improvement, it must be felt and acknow- 
ledged, while Sunday continues to be thus desecrated by marketing 
and labour, and the slave continues to be thus deprived both of the 
bodily rest which Sunday provides for the labourer in every other part 
of the world, and of the only time, that of Sunday, which he can have 
for obtaining moral and religious instruction, that we have not yet 
reached the very beginning of effective improvement. In Jamaica, too, 
there exist sufficient means of religious instruction to enable the slaves 
to employ that day profitably, there being not only a considerable 
number of Moravian, Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian, and other mis- 
sionaries, but a Bishop, and a large establishment of Clergy of the 
Church of England, whose efforts are paralyzed by the continuance of 
Sunday markets, and by the continued necessity of Sunday labour, in 
consequence of no day being yet given them in lieu of Sunday. 

6. — Granting to Slaves a right of redeeming themselves or their 
family, at a fair appraisement. 

This is another of the proposals of Lord Bathurst, which the legis- 
lature of Jamaica has not adopted. They repudiate the very principle 
on which it proceeds. 

7. — Preventing the separation of Families by sale. 
In the year 1735, a law was passed in Jamaica for regulating the 
sale of slaves taken in execution by the Marshal or Sheriff. It directs 
that when a husband and wife, or parents and children, are taken toge- 
ther, they shall be sold together by auction in one lot, the rest of the 
persons taken being sold singly. All that has been done is to renew 
this provision which refers solely to sales i?i execution, and not at all 
to sales at the will of the master. It was proposed to the Assembly to 
restrain the master from separating families by voluntary sale, but the 
motion was rejected. (See No. 18, p. 250, 251.) 

8. Giving to slaves a right of acquiring, and of securely enjoying, pos- 
sessing and transmitting property. 
The disallowed law of Jamaica conferred on the slaves no right of pro- 
perty whatever, as may be seen by referring to the only clauses of that 
Act, (§16 and 17,) which have any reference to the subject. These 
clauses therefore furnish a most remarkable instance of the artful evasion 
of the principle recommended by Lord Bathurst, in the very enact- 
ment which professes to adopt it. — In case of debt or bequest no 
means of suit are given to the slave; nay in the latter case (§ 17,) he is 
actually debarred from the use of any such means either in law or 
equity. — To rob him of his property, however valuable, is not made a 
larceny or a felony, but a matter which, if complained of and proved, 
may be settled by a penalty of £7 sterling. So that the new Act would 
have left him in the same helpless and unprotected state as to all essen- 
tial rights of property, in which he was before it was framed,* 

* A full elucidation of ttiis subject will I>« founrl in tlie Keportexs, No. 21, 
p. 304', No. 20, p. lOS ; No. 33, p. 179 ; and No. 37, p. 211—211, 



Savings^ Batiks — Marriage. 265 

9. Establishment of Savings' Banks. 

The proposal to establish Savings' Banks for the security of the pro- 
perty of slaves has been entirely rejected by the Jamaica legislature. 
10. Legalizing and protecting Marriage. 

In the Act of 1826, the marriage of slaves was, for the first time, re- 
cognized by the Jamaica legislature as entitled to any place in the code 
of that island. On the very defective mode in which that I'ecognition 
has been made, nothing better can be said than has been said by Mr. 
Huskisson, in his despatch of 22d Sept. 1827. 

No security, he tells us, has been provided against the unreasonable 
refusal of the owner's consent. " By confining the power of celebrating- 
marriage to the clergy of the Established Church, every other class of 
religious teachers are deprived of the means of exercising a salutary 
influence over the minds of their disciples ; while the Roman Catholic 
priests are abridged of rights which Ihey enjoy in every other part of 
His Majesty's dominions, under the Marriage Act of George the Second. 
The necessity of the parties previously undergoing an examination by a 
clergyman of the Established Church, as to the nature and obligations 
of the marriage contract," he adds, " is not apparent, and would be a 
serious impediment to forming such connections," while it opens a most 
inconvenient and uncalled for range of inquiry. And, moreover, " the 
Act does not require any registry of the marriages of slaves, or even 
any periodical returns of such marriages." 

But even these defects, as pointed out by Mr. Huskisson, numerous 
and important as they are, form but a part of the objections that may 
be urged against the clause (§ 4.) on the subject of marriage. The fol- 
lowing may be added : — 

1. By excluding all teachers of religion from the right of celebrating 
marriage, except the clergy of the Established Church, the numerous 
converts to Christianity made by the Moravian, Presbyterian, Method- 
ist, and Baptist missionaries, to say nothing of the Roman Catholics, 
are laid under peculiar disadvantages. These missionaries are by far 
the fittest persons to judge of the character of their own followers, and 
the best and most efficient agents, in impressing upon them the obliga- 
tions of the marriage tie. 

2. Baptism is made, by the Act, an indispensable preliminary to 
marriage, on what account is not very obvious. Why should not the 
sanction of law be given to marriages contracted between parties who 
are unbaptized, or who are even Mahommedans or heathens ? The 
laws of India sanction Mussulman and Hindoo marriages. Why should 
persons, merely because not baptized, be forced to live in a state of 
illicit concubinage ? 

3. It would seem further expedient that where connections have been 
already formed, and a family has been the fruit of such connections, the 
utmost facility should be given in conferring on such unions the sanc- 
tion of law, and thus bestowing upon them both the validity and per- 
manency of a legal and authorized contract. Nothing could more 
strikingly evince the indifference, if not distaste, with which the legisla- 
ture of Jamaica regards the institution, among the slaves, of m.arriage, 
that prime source and cement of domestic comfort, and that indispen- 
sable precursor of a wholesome and progressive growth of population, 



266 Slave Law of Jamatea — Slave Evidenee. 

than the tardy and reluctant recognition which, after forty years of 
discussion, it has at length condescended to bestow on the marriage of 
slaves ; and the many restrictions, and difficulties, and defects, with 
which even that ungracious recognition has been clogged, and rendered 
almost wholly inefficient to any useful purpose. And why is this ? Can 
any injury arise to the master from the universal prevalence of marriage 
among the slaves ? Or can any injury arise to the slaves themselves from 
affording them every possible facility for converting their present state 
of lawless concubinage into a pure and holy union, sanctioned alike by 
religion and law ? 

11. — The admission of the Evidence of Slaves in civil and criminal 

cases. 

The proposal of Lord Bathurst was, that every slave should be 
competent to give evidence in all civil and criminal cases, whom any 
clergyman of the Established Church, or any minister of the Kirk of 
Scotland, or any Roman Catholic priest, or any other person being a 
public teacher of reUgion, and licensed by the Secretary of State, or 
Governor of the colony for the time being, shall certify duly to under- 
stand the nature and obligations of an oath ; excepting only in cases of 
civil suitor action in which the owner of the slave is directly concerned, 
and in cases where any white person may be charged with, or pro- 
secuted, for any offence punishable with death. 

For the last restriction, it does not appear that any valid reason can 
be assigned. Why the white man alone, as contradistinguished from 
any other freeman, should be protected against slave evidence is not 
very obvious, while the distinction is both opprobrious to the white 
man, and most exceptionable in itself. The cruelties, mayems, mutila- 
tions, and murders which have taken place in the slave colonies, have 
been for the most part perpetrated by white men. The admission of 
slave evidence was in great measure desired to guard against the recur- 
rence of these evils. But the exception in question puts an extinguisher 
on this hope, by conferring impunity on the very parties whom it was 
most important to restrain. Under the operation of such an exception, 
a white man may safely murder a slave, though a hundred or a thousand 
other slaves were present as witnesses of the fact. 

But the Jamaica legislature goes far beyond Lord Bathurst in the 
number, and in the injurious tendency of the restrictions it has imposed 
on the admissibility of slave evidence. These are well enumerated by 
Mr, Huskisson in his letter of the 22d Sept. 1827.— (See No. 33, 
p. 179, 180.) Besides which Slave evidence is entirely excluded in all 
civil cases ; and even in criminal cases it is confined to the following 
offences, viz. murder, felony, burglary, robbery, rebellion or rebellious 
conspiracy, treason or traiterous conspiracy, rape, the mutilating, 
branding, dismembering or cruelly treating a slave, seditious meet- 
ings, and the harbouring or concealing of runaways. 

Such is a correct view of the manner in which the legislature of 
Jamaica has met the requisitions and recommendations of His Ma- 
jesty's Government. The whole of its proceedings may be charac- 
terized as the rejection or evasion of the proposed reforms, both in 
their principle and in their details. 

But these are not the only defects with which the disallowed Slave 



Further objeetions of Mr. Hus/asson. 267 

Code of Jamaica is chargeable. There were also introduced into it 
not a few provisions of a most objectionable description, which are 
noticed by Mr. Huskisson, in his despatch of 22d Sept. 1827. 

1 . The new and oppressive restraints imposed on religious worship 
and instruction, by § 85, 86 and 87, and which immediately led to the 
disallowance of the Act. * 

2. The power given to private individuals by § 37 and 38, to com- 
mit their slaves to prison for ten days at a time, without a warrant of 
a Magistrate; and there to punish them with 39 lashes of the cartwhip, 
without a trial, or even the assignment of a cause, and without any 
record being kept or return made of such punishment, f 

3. The power given to three Magistrates of punishing every slave 
complaining against his master, if they shall deem his complaint to be 
groundless. I 

4. The excessive amount of the hours of labour fixed by § 27, of 
this law, which contemplates the working of the slave in thejield for 
eleven hours and a half daily out of crop, and which places no limit to 
the continuity of his labour during crop, that is for four or five months 
of the year. § 

5. The principle adopted, in several cases, of inflicting a heavier 
punishment for the same offence when committed by a slave than when 
committed by a free man. || 

6. " In many cases," says Mr. Huskisson, " both the nature and 
amount of the punishment to be inflicted on the offending slaves, are 
left exclusively to the discretion of the Court," — " an unlimited de- 
legation of authority," for which he can see " no necessity." 

7. The excessive severity of the laws (§ 84, 89, 90) which punish 
with death Obeah, in other words, pretences to supernatural power, and 
practices partaking of the nature of conjuration and witchcraft. 

Of this description of offence both the belief and the eflPect are mainly 
to be ascribed to the undue severity of the law for its suppression. The 
negro must conceive that there is some awful reality in pretences and 
practices which excite such unsparing vengeance on the part of the le- 
gislature ; and the very evil, therefore, which a cold neglect would reduce 
to insignificance, and above all, which Christian instruction would era- 
dicate, is thus actually fostered and increased by the misapplied severity 
with which it is denounced and persecuted. Heathen superstition may 
thus have its martyrs as well as Christianity itself. 

8. The excessive severity of the clause (§ 82) which punishes assaults 
of slaves on free persons. " If any slave," says the Act, " shall assault 
or offer any violence by striking or otherwise, to or towards any white 
person or persons of free condition, such slave shall upon conviction be 
punished with death, transportation, or confinement to hard labour for 
life, or a limited time, or such other punishment as the court at their 
discretion shall think proper to inflict." To this enactment Mr. Hus- 
kisson justly objects. But he has not adverted to the aggravating cir- 
cumstance that this harsh and cruel law (the general law of all the 
West Indies, which, moreover, in not a few instances, denounces death 
even on imagining the death of a white man) admits of no exception 

* No. 33, p. 178. + Ibid. % Ibid, p. 179, and No. 34, p. Iqo. 

$ No. 33, p. 180; No. 34, p. 193. (1 No. 33, p. 181. _^ 



268 The Slave Law of Jamaica. — Mr. Huskissons Observations. 

not even of those extreme rights of self defence which would be re- 
spected in every other country, and in every other case. The slave 
has no rights of self-defence. He dare not raise his hand to or toward 
a white or free person, even if his property were forcibly taken from him, 
or his marriage-bed violated, or his own life assailed. 

9. The indemnity granted, at the public expense, to the owner of 
every slave condemned to death or transportation. 

This principle has been frequently denounced by His Majesty's Go- 
vernment as unjust and pernicious, and the sentence, so often pro- 
nounced upon it in vain, is once more forcibly repeated by Mr. Huskis- 
son. He condemns the practice as unjust to the public, and still more 
unjust to the slave. And yet it forms the almost universal law in the 
various slave colonies subject to the British crov/n. 

Such are some of the objections preferred by the late Colonial Secretary 
of State to this Act of the Jamaica legislature, quite independently of 
its positive rejection, or dexterous evasion of every recommendation of 
His Majesty on the subject of reform. There is still, however, a farther 
objection unnoticed by Mr. Huskisson, and which is of no small im- 
portance, we mean the law which continues to throw the burden of proof, 
in questions of the freedom or slavery of an individual, on the person 
assumed to be a slave. Mr. Huskisson expresses his approbation of 
certain clauses (54, 55, 5Q.) on the subject of runaways claiming to be 
free, and says they appear to him well adapted to prevent the re- 
currence of abuses. But Mr. Huskisson has overlooked the material 
circumstance, that all these regulations proceed on the principle that 
the presumed runaway, in the absence of any claim to him from any 
quarter, is still to be held to the proof of his freedom by documentary 
<3r other equally conclusive evidence, at the peril, if he fail, of being 
sold as a slave for the public benefit. Many instances might be ad- 
duced of black or coloured persons, even in the course of the past year, 
who though afKrming, without contradiction, that they were born free; 
and in some cases that they had served in the army or navy of Great 
Britain; birt had lost die certificates which would have established the 
fact ; have been sold by auction to the highest bidder, and thus con- 
demned to perpetual slavery, although there was not a person in the 
island who could advance the very slightest claim to their services, or 
disprove their allegations. 

But there are some parts of this disallowed Act which Mr. Huskisson 
regards with approbation ; as first, the abolition of the fee on baptism, 
(which, however, is a relief to the planter and not to the slave) ; and 
secondly, some improvements, in points of form, in the proceedings rela- 
tive to the trial of offences by slaves ; though even here he remarks 
that, in some material instances, there is still so much complexity in 
the process, as to make the rules, otherwise beneficial, lose much of 
their efficacy in practice. 

As to the other regulations which he commends, they are regulations 
of ancient date, and not produced by the recent demand for a reform of 
the slave laws. We allude to the time allowed the slaves, exclusive of 
Sunday, for cultivating their provision grounds; — to the clauses for in- 
specting the provision grounds of the slave, and for regulating his al- 
lowance when he has no such ground;— to the protection required to be 



Remarks on the delays which have arisen. 269 

given to old and infirm slaves; — and to the encouragement held out, in 
certain cases, to mothers and nurses. These are all, however, as we 
have said, of ancient date, and therefore cannot be adduced as any 
proof of recent improvement. But they are also, as Mr, Huskisson him- 
self admits,' deficient in such sanctions and executory provisions, as ar- 
required to ensure their efficacy; and it may consequently be presumed 
that they have not been efficacious. Indeed without the aid of an in- 
dependent protector, and the free admission of slave-evidence, it is 
plain, that to such enactments as these, it is impossible to impart any 
vigour. They must almost necessarily remain without effect. 

On a review of the whole it must be manifest, that neither in the 
principle nor in the detail of its legislation has Jamaica made any great 
progress in improvement, since the resolutions of Parliament were passed 
in May 1823, and that rather, on the contrary, it has evinced a spirit 
disposed to resist or to evade all improvement. What makes this the 
more remarkable is, that all the reforms which the Jamaica legislature 
has thus continued to reject or to elude, were sanctioned, with one or 
two exceptions, by the West Indian body in this country, as not only 
harmless but beneficial. Nor can any thing prove more strongly than 
this fact, that they furnish no just ground of alarm on the score of their 
affecting the interests of property. Indeed there has not been a single 
measure of reform proposed, which appeared to Lord Bathurst, or to 
Mr. Canning, or even to the West Indians themselves, resident in this 
country, to call for pecuniary indemnity, excepting the single measure 
of conferring on the slaves the right of redeeming themselves. And 
even in this solitary instance, an adequate indemnity, as we conceive, 
is secured to the planter by the very enactment which conveys to the 
slaves the right in question. 

Lord Bathurst in his despatches, and Mr. Canning in his speeches, 
repeatedly affirmed that, their measures of colonial reform, generally, 
had had the sanction of the West Indian body ; a circumstance which 
makes the long delay in their adoption the more extraordinary. As an 
apology for that delay, we are told, that it was always held that 
the abolition of slavery was to be a gradual work. True, it might be 
understood that we were to approach the ultimate end of our measures 
of reform gradually. But it was never understood that we were to 
delay a single day those preliminary measures, the operation of which 
was gradually to lead to the abolition of slavery. It was requisite to 
the very commencement of a course of improvement that the proposed 
reforms should be adopted, and supposing them all to have been 
adopted, their operation and effect must still have been gradual and 
slowly progressive. Indeed the immediate adoption of these prelimi- 
nary steps was contemplated by his Majesty's government, from the 
first, as absolutely indispensable to ail progress. 

On this principle the Order in Council for Trinidad was framed, 
however defective it may be in some respects. By that order all the 
various reforms proposed to be adopted were made the subject of one 
single enactment, and were brought, in one day, into immediate and 
contemporaneous operation. 

In the very first instructions of Lord Bathurst, of the 9th July 1823, 
as well as in all his subsequent instructions, the colonial legislatures 

2 L , 



270 Slave Law of St. Christopher s — Unrepealed Laws. 

were urged to the instant adoption of the proposed measures. In the 
despatch of the Qlh July 1823, he says, " In conckision, I have most 
earnestly to press upon you the necessity of proceeding to carry these 
improvements into efi'ect ivith all possible dispatch.'" And if " you 
should meet with any serious opposilion, you will lose no time in trans- 
mitting to me the necessary communication, in order that I may take 
the earliest opportunity of laying the matter before Parliament, and 
submitting to their consideration such measures as it may be fit to 
adopt in consequence." 

In the same spirit, on the 16th of March 1824, not nine months later, 
Mr. Canning lamented, in the House of Commons, the non-adoption by 
the Assemblies of Lord Bathurst's various recommendations, even in the 
brief interval of only nine months which had then elapsed. Indeed on 
the loth of May preceding, he had very confidently anticipated their 
ready adoption by the colonitil legislatures : for " we have a right," he 
said, " to expect their full and free co-operation." 

It is perfectly obvious, therefore, that neither Government nor Parlia- 
ment contemplated any delay as to the enactment of the laws required 
to secure to the slaves the iinmediate benefit of the contemplated re- 
forms ; and ii. is no less obvious that ihe idea of slov\'ness, progression, 
and gradual advance had respect, in no degree whatever, to the adop- 
tion of such enactments ; but to their effect and gradual operation m 
raising the character of the slave, and fitting him for ultimate freedom. 
It is impossible to suppose that any thing like graduation could have 
been contemplated, in tlie framing and enforcing of laws, for example, 
appointing a protector ; legalizing and piotecting the slave's rights of 
property; legalizing and protecting marriage; abolishing the driving 
whip, or the flogging of females, &c. These, and the various other 
proposed reforms, are single acts, which must be completed at once, 
and do not admit of degree. 

II. — New Laav of St. Ciiristopiieu's. 
The new law leaves in force the whole of the previously existing laws 
respecting slaves, widi the exception of four clauses and part of a fifth 
clause of an Act of 1722. Our inquiry therefore must commence with 
ascertaining the nature of the laws which remain unrepealed, or are not 
superseded by the Act which has just received the approval of His 
Majesty. From an inspection of these statutes, the following, among 
others, appear to be at this moment laws of St. Christopher's. 

1. That in every case of a slave condemned to death, the owner is to 
be indemnified at the expense of the public, — a principle which His 
Majesty's Government has repeatedly and strongly condemned. (Act of 
1711, §9, 10.* Act of 1722, §8. and Act of 1759.) 

2. That any free person may apprehend any slave, found off his 
owner's plantation without a ticket, especially on Saturday night 
and on Sundays, and may inflict upon such slave so found twenty 
lashes ; and that every slave found in the streets and lanes of the town, 
between ten at night and five in the morning, without a ticket or a 
lighted candle, shall receive thirty-nine lashes. (Act of 1722, § 13, and 
Act of 1790.) 

3. That any slave who shall entertain, or conceal, or in any way aid 
or comfort, or give sustenance to, any runaway slave, shall be punished 



Guardian of Slaves — Restrainiiig Arbitrary Punislmients. 271 

with 50 lashes for ihe first offence, 100 for the second, 150 for the 
third, 200 for the fourth, and so on toties quoties. (Act of 1722. § 6.) 

4. That if any slave shall hear another slave speak words tending to 
mutiny, and shall accuse and cause such slave to be apprehended ; and 
if such slave, on being tried and convicted, shall be condemned to 
death, then the accuser shall be paid three pounds ; — but it" he shall not 
make good his accusation, he shall receive such punishment, not ex- 
tending to life or member, as the Court shall think fit, (Act of 1722, 
§18.) 

5. That if any slave shall oppose, struggle with, or strike, any white 
person, and if the white person be hurt, wounded, bruised or maimed, 
such slave shall be sentenced to death, dismemberment, or such other 
punishment as the Court in their discretion shall see fit; but that if 
any person shall kill a slave in defence of his person or property, 
or as a runaway refusing to submit, he shall not he liable to any pro- 
secution or damage for the same. (Act of 171 1, § 4 and 8.) 

6. That the following weekly allowance of provisions is the maximum 
to which a slave in St. Christopher's is entitled by law. (Act of 1798, 
§ 1.) viz. Nine pints of corn, or beans, or oatmeal; or eight pints of 
pease, or wheat, or rye flour, or Indian corn meal, or Cassava flour ; 
or seven pints of rice ; or eight pounds of biscuit ; or twenty pounds of 
yams or potatoes; together with one and a quarter pound of herrings; 
which allowances may be diminished one-fifth during crop.* 

7. That the clothing required to be given to the male slaves is two 
suits, consisting each of a jacket and pair of trowsers, in the year; and 
to the women two suits, consisting each of a petticoat and a wrapper ; 
but that only one of these suits need be given in the course of the year, 
if a blanket and hat be added to it. 

- 8. That the hours of labour in the field are from five in the morning 
till seven at night, with an interval of two hours and a half out of 
crop; during crop there being no limit. (Act 1798, § 10.) 

These will serve as specimens of the laws which appear to be still in 
force in St. Christopher's, and which, not having been repealed, must 
be taken into account in estmnating the value of the recent enactments. f 

We shall now proceed to consider, as in the case of Jamaica, in what 
manner the measures specially recommended to the adoption of the 
Legislature by His Majesty's Government have been carried into effect, 

1. Protector or Guardian of Slaves. 
The proposal to appoint such an officer has been entirely rejected by 
the Legislature of St. Christopher's. The tendency of such rejection, 
we need not repeat, must necessarily be to render useless and inefficient 
all the other meliorating provisions of the Act. 

2. Restraining Arbitrary Punishments. 
Arbitrary punishment is permitted to the extent of twenty-five lashes 



* The miserable inadequacy of these allowances may be estimated by thi^ 
fact, that the prison allowance in Jamaica, to runaivay slaves, for one week, is, 
by law, fourteen pints of Indian or Guinea corn, or twenty-one pints of corn 
meal or wheat flour, together with seven herrings, being about double the 
ivorkbig allowance of St. Christopher's. 

t The clauses that are repealed, condemned to death a slave absenting himself 
for six months, and gave a reward of £G to any one seizing or killing him. 



272 St. Christopher — Arbitrary Punishment, — Driving System. 

only, in one day and for one offence; but to this extent it may be given 
by the master or his delegate, and if we understand the clause cor- 
rectly, (§ 11,) by any person. If, however, the number of stripes shall 
be more than twelve, it cannot be inflicted before the day after the 
offence, and a free person must be present to witness its infliction ; and 
the punishment must be entered in a plantation Record Book, with all 
its circumstances, within 48 hours. The Record Book must also con- 
tain any punishment, by confinement, exceeding 48 hours. No fresh 
punishment, by flogging, is to be inflicted until former lacerations are 
healed. Owners of estates, or their delegates, are subjected to a pe- 
nalty of from £2 to £20 sterling, for not recording punishments within 
48 hours, and to double that penalty for falsifying entries; — and for in- 
flicting any heavier punishment than is allowed by lavs', they may be 
indicted and punished by fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the 
Court. It is also provided, that if a slave shall produce in open Court 
the marks of recent lacerations, which shall make it manifest that he 
has been illegally punished, and shall support the exhibition by a con- 
sistent statement against the owner or person in charge of him, then 
such person must repel the accusation either by satisfactory evidence, 
or by his own oath; otherwise, he shall be adjudged guilty of the al- 
leged offence. — If, however, any owner or his delegate conceives the 
punishment he is allowed by law to inflict to be inadequate to the 
slave's offence, he may refer the case to any two justices, who, after 
inquiry, may direct such corporal punishment as the offence, in their 
discretion, shall merit. To what extent may not cruelty be carried 
under such a provision ! 

The clause, though very defective, is still, without doubt, an im- 
provement on the former law. Mr. Huskisson regrets that so many as 
twelve lashes may still be inflicted on the instant, without any postpone- 
ment to check the excesses of sudden anger; — that persons also should 
be exempted from the necessity of recording punishments not exceeding 
twelve lashes, or a confinement of 48 hours ; — and that periodical re- 
turns of these records of punishment should not be required. He ob- 
jects also to the oath of the owner or his delegate in refutation of a 
charge of illegal punishment, provided it is to be received as conclusive. 
It evidently is so intended to be, by the framers of the Act, but even if 
it were not, it could hardly be too strongly censured. 

3. — The Driving System. 
The legislature of St. Christopher's has not refused, like that of 
Jamaica, to adopt Lord Bathurst's proposal on this point, but has very 
dexterously evaded it. The terms of the clause submitted to it by 
Lord Bathurst, were, that it should be " illegal for any person to carry 
any whip, cat, or other instrument of the like nature, while superin- 
tending the labour of any slaves on any plantation, or to use any such 
whip, cat, or other iyistrument, for the purpose of impelling or coercing 
any slave to perform labour of any kind whatever," &c. This Act, how- 
ever, has prohibited the use of the whip only, (§ 4,) preserving to the 
planter the right of using a cat, ox: any other instrument, for compelling 
labour. This really looks very like deliberate insult and mockery. Mr. 
Huskisson, indeed, is so charitable as to suppose the contrary ; and that 
the omission may be unintentional. But it is sufficient to place Lord 



St. Christopher s — Floggiiig of Females — fiunday Markets. 273 

Bathurst's draft in juxta-posilion with the Act, to see that this is abso- 
lutely impossible. The omission, from the very nature of it, must have 
been a deliberate and designed evasion. It strengthens this view of the 
case, that Mr. Dwarris tells us in his Third Report, p. 77, that in St. 
Christopher's, flogging is now usually inflicted with the cat-o'-nine-tails. 
The instrument, therefore, of exemplary punishment in the army, is there 
reserved as the instrument of coercrng the labour, and stimulating the 
industry of the slaves, men and women. 

4. — Floggmg of Females. 
The legislature has refused to abolish female flogging. Women, 
however, are henceforth to have the high privilege of being flogged " on 
the shoulders," instead of the hips. Mr. Huskisson hopes it will con- 
sent " entirely to abolish a mode of punishment so destructive of self- 
respect, and so calculated to debase the female character." 

5.— Abolition of Sunday Markets a7id Sunday Labour, and the - 
substitutio7i of another day for these purposes. 

Sunday markets, instead of being abolished, are continued and le- 
galized, and no time, no, not an hour in the week, is given to the slave for 
marketing, or for labouring in his grounds, except Sunday. This is the 
more to be lamented, because in St. Christopher's, the means of re- 
ligious instruction are more ample than in most other colonies. Both 
the Wesleyan Methodists and the Moravians have considerable esta- 
blishments there, and a large body of slaves is already attached to their 
congregations. Besides which, the regular Clergy of the Establish- 
ment are numerous, consisting of nine Clergymen, and as many catechists. 
On what pretence therefore are Sunday markets and Sunday labour 
to be contmued in St. Christopher's, and another day refused for these 
objects, so that Sunday may be devoted to its legitimate objects of 
repose and religious worship and instruction ? The pretence that the 
means of religious instruction are not attainable there, and to which 
Mr. Huskisson seems to allow some weight, has really no foundation ; and 
the abolition of Sunday markets and of the necessity of Sunday labour 
is alone wanting to give those means their due influence and operation. 
As for tlie limitation of the markets to eleven o'clock, it is no abatement 
of the evil, while it is a grievance to the slaves to whom no other day is 
allowed formarketing. And if, as Mr. Huskisson observes, " the relaxa- 
tion of the general principle" should be made to terminate on the removal 
of the destitution of the means of religious instruction, then it ought 
not, in St. Christopher's, to^have been prolonged for a single hour. But, 
in truth, the very ground on which that relaxation is any where per- 
mitted is altogether untenable : for the greater the want or the dispro- 
portion of the means of religious instruction, the more necessary does it 
become to make the means v,'hich exist more available, by devoting the 
whole of the vSunday to their diligent employment, which is impossible if 
the slaves must work and must go to market on that day or starve. It 
were a wretched expedient, in any country, for promoting the interests 
of religion, deliberately to postpone a compliance with one of its most 
sacred obligations, and with which too it is in our power to comply, 
because we cannot multiply the eflPective ministers of religion in the 
degree that may be desirable. The very recognition of the sacredness 
of the Sabbath, by the authorities of the state, is a most important 



274 Manumission — Separation — Property. 

point gained. In St. Kitts, instead of recognizing its sacredness, they 
have legalized its desecration. 

6. Granting to slaves a right of redeeming themselves and their 

families at a fair appraisement. 
" I have perceived with regret," says Mr. Huskisson, " that this Act 
contains no provision on this very important subject." 

7. Preventing the separation of families by sale. 

The law of St. Christopher's, on this head, is so far an improvement 
on that of Jamaica, that families must be seized as well as sold to- 
gether, in execution. But there is no restraint or any other than 
judicial sales. There, however, the fault is in the Government who, 
in the case of Trinidad, departed from their own previously avowed 
principle of prohibiting separations of families, not only by judicial but 
by all other sales. 

A long proviso is attached to the rule {% 16) to which Mr. Huskisson 
does not object, but which, in the absence of an independent protector, 
may go far to deprive the slave of the benefits of the rule, furnishing 
a plea for its violation, which we believe would not have been thought 
of, but with a view to its abuse. The Marshal can never have any 
difficulty in ascertaining the domestic relations of a slave in St. Chris- 
topher's, if he is sincerely desirous of ascertaining them. 

8. Rights of property. 

Mr. Huskisson has viewed far too favourably the conduct of the 
legislature of St. Christopher's on this point ; for, he says, it has not 
only "executed" but "exceeded" Lord Bathurst's suggestions. And 
yet the Act (§ 9) wholly omits the right of holding land* which forms 
a material part of Lord Bathurst's plan ; and, while professing to give 
the slaves a right of action, it points out no practicable means of his 
exercising that right. He has no protector to act for him. He cannot 
even leave the plantation without a ticket. 

Mr. Huskisson charitably intimates that the provision (§ 17) which 
subjects a person who may rob a slave only to a small pecuniary mulct 
(£10 currency or £4 sterling), was not intended by its framers to pre- 
vent or defeat the more appropriate remedy of an indictment. But it 
is quite plain that this is its real and only purpose, and on this account 
and on this account alone, a similar clause will be found in the Acts of 
almost every other Island. The pride of the dominant white revolts 
at the idea of being criminally prosecuted for any injury to a slave, 
and hence alone this anomalous proceeding. 

But Mr. Huskisson has overlooked another provision, which seems 
to us to nullify the whole effect of the clause which he so highly but 
unjustly extols. We mean the proviso which says, " that nothing 
herein contained shall repeal an Act of this Island, intituled, an Act 
to restrain thefts committed by negro slaves, and to prevent the dis- 
honest traffic carried on by such as deal with them." On referring to 
this Act, dated 4th May, 1790 ; we find it to be an Act of the most 
harsh and opppressive description, and which actually goes to exclude 
slaves from the very possibility of possessing any property at all. 

* Mr. Huskisson gives it credit for havin>; entitled the slave to hold land— but 
this is a mistake, the Act giving no such right. 



Savings' Banks — Marriage — Evidence. 11 5 

It enacts that " if any slave shall have in his possession, in any of the 
towns of this Island, or in any of the roads leading to the same, any 
sugar, syrup, cotton, molasses, rum, canes, sprouts, pewter, brass, cop- 
per, iron, oats, lumber of all kinds, plantation articles, or utensils, or 
any kind of merchandize, except such provisions as may have been 
given him for allowayice, without a ticket from his master, &c. con- 
taining an account of the same, in his possession ;" every such negro 
" shall be apprehended, and may be tried and convicted by a single 
Justice, who may order him to be publicly whipt at such time or times 
as he may think proper." We will not go into all the harsh and re- 
volting provisions of this law, which the legislature has thus covertly 
contrived to maintain in its integrity, (by way of compensation, we pre- 
sume, for their large concessions to public clamour at home,) but only 
observe, that the very fruits of the slave's garden, and the stock he 
may rear, are included under the term " any kind of merchandize ,'' 
and which he cannot even possess with impunity, when off his master's 
plantation — the single exception which the law admits being, " such 
provisioyis as may have been given him for allowance." And yet 
under such circumstances, we hear the slave accused of a want of in- 
dustry! Can industry possibly subsist under such restraint and in- 
security ? 

9. Establishment of Savings' Banks. 

The proposal of Lord Bathurst on this point has been acceded to ; 

but under the circumstances in which the law of 1790 places the slave, 

and without a single day or hour of a day allowed him for his own 

purposes, what hope can there be that it will prove of any use to him ? 

10. Legalizing and Protecting Marriage. 
The objections to the clause on this point are, as stated by Mr. Hus- 
kisson, that the power of celebrating marriages is confined to the Clergy 
of the Churches of England and Scotland, when it is notorious that the 
Methodists and Moravians have large numbers of slaves under their 
care in this Island ; and that the slaves have no Protector appointed to 
aid them, and guard their rights. 

11. Admission of Slave Evidence, 
The Act of St. Christopher goes here also beyond that of Jamaica, in 
admitting slaves to give their testimony generally in any civil or criminal 
court. But then it makes their admission to depend on the certificate 
of a minister of the church either of England or Scotland, unwisely 
and unnecessarily excluding the certificates of ministers of other deno- 
minations, whose followers are both numerous and well-instructed. It 
is, moreover, a fatal defect in this Act (§ 6,) that it excludes slaves from 
giving evidence in any criminal or civil suit in which not only his owner^ 
but his manager or overseer is concerned, or where any free person is 
charged with a capital crime. One great object of slaves being ad- 
mitted to give evidence in Courts of Justice, namely, protection from 
the oppression of their masters and overseers, is thus wholly defeated. 
Indeed, in general, their concern is only wiLh their masters and overseers, 
and their complaints must almost always refer to them. The exception, 
therefore, amounts, in fact, to an exclusion of them from justice in al- 
most all the cases that to them are of any moment. 

" The clause of the Act (§ 10) which imposes on the claimant the 



276 General Remarks. 

burthen of proof, in all cases where the liberty of a person retained as a 
slave is in question," Mr. Huskisson remarks, " would be of the highest 
value and importance, w^ere it not for the subsequent provision, which 
reverses this rule of law, when the asserted slave has been in the pos- 
session of the claimant for three months before the claiming is pre- 
ferred." — Here we have a farther illustration, in addition to those already 
given, of the dexterity with which a principle may be adopted in terms, 
and yet defeated in its practical operation ; a species of dexterity in 
which West Indian Legislators appear to excel. 

" The penalty on persons discarding their diseased or infirm slaves," 
and throwing them as it were on the public, which Mr. Huskisson says 
is conceived in the spirit of humanity and sound policy, is a measure 
of old date, which self-interest had led almost all the West-India Legi- 
slatures to adopt from an early period, as a measure of self-defence. 

We might be thought unfair if we overlooked the clause {\ 5) which 
requires owners, &c. to use their endeavours to instruct their slaves in 
the Christian religion. But an enactment of this kind, without either 
sanction, or penalty, or provision for its fulfilment, is obviously of no 
use. It has stood for ages in many of the Colonial statute books, — 
in that of Jamaica since 1696, — in the very terms of the clause now 
before us, without producing, or being intended to produce, the very 
slightest results ; nay, without having led in any one instance to the 
consecration of the sabbath to its proper objects. And, without a sab- 
bath, what can be effectually done in promoting Christianity among 
the slaves ? 

After the above exposition of the nature of the new slave codes 
of Jamaica and St. Kitt's, for the accuracy of which we pledge all our 
credit with the public, our readers will recur with some surprise to the 
high eulogies which have been pronounced upon those enactments both 
in the House of Lords and in the House of Commons ; and they will 
be curious to know by whose misstatements* the noble and honourable 
eulogists could have been so far misled as to lend the authority of their 
high names, in the presence of Parliament and the public, to such in- 
correct representations; — representations directly calculated to convey 
to the Colonists, an unfair and injurious impression of the real desire 
of His Majesty's Ministers, to carry forward the work of reform. 

One word more before we conclude. The West Indians clamour 
and petition for inquiry into the state of their slave population. No- 
thing can be more reasonable. We too are anxious for inquiry ; and 
are willing to rest that inquiry on the testimony of their own statute 
books and of their own returns, those honest, disinterested, impartial, 
and unrefutable witnesses both of their principles and their practice. 
To them we make our appeal, and by them we are willing to try the 
cause. 



I 



* In like manner it was affirmed in tlie House of Lords, that a late Act of 
the legislature of Jamaica had admitted persons of colour to hold public offices 
in that island ; whereas nil that has been done is to remove the cruel disability 
tinder which they previously laboured of acting even as clerks to persons holding 
public oflices. 



Lomion : Bajipter and Thorns, rriiiters, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 39.] For AUGUST, 1828. [No. 15. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slaverv Monthly Reporter" will he ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's ofBce, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newSfnen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of. eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



REVIEW OF THE LAST SESSION OF PARLIAMENT. 

Our Readers will naturally be desirous of knowing the circumstances 
which rendered the last session of Parliament a season of almost com- 
plete inaction as to the question of Colonial Reform. Much was cer- 
tainly proposed and expected in the way of discussion, if not of success- 
ful effort ; and the number and weight of the petitions, addressed to 
Parliament, afforded a hope that the deplorable apathy, and even aversion, 
with which, on former occasions, the subject has been received there, 
might yield to the wishes so clearly and strongly expressed of a large 
proportion of the constituent body. It must be acknowledged, how- 
ever, that if Members of the House of Commons are lukewarm and in- 
different, it is, in some degree, the fault of those who send them thither ; 
for, if the same pains which are often employed about a rail-road or a 
turnpike, were taken to convince them that their constituents really felt 
the deep interest in the question which their petitions express, many ho- 
nourable gentlemen would not turn, with the marked disgust which they 
have too often shewn, from every effort to obtain their attention to the 
claims of our colonial bondsmen. But not to dwell on this ungracious 
topic, we will proceed to explain the circumstances which have prevent- 
ed those discussions respecting them which the public vvere led to 
expect. This cannot be done more effectually, than by giving the sub- 
stance of what was said on the subject, by Sir James Mackintosh, on 
the 25th of July. In rising to present a petition against Negro Slavery, 
he felt it necessary, he said, to remark, that those among them, who took 
a more active part in this question than other Members, conceived, that, 
as full notice of their intentions was in fairness due to all parties inte- 
rested in it, so they owed it to their own honour, to shew that their late 
inaction had not proceeded from supineness or lukewarmness ; and that, 
as their principles were unchangeable, so was their purpose unchanged. 
Nor was it less due to the very numerous and eminently respectable body, 
who had loaded the table with petitions, to explain why no attempt had 
been made to carry their moderate, just, and reasonable prayers into 
effect. The House would recollect the changes which had taken place 

2 M 



278 Review of Last Session of Parliatnent. — Sir J. Mackintosh. 

in the Colonial Department, and the necessity, which had thence arisen, 
of some postponement, in order to give the new Government an oppor- 
tunity of coming to a mature decision on the subject. Notlongafter Par- 
liament met, his Honourable and Learned friend (Mr. Brougham) had 
given notice, that if nothing were proposed by Government in relation to 
this question, he himself would bring the subject forward at a very early 
period after the Easter recess. No sooner, however, had he returned 
from the discharge of his laborious duties at the Spring Assizes, than he 
found another new Government in existence, and it became necessary to 
give it also time to consider the question, and determine on the measures 
to be adopted. This concession was the more readily made, from a belief 
that, as far as depended on the Right Honourable and gallant Member, 
(Sir George Murray), personally, there would be no want of liberahty in 
the consideration of this subject; and certainly, nothing has hitherto oc- 
curred, either in his language or conduct, to impair our confidence. Soon 
after this, however, his Honourable and Learned friend (Mr. Brougham) 
was obliged to relinquish his regular attendance in the House, on 
account of the dechning state of his health. His bodily frame had hither- 
to well ministered to the unwearied vigour of his faculties ; but, it was 
no wonder that it should sometimes give way under a heavier burden 
than any other mind had, perhaps, ever laid on her frail companion. 
But though his bodily health declined, he still clung to this question, as 
one which he had long had at heart, and which he was most unwilling 
to abandon. Nor did he relinquish it until an absolute prohibition had 
been placed upon any attempt on his part to sustain that degree of men- 
tal exertion which the due discussion of such a subject would have re*- 
quired, in order to do it justice. He therefore consented, though most 
reluctantly, to postpone it to another Session, From some cause, how- 
ever, probably accidental, the motives for these successive postponements 
had not come before the public in such a manner as was calculated to 
afford a clear conception of the real circumstances which had compelled 
his Honourable and Learned friend to relinquish his intention.* The 
statement now made, therefore, was no less essential to the honour of his 
learned friend, than to the future prospects of the cause, in which he had 
been so long engaged, and of which he had been so powerful an ad- 
vocate. 

Having given this explanation of the grounds on which Mr. Brougham 
had withdrawn his Motion, Sir James added, that he would now content 
himself with saying that, " unless His Majesty's Government should be 
prepared, before the next Session, to take a more decided part, in exe- 
cuting and carrying into effect the resolutions in Parliament than it had 

* Mr. Buxton had been at pains, ten days before, to give a similar explana- 
tion to the House, stating, that Mr. Brougham had withdrawn his motion in 
accordance with his own wish and that of other friends of the cause in Parlia- 
ment, who were convinced that, in (he feeble state of his health, he could not, 
without extreme imprudence, attempt to bring it forward ; but the newspapers 
bad failed to give a clear report of what had passed. We sincerely hope that 
before the next session opens, the health, not only of Mr. Brougham, but of Mr. 
Buxton also will be so re-established as to enable them to resume their important 
labours, in this field of service, with energy and effect. . 



Review of Last Seasion of Parliament.— Lord Calthorpe. 27^ 

hitherto done ; or, unless the Legislatures of our West India Colonies; 
(seeing the state of public opinion and feeling in this country, and the 
nearer and more immediate dangers arising out of the present system in 
their own neighbourhood,) should abandon their obstinacy ; — and of the 
two, this, the more desirable, was, he feared, the least likely event ;— un- 
less, in short, the Colonies should shew symptoms of having attained a 
victory over their own prejudices, and of looking more to their ultimate 
safety and advantage, than to the present demands of pride and passion ; 
or Government itself should effectively undertake the subject; then he 
distinctly gave notice, that those who have taken an active part in enforc- 
ing what may be called the treaty between the humanity of the British 
public and the prejudices of the Colonists, negociated by Mr. Canning 
in 1823, (a treaty in the observance of which the rights of humanity 
and the glory of this country are deeply interested) will think it necessary 
to propose some measure on the subject in that House in the course of 
the ensuing Session : and he sincerely hoped, that if it should be neces- 
sary to bring forward such measure, his Honourable and learned friend 
(Mr. Brougham) would be able to bring it forward, qualified as he was, 
in every respect, to perform that sacred duty, and especially marked out 
for it as he was, by being the first man who had affixed the penalties and 
the infamy of felony on those atrocious crimes of man-stealing and trad- 
ing in stolen men, which the most ancient and venerable of lawgivers, 
thirty centuries ago, punished with death." 

Having explained this point, we proceed to notice some other parlia- 
mentary occurrences of the last Session, bearing on the question of 
Slavery. 

Our last number was occupied in pointing out the general inefficiency 
and delusiveness of the pretended reforms of the legislatures of Jamaica 
and St. Christopher's, notwithstanding the approbation of them which 
had been expressed by Mr. Huskisson in the House of Commons, and 
by the Duke of Wellington in the House of Lords ; and we showed 
clearly that in every i?istanc€ those legislatures had either absolutely re^ 
fused, or dexterously evaded the requisitions of the Government, 

The same motive which induced us to exhibit a correct analysis of 
the enactments in question, that of preventing the Parliament and the 
public from forming an erroneous estimate of the real state of the case, 
appears to have led Lord Calthorpe to bring the matter before the 
House of Lords. On the 18th of July, on presenting a petition from 
the inhabitants of Bristol against slavery, he took occasion to make 
some remarks, of which the following is the substance, on what had 
fallen from the Duke of Wellington on a former day— 

" I feel strongly the inconvenience of raising a debate on an impor- 
tant subject like this in presenting a petition ; but I see no other oppor- 
tunity but the one I now take of endeavouring, as succinctly as I am able, 
to bring before your lordships the present state of slavery in the West 
Indies, and the very imperfect manner in which, as it appears to me, the 
Colonial legislatures have carried into effect the intentions of Government, 
^n the present state of the House, -and at the present period of the session, 
this must be to me as well as to your lordships any thing but an act of 
self indulgence. If, indeed., the motion had been brought forward, notice 



280 Review of Last Sessiofi of Parliament. — Lord Calthorpe. 

of which was given in the other House of Parliament by an honourable 
and learned gentleman, who has so ably and so powerfully exercised his 
talents in behalf of the negro race, and who, from the state of his health, 
and certainly from no relaxation of zeal in this cause, was obliged to 
forego the execution of his purpose, 1 should have felt myself absolved 
from the duty of now drawing your lordships' attention to the subject. 

" In alluding, as I shall feel it my duty to do, to what fell from the 
noble Duke on a former occasion, I assure him I should greatly blame 
myself if I should appear for a moment to lose sight of those deep obli- 
gations which we owe him. But I desire now more particularly to bear 
ia recollection those valuable services which the noble Duke rendered 
in the abolition of the foreign slave trade ; and to keep stedfastly in 
view that heart and zeal and spirit which he carried into his negocia- 
tions on that subject, and the warm and generous solicitude Avhich he 
shov/ed to procure from foreign powers, as far as treaties could secure 
it, the abolition of that nefarious traffic. 

" It will be in the recollection of your lordships, that, in 1823, a very 
considerable feeling was excited throughout the empire against Colonial 
slavery, which communicated itself to Parliament, or at least was 
strongly recognised by Parliament ; and the general impression seemed 
to be, that slavery was a grievous and opprobrious evil, opprobrious 
nnder any circumstances, but doubly so in the case of a country which, 
like our own, glories in its freedom. This feeling, I say, was strong and 
general, but it was mixed up, in the minds of many, with fears that the 
degradation of the slave had unfitted him for instant freedom, and with 
considerations of existing institutions and rights of property involved in 
the question ; and the prevailing opinion seemed to be, that though it 
might be hazardous to attempt to abolish slavery at once, yet measures 
should be immediately taken which should operate gradually in bring- 
ing about its early and final extinction. With this view certain reso- 
lutions were passed, and certain measures of reform founded on those 
resolutions were afterwards adopted, with the unanimous consent of 
both Houses of Parliament. Those measures were chiefly directed to 
raise the moral and social character of the slave, to give him the protec- 
tion of law, to diminish those almost im.measurable distinctions which 
separate the negro slave from his white proprietor, and sink him to a 
level scarcely human — and, in short, gradually to fit him for that state 
of entire freedom for which it was assumed that he was not then ripe. 
Now I cannot at all agree with the noble Duke, when, on a former 
evening, he described the West India legislatures as having adopted 
those measures, if not in all their details and to the full extent which 
was recommended, yet as having adopted them in •principle. Now, to 
me it appears that, in any sense in which the word pri7iciple is commonly 
used, the manner in which the Colonial Assemblies have framed their 
laws is really an evasion, rather than an adoption, of the principle of 
the measures suggested to them. The noble Duke would not say that 
a soldier, who should comply with one or two trifling orders which 'cost 
him no trouble or self denial, while he resisted all the important orders 
issued to him, and even used, like Jamaica, the language of defiance, 
bad adopted the principle of subordination. If such a compliance were 



Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Lord Caltkorpe. 281 

an admission of the principle, it is at least an admission of no value 
whatever. And as it is only in such a way that these legislatures have 
adopted the principle recommended to them, it is only another term for 
resistance to all that constitutes its spirit and essence, or that gives to 
it any real or practical value. 

" I really wish the noble Duke would look into what has been done 
by these legislatures, and compare it with the measures prescribed by 
the Government : he Vv'ill then see that those very measures which are 
assumed to have a tendency to elevate the slave in the scale of being, 
to improve his moral and legal condition, and to prepare him for the 
enjoyment of freedom, are precisely the measures in which they have 
shewn the greatest unwillingness fairly and effectually to concur.* 

" I am unwilling to refer to particular instances of cruelty as demon- 
strative of the physical condition of the slaves; but, until it can be 
proved that that law which pervades all nature, ordaining the increase 
of the species, is not arrested in the West Indies, I must consider the 
physical condition of our colonial slaves to be greatly inferior to that 
of any class of men in a state of freedom. But the improvement of their 
mere physical condition was not, after all, the main object of Parlia- 
ment, except as a mean to their improvement in those great, high, and 
everlasting distinctions which the Author of being has established be- 
tween man and the brute creation. It was with the view of establishing 
more broadly and increasingly these distinctions, that measures of ame- 
lioration were proposed which, while they produced immediate benefit to 
the Slaves, must, in their results, have proved no less beneficial to the 
masters themselves. Now, when we find that there has been an utter 
rejection of all these important measures, I cannot vmderstand with what 
propriety the Colonial Assemblies can be said to have adopted their 
principle. It might have been expected that, even from motives of 
prudence, they would have acted differently. But in truth, as the 
Noble Duke must acknowledge, they have scarcely done any thing to 
carry the resolutions of Parliament, and the recommendations of Govern- 
ment into effect. The Legislature of Jamaica has passed only one Act 
on the subject, and that has been disallowed by the Government, speci- 
fically, indeed, because its provisions infringed the rights of religious wor- 

* Nothing can be more just than this remark of his Lordship. A West Indian 
legislature will much move readily pass laws for punishing the mutilation or 
dismemberment of a slave, or for assigning to him a certain allowance of food — 
(for the privilege of having his limbs entire and of being fed, he enjoys in com- 
mon with the horse or mule) — than they will pass laws which shall exempt him 
from the debasing operation of the driving whip ; which shall give sanction 
and protection to his connubial rights ; which shall confer upon him the privi- 
lege of suing and being sued, and of appearing as a witness in courts of justice ; 
which shall secure to him the means of accumulating property and of emanci- 
pating himself or his family by his own industry and forethought ; which shall 
prevent the disruption of his domestic ties ; or which, making the Sabbath a day 
sacred to repose and instruction, and allowing other time for the secular pur- 
poses to which his Sabbath has hitherto been appropriated, shall introduce him 
into fellowship Avith his God and Saviour — all these being changes in his con- 
dition which lend to raise him to their own level or even above their level, and 
which therefore wound their pride and prejudice, no less than, in unfounded ap- 
prehension, they seem to affect their interests. 



282 Reviexo of Last Session of Parliament. — Lord Calthorpt, 

ship. But this is, of itself, a proof of the little disposition existing in that 
Colony to follow up the spirit of the parliamentary resolutions. There 
were many other objections to the Act, and among the rest, its having 
evaded that most important recommendation, the appointment of a Pro- 
tector of Slaves, an appointment without which there can be no security 
that any of the other measures for ameliorating the condition of the 
Slaves, even if adopted, would be properly enforced. Such conduct 
can surely prefer no claim to any expression of satisfaction on the part 
of His Majesty's Government. A similar defect occurs in the Act of the 
Legislature of St. Christopher's. There they have not only evaded, they 
have wholly rejected the recommendation. 

" But what I would especially impress on your Lordships, is, the for- 
midable obstacle which slavery itself presents to the execution of any 
proposals for ameliorating the condition of the Slaves. Is it to be sup- 
posed that iii a country, the very atmosphere of which is tainted and 
saturated as it were with slavery, there should not be an unwillingness 
to give effect to the recommendations of a Parliament composed of men 
who value freedom ? Without meaning to deny that acts of kindness 
and humanity may be exercised towards the Slaves by many individuals 
in the Colonies, or that many Colonial Proprietors resident in England, 
are desirous to promote the improvement and comfort of their Slaves ; 
still, I must complain of the language used by both, as to what has been 
done in the Colonies, language wholly unwarranted by facts, and which 
of itself proves the baneful influence of slavery on those who live under 
it, or who think themselves interested in upholding it. 

" I have no doubt of the steady purpose of the Noble Duke, and the 
good intentions of His Majesty's Government generally, to carry the re- 
solutions of Parliament into effect; but I regret that they do not seem to 
take a due estimate of the obstacles which oppose themselves in the Co- 
lonies to the accomplishment of that object. Among those obstacles, I 
feckon that line of insubordination, 1 may say, of defiance, adopted in 
some of the Colonies, in opposition to the wishes of Parliament. I am, 
certainly, far from desiring to do any thing injurious to the West Indian 
Colonists ; but I must condemn and deplore the tone in which they have 
spoken and still speak ; and I conceive your Lordships are bound, by a 
sense of what is due to the dignity of Parliament, to see that its resolu- 
tions are carried into effect ; and that the Government, of whomsoever 
it may consist, owe it to Parliament and the country, to take such steps 
as shall put an end to the insubordination and defiance with which these 
resolutions have been met abroad. 

*' My Lords, I am well aware of the charges made against those whd 
view the subject as I do. One is, that their object is instant abolition^ 
without reference to the consequences it may involve. This is not a 
fair charge on the great body of the abolitionists. If what I say should 
bring on me such an imputation, let me be looked on as a visionary who 
would pursue his object reckless of consequences : such an opinion 
would not give me much disquietude. But, let not the views of an in- 
dividual, even if I entertained them, be attributed to the whole of those 
who concur in the general object. I claim no exemption for myself from 



Itevieio of Last Session of Parliament.— Lord Calthope. 283 

such a charge ; but I do claim for that large body who have approached 
Parliament with their petitions upon this subject, I do claim for that 
most numerous, highly respectable and intelligent portion of the com- 
munity, that they shall not be stigmatized as rash and inconsiderate zea- 
lots, regardless of others' interests, and only intent on realizing their own 
theories. It is due to the character of those individuals to defend them 
from such unjust imputations. Some of the petitions have been signed 
by men distinguished alike by their public acts and private virtues. 
Clergymen, the most eminent of the Established Church, have affixed 
their signatures. We have had a petition to the same effect from the 
University of Cambridge. In short, many of the petitions on your table 
have been signed by men, whose qualities of mind and heart entitle their 
prayers to your Lordships' most serious consideration ; men who have 
acted from no selfish motives, and who are no less distinguished by their 
moderation, than by their other estimable qualities. For such men, my 
Lords, who, through life, have been conspicuous for the most scrupulous 
regard for the rights and interests of others, I do claim that they shall 
not be charged with a design to injure and destroy them, when they 
come forward to complain, that, the imperfect manner in which the re- 
solutions of Parliament have been carried into effect has compromised 
the honour of the Crown and the dignity of Parliament, has put to 
hazard the security of our Colonies, and has frustrated the paramount 
claims of humanity and justice. The enlightened individuals to whom I 
allude may be fairly considered as representing the opinions on this ques- 
tion of the best portion of the community. By such men have measures, 
the most beneficial to the country, been first brought to the notice of 
Parliament ; and they shew that they recognise the transcendant merits 
of the noble Duke, when, acting on the principle that the character 
of public men is a public possession, they urge him to pursue, on this 
question, the same decisive and energetic course he did in achieving 
those resplendent triumphs which adorn his name, and connect it with 
the brightest glories of his country. If the Duke acts on this sugges- 
tion they have no doubt, and I concur with them in thinking, that it 
will be attended with similar happy results. But, while they pay this 
just tribute to the noble Duke, they think that if the language of appro- 
bation be held out, where that of censure is rather called for, the result 
must be inglorious to the Government who advised it, however that Go- 
vernment may be constituted. Nor ought they who object to the want 
of a decisive tone, on the part of the Government, to be accused of re- 
commending harsh measures towards the colonies that resist the repeated 
recommendations of the legislature and the executive. I would be the 
last to recommend such. But it is obvious, and ought not to be over- 
looked, that should they still persist in their contumacy, it would be 
easy for Government at once to bring them to a sense of their duty 
and of their true interests, by only proposing to withdraw its troops from 
the West Indies, a proceeding which would leave them exposed to the 
outrage of a multitude exasperated by continued oppression and neglect, 
and by the disappointment of every hope they have been taught to 
cherish." 

The Duke of Wellington then spoke to the following effect : — 



284 Revieiv of Last Sessio7i of Parliament. — Duke of Wellington. 

" I can assure the noble Lord, that if he imagines that any thing 
which fell from me on a former occasion was meant to cast any reflection 
on those who are anxious to improve the condition of onr Colonial 
slaves, with a view to the final abolition of slavery, he is much mistaken. 
I said nothing of the kind. If any thing I said could justify that con- 
struction, I trust I shall convince the noble Lord, before 1 sit down, that 
I have not disapproved of their conduct in urging that the measures 
recommended by Government should be carried into effect. Why; Par- 
liament itself is a party to those measures which they pray may be en- 
forced. The Government proceeded upon the resolutions of the House, 
and if I disapproved of the one I must disapprove of the other. But I 
approve of both. 

" I stated, on a former occasion, that the principle of the measures 
recommended by Government had been adopted in nearly all the Colo- 
nies, and that in Jamaica the principle of a Protector of slaves was re- 
cognised. The noble Lord must be aware that there is a difference 
between the adoption of a principle, and of a particular measure involv- 
ing that principle. The legislature of Jamaica did adopt the prin- 
ciple of appointing a Protector of slaves, though not in the way recom- 
mended by Government. Their naode of establishing the principle of 
protection was by appointing the vestries of the several parishes protec- 
tors. I wish they had proceeded on a different plan, but still I am glad 
that something has been adopted which will in any manner give pro- 
tection to the slave. It will be the business of Government and of the 
local authorities to see that due protection is given ; and if the present 
means should fail of affording due protection, then such measures as 
will ensure it must, from time to time, be recommended. This was what 
I meant when I said ihe principle of the measures recommended by Go- 
vernment had been adopted. — Now, if that be the case, how could the 
noble Lord compare the conduct of Jamaica to that of a soldier who 
obeys some one order and refuses to obey others ? Jamaica is not 
bound to obey the orders of a Secretary of State as a soldier is bound to 
obey the orders of his officer. The noble Lord does not mean to say, 
that the Jamaica legislature is not independent. If so, and Jamaica be 
not bound to obey the orders of the Secretary of State, it is a matter of 
congratulation to find, that in such an important particular as that of a 
Protector, it has adopted the principle of the recommendations made by 
Government, and that the legislatures of the other islands have also so 
far adopted their prijiciple as may lead finally to the accomplishment of 
the wishes of Parliament and of the country on this important question. 

" The noble Lord says I expressed satisfaction with vt'hat had been 
done. It is true I did. But if he understood by this that I am not 
disposed to go further, he has quite mistaken me. When the Govern- 
ment proposed these measures, they knew they proposed them to legis- 
latures which possessed the power to adopt, to modify, or reject them. 
And, having that power, Government cannot interfere and force these 
measures upon them. Does the noble Lord wish us to use force? If 
so, I tell the noble Lord that we have not the power of enforcing them, 
if we wished to do so. We have not the power of governing those Co- 
lonies by force any more fhan we have the power of governing this 



lieview of Last Session. — Sir G. Muri-ay. Mr. Buxton. 285 

country by force. We can only govern them, as this country is go- 
verned, by means of laws which are enacted by the sanction of the 
Houses of Legislature. I want to know whether I am to attempt force 
and to irritate them by harsh language, or rather to encourage and per- 
suade them ? Certainly I would choose the latter mode, and encourage 
them to do that which will be alike beneficial to them and to this 
country, and is in accordance with the unanimous wish of the Govern- 
ment, the Parliament, and the people of this country. I cannot con- 
clude without reminding the noble Lord that he must not expect, that 
in proportion as the legislative assemblies assent to the wishes of this 
country, in the same proportion laws will emanate from them on the 
•subject which will bear the scrutiny of the acute mind of the noble 
Lord and his friends, or will come up to the perfection of British legis- 
lation. Time is necessary for perfection in all things, and legislation is 
not exempted from this general rule. The enactments of parties not 
possessing our advantages ought to be treated with some indulgence ; 
and to attempt to exercise force, or to give any other cause of irritation, 
would only do harm and retard the accomplishment of the object the 
noble Lord is so desirous to attain." 

Can the above speech really have been spoken by the noble Duke, to 
whom it is attributed ? We cannot doubt it, having had the mortifica- 
tion of hearing it ourselves, and being able to vouch for the general ac- 
curacy Avith which it has been reported. Neither could we have enter- 
tained much doubt of its purport, but for the following conversation 
which took place a few days after, viz. on the 25th of July, in the 
House of Commons. 

Sir George Muuray, in answer to the speech of Sir James Mackin- 
tosh, which is inserted above, observed, that he considered the present 
Government as fully pledged to adhere to the resolutions of 1823, 
which, he conceived, reflected the highest credit on the Parliament that 
adopted them ; and were equally necessary whether we regarded hu- 
manity, justice, or self-interest. Government, he admitted, was bound 
to pursue such a system, as while it should be most beneficial to the 
slaves, should respect the rights of private property and the general 
well being of the Colonies. This system consisted in ameliorating the 
condition of the slaves ; and all measures tending to that object, were, 
in his opinion, most desirable. He would not now go into detail, but 
this he would say, that he fully and entirely concurred with the friends 
of the negroes in the feelings they entertained, and was desirous the 
slaves might ultimately participate in all the advantages enjoyed by their 
fellow men. 

Mr, Buxton heard the Right Honourable Gentleman with the more 
satisfaction as he had read, with surprise and alarm, certain expressions 
said to have been uttered by a noble Duke in another place; expres- 
sions which, if correctly stated, would lead to a belief that the solemn 
pledge made in this House, in 1823, was to be frittered away to a mere 
recommendation to the Colonies to do that which we wished them to 
do. On the speech to which he alluded, he should have felt it his duty 
to comment at some length, but for what had now fallen from the 
Right Honourable Secretary for the Colonies. 

2 N 



286 Revieiu of Last Session of Parliament. — Mr. Peel. 

Mr. Peel said, lie felt quite sure that the Honourable member (Mr. 
Buxton) had given to the speech of his noble friend an interpretation 
totally different from that intended by him. When the Honourable 
member stated that his noble friend's speech went to fritter away the 
pledge given in 1823 (a pledge to which the present ministry felt them- 
selves bound to adhere), he had altogether mistaken the meaning meant 
to be conveyed by his noble friend. " Indeed," he added, " I feel it 
but just to the cause which the Honourable member advocates to make 
this statement, as my noble friend feels not only bound to redeem, but is 
desirous of redeeming that pledge. When, however, the Honourable 
member looked to the speech attributed to my noble friend, he should 
have taken into consideration the speech to which it was an answer- 
My noble friend was, perhaps, upon that occasion, repelling some inti- 
mation of a desire to interfere at once with the Colonies by physical 
force, and was recommending that course which was most desirable, 
namely, that the reform should be effected by the planters themselves^ 
who, in doing so, would best consult their own interests and those of 
their slaves. And, if my noble friend did hold this language, I am sure 
the House will think with me, that he did so with a view to the. advance- 
ment, and not to the injury, of the cause which the Honourable member 
appears to have so much at heart." 

As these conversations have an important bearing on the Anti-Slavery 
question, we have thought it right to record them nearly as they were 
delivered, that our readers may be able themselves to judge of their im- 
port, and also to appreciate the value of the few brief remarks we shall 
now make upon them. We should have been satisfied, indeed, with 
Mr. Peel's disclaimer, on the part of the Duke of Wellington, of the 
more obvious import of certain parts of his speech; but, as that speech 
stands recorded in the public journals of the country, and will natu- 
rally carry with it the weight attached to the Duke's eminent services 
and distinguished character, no less than to his high station as the 
head of the Government, we shall be excused for endeavouring respect- 
fully to obviate the injurious effect which, if it were to pass without any 
comment, it might be calculated to produce on the public mind, 

1 . We are bound in fairness to commence with acknowledging that 
nothing can be more satisfactory than the frank and liberal terms in 
which both the noble Duke and the two Secretaries of State have borne 
testimony to the rectitude of the views and conduct of the abolitionists : 
who, it is fully admitted, ask for nothing, and urge nothing, which they 
are not fully entitled to require, under the solemn pledges which have 
been given, both by the Government and the Parliament of this country ,^ 
and which the Government and the Parliament are bound to fulfil. Sir 
George Murray declared that he fully concurred with the friends of 
the negroes in the feelings they entertained; and the Duke of Welling- 
ton, that he could not disapprove of their proceedings without disap- 
proving also of the conduct of Parliament, and of the Government of 
which he himself has formed so essential a part. 

2. The Duke of Wellington, however, maintains that nearly all the 
Colonies have adopted in principle the measures recommended to them, 
and that in Jamaica the principle of a Protector of slaves has been re- 



Review of Last Session oy Parliament.— ^Remarks, '287 

cognised. On both these facts we are directly at issue with his Grace. 
We affirm the very reverse of his positions. We affirm, without reserve 
or hesitation, that not one of the Colonies, having legislatures of their 
own, has adopted in principle and in spirit (with the exception of a 
single point in the case of Grenada) any one of the measures recom- 
mended to them by Government ; and we again pledge all our credit 
with the pubUc to make good this assertion (indeed we have already 
made it good) from the papers laid before Parliament by the Duke him- 
self. And we further affirm, that Jamaica, instead of adopting, has 
actually repudiated and rejected the principle of a protector of slaves. 
Under the name of protection to the slaves, it has actually contrived to 
give protection and immunity to the oppressors of the slaves. Against 
whom was protection for the slaves demanded ? Was it not against their 
masters and managers ? To whom is their protection confided by the 
Jamaica legislature ? To those very masters and managers who, in fact, . 
compose the entire of the parish vestries. But the vestry is called a 
Council of protection. Yes, and it was so called years before the reso- 
lutions of 1823 were thought of. But surely the teryn protection does 
not necessarily involve the principle of protection. On the contrary, it 
Involves in this instance the extinction of that principle, for if the pur- 
pose had been to divest the slaves of all protection, no more effectual 
device could have been framed to effect it than this very enactment of 
the Jamaica legislature. Nor are we singular in this opinion. What 
did Mr. Huskisson say of it in his well known despatch of Sept. 
22, 1827? He denied that this so called Council of Protection could 
be a proper substitute for the independent and non-slave-holding 
protector they had been urged to appoint; consisting, he said, as it did,, 
of the very individuals whom the protector was to control. And, even 
if there existed a chance of its being efficient (a thing utterly hope- 
less), yet its powers were jealously limited to those injuries alone which 
are punishable when inflicted on brutes, namely, mutilation and dis- 
memberment, wantonly cruel treatment, and imprisoning (impounding) 
without due support. Besides it was not required to record or report its 
proceedings, and its number (being all the adult ivhite householders) 
destroyed all sense of responsibility. The law, therefore, was so far from 
adopting the principle of protection, that it actually denied, instead 
of granting, protection to the slave. It was a measure, to the full, as ab- 
surd and incongruous as it would be to permit a community of smug- 
glers to name, from their own body, the persons who, with no responsi- 
bility attached to them, should have the charge of superintending the 
due execution of the revenue laws, and punishing their own delinquen- 
cies in respect to them. 

3. We come now to that part of the Duke's speech which seems to 
affirm the independence of the Colonial legislatures. The language used 
on (his point did, at first sight, appear almost of necessity to point to 
their independence on Parliament. It seemed impossible that the merest 
tyro in constitutional knowledge could be supposed ignorant of the fact, 
that the Colonial legislatures" were not compellable to obey the mere 
mandate of a Secretary of State, unsupported by the authority of Par- 
liament. But we are bound to believe, on the strength of Mr. Peel's speech, 
that the Duke did not mean to denv the authority of Parliament to le- 



288 Review of Last Session of Parliament. — Colonial I ndepende nee, 

gislate for the Colonies. But the power of Parliament so to legislate 
being granted, it is obvious that all else is a mere war of words. The 
mandate of a Secretary of State cannot control the colonial authorities: 
granted. But an act of Parliament can control them. Has then 
the Secretary of State applied to Parliament for an act, and been re- 
fused ? To what purpose is it, therefore, to affirm the independence of 
the colonial legislatures on the orders of a Secretary of State, when that 
Secretary of State has only to apply to Parliament, with a certainty of 
obtaining it, for an act which shall enforce the measures he deems to be 
necessary in order to redeem the pledges, not only of the Government, 
but of the Parliament too. But this is using force. And would you use 
force ? Yes, that species of force by which this country, free as it is, is 
governed ; that only species of force which either Lord Calthorpe, or any 
man in his senses could contemplate except in extreme cases, we mean the 
force of law. And why should any colony, or class of colonies be ex- 
empt from this legitimate species of force ? It is one thing to compel a 
legislature to adopt certain measures by the a|)plication of the bayonet, 
by rude physical force, — an expedient of which no man in his senses 
could even dream. It is quite another thing for a competent legislative 
authority to pass a law, and, having passed it, to require obedience to it 
under the penalties it prescribes, and to enforce those penalties by due 
legal process. Acts of Parliament are, and ever have been, binding on 
the colonies, though an order of a Secretary of State is not. It is not, 
therefore, constitutionally correct to say, that we can only govern the 
colonies by laws enacted by their own legislatures ; for it is not only in 
the power, but within the competency, as it is also the practice, of Par- 
liament to legislate for them. 

But then we are told of the inexpediency and the danger of employ- 
ing this species of constraint; of thus interfering by parliamentary 
enactment with the spontaneous movements of the local legislatures. 
But how directly at variance is this argument with the conduct which 
the government has unhesitatingly pursued in other and strictly analo- 
gous cases. Great Britain possesses two classes of Colonies. The one 
class is under the supreme legislation of the king in council, but having 
its own subordinate and local council, or cabildo, or court of policy. 
The other class is under the supreme legislation of Parliament, having 
local elective assemblies of its own. In the former case, when any disposi- 
tion is manifested to refuse compliance with the recommendation of the 
Secretary of State, he makes no scruple of applying to the king in 
council for an order which supersedes all further resistance. In the 
latter, he has it equally in his power to enforce his recommendation, if 
it should be rejected or evaded, by calling upon parliament for its aid. 

And observe how the Secretary of State actually proceeded in the former 
case. In 1824, he combined the various measures of reform, which were 
deemed necessary for Trinidad, into one enactment, and then obtained an 
order in council imposing all these measuses at once on that Colony. 
The colonists remonstrated against this summary process, but in vain. 
The mandate of the Secretary of State, thus backed, was imperative, and 
it proved also irresistible. The colonists of Trinidad clamored at first, 
but they submitted with the best grace they could, as soon eis they found 
clamour to be unavailing. The same course, with slight variations, has 



Ueview of Last Session of Parliament. — Colonial Independence. 280 

been generally pursued in the other crown colonies. In some instances, 
there has been a shew of consulting the local authorities, previous to 
the imposition of the enactment framed by the Secretary of State ; but 
if their opinions happened to be opposed to his recommendation, he 
forthwith assumed a more peremptory tone, and then that recommenda- 
tion was either prudently and quietly adopted, or, being backed by an 
order in council, became at once irresistible. 

Now what is there which can justify the Secretary of State, as far at 
least as the question of inexpediency or of danger is involved, in pursuing 
such a line of policy with respect to the crown colonies, which would 
not equally justify its adoption in the case of the colonies having local 
assemblies ? The only difference would be that the support which he de- 
rives in the one case from an order in council, he must derive in the other 
from an act of parliament. 

Is it just and right that he should be able to compel, by an order in 
council, the colonies of Trinidad, St. Lucia, Demerara, and Berbice, to 
submit to the laws he may prescribe for abolishing the cartwhip and the 
flogging of females ; granting to the slaves various civil rights, as those 
of property, redemption, marriage, evidence, &c. ; restoring to them the 
sabbath of which they have been iniquitously deprived ; interposing an 
independent protector of their rights against the encroachments of ar- 
bitrary power, and the injustice and oppressions of masters and their 
delegates : — Is this just and right? And is it not equally just and right, 
when Jamaica, Barbadoes, St. Kitts, Grenada, St. Vincents, and the 
other islands, having assemblies of their own, absolutely refuse to com- 
ply with these reasonable requisitions, that they also should be com- 
pelled to submit to them by an act of parliament, to the authority of 
which they are to the full as amenable as the others are to an order in 
council? Is there any greater hardship to the whites in the one case 
than in the other ? Is there any benefit conferred on the slaves by the 
compulsory enactment of the supreme legislative authority in the one 
case, which would not be equally attained by a similar compulsion in 
the other ? The danger too of interference between master and slave, 
in either case, whatever be its amount, is precisely the same : nor is 
there a single opposing consideration, drawn from that relation, which 
does not apply equally to both classes of colonies. In truth, however, 
experience has established, beyond controversy, the perfect safety of 
such interference. 

But we must have the concurrence, we are told, of the colonists, or 
all our legislation will be useless. Be it so. But is not that concur- 
rence equally necessary in Trinidad or Demerara, as in Jamaica or Bar- 
badoes ? You who make this objection have not been deterred, by this 
consideration, from imposing your just and humane reforms on Trinidad 
and Demerara. On what ground of consistency do you decline to im- 
pose them on Jamaica and Barbadoes? Are you not equally pledged 
respecting the one as the other? Are not your means of enforce- 
ment as legitimate and as irresistible in the one case as in the other ? 
Are not the king's black subjects in Jamaica and Barbadoes as fully en- 
titled to the protection of beneficent laws as those in Trinidad and De- 
merara? And if what is right to be done in the two first, must, as we 
are told, be done only by degrees, and without even the force of law» 



290 Review of Last Session of Parliament.— West India Legislation. 

and only by persuasion, why has not this principle been acted upon 
throughout, and applied to the two last also ? No weight was given in 
their case to the fear of irritation. The act of the king in council, 
aided by his colonial courts of law, put an end at once to all resistance. 
And would not an act of Parliament, administered by independent pro- 
tectors and other independent functionaries, have equal power in Jamaica 
and Barbadoes ? It is quite a new principle in British Legislation to be 
deterred, by the fear of irritating offenders, from enacting laws to punish 
their crimes, or to protect the weak from oppression and wrong. 

4. While indulgence is said to be due t© the West Indian legislators 
on account of their inaptitude for legislation, it seems to be assumed 
as the most desirable course, that the delicate and difficult task of legis- 
lating between master and slave, and of raising the latter to his master's 
moral, and social, and political level, should be committed to the masters 
alone. Now we confess that we differ entirely from this view of the 
subject, whether propounded by the friends or by the enemies of colo- 
nial reform. We are so far from being of this opinion, that we main- 
tain, with Mr. Canning, that there is a necessary and insuperable unfit- 
ness, in persons nurtured as it were in the lap of slavery and in habits 
of uncontrolled despotism, to legislate efficaciously, with a view to the 
protection and freedom, and the eventual civil equality of their bonds- 
men. And so have our ministers thought in the case of Trinidad, 
Demerara, Berbice, St. Lucia, the Cape of Good Hope, and the Mauri- 
tius, with their 250,000 slaves. The colonists there have been regarded, 
it is true, as unapt legislators for such a purpose, but they have not, on 
that account, been indulged with the liberty of passing such crude, and 
partial, and selfish acts, as must necessarily result from the combination 
of gross ignorance of general principles, with the habitual practice of 
unmeasured despotism, and from the pride, passion, and prejudice 
which are, and must be, their unfailing fruits. On the contrary, the 
colonial Secretary, backed by the authority of the king in council, has 
peremptorily prescribed, to the slave holders of these colonies, not only 
the measures that are to be enacted, but the very terms in which the 
enactments are to be expressed. No material deviation from these terms 
has been permitted. And it is impossible to go through the despatches 
of Lord Bathurst, when Secretary of State, without perceiving that his 
conviction of the inaptitude of the colonists for the work of legislation, 
had determined him not only not to throw upon them that task, but, on 
the contrary, wholly to relieve them from it ; and that, therefore, he had 
imposed upon them, without scruple, the laws which were thought neces- 
sary, clothing those laws in the terms, and arming them with the sanctions, 
which were deemed to be best adapted to the ends of enlightened legisla- 
tion. We are not now considering the sufficiency or insufficiency of 
these laws for their professed purpose, but simply the course which 
Government has thought it wise and politic to pursue with respect to 
the above six colonies. — But what are the peculiar internal circumstances 
of these six colonies, which have rendered it so necessary that they should 
not be left to frame a slave code for themselves, and that the very form 
and language of it should be peremptorily prescribed by the king in 
council; while it is inexpedient and undesirable that, in the remaining 
thirteen colonies, parliament shoulddo for them what the king in council 



Review of Last Session of Parliament. — West India Legislation. 291 

has done for the others? What is the radical ground of distinction? 
None whatever, except that the propriety of such a policy might be 
rendered, if possible, still more apparent in the case of the Colonies 
Jiaving legislative assemblies of their own, than in that of the others. 
Let any one contemplate the absurdity of investing each petty commu- 
nity of whites in the West Indies with all the attributes of a parlia- 
ment, and calling them to deliberate and decide, on the gravest questions 
in legislation, for persons with whom they have no feelings of social and 
civil sympathy, and no sense of identity of interest, but whom they re- 
gard as their goods and chattels, as mere instruments of profit; from 
whose bones and sinews, from whose wasted health and shortened life, 
from whose incessant and uncompensated toil, wrung from them by the 
compelling and torturing power of the cartwhip or the cat, they derive 
their income, their means of gratification and even of subsistence. And 
then consider how this white community is composed. We need only refer 
our readers for an accurate account of a considerable portion of it to a 
living authority of great respectability, the Right Honourable Hugh 
Elliot, who, after a residence for some time as Governor in the Leeward 
Islands, thus describes, in a despatch to Lord Liverpool, of Novem- 
ber 21, 1810, the dominant class of their inhabitants. Speaking of the 
state of the local governments, he observes, " I do not apprehend that 
the defects complained of are to be ascribed principally to the remissness 
or culpability of their leading members. The root of the evil lies deeper. 
The fact is, the governments of these Islands were formed in times 
when many of the proprietors lived upon their estates, and the white 
population was more numerous than it now is. Of the free white in- 
habitants who remain, managers, overseers, self-created lawyers, self- 
educated physicians, and adventurous merchants, with little real capital 
and scanty credit, comprise the greatest part. The acquirements of edu- 
cation, among many of this description of persons, are very unequal to 
the task of taking a share in the Governments. The prevalence of 
principle is also, I fear, not to be fairly calculated from the repetition of 
the hackneyed expressions of which an ostentatious use is frequently 
made in addresses, and on all occasions meant to meet the public eye at 
home. To collect, from such a state of society, men fit to be legisla- 
tors, judges, or jurymen is perfectly impracticable. Individual interest, 
personal influence, animosity of party feuds, weigh down the scale of 
justice, and direct the course of legislative authority into acts of arbi- 
trary and unjustifiable power, cloaked under the semblance, and digni- 
fied with the name of constitutional acts. * In short, I apprehend the 
defects prevailing in the present state of the governments cannot be re- 
medied without a future appeal to the wisdom of His Majesty's en- 
lightened councils at home." And yet it is to these men we deem it 
right to intrust the solution of perhaps the most difficult problem in le- 
gislation, the peaceful transmutation of slaves into freemen! 

If the fairness of Mr. Elliot's description is doubted, look at their sta- 

* The aggregate of the whole constituent body of the thirteen independent 
West India Legislatures, does not equal, either in number or respectability » 
the electors of the single borough of Leicester. 



'292 Review of the Last Session of Parliament. 

tute books. Read the disgusting and barbarous enactments which per- 
vade them, marking throughout the uniform effect of unmeasured des- 
potism stimulated by cupidity, in Winding the understanding, hard- 
ening the heart, and deadening every human sympathy. Examine even 
their latest and best efforts of legislation : examine them with the com- 
mentaries, not to say of the Anti-Slavery Society, but of Lord Bathurst 
and Mr. Huskisson, in your hands, and you will at once be convinced of 
the utter hopelessness and impossibility of seeing the pledges of parlia- 
ment fulfilled, by leaving to colonial legislators the construction of 
their slave codes. This is a work which parliament is constitutionally 
empowered to effect, and which parliament alone can accomplish. We 
trust that the people of England will become more deeply impressed 
every day with this truth, and that they will not rest from their efforts, 
their prayers, and their remonstrances, until they shall have fixed the 
same conviction deep in the minds of their representatives. 

We had intended to have laid before our readers the substance of two 
speeches which were delivered by Lord Seaford, in the House of Lords, 
in reply to Lord Calthorpe, with our comments upon them, but our 
space is exhausted, and we must defer our purpose. When we have 
the opportunity of resuming the subject, his Lordship will find that 
we have not been inattentive to his claims on the public attention. 
In the mean time let it suflSce to remark, that in the whole of his two 
elaborate speeches, there scarcely occurs a single position which we 
are not prepared to controvert. 

It was also our intention to have given an abstract of the various 
discussions which have taken place on the subject of the sugar duties, 
and other points connected with the West Indian monopoly, but we are 
under the necessity of postponing, for the present, any reference to that 
important question. 

We are further compelled to defer the analysis, which we had pre- 
pared, of the reports lately published, with no small ostentation, on the 
subject of religious instruction in the West Indies. These, we regret to 
say, are marked by some of the same traits of delusion which have so 
generally characterized the representations of the colonists on the sub- 
ject of reform ; but which, we had hoped, would have found no place 
in the publications of religious societies. 



All Communications to be addressed to the Secretary of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
18, Aldermanbury, London; tohtre the publications of the Society are on sale, 
Hud also at Hatchard's, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 



London: Bagsttr aufl Tlionis, Printers, 14, t3artholome\vClose 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER 



No. 40.] For SEPTEMBER, 1828. [No. 16. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, wlien not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



REVIEW OF THE LAST SESSION OF PARLIAMENT.— SPEECHES 
OF LORD SEAFORD, WITH CURSORY OBSERVATIONS UPON 
THEM. 

We promised, at the close of the last Reporter, to make some remarks 
on the positions contained in two speeches said to have been delivered 
in the House of Lords by Lord Seaford, on the 23d of June and the 
1 8th of July last. We proceed to fulfil our promise. 

The main object of the first of these speeches (which was a mere ab- 
stract of a great part of Mr. Wilmot Morton's pamphlet, " The West 
India question practically considered,") was to show that the abolition- 
ists had departed from the principles they formerly professed on, the 
subject of the extinction of slavery. While the slave trade still existed, 
Mr. Fox, Mr. Brougham, and Mr. Wilberforce himself, his Lordship 
labours to prove, had deprecated any parliamentary interference with 
the colonial legislatures ; and were of opinion, that, the slave trade being 
abolished, the measures to be subsequently taken for improving the 
condition of the slaves should be left to the colonial assemblies. He 
also cites the Directors of the African Institution as looking forward to 
emancipation not by any convulsion, nor even by the effect of positive 
law, but by a benign though insensible revolution in opinions and man- 
ners ; by the encouragement of individual manumissions ; and by a pro- 
gressive amelioration of the condition of the slaves, producing an in- 
crease of their numbers ; of which changes their masters would be the 
authors and the willing instruments, and by means of which slavery 
would silently and imperceptibly glide into freedom. 

If the point were at all material, it would be easy to show that Lord 
Seaford's representation of the early views of the abolitionists is altoge- 
ther incorrect. Those who deem the matter worth a moment's inquiry 
may consult a pamphlet published in 1823, for the Anti-Slavery Society, 
and entitled " A Review of the Arguments against parliamentary inter- 
tierence on behalf of the Negro Slaves," in which is given a statement of 
the views, on that subject, of many of our most eminent statesmen, in= 

2 o 



'194 Review of the last Session of Parliament. 

eluding the names of Burke, Pitt, Dundas, Fox, Windham, Granville, 
Grey, Canning, Romilly, Wilberforce, &c. At the same time we have 
no solicitude to prove, that none of the earlier abolitionists entertained, 
at one time, sentiments which have subsequently been modified, or even 
reversed, by a change of circumstances, — by a more correct knowledge of 
facts, by improved lights and increasing experience, by the occurrence 
of unlooked-for opposition, and- by the misconduct of those on whom 
they may have relied for aid and co-operation. To Lord Seaford, there- 
fore, we would say, as we have already said, in reply to Mr. Wilmot 
Horton, that if, at a former period, the abolitionists were led to place an 
undeserved and unwarranted confidence in the purposes of the colonists, 
respecting the improvement of the condition of their slaves, neither 
they, nor those who have entered into their labours, are to be blamed as 
wanting in good faith, because the experience of thirty or forty years 
has satisfied them that their confidence was misplaced, and that all hope 
of improvement, except from parliamentary interference, has become 
vain and illusory. 

But have Lord Seaford's own opinions undergone no revolution ? 
Has he forgot that, during his early parliamentary career, he was (as we 
shall hereafter show) the strenuous supporter of the slave trade, and the 
opponent of its abolition ? And yet he now praises that very measure, 
and concurs in attributing to it the most salutary results. He then also 
(we allude to the year 1797) praised as loudly as he does now the con- 
dition of the slave population. We contend indeed that since that time 
it has undergone little or no improvement. But this ianot the language 
of him and of his party. They maintain, with Mr. Dwarris, that a most 
signal and complete change for the better has taken place since 1797. 
And yet Lord Seaford's eulogy of the slave system in 1797 may be sub- 
stituted for that of 1828, without detracting from the force of the latter. 
The truth is there never has been, and never will be, in the grammar of 
slave-holders, any present tense for the- oppressions of slavery.* When 
has any one, of them, even Lord Seaford himself, been found to come 
forward, voluntarily, to denounce, instead of to palliate and defend, 
its evils ? 

We do not deny, indeed, that some excuse may be made for his 
Lordship. He is the proprietor of perhaps a thousand negroes. A large 
part of his income, many of his enjoyments, and probably even the ele- 
vation of his rank, are the fruits of their bondage, of their forced and 
uncompensated toil, of what we regard as their degradation and oppres- 
sion. Now it is perfectly natural that Lord Seaford should be anxious 
to persuade himself and others that there is nothing, in this dependence 
of his on the slavery of his fellow-creatures, which should wound his 
self-esteem, or abate the confidence of the public in his statements re- 
specting that condition of society ; and that he should endeavour, nay, 
that he should even succeed in the endeavour, to hide from his own view 
the deformity of the system with which he is so very closely and profit- 
tably connected. But though this be natural, and may serve as some 
apology both for his Lordship's views of the subject, and for his vitupe- 

• See Anti-Slavery Reporters, No. 18, p. 255, and No. 37, p. 250. 



Lord Seqfoi'd on the Vacillation of the Abolitionists. 295 

ration of those who differ from him, yet the public, whose eyes are 
open, are not unlikely, we apprehend, to form a somewhat different 
judgment from his Lordship, and to doubt whether his testimony or his 
advocacy, in favour of colonial bondage, derives the weight to which 
his private character might otherwise entitle it, from his being the pro- 
prietor^of a thousand slaves. 

Lord Seaford professes to entertain views now which are exactly 
in unison with those which were formerly held by the abolitionists. 
To the abolitionists, however, at the time he alleges them to have held 
those views, he was stoutly opposed. Thirty years ago, it seems from 
his statement of their sentiments, they hoped that the effect of abolish- 
ing the slave trade, would be an improvement in the condition of the 
slaves, and a consequent increase of the native slave population. But, 
supposing that to have been the case, in what way has this hope been 
realized ? Instead of an increase of the population, the fact is, that 
there has been a progressive decrease ; nor does his Lordship attempt to 
shew that the intensity and continuity of their labours, which were 
always the great sources of that decrease, have been diminished, or that 
women do not still bear an equal share with the men, in the exhausting- 
labours of the field, under a tropical sun, and impelled by the lash of 
the driver. Even in Jamaica, where Lord Seaford's estates lie, and even 
if the new act of 1826 had not been disallowed, eleven hours and a half 
of such labour might, by law, be daily exacted from them, independently 
of a variety of other offices which cannot be dispensed with ; and to all 
this, during five months of the year, the toil of half the night might still 
be superadded. And what other results could be expected from such a 
system than those which have actually followed from it, namely, a frightful 
waste of human life ; and, in the women, almost an extinction of the very 
powers of procreation.* Accordingly, while population, in every other 
part of the world, is advancing ; while the negro slaves in the United 
States, and the free negroes of Hayti ; nay, while the free negroes and 
people of colour in our West Indian possessions, including the maroons 
of Jamaica, are doubling their numbers in periods of from twenty to 
thirty-five years, the colonial slaves of Great Britain are annually 
diminishing. Among the 330,000 slaves of Jamaica there is a positive 
waste of human life, as compared either with the free blacks of Hayti, 
or the negro slaves of the United States, amounting to little short of 
10,000 human beings annually. And to what can we attribute this 
enormous waste of life, but to the system of oppression under which 
they groan ? 

We are perfectly ready to yield to Lord Seaford the fullest credit for 
an earnest desire to promote the comfort and well-being of his own 
slaves. And yet is it possible for us wholly to overlook the results of 
the colonial system, even as it is administered, under his dir-ections, by 

* It has been affirmed, and apparently on sufficient data, though we ourselves, 
have had no opportunity of veriCying them, that, in Mexico, the annual proportion 
of births to the whole population, is one in eighteen, or five and a half per cent. ; 
while, in Jamaica, it is only one in ibrfy-two, or two and a half per cent. Sup- 
posing this fact established, what stronger confirmation could be given of the 
cuTse which colonial slavery entails on its victims ! 



296 Lord Seaford—Slave Population, S^c. 

stipendiary agents, at a distance of some thousand miles from his own 
immediate inspection and effectual control 'I The following appear to 
be the returns of the slave population, on three estates belonging to his 
Lordship, between the month of March, 1820, and the month of March, 
1824: 

March, 1820. March, 1824. 
Shettlewood . . 155 148 

New Montpelier . 354 328 

Old Montpelier . 416 399 

925 875 

' These revarns exhibit a decrease, in four years, of fifty lives, or 
nearly five and a half per cent., being at the rate of a little more than 
one and a half per cent, per annum. If, during that period, his slaves 
had increased only in the proportion of the maroons, who reside in their 
immediate vicinity, that is to say, at the rate of two per cent, per annum, 
they would have grown to 1000. Instead of this fhey have decreased 
to 875, being a difference, in four years, of 125, or from a seventh to 
an eighth of the whole.* 

We select this instance as exhibiting a view of the operation of the 
colonial system under its most favourable aspect. We cannot doubt 
for one moment that the slaves of Lord Seaford enjoy a rate of comfort 
not below, but above, the average rate. Will even his Lordship then 
deem us unreasonable, if, in the contemplation of such results, we can 
no longer indulge those day-dreams of improvement and ultimate free- 
dom, wrought out by the humanity of the planters themselves, which, 
some thirty or forty years ago, may have floated in dim and distant vision 
before the minds of some abolitionists? They have long since vanished, 
and it is with deep regret, and bitter disappointment, we are forced to 
declare, that we have no hope to see any remedy, for the evils we 
deplore, proceeding voluntarily from those to whose agency Lord 
Seaford in 1828, as in 1797, would still persuade us to trust. For our 
own parts, we can now expect no such remedy, except from the direct 
interposition of Parliament, or from the more awful and uncontrollable 
interposition of the Divine power and providence. 

The abolitionists therefore, we maintain, may have been JHStified,thirty 
or forty years ago, in looking forward to the extinction of slavery in the 
West Indies, by means similar to those which had put an end to 
villenage in England, namely, a progressive amelioration in the con- 
dition of the slaves, the unforced fruit of the masters' humanity, 
leading to a progressive and rapid increase in their numbers, until 
slavery should glide insensibly into freedom ; and yet it might be 
perfectly inexcusable in them if they were now to indulge in any such 
expectation. 

And here let it be carefully noted, that there are some grand and 
essential distinctions between the existing slavery of our Colonies and 
the ancient villenage of England. It would be endless to recount 



* If there be any inaccuracy in these returns it will, of course, be capable of 

txplanafion. We can only take them as we find them. 



Lord Seaford — Manumissions, ^c. 297 

them all. We will at present advert only to one. Villenage had no 
bounties or protecting duties to support it : it therefore fell before the 
competition of free labour. If then Lord Seaford really desires, as he 
says, the termination of colonial slavery, *' by the same means which 
formerly put an end to it in England," he will assist in removing those 
bounties and protections which prevent that happy change from taking 
place in the West Indies, which they would have equally prevented 
in England had they existed there. If he duly considers the subject, 
he cannot fail to attain to a full conviction that while, by such 
means, the value of the slaves is artificially raised, and the destruction 
of their lives is largely paid for in the high prices of slave grown sugar, 
imposed by those bounties and protecting duties on the people of 
England, there will not, and there cannot, be any rapid increase of the 
population, and no hope can be rationally indulged of effectual im- 
provement, and still less of an emancipation of which the masters 
will be the willing instruments or authors. 

We think it unnecessary to make any general remarks on the hope, 
said to have been cherished by the abolitionists, of a termination to 
slavery by encouragement to be given by masters to individual manu- 
missions, because the whole policy of the West Indians, from the com- 
mencement of this controversy to the present hour, has been to dis- 
courage manumissions, and indeed, in many cases, to obstruct, by fines 
and other expedients, the free exercise even of the master's benevolence. 
We shall here content ourselves for the present with referring again 
to Lord Seaford's own case. After examining with great care the 
returns, from Jamaica, of the manumissions effected there in six years, 
namely from 1821 to 1826, we find only one case recorded of voluntary 
manumission by his Lordship. It is the case of Catherine Dodd, (we 
believe) and her children ; the concubine and mulatto offspring, it may 
be presumed, of one of his overseers. But this, though a voluntary, is 
by no means a gratuitous act of manumission, on the part of his 
Lordship ; the price paid to him, fof the mother and children, having 
been £700 currency or £500 sterling. 

Having now noticed all that appears to be material in the first speech 
of Lord Seaford, we come now to the second, as it is reported to have 
been delivered by his Lordship on the 18th of last July. 

1. His Lordship by no means agreed with Lord Calthorpe in be- 
lieving, that there existed an indisposition (amounting almost it would 
seem according to him to a physical disqualification) in the inhabitants 
of the slave colonies, to concur in the views of Parliament and of 
the country for ameliorating the condition of the slaves. He was 
satisfied, on the contrary, that there existed a sincere desire among 
them to ameliorate that condition, which desire was only checked by a 
due regard to the public tranquillity, and the security of property. If 
any other obstacles had arisen from intemperate feelings, on the part of 
the inhabitants of the colonies, the cause was to be traced, he said, 
to the intemperate feelings, and to the unmeasured and indiscreet 
conduct, of the advocates of emancipation, in short, of what is called 
the Anti- Slavery party. 



298 Lord Seaford— Indisposition of Colonists to Reform. 

Our reply to this statement, the truth of which we wholly deny, will 
be found in the following facts. 

In 1797, (we have already referred to this period,) Lord Seaford, 
then Mr. Ellis, moved an address to His Majesty, praying him to call 
on the different colonial legislatures, to adopt such measures as should 
" appear to them best calculated to obviate the causes ivhich have 
hitherto impeded the natural increase of the negroes, in order gra- 
dually to diminish the necessity of the slave trade, and tdtimately to 
lead to its complete termination ; and with a view to the same effects^ 
to employ such means as might conduce to the moral and religious 
improvement of the negroes, and promote their happiness by securing 
to them, throughout all the British West India Islands, the certain, 
immediate, and active protection of the latv." This motion was 
brought forward by the authority of the same West India Committee, of 
which we believe"^ Lord Seaford is now, if he was not then, the 
Chairman. It was supported by all the West Indians at that time in 
Parliament; and the language employed by its advocates was throughout 
of the most conciliatory and even complimentary description towards 
the colonists. Still, however, it would appear that the West India Com- 
mittee of that day so far distrusted the disposition of the colonies, 
that they thought it necessary to communicate confidentially with the 
different colonial authorities, in order to give them every possible 
assurance, that the true object of the motion was not what it might seem 
at first sight to be, (namely to terminate the slave trade, and really to 
improve the condition of the slaves,) but that it was actually designed 
to prevent the passing of an act of Parliament for the abolition of the 
slave trade, " an act," as they say in a formal resolution, which, " should 
it ever pass the British Parliament, would be fatal to the West Indies." 
To avert this dreadful issue, therefore, they further resolve, that 
" for the joint purpose of opposing the plan of Mr. Wilberforce, and 
cstabhshing the character of the West India body, it is essential that they 
(the colonial legislatures) should manifest their willingness to promote 
actively the cause of humanity, by such steps as shall be consistent 
with safety to the property of individuals, and the general interests 
of the Colonies." The communication of these resolutions of the West 
India Committee, was accompanied by a circular letter from Sir William 
Young, the Secretary of that body, declaring it to be indispensable 
" to take some steps in the colonies, by legislative provisions, touchmg 
the situation of the negroes in respect to society, and to promote a 
natural increase of their population; and thus not only to stop, for 
the present, but to supersede the very pretensions, at a future period, 
to a measure of direct abolition of the slave trade by the mother 
country; a measure which would blast the root of all our settlements of 
property, change the foundation of every bequest, loan, and security ; 
turn every mortgage into an annuity on the lives of the negroes ; in- 
stitute a general system of foreclosure ; and, depreciating our estates, 
preclude all immediate resources, and ruin every interest." 

Our object in bringing forward these facts, is not to expose the 
gross disingenuousness of the conduct pursued by the West India 



Lord Seciford — JBffect of his conciliaiory Motion. 299 

party in the whole of this transaction ; that being sufficiently effected by 
the bare detail of it ; but to shew that though no pains were spared to con- 
ciliate the colonists, and to induce them to concur in taking " some steps" 
which should " manifest a willingness " to improve the condition of the 
slaves, yet nothing whatever was done by them to that effect ; nor was 
any such thing even seriously contemplated by them, until, in 1823, the 
Anti-Slavery Society called upon parliament and the public to interfere. 
" Then," says Lord Seaford, " when this question was brought before 
parliament — in the very first instance — before the colonial governments 
had been tried, and therefore, before they had given any grounds for dis- 
satisfaction or distrust," did the Anti-Slavery party call upon parliament 
to take the work of legislating for the colonies into its own hands. 

We certainly feel some surprise, that Lord Seaford should have made 
such a statement as this. No cause for dissatisfaction or distrust ! No 
trial made of the colonial governments \ And yet, after nearly thirty 
years had elapsed from the period of the above motion of Lord Seaford, 
not one of his own suggestions, though backed by the earnest recom- 
mendations of His Majesty, had been adopted by the West Indian le- 
gislatures, but on the contrary, all of them had been treated with utter 
disregard. Their neglect of the royal and parliamentary propositions of 
that day is undisputed. No public provision whatever, for the religious 
instruction of the slaves, or for the institution of marriage, had, in 1823, 
been adopted. Missionaries, instead of having been encouraged, had 
been treated, in most of the colonies, and in none more than in Jamaica, 
with contempt and even persecution. No Sunday had been given to 
the slaves. Nor had one effective measure be3n taken to secure to them 
the due, certain, and active protection of law, 

, Fifteen years after this recommendation, (in 1811) what is the testi- 
mony of Sir William Young himself, the quondam Secretary of the 
West Indian Committee, in an official Report to the Secretary of State, 
when he had become the Governor of Tobago ? It was this. " I think 
the slaves have, by law, no protection." " There appears to me a radical 
defect in the administration of justice throughout the West Indies, in 
whatever case the wrongs done to a slave are under consideration. 
Justice cannot, in truth, be administered, controlled, as it is, by a law of 
evidence which covers the most guilty European with impunity." — In 
1817, what is the report from the West Indies of some of the clergy? 
It is this, " If the negroes come to church, they must starve, as Sunday 
is the only day they have to cultivate their gardens, and to go to 
market." — In 1823, what had been done to amend this state of things? 
We boldly challenge Lord Seaford to give an answer to this question. 
Even in Jamaica, if the slave law of 1788 is compared with that of 1816, 
(its latest edition,) it will be found that no improvement had taken 
place with respect either lo the religious instruction and education of the 
slaves, or to their effectual protection by law. Lord Seaford himself 
had allowed twenty-six years to elapse without having taken a single 
step to promote the moral and religious improvement of his own slaves, 
by affording them the means of education ; or by giving them Sunday as 
a day of rest and religious instruction ; or by encouraging marriage ; 
or by repressing immoralities ; or by abolishing the driving system ; or 



3®0 Lord Seaford— Violation of Property by Aholitionlsts. 

by exempting women from the labour of the field, or from the punish- 
ment of the cart-whip. All, in short, remained in 1823, both in law 
and in fact, in precisely the same state, as lo moral and religious im- 
provement, and as to the effectual, legal, protection of the slave, which 
the very resolution proposed by Lord Seaford fully admitted to exist in 
1797. The slaves were then in a state of pagan ignorance, and they 
were unprotected by law. In 1823, notwithstanding all the conciliatory 
propositions which had been made, had any thing effectual been done, 
by the colonial legislatures, to remedy that state of things ? Effectively 
nothing.* The slaves were still left without any legal provision for their 
education or instruction, or any effectual protection by law. And yet 
Lord Seaford scruples not to affirm, that no trial had been made of the 
colonial legislatures, and that no ground had been given for dissatisfac- 
tion with their conduct, or distrust of their dispositions ! Surely this 
is not quite fair on the part of his Lordship. 

2. Lord Seaford tnen proceeds to accuse the abolitionists of having 
set out with a proposal, the effect of which was a direct violation of the 
property of all the owners of slaves, " It was proposed," he says, " to 
enact that all the children of slaves, born after some short period from 
the date of the enactment, should be declared free ; by which act, the 
property of every owner of a slave would have been at once converted 
from a property in fee to a life interest." " But was this attack 
of property accompanied," asks his Lordship, " with any offer of com- 
pensation ? No. On the contrary, it was accompanied by a doctrine 
which struck at the root of all compensation. It was argued then, and 
it has since been many times asserted, that the title to such property 
was fundamentally vicious, that it was tainted in its origin by acts of 
violence and injustice, — and was inconsistent with the rights of man, 
which forbade that man should be the property of man." 

His Lordship then, after endeavouring to shew the mischievous con- 
sequences to all kinds of property, if the possessors of it should be 
called upon to prove that their title was free from all taint of violence 
and injustice; and also the dangerous effect which such doctrine might 
have on the minds of the slaves,t proceeds to say, that " Whatever 
may be the justice of this principle, as between the slave and those 

* We reserve ourselves on the subject of religious instruction. In the mean 
time we would remark, that the Curates' Act of 181G forms no valid objection 
to what is said above. It was not calculated for any purpose of good, and its 
chief effect was that of prostituting the holy sacrament of baptism, so as to 
throw dust in the eyes of the people of England, and to put some money into 
the pockets of the colonial clergy. Even in 1825, the Bishop says, that, in the 
parislies of the interior, there was actually no semblance of the forms of religious 
worship. — The only material change in the present slave code, as compared with • 
that of 1788, was adding ten days for cultivating the slaves provision grounds to 
the number formerly allowed. By law, slaves were as unprotected as before. 

t This is a stale argument for blinking the truth, and cloaking injustice and 
oppression. It was used still more vehemently in the slave trade debates of 
1807.— It is vain to hope, that the slaves can be instructed in the doctrines of 
Christianity, even if they had not the feelings of men, without making them to 
(comprehend the radical injustice of the bondage in which they are held. They 
may learn submission to tlie yoke. They never can learn to think it otherwise 
than an outrage on their own rights, as well as on humanity and religion. 



Lord SeafortCs Speech— On the Right of Property in Men. 301 

who had originally imposed upon them the condition of slavery; it 
could not, with any sort of fairness, be applied to a question between 
the owners of the slaves in the colonies, and the government of the 
mother country, who, with a view to her o\vn special interests, had 
established the state of slavery in her colonies, had given to her mer- 
chants the monopoly of the slave trade, and sanctioned the purchase 
of the slaves by the inhabitants of the colonies. As against the mother 
country, then, the title of the owners of the slave was complete and 
conclusive, in bar of any right on the part of the mother country, to 
annihilate or injure, in any degree, that pioperty." 

We are perfectly willing to admit, in the fullest and most explicit 
manner, the truth of that part of this charge which attributes to us the 
belief and avowal that the title to such property is fundamentally 
vicious, — tainted to the very core. Nay, we believe that the holding of 
such property, as it is held in the colonies, is a crime ; an outi^age on 
the spirit and the precepts of the Christian religion ; a practice radi- 
cally inhuman, unjust, and unconstitutional; a foul slain on the cha- 
racter of this country ; and a source of guilt not to those only who 
directly participate in its polluted gains, but to all who, with their eyes 
open, continue to uphold or to palliate its enormities. This view of 
the subject we not only do not deny : we proclaim it aloud : we place it 
as the corner-stone of our association : it is the grand motive and stimulus 
to our exertions. Here we can admit no compromise of principle, in 
deference to any man or set of men. And we think ourselves borne out in 
this view of slavery, by the conduct of the legislature respecting the 
slave trade. For is it not in slavery that the slave trade has its origin ? 
Is it not the market provided by the slave-holder which supplies the 
direct incentive to all the crimes of a trade in slaves ? The slave trade is 
now constituted a crime of the deepest die. The slave trader is a felon 
and a pirate. And if the . atrocities of the slave trade exceed those of 
slavery, yet surely the principle of both is identically the same; equally 
opposed to morality and religion ; and equally indefensible on every 
plea of financial and commercial expediency. An act of parliament 
or a degree of latitude cannot annul a principle, or turn moral guilt 
into innocence. And who, we ask, is able to adjust, in nicely- 
balanced scales, the sum of practical misery which the slave trade and 
slavery respectively produce? The evils of the first are now well 
known and appreciated. Even the advocates of West India slavery 
admit they are no longer to be endured. After years of furious oppo- 
sition and' bitter obloquy against the earlier abolitionists, as now against 
those of this day, it has become the fashion with them, to repudiate 
the former object of their fond and affectionate attachment, the slave 
trade. But who that is disinterested, can condemn the slave trade, 
and yet contemplate the evils of slavery without kindred feelings 
of horror ? " Can we think of a protracted and irremediable and per- 
petual bondage, living through the life of the slave, and renewed in his 
children and children's children to the latest generation ; — of the con- 
stantly impending scourge and the interminable toil to which it urges ; 
of the blows, the stocks, the contempt, the degradation, the hunger, 
the lassitude, the disease, the anguish of broken and bleeding hearts, to 
which the slave is liable ;— can we think of all the nameless and scarcely 

2p 



302 Lord Seafurd's Speech-^ On Compensation. 

conceivable agonies which await those whose own destinies, 'and those 
of every endeared relation — wife, husband, child — are bound up in 
the will of another, from whose tyranny and caprice there is no pro- 
tection in law ;— can we think, in short, of all the demoralizing, and 
dehumanizing, and still more the anti-christianizing effects of such 
a system ; and not be at some loss to discover any very cogent reason 
for exempting the slavery which exists in our colonies from a mora! 
reprobation as severe as we pass on the slave trade itself, or for ex- 
hiljiting the former as less an outrage than the latter on every prin- 
ciple of justice, humanity, and true religion?" 

But Lord Seaford would infer, from our holding this view of the 
subject that we strike at the root of compensation, and thus attack 
those general and sacred rights of property which ought not ever 
to be violated. The inference is neither necessary nor obvious. We 
freely admit, however, that the nation are here parties, and are at least 
equally guilty with (or if the noble Lord will have it so, more guilty 
than) the planters ; and it is for that very reason, and because we view 
the matter in this light, that we are disposed to proclaim its guilt so 
loudly. We are anxious not only that the planters should repent of 
their evil deeds, but that the Parliament and people of this country 
should do so too. And while we think that the Parliament and the people 
are equally bound with the West Indians to retrace their steps, and to 
make at length an ample though tardy reparation to the victims of 
their common crime, we think also that they are equally bound to 
sustain the cost of that reparation. Our view of the radical iniquity, 
the incurable injustice of colonial slavery, has no necessary tendency, 
therefore, to exclude, from equitable consideration, any claim which 
the slave-holders may have on Parliament and the country. That 
they may have such a claim we do not deny ; but both parties we 
conceive would better mark their penitence by forthwith agreeing, first 
to abandon their crime, and then to settle the account of mdemnities 
between themselves, than by railing either at each other, or at those 
who denounce the evil, yet profess their readiness to bear a part in the 
cost of bringing it to an early and effectual termination. 

We perfectly concur with Lord Seaford, that the question is not a 
question between the planters and the slaves, but between the planters 
and the nation at large. And this very opmion he will find the Anti- 
Slavery Society promulgated within a few weeks of its first formation, 
and has since uniformly maintained. In "A" Brief View" of the sub- 
ject, published in April, 18 -3, and of which some scores of thousands of 
copies have been circulated, and many are still circulating, stand the 
following passages : 

" It is by no means intended to attribute the existence and continu- 
ance of this most opprobrious system to our Colonies exclusively. On 
the contrary, the guilt and shame arising from it belong, in perhaps 
an equal degree, to the people and Parliament of this country. But 
on that very account are we the more rigidly bound to lose no time in 
investigating the state of colonial bondage, and in adopting such 
measures as shall bring it to the earliest termination, compatible with 
the well-being of the parties who sustain its grievous yoke." 
'-' It is our clear and indispensable duty completely to reform otir 



Lord Seaford — On Compensation, 303 

present colonial system, even if it should require a large pecuniary 
sacrifice to accomplish that object The colonists say, they shall sus- 
tain a great actual loss by the proposed change. If so, they will have 
an opportunity of preferring and establishing their claim. But what- 
ever the extent of that claim may be, it is obvious that it attaches, not to 
the negro bondsman, but to the British nation. It would be repugnant 
to every idea of equity, if we were to discharge any debt we may owe the 
colonists, not from our own resources, but with the toil and sweat and 
blood of our African brethren." 

So far then, with respect to the general principle. Lord Seaford and 
ourselves seem to be in perfect agreement ; and we conclude, therefore, 
that he would concur with us in indignantly reprobating the principle 
which, in substance, some West Indian advocates have not scrupled to 
put forward, and which we have already endeavoured to stigmatize 
as it deserves, (see Anti-Slavery Reporter, No, 11, p. 170), — "That 
though it is admitted that the British nation and the colonists have 
been guilty of a great crime in enslaving the negroes, yet compensation 
is due, not from the criminals to each other, or to the victims of their 
crime, but is due from the negroes to their oppressors ; and that in 
order to furnish this compensation to the criminals, the unoffending 
victims of their common crime may be retained for ages, if need be, in 
their present abject and degraded state." 

But, says Lord Seaford, " It was proposed to enact that all the 
children of slaves should be declared free ; by which act the property of 
every slave-owner would be converted from a property in fee, into a life 
interest.* But was this attack of property accompanied with any offer 
of compensation ? No." — We are again not a little surprised at his 
Lordship's inaccuracy respecting facts of so recent a date, and the cir- 
cumstance raises a strong presumption against the general clearness of his 
recollections. We are not now discussing the principle of compensa- 
tion, or whether children should be made free with or without it : we are 
merely considering the truth of Lord Seaford's unhesitating affirmation 
that " it was proposed to enact" the liberty of all children of slaves 
to be hereafter born, and that too " unaccompanied with any offer of com- 
pensation." We ask him when and where ? — On the 15th of May, 
1823, Mr. Buxton certainly did, in the House of Commons, state it to 
be his intention to move, among various other measures, that all chil- 
dren of slaves should hereafter be born free, the planter having no just 
claim to them ; but he added, " When I say that the planter has no 
claim against the slave, I do not say that he has no claim against the 
British nation. If slavery be an injustice, it is an injustice which has 
been licensed by British law. But whatever be the claim of the planter 
against the British Government, he can pretend to none to the person 
of a child born of negro parents." And at the close of the debate, in 
reply to Mr. Baring, who accused him of not having whispered a sylla- 
ble about compensation, he said, '^ I appeal to the House whether there 
is justice in the charge. J clearly and explicitly declaied my opinion 

* See the identity of this proposition with his old argument in 179f , on the 
slave trade, (above, p. 298, near the bottom of the page). 



304 Lord- Seaford -Parliamentary Interference. 

that the question of compensation to the planter was one that merited 
attention. The crime is ours, and ours must be the expence of getting 
rid of it." Wherein then does Mr. Buxton differ from Lord Seaford ? 
But this was not all. Mr. Buxton laid before His Majesty's Government, 
only a few days after this debate, a detailed plan, with a view to the 
emancipation, the due education, and the maintenance of the children 
who should be born hereafter. A prominent part of this plan was a 
large indemnity to the planters for the children so to be freed, an 
indemnity, in fact, which would have been far more than their actual 
value ! Mr. Canning was understood, at the time, to have consulted 
Lord Seaford upon this plan, but his Lordship may have forgotten it. 
If he now wishes for it he may be furnished with a copy. 

Mr. Canning having, however, signified his unwillingness to adopt 
this plan, another was proposed to him, which Lord Seaford may see in 
the Appendix to the Anti-Slavery Society's second Report, p. 168 — 179. 
Of this plan, which he will also find to have embraced the principle 
of ample compensation, both Mr. Canning and Lord Liverpool, on 
several occasions, expressed their approbation. Objections were raised 
to it, however, in another quarter, and those objections, we regret to 
say, ultimately prevailed. The substance of them will be found stated 
and answered at p 179 — 187. The observations on the subject in the 
body of the second Report were to the following eflTect ; 

" If we look narrowly into the subject of compensation, we shall find 
it far from being attended with those formidable and apparently insu- 
perable difficulties with which the exaggerated claims of the West 
Indians have invested it." — Mr. Barham's estimate of the annual net 
income of the West Indies, viz. £. 2,100,000 is then taken as the basis 
of calculation, and being valued at sixteen years purchase, is made 
to amount to £.33,000,000, which sum, it is shown, might be liquidated 
by a perpetual annuity, at three and a half per cent, of £.1,176,000, 
" a sum," it is added, " less than the nation is now made to pay" (this 
was in 1825) " to the West Indians, in consequence of the mode of re- 
gulating the drawback on sugar, independently of the protecting duties, 
and exclusive of all other charges civil or military. What v/e now pay, 
however, we pay to uphold and aggravate slavery. A less sum, if 
Mr. Barham is right in his estimate, would be sufficient to buy out the 
whole system. And even if this were thought too large a step to take 
at once, by less than a third of what we now pay," (viz. £450,000 
annually) '' we might redeem from their bondage the whole of the 
female population" (alluding to the plan in the Appendix) " and thus 
extinguish slavery in a single generation." 

The reader is now in a capacity of judging whether Lord Seaford is 
correct in asserting that it was proposed to free the children without 
compensation, 

3. Lord Seaford is further displeased, that the abolitionists should call 
so strongly and urgently for the interference of parliament with the 
colonial legislatures, and he labours hard to shew the inexpediency of 
that course. But wc have already dwelt at so much length, and, as we 
conceive, so unanswerably, on this point, in our last Number, that it 
?eems superfluous to recur to il. We can see no reason. wli\ the negroes 



Lord Seaford — Calumnies of Abolitionists. 305 

in Jamaica should not be as effectually protected from the oppressions, 
and exactions, and cruelties of the whites, by an act of parliament, as, 
in Demerara or Trinidad, by an order in council. Of this we feel con- 
fident, and that confidence is not a little increased by the tenor of Lord 
Seaford's speech, that without parliamentary interference, all hope of the 
fulfilment of the pledges of 1823 must be abandoned. The West 
India committee, with Lord Seaford at their head, choose to put it forth 
to the public, and require it to be believed on their word, and without a 
single attempt at proof, nay, in opposition to the most conclusive evi- 
dence — the returns on the table of parliament, and the whole tenor of 
the correspondence of the colonial secretary of state, with the colonial 
authorities, — that the spirit, though not the detail of almost every one of 
the recommendations of the Government has been adopted by every 
one of the legislatures. The hardihood of unsupported and unwar- 
ranted assertion can go no farther than this.* 

4. But there remains a still heavier charge against the abolitionists. 
They have calumniated, his Lordship tells us, the character of the 
colonists. Acts of individual cruelty have been collected and detailed 
to inflame the public feeling. The general state of colonial morals and 
manners has been misrepresented, while the testimony in favour of 
the whites has been set aside ; and thus has hostility been excited to 
all plans of reform among the colonists, who, he assures us, are the 
only instruments of reform. In short, the non-improvement of the 
condition of the slaves, and the prolongation of their bondage, is the 
work not of the planters, but of the abolitionists. — This is ludicrous 
enough ; but it is not new. It has been one of the main weapons of 
colonial controversy from the year 1787 to the present day. Every 
thing alleged against cruelty, oppression, and injustice, in the case 
of the slave trade, was, with all the West Indians of that day, as of 
every succeeding day, just as it now is in the parliamentary re- 
port of Lord Seaford's speech ; — calumny and falsehood, a vilifying and 
traducing of character. And so it ever will and must be. For in what 
terms, we ask, are we to tell the world of that dreadful state of law in 
Jamaica which enacts that '•' In order to restrain arbitrary punish- 
ments — such is the preamble in all the successive acts ; — In order to 
restrain arbitrary punishments," e\ery driver or quasi driver may inflict 
ten lashes, and every owner, attorney, guardian, executor, administrator, 
or overseer, may inflict thirty-nine lashes of the cart-whip on the 
bare body of any man, woman, or child, without being required, by law, 
to assign the slightest reason, or being liable, in law, to one question, 
for so doing; — in what terms, we ask again, are we to tell parliament 
and the country of this dreadful state of law in Jamaica, so as to 
avoid appearing, to the sensitive minds of Lord Seaford and his West 
Indian brethren, to be traducing and vilifying their characters? We do 
not say, because we do not know, that on every estate, every driver, or 
every overseer, is constantly exercising the power he possesses of lace- 
rating the slaves under him ; but we do say he has that power and 

* See Slave Colonies of Great J'ritain ; and Anti-Slavery Reporter, Nos. It, 
US, 29, 39,31,37, 38, &c. 



306 Lord Seaford — Calumnies of Abolitiomsts. 

may exercise it, and (seeing what human nature is) he doubtless often 
does exercise it; and we further say, that the planters of Jamaica have 
not only refused to protect the slave by law from snch torture, but that 
their indignation — (we regret that Lord Seaford should, in any mea- 
sure, have seemed to participate in the feeling) is directed against 
those who dare to denounce the cart- whip as an object of reprobation. 

It were easy to take one law after another, and in the same way to 
shew what is," in truth, the calumny of which we have been guilty, 
and which has so strongly excited Lord Seaford's ire, not against the 
framers and favourers of such atrocious enactments, but against those 
who hold them forth in their true and proper colours. But we forbear. — 
If any one wishes to obtain a just view of West India society, or of 
West India manners and morals, let him take it, not from the pages of 
the abolitionists ; but let him take it from any and every week's Jamaica 
Gazette; let him take it from writers who are themselves West Indians; 
from the returns furnished by the colonial authorities ; from the 
successive reports and addresses of the Jamaica assembly from 1788 
downwards to the present day; from the solemn, and deliberate, and 
recent enactments of the Jamaica and other colonial legislatures ; and 
from the very apologies and defences they make of their system. It is 
utter folly and drivelling to imagine that any great fabric of crime, and 
oppression, like slavery, especially if it minister to the cupidity of 
multitudes, and is attended with the gratifying exercise of that power 
which is so dear to the corrupt heart of man, can be overthrown without 
a full and unsparing exposure. It has been our object to expose it in 
its true colours: we have done so, and shall continue to do so. But 
we absolutely repel the insinuation that we have calumniated individuals, 
much more calumniated slavery, if that were possible. All our pages 
are open to Lord Seaford. We challenge him to point out the passages 
in them on which he rests (we will not say, in the words of his Lord- 
ship, his calumny, but) his charge against us. We boldly and une- 
quivocally deny its truth, and if he will condescend to make it more 
specific, we pledge ourselves not simply to deny, but to refute it. All 
the plausible ingenuity which he has so often employed to varnish over 
this bad system, if called again into full operation, will only serve, we 
feel persuaded, to make the triumph of the cause the nation has 
espoused, more complete ; for it is the cause of truth, of humanity, and 
of justice; the cause of Him who has commanded us to love our 
neighbour as ourselves, and to do unto our fellow-men as we would they 
should do unto us ; of Him who regards with the same benignity, and 
has redeemed with the same costly sacrifice, the black and the white, 
the bond and the free, the whip-galled slave, and the master whose 
sumptuous table and splendid equipage, and magnificent establishments 
and dignified station, are the fruit of that slave's misery and degradation. 

Lord Seaford has strangely fancied that we have been anxious to 
press into our service every instance of cruelty which the criminal 
calendars of the colonies may furnish, in order to serve the purposes of 
inflammation against the persons and characters of the colonists. He 
has miserably miscalculated and underrated our object. It has been to 
illustrate the teal natureof colonial bondage, and the total destitution of 



Lord Seaford— Calumnies of Abolitionists. 307 

legal j;>,'oiection enjoyed by the slave under the existing system, and 
not to excite odium against individuals, that particular instances of 
atrocity have been referred to: — it has been done to illustrate principles, 
not to inflame the passions. To take an example : 

In the memorable report of the fiscal of Berbice, of the details of 
which Lord Seaford himself has spoken in proper terms of disgust and 
abhorrence, there occurs the following statement : 

" Complaint of the woman Minkie, belonging to Thomas C. Jones. 
' Mr, Jones took me out of the barracks on Tuesday. He sent me to 
Mr. Henery ; he would not buy me. He sent me to another gentleman. 
Both said, my master asked too much money for me, and sent me back. 
I begged for a pass to look for an owner. He said no, he would put 

me down, and cut my -. I was then laid down, and tied to three 

Stakes, and Chance flogged me with a cart-whip. I got a severe flog- 
ging. I have marks of severe punishment visible on me ; old and 

recent floggings, all inflicted by Jones.' She exhibits her , 

which are covered with a plaster by order of the doctor, and apparently 
lacerated to that degree, that the Court judged it expedient not to un- 
cover it. Mr. Jones being called upon, said he had flogged her, and 
also broken her mouth for her insolence. He had had thirty-nine laid 
on her, and they were well inflicted. When he sent for her he had no 
intention of flogging her, but, after sending her to three persons for 
sale and not succeeding, he told her she had often deserved a flogging. 
He then directed her to be flogged, and that it should be well laid on, 
which was done." — Berbice Fiscal's First Report, p. 14, 

In the Fiscal's second Report, still more memorable, if possible, than 
the first, because it sometimes adds, to the atrocities of the simple details 
of the facts of some of the cases, their judicial results, we have the con- 
clusion of this matter, — the legal issue of Minkie's complaint. The 
Fiscal had referred it, along with his minutes of evidence, to the judg- 
ment of the Court of Policy ; and this is the account of their decision : 

"His Honour, the President, and the Court, were highly indignant 
at the treatment of this female. No evidence, however, could be ob- 
tained to convict Mr. Jones of having inflicted a sevei-er pu?nshment 
than that prescribed by law, although the Court were fully satisfied 
that the unfortunate female slave had been flogged in a severe and cruel 
manner, and to her sufferings, by her master's own confession, was 
added the breaking of her mouth in a most brutal manner," p. 10. 
And what was the final proceeding of his Honour the President, and 
the Court ? They directed Mr. Jones the master to take this wretched 
woman Minkie from the custody of the under-sheriff" on payment of the 
fees. She was returned into the unlimited power, and placed at the 
absolute disposal, of this merciless tyrant, without the slightest guaran- 
tee against the renewal of the same barbarous treatment. Such is the 
tale as it stands on the Records of the Fiscal of Berbice, 

We have no doubt that Lord Seaford is as much shocked with that tale 
as any member of the Anti-Slavery Committee. He is greatly mistaken, 
however, if he supposes that the reason for having produced it before the 
public was to excite horror against individuals. Who is Mr. Thomas 
C. Jones ? Who cares for him? Or what is the value of his cha- 
racter? And as for all the other parties in the transaction, they appear 



308 Lord Scaford — Calumnies of Abolitionists. 

to have acted with feehng and propriety. What could they do moreV 
The law acquitted Mr. Jones. In the view Of the Berbice code, (and 
that of Jamaica is, in this respect, the same,) he had done nothing 
wrong. He had only exercised the power which that merciful and 
considerate law gives to every ruffian, not himself a slave, of inflicting 
thirty-nine lacerations of the cart-whip on the bare and quivering limbs 
of a wretched female ; nay, we see him insolently bearding the Su- 
preme Court of Justice in the colony, with his daring avowal of the 
deed, and his exultation in it ; and demancliag to have the wretched 
sufferer given up to him as his property ; while the President and his 
associates have no alternative but to restore fhis poor helpless, unpro- 
tected female, to his blows and stripes, and ruffian violence. Nor is it 
merely the state of the law, as regulating the master's tremendous 
power, which is here illustrated, but the effect of that most cherished 
inheritance of the planters, from the touch of which they so sensitively 
shrink that it is like touching the apple of the eye, (a feeling in which 
even Lord Seaford sympathizes,) we mean the sacred right of pro- 
■perty in their fellow-men, in men made like themselves in the image 
of God, redeemed like them by the blood of Christ, and heirs like them 
of immortality. 

We shall be probably told again, as Ave have been told before, to 
admire the lenity of the slave code of Jamaica, which is so anxious to 
restrain arbitrary punishments, that it permits no man to inflict, at his 
own discretion, more than thirty-nine lacerations of the cart-whip at a 
time ; and we may be called, therefore, to express our thankfulness, as 
has of late been so emphatically done in the House of Lords, that Jamaica 
has done so much, rather than to complain that she has done so little. 
We, however, cannot concur with any noble Lord in that view of the 
subject. The Assembly of Barbadoes, and they are plain spoken men, 
deride the disingenuousness of affecting squeamishly to limit the num- 
ber of the stripes, for, they tell us, it is far better to leave every man to 
give as many as he pleases, because such is the power of this instru- 
ment, that " in the hands of a relentless executioner, a given number 
of stripes may, under the sanction of the law, be so inflicted as to 
amount to an act of cruelty." Indeed, as is well known, even a few 
stripes may do so . And what says Mr. Barrett, one of the members of 
the Jamaica Assembly, himself a planter, of this instrument, which that 
Assembly maintains in its plenitude of operation, not only as a regular 
mode of arbitrarily punishing men and women for whatever an overseer, 
in his discretion, or caprice, or passion, or drunkenness, may deem to 
be an offence; but as the stimulus, the quickener of the labour in the 
field, both of men and women ? He calls it " the fellow of the rack and 
the thumbscrew " — and he affirms, " that thirty-nine lashes of this 
horrid instrument can be made more grievous than five hundred lashes 
with a cat." 

But the sheet is full, and we must lay down the cart-whip which 
Lord Seaford has compelled us to take up in our own defence, reserving 
the counsel we had meant to give him, for another occasion. 



London : Baesfer and Ttionis, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

ONTHLY REPORTE 



No. 41.] For OCTOBER, 1828. [No. 17. Vol. ii. 

The "Anti-Slavery Monthly I?evorter" will he ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the recfuest of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Irf. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



STATE OF RELIGION AMONG THE SLAVES IN THE WEST IN= 
DIES; REPORT OF SOCIETY FOR THE CONVERSION, INSTRUC- 
TION, AND EDUCATION OF NEGRO SLAVES— BERMUDIAN 
SLAVES— EAST INDIA SLAVERY. 

Pursuant to the intention expressed in a former number, we shall 
now proceed to make some observations on a recently published Report 
on the state of religion among the slaves in our colonies. These 
observations may be found to apply, although in degrees very greatly 
varying, to more than one society, professing to be employed in 
instructing and educating the slaves. They will refer, however, more 
directly and immediately to a Society, entitled " The Incorporated 
Society for the Conversion and Religious Instruction and Education of 
the Negro Slaves in the British West India Islands," whose Report for 
18'27, forming a volume of 240 pages, has lately reached us. This Re- 
port particularly claims attention, as the Society from which it proceeds 
has obtained the special patronage of the West India Bishops and 
Clergy, and of many distinguished Planters, and professes to extend its 
Christian efforts over the whole range of our West India possessions, 
thus taking the lead in the great work of evangelizing the slave 
population. 

This Society was first incorporated in 1795, under the management 
of trustees, at the head of whom was placed the late Bishop Porteus, 
who had succeeded in obtaining, by a suit in Chancery, the appro- 
priation to this, its original purpose, of a large bequest of that eminent 
Christian philosopher the Honourable Robert Boyle. In the year 1823, 
its form was materially changed, and its operations enlarged ; and do- 
nations and annual subscriptions were solicited from the public at home 
and abroad, in order to promote more effectually the spiritual mterests 
of the slave population, which had just then become the object of 
revived and intense interest. To give new vigour and activity to its 
operations, a Board of Governors was appointed, consisting not only of 
the former Trustees, but of several distinguished Prelates and States- 
uien, and among them -the two West Indian Bishops, to whom were 

2 o 



3i0 Society for Conversion and Education of Slaves. 

joined about sixteen of the Metropolitan Clergy, (some of them digni- 
taries of the Church,) the Lord Mayor and the two senior Aldermen of 
the city of London, and five or six of. the most eminent of the West 
India body, namely, Lord Seaford, Sir H. W. Martin, Bart., Mr. Man- 
ning, Mr. Pallmer, Mr. Hibbert, Mr. Mathison, Major Moody, and 
Mr. Colquhoun, 

Soon after the Society had assumed its present form, (in 1823,) it pub- 
lished a brief report, which was intended " to shew the promise rather 
than the produce of its labours." This report we perused at the time 
with considerable satisfaction. We were particularly gratified with per- 
ceiving that the Governors did not shrink from including in their pro- 
mise the hope of recovering for the slaves the enjoyment of a Christian 
sabbath. Their first report records, with apparent approbation, the sug- 
gestions of four West Indian clergymen on this important point. The 
Reverend Mr. Davis, of Nevis, contemplates the regulation of the 
Lord's day, and the allowing of some other time than Sunday for 
markets, as " a step essential to the progress of Christianity in the 
colonies," and conceives, that when once " wholesome laws are enacted 
on this head, and candied into effect, it will only need the active exer- 
tions of the clergy to secure, under the Divine blessing, a very con- 
siderable share of "success." The Reverend Mr. Gilbert, of Antigua, 
himself the owner of an estate cultivated by slaves, declares that, if 
" Sunday markets were abolished, and marriage sanctioned and encou- 
raged, he sees no reason why the slave population of Antigua should 
not become as moral, intelligent, and industrious as the free people of 
England." The Reverend Mr. Jefferson, of Vei-e, in Jamaica, expresses 
his hope that an alteration in the Sunday markets might take place, 
whence " the best possible results might be expected ;" and the Reve- 
rend Mr. Stainsby, of the same Island, looks forv^'ard, with the utmost 
solicitude^ to a law " for giving (to the slaves) one day in the week 
throughout the year besides Sunday, and for abolishing that bane of 
colonial improvement, Sunday markets." 

The hope on the subject of the Sunday which was excited in our 
minds, by the apparently cordial concurrence of the Society's first 
Report in these just views of its correspondents, was further strength- 
ened by the insertion of the following resolution, which had been 
adopted at a meeting, held in the Court Hall of Basseterre, St. Chris- 
topher's, in October, 1823, for the purpose of forming a Society auxi- 
liary to this. " Resolved, That the first, and most material point for 
effecting any change in the moral and religious instruction of the slaves, 
is the abolition of the Sunday markets, and the dispensing, in every 
possible way, with all 'manner of work on that day." 

If, however, we were gratified in discovering, in the Society s first 
communications to the public, such indications of its sense of the essen- 
tial importance of securing a Sabbath to the slaves, our mortification 
has been proportionably increased on finding, in the years which have 
followed these hopeful notices, noi even the slightest allusion of its own 
to the subject. Its subsequent reports maintain upon it, as far as its 
own opinions are concerned, the silence of death. How is this to be 
explained? Our solution of it is this. When the Governors of the 



The want of a Christian Sabbath for the Slaves. 311 

Society first came before the public, it was prior to their having had 
any specific information of the extraordinary state of feeling which per- 
vades the West Indies, on the subject of Sunday labour and Sunday 
marketing, though, by one of their own correspondents, who well knew 
the case, it was said, " It is my opinion, this point will stand unre- 
dressed longer than any by the planters ; and there is nothing by which 
they are so much oflTended as by an appeal to their conscience on this 
point." In this ignorance as to the real feeling of the colonists, when 
Mr. Canning declared, in Parliament, that it was the intention of his 
Majesty's Government to abolish Sunday markets, and Sunday labour, 
and to give to the slaves other time in lieu of Sunday, the Governor 
of the Society took it for granted that a proposition so reasonable, anc 
to which the West India body in this country had signified their assent, 
was not likely to meet with any serious opposition abroad, and would, 
as a matter of course, be generally adopted. Acting on that expecta- 
tion, they did not hesitate to give to the public the different extracts 
cited above. But, before another year had rolled round, the Society, 
or at least some of its members, had, very probably, discovered that 
the colonial legislatures, and the colonists at large, were determined 
neither to abolish Sunday markets, nor to afford to the slaves adequate 
time, in lieu of Sunday, for cultivating their provision grounds. From 
that moment, at least from a time coincident with this discovery, all 
allusion to the desecration of the Sabbath, which did not slip in inci- 
dentally, disappeared from the reports of the Society, and the reader, 
therefore, who has not had access to know the state of things in the 
West Indies, might easily and naturally infer, from the language and 
tone of its later reports, and especially of that for 1827, that Sunday is 
observed as in this country, and is a day, not of marketing and labour, 
as it really is, but a day of repose and religious observance. 

This we cannot but regard as a failure in the Society's high obliga- 
tions, and as involving a violation of their pledge to the public, although 
from any such intention we do most entirely acquit the great majority of 
those who ostensibly manage its affairs. It is for them, however, to probe 
the matter to the bottom, and to explain the causes why the reports of 
such a Society should seem studiously to shun to expose the fact that 
the slaves generally, and the agricultural slaves in particular, are 
deprived, by the existing colonial institutions, of the benefits of a 
Christian Sabbath ; and why they should not distinctly have pointed out 
and denounced this evil as being, in truth, the grand impediment, in a 
professedly Christian land, to the success of the special objects of the 
Society, " the conversion and religious instruction and education of the 
negro slaves ;" an impediment too, which, if it be not removed, must 
render abortive the Society's best efforts to introduce and extend among 
those slaves the light and influence of Divine truth. 

The facts of the case must be well known to several of the Governors 
of the Society, as well as to the Bishops of Jamaica and Barbadoes; and, 
we believe, it has been pressed on their attention by several of the co- 
lonial Clergy, who have given it as their clear opinion that little can 
be done in converting, instructing, and educating the slave population, 
so long as Sunday, instead of being set apart for repose and religious 



312 ^Tke want of a Christian Sahhatlifor the Slaves. 

purposes, may not only be legally employed by the slaves in going; to 
market and in cultivating their provision grounds, but must, of necessity, 
while things remain as they are, be so employed. 

Now we hold, in common with the resolutionists of St. Cristophers, 
and in common, we believe, with all who have a real regard for re- 
ligion, that of all the measures that can be adopted with a view to 
christianizing the slaves, no single measure is moie indispensable, (it 
is " the first and the most material," and that without which every other 
must prove comparatively unavailing) than to grant them equivalent 
time, in lieu of Sunday, for those secular objects of marketing and pro- 
viding for their sustenance, by which, in Jamaica arid in most of the 
colonies, Sunday has always been and is now occupied. 

Let us make the case our own. Let us suppose Sunday to be, 
throughout this country, as it is in Jamaica, the universal market day, 
and, for the great mass of our popiilation, the only market day. And 
let us further suppose that the whole of our labourers, men and women, 
nay, the very children too from six years old and upwards, were com- 
pelled by the dread or actual infliction of the lash, to labour, without 
wages, for the sole profit of a few privileged individuals, during 285 
days of the year, from five in the morning till seven at night ; and 
many of them, for about 130 of those days, for half the night besides ; 
and that, with the exception of half a herring or at most a whole 
herring a day, given them by their masters, their sole means of pro- 
curing food for their sustenance was by employing the remaining 78 
days of the year, being the 52 Sundays and 26 week days besides, in 
raising, on the waste, the com, or potatoes, or oats, or beans, which 
they should either require for their own con-sumption, or which, on the 
Sunday, they should carry on foot to the market held only on that 
day in the distant town, to be exchanged for other necessaries or 
comforts. And then, having made these suppositions, let us ask 
ourselves what hope we could possibly indulge of seeing the people 
so employed become a moral and Christian people ? And if a Society 
were to undertake the task of converting, instructing , and educating 
this people, should we not deem it that Society's first duty, especially 
if its members had power and influence, to represent, to the pro- 
fessedly Christian government under which they lived, the unchristian 
nature of such a system ? If, however, instead of doing this, it should 
employ no effort to put an end to such an abomination, but should 
silently, and without a single remonstrance, acquiesce in the universal 
desecration of the Sabbath, what should we think of the aptitude of such 
a Society for the great and good work it had undertaken ? Let us only 
imagine to ourselves Sunday after Sunday, without interruption, 
passed, by the whole of the labouring classes of this country, either 
in the journey to and from the market town^, and in the din and bustle 
and dissipation of the market itself; or in the painful effort, after six 
days of uncompensated toil, of raising food to avert the famine of them- 
selves and their families ; and though we might say, as in the colonial 
case, that the labours of Bishops, and of Clergymen, and of Societies 
for conversion, instruction, and education, with their missionaries and 
catechists, were only the more needed on this account, yet, could we 



" The luant of a Christian Sabbath for the Slaves, 313 

Suppose, that all of these should go on for years, omitting to point out 
this grand impediment to their own efficiency, and not making one 
vigorous effort for its removal ? 

When this momentous subject has been pressed on the consciences 
of colonial Clergymen, their reply has been, " We have nothing to do 
with the temporal or political condition of the slaves ; we meddle not, 
therefore, with the question of the Sabbath." But is it not to lose 
sight of all sound principle, to confound that question with merely 
secular objects ? We admit, indeed, that the temporal interests of the 
slaves, as of our own labouring classes, are deeply involved in it ; but 
is it not mainly and properly a spiritual question ? Nay, does it not 
lie at the very root of spirzYwaZ- improvement? Is it less of a spiritual 
object to obtain for the slaves the holy rest of the Sabbath, with all its 
attendant blessings, than to send forth catechists to teach them to 
learn, by rote, the creed, the Lord's prayer, and the ten command- 
ments ? Is it, in a spiritual point of view, a matter of indifference 
whether the slave shall have a breathing time of repose, and be free to 
turn his feet to the house of God on the Sabbath ; or shall be forced, 
on pain of starving, to drag, on that day, his v/earied limbs to his distant 
provision grounds, there to provide food for himself and his family during 
the week ; or shall have to pant under his load to the still more distant 
market town, there to mingle in the confusion and tumult and de- 
bauchery of, what Mr. Bickell justly designates a Pandemonium — a 
West India Sunday market? To apply to this evil the term temporal, 
as distinguished from spiritual, seems to us a most extraordinary per- 
version of language. It is not a question of the cart-whip, or of the 
slave's legal rights of property, or of his right of giving evidence, or of 
his general destitution of civil privileges. It is a question which comes 
within the peculiar province of ministers of the Gospel in a Christian 
land, and lies at the very root of their usefulness in that capacity. 
What a mockery, on any other supposition, is the daily solemn recita- 
tion, at the altar, of the fourth commandment, followed by the earnest 
supplication of ministers and people, " Lord have mercy upon us, and 
incline our hearts to keep this law ? " 

We certainly do not well know how to excuse Conversion Societies, 
or Bishops, or Clergymen, or Missionaries, in their apparent oblivion 
of the duty of vindicating the sacredness of the Sabbath, and the 
right of the people, in countries avowedly Christian, to its blessings. 
We do not expect them to become partizans of the Anti-Slavery cause. 
But we do expect them to fulfil their solemn engagements, to discharge 
their duties as in the sight of God, and to vindicate the right of the 
negro to the Sabbath, of which he is iniquitously deprived. And 
putting the slaves out of the question, we would ask, what have they 
done to awaken the free, the masters, to a sense of their share in this 
crying sin ? Will they say that the habitual violation of the Sabbath 
is not a crime, or that the fourth commandment is no longer a part 
of the Decalogue, or that the Bible does not abound with awful de- 
nunciations on this subject? At least the members and ministers of 
the Church of England cannot take such ground. Was it not always, 
and is it not now, their solemn and imperious duty, as intrusted with 



314 The want of a Christian Sabbath for the Slaves. 

the care of the souls of both black and white, to lift up their voice as a 
trumpet against this iniquity ? Their past omission of the duty will 
be but a very inadequate reason for continuing to neglect it. As well 
might St. Paul have found, in the inconsistency of his previous con- 
duct, a valid argument for declining to preach the faith he had once 
laboured to destroy. If Societies, or if the Clergy of the V/est Indies, 
have hitherto neglected this important part of their duty ; if they have 
suffered whole generations to perish in ignorance, for want of a Sabbath; 
if they have seen that day cruelly wrested, and still withheld from them 
without apparently a single effort on their part, either from the pulpit 
or the press, to arrest an evil so destructive of men's best interests; if 
in short, they have hitherto silently contemplated the almost entire 
extinction of the Sabbath in countries calling themselves Christian ; 
this, so far from being a good reason for continuing to do so, sounds 
to them so much the louder call to retrace their steps, and to repair, if 
that be possible, the multiplied evils of past supmeness. And indeed 
if they will not at length claim, for these wretched outcasts of humanity, 
the Sabbath to which they are entitled by the laws both of God and 
man, but of which they are forcibly and unjustly deprived by men pre- 
tending to be Christians, their labours, if not wholly fruitless, can at least 
extend to no more than a petty fraction of the slave population. And it 
cannot but one day become a subject of awful consideration, that they 
should have gone on witnessing the universal and outrageous violation of 
the Sabbath, and never have opened their lips in the pulpit to vindicate 
the honour of God and the sanctity of his day ; never have borne their 
clear and unequivocal testimony against its public and recognised dese- 
cration ; and should have permitted generations of masters to pass into 
their graves, without addressing to them one solemn warning as to 
their guilt, though these masters were not only living in the daring 
violation of the Sabbath themselves, but pertina^ciously and systematically 
withholding its blessings from whole generations of their dependents. 

Such then is our first complaint against the Society for the Con- 
version, Instruction, and Education of the negroes, and against such 
of its members as are cognizant of the actual position of things in the 
West Indies, We are very far, however, from attributing any adequate 
knowledge of it to many most highly respectable names, who are en- 
rolled in the list of the Governors, and who, we are |)ersuaded, will feel 
indebted to us for having directed their attention to the subject, and 
opened their eyes to the real state of this most opprobrious case. And 
let it be carefully noted, that though we have applied our observations 
more directly to one Society, yet we hope that every other Society, 
whether Episcopalian or Presbyterian, Moravian or Methodist, Baptist 
or Psedobaptist ; and every Bishop ; and every minister of Christ ; and 
every missionary, will make the application for themselves, and con- 
sider well what they will have to plead at the last, if through their 
neglect, supineness and indifference, the poor negro slave continues to 
be shut out from the inestimable benefits of a Christian Sabbath.* 

* We know that there are men who pretend to deny, that in those colonies 
where the slaves are fed from provision grounds cultivated by themselves, as in 



Proofs that Sunday is withheld from the West India?} Slaves. 315 

The second head of complaint we have against this Society, is the 
ignorance in which the public are kept as to the precise nature of the 

Jamaica, Grenada, St. Vincent's, Trinidad, Tobago, Dominica, &c. Sunday- 
labour is compulsory on the slaves. They have had the boldness to affirm, that 
Sunday is, in fact, a day of repose for the slaves, as respects the necessity of 
labouring in their grounds on that day, the time allowed them by law, exclusive 
of Sunday, being, as is alleged, amply sufficient* for that purpose. Among others 
a Mr. Barclay, of Jamaica, and a Mr. Green, forr^erly of the same island, but 
now of Suffolk, have ventured dauntlessly to advocate that position, and have 
thus, as we shall shew, completely discredited their testimony as witnesses in 
this controversy. Lest the hardihood of their assertions, however, should impose 
upon some, it may be worth while, once for all, to lay this question at rest. 

Before the slave trade controversy commenced, no time, excepting Sunday, 
was, by any law, allowed the slaves in the English colonies for cultivating their 
provision grounds, even where their whole subsistence, (a few herrings or a 
little salt fish excepted,) proceeded from this source. If there were any such law, 
let it be produced. But, indeed, our view of the case is fully established by the 
testimony of all the West Indian authoi-ities, as recorded in the proceed- 
ings of the Privy Council, on an inquiry begun in 1787, and concluded in 1789. 
It thence appears, that though it was alleged to have been a frequent practice to 
give the slaves, out of crop, besides Sundays, an occasional day or half-daj' for 
their grounds, yet there was no law in any colony requiring it. To give or w itli- 
hold it was wholly a matter of option. No day besides Sunday was given them, 
by law, for their own sustentation, and that of their families. In 1788, for the 
first time, was any law adopted in Jamaica itself on this subject— and the act of 
that year states, (whether true or false, is not the question), that though it had 
been customary to allow slaves one day in every fortnight, exclusive of Sundays, 
out of crop, to cultivate their grounds, yet this indulgence not being compulsory , 
it V, as enacted, "That the slaves, over and above the holidays of Christmas, 
Easter, and Whitsuntide, shall be allowed one day in every fortnight to culti- 
vate their own provision grounds, exclusive of Siwidays, except during the time 
of crop." Now il will not be denied, that at the period in question the slaves 
were compelled to work on the Sundays on pain of starving; for though, prior to 
1788, fifty-two Sundays in the year were allowed them for their grounds, yet, 
the insufficiency of the time was such, that when the mother country began to 
look into the matter, it was thought necessary to enlarge it ; and about fifteen 
or sixteen days were therefore added, by law, to the fifty-two Sundays already 
allowed them for that purpose. It is no where said in this or any subsequent 
act, nor was it alleged at the time, that tb.ose days were given for the purpose 
of securing to slaves the repose of the Sabbath, It was given them, exclusive of 
Sundays, expressly for cultivating their provision grounds. The reason of this 
enactment might be partly a conviction of its necessity, on account of the 
decreasing fertility of the soil — a curse which always follows slave cultivation. 
But this consideration, if it operated, was doubtless quickened in its effect, by 
being combined with the dread of the inquiry which had been commenced in 
England. However that niay be, a!)out this time Jamaica, and a few other 
islands, passed laws allowing to their slaves from fourteen to sixteen days in 
the year, for their grounds, besides Sundays. This number has since been 
increased in Jamaica to twenty-six ; while in Trinidad, Grenada, and some 
other islands there has been no increase, and in some no time at all is yet given 
by law. This increase in Jamaica may be supposed to proceed from the 
greater liberality of its planters ; but, in truth, it arises from dire necessity. 
The slaves must be fed, though ever so scantily, in order to live. In Trinidad 
and Grenada, where the soil is far more fertile than in Jamaica, sixty-eight days 
labour in the year, which is the utmost the sla\es are there allowed, including 
Sundays, and which we shall sliew is barely suiBcient for their sustenance, will 
nevertheless do more to that end than seventy-eight days in Jamaica, where the 
soil is greatly inferior to that of the other two islands. The argument, however, 
of Mr. Barclay and his coadjutor is, that seventy-eight days are quite unneces- 
sary ; that twenty-six days are amply sufScient, and that the other fifty-two 



316 Proofs that Sunday is withheld frojn the West Indian Slaves^. 

Education which it is employed in imparting to the Negroes, so far as 
it imparts to them any education at all. When in this country we 

days, (the Sundays,) with the exception, indeed, of Sunday marketing, are days 
of repose and relaxation. This assertion, however, is not only untrue, but ab- 
solutely absurd. If twenty-six working days in the year, during which alone 
the negroes labour for themselves, without the compelling power of the cart- 
whip behind them, can raise produce equal to the food of the entire year, the 
remaining two hundred and eighty-five days, during which they labour exclu- 
sively for their masters' benefit, would, of course, be capable of producing, at 
least, eleven times that quantity of produce. But is it the fact that in the West 
Indies the labourer yields to his master eleven times the value of the produce 
which he consumes? And even when the fifty- two Sundays are added to the 
twenty-six week days, it will still be perfectly clear that even this increased 
number of days must, in the nature of things, be barely adequate to the susten- 
tation of the labourer. In the Spanish and Portuguese colonies this is so 
strongly felt, that, inclusive of the Sunday, at least one hundred and thirty 
days in the year are allowed to the slave who raises his own food for that 
purpose. 

We have, however, a still more decisive proof of our position in our own 
islands. In Barbadoes the slaves are chiefly fed, not by provisions raised on 
separate allotments, but by provisions raised in common, on the working days, 
on the master's account, and under the same impulse by which sugar or 
cotton is raised. Now, the masters in Barbadoes concur with the authorities 
of the island in declaring that it requires one third of the labour of the year 
to raise the food necessary for this purpose, being one hundred and three 
days in all. (See Papers presented by command for 1827, part 1, p. 286 ; see 
also Reporter, No. 15, p. 261.) But tljis is four times as much as the 
twenty-six working days allowed to the slaves in Jamaica ; besides which, it 
is admitted, that in Barbadoes the slaves do add to their means of subsistence, 
by appropriating Sunday to the culture of their little gardens, for they have no 
regular grounds. Even when the Sundays are added, the Jamaica slave has, 
for his subsistence, only seventy-eight days' labour in the year, while the Bar- 
badoes slave has thus, according to Barbadian testimony, the labour of a hun- 
dred and fifty-five days. Now it is doubtless in part owing to this circumstance, 
that notwithstanding the extreme harshness of the laws of Barbadoes, the 
slaves increase there, while they decrease in Jamaica ; for whatever be the 
difference in the quality of their soils, it cannot possibly be so great as to 
account for the vast disproportion of time required for the sustenance of the 
labourer in the two cases. Certainly Jamaica does not exceed Barbadoes in 
fertility half so much as Grenada and Trinidad exceed Jamaica — and yet, as we 
shall see, in the latter islands, sixteen days, in addition to fifty-two Sundays, 
are absolutely necessary to keep the slaves from starving. The proportion of 
sugar grown in Barbadoes is 3| cwt. to a slave ; in Jamaica it is 4i cwt; in 
Grenada it is BfL; and in Trinidad 11 1|. It cannot therefore be that a hundred 
and three week days, besides Sundays, should be required to raise the food of 
the slave in Barbadoes, and that twenty-six week days (Sunday, as is asserted, 
being wholly unoccupied by labour,) should be sufficient in Jamaica. 
Neither can it be that twenty-six week days should be sufficient for the slave's 
sustentation in Jamaica, without his being forced to add to them the labour of 
Sunday; while in Grenada and Trinidad sixteen week days are declared to be 
wholly insufficient unless the fifty-two Sundays are added to the number. 

But though this reasoning seems perfectly conclusive, yet we will not leave 
the matter to rest even on such undeniable inferences. We will therefore ad- 
duce some corroborative testimony. 

Though in Trinidad time equal to sixteen days in the year is allowed to the 
slave for cultivating his provision grounds, yet we learn from the official state- 
ments of the planters themselves, by a committee of their body, that, previous 
to the order in council of March, 1824, they had been in the habit of compelling 
the slaves to cultivate their grounds on the Sunday ; and we learn also from 
Sir Kalph Woodford's official communications, that as a day in lieu of Sunday 



Proofs that Sunday is withheld from the West Indian Slaves. 317 

speak of educating the lower orders, we may attach various meanings 
to the expression. The most ordinary comprehends reading, writing, 

had not been given to the slaves, he had found it impractieable to carry into effect 
that part of the order which forbade Sunday labour ; and which, in point of fact, 
had not been executed, the slaves continuing to work regularly in their grounds 
on Sunday as before.* They must have done so or starved. In Grenada, about 
sixteen week days were also allowed to the slave by law, yet in the year 1817, 
when ;that law was in full force, we have the Rev. Mr. Nash, a clergyman of 
that island, distinctly telling us, that when he remonstrated with the slaves for 
not coming to church, their reply to him was, that if they came to church they 
must starve. " The plea," says Mr, Nash, " is so reasonable, that I cannot 
oppose it, but I heartily wish their masters would deprive them of it by allow- 
ing them one day in each week to labour for themselves." 

The language quoted above (p. 310) from the first report of the Society, whose 
last report we are now considering, is also decisive. But this is not all — in the 
report now before us, the framers of it, with all their caution, have let out a 
very curious and important fact. It occurs in the letter of a clergyman of 
St. Vincent's, (p. 32.) " There is reason to believe," saya this clergyman, 
" that the congregation of slaves will increase in number ; and particularly 
when the obligation to cultivate their lands on the Sabbath day ceases. On one 
or two estates this obligation does not exist, one day in the week throughout 
the year being allowed them." This single sentence thus incidentally introduced 
establishes irrefragably every word we have ever asserted on this subject. 

But let us come to Jamaica itself. — In addition to what we have already said 
respecting this island, we will not dwell on the testimony of the Rev. Richard 
Bickell, though it is quite decisive ; nor on that of the Rev. Mr. Cooper, which 
is no less so; because they will be held to be partizans of the Anti-Slavery 
cause. And yet can any circumstance more strongly prove the point, than that 
Mr. Hibbert, and his agent, Mr. Gates, when desirous of affording Mr. Cooper 
an opportunity of preaching to Mr. Hibbert's negroes, should feel that they 
could not, in justice, require the negroes to attend him on Sunday, but set 
apart an afternoon in the week for the purpose. Why not on Sunday, if on 
Sunday they were disengaged from labour ? — Neither will we dwell on the un- 
exceptionable testimony of the Wesleyan Methodists, as forced from them by 
Mr. Marryat's unwarrantable attack in 1816, when the Rev. Richard Watson, 
in his admirable defence of their missions, was under the necessity of citing, 
from their private communications, such facts as these, " Sunday is chiefly 
spent by the field negroes in working their own grounds, which is the source 
ivhence they derive their food, or in bringing what little produce they may have 
to market ; for Sunday Is the grand public market day throughout the West 
Indies."— Again, on the Sabbath, " a driver, with an overseer, accompanies the 
slaves to the negro grounds, given to them in lieu of allowance from their 
masters. Here they spend the blessed Sabbath, toiling all day. This is their 
rest." (Watson's Defence of Methodist Missions, published by Blanshard, 
p. 59, CO.) We will not, as we have said, dwell on these testimonies, strong 
and decisive as they are, but refer to authorities wholly and properly West 
Indian. 

Our first shall be Dr. Williamson's, who resided for fourteen years in Jamaica, 
a part of that time on Lord Harewood's estate in St. Thomas in the Vale. This 
gentleman was most vehemently opposed to the views and projects of the 
abolitionists, and a strenuous advocate for the continuance of slavery ; and yet 
his work, published in 1817, abounds in statements respecting the desecration 
of the Sabbath, which, he tells us over and over again, is a day of marketing 
and labour for the slaves, and of excess and brutal debauchery for the Whites. 
He returned to Jamaica in 1823, on the medical staff of the Island : in a letter 
of his now before us, written in the following year, and only a few months 
before his death, and which exhibits the same opposition as before to the views 
of the abolitionists, he fully confirms his former testimony respecting the; 

* See papers for 1827, part ii, p. 254, and 25S. 
■"" 2 R 



318 Nature of the Education given to the Slaves. 

and some acquaintance with the first four rules of arithmetic. No one 
ever uses the term in its very lowest sense witliout including such a 
knowledge of letters as enables pupils to read the Bible with facihty. 
The Education of the Society whose report we are now considering 
does not, except in a few cases, rise even to this first step in the ladder 
of learnino-. We do not mean to say that the Society of itself excludes 



desecration of the Sabbath, as equally applicable to the period at which he 

wrote. , ,.,!,.. 

Our next witness shall be Mr. Stewart, a gentleman who quitted Jamaica iQ 
1821 after residing there above twenty years. He is no friend to the Anti- 
Slavery cause ; but takes the part of the colonists against its supporters. lie 
is apologizing for the alleged inattention of the Jamaica clergy to the religious 
instruction of the slaves ; and " the truth," he says, " is, that however willing 
they may be to perform their duty, very few of the slaves have it in their power 
to attend church. They are either in attendance on their owners, or their time is 
occupied in a necessary attention to their oivn affairs; for Sunday is not a day of 
rest or relaxation to the plantation slave : he must worlt on that day or starve." 
(Stewart's View of the Past and Present State of Jamaica, p. 157.) Yet 
from 181G, the slaves had had twenty-six week days in the year allowed them, 
and they have no more now. 

A still more important witness, if possible, is a gentleman of the same name, 
member for Trelawney, and Father of the House of Assembly, the Hon. James 
Stewart. In a speech which he made to his constituents in May, 1826, and 
which is recorded in the Gazette of Jamaica of the 3rd of June 1826, we find 
the following passage :—" In respect to the instruction of the negroes in the 
principles of religion, it is not sufficient to build extra chapels for their accom- 
modation. It is also absolutely necessary, ■*/ ice are sincere in our desire to im- 
prove their moral condition, that Sunday markets should be abolished altogether, 
and another day in the iveek be allowed the negro for tlie cultivation of his land, 
and the sale of his provisions." Mr. Stewart is himself a planter. 

In the very same newspaper which contained this speech, there appeared 
a communication from a correspondent, seconding the recommendations of 
Mr. Stewart to abolish Sunday markets, and to give to the slaves a day instead 
of Sunday. " The negroes," he adds, " would feel this a great boon, and a 
few years would produce a great improvement in their moral character." 

We will adduce one more witness on this head, and that is, the gentlemen of 
the West Indian Committee in London, who, in 1823, were so convinced of the 
truth we are now endeavouring to establish, that they fully assented to the 
necessity of putting an end to marketing and labour on the Sunday, and of 
giving equivalent time to the slaves on other days for those purposes. Would 
they have done so had they not known that the desecration of the Sabbath to 
such purposes was undeniable? And yet these gentlemen, some of them 
Governors or Members of the Society for the Conversion, Instruction, and Edu- 
cation of the Negro Slaves, have allowed more than five years to pass 
without an effort to apply a remedy to the admitted evil, nay, almost hiding its 
very existence. Their own slaves, and the slaves of many other distinguished 
Members of both Houses of Parliament, and of many others not in Parliament, 
who profess a high regard for the spiritual interests of their dependents, — are 
still left without a Sabbath ; are still left, after a week of forced labour in the 
cane piece, to toil, throughout the whole of that blessed day, in raising food 
for themselves and jheir families, or in carrying the produce so raised to market. 
What possible excuse can be given, by these planters, to God, and to their 
country, and to their own consciences, for the continuance of this enormous 
evil? 

After this detail we leave the public to judge of the confidence which may be 
placed in such writers, on the side of slavery, countenanced and boasted of by 
many of the West Indian party, as Mr. Barclay and Mr. Green. 

We must increase the size of this note by a single additional observation 
drawn from us by seeing the West India practice respecting Sunday defended 



Wa7it of precisio?i and distinctness in Reports. 319 

letters from its plan of education, but it acquiesces in their exclusion, not 
only without remonstrance but with an appearance of complacency and 
satisfaction, and at least without a single murmur. Nay, it is only by 
means of incidental notices, and not from distinct and direct statements, 
that we are enabled to collect the fact, that the art of reading is gene- 
rally excluded. The common reader of these Reports therefore whose 
jealousy may not have been awakened by circumstances, or whose op- 
portunities of information from other sources may be small, would not 
be led to suspect that, notwithstanding all the multiplied details re- 
specting education which the Report before us contains, and notwith- 
standing all the busy bustling activity of catechists and teachers of 
which it gives an account, the knowledge of letters is the subject of 
almost universal exclusion from the Society's efforts to promote edu- 
cation among the slaves. We do not mean to say that the Society is 
answerable for those inveterate prejudices of the planters which confine 
its teachers to oral instruction ; or for that lust of gain which leads them 
to refuse to spare even the youngest children from their unceasing toil, 
in order to learn to read the word of God. But we think the Society 
ought to tell us precisely how the case stands ; what are the hindrances 
to its success ; what measures also it has adopted to introduce a 
better state of things ; and how those measures have been hitherto de- 
feated. It seems extraordinary that a Society for the conversion, in- 
struction, and education of a whole community, should have made no 
palpable efforts to have them taught reading, that grand medium of 
effective and permanent instruction. Its funds appear to be em- 
ployed almost entirely in sending catechists to such plantations as will 
receive them, for an hour or two in every week, or fortnight, or three 
weeks, or month, to teach a few children on each to repeat the creed, 
the Lord's prayer, and the ten commandments, and among the rest, as 
in mockery, the fourth. And if we allow that even this is better than 
nothing, yet let its actual amount be understood and appreciated. Let 
us at least be plainly told the whole truth. We shall then see the real 
magnitude of the obstacles which slavery presents to the temporal and 
spiritual interests of its wretched thralls. 

A third point of defect observable in this Report and in all the Re- 
ports we have seen of Societies engaged in teaching the negroes, is a 
want of precision and distinctness, or what appears almost like a pur- 
posed obscurity, in communicating to the public the real nature and 
amount of their labours. We ought to have clear tabular statements, 
shewing the yiumber of pupils who are taught ; the particular days and 
hours of the day they are engaged in being taught ; the things they ai'e 

by the laxity of its observance on the Continent, and in the purlieus of London 
and other great towns ; and by the Sunday posting and travelling which prevail 
among us. We wish neither to deny nor to palliate these evils. And yet there is 
surely a wide difference between the two cases. We may admit it to be impos- 
sible to compel men to sanctify the sabbath, without admitting it to be right to 
compel them to employ it in labour. We may question whether it be in the 
power of human legislation to restrain its voluntary profanations, and yet 
absolutely deny the propriety of making starvation the penalty inflicted on 
the West Indian slave who shall rest from his labours on that day and keep 
it holy. 



390 Want of sa7iCtion to Slave Marriages. 

taught ; their progress in the art of reading, writing, &c. ; or whether 
the teaching is strictly and exclusively oral. We ought also to be told 
distinctly how many of the scholars under these several heads dire free, 
and how many slaves. At present the whole are for the most part con- 
founded together without discrimination, so that when fifty or a hun- 
dred children are said to attend a school, for any thing that appears, 
they may be all slaves, or they may be all free. The impression on the 
minds of uninformed persons would generally be that they were all 
slaves. The probability is where reading is taught, if the contrary be 
not clearly stated, that they are all free. — Why all this particularity, it 
may be asked ? Is it not equally important to teach the free as the slaves ? 
Without doubt we would have them all taught. But the professed, the 
special object of this Society, as well as the more prominent object of 
other Societies, and the special ground on which they solicit and obtain 
subscriptions, are the Conversion, Instruction, and Education of the 
Negro Slaves, who, unlike the free, have no access to other means of 
being taught than such as may thus be opened to them. The free may 
send their children to school every day and all day long. If schools are 
not erected for them, it is in a great measure their own fault : they have 
the means of instituting them ; and in Jamaica and various other co- 
lonies, with the aid of the Baptists and Methodists, they have already 
done much. If they are actually solicitous for education, they can ob- 
tain it. Not so in the case of slaves. In respect to them the matter 
wholly depends on the will of the master or his delegate. Although 
therefore it is as important that the free should be taught as that the 
slaves should be taught, yet it is of still higher moment that we should 
take special care, that under vague and general terms, which apply alike 
to slave and free, we are not led to suppose that the slaves are taught, 
when in truth they are not taught. The nation's money has been given, 
and the Society's money has been subscribed, for this special object. We 
ought to know that both are duly applied to that object. A striking 
instance of the injurious effect of this vagueness occurs at the very 
outset of the present Report, where we are told of associations formed 
in the different islands for the same objects as those of the Society, 
so that " there is not at the present moment" it is said " an island 
in the West India colonies without its regular school in full ope- 
ration." p. 9. Now when we come to look carefully into particulars, 
we find that the Associations spoken of, and which are enumerated in 
the Report, are all, not for the benefit or instruction of slaves, hut for 
the benefit of the free exclusively, and what is more, they are chiefly 
supported by the free people of colour themselves. 

On the absence of all legal sanction to marriage, and of all legal 
protection to connubial rights, as respects the slaves in Jamaica and the 
other colonies we have already said so much, that we need not now 
enlarge upon it. We advert to it merely for the purpose of saying that 
this sad evil, tainting to the very core the moral condition of the slaves, 
is overlooked by the Society, just as it has overlooked the universal 
desecration of the sabbath. Marriages are talked of indeed, but nothing 
is said of their utter nullity in point of law. (See No. 19, p. 265.) 

The last complaint we mean to prefer against this Society, is its 



Unfairness of Report — Details of it respecting Jamaica. 321 

permitting the framers of its Reports -to make them subserve the pur- 
poses of a party. They contrive, for example, by means of a foot-note 
at p, 3, to inform the pubHc, that " a bill for the improvement of the 
slave population has been passed in St. Kitt's : the Sunday market is 
limited." Now really, if the Society deems it a temporal object, incon- 
sistent with its , spiritual functions, to contend for giving a Christian 
Sabbath to the slaves, they ought not at least to do what they can to 
impede that object, by representing it as in any degree already effected, 
when it is in no degree effected. By the law of St. Kitt's,* which the 
Report designates as an improvement, Sunday markets, instead of 
being abolished, are continued and legalized ; and neither by that or 
by any other law of St. Kitt's, is any time, no not an hour in the week, 
given to the slave for marketing or for labouring for himself, besides 
Sunday. In St. Kitt's, the legislature, instead of recognising the sa- 
credness of the Sabbath, has legalized its desecration. And this is the 
Act which this Society exhibits as an improvemeiit. Even Mr. Hus- 
kisson, less sensitive, it may be assumed, on this point, than the con- 
ductors of a religious institution, cannot approve of the manner in 
which the law of St. Kitt's regulates Sunday markets and Sunday 
labour ; and even his extenuatory remarks are less applicable to St. 
Kitt's than to any other island in the West Indies. (No. 38, p. 273.) 

Again the Report takes occasion to inform the pubhc that Sunday 
markets are abolished in Barbadoes ; but it omits to tell them that no 
time is given to the slave in lieu of Sunday. It informs them too, that 
slave evidence is in certain cases admitted, and a protectorate for the 
slaves constituted by law jf but it wholly overlooks the fact that Mr. 
Huskisson, in his letter of the 18th of October, 1827, distinctly states 
that both regulations are almost worthless ; the qualifications of Ihe law 
of evidence being such as " greatly to impair its value ;" and it being 
" impossible to regard the establishment," of a protectorate under 
the present law " as an effectual substitute for the office of protector 
of slaves," recommended by Lord Bathurst. Let these specimens 
suffice to shew the ground of this last head of complaint. 

We have been detained so long by these general observations, that we 
have little space left for the details of the Report. It has for its motto, 
an extract from a letter of the Bishop of Barbadoes, which, in a some- 
what different sense from his Lordship, we have endeavoured in the 
preceding pages to reduce to practice. " Could the public throughout 
the mother country be once put in possession" says the Bishop, " of 
what is really doing, and an earnest appeal be made to their religious 
feelings, I cannot think that means would be Avanting to enable the 
Society not only to support, but to extend still further, and with such 
alterations as circumstances may require, the present system of religious 
instruction." We believe, on the contrary, that if the case were under- 
stood, means would not be wanting radically to reform the whole of that 
system.— The Bishop of Jamaica indeed goes farther, and speaks of his 
conviction of its efficacy ; and his mere authority may have weight 
with some. But we venture to think, that both he and the Bishop of 

* See No. 38, p. 273. t No. 28, p. 88, 89; 



.322 Details of the Report respecting Jamaica. 

Barbadoes would have done more for their own efficiency and for that of 
this and every other similar Society, by the single measure of obtaining 
a Christian Sabbath for the slaves, than by all they have done, or can 
do besides ; or by all the sums they have raised, or may yet raise, for 
their oatechists. 

But let us come to particulars, — and first as to the Diocese of Jamaica. In 
Jamaica are twenty- one parishes, which the Report estimates to contain about 
13,000 Whites, 30,000 free Blacks and People of Colour, and upvv'ards of 
326,000 Slaves— in all 371,000 souls. The number of places of worship amounts 
in all, (including; Churches, Chapels, and Licensed Houses connected with the 
Church of England) to thirty-eight, capable of accommodating 15,400 persons, 
or a twenty-seventh part of the population. In most of these places there is 
only one service, in several of them two services, and in two or three, three 
services a-wcek ; but in not a few of them there is no sermon, except occa- 
sionally. In many cases the attendance appears to be very small. 

With respect to education, such as is given to the slaves (and to them we con- 
fine our view) appears to consist almost exclusively of oral instruction, and is 
confined either to the catechising after service of such as choose to present 
themselves tor that purpose, or to the visits of the catechists to those estates the 
owners of wliich are willing to admit them. The whole number of such estates 
appears to be about 120, nearly half of which are situated in a single parish, St. 
Thomas in the East. The catechetical instruction there given, consists almost 
exclusively in teaching those who attend in church, or the children on the 
estates, to repeat the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, and the Ten Commandments, 
and sometimes the Catechism of the Church ; and even this measure of in- 
struction is limited at most, to a single hour or two in the week, and in many 
cases to the same time once in a fortnight, or three weeks, or even a month. 

Having thus mentioned the circumstances which apply generally to the whole 
Island, we shall proceed to notice what there is peculiar in the account given of 
the different parishes. 

1. In St. Catharine's, (in which Spanish town, the capital, is situated) 193 
adults and 192 children, chiefly domestics, out of 7,500, are catechised during 
ten hours of the week, forty or fifty attending at a time. " Tlieir instruction is 
altogether oral." 

2. In St. Dorothy's there are no schools. After the single weekly service 
performed in the church, the rector is ready to catechise such slaves as offer 
themselves, but it is not said that any do otfer themselves. The rector thinks 
that "owe school at least is necessarij" in this parish, containing upwards of 4,000 
slaves. This is only ridiculous ; but when he adds, that improvement is 
making greater and more rapid strides every day among the slaves, and that 
their superstitions decline daily ; this must be mer« romance. It is reaping 
without culture — the result without the means. How can the Society give 
currency to such crude statements ! 

3. In St. John's, containing 6,300 slaves, the only place of worship holds 100 
persons ; and after its one weekly service, twenty children are catechised, whe- 
ther free or slaves does not appear. 

4. In Clarmdon, containing 18,000 slaves, there is church-room for only 218 
hearers. The catechists give oral instruction occaiionally to 925 adults and 
245 children, but neither in this parish nor St. John's, is there any school of any 
kind for the Slaves.* 

5. In St. Thomas in the Vale, containing 12,000 slaves, very few slave chil- 
dren appear to be even catechised. It is mentioned as a peculiar indulgence 
on ONE estate^ that during crop, "a portion" it is not said what portion, "of 
the Saturday afternoon is allowed the slaves to visit their provision grounds, that 
there may be no excuse for absence from service on the following day." — There 



• Mr. Pallmer the member for Surrey, and one of the governors of this Society, has an estate in each ot 
the three parishes last mentioned, on which there are about 500 slaves. But we cannot discover, notwith- 
standing the memorable account he gave on the hustings at Guildford of the astonishing effects produced 
among them by ciiristian instruction, that any such instruction is even now imparted to them. We 
iiave looked in vain for any traces even of catechetical labour.? among them, in this report, sufficiently 
prone as it is to inagnifv the good which the Society has effected. 



I)etails of the Report respecting Jamaica. 323 

would otherwise then be an excuse fov not attending chapel on Sunday. Truth 
is mighty, and we see how this incidental expression demolishes whole hosts ot 
hardy and groundless assertions, as to the repose enjoyed on Sunday by the 
slaves of Jamaica. — And with all this meagreness of instruction, the rector 
tells us that " a decided moral and religious change " has taken place among 
the negroes since he has been there ! This is miraculous ! 

The most extraordinary circumstance in this Report is, that the Society should 
have chosen to give publicity to an evidently false and fabricated statement, 
proceeding from the rector of this parish, which, both for his sake and that of 
the Society, ought to have been suppressed. It appears to be pointed at the Bap- 
tists or Methodists, and reminds us of the tales circulated in the first ages re- 
specting the early Christians. " It is stated," says the rector, " on tmquestionable 
authority, that secret meetings take place in parts of this parish, at which are 
black and brown preachers, both free and slave, of the greatest, ignorance, and 
of the lowest description. Money is exacted ; penance and fasts enjoined." 
" Tlie usual practice is to assemble at night once or twice a week." " In the 
altered countenances and emaciated appearance of the deluded creatures who 
attend these nocturnal meetings, tliere is ample proof of the injury sustained by 
their health, as also by their habits of fasting, exposure to the night air, and 
loss of rest. The evil arising from total abstinence from any food, during the 
day, or a longer period, is further increased by their afterwards eating such a 
quantity of victuals, as has in some cases, caused almost immediate death, and 
always brings on an unhealthy state of body. There are farther evils which 
have a most pernicious effect upon health and morals prevalent among the 
females,* who through fear or disgrace consequent upon a public expulsion 
from the religious society which they have joined, are induced to take measures 
to prevent their frailties being discovered." — Disgrace ! frailties !^ — The hoax is 
somewhat too broad and palpable even for Great Britain. — And yet, with all 
this pretence to minute accuracy, to "unquestionable authority," to "ample 
proof," we are further told — " It is difficult to ascertain the real persuasion of 
those who attend. They denominate themselves Baptists, although the ministers 
in town disclaim all connexion whatever with them, or even any knoicledge of 
them.'' " As they disperse immediately on the approach of a ivhite person, it is 
not easy to S2)eak with accuracy of their proceedings. It is stated, however, that 
they baptize, marry, and administer the Sacrament ; but, there is reason to be- 
lieve, that many of their doctrines are grossly repugnant to the spirit of Chris- 
tianity" — Certainly repugnant to it as practised generally in Jamaica, if mar- 
riage be a part of their religion. — Now, we ask, is it possible that a rector can 
have written such a statement as this ; tliat a Bishop can have gravely trans- 
mitted it across the Atlantic ; and that a Society, governed by such high and 
respectable names, can have deemed it right to publish it to the world, in a 
detail of their eftbrts to convert, instruct;, and educate the 330,000 slaves of 
Jamaica ? — Alas ! alas I 

6. In St. Marifs, containing 2G,200 slaves, there are no schools for slaves 
either on Sundays or week days. The curate catechises candidates for baptism 
and marriage on a Sunday, and gives a lecture, and reads prayers to those who 
choose to attend. It is not said that any do attend. For two hours, once a 
week, he teaches about forty-five slave children, on two estates, Hopewell and 
Cromwell, to repeat the Lord's Prayer and Creed. It is then added, as an in- 
stance, we presume, of extraordinary liberality on the part of the owners of 
these two estates.—" The time," namely, the two hours a week, " is, in both 
instances, taken from the master." That is to say, it is not taken from the Sun- 
day, nor from the interval of two hours at noon tide allowed the slaves on other 
days for relaxation. The proprietors of St. Mary's, it is said, " do not object to 
their slaves being taught to read." It does not appear, however, that one slave 
is taught to read in that parish. 

7. In St. Anne's, containing 24,000 slaves, all we hear of the labours of tlie 
rector, the well-known Mr. Bridges, besides his single service in the week, is 
his having given notice, that he means, on the morning of each Wednesday and 

* AVe marvel greatiy ■wha.t peculiar and scaet evils can prevail among these female devotees, to dis- 
tinguish their case from the open and universal dissoluteness of manners prevailing around them. , - 



324 Details of iha Report respecting Jamaiea. 

Saturday, to instruct the slaves for baptism. A chapel in his parish, he tells us, 
holds eighty whites, and one hundred negroes. This singular appropriation 
brings into view the general prevalence of that scrupulous and systematic sepa- 
ration of the spaces allotted to different classes, in West India churches, so as to 
prevent the parts allotted to the 'whites being contaminated by the negro 
touch. 

8. In Vere, containing 7,500 slaves, the rector, after his one weekly service, 
is said to be ready to catechise, but we are not told that any come to be cate- 
chised. On an estate of Sir H. Fitzherbert, thirty children receive oral instruc- 
tion. On another estate, belonging to Mr. Wildman a catechist resides to 
instruct the slaves. It is not said what they are taught, but the Bishop 
expresses himself much pleased with their progress. 

9. In Manchester, some slaves, we are not told how many of its 16,000, receive 
aval instruction. A few children learn to read, but whether they are free or 
slaves does not appear. 

10. In Port Royal, of 7000 slaves, about twenty children are catechized. 

11. In St. David's, there are no schoolsof any kind. The slave's are 7700, and 
the church holds 150. 

12. In St. Thomas's in the East, there is church room for 1,500, the slaves 
being 24,500. On five estates the children enjoy the peculiar privilege of being 
taught to read, and on forty-five other estates the children are catechized, so 
that 30G0 slaves receive more or less of religious instruction. And, on the 
whole, through the zeal of its rector, Mr. Trew, this parish has exhibited far 
more of effort and of success in the instruction of the slaves than any other in 
the island. 

13. In Portland, from thirty to sixty slaves, out of 7,500, are catechized at 
church, after its single weekly service. Eight estates are visited occasionally 
by a catechist. 

14. In St. George's, containing 13,000 slaves, the children of ten estates are 
occasionally visited for catechetical instruction. 

15. In St. Andrew's, a few slaves are catechised after service on Sunday, and 
300 out of 14,500 on the estates to which they belong. 

16. In Kingston, a school has recently been established by the Bishop, which 
is attended by 100 slaves out of 15,500, but nothing specific is said ot the nature 
or extent of the instruction given them. In this city the free people of colour 
have done much to educate themselves, and the Presbyterians, Methodists, and 
Baptists, are said to have been active in the work of instruction. 

17. In St. Elizabeth's, containing 19,500 slaves, there is church room for 3200 
persons. A curate occasionally catechises the children on ten or twelve 
estates. Another curate is preparing 378 slaves for baptism, and hopes " to 
have several made Christians by the end of the year." 

18. In Trelawny, containing 26,500 slaves, two hours in the week are given to 
catechising the children on the estates of Mr. Minto. After service, (there 
being room for 550 persons) those who present themselves are catechised. 

19. In St. James's containing 24,000 slaves, 100 adults and twenty or thirty 
children, (whether free or slaves, is not said) attend in church for catechetical 
instruction. A chaplain of tiie Society resides on Lord Seaford's estates, who 
allows him £100 a year and a house. He preaches there to a congregation of 
150, and thence as from a centre visits and catechises once a week the children 
on sixteen estates. 

20. In Hanover, containing 22,500 slaves, there is said to be a Sunday school 
at a chapel, but nothing is told us of its nature or numbers. 

21. In Westmorland there is said to be a Sunday school for slaves, but with- 
out stating by how many it is attended. On two estates 116 children, and at 
the chapels 100 to 150 adults are catechised. Something is said of Sunday 
traffic having been stopped at Savannah la Mar, the chief town. It is also 
said, that a great and visible improvement has taken place among the people 
of colour, who have become more religious and more industrious, while, through 
their improved morals and industry, the general prosperity of the parish has 
also increased. 

The main features of the Report from the Diocese of BAtiBADOES, including 
the Windward and Leeward islands and Guiana, do not differ materially from 



Details of the Diocese of Barhadoes, 325 

those of the Jamaica Report. The white and free coloured population appears 
to amount to about 80,000, the slaves to 350,000. The church room for tliis 
mass of 436,000 human beings falls short of 17,000. The instruction given is, 
with rare exceptions, exclusively of the oral and catechetical kind.- — The reci- 
tation of the Lord's prayer, the creed, the ten commandments, and the catechism 
seems to comprehend the whole. 

Something is said in speaking of Barhadoes itself, in praise of the system now 
pursued with the too long neglected bondsmen of the Society for the Propaga- 
tion of the Gospel. We will not now enter on that opprobrious case, trusting 
that a beneficial effect may have been produced by the salutary exposure of 
more than a century of irreparable supineness which has been made by the Rev. 
John Riland, with equal boldness, judgment and truth.* We shall rejoice to 
find that things have really improved. — In the Parish of St. Michael, where 
Bridgetown, the capital stands, 454 slaves, oat of nearly 18,000, are said to be 
educated, but nothing is said of the kind of education they receive, or of the 
time given to it.^ — ^The Rector of St. George's talks largely of the good done and 
doing, yet we find that with a population of 8,500, he cannot fill a churcli which 
holds but 300. He is only looking forward to such an enlargement of his congre- 
gation as may eventually fill it. — In St. Lucy's, the parish of the persecuted 
Mr. Hart, the children of three estates belonging to Mr Goodrich are tauglit to 
read. There is only one other estate in the island, on which we can trace the 
existence of the same mode of instruction. Oral instruction indeed extends to 
many estates, to the extent of an hour occasionally, once a week, or fortnight, 
or month; but how many are taught even in this unprofitable manner does not 
appear. In the same parish of St. Lucy, and in that alone, we hear of the gra- 
tifying sight of some " adults" — slaves, we presume — who having found means 
from their own resources to have themselves taught to read, appear at church 
with their prayer books, and join in the service. — In St. James's, it is said that 
£500 a year is expended on the poor. This might be supposed to refer to the 
slaves. Not so : tliere are returns before parliament which show that all the 
money expended on the poor, is expended not on blacks, but on whites exclu 
sively. 

In Antigua, much had been done to instruct the slaves long before the ap- 
pointment of a Bishop, although on a plan certainly very defective, yet 
we believe superior to that which now generally prevails. Since that plan has 
superseded the former, things appear to us to have retrograded. The Bishop's 
new rules have led to the removal of some experienced and pious teachers, and 
filled their places with persons not very fit to be religious instructors. Happily 
the Moravians and Methodists have large and flourishing establishments in this 
island, so that the evil of the new measures has to a certain degree been coun- 
teracted. But even in this favoured island, we hear but of two instances of 
slaves being taught to read, and we have no clear information of the nature and 
extent of the education given to the slaves ; and this obscurity too much per- 
vades the Reports of other Societies as well as of this. Still great good is 
evidently doing in Antigna. 

In St. Christopher's, the work of education appears remarkably backward. 
One clergyman complains of the general unwillingness of the planters to admit 
upon tlieir estates even the catechists, harmless as they are rendered either 
for good or evil. By another, Proprietors are urged, if they cannot spare all 
the slave children from work, they would at least allow some to attend, who, 
after a time, may impart to others what they acquire, (p. 186.) Even in An- 
tigua, we hear of children, (p. 103.) whom their teachers, in order to instruct at 
all, must instruct at night. 

In Dominica, it is not stated that any thing in the way of instruction has 
been effected. And yet, we all remember the loud boasts made there, in 1824, 
of religious progress, and the indignation with which the charge of neglecting 
to instruct their slaves was repelled. 

In St. Vincent's, it is just possible that thiity-six children may be taught 

* See a jiamplilet, published by Hatchard, entitled "Two Letters, &c. rcl;itive to the 
slave culttiied estates of the Society for the propagation of the Gospel, by the Rev, 
Jolin Riland, M, A." 



326 Details of the Diocese of Barbadoss — Bermudian Slaves. 

their letters. In Grenada, it is still more doubtful whether a single slave be so 
taught. In Trinidad, we do not find that any thing has yet been attempted in 
the way of educating slaves. In Demerara, the only traces of such education 
we discover, are in about fifty slaves living near le Resouvenir, the former 
residence of the murdered Missionary Smith, who are doubtless the fruits 
of his labours, and who appear in Church with their prayer books ; and in a 
school formed by the Church Missionary Society, under the Rev. Mr. Strong. 

We have alluded to the restrictive regulations of the Bishop. One of them 
is that Catechists, before being licensed, shall subscribe a declaration that 
they shall not preach nor interpret, but only teach and read what the Minister 
shall direct. Now this rule seems to nullify the very end of a West India 
catechist's appointment. He is not to interpret to the slaves what he reads. 
If the catechists are not wholly unfit for their office, surely they ought at least 
to be allowed to interpret what they read, to pupils who probably do not 
know the meaning of a single sentence of what they are made to commit to 
memory. They are thus, it would seem, debarred from satisfying curiosity, 
or solving difficulties ; and if asked the meaning of the words thy kingdom 
come, they must refer the inquirer to the Rector's next visit. This is going 
beyond even the Church of Rome. — Nor is all that is prescribed to be read 
by the catechists quite unexceptionable. What shall we say to such words as 
these inserted in a prayer which the Bishop directs to be used, every morning, 
on plantations, "Thou, O God, didst, in our baptism, pour thy Holy Spirit 
into our hearts, and receive us into the number of thy children by adoption and 
grace." Are all plantation slaves then baptized ? Or if they are, is it decent 
to apply such terms to them universally ? Supposing them to be applied 
to the 9000, whom a few years ago the Rev. Mr. Bridges baptized at half a 
crown a head, while Rector of Manchester ; or to the 25,000 baptized in the 
course of a few months, in St. Mary's, by another Jamaica Rector ; — should we 
not say that it was little better than a profanation of the most sublime truths 
of Christianity ? 

BERMUDA SLAVES. 

About the middle of September last, two vessels arrived at Belfast, 
from Bermuda, navigated by eleven negroes of that Island, who were 
slaves. Their circumstances led to some inquiry before the magistrates 
of Belfast, during which it was explained to them that they were under 
no obligation to return to Bermuda, if they preferred to remain in 
England. Eight of them declared it to be their wish to return to their 
families and friends. Three preferred the alternative of remaining in 
England, saying they wished to be free. The Belfast Newspaper adds 
the following statement. — 

" The men spoke English very well, and conversed familiarly with different 
gentlemen in the Court room. They said, that in Bermuda their employment 
was not very laborious ; they did some work on the Sabbath days, but not 
much. They usually attended a Protestant place of worship ; there were not 
any Roman Catholics in Bermuda. They said they were usually hired out by 
their masters, who got two-thirds of their earnings, and they got the other 
third. Before they came away they knew they might be free here. They 
appeared to be content and happy, and made no complaint against either their 
masters or captains. When they spoke of returning to their families and 
friends, their looks indicated the finest emotions and susceptibilities of affection. 
They all left the Court House together, and returned to their ships, except the 
three young men before mentioned, who had claimed their freedom. 

" Let not the advocates of slavery hope from this fact to shelter their system 
from the odium which it deserves ; for be it remembered, that in Bermuda, 
slavery exists in a form comparatively mild, and that even in this case, the 
poor men were prevented from claiming their freedom, solely by the power of 
friendship and the influence of domestic attachments — principles which, it is 
well known, would lead human nature to endure persecution itself, rather than 



Bertnudian Slaves. 327 

be torn from a class of loved objects. — However sensible the men might be of 
the great benefit offered to them individually, in the change from slavery to 
freedom ; it was clear that that benefit was only to be obtained by breaking 
every tie of natural affection and duty to their wives and children, whom they 
had left behind in Bermuda. Rather than remain here as freemen, they -chose 
to partake of affliction with those they loved, like the lawgiver of the Jews, 
rather than, by deserting them, to escape from slavery. After this, are we to 
be told that the negroes have not those sentiments of natural affection, that 
should restrain those who hold them in bondage, from separating the members 
of a family from each other ? " 

But, in point of fact, slavery in the Bermudas bears no resemblance 
whatever in its characteristic features to the slavery of our sugar colo- 
nies. The Bermudas produce no sugar, nor will their soil pay for cul- 
tivation under the stimulus of the whip. Their occupations are almost 
wholly either domestic, or mechanic, or connected with fishing and 
navigation ; and nOne of these occupations admit of the driving system, 
nor of those exactions of labour by night, as well as by day, which 
wear down the strength, and shorten the lives of the slaves in our sugar 
colonies. The condition of the slaves is, of course, materially raised above 
the brutish level to which the impulse of the lash necessarily reduces the 
human team. The stimulating motive to labour is necessarily changed, 
in some degree, from that of an escape from mere bodily pain to 
those higher inducements which act upon free and intelligent minds. 
Even the third of their earnings is, of itself, a powerful incitement to 
industry and good conduct. What a change would it make in the 
condition of the Jamaica slave if not only the nature of his employment 
exempted him from the physical excitement of the driving-whip, and 
he were delivered from the night labour of crop; but if a third part of 
his time were regularly given up to him, so that, besides the Sundays, he 
should have two days in the week to himself, or 104 days in the year, 
wherein to labour for his own benefit, instead of the twenty-six days, 
which are all he has, besides Sundays, at present ? 

The Bermudian slaves are, moreover, all natives of the islands where 
their progenitors have lived for at least two or three generations. As 
compared with the lot that may follow his expatriation, the slave of 
Bermuda is, probably, wise in preferring his present condition. Sup- 
posing him to escape to the United States, he would be imme- 
diately taken up and sold as a slave. The same fate would await him 
in all the colonies of the West Indies. He cannot even embark on 
board a ship of any nation, as a seaman, without incurring the risk, 
should he touch at any port where slavery prevails, of being seized, on 
the ground of his complexion alone, and sold again into a far worse 
bondage than that from which he had escaped. Let it be considered 
what might be his condition even in England, independently of climate. 
How much would the Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese refugees be 
content to have borne in their own country, and what dangers of 
oppression, imprisonment, and even death would they not have encoun- 
tered, could they have foreseen the variety of actual evils they have 
sustained in exile. The Bermudian slave who should exile himself, 
besides being liable to the same evils, if ever, either by choice or by 
accident, he should return to his native Island, would be liable to 
death as a runaway. He could never hope again to see the face of a 
relation however endetued to him. He could only attempt to revisit the 



328 East India Slavery. 

place of his birlh, and the abode of his family, at the imminent hazard, 
nay, with the almost certain prospect of being hanged as a deserter. 
We therefore are surprised, not that eight out of eleven should make 
their election to return to Bermuda, but that even one of the eleven 
should be tempted to expatriate himself for ever, for the sake of free- 
dom, with all the risks and disadvantages with which that freedom must, 
under existing circumstances, almost necessarily be attended, in the 
case of a person of African descent.^ 

EAST INDIA SLAVERY. 

A volume of about 1,000 folio pages has recently been printed by 
order of the House of Commons, containing all the information which 
the Company's records furnish on the subject of slavery in India, We 
shall take an early opportunity of examining and analysing the contents 
of this massy volume, and faithfully communicating to the public the 
result of that analysis. In the mean time our readers may be assured 
that the general account already given of East India Slavery, in a 
letter to Mr. Whitmore, published by the Anti-Slavery Society, is com- 
pletely borne out by the authentic and valuable documents now laid 
before the public. In some parts of the British dominions in India, 
which are situated on or near the Malabar coast, and in some of the 
newly conquered districts, slavery is found. Throughout the whole of 
the Bengal provinces, predial slavery is extinct; but slavery still exists 
among domestics and Nautch girls, in cases where courts of justice 
have not been called to interfere. The decisions of the courts of justice 
in these provinces are uniformly on the side of freedom, and in oppo- 
sition to the exercise of the master's power. 

The great object of those who have been busy in garbling these do- 
cuments, is to prove that East India sugar is not grown by free but by 
slave labour. Now we affirm, and we undertake in due time to prove, 
that from no part of the Eastern hemisphere is any sugar imported into 
this country, except from the Mauritius, which is grown by the labour 
of slaves. 

But in whatever degree, and to whatever extent slavery exists in the 
East Indies, we feel equedly anxious to see it extinguished there, as in 
the West Indies. There is this grand difference, however, between the 
two cases. In the East all the authorities are on our side, and are 
quite as eager to extinguish every trace of slavery as we are. They 
seem to anticipate every suggestion, and to have a uniform, wakeful, 
and intense desire to prevent or to suppress the evil. — In the West 
Indies, on the other hand, the authorities are systematically opposed to 
every effort of the kind; and no means of influence, combination, mis- 
representation, and delusion, are left untried for preserving, in their un- 
mitigated harshness, all the most revolting and disgusting features of 
the system. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office, 
18, Aldcrmanbury ; or at Messrs. tIalchards,lS7, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill, 
They may also be procured, throuf^h any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 

I.ondyn ; Bagstur auU i'homs, Printers, 1-J, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

ONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 42.] For NOVEMBER, 1828. [No. 18. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every mouth. Copies vcill be forvirarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. IS, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



CORRECTION OF ERRORS IN No. 40 AND IN No. 41.— LETTER OF 
A CORRESPONDENT ON THE VIEWS OF COMPENSATION GIVEN 
IN A FORMER NUMBER.— SLAVE LAWS OF THE MAURITIUS 
AND SIR ROBERT FARQUHAR.— JAMAICA OPPRESSION. 

1. — Correction of Errors in Nos. 40 and 41. 

We omitted in our last No. to point out a material typographical error, 
which occurred at p. 296 of No. 40, where, at the thirteenth line, the 
decrease on Lord Seaford's estates is stated to be " a little more than 
1| per cent." It ought to have been " a little more than I| per cent." 

When we said in our last No., p. 328, tliat there had been laid on the 
table of the House of Commons a volume, containing all the informa- 
tion which the East India Company's records furnished on the subject 
of slavery in India, we had not adverted to the circumstance, that 
neither the Bombay records nor those of Sumatra and St. Helena had 
yet been produced. We may expect that these will be added in the 
course of the ensuing session. 



Letter of a Correspondent on Compensation. 

To the Editor of the Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter. 

With all the deference I feel to your judgment, I yet cannot bring 
myself to acquiesce entirely in the views of the compensation due to the 
colonists for the emancipation of their slaves, which you have given in 
your 40th Number at pp. 301 — 304. I am ready to allow, that if loss 
be sustained by the removal of existing evils, it should be shared among 
those who either actually inflict them, or who have authorised their in- 
fliction, or who have derived advantage from their support and continu- 
ance; and from the burthen which this principle imposes, I do not 
wish to exonerate the community at large in the case before us. But I 
contend, and, as I think, undeniably, that the levy on each party should 
be in proportion to their respective shares of guilt and advantage. And 
hence I am led to deduce the inference, that the mother country, though 
far from guiltless, will be found liable to a much less proportion than 
the colonists seem disposed to throw upon her. They indeed would 
throw upon her the whole, nay, and far more than the whole. 

Neither your limits nor my own leisure will allow me, at this time, to 
go fully into every branch of the argument ; but I request of you to in- 

2 s 



330 Letter on X^omjjensation. 

sert the following queries and observations as heads on which I may 
perhaps reason further at no distant period. 

If Christianity be " part and parcel" of the law of England, would 
not any law directly contradicting its spirit and temper, and even its 
positive precepts, be ipso facto, et ah initio, void? 

Is not the state of slavery, as it has existed in the West Indies, con- 
trary to the acknowledged principles of Christianity, and of our con- 
stitutional laws ; and could such a state of things be now created? 

Has not the Parliament of England constantly asserted and exercised 
its right to alter the circumstances under which any established branch 
of commerce or cultivation is carried on, even where no moral guilt, 
has been alleged; and has not this been often done without compensa- 
tion even in cases of acknowledged loss? 

Did it not appear on the investigations which preceded the abolition 
of the slave trade, that great abuses had prevailed, not only in the con- 
duct of the trade itself, but in the management of the plantation slaves; 
and had this country till that time any precise or accurate knowledge of 
these subjects? 

Did not the "West Indians then deny the existence of those abuses; 
and yet have they not since repeatedly allowed that they did then exist, 
and argued, from their subsequent diminution, against the interference 
of this country in suppressing them ? 

Did they not then loudly and specifically demand compensation for 
the injury they would suffer from the abolition of the slave trade, as 
deteriorating their then existing cultivation, and preventing the break- 
ing up of new lands, which they asserted a right to do at will? 

Was this demand listened to? And yet, have they since complained 
of the measure of abohtion as injurious and illegal; or have they not 
acknowledged it to have been salutary ? 

Was not the general principle and bearing of that measure similar to 
that of emancipation; and was it not considered as having a direct 
tendency to produce the latter result ? 

Did not Mr. Dundas, although an advocate for West Indian interests, 
and opposed to the immediate abolition of the slave trade, actually pro- 
pose a plan by which every negro in the West Indies, born after 1800, 
would have now been free? 

Did not all these circumstances afford sufficient warning to the West 
Indians to prepare for ultimate emancipation ? 

Have those warnings however been taken, and have any measures to 
that end been generally adopted and systematically pursued by the 
colonists;— and if not, to whom is this deplorable neglect to be attri- 
buted? 

If the slaves, after the lapse of forty years since the first agitation of 
the question, and of twenty-one years since the slave trade (repre- 
sented as the great obstacle' to improvement) was abolished, are still so 
unfit for freedom, that the whip alone can be depended upon to ensure a 
reasonable degree of industry;— if their habits and dispositions are still 
so vicious and untamed that it is unsafe to establish a system of even 
gradual manumission, and that no period can yet be even hinted at for 
the cessation of their bondage ; so that their innocent children and 
ehildfen's children are yet to look forward to no other inheritance than 



Letter en Compensation. 33^ 

a state, compared with which, the punishment of every crime in this 
country, short of murder, is light; — if they even yet cannot, or do not, 
keep up their numbers, while all mankind around them are steadily 
and even rapidly increasing; — may it not be reasonably asked, by whom 
have such an untoward race been formed ? Under whose care have they 
lived? Who has superintended their education ? On whom lies the 
heavy charge of having permitted such worse than barbarian ignorance 
and vice to have continued so long, and still to continue ? Will the 
planters reply that it does not lie on them ; diat their utmost powers, 
as the rulers of those slaves, have been exerted to correct the mischief; 
that they have called in vain for the assistance of the State on which 
they depend ; and that therefore they are justly entitled to reproach her 
as the cause of all the evil, and to call on her to pay the penalty? 

It were idle to attempt to refute such a plea, and yet the com- 
plaint against the mother country is, that she claims and seeks, though 
with moderation, to interfere in order to rectify the existing evils. 
Persons, calling themselves Englishmen, contend, with pertinacity and 
even rage, for the uninterrupted exercise of a tyranny which has been 
proved, by woful experience, to have produced the most deplorable ef- 
fects, and which operates as a bar to all improvement both of master 
and slave. 

It may and ought to be further asked, whether this system, under 
the management of its former administrators, who still claim the sole 
and exclusive right of administering it, has proved, if not honourable, 
yet profitable ; if not prosperous, yet strong, safe, and at least independ- 
ent of foreign support. And what, if it should be found that this very 
system, for reforming which Great Britain is called on to pay a heavy 
indemnification, instead of being a source of immense advantage, has 
produced the ruin of thousands, and has yielded on an average little 
more than one half of a fair mercantile profit to the adventurers ? And 
are not even its scanty profits derived from the illegitimate source of 
protecting duties and bounties — its ricketty existence requiring to be 
bolstered up in order to prevent it from sinking under the slightest at- 
tack of competition ; while, in addition to all this, the expense of an 
army for internal, and of a navy for external defence, is to be borne by 
those who are to be denied the right of interfering to prevent the pro- 
longation of that unjust and profligate misgovernment, by which the 
happiness of multitudes is sacrificed to a mere handful of men, whose 
prejudices and love of power blind them to their true interests, and 
whose pride, cherished by living among herds of their dependents, de- 
based by their policy and trembling at their nod, leads them to enter- 
tain ideas of their own importance, which are exaggerated to the most 
ridiculous degree? 

It may further be asked. Have not the interests of Great Britain, se- 
parately considered, been seriously injured by yielding to the clamour 
of the Colonists, and continuing so long to tolerate that system, for the 
correction of which they now call on her to pay them a vast fine ? But 
this is too wide a field upon which now to enter. At some future time 
I may resume the subject, and exhibit my views not in the form of 
questions, but of proofs which I conceive will prove irrefragable. 

I am, &c. M. H. 



332 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

We have thought it- right to insert the above letter of our corre- 
spondent, whose views, we doubt not, will be allowed their due weight 
when the details of the question of indemnity come to be considered. 
Still what he has said does not seem to us to invalidate our general po- 
sition, that the claims of the colonists to compensation, whatever they 
may be, ought to be maturely and fairly examined, and equitably met, 
by the mother country. See No. 40, p. 301, &c. 



3. — Slavery in the Mauritius, and Sir R. Farquhar. 

For several years past we have been anxious to obtain information as 
to the real nature of the slave laws in the Mauritius. They have recent- 
ly for the first time been submitted to Parliament, and we have it now 
in our power to lay an abstract of them before our readers. They are 
contained in a paper, No. 526, ordered to be printed July 10, 1828. 

Until the last year tbe whole slave law of the Mauritius was com- 
prised in an edict of the King of France, of December 1723, which, 
having fallen into disuse, was revived and modified by a decree of the 
local government of September, 1767. The following is the substance 
of these decrees. 

1. All slaves shall be instructed in the Catholic religion, and shall be 
baptized, under pain of an arbitrary penalty. No black shall be ap- 
pointed to superintend other blacks, unless certified by the curate to 
profess the Catholic religion, on pain of confiscation if a slave, and 
of forced labour for life if free. 

2. The exercise of any other religion than the Catholic is declared to 
be illicit, seditious and rebellious, and those guilty of it are to be punish- 
ed as rebels. 

3. All persons are forbidden to make their slaves work on the Sun- 
days and holidays, in the cultivation of the ground or in other labour, 
under pain of fine and arbitrary punishment on the master, as well as 
confiscation of the slaves found at work. Masters, however, may, on 
Sundays and holidays, send their slaves to market, and may make them 
work also in case of pressing necessity, first asking leave of the curate, 
or of the judge of police. 

4. All persons are forbidden to sell any Christian slave to a Gentile 
or Mahommedan, or to any who is not a Catholic, under the penalty of 
1000 livres on each of both seller and buyer, and confiscation of the 
slave.* 

5. Whites are forbidden to intermarry with blacks, under pain of pu- 
nishment and arbitrary fine. Whites and free blacks are also forbidden 
to cohabit with slaves. Those having children from such a connection, 
as well as the masters allowing it, shall each pay 300 livres. And if such 
children are the master's own, the mother and children shall be confis- 
cated to the public, and prevented from ever being made free. If, how- 
ever, the free black shall marry the slave, she and her children shall be 
made free and legitimate. 

* These four rules, as well as that part of the following:, v.'hich prohibits the 
cohabitation of free persons with slaves, if they were ever enfoicetl, have long 
fallen into di-^usr. 



Slavery ifi the Mauritius. 333 

6. The Ordinance of 1723 prescribes and regulates the marriage of 
slaves ; but that of 1767 entirely omits all mention of the subject. It 
had never been thought of in practice. 

7. All blacks are forbidden to play for money, on pain of the stocks 
and whip. 

8. Slaves are forbidden to carry offensive weapons, or large sticks or 
knives, without a registered licence to do so, on pain of thirty lashes. 

9. Slaves are forbidden to sell any thing whatever without a written 
permission bearing a date, and which can only serve for one day, and 
must specially name the articles to be sold, on pain of confiscation of 
goods and punishment ; those who buy of them paying 1000 livres. — No 
blacks having reared poultry, kids, &c. shall be able to sell them with- 
out a declaration, to be registered in the office of the police, stating the 
number of animals to be sold, and the manner in which they became 
possessed of them. — A separate spot shall be allotted to the slaves in 
the public market, where alone they will be allowed to traffic, under 
pain of the whip and confiscation of goods. 

10. Masters are ordered to furnish to each slave two pounds of In- 
dian corn, or an equivalent in other food, every day, together with the 
yearly clothing necessary. Old and infirm slaves are to be maintained 
by their masters, otherwise by the hospital, which may demand and 
levy six sous per day for each. 

11. Slaves not fed and clothed, or barbarously and inhumanly treat- 
ed, may complain to the Solicitor-General, by whom the masters shall 
be prosecuted. 

12. All persons are forbidden to inflict more than thirty lashes on 
their slaves. If masters think they deserve more, they must make 
known the case to the magistrate of police, who shall fix the number of 
lashes according to the exigency of the case. 

13. Slaves going out, after the retreat has beat, without a light and 
a licence, shall be flogged and put to a month's labour on the public 
works. Even free blacks shall be liable to arrest if they go out after 
eleven at night. 

14. Slaves harbouring slaves shall be flogged; whites and free blacks 
doing so shall be heavily fined ; and if the free blacks cannot pay the 
fine they shall be sold. 

15. Slaves belonging to different masters, assembling together by day 
or night, whether at their master's houses, in high roads, or remote 
places, are to be flogged and branded with the fleur-de-lys ; or, on fre- 
quent repetition of the offence, may suffer death at the discretion of the 
judge ; masters, permitting them, are to repair all damage done by such 
assemblies, and to be fined. 

16. Masters are forbidden to get rid of their obligation to feed theii 
slaves, by allowing them to work certain days in the week for their own 
account. 

17. Slaves can possess nothing, and can gain nothing, by their own 
industry or the liberality of others, that shall not belong in full property 
to their masters, without the power, on the part of their children, or 
other relations, to claim any portion thereof from any disposition what- 
ever they may make ; which is declared null and void, as proceeding 
from parties incapable of performing any valid act. 

2 s 2 



^334 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

18. Slaves can hold no office or commission ; nor be agents, arbitra- 
tors, or appraisers; nor be witnesses, unless indispensable, and in default 
of whites, and in no case against their masters ; nor can they prosecute 
in any suit, though they may themselves be prosecuted criminally. 

19. A slave striking his master or mistress, or their children, and 
causing a wound, shall suffer death ; and if he commit violence upon a 
free person, he shall be severely punished, even with death, as the case 
may be. 

20. Robberies by a slave shall be punished, as the case may require, 
with flogging and branding, or death ; the master being bound to make 
good the damage, or to give up the slave to the injured party. 

21. A fugitive slave, absent a month after being denounced, shall 
have his ears cut off, and be branded with a fleur-de-lys ; if absent a 
second time, for the same space, his hamstrings shall be cut and he shall 
again be branded ; if a third time, he shall suffer death. 

22. Slaves condemned to death, on the denunciation of their mas- 
ters, shall be valued, and their price shall be paid to their masters. 

23. The slaves, when deemed deserving of it, may be put in chains 
and flogged by their masters ; but all persons are forbidden to torture 
or mutilate slaves, on pain of confiscation, and of being proceeded 
against criminally. 

24. The officers of justice are to proceed criminally against masters 
who shall kill or mutilate slaves, and may even inflict on them the pu- 
nishment of death. But in case there is ground for pardoning them, a 
pardon may be granted without waiting to apply to the king. 

25. Husband and wife, and children below the age of puberty, cannot 
be judicially seized and sold separately, if belonging to the same master. 
Such seizures and sales are null and void. And the same rule shall 
also apply to voluntary sales, on pain of being deprived of the slaves 
that may be sold.* 

26. Masters may manumit their slaves by deed or will, but they are 
not to do so without leave of the local government. Without this, all 
manumissions shall be void, and the manumitted persons also shall be 
confiscated and continue slaves. With such leave, manumission will 
confer the advantges of natural born subjects, except that no free 
black, or manumitted slave, shall be capable of receiving gifts or be- 
quests from whites, all which shall be void and applied to the hospital. 
Manumitted slaves are freed from all service to their old masters, but 
must treat them and their children with respect, and any injury to them 
will be punished with peculiar severity. With these exceptions manu- 
mitted slaves shall enjoy the same rights as are enjoyed by other free- 
born subjects, both in regard to person and property. 

Such was the slave law of the Mauritius, when it surrendered to the 
British arms. From that time to the end of 1826, a period of sixteen 
years, with a single exception, no modification of it took place. This 
single exception consisted in an edict issued by Governor Farquhar, on 

* The draft of the new slave code for the Mauritius, which possibly may now 
be in force, actually deteriorates the slave's condition, by hmhiix^ the non-sepa- 
ration of families to judicial sales only. 



Slavery in the Mauritius. — Sir Lowry Cole. 335 

the 30th Dec. 1814, which, besides requiring many onerous formalities, 
and renewing the old law, that no slave shall be manumitted without the 
permission of the Governor, who alone is to decide whether the proposed 
manumission may be carried into effect without injury to the commu- 
nity, actually imposes a fine of 150 to 300 dollars on each act of 
manumission. By this edict, the Governor further empowers himself to 
employ on the highways all freed persons having no visible means 
of support. — This unjust enactment was slightly modified by an ordi- 
nance of Sir Lowry Cole, of the 27th January 1827, and the amount 
of the fine was reduced to £5. But the modification has had the effect of 
bringing the matter before the acute mind of Mr. Huskisson, who, in his 
letter of 10th Oct. 1827, peremptorily annulled the whole proceeding, 
and directed both these vile proclamations to be forthwith revoked. 

On the 13th of Dec. 1826, Sir Lowry Cole published an ordinance 
to regulate the weight of the chains and fetters which masters are 
authorised, by the existing laws, to fasten upon their slaves at their own 
discretion. This new regulation directs, that when two male slaves of fif- 
teen years of age are chained together, the chains and collars are not to 
exceed nine pounds, and for a single male slave six pounds ; — for two 
negresses five pounds; and for one negress, or for a child, three pounds! 
The fetters on the feet of a male slave are not to exceed three pounds ! 
This weight, however, may in all cases be augmented by the civil com- 
missaries at their discretion ! Negresses and children, though they may 
be chained, are not to be fettered ; and no slave is to be both chained 
and fettered at the same time, without a commissary's* authority. 
The use of the collar with three branches is forbidden. The penalty 
for violating this law, a law which, our readers will see, leaves sufficient 
scope to the inflictions of arbitrary power, is a fine of two to ten pounds 
for the first offence, and of ten to twenty pounds for the second. 

The same ordinance imposes a fine of from five to forty pounds on 
any proprietor who shall punish a slave that has been sent back to him 
by any judge or commissary of police, with an injunction " to treat him 
without resentment."t 

Sir Lowry Cole, about the same time that he made this first and 
feeble attempt to abate the excessive rigour of the Mauritius system of 
slavery, addressed two circular letters to the commissaries of districts. 
These were accompanied by a transcript of four of the clauses of the 
slave codes of 1723 and 1767, the substance of which is given above, p. 
333, under the heads, 3; 10, 1 1, and 12. They respect the Sunday labour, 
the food and clothing, and the arbitrary punishment of the slaves. The 
circulars state, that notwithstanding the laws which forbid masters, on 



* The commissaries, be it remembered, are all slave-holders. 

t We have often protested against the iniquity of that principle which pervades 
our slave codes, and is unfortunately embodied in that for Trinidad, and which 
inflicts punishment on the slave who fails to prove his complaint. This prin- 
ciple we are happy to perceive, Mr. Huskisson, in his despatch to Sir Lowry 
Cole,' of the 19th of March, 1828, has explicitly proscribed.—" It will be neces- 
sary}' he says, " to provide that no slave may be punished for preferring a 
complaint, unless he be distinctly convicted of the offence of having preferred a 
calumnious charge from improper motives, that conviction procoeding upon 
adequate and legal evidence." 



336 Slavery in the Mauritius. — Sir Lovjry Cole. 

pain of arbitrary punishment and confiscation, to make their slaves work 
on Sundays, the Governor has learned that, on many estates, the slaves 
do v^^ork on Sundays as on other days. This, he says, can no longer 
be tolerated, and he invites the commissaries to employ their influence 
to persuade the planters to give their slaves the rest of the Sunday, and 
on other days not to require them to work until half an hour before 
sunrise, or beyond a quarter of an hour beyond sunset.* He admits the 
planters may find it necessary to work their sugar houses at night, and 
does " not pretend to oppose it;" but, in that case, lie thinks the slaves 
ought to have the following day to rest themselves, and when circum- 
stances oblige them to deprive their slaves of Sundays, he hopes they 
will feel the justice of an indemnity. He also directs their attention to 
the food, clothing and correction of the slaves. " There exist," he says, 
" in this respect, abuses which it is your duty to remove, by denounc- 
ing them to the Solicitor General." And if this warning should not be 
attended to, " I will find myself compelled to measures of rigour which 
will be repugnant to my feelings, but will be called for by the dictates 
of humanity, by the laws, and by the colonial interests." He afterwards 
adverts strongly to the excess of punishment inflicted, by some masters, 
beyond the thirty lashes allowed by law, and to the various punishments 
inflicted on the negro women, between whom and the men, he tells us, 
no difference is made. " The weakness of their sex and public decency 
seem to require that negro vramen should undergo the lash only in 
extraordinary cases. Do not irons, the stocks, imprisonment, offer 
sufficient means of punishing a negro woman, whose condition, besides 
being almost always precarious, requires great care." He trusts, there- 
fore, they will give up of their own accord the use of flogging in respect 
of females, and '' not stand in need of being compelled by coercive 
measures to adopt a course which sound morality calls for." 

Can Sir Lowry Cole have been weak enough to imagine that a few 
impotent recommendations of this sort, addressed to commissaries, all 
of whom are slave-holders or slave-drivers, would have any other result 
than that of exciting their rage or their ridicule ? Or that they would have 
more effect in protecting the slaves from oppression than his known 
wishes had in protecting Sir Hudson Lowe from insult? Besides, was 
it only in December, 1826, that he discovered, for the first time 
during a residence of three or four years in this island, that men and 
women were cruelly and excessively flogged ; that, even while at work, 
their limbs might be loaded with chains and fetters, and their necks 
so surrounded with three-pronged collars, as to prevent the sufferers 
from extending themselves on the earth ? Was it then he first disco- 
vered that slaves were forced to work night as well as day with scarcely 
an interval of rest ; and to work on Sundays just as on other days ; 
and that their clothing was insufficient to cover them, and their food to 
sustain them ? He might have known all this, and denounced it in 
1823 as well as in 1826, and thus perhaps spared the miserable 
wretches under his government at least some small part of those suffer- 
ings, which the very terms of his circular so forcibly depict. 

Lord Bathurst and Sir Robert Farquhar appear to us to have much 

* This may give us some idea of what the piacUce has been as to hours of labour. 



Slavery in the Mauritius. — Sir Robert Farquhar. 337 

to answer for in what respects the slave population of the Mauritius. 
They governed that colony together for many years without introduc- 
ing one solitary regulation for the defence or protection of the slaves, 
and apparently without a single attempt, on the part of his Lordship, 
to ascertain their real condition. He never seems to have even re- 
quired that the laws by which the slaves were governed should be com- 
municated to him, but seems on the contrary to have placed an un- 
limited confidence in Sir R. Farquhar's vague and delusive statements. 
And yet we think his Lordship must have known that the very persons 
composing that gentleman's household, and who stood the highest in 
his confidence, were deeply interested in upholding the very worst evils 
of slavery. But not to dwell at present on his Lordship's part in the 
administration of the aiFairs of this unhappy island, we will confine 
ourselves to that of Sir R. Farquhar. 

In perusing the papers before us, we were surprised to find, that 
during the whole period of Sir R. Farquhar's government, extending 
from the conquest of the colony to the year 1823, not a single regu- 
lation was passed for restraining the oppressions of the master, or pro- 
tecting the persons and improving the condition of the slaves. And 
we were the more surprised at this, on recurring to certain passages, 
both in his speeches in parliament, and in his communications, at dif- 
ferent times, with the Secretary of State. He told Lord Liverpool, 
indeed, soon after his first arrival, that the slaves in the Mauritius had 
been decreasing during the preceding seven years, at the rate of five 
per cent, per annum ; and he made use of this fact to convince his 
Lordship of the necessity of continuing to import slaves, as otherwise 
the island would become a desert.* Lord Liverpool, however, regarded 
this fact in a very different light from the Governor ; and instead of 
consenting to force more human beings into this charnel house, 
seemed rather alarmed by so flagrant a proof of oppression, and re- 
quested to know " the state of the laws in respect to the protection of 
the slaves from the cruelty and oppression of their masters," with a view 
to secure to them a mild treatment. — Soon after this letter was written, 
Lord Liverpool quitted the colonial office, and was succeeded by Earl 
Bathurst ; and it does not appear that the inquiry thus begun was pro- 
secuted to any clear result, or to any effectual purpose. And the language 
adopted by Sir Robert Farquhar upon the subject appears to have been 
well calculated to lull suspicion, and to prevent troublesome investiga- 
tions: and with Lord Bathurst it succeeded but too completely. On 
the l5th of February, 1811, Sir Robert wrote as follows: 

" I deem it proper, in regard to myself, to state that I am not by any 
means disposed to be a supporter of slavery ; and while political consi- 
derations and my immediate duty call upon me to forward the commu- 
nication," (an earnest petition of the planters to be allowed to continue 
the slave trade) " I have looked, on the other hand, with the feelings of 
humanity on the slave, and endeavoured, in every practicable instance, 
to alleviate the burden of his condition ; to which I must add, that from 
observation, I am happy to bear this testimony to the inhabitants cf 
'these islands, that I believe they are not by any means cruel masters." 

* Papers of 29th of April, 1826, p, 295. p. 5 and 21. 



338 Slavery in the Mauritius. — Sir Robert Farquhar. 

What a singular testimony is this on the part of Sir R. Farquhar^ 
■considering that the Mauritius slaves were decreasing, according to his 
own contemporaneous statement, at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum ! 
This wholesale rate of butchery he not only views without emotion, but 
he is even happy in testifying that the keepers of these human shambles 
** are not by any means cruel." 

" At the same time, however," continues Sir Robert, " that I do 
them this justice," (justice indeed !) " I have judged it proper to order 
that when slaves are to be chained for security or punishment, these 
chains shall not be heavier than are indispensably necessary to secure 
the person of the slave; and in the event of proprietors transgressing 
the order, the slaves are to become forfeited to the use of Government. 
By this order, and others of a similar nature,* I do not revoke any part 
of the assurances given to the planters, and considered indispensably 
necessary for the tranquillity and prosperity of these colonies, and their 
attachment to their new government ; because the use of chains is still 
allowed for security and punishment. And as the preservation of the 
slaves from becoming Maroons, or runaways and vagabonds, and keep- 
ing them in proper subjection to, and respect for, their masters, embrace 
every object which can be really beneficial to the proprietors, these 
measures are secured by chains of the allowed weight ; while the princi- 
ples of humanity and Christianity, on which the Order is founded, con- 
duce to the alleviation of unnecessary burdens on our suffering fellow- 
creatures. I hope it is unnecessary to assure your Lordship that it will 
be a prominent feature of my administration to amehorate, in every pos- 
sible mode, the fate of these unfortunate beings."t 

But this is not all. We have a letter of Sir R. Farquhar, dated a few 
months later, viz. on the 1st of February, 1812, in which he says, 

" I beg leave to assure your Lordship, that the motives which have long 
incited me, as well as other gentlemen, to support human freedom, have 
never ceased to be the constant care of my government ; and I am happy 
to be able to add, that it has been in my power, by a series of measures, to 
ameliorate the condition of the slaves in these colonies in general, and to 
bring into practice a system for their treatment, which must lead to 
their benefit and comfort, and ultimately, I trust, be productive of 
material advantage to society in general, and the highest interests of 
humanity. These proceedings have not passed without evident and 
■avowed dissatisfaction expressed by many, nor without occasional highly 
coloured representations of the danger to be apprehended from my suc- 
cessive efforts in favour of the slaves." " I trust, nevertheless, that your 
Lordship will always have occasion to remark my exertions to meet 
their alarms and remonstrances, by a prudent, though not less obstinate, 

* Neither this order, nor the " others of a similar nature," of which he speaks, 
have ever been produced, though all such orders have been called for. May we 
not conclude, therefore, that none such were ever issued? Indeed the ordinance 
promulgated, on the subject of chains and fetters, by Sir Lowry Cole, in Decem- 
ber, 1820, seems to prove, that, independently of the fact of their non-produc- 
tion, the alleged orders of 1811 had really no existence. 

\ And yet with all this ostentatious parade of humanity, this anxiety to apo- 
logize for his excess of tenderness, we cannot find that, during the whole of Sir 
R. Farquhar's administration, one single law was passed by him for the protec- 
tion of the slaves. 



Slavery in the Mauritius. — Sir Robert Farquhar. 339 

firmness and resistance. A consciousness of my duty to my king and 
country, as the chief member of one of His Majesty's Governments at 
this enlightened epoch of the world, as well as my ardent desire to ac- 
celerate the civilization of the surrounding African states, will not only 
induce my perseverance in such a course, but prompt me to fulfil the 
task with all that cheerfulness and zeal, which its tendency to the de- 
velopment of general prosperity, and to the extension of British arts and 
industry, to foreign countries under my immediate auspices, is calcu- 
lated to inspire." p. 11. 

And yet, can it be; — will it be believed, — that the whole of this loud 
sounding language is pure mystification ; that not one of the series of 
measures, so ostentatiously obtruded on the admiring confidence of the 
Secretary of State, should have been ever promulgated ; and that the 
Baronet's entire statement, with all its imposing circumstances, should 
now wear the air of absolute fabrication? At least, we cannot dis- 
cover a single trace, in the legislative records of the Mauritius, of these 
boasted ameliorations of Sir Robert Farquhar ; although Lord Bathurst 
seems to have been satisfied with his specious but groundless generali- 
ties without ever calling for the acts themselves. It is difficult to 
speak with the necessary moderation of conduct such as this, of inac- 
curacy so unaccountable on the one hand, and of delusion so complete 
on the other. 

But to proceed. On the first of September, 1812, Sir R. Farquhar 
again writes : 

" I have, ever since my arrival in these colonies, done all in my power 
to better the condition and alleviate the oppression of the slaves. The 
laws are strongly in their favour; but, with courts of justice consti- 
tuted as those at present in these colonies are, it is difficult to obtain 
justice. I shall transmit to your Lordship a statement of the laws in 
regard to their protection as soon as it can be compiled. At present 
these laws are diffused amongst a mass of others which form the Colo- 
nial Code." Page 23. 

Can any thing more resemble a course of delusion systematically pur- 
sued than this? '' The laws" of the colony " are strongly," says Sir 
Robert, " in favour of the slaves." We have seen what those laws were, 
and had Sir Robert Farquhar transmitted them to England at the time, 
the spell, which his representations wound around Lord Bathurst, 
would have been broken. His reason for not transmitting them is as 
incorrect as the character he gives of them, and could only tend to 
excuse delay, and thus throw the matter into oblivion. In fact he never did 
transmit them. They are diffused, he tells us, amongst a mass of other 
laws, but will be sent as soon as they can be compiled. And yet, now 
that they are produced, they fill only eleven widely printed folio pages, 
and consist only of two ordinances. In any case he might surely 
have transmitted his own enactments, his own " series of measures." 
These at least must have been accessible ; nay, they must have been 
printed and distributed in the island to produce the effect he speaks of. 
How came they not to be sent over? Was it because they were never 
framed? Neither they nor even the previous, laws of the island appear 
to have been ever furnished by Sir Robert Farquhar. The latter were 



340 Jamaica Oppression. 

first produced in the last session of parliament. The former have not 
yet been produced, and, there seems ground tobeUeve, never will. 

In quitting this subject for a time, we beg to direct the serious atten- 
tion of our readers to the fatal effects of incorrect statements, proceed- 
ing officially from public functionaries in distant colonies. In this case 
they involve the comfort and happiness of a whole community, and the 
lives of thousands. It would be wrong to lose the benefit of such an 
example. 

4. — Jamaica Oppression. 

We beg to direct the special attention of the Colonial Office to the 
following insertions in the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, of the 30th of 
August last, where certain persons are advertised as runaway slaves, v.'ho, if 
they continue unable to produce documentary evidence of their freedom, 
even though they claim to be free, and are claimed by no one, will, in a 
short time, according to the workhouse law of Jamaica, be sold into 
perpetual bondage, for the benefit, after payment of their gaol fees, of the 
revenue of the island. Among them we find as follows : 

John Seymour, a Creole of Sierra Leone,* 5 feet 5^ inches, says he is 
free, but can produce no document thereof, and was brought to this 
island by the Transport Finsbury about three years ago, with troops, 
and that Mr, Briscoe, formerly bandmaster of the 2nd West India Re- 
giment, knows he is free. 

Elizabeth, a black woman, a native of New York in America, 5 feet 
i inch ; committed as belonging to a Mr. Hughes, Rock Castle, St. An- 
drew's, but she says that her name is Ehza Weeks, that she was born 
free, and that she came to this island after New York had been given 
up by the British, along with a number of other refugees, who had at- 
tached themselves to the British cause during the war. 

Mary- Ann Miller, a likely, young, creole, mulatto woman, 5 feet 
3| inches, has a small mark from a ring-wonii, under the left eye; 
committed by the Sitting Magistrates as belonging to some person un- 
known, but she says that she is free, and was born free, and her mother 
also, at Montego Bay; says that her mother's name was Eleanor 
Miller, but she afterwards married a free black man, named George 
Sutherland, a house-carpenter, with whom she went to the Bay of 
Honduras about eleven or twelve months ago. 

Susanna, alias Susanna Terry, an elderly creole sambo woman, 
5 feet 4 inches, her lower front teeth are decayed, committed as be- 
longing to some person unknown, says that she is free, but can show 
no document thereof, and that her mother, named Jenny Terry, (who is 
dead,) was born free in the parish of St. Ann. 

Can these individuals be sold without infringing the Abolition Act ? 
Or is the workhouse law of Jamaica of sufficient potency to supersede 
that solemn enactment of the Imperial Legislature, which affixes to 
both the seller and buyer, in such cases, the stigma, and the guilt, and 
the penalties of piracy ? 

• Therefore a free-born subject of His Majesty, who cannot, by any possibili- 
ty, possess documentary evidence of his manumission. 

London : Printed by Bagster and Tlioms, 14, Barfliolomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 43.] For DECEMBER, 1828. [No.l9. Vol. ii. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at Ihe rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2c?. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT WITH THE COLO- 
NIES.— FRESH CRUELTIES IN BERBICE.— FRESH PERSECU- 
TIONS IN JAMAICA. 

Towards the close of the last session of Parliament, a volume of 375 
folio pages was presented by his Majesty's command, entitled " Papers 
in explanation of the measures adopted by his Majesty's Government 
for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Slave Population" in the 
slave colonies belonging to the crown, (in continuation of the papers 
presented in the year 1827.) We have already had occasion to allude 
to various parts of this mass. But it seems important to give a brief 
and connected view of its remaining contents. We will take, in the order 
in which they stand in the volume, the colonies of which it treats. 

1. — Jamaica, p. 1 — 32. 

In the former Reporters, No. 21, 29, 31, 33, and 38 is given a com- 
plete view of the slave law of Jamaica, which was passed in December, 
1826, but was afterwards disallowed by his Majesty, not so much on 
account of its numerous admitted defects and the flagrant injustice of 
many of its provisions, as on account of its outrageous intolerance to- 
wards sectaries. The despatch of Mr. Huskisson, notifying his Majesty's 
disallowance, is contained in No. 33, and abounds in large and states- 
manlike views of the subject. This despatch stands at the head of the 
documents before us, and is followed by an elaborate reply of a Com- 
mittee of the Jamaica House of Assembly, dated the 14th of Decem- 
ber, 1827, in which they combat the positions of the Secretary of State 
with much vehemence indeed, but so very feebly, in point of argument, 
as scarcely to merit the pains which he has taken to refute it. The fol- 
lowing, for example, is their defence of the clause, which made it penal 
in the Missionary to receive, and in the slave to pay, any voluntary con- 
tributions for charitable or religious uses. 

" The master," they say, " provides all the necessaries of life for his 
slaves, and he has an unquestionable right to guard against their mis- 
appropriation. The slave must neither be suffered to injure his health 
and strength by nightly wanderings, nor to strip himself of his tools 

2 T 



342 Corresiiondence of Government with Jamaica. 

and food, under pretence of contributing to the support of itinerant ex- 
pounders of the Gospel. An ample provision is already made by the 
public and by private persons for the religious instruction of slaves.* 
And persons,' whatever may be their profession and pretension, who use 
that most irresistible engine with weak minds, the power of persuasion, 
to extort from slaves the hard earned rewards of industry, and indirectly 
tempt them, when their own resources fail, to rob their masters and 
their fellow slaves ; such persons, so preying on the poverty, the super- 
stitious fears, and too often on the crimes of their proselytes, brand 
themselves, by this act alone, with meanness and hypocrisy, and deserve 
a far more heavy punishment than the being compelled to disgorge a 
small part of the profits of their extortion. Mr. Huskisson says, that 
the clause affixes an unmerited stigma on the collector of money from 
slaves : but it is submitted, that the extreme disgust and detestation in 
which all free persons are held who accept gifts without return, and 
who in any way take advantage of the easy disposition and ignorance 
of slaves, is a feeling rather to be encouraged than suppressed. Their 
peculium was thereby protected."! When " it was determined to give 
to negro property that protection by express law" (and this the dis- 
allowed act did not do) " which it before derived from usage, it natu- 
rally followed, that in securing the negro from the imaginary oppression 
of his master, the legislature would not leave him a prey to the oily 
and delusive tongue of a self-ordained preacher. This prohibition of 
levying a revenue on slaves is not, as Mr. Huskisson terms it, a gra- 
tuitous aggravation of the evils of their condiiion, but it is designed as 
a security against the avarice of unhallowed men, who are known to 
cajole slaves out of their substance, and, where soft words fail, do not 
forbear to call up the most fearful images to their assistance, threatening 
their simple followers with the pains of hell fire, and with eternal dam- 
nation, if they are slow and scanty in their contributions."! 

Mr. Huskisson's reply to these observations, though evidently en- 
feebled by his anxiety to sooth the angry feelings of the assembly, is 
nevertheless quite decisive. " The restraints" he says " imposed on the 
collection of contributions from slaves, are vindicated by charges against 
the Missionaries, which, if well founded, must be easily susceptible of 
proof; but which, at present, remain unproved. I am persuaded that on 
a review of the subject, the assembly will feel that it would be impos- 



* The absolute falsehood in point of fact of this assertion, on which the 
assembly rest the whole even of the semblance of argument for their persecut- 
ing enactment, may be seen in No. 13, and 41. But if it were as true as it is 
false, it would not justify their cruel interference with the rights of conscience 
or the exercise of Christian charity. 

t So that these sapient legislators would protect property by controuling its 
use under severe penalties ; and would make us believe that it is disgusting 
and detestable to collect from willing contributors however abject, a penny a 
week for example, to obtain a Bible, or to assist in extending the benefit of 
instruction to others as abject as themselves. 

X Let us only imagine for a single moment that we heard such arguments as 
those contained in the above extract used in Parliament, in support of a bill to 
make it penal for Methodist and Dissenting ministers to receive voluntary con- 
tributions from their flock for religious and charitable purposes. 



Correspondence of Government with Jamaica. 343 

sible to sanction a law which interdicted to any class of men the per- 
formance of the duty of almsgiving." " If it should be satisfactorily 
shewn that any religious teacher has so far abused his influence over the 
slaves as to extort money from them, under any false or improper pre- 
text, His Majesty's ministers would not hesitate to advise the Crown to 
sanction any law, properly framed, for the correction of so serious a 
mischief." " It is difficult, however, to see, how such a subject as this 
could be safely or properly regulated by any positive enactment." He 
might have justly added, that the whole of the reasoning which he 
combats, proceeds on false assumptions and gross misrepresentations, 
and manifests not only a deplorable ignorance of the acknowledged 
maxims of sound legislation and of rational economy, but an utter con- 
tempt of the rights of conscience and of the most sacred obligations 
and principles of that religion for which they untruly pretend to have 
made ample provision. The religion, however, for which they would 
provide, is a religion stripped of its most essential attributes, and as 
destitute of that charity which is the bond of perfectness, as it is of 
ihe holy rest of a sabbath, the best foretaste of heaven, and the best 
preparative for its final enjoyment. 

The above will suffice to shew what is the spirit of the Jamaica legis- 
lature as displayed in this laboured vindication of its disallowed enact- 
ments. Mr. Huskisson's reply, dated 22nd March, 1828, proceeds on 
the same immoveable foundation of sound principle which dictated almost 
the whole of his former memorable despatch of the 22nd September, 
1 827. He now repeats the same truths, and baffles with singular calm- 
ness and moderation the miserable sophisms by which the assembly have 
attempted to invaUdate them. We will give a few examples. 

"' The objections made to nocturnal meetings for religious worship," 
says Mr. Huskisson, " would have greater weight if the act itself had 
not provided that the labour of the slave should commence at five in 
the morning, and close at seven in the evening. It is difficult to repel 
the objection that, mider such a law, if the work of religious instruc- 
tion be not performed in the evening, it cannot be performed at all." , 
The assembly alleged that Sunday was sufficient for the instruction 
of the slaves. Mr. Huskisson would have answered this plea more 
effectually, had he referred to the fact, that Sunday cannot be applied 
to that purpose, as the slave in Jamaica, besides having no other market 
day, must cultivate his grounds on that day or starve (see Reporter, No. 
41. p. 315, &c.) He denies, however, the necessity of any legal limita- 
tion of the hours of instruction, since the assembly itself asserts, that, 
by the mere exercise of his domestic authority, the owner can always 
prevent the access of preachers and instructors to the slaves, or the 
resort of the slaves to them. ... 

In replying to the assembly's vindication of the invidious distmction 
they had made in favour of Jews and Catholics, he observes, that, 
though " it is true that certain nocturnal ceremonies may form part of 
the discipline of Jews and Catholics, it is no less true, that when labour 
is to be continued till seven in the evening, Protestant Dissenters also 
must have occasion to resort to nocturnal teaching for the instruction 
of their followers." 



344 Correspondence of Government with Jamaica. 

The assembly objected to the law requiring reports of arbitrary pu- 
nishment by the master, as inconvenient. The same objection, Mr. 
Huskisson replies, might be made to every improvement enforced by 
legislation ; while " the assembly do not advert to the compensatory 
advantages of such returns." — The assembly had even considered the 
demand of such returns as an imputation on their character to be 
warmly repelled. Mr. Huskisson on the other hand conceived it " con- 
sistent with the most perfect respect for the inhabitants of Jamaica, to 
think that any person, intrusted with the power of summary conviction 
and punishment, should render an account of the manner in which that 
power is exercised," 

The assembly had defended the unlimited right of the master to de- 
legate to a slave (a Driver for example), the power of punishing his 
fellow, as a reward for past good conduct. Mr. Huskisson says, with a 
naivete that has all the effect of the keenest irony, that this defence 
rests " on a ground which can scarcely be maintained ; for of the 
various modes of rewarding good conduct, few are niore open to ob- 
jection than that of investing the meritorious slave with a power of 
punishment." 

" I cannot accede," says Mr. Huskisson, " to the justice of the rea- 
soning by which the assembly vindicate" the master's power of punish- 
ing arbitrarily with thirty-nine lashes ; or of arbitrarily committing his 
slave to gaol ; or the authority given to the gaoler " to aggravate the 
punishment of prisoners by inflicting punishn^ent upon them at his 
discretion, without any previous trial," — for such are some of the hu- 
mane enactments of the boasted slave code of Jamaica, and even of 
its latest edition in 1826 ! But to proceed with Mr. Huskisson's terse 
remarks. 

" His Majesty's government cannot acquiesce in the defence which 
is made by the assembly ybr retaining the use of the whip in the field, 
and the punishment of females by whipping." — " As the assembly 
allow that the property of slaves is inadequately protected, it were 
useless further to pursue the discussion of that question." — " I fear 
that the defence of the continuance of labour without limit, during a 
great part of the year, and for eleven hours and a half daily out 
of crop, can hardly be considered as sufficient." — " It will I thinV 
scarcely be denied, upon a reference to the act, that the process" (for 
bringing criminals to justice) " in case of mutilation, &c. is singularly 
complex." — " Admitting that the unlimited discretion of courts as to 
the amount of punishments, may on the whole have the effect of miti- 
gating their severity, it is no less true that such a mode of legislation 
must lead to extreme uncertainty in the administration of justice, and 
to a corresponding recklessness on the part of those who are tempted 
to the commission of crime." — " The necessity of some precise defini- 
tion of the term rebellion is the more apparent, since the ninety-ninth 
clause of the Act authorizes the execution of a slave convicted of this 
offence, without any previous reference to the Governor. The precise 
nature of a crime, against which, such peculiar precautions are taken, 
ought at least to be distinctly ascertained." — " Admitting the ne- 
cessity of affording a more than ordinary protection to the persons of 



Correspondence of Government with Bahamas, 8fc. 345 

free men in a slave colony, the extreme severity with which it was 
proposed to punish offences of this kind, can scarcely be considered . 
as defensible. If I understand the Assembly, it hardly undertakes to 
defend it." 

In the midst of so much that is marked by the most enlightened 
views of policy, we were surprised to find a mind like that of Mr. Hus- 
kisson conceding, for a single moment, the propriety of enactments 
against Obeah. He might as well have admitted the justice of our an- 
cient laws against witchcraft. On the whole, however, and with the 
exception of a few complimentary phrases, which it is difficult to regard 
as quite ex animo^ the correspondence of Mr. Huskisson with the au- 
thorities of Jamaica is most highly honourable both to his wisdom as a 
statesman and his feelings as a man; and viewed in connection with 
the miserable attempt of the Assembly to vindicate its barbarous enact- 
ments, and its short-sighted and selfish principles of policy, gives a con- 
firmation to the views we have ever maintained and promulgated on this 
subject, which cannot but be most gratifying to our feelings. There is 
not a defect pointed out, or an abuse denounced, or a principle asserted 
by this distinguished statesman, in treating of West Indian legislation, 
which has not been over and over again dwelt upon in our pages, and 
anxiously pressed on the attention of the Government and of the pub- 
lic. This circumstance is of itself no mean reward of past exertion, 
while it affords an animating pledge of future success. When just 
principles of law and civil polity are once fully and fairly recognised by 
men of influence and authority in the state, their practical adoption into 
the code of social and civil economy cannot be very remote ; and yet 
if their adoption is to be left to the choice of such legislators as those 
of Jamaica have, by their enactments, and still more by their elaborate 
vindication of those enactments, shewn themselves to be, another cen- 
tury may elapse before the just and enlightened views of Mr. Hus- 
kisson shall have transfused themselves into the institutions of that 
island. 

2. — Bahamas, p. 33 — 36. 

In the Reporter, No. 28, p. 80 — 86 will be found a detailed ex- 
amination of the new slave acts of this colony, in which their absurdi- 
ties and enormities are fully exposed. Mr. Huskisson, in his despatch 
of the 3rd of March, 1828, enters upon a similar examination, and it 
is curious to observe the general coincidence of his conclusions with 
ours. Indeed this was to be expected. Two men of common sense and 
ordinary information, considering the very same documents, could hardly 
arrive at different conclusions. 

3. — Barbadoes, p. 37 — 45. 

- The Society for the Conversion of the Slaves in the West Indies has 
thought proper to step out of its province to laud the improved legisla- 
tion of Barbadoes, and to tell us that there, " a protectorate for the slave 
is constituted by law." But what says Mr. Huskisson on that point in 
his despatch of Oct. 18, 1827? The following is his judgment: 

" On the subject of the protection of slaves, it is impossible to regard 
the establishment, formed by the present law, as an effectual substitute 



346 Correspondence of Government ivith Barbadoes/ 

for the office of Protector and Guardian of slaves, as suggested by Lord 
Bathurst. There is a very serious objection to intrusting the selection 
of the acting Protector to any other authority than that of his Majesty. 
It is also highly inconvenient that the Governor should be associated 
with other persons on a footing of precise equality in discharging any 
duty connected vi^ith the executive government. The salary of £ 400 
currency is plainly insufficient to ensure the constant attention of any 
gentleman of adequate qualifications. The power of removing this 
officer at pleasure by the committee will place him too much within the 
reach of local and personal influence. He is not required to perform 
the duties of his office in person, or to be constantly resident in the 
island, or to keep his official records with punctuality, or in any pre- 
scribed form. There is no provision for appointing persons to assist 
him in the discharge of his duties in the more distant parts of the 
island. The accounts of the administration of his office are not to be 
rendered on oath nor at any fixed intervals. The exhibition of such 
accounts is not required, as the condition on which alone his salary can 
be paid. His powers are limited in such a manner as to deprive the 
office of the greater part of its value and efficiency. He is permitted 
himself to be the owner of slaves, an indulgence, which, for very obvious 
reasons, ought not to have been granted. It would be vain to suppose 
that a law thus imperfectly constituted, would ensure an effectual prO' 
tection to the slaves, or the punctual execution of the laws in their 
favour." 

And yet the framers of the Report of the Conversion Society, from 
"whom we might expect some sympathy with the oppressed and unpro- 
tected slave, in their eagerness to accredit those who oppress him and who 
actually refuse to him the protection of law, step aside in order to commend 
this abortive, and delusive, and deceptive protectorate ; thus aiding the 
colonial authorities to throw dust into the eyes of the people of England, 
and to perpetuate, in all its unmitigated harshness, the wretched sys- 
tem of colonial bondage. They thus, in fact, counteract the efforts of 
His Majesty to extinguish slavery, and even assist to rivet more firmly 
the chains of the slaves. Their conduct is actual treason to the cause 
they have undertaken. 

We cannot but express our surprise that Mr. Huskissoii's acute mind 
should have suffered him to assume as true, the allegations of a colonial 
preamble. The abolition of Sunday markets, he trusts, will not be pro- 
ductive of distress or hardship to the slaves, although a day is not given 
in lieu of it, " as it appears, by the preamble, that it has been customary 
for slaves to bring the produce of their labours to market on other days 
than Sundays." Now Mr. Huskisson might have ascertained, that this 
preamble has no foundation whatever in truth. Slaves do indeed bring 
produce to market on other days than Sunday, but it is only their mas- 
ter's produce and not their own. The masters may send them thither 
during the week. They cannot by any possibility go there of them- 
selves. They are at work every day in the week from five in the morn- 
ing till seven at night. They cannot, and they do not go to market on 
those days on their own account. If employed to carry loads thither 
on their master's account, it is but a part of their daily toil, and there- 



Correspondence of Government with Barbadoes, 34T 

fore when the Assembly assert it to be customary for the slaves to bring 
tlieir produce to market on other days than Sunday, they assert Avhat is 
altogether untrue. (See Reporter, No. 15, p. 21, and No.41, p.316.) 

In every other part of Mr. Huskisson's able comment we most en- 
tirely concur. " These acts," he says, " do not prohibit the use of the 
whip as a stimulus to labour. They do not attempt to define the extent 
of punishment an owner may inflict. They impose no restraint on the 
frequency of punishments, nor do they require the suspension of them 
for any period after the commission of the crime. The punishment of 
slaves may be inflicted in the absence of all free witnesses, and women 
are to remain liable to be corrected by the whip. The owner is not re- 
quired to record the punishments he may inflict, or to make any report 
of them to any official authority. A second conviction of cruelty in 
punishing slaves is not to be followed by any forfeiture of property, or 
by any incapacity for the future management of slaves." 

" The clause requiring that punishments by whipping should be in- 
flicted ' with the like instrument and in the like manner now in use 
in the navy and army,' would seem to have been inconsiderately 
adopted. These instruments are intended for the correction of men in 
the maturity of life, guilty of serious offences. They would be most 
formidable instruments, if the young, the aged, and the infirm, were to 
be the sufferers ; and, in the case of females, I should hope that no man 
could seriously think of resorting to them.* The case supposed of a 
woman being flogged in an indecent manner, or of a pregnant woman 
being flogged at ail, would seem to require some much more severe pu- 
nishment than a fine of £10' currency." " There is no limitation as to 
the time during which refractory, disorderly, or runaway slaves may be 
confined in the stocks. The offence of maiming, mutilating, or dismem- 
bering a slave, even if twice committed, is to be punished in a manner 
very inadequate to the enormity of such an offence. Such a criminal 
certainly ought not to retain the profits to arise from the property he 
has so maimed." 

" On the subject of marriage, I regret to say, that the provisions of 
this Act are very defective ;" and after specifying some particulars, he 
observes, " that it cannot be permitted that any class of his Majesty's 
subjects should be deprived of the power" (as they are by this Act) " of 
forming matrimonial connections, except upon conditions which may 
often be revolting to their feelings and injurious to their moral cha- 
racter." 

" The means of protecting the property of slaves are very inadequate. 
A remedy is given in th-e single case of property being taken away ; but 
this is only one of many injuries the slave may sustain," for which " no 
action could be brought by the slave or for his benefit. The right of 
property is further restricted, without any apparent necessity, by the 
long list of articles of which a slave is not permitted to be the pro- 
prietor." 

" The rule of admitting the evidence of slaves is laid down with so 

* How will those gentlemen legislators who have been flogging naked women 
all their days with the cart wftip laugh at Mr. Huskisson's horror of the cat ! 



348 (^o7'respondence of Governmeni with Barhadoes. 

many qualifications as greatly to impair its value. There is no neces- 
sary connection between the baptism of a witness and his credibility ; 
nor is it apparent why a man's testimony is less entitled to belief, if his 
baptism has taken place among Dissenters. Slaves instructed wholly 
by Dissenters will continue incompetent to give evidence whatever may 
be their character or their knowledge. Neither will a slave be admis- 
sible as a witness if the prejudice or interest of the master should induce 
him to discredit the character of the slave. To require circumstantial 
evidence, in all cases, will frequently operate as a practical exclusion of 
the most unobjectionable evidence — But, if these various restrictions be 
necessary, it is not easy to perceive the justice of entirely disregarding 
them all, when the party against whom the evidence is given is himself 
a slave. Neither can I discover why slave testimony, when in favour of 
a slave, is not to be received with the same latitude as when it is 
adduced against him. In one respect, it may be doubted whether the 
Act does not admit the testimony of slaves too readily. They may be 
witnesses for their owners, a rule of questionable policy when the extent 
of the owner's influence is considered." 

" On the subject of the separation of families these Acts are 
professedly silent, on the ground that an earlier statute had already 
prevented that abuse." But this statement, Mr. Huskisson shews to be 
a misrepresentation on the part of the Assembly : as, on examination, 
" that statute does not prevent the Provost Marshal from seizing one 
member of a family apart from the rest, nor from seizing an entire 
family and selling them in separate lots." 

Again, speaking of the clauses which aim at the improvement of the 
slaves, he observes, that the law as to clothing is " too indefinite, to 
produce any practical results ;" and those respecting religion " are 
plainly not framed in such a manner as to ensure obedience." 

" On the subject of crimes committed by slaves, these Acts contain 
an enumeration of offences, so numerous, and, in some instances, so 
trivial as to impart to the law a tone of jealousy and harshness." " No 
distinction is made between the attempt to steal and the actual commis- 
sion of the crime." " The compassing or imagining the death of any 
person, it is most inexpedient to introduce into a catalogue of capital 
crimes, or indeed to notice at all, except with reference to the King." 
*' The application of the criminal law of England to all crimes com- 
mitted by slaves should have been accompanied by a declaration that 
the same law is in force for the punishment of all crimes committed 
against them," 

Mr. Huskisson, further expresses the entire disapprobation, by his 
Majesty's Government, of the rule by which the value of a slave, 
executed or transported, is paid to the owner, even though the crime 
may have been the effect of the owner's misconduct ; and also of the 
law making Obeah a capital crime ; a law, however, the cruelty and 
injustice of which, Mr. Huskisson does not seem to be aware, depend not 
merely on the punishment being capital, for it stands on grounds equally 
absurd as our own old law of witchcraft. He likewise disapproves of 
the unjust and cruel enactment " which prevents a slave paying hire 
for himself to his owner," or " trading as a huckster and petty chap- 



Correspondence of Government with Barbadoes. 349 

nian," being, he conceives, " an aggravation of the evils of slavery 
which is not compensated by any apparent advantage," 

But, notwithstanding the revolting picture thus drawn by Mr. Huskis- 
son,of the new Barbadian Acts, those Acts, we regret to say, have been 
allowed hj his Majesty. The allowance is accompanied, however, by 
a strong recommendation to proceed forthwith to adopt into their code 
the suggested alterations of Mr. Huskisson ; in other words, wholly to 
recast it. 

Is it not extraordinary that the Government of this great country 
should persist in such a system of colonial legislation as this ; — that 
instead of at once calling on Parliament to frame a rational code for 
th,e colonies, they should engage in this unceasing conflict of clauses 
and enactments, this strife of words, which tends to no useful result ; — 
that instead of sweeping away the multiplied abominations of the colo- 
nial statute books which are at once an outrage on common sense, 
and a violation of the plainest principles both of policy and justice, they 
should still allow the petty oligarchies of the colonies to go on op- 
pressing hundreds of thousands of the King's subjects, in the King's 
name, and by the King's authority; and should thus postpone to a period 
indefinitely protracted the fulfilment of the pledge they have given to 
the country on this subject? We say to a period indefinitely pro- 
tracted ; for who, that has read the new codes of Jamaica, the Bahamas. 
Barbadoes, &c., and marked the miserable subterfuges and evasions 
by which the legislatures strive to retain in its vigour their cruel 
despotism ; and the barbarous enactments, which are the result of five 
years of deliberation, enlightened by the wisdom of our successive Secre- 
taries of State for the colonies, can contemplate the present course of 
proceeding as better than mockery, or derive from it the slightest hope 
of an effective amelioration ? 

If we look only at the view given of the legislation of Jamaica and 
Barbadoes, even in the calm and unimpassioned statements of Mr. 
Huskisson, and deduce thence the facts of the case, we shall still have 
before us as hideous a picture of the colonial system and the state of 
society existing there, as has ever been exhibited in the pages of the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter itself. 

The account given above of the new law of Barbadoes, which its 
Assembly, in the year 1827, hold up as the work of enlightened hu- 
manity, and as calculated to crown them with glory, is not our account 
of it ; — it is that of Mr. Huskisson. But then, it fully bears out our 
account of it, and gives the stamp of official authority to the most un- 
favourable representations we have ever ventured to make of colonial 
manners, colonial feelings, and colonial legislation. 

An ostentatious parade is made of an act passed, in January last, by 
the Barbadoes legislature, in favour of the free people of colour ; £md 
certainly its title is not a little imposing ; " an Act to extend the benefits 
enjoyed by white persons to all free coloured, and free black persons." 
On looking into this act, however, we find the whole promise of its 
outset, to dwindle into a matter of utter insignificance, as compared with 
the number and magnitude of the civil disabilities under which the free 
colouied population of Barbadoes are placed. — It merely enacts that they 

2 u 



350 Correspondence with Antigua and St. Christopher. 

shall enjoy the same protection as whites from the insults and assaults 
of slaves ; and that they shall be allowed to inspect the cotton and the 
aloes grown by their own slaves, or by slaves under their charge ! 
4. Amtigua, p. 47 — 50. 

This island has hitherto done nothing but make idle professions, and 
praise its own humanity, and interchange compliments with the Go- 
vernor. Their future performances may be inferred from the exalted 
opinion they entertain of " the many salutary and humane laws which 
form their slave code ;" — laws which it seems impossible that their 
Governor, Sir Patrick Ross, could have read, when he says, that " to a 
certain extent, the wishes of Government have been anticipated by the 
existing laws of the island." We have looked carefully into those laws, 
and we protest solemnly, that we cannot discover even a single clause 
to justify this statement of the Governor. The slave code of Antigua 
appears to us to be one of the very worst in the West Indies, with 
scarcely a single redeeming enactment. 

5. — St. Christopher, p. 51 — 65. 

In the Reporter, No. 38, p. 270 — 276 will be found a careful analysis 
of the new slave code of St. Christopher's, and which was then made to 
shew how little it merited the eulogies pronounced on the humanity 
of its provisions, by the Duke of Wellington in the House of Lords, 
and Mr. Huskisson in the House of Commons. We have there 
proved most incontestably, (and after an anxious reconsideration of 
the subject, we refer with the most entire confidence to that expo- 
sition,) that the actual slave code of St. Christopher, including not 
only the new law, but the unrepealed and still existing provisions 
of the old, is one of the harshest of the many harsh codes. It was 
therefore with the most unfeigned astonishment, and we may add grief, 
that we read in Mr. Huskisson's despatch of the 7th of March, 1828, 
the following passage: — "I am commanded by the King to con- 
vey through you. Sir, to the Council and Assembly of St. Christopher, 
the expression of his gracious and high approbation of the measures 
which they have adopted for improving the condition of the slave popu- 
lation of the island. This act is remarkable for the wisdom and huma- 
nity of the greater part of its provisions ; and it is peculiarly gratifying 
to find that the legislature of this ancient colony has given the full 
sanction of their authority to measures, which have elsewhere excited 
so much alarm, and called forth such urgent remonstrances. The 
benefit of the law under consideration will not be confined to St. 
Christopher, but the Council and Assembly will, I doubt not, have the 
gratification of influencing the legislatures of the neighbouring colonies 
to adopt their enlightened views, and to imitate their example." It is 
perfectly inconceivable to us, how the acute mind of Mr, Huskisson 
could have been so far misled as to have thus eulogized an act, which 
gives due effect to no one recommendation of his Majesty ; which wholly 
rejects or dexterously evades almost all of them ; and which leaves in their 
unmitigated harshness some of the worst features of the ancient slave 
code. It would be difficult to estimate the evil which may thus be done. 
And it would seem incumbent on Mr. Huskisson, by a frank avowal of 



Correspondence of Government ivith Trinidad. 351 

his mistake, to repair, as far as is now possible, the past, and to prevent 
the future consequences of such unfortunate, and (we say it with the 
most entire conviction) unfounded commendation. 

Q, — Trinidad, p. 67 — 12L 

The half-yearly Reports of the Protector of Slaves in this island, for 
1827, are before us, and occupy fifty-five folio pages. The abstract of 
them vpill be brief. 

One case of cruelty, that of a negro girl, Mary Noel, cart-whipped by 
her overseer, Mr. Lamphier, in defiance of the law, failed to meet its 
due punishment, in consequence of a technical defect discovered in a 
clause of the Order in Council. The defect has since been remedied 
by a proclamation of the Governor, but too late to meet this particular 
case. 

Nine criminal prosecutions of slaves, involving the trial of fifteen in- 
dividuals, had taken place. Two of these were acquitted. One man, for 
absconding during three years, was sentenced to three years of imprison- 
ment and hard labour. Another man, for running away and "intending 
for ever to deprive his owner of his services and labour," was condemned 
to wear round his leg, while at work, an iron clog of six pounds weight 
for three months. Five men, for absconding from the service of their 
masters for a considerable space, were condemned to imprisonment and 
hard labour, for periods varying from one year to seven years, and to 
stripes, varying from 80 to 150. Two slaves, a man and a woman, for 
an attempt to poison their master, were condemned to imprisonment 
and hard labour for ten years. One man, for cutting and maiming an- 
other, was punished with 100 lashes ; and another man, for a similar 
offence, was condemned to 200 lashes, and imprisonment and hard labour 
for five years. One man, for theft, was condemned to three years impri- 
sonment and hard labour ; and another, for the same crime, to eighty 
stripes in addition to imprisonment and hard labour for two years. 

After the expiration of the term of punishment they are all to be re- 
turned to their owners. 

Besides the case of Mary Noel, already mentioned, one man (free) 
was tried for assaulting and killing a slave, but was discharged in con- 
sequence of the absence of the witnesses. Another, for shooting at, and 
wounding a slave, was sentenced to six months imprisonment and pay- 
ment of the costs. A lady, tried for wounding and assaulting a slave 
boy, was acquitted. A Mr. Wells, for inflicting severe blows on a female 
slave, and her infant child, was condemned to pay a fine of £6 sterling, 
or, failing to do so, to be imprisoned one month ; and a Mr. Chirade, 
for causing a slave to be illegally cart-whipped, flogged, and scourged 
on his posteriors, legs, &c. was sentenced to pay £10, and then to be 
discharged. 

The reader will be struck with the vast difference in the measure of 
punishment applied to the slaves and to the free. 

The number of suits instituted by the Protector, during the year, to 
compel the manumission of slaves, was thirty-six, of which eight were 
still undecided. The other twenty-eight had been decided in favour of 
the slaves. The whole sum they had to pay was £1557, Qs. Sd. ster- 
ling, being at the rate of £55. I2s. Ad. for each. One man is made to 



352 Correspondence of Govermnent with Trinidad. 

pay £162., and a woman for herself and child £140. Qs. 8d. In one 
case the mother, Rosetta Degan, continuing a slave, redeems her infant 
Eugenia for £19. 10s. Of the eight cases yet undecided, five had not 
produced any part of their purchase money ; two others had not yet 
been appraised; and the eighth had produced the sum of £108. 6s. 8d. 
but it proved insufficient, the appraisers having valued him at double 
the amount of his hard earned accumulations, namely at £216. 13s. 4d. 

The number of slaves manumitted by private agreement, during the 
same time, was one hundred and thirty-nine. Of these, thirty-five were 
manumitted gratuitously, either "^ for good and faithful services," or " for 
love and affection," or "for divers good causes and considerations," and, 
in two cases, " for their mother's faithful services." The remaining 
one hundred and four paid for their freedom a sum of £6468. 2s. 6d., 
being at the average rate of about £62. 4s. sterling. 

Of the total number of one hundred and sixty-seven slaves manu- 
mitted, either by suit or by agreement, 66 were males and 101 females. 

Of the persons so manumitted, many, both men and women, are said 
to be employed in " cultivating a piece of ground ;" and many others, 
according to their sex, as " domestics," " washerwomen," " hucksters," or 
" in needlework," or as "jobbing masons," "jobbing carpenters," " tai- 
lors," " coopers," &c. — The highest price exacted by private contract, 
for a man, is £151. A woman, thirty-nine years of age, is made to pay 
£119.; and four others, whose ages are respectively forty-six, thirty- 
eight, thirty-four, and twenty-one, pay £108. each. A child of nine 
months old is sold for £7.; one of sixteen months for £10. 16s. ; another 
of the same age for £17. 5s. A boy of four years old is made to pay 
£32. 13s. 4d.; another of nine £43. 6s.; and a girl of eleven £86. 
1 3s. 4c?. ! Several other children, from seven to twelve years, are priced 
at from £10, to £22. 10s. 

The total number of manumissions from the 1st of January 1821, to 
the 31st of December 1827, (seven years) is 965, of whom 389 were 
manumitted gratuitously, or by will; and 576 for a sum of £37,406. 
sterling, being at the average rate of £64. 18s. 9c?. The number of 
adults manumitted, in proportion to children under fourteen years, is 
about four to one. During the first half of these seven years, the 
number of manumissions was 377. During the second half, viz. from 
the day on which the Order in Council came into operation, the 24th of 
June 1824, to the end of 1 827, the number was 588. The average price 
of the manumissions for which a valuable consideration was given, was, 
in the first half £70. 10s. Sd., in the second half £62. 13s. 2d.; shew- 
ing that, on the whole, notwithstanding the unjust and oppressive prin- 
ciple attempted to be established in the case of Pamela Monro, the ma- 
numission clause has operated not unfavourably to the slave. 

The sums paid into the Savings Bank by slaves in 1827, including 
the accruing interest, was 1473 dollars; the deposits at the commence- 
ment of that period having amounted to 133S dollars. From the 
aggregate of these sums, 2269 dollars had been withdrawn by the de- 
positors, manifestly, in most cases, to pay for their freedom. One 
man, a slave of the Colonial Government, of the name of Azor Brie, 
had deposited 500 dollars. The whole of this sum, (£108. 6s. 8d.) 
hardly earned no doubt, was wrested from him by that government for 



Correspondence of Government with Trinidad. 353 

leave henceforward to employ his bones and muscles for his own profit 
instead of theirs. Sophia Lucy withdrew 154 dollars for the purpose 
of paying her price of £32, 10s. Grace Carr withdrew 100 dollars, to 
assist her to pay the Rev. J. H. Clapham, her owner, a sum of £32. 
Another Sophia, withdrew 372 dollars, or £80. 3s. 4d., being the price 
exacted for her liberty, by her master, Henry St. Hill. 

We regret to perceive a breach of the consolidated slave trade abo- 
lition law in one instance, by the express permission of the governor. 
In April 1827 he permitted a planter, of the name of Jean Louis Marc, 
to import sixteen slaves frorri the island of Monos to his estate in Trini- 
dad, on the stale and inadmissible pretext that their removal would be 
for their advantage and comfort. This proceeding, we trust, will be 
thoroughly investigated, and the whole of the papers connected with it 
produced ; and we feel the call for such an inquiry to be the more urgent, 
because the same governor who ventured thus to violate a solemn act of 
Parliament, in the lasf despatch he appears to have penned, on the 7th 
of March 1828, strenuously labours to persuade his Majesty's Govern- 
ment of the propriety of legalizing the transfer to Trinidad " of such 
slaves as their owners may be willing and able to bring from the ex- 
hausted soils on which they are now obliged to labour so severely, for 
their own support, as well as for that of their masters." " I have before 
had occasion," he says, " to shew that this climate is not unhealthy to 
men of this class, even when placed on forest lands, which they have 
cleared and brought into cultivation ; and I also submit a return of the 
same gang in 1826." — " I have only now to point out, that in this 
island the slave will be placed in the full enjoyment of that protection 
which parliament has pronounced to be his due." 

But did it never occur to Sir Ralph Woodford that his representa- 
tions and reasonings on this subject were completely disproved by the 
single fact, that the slaves in Trinidad decrease more rapidly than in 
any other colony; and that this extraordinary destruction of human 
life, and consequently of human comfort, is to be traced directly to the 
very circumstance which he has made the main ground of his cruel re- 
commendation, namely, the superior fertility of the soil of Trinidad ? It 
is to this that we must attribute it, that notwithstanding its more fa- 
vourable slave law, the population of Trinidad is wearing away at the 
enormous rate of 2f per cent, per annum. Even the case he cites makes 
against him. It is the case of a Mr. Burton Williams, which will be 
found detailed in the Reporter, No. 31, p. 156; and which is most 
unfairly adduced to support the governor's erroneous and mischievous 
views. By turning to the passage we have cited, the reader will see that 
about the year 1793, Mr. Williams became possesse'd, in the Bahamas, 
of 107 slaves, who, had since, in the space of 30 years, trebled their num- 
bers by natural increase. They had grown from 107 to 331. And yet, 
during the whole of that time, the master of this healthy and flourishing 
gang was complaining of the soil of the Bahamas as inadequate to their 
support, and longing to transport them to a more fertile region, which 
would yield him a larger profit, whatever might become eventually of 
his slaves. Their increase in the Bahamas had been at the rate of 200 
per cent, in 30 years, being a doubling of their number in 20 years, or 
an average rate of increase of 5 per cent, per annum. Sir Ralph Wood- 



354 Correspondence of Government with St. Lucia. 

ford has contrived to exhibit the progress of population among them 
since 1823, when they were removed to Trinidad, in so very obscure 
and confused a manner, that it is impossible to draw from his details 
any accurate conclusion. On the most favourable view that can be 
taken of his data, the rate of increase had already diminished from 5 to 
2 per cent, per annum, and even to make up this diminished rate of in- 
crease the last two years passed by most of the gang in the Bahamas 
are mixed up with the four years since passed in Trinidad. 

Even this view of the case, however, is more favourable than all the 
data will warrant. In the first place, we find that forty-nine of the 
gang have already been sold, since their arrival in Trinidad, by Mr. 
Burton Williams. Into whose hands have they passed ? Of their life 
or death, increase or decrease, we have no tidings. Many of them may 
have gone, for aught that appears to the contrary, to fatten the already 
too fertile soil of Trinidad. But this is not all. The number of births, 
from 1821, is given as 57. And yet, the number of those born in 
Trinidad is stated to have been only sixteen, of whom seven had died. 
We have therefore in four years, from a gang formerly increasing 
at the rate of five per cent, per annum, which of course implied a 
much larger proportion of births, only at the rate of four births in the 
year, being very little more than one birth per cent, per annum.— And 
yet. Sir Ralph Woodford exhibits this gang as a proof that it is for the 
advantage and comfort of slaves, to be removed from other colonies to 
Trinidad. The attempt is perfectly execrable, and we trust that fur- 
ther papers will be called for to place, in the full blaze of day, all the 
particulars of this case, as well as the real progress of population among 
the slaves of Mr. Burton Williams, subsequently to their transfer to 
Trinidad. 

7.— St. Lucia, p. 123—140. 

We have had many proofs of the degree in which General Main- 
waring, Governor of this Colony, is wedded to the abuses of the slave 
system. His correspondence from first to last betrays this so palpably 
that we cannot but feel surprise that he should have so long continued 
to be employed as the instrument of reform in this island.* We find him 
now transmitting a memorial from a body of Planters to the Secretary 
of State, for whom he endeavours to engage the favour of Government 
by representing them, in the usual strain, as " men of long residence 
in the colony, of the very highest respectability, noted for their hu- 
mane and kind treatment of their negroes, and who, have ever acted to- 
wards them more like parents than masters !" And this eulogy we have 
in the teeth of a rapid decrease of their slaves, and without a single at- 
tempt on the part of the General to reconcile the fact of that decrease with 
his unquahfied eulogy.— But what is it that these respectable, humane, 
kind, paternal men require His Majesty's Secretary of State to do for 
them ? Only that he would be pleased to appoint wo Protector of slaves 
in that favoured island, in which, it seems, the slaves are supremely happy 
without one. Such an oflficer cannot fail, according to them, to pro- 
duce the most frightful calamities : — the degradation of the master — the 

* See Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 73 ; Keporter, No. 29, p. 113. 



Correspo7idence of Government with Demerara, 355 

undue elation of the slave — mutual hostility — ^hatred — discords continu- 
ally increasing — complaints multiplied — unceasing judicial contests — 
insubordination — refusal to work — insolence — excess of all kinds — the 
ruin of the estates — and the necessity of terrible inflictions to reestablish 
the order thus broken. Such an appointment, they tell us in their wis- 
dom, will stifle, in the slave, every sentiment of subordination, duty, 
and attachment to his master, and replace those feelings by a ferocious 
hatred, which, on the first opportunity, will lead to the most frightful 
calamities. 

Another earnest prayer which they implore the Secretary of State to 
lay, with all humility, at the feet of His Most Gracious Majesty, is, that 
he will still indulge them so far as to let them retain the whip in the field, 
and continue to flog the women. The prohibition to flog women, is felt, 
they say, in the most deplorable manner on every estate, and in every 
private house; and their insolence — for the negro women, they add, are 
always more wicked than the men — has reached to an alarming height. 

They further entreat, that the Sunday market may not be put an end 
to ; because, in that case, they must give another day to their slaves, 
which they cannot afford to do. 

They finally beg, that they may not be compelled by law, when they 
work their slaves all night, to give them time to rest in the following- 
day ; it being an insult to the planters to suppose that they would not 
do this of themselves. 

Such are the modest requests of the distinguished planters whose 
memorial General Mainwaring recommends to the favourable conside- 
ration of Government. That recommendation, however, has produced 
little effect on Mr. Huskisson. He has relaxed, indeed, we are sorry to 
say, the prohibition of Sunday markets, but he tells the memorialists that 
they must be content to submit to the dangers of a protector ; and that 
His Majesty cannot indulge them any longer with the use of the whip 
in the field, or with the pleasure of flogging their women, or with the 
profit of working their slaves both night and day without intermission. 

The report of slave punishments under the order in Council for this 
Island, appears to have been transmitted, but it is not inserted in these 
papers. We hope it will still be produced. 

Three marriages of slaves had been solemnized in the year ending 
in June 1827,^-and twelve children had been baptized as free, 

8. — Demerara, p. 141 — 147, 
Under this head, we have three half-yearly communications of the 
Protector of Slaves, Colonel Young, the latest dated the 1st November 
1827. Various returns accompanied them which are not given: and 
yet, without them it is impossible to estimate duly the effect which has 
been produced in this colony by the Order in Council. The first report 
of Col. Young is dated 1st November 1826: and we are sorry to 
remark in it sentiments of a somewhat dubious tendency. The first 
care of a Protector ought to be, to afford perfect security and confi- 
dence to the slave in preferring his complaints. Col. Young however, 
appears to have too much fallen in with the colonial notion of con- 
sidering the very act of complaining as a crime, when the complainant 



356 Correspondence of Government wit It Demerara. 

fails in proving his case. This course is not only unjust and oppressive 
in itself, but it is directly opposed to the principle now laid down so 
clearly by the Secretary of State (see No. 42, p. 335.) The complainants, 
it would appear, are punishable, not after a regular arraignment, trial, 
and conviction, in which malice has been established, but simply because 
they have preferred complaints which they have failed to prove ; and 
that under the many circumstances of disability in giving testimony 
which attach to them and their associates. " I found," says Col. Young, 
" that the slaves, in many instances, made the coming to me to com- 
plain, a cloak for idleness, and a pretext to go to town for other pur- 
poses; and when the property of their masters is situated at a distance, 
such conduct is not only most injurious, but attended with expense, 
first by loss of labour for several days, and by cost for lodging and food 
when so absent." And when such cases occur, he recommends them to 
his Honour the Fiscal, sending him the details of the circumstances 
^' that the exercise of his own judgment may regulate the extent, and 
description of correction to be awarded, or otherwise." Sir Benjamin 
D' Urban could not have been aware, that this mode of proceeding has 
been repudiated by His Majesty's Government ; for he pronounces an 
unqualified approbation of the manner in which the Protector has dis- 
charged his office. The particulars of the corrections of the Fiscal 
we trust will be fully given. The very name of Fiscal excites distrust, 
and after the ample experience we have had of the severe and summary 
inflictions which Fiscals, said to be humane in the main, are capable of 
awarding, even for the mere act of complaining, the public will not be 
satisfied without knowing more of these cases. 

One of the rules laid down by the Protector directs, that slaves 
should not leave the estate in a body, and that if they do so, after being 
warned, they will not be listened to. This rule had in one case, the 
Protector tells us, been broken through, and a considerable gang came 
to the Government House to complain. The Governor referred them 
to the Protector. What he did on the occasion we have yet to learn ; 
but his words are somewhat ominous : — " This mode of complaining," 
he says " has not since been followed, — and I have reason to think the 
EXAMPLE made has had a general ofood efF2ct." We wait here also for 
the details, but we cannot help feeling, that if such be the spirit in which 
things are to proceed in Demerara, the office of Protector may prove a 
protection to the masters rather than to the slaves. And if these demon- 
strations, on the part of the Protector, are so ambiguous, the case is not 
likely to improve as we descend to the Assistant Protectors, the Burgher 
officers of Demerara, every one of whom is a slave-holder, and to 
whom must necessarily be intrusted by far the largest share of the 
administration of justice among the 70,000 slaves of this colony. 

Col. Young draws very large inferences, in favour of the management 
of the planters, from the circumstance, that in their own returns of the 
punishments they had inflicted on their slaves, there does not appear an 
instance of more stripes being given than the law allows. And yet it 
would be most extraordinary if there were any such instance ; — if the 
planter were to furnish with his own hand the confession of guilt which 
must necessarily be followed by punishment. Such an inference from 



Correspondence of Governynent with Demerara. 357 

a circumstance so incapable of sustaining it, is a further ground of 
doubt as to the perfect impartiahty of this gentleman's views. For in 
what way does such a fact prove that the slaves are not oppressed and 
overworked ? Colonel Young dwells on an irrelevant circumstance as 
evidence of the judicious management of the master or manager. But 
he says not one word of the decrease of the slave population, a fact 
which he must have known, and v^^hich most infallibly establishes a 
directly contrai'y inference. 

We again recognise the colonial slang, in such passages as these : 
" There is no question as to the difficulty of managing women ; and 
they are irritating and insolent to a degree, (often instigated by the 
men); take advantage of the exemption from stripes ; and in town, do 
little or nothing. One domestic servant in England would do more 
work than many of themo It is, however, to be expected they will im- 
prove, and become better subjects — but it unquestionably must be the 
efTect of very long time, and the exercise of much patience ! " Such 
are the sage dicta of Col. Young, obviously the language of mere 
prejudice, and which moreover cannot be true ; for if true, who in his 
senses, would continue to employ slave instead of free domestics V 

In Col. Young's second letter, dated the 1st of May 1827, he says, 
there are instances in which no punishments have been recorded, and 
in few has the master had occasion to resort to other authority than his 
own for punishment. Both men and women, he says, are becoming 
better conducted under the new system ; and there is ample reason to 
be satisfied with the conduct of the slaves, and with their treatment by 
the masters. And yet the slaves are decreasing, and the masters are 
generally non-resident. — We should have confided more in this gentle- 
man's statements, had we had less of mere profession: "on all occa- 
sions," he says, " I have not failed to bear in mind the principles con- 
tained in my instructions, and I venture to hope, that I have afforded a 
patient hearing and impartial justice to the slaves ; and that a due con- 
sideration to the interests of the master has been equally the object of 
my solicitude." This is too much after the mode of a gentleman, 
whose proceedings in the isle of France we have lately reviewed. 
(No. 42.) 

The Protector's third Report, dated the 1st of November, 1827, 
suggests several questions, which will probably form the ground here- 
after of motions in Parliament for additional information. We need not 
now advert to them. 

The manumissions effected in the first half year, to the first of No- 
vember, 1826, were 247 ; from the 1st of November, 1826, to the 1st 
of May, 1827, 177. Of these, 154 were redeemed by purchase; 122 
were manumitted for faithful services; 74 from natural affection ; and 
74 by will ; in all 424. The reason they are so numerous is stated to 
be, that many had been in fact free for years past, but were deterred 
from recording their freedom by the heavy tax they would have had to 
pay, and which is now remitted. 

The w^ges fixed by the protector, for the labour of slaves, in picking 
coffee during the Sunday, is eight pence half-penny sterling for each 
basket of ten pounds weight, and half that price for the same quantity 

2 X 



358 Correspondence of Government with Demerara. 

of cotton. To pick six baskets, that is 601b. weight of coffee, says the 
protector, is an average day's labour. The proportionate quantity of 
cotton must therefore be 1201b. weight. Such a task, however, we 
undertake to show, is most excessive, and the arrangement therefore 
as sanctioned by the protector, oppressive towards the slaves. 

In the year 1824, Mr. Alexander Macdonnell, the Secretary of the 
Committee of the inhabitants of Demerara, gave to the world an octavo 
volume, (published by Longman,) entitled, " Considerations on Negro 
Slavery, with authentic reports illustrative of the actual condition of 
the Negroes in Demerara." These authentic reports consist of 
statements made to the Committee, in writing, by experienced planters, 
and in which they enter at considerable length into the details of plan- 
tation management. Two of these gentlemen, Mr. Donald Macdonald, 
of Maria's Pleasure, who had been 25 years a Demerara planter, and 
Mr. John Maclean of Vreedenstoop, who had resided 14 years in that 
colony, give their testimony respecting the quantity of coffee which 
may be picked in a day. Mr. Maclean says, " When the trees bear 
well, and the berries are ripe," (that is to say in the most favourable 
circumstances,) " an able negro can, with ease, pick 30 to 361b.," for 
which, however, it is added, (a proof that this is no inferior perform- 
ance,) " he is invariably rewarded with tobacco, rum, or meat." (See 
Macdonnell's Considerations, &c. p. 157.) 

Mr. Macdonald, the more experienced planter of the two, says, 
** Picking coffee depends upon the crop. If plentiful they can pick 
three baskets a day, sometimes more;" (in other words the 30 to 361b. 
of Mr. Maclean) " and when not so plentiful, only two baskets, and 
sometimes only one." ib. p. 150. 

Here then, by the admission of two experienced planters, the utmost 
quantity of coffee that ought to be expected from an able negro, and in 
the most favourable circumstances of abundance, ripeness, &c., is three 
baskets or 301b. weight. But what says the Protector ? The task of 
coffee picking, by which he regulates the rate of wages of the slaves, 
is double this maximum. To be entitled to one day's wages the slave 
must perform the work of two. A day's labour, he says, is to pick 
sir baskets of coffee or 601bs. ; and according to this exorbitant 
standard he regulates the wages of the slave. And yet two experienced 
planters of the same colony assure us that three baskets, containing 
301b., is the utmost that ought to be exacted. The official Protector 
therefore, in this instance, instead of protecting the slave, actually op- 
presses him. As for the idea that a slave can pick 1201b. of cotton in 
a day, it is too absurd to require one word to be said upon it. 

Is not this a proper subject of strict inquiry? The Protector has 
evidently suffered himself to be most grossly imposed upon in this in- 
stance — and it brings, therefore, the whole of his representations into 
doubt and suspicion. If he should have rashly and inconsiderately 
proceeded, in his other statements, on the same false and delusive 
information which has led him to fix the standard of daily labour at 
the picking of 601b. of coffee in a day, then those statements become 
wholly valueless. 

The number of marriages of slaves solemnized in Demerara, from 



Correspondence of G'overtvnefit with Berhice. ,159 

Jan. 1, 1825 to Nov. 1, 1827, is 246 ; and the number of slaves cer- 
tified to understand the nature and obligations of an oath, Three • 
So much for the religious instruction imparted to the slaves of 
Demerara. 

9.— Berbice, p. 149—174. 

The returns from this colony are very voluminous, extending to 126 
folio pages. We have first the Report of the Protector of slaves, Mr. 
Power, from the 1st November, the commencement of the operation 
of the Order in Council, to the 31st December, 1826. He had 
visited the estates in every part of the colony, and explained to the 
slaves the new provisions in their favour, for which they seemed grate- 
ful. They appeared, he says, better fed and clothed (and yet we shall 
see how scanty their clothing is) than any other slave population he 
had seen ; but with respect to mental and religious culture he found 
them, with few exceptions, " in the lowest state of human debase- 
ment." In the town of New Amsterdam alone, owing to the labours of 
the Rev. Mr. Wray among the crown negroes and others, " there is a 
visible solicitude to learn and improve." He had then met with only 
one instance of insubordination among the slaves, which was easily rec- 
tified, and in which the females took no share. The applications for 
manumission were chiefly from persons who had been maintaining 
themselves and their families for years, but who were unable or unwill- 
ing to pay the enormous tax formerly levied on manumissions. No 
security was demanded of them, their previous industry and good con- 
duct proving a sufficient guarantee for the future. The number was 
only 37. The deposits in the Savings Bank amounted to 587 guilders. 
Five marriages were solemnized. 

The Protector had applied to the different ministers of religion in 
the colony to furnish a list of those slaves who were sufficiently iur 
structed to understand the nature of an oath. The reply of the Rev. 
F. Whitfield, minister of the Church of England, was, that it was not 
in his power to furnish any ! Mr. Vos, the pastor of the Lutheran 
church, said, that he had not hitherto instructed any slaves in religion, 
but he should be very glad to comply with the Protector's wish, and 
" do all in his power to better the slaves, both in civilization and reli- 
gion."* Mr. Wray, the missionary of the London Mission Society, 
replied at more length, and transmitted a list of 113 slaves, men and 
women, whom he conceived perfectly to understand the nature and ob- 
ligation of an oath. By the new code, he says, some of the obstacles 
to the improvement of the slaves are removed, especially by the pro- 
vision for legalizing their marriages, and the greater respect paid to the 
sabbath. He has never seen so great a desire among the slaves to 
learn to read, as now. Religious instruction, however, has not ex- 
tended far. His first efltorts had been on the late Crown Estates where 
great good was doing, when, the estates being given up to the Dutch 

* The Lutheran church is possessed of an estate with 150 slaves in this 
colony, but it had not, till within a few years, either place of worship or mi- 
nister, and though it now has both, yet its own slaves are wholly destitute of 
instruction ! In the English church the case is nearly the same. 



360 Correspondence of Qoverrvnent loith Berbice. 

Company, an end was put to instruction. His labours since had been 
confined to the Crown slaves and the negroes in and about New Am- 
sterdam. Many of the Crown people, he adds, are intelhgent, indus- 
trious, and well behaved ; a considerable number read easy parts of the. 
Bible; many have obtained some knowledge of Christianity, and 
thirty-five have been admitted to the .Sacrament. 

Only one act of manumission, against the will of the master, took 
place at Berbice, during the first two months. It was that of Jamietje, 
a young woman of seventeen years of age, and her infant child, who 
were appraised together at 2000 guilders, or about £150. sterHng, 
The most violent opposition was made to this manumission, not only by 
the parties immediately concerned, but by the community at large. It 
was, nevertheless, carried into effect, through the firmness of the 
Governor and Protector. The just remarks of the latter, on reviewing 
the case, deserve to be cited, as affording a striking example of colonial 
morality as well as of colonial prejudice. " There existed not," he 
says, " a shadow of foundation for any charge of dishonesty against 
this woman, with the exception of her having had an illegitimate child 
by a white man," (the attorney of the estate to which she belonged.) 
" In a community, where the institution of marriage has never till 
lately been encouraged, and where amongst all classes of all colours 
cohabitation is the rule, and marriage is the exception, I was not 
prepared to accede to the opposing advocate's conclusion, that the 
earnings of this woman, (really obtained from industrious sources,) 
were to be considered, even on the admission of her having had a child, 
as ' the wages of prostitution.' Besides, I hold it to be almost a rule 
that the attorney of an estate possesses, over a female slave, a power of 
commanding submission to his will nearly equal to physical violence ; 
and that the consent of the female is as httle regarded in the one case 
as in the other. Under such an impression, I could not admit that 
a legal disqualification to purchase the blessing of freedom should 
attach to an immorality of such a character, as I had the fullest proof 
of the propriety of her demeanour in all the other duties of her station. 
If a doubt before existedin my mind, my own opinion was confirmedj 
when I had it sworn in evidence that one of the parties who opposed 
this manumission, was cohabiting with, and had children by, the sister 
of this very woman, the property of the same estate." 

The next report of Mr. Power, is from the 1st January to the 3lst 
March, 1827. Seventeen marriages of slaves had taken place in that 
time. Besides the thirty-seven manumissions applied for in the 
■preceding months, fifty-nine more appHcations had been made, of 
which thirty-six were in legal process A negress, herself a slave, 
claimed and obtained the right to purchase the freedom of her own 
daughter. A man slave, Charles, paid about £140. sterling for his 
freedom. The attorney to whom he paid it, (his master being in 
Europe) told him that from a knowledge of his honesty and sobriety, he 
would, at any time, advance him money as a capital for any industrious 
pursuit in which he might engage. 

The sum deposited in the Savings' Bank was 600 guilders. 

The Protector complains loudly of the inefficiency of the colonial 



Correspondence of Government with Berhice. 361 

laws in enforcing payment of small debts due to slaves*, and states 
that wherever there is a certainty of payment, there will be always an 
alacrity for employment. As a proof, a number of slaves had lately 
been employed in sawing timber for the Ordnance Department. They 
worked by task, and, when the task was done, they were allowed to 
work extra hours for their own benefit. In three months, these slaves, 
about 120 in* number, had, besides their full day's labour, earned, on 
their own account, £111. 10s. sterling. 

■ During the six months the Order in Council had been theii in ope- 
ration, it had not produced, says Mr. Power, a single inconvenience, or 
realized a single fear. " Never v/as the negro population more peace- 
able and subordinate. Scarcely at any former period had the prison 
so few negro inmates." 

The next Report from tbe Protector is dated the 1st of July, 1827, 
and embraces the preceding three months. He states, that though his 
Majesty's Government had been assured, by the Planters of Berbice, 
that the usage of the colony was opposed to the separation of families 
of slaves by private sale, yet the practice prevailed, and three instances 
of the kind had recently occurred. 

Twenty-seven marriages were solemnized in the preceding three 
months, and forty-seven licences for marriage had been issued. 

The amount of deposits paid into the Savings' Bank in the same time, 
was 1246 guilders. 

The Protector's last report is dated the 1st of September, 1827, and 
is made, in the absence of Mr. Power, by Mr. Bird, the deputy pro- 
tector. 

The number of manumissions effected in the two preceding months 
was 61, 27 being still in progress. " Of these," says Mr. Bird, " the 
boy Charles, purchased for freedom by his mother, Lena, requires to 
be particularly noticed, as having been effected under the compulsory 
clauses of the act."* The price fixed by the appraisers, 500 guilders, 
" as the value of a child but six months old, will, I suppose," he says, 
" be an award peculiarly acceptable to the people of this colony." " No 
more than seven months ago a child, a year and a half old, was ap- 
praised, under similar circumstances, and valued at 200 guilders, 
(£15.) Now we have one, aged only six months, not a whit more 
healthy, or born under more favourable auspices, declared to be worth 
500," (£37. 10s.) — Such acts of injustice and oppression are the 
natural result of the groundless and subtle distinctions, with which 
the plain and simple question of a slave's value has been embarrassed, 
by persons whose ofKcial situation gave a factitious weight to their 
unprofitable speculations. 

The memorial of the planters of Berbice, on the subject of the manu- 
mission clause, and which formed the ground of the Privy Council 
inquiry in 1827, is inserted in this volume; but we have already so 
largely discussed that subject, (see Reporters, No. 27, 31, 33, and 37 
appendix,) that we shall now pass it by, especially as there still remains 
to be noticed the mass of complaints brought before the Protector of 

* These compulsory clauses are at present suspended. 



362; Correspondetice of Governmmt with Berbice. 

slaves in Berbice during the ten months elapsing from the 1st of No- 
vember, 1826, to 1st of September, 1827. The complaints amount to 
nearly one hundred, and they are no less instructive than that famous 
return, made three years ago by the Fiscal of Berbice, which so justly 
excited one uniform feeling of horror wherever it became known. 

We have often reprobated the principle of punishing a slave who 
complains and fails in establishing the truth of his complaint, and that 
not after a regular trial and conviction, but simply on the exculpatory 
statements of the very parties who have by him been put upon their 
defence, and who not only may obtain, in this summary way, the punish- 
ment of their accuser, but retain besides the power of future annoyance, 
as they have, in general, the complainant again placed under their 
entire control. Our readers will recollect that the instances of this kind 
in the returns formerly furnished by the Fiscal of Berbice, (see 
Reporters, No. 5, and 16,) were very numerous; it there appearing 
that about four-fifths of the complainants were severely and summarily 
punished by that officer, for having complained. 

In the present returns the number of such cases is much less, not 
more than one in ten or fifteen, and in some of these, the complainants, 
we believe, had they been regularly tried, would have been convicted of 
preferring false and unfounded complaints from malicious motives. 
But what we object to, is not that such cases should be punished, but 
that they should be punished without regular trials, and fair opportunities 
of defence. If this occurred but in a single case, we should still 
object to it, as a violation of principle ; and although in the hands of a 
humane and impartial judge like Mr. Power, it may be attended with 
no practical evil, yet the precedent it furnishes cannot fail to lead, with 
men of other feelings, to extensive oppression and injustice. We have 
no doubt that Mr. Power will rejoice with us that Mr. Huskisson has so 
decidedly recorded his condemnation of the practice, as will be seen in a 
subsequent part of this Reporter, and we conceive that no case can arise 
to which the principle he so ably asserts will not be found applicable. 

We now proceed to select a few of the cases of complaint (for we 
might fill a volume were we to insert the whole) brought before the 
Protector ; and our selection will be made, as on former occasions, not 
certainly with a view of harrowing the feelings of our readers, but of 
illustrating the genius of the colonial system — the brutalizing effects 
of slavery^on master and slave, and the miserably low estimate which 
is formed by the Planters of Berbice and the other slave colonies of 
negro rights and negro comforts. We will confine ourselves to such 
cases as appear to have been established in evidence. 

J . Aaron complains that Mr. Forsyth, of " the Friends" estate, to whom he 
was hired, had set him to make a fire under a sugar boiler, with fuel so damp 
that the fire would not kindle ; (the fuel is produced still wet,) tliat he was lliere- 
I'ort' put into the stocks all night, and flogged in the morning; that besides this, 
though seized with belly-aclie, Mr. Forsyth had ordered him into the field ; and 
further, that he gave no time for breakfast, either to him or the other slaves. 
This case was redressed by the Protector, (p. 153.) 

2. Friday, having been allowed to hire himself out, had accumulated some 
money, vvitli which he had bought a piece of land, and built a liouse upon it, 
that cost him 2000 guilders, (£150.) Tliis house and laud, however, his 
master, Mr. EmeRV, had taken away from him, without giving him any value 



Fresh cases of cruelty from Berbice. 363 

for it ; and, dying, he left it in the possession of a Mary Emery, probably his 
mistress. A Mr. Hill, who had been Friday's trustee in this purchase, con- 
firmed Friday's statement, but said he had not wished to interfere between 
master and slave. The Protector, having in vain called on Miss Emery to pro- 
duce her title, proceeded to institute the necessary legal suit to recover the 
property for Friday, p. 154. 

3. Frederick had been head carpenter on plantation Dentichem, and when that 
estate was sold by his former master, Mr. Van der Brock, to Messrs. Winter and 
Innes, of Loudon, it came to them burdened with the payment of a joe (.^5s. 9d. 
sterling) a month, and a regular maintenance to Frederick. Frederick, however, 
having lost his eyesight, thought proper to employ 530 guilders he had saved from 
his pension, (about £40.) in buying a negro, named Jacob, to wait upon him and 
lead him about. But Mr. William Ross, the attorney of Messrs. Winter and Innes, 
would not allow Jacob to remain on the estate with Frederick, and directed 
him to be sold at public vendue, and the proceeds to be paid to Frederick. 
Frederick applied to the Protector, that Jacob might not be taken from him, 
" he being my eyesight." Mr. Ross stated, as the reason of his proceeding, 
that, " in behalf of his constituents, Winter and Innes, he would not allow 
Jacob, who is a diseased man, to remain on the estate, lest he might hccoine a 
burden to it." The Protector said he certainly could not force Mr. Ross to 
allow Jacob to remain on the estate. Frederick, however, was unwilling to 
part with Jacob, who had been with him for a considerable time, and Jacob was 
unwilling to part with Frederick. And it was at last settled (Mr. Ross not choos- 
ing, it appears, to yield) that Jacob should not be sold, but that Frederick should 
hire him out, and with the proceeds of his hire engage another person to wait 
upon him, p. 156. 

4. On Highbury plantation, belonging to Messrs. Davidson, Barclay, & Co, 
of London, the slaves complained loudlj^ of the conduct of the manager, Mr. 
John Ross. He worked them, they alleged, without intermission fi-om morning 
to night ; gave them no time for breakfast, and no clothes. The driver testified 
to the same effect, intimating that the tasks were so heavy that they were obliged 
to work " through the eleven o'clock," and that only the best workmen could 
finish their task by six in the evening, others leaving part unfinished. Amster- 
dam said, " I am the best workman on tlie estate, and must say, that if I com- 
mence in the morning" (at six o'clock,) " I am obliged to work through eleven 
o'clock to finish my work by five in the afternoon." The manager and his two 
overseers contradicted these statements ; but the negroes all stoutly maintained 
the truth of their complaint, affirming that their task work by far exceeded that 
of other estates, nay, that if they finished their task one day by four o'clock, it 
was increased next day so as to keep them constantly at work till six. The 
inquiry, does not appear to have led to any decisive result beyond a strong 
admonition to the manager to be more moderate in his exactions, and to the 
slaves to be obedient and submissive, p. 178. 

5. Present, a female slave belonging to Daniel Munro, and hired to Mr. 
Richard Collier, complained of being shamefully beaten, both by Mr, Collier 
and his housekeeper. Miss Eliza Inglis. Mr. Collier not only beat her, but 
knocked her into a pond, and threw a table after her. The complaint of this 
person, who is described by the Protector as " a poor looking, diminutive ne- 
gress," was substantiated by her owner, Mr. Munro, who stated, that though he 
had owned her for nine previous years, he never had had any occasion to punish 
her. The Protector referred the case, which appeared to him " a most wanton and 
unprovoked assault on a helpless female slave," to the Fiscal. Collier and his 
housekeeper were accordingly prosecuted to conviction, before the court of cri- 
minal justice, and, after sustaining nine days imprisonment, were released on 
presenting a petition to the Governor, pp. 183 and 212. 

6. In the case of a complaint from the slaves of plantation Providence, be- 
longing to W. Henery, the evidence is so very contradictory, that we will not 
go into the details ; especially as we find it difficult to understand the grounds 
of the sentence, by which a severe punishment was summarily inflicted on nine of 
the complainants. We advert to it, therefore, for the sake only of an incidental 
statement with respect to the quantity of clothing allowed the field negroes, and 
which appears to be regarded as a good allowance to each for the year, viz. 
"one hat, one shirt, onepairof trowsers,owe bonnet, *wo caps, owe blanket," p. 185. 



364 Fr^esk cases of cruelty from Berhice. 

We may imagine the state of a pair of osnaburg trowsers at the enil of the yeai'. 
And yet the Protector says the slaves of Berbice are the best clothed he has 
seen. What must be the clothing of the slaves in the other colonies? 

7. Brandy, belonging to plantation Woodlmids, complained of his master, 
J. H. Rawlins, and it appeared in evidence, that the driver had flogged him 
twice with a cat, which, contrary to the law, he carried in his pocket, and 
pulled out when there was occasion ; that when he complained of this to his 
master, his master horsewhipped him and drove him away ; that having then 
complained to the civil magistrate, he was sent back to his master for a pass to 
come and make his complaint ; that his master gave him a pass, but not till he 
had called the driver, and had him again tied down and flogged, and then sent 
him to lodge his complaint. This case was referred by the Protector to the 
Fiscal, with a remark, that " if the facts turn out as stated, there are three palpa- 
ble violations of the law ;" 1st. the punishment of the complainant by the driver 
with a cat in the field ; 2d. The horsewhip of the owner ; 3d. the infliction of 
stripes on an alleged crime of absence, without a due interval previous to pu- 
nishment. The result was, that Mr. Rawlins was found guilty, and subjected 
to three several fines under the provisions of the Order in Council, which fines 
were duly enforced, p. 186, and 212. 

8. Mars, belonging to Mr. Mittelholzer, brought various complaints of 
severe treatment against his master, which he denied, and on the strength of 
this denial, and of " the respectability of Mr. Mittelholzer's character" the Pro- 
tector dismissed the complaint, p. 189. This however, though the first, was by 
no means the only complaint against this gentleman. Five others were after- 
wards preferred against him, so that he is at least unfortunate in having his 
conduct so often brought into question. 

9. Into the details of the case of Jenny, belonging to Mr. Cort, who was put 
in the stocks, and made to work when three months gone with child, so that she 
miscarried in consequence, we cannot enter. The complainant appears to have 
been guilty of exaggeration and violence. Still the above facts were unques- 
tionable. It was no less unquestionable, on the admission of Mr. Cort himself, 
that his slaves had not had a blanket since July 1823, and that the whole year's 
supply of clothing for each of them, did not exceed one jacket and nine yards 
of osnaburg. p. 187. 

10. Anna belonging to Plantation Dankbaarheid the property of Messrs. 
Krxeger and Prass, complained of harsh treatment by the overseer. When ill 
and lame, she was shut up in the hospital, and even in the dark hole, and refused 
water to quench her thirst, being also kicked, and both hands and feet confined 
in the stocks. The Protector having received the report of the civil magistrate 
to whom the complaint had been referred, wrote to the overseer, that though 
the evidence was not sufficient to induce him to prosecute, there was neverthe- 
less, strong presumption that Anna had been severely treated. Common hu- 
manity, independent of his duty to the proprietor, would have dictated a differ- 
ent conduct, and as he was a young man, he begged to impress upon him the 
necessity of guarding against a repetition of such a proceeding, p. 219. 

11. Klaas belonging to Col. Nixon, Receiver General of the Colony, com- 
plained that the Colonel had sold him to Mr. Munro of Foulis, a sugar planta- 
tion ; and that he should thus be separated from his aged mother who was also 
a slave, and lived in town. He was ready, he said, to work for his master as a 
cooper or a cook, in or near town, but he was most unwilling to go to such a 
distance (25 miles) from his aged mother, till he had buried her. The Protec- 
tor regretted he could afford Klaas no redress ; but he wrote to Col. Nixon, 
suggesting the propriety of selling him to some town resident. The Colonel, in 
his reply, said " I conceive I have an undoubted right to dispose of Klaas by 
private sale, wliich I have done ; and Mr. Munro has become the purchaser. 
The real fact is, he wishes to reside in town, where he can have access to 
rum" — (as if rum were not to be had on a sugar estate !) — "As to his story about 
his affection for his mother, it is all humbug."—" I am sure Mr. Munro will 
have no objection to allow him to find an owner, provided he will pay him 
cash. I abominate slavery, and I wish to God I could afford to emancipate the 
fellow, though he is undeserving; but I cannot."— The aged mother an<l her only 
son were thus doomed, by this hater of slavery, to be separated from each other, 
p. 221. 



Fresh Cruelties from Berbici. 365 

12. La Rose having been told by the driver that he should not be wanted as 
a watchman on Saturday night, went to a neighbonring plantation to see his 
wife, and spend the Sunday with her. He had lived with her some years, and 
had a child by her. On the Monday, his master, Mr. Mittelholzer, charged 
him with having neglected his watch. He pleaded the driver's assurance that 
another had been appointed. But had you a pass ? La Rose said no, on which 
he was confined in the dark-room Monday night, and was flogged on Tuesday 
morning. In such cases a pass is not customary, yet, as the letter of the law 
requires it, the Protector could give no redress. He wrote, however, to Mr. 
M. desiring that a pass might never be refused to negroes wishing to visit their 
wives on Sundays, a privilege to which they were entitled by the new law, p. 226. 

13. Henry, belonging to Commissary Frazer, said that his master called for 
water, but he did not hear his name mentioned. His master then came down 
with a horsewhip to beat him, but he fended it off. His master then threw him 
down, put his foot on his belly, and struck him on the head, holding him down 
and squeezing his neck to the ground, calling for a rope to tie him and send 
him to prison. Henry, not submitting, Mr. Frazer struck him with the horse- 
whip on the jaw, Mr. Frazer pleaded that Henry had resisted, and had held 
fast hold of the whip for a time, and would not let it go. The Protector 
reprimanded Henry for the resistance, and warned the Commissary against 
punishing his slave without the interval prescribed by law; as had he used the 
whip summarily he must have been prosecuted for the offence, p. 226. 

14. A long examination took place into the state of things on Golden Grove 
plantation, of which Mr. Ross was the manager, which ran into an endless 
variety of minute particulars, exhibiting much brutal violence and low pro- 
fligacy on the part of a white overseer, Hiles, and general licentiousness on the 
part of the slaves, as well as great negligence on the part of the manager, both 
as to the moral state of the slaves and the regular supply of their food. The 
Protector, on closing the examination, admonished Mr. Hiles, not to act on the 
irritation of the moment. He could not conceal too from him and the manager, 
" that there was very reprehensible irregularity arising from the very licentious 
habits and propositions of the overseer, especially in an endeavour prematurely 
to debauch the mind of such a child as Emmy, through the instrumentality of 
her mother; and that Mr. Ross was culpable in not knowing of such proceed- 
ings. Such licentiousness as that of Mr. Hiles, did not fall indeed within the 
penalties of the law, but he should speak to the attorneys." These gentlemen 
anticipated the Protector, and dismissed both manager and overseer, p. 227. 

15. Johnson, a boy eleven years of age, hired to Mr. Sherburne, the 
Barrack-master, presented himself with a chain locked round one foot, to 
which a weight was attached. He had had this chain on more than a week, 
and it was not taken off at night. " It hurts my leg;" he said, " I was flogged, 
too, this morning, by BIr. Sherburne, with a leather whip. The chain was on 
me while he flogged me." This case was ordered for criminal prosecution. 

16. Dunn and Wall, belonging to Smlthson's Place plantation, being ordered 
by the manager, Alexander Macdonald, to go to work at a distance, Dunn 
represented that there were reasons why he should not go and another should 
be appointed to the duty ; and Wall complained of an ulcer which incapacitated 
him. For this demur they had both been put into the dark-room the preceding 
night, and flogged this morning. " They exhibited their persons, which appear 
dreadfully lacerated." The Protector conceiving they had been flogged " without 
reason, and with great cruelty," referred the complaint to the Fiscal. 

17. A second case of separation of family, by private sale, occurred with 
Colonel Nixon. The nature of it may be collected from the following exami- 
nation of the mulatto woman Peggy, an old infirm person, going on crutches, 
" Colonel Nixon bought me and my family at Governor Bentinck's sale, and we 
have been living in his service ever since. He was going to free me. He called 
me up stairs three weeks ago, and asked me if I should like to go and see my 
daughters in Demerara, who were made free by my old master. I said yes. 
Massa said very well ; I will get you a paper, and you will be free, and then 
you can go, and I will pay your passage. I said, ' God bless you. Sir.' But 
I did not think the Colonel was going to send me away, and to divide my 
family by selling Hendrick, and taking away Jacob. He ought to have told 



366 Fresh Cruelties from Berbice. 

me he intended selling Hendrick. I live in the yard, and yet never knew he 
was to be sold, till Hendrick told me his name was in the paper to sell. I said, 
no, child, the Colonel bought us a family, and he cannot sell you without the 
rest. It was my intention to go to my daughters in Demerara. One is 
lawfully married, and both in good circumstances. But I cannot abandon the 
poor slaves here, consequently I cannot go and eat and drink there, but must 
remember and look on those here also. One of my thighs is withered up. I 
must be maintained. I cannot do the least thing to earn my livelihood." 
" Hendrick was purchased by the manager of Cotton Tree. He objected to go 
there. Mr. Ross, of Golden Grove, sent for him, and said, ' if you will consent 
to belong to me, I will purchase you, and if the Colonel will sell Betsy, (a 
sister,) and your old mother, I will purchase them also.' Hendrick, not being 
able to help himself, and finding Mr. Ross inclined to befriend him, consented, 
and I cannot help myself, though I do not like to be separated from my child." 

18. Klaas, belonging to Karel and Wellemshoop, complained of the manager 
Mr. De Quay. Klaas had been fetching shingles in a punt ; the punt got upon 
a stump, and the shingles were lost. Being afraid of punishment, he ran away 
for two or three days, and going to complain, to Mr. Mittelholzer, who brought 
him back, he was put in the stocks and flogged. Whilst Klass was away, Mr. 
De Quay broke into his house and left it open, and when Klaas returned to it, 
he found all his things gone, provisions and goods, and four joes, and seven 
guilders in money, about £8. sterling, which he had amassed. He asked Mr. 
De Quay to return the property ; he refused. He asked for a pass to complain 
to the Fiscal, which was also refused. He was then kept every night for three 
weeks in the stocks, but he contrived at length to escape, and came to town. 
These facts being corroborated by the head carpenter on the estate, the com- 
plaint was referred to the Fiscal for criminal proceedings against Mr. De Quay. 

19. Two slaves. Nelson and Ross, belonging to James Blair, Esq., M. P. for 
Minehead, complained of being improperly flogged. The civil magistrate, H. 
DowNiE, investigated their complaint, declared it to be unfounded, and sen- 
tenced them to a month's imprisonment in addition to their former punishment. 
They appealed to the Protector, and he referred them to the Fiscal, but attended 
the examinations which followed. The result was that Nelson and Ross were 
deemed not justly blameable. From the admission of Mr. Chisholm, the ma- 
nager, they had performed extra labour without the wages prescribed by law. 
The Deputy Protector remarks on this, that " it is well known that from men 
of the first abilities and education, gratuitous labour is rarely to be expected 
even in Europe ; how then can a rational hope be indulged of its being given by 
an illiterate slave in Berbice, where a cessation from toil is considered as the 
highest luxury." In this case no plea was set up that " the time during which 
these slaves were employed was not their own ;" and could it be expected they 
should work, if a fair equivalent were not made them ? The matter was laid 
before the Governor, and the execution of the sentence of Mr. Downie was sus- 
pended, p. 25G. 

20. John, complained that he was ordered into the woods, by Mr, Farley, 
to cut staves, but a bad foot, he said, rendered it impossible. The Doctor 
inspected him, and reported that there was an ulcer on his foot, which ought to 
be healed before he went to work. The Protector wrote Mr. F. to that efl'ect. 

21. Five slaves, the property of James Blair, Esq. M. P. for Minehead, 
complained of the manager, R. Nicholson. They had been unused to gin 
cotton, and therefore not expert at it, and could not do so much as old ginners. 
They each received twenty-five lashes for not ginning the required quantity. In 
inflicting this punishment, the manager had ordered them to be stripped per- 
fectly naked, that the lash of the whip might not be obstructed. The slaves 
remonstrated, but the manager persisted, though many women were present at 
the time. — Another slave, Esau, was punished at the same time on another 
account. A hair had got into his eye. After it was taken out, he was ordered 
to go to work. He objected, as his eye was still painful. " Massa/' he said, 
" if your skin hurts you, how can you work I" The manager said, he had pulled 
the hair out. Esau replied, it still hurt him. The manager, on this, told him, 
" Very well, I shall give you a good flogging." When the .rivers received 
orders to flog him, Esau remonstrated, but in vain. One of the pegs, however. 



F^-esh Cruelties from Berbice. — Mauritius. 367 

which fastened him prone to the earth coming out, the flogging was intermitted, 
the manager saying, " Never mind, take him to the hand-stocks, it is a worse 
punishment." Esau was then fixed in the stocks by both hands and feet, and 
the board for the hands, which can be raised or lowered at pleasure, was 
drawn up so high, that he was raised from the seat, and the whole weight of his 
body lef^ suspended. Whilst in this intolerable situation, he begged the over- 
seer to intercede for him. The overseer said no, the manager will be angry. 
Esau remained in this state sixteen minutes. — These facts were confirmed by 
witnesses. A white overseer testified to the entire nudity of the men punished in 
presence of the women ; and to the inflamed state of Esau's eye, and his painful 
position in the stocKs ; but he could not tell how long such a position could be 
borne without fainting. Mr. Nicholson considered the punishment inflicted to 
have been merited and legal. The Protector thought otherwise, and referred 
the matter to the Fiscal for criminal prosecution, p. 259 — 2G1. 

22. Catherine, belonging to Plantation Hampshire, the property of W. Cort, 
brought her child, about a year old, and said it had been very sick, and that she 
had staid with it ; but Mr. Cort had sent for her, and said, as she staid in the 
house when other people worked, she must work during play time. She had, 
on this, shewed the child to Mr. Cort, when he ordered the nurse to take the 
child from her ; said she had no business to leave work until the evening to 
nurse her child ; and directed she should be confined in the dark-room for two 
hours at noon, after which she was sent to work in the field till night. The 
next morning, Sunday, she was put into the dark-room again, and kept there 
till the next day. She said she thought it a hardship not to be allowed to nurse 
her sick child. The Protector explained to Catherine, that this indulgence 
could not be granted. Nurses were appointed to take care of the children, and 
if they did their duty, he could not interfere. He signified, however, his 
opinion, that the punishment inflicted by Mr. Cort had exceeded the offence. 

Various other details equally revolting might be extracted from this 
volume, but these may suffice as a specimen. The returns respecting 
Berbice conclude with a letter of Mr. Huskisson's, expressing his satis- 
faction with Mr. Power's conduct, and with the proof his report 
affords of the many advantages arising from the new slave code — He 
adverts to the case mentioned above, numbered 19, and observes, that 
it furnishes a sufficient illustration of the necessity of prohibiting ma- 
gistrates from acting as such, in cases where their own slaves are con- 
cerned ; and he suggests the passing of a law, to facilitate the recovery 
of debts due to slaves, about which Sir G. Murray also shews him- 
self anxious, p. 273, 274. 

Let it not be forgotten that all these horrid transactions occurred 
between the 1st of November 1826, and the 31st of August 1827. What 
would the case have been had there been no efficient Protector? 

10. — Mauritius. 
In our Reporter, No. 42, we gave a view of the slave code of the 
Mauritius to the present time, and we need not now recur to it. — On the 
20th of October, 1827, Sir Lowry Cole transmitted to the Secretary of 
State an Ordinance in Council, similar in its provisions to the Trinidad 
Order but varying from it in many particulars ; together with the re- 
marks of the Council ; and a copy of detailed observations by the prin- 
cipal slave owners on the Trinidad Order drawn up at a public meeting. 
Sir Lowry Cole did not flatter himself that these observations would 
have weight v;ith government, at the same time he had the satisfaction of 
thinking, that with respect to the treatment of the slaves, since he had 
been in the island, considerable improvement had taken place in this 
interesting particular ; and although he admitted there was still 



■368 Correspondence of Government with Mauritius. 

much to amend, yet, as there was an evident disposition on the part of 
the inhabitants to enter into the views of government in this respect, 
he hoped their observations would meet with some attention. 

By turning to the Reporter, No. 42, p. 335, the reader will see, on 
the authority of Sir L. Cole himself, how sUght ground there was, at 
the commencement of 1827, even for this qualified eulogy. 

The modifications of the Trinidad Order introduced into the draft of 
the Mauritius ordinance by the Council of that colony, may be judged 
of by Mr. Huskisson's comments upon them, in his despatch of the 
19th of March, 1828. They are to the following efFect. 

1 . The Council had united the office of Protector to that of Procureur 
General ; and both they and the body of planters strenuously contended 
for the expediency of this union. Mr. Huskisson tells them in reply, 
that his Majesty is not disposed to sanction it. Both economy and 
convenience will be best consulted, by uniting the office of Protector, 
not to that of Procureur General, but to that of Registrar of slaves. 

2. " The draft" says Mr. Huskisson, " does not declare the posses- 
sion of a plantation, or of slaves employed in agriculture, incompatible 
in every case with the office of protector." No relaxation of this rule, he 
observes, can be permitted. 

3. " The continuance of markets on Sunday, during the early part 
of the day, is permitted in the draft, not as a temporary regulation, but 
as a permanent rule. It must, however, be provided, that this de- 
parture from the general principle of observing the Sunday as a day of 
rest, is to terminate, as soon as adequate provisions can be made for 
the religious instruction of the slaves."* 

4. " Notwithstanding the remarks of the Council, it is not thought 
fit to sanction the proposed enactment, that the driver, when superin- 
tending the labour of the slaves, may carry a cane in his hand." " The 
cane would succeed, in appearance at least, to the whip, and as the 
driver, who has been accustomed to use the whip as a stimulus to 
labour, might very probably employ the cane to the same purpose, it is 
best to render the prohibition absolute and universal." 

5. " The substitution of six slaves as witnesses of punishments, 
instead of one free person, can be permitted only when the owner can 
prove that it was impossible to procure the attendance of a free 
witness." 

6. " The power of using the whip as the instrument for the cor- 
rection of females, cannot be intrusted to the civil Commissaries, or 
even to the chief Commissary of Police. However well founded may 
be the opinion of the Council as to the moral character of the slaves, 
nothing could be moi-e adapted to promote and perpetuate those 
vicious habits, than punishment so subversive of all the feelings of self 
respect." 

7. " The want of education among the smaller proprietors may be 
an insuperable objection to keeping records of punishments ; but the 
remedy suggested by the Council would seem to meet the difficulty. 

^ It'clearly ought not to be continued on such grounds for a single hour. 
See Reporter, No. 11, p. 132— 139y&G. 



Correspondence of Government ivith Mauritius. 369 

The very small remuneration for which, it is stated, that some would 
undertake the keeping the records of neighbouring estates might very 
properly be afforded for that purpose. In proportion as the gang is 
less numerous, the necessity of a registry of punishments is greater." 

8. " The draft enables the owner to prevent the marriage of his 
slaves, by proving it injurious to his interests. The interest of both 
will be in general the same. But if a real contrariety of interest 
should arise, it is not fit that, on such a subject as that of marriage, 
the interest of the owner should be preferred. Nor could such a 
rule have any beneficial operation. The law may prevent a marriage 
which would be injurious to the owner ; it would not prevent an illicit 
connection, which would be at least equally injurious to him." 

9. " The separation of persons not legally married, but living in a 
state of permanent concubinage is not prohibited" by the draft ; — " for 
the present at least it will be necessary to afford protection to con- 
nections of this nature."* 

10. Mr. Huskisson objects to the restrictions proposed by the 
Council on the right of slaves to acquire and alienate property, and to 
all limitation of their right of defending as well as prosecuting actions. 

11. He postpones the question of compulsory manumission. 

12. " The projected law would prevent," he says, " any voluntary 
manumission, unless the Protector were satisfied that the slave had 
means of subsistence, sufficient to prevent his ever becoming a charge 
on the colony. This would prevent the emancipation of the most ex- 
pert mechanic or domestic, unless the owner were both able and willing 
to make adequate provision for his future subsistence. His Majesty's 
Government cannot sanction any other restraints on manumission, 
than those which have been expressly permitted by the instructions 
you have already received." 

13. " It will be necessary to provide, that no slave may be punished 
for preferring a complaint, unless he, be distinctly convicted of the 
offence of having preferred a calumnious charge from improper motives, 
that conviction proceeding upon adequate and legal evidence." See 
above, p. 356, and p. 362. 

14. " The proposed enactment would confirm every disposition of 
former laws, on the subject of slaves, which is not contrary to the pro- 
posed ordinance. It is difficult to estimate correctly the eflTect of this 
general confirmation of the earlier slave code of the colony. Many 
local ordinances appear to have been made on this subject, both before 
and since the conquest, which were never confirmed by his Majesty, 
or by the government of France ; and some of which may probably be 
open to grave objections. This part of the intended act therefore 
cannot be sanctioned." 

15. " You will communicate," he adds, " this despatch to the Coun- 
cil, for their guidance in the revision of the draft. When that draft 
shall have been corrected in the several particulars which I have noticed. 



* It is difficult to conceive hypocrisy more gross than that of these planters 
affecting to shrink from the immorality of legally protecting the concubinage 
which they have created and fostered, and indeed exclusively permitted. 



370 Fresh Persecutions of Missionaries in Jamaica. 

you will cause it to be promulgated as law in the colony, in the usual 
manner, transmitting to me an authenticated copy of the law which you 
may promulgate." 

We have perused this despatch with unfeigned satisfaction, without 
meaning, however, to imply that we at all alter our views of the defi- 
ciencies belonging to the Trinidad Order in Council, and to every Order 
formed upon its model. See Reporters, No. 11, 28, and 34. 

Sir Lowry Cole in January, 1828, promulgated a law, imposing on 
a master, who abandons his slave on account of age, disease, or in- 
firmity, a fine not exceeding £20., nor less than £4. sterling ; besides 
which, the slave shall be maintained at the public hospital, the master 
being compelled to pay for his maintenance a shilling a day, secured on 
the real estates of the master, into whatever hands they may pass. The 
penalties may be enforced by personal arrest, and, after three months 
imprisonment on such arrest, the delinquent may be discharged, but 
only on giving legal proofs of total insolvency. 

The manumissions in the Mauritius from the 1st of Jamiary 1815, 
to the 31st of December 1826, have been 1005, or, on an average, 84 
annually. From the 1st of January, to the 20th of September 1827, 
they have been 127. 

The number of persons receiving relief is 210; namely, 97 whites, 
and 113 persons of colour, at an average expense per month of about 
5 or 6 dollars each. 

The lengthened observations of the planters on the evils of the Trini- 
dad code, and the superior humanity of the Mauritius system, are re- 
served for the present, until we shall have exhibited to our readers, as 
we hope ere long to do, the actual circumstances of the slave popula- 
tion in the Mauritius. The assertions of the planters will then form 
a curious contrast with the real facts of the case. In the mean time, 
suffice it to say, that their misrepresentations are to the full as gross as 
any thing which has ever issued from the planters of the Antilles. 



Fresh Persecution of Missionaries in Jamaica. 

Our readers will recollect the demolition of the Methodist Chapel 
which took place last year in St. Ann's Bay, after a violent attack on 
the Methodists from the pulpit, by the Rev. George Bridges, the Rector 
of that parish ; and the perfect impunity which followed that crime. The 
period which has since elapsed has been filled up with outrages of the 
same character. The Rev. Mr. Grimsdall first fell a victim to the 
persecuting rage of the St. Ann's magistracy. For preaching the Gos- 
pel he was shut up in the fetid dungeon which forms the jail ; an ill- 
ness followed which soon closed both his earthly troubles and his labours 
of love. This savage proceeding has been followed by others of the 
same description, which have only missed their aim by the interference 
of the Chief Justice of the island, Mr. Scarlett. — On Sunday the 10th of 
August as the Rev. Isaac Whitehouse was on his way to St. Ann's Bay 
to preach, he was arrested by the Head Constable and carried before a 
Magistrate, who committed him to the common jail, notwithstanding 
his earnest entreaties to the contrary. On entering the cell, (the same 



Fresh Persecutions of Missionaries in Jamaica, 371 

Mr. Grimsdall had occupied,) he found in it an insane negress, who 
was removed. " The cell was exceedbgly filthy, and the stench un- 
bearable." No bed was provided, not even straw ; and with difficulty 
he at length obtained a few benches from the chapel on which to make 
up a bed. He caused a quantity of vinegar and camphorated rum to 
be thrown on the floor and walls, but it produced little effect on the 
effiuvia which proceeded from the filth that filled and surrounded the 
place. The little air he could obtain was through a window just above 
the place where all the filth of the jail is deposited. The cells around 
and underneath consisted of the hospital, in which were three sick ; of 
a place containing a dozen unhappy creatures waiting their trial ; of 
another cell, in which were two men under sentence of death for mur- 
der; and other apartments containing slaves taken by the Marshal for 
debt and waiting to be sold, together with runaways, and slaves sent in 
for punishment.* One of the men under sentence of death was ill. His 
groans, the grating noise of the prisoners' irons, the intense heat of the 
place, and the stench of the jail and hospital, not to be overcome by 
any expedients, deprived him of sleep and greatly affected him. — While 
his committal was taking place an overflowing congregation had as- 
sembled at the chapel, whom the constable went and ordered to dis- 
perse, which they did, after Mr. Watkis, a free person of colour, 
educated in England, and who was a leader among them, had sung a 
hymn and prayed. — On the 12th of August the Rev. Joseph Orton, 
hearing of what had happened, came over from Montego Bay to console 
his brother, and officiate in his place; but, on attempting to preach, he 
also was arrested " for preaching, and teaching as an unlicensed per- 
son," (although he exhibited his credentials as an ordained minister, and 
a certificate of having subscribed the oaths,) and committed to the com- 
mon jail along with Mr. Whitehouse. Mr. Orton at length became so 
ill that his life was pronounced to be in danger ; Mr. V/hitehouse was 
also unwell ; and had not the Deputy Marshal taken upon himself the 
responsibility, contrary to the opinion of the Magistrates, of permitting 
them, on the 23rd of August, after a confinement of nearly a fortnight, 
to remove to the adjoining house of a friend, on their parole, they pro- 
bably would have fallen victims of this persecution as Mr. Grimsdall 
had done. Mr. Watkis, attempting, on Sunday the 17th instant, to lead 
the worship of the congregation, was also taken up and committed to 
'jail, where he was kept till the 20th ; the bail for him, which was re- 
fused in the first instance, being then accepted. 

While these atrocities were proceeding, the other Methodist Mission- 
aries were busily occupied in laying the whole case before the Chief 
Justice, and preparing the necessary affidavits on which to obtain a 
habeas corpus. — The writ was issued, and the prisoners appeared 
before his Honour on the 29th, when their discharge was moved for 
on the ground of illegal imprisonment. The Chief Justice did not 
hesitate a moment, but ordered their full and unconditional discharge ; 
leaving it to be inferred, that the proceedings of the St. Ann's magis- 
trates were illegal, arbitrary, and cruel. They have since, we under- 

* This is a picture, be it remembered, of a single parish ! 



372 Fresh Persecutions of Missionaries in Jamaica. 

stand, been put out of the magistracy, which they had so grossly 
abused to purposes of oppression and persecution. 

We add to this succinct detail of these atrocious transactions a few 
brief extracts from the journals of the Missionaries. 

14th. — " A few friends came to the Jail, and desired to see us, but were not 
allowed to do so. The jailer says he has received strict orders not to allow 
any one to come to us, except our wives and children. It would appear, that 
there is no offence so great, in the opinions of these Gentlemen, as to preach 
the Gospel." 

"My imprisonment was followed by a mandate, which the jailer brought me 
a few minutes after I entered the prison, saying, " Sir, I am ordered not to 
allow any persons to come and see you, except your wife and servants ; and 
that you are not to hold prayers." From the former part of this mandate we 
are now suffering some inconvenience ; as to the latter, we rather obey a higher 
mandate, that " men ought always to pray." These things are not "joyous, but 
grievous ;" nevertheless, under these afHictive circumstances — while deprived 
of liberty, detained from our charge, and exposed to a noisome atmosphere — we 
will endeavour to rejoice, and " in every thing to give thanks, for this is the 
will of God in Christ Jesus concerning us." Nor will we forget to " pray for 
our enemies, and those who despitefully use us." 

15th. — " Arose this morning much indisposed, having had but little sleep the 
last two nights, which I attribute to my miserable lodgings, and more particu- 
larly to the almost incessant cracking of the whip, and the clamour of the nu- 
merous inmates : it appears the disgusting crack of the whip is here the sig- 
nal for almost every operation. The last two days we have had much rain, 
which has increased the unpleasantness of our situation, by the noxious va- 
pour arising from the drenched filth with which this place is surrounded ; and 
which, under the rays of a scorching sun, exhale efliuvia, which are almost 
suffocating." 

" I have, however, abundant cause to praise God, that I feel a peculiar calm- 
ness of mind and resignation of will suited to my present circumstances ; and 
whilst I feel indignant at the abuse of power, I look down upon my persecutors 
with feelings of Christian pity, and can say, " Father, forgive them." 

ITth (Sunday). — " This has been to me an eventful Sabbath ; one continued 
scene of confusion ; arising from a variety of unavoidable occurrences, connect- 
ed with our confinement, and from the incessant clamour, and the slashing of 
whips in the yard of the workhouse. The whole of the Negroes belonging to the 
establishment have been on the premises all the day ; the most industrious of 
them have been variously employed for themselves, the Sabbath being their 
only day for domestic engagements. Our very souls yearn over them, and 
though restrained from giving direct instruction, we trust that an occasional 
word, followed up by our prayei's, may prove beneficial to them." 

21st.- — " Yesterday and to-day, Brother Orton and myself have had access to 
the condemned criminals underneath us ; and I trust that our visits have not 
been in vain. They appear to be very grateful for the attention we have paid 
them, and are evidently under serious impressions respecting their eternal 
state. Several others also, who are in confinement for various offences, but 
who have not as yet taken their trials, are very willing to receive instructions ; 
so that there is reason to hope that our coming to this place will be made a 
blessing. There are not a few of them who are as ignorant of the God who 
made them, as the beasts which perish ; but several of those who are not in 
close confinement attend our morning and evening prayers ; and perhaps some 
will have reason to bless the Lord for ever, that we were confined here." 

These transactions need no comment. 

The Missionaries speak in very favourable terms of the kindness 
shewn them by the Deputy Marshal and others, and of the conduct and 
demeanour of the Chief Justice towards them. 



Loniioii; Uiisster and llioms, Printers, 14, riartlioloinew Close-. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLYREPORTER. 



Ko. 44.] For JANUARY, 1829. [No. 20., Vol. ii. 

The.'- Anti-Slaverv Monthly Reporter" will be veady for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Auti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding- 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



A PICTURE OF THE NEGRO SLAVERY EXISTING IN THE MAU- 
RITIUS.— ALEXANDER BARCLAY.— SOCIETY FOR CONVERSION 

OF SLAVES. 

The Mauritius surrendered to His Majesty's arms in the month of 
December, 1810. Sir Robert Farquhar immediately became the 
governor of it, and continued to hold the appointment until June, 1823. 
He was absent from the colony, however, during the years 1818 and 
1819, when the government of it was administered first by General 
Hall, and afterwards by General Darling ; and he was succeeded, soon 
after his final departure, by Sir Lowry Cole, who held the office until a 
very late period. 

The law of slavery which existed in this colony at the time of its 
capture consisted of two ordinances, one promulgated in 1723, and the 
other in 1767 ; which, while they armed the master with absolute power 
over the slave, afforded to the slave no effectual protection, scarcely 
even the shadow of protection, against its abuse. These ordinances, 
the substance of which will be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 
42, have formed the only slave code of the Mauritius from the period 
of their promulgation to the present time, with the exception of a slight 
modification, recently introduced by Sir Lowry Cole, to regulate the 
weight of the chains which the master, at his discretion, might impose 
on his slave. 

Sir Robert Farquhar, indeed, gave many assurances to His Majesty's 
Government, as may be seen in the same Anti-Slavery R,eporter, No. 
42, that he had " endeavoured in every practical instance to alleviate 
the burden of the slaves ;" nay, that it had happily been in his power 
" by a series of measures to ameliorate their condition, and to bring 
into practice a system, for their treatment, which must lead to their 
benefit and comfort." — In short, he had done all in his power " to better 
the condition and alleviate the oppression of the slave." — These state- 
ments he reiterated, from his place in the House of Commons, with the 
most unhesitating confidence, on the ninth of May, 1826, when a com- 
mittee to inquire into the slave trade and slavery of the Mauritius was 
obtained by Mr. Buxton. And yet, the fact is now unquestionable 

2 z 



374 Statements of Sir Robert Farquhar. 

that, during the whole of his long administration, Sir Robert Farquhar 
did not adopt any series of measures, nor even any one measure, for 
ameliorating the condition and alleviating the oppressions of the slave 
population ; and that even the single measure of a slave registry, or- 
dained, partly with that view, and also with a view to the effectual sup- 
pression of the slave trade, by His Majesty's Governmentat home, became 
under the management of this functionary, (the cause of which we by no 
means pretend to fix) not only perfectly useless to its purpose, but a 
fruitful source of the most flagrant crimes, and an effectual protection 
of their guilty perpetrators. In the entire variance therefore from the 
actual facts of this island's history, not of the professions merely, but 
of the deliberately framed and official statements of Sir Robert Far- 
quhar, on this supremely important object of his administration, we 
have, as it appears to us, an infallible test of the confidence to which 
he is entitled. 

When Sir Robert Farquhar first assumed the government of the 
Mauritius, he transmitted to the Secretary of State an official return of 
its slave population for 1809, amounting to 60,000. At the same time 
he stated, that there then existed such a deficiency of labourers, that 
" unless some means be speedily devised for supplying these colonies 
with hands, they cannot continue in cultivation, but must become 
deserts."* 

In a subsequent letter written on the 28th of July, 1812, after he had 
had upwards of a year and a half to examine and ascertain the fact, he 
asserted that the annual reports of the last seven years shewed " a 
yearly diminution in the numbers of the blacks of five per cent." And 
on the ground of this progressive destruction of human life, he laboured 
to convince Lord Liverpool that the Slave Trade ought to be, and must 
be, continued in the colonies under his government, " where slavery," 
he said, " is the very soul of their existence, and where universal torpor 
and poverty must reign without it;" adding, that " without a fresh im- 
portation of slaves, these islands, as I am given to understand, and am 
led to believe, cannot continue in cultivation and produce, but must be- 
come desert." Nay, he again pressed the subject with increased ear- 
nestness on the attention of Lord Liverpool, actually affirming, that 
" without the Slave Trade, or some other substitute or remedy, these 
colonies promise to be shortly annihilated ; and the inhabitants are 
likely to be rendered desperate, if the supply of slaves be refused 
them." 

But notwithstanding this extraordinary rate of decrease, affirmed so 
distinctly by Sir Robert Farquliar in 1812, and said to be grounded on 
official reports, yet, when in 1815 (only six years subsequent to the 
former enumeration in 1809) a census of the slaves was taken, their 
number was found to amount to 87,352. That this should be the effect 
of natural increase in a colony which in 1809 contained 60,000 slaves, 
and where the population in 1812 was still decreasing, according to 
Sir Robert Farquhar, at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum ; and where 
moreover in 1815 the males exceeded the females in the proportion of 

* Letter of Sir R. Farquhar to Lord Liverpool, dated tke 8tii of January, 1811. 



Progress of Population in the Mauritius. 375 

56,684 to 30,668, Sir Robert Farquhar must have seen was altogether 
impossible. The difference it was obvious could only have arisen from 
importation. For even if we reckon the annual decrease by mortality 
at no more than an average rate of 2500, which is below Sir Robert 
Farquhar's official statement of it, we shall be forced to assume, that in 
the first five years of his administration, an importation of upwards of 
42,000 slaves must have taken place into that single island. And yet we 
cannot trace in the letters of Sir Robert Farquhar any notice of this 
circumstance ; although the results of the registration of 18 15 must have 
forced it upon the observation of any man not wilfully blind, and must 
have seemed to call on his part for at least some attempt at explanation. 

But it is foreign to our present purpose to pursue the pregnant topic 
of the Mauritius Slave Trade, of which Sir Robert Farquhar was, in the 
first instance, so powerful and so zealous an advocate, and for which 
he seems long to have retained the tenderness of an early friend- 
ship. We therefore postpone that part of the case, however strongly 
its aggravated nature tempts us to enter upon it, in order to pursue 
the object of giving a faithful picture of the state of slavery, as it has 
existed in the Mauritius since that colony came under the rule of this 
country. 

In the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No, 42, we have already shewn what 
the state of slavery in the Mauritius has been in point of law ; and it 
may be summed up in two words, — -the unmeasured power of the mas- 
ter, — and the utter destitution of all legal right or protection in the slave. 
We shall now direct the view of our readers to v?hat has been, and we 
fear, still is the practice of slavery in that colony.* 

Progress of Population in the Mauritius. 

We shall begin with an attempt, though it must of necessity be an 
imperfect one, to ascertain the probable extent of the destruction of 
human life which has been regularly proceeding in this colony. We 
might here produce the testimony of numerous living witnesses, but 
this, though strong and decisive, would necessarily be too vague for our 
purpose. At present therefore we shall confine ourselves to the less 
disputable evidence of statistical returns. 

By a report from Sir Robert Barclay, the collector of the internal 
taxes, dated November 29, 1823, it appears that the slave population 
of the district of Port Louis amounted, in 1822, to 7456 males and 
3669 females, in all ll,125.t By a return of the interments of slaves 
occurring in this same district, during the years 1815 to 1820 inclusive, 
the number of deaths amounted to Q5Q5, being nearly at the rate of one 
death yearly in every ten or eleven persons, or about ten per cent, of 
deaths per annum ; the ordinary mortality of Europe being not more 
than an average, on all ages, of from two to three per cent, per annum. 

Now it has never been asserted, that there is any thing unfavourable 
to negro life in the climate of the Mauritius generally, or of the Port 
Louis district in particular. The contrary indeed may be proved by the 
returns of the whole free black and coloured population of the island 

* Reporter, No. 3, p. 20. t Papers of May 30, 182o, No. 361, 



o76 Progress of Populatioji in Bet Ombre. 

during nearly the same period, viz, from 1816 to 1821 inclusive. The 
average of the population of this class for those years was 1 1,061.* The 
annual average mortality during the same six years was 295, being one 
in 37 or 38, or about 2| per cent. 

On nearly the same number of slaves, however, in the district of 
Port Louis, the annual rate of mortality was 1094, being little less 
tkan four times that of the free population of the colony. And sup- 
posing the same rate of mortality to extend over the whole slave popu- 
lation of the island, we shall have, as the result, not less than about 
7000 deaths annually, or about 126,000 deaths in the 18 years we 
have possessed the island ; a mortality nearly equal to killing off the 
whole of the slaves existing at any one time twice told ; a number equal 
to which must have been supplied by means of importations, and by the 
consequent accumulation of the well-known atrocities from which alone 
such importations could be obtained. 

A farther proof of the dreadful extent of the mortality prevailing 
among the slaves in this colony, may be drawn from the case of the 
estate of Bel Ombre, belonging to Mr. Telfair, the private Secretary of 
Sir Robert Farquhar, and the humane treatment of the slaves on which 
estate Sir Robert, who was himself a constant visiter upon it, highly 
extolled in the House of Commons, representing it as a pattern for good 
management, and one of the best regulated in the island. Now, even 
on this well regulated estate, the decrease appears, from authentic docu- 
ments, to have amounted annually to about \ 2 per cent. The return for 
1819 gives 64 deaths and 12 births on a population of 378, being an 
actual decrease of 52, or 13| per cent. ; and the return of 1825 gives 55 
deaths and 16 births on a population of 372, being an actual decrease 
of 39, or 10^ per cent.; or, on an average of the two periods, a de- 
crease of 12 per cent.f The mortality in the first year was as high 
as 17 per cent., and in the second as high as 15 per cent., being an 
average of 1 6 per cent. 

Now if this was the mortality on one of the best regulated estates, 
what must it have been throughout the whole island? And what must 
have been the continued extent of importations indispensably required 
to maintain, as has been done in the face of this decrease, a population 
numerically almost undiminished ? But even if we were to deduct 
from this fair but frightful estimate a fourth, or a third, or even a half, 
enough will remain to prove the terrible effects of that system of coer- 
cion and privation, by which the slaves are in this colony worked and 
starved to death; and the unspeakable atrocity of those wholesale mur- 
ders which this country continues to tolerate, but which no man, who 
has not the heart of a demon, can even think of without emotions of 
indignation and horror. 

And it was in the face of many of these facts, then accumulated at the 
Colonial office ; and in despite of the loudest protestations and remon- 
strances, on the part of those who believed but were not then in a ca- 
pacity absolutely to prove the enormities since brought to light, that 



* See Papers of March 4, 1823, No. 89, p. 127. 
+ Papers of May 1, 1827, No. 28.'>, pp. U to 39. 



General Treatment of the Slaves in the Mauritius. 311 

Government proposed, and Parliament consented, to give, by fiscal en- 
couragement and protection, an increased impulse to the cruel and' 
sanguinary cupidity of the planters, or rather pirates of ,the Mauritius. 
Is not this a national crime of the very deepest dye ? 

The whole community have of late had their feelings violently and uni- 
versally excited by a series of acts of cold, calculating, deliberate, bloody- 
minded ferocity, which have been judicially brought to light at Edin- 
burgh ; and no man, who has a single spark of humanity in his frame, 
can view them in all their dimensions of iniquity without a thrill of 
horror. But if, even to these appalling discoveries, we were to add the 
deeds of Corder and Thurtell, and of the murderers of Marr and Wil- 
liamson, combining with them all the murders which, during the last 
twenty years, have called down the vengeance of British law on their 
perpetrators ; we doubt whether this collective mass of crime would be 
found greater than the regular, business-like, daily march, for a like period, 
of that system, which on many estates as well-ordered as Bel Ombre, 
steadily proceeds, for ends equally sordid, in so torturing and murdering, 
inch by inch, the cultivators of their soil, as that one in ten shall be regu- 
larly slaughtered, every year, to glut the cupidity of their savage owners. 
Wherein do the unflinching and resolute administrators of such a system 
morally differ from the smooth-tongued and remorseless villain who, in 
Edinburgh, is now about to suffer the penalty of the law ? They differ 
only as it appears to us in the deeper malignity, and more heartless bar- 
barity of their conduct. And yet under all the circumstances of the 
case, are not their crimes ours ? Are we not partakers in their guilt ? 

But it is time to come to particulars. We have dwelt hitherto in 
generals. Our first illustration shall be taken from the estate already 
mentioned — Bel Ombre. We have now before us some lengthened details 
respecting Mauritius slavery in general, and this plantation in parti- 
cular, of which we shall merely give the outline. The period to which 
they refer is the years 1821 and 1822. 

General Treatment of Slaves in the Mauritius. 
Over night his food was usually delivered out to each slave for the fol- 
lowing day.* It commonly consisted of three pieces of baked manioc (cas- 
sada) of the size and appearance of muifins, and which in the Mauritius 
go by the name of " Manioc Cakes." This food is described not only as 
unpalatable, and also unsatisfying in its nature, but as extremely insuf- 
ficient in quantity, more especially when the continuity and intensity of 
the labour exacted from the slaves is considered ; the day's allowance 
being often barely enough for a single good meal. It was prepared be- 
forehand in order to save the time which it would require to prepare it 
if it were given to the slaves in its raw state, and because it became less 
necessary to allow them a cessation of labour in order to their eating it. 
It might be eaten while they continued at work. This wretched and scanty 
aliment was eked out by drinking large quantities of water, which distended 
their stomachs; and by eagerly devouring, at the risk of punishment, 
every species of disgusting offal and carrion which came in their way, and 

* It was sometimes given out for several days ; and sometimes a few watery 
potatoes of the Island were substituted, which were still less noxirishing. 



378 General Treatment of the Stoves in the Mauritius. 

it was considered as the fruitful source, combined with their hard labour, 
of those dysenteries which were constantly sweeping so many of them into 
a premature grave. 

The daily labour exacted from them extended to from sixteen to nine- 
teen hours in the day, even out of crop. No time was allowed them for 
breakfast,* the eating of a manioc cake requiring no respite from work. 
For dinner the slaves had nominally two hours allowed them, but in this 
time they had to cut a bundle of grass or wood for the master, which, on 
leaving off work at night, they had to deliver at his house. This wood 
or grass was frequently difficult to be obtained, and a large proportion 
of the two hours was, therefore, often spent in obtaining it, so that the 
period of repose was liable to be abridged by half an hour, or even an 
hour or more. 

On most estates the slaves were summoned to their work, in the morn- 
ing, by the cracking of the drivers' whips, but on some of the larger 
estates they were previously roused by a great bell. On Bel Ombre 
estate the bell was generally rung at three in the morning, sometimes 
earlier, but seldom later, and they continued to work, without any inter- 
val for breakfast, and with only the interval already described for dinner, 
until so late in the evening as eight o'clock, and, on light nights, even 
an hour or two later. 

While the slaves were at work, they were followed by drivers, and 
were continually receiving blows and lashes, and were even occasionally 
taken out from the line and punished with twenty or thirty lashes, and 
then sent back to work. But these occasional inflictions were scarcely 
regarded in the light of punishment, but merely of discipline. The regular 
punishments were reserved, on Bel Ombre, (a practice however, differing 
from that of many other estates,) for Sunday, a day which, there, never 
failed to be ushered in with severe floggings. The offenders of the week 
were reserved in chains (in which they were made to work) for that 
day ; and they were often numerous, generally about thirty, and amount- 
ing, on one occasion, to about fifty. 

There was no difference in the way of punishing male and female 
slaves; but there were two different modes resorted to, of punishing 
both. One was by erecting a frame-work of three poles in a triangular 
form with a bar across, and fastening the hands of the sufferer, by a rope, 
to the place where the three poles were united, his or her body resting 
against the cross bar. The other was by placing the sufferer prone on 
the face on the ground, or on a ladder, his or her hands, if on the ground, 
being held extended by four other slaves, or firmly fastened to the lad- 
der, as the case might be. Being thus placed, and the body being 
bared, the sufferer was flogged on the posteriors, either by one driver, 
or, in cases deemed more heinous, by two, one stationed on each side. 
And if the driver failed in inflicting the punishment to the satisfaction of 
the master, he was liable himself to be made to change places with the 
offender. The instrument with which the punishment of flogging was 
inflicted consisted either of a whip, or of the split rattan ; and opinions 
greatly differ, as to which of these was the most cruel. The whip 
varied in size. Its handle was of wood, froni two to three feet 

"■ On some estates the practice dift'ered on this point. 



General Treatment of the Slaves in the Mauritius. 379 

in length, and from an inch and a half to two inches in diameter; and 
the thong was from six to eight feet in length, and, at the thickest part, 
from one and a half to two and a half inches in diameter, tapering to- 
wards the lash or cutting part. The rattan was a cane of about five 
feet long, split into two or three parts from one extremity to within 
a foot or eighteen inches of the other ; the unsplit part serving as a 
handle, and the rest forming a tremendously powerful cat of two or 
three tails. Either instrument would make incisions into the flesh, and 
lacerate it at every blow ; and the sharp edge of the split rattan would 
sometimes divide the flesh like a knife. Military floggings, numbers of 
soldiers testified, were ho f/tm^' to these. The whip was sometimes a very 
ponderous instrument ; one was seen on Bel Ombre weighing upwards 
of seven pounds.* 

There appeared, in practice, to be no limit to the number of lashes 
inflicted on offenders but the discretion of the master or manager. 
Seldom less than fifty, and often a hundred or many more lashes, 
were given in the way of regular punishment; and by this extent of 
infliction, the parts, generally the posteriors, were always reduced to 
one bloody mass of lacerated flesh ; and to this was often added the fur- 
ther excruciating torture of the application of lime juice, or salt and 
pepper, on the pretence of keeping the wounds from festering. The 
punishment of a collar and chain was often superadded, and also of 
confinement in the stocks, for an indefinite period, during the intervals 
of labour, as well as during the night. The collar was rivetted on, and 
with the chain often worn for months. The use of the collar and chain 
was so common that it ceased to excite observation, except when the 
collar was adorned, as it often was, with three or four projecting 
prongs, the object of which was to render it difiicult for the bearer to 
make his way, in case of absconding, either through the cane pieces, 
or through the bushes or woods which cover the uncultivated parts of 
the island. A further effect of these prongs was to render it impos- 
sible for the wearer to extend himself at full length, on the ground, for 
the purpose of repose. The slaves so chained were for the rriost part 
confined in the stocks at night. Sometimes a heavy weight was attached 
to the chain, and sometimes they were chained two and three together. 

All these various punishments might be inflicted, at the sole will of the 
master or manager, on men, women, and children alike, for any off'ence 
he might choose to deem deserving of it. But the most usual occasions 
of the heavier punishments were either the thefts, to which the slaves 
were driven by hunger, or the flight into the woods, to which they were 
driven by the excess of labour, or the dread of anticipated punishment. 

As to clothing, the field slaves in general had very little,t the men 
none beyond a band round the waist, and the women very little more, 
except what they sometimes obtained by prostitution ; the drivers and 
headmen alone formed an exception. — They had no bedding, not even 
a mat given them, much less a rug or a blanket, to repose upon at 
night. They commonly lay down to sleep on the bare and often wet 
ground. Their huts were usually of the meanest and most miserable 

* The model of a moderate Mauritius whip may be seen at the office. 
t The most we hear of was two yards of very coarse calico in the year. 



380 Cases of Cruelty at Bel Ombre. 

description, pervious to the weather, and so small as scarcely to afford 
space for the seven or eight human beings, who were frequently 
crowded into each, to extend themselves at full length on the floor. . 

In the time of crop the slaves retired from the field somewhat earlier 
than at other times, in order to take their turn of labour during the 
night in the manufacture of sugar. If they fell asleep during their 
spell of night labour, they were liable to be severely flogged ; but 
sometimes, so irresistible was their drowsiness, that their hands were 
apt to be drawn into the mill along with the canes, and completely 
crushed and mangled.* 

Marriage was unknown among the slaves ; but the most open prostir 
tution prevailed universally among the females. Ladies, so called, often 
hired out their negresses to the soldiers, by the month, for this purpose. 

The slaves were generally excluded from all moral or religious in- 
struction ; and to teach plantation slaves to read was almost unexam- 
pled. Indeed, this might be said of the whole slave population-! 

Cases of Cruelty. 

The above account would apply, with slight occasional variations, to 
the estates in general throughout the island, as well as to Bel Ombre. 
On some the slaves might be better off in one or more particulars, and 
on some they might be worse off. But the sketch now given may be 
considered as a fair representation of what was the ordinary, every-day, 
treatment of the slaves, on those estates which Sir R, Farquhar might 
designate as well regulated. This treatment, however, was wholly in- 
dependent of those more exemplary inflictions of punishment which oc- 
curred from time to time, and which, though not productive of so 
great an aggregate of misery as flowed from the calm, steady, regular, 
course of plantation disciphne, yet concentrated into a brief and narrow 
space a greater portion of the more revolting horrors of the system. 

We will here again take Bel Ombre as our first and one of our most 
striking illustrations. An eye witness, who resided on that estate for 
six months, saw, in the month of July, 1821, a Mosambique negro 
brought out and placed flat on his face for punishment. The person 
continued to look on the process until 150 lashes had been inflicted, 
and then, unable any longer to endure the horrors of the scene, quitted 
the place without having ascertained how much farther the punishment 
was carried. 

The same person was also an eye witness of the punishment on this 

* It is a curious confirmation of this statement, that in the list of the slaves at 
Bel Ombre, for the year 1819, printed by the House of Commons, on the 1st of 
May, 1827, No. 285, we find three of the slaves described as " estropi&s des 
deux mains," " mutilated in both hands." 

t And yet, will it be credited, that Sir Robert Farquhar, in a letter to Earl 
Bathurst, dated the I2th October, 1813, thus wrote : " Some paragraphs pub- 
lished in ' The Government Gazette,' without the sanction of Government, harm- 
less as they may appear in Europe, were the cause of infinite apprehension 
and alarm in this island. They were considered by the slaves (the better mformed 
•part of whom can read, and eagerly devour every thing touching their own state 
and condition) asa declaration of Government of their approaching liberation 
from all duty to their masters." The paragraphs were indeed of the most in", 
noxious kind; and Sir Robert might therefore, without any risk to the Oolopy, 
have spared the discredit of this further misstatement. No. 296 of 182G. p. 25. 



Cruelties on Bel Ombre. 38 1 

estate of two young wotrien, for the crime of running away. They 
were both advanced in their pregnancy, and were both ordered to re- 
ceive the same punishment, although one of them had been a fugi- 
tive only for one month, and the other had been two years in the 
woods. The former intreated that her punishment might be delayed, 
at least till she was dehvered, that her child might not suffer as well as 
herself. The overseer said, that as she was so knowing as to make 
such a request, she should be made to suffer the more on that account. 
The punishment of this unhappy girl then began, and our informant 
was resolved to see the end of it ; but after 1 60 lashes had been inflicted, 
the shrieks of the sufferer became so piercing, that it was impossible 
any longer to endure the spectacle. On returning, however, some time 
after to the spot, our informant learnt that both this and the other girl 
had gone through the whole of the punishment assigned them. They 
had afterwards collars with projecting spikes fastened round their 
necks, these collars being attached to each other by an iron chain. 

Another individual who resided at Bel Ombre for some time, during 
the years 1820 and 1821, confirms most of the general statements 
made above, and particularly the fact that the regular punishments were 
usually administered at Bel Ombre on Sundays. This informant often 
counted the lashes, and never knew any of the offenders to receive less 
than one hundred, excepting two youths, who received about seventy each . 
It was common to rub salt and pepper into the wounds, which it was 
alleged would prevent them from festering, and enable the sufferers the 
sooner both to return to labour, and to bear a repetition of punishment, 
if it should be thought right to inflict it. The pain of this application 
is described as excruciating. 

The same person states that, in the month of July, 1820, being on a 
plantation, he saw two slaves brought out to be punished. They were 
placed flat on their bellies, extended on a wooden beam, to which they 
were fastened, while two men held their hands and two their legs, and a 
driver, who struck alternately, was placed on each side of the sufferer. 
The whips employed were unusually heavy, and 120 lashes were inflicted 
on each. On the following Wednesday, having occasion to go to the room 
used as an hospital, he saw laid out the dead bodies of the same two 
slaves. The wounds were putrid, and sent forth a rank smell ; and he af- 
terwards saw them both carried out, tied up in mats, to the burial ground. 

Our informants in the above cases of cruelty have expressed their 
readiness to appear as witnesses of their truth, either in a court of 
justice, or before a magistrate, or before a Committee of the House of 
Commons, whenever they shall be called upon to do so. 

But it will perhaps be said, that such atrocities as these could never 
have been permitted, but must have met with condign punishment, had 
they been made known to the local authorities at the time. The state- 
ments we are now about to submit to our readers will probably con- 
vince them that such a course would have led to no beneficial results 
as respected the slaves, seeing how often it issued in impunity to the 
guilty, in inconvenience to those who attempted to bring them to 
punishment, and in aggravated misery to the sufferer. The instances 
are drawn from the official records of the Colony. 

3 A 



382 Impunity of Crimes against Slaves in the Mauritius. 

1. — The Case of the Negro Girl Virginie. 

The proces verbal in this case, signed by V. Delafaye, officer of 
police, states that this girl, the property of one Oilier, otherwise called 
Lailette, a Creole, of the age of fourteen years, was found creeping on 
all-fours in the streets of the town of Port Louis, by the police patrole, 
and brought to the police office, on Thursday, the 11th of October, 
1821. She had fetters on both her feet, and was dragging after her a 
chain and a weight of about fifty pounds ; the \vhole of the irons she 
bore weighing about seventy pounds French, or seventy-six pounds 
EngHsh. These chains had been put upon her ou the preceding Satur- 
day, by her master, because she had deserted his house on account of 
ill treatment; and she exhibited her body to the police, which was 
found martyred (" martyrise") with the blows of a rattan. When taken 
up in the streets, she was again attempting to escape from the house of 
her master, to implore assistance from any who might afford it. 

M. Lavergne, a surgeon, the officer of health, having been called on 
by the police, certified that he had examined this girl's body, and on 
either side of the posteriors he observed tv/o wounds in particular, 
which seemed to have been inflicted with some blunt instrument, and 
in a great degree to have been the cause of the fever which was then 
upon her. Besides this, he testified that she had massive iron rings 
on both her ancles, and moreover dragged after her a heavy chain, 
which of itself was fifty pounds, (fifty-four pounds English",) and was 
attached to the rings. The irons were removed, and the girl sent to 
the hospital. 

The next step in the process was a reference of the case, on the fol- 
lowing day, to the attorney -general, M. Virieux, who forthwith sub- 
mitted it to the Court of First Instance, which on the very same day 
pronounced judgment upon it. The judgment of one of the judges, 
M. Portahs, is in the following words : 

" Having seen the proces verbal in police, and the report of 
Lavergne, and having considered that the said Oilier, or Lailette, in 
inflicting the punishment of flogging on his slave girl Virginie, has only 
done that allowed by latv ; and having considered likewise that the 
weight of chain is not excessive* since it has not hindered the slave 
girl escaping again from her master's house, we order that the said 
girl Virginie shall be returned to her master with the chains she bore." 

This is followed by the further judgment of the president of the 
Court, J. L. Lefebvre, dated the same day, the 12th of October, 1821, 
as follows : 

" Having examined the case, and considered that although Oilier, 
or Lailette, the proprietor of the girl Virginie, has only inflicted the 
punishments which belong to the authority of masters, in flogging and 
chaining the said Virginie, who had been guilty of running away, yet, 
according to the police report, it is implied there had been excess; — We 
order that the said Virginie, placed in the. hospital at her master's 

; * About five times the weight of the heaviest chains with v/hich felons are 
double-ironed iu England. 



Impunity of Crimes against Slaves in the Mauritius. 383 

expense, shall be given back to him, along with the chains to which 
she had been attached ; and that he be charged to treat her as a 
father," (" en p^re de faniille.") 

This sentence, justifying the conduct of the master, and impugning 
that of the police, was forthwith reported, with all the previous pro^- 
ceedingS; to Sir R. Farquhar, then the governor. ._^, 

2. — The Case of the Negro Man Azov. 

The proces verbal in this case, signed D. Virieux, first assistant of 
police, states, that Azor, belonging to Madame Michel, had, on a 
Sunday, without leave from his mistress, gone to see a fete called 
Yamee (annually observed by such slaves as were natives of India) ; 
that on Monday morning he had returned to his mistress, who put him 
in chains ; but that at four o'clock he had escaped, and came to the 
police office, to complain of having been chained unjustly, and to re- 
quest that he might be relieved from them. The chains (which it 
appeared weighed thirty and a quarter pounds English) were taken off 
by order of the chief commissary of police. 

Azor's case having been submitted to the Court of First Instance, by 
the attorney-general, Virieux, on the 9th of October, 1821, the judgment 
of that Court was given, and first that of M. Portalis. " Having con- 
sidered," he says, " the proces verbal, &c., and the weight of chains, 
including the collar and fetter, put upon Azor, twenty-eight pounds,* 
(French,) and having also considered that Azor has not been corrected 
by his mistress, and that he has no complaint to make of her, but that 
in punishing him for having absented himself from his work, she had 
limited that punishment to putting upon him chains, of which the 
weight was not excessive, that punishment being authorised by the 
law; — And since no one has a right to use the liberty of taking oiF from 
a negro the chains which his master may put upon him, without the 
order of the proper authority, I require that Azor be forthwith sent 
back to his mistress, with the chains which have been taken off him ; 
and that the police be forbidden to allow itself to relieve a black from 
his chains, until the same be ordered by the competent authorhy." 

The president of the Court, Lefebvre, concurred in the sentence of his 
associate, adding, that " the punishment of the domestic chain belongs 
to masters, agreeably to the colonial laws and regulations ; and lio one 
has a right to interfere in this domestic discipline, so long as there is no 
excess, which there is not in this case ; and that it concerns the public 
order that masters should not be hindered in the exercise of this right 
of discipline. We order," he adds, " that Azor be replaced in the 
chains to which he had been subjected by his mistress, and sent back 
to her domicile and discipline, she being enjoined to treat him with pa- 
rental care,"f (" en bon pere de famille,") 

* The largest weight allowed by Sir Lowry Cole's new law, (No. 42. p. 335.) 
was six pounds ; and ten pounds is the usual weight of double irons in England 
for felons, the very highest being fourteen pounds. 

t We know not whether this lady be the same Madame Michel living at the 
Grand River of Port Louis, of whom one of our informants testifies that he once 



384 Iinpunily of Crimes against Slaves in the Mauritius. 

3. — The Case of the Negro Man Pedro. 

This man, a slave, belonging to a Mr. Christin, a planter of the dis^- 
trict of Moka, presented himself on the 7th of January, 1818, to General 
Hall, at his residence of Reduit. He had been suspected by his 
master of having given information of some new slaves that had been 
smuggled into his plantation, and he novir related various particulars of 
cruel treatment which he had been made to undergo. — Happening acci- 
dentally to tread on a young duckling and crush it to death, he had 
been tied up and punished with 100 lashes. His master had also sus- 
pended him for a time with a rope by the neck, letting him down before 
he was quite dead, though nearly strangled. His food was insufficient 
and of bad quality, being a pound and a half of sweet potatoes a day, 
an allowance totally inadequate to the sustentation of one who had tc^ 
work hard like him, and who had no respite from labour on Sundays 
or other days. — Pedro's statement was corroborated by his personal 
appearance. He seemed hardly to have strength to tell his tale ; round 
his neck the mark of a cord was visible ; and his body, from his shoulders 
to his legs, was all over wounds and sores. 

A surgeon, M. Bertin, who was made to examine Pedro on the same 
day on which he presented himself, bore the following testimony to his 
state at that time. He found Pedro lying at length on the floor, com- 
plaining of a great pain in the lower extremities of his belly, without 
however having in that part any external marks of violence; but 
M. Bertin found two remarkable sores, which he describes, on the but- 
tocks, and many contusions and erosions, and slighter rents of the 
skin on other parts of the body, from the nape of the neck downwards, 
— And M. Lavergne, the surgeon of the police, who saw him on the 8th, 
stated in a legal proces verbal, that he recognised the marks of strong 
pressure round the neck, as though by a strong cord ; and that there 
were two serious wounds of considerable depth, and of about four inches 
broad, on the buttocks, and two others in the middle of the thigh ; add- 
ing, that it was urgent to send him to the hospital to avoid a locked 

Both these statements, of which only the substance is here given, were 
extracted from the minutes of the Court, before which the case after- 
wards was brought, countersigned by Mr. Husson the registrar. 

Nothing was produced to rebut this evidence, excepting the exculpa- 
tory statements of Mr. Christin himself, and his son, the purport of 
which was, that the pressure round the neck arose from an iron collar, 
and that only 25 lashes had been inflicted on Pedro. On being further 
questioned, the elder Christin was forced to admit that he had given 
two twenty-fives nearly together, but he gave no farther explanation 
respecting the pressure round the neck, which could only be adequately 
accounted for in the way Pedro had explained it. 



saw, at ber residence, seven negroes with their necks fastened in a kind of 
wooden pillory, while their feet and toes just touched the ground ; and that in 
this perpendicular position, nearly suspended by the neck, they were kept for 
«!evt;ra) nights, being at the same time made to work daring the day as usual. 



Impmiity of Crimes against Slaves in the Mauritius. 38.5 

The sentence pronounced in this case by Mr. Lefebvre, the president 
of the Court, on the 26th of January, 1818, was, that Mr. Christin, on 
payincr the medical expenses of Pedro's treatment in the hospital, should 
be discharged, and enjoined, in future, to use greater moderation and 
humanity towards him. 

The sentence does not expressly order Pedro to be returned into his 
power, but as the contrary was not ordered, such must have been the 
inevitable effect of it. 

4. — The Case of Antoine, a Male Slave. 
This slave was the property of a widow lady, a Madame Ozughree, 
Her son, named Desire Ozughree, a young man of about 20 years of 
age, was accused of having loaded a gun with shot, and placing Antoine 
a few yards from him, fired at him, but from his being a bad marksman 
did him no material harm. The case, having been referred to the 
attorney-general for prosecution, was tried before the Court of First 
Instance on the 8th of June, 1818. The attorney-general, M. Pepin, 
in a report which he officially made of the trial, in a letter of the 25th 
of June following, coolly remarked, " that young Ozughree was not 
right in firing off a gun at this slave, for although it did not occasion 
any wounds, yet the consequence might have been fatal." He goes on 
to state, that he, the attorney-general, though the gun had been loaded 
with shot, yet taking into his consideration the absence of all criminal 
intention on the part of Ozughree, and the state of indiscipline of the 
black, (a fact which appears to have stood on the bare assertion of the 
accused, and was not in proof,) had only required of the Court, " that 
Desire Ozughree should be strictly charged not to carry himself again 
to such lengths, under pain of a greater punishment, and that Antoine 
should be given back to Madame Ozughree." 

The sentence of the Court, signed by its president, Lefebvre, followed 
the lenient suggestions of the attorney-general, and was in the following 
extraordinary terms : " Considering that Ozughree had no criminal in- 
tention, and that he has even reproached himself that the act had no un- 
fortunate result for Antoine, who was in a state of indiscipline;* and 
rendering justice to the conclusions of the attorney- general ; — We forbid 
to M. Desire Ozughree to be guilty of a repetition of such conduct^ 
and require him to employ means of repression to his blacks in con- 
formity with the laws; and we therefore order that Antoine shall be 
given back to his mistress, charging her to treat him properly in the 
manner of a father of a family." 

Thus was disposed of this wilful and wanton outrage, which, in 
England, under Lord EUenborough's act, might have cost Ozughree 
his life. 

5. — Case of Le Cotte,a Man Slave. 

This man was the slave of a person named Noel Bastel, in the district 
of Moka. Having absconded on account, as he alleged, of hard 

* Did not this very circumstance undeniably prove that he had a criminal 
intention? He regretted he had not killed or wounded Antoine. 



386 Impunity of Crimes against Slaves in the Mauritius. 

treatment, he was seized, and Bastel, with his own hand, inflicted 
upon him between 200 and 300 lashes, and then cut off his right ear, 
which it was further affirmed he forced him to eat and swallow. The 
only point in this case which was disputed, was the eating of the ear. 
The fact was strenuously affirmed by the slave. But Bastel, who ad- 
mitted the lashes, and the cutting off of the ear, affirmed nevertheless, 
that what he had given the man to eat, telling him it was his ear, was 
not in reality his ear, but a bit of leather from the sole of his own shoe, 
which he had substituted. He did not, however, deny that he had led 
the man to believe that it was his own ear, (who by the way could hardly 
have mistaken it) and such was also the belief of the other slaves who 
were spectators of the transaction. In point of turpitude it was not 
very material which version of the story was the true one. It was 
farther in proof, that after all this had been inflicted on Le Cotte, he 
was put in chains by his master. 

The case was tried before the Court of First Instance. All that the 
substitute of the attorney-general demanded in his conclusion, was 
that, Bastel should be deprived of the means of committing similar acts, 
by rendering him incapable of holding any slave property for the fu- 
ture, and in the propriety of this sentence, one of the judges concurred. 
But he was overruled by the other judges,* and the judgment was, merely, 
that the sufferer, Le Cotte, should be confiscated to the Government. 

6. — The Case of Edvjard, a Man Slave. 

This man who had been very recently imported, was, on the 11th of 
October 1818, severely punished by his mistress named Marianne. Being 
found in the streets by the police, he was, on the 16th, sent to the hos- 
pital, and on the 22nd he died of a locked jaw. A surgeon describing 
his state on the day he died says, " he cannot remain in a recumbent 
posture, but stands in a half-bent position, leaning forward ; he appears 
much reduced in strength, with large drops of sweat on the forehead ; " 
and the chief medical officer of the island, certified his death in the fol- 
lowing terms : " The slave Edward died in the civil hospital on the 
22nd instant of tetanus following from a punishment as reported." " He 
also appeared," it was stated in the report of one of the surgeons, " to be 
a new slave." 

No criminal proceedings appear to have been taken in this case. 

7. — The Case of Felix, a Slave Boy. 
Felix, a boy of twelve or thirteen years of age, belonged to M. Du- 
-eau, chef de departement in the district of Plaines Wilhelms. On the 
.norning of Sunday, October the 4th, 1818, he had suffered a dog, of 
which he had charge, to escape. For this oflPence he was tied up, and 
received twenty lashes. On the succeeding day, while the flesh was yet 
tender, (from a refined species of cruelty prevailing in this island,) he was 
drawn out again, and received twenty more lashes ; and on the third 
day, while the flesh v/as of course, still more raw, he was again tied up, 



* The courts are composed of several judges, who exercise the double func- 
tions of judge and jury. 



Impunity of Crimes against Slaves in the Mauritius. 387 

and again received a like number of lashes. On Thursday he contrived 
to abscond, and on Saturday, the 10th, appeared before General Hall. 
He was forthwith submitted to the examination of Dr. Burke, chief 
medical officer of the island. The following was Dr. Burke's report : 
" I find that Felix has large sloughing ulcers on his posteriors, and 
other marks of barbarous recent punishment." " The punishment has 
been most severe, and excessive. He is exhausted and debilitated, and 
has symptoms of fever, pulse 126, hot skin, &c. I have, therefore, 
thought it absolutely necessary to send him to the hospital for treat- 
ment, having previously given and applied such remedies as the case 
required." 

The report of M. Lavergne (surgeon of the police) dated the follow- 
ing day, the 11th of October, was this: " I found the posteriors se- 
verely wounded, and in a state of suppuration, occasioned, as it would 
appear to me, by a whip. I found it a matter of urgency to send him 
without delay to the hospital, there to have his wounds dressed and 
taken care of, with the view of preventing tetanus." 

On the 15th, the same surgeon reported, that the wounds of Felix 
were now in a good healing state, but that he was " not yet out of 
danger ;" and at a still later date. Dr. Burke wrote as follows : " I may 
stale, in elucidation of this case," (that of Edward, detailed in the last 
page, who died on the 22d,) " that the punishment did not appear to me 
to have been so very severe; at least the existing sores were neither so 
extensive, nor seemed to have followed so severe an infliction of punish- 
ment as another case in the hospital; Felix, zvho is now nearly recover- 
ed." And he afterwards added, still comparing the case of Felix 
with that of Edward, who had just died, " for whom," that is for Felix, 
*" 1 was apprehensive of a similar fate." 

The above facts and certificates having been sent to the attorney- 
general, he referred them to the Court of First Instance, when Mr. Chris- 
tie, one of the judges, being appointed to investigate it, he took the 
extraordinary course of calling in three fresh medical men, GuellemeaUj 
Sauvee, and Trebuchet, who had not seen Felix before, to make their 
report of his state, strangely putting out of his view,what alone was ma- 
terial, the report and the evidence of the medical men who had seen the 
boy while his wounds were still fresh, and before the healing process 
had been, as it was when this second inspection took place, nearly com- 
pleted. They gave a favourable report of the actual state of Felix, and 
even went so far as to hazard an opinion that, from present appearances, 
there was no reason to believe that he had ever been in danger. 

This novel and unjustifiable proceeding, on the part of the judge 
Christie, led to some delay in the decision, farther proof being called 
for to reconcile the contradictions : and, in the meantime, this ingenious 
judge discovered that the Court had no jurisdiction in the case. The 
old French ordinance, the only slave law of the colony, did not forbid 
masters from giving as many as thirty stripes to a slave, who they 
thought deserved it. Whereas, this man, Dureau, had not violated the 
law, being only charged with having given twenty at a time. The matter 
having been on this ground thus thrown out as not within the competence 
of the Court, there could, of course, be no appeal from its sentence to 



388 Impunity of Crimes against Slaves in the Mauritius. 

that of a higher tribunal, and this wretched youth came again into the 
power of his merciless master. 

8. — The Case of Auguste, a Creole Slave. 

Auguste belonged to M. Jean Louis Diott, of the district of River 
Rempart. On the 26th March, 1817, he was sent to a distance to 
fetch some water, and staying longer than was thought right, Diott or- 
dered the driver, Louis, to seize and flog him. Auguste was accord- 
ingly flogged from the shoulders down to the breech, both back and 
buttocks, and then with a pair of pincers, seven of his teeth were, by 
the driver, either torn out or broken in his head, three from the lower 
and four from the upper jaw. After this, Auguste was sent to work ; 
but not being able to bend his back, from the severity of his recent 
punishment, he contrived next day to quit the plantation, but was 
soon picked up by some one, and taken to Mr. Stokes, the civil com- 
mandant of the district, who called in M. Vigoureux, the civil com- 
missary to his assistance. They sent for M. L Renau, a surgeon, to 
. examine Auguste, and a proces verbal was drawn up and signed by 
him and the two magistrates, purporting that they found, " throughout 
the whole extent of the back and buttocks, longitudinal sores in a 
healing state, which the Black stated to have been occasioned by the 
strokes of a whip, and which, from the nature of the marks, appeared 
probable. The Black besides, however, had shewn the places where 
seven of his teeth had, as he asserted, either been wrenched out or 
broken in his head." 

The case was brought before the Court by the attorney-general. 
Diott admitted that he had caused Auguste to be flogged by the driver, 
and he also admitted that the driver had torn the teeth out of the boy's 
head, but then he said, that Louis had done so, not by his orders, but 
by those of his father. On inquiry, however, it was found that the 
father had been dead a year. In short, this was obviously a mere pre- 
tence for evading the charge, he having been the person who, in reality, 
had ordered the whole punishment, standing by to see every part of it 
executed. 

On the 22d May, 1817, the judge, Mr. Christie, pronounced the 
judgment of the Court on Diott, in the following remarkable terms : 

" Considering that humanity carries the father of every family to 
interest himself in the happiness of his children, his apprentices, or his 
slaves, in short, of all depending upon him, the law has confided to 
him the power of punishing them for their faults or disobedience, 
without, however, exceeding the bounds of a just moderation ; whence 
it follows, that all chastisement of an excessive nature inflicted on those 
whom it is his duty, no less than his interest, to protect and cherish, 
degenerates into cruelty that requires to be repressed by the magi- 
strate ; 

" Considering that it results from the information taken in this case, 
that Auguste, slave of Jean Louis Diott has had seven of his teeth torn 
out by pincers, or broken in his head, by Louis the commandeur (driver) 
of the said Diott, acting under the orders, as Auguste still insists on 
asserting, of his said master ; and that this latter only excuses himself 



Impunity of Crimes against Slaves in Mauritius. 389 

from so barbarous an action by throwing the atrocity of the action 
on his late father ; 

" Considering that it is proved that the said Auguste has had his 
flesh torn from the shoulders to the breech, by a punishment which the 
said Diott admits, by means of his driver Louis, to have inflicted within 
the last few days on Auguste; 

" Influenced by these motives," " We request that the civil commis- 
sary of the district may carry a particular watchfulness on the conduct 
of the said Diott towards his slaves in general ; and that, as to Auguste 
in particular, he is required to sell him within a fortnight from the signi- 
fication of the present order at the bar of this tribunal." 

So that by this iniquitous sentence was Diott allowed to receive the 
full price of his maltreated slave, while the poor slave was to be sold to 
some one who might be the instrument of Diott's vengeance upon him. 
Diott sustained no other punishment than this, either in purse or in 
person, heinous and indefensible as had been his conduct. 

9. — Case of Two Negro Boys. 

Colonel Barclay had been sent to seize some new negroes on the 
estate of a Mr. Carsenac. In a report of his proceedings dated the 1 1th of 
June, 1818, is this passage, " I feel it a duty which I owe to humanity 
to report that, during my examination of the outhouses, I passed two 
boys, apparently of from ten to twelve years of age, who had been most 
severely flogged. These wretched children were most heavily chained 
by their necks, and were placed, with their faces near the ground, so as 
to expose their naked lacerated posteriors to the sun. On expressing 
my horror at witnessing such cruelty, and inquiring what crime they 
could possibly have committed, I was informed by Mr. Carsenac's 
nephew that they had marooned," (run away) " and set fire to some 
sugar cane. The children acknowledged their having marooned. In 
consequence of my interference they were removed into one of the 
buildings." There is no sequel to this tragedy. 

10. — Case of Serapkine, a Negress. 

This negress belonged to a French woman named Rosette Barbier, 
residing at the entrance of Port Louis. As General Hall was coming 
into that town, on the 22nd of October, 1818, he heard the most pierc- 
ing shrieks. He immediately leaped over the paling from which the 
sounds proceeded, and there he saw the negress Seraphine tied down 
flat on her face with cords, her posteriors completely exposed, and a 
strong athletic negro lashing her with a cart-whip, which inflicted ter- 
rible furrows, while Rosette Barbier stood by, and witnessed the punish- 
ment. She claimed Seraphine as her slave, and told the General that 
the punishment was inflicted at her desire ; it was suspended on his in- 
terference. He immediately wrote to the chief of the police, Colonel 
Warren, and orders were given to Dr. Burke to visit the slave, who was 
sent to the police. Rosette Barbier rested her defence on that clause 
in the ordinance which allowed masters, when in their opinion slaves 
deserved it, to chain them, or to flog them to the extent of 30 lashes, 
and she had not exceeded, she said, that extent. The result in this 

3 B 



390 Farther Atrocities in the Mauritius. 

case is unknown. General Hall was recalled soon after it hap^ 
pened. 

We might add to the above horrific details many others equalling, 
if not exceeding, even these in atrocity; but those we have given are 
probably sufficient to satisfy our readers that, when we affirmed the 
impunity which in the Mauritius almost always followed crimes on the 
part of masters towards their slaves, even when such crimes were 
proved, we proceeded on solid grounds. We could, however, go much 
farther if we were to relate facts which we have heard from individuals 
on whose veracity we rely, and who have confidently assured us of their 
truth, but of which we have been unable to obtain the judicial records. 
Several of these, which our informants state to have occurred in 1822 
and 1823, exceed in horror any thing to which we have yet called the 
attention of the public ; and as they have given authority, should it be- 
come necessary, to use their names, we will advert to a few of them. 

1. The first we shall mention occurred in 1822. A man of the name 
of Peter Cotry, living near Grand Port, having suspended a negro be- 
longing to him under the arms, while his feet scarcely touched the 
ground, beat him most cruelly with a stick, and then anointing the 
calves of his legs with fat, set dogs on to bite them. The poor creature 
calling for water to assuage his thirst, urine was given to him. At last 
the menster Cotry cut oflp his private parts, when he expired under the 
operation. Cotry was taken up, but was allowed to escape from prison, 
and it was reported that he had destroyed himself. He reappeared, 
however, two years after, but no notice was taken of his crime. 

2. The daughter of one Bauvet, a cooper, put to death a boy of the 
age of 14, who, she thought, had too tardily executed a commission she 
had given him. He was suspended somewhat after the manner of 
Cotry, and a large weight was placed on his head. He was then 
beaten with a split rattan till he expired. 

3. A blacksmith, named Rocan, living near Grand Port, not far from 
Cotry's residence, had sent a slave on an errand to a distance, which 
caused him a hot journey of 20 miles. On his return, being put to 
blow the bellows, he besought his master for something to eat, as he 
had been fasting for nearly 24 hours. Instead of supplying him with 
food, his master beat him with great violence, and with the blow of an 
iron bar laid open his skull and killed him. It was attempted to ex- 
cuse or palliate this enormity, by saying that the slave died, or would 
have died, of hunger. 

It is of this same blacksmith, Rocan, hving near Grand Port, that 
another informant testifies, that he saw one of Rocan's slaves chained 
to the bellows, whom Rocan frequently struck with the hot iron 
drawn from the forge. The body of the poor slave was covered with 
scars and wounds inflicted in this manner. This was in 1817, 

4. A still more horrid tale remains to be told. A woman of some 
note, of the name of Nayle, living at Flacq, harboured a runaway ne- 
gress on her plantation. The owner of the negress hearing of it went 
to the residence of Madame Nayle, and demanded the runaway. 
Madame Nayle, learning afterwards that the person who had in 4;his 



Farthei' Atrocities in the Mauritius. 391 

case given information to the owner, was a female slave of her own, 
proceeded to punish her. This she did, first by tearing all the teeth 
out of her head ; next by cutting off her nose ; and then her ears ; and 
last of all, her breasts; under which last operation she expired. The 
slave was then buried. 

A rumour of this horrid transaction having reached the magistrate 
of police, he took measures for having the grave examined. Madame 
Nayle beihg apprised of his intention, she and her two sons employed 
the night in digging up the body of the murdered negress, which they 
burnt to cinders, and placing a dead pig in the grave filled it up again. 
When the commissary of police therefore arrived, and proceeded to the 
place where he was told the negress had been interred, he found in- 
deed a grave of dimensions adequate to receive a human body, but, on 
the earth being removed, the carcase of a pig was found there instead. 
Madame Nayle, being questioned on this extraordinary appearance, 
alleged that she was always in the habit of thus burying such pigs 
as died from disease. (This, if true, was contrary to the usual custom, 
which was to burn them, to prevent their being eaten by the negroes, 
who, in case dead pigs were buried, would infallibly dig them up and 
devour them.) She was then asked to point out any other grave of a 
pig, but this she could not do. Though this affair was thus rendered 
so notorious, and the main facts of the case were doubted by no one, 
Madame Nayle was not taken up until news arrived (this was in 1823) 
that his Majesty's commissioners of inquiry were likely soon to arrive 
in the island ; though from unexpected delays they did not arrive for 
some years after. All was now bustle and activity, and the arrest of this 
woman was then ordered. Not a shadow of doubt existed as to her 
guilt; but the judges refused to avail themselves of a humane provi- 
sion of the ordinance of 1723, which authorised them to resort to slave 
evidence, when white evidence could not be obtained, and when that of 
slaves was indispensable to the ends of justice. Madame Nayle, therefore, 
after being detained in a kind of anomalous state for some time, in the 
house of the keeper of the prison, where her apartments were fitted up 
with a piano forte and other ornamental appendages, and Avhere she 
freely received visiters as heretofore, was at length permitted to go at 
large, and the transaction sunk into oblivion. 

5. We have heard of only one case, occurring nearly about the same 
time with the last, wherein the perpetrator of the cruelty met with the 
fate he merited. Just before the alarm caused by the approach of the 
royal commissioners had reached its height, a white man named Maurice 
Prevost, a tanner, cruelly murdered a female slave of his, by cutting off" 
her breasts and lacerating her private parts. This occasion of gaining 
credit with the commissioners and in England was eagerly seized. The 
man was tried and executed. This single exception from the common 
course of proceeding, it was doubtless hoped, being recent, would shed 
a kind of lustre over the judicial administration of the colony, would 
throw into the shade all former delinquencies, and fully establish its 
character for humanity and justice. 

Long before reaching this point of our progress, our readers must 
have been tired and disgusted with the details which we have been com- 



392 Additional Testimonies to nature of Mauritius Slavery. 

pelled to give. We can, however, assure them that we have not 
yet exhausted even a tithe of our materials. We have at this moment 
before us, wholly untouched, the statements of upwards of 300 indi- 
viduals, who, without any preconcert or communication with each other, 
and without any wrong motive that can fairly be attributed to them, 
have, singly, and separately, yet with a unity of judgment and feeling 
which is most remarkable, borne a concurrent testimony to the main 
features of that state of society which we have now endeavoured faintly 
to pourtray. The agreement of these parties would indeed be marvellous, 
on any other hypothesis than that of the unquestionable prominency of 
the facts of the case, and the truth and accuracy of our representations 
of them. Such a flood of light was never before poured, we believe, on 
any similar inquiry, and while it banishes all doubt from our own minds, 
it leaves us no choice as to the duty of fully exposing the case to the 
view of the parliament and people of this country. We are under the 
necessity, however, of setting narrow bounds to this preliminary state- 
ment, and we shall now merely observe that the parties, from whom we 
obtained our information, are ready to be produced, whenever we are 
authoritatively called upon to produce them. At present we shall ab- 
stain from harrowing up the feelings of our readers, by farther instances 
of individual or judicial atrocity, but content ourselves with exhibiting 
a few specimens of the language which the numerous witnesses, to whom 
we have alluded, employ, in conveying the impression made on their 
minds by their experience of the slavery existing in the Mauritius ; and 
we vouch for their being fair samples of the entire mass.* 

No, 5. '* I conceive that the slaves are treated more like brutes than 
any thing else, li ey are not in any instance whatever treated as hu- 
man beings. You could not make a brute happy in the way they are 
treated," 

No. 6. " Badly off as many are in this place, (Salford,) the slaves are 
far worse. I never saw any thing so wretched." 

No. 22. " The slaves are used most barbarously as ever I saw any 
human beings in my life." 

No. 26. " There cannot be a lower state of degradation than that to 
which the slaves are reduced in the Mauritius." 

No. 27. " If I were used as some of the slaves are used, I would 
sooner die than live. Sometimes they kill themselves. I have known 
instances of it. 

" The slaves are more like dogs than human beings. I never saw 

any people so wretched. Never." 

No. 28. " There is no comparison to be made between the state of 
the slaves and the most destitute in this country. No man in England 
would use a mad dog as bad as the slaves were treated." 

No, 43. " The slaves have certainly no knowledge of comfort or hap- 
piness. They are the most miserable beings on earth, worse than the 

• Almost all the witnesses we are about to cite are persons belonging to the 
lower classes, and therefore, themselves accustomed to labour and privation. Not 
only were their opportunities of observation greater on this account, but their 
estimate of the parallel condition to their own which they were contemplating, 
Jikely to be more just. 



Farther Testimonies to nature of Mauritius Slavery. 393 

most barbarous animals. A wild animal can get out of the reach of 
barbarity, they cannot." 

No. 52. " The slaves are treated more like brutes than human 
beings." 

No. 60. " I think the slaves are most miserable. They are quite 
starved." 

No, 70. " The slaves at the Mauritius are reduced to the lowest state 
of degradation and misery." 

No. 74. " As a married woman, I do not think it possible that the 
female slaves, treated as they are, could multiply fast. 

No. 82. " The slaves are no better ofF than cattle, nor so well used 
as many," 

No. 86. " The slaves are reduced to the lowest state of degradation." 

No. 92. " An Englishman could not bear a quarter of the punish- 
ment or work of the slave." 

No. 102. " They are the most miserable people upon earth." 

No. 108. " I never saw human beings in this or any country so 
wretched. I have heard of their killing themselves in consequence of 
the cruel treatment of their masters." 

No. 113. " They are mostly starved, and are actually harassed out of 
their lives." 

No. 114. " I have heard of slaves kiHing themselves to escape from 
their cruel treatment. As a married woman, I think it impossible 
females so treated can often go their full time." 

No. 122, " No one could tempt me to be a slave. I would rather 
be the most miserable of free beings." 
" The slaves are treated more as brutes than men." 

No, 126. " The slaves cannot be in a worse state than they are. 
They are treated no better than cattle. The women are destitute of 
moral feeling, and prostitute themselves in the most open manner, with- 
out any feeling of shame." 

No. 130. " The slaves are in the lowest state of degradation and 
misery." 

No. 138. " I consider the slaves are in a most degraded state, and 
the conduct of the masters, in a moral point of view, worse than that 
of the slaves." 

No. 147. " Their lives must be a burden. I should prefer death to 
living as they do." 

No, 169, " The state of a plantation slave is as bad as misery 
can be." 

No. 171. "I never met with any people so badly off as the blacks 
in the Isle of France." 

No. 205, " They are treated with the greatest barbarity." 

No. 214. " I am sure I could not use my dog as the slaves are 
used." 

No. 224, " The slaves are most barbarously used. The masters seem 
to care no more about them than they do about a dog." 

No. 256. " They are a thousand times worse ofF than any persons 
here. They are worse off than any people I ever saw.'' 
No. 262. " I would rather suffer death than be a slave." 



394 Concluding Reraarks on Mauritius Slavery. 

No. 318. " My opinion is, that the slave is one of the most wretch- 
edest creatures in existence." 

No. 337. " A slave is one of the most miserable creatures that can 
be. He is used w^orse than any beast in England, or any beast there. 
They treat their beasts much better than they do their slaves." 

Many also of the persons whose words we have cited, besides thus 
expressing the general impression produced in their minds by the sight 
of Mauritius slavery, were the eye witnesses of acts of atrocity, which 
they describe, equal in horror to almost any thing we have detailed 
above. — What an aggregate of misery must therefore have been con- 
densed within the narrow limits of this single British possession, even 
if we keep out of our view all the horrors of that slave trade which has 
been incited in Madagascar, and on the African continent, to supply the 
perpetual waste of life caused by this murderous system ! 

Here then we exhibit our picture of the slavery of the Mauritius^ 
which Great Britain has not only endured for twenty years, but has 
protected by its civil and military power, and fed and encouraged by its 
fiscal regulations ; and we now solemnly call upon the Government 
and the Parliament and the people of this country to regard it with 
the attention which it deserves. 

But how has it come to pass, it may be fairly asked, that this case 
should not have obtained publicity at an earlier period, and that no 
adequate means should have been hitherto adopted for drawing the 
attention of Parliament to a state of things so flagrant and outrageous? 
We shall abstain, for the present, from entering at length on a reply to 
this reasonable inquiry, but it may probably form, in no long time, the 
subject of grave discussion. Our readers will remember, that in 1826, 
an attempt was made by Mr. Buxton, to lay bare this evil in all its 
bearings and dimensions, which led to the appointment of a Committee 
of the House of Commons for investigating the matter. The Com- 
mittee, however, had scarcely entered on its labours when Parlia- 
ment was prorogued; and it has not since been renewed, partly 
through the frequent changes in his Majesty's Government, and their 
unwillingness to enter upon it, but chiefly, perhaps, through the severe 
illness which preveated Mr. Buxton from carrying his purposes on the 
subject into effect. 

It seems, hov/ever, impossible to permit the Parliament and the 
public to continue longer in ignorance of this frightful case. We have 
therefore given an outline, and nothing more than an outline, of its 
general nature ; and feeble as is our representation of its enormities, 
and inadequate as Ave feel ourselves to be to do full justice to the subject, 
and especially to the claims of the unhappy victims of our supineness 
and neglect, we yet trust that such a case will not be suffered to drop 
into oblivion, or sifter having excited a few passing expressions of regret 
or indignation, to remain, like too many similar expositions, without 
investigation or romedy. 

It seems especi ally to belong to those who have administered the go- 
vernment of the Mauritius at home, as well as abroad, to shew that they 
are guiltless in this, matter. Much of the information we have now brought 



Concluding Remarks on Mauritius Slavery. 395 

forward has been long in the possession of the Colonial Department, 
and attention has been frequently called to it. It will doubtless be 
made to appear, what steps have been taken to remedy the evils com- 
plained of. — If we were only to look to the tone of our diplomatic com- 
munications with France and other powers, on the subject of their slave 
trade, we ought to feel it incumbent upon us to prove that we have ne- 
glected no means in our own power, in consistency with our urgent 
admonitions and remonstrances to them, and our own high professions 
of attachment to the interests of humanity and justice, of setting before 
them a practical example of efficient and well directed zeal. 

In Parliament we cannot doubt that many will be found, especially 
among our rising statesmen, who will feel themselves imperatively called 
upon not to suffer such a stigma to rest on the character of this country 
as must follow the neglect and impunity of such crimes ; involving, as 
they do, the misconduct of so many public functionaries, and the misery 
and the murder of so many of our fellow-subjects. 

To the British public at large, we would likewise renew our appeal, 
and we would put it to their consciences, whether they can any longer 
submit, not merely to tolerate, but to support and encourage such atro- 
cities; and whether they do not in fact support and encourage them 
when they consume the sugar which is the direct produce of so much 
blood and wretchedness, and still more when they even give it protec- 
tion against sugar produced by free labour. 

And we would, in conclusion, call on the clergy of the land, and more 
especially on those of them who profess a more than common zeal for 
the glory of God, and the happiness, temporal and spiritual, of their 
fellow-creatures, to look at the case we have now exhibited, and to say 
whether they can any longer refrain from lifting up their voices against this 
crying national iniquity. And let no one lay the flattering unction to 
his soul, that he may innocently continue to look with indifference, and 
in silence, on the aggravated evils of Colonial Slavery, and leave the 
temporal and spiritual well-being of 825,000 of our fellow-beings and 
fellow-subjects, to the tender mercies of those who profit by their stripes 
and their chains. Nor let it be imagined, for one moment, that, revolting 
to the last degree as is the picture we have now drawn of slavery in the 
Mauritius, it differs in its principles and in its tendencies from that 
which pervades the whole either of our or of any other European slave 
colonies. The system of Negro Slavery is radically and essentially the 
same wherever it prevails, and is only varied in some of its effects by 
peculiar and local circumstances. — In Bahamas and Bermuda, for in- 
stance, the driving whip cannot be used as in the sugar islands. — The 
West Indies generally are much more remote from the slave markets 
than the Mauritius, and are also more within the reach and observation of 
the mother country. — But allowing for such accidental variations, and 
for differences of soil, &c, Slavery is the same incurable evil in all of 
them. — It is despotism and cruelty on the part of the master, or the 
master's delegates — misery and mortality on the part of the slaves — ex- 
cess of labour and scantiness of food — -and a consequent waste of human 
life; a waste which, though in the West Indies it may fall below the 
Mauritius, is unparalleled in any other part of the world. 



396 Mr. Barclay. — Society for Conversion of Slaves. 

Mr. Barclay's alleged Refutation of Mr. Stephen. 

The Assembly of Jamaica voted £1000 sterling, to enable their 
agent in this country to circulate, among members of parliament and 
others, the work of Mr. Barclay, imder an impression that it contained 
a complete refutation of Mr. Stephen's " Delineation of Negro Sla- 
very as it exists in Law." A careful perusal of Mr. Barclay's work 
having satisfied us that from beginning to end it was a mere tissue of 
misstatement and misrepresentation, we took occasion, in our Reporter, 
No. 18, (p. 250, &c.) to expose some of its dishonesties to the public; 
and we challenged those who represented it as deserving of confidence, 
to select any single instance in which they thought that Mr. Barclay 
had succeeded in refuting the positions of Mr. Stephen, and we should 
engage to show that his pretended refutation was an utter and palpable 
failure. The challenge was declined. 

A fresh attempt having been recently made to accredit this mass of 
detected imposture, we now take the opportunity of renewing our chal- 
lenge. And we call upon any or all of the members of the West Indian 
Committee, by whom this work has been so industriously circulated, to 
point out any one of the propositions advanced in Mr. Stephen's view 
of the law of West India slavery, which, we will not say, has been re- 
futed by Mr. Barclay, but in which Mr. Stephen has not truly repre- 
sented the law of West India slavery, as it existed in 1823, when he 
penned his invaluable, and, we confidently add, unrefutable production. 
If this challenge is still declined, what must the public think, not only 
of Mr. Barclay, but of the gentlemen of the West Indian Committee,, 
who hold him up as their champion ? 



Society for the Conversion and Religious Instruction and 
Education of the Negro Slaves. 

We have heard that some persons have taken violent offence at the 
account we have given of the Report of this Society, in our 41st Num- 
ber, and that they have threatened to prove that that account is false 
and calumnious. We rejoice to have attracted the attention of these 
gentlemen, and we sincerely hope that they may be induced to attempt 
to execute their threat. We know the high and honourable character 
of the majority of the directors, and feel quite satisfied that nothing 
but a calm and candid inquiry is necessary to convince them of the 
general justice of our remarks. 

What we desire is, not a triumph over the Society, but to convince its 
directors of the truth — not to impair its usefulness, but, by enlightening 
their minds, to increase it. And we shall be still more ready to retract what 
we have said, in misapprehension, to their disadvantage, than we have 
been in bringing forward errors for their consideration and correction.* 

* Jan. 10. This last page had already been sent to the printer when the 
threatened exposure reached us. We are too well pleased with the author's con- 
cessions, to be hurt by his vituperation. We shall, ere long, and we hope in a 
less excited spirit than his own, advert to the only essential points that he has 
pot conceded. 

Erratum. — No. 41. p. 324. line 2 from bottom, for mean, read main. 



London : Bagster and Thorns, Priuteis, 14, Baitlioloinew Clost 



SUPPLEMEiNT 

TO THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY MONTHLY REPORTER, 

FOR JANUARY, 1829, No. 44. 

VINDICATION OF THE REVIEW OF THE REPORT OF THE IN- 
CORPORATED SOCIETY FOR THE CONVERSION, &c. OF NEGRO 
SLAVES, CONTAINED IN THE ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, No. 41, 
FROM THE ATTACK OF THE BRITISH CRITIC FOR JANUARY, 
1829. 



He that is first in Ids own cause seemethjust, but his neighbour cometh and 
searcheth him. — Prov. xviii. 17. 



In a work, called the British Critic, the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
No. 41, has been vehemently accused of having misrepresented and 
falsified the statements contained in the latest Report of the Incorporated 
Society for the " Conversion, Religious Instruction, and Education of 
the Negro .Slaves in the West Indies." 

The Critic, on this occasion, seems to feel so acutely, that -we presume 
he must have had some share in framing the Report which he is so eager 
to defend. But, be that as it may, our business is not with him per- 
sonally, or with the personalities of his production, but simply with 
the facts of the case. On a calm review of these we are prepared fully 
to vindicate the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 41, from the vituperative 
remarks of the Critic, and even to shew that the charge of misrepresen- 
tation rests mainly, if not wholly, on himself. We shall proceed to 
examine those remarks, in the first place, as they are an exposure of the 
alleged dishonesties of the Anti-Slavery Reporter ; — and then as they 
are directed to justify the conduct of the Society in question. 

1. The Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 41, is charged with " fictions," 
" thrown in as a makeweight," (B. C. p. 203,) because it considers the 
Society (p. 313) as having " pledges" and " solemn engagements" to 
fulfil, the non-fulfilment of which is a violation of its duty. Now, 
what we meant to say was certainly no fiction. We had conceived that 
every Bishop, and every Clergyman, and every Missionary, enters, at 
his ordination, into certain solemn engagements, in the presence of God 
and of the Church, which he can only neglect to fulfil at the very great- 
est peril ; and also that by accepting a specific appointment involving 
the cure of souls, each and every such person contracts further peculiar 
and solemn obligations to the flock over which he may be placed. 
And we, moreover, had imagined, with respect to Conversion Societies, 
(for we included them all,) that their obligations, their clear pledges, 
their solemn engagements, were inscribed in their very title ; — and that, 

3 c 



398 Charges of the British Critic refuted. 

above all, in the case of this particular Society, it had iu its very name 
and announcement given pledges, and entered into serious and solemn 
engagements with the public, and had incurred high and weighty respon- 
sibilities in respect to the whole slave population of the West Indies, for 
whose conversion, religious instruction, and education, it has been ex- 
pressly incorporated, and for which express purpose it was also intrusted 
both with the funds bequeathed by Mr. Boyle, and with those collected 
from the public. Our Critic sneers at this as " a fiction of our brain." 
We deem it an important reality ; and the Society will find it to be so, if 
it look to the public for support. — He and we may differ, indeed, as to 
whether the privation of a Sunday for the slaves in the West Indies 
comes within the scope of the Society's responsibilities, and to that 
question we will advert more fully hereafter. In the meantime, we 
Mould merely remark that, according to the admission of our Critic 
himself, the evil arising from this cause is very great. He, indeed, very 
inadequately describes the matter as being merely the want of a " due 
observance of the Sabbath," whereas the real evil is the compulsory pri- 
vation of the Sabbath under which the slaves labour. They are covi- 
pelled to work on that day or starve. Our Critic admits this — and yet 
he seems to regard the question as a question merely of " due ob- 
servance," — (as whetlier a newspaper shall be printed, or a mail shall 
travel, or a horn shall blow.) — But, if he knows any thing of the matter, 
he must know that, with the plantation slaves, it is not a question of 
this kind, but a question of the existence or extinction of the Sabbath ; — 
whether they shall be permitted to possess a Sabbath at all in which 
they shall be exempt from the necessity of labour, 

2, Our Critic insinuates a charge of unfairness and disingenuousness 
against the framers of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 41, for not having 
consulted the last Report of the Society for promoting Christian Know- 
ledge before they published it. (B. C. p. 207.) It was, however, no 
very obvious duty to consult the records of another Society, in order to 
obtain light on the transactions of this. But, even had such a thing 
been thought of, it would have been impossible. No, 41, was in circu- 
lation by the 10th of October. The last Report of the Society for pro- 
moting Christian Knowledge was not issued, we are informed, until 
towards the close of that month. 

3, Our Critic exhibits (p. 209) as of a most " astounding character," 
(we presume he means as glaringly false,) a remark of the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, No. 4 1 , p. 320, where a passage at the "very outset of the So- 
ciety's present Report" is referred to as an example of the " vagueness" 
of its statements. This passage, which our Critic omits, is as follows. 
" In addition to the Associations mentioned in the last Report, others 
have been formed in Tobago, Tortola, and Anguilla, which, though not 
strictly speaking in union with the Society, have been established for 
the same object, and cooperate with it under the superintendance of the 
Bishop. In consequence of these establishments, and many others of 
A SIMILAR NATURE,* there is not, at the present moment, an island in 
the West India Colonies without its regular school in full operation ; 
and there is every reason to trust that, under God, the seed of moral 
and religious education has been already very widely and, in many in- 



Charges of the British Critic refuted. 399 

stances, effectually sown." p. 9. To this passage a note is appended. 
The asterisk, which directs the eye to the note, is placed as above, im- 
mediately after the words " many others of a similar nature." And 
the note itself, which, of course, was intended to explain and illustrate 
these words, is to the following effect. 

" * The Society for the Education of the Coloured Poor in the Prin- 
ciples of the Established Church, and for other charitable Relief, Bar- 
badoes. 

" The Ladies' Branch Association for the Education of Female 
Children of the Coloured Poor in the Principles of the Established 
Church of England, Barbadoes. 

" Society for the Education of the Coloured Poor in the Principles 
of the Established Church, St. Vincent. 

" Society for the Education of the Poor, Grenada. 

" Ladies' Association for the Relief of the Indigent Sick and Infirm 
of Bridgetown and its environs, Barbadoes." 

Here then we are told that Associations had been established " for 
the same object" as the Society's, (that object being the Conversion, 
Religious Instruction, and Education of Negro Slaves;) and that these 
establishments, and others of a similar nature, had so multiplied, that 
there actually was not "an island in the West Indies without its regular 
school in full operation," &c. When, however, we look at the note to 
which we are pointed, in order to ascertain what are those establish- 
ments of a similar nature that are thus flourishing, we find there the 
five Associations mentioned above, every one of which is an Association 
which excludes Slaves, and is confined to the free, three of them ex- 
pressly to the coloured free, by whom also we know they are chiefly 
supported. Were we wrong then in complaining of the vagueness of this 
passage? And this was the limit of our inculpation. — When directed by 
the text to Associations, having the same object with the Society, that 
object being the conversion of Slaves, we find in the illustrative note 
only Associations for the exclusive instruction or relief of the free* 

This example furnishes a fair specimen of our Critic's manner of 
dealing with us. — We had limited our complaint to vagueness merely, and 
that complaint is fully substantiated. But having had our attention so 
pointedly recalled to the passage, we are led to doubt whether that be 
its only fault, and whether there be not exaggeration also in the sweep- 
ing assertions with which it concludes. At least no proof has yet been 
given, (and can never be satisfactorily given until regular tabular state- 
ments with the proper specifications are furnished,) that the representa- 
tion is correct. 

4. We are next accused of having most unjustly charged the Society 
with having overlooked marriage, (B. C, p. 211.) We brought no 
such charge. What we asserted was, not that they had overlooked 
marriage, but had overlooked the " absence of all legal sanction to 
marriage, and of all legal protection to connubial rights, as respects the 



* The terms -poor and indigent are applied, in the West Indies to free persons; 
alone, never to slaves. See parliamentary papers of 1826, No. 353, and B€= 
porter, No. 19, p. 275. 



400 , Charges of the British Critic refuUd. 

slaves in Jamaica and the other Colonies." p. 320. Our Critic's reply is, 
that many marriages of slaves have taken place, and that the Society is 
anxioils to promote marriage. We know that the marriage ceremony 
has been very often performed, and we have no doubt that the Society 
wishes to promote marriage among the slaves. But this is nothing to 
the purpose. Our specific complaint was, that it had overlooked the 
desecration of that holy institution as it had overlooked the desecra- 
tion of the Sabbath. It has never alluded, for an instant, to the fact, 
that the marriages it has celebrated are without legal sanction, and 
are unaccompanied by any legal protection of connubial rights. Is that 
fact questioned? To remove the question, it will be sufficient to refer 
to the official despatch of the Duke of Manchester, dated the 4th of 
March, 1826, and inserted in the Parliamentary Papers of 1826, 
No. 353, p. 392. His words are these. " / am not aware of any law 
hy which the marriage of slaves is authorised and sanctioned, and 
their connubial rights recognised and secured, and by which the sepa- 
ration of husband and wife, or of parents and children, by sale or other- 
wise, is rendered unlawful." Our Critic, therefore, who triumphs over 
our presumed ignorance on this subject, seems himself to have yet much 
to learn before he can see the wide distinction between the mere 
ceremony of marriage, and the adjuncts which give it its true value, 
namely, legal validity and the protection of connubial rights. And 
is the Society blameless in having overlooked this point, lying as it 
does at the root of all social and civil improvement, and inseparably 
linked as it is with all the charities of domestic life ? The subject does 
not seem to be even comprehended by the Society's advocate. Is it com- 
prehended by the Society itself? He blames us for not having read 
more carefully what his own Society and a sister Society have written. 
We recommend it to him, before he renews his attack, to read what we 
have already written on this subject of the marriage of slaves. I-et him 
look, for example, at the Reporters, No. 19, p. 263—274; No. 28, 
p. 89 ; No. 29, p. 101, 103, 116, 118, &c. ; No. 33, p. 179 ; No. 38, 
p. 265 and 275 ; and No. 43, p. 347 ; and when he shall have read and 
digested these passages, he will be better qualified to lecture us 
upon it. Having corrected this vital mistake of our Critic, we may 
leave to their fate all his other reasonings and quotations on the sub- 
ject of marriage. They are altogether wide of the mark. 

5. Our Critic, (p. 215,) after having lauded the system of catecheti- 
cal instruction, in terms to which we do not object, adds, that " It is 
of such a system, confessedly imperfect and temporary, but still not 
incapable of doing great good, that the Anti-Slavery Reporter exclaims, 
' when he adds that improvement is making greater and more rapid 
strides every day among the slaves, and that their superstitions decline; 
this must be mere romance.' " Now let us beg the reader to turn to 
the passage which our Critic quotes: it is at p. 322, of the Reporter, 
No. 41, and is as follows. 

" \n St. Dorothy's there are no schools. After the weekly service is 
performed in the church, the rector is ready to catechise such slaves as 
offer themselves; but it is not said that any do offer themselves. The 
rector thinks that ^ one school at least is necessary' in this parish, 



Charges of the British Critic refuted. 40 i 

containing 4000 slaves. This is only ridiculous. But when he adds, 
that improvement is making greater and more rapid strides every day 
among the slaves, and that their superstitions decline daily, this must 
be mere romance. It is reaping without culture — the result without 
the means. How can the Society give currency to such crude state- 
ments ?" 

Now these remarks, which obviously and exclusively apply to the 
parish of St. Dorothy alone, and to the report of its rector respecting 
the state of reUgion within its bounds, our Critic strangely chooses to 
charge us with applying to the catechetical system ; for having taken 
a view of the great benefits of that system, he then says that it is against 
those great benefits that the Anti-Slavery Reporter exclaims as "mere ro- 
mance." This is certainly not very like the fair and ingenuous dealing of 
an honest critic. We had confined our view expressly to the report of 
the rector of St. Dorothy's respecting the state of religion in his parti- 
cular parish. And what was his report ? It was in substance: — 1st, 
that there is no school in the whole parish ; 2nd, that he thinks one 
at least necessary for 4000 slaves ; 3rd, that he is ready to catechise 
any slaves that may come to him on a Sunday to be catechised, but not 
saying that any do come ; and 4th, that improvement is nevertheless 
making greater and more rapid strides every day among the slaves, and 
that their superstitions decline daily. — -Now we must say, with all due 
deference to the Society and its advocate, that such a result is, on the 
very face of it, not only grossly absurd, but necessarily untrue. Our 
complaint against it, however, is not, as our Critic supposes, a complaint 
against the catechetical system and its effects, but our complaint is, 
that all the good effects of that system should be claimed for St. Doro- 
thy, in the total absence of its operation. The Society's own report 
tells us, that in this parish there is no curate, and no catechist, and no 
school ; and it does not tell us that any one individual is catechised by 
the rector ; and yet our Critic charges us with hostility to the catecheti- 
cal system, because we regard it as a " romance," that all the benefits 
of that system should be copiously produced in its absence. What can 
be said of such distorted statements on the part of our Critic ? The 
church, too, of St. Dorothy, where the rector reports such wonders to be 
performed, is situated at one extremity of a large parish, to which it is 
physically impossible that the greater part of the slaves should have any 
access, it being from six to twelve miles from most of them ; especially 
too as Sunday, the only day for church, is also the day for their pro- 
vision grounds and for marketing. 

6. It is very difficult to view this last misrepresentation of our Critic 
in the light of a mere blunder, especially as he repeats it in the case of 
our remarks on another parish of Jamaica, St. Thomas in the Vale. The 
rector of this parish had reported that a decided moral and religious 
change had taken place in it since he had been there. When we came 
to examine the means that were in action for operating this decided 
change, in a parish of 12,000 slaves and 800 free persons, they appear- 
ed, and still appear to us, so inadequate to the effect, as to render the 
case quite miraculous. Our Critic supposes us to represent it as mi- 
raculous that the system of catechisation should produce such efFects» 



402 Charges of the British Critic refuted. 

Our marvel was, that such effects should have been produced in the ab- 
sence of its due application — for he can hardly call the catechising of 
^feio children once a week a system of catechisation. 

7. Before we quit St. Thomas in the Vale, we would advert to our 
Critic's dexterous effort (p. 2 19) to rescue the Society from the discredit 
of the absurd story transmitted by the rector, and noticed in the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, p. 323. We do not accuse the rector of stating what 
he believed to be false. Our charge against him is his credulity. How 
could he gravely pen, and the Society gravely report, a statement bear- 
ing as this does, on its very surface, the character of untruth. Our 
Critic can know little of the slaves, or the planters, or the police of 
Jamaica, if he can believe such occurrences to have really taken place. 

8. Our Critic is very angry with us, (p. 219, 220,) for having said so 
little of St. Thomas in the East and the Rev. Mr. Trew. But he does 
us great injustice. We have bestowed much attention on both, as he 
would have known, had he done us the honour to read what has been 
published on the subject. An entire tract of sixteen pages, entitled, 
" Negro Slavery, No. XVI. on the State of Religious Instruction among 
the Slaves in the West Indies," was published by the Anti-Slavery 
Society, in 1827, a large part of which was devoted to Mr. Trew. In 
a pamphlet, entitled, " The Slave Colonies of Great Britain," published 
by the same Society, he will also find, at p. 64, a reference to Mr. Trew. 
In the Reporter, No. 13, he will find St. Thomas in the East occupy- 
ing a conspicuous place; and again in the Reporter, No. 30, p. 134. 
In short, we were disposed to give all due honour to Mr. Trew, and were 
in fact only restrained from saying more of his early and zealous labours 
by a fear of exciting against him both envy and detraction. And yet 
we do not regard the proceedings of Mr. Trew as without fault, any 
more than those of the Society. Undise concealment is their common 
delinquency. In St. Thomas in the East, however, the Methodists have 
been the great and efficient as well as the first agents of good. 

9. Our Critic supposes, that we shall exclaim against a statement he 
, quotes from a recent Report of the St. Thomas in the East Association, 

in which the increase in the last year of " legitimate negro children" is 
urged as a proof of the Society's success. Certainly, we think it a 
very idle statement, because, we are sorry to say, notwithstanding our 
Critic's vaunt, there are in Jamaica neither legitimate marriages nor legi- 
timate births among the slaves. But we have already said enough on 
this topic. The exhibition of such a proof of success is only a fresh 
indication of our Critic's ignorance of the subject. — Our Critic likewise 
censures our account of the parish of Manchester, (p. 218,) but we can 
discover nothing in it deserving of his censure. 

10. " The particular account of the diocese of Barbadoes," says our 
Critic, " is more scandalously faithless than that of Jamaica." These are 
strong words. Now, in addition to that previously given in the Report- 
ers, Nos. 1 3 and 30, which our Critic appears never to have seen, what 
is our account ? It is this, and we do not hesitate to say that it is a 
faithful, and not o. faithless account. " The main features of the report 
from the diocese of Barbadoes, including the Windward and Leeward 
Islands, and Guiana, do not differ materially from those of the Jamaica re- 



Charges of the British Critic refuted. 403 

port. The white and free population appears to amount to about 80,000,, 
the slaves to 356,000. The church room for this mass of 436,000 human 
beings falls short of 17,000, The instruction given is, with rare ex- 
ceptions,exc\uiiive\y of the oral and catechetical kind. The recitation of 
the Lord's prayer, the creed, the ten commandments, and the catechism, 
seem to comprehend the whole." p. 324. The proceedings in the Bar- 
badoes diocese being said not lo differ materially from those in the 
diocese of Jamaica, which had been described only two pages before, 
(p. 322,) it seemed very unnecessary to repeat the description. And 
nothing more need have been said, either of the one diocese or the 
other, except where any thing peculiar was observable. And such was 
the real reason why nothing was said of Nevis, St. Lucia, Montserrat, 
and Tobago. There was little or nothing which took them out of the 
general description applicable to the whole diocese. In Nevis, indeed, 
a somewhat larger proportion of its 9000 slaves than usual, came under 
the rare exception of being taught to read ; but with respect to the 
other three islands, we do not know that we could have added a word, 
with advantage, to the general description. 

11. The conduct of the Codrington estate is a separate subject, and 
we are perfectly prepared to enter upon it when occasion serves. 

12. In the Society's Report for 1827, it is not said that the 454 slaves 
in St. Michael's (Bridgetown) are taught to read. We therefore 
thought we were safe in saying that nothing had been told us on that 
subject. Our Critic, however, says No — you ought to have looked 
back to the Report of 1826. Now we can see no reason why the 
Society should drive us to this necessity, when it can be so easily ob- 
viated by doing its own duty, and furnishing regular yearly tabular 
statements. But on referring to the Report of 1826, we find no infor- 
mation there — no, not one word — from the Society itself, on the subject. 
But in a note appended to some intelligence from Demerara, p. 25, we 
discover a sentence, borrowed from a Report of the Society for pro- 
moting Christian Knowledge, in which it is stated, that in the Bridge- 
town school the children are taught to read. But this is really no satis- 
faction to us. Children, in a school containing both the free and the 
slave, may be taught to read, and yet strange distinctions may exist. 
Let us have clear tabular statements ; then neither will the Conversion 
Society need to resort to another Society for information about its own 
schools; nor shall we be forced to hunt back from one report to ano- 
ther for information, not as to the present actual state, but the past state 
of any school. We must confess, however, that notwithstanding what the 
Society for promoting Christian Knowledge has reported on this sub- 
ject, and notwithstanding the vehemence of our Critic's remarks respect- 
ing it, we are still a little incredulous : for not only have we no direct 
statement on the subject from the Society itself, but we have a report 
of the Bishop of Barbadoes on the state of education among the slaves 
in the parish of St. Michael, dated 31st October, 1825, and laid before 
Parliament, in which he does not affirm that one slave is taught to read 
in that parish. All he tells us is, that on eleven plantations children 
are under instruction, and on some of them are taught the Lord's prayer, 
the creed, and the commandments. — What, we ask, is the meaning of 



404: Charges of the British Critic refuted. 

all this confusion, and uncertainty, and contradiction — this wandering 
hither and thither? Again we say, let us have c^ear, well-authen- 
ticated, tabular statements, and these disputes will vanish. 

13. Our Critic asserts, (p. 221 ,) that we are in error when we say that 
the Bishop's rules have led, in Antigua, to the removal of pious teachers 
from the charge of schools. And yet, in the same paragraph, he 
admits that several of the masters previously employed, being Dissenters, 
Avere removed on that account; in other words, they were removed 
because they could not subscribe the Bishop's rules. Does our Critie 
mean to deny that these Dissenting teachers so removed were pious 
persons ? Or will he venture to affirm that all of those put in their 
place were " fit to be religious instructors," and that none of them, for ex- 
ample, were known to be living immorally? We have no objection 
to go fully into the facts of the case, if he should compel us to do so. In 
the mean time, we will only say, that the Bishop would have acted more 
wisely had he permitted the pious Dissenting, or rather Methodist teachers, 
to continue their labours among the children, until, at least, he had been 
able to replace them by pious teachers of the established church. To 
have done so would have involved, in the eyes of our Critic, " a gross 
irregularity." Be it so. But, for our parts, we know no rule of mere 
expediency, no arbitrary regulation of any Bishop, which should overbear 
the paramount moral obligation which, as it appears to us, forbad the 
rigid enforcement of that £u:bitrary rule in this instance. We shall, 
however, go no farther into the subject at present, and only recur to it 
if necessary. 

14. Our Critic assumes, (p. 222,) that we ought to have known that 
whenever a school is designated as National, it necessarily follows that 
reading is taught there, and taught there not to some but to all the 
scholars. Now we really knew no such thing. The Society has no 
where said that the word National is to be so understood, and we 
therefore demur to our Critic's assertion without fuller proof. The 
peculiarity of the National as well as of the Lancasterian system is 
not the teaching to read, but mutual teaching, Avhatever be the thing 
taught. We can see no good reason why a merely oral and cateche- 
tical school may not be a National School, that is, a school conducted 
on the principle of mutual teaching, even if reading is not taught in it. 
We, therefore, do not plead guilty to any want of accuracy, merely be- 
cause we did not assume that the term national implied that reading 
was taught to all who were enrolled on the list of a school so desig- 
nated. The Society can easily obviate all the vagueness and ambiguity 
which alone have caused the error, if any have been committed ; of 
which, however, we are not yet convinced. 

15. We come now to the Critic's grave philological rebuke of our 
comment on that rule of the Bishop, which binds Catechists not to 
" interpret," but only to '' teach and read." p. 223. This he calls a most 
" gross misrepresentation ;" and to this sufficiently strong language, he 
adds, the epithet, " disgusting." And yet what is our offence? It is 
that we have translated the word " interpret," by the word " explain ;" 
whereas, our Critic thinks that, on pain of his anathema, we ought to 
have translated it by the word " expound." And he refers, very 



Charges of the British Critie refut&d. 405 

learaedly, in support of his opinion, to Burn's Ecclesiastical Law. We 
certainly never dreamt of consulting this law book on the subject. 
We had thought only of consulting Johnson's Dictionary. On looking 
there, we find as follows : " To interpret," — " to explain, to translate, 
to decipher, to give a solution to." Again, we look for " expound," 
and find it to mean " explain, clear, interpret." And the meaning of 
" explain" is again given, " expound, clear, interpret." And • yet, 
according to our Critic, it is " a most gross," a " disgusting misrepre- 
sentation" on our parts to have translated the word " interpret" by the 
"word '* explain !" Reporter, No. 41, p. 326, 

16. There remains for us only one more charge to notice, and that is, 
an inaccuracy respecting the School of Industry in Kingston, We 
stated, (p, 324.) that a school recently established there was said to be 
" attended by 100 slaves out of 15,500, but that nothing was said of the 
nature or extent of the instruction given them ;" whereas, the Society's 
Report had stated that, in this School, " the children learn to read ; 
150 of the boys are taught handicraft trades, and the girls are instructed 
in needle-work." Now, here, we admit, that we have been guilty of a 
blunder, for which we cannot account very satisfactorily. We need 
not say to our friends that it was not intentional, and our Critic would 
probably not believe us if we were to assert it ever so strongly. 
We submit, therefore, to every degree of reprehension which his co- 
pious vocabulary of vituperatives can supply. Still, we think it due 
to ourselves to say, that we had intended to have enlarged on 
this very School at Kingston, but were led to defer it by a hope of 
farther information. We hope, however, soon to resume the subject. 
' — In the meantime we will merely remark, that we can conceive no- 
thing less agreeing with common sense than that scheme of a School of 
Industry for slaves, of which the Bishop of Jamaica seems so ena- 
moured. We can perceive the benefit of an institution, in such a place 
as Jamaica, for stimulating the industry of the jTree ; but we are utterly 
at a loss to imagine what lever the Bishop has to apply to the industry of 
a slave of greater potency than the cartwhip, or the cowskin, which 
is in the hand of every master. The very idea seems absurd, and so the 
people of Barbadoes virtually maintain, (See Reporter, No. 13, and 
the parliamentary papers there referred to.) If the Bishop of Jamaica 
has discovered some secret substitute for the cartwhip, and can con- 
trive to combine, by means of his school, the instruction of the slave 
with the profit of the master, it is well. But, say the Barbadians, we 
cannot consent to our slaves, even our children, going to school during 
the week, because we cannot consent to any subtraction of labour and con- 
sequent diminution of income. Will Dr. Lipscomb's school of industry 
meet this formidable objection, and secure both the labour of the slave 
and the income of the master by other means than the coercion of the 
whip ? Our Critic must forgive us if we continue to call for farthef 
and clearer information on these subjects. 

Having now fairly met all our Critic's charges against us, we turn to 
Ills vindication of the managing Directors of the Society from th^ 
cl^sarges we haye yentv.red, perhaps too hastily, to prefer against them, 

3 c ' 



406 Vindication of the Society examined. 

On this point, however, we will put it in the power of our readers to 
judge for themselves. 

1. Our Critic is extremely indignant, (p. 217) that we should have 
dared to suppose that the Report of the Society might have been so 
framed in any respect as to subserve the purposes of the West Indian 
party. But even he admits that the passages in the Society's Report 
which excited our remarks were indiscreet, at least that " it would 
have been more discreet to have omitted them." In extenuation how- 
ever he pleads, that what was said was said " in a foot note," and 
" briefly;" and that what was stated in such foot note was " strictly 
true." Now we have already shown in the Reporter, No. 41, p. 320, 
and again in No. 43, p. 345, 346, that what was said was not only not 
" strictly true" — but substantially untrue — And then as to the form 
in which it appeared, it was the very form which was most exception- 
able, as being calculated to give point and prominence to the mis- 
chievous untruth. But then it is argued by our Critic, that the view 
given by the Society of the destitute condition, as to spiritual advan- 
tages, of the difl^erent parishes in the West Indies, is a proof that it had 
no view to subserve any party interests. We readily admit that its sta- 
tistical statements are very useful, and we have, no doubt generally cor- 
rect ; but our Critic is probably not aware that we possessed in the 
Parliamentary Papers of 1815 and 1818 all the material facts of the 
case, and therefore abundant means of checking any propensity, which 
might any where exist, to either exaggeration or extenuation. We 
already possess in another form the information which the Society has 
so properly, and we doubt not correctly, given us, and though we have 
not collated the two statements, yet we feel satisfied from general recol- 
lection that there is no material discrepancy between them. Still, how- 
ever, we do not think that the influence, to a certain degree, of West 
India feelings and prejudices may not have operated in the structure 
of the Society's Reports. If our anonymous Critic chooses to assert 
that there exists no such influence, we may be bound in courtesy not 
to contradict his assertion ; but certainly it requires that degree of faith 
which amounts to believing without evidence ivhat is improbable, to 
receive his assertion unhesitatingly. For what are the facts of the 
case? A Board of Directors is formed, among whom stand the nine 
following names, viz. Lord Seaford, Sir H. W. Martin, Mr. Goulburn, 
Mr. Manning, Mr. Pallmer, Mr. Hibbert, Mr. Mathison, Mr. Colqu- 
houn, and Major Moody, — all highly respectable and very influential 
persons, carrying considerable weight with them in every other relation 
in life, but, we are called upon to believe, wholly divested of influence at 
the table of this board-room. They are certainly, one and all of them, 
as little likely to be neutral and inefficient there as any where else. 
Do they or do they not take a part in the Society's proceedings ? If 
they do not, why are they there occupying the space that might be 
filled with efficient parties ? If they do take a part, is it possible that 
that part should acquire no colour, no tinge whatever, from the parti- 
cular opinions, feehngs, and prepossessions of nine such individuals ? 
It is very well known how most of them think and feel on West In- 
dian subjects. And with respect to the noble Lord first named, as well 



Vindication of the Society examined. 407 

as the gallant Major who brings up the rear, their sentiments have been 
too strongly pronounced to be mistaken. Our own pages (see among 
others the Reporters, No. 18 and No. 40) bear ample testimony to that 
fact. We have shown that both these respectable persons are capable 
of misconceiving and misapprehending matters involved in still less of 
complication than those we are now considering; and admitting them 
therefore to be subject only to the average rate of human infirmity, we 
may, without any violence to candour or charity, suppose that there may 
be room for an undue, though, to themselves, an insensible bias, both in 
the deliberations of the Committee and in the structure and phraseology 
of the Reports. Whether such has been the case or not, we of course 
can only conjecture ; but it will not be denied that we were led to the 
conjecture in this instance by a very natural process; and our Critic's 
assertions and arguments are hardly sufficient to obviate the fair proba- 
bilities of the case. 

" We are not advocating," says our Critic, (p. 224) " the cause of 
the West Indian planters ; on the contrary, we believe them to be de- 
serving of grave reproof; and we fear that they will never do justice to 
their bondsmen except under a salutary dread of British interference." 
We are here most happy entirely to concur with our Critic, and we feel 
indebted to him for his frank and British avowal. It is precisely the 
sentiment which for years we have been endeavouring to impress on the 
Parliament and the public of this country. But may we ask, without 
offence, whether he would have dared to introduce so just and incontro- 
vertible a position into the Society's Report, supposing he were its se- 
cretary, or a member of its board ? Would not every one of the names 
we have mentioned be strenuously opposed to the admission of such a 
statement ? What in fact was the burden of the speeches of Lord Sea- 
ford, for example, in the very last Session of Parliament, but that 
" British interference" in order " to do justice to their bondsmen" was 
not only wholly uncalled for, but altogether unjustifiable. (See Re- 
porter, No. 40.) We leave therefore our Critic and his noble coad- 
jutor to settle their wide variance, on so important a question, as they 
may. 

2. We have already said so much on the vagueness and indistinct- 
ness of the Society's statements, that we need not recur to it at any 
length. Its justice, in fact, is manifest throughout the reports. Our 
Critic attempts indeed, to repel the charge by producing (p. 210, &c.) 
various instances of specification. But we never have asserted that no 
such instances were to be found. On the contrary the words we employ 
are, that /or the most part, the accounts are confused and indistinct, 
(p. 320.) Our charge therefore, instead of being obviated, is confirmed by 
the exceptions from the general rule which our Critic so triumphantly 
adduces. We admit these partial but still inadequate specifications, 
without admitting that they at all invalidate our complaint. 

But here again we have to notice the supercilious neglect with which 
both the Society and their worthy advocate have treated our past admo- 
nitions. Had they given due heed to what we have formerly written on 
this subject, the present controversy might have been spared. We beg 
our Critic to look into the Appendix to the debate of the 15th of May, 
1823, marked N. p. 181, 182, for some salutary warnings to religious 



408 Vindication of the Society exafnined. 

societies on this subject ; and his eye may glance, as it passes, at the 
resolutions of the Jamaica Auxiliary Society for promoting Christian 
Knowledge, in which that society solemnly, but most strangely declares 
" that the religious instruction of the slave population enters not 
into the view of this association/' — Let him also turn to No. 30, p. 134, 
and he will then have seen, that froto' the first moment of our exertions 
. the present hour we have been urgent in calling on such societies for 
clear, distinct, unambiguous tabular statements, as alone capable of 
quieting doubts and generating confidence. 

3. A third point of charge respects the inadequate kind of education 
the Society has hitherto consented to be the instrument of bestowing on 
the slaves; and of which, except in comparatively feio cases, (we repeat 
the charge with entire confidence in its truth,) reading has hitherto 
formed no part. Our Critic does not attejnpt to deny this fact, but 
merely to palliate it. And what is the palliation ? " It appeared," (he 
says, p. 205) "that there was great unwillingness on the part of the 
planters, to permit the instruction of their slaves in reading. Without 
the permission of the planter, no instruction whatever could be given ; 
and it was therefore resolved by the Bishops and the Society to teach 
reading wherever it could be done ; and in other places to convey oral 
instruction, as the best and only substitute, and as preparatory to a 
more complete education. The greatest difficulty was experienced in 
Jamaica, where, with one important exception, little or nothing was 
done in the way of teaching slaves to read, until the latter part of the 
year 1826." He admits also the existence of similar opposition in Bar- 
badoes and elsewhere. — Now when our Critic vehemently attacks us for 
intimating that the Society acquiesced in this state of things, he seems 
to suppose that we imputed to it an acquiescence of choice and prefe- 
rence. Certainly not. On the contrary, we believe that it would have 
been more agreeable to the Society to have taught the slaves to read. 
Still it is strictly true that the Society, however reluctant may have 
been its acquiescence, of which we could know nothing, did, in point of 
fact, acquiesce, from deference to West Indian prejudices, in the exclu- 
sion of reading from a very vast majority of cases, and this not only 
without any audible remonstrance or a single audible murmur, but also 
with an air of complacency and satisfaction. All the expressions of the 
Bishops in their reports to Government, and of the Society in its publi- 
cations, are expressions of general satisfaction ; and there is not in the 
whole compass of them a single attempt to exhibit clearly and distinctly 
the nature and extent of the obstacles opposed to education ; — no, not 
one manly exposure of the evil to be combated, even in those official 
statements, in v/hich we have a right to expect, from public functionaries, 
a full and unambiguous developement of the truth. 

4. We come now to the only remaining charge against the Society — 
its silence and supineness with regard to the Sabbath. We have 
reserved this point to the last^ because we deem it the most important, 
as well as that in regard to which not only the West Indian Religious 
Societies, but the West Indian Bishops and Clergy, and Missionaries, 
are the most reprehensible, and also have incurred the deepest respon- 
sibility. On this point we recede not one hair's breadth from our 
former staterftents in the Reporter, No. 4L We care not how many, 



Vindication of the Society examined. 409 

Or how elevated the persons may be whom this statement may affect. 
We Avill fearlessly and unshrinkingly maintain the justice of it in the 
face of the Christian public, pledging ourselves to make it good to the 
very letter. Our readers, therefore, must consider us as repeating, 
without the slightest modification or retrenchment, the whole of what 
we have said in that Reporter, to the end of p. 314, on the subject of 
the Sabbath. 

Before, however, we proceed to consider what our Critic has said 
against our view of the subject, it is proper we should acknowledge his 
large and momentous concessions. " It is unnecessary," he says, " to 
specify the facts or arguments by which the Anti-Slavery Reporter 
proves, that the Sabbath ought to be observed, and is not observed* in 
the West Indies. For we apprehend there can be no doubt or question 
on either point" (p, 203.) 

But is our Critic right in saying there is no doubt or question on this 
point ? Is he not aware that the West India Committee, of which some 
of his own Directors are members, industriously circulate and recom- 
mend a work written by a Mr. Alexander Barclay, entitled " a Practical 
View of the present State of Slavery in the West Indies ;" in the first 
pages of which, (p. xxiii.) he assures us, that though formerly, in Ja- 
maica, " the negroes cultivated their ground on Sunday, white persons 
being even sent to superintend them," yet " now they have, by law, 
twenty-six working days in the year for this purpose ;" — " and now 
NO slaves work at their ground on Sunday, but such as are more in- 
clined to make money than to attend church." In other words, the 
slaves in Jamaica need not work on Sunday unless they like ; and they 
are in no danger of starving if they do not work on that day ! 

And yet this admitted untruth, this statement, falsified even by our 
Critic, is circulated and accredited by the West India Committee, over 
which two of the Directors of the Conversion Society preside as Chair- 
man and Deputy-Chairman. And not only so, but the same Com- 
mittee permit their mercenary journalists to go on reiterating the same 
detected imposture, admitted to be so even by our Critic, without a 
single word of contradiction. 

The Chairman and Deputy-Chairman of the West India Committee 
are thus, in that capacity, doing all they can to prevent the slaves from 
obtaining a Sabbath, by circulating a work which mendaciously affirms 
that they have it already ; and yet these gentlemen are to be confided 
in, when seated at the Society's board, as the zealous vindicators of the 
right of the slave to the enjoyment of the Christian Sabbath ! This 
would seem almost too much even for our Critic's credulity to digest. 

The Society knows, says our Critic, that the Government are "fully 
cognizant of the facts of the case, and fully determined to do what is 
right." And this is his apology for the Society's having done no- 
thing. Government may be fully cognizant of the facts of the case ; at 
least Lord Bathurst has fully recognized, upwards of five years ago, the 
principles which ought to govern it. But have they done what was 

* This is a very inadequate view of the matter. It is not that the colonial 
institutions neglect to enforce the observance of the Sabbath, but that they are 
So framed^as impiously to prevent its being hallowed at all, — as to render its 
observance impossible. 



410 Vindication of the Society examined. 

right? They have done the very reverse of what was right. They have 
done what was wrong. They have acted in violation of their own prin- 
ciples and their own pledges. They promised to give the slaves the 
Sabbath, and they have not kept their promise. Even in Trinidad, 
where the Government are the sole legislators, the slaves have no Sabbath. 
The desecration of it by marketing is there legalized by the Government 
itself, and the employment of it in labour is made, by the omission of 
the same Government to give time in lieu of it, a matter of necessity. 
Against this state of things we have been raising our voice for these five 
years in vain. And during that time have we had the slightest aid from 
this Society ? None whatever, but, on the contrary, hindrance. Its very 
silence on so vital a subject is a hindrance, and still more the indiscreet 
haste with which it has laboured, in its last Report, to hold out as im- 
provements, what are, in fact, deteriorations in this respect ; the measures, 
we mean, adopted in Barbadoes and St. Kitt's, respecting Sunday. 

And can this Society hope that it will acquire the confidence of the 
public, while some of its Directors are shewing, by their tone and proceed- 
ings in other departments of public life, both in and out of Parliament, 
how little qualified they are to be the conductors of such an institution ? 

But ** the Society is not a political institution," says our Critic. This, 
in his estimation, is a sufficient apology for the silence and supineness, 
in respect to the vital point of a Christian Sabbath for the slaves, of 
religious Societies, Bishops, and Clergy, 

How would the same Bishops and Clergy feel if any attempt were 
made to refuse them those rights and dues which are conferred on them 
by political institutions ? Would they silently acquiesce ? Would there 
be no murmur, no remonstrance, no memorializing, no appeals to the 
Government, and to the Parliament, and to the Public ? Yet here, when 
Sunday is refused to 825,000 of their fellow subjects, to whom they are 
linked as pastors by the closest ties, over whose spiritual interests they 
are especially bound to watch, and for the neglect of whose souls they 
must give account; then, to obtain Sunday for them is a political 
affair ! This is perfectly monstrous ! What ! A Society embracing so 
many of the dignitaries of our Church, the Bishops, and Clergy too of 
the West Indies, to have gone on silently and supinely for more than 
five years, knowing that the wretched slaves, whom they have under- 
taken to convert, to educate, and to instruct, are absolutely and im- 
piously denied the blessed rest of the Sabbath by the iniquity of their 
masters ; and now at length to come forward with this as its sole de- 
fence : " the Society is not a political institution !" And are not 
the Bishops of England political characters ? Are they not members 
of the British Parliament ? 

But we ought not to say its scle defence. Our Critic has advanced 
another. He engages to shew by " the following extracts that the prin- 
cipal patrons, promoters, and agents in the West Indies, have strongly 
and repeatedly urged the importance of the point in question, upon the 
inhabitants of that country, from the year 1823 (mark !) to the present 
day." (p. 204.) Now what proof has our Critic exhibited in support of this 
imposing statement ? Two feeble sentences delivered by two clergymen 
in the year 1827, one in Barb?idoes, and the other in Grenada. These 
we knew nothing of, and had we known them, they would not have 



Vindication of the Society examined. 411 

diminished our strong sense of the general remissness of the Society, as 
well as of the West Indian Bishops and Clergy on this point. The same 
remark applies equally to the two sentences which appeared in two more 
sermons in 1828, of which we could know nothing. In what respect 
then does all this invalidate our former appeal which we would now, 
on the contrary, reiterate with increased emphasis ? 

" It cannot," we repeat, " but one day become a subject of awful con- 
sideration that they" (that is. Conversion Societies, and bishops, and 
clergymen, and missionaries,) " should have gone on witnessing the 
universal and outrageous violation of the sabbath, and never have 
opened their lips in the pulpit to vindicate the honour of God and the 
sanctity of his day ; never have borne their clear and unequivocal tes- 
timony agamst its public and recognised desecration ; and should have 
permitted generations of masters to pass into their graves without ad- 
dressing to them one solemn warning as to their guilt, though these 
masters were not only living in the daring violation of the sabbath 
themselves, but pertinaciously and systematically withholding its bless- 
ings from whole generations of their dependents." p. 314. 

And what is the answer of the Critic to this? Why, in 1827, for the first 
time, two clergymen, in a single sentence, adverted to the desecration 
of the sabbath; and, in 1828, two more did the same. So far well. 
We are glad of even so feeble a recognition (and most feeble and defec- 
tive it certainly is) on the part of any clergyman, of the high and vital 
importance of this question. But where are the rest of the clergy, the 
bishops, the conversion societies ? One of the bishops, indeed, seems to 
have remarked upon it in private to his clergy. But where are those 
public and heart-stirring appeals to the conscience, which the occasion 
so loudly demands, and which are imperatively obligatory on such so- 
cieties, on the bishops, and on the clergy ? From this responsibility « 
they cannot escape, employ what apologies they may; and unless 
they will fulfil it, they must expect to sink still lower in public confi- 
dence than they have yet done.* 

But our Critic maintains that things have improved, as respects the 
Sunday ; and he refers the Society to Barbadoes and St. Kitt's in proof 
of it. The abolition of the Sunday market in Barbadoes he attributes 
to a single sentence in a sermon of Archdeacon Elliott. If this were 
credible, what a reproach to the clergy and the Society, to have been so 
silent and so supine, when so slight an effort can produce such results ! 

But as to the abolition of Sunday markets in Barbadoes, it really is 
no sacrifice on the part of the masters at all. The sacrifice, strange as 
it may sound, is here wholly on the part of the slave. He has no 
other time given him, and no other market in lieu of that which is taken 
from him. And the Act on the subject looks more as if it proceeded 
from the pettishness of the Barbadians towards the clamourers for re- 
form, than from any sense of moral obligation. They throw away the 
Sunday markets, with which they can part without inconvenience to 
themselves, perfectly indifferent what privations it may cause to the 
slave, and making not the slightest provision to obviate them. 

* Even in Hart's Lectures, the universal text book for West Indian instruc- 
tion, only four feeble pages of most inadequate exposition are given to this sub- 
ject, one of the greatest and most crying evils of the West Indies. 



412 Vindication of the Society examined. 

As to the St. Kitt's law on the subject, we repeat, it legalizes Sunday 
markets, for the first time ; and as for its Umithig the duration of them, 
even that is a mere nuUity. They are now open, by law, from day?- 
break to eleven o'clock. 

We think we have now said quite enough to vindicate from our 
Critic's animadversions the Reporter, No. 41. But we are unwilling to 
close the article without thanking him for the opportunity he has given 
us of explaining our views more fully on this momentous topic. We 
freely forgive him, on this ground, all his somewhat uncandid and un- 
christian observations ; and we hope, when he next adventures into 
the same field of controversy, he will have acquired a lesson of mode- 
ration from what has passed. As for the Society, we lament that it 
should have trusted its cause to such an advocate ; and we would most 
earnestly implore the high and respectable individuals who stand at the 
head of it, to weigh maturely what we have submitted to their consi- 
deration. Let them look well to their agents and their advocates, and, 
before they again appear before the public, let them investigate care- 
fully and candidly the statements we have felt it our duty to bring 
before them. In the present state of public information, it is perfectly 
vain for them to hope for public confidence and support, but from a 
zealous and uncompromising pursuit of their high and holy objects, by 
means that are founded in an undeviating regard to the happiness of 
their fellow creatures for whom they profess to labour, and to the will 
of Him whose glory they are associated to promote. 

One word more before we conclude ; and it shall be addressed not to 
this Society alone but to every Society, whether of the Church of Eng- 
land, or of the bodies dissenting from it, that is engaged in attempts to 
christianize our colonial bondsmen, — We have looked, with no small 
solicitude, during the last five or six years, to the proceedings of such 
Societies, and to their reports of those proceedings ; and it is with a 
feeling, not of regret and sorrow merely, but of dismay and alarm, that 
we have marked so little of any thing like an expression of Christian 
sympathy with the temporal sufferings of the slaves. Can there be any 
considerations of worldly policy or of worldly interest which so affect 
the hearts of Christian men as to make them insensible to such claims 
on their commiseration as these wretched outcasts of humanity present ? 
They profess to feel for their spiritual wants, for their ignorance, wick- 
edness, and vice. Have they then no concurrent feeling for those tem- 
poral miseries, which are the fruitful source and the grand support of 
their spiritual depression? It is their slavery which sinks them to the 
level of brutality, and bars against them the light of heaven. And yet 
we may look in vain through whole tomes of reports for one. note ot 
tender pity for the aggravated temporal sufferings of these professed ob- 
jects of our christian solicitude. We look with amazement at this incon- 
gruous union of frigid indifference to the unparalleled wrongs and op- 
pressions of our fellow beings and fellow subjects, the negro slaves, with 
the exhibition of an ardent zeal for their spiritual interests. Can such 
a union issue in aught else than disappointment? It cannot be regarded 
with favour by Him whose compassions were ever alive as well to the 
temporal ills as the spiritual maladies of those whom he came to save, 



J^ndon ! Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 45.] For FEBRUARY, 1829. [Nc 21. Vol.ii. 

1.— PROCEEDINGS OF THE INCORPORATED SOCIETY FOR THE 
PROPAGATION OF THE GOSPEL IN FOREIGN PARTS. 

2.— THE WEST INDIA COMMITTEE AND ITS MERCENARIES OF 
THE PRESS ; MR. FRANKLIN, &c. 

3.— COLONIAL STATISTICS, VIZ. ANTIGUA ; MAURITIUS, (FRESH 
PROOFS OF HORRORS THERE); MONTSERRAT; AND ST.LUCIA. 

4.— CONDUCT OF THE ASSEMBLY OF JAMAICA. 



1. — Proceedings of the Propagation Society. 

It is well known to our readers, that the Incorporated Society for the 
Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts is possessed of a consider- 
able number of slaves, in the Island of Barbadoes, bequeathed to it up- 
wards of a century ago, from whose labour it has drawn large sums of 
money, but for whose spiritual interests little until recently has been 
seriously attempted by it. 

A sermon, on account of this Society, has been annually preached, 
since the beginning of the eighteenth century, generally by a Bishop 
or Dignitary of the Church. To some of these sermons we have had 
access; and, considering the discussions which have lately taken place, 
in reference to this and other Societies professedly engaged in the work 
of evangelizing the Slave population in our Colonies, a few extracts 
from them may not be ill-timed.* 

The annual sermon, in 1711, was preached by Bishop Fleetwood. In 
the course of it he takes occasion to advert to the case of those planters 
who will not permit their slaves to be instructed in the Christian faith, 
"a thing so common abroad, that I doubt whether there be any excep- 
tion of any people of ours.'' He then proceeds to ask,— 

" What cau these people think of Christ ? That He who came from heaven, to 
purchase to himself a church with his own precious blood, should sit contented 
and behold with unconcern those who profess themselves his servants, excluding 
from its gates those who would gladly enter if they might, and exercising no 
less cruelty to their souls than to their bodies ! One may ask, indeed, with in- 
dignation, what such people think of Christ?" It would be as hard for them to 
tell this, as " to give an account of what they think of those unhappy creatures 
whom they use thus cruelly. They see them equally the workmanship of God 
with themselves ; endued with the same faculties, and intellectual powers ; 
bodies of the same ilesh and blood ; and souls as certainly immortal. These 
people" " were bought with the same price ; purchased with the same blood of 
Christ, their common Saviour and Redeemer ; — and, in order to all this, they 
were to have the means of salvation put into their hands ; they were to be in- 

* Various other extracts of similar import may be seen in (he Christian Ob- 
server for February 1828, p. 128. 

3e 



414 The Propagatio?i Society — Bp. Fleehvood — Dean Stanhope . 

structed in the faith of Christ." " Let any of these cruel masters tell us, what 
part of all these blessings were not intended for their unhappy Slaves by God, 
purchased for them by the blood of Christ; and which they are not equally capable 
of enjoying with themselves ? — What account, then, will these masters give of 
themselves, who" " will not permit their slaves to be instructed, and become the 
servants of their heavenly Master; who bring them, as it were, into sight of 
the waters of Life, and then withhold them from receiving any benefit from them? 
They hope, it is likely, God will be merciful to these unhappy creatures, though 
theij will not be so : but they have reason to fear God may deny that mercy to 
themselves, which they deny to others : and no man living can assign a better 
and more justifiable cause, for God's withholding mercy from a Christian, than 
that Christian's withholding the mercy of Christianity from an unbeliever." 
" For this inhuman practice, there are but two or three poor pretences." " To the 
first of these, namely, that should they suffer their slaves to be baptized, they 
would immediately become free, we may answer, that were this true, the mis- 
chief of it would be no greater in our Plantations abroad than it is at home, 
wliere there is no such thing as slavery, but all our work is done by hired ser- 
vants ; — for good wages and good usage will always invite servants, even to the 
hardest labours. And if this would not turn to a good account, it were better the 
world sliould pay much dearer for the pleasures and conveniences those places 
afford, than purchase them so cheaply at the expence of so much misery, such 
cruelty and hard treatment of men as good as ourselves, and at the hazard of 
their souls. But allowing that this would be some inconvenience to the Govern- 
ment, with respect to trade, is there any question whether the blessing of God 
upon their piety and good designs, in furtherance of his glory in the salvation of 
men's souls, would make an ample compensation for all the inconveniences and 
loss it might sustain, by making their slaves, or letting them be made. Christians? 
But after all, what considering man would run the hazard of being under God's 
displeasure, by hindering others from becoming Christians for all the profit, ho- 
nour, and advantage in the world ?" " One may wonder how a Christian Govern- 
ment can look upon itself as unconcerned in this affair, and only consider these 
unhappy wretches as creatures which save the kingdom the charge of transport- 
ing horses and beasts of carriage for the islands' service, without reflecting on 
their shape and form and intellectual powers, and without looking up to Christ 
their common ?/Iaster, the Saviour and Redeemer of us all. 

" This unconcernedness of the public it is, most probably, that encourages a 
great many private people, at home among ourselves, to keep these Africans in 
their native ignorance and blindness, and to continue them infidels in the midst 
of a Christian kingdom. These people ought to think what answer they will 
make to Christ, when He shall ask them, why they would uot help to increase 
His kingdom, and to make their fellow creatures as happy as they hoped them- 
selves to be by being called by his name? Such questions will be asked them, 
with severity enough, and will require a better answer than, I fear, the subtillest 
Christian in the world can make : and, therefore, sure, it were better to prevent 
them by removing the occasion." 

Let those who have conducted the Society's affairs during a century 
of neglect answer these questions. 

Again, in 1714, the celebrated Dean Stanhope thus addressed the 
assembled Society : he is speaking of the negroes : 

" Slaves, it is true they are, wild and untaught, exposed to common sale, and 
wrought like beasts of burden." " Is it nothing to you that they are created by 
the same God, formed of the same flesh an<l blood, descended from the same 
common ancestor, endued with the same souls, the same capacities of immortal 
happiness; nay, which should touch us more tenderly than all the rest, that they 
also are redeemed by the same precious ransom ? Birth and fortune, climate and 
complexion, barbarism and servitude, are only circumstantial differences, such 
as ought not to be made too great reckoning of, when the essential parts continue 
the same. A good man will- find but too much ground for grief and pity, but 
none at all for ne},dect, contempt, or inhuman treatment, even in the meanest 
and most abject of liis own species." " He will lament the uncontrolled usurpa- 



Bishops Berkeley, Claggett, Seeker, Drummond, Green . 415 

tion and tyranny of the Prince of darkness ; and be zealous in making reprisals 
for that God, whose kinder providence hath not left liim in the same forlorn con- 
dition. And this is the true light to view these creatures in ; that they, bij ichom 
you subsist, may not be suffered to perish ; nor your salvation be hazarded, by 
obstructing, or not promoting theirs, for whom the Son of God did not disdain 
to shed his blood." 

"With respect to the Slaves," said Dean, afterwards Bishop, Berkeley, 
preaching before the Society in 1731, " our reformed Planters might learn from 
those of the Church of Rome, how it is their duty and interest to behave. Both 
French and Spaniards have intermarried with Indians, to the great strength, 
security, and increase of their colonies. They take care to instruct both them 
and their negroes, in the Popish religion, to the reproach of those who profess a 
better. They have also Bishops, and seminaries for clergy ; and it is not found 
that their colonies are worse subjects, or depend less on their mother country on 
that account." 

In a sermon preached, by Bishop Claggett, before the Society in 1736, 
occurs the following passage : 

" Nor has God put the poor negroes into our power forno other end but that 
we might use them ill, as Pharaoh did the children of Israel, when under a pre- 
tence that he might be better served by them himself, he would not suifer them 
to serve at all the Lord of heaven and earth who made both him and them. 
But the cause of the negroes hath been so well pleaded by others, who have 
spoken before me on this occasion,* that I do not think myself capable of adding 
any thing on that head." 

Our next quotation shall be from a sermon of Bishop, afterwards 
Archbishop, Seeker, preached before this Society in 1740. 

" The next objects of the Society's concern were the poor negroes. Their 
servitude is most laborious, their punishments most severe. And thus many 
thousands of them spend their whole days, one generation after another, under- 
going with reluctant minds continual toil in this world, and comforted with no 
hopes of reward in a better. For it is not to be expected that masters, too com- 
monly negligent of Christianity themselves, will take much pains to teach it to 
their slaves, whom even the better part of them are in a great measure habit- 
uated to consider, as they do their cattle, merely with a view to the profit arising 
from them. Not a few, therefore, have openly opposed their instruction, from 
an imagination that baptism would entitle them to freedom. Others, by obliging 
them to work on Sundays to provide themselves necessaries, leave them neither 
time to learn religion in, nor any prospect of being able to subsist if once the 
duty of resting on that day becomes part of their belief. And some, it may be 
feared, have been averse to their becoming Christians, because, after that, no 
pretence will remain for not treating them like men." 

" If," said Bishop Drummond, in his sermon before the Society, in 1754, 
" If there are those, who studiously hinder their slaves from becoming 
Christians, or who refuse them the means, or opportunity, or encouragement to 
be instructed ; we cannot attribute this hard usage to any other principle than 
avarice, inhumanity, or irreligion." 

The following important passage we extract from a sermon, by Bishop 
Green, preached before the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, 
in 1768. 

" A great consumption of human stock is acknowledged to be made by our 
colonies. How far this may be owing to the hardness of their fare, or the seve- 
rity of their task-masters, or the rigour of their service, it may be difficult to 
know ; but the Sabbath, which to other mortals is a respite from labour, is to 
them, it seems, no day either of rest or of improvement. And will not he who is 
Lord of the Sabbath look with displeasure on such of his disciples as pay no 

* How is it that of late years we have had so few such pleadings ? 



416 Propagation Society — Archbishop Moore — B-p. Porteus. 

regard lo his wise and holy institution ? But Providence has given us a favour- 
able opportunity of correcting many of the casualties and abuses which we often 
hear complained of, and correcting them by one of the most natural and effica- 
cious means, — by our own example, by our proper management of a plantation 
left to carry on the liberal and benevolent views of this society, in the advance- 
ment of religion and learning. As men, it will become us to soften the mise- 
ries and hardships of that servitude in which these poor Africans are placed ; 
to treat them with all the lenity which such a state will admit; and though we 
profit by their labour, not to impose on them such hard and rigorous tasks as 
are injurious to health and incompatible with any degree of self-enjoyment. 
As Christians, it will behove us to allow such means of religious instruction as 
are suited to the unimproved state of their understandings, and to recommend 
that instruction by the incitement of a good example ; to explain to them, on 
every proper occasion, the saving truths of the Gospel ; to encourage their pa- 
tient continuance in well doing, by the gracious assistances it promises, and the. 
assurances it affords ; to animate their hopes, under the hardships they suffer, 
with the prospect — not indeed of returning, as they imagine, to their own, but 
of being removed to that better country, where it is said, "They who came out 
of great tribulation shall serve God day and night in his temple, shall neither 
hunger nor thirst any more ; neither shall the sun light on them ; but the Lamb 
shall feed them and lead them to fountains of living water.' " 

In a sermon preached before the Society by Bishop, afterwards 
Archbishop Moore, in 1782, we find the following passage: 

" We make it our endeavour" (How greatly deceived as to the fact was the 
good Archbishop !) " to mitigate the severities and hardships of a slavery, shock- 
ing to every humane and considerate mind, and really degrading to our common 
nature. By imparting to the African slaves the comfortable truths of the 
Gospel, we teach them patience to endure their hard lot, and raise their expec- 
tations to the future glorious liberty of the sons of God. At the same time we 
restrain, as far as in us lies, all inhumanity in their masters, by reminding 
them, that they also have a Master in heaven. We inculcate on them, from 
the most awful motives, the indispensable duty and obligation of allowing their 
wretched fellow-creatures leisure and opportunities for religious instruction, 
and particularly of respiting them from labour on the Christian day of rest." 

In a subsequent sermon, however, preached by the late Bishop 
Porteus, in 1783, it appears that nothing effectual had even then been 
done, after about eighty years of possession, to civilize and christianize 
the wretched bondsmen of the Society. His proposals to that effect are 
all future and prospective, and from the evidence given on the subject, 
by the Society's agents in 1789, before the Privy Council,* and record- 

* The following are the main points in the evidence of Mr. Brathwaite, the 
Society's agent, and Member of Council in Barbadoes, given before the Privy 
Council : 

Being asked, what time is set apart for the slaves to lalmur for themselves ; 
he answers, " Sundays are always allowed them for that purpose." — He is 
again asked, whether, on the estates of the Society, there is any difference in its 
circumstances or regulations, or in the management and treatment of its slaves, 
as compared with other estates? To this he gives no very direct answer, but he 
says nothing that indicates any material difference in these respects. He is 
further asked, what is the practice respecting the marriage of slaves, and the 
regulations respecting it? His reply is, " I do not know" (Remember he was the 
Society's agent, and yet he says, / do not know) " that there is any religious ce- 
remony on the marriage of negro slaves in Barbadoes. There is no law respect- 
ing it. They (the slaves) have often more than one wife." " They suffer much 
from promiscuous concubinage." 

Mr. Brathwaite then produces a letter, addressed to himself, respecting the 
Society's estate, by some person who appears to have been a clergyman, in which 
arc the following expressions; "It is notorious that polygamy is universally 



Evidence before Privy Council in 1789. 417 

ed in the Report then drawn up and laid in the following year on the 
table of Parliament, we learn, on the very best authority, that the 
Society's slaves were still in a state of absolute heathenism, without 

practised among them ;" and what the writer proposes to be done on this point 
is, to tell the slaves that polygamy, though tolerated, was not apfjroved ; but that 
" in fact, the women they called their wives were only their concubines, and that 
a Christian could have but one wife at a time, to whom he was bound to be faith- 
ful ; and that I hoped, in time, to see them act accordingly, from their own convic- 
tion of the propriety and advantage of it ; and that till then I could not conse- 
crate the union, formed between any negro man and woman, by the marriage 
rites in practice among the white people, but must leave them to the inconve- 
niences and infidelities of such a marriage state as theirs, depending on the 
temporary caprice, partiality, and prejudices of the parties. Yet I would re- 
mark to them, that I should insist on their not increasing the number of their 
nominal wives, by taking others, after baptism and religious instruction, for then 
their sin of ignorance would become a sin of wilful perverseness ; and, in like 
manner, that the rising generation, baptized in their infancy, must be content 
with ojie wife, joined to them upon Christian principles." It does not appear 
that even this miserable, inadequate, and futile project was ever acted upon. 

In addition to this feeble proposition of a remedy for polygamy, the same 
person enters into an apologetical vindication of the practice by which the slaves 
were employed, on Sunday, in labouring for themselves, and in this way, be 
says, " increasing their own and their families' domestic comforts in an honest 
way." He adds, that Mr. Brathwaite, to whom he is writing, knows as well as 
he, " that the nature^of our properties here" (meaning, of course, slave cultured 
estates) " will not admit of so large a portion of their time being taken up in 
teaching them (the slaves) to read, and advancing them from the rudiments of 
language to an adequate knowledge of it." And then, after some equally absurd 
and abortive suggestions respecting religious worship and instruction, he says 
" could you do this, I suppose you will have promoted the cause of Christianity 
in the most .extensive manner possible." — And as for the " multitude of unlet- 
tered souls, unavoidably destined to hard labour and servitude " (meaning, of 
course, the slaves) " that you will have made them easier under their yoke, and, 
in fact, have rendered it more tolerable.^' 

Mr. Brathwaite, having given the above letter in evidence, is afterwards 
asked his opinion of the causes which impede the natural increase of the negroes. 
The causes he assigns are, "promiscuous concubinage," and " occasional work- 
ing the negroes too hard." — He is further asked, whether the slaves or their 
children are baptized ? He answers, that*he believes they are not in general 
baptized, but that baptism is never refused. He adds, " I do not know that 
any missionaries have been sent hence" (from England) " to the island of Barba- 
does, except a catechist employed on the Society's estate, for the instruction of 
the negroes on it, in addition to the parochial clergyman. The catechist has, 
as far as I am informed, had but little success in improving the moral principles 
of the negroes, though they have, I believe, been baptized." — " As far as I am 
informed ! " "I believe ! " And yet this witness was the Society's agent ! 

Mr. Parry, many years Governor of Barbadoes, states, in his evidence, that 
in King William's reign, General Codrington had bequeathed his large property 
in this island to the Society, one of his motives being " the instruction of his 
negroes in the Christian faith." " The Society negroes, as long as the college 
was kept up, were baptized ; and there is still a clergyman who is employed as 
catechist," (probably the writer of the letter to Mr. Brathwaite,) " but the ne- 
groes on this plantation are neither better nor worse, in any one respect, than their 
fellows on the neighbouring estates." 

Mr, Steele gives similar evidence. He observes, that " it had been a vulgar 
opinioti, that the fine estate annexed to Codrington College had been committed 
to that venerable body (the Society) for some religious or good purpose," but 
there do not now appear, he says, to be any religious institutions for the benefit 
of the slaves in Barbadoes, nor any missionaries from England, unless the only 
catechist on the estate was so to be considered. He adds, in very remarkable 
phrase, " Before any kind of religious or moral education can, to any efl'ectual 



418 Society for Propagating the Gospel — Bishop Porteus. 

marriage, practising polygamy, and differing in no material respect 
from the state of awful depression and brutal ignorance, and cruel 
coercion of the other slaves around them. — Bishop Porteus, in 1783, 
employed his eloquence in urging the Society then to form, and digest, 
and arrange measures, with a view to the great object of christianizing 
the slaves ; and, though the time for doing all which he proposed, might, 
he feared, " be at some distance," yet " thejirst steps towards it," he 
conceived, " might certainly be taken without delay." " We may, at least, 
inquire more exactly into the effects produced by the labours of our 
catechist on our own negroes ;" (the return to which inquiry, six years 
after, on the part of Mr. Brathwaite, the Society's agent, was nil ;) 
'■' we may send him fresh instructions ;" " from these beginnings, we 
may advance," " till our plantation become a model for all the West 
Indian islands to imitate." — The pious Bishop then drew a striking 
picture of what might be effected among the slaves by means of the 
Society's " care to make their yoke easy and their burden light, to civi- 
lize their manners, to enlarge their understandings, to reform their 
hearts, and to open to them a prospect in a better and a happier 
country." 

" And let us not be debarred," he proceeded, " from this noble undertaking, 
by the apprehensions of that additional expense in which it may involve us." 
" Should it even require more than our resources can supply, we need be under 
no apprehension of wanting proper support when once it is known that the 
civilization and conversion of the negro slaves is to be hereafter one of the grand 
leading objects of your pious labours." " Every hand will be open on the occa- 
sion ; and there cannot be a doubt, but that the increase of our benefactions 
and subscriptions will soon gratify our most sanguine wishes. It is impossible 
that the generosity, the humanity, I will add, the justice of the English nation 
can suffer near half a million of their fellow-creatures to continue in the most 
deplorable state of heathenism, irreligion, and vice, without giving the Society 
every assistance that may be necessary to extricate them out of it. It would be 
glorious to Great Britain to take the lead in this benevolent and truly Christian 
enterprise. And allow me to add, that it is peculiarly incumbent on the people 
of this kingdom to exert their utmost liberality in alleviating the miseries, both 
temporal and spiritual, of tlie wretched Africans, since they have been, for many 
years, more largely concerned in that inhuman merchandize of men, and have 
imported more slaves into the colonies, than any other nation in Europe. By 
their means principally have many thousands, many millions, of human crea- 
tures been torn from their native land, from every blessing that was valuable, 
every connexion that was dear to them ; and, after passing in their voyage 
through incredible hardships and difficulties, (under which great numbers af 
them actually perish,) have been landed in a country and among a people un- 
known to them ; and without offence or fault of theirs, have been doomed to a 
perpetual servitude, a servitude too which tliey leave (the only inheritance they 
have to leave) entailed on tlieir latest posterity. Surely it deserves considera- 
tion again and again, whether this cruel havock of human life among the slaves 
might not be prevented, without any injury to the islands.'' 

" Let then our countrymen make haste to relieve, as far as they are able, the 
calamities they have brought on so large a part of the human race ; let them 
endeavour to wipe away the reproach of having delivered over so many of their 
innocent fellow-creatures to a most heavy temporal bondage, both by contri- 
buting to sooth and alleviate that as much as possible, and by endeavouring to 
rescue them from the still more cruel bondage of ignorance and sin." 



good end, be offered to the negroes, tliose immoral and impolitic laws of this 
colony, which give a legal cover and encouragement to the most atrocious 
' rimes tliat white people may commit, must be abrogated." 



Archbishop Manners-- Society's Report. 419 

These striking admonitions of this excellent Prelate were unheeded 
by the nation and its government. Nay, they were unheeded by the 
Society itself, though again earnestly pressed on its attention by Bishop 
Warner in 1787, by Bishop Bagot in 1792, by Bishop Prettyman in 
1795, and by Bishop, afterwards Archbishop Manners, in 1797; as 
well as by many other preachers during the intermediate years ; until, 
at length, in the year 1818, and not till then, those ^rs^ steps were 
taken, those beginnings were made, and most feebly and inadequately 
made, which, thirty-two years earlier. Bishop Porteus had urged with 
so much eloquence and force, and which Bishop Fleetwood urged, no 
less forcibly, upwards of a century before that period. 

Our last extract is from the sermon of Archbishop Manners, wherein 
he says, 

" Christianity hath left all temporal governments as it found them, without 
impeachment of any form or description whatever, instilling only into the minds 
of the governors and governed the love of order, of justice, of mercy, of forgive- 
ness, of mutual goodwill, of universal charity. If all or any of these be incom- 
patible with slavery, doubtless slavery is incompatible with the Christian reli- 
gion. But surely it will not be argued by those who have an interest in the 
continuance of the system, that the slave should be excluded from the light of 
the Gospel, and the hope of immortality, through the merits and mediation of 
our blessed Saviour, lest a knowledge of these high matters should tend, in its 
immediate consequences, to ease his yoke and to lighten his burden. If, how- 
ever, there be any one hardy enough to advance the argument, I trust there will 
never be \yanting virtue in this country to draw it to a short conclusion : it 
cannot be a question with Christians, whether the propagation of the Gospel or 
the system of slavery shall be preferred." 

We have said that the first semblance of any thing like efficient 
Christian instruction or discipline, introduced among the Society's 
slaves, was in the year 1818, after at least four or five generations of 
those slaves must have passed into eternity. It now remains to be seen 
what the Directors have done, since that time, to repair the incalculable 
evils of former neglect, and to raise their slaves from ignorance and vice, 
from oppression, degradation, and bondage, to civil freedom, and the 
still higher blessings of Christian liberty. Their last report seems to 
aim at repelling the attack made on their proceedings by the Rev. John 
Riland, in the Christian Observer for 1828, p. 50; but in fact it only 
confirms the truth of his complaint. — It is admitted, by the agent 
of the Society, that " no registry of punishments has ever been kept on 
the Society's estate." No check, therefore, can have existed on that 
agent's arbitrary inflictions on the men, women, and children, intrusted 
to his superintendance. An advocate of the Society, (probably its 
Secretary,) had affirmed, in the most express terms, (thereby showing 
the ignorance at least which then prevailed as to the facts of the case) 
that labour was not " enforced" by "the whip," that "corporal punish- 
ment was abolished on the estate, " that "no corporal punishment was 
allowed on the estate ;" {ergo the whip was abolished) " nor had been 
for some years practised." Nay, this gentleman actually stated (as may 
be seen in the Christian Remembrancer for January 1828,) " I do not 
for my own part believe, that except to drive cattle, a v/hip is ever em- 
ployed upon the estate, either as excitement or punishment; for it is," 
he adds, " expressly contrary to the rules laid down, to employ any 
corporal punishment!" But what is the statement of the resident 



420 The Propagation Society's Defence considered. 

agent of the Society, in reply to an inquiry addressed to him on this 
subject, and recently published in the Society's Report? It is this, "I 
cannot say its use," (viz. that of the whip) '' has been entirely abolished." 
-—"The driver was compelled to take it up again for a short time." — 
" I trust the time is not very distant," (it is of course yet future) " when 
we shall find that the use of the ivhip in the ^eld," — (not of the whip, 
merely as an instrument of punishment for crimes, but of the avhip 
IN THE field) "may be dispensed with altogether." Just so might 
the most thorough-going planter, (even a Mr. Huggins or a Mr. Hodge) 
as Mr. Riland well remarks, have expressed himself.* 

In the year 1829, therefore, it appears that the Incorporated Society 
for the Propagation of the Gospel has not yet afforded to its labourers 
the inducement of wages for tilling and reaping its fields, as recom- 
mended by Bishop Fleetwood, nearly one hundred and twenty years ago; 
but still avows, after such a length of possession, that "the use of the 
whip in thejield'' has not yet " been dispensed with ! " 



We had reached this point of our progress, when the kindness of a 
friend placed in our hands a condensed statement of the proceedings 
of the Society since 1818, issuing from the Society itself, and printed 
expressly for the satisfaction of all " who take an interest in the spiritual 
and temporal welfare of the negroes on the Codrington Plantations ;" in 
other words, for its own vindication. This statement, while it calls for 
no alteration in what we have already written, but, on the contrary, 
serves to confirm it, will lead us considerably to enlarge our observa- 
tions. 

On perusing this important and interesting document, the first point 
which has fixed our attention is the medium through which alone the 
Society seems to obtain its information respecting the state and condition 
of its slaves. It is chiefly through the Rev. I. H, Pinder, the chaplain, 
and Mr. Forster Clarke, the attorney, or agricultural agent of the 
estates. We do not intend to say one word to derogate from the 
respectability of these gentlemen ; but, unless we are greatly misin- 
formed, Mr. Pinder is a native of Barbadoes, who has been familiarized 
to the sight and immediate contact of slavery from infancy, and who is 
himself a holder of sla:ves, either in possession or reversion; and Mr, 
Clarke has risen through all the different grades of plantership, 
from that of an overseeer following with a cowskin the negro' gang 
in the field ; and then of a manager directing and coercing the la- 
bours of all the slaves on the estate, and arbitrarily administering its 
whole economical and punitive discipline ; to that of an attorney or 
agricultural agent, with the power of appointing the manager and con- 
troling his operations. Now we greatly question whether it is by the 
hands of men thus educated that the Society ought to act, or through 
tl^e eyes of such men that it ought to see, or by the ideas of such men 
that its judgment ought to be regulated. On the contrary we are appre- 
hensive, that while the Society relies on information derived from such 
sources, it cannot fail to be both the victim and unwitting instrument oj.' 

. ■ , . ■; / ■ 

* See Christian Observer for January 1829, \>. i44. 



The Propagation Societi/s Statement considered. 421 

much delusion. And we say this (without meaning in the very shghtest 
degree to impeach the upright intentions of either gentleman,) from a' 
knowledge of the unavoidable effects on their feelings and judgment of 
the circumstances in which its informants have been placed. To this 
fruitful source of error we shall have occasion hereafter to advert.* 

Jt is now frankly stated by the Society itself, that " the slaves on 
these estates were never provided with any regular system of religious 
teaching until the year 1818." p. 7. Let us look at the nature of this 
teaching, and at what the Society is actually doing for its slaves in the 
way of school instruction. — In the first place, such instruction is made, 
by an express regulation, to exclude " writing and arithmetic," p. 5, 
And why does it exclude them ? Is it for any reason but the participa- 
tion of the Society's agents in Barbadian prejudices, and the unwar- 
rantable deference of the Society to those prejudices ? Besides this the 
attendance of children at school is restricted to those who are under ten 
years of age. Till ten, but no longer, may they be taught reading for 
four hours in each day. In consequence of this unaccountable restric- 
tion we presume it is that the very highest form can read only in the 
New Testament or the Psalter ; (p. 18 and 24,) and as children quit the 
reading school with only this degree of proficiency, we may conjecture 
of how little use such instruction must be to them in future life. But 
on what ground does the Society restrict instruction in letters to children 
under ten years, excluding all above that age, and even the adult popula- 
tion on its estates, from acquiring the capacity to read the word of God ? 
The murdered missionary. Smith, contrived to teach many of the adult 
Slaves in his congregation at Demerara to read their Bibles, (Reporter, 
No. 41, p. 326.) The Missionary Wray, of Berbice, has been equally 
successful with the Crown slaves in that colony ; and even in Barbadoes 
itself some of the adult slaves in Mr. Harte's cong-resration have contrived 



* Nothing can more strikingly shew the state of their minds than some of the 
instances they exhibit of the liberality of the Society's treatment. (See p. 9.) 

1. Draughts of water are supplied to the slaves at work in the field ! Can we 
imagine them at w^ork, under a tropical sun, without access to this boasted boon 
of a draught of water ! And yet the Creole agents well knew what an indul- 
gence even a cup of cold water was. They had doubtless seen gangs toiling 
for many a burning hour without even one drop of water ta cool their tongues. 

2. Severe punishments are rarely inflicted ! What West Indian ever admitted 
that severity was often exercised by him ? 

3. Mothers having three living children, have every Saturday afternoon allot- 
ted to them ! — In the Society's Report of 1711 — 1713, we are told that an order 
had been sent out, " that the negroes should have liberty on Saturdays in the 
afternoon to work for themselves, that they may have time to attend instruction 
on the Lord's day." This order was probably never executed ; but still what a 
retrogradation of purpose and intention does it indicate ! In 1829, we have the 
Society lauding itself for permitting mothers having three living children, (ten 
ov twelve individuals at most,) to enjoy the same indulgence which in ancient 
times was ordered to be given to the negroes, that is, the negroes generally. 

4. Every mother having^EiGHT children alive, has the undisputed enjoyment 
of Thursday ! — that is, of one day in the week, to look after and care for eight 
children ! Why, many West Indian codes exempt entirely from labour mothers 
having six! Besides, is there not a fallacy in the word Every? How many 
mothers, having eight children alive, are to be found on these estates ? Is there 
i>!ie, or are there two ? 

3f 



422 The Propagatio7i Society's Statement considered, 

to obtain, yro/w their oivn resources, a knowledge of letters, (ib. p. 325). 
And yet, by a regulation which the Society for propagating the Gospel 
sanctions, nearly 300 Creole slaves born in Barbadoes, therefore native 
born subjects of the king, nurtured in the very domicile of the Society 
itself, are doomed to exclusion from all instruction in reading, because 
they have passed the age of Ten. Can the Society possibly continue to 
uphold so indefensible a regulation? We are told (p. 8,j that "the de- 
sire of the slaves for instruction is manifest." Why is that desire thus 
repressed by those who ought, nay, who are bound to satisfy it? 

We are further told that it is one of the rules of the Society, adopted, 
it should seem, for the first time in 1818, " that marriage be encouraged 
among the slaves;" (p. 6,) and yet it is stated, (p. 8,) that "there is but 
ONE instance of marriage among them legally performed." Here, how- 
ever, what we most of all admire is the elaborate apology of the Chap- 
lain of the Society for the absence of the marriage tie among its 
slaves, and the Society's most unaccountable adoption of that apology. 
The Chaplain, indeed, tells us that he ardently looks forward to the in- 
fluence of religion in " putting an end to polygamy, and in promoting a 
desire and suitable reverence for this hallowed band." Yet he argues 
that their present connexions are not to be regarded in the light of 
promiscuous concubinage; instances of fidelity ("connubial fidelity" 
he calls it by a strange misnomer) being to be met with, though in other 
cases it is too frequently violated. Again, at p. 19, the Society edifies 
the public with reprinting its Chaplain's farther apology for the pre- 
vailing polygamy and concubinage. Though there is no marriage, he 
says, the husband considers those he lives with as his wives. " National 
habits," he adds, " are not changed in a day." — (The day to the Society 
has been a long one — upwards of 120 years.) But "when Christian 
instruction has had longer time" (how much longer?) " to operate," then 
we may look forward with hope to the slaves marrying, and polygamy 
vanishing. — Can it be by a society comprehending all the Archbishops 
and Bishops of England that currency is given to such views as these ? 
The defence seems quite as good in principle for concubinage in one part 
of the empire as in another, in England as in Barbadoes. Besides, the 
Chaplain mistakes the very nature of marriage. He forgets that it is a civil, 
as well as a religious institution, and that not only Christians, but hea- 
thens and infidels marry, and are bound by the laws afi^ecting marriage. 
It is the laio which prescribes what shall be its form, and its rights, and 
its obligations. But the Chaplain of the Society (and the Society seems 
to accredit his views by circulating them in this defence of its own 
conduct) seems to think, that the slaves should, at least, continue to 
live in concubinage and. polygamy until his labours shall have made 
them Christians ; making little or no account of the difference between 
an union sanctioned by law, and so legitimatizing its ofi'spring, and such 
a casual union as no more binds the subjects of it to each other, than it 
binds the beasts of the stall. We are lost in amazement on reading 
such things. — When the Marooils of Jamaica Avere removed to Sierra 
Leone in the year 1800, they had lived in polygamy and concubinage 
like the. slaves of this Society. They were giVen to understand that 
such modes of life were unlawful, and could no longer be tolerated ; and 



The Propagatim Society's Statement considered. 423 

and they at once agreed in future to abandon them. Now what has the 
Society done to put an end to this flagrant evil m its own family, among 
its own servants, persons actually born in its own house ? Would the 
Governors of this Society, our Archbishops and Bishops, permit their 
male and female domestics to cohabit together without the sanction of 
marriage, merely because they had been previously uninstructed, in the 
hope that in time their Lordships' chaplains might succeed in convinc- 
ing them of the impropriety of the practice ? We suspect too that this 
state of illicit cohabitation is made no bar to the admission of persons 
to the sacrament of the Lord's supper, there being on the estate only one 
marriage of slaves, and the number of communicants, " slave and free," 
being seventeen (p. 19); a number of communicants it must be allowed 
sufficiently small, at the end of more than 120 years, even if all of them 
were slaves. 

At p. 7 it is implied that the want of funds prevented any regular ' 
means of religious instruction being provided for their slaves until 1818. 
Yet the Society had always been in the receipt and expenditure of con- 
siderable funds, a part derived from the labours of these very slaves. 
What stronger claim could exist on those funds, whether derived from 
that source or from public or private contributions, than was preferred 
by the spiritual destitution of the slaves themselves ? 

The most important portion of the Society's statement consists of a 
letter from Mr. Clarke, the agricultural agent, dated in May last, and 
evidently intended as a reply to the inquiries addressed, a few months 
before, to the Society, by Mr. Riland. The most material part, however, 
of Mr. Clarke's information is wholly omitted ; we mean his " list of 
the slaves, and the employment of each, with their respective ages and 
colours." (p. 26, &c.) 

Mr. Clarke's account of the general treatment of the slaves, as well 
as that of Mr. Pinder, (p. 9,) does not differ materially, from that 
which West Indian planters are in the habit of giving as to the general 
style of their treatment. We believe it, however, to be much more 
correct than theirs usually is ; and its greater correctness is proved by 
the comparative increase of the slaves on these estates. The descrip- 
tions which come to us, from Demerara and Jamaica, are quite as 
favourable to the humanity of the proprietors as those of Mr. Clarke 
and Mr. Pinder ; but the results would indicate that there was much 
more of truth in the latter. Mr. Clarke has not enabled us to ascertain 
the rate of increase ; but it appears, as far as we can form an opinion, 
to be about 1^ per cent, per annum, while the amount of decrease, even 
on Lord Seaford's estates in Jamaica, is 1| per cent.; in Demerara, 
upwards of 2 per cent. ; and in Trinidad nearly 3 per cent. But still 
the rate of increase which appears to take place among the Society's 
bondsmen, falls much below that both of the slaves in the Bahamas and 
the United States, and of the free population in Jamaica and the other 
colonies. And some of the causes of this inferiority, notwithstanding 
any comparative mildness of treatment, are perfectly apparent. — To 
say nothing of the licentious habits of polygamists and concubinists, 
for one third of the year, it is admitted, (p, 26,) that the labour of the 
slaves is protracted from five in the morning till eight or nine o'clock 
at night ; — and we may assume that Mr. Clarke gives us the least unfa- 



424 The Propayatmi Society's Statement considered. 

vourable view of his own exactions. But what must the eft'ect be of 
such continuity of labour in such a cUmate, exacted too, be it remem- 
bered, under the compulsion of the whip or of confinement in the 
stocks? — Again, no registry of punishments is kept on the estate, though 
these punishments are generally inflicted, not by order even of Mr. 
Clarke, but at the will of the resident manager, Mr. Hinkson, Now 
that these punishments have been few and light, wc must take on the 
bare assertion of men habituated, through life, to the whip and the 
stocks, and from whom we might probably form a very different esti- 
mate on the subject, if we had the record book before us. But surely 
the want of such a record is quite inexcusable, after the distinct enun- 
ciation of the wishes of Government on that subject in 1 823. Mr. Clarke 
and the Society could not be ignorant that such a record was required, 
or that importance was attached to it by the Government, and by 
all who know any thing of West Indian discipline. And yet, after a 
lapse of five years, even this simple measure of reform, this slight check 
on the despotic power of the manager, has not been adopted either by the 
Society or ils agent. We cannot, therefore, admit, on such authority as 
is now before us, that on the Society's estates punishments have been 
either rai'e or light. Rare or light they may be, as compared with many 
other sugar plantations ; but that they are rare or light as compared 
with what occurs in any English village of 400 inhabitants, or in any 
village of free labourers within the British dominions, we must have 
some better evidence than the loose assurances of men who have breath- 
ed from infancy the very atmosphere of slavery, and who have been fa- 
miliarized to the very manipulation of all its loathsome and disgusting, 
and heart-hardening accompaniments. 

But the whip in the field ! The driver and manager, who it seemed 
had been ordered to lay it aside, represented to Mr. Clarke, (and Mr. 
Clarke, good easy man, admitted their plea,) that the wan t of it was attend- 
ed with great inconvenience, and with loss of labour. The human cattle 
had begun to move slowly and sluggishly, on the whip being re- 
moved from sight and hearing, and it was therefore resumed to quicken 
their movements. The crimes which required it, and we are told they 
are " the common offences of the field," were " idleness, insolence, and 
insubordination." — -For these crimes the men and women living on the 
Society's estates, and toiling for the Society's benefit from day to day^ 
and all day long, without wages, were punishable, and were punished, in 
the year 1828, by the whip, or by confinement " for one, two, or more 
days or weeks, according to the nature of the offence ;" and all this at 
the sole pleasure of a Mr. Hinkson, who renders no account to the 
Society, because he keeps none, either of the lashes he inflicts, or of the 
hours and days of imprisonment he awards. And these punishments, 
be it remembered, are inflicted by his arbitrary mandate, not in ge- 
ne^^al for any thing that we should call crime, or punish as such here, 
but for idleness, for loitering, for saucy language, and for what is called 
^^ neglect of business."* 

* The system of coercion extends beyond the mere work of the field. It is 
employed to enforce attendaacc at church on Sunday, (p. 7, and l."?.) Those 
who do not attend church on Sunday are condenmed to labour (hard labour 



The Propagation Society's Statement considered. 426 

And is this to continue ? Is the Society to go on exacting their un- 
compensated toil from these poor creatures by means of stocks and 
stripes? Are they not entitled at least to wages, if not to liberty, at 
the hands of this Christian corporation ? They are fed, we shall be told, 
and clothed, and lodged. So are the horses of every Governor of the 
Society ; but like those horses they are driven to their labour. They 
can remit it in no case at their own choice, even for an hour, without 
the hazard of bodily suffering. The base passion of fear, therefore, is 
the only spring of action which is called into exercise. 

The power of self-enfranchisement, however, is a boon which the Society 
seems never to have thought of extending to its slaves. — About six years 
ago three of them redeemed themselves by purchase, and a father is now 
about to be allowed to buy the freedom of two of his daughters ; — and 
the price of the redemption of these five poor creatures, — the long 
savings, doubtless, of many a painful fragment of time, rescued from the 
Society's constrained servitude — is unscrupulously extorted from them, 
to swell the general funds of the corporation. We should like to know 
its amount. — The remarks of Mr. Clarke, on this subject, (p. 28,) are in 
the true style of Creolian prejudice, but we need not enter upon them. 
As for the Society, it has evidently bestowed no serious consideration on 
the subject." It continues to grasp these human chattels, " the stock 
of the estate," as the Society scruples not to call them, (p. 17,) as firmly 
as any planter in Barbadoes ; and even the Christian children, born 
from year to year under its roof, continue doomed, as far as any thing 
has yet been done by it, to bear, in perpetuity, the brutalizing yoke of 
slavery, for the sole purpose of replenishing the Society '§ coffers. 

Our view of the effects of the abolition of Sunday markets in Bar- 
badoes, boasted of so highly by the Society for the Conversion of Slaves, 
(See Reporter, No. 41, p. 321, &c.) is incidentally, but most fully con- 
firmed in this statement. The Chaplain says, (p. 24,) that he is confident, 
" the Society will be gratified to learn that its slaves will feel no inconve- 
nience from the abolition of the Sunday market, as it affects the sale of their 
provisions, &c. as Mr. Clarke has determined to allow all the labouring 
slaves on the plantation every alternate Saturday, as a day for going to 
market, which will be an increase of comfort to them, and render the 
abolition of the Sunday market a benefit even in a worldly point of 
view." To those then who are not thus favoured, it is not " a benefit,." 
but " an inconvenience;" and in general they are not so favoured.* 

being in this country our punishment for great crimes) on the following Satur- 
day afternoon, while those who do attend are exempt from it. This, it must 
be admitted, is rather a compulsory kind of worship.~How very extraordinary 
It is that the agents of these estates should feel themselves at liberty thus to 
compel the slaves to attend divine worship, and yet should have been able to 
discover no means of enforcing the decency of connubial unions among them ! 

* But, in truth, it is a farce to call the i3arbadoes law an abolition of Sunday 
markets. These now exist, by law, from five to nine on Sunday morning. In the 
newspaper of that island, called the Barbadian, of the I6th December last, is the 
following editorial paragraph. " We look anxiously for the day when our 
market-house will be closed the whole of the Lord's day. When shall we get 
rid of the trafficking and slaughtering, the noise and uproar, the cursing and 
swearing, which, from the dawn of day till nine o'clock on Sundays, are so dis- 
gusting, and are too disgraceful to be much longer tolerated, we trust, in this 
Christian land."— Christian land indeed ! 

3f2 



42,6 The Propagatio7i Society^s Statement considered. 

•:>," It further appears, that no means have been taken by the Society or 
its agents, to estabHsh any thing hke a Savings' Bank for the slaves, 
though that also was recommended by the Government. Mr. Clarke, 
indeed, discovers that such is the feeling of distrust entertained by the 
slaves, that though a single family has often been known to receive 
£20 or £30 for its crop, whatever money it may lay up is " carefully 
concealed from the knowledge of owners and overseers" (p. 28.) How 
then has Mr. Clarke acquired his knowledge of their large earnings? 
And what encouragement has he given to these poor thralls to place 
those earnings in safe deposit until they shall accumulate to the value 
of their redemption, which, in Barbadoes, on the average, does not now 
exceed £28 sterling? (see Reporter, No. 19, p. 282, &c.) So that, if 
the statement be true, that families are often receiving £20 or £30 
for a crop, that is from £14 to £21 sterling, redemptions might be 
continually occurring. 

But, before we close our remarks, we are anxious it should not be 
supposed that, in making them, we are actuated by any unfriendly 
feelings towards the venerable Society for propagating the Gospel. If 
our obligations to the great cause we have undertaken would have per- 
mitted us to be silent with respect to its proceedings, we should have 
felt ourselves relieved from a very painful responsibility. But it would 
have been actual treason to that cause to have passed so influential an 
example wholly overlooked. Indeed, having found it to be our duty 
fearlessly to arraign as criminal the principle a^d whole system of colo- 
nial bondage, as well as the conduct of many of those who administer 
it, it would have laid us justly open to the imputation of moral cowar- 
dice, and of the most reprehensible partiality, had we shrunk from a 
frank and full statement of our views, not only of this Society's pro- 
ceedings, but of its present attempt to vindicate them. In proportion 
as its Directors stand high in public estimation and in public confi- 
dence, is it important that we should not allow them unwittingly to 
lend their sanction to principles and practices which we have uniformly 
denounced, and must continue to denounce, as opposed to the plainest 
maxims of humanity and justice, and as altogether incompatible with 
the spirit and the precepts of the Gospel. In the case of private indi- 
viduals there is at least one palliative plea, however weak it may be in 
itself, which they may advance. Considerations of self-interest naturally 
make them averse to reforms, however salutary, which they may think 
threaten to affect their property. But in the case of the Society there 
is not even this excuse for maintaining, for a single day, any principle 
or any practice which Christianity, or even humanity reproves. We 
very willingly and gladly admit, that on the Society's estates the oppres- 
sions of the system are not so deathful as on most other sugar planta- 
tions ; though, even here, the progress of population is much slower 
than among the free blacks and coloured classes in our islands, or 
among the slaves either in the Bahamas or in the United States. But 
if the positive physical oppressions, the over-working and the under- 
feeding, to which the Society's slaves, in common wtth all around them, 
were long subjected, have, (as we are happy to believe they have,) dimi- 
nished in their intensity, so as (o admit now of an increase, still we maintain 
that the Society's slaves continue to indicate the pressure of their bond- 



West India Committee and its Mercenaries of the Press. 427 

age in tlie comparative slovvness of that increase. But even if this were 
otherwise ; if the Society's slaves increased as fast as the Maroons in 
Jamaica, or the free blacks in Trinidad, or the slaves in the Bahamas 
and the United States, still such a result would not deliver this Chris- 
tian Society from the just rebuke of having maintained, for upwards of 
120 years, and of still maintaining, a most unchristian position. Surely 
there is something very incongruous and revolting, to say the least, in 
the contemplation of a Society formed for evangelizing the heathen, 
which draws a part of its resources from the coerced services of slaves, 
driven to their labour by the whip and the stocks, and held by it as 
chattels of sale and of inheritance. Can we imagine the holy evangelist 
Paul, or the college of Apostles at Jerusalem, defraying the cost of their 
Asiatic missions, for example, by means of funds drawn from a planta- 
tion in Crete, growing corn for the Roman market, and worked by 
slaves subject to the lash, and who, instead of being treated as the 
children of the same great Creator, and the fellow-heirs of the same 
blessings of redemption, were degraded in their civil and social capa- 
cities nearly to a level with the beasts that perish ? And wherein does 
the parallel fail, excepting to the disadvantage of a Society existing in 
our own free and happy land, in this free and more enlightened age? 
Is it possible for us to raise our voice against the national sin of colo- 
nial slavery, and yet forbear from calling on the members of such a So- 
ciety to wash their hands from its guilt ? We should probably, how- 
ever, have called upon them much less effectually had we failed to 
expose the true nature of the case, that they may see and feel its whole 
iniquity. And we would say, in conclusion, that if they have had cause 
to regret the want of public support, is not this to be in some measure 
attributed to the existence of this plague spot, which causes many good 
and conscientious persons to shrink from their counsel and contact ? 
And may not the public approbation, and what is far more important, 
the Divine favour be more confidently implored, and more certainly 
anticipated, when they shall have resolved no longer to pursue their 
present dubious course, but wholly to purge themselves from this foul 
stain. Thus may they make some reparation for the past, and hold out 
a signal example of beneficial influence on the future temporal and 
spiritual destinies of hundreds of thousands of their fellow-creatures. 



2. — The West India Committee, and its Mercenaries of the 
Press, particularlv Mr, Franklin, Mr. Macqueen, &c. 

It appears by the Postscript to the Royal Gazette of Jamaica of the 
29th November last, that on the 25th of that month a petition had been 
presented to the House of Assembly on behalf of one James Franklin, 
formerly of Kingston, in that island, but now of Great Britain, setting 
forth "That the Petitioner, having had considerable intercourse with 
St. Domingo or Hayti, was solicited by the West India body in London 
to publish a faithful description of that country ; — That the petitioner, 
under the assurance of receiving from that body the most liberal en- 
couragement and support, did execute such a work; yet the petitionee 



428 West India Committee and its Mercenaries of the Press. 

has not received the promised support, and is wholly neglected ; — That 
under similar inducements the petitioner was led to prepare and publish 
a pamphlet entitled 'A Short View of the West India Question,' &c., 
for which the petitioner received the sum of one hundred guineas, which 
barely covers the expense to which the petitioner was subjected in print- 
ing ; — That the house will perceive the petitioner has exerted all his 
powers in aid of the Colonial cause, and of this Island particularly, and 
hopes that the house, with its usual liberality, will take the petitioner's 
case into their consideration, and honour his wife, now in this island, 
with such remuneration as the house may consider the petitioner 
entitled to." 

This petition lets us a little into the secret of West Indian publica= 
tions and proceedings. Mr. Franklin, disappointed in the views which 
had carried him first to Jamaica and then to St. Domingo, returned to 
England, and in 1825 and 1826, laboured to form what was called the 
Haytian Company. And such was the effect of his representations, 
and those of a Mr. Hendrick, concerning the agricultural, commercial, 
and mining faculties of Hayti, that many highly respectable persons 
were induced, to their no small eventual loss, to subscribe to this com- 
pany. Mr. Franklin about the same time made similar representations 
to Mr. Canning, which (report says) it was expected might have issued 
in his appointment as Haytian Consul. Both these hopeful projects 
miscarrying, he was induced, by the solicitations of the West India 
Committee, and their promises of encouragement and support, to 
yield them his pen. In a short time he produced an octavo volume, 
professing to be " a faithful description " of Hayti,* and also a pam- 
phlet. What these works are few people, we apprehend, can tell, ex- 
cepting the author himself and his employers, who, indeed, seem not 
to have valued his labours at any very high rate ; and yet, if his publi- 
cations are to be estimated by the benefit derived from them to " the 
Colonial cause," they have been probably overpaid by the hundred 
guineas awarded to him. 

Our readers have probably forgotten that the West India Committee 
are in the habit of annually levying a tax, (a pro-slavery reyit,) on all 
produce imported from slave colonies. Its amount we do not exactly 
know, but considering the rates of exaction,! we should estimate it at 
about £20,000 a year. The produce of this tax, or rent, be it more or 
less, is placed, as a kind of secret service money, at the sole, uncon- 
trouled and unexplained disposal of the West India Committee. We 
should like very much to see an account of its appropriation ; how 
much, for example, has gone to electioneering purposes ; how much to 
indemnify libellers ; how much to pay for Quarterly and other Reviews; 

" We feel some curiosity to compare the letters of Mr. Franklin written to 
Mr. Canning in 1825 or 182G, with " the faithful description" of Hayti, pub- 
lished under the auspices of the West Indian Committee, in 1827. The pur- 
poses of the two, it is true, differed, and this might account for some slight 
variations. But if Mr. Hume's motion of last session shall bring the corre- 
spondence of Mr. Franklin with the Foreign Office before the public, we shall 
not be surprised to discover new and strange proofs of descriptive iidelity. 

t .See for these, " The Slave Colonies of Great Britain," &c. p. 99, note. 



West India Committee and its Mercenaries. 429 

and how much for weekly and daily journals. A great part of this 
knowledge we shall probably never attain. We have heard, however, of 
some of their mercenaries having been paid on so much more liberal a 
scale than Mr. Franklin, that we cannot be surprised at the discontent 
which that gentleman has manifested. Their present more active par- 
tizans (for the Quarterly Review has, of late, confined itself to an occa- 
sional growl at Sierra Leone,) appear to be Blackwood, John Bull, the 
Morning Journal of London, and the Couriers of London and Glasgow. 
But how many more Journals are kept silent by the influence of the pro- 
slavery rent, it may be less easy to ascertain.* Thus shamefully neglected 
by the West India Committee, Mr. Franklin has now placed his hope in 
the known liberality of the Members of the Assembly of Jamaica ; and 
without doubt, considering the sums they have lavished on the Rev, 
Mr. Bridges, Mr. Alexander Barclay, Mr. James Macqueen, &c., he may 
very fairly make his appeal to their consistency for a large vote of money. 
He has certainly not done a tenth part of the harm to their cause which 
has been effected by Mr. Macqueen, to whom the Assembly, in the fer- 
vour of its gratitude, voted a sum of 3000 guineas. f We hope they 
will continue to bestow their bounty on equally deserving objects. In 
the meantime it is a satisfaction to see that that part of the public press 
which is most vehemently embarked in the defence of slavery, and most 
profuse in its abuse of the abolitionists, is also the most vehemently 
opposed to every measure of liberality, whether commercial or political, 
as well as the most outrageously abusive of the Duke of Wellington 
since he has spoken (whether wisely or not, we leave to wiser heads to 
decide) of giving peace to Ireland. 

We cannot help thinking that the West India Committee have be- 
haved rather shabbily to the Noble Duke. After palming upon him the 
dull romance of Mr. Franklin, as " a faithful description" of Hayti — 
and the detected impostures of Mr. Barclay, as a just picture of West 
Indian humanity ; they now permit their mercenary journalists to take 
up the cudgels for Don Miguel, and to revile the Duke himself as a 
traitor to his king and country. 



* Tt is a curious fact, that while all the journals of London, and throughout 
the Kingdom have been filled with details of the Edinburgh horrors, we do not 
believe that with the exception of a single London morning paper, and two or 
three other London papers, the slightest notice has been taken of the multiplied 
horrors which, on Parliamentary authority, the Anti-Slavery Reporters have 
shown to have taken place, and to be even now proceeding at an enormous rate, 
in our colonial possessions, and especially in the Mauritius. 

t Mr. Macqueen is supposed to have received about £15,000 in all from the 
West Indies, partly in votes of money by assemblies, and partly in public sub- 
scriptions. He has since become the joint proprietor of a large body of slaves, 
and is now therefore, himself, a great West Indian planter. This circumstance 
may give a sharper and a louder tone to his vituperations ; and it may also ren- 
der it less necessary for the West Indian body to fee advocates so highly as it 
has hitherto done. However, if the West Indian Committee should on this account 
think of economizing their funds, as Mr. Franklin's fate would seem to intimate, 
a substitute may be found by some at least of that committee's mercenaries in 
the liberality of the eulogists of Don Miguel, and of the furious revilers of the 
Duke of Wellington. The Duke will learn ere long, to appreciate both them 
and their employers. 



430 Colonial Statistics. — Antigua — Mauritius. 

3. — Colonial Statistics. 

Ik the Anti-Slavery Reporter, N6. 19, will be found an abstract of 
various statistical returns received from fourteen of our slave colonies. 
In the last session of Parliament returns were produced from four more, 
viz. Antigua, Mauritius, Montserrat, and St. Lucia, (Papers of ist of 
April, 1828, No. 204.) These we shall now abstract. The colonies 
Avhich have as yet made no return to the Order of the House of Com- 
mons of 6th June, 1825, are Bermuda and the Cape of Good Hope. 

1. Antigua. 

The custom-house of this island furnishes no means of ascertaining 
the export and import of slaves ; unquestionably a great neglect. 

The manumissions effected either by purchase or bequest, from the 
1st of January, 1821, to the end of 1826, six years, were 956. 

The marriages of slaves in the same period were twenty-one, almost all 
of them by Mr. Curtin, missionary of the Conversion Society. This 
return, however, is accompanied by a letter from Thomas Lane, the Co- 
lonial Secretary, stating, " that there is no existing law in this colony 
which makes marriages between slaves a civil or religious contract, nor 
any law to prevent the separation of husband and wife." 

There were ten slaves escheated to the Crown, waiting its pleasure. 

The number of slaves sold in execution in Antigua, in these six years, 
was 128. The price for which they were sold was £5774. 16s. cur- 
rency, being about £45 currency each, or £20. Is. sterling. In the 
same period 28 slaves were seized for taxes, and sold for a gross sum 
of £1031. 12s., being £37 currency, or £16. 15s. sterling each. 

In 1821 the free black and coloured population was 1549 males, and 
2346 females, in all, 3895. There has been no census since, but the 
number manumitted as above, without reckoning the increase by births, 
would raise the number to 4851. 

The slave population in 1821 was 14,531 males, 16,533 females, in 
all, 31,064: in 1824, 14,225 males, 16,089 females, in all, 30,314. 

The sums raised for the relief of the poor, in the above six years, 
amounted to £28,247. 10s. currency, or about £13,450 sterling. But 
the poor are all white, and it is distinctly stated by Archdeacon Parry, 
that " there are no free-coloured or black paupers provided for by the 
parish ; nor are the free-coloured or free blacks taxed for the support of 
the poor. Slaves are supported by their owners." The number of pau- 
pers receiving relief is 211 whites. 

2. Mauritius. 

The number of slaves imported into the Mauritius from January 1821, 
to the end of 1826, is stated to have been 1351 males, and 516 females, 
in all, 1867. This, however, is of course an account of those only who 
passed regularly through the custom-house, and does not include the 
vast numbers illicitly imported. The slaves exported in the same period 
were 299 males, and 248 females, in all, 547. 

The number of manumissions, by marriage, from the 1st of January 
1821, to the 30th of June 1826, was 245; by bequest or otherwise, 
199 ; in all 444. A tax, amounting to about £25 sterling, appears to 
have been exacted on most of these manumissions. 

By law, the marriage of whites with blacks is severely punishable. If 



Statistics of Mauritius — Fresh Proofs of Horrors. 431 

a free black marries a slave she becomes free. Cures are forbidden to 
unite slaves in marriage without the master's consent. The marriages of 
slaves, from the 1st of January 1821, to September 1826, are stated as 
six in number, which does not correspond with the return that makes 
the manumissions by marriage amount to 245. 

The number of slaves sold under execution is 1473 ; but as they were 
almost all sold with the plantations to which they were attached, it is im- 
possible to ascertain the price of slaves, exclusive of land, buildings, &c. 
The price, therefore, is of a very varying and uncertain rate. 

The sums raised for the relief of the poor, from the 1st of January 
1821, to the 31st of March 1826. amounted to £8875. 18s. M. The 
paupers relieved were eighty-seven whites, and ninety coloured persons. 

The free black and coloured population is stated as follows : 1st of 
January 1821, 6121 males, 6939 females, in all, 13,060 ; 1st of January 
1826, 7155 males, 7970 females, in all, 15,125; showing an increase 
of 2065, from which, if 444, the number of manumissions in that time, 
be deducted, it leaves an increase of 1621 by natural means, being at 
the rate of upwards of two per cent, per annum. The births, however, 
in those years are given as 3450, the deaths as only 1460, leaving an 
excess of births over deaths of 1990, which, if correct, would exhibit a 
still higher rate of increase, amounting to 2| per cent, per annum. 

There is also an enumeration of the slave population, for the six years 
in question, which betrays some very strange facts. The total amounts 
of the successive vears, beginning with 1821, are as follows : 66,162 ; 
63,099; 63,076 ; 65,037 ; 63,432; 62,588, If any dependence could 
be placed on these returns, and if we could assume that there had been 
no importations, the irregularities would still be very extraordinary. 
On this point light may be thrown hereafter. In the details of the above 
enumeration, however, we have, as it appears to us, clear and irrefra- 
gable presumptions of a frightful waste of human life, and of the conti- 
nuance of large importations. In 1821 the males amounted to 58,634, the 
females only to 7528 ; in 1822 the males were 55,878, the females 7221 ; 
in 1823 the males were 57,134, the females 7903; in 1825 the males 
were 50,788, the females 12,644 ; in 1826 the males were 53,682, the 
females 8906. 

Now in 1815, by actual registry, the numbers were 56,684 males, 
and 30,668 females, being a little less than tiuo males to one female ; 
but in 1821 the proportion Avas eight males to one female, varying little 
in the following years from this proportion, except in 1825, when, all at 
once, we have an increase of 5249 females, which number is as suddenly 
decreased in 1826 by 3738. In no possible way, we apprehend can 
these singular and anomalous appearances be accounted for, but on the 
hypothesis of an immense mortality and an immense importation. If 
the 30,668 females of 1815, were really reduced to 7528 in 1821, the 
mortality, independent of births, and even supposing no women to have 
been imported, must have amounted to 23,140 females in those six 
years ; and supposing a proportionate number of deaths to have taken 
place among the 56,684 males, it would have amounted to about 
42,000, making a total mortality of upwards of 65,000 human beings in 
six years. We admit there may be some fallacy in these returns, 
which we had not seen when the last Reporter was published. Still it 



432 Statistics of Mauritius, Montserrat, St. Lucia, Sj-c. 

is for those who have furnished such appalling data to give us the key 
to them, and to tell us how the sudden increase of women in 1825, and 
the other phenomena are to be explained. We look with much anxiety 
to the steps which Government shall take respecting the Mauritius. We 
may regard it as certain that, under the anomalies we have pointed out, a 
mass of horrors, of which this country has, as yet, no conception, will be 
found hidden. And yet it was to this colony, this Mauritius, this human 
slaughter house, that in that very year of 1825, the Government and 
Parliament of England persisted, in spite of every remonstrance, by re- 
lieving the sugar of the Mauritius from the protecting duty which they 
continued to levy on the free grown sugar of India, to give a new sti- 
mulus to the growth of sugar in that colony, and to that multiplica- 
tion of murders in which it could not fail to issue. The case must be 
searched into. It is a case of Blood. 

3. Montserrat. 

In the six years, 1821 to 1826, four slaves were imported and 57 ex- 
ported; the number of manumissions was 59 ; and the number of slave 
marriages 9. 

The slaves sold in execution were 41, and were sold for £2142. 6s. \0d. 
currency, or at an average of £52. 5s. each, being about £23 sterling. 

The slave population is given in 1821 as 6464, in 1826 as 5956, being 
a decrease of 508 : the real decrease, exports and manumissions de- 
ducted, is 396, being upwards of one per cent, per annum. 

The free black and coloured population is made to amount in 1822 
to 274 men and 41 1 women, in all 683. 

The sum raised for the poor in the six years was £2500 currency. 
The number of paupers, all white, was 14. 

4. St. Lucia. 

The number of Slaves imported is stated to be 83, exported 26. The 
manumissions from the 1st of January, 1821, to the 31st of May, 1827 
were 686. Of these 132 paid for their freedom. The rest were manu- 
mitted by their masters. — No marriages of slaves have taken place.— The 
number of slaves sold in execution was 34 ; and the amount for which, 
they were sold was 76,585 livres, or about £48 sterling each. 

The slave population in 1819 is stated to have been 14,280 ; in 1822, 
13,788; in 1825, 13,717; and in 1826, 12,922. The free coloured 
population is stated in 1826 at 3983. There are no poor in St. Lucia. 



4. Conduct of the Assembly of Jamaica. 
This Body met in November last, and proceeded to consider the two 
questions of the slave law, and the claims of the free people of colour 
to an extension of their privileges. These claims were refused by a 
majority of twenty-five to fourteen. — With respect to the slave law, 
they have re-enacted that of 1826, without any alteration whatever even 
in the persecuting clauses. Considering the language of Government 
on that subject, and the express ground in which the former act v»'as 
disallowed, they do, in fact, by this proceeding, bid a bold defiance to 
the King and Parliament of Great Britain- 



Bagster and U'homs, Printers,'14, Bartliolomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 46.] For MARCH, 1829. [No. 22. Vol. ii. 

1. DR. BURGESS, THE PRESENT BISHOP OF SALISBURY, ON CO- 

LONIAL SLAVERY. 

2. APPEAL TO THE BENCH OF BISHOPS ON COLONIAL SLAVE- 

RY, BY GRANVILLE SHARPE. 

3. FRESH ATROCITIES IN BERBICE. 

4. RECENT INTELLIGENCE FROM JAMAICA. 

1. Colonial policy at the present crisis. 

2. Conduct pursded towards missionaries. 

5. CAPE OF GOOD HOPE— SOCIETY FOR REDEEMING SLAVES. 



1. Dr. Burgess, the present Bishop of Salisbury, on 
Colonial Slavery. 

. In our last Number we adduced the testimony of many distinguished 
prelates of the Church of England against the evils of Slavery. There 
remains one living Prelate whom it would be unpardonable for us to 
omit; we mean the present Bishop of Salisbury, Dr. Burgess. In the 
year 1789, this learned and excellent person published a pamphlet, 
which we fear has been long out of print, and is only now to be found 
in such libraries as that of the British Museum, entitled, " Considers 
tions on the abolition of Slavery, and the Slave Trade, upon grounds o 
natural, religious, and political duty." A Liverpool Clergyman of the 
name of Harris, had published a pamphlet in defence of slavery, which 
he represented as a dispensation of Providence, — a state of society re- 
cognised by the Gospel; — in which the reciprocal duties of masters 
and slaves are founded on the principle of both being servants of Christ, 
and are enforced by the Divine rules of Christian charity. The following 
are some of the indignant observations of the good Bishop, on witnessing 
such a prostitution of the sacred truths and obligations of religion: — 

" Reciprocal duties !" he exclaims, "Reciprocal duties ! — To have an adequate 
sense of the propriety of these terms, we must forget the humane provisions of 
tli€ Hebrew law, as well as the liberal indulgence of Roman slavery, and think 
only of West India slavery ! of unlimited, uncompensated, brutal slavery, and 
then judge ^s\l^Lt reciprocity there can be between absolute authority and absolute 
subjection ; and how the Divine rule of Christian charity can be said to enforce 
the reciprocal duties of the West India slave and his master. Reciprocity is in- 
consistent with every degree of real slavery." " Slavery cannot be called one of 
the species of civil subordination. A slave is a non-entity in civil society." 
", Law and slavery are contradictory terms." 

The Bishop's treatise is one among many proofs that the Abolitionists 
from the first contemplated the ultimate extinction of slavery as the end 
of their labours. 

"Such oppression," says the Bishop, (meaning the state of slavery), "and 
stich traffic" (meaning the slave trade), " must be swept away at one blow. Such 
horrid offences against God and nature can adu)it of no medium. Yet some of 
the more moderate apologists of slavery think that a medium may be adopted. 

3g 



434^ BisftopyJBunyess on Colonial Slavery. 

They think that slavery ought not to be abolished, but modified and meliGiat^s 
by good laws and regulations. It is well observed by Cicero, that ' incidunfe 
niultse saepe causae quae conturbent animos utilitatis specie, non cum hoc delirs 
beretur, Kelinquendane sit honestas propter utilitatis magnitudinem (nam boe 
quidem improbum est,) sed illud, Possitne id quod utile videatur fieri non tur-, 
piter.' But it is impossible for slavery ' fieri non turpiter/" pp. 82, 83. a«. 

The Bishop proceeds to observe, that " All the laws hitherto made, have pro-.; 
duced little or no benefit to the slaves. But there are many reasons why it is 
very improbable that such provisions should produce any effectual benefit. The 
power which is exercised over the slaves, and the severe coercion necessary to 
keep an immense superiority of numbers in absolute obedience to a few, and re- 
strain them from insurrection, are incompatible with justice or humanity, and 
are obnoxious to abuses which no legal regulations can counteract. The power, 
which a West Indian master has over his slave, it is impossible for the genera^; 
lity of masters or managers not to abuse. It is too great to be intrusted in the 
hands of men subject to human passions and infirmities. The best principles 
and most generous natures are perverted by the influence of passion and habit."* 

If these arguments of the Bishop be well founded, it follows, fiFst, 
that the great mark at which every friend of humanity ought to aim^ 
by all lawful expedients, is complete and irrevocable emancipationf^f 
secondly, that in the interim, as laws, wben committed to the guardian- 
ship of the slave-holder, are merely waste paper, the Government and 
Legislature of this country should take the matter into their own hands, 
and shape their course to an ultimate extinction of an evil from which 
they cannot extract all the venom but by slaying the hydra itself; and 
thirdly, that too much weight should not be given to the representations 
of persons even of the " best principles and most generous natures," 
when " perverted by the influence of passion and habit," to apologize 
for, or wish to perpetuate, the enormities of this accursed system. 

The Bishop in reply to those who defend or connive at West India 
slavery as a "dispensation of Providence," and as, indirectly at least, 
sanctioned by the word of God, observes, 

"TVTany attacks," says his lordship, "have been made on the authority of 
Scripture ; but nothing would more effectualiy subvert its authority than to prove 
that its injunctions are inconsistent with the common pi'inciples of benevolence, 



* The poet Ck)wper seems to have entertained much the same opinion as the 
Bishop of Salisbury ; for in one of his Letters, dated April, 1788, we find hini 
saying : " Laws will, I suppose, be enacted for the more humane treatment of the 
Negroes ; but who shall see to the execution of them? The planters will not, 
and the Negroes cannot. In fact, we know that laws of this_tendency have not 
been wanting, enacted even amongst themselves; but there has been always a 
Avant of prosecutors, or righteous judges, deficiencies which will not be veiy 
easily supplied. The newspapers have lately told us, that these merciful mas^ 
ters, have on this occasion, been occupied in passing ordinances, by which the 
lives and limbs of their slaves are to be secured from wanton cruelty hereafter. 
But who does not immediately detect the artifice, or can give them a moment's 
credit for any thing more than a design, by this show of lenity to avert the storm 
which they think hangs over them ? On the whole, I fear there is reason to wish, 
for the honour of England, that the nuisance had never been troubled ; lest w§;; 
eventually make ourselves justly chargeable with the whole offence by not re- 
moving it. The enormity cannot be palliated : we can no longer plead that we 
were not aware of it, or that our attention was otherwise engaged ; and shall be 
inexcusable, therefore, ourselves, if we leave the least part of it unredressed. 
Such arguments as Pharaoh might have used, to justify his destruction of the 
Israelites, substituting sugar for bricks, ('ye are idle; ye are idle,') may lie 
i.eady for our use ajso ; but I think we can find no better." 



Bishop Burgess on Colonial Slayeryi- 435 

and inimical to tlie general rights of mankind. Itwould degrade the sanctity of 
Scripture; it would reverse all our ideas of God's paternal attributes, and all 
arguments for the Divine origin of the Christian religion drawn from its precepts 
of universal charity and benevolence." "That any custom sorepr.gnant to the 
natural rights of mankind as the slave trade, or slavery the source and support of 
the slave trade, should be thought to be consonant to the principles of natural; 
and revealed i-eligion, is a paradox which it is difficult to reconcile with tlie 
reverence due to the records of our holy religion." 

'His Lordship then proceeds to shew, 1st, That slavery and the slave trade are 
inconsistent with the principles of nature (in allusion to his opponent's argu- 
ment), deducible from Scripture. 2d. 'i'hat no conclusion can be drawn in favour 
of West India slavery or the African slave trade (which the Ijishop always 
classes and brands togetiier) from particular transactions recorded in Scripture ; 
both because the trade in slaves bears no resemblance to the slavery and slave 
trade in question, and because transactions merely recorded in Scripture history 
are not sanctioned by the I'ecord. 3d, That no conclusion can be formed from 
Hebrew laws respecting West Indian Slavery, because the conditions are by no 
means analogous; and because, even if they were, laws neither introduce nor 
justify every custom which they regulate. 4th, That the clearest and fullest 
permission of slavery to the Jews under the Law of Moses does not make it 
allowable to Christians, because the new law has succeeded to the ritual and 
judicial ordinances of the old; and we cannot reason from one state of things 
to anotlier when any great revolution has intervened in the progress of religion. 
5th, That, however such permission might appear to make slavery in any degree 
allowable to the first Hebrew Christians under the Roman government, it does 
not by any means make it allowable under the free government of this country, 
because we cannot reason from one form of government to another. 6th, That 
whatever may be the commercial and national advantages of slavery, (whicli 
Tipwever the Bishop does not estimate very highly : on the contrary, he strongly 
-insists on its improvidence, and the vast superiority of free labour,) it ought not 
to be tolerated, because of the inadequacy of those advantages to their many bad 
effects andconsequenJfbs. 7th, That slavery and the slave trade ought to be 
abolished on account of the good which would follow to religion, to mankind, 
and to ourselves. 

We have not space to condense the whole of the Bishop's arguments, 
but we shall present our readers with a few succinct notices. As for 
the atrocities of the African slave trade, or the cruelties of West India 
slavery, he says there is nothing in Scripture that is parallel to either ;' 
but he argues tliat "slavery itself (in every form) is inconsistent with 
the law of nature deducible from Scripture, and therefore with the will 
of God;" and that, therefore, ''much more so are the cruelties of West 
India slavery, and the African slave trade." Slavery, he further re^ 
marks, "even in its mildest sense, considered as unlimited, involuntary^ 
uncompensated subjection to the service of another, is a total annihila- 
tion of all natural rights." This forcible abduction of liberty, he con- 
tends, is inconsistent with the natural rights of society, as deducible 
from Scripture. In God's first commission to man he gave him domi- 
nion over the brute creation; but there is no expression by which Adaia 
or any of his posterity could collect that they had a right of dominion 
over their own species. The extent of this primary charter, remarks 
the Bishop, cannot be more forcibly expressed than in the language of 
our great poet : 

O execrable son, so to aspire 
Above his brother! to himself assuming 
Authority usurped, from God not given. 
He gave us only over beasts, flesh, fowl, 
Dominion absolute. That right we hold 



436 Bishop Burgess on Colonial Slavery. 

By bis donation: but man over man 
He made not lord; sucb title to bimself 
'^' Reserving, buman left from human free. 

K. To those advocates of slavery who would use in its favour the golden 
' I'ule of doing as we would be done by, the Bishop in reply exclaims, 

" Detestable perversion ... of the most benevolent of all precepts !" Yet there 
is one very obvious view, he adds, in which the precept applies to the case of 
slavery ; " for as no person would wish to be reduced to slavery, or to continue 
so, no person whatever should reduce a fellow-creature to slavery or keep him in 
that condition." " The precept may enjoin the submission of the slave to his mas- 
ter, but it does not enjoin slavery : it neither makes the occasion nor justifies it. 
Submission is a virtue in a slave ; but the exercise of this virtue neither justifies 
the making of slaves nor the keeping of them. Offences must come, and injus- 
tice will prevail ; but woe be to them by whom the offences come ! It should not 
be forgotten that, if the precept enjoins submission in the slave, it applies 
doubly to the master; for it enjoins humanity in the treatment of his slaves, and 

CONDEMNS HIM FOR KEEPING THEM AT ALL." 

That the slaves are in a happier condition, and " far better ofF than 
the British peasantry," is another old argument, which has of late 
been newly furbished ; and the Bishop of Salisbury well replies 
to it, as well as to the absurd opinion, that where there is no positive 
physical cruelty, (and would there were nothing even of this !) there is 
nothing to complain of. 

^' If no other circumstance could be proved," says the Bishop, "yet the mere 
privation of liberty, and compulsion to labour without compensation, is great 
cruelty and oppression. If no other fault could be alleged, the involuntary 
submission of so many thousands to a few individuals implies, beyond a doubt, 
the employment of means the most tyrannical and oppressive to secure such sub- 
jection." " The condition of West India slaves," he continues, " some of the 
apologists for slavery have endeavoured to recommend, by asserting that the 
slaves are happier than the poor of oiir own country. However inadvertently 
this opinion may have been admitted by many, it could have originated only 
from the possession of inordinate authority and insensibility to the blessings of 
a free country. Where the poor slaves are considered mere brutes of burden, it 
is no wonder that their happiness should be measured by the regular supply of 
mere animal subsistence. But the miseries of cold and want are light when 
compared with the miseries of a mind weighed down by irresistible oppression. 
The hardships of poverty are every day endured by thousands in this country 
for the sake of that liberty which the advocates of slavery think of so little value 
in their estimation of others' happiness, rather than relinquish their right to their 
own time, their own hovel, and their own scanty property, to become the pen- 
sioners of a parish. And yet an English poor-house has advantages of indul- 
gence and protection which are incompatible with the most humane system of 
West India slavery. To place the two situations of the English poor and West 
India slaves in any degree of comparison, is a defamation of our laws, and an insult 
to the genius of our country." 

The Bishop goes on to point out that " the inconsistency between slavery and 
.the slave trade, and the general principles ofoxir law and constitution ; between the 
permission of such usages and our high pretensions to civil liberty ; appears to fur- 
nish arguments for the abolition of slavery, not less powerful on the one hand, 
than the injunctions of Scripture and the rights of nature on the other." "If 
slavery, however modijied, is suffered to exist, British law cannot be in force. 
Why then attempt to modify what is in its very principle inhuman, unchristian, 
and inconsistent with British law, and the spirit of our constitution ; and 
which, however its concomitant circumstances might be diminished, could never be 
rendered not inhuman, not unchristian, not unconstitutional 'i If justice to our 
nature, to our religion, and our country demand the sacrifice, why should an act 
of such accumulated duty be done by halves ? Why not rather, by one generous 
eflbrtof public virtue, cut off all occasion of inhumanity and oppression, with all 



Bishop Burgess on Colonial Slavery, 437 

Uhe pernicious effects of slavery on the slave, the master, and the state ?" " Even 
if the experience of two centuries did not forbid us to suppose that the abuses, 
as they are called, of slavery and the slave trade, could be effectually checked 
and prevented by legal authority, yet the very nature of the offence complained 
of resists the supposition. Oppression, cruelty, the degradation of the human 
species, und repugnance of the British constitution, are evils inseparable from 
slavery and the slave trade." 

The Bishop even apprehends injury to the mother country, by the baneful re- 
action of her colonial slave system. He dreads the influence of West Indian 
residents on their return to England. " The air even of this land of liberty," 
he remarks, " may not be able to dissipate their West Indian habits of absolute 
dominion." 

With these views of the subject, our readers cannot wonder that the 
Bishop maintains, that " no British subject can be exempt from the 
duty of doing; every thing in his power towards procuring the abolition 
both of West Indian slavery and the slave trade ; customs in every way 
repugnant to religion, humanity, and freedom." He particularly urges 
the subject upon his brethren of the sacred order. — The clergy, it seems, 
had been reproached by the West Indian party for their zealous efforts 
for the abolition of the slave trade and slavery. 

The Bishop vindicates them ; remarking, that if 7io British subject is " exempt 
from the duty of doing every thing in his power towards preventing the conti- 
nuance of so great a political as well as moral evil, more especially are not those 
subjects whose business it is to teach what it is every man's concern to know ; 
the interpreters of God's word, which is so flagrantly violated by West Indian 
slavery and its consequences." " Instead of wishing to restrain the exertions of 
any order of men or individuals, in this cause of human nature, let us rather of 
all ranks, professions and persuasions unite — in the name of the common Father 
of mankind — in the name of Him who died to save us all — in the name of Faith, 
of Charity, and of Liberty, to implore those who have the power, to extirpate a 
system of cruelty and oppression which has been so long suffered to exist, to the 
dishonour of human nature, the discredit of a Christian nation, of a generous 
and enlightened people, and the disgrace of a free constitution !" 

" Whether," observes the good Bishop, " all the cruelties imputed to the slave 
trade, and to Slavery, can or cannot be substantiated; whether the cruelties 
complained of can be mitigated or not ; the very existence of slavery, as long as 
it is permitted, must be a heavy reproach to this country, and a discredit to the 
age which can tolerate it." " Whatever a Machiavellian in politics or com- 
merce" may urge to the contrary, " slavery ought to be abolished, because in- 
consistent with the will of God." It is not a question, he contends, to be argued 
merely by statesmen and publicists, but the '' natural and scriptural illegality" 
of slavery may be juged of " on grounds infinitely superior to all commercial 
considerations (as much superior as the soul is to the body, as the interests of 
eternity are to the concerns of a day,) by every one that can feel for his fellow 
creatures, and can be determined by every one that can read the Scriptures." 
And, adds his lordship, whatever opposition may be made by interested persons 
for a time, " we cannot doubt that the great principles of political justice which 
form the basis of our constitution, and which ought to come home to the breast 
of every British subject, will have their full weight in the deliberations of those 
august assemblies which are to decide on a cause that involves the purity of our 
holy religion, and the credit and consistency of our national character." 

Forty years of most opprobrious supineness and indifference have 
passed over our heads since the pious Bishop made this manly and 
forcible appeal to the national conscience. We trust, that now, in the 
evening of his days, he may have an opportunity of sealing, by an effec- 
tive vote, the final extinction of the evil which, in earlier life, he so 
powerfully exposed. 

3 G 2 



438 Granville Sharpe'n Appeal to the Bishops on Slavery. 

2. Appkal to the Bknch of Bishops on Colonial Slaverv,, 
BY Granville Sharpe. 

The character of Granville Sharpe is too well known to require any 
prefatory observations. A reference to his authority may form no un- 
appropriate supplement to the extracts we have given from the pam- 
phlet of the Bishop of Salisbury, who was the friend and the fellow 
labourer of that great philanthropist. In the year 1788, Granville 
Sharpe pubhshed a work entitled, "The Law of Retribution, or a Serious 
Warning to Great Britain and her Colonies, founded on unquestion- 
able examples of God's temporal vengeance against tyrants, slave- 
holders, and oppressors." He commences his warning with the follow- 
ing passage of Scripture : — 

" The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised robbery, -a,nd 
have vexed the poor and needy ; yea, they have oppressed tlie stranger tvrongfully, 
and I sought for a man among them, that should make up the hedge, and stand 
in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it : but I found none. 
Therefore have I poured out mine indignation upon them ; I have consumed 
them with the tire of my wrath : their own way have I recompensed upon theif 
heads, saith the Lord God." Ezekiel xxii, 29 — 31. 

Towards the conclusion of the work, after applying and repeating this 
text, he thus addresses the Right Reverend the Bench of Bishops : 

" And have not the inhabitants of Great Britain and her Colonies, just reason 
to expect a similar vengeance for tlie lilce oppressions ? Do they flatter themselves 
that the same God will permit them to go on without recompensing their 'own 
way ' upon their heads ? Slavery for Slavery ? Or have they forgot, that the God 
of Israel, who thus reproved his peculiar people for holding their bretliren in 
bondage, is the same ' Lord God ' witli whom we have to do? And that he is un- 
changeable? How would our rulers and chief men bear a repetition of this 
unchangeable icord in the presence of God, when the Books are opened for 
judgment : — '/ sniglit for a man among lliem that should matte up the hedge, and 
stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found 
none ! ' May I not say, that even ' backslidinir Israel ' shall ' rise up in judg- 
ment with tliis generation, and shall condem.n it ?' As ' the backsliding Israel 
hath justified herself more than treacherous Judah,' (Jer. iii. II.) so she hath 
surely 'justified herself more than ' Britain ! for when the measure of her iniquity 
seemed to be filled by that notorious act of oppression in the reign of Pekah be- 
fore mentioned, there were yet found in her four ivortliy advocates ' to stand in 
the gap before God for the Land ; ' even four ' chiefs ' (or Nobles) ' of the children 
of Ephraim,' who boldly protested against the horrid crime of domestic slavery. 
But Great Britain, though staggering under a much heavier load of the same 
kind of guilt has not produced, out of her numerous Peerage, one single chief to 
stand up 'for the land,' and remove her burden ! Mark this ye Right Reverend 
Fathers of our Church, who sit with the Princes of the Realm to consult thie 
welfare of the state ! Think not that I am inclined through any misguided pre- 
judice to charge your order, in particular, with the omission. The crying sin has 
hitherto been far distant from your siglit, and perhaps was never fully repre- 
sented to you, or like faitliful ivatclimen of Israel, you would long ago have 
warned our nation of the danger : but I now call upon you, in the name of God, 
lor assistance ! Ye know tlie Scriptures, and therefore to you, my Lords, in par- 
ticular I appeal ! If 1 have misrepresented the word of God, on which my op- 
position to slavery is founded, point out my errors, and I submit : but if, on the 
other hand, you should perceive that the texts here quoted are really applicable 
to the question before us, that my conclusions from thence are fairly drawn, and 
that the examples of God's vengeance against tyrants and slave holders ought 
strictly to warn us against similar oppressions and similar vengeance, you will 
not then, I trust, be backward in this cause of God and Man. Stand up (let me 
entreat you) 'for the land; make up the hedge,' to save your country; perhaps >t 



Fresh Atrocities in Berbice. 439 

is not yet too late ! Enter a solemn protest, my Lords, against those who ' have 
oppressed the slranger lorongfully .' Ye know that the testimonies I have quoted 
are of God ! Warn, therefore, the nobles and Senators of these Kingdoms, that 
they incur not a double load of guilt; as the burden, not only of the much in- 
jured African strangers, but also of our country's ruin, must rest on the heads of 
those who withhold their testimony against the crying sin of tolerated slavery ! 
For * I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right 
of the poor.' " Ps. cxl. 12. ; 



3. Fresh Atrocities in Berbice. 

Berbice lias been one of the colonies which has boasted the most 
of its humanity, but which, to say the least, has been not less distin- 
guished for its cruelties than the other colonies. Its Memorial to the 
Privy Council, in 1827, was loud in professions of tenderness for the 
feelings of the slaves, notwithstanding the recency of those reports of 
its Fiscal which filled this country with horror. (See Reporters, Nos. 5 
and 16.) Later reports from this colony continue, as maybe seen in the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 43, to be marked by the same disgusting cha- 
racters of brutal ferocity and of callous indifference to negro comfort as 
the former. And an occurrence, which has taken place there so recently 
as November last, will plainly shew how little amendment in the state of 
the slaves in that colony has been derived from the Order in Council. 

A colonist, of the name of Gallez, who is himself of mixed blood, 
was the proprietor of a large body of slaves. He had prevailed on 
these slaves to agree, though most reluctantly, to accompany him to 
a \vood-cutting establishment, called Catherinasburgh, which he formed 
in the interior about sixty or sevenly miles up the Canye river, and far 
removed, therefore, from other plantations. The situation, however, 
was healthy, provision-grounds were abundant, and the water was of the 
finest kind. Mr. Gallez had also shewn a wish to procure religious in- 
struction for his slaves, and to introduce marriage among them. His 
extraction created a sympathy with them ; and he is said to have lived 
among them as a father. This is the account of one who does not al- 
together judge by the colonial standard of paternity. He erected good 
houses for them ; allotted them fertile grounds ; and as he conducted 
his wood-cutting in the way of moderate task, they had time to labour 
for themselves, and were living in abundance. They seem almost 
to have realized the picture drawn by Dr. Finkard, of the Profit 
plantation in hi^ time, though, unhappily, they now share the fate of 
the Profit negroes. — Mr. Gallez had embarked in some speculations 
which involved him in pecuniary difficulties, and by an order of the 
Court of Justice, his slaves were placed under sequestration, and a 
certain portion of them, (not the whole together, and along with the 
.plantation, but a part of them,) was marked out for sale in November 
last. No previous inquiry seems to have been made into their circum- 
stances, in order to avoid dissevering the ties of kindred and affection. 
But a peremptory mandate required that they should quit their 
houses, their fields, their connexions, and appear at New Amsterdam 
on the specified day to be exposed to sale, in lots, to the best bidder. 
When this mandate, which was wholly unexpected by them, was com- 
municated to the slaves, by the ofiicers of the Court, who went to seize 



440 Fresh Atrocities in Berbice. 

and bring to sale their destined victims, the whole gang, amounting to 
upwards of two hundred, retired into the almost impenetrable woods 
which surround the plantation ; so that the seizure became impossible. 
When the officers returned to town, and reported the circumstance, the 
affair was magnified into a serious insurrection, which, if unsubdued, 
would spread fire and sword through the colony ; and the cry arose for 
prompt military execwtion on the daring rebels, and for the arrest and 
punishment of Mr. Gallez himself, who, it was then remembered to 
his disadvantage, had been favourable to religious instruction, to 
marriage, and other reforms ; and who, it was therefore assumed as a 
matter of course, must, like the murdered missionary Smith, have been 
the fomenter of the insurrection. Urgent application was made for a 
military detachment to be immediately sent to avert the danger, and 
this course would, probably, have been pursued, had not the Governor 
been led to seethe propriety of first trying the effect of civil interference. 
Accordingly, the Fiscal, the Protector of slaves, and some others, were 
sent to the spot in order to induce their quiet submission. These 
gentlemen accordingly proceeded to Catherinasburgh ; and on their 
arrival, the whole of the slaves readily appeared before them. It was 
explained to them that the debts of their master had led to the order of 
Court for taking a portion of them from the rest, and from their houses 
and grounds, and selling them ; and that the law, they must be aware, 
could not be resisted without bringing ruin on themselves and their 
families. The slaves ably and feelingly stated their case. They pointed 
to the superior comforts they possessed over those living on the sugar 
and coffee estates below. They pleaded also their services to the colony 
in rooting out a maroon town some time back, for which medals had 
been bestowed on them by the Government All this was admitted, 
but it was urged in reply, that their master was the real author of the 
evil, by having made'' them over to his creditors, and no'remedy could 
now be applied. After some farther discussion, the poor creatures 
agreed to submit to their fate; and, in three or four days, they were 
embarked on board boats, and carried to the place of sale. The parting 
scene would beggar description. Those who were doomed to the 
hammer and to be scattered over the colony, as well as those who re- 
mained, were equally loud and vociferous in their wailing, so that even 
the whites, who were present, felt the infection of their grief. 
{ What a picture of slavery in its best state ! We trust we shall have 
rthe official details of this transaction, laid on the table of Parliament. 
In the mean time, is it irrelevant to remark, that the atrocity, in this 
case, is the result, not of individual oppression, but of the iniquity of 
the colonial laAv, and that, in a colony where his Majesty, by his minis- 
ters, is the sole legislator ; and into which these ministers have re- 
cently introduced what is called an improved slave code? The present 
slave law of Berbice has emanated from the Crown, and yet, under 
that law, with all its professed designs of amelioration and protection, 
we here see the wretched, helpless, and degraded state in which it has 
still left the subjects of the King ; — beasts of the field, chattels, bereft 
of every civil and social, and even domestic, right; and though endowed 
with the ikculties and capacities, and heirs to the common destinies 



tlecent intelligetice from Jamaica Colonial Policy. 441 

of men, yet depressed, by the very law which ought to protect them, to 
the level of the brutes that perish. Is not such legislation a mockery of 
the very name of law ? Or can such legislation be considered as a re- 
demption of the solemn pledge given by his Majesty's Government and 
Parliament in 1823? And what hope can we indulge, that in colonies 
having legislatures of their own, we shall witness any other than a 
delusive shew of improvement, while such examples as these are fur- 
nished in colonies directly governed by the Crown itself? We would 
entreat our readers to look at Berbice as it stands painted, not in our 
statements, but in the simple and unsophisticated details of its own 
Fiscal, (see Reporter, No. 5, and No. 16) and again of its Protector, 
even in the last year, (see No. 43,) and, combining these details with 
the transaction of which we have now given a brief account, to say 
whether such a state of things can be endured ? We call especially 
on the ministers of the Crown to look calmly at these facts, and to say, 
whether they are not responsible, if not for the existence, at least for 
the continuance for a single day longer, of such tremendous evils ? 

The occurrences in Berbice are only inferior in atrocity to the horrors 
of the Mauritius. And wherein does the state of slavery of Berbice 
differ from that of our other West India colonies, but in our having 
happily obtained thence those details which are carefully withheld from 
us in almost every other case ? Let us obtain similar details from the 
other colonies, and we shall find them to exhibit the same state of legal 
oppression, the same affecting accumulation of individual misery as exists 
in Berbice. Mr. Dwarris, indeed, vaunts loudly of improvement in the 
colonies. Improvement ! The pretence to it, in the face of such facts, 
is an insult to common sense ; and the improvement, we fear, is to 
be found mainly, if not solely, in the increased obtuseness and callous- 
ness of feeling, which those must acquire who are the hourly specta- 
tors and actors in this grand theatre of crime. 



4. Recent Intelligence from Jamaica. 

1. Colonial Policy. 

In the Jamaica Gazette of the 20th of December, 1828, is inserted 

a letter from London, dated no longer ago than November last, in which 

the writer seems to be thinking aloud, unconscious of the presence of 

any anti-slavery auditor. 

. " This critical state of aflFairs," (he says, alluding to Ireland,) " together with 
the threatening aspect which Europe is assuming, will no doubt tend to divert 
public attention from the Colonial Question, at least during the next session ; 
^nd let us hope, that, by the time these matters are settled, others will arise to 
engage the good people of England in the laudable task of minding and mend- 
ing their own affairs, instead of quacking with the colonies ! Of course, we 
must expect the annual repetition of some of the rigmarole philippics of Buxton, 
Brougham, or Lushington, but these carry with them little terror now. The 
party are evidently losing ground — the mania has gone by — it is no longer a 
successful theme for popular declamation, and, although I cannot say any de- 
cided reaction has taken place in the public mind, yet the fervid zeal has settled 
down into calm indifference. 

" The bulk of the people are passive on the subject, and I am persuaded will 
temain so. They are quite satiated with colonial horrors. The rancour of our 
enemies continues, and tvill continue, unabated, but their influence is consider- 



441? Intelligence /"rom Jamaica. — Persecution of Missionaries. 

ably iHodiQed. No doubt, they will still trump up annual petitions against 
slavery, but these are no longer considered the criterion of public opinion, a^ict 
have consequently no influence with Government. It is quite amusing to wit- 
ness the despicable arts the anti-colonists resort to, in order to obtain signatures 
to these insidious memorials. In some places they have a table in the open 
street, on which the paper is laid, and the labouring classes, in returning from 
work, are solicited to affix their names, with so much suavity of manner-^such. 
bland jjersuasiveness, that theie is no resisting, and many of the cieatures, who 
are thus entrapped, do not even know the object of the paper they are signing. 
I lieard of one fellow, who, in haranguing a mob collected round one of their 
table.s, actually expatiated on the enormity of continuing the slave trade," (and 
is not a slave trade carried on in Jamaica?) "and ui-ged his colleagues to sign 
the petition, which was to put an end to this inhuman irajjic! and really the 
ignoi'ance of even the well-informed classes, on this subject, is quite astonishing. 

" Our object ought to be" (and doubtless is in all their measures) " to gain 
time, for, the longer the main question is delayed, the better it will be undeV- 
stood by the British public, and the more likely they will be to be influenced hjl 
principle rather than by passion and prejudice in their decision. This object 
would be more effectually secured, and our adversaries more completely dis- 
armed, if the Colonial Assemblies would, from time to lime, engage themselves 
in correcting the old abuses in the system, and in making such improvements as 
would be commensurate with the advancement of the slaves in the scale of 
civilization." (This we have always said has been their policy.) 

" Of course it has not transpired here what instructions have been sent cut to 
Sir John Keane as to the rejected Slave Bill; but I trust the odious mandate, 
which gave such offence last year has been rescinded, and that our House of 
Assembly have repassed the bill in its original form." (^Precisely what they have 
done.) " The West Indians here are in high spirits about the appointment of 
the new Governor — they expect great things from him, judging by his general t 
character. It was intended that he should go out in time to open the Assembly, 
but, as this could not be accomplished in time, he will not, I understand, sail 
till the end of November." ^ 

2. Persecution of Missionaries. '; 

The Assembly of Jamaica appear to have acted in strict conformity 
with the above suggestions. The disallowed slave law of 1826, has 
been re-enacted without the change of a single clause. The object in 
doing so is evidently to gain time, trusting to the chapter of accidents 
for future occasions of delay. It being expedient, however, to supply 
some reasons for so directly flying in the face of His Majesty's Govern- 
ment, as to re-enact verbatim et literatim the persecuting clauses of 
1826, which were directed to the suppression of the missions of 
methodists and dissenters, and to the consequent exclusion of the slaves 
from effective religious instruction, the assembly, in its wisdom, has had 
recourse as, usual to the getting up of such ex-parte statements as the 
case seemed to call for, and which there never is any difficulty of pro* 
curing in Jamaica. And here we do them the justice to believe, that 
they had too much good sense to expect, that the statements thus pre* 
pared would be received in this country as evidence in proof of their 
charges against the missionaries. It was quite enough that they served 
to give a colour to the contumacious re-enactment of the rejected clauses. 
Accordingly a Committee of the House of Assembly was appointed " to 
inquire into the establishment and proceedings of the Sectaries in the 
Island, and to report thereon to the House." The report of this Com- 
mittee, with the evidence annexed, was presented on the 23d of Decem- 
ber, 1828. It was to the following effect ; 



Intelligeme ffovi JafiiaiCa. —Pei'secutionof Mil/sionaries. 4^13 

"'^ Mr. Speaker, — Vour Committee, appointed to inquire luto the establishraeiit 
aiid proceedings of tlie Sectarians in this island, -^. 

" Report — That they have taken the examinations of sundry persons, TshicK 
examinations are hereto annexed, and find that the principal object of the Sec- 
tarians in this island is to extort money from their congregations by every pos- 
sible pretext, to obtain which, recourse has been had to the most indecent 
expedje-nts. 

" That in order to further this object, and to gain an ascendancy over tlie negro 
mind, they inculcate the doctrines of equality aud the rights of man — they 
preach and teach sedition, even from the pulpit, and by misrepresentation and 
falsehood endeavour to cast odium upon all the public authorities of this island, 
not even excepting the representative of majesty itself. 

" That the consequences have been abject poverty, loss of comfort, and discon- 
tent among the slaves frequenting their chapels, and deterioration of property to 
their masters. 

" Your committee therefore feel themselves bound to report — That the inter- 
ference of the missionaries between the master aud slave is dangerous, and in- 
compatible with the political state of society in this island, and recommend to 
the house to adopt the most positive and exemplary enactments to restrain them. 

■ •" The above report was referred to the Committee on the state of the Island, 
atid the house went in such Committee; and being resumed, Resolutions from 
that Committee were reported and agreed to, as follows : 

" 1. That it be recommended to the House to agree to the Report from the Com- 
mittee appointed to inquire into the establishment of the Sectarians in this island, 
presented to the House, with the addition of laying before the house the exami- 
nation of Mr. Samuel Bromley, a Baptist Minister, residing at St. Ann's Bay, 
respecting an instance stated by him to have occurred, of a master oppressing 
his slave for attending the Baptist chapel, as it will exhibit the manner in which 
he is disposed to treat the legitimate authority of the house, delegated to its 
Committee, and they recommend it to the serious consideration of the house. 

■ " 2. That it be recommended to the house to come to the following Resolution : 
"Resolved, that the conduct of Samuel Bromley, a Baptist Missionary, in re- 
fusing to answer certain questions put to him, while under examination before a 
Committee of this house, and in refusing to sign his deposition before such Com- 
mittee, is a breach of the privileges of this house. 

" 3. That it be recommended to the house to agree to the Report of the Com- 
mittee appointed to inquire into the establishment and proceedings of the Sec- 
tarians, presented to the house this day. 

'•4. That it be recommended to the house to come to the following Resolution ;. 

" Resolved, That a copy of the Report of the Committee, appointed to inquire 
into the establishment and proceedings of the Sectarians, and the examinations, 
taken before them, be forwarded to the Agent, with instructions to lay the same 
before his Majesty's Ministers, together with a copy of the 83d, 84th, and 85lh 
clauses of the Slave Law," (viz. the persecuting clauses,) '* disallo^^ed in 1827, 
and that the said Report and examinations and clauses be printed and distributed 
by the Agent." 

These were followed by a farther resolution, " That Samuel Bromley, 
Baptist Missionary, having been guilty of a breach of the privileges 
of this house, be 'taken into the custody of the Serjeant at arms, and 
that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant accordingly." 

■ We shall of course have an opportunity of soon seeing the evidence 
which is to establish the immoral and destructive tendency of the labours 
of the missionaries. In the mean time, it is plain from what has trans- 
pired of it, in the columns of the Jamaica Newspapers, that it bears the 
character of fabrication on its very front ; and some of the journalists 
have the boldness to affirm that it originates in the most unprincipled 
hostility to religious instruction, and is supported by the most unblush- 
ing perjury. And are the religious bodies quietly to submit to such 
proceedings ? Are they to have their chapels demolished, their mission- 



444 Cape of Good Hope. — Society for Redeeming Slaves. 

aries imprisoned in loathsome dungeons till disease has killed them, and 
their characters falsely and iniquitously and inhumanly traduced, and 
yet be silent? It may be questioned, whether, had they acted with be- 
coming firmness on former occasions, and made the appeal which be- 
came them to the authorities of the state, the evils which now threaten 
the suppression of their missions might not have been averted. In any 
case, they seem now bound, if they would not be accessaries to crime, t@ 
assert the rights, and protect the persons, nay the very lives of their 
missionaries ; and above all to vindicate, to the wretched slaves, the 
privilege of freely hearing the word of God, and of worshipping and 
serving Him in peace. Is there any consideration which can induce 
them to protect themselves and their congregations against insult and 
injury, and intolerance, and persecution, in this country, which does not 
render it still more imperiously their duty to put forth their whole ener- 
gies in shielding their helpless and unprotected brethren, in the Colonies, 
from the arm of the persecutor ? If they shrink from this duty theirs 
will be the responsibility ! 

5. Cape of Good Hope — Society for redeeming Slaves.. 3 

A Society has been formed under the patronage of the Governor, 
''for aiding deserving slaves and slave children to purchase their 
freedom." 

The circumstance of a family of slaves in Cape Town having been 
assisted in obtaining their freedom by the pecuniary aid of a few bene- 
volent individuals, suggested the benefits which might result from the 
formation of a society for such and similar purposes. 

To carry this into effect, a meeting of some friends to the object 
took place on the 27th of June, 1828, when a few resolutions were 
passed, a list opened, and a provisional committee appointed to receive 
subscriptions, and prepare for a general meeting of subscribers, which 
was held on the 24th of July. 

Besides the necessary organization of the Society, the resolutions 
then adopted prescribe that young female slaves shall be emancipated 
in preference to others ; and that a preference shall also be given to 
slaves who are members of a Christian community. 

Subscriptions are solicited from England and India. We have na 
room for any extracts from the Address ; what we have said will shew 
the general character and purposes of the institution. The Address 
itself certainly partakes more of the peculiarity of colonial logic, and 
sympathizes more with the feelings and prejudices of slave-holders 
than suits our taste or judgment. At the same time, we must leave 
men to do good in their own way, only taking care that, in aiding 
or countenancing their benevolence, we do not compromise our own 
principles, or give a sanction to theirs, whereinsoever they fall short of 
the standard of right. 

It appears that the Society had succeeded in redeeming six indivi- 
duals. ; ' 

Erratum in No. 45, p. 419, 1. 5 and 12, for Archbishop Manners, read Manners 

\-,liy ; r ■■■ Sutton, ' ■ 

r,KHi^*iai la X^-'- • '• ■ .'■ ' ■■ — ' ■-^-^ 

Printed by Bagster and Tlioms, 14, Bartholomew Close, London. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 47] For APRIL, 1829. [No. 23. Vol. ii. 

I.— DEFENCE OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE CONVERSION OF 
SLAVES, AND OF THAT FOR THE PROPAGATION OF THE 
GOSPEL, CONSIDERED. 

II.— CRUELTIES OF MR. AND MRS. MOSS, OF THE BAHAMAS, 
TOWARDS A FEMALE SLAVE. 



1. Defence of the Religious Societies, considered. 

• We had prepared for the present Reporter very different materials 
from those it contains. Finding, however, that on the first day of the 
month there had issued from the periodical press no less than three an- 
swers to the statements made by us in our late Numbers, No. 41 ; the 
Supplement to No. 44 ; and No. 45 ; on the state of religion in the 
West Indies, we have deemed it right in the first place to advert to these 
answers as briefly as we can. 

That which claims the priority of notice comes to us from the Rev. 
Dr. Barrett, the Secretary of the Incorporated Society for the Conversion 
of Negro Slaves, and may be considered as the ofliicial vindication of 
that Society. It is a tract of sixteen pages, and is entitled " Extracts 
of Sermons of the West India Clergy on the Observance of the Lord's 
day, in answer to the Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" viz. No. 41, 
and the Supplement to No. 44. The first six pages are occupied with 
a transcript of our remarks, from the two Reporters last mentioned, on 
the " silence and supineness " of that Society, and of the West India 
Bishops and Clergy, with regard to the Sunday of the Slaves. And the 
remaining ten contain the attempted refutation of our animadversions; — 
the answer, in short, of the Society itself, to our complaints on this 
momentous topic. 

The first extract is from a sermon preached at Barbadoes, in July, 
1825, by a very excellent clergyman, of the name of Davis, residing^ in 
St. Kitts, whom we had actually quoted in the Reporter, No. 41, p. ,310, 
as one of the authorities for our complaint ; and the only reason for 
which he is now produced, appears to be his affirming, in a single line of 
this particular sermon, that many of the inhabitants of the Colonies, of 
all ranks, "have no regard to the sacred day of rest and prayer." — This 
is positively all this extract says on the subject. 

The second extract is from a sermon of Archdeacon Elliott, preached 
at Barbadoes, in February, 1827, in which all we find that has the 
slightest, even verbal connection with the subject, is as follows ; having, 
as it appears to us, as little to do with the matter in hand as can well be 
imagined ; the obsolete law which he quotes, referring not at all to the 
slaves, but to the whites. 

" On a former occasion, I alluded in this place to a very old, but unrepealed 
law of this Island, which enforces, by a specified penalty, the duty of repairing 

3 H 



446 Defence of the Conversion Society — Messrs. Davis, Elliott, 

every sabbath day to the parish church or chapel. The same law calls on 'all 
masters and overseers of families to have prayers openly said every morning and 
evening with their families;' and this (I use the pious expression of the framers 
of the law) in order that Almighty God, may be served and glorified, and that he 
give a blessing to our labours. 

3 " I must not be understood as expressing any approbation of laws which env 
force by pecuniary mulcts the service due in private from man to his Creator. ,; 
"I refer to the law above quoted simply to shew, that the feeling which on thig 
subject, actuated the early settlers of the island ought still to exist amongst us." 

The third extract is somewhat more to the point, and forms, iindoubtr„, 
edly, an exception to the universality of our complaint of silence on this 
subject, at p. 314. It is from a sermon preached in Grenada, by Mr. 
Barker, in June, 1827. It very properly notices "the general neglect 
of the sabbath day, and its perversion amongst us to secular employn 
ments," as being the grand sources " of ignorance, vice, and mental 
degradation ;" and the preacher adds that " until we amend this evil, all 
attempts to promote Christian knowledge tvill be vain and fruitless.'^ 
And he then proceeds to denounce the judgments of God on this shame- 
less profanation of the sabbath. 

These are all the passages quoted in this defence of the Society, front 
all the sermons preached in the West Indies from 1823 to the present 
time, which could, by any means, have been known to us before the 
publication of the obnoxious Reporter, No. 4 1. But even had they been 
known to us, as they certainly were not, they still would no farther have 
modified our observations than to have called for some slight qualifying 
expression, and to have enabled us to give Mr. Barker's statement as an 
additional confirmation of our main position, that. While the slaves 
continue deprived of the sabbath, to talk of successful efforts to chris- 
tianize them is little short of mere delusion. 

The remaining extracts, three in number, were not even preached iii| 
Antigua till the close of August, 1828, and could not have been printedj, 
published, and received in England, until the obnoxious Reporter had 
been some time in circulation. These extracts are certainly very 
creditable to the parties delivering them ; Archdeacon Parry, and th^ 
Rev. Mr. Holberton. But then they shew most distinctly that down to, 
that period, namely, the end of 1828, the evil of which the Reporter 
complained had remained unredressed and unmitigated even in Antigua, 
by far the most advanced of any of the colonies in religious knowledge, 
and religious observance.* 

We had no means of knowing, while we were penning that Reporter, 
that its facts and reasonings had been contemporaneously substantiated 
and enforced by two clergymen in Antigua ; for if we had, we should 
have availed ourselves of their valuable testimony. The Archdeacon 
justly remarks, that " to the religion of the labouring classes Sunday 
is every thing:" a sentiment in which, especially as it relates to West 
India slaves, we do most entirely concur. His exhortations too are[ 
excellent, and we should now have pleasure in transcribing them, vvere 

* Antigua is an island, where the slaves, being fed by allowances, instead of 
from grounds of their own, have more of the Sunday in their power than in most 
other colonies. Hence probably the greater progress of religion there. Btit 
even there the case is bad in consequence of Sunday markets, &c. i'JJJSt 'iAl 

\ 



:: ^Tz^arker, ArcMeacoH Parry, Mr. Holberton. i-rU 4^^^ 

it not that the tract ilself has been so widely circulated as to render this 
superfluous. 

Mr, Holberton too with great modesty deems it necessary fo apolo- 
gize (p. 15.) for ha\ ing kept silence so long on the subject of the 
sabbath ; that is to say, he candidly confesses in his own case the 
silence we had affirmed to be general ; though he says, and we beheve 
with truth, that it was pain and grief to him to have had to witness the 
public profanation of the Sabbath. This is so far well, and we hail with 
satisfaction the employment, however late in the day, of such lan- 
guage by West India clergymen. 

But let it not be supposed that even these scanty gleanings (which 
constitute the Society's authorised defence) are liable to no objection on 
the score of their defectiveness, as protests against the evil in question. 
They entirely overlook that main and essential ingredient in the case, 
that the non-observance of the sabbath by the slave is, in most cases, 
not voluntary, but compulsory. When a clergyman speaks of the non-r 
observa?ice of the sabbath in this country; of its 7ieglecf ; of its pro- 
Janation; he is understood to point to a voluntary neglect and pro- 
fanation on the part of his flock, including of course the labouring class. 
He knows that it is at their own option to observe the Sunday or to 
neglect it. Not so in the West Indies. In Jamaica, for example, 
containing nearly half of the West India slave population, and in many 
other colonies, the slaves have no option at all. They must ivork on 
that day or starve. We have already amply proved this point, as may 
be seen in the Reporters, p. 315 and 409; our adversaries themselves, 
and now the Society, uniting to confirm our statement respecting it. 

But this state of things, it must be admitted, is very different from 
that which is represented by the Society, or by its advocates, or even by 
the reverend gentlemen whose sermons have now been cited in its 
defence, under the qualifying terms " non-observance" and " neglect " 
of the Lord's day. i\s it respects the slaves generally, the question is 
not one of non-observance and neglect, but of arbitrary and cruel and 
forcible privation by the dominant white. And yet, where has the 
Society or the bishops clearly pointed oat this to be, as it is, the real 
evil? Nor let it be said that this is a light omission. It is one of the 
most vital moment to the whole matter at issue. The language em- 
ployed, even in the scanty extracts now gleaned, not at all from the 
past annals of the Society itself, but from the vi'hole range of clerical 
effort throughout the West Indies since 1823, and which form the sum 
of the Society's official vindication on this supremely important point, 
is altogether inappropriate to the exigency and the urgency of the case. 
Such observations might suit the voluntary delinquency of those sabbath 
breakers of England who profane the day. — But it does not even 
glance at, much less does it touch, the calamitous circumstances of 
those who, by the laws of colonies calhng themselves Christian, are 
iniquitously debarred from the means of Christian instruction, and 
forced, absolutely forced, to employ the Lord's day in labouring for 
their subsistence and that of their families, or in travelling to and from 
the distant market. 

The great truth which we have endeavoured to convey to the public 



448 Defence of the Conversion Society considered. 

in this discussion, but which some at least of our adversaries seem to 
employ much controversial dexterity in evading, is, that the slaves, in 
most cases, have no sabbath to keep ; a most essential fact, the full ad- 
mission of which has been at length extorted by our statements. 
tosf What we have maintained has been in substance this ; and it will be 
found to coincide remarkably with the testimony of the Society's wit- 
ness Mr. Barker, that " until we amend this evil all attempts to pro- 
mote Christianity among the slaves will be vain and fruitless" and 
{according to Archdeacon Parry) that " to the religion of the slaves 
Sunday is every thing." And if we have blamed the Society, it has 
been for not applying itself directly to the denunciation, and to the 
removal, of this most formidable obstacle to its success. — And what has 
been the reply made to us ? On the part of the Society's advocates, 
(sanctioned advocates we presume) unsparing abuse ; charges of false- 
hood, and calumny, and sectarianism without end : — and, on the part 
of the Society itself, the production of the testimony of the six extracts 
on which it has now rested its defence. 

Now the two witnesses of the Society, who alone say any thing that 
is material, we mean Mr. Barker and Archdeacon Parry, maintain the 
identical proposition which we had put forward in the Reporter, No. 41, 
as the basis of all our animadversions, only that by them it is still more 
sweepingly and unreservedly expressed. We should be ready to adopt 
their very words, with a slight modification, as an epitome of the views 
we there wished to convey respecting the inefficiency (we do not say 
with them the utter but the comparative inefficiency) of all that has 
been done, or can be done, by the Society, to promote Christianity 
among the slaves. Let any man weigh, for example, the force of Mr. 
Barker's testimony, given in February, 1827. " Until we amend this 
evil ALL attempts to promote Christianity among the slaves will be vain 
and fruitless ;" not merely have been, but will be, vain and fi'uitless. 
We have not gone quite so far as Mr. Barker in the assertion of the 
vanity and fruitlessness of all the loudly-vaunted attempts made or 
making by the Society, as stated in its Reports, and in those of the 
West India bishops. But we maintain, and repeat, with added empha- 
sis, citing as our authority the very documents the Society has now 
produced, that if the religious societies and clergy of the West Indies 
" will not at length claim for these wretched outcasts of humanity" (the 
slaves in our colonies) " the sabbath to which they are entitled by the laws 
both of God and man, but of which they are forcibly and iniquitously 
deprived by men pretending to be Christians, their labours, if not wholly 
fruitless, can at least extend to no more than a petty fraction of the 
slave population." Reporter, No. 41, p. 314. We trust, however, that 
better days await us, and that the " silence and supineness " of which 
we have complained, having been perhaps somewhat rudely broken, we 
shall henceforward see this and other societies, as well as the West 
India bishops and clergy, applying themselves, with cordiaHty and 
effect, to remove what is a fundamental obstacle to their success ; and 
instead of limiting themselves to exhortations to the slave to observe a 
sabbath which he does not possess, and therefore cannot keep, but is 
forced lo employ in toil and trafficking, they will now unite in vindicat- 



Defence of the Conversion ^Society considered, 449 

ing his right to that sacred day which has been so long and so impiously 
:; withheld from him, and then follow up that great boon, that essential 
- preliminary to effective instruction, with all the zeal they can possibly 
call into action. 

But to return to the extracts ; we have pointed out one radical defect 
which pervades the whole of them, namely, that they do not grapple with 
the grand prevailing evil of the West Indies, we mean that privation of 
ihe Lord's day by which (to say nothing of its advantages and blessings 
merely as a day of rest) the slave is absolutely and forcibly shut out from 
adequate means of Christian instruction. But this is not their only de- 
fect; they actually misrepresent the origin of the evil itself which is in 
question. They speak of it as a "heathenish custom," a custom not of 
Christian but of pagan origin. " No longer let it be said," observes 
Archdeacon Parry, " that a practice originating, as it must have done, 
in the ignorance of Africans and Pagans, meets, not simply with the 
■ connivance, but with the actual countenance and participation of British 
christians." Now is it possible that such sensible and enlightened men 
as Archdeacon Parry and Mr. Holberton can have been so far deluded 
by colonial information as to believe, that Sunday markets and Sunday 
labour in the British colonies had their origin in any thing else than the 
irreligion and cupidity of British, and, (so called^ Christian, planters? Itis 
perfectly ludicrous tosuppose that the African and Pagan slave, after toil- 
ing six days of the week, should be so wedded to some heathenish custom^ 
- (the very existence of which has no foundation in fact) as, of his own 
accord, to employ the seventh also in compulsory toil and laborious 
trafficking. Such a representation of the matter, (though doubtless not 
so intended by these reverend gentlemen, for both of whom we entertain- 
a very sincere respect,) can have no other effect than to close the eyes 
of their white hearers to their own aggravated and exclusive guilt in the 
, origination, progress, and maintenance of the present wicked and com- 
pulsory desecration of the Lord's day to trafficking and labour. 

And these six extracts, (three of which were not known till long after 
our remonstrance appeared, the other three if they had been known but 
little affecting our statement); — these six extracts form, it would seem, 
the defence, the official, authorised defence, of the Conversion Society; 
and we presume also of the West India bishops and clergy, for the 
" silence and supineness " respecting the want (not the neglect but the 
want) of a sabbath for the slaves, of which we complained. The three 
latest extracts are all too from one Island, Antigua, where a religious at- 
mosphere had long been created by the labours, not only of Mr. Curtin 
the Society's missionary, but of numerous Moravian and Methodist 
missionaries, who had formed large societies of Christian slaves, com- 
, prising a great proportion of the adult negro population of that Island. 
But if the extracts were ten times as numerous as they are; and if they 
had come from Jamaica and the other islands, as well as from Barba- 
does and Antigua, they would not invalidate what was our main com- 
plaint, that no adequate efforts, nay, that even no adequate representa - 
tions had been made, either by West India religious societies, or by the 
West India bishops and clergy, with regard to that cruel privation 
(not non-observance merely, but privation) of the sabbath under which 



450 Defence of the Conversion Society considered. 

the slaves have always laboured, and which we agree with the 
Society's witness, Mr. Barker, in regarding as a blight on all attempts to 
promote Christianity among the slaves, rendering them, (if not wholly as 
he affirms,) in a great measure, " vain and fruitless." And yet, for any 
adequate exposure of this wide-spread, and wide-wasting evil, or forn 
any denunciation of it as the grand obstacle to Christian instruction, weft 
have looked in vain through every report of this and other Societies, and> 
every report of the two West India bishops, to which we have had^ 
access. It was surely there, that we ought to have found a distinct ex-' 
position of this vital obstacle to religious improvement; but there, M&i 
repeat, we have looked for it in vain. rdi 1o 

And here let it be remembered that in 1823, Mr. Canning as' the 
minister of the crown gave a pledge to parliament and the public, that 
the slaves should have the sabbath ; and that, in order thereto, equiva- 
lent time should be allowed them on other days for raising their food ands 
for going to market. That pledge is still unfulfilled. The Society it-*;j 
self, and the Society's advocates admit this. And yet what has been^ 
done either by the Society, or by the bishops of Jamaica and Barbadoes, 
in the course of the six intervening years, to expose the fatal effects of 
this failure, and to bring the matter before His Majesty's ministers ?;f 
The two bishops have made reports to the Secretary of State on the sub-r 
ject of religious improvement. In wliat page of these reports has either 
of them come forward plainly and boldly to state the truth respectingj 
tliis matter? And now that they are called to vindicate their silence^i 
what do they do ? They exhibit the solemn declaration of one of theirs 
energy, Mr. Barker, that until this evil, the want of a sabbath, i^ 
amended " all attempts to promote Christian knowledge will be vaia 
and fruitless." 

But why is it that Mr. Barker's diocesan has not himself stated this 
momentous truth in any of his own official reports which have reached 
the pubhc ? If the statement were untrue, Dr. Barrett would not now 
have produced it, in the Society's vindication, and for the confutation of 
the Anti-Slavery Reporter. And if it be true, how happens it to have 
been wholly omitted in the reports officially addressed by the bishop to 
the government, and laid by them on the table of parliament? The 
bishop went out to the West Indies, saw things with his own eyes, was 
convinced (as it would now appear) that without the reform of this par- 
ticular evil, success in the object of his mission was hopeless or nearly 
so ; and yet, in making his reports, he has entirely omitted the distinct 
exposure of this essential point, until it is at length, in 1829, brought 
forward to serve a merely controversial purpose. There may be some 
answer of a satisfactory kind to be given to this prima facie case of 
neglect, but until it is given, we, who are not in the secret, can only 
judge by the testimony before us ; testimony furnished by the So- 
ciety, and, therefore, in fact testimony furnished by the bishop him- 
self: :? 

And it is for having ventured, after five or six years of patient waiting,' 
to question the propriety of this " silence and supineness" that we 
have been assailed, by the pretended friends of the Society and of the 
hishops, with such terms of outrage and indignity as might much 



I>efenoe of the Conversion Society considered. 4^t 

better have been spared. The Society, however, will feel that it is not by 
stich means that its proceedings can be effectually vindicated. The 
great question which has been raised cannot be disposed of by hard 
names and bold assertions. We allude here, however, not to the tem- 
perate though feeble and ineffective defence transmitted to us by Dr. 
Barrett, but to the flood of abuse poured out upon us from less official 
(at least unavowed) organs, and particularly, to what has again appeared 
in the British Critic. To that work we shall come in due time, and 
while we shall deem it unnecessary either to retort its abuse or to reply 
to it (being such as no gentleman could have written, and no Minister 
of the Gospel would be justified in inditing or even sanctioning), w'e 
shall nevertheless not fail, both to expose its misrepresentations and 
mis-statements, and to avail ourselves of its large and momentous 
concessions. This, however, is only by the way, and to prevent our 
readers from supposing that if we should be unable in the present Re- 
porter to execute our purpose of answering the British Critic, it is 
because we admit either the truth or the fairness of its coarse invec- 
tives. 

There is, however, one passage in that work (British Critic for April, 
p. 41 1) which, being connected with the subject of the sabbath, we will 
now advert to. The reviewer, in a former article (p. 214,) had met our 
complaint of " silence and supineness," on the part of the West India 
bishops and clergy, with respect to the prevailing want of a sabbath; 
in the West Indies, among other things, by referring to an extract 
from an unpublished sermon of the Bishop of Barbadoes, preached iri 
1827, which extract the bishop had not published, but had printed and 
circulated among his clergy. Now this Avas all perfectly proper, but it 
was what we could have ho knowledge of; and which, if we had known 
it, would have only shewn, not that the bishop had exposed the evil of 
the slaves' forcible privation of a Sunday in the way in which redress for 
that evil was to be obtained, but that he had properly rebuked the preva-, 
\&nt non-ohservance of Sunday in Barbadoes, and the non-attendance in 
its various churches of more than " a twenty-fifth part of its population," 
that is, of 4000 in all out of 100,000. It was doubtless very proper foj:' 
the bishop thus to address that portion of the 4000 who might have at- 
tended him on this particular occasion, though we may regret, consider- 
ing the magnitude of the evil, that this has not been more frequently and 
more appropriately done. But the case we chiefly contemplated is not 
tliereby met, and it required of him another mode of proceeding in or- 
der to afford any fair hope of getting a Sunday for the slaves. If, how- 
ever, the extract had even gone that length, which it did not, it was still 
only privately circulated, and ive could know nothing of it. But th# 
reviewer is not content with blaming us for not having given weight ttt 
this private and unknown communication, bui for not having announced, 
after he (the reviewer) had told us the fact, that this extract had formed 
part of a sermon previously preached by the bishop, and which, he adds, 
had attracted great notice, and gave great offence in Barbadoes. All 
this may be very true, but, in point of fact, we knew no more and could 
know no more of this particular sermon, preached in some church on 
the other side of the Atlantic, than we know of that which was preached 



452 Defence of the Coy^version Society considered. 

last Sunday in the cathedral church of St. Paul, or in any one parish 
church in Yorkshire or Devonshire, which is just nothing at all. And 
if, by some chance, we had heard of this particular sermon, the idea 
.that the evanescent words of one paragraph in it, delivered in the hear- 
ing of a few hundred persons, in one of the churches of Barbadoes, and 
never published, could have had any material bearing on the subject iat 
issue, or that such a passing circumstance could have been adduced, or 
even thought of by any one, as at all fulfilling the high obligations of 
the bishop on this point, never entered our minds. The mere incidental 
delivery by his lordship of a single short paragraph, on the neglect of 
the Lord's day and of its ordinances in Barbadoes, though it proves that 
he " opened his lips" on the subject on one occasion, did seem to us, 
and still seems to us, a matter totally immaterial to the main question 
at issue. And yet such is the difficulty which the Critic feels in repel- 
ling our main charge, which he must be conscious remains wholly 
unanswered, that he attaches to this insignificant omission the foul 
imputation of a wilful violation of truth. Such imputations however can- 
aot have the effect of drawing the attention of the public from what 
alone is material in the case ; — namely, what had been done by the 
Conversion Society and by the bishops, previous to the appearance of 
the obnoxious Reporter, to expose the real and grand obstacle to the 
progress of religion among the slaves in the West Indies, that is to say, 
their cruel and compulsory privation of the blessings of the sabbath. 

But what could the Society, or what could the bishops have done ? 
They could at least have clearly stated the fact, that, by the very institu- 
tions of the West Indies, the slaves in generai are absolutely without a 
sabbath. They could at least have told the government, and the parlia- 
ment, and the public what is now tardily admitted, and which their own 
\yitnesses (the Rev. Mr. Barker, &c.) most fully confirm, that "until 
we shall amend this evil all attempts to promote Christian knowledge" 
among the slaves will be, if not wholly and absolutely, yet in a very 
great degree " vain and fruitless." Instead of this plain statement, the 
reports of both are filled with accounts of the success attending their 
eflPorts to promote Christianity, and do not advert, in any direct and in- 
telligible way, to the existence of the formidable obstacle in question, 
but which the proof they now adduce makes even an insuperable bar to 
that success. We advert to these facts merely to shew the substantial 
correctness of that language of our Reporter, No. 41, which has excited 
so much of heat and dissatisfaction in certain quarters. 

But what, it will be asked again, could the bishops or the Society have 
done respecting this matter? We answer, they could have done what they 
have actually done in respect to other matters of far less moment. They 
could have distinctly exposed the evil, and they could have implored 
the aid of the government and of parliament in applying a remedy to it. 
The want of churches for example has been dwelt upon at great length 
by both the Society and the bishops ; and the government has been urged, 
and not in vain, to aid in supplying that want. But was the want of a 
Sunday for the slaves less important? Why was not that want also 
pressed on the attention of the government ? Would not the West Indian 
bishops have been listened to had they told the Secretary of State, with 



Defence of the Conversion Society considered. 453 

a!l due solemnity, " Until you amend this evil; — until you supply this 
want; — our labours will be vain and fruitless ; — our costly appoint- 
ments will be of little or no value. Besides, this is a want which the 
government actually pledged itself, as early as May 1823, to supply. 
Then we were distinctly assured, and in that hope we went forth, that 
the Sunday would be given to the slaves for rest and instruction, and 
that equivalent time would be granted them on other days for marketing 
and for raising their food. But this has not been done. To this hour 
the Sunday shines no sabbath day for the slaves. They must still work 
on the Sunday or starve. Under these circumstances we and our clergy 
are reduced to a state of most lamentable inefficiency. We implore you 
therefore to apply a speedy remedy to this evil." Can it be doubted that 
^uch a representation, openly, and fearlessly, and earnestly made by the 
bishops, and backed by the different Societies, and especially by the 
nine West Indian managers of the Conversion Society, would have long 
since produced the desired result ? We wish not to look back for any 
other purpose than that of awakening regret for past supineness, and 
inciting to future and well directed exertions. We shall be perfectly 
content to relinquish to those who are so impatient of our warning voice 
the glory of having at length achieved this great work; nor shall we 
permit the satisfaction we shall feel in witnessing its consummation to 
be disturbed by one angry recollection as to the harsh and hostile laui. 
guage their advocates may have chosen to employ with respect to our- 
selves. We know that no great good can be accomplished in tlie world 
-without incurring obloquy, and we may always count upon this as a part 
;of the price which those must pay, who shall dare at any time to inter^^ 
meddle either with the rapacious and heartless pursuits of avarice, or th^ 
cruel abuses of power, or the tardy and inefficient schemes or ostenta- 
tious claims of self»-satisfied religionists of whatever class. The authors, 
however, of the unworthy imputations which have led to this digression, 
anay rest assured that they will have no effect either in relaxing aur 
efforts, or in diverting the attention of the public from the great ques.- 
tions we have brought before them ; — the actual extinction in the West 
Indies, as respects the great mass of our slaves, of the Christian sabbath ; 
the silence and supineness with which that evil has too long been viewed 
by those wliose business it v/as to expose it ; and the imperative obliga^ 
tian lying upon us to vindicate the right of the slaves to have the Sun- 
day forthwith conferred upon Ihem, in full, unreserved and undisturbed 
possession and enjoyment. 

One word more before we quit the consideration of Dr. Barretl*s, oy 
rather the Society's, very temperate though feeble attempt at vindication. 

We are anxious it should be clearly understood that, from the first 
moment of our entering on the review of the Society's last report, we 
had no intention to include, in any inculpatory remarks we might make, 
many of the venerable and venerated names who are enrolled in the list 
of its governors, and who, having no adequate means of knowing the 
truth themselves, were liable to be misled by the misinformation of others^ 
Our purpose, as we declared in the outset'(Reporter, No. 41, p. 314,) was 
rather " to direct their attention to the subject, and to open their eyes 
tb the real state of the case/' and in this purpose we cannot doubt Xlv^ 



434 Defence of the Conversion Societt/ considered. 

we have in some degree succeeded. We felt indeed such confidence in 
the character and intentions, as well as the uprightness and zeal, of the 
English prelates and others who fill the offices of vice-presidents and go- 
vernors of this Society, and especially of the right reverend the lord bishop 
of London, the president; and were so well assured of their candour, that 
we could not doubt they would justly appreciate the motives which had 
induced our interference, and would give to our suggestions whatever 
weight they deserved. Neither can we doubt that they will now fairly 
and impartially examine the conflicting statements and reasonings which 
have been placed before them; and that the decisions of their judgment 
on the past, as well as their determinations as to the future, will be guided 
by a consideration not of what may seem due to the mere dignity of the 
Society, but of what is due to the spiritual and eternal interests of nearly 
a million of human beings, their fellow subjects, whom not we alone, but 
their own agents and witnesses represent as sunk, by the privation of a 
sabbath, in " ignorance, vice, and degradation," and as likely to continue 
in this state, notwithstanding all attempts to effect their conversion, 
Until that sabbath shall have been secured to them. It was in the hope 
of producing such a conviction that we entered upon the present discus- 
sion ; feeling that if that conviction were once wrought in the minds of 
those eminent individuals, our great end of having an effectual remedy 
applied to the evil could not fail to be answered. We felt assured 
indeed, that if they had been aware of the full extent of that evil, they 
would not have remained quiescent under its continuance for so many 
years. 

But how, it may be asked, could they have been so long ignorant of 
facts which, since this controversy has commenced, are now fully ad- 
mitted on all hands without question ? The silence of the bishops of 
Jamaica and Barbadoes in their official reports may perhaps account fOr 
this. That unbounded confidence should have been placed in the ac- 
curacy and adequateness of their representations, by the members of this 
Society, and especially by the right reverend prelates who patronize it, 
was perfectly natural. If, however, the communications of the West 
India bishops with the Society corresponded with the tenor of their 
official reports to his Majesty's government, such communications 
could not possibly convey any adequate impressions of the nature of 
the case. Whether from the misinformation of creole or creolized ad- 
visers in whom the West India bishops were at first led to place their 
confidence ;* or from the flatteries that were at first addressed to them, 
and the festal and other gratulations which everywhere hailed their ap- 
|)roach ; or from timidity ; or from mistaken views of expediency pro- 
ceeding from an imperfect estimate of the state of religious feeling among 
the whites in the colonies, and of the blighting influence of the slavery 
which exists there ; or from the delusions practised upon them with 
respect to the whole nature and tendency of the colonial system ; — 

, jj * The first official adviser of the Bishop of Jamaica for instance, recommended 
to him by the governor and secretary of the island, was the Rev. Mr. Bridges. 
tVTiat could possibly result from such an adviser but prejudice, and misconcep- 
tion on tbe part of those who relied upon him? 



Defence of the Conversion Societ'^\(^'^§^^^d. 455 

whatever may have been the cause, (we pretend not to decide : the 
bishops alone are competent to explain it), their public and official re- 
presentations were certainly not calculated to guide aright the opinions 
of others. And yet these were the authorities to which their less in- 
formed brethren, who had never visited the West Indies themselves, 
would very naturally defer, and which they would even deem oracular; 
while every softening but delusive colouring which their statements may 
have derived from any or all of the above causes, would not fail to be 
eagerly welcomed and confirmed by those governors of the Society who 
were themselves imbued with West Indian prejudices, and who, as mem- 
bers of the West India committee, had done much to mislead the public 
on the subject of West Indian reform, and particularly on this very point 
of a sabbath for the slaves. (See Reporter, p. 409.) 

But besides this, it cannot be denied that there is a wonderful aptitude 
in the human mind to accommodate itself to new scenes and associations, 
and to lose, by familiarity with those scenes, and sympathy with those 
associations, the acuteness of its perception with respect to evils, vyhich, 
under other circumstances, might have produced disgust and reprobation. 
This effect is daily seen exemplified in a thousand ways, not in the West 
Indies only but in Europe, and it serves to account for the extraordinary 
fact that the acquisition of mere local knowledge, by persons not pre- 
pared, by just general views^as well as by sound principles, for appreciat- 
ing its value, often tends rather to obscure than to enlighten the mind. 
Who, for example, but one who was familiar with colonial scenes, and 
had associated with colonial proprietors, could have cited as a proof of 
the lenient treatment of their bondsmen, that water was given them to 
drink while toiling under a tropical sun? (Reporter, No. 45, p. 421.) 
The fact that a draught of water, in such circumstances, is spoken of as 
a boon, an indulgence, shews that the human animal is there sunk in 
social estimation to the level of the brute, though men of local knowledge 
may be insensible to so obvious an inference. We recur to this topic, not, 
as the Christian Remembrancer would insinuate, for the purpose of in- 
flammation, or of wounding the feelings of any individual, but in order to 
exemplify the influence of habit, and also of sympathy with the associates 
of our familiar hours, with whom we live in the daily interchange of offices 
of kindness and courtesy ; and to warn the governors of Societies that, in 
estimating the value of information, it is incumbent on them not to lose 
sight of so pregnant a source of error. Information is to be tried not by 
the character alone of the informant, but also where it can be done, by the 
Jess fallacious tests of well ascertained general principles, and of such un- 
questionable facts as do not depend on the varying and deceptive shades 
of human opinion. If, for example, the most respectable roan or even 
bishop in the world were to assert, on the ground of his local knowledge, 
ihat the slaves in Trinidad were better off than the free, should we not 
at once suspect the correctness of a statement so diametrically opposed 
as this would be to the general principle which assures us that slavery is 
and must be an evil ; and still more to those statistical returns which 
exhibit among the slaves an annual mortahty of two to three per cent., 
while among the fi'ee around them there is an annual increase to xie^rly 
the same amount. In the face of such overwhelming evidence, the opi- 



456 Defence of the Conversion Society considered. ^^^'^'^*'^^ 

nion of any informant, however respectable in himself, would be erititl«lt'''' 
to little regard. It is unnecessary to multiply instances of the same ' 'I 
kind ; our object being only to shew the governors of Societies that ' ;, 
there may be circumstances which may insensibly bias the judgment of 
the most upright and respectable of their informants, and against which 
therefore it is most important to guard. 

We here think it right to say, that before we ventured to publish that 
part of the Reporter, No. 41, which refers to the silence of the West 
India bishops and clergy, respecting the slaves' want of a Sunday, v?e ' 
took means to communicate with no less than four clergymen who 
had long resided in the West Indies, and were fully cognizant of the real 
facts of the case. To two of these, who are themselves members and 
zealous friends of the Conversion Society, and who, we cannot doubt^ /^ 
are known to the bishop of Barbadoes, the substance of our remarks ou 
the subject was previously submitted in a written form. From all 
these individuals we obtained the unequivocal admission of the trutK of. 
the main facts on which we have insisted ; namely that, generally speak- 
ing, the slaves have no sabbath ; and that, this evil had not been duly '" 
denounced either by the clergy in general, or by themselves in particu-^ " 
lar. In vindication of themselves they stated that had they, in their* i 
peculiar circumstances, dared to lift up their voices against this evil, in a 
way likely to produce any material effect, they must have bid adieu to 
quiet and to usefulness, or they must have quitted the West Indies, But 
why, it was asked, did they not, now that they were in England, denounce 
this evil as one which cut up by the root all clerical usefulness ? It was 
replied by one of them, that it would be a very ungracious proceeding, 
after a silence of many years in the West Indies, now to come forward 
to arraign in public the community among whom he had lived ; but that 
he was further prevented from adopting such a course, by the confidence'" 
he felt that such an exposure from him would infallibly subject such ' 
of his clerical friends, still residing in the West Indies, as were known to 
be likeminded with himself, to the most bitter persecution. The others, 
with one exception, were equally averse to come forward in public ; and 
yet they all seemed most heartily to desire the removal of this evil, the 
existence and the fatal effects of which they also most unequivocally ad-l 
mitted. 

The difficulties thus experienced by the inferior and dependent clergy^ 
seem only to render it the more incumbent on the bishops, and on the 
Societies, to speak out, and to employ the influence of their official sta- 
tions, and of their collective authority, in inducing the government and 
the parliament of this country to put an end to so enormous an evil. 

And if any thing could be added in the way of incitement to the per- 
formance of this duty, it might be drawn from the fact that in the yeai''' 
1793, Mr. Bryan Edwards, himself a Jamaica planter, and a strenuous 
supporter of the West Indian system, denounced this evil, and urged 
its immediate removal, in terms scarcely less strong than we ourselves 
have employed. In the 5th chapter of the 4th book of his History of 
the West Indies, we find him thus expressing his sentiments upon it, 
" A third measure has been recommended of less doubtful efficacy. It 
is to render the sabbath what it ought to be, a day of rest and religious 



Christian Remembrancer s Defence of Propagation Society. 457 

improvement; to which end the markets on Sunday ought to be sup- , 
pressed. They are a disgrace to a Christian country." Thirty-six years '^^^ 
have elapsed since this sentence was first published, and the slaves of "^ 
Jamaica are still without a sabbath. Sunday is for them to this hour -ai-'f^ 
day of labour and of traffic. And even the pretended reform which hasn't" 
taken place in Barbadoes, and which the Society's report for 1827 speaks '^-^ 
of with so much complacency, is thus described in the Barbadian of the '-'* 
16th December, 1828, by the editor of that paper. " We look anxiously 
for the day when our market house will be closed the whole of the Lord's*^*:| 
day. When shall we get rid of the trafficking and slaughtering, the -^^ 
noise and uproar, the cursing and swearing, which from the dawn of ''^' 
day" (five o'clock) " till nine o'clock on Sundays are so disgusting, and "l' 
are too disgraceful to be much longer tolerated, we trust, in this Chris- '^" 
tian land !"* '^ 

We have now done with the Society's official vindication, and shall 
proceed to notice, we trust much more briefly, the other two attacks 
which have been made upon us by the periodical press of the present 
month, namely, an article signed Philalethes, in a work called the Chris- 
tian Remembrancer, p. 243 — 246, and another by the British Critic, 
pp. 407—454. 

We will first dispose of Philalethes, who confines himself wholly to '" 
the defence of the Propagation Society's conduct, in respect to its slaves, i; 
against the Reporter, No. 45, His defence is tolerably candid, though '' 
not very effective ; for it consists almost entirely of admission and con- i' 
cession. ;' 

1. Philalethes admits that the Society was "tardy" in its efforts 
to Christianize its slaves, and that it was not till 1818 that "an' 
efficient system was adopted." There is therefore no question between 
us as to its earlier operations, for though a catechist was occasionally; 
placed on the estates, it nowhere appears, nor has it been affirmed that,'; 
any progress was made by him in Christianizing the slaves, though four'^ 
or five generations of them had passed into their graves previous to 1818. . 

2. He admits that Mr. Finder, the Society's chaplain, of whom he speaks,' 
webelieve justly, in high terms, and Mr. Clarke, its agent, are, as we stated,'' 
natives of Barbadoes, and owners of slaves. He denies, indeed, that Mr.t 
Clarke, though educated a planter, carried the whip during his novi-* 
ciate ; but such a circumstance, however it might discredit a man iii**^ 
England, would be no discredit at all in Barbadoes. But though he 
might not with his own hand apply to the slaves, men and women, thej^' 
whip as a stimulus in the field, he must have been a daily and hourly^; 
vpitness of its use under his superintendance. If Philalethes wishes td'' 
know something of the degrading employments to which commencing 
planters are subjected throughout the West Indies, let him read a verv 
graphic account of that state by one who had evidently himself passetf' 

* It was with some surprise that in contrast with this statement, we read^fn^ 
the Report of the Wesleyaa Missions to December 1828, (p. 98,) the extract o^ 
a letter from a Missionary in Barbadoes, affirming "that Bridgetown is now ail 
peaceable and orderly on the Lord's day as most towns in England." He mus|:; 
mean, we suppose, after the hubbub of the morning is over. If so, his account 
is scarcely fair. If not, which account arc we to believe? 7 



.458 Christian RememhranceTS Defence of Propagation Society. 

through it, entitled Marly, or the Life of a Plginter. Philalethes, how- 
-BVer, is much mistaken if he supposes we meant to say any thing tha,;t 
\vould affect the respectability or moral character of either Mr. Pinder 
or Mr. Clarke. All we meant to do was to caution the Society not to trust 
to the opinions and the judgment of men who had been placed in cir- 
■Hiumstances so unfavourable for forming sound opinions and a just judg- 
ment. And we do not think the matter much mended by the British 
Critic, when he says that the Society had information also from the bishop. 
The bishop's information must have come to him from the same source. 
The occasional visits he may have paid to the estates would afford 
him no great insight into the details of plantation economy. — We must 
still think that no one, not nursed, as it were, in the lap of slavery, or 
whose feelings were not perverted by familiarity with its abominations, 
could have stated, as instances of the Society's lenient treatment of its 
slaves, that water was allowed them to drink while at work in the field 
under a tropical sun ; that mothers, having three living children, were 
allowed one afternoon in the week, and mothers, having eight living 
children, one day in the week.* (Statement relative to Codrington Col- 
lege, p. 9.) 

3. He admits that a writer who very vituperatively pleaded the cause 
of the Society, in the Christian Remembrancer of last year, was mistaken 
in his confident assertions of the abolition of the whip on its estates ; but 
he tells us that now the whip is forbidden. At least, he says, the Society 
has given injunctions to that effect. The Society will probably learn, ere 
long, the wide difference between an order issued in England, and an 
order executed in Barbadoes. Why are not the various regulations, 
adopted for plantation discipline, produced with the date of each .'' And 
with respect to this order about the whip, we should like to see its terms, 
and also what stimulus to labour the Society has substituted for that 
-powerful and efficacious instrument. ;:, 

4. Philalethes admits that writing and arithmetic are excluded from 
the Society's schools, " mjust deference to public opinion." Is this the 
language of Philalethes, or of the creole agents and chaplain of the So- 
ciety? What we lament is the unjust and unchristian deference whiqh 
has been shewn, in this and other instances, to the public opinion of a 
community constituted as is that of the whites in Barbadoes. The same 
public opinion has operated against Sunday, against marriage, nay, 
against religion itself; and yet we are told it is just to defer to that opi- 
nion. This is something like the conduct of the Jesuits in China. 
Philalethes adds, that in his opinion no immediate benefit could result to 

^' * Philalethes says, "Such remarks do no good. They injure the soul of him 
who suffers himself to write them. They exasperate the West Indian mind ; 
and they shut out the co-operation of many who are heartily desirous of meliorat- 
ing and elevating the condition of the slave." We are greatly indebted to Phi- 
lalethes for his tender concern on our behalf ;_but we cannot see that we violate 
any rule, either of prudence or charity, in shewing to the public the dreadful 
effectsof colonial slavery, in so hardening thehearts of e ven good men, that they can 
produce such facts as those referred to above as proofs of lenity and indulgence. 
— We think Philalethes must be greatly in want of a good reason for withholding 
from us his co-operation in elevating the slaves, if he finds it in our exhibition 
of the evidence of their extreme depression. 



WliHsiian Remembrancer s Defence of Propagation Society. 459 

the slave from being taught these things, and the time would be better 
employed in learning to read. This is strange language to use in the 
present day. But why may not time be given for both objects ? Ought 
he or ought the Society to weigh the value of the labour of these poor 
creatures, against their moral and intellectual improvement ? We hope 
the Society does not agree with Philalethes and the Barbadians in these 
exploded views of the benefits of any education beyond that of reading. 

5. We do not deny" that it is a great object to be able to read the New 
Testament, but we know it is a much easier book, as a mere test of skill 
in reading, than either the Old Testament, or a common newspaper. 
Those who can read the Old will be sure to read the New with facility. 

6. We deny that the Sunday school, as its constitution and effects 
are described in the Society's statement, is an effectual supplement 
to that miserably contracted education to which the Society's slaves 
are limited. The utmost number it contains is Q5, and their attend- 
ance, which is only for two hours, (Statement, p. 18.) is irregular. Be- 
sides, it is clear that the instruction there given is chiefs oral and 
catechetical. (Statement, p. 8, see also p. 21.) It forms, therefore, a very 
poor substitute indeed, if it be any substitute, for the various exclusions 
of which we have complained. 

7. Philalethes admits, after 120 years of possession, the continued ex- 
istence of polygamy and the absence of marriage on the Society's estates ; 
but he seems unwilling to condemn this state of things, and, we are 
sorry to say, attempts a sort of apology for it. Without doubt, the 
West Indians with whom Philalethes has conferred, have told him of 
happy effects arising from unions " not ratified by the sacred solemnities 
of the altar." Such are very likely to be the sentiments of men who 
have lived all their days in the sight at least, if not in the practice of 
open and lawless concubinage ; but, that Philalethes should believe in 
the good effects they allege to follow from such an unhallowed system, 
and which, he says, are such as to n\ake many married folks in this 
country to blush for themselves, is only a proof of the extraordinary 
facility with which the most absurd and extravagant statements will be 
received, even by sensible men, when propounded by West Indians in 
vindication of their unchristian system. 

In this country Philalethes must know that polygamy is prevented 
not by religion alone, but by positive law ; and that the man guilty of 
it is not excused because he is not a Christian, or a member of the church 
of England, or though he should be deist or infidel. The Society, Phila- 
lethes tells us, has considered marriage only in reference to the rites ot 
the church of England. But is not this to take a very contracted and 
most indefensible view of the matter ? In what part of the world, and 
•under what form of belief has not marriage been thought an absolutely 
essential institution of civil society, excepting only among the slaves 
of Christian masters in Christian colonies ? Can then the Society vindi- 
cate its never having adopted any regulation respecting the marriage of 
its slaves, over whom it has always possessed an unlimited power of 
control ; and four or five generations of whom it has reared from in- 
fancy to puberty and even old age. It has been able to coerce the labour 
of these slaves, and to subject them to every rule of discipline it has 



460 Ckristiati Remembrancer s Deje?ice of Propagatioti Society. 

chosen to impose ; and yet it has never established a rule that the union 
of the sexes on its estates shall be sanctioned by any solemnity, or ren- 
dered binding and indissoluble by any tie. Is this right? When the 
Jamaica Maroons, amounting to about 600, were removed to Sierra Leone 
in 1800, they were without marriage and were polygamists. The govern- 
ment of Sierra Leone required of them that their unions should be sanc- 
tioned by law, and that polygamy should cease. They at once con- 
sented, and now there is no trace of polygamy among them, and the in- 
stitution of marriage prevails as elsewhere. Would it be more difficult 
to deal with the Society's 380 slaves over whom it has absolute dominion, 
than it was with the 600 Maroons who were perfectly free, and had arms 
in their hands ? In fact nothing appears to have been attempted on 
the subject ; and though several generations have been born, and 
passed into the grave, nothing effectual has yet been done to induce the 
rising races to abandon the licentious habits of their progenitors ; nor 
does Philalethes afford us any hope of an early change in this respect. 

8. Philalethes, to our utter surprise, is inclined to justify the practice 
of admitting to the Lord's Supper slaves living in concubinage or poly- 
gamy. Are they qualified to partake of the Lord's Supper, and are they 
unfit for the marriage rite ? To what lengths will men go to defend ex- 
isting abuses ? Besides, has he considered that a religious ceremony is 
by no means indispensable to the validity and legitimacy of marriage 
either in Scotland, or in France, or in the United States, or among 
Quakers, or among our Hindoo or Mohammedan subjects ? And yet, 
on the Society's estates, no step has been taken to give validity to the 
marriages of its slaves, or legitimacy to their offspring. i 

9. Philalethes cordially assents to the propriety of a record of punish- 
ments being kept. Is such a record then at length established ? 

10. It is conceded that the Society's negroes labour at times from five 
in the morning till nine at night ; but then, it is added, that Mr. Clarke 
says that the slaves only labour nine or ten hours daily on an average. 
We suspect that this statement gives an inadequate view of the continuity 
of their labour; nor do we admit Mr. Clarke's evidence as decisive. He 
is in fact the party accused. He has entered, it is true, a plea of not 
guilty, but he cannot be both party and witness. — But Philalethes ac- 
cuses us of unfairness for not having recognized the time allowed the 
slaves for breakfast and dinner. — And did he or any else ever imagine 
that slaves or any other human, or even brute beings, could labour for 
sixteen hours without respite or refreshment, and that it was necessary fot 
us to state that some time was allowed for that purpose, between five in the 
morning and nine at night ? But as to this respite, the Society's state- 
ment contradicts itself. At p. 9, it tells us the suspension is only " half 
an hour for their breakfast, and an hour and a half for their dinner." At 
p. 26, it is said, an hour is given for breakfast, and two hours for dinner. 
Which of these statements is true ? But we will take either, and then 
say that the continuity of field labour is still excessive, and especially as 
it regards the women. Besides the field labour, ihey have to attend to the 
preparation of their food ; the collection of fuel for dressing it, and the 
cooking of it; the care of their children; the care of their stock, and of 
their little gardens ; the travelling to and from the field; the washing 



-^' Picture of Colonial Slavery by the British Critic. 461 

of their clothes; and a variety of other domestic offices; even if grass 
picking for the cattle is not added to their toil In this country, if a 
man labours ten hours a day, he finds his meal ready for him when he 
comes home. In the West Indies, the v^^ife is generally in the field as 
long as the husband, and has to perform the same tale of work, and she 
can therefore make no domestic preparation till dismissed from it. 

We take in good part the concluding admonition of Philalethes, and 
we are ready to admit that controversy, especially between the advocates 
of Christian Societies, ought ever to partake of a Christian spirit, and to 
be conducted with temper, and in the attitude of conciliation, and with 
the voice of meekness. In whatever degree we may have offended in 
this respect, we are most heartily sorry for it, and we shall, at least, be 
rendered by his caution, more vigilant in guarding in future against every 
feeling, as well as every expression of an intemperate kind. — We would 
repeat in the case of the Propagation Society, what we have already 
stated in that of the Conversion Society, that our main object, in what 
we have said, has been to obviate the effect of misrepresentation on the 
minds of the distinguished and venerated individuals who stand at the 
head of its list, and to open their eyes to the true state of the case. Of 
one thing indeed it is impossible for us wholly to acquit them, and that 
is of the guilt, for guilt we must deem it, of having so long held, and 
still continuing to hold nearly 400 of their fellow creatures, children 
of the same heavenly Father, objects of the same redeeming mercy, 
heirs of the same immortality, in an abject and degrading bondage. To 
this neither we, nor the British public can be reconciled by any argument. 
Let them only look at the picture which their own advocate, of the Bri- 
tish Critic, has drawn of slavery, as it exists in its most favourable state 
in the British West Indies ; of that slavery which they themselves are 
parties in countenancing and upholding.* 

" If," says he, the prevailing " apathy " on this subject "could be 
overcome ;" — " if by a strong effort of the imagination we could place 
ourselves in the midst of a West Indian colony, and compare what will 
there be seen with our own happy lot ; what a difference should we find 
between them ! Withdrawing our attention from every thing which the 
colonial laws and customs condemn ; looking not at the excesses, but 
at the regular necessary practices of the people, what shall we behold ? 
The whole order of nature (as we understand it in this country,) reversed ; 
the labourer excited to labour not by hope but by fear ; punishments 
which here are inflicted by the magistrate for crimes, inflicted there by 
the master for idleness and impertinence ; the supply of daily food and 
the maintenance of wife and children not dependent upon the exertion, 
self-denial, skill, or good character of the individual ; Christian marriage 
almost unknown ; the human form divine treated as if it were no better 

* This language is strong, but see the Reporter, No. 40, p. 301, where we 
have staled our creed on the subject ; and it will be admitted that we cannot 
honestly make distinctions, in the estimate we form of the criminality of any 
particular line of conduct, on account of the rank of the parties oftending. 
See also an admirable sermon on slavery, contained in a volume recently pub- 
lished for Longman, by the Rev. Dr. Thomson, of Edinburgh, with the able ap- 
pendix, which he has added, and in which he alludes to the Propagation Society, 

3 K 



462' ^ Cruelties in the Bahattias of Mr. and Mrs, Moss. 

than a brute or a machine ; degraded to a chattel, seized by the creditor, 
sold in the market place, and exposed to every indignity which tyranny 
or caprice may dictate." — British Critic for April 1829, p. 413. 

This is indeed an affecting view of the sad circumstances in which 
the Society is placed by possessing this species of property. But the 
evil is not irremediable. It is well known to the Society that there are, 
in Barbadoes alone, about 5000 emancipated slaves or their descendants, 
and throughout the West Indies about 100,000 such. What then would 
the Society have to fear in adding its 381 to this number? — But we 
must for the present postpone the consideration of these and other mo- 
mentous points connected with this controversy, and leave, for a time, 
the accusatory revilings of the British Critic to their undisturbed opera- 
tion on the public mind. A still more urgent matter has suddenly pre- 
ferred its claims to the remaining pages of our present number. While 
we were transcribing the last extract, a parliamentary paper reached us 
fresh from the press, containing the account of a transaction which, 
though not altogether foreign to the subject of our discussion with the 
British Critic, must nevertheless take precedence of it. The paper is 
numbered 121, and contains the details which follow. 

Cruelties perpetrated by Henry and Helen Moss, on a 
Female Negro Slave in the Bahamas. 
The nature of this transaction will best appear from the following 
despatch of Mr. Secretary Huskisson to the Governor, General Grant, 
dated Downing Street, 28th September, 1827. 

" I HAVE received your despatch of the 3d July last, transmitting the minutes 
of evidence on the trial of Henry and Helen Moss, suggesting certain considera- 
tions in their favour, and recommending the remittal of the fine which formed a 
part of their sentence. 

" These persons have been found guilty of a misdemeanour for their cruelty to 
their slave Kate ; and those facts of the case which are proved beyond dispute, 
appear to be as follows : 

" Kate was a domestic slave, and is stated to have been guilty of theft ; she is 
also accused of disobedience, in refusing to mend her clothes and do her work, 
and this was the more immediate cause of her punishment. On the 22d of Juljj 
1826, she was confined in the stocks, and she was not released till the 8th of 
August following, being a period of seventeen days. The stocks were so con- 
structed, that she could not sit up and lie down at pleasure, and she remained 
in them night and day. During this period she was flogged repeatedly, one of 
the overseers thinks about six times, and red pepper was rubbed upon her eyes 
to prevent her sleeping. Tasks were given her which, in the opinion of the same 
overseer, she was incapable of performing ; sometimes because they were beyond 
her powers, at other times because she could not see to do them on account of 
the pepper having been rubbed on her eyes : and she was flogged for failing to 
accomplish these tasks. A violent distemper had been prevalent on the planta- 
tion during the summer. It is in evidence, that on one of the days of Rate's con- 
finement she complained of fever, and that one of the floggings which she re- 
ceived was the day after she had made this complaint. When she was taken 
out of the stocks she appeared to be cramped, and was then again flogged. The 
very day of her release she was sent to field-labour, (though heretofore a house 
servant), and on the evening of the third day ensuing, was brought before her 
owners as being ill and refusing to work, and she then again complained of hav- 
ing had fever. They were of opinion that she had none then, but gave directions^ 
to the driver if she should be ill to bring her to them for medicines in the morri- 
jing. The driver took her to the negro-house, and again flogged her ; 



Cruelties in the Bahamas of Mr. and Mrs. Moss. 463 

this time, apparently, without orders from her owners to do so. In the morning, 
at'seven o'clock, she was taken to work in the field, where she died at noon. 

** The facts of the case aie, thus far, incontrovertibly established ; and I deeply 
lament, that, heinous as tlie offences are which this narrative exhibits, I can dis- 
cover no material palliation of them amongst the other circumstances detailed in 
the evidence. 

" Margaret Murray, the first witness, states that she passed the day of the 23d 
of July with Mr. and Mrs. Moss ; she understood from Mrs. Moss, that Kate had 
been put in the stocks and flogged on the preceding day, and in the course of this 
day (the 23d), she heard Mr. and Mrs. Moss three several times give orders for 
having her punished, and she ' heard her cry out three several times, as if she 
had had three distinct floggings.' She states that the directions to flog were 
given to Mr. Spencer, (Mr. Moss's nephew and overseer), and that she heard 
Spencer say, on the third order being given to flog, ' Good God ! uncle, what ! 
flog again ?' and that ' Mr. Moss insisted on his order being obeyed.' She adds, 
that two other slaves (whom she names) were confined in the same building, 
and flogged at the same time. 

" Now, from the evidence given by the other witnesses, there can be little 
doubt that this witness was mistaken in assigning the date of the 23d of July to 
the circumstances which she relates, and that these circumstances belong to the 
date of the 28th of May, when, also, she was present, and wlien much of what 
she states is also stated by the overseer, Spencer, to have taken place. These 
circumstances do not appear, therefore, to form any part of the oflPence upon 
which the indictment was founded. But they are, nevertheless, such circum- 
stances as I cannot but bear in mind, when I come to consider the weight due 
to the evidence in favour of the character of the parties for humanity. 

" Delancy, the second witness, is one of the overseers on the plantation, and 
one of those who were employed in the infliction of the punishments. He states, 
in his cross-examination, that Kate was ' not very severely flogged.' He had 
stated, however, in a former part of the same examination, that when he saw 
her flogged, ' she appeared to feel it very much.' He states further, that ' he 
cannot say wliether any of the pepper got iiito her eyes; ' whereas he had pre- 
viousljf deposed that ' he thought she could not see to do either of her tasks after 
her eyes were peppered.' 

" It is to be remarked, with respect to the severity of the flogging, that this 
witness has stated, that the under driver, who flogged Kate when taken out of 
the stocks, ' desisted at the entreaty of a man, named John Wylly ;' he ' does 
not know whether John Wylly interfered in consequence of the girl's debilitated 
state, or not ;' — but it does not appear that there was any motive, except a sense 
of the cruelty with which she was treated, which could have induced him to in- 
terfere. 

" Spencer, the third witness, is a nephew of Mr. Moss, and also an overseer 
on the plantation. Mr. Forbes, the magistrate before whom the examinations 
were taken which led to the committal of the Mosses, has deposed, that he had 
some difficulty in getting Spencer to give his evidence, having told him, that if 
he would not answer the questions he put, he should be obliged to send him to 
the attorney-general. This circumstance, and the relationship between Spencer 
and Moss, detract, in some degree, from the value of Spencer's evidence on some 
points, although I perceive no reason to impute to him any intentional want of 
veracity. Spencer corroborates Delancy 's statement in all the more material cir- 
cumstances, but there are some variations, and something is added by Spencer. 
He says, that Katerfow/d not perform the tasks given her ; whilst, from Delancy's 
evidence, it is to be inferred, that she was incapable of performing some of the 
tasks, from being unaccustomed to the species of work, and that, by the treat- 
ment which she received, she was incapacitated, more or less, and for some part 
of the time, from performing any work that required the use of her eyes. 

" Spencer further deposes as follows : ' he told her that if she would mend her 
clothes she would be forgiven ; she replied she would not, and did not care 
whether she was let out of the stocks or not ; he advised Kate to mend her 
clothes ; she was insolent to him for doing so ; it would not have occupied her 

more than two hours.' ' Kate did not seem to mind the 

flogging.' On this last statement I have to remark, that it is at vai-iance with 
that of Delancy, who says, that when he saw her flogged, she appeared to feel it 



464 Cruelties in the Bahamas of Mr. and Mrs. Moss. 

very much ; at variance with the circumstance of Delancy, on an occasion when 
i^'he was not present, distinguishing the number of lashes by her cries ; with the 
^^'circumstance of Wylly's interference ; with the fact, that except in one or two 
' instances, she was taken out of the stocks and tied up to be flogged ; and finally, 
with every natural probability, which no testimony can be required to substan- 
tiate. With respect to the expressions used to Spencer regarding her indifFer- 
' ence to her confinement, and her determination not to do what was required of 
'her, they must be considered as evidence of an exasperated state of temper, not 
of insensibility to suffering ; but I see no reason to discredit them, and they suf- 
ficiently prove that she persisted in insubordinate conduct. 

" It is not the least deplorable feature in this case, that, besides the floggings 
'•'which the girl received by order of her owners, and at the hands of the over- 
seei's, other individuals appear to have been free to maltreat her at their pleasure. 
She was flogged without orders, by the under driver, the evening before her death, 
and twenty-four lashes were inflicted by her own father whilst she was in the 
stocks. On this occasion, Mr. Moss is said to have stopped the infliction, but 
merely with the observation, that it was no use flogging her, and it was better to 
send her to work in the field. 

' Before I come to consider what has been said in favour of the character of 
the Mosses, I must observe, that the facts against them are established upon the 
evidence of two witnesses, both of whom were overseers upon the plantation, 
both instrumental, under the orders of Mr. and Mrs. Moss, to the cruelties in 
question, one (Delancy) by no means disposed to aggravate the case against 
them, since he gives them a character for great humanity ; the other (Spencer) 
a nephew of Mr. Moss, and proved to have appeared against him with great 
reluctance. 

" These being the principal witnesses for the prosecution, those for the de- 
fence are eleven in number. Only one of them, Mrs. Prere, the mother of Mrs. 
Moss, has anything to depose upon the particular case. Her evidence is not 
material, and in no respect impugns the evidence for the prosecution. Ano- 
ther, J. Hepburn, deposes that he never saw so mild an instrument of correction 
as the whip which was produced in court, being that which had been used in 
flogging Kate. The others appear to have been called to depose to the conduct 
and character of the Mosses; though one of them, A. Farquharson, says, that 
he knows nothing respecting it. G. Hasty says, that their Negroes were well 
clothed and fed, and appeared to be cheerful. J. Scavella testifies to their care 
and good treatment of their Negroes in sickness, and says he never saw any 
one treat their Negroes so well as Mr. Moss ; but, on his cross-examination, 
he acknowledges himself to be under great obligations to Mr. Moss. L, Selig, 
Eliza Campbell, Captain Pinder, A. Demayne and J. Harris, all speak strongly 
of the character of Mr. and Mrs. Moss for humanity, and there does not appear 
to be any thing which would render these exceptionable witnesses. 

"Murray G. Farquharson, after having deposed that Mr. and Mrs. Moss 'are 
considered far from being severe to their slaves;' and, 'that he never knew 
any severity of Mr. Moss,' is cross-examined, and states as follows: 'Witness 
has always entertained the same favourable opinion of Mr. Moss, has always 
expressed himself so. (Upon the Attorney General here asking the witness 
if he himself had not, on a former occasion, come to his (the Attoi-ney General's 
office) to complain of Mr. Moss's barbarity, and called him ' a Tartar,' the wit- 
ness first pretended not to understand the question, and then refused to 
answer it ; the Attorney General not thinking it necessary to insist on the 
answer, the witness was allowed to depart from the box).' 

" In addition to the testimony to character, given at the trial, I have the 

petition which was presented to you by several inhabitants of the colony, of 

whose respectability you assure me ; and your own despatches of the 18th of 

' 'May, and 3d July. The object of the former despatch was to prevent the im- 

'"^^jfjression, that the unfortunate Henry and Helen Moss are to be looked upon as 

"'Svilful accessaries to the death of the girl,' and you add, that they are rather 

'';to be pitied for the untoward melancholy occurrence which has taken place. 

''^'in the latter you write as follows ; ' I had the honour to inform you, that I had 

every reason to think that the case of cruelty towards Kate, from Mr. and Mrs. 

Moss, was not in accordance with their general treatment of their Negroes, but 



Cruelties in the Bahamas of Mr. and Mrs. Moss. 465 

an especial exception, which would appear to have resulted from a persevering 
obstinate disposition on the part of the slave, Kate, and an equal determination 
on the part of her owners to carry their authority into effect. The provocation 
begot the cruelty ; and while 1 trust I am not disposed to uphold the failing of 
giving way to passion, I yet think that I may venture to say, that we need not 
resort to slavery, or go far out of the tract of common life, to discover many in- 
stances where the obstinate perseverance in wrong-doing, will draw from pas- 
sion, or perhaps the necessity to overcome such disposition, severer methods of 
punishment than ever would have been thought of for the original offence.' 

" On these representations I have in the first place, to assure you, that I am 
equally ready with yourself to acquit the convicts of having been, wilfully, 
accessary to the death of their slave. The respect which I owe to the judgment 
of the grand jury, who ignored the indictment for murder, would have made me 
extremely unwilling to come to any other conclusion, neither do I find any thing 
in the evidence which could lead me to differ from the grand jury. 

" With respect to considerations of character, I must observe, that, if the 
present offence be fully proved, and the sentence no more than duly proportioned 
to it, the circumstances of the former life of the delinquents having been free 
from offence, even if that were unquestionable, would not justify the remittal of 
any part of a punishment which is due to this offence singly. Had the evi- 
dence] to their guilt admitted of doubt, I should have been most solicitous to 
give every weight to the evidence for character, as rendering it extremely impro- 
bable that persons of such character should have been guilty of such offences ; 
but the offences being proven facts, and evidence to character being always open 
to some doubt, I cannot but perceive that the improbability which is raised, is, 
that persons guilty of such offences should have really deserved so very high a 
character for respectability and humanity, as that to which some of the wit- 
nesses have testified, 

" With respect to the provocation which led to the offence, I must remark, 
that a series of cruelties which continued for seventeen days, can admit of no 
extenuation on the pretext of sudden anger. I am willing to believe that there 
was a determined resistance to authority on the part of the slave ; but I can 
never admit that such resistance constitutes ' a necessity' for resorting to any 
extreme of severity, short of which, severity would be unavailing to subdue it. 
Where obstinate disobedience arises from an exasperated state of temper, the 
remedy is not to be found in severity of treatment ; for, in some cases, no degree 
of severity would be adequate to the purpose, and, in others, the degree of se- 
■ verity which would be adequate would be unjustifiable. 

"One of the witnesses (Hepburn), states, that 'he has frequently known 
Negroes to conceal their illness from sulkiness ;' and it appears by no means 
improbable, that in the present case, the slave sacrificed her life in this manner 
to her feelings of resentment. It is proper, in similar cases of insubordination, 
to resort to such treatment as will render the course taken by the disobedient 
slave ineligible to any who possess a temperate state of mind ; and, whilst the 
example is thus rendered harmless to others, the irritated feelings of the slave 
must be allowed to wear out with time, until he shall become capable of choos- 
ing the course of conduct which is best for himself But when punishment is 
inflicted with a vindictive or intemperate feeling, it is justified by no offence 
whatever; and the infliction must be attributed to such a feeling, when the 
punishment is not such as will reclaim the offender, and more than adequate to 
guard against the evil of the example. 

" The cruelties committed by Henry and Helen Moss are, as I have said, 
incontrovertibly proved; that there was a provocation to them might have been 
believed without the evidence, for it could scarcely be in human nature to com- 
mit them from mere wantonness ; but they are totally unjustified by any such 
provocation ; they constitute an offence of an aggravated character, and for 
which I cannot consider the sentence of five months' imprisonment, and fines 
amounting to 300/. to be by any means unduly severe. 1 am therefore, unable 
to advise His Majesty to remit any part of this sentence. And, with refer- 
ence to that part of your despatch of the 3d of July, in which you '' request my 
approbation to relinquish the mulct in order in some degree to remove the im- 
pression of their being deemed habitually and notorious cruel," I can only say, 
that it is not in my power to remove the impression which may have been pro- 
duced upon the public mind ; but I sincerely hope that Henry and Helen Moss 



466 Cruelties in the Bahamas of Mr. and Mrs. Moss. 

will, by their future conduct to their slaves, as far as in them lies, retrieve the 
character which they are said to have bor ne heretofore. 

Governor Grant, " I have, &c. 

&c. &c. &c. (signed) " Wtn. Hiiskisson." ■'"'■ 

What a complication of atrocities ! Mr. Huskisson is disposed to 
think that the grand jury were justified in refusing- to put Mr. and Mrs. 
Moss on their trial for the murder of this poor slave ; and legally speak- 
ing, he may be right ; at least, it would doubtless require very clear and 
decisive testimony to sanction him in impeaching the verdict of a grand 
jury. But speaking morally, Mr. and Mrs. Moss we conceive, stand 
convicted of the guilt of more than ten ordinary murders, if the de- 
liberate malignity of the transaction be duly estimated. The details of 
the evidence, which are summed up with singular clearness and ability, 
by Mr. Huskisson, will be found to add to the impression of their guilt ; 
and when we consider that the culprits were among the aristocracy of 
the Bahamas, to whose "highly respectable character" not only many 
of that aristocracy, (including nine members of the legislative assembly) 
but the King's representative. General Grant himself, bear the very 
strongest testimony, we have exhibited to us a state of society of 
which, happily, it is difficult for those who have never visited a slave 
colony, to form an adequate idea. 

It appears that the Governor, General Grant, was absent from the 
colony when these crimes were perpetrated, and the authors of them 
were brought to trial. Mr. President Munnings was then acting as his 
substitute. This gentleman, whom we greatly honour for his conduct 
on this occasion, transmitted to Earl I3athurst on the 5th of April 
1827, the following account of the matter. 

" He7iry Moss, esq. oi Crooked Island, having been accused of excessive cruelty 
to a negro girl slave, by confining her lor the period of seventeen days and nights in 
the stocks, withoutinterniission, by giving her, while in that situation, tasks which 
she was unable to perform,andby causing her to be repeatedly flogged for the non- 
performance of such tasks; and after releasingher from the stocks, by having sent 
her to labour in the fields, before she had recovered from the effects of her con- 
finement, and by having caused her to be flogged in the fields, (and the girl hav- 
ing died in the field on the morning after she had received one of those floggings), 
and Mr. Henry Moss jointly with his wife Helen, having been accused of rubbing 
red pepper (capsicum) upon the eyes of this girl, the attorney-general preferred 
a bill of indictment against Mr. Moss and his wife for murder. The grand jury 
having returned ' Not found' upon this bill, the attorney-general preferred two 
other bills for misdemeanours, one against Mr. Moss, the other against Mr. Moss 
and his wife. Both these bills were found by the grand jury, and after a very 
full and patient investigation of the circumstances of the case before the petit 
jury, during a trial of upwards of sixteen hours' duration, a verdict of guilty was 
returned upon both indictments. 

" The court sentenced Mr. and Mrs. Moss to imprisonment in the common 
gaol at Nassau, for five calendar months, and Mr. Moss to the payment of a fine 
of £300. over and besides the costs of the prosecution. 

" I have been solicited to remit or to shorten the term of Mrs. Moss's impri- 
sonment, but I shall in no degree whatever alter the sentence of the general 
court, by the extension of mercy to those by whom it appears none was ex- 
ercised." 

In a few weeks General Grant returned to the Bahamas and resumed 
his command. He was immediately applied to " by the most respect- 
able inhabitants of the town and colony," to remit the sentence of Mt'.'" 
and Mrs. Moss ; and he lost no time in applying to Lord Bathurst iti 



Cruelties in the Bahamas of Mr. and Mrs. Moss. 461 

a letter dated 18th May 1827, to authorise such remission. " The 
unfortunate Henry and Helen Moss," he tells his Lordship, " are 
rather to be pitied for the untoward melancholy occurrence which has 
taken place;" he therefore hastens to prevent the impression the 
bare mention of the case might make on his Lordship's mind. In 
a letter of a later date (3d July 1827,) he recurs with much solicitude 
to the subject. Some extracts from that letter have already appeared in 
the admirable despatch of Mr. Huskisson, who held the colonial seals 
when it arrived. It expresses a strong sense of the respectability of 
Mr. and Mrs. Moss, and of their general kindness to their slaves, and 
refers to the high estimation in which they are held by " all who have 
visited Mr. Moss and partaken of his hospitality."* Nay ; " Mr. Moss, 
and especially Mrs. Moss, have never been otherivise than favourably 
spoken of in every respect, including that of his slave management." The 
Governor, in short, is most anxious that " persons of their respectability- 
might be spared from imprisonment;" and at least, that Lord Bathurst 
will allovs? him to " rehnquish the mulct" lest they should be "held 
cruel and oppressive beyond others," and also in order, in some degree, 
" to remove the impression of their being deemed habitually and notoriouslv 
cruel." But he adds, and the addition is most significative of colonial 
feeling on such subjects ; " Notwithstanding their being in gaol, they 
are visited by the most respectable persons in the place, and by all who 
knew them before. This would not be the case even here, if it was the 
public opinion that the treatment of Mr. Moss's slaves in general was 
unduly severe !" 

From this inference of the governor we entirely dissent. Indeed his 
own tone was much altered after receiving the despatch of Mr. Secretary 
Huskisson. " I confess myself," he says, " much instructed by the 
despatch of Mr. Huskisson, as to the manner of viewing both faults and 
oflPences !'' And he then claims to himself some merit for the sincere: 
interest he takes in the subject. — All we ourselves have previously knowri: 
of this gentleman's conduct, in the great question now agitating with 
respect to colonial slavery, is from the papers laid before parliament 
by his Majesty's command, in the year 1825, a brief abstract of which 
is given in a pamphlet published by the Anti-Slavery Society in 1826, 
entitled " The Slave Colonies of Great Britain," &c. pp. 1 — 11. HdJ 
had transmitted to Lord Bathurst an act of the Colonial Assembly, 
of which his Lordship censures the injustice in no measured terms, 
and which Mr. Huskisson, even after it had been greatly modified, also 
condemns with pointed severity. Of this act, he says, that " it improves 
the condition of the slaves very considerably." And yet, if we look at 
the act, we shall find it, what we have elsewhere described it to be, 
(No. 28, p. 87,) "mere unmeaning verbiage; apparent concessions which 
are drawn back by the multiplicity and largeness of the exceptions, and , 

* Here we have the true source of many a high eulogium on colonial planters 
and their humanity, from naval and military officers, and from casual visitants, 
the lovers of good cheer, who, like Mr. Coleridge, (the Six Months tourist in the 
West Indies), find a compensation, in the turtle and madeira of the hospitable ' 
slaveholder's table, for all the oppressions and atrocities which may, at the very" 
time, be passing in the slave yard or the field. - 



468 Cruelties in the Bahamas of Mr. and Mrs. Moss. 

pretended reforms which leave every evil of slavery untouched," — " an 
idle and useless parade of legislation, calculated for no purpose but to 
blind the eyes of the people of this country." 

Since this transaction took place General Grant, we regret to learn, 
has been promoted from the petty government of the Bahamas, to the 
far more important situation of governor of Trinidad, where he will 
have to carry into execution his Majesty's plans of West Indian re- 
form ; — the grand experiment of amelioration which Mr. Canning held 
out as the model after which the whole frame of our colonial policy was 
to be moulded. This is an appointment which, judging from our only 
means of knowledge, seems highly inauspicious both for the slaves, the 
subjects of the experiment, and for those also who have undertaken their 
cause, and v/ho will be made answerable, at least by their opponents 
and detractors, for its failure. 

To conclude, if we would duly estimate the state of feeling, in a com- 
munity corrupted by slavery, and the evil that must follow from leaving 
it to such communities to legislate for their unhappy dependents, we 
should contrast the burst of execration which, a few days ago, in this 
capital, added bitterer agonies to the stroke of justice which fell upon 
the wretched Esther Hibner ; with the general sympathy excited, among 
the colonists of the Bahamas, with the more lenient fate of Henry and 
Helen Moss, two not less guilty criminals. 

If, also, we would duly estimate the unexampled wretchedness which 
the Anti-Slavery Society has united to extirpate, we must view, in con- 
nection with this transaction, at one extremity of the Antilles, the no 
less revolting scenes passing at Berbice, their other extremity (See 
Reporter, Nos. 5, 16, 43 and 46) ; and while we may imagine what may 
have occurred, contemporaneously, in the intervening colonies from which 
no similar returns have been supplied, we must combine with them the 
picture of slavery in the Mauritius which has so recently harrowed the hearts 
of our readers (No. 44), We shall then have before us a mass of suffer- 
ing which may well make us to shudder, when we reflect that it has 
been inflicted, and is still proceeding, under British authority; and that 
therefore we, — this nation, — stand answerable for it all, before Him who 
claims the prerogative of being the avenger of the oppressed. Before 
Him and before the public do we again solemnly pledge ourselves, with- 
out fear or favour for any individuals, whether high or low, who parti- 
cipate in this CRIME, to exert ourselves to the utmost, in vindicating the 
indefeasible claims of these unfriended and outcast children of humanity 
to the rights of British subjects ; to equal laws; to justice; to freedom; 
and to all the blessings of the gospel. 



A notice of one or two remaining points in the letter of Philalethes ; 
and our reply to the British Critic, will appear either in a supplement, or 
in the next number. 



Bacster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Kartlioloniew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY "^ 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 48.] For MAY, 1829. [No. 24. Vol. ii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be 
had of all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Irf. per half-sheet of eight 
pages, or 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



THE BRITISH CRITIC'S SECOND ATTACK ON THE ANTI-SLAVERY 
REPORTER, IN VINDICATION OF THE CONVERSION AND 
PROPAGATION SOCIETIES, CONSIDERED AND REPELLED. 

Our antagonist in the British Critic (pp. 407, 408), supposes that 
we are anxious to know who it is that has assailed us so very vigorously. 
We really feel no anxiety on the subject. Whether he be a vice-presi- 
dent of the Conversion Society, or its secretary ; whether he be layman 
or clergyman, and if the latter, whether bishop, priest, or deacon ; — we 
can have no wish to be acquainted with one vv^ho, but for the sake of 
the cause involved in his attack, would not have been entitled to much 
notice on the ground either of his fair dealing, or of his observance of 
the ordinary courtesies or even decencies of literary combat. We leave 
to their fate his loud vapourings, his unsupported assertions, and his 
virulent abuse. The last of these, indeed, cannot but produce an im- 
pression in our favour, according to the well known position, that it is 
when men find themselves at a loss for argument that they begin to 
call names. We shall therefore confine ourselves to such allegations of 
our opponent as are tangible and specific. 

Amid his numerous vague and general charges of mendacity, in the 
last number of his work, he has specified only two examples. The 
futility of one of them has been already demonstrated (No. 47, p. 451.) 
The other is a still more remarkable instance of the strange inaccuracies 
into which a writer may be betrayed, who permits his controversial 
eagerness to get the better of his prudence, net to say his principle.* 

In the Reporter, No. 41, p. 32, we had characterised some of the 

* At p. 407, the British Critic says, " In one instance, and in one only, the 
Reporter has the candour to admit that we have detected him in a falsehood"— 
and he quotes in proof of this assertion, p. 405 of the Reporter, where we have 
certainly made no such admiss^ion as he has untruly attributed to us. It is due, 
however, to our Critic to state, that whether from some intellectual or moral in- 
firmity, he understands the word falsehood to signify the utterance of an incor- 
rect statement, without reference to the intention of the utterer. He otherwise 
would never have said that we have had the candour to admit he had detected 
us in a falsehood, when our admission was that we had unintentionally fallen 
into a blunder. We may state, in words which have often been quoted, as our 
reason for i^egatrdiag " without the least mixture of anger or resentment/' 

St 



470 The British Critic s Second Vindication 

statements of the Conversion Society as vague, (an imputation which 
ovi Criiic repels with as much indignation as if it were the crimen falsi) — 
and as an instance of this vagueness, we referred to its Report for 1827, 
(p. 9), where, while speaking, in the text, of certain local institutions 
having in view objects similar to its own, namely, the instruction of the 
slaves, it gave in a note five examples of the kind of institution spoken 
of in the text, all of which, we asserted, were exclusively intended for 
theyVee. We grounded this assertion on the descriptive titles of these 
five Associations (Reporter, p. 399, and British Critic, p. 408) ; and if 
there be any precise meaning in words, we v/ere right in doing so ; we 
were right, that is to say, in assuming that the words " coloured poor" 
meant " coloured poor," and not any other class to whom that designa- 
tion had never been applied before. The terms, we need not say, are 
applied universally, in the West Indies, io free persons alone, to the ex- 
clusion of slaves ; and the Society's Report has nowhere informed us 
that it had begun to use them in any new sense. We therefore took 
it for granted that the words continued to mean what they had always 
meant. No, says the British Critic, the Anti-Slavery Reporter is guilty 
of falsehood and calumny for having so understood them ; and his rea- 
sons are (see British Critic, pp. 409 and 410,) first, because, as he says, 
one of these five local Associations had, in 1828, (in what month he 
does not say) published at Barbadoes its second annual report, by which 
it appears that a certain number of slave boys and girls attended its 
school; — and second, because he, the British Critic, chooses to aflSrm, 
on his own unsupported authority, that slaves are also taught by three 
more of these five Associations. Now, admitting all this to be true, 
(which is a large admission, as we have only this anonymous writer's 
authority for it) it seems to us not only not to refute, but to establish 
our charge of vagueness, the Critic himself being the witness, and thus 
in fact, stultifying by his very statement all his own harsh imputations. 
Such a close of his wordy warfare is not a little ludicrous. It seems an 
utter waste of time to bestow it on such trivialities.* We now there- 
fore proceed to other matters. 

though with aninvoluntary feeling of contempt, "the use of a style which decency 
and politeness have banished from the more liberal part of mankind," that 
" every animal employs the note, or cry, or howl which is peculiar to his species ; 
every man expresses himself in the dialect the most congenial to his temper 
and inclination, the most familiar to the company in which he has lived, and to 
the authors with whom he is conversant." 

Although onr acknowledgement of a mistake into which we had fallen, (see 
Reporter, p. 403), has been so ungraciously received by our Critic, (British 
Critic, p. 407), we shall not be deterred by that circumstance from correcting 
another error which he has not detected, but which we have discovered in look- 
ing over what has been written. We stated (No. 41, p. 322), that in the church 
of St. Dorothy's, there was a single weekly service, after which the Rector was 
ready to catechise such slaves as offered themselves ; whereas the words of the 
Report (p. 16), are, that " morning and evening service are read every Sunday," 
and that " the intervening time is occupied in catechising such as offer them- 
selves." We added, however, which is the case, that it is not said that any do 
offer themselves for that purpose, although we admit that the words might be 
supposed to imply that sotne do come. 

* We are ashamed to prolong for one moment this petty controversy, but we 
must advert to one other instance of our Critic's rash accusations. He charged 



of the Conversion Society considered. 471 

In order to confound the Anti-Slavery Reporter, and to shew that a 
*' decided progress is making in Christian knowledge throughout the 
West Indies," the British Critic brings forward various extracts from the 
reports of the Society for promoting Christian Knowledge, and from the 
report also of a local Society in St. Thomas in the East. These reports, 
however, only give us under another title the testimony of the same, or 
nearly the same parties who furnished the Conversion Society with its 
information ; the members of these different Societies being nearly 
identical. The testimony, though thus repeated, evidently gains little 
or no accession of strength by such repetition. These fresh extracts 
give us substantially the same flattering accounts of the progress of 
Christianity, and from the same sources, with the Conversion Society, 
and they also observe the same absolute silence as to the want of a 
sabbath for the bulk of the slaves, on which we have had occasion so 
frequently to animadvert.* These accounts too, however flattering, 
are in direct contradiction to the tes ! roiy of the Conversion Society's 
own chosen witnesses, the Rev. Mr. B ker, and the very Rev. Arch- 
deacon Parry. The former of these gentlemen states, that " until we 
amend this evil," namely, the general perversion of Sunday to secular 
employments, " all attempts to promote Christian knowledge will he 
vain and fruitless ;" and even if we somewhat qualify the universality 
of his assertion, surely enough will remain to justify a strong doubt 
respecting the strict accuracy of the favourable accounts which are here 
cited. The Archdeacon also tells us, that to the slave, as far as reli- 
gious instruction is concerned, " Sunday is every thing." — And yet we 
are to believe that, without it, Christianity is making great progress in 
some islands where the bulk of the slaves have no Sunday at all. The 
statement is incredible. And what is gained by these extracts ? The 
Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge praises the Conversion So- 
ciety, and this in its turn praises the other, while each uses the autho- 
rity of the other to vindicate its own statements, these statements being 
derived also, in general, by both, from nearly the same identical sources 
of information, namely, the bishops and clergy of the West Indies, 

In its Report for 1828, the Society for promoting Christian Knowledge 
asserts (p. 41, 42) that the plan of his Majesty's government for dif- 
fusing Christianity in the West Indies, by establishing a hierarchy there, 
must be admitted, even by those who were hostile to the measure, to 
have " fully succeeded," (taking an opportunity at the same time of de- 

us (see British Critic, p. 222, and Reporter, p. 404), with a wilful misre- 
presentation, because we did not assume that reading was taught in all schools 
said to proceed on the National plan. " The reader," he observes in his usual 
style, "will hardly believe it." '■'■National, therefore of course, reading schools." 
On turning however to p. 13 of this very report of the Society for 1827, we find 
it stated that in the St. Catherine's schools, Jamaica, " the instruction is alto- 
gether oral ;" and yet of these schools we are told in the same breath, that " the 
system pursued in the central school, Baldwin's Gardens, is as closely adhered 
to as circumstances will permit." Still this candid writer deems it false and 
malignant in us not to understand that schools on the National plan are of course, 
(necessarily) reading schools ! 

* In this culpable, though in them less inexcusable silence, the Methodist, 
Moravian and Dissenting Societies are equally involved with those of the Churcht 
of England. 



472 The British Critic s Seco7id Vindication 

predating the good done by Methodists and Dissenters, who had long been 
labouring among the slaves while the Church was asleep); and yet, in a 
subsequent part of the report (p. 55, 56) as is well observed in a recent 
tract by the Rev. John Riland, the Society gives us, instead of evidence 
of this /?«// success, only "assumption, theory, and misty prospects of 
future good, if certain obstacles are removed. It is now confessed" by 
the Society, " that Sunday markets are 7iot abolished ; that the condition 
of the slaves is not raised to an available point; that the slaves have not 
leisure for improvement ; that instructors are ?iot sufficiently provided ; 
that all estates are not open ; that catechists are not permitted to teach 
reading ; in short, that the whole system is all but nugatory, and that 
we must not expect the end without the means!" — (Riland' s Letter, 
p. 11). How strange it is that in enumerating the obstacles to improve- 
ment, this Society should have overlooked the fact, that the Sunday is 
a day of forced labour in the greatest part of the West Indies, as the 
slaves must labour in their provision grounds on that day or starve. 
It alludes to Sunday markets indeed; but this, though a sad evil, is 
not by any means, nay, not a tenth part so bad, so ruinous, both to 
body and soul, as the compulsory labour of the agricultural slaves in 
their grounds on the Sunday, of which the framers of the report say 
nothing : and yet they seem to have had it in their eye, when they tell us 
that " on the plantations" " the task of conveying religious instruction" 
" is rendered doubly difficult in the case of the negro, who is kept to 
hard labour at all seasons of the year, and works during the harvest 
with the LEAST possible inteumission." — What a picture! Yet, 
the report adds (and this seems to stand as the grand result of all the 
preceding statements of brilliant progress and full success) " something 
is evidently doing" — though, in the West Indies, '■^ every thing connected 
with the Christian church is still in a state of infancy T It is indeed — 
not even a Sabbath yet given to the slaves ! 

So much for the auxiliary, whom the British Critic has called to his aid. 

It may be well, before we proceed farther, to exhibit a specimen of 
the reliance which may be placed on the statements of the British Critic 
himself, in respect to religious improvement in the West Indies. He 
tells us, (p. 434) " the parochial returns from the island of Barbadoes, 
for the year 1828, have just reached this country, and they contain 
much encouraging information. The congregations at church, in almost 
every instance, have increased. Sunday schools for plantation slaves, 
in some of which reading is taught, while others are merely catechetical, 
have been opened in every parish except one, and in that one the defi- 
ciency is lamented, and will shortly be supplied. These schools are 
attended both by adults and children, and are conducted by clergymen, 
who thought, five years ago, that the slaves formed no part of their 
spiritual charge." — We have now before us a copy of these parochial 
returns, to which our Critic refers ; and we venture to say that they are 
most unfairly represented in the above extract. 

" The congregations at church, in almost every instance," says the 
British Critic, " have increased." 

The very words of the returns in answer to the question " Have your 
congregations increased ?" are as follows : 1 . St. Andrew, "my congre» 



of the Conversion Society considered. 47'3 

gations have increased." 2, Christ church, "The coloured congrega- 
tion has considerably increased. The whites as usual." 3, St. George^ 
" They have." 4, St. James, "They have not diminished. I cannot 
venture to assert they have increased." 5, St. John, " The congregation 
in the morning continues the same. In the evening it has diminished." 
6, St. Joseph, " They have." 7, St. Lucy, " The congregation of whites 
has somewhat increased during the last three months of the year. That 
of the slaves has not increased in the morning, and has decreased in 
the afternoon." 8, St. Michael's, "No increase has taken place except 
at the additional service on Sunday evenings," (instituted a few months 
before) " when tlie church is very much crowded." 9, St. Peter, " It 
has by the addition of a few." 10, St. Philip, "Our congregations 
have increased." 11, St. Thomas, " They have in the number both of 
whites and coloured." 

Again, says the British Critic, "Sunday schools, for plantation 
slaves, in some of which reading is taught, while others are merely 
catechetical, have been opened in every parish except one," &c. " These 
schools are attended both by adults and children." 

Now for the actual returns. 1, St. Andrew, " I have a Sunday school 
in my parish, held at the church, open to slaves and free coloured. 
Some of the slaves attending are taught to read." Average attendance 
35, from 10 to 15 being adults. 2, Christ church, "There is one 
Sunday school for free coloured and slaves." " The average attending 
number is from 28 to 30, mostly females," eight being adults. 3, St. 
George, " We have a Sunday school open to slaves and free. The 
instruction is catechetical." Average number of attendants 12, 
" chiefly adults.^' 4, St. James, " We have a Sunday school open to 
all," " All attending are taught to read," but " not more than from 8 
to 10 attend," "some few" being adults. 5, St. John, "There is a 
Sunday school for white and free coloured children," vv'hich last "receive 
oral instruction alone. The number of whites attending, 40 to 45; of 
coloured, 90 to 100 : no adults." 6, St. Joseph, " There is a Sunday 
school open to all who will attend." " None are taught to read. Ave- 
rage number attending is 60, besides 8 adults." 7, St. Lucy, "There 
is a Sunday school open to all slaves and free coloured, but generally 
attended by six slave children, who are all taught to read. No adults 
attend." 8, St. Michael (the population 25,652; more than a fourth of 
the whole island,) "We have two Sunday schools open to all, and all 
attending them are taught to read. The average number of attendants 
is from 80 to 90," " 60 adults attending." 9, St. Peter, " There is a 
Sunday school open to all who choose to attend, the only instruction 
hitherto given having been by catechizing. Number generally attend- 
ing, 20; of whom 8 or 10 are adults." 10, St. Philip, School not yet 
opened. 11, St. Thomas, "There is a Sunday school for adults pre- 
paratory to baptism, open to slaves and free. No one is taught to read ; 
the average number about 40." The number of adults is afterwards said 
to be from 20 to 30. 

Let the reader mark the unfairness and exaggeration of this stickler 
for accuracy. He says, " The congregations, in almost every instance^ 
have increased." Yet in some they have been either stationary or dimi- 



474 The British Critic^ Second Vindication 

nished. And how does he know that, on the whole, the dhiimution 
may not exceed the increase ? We do not take it upon us to pronounce ; 
but he does, and that without any adequate data. Whether the increase 
be two or twenty in this parish, and the diminution ten or 200 in that, 
he cannot tell ; and yet, he says, almost all have increased. Again, 
" Sunday schools, in some of which reading is taught, have been 
opened in every parish but one ;" and he adds, of himself, for the returns 
do not say so, ^^for the plantation slaves." If all had been plantation 
slaves, the number would still not have exceeded 450 in the whole 
island. But the possibility is, that not a tenth of these \my be slaves 
at all, and none of them plantation slaves; and yet the effect of his in- 
terpolation of the words plantation slaves, is to produce an impression 
that they are all of that description. In some schools, too, he tells us, 
reading is taught ; which seems to imply that reading is taught to the 
plantation slaves, the only class he specifies. But what says the return ? 
It is, that in four only of the eleven parishes is reading taught at all. 
With the exception however of St. Lucy, (Mr. Harte's parish) where the 
Sunday school contains only 6 slaves, (probably his friend Mr. Leacock's) 
it is only in St. Andrew that some slaves are said to be taught to read ; 
but whether 2, or 10, or 20, is not told us. The 8 or 10 who attend in 
St. James, are taught to read; but it is not said that one of them is a 
slave: they may be all free. So in Su Michael, the 80 or 90 who 
attend, 7nay be all free. Assuming then C.e returns to be correct, it may 
still be true, notwithstanding the vaunting statement of the British 
Critic, that, besides the persecuted Mr. Harte's six slave children, there 
may not be more than three slaves taught to read in all the Sunday 
schools in the island ; for this number would salve the expression of 
the rector of St. Andrew, that " some of the slaves are taught to read." 
The words "for the plantation slaves," be it remembered, is an interpo- 
lation of the British Critic, for which the returns afford no warrant. 

But when we pass from our Critic's unfair representation of these 
returns, to the returns themselves, what do we witness ? Our readers 
will remember the indignation with which our first intimation of the 
vague and unsatisfactory nature of the details, given by the Conversion 
Society in its report of 1827, on the statements of the bishops and 
clergy, was received : — it was false and calumnious. Let us look now at 
the returns for 1828, the joint work of the bishop and clergy of Barba- 
does ! Vagueness ! They embody in every line the very spirit of vagueness. 
If the object had been to mistify the whole subject of slave conversion 
and improvement, it could not have been more fully accomplished. We 
defy any man to discover, except from the return from St. Lucy, that a 
single slave attends in any one of the churches. Nothing is told us of 
the numbers attending, nor of the proportions of slave and free. On 
these points, we are left wholly in the dark. The returns would not 
be falsified, if it were to appear that not 10 slaves attended in all the 
churches. Then with respect to schools, the statements are equally 
vague and unintelligible ; and it would be perfectly consistent with them 
if the fact were, that not 20 slaves attended in all the Sunday schools 
throughout the island. In distinguishing the attendants in church, 
there may be some uncertainty ; still there may be an approximation to 



of the Propagation Society considered. 475 

the relative numbers of white, free coloured, and slaves. But no 
attempt has been made at any such approximation. — In the Sunday 
schools however, all this might have been given with the most minute 
accuracy : the omission, therefore, is the more inexcusable. Indeed, 
it would be difficult to discover any reason for it, but the unwilling- 
ness felt by the bishop and his clergy, to reveal the small numbers of 
slaves who do attend Sunday schools, and the still smaller number of 
them who are taught to read. What the facts may be we pretend not 
to say : what we complain of is, that the facts are pertinaciously and 
systematically withheld from us ; and we cite, as our authority for 
saying so, the returns so vaunted by the British Critic, and now before 
us, of 1828. 

But this is not the only unfairness of which this writer has been 
guilty, in pretending to give an abstract of these returns. He has not 
told us, though the returns tell us, that no additional places of church 
of England worship have been erected in Barbadoes, nor any additional 
accommodation provided, except a few benches in about half of the 
churches. He has not told us, nor do we learn from the returns, that 
there is a single slave communicant in the whole island. He has not 
told us, though the returns tell us, that in 1828 only four marriages of 
slaves had taken place in Barbadoes ; and four marriages more between 
slaves and free persons. He has not told us, though the returns tell 
us, that in seven of the parishes, the minister has never been sent for 
to attend sick or dying slaves ; and in the other four parishes, very 
rarely indeed. Neither has he told us, though the returns tell us, that 
except in three individual instances, one in one parish, and two in ano- 
ther, slave mothers have never been " churched" in any of the parishes 
in the island. 

This specimen may well satisfy the most incredulous of our readers 
respecting both the good faith of the British Critic, and the clearness, 
as well as the freedom from vagueness and ambiguity, of the returns 
hitherto furnished by the West India bishops and clergy. 

The British Critic seems to think that because Mr. Riland and the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter were not accurately acquainted with the exact 
terms of the bequest by which the Propagation Society became possessed 
of the Codrington plantations, therefore their representations of the 
conduct pursued in administering those estates must be erroneous. But 
in considering that question what does it signify whether these estates 
are held in trust or not, and in what particular manner the proceeds of 
them are to be applied, whether for one purpose or another ? Are not 
all the funds held by the Society, held in trust for certain definite ob- 
jects? The funds in this case may be kept separate, in account, from the 
general funds of the Society, but they are just as much brought into 
the Society's treasury, as much a part of its means of doing good, as 
the monies which are collected in the churches of the realm inconse- 
quence of a King's letter. Whatever be the final application of the 
proceeds of these estates, the question still recurs, (and it is a question 
independent of that application,) Has the Propagation Society faith- 
fully and beneficially administered its trust ? Now what we maintain 



476 The British Critic's Vindication 

is this, (and thus much is now admitted at least by Phiialethes, the can*-^ 
did writer in the Christian Remembrancer), that for a long time the So- 
ciety did not faithfully and beneficially administer it ; that for upwards 
of a hundred years it did not perform the duty of a Christian master, in 
providing for the spiritual necessities of a number of human beings 
committed to its care, and as entirely dependent vipon it, and as much 
the objects of its responsibility before God, as a man's own children and 
servants. We fortified our charge of neglect by accurately quoting the 
statement of the Society itself, that " the slaves on these estates were 
never provided with any regular system of religious teaching until the 
year 1818." The British Critic calls this a garbled extract; but we 
cannot discover wherein it is garbled, nor does he condescend to tell us^ 
He insinuates, also, that we have given an unfair exposition of it, when 
in reference to it we afterwards say, " no regular means of religious in- 
struction were provided till 1818." The propositions seem to us to be 
identical, and to express precisely the same idea, notwithstanding the 
contrary and unexplained assertion of the British Critic, who says, we 
ought to have known better than to have said so. And yet what fairer 
course could we by any possibility have pursued, than that of adopting 
as true the testimony of the Society's own chaplain in 1824, revised and 
republished, in 1829, by the Society itself? The Society itself has, in 
this very year, put forth a statement, intended as a complete refutation 
of all that had been advanced against its conduct. We received its 
vindication, as given by itself, without question; and having done so| 
we are now charged with being unfair and disingenuous, because we have 
overlooked sornething that was said in some report fifteen or sixteen 
years ago, and which, had it been material, it was for the Society it- 
self to have produced. Our Critic therefore is surely somewhat unrea- 
sonable in his censures and exactions. 

The British Critic has altogether shut his eyes to one of the plain and 
obvious purposes we had in view, in bringing forward the extracts from 
the sermons preached before the Society for a century past ; and in 
which sermons the duty of providing for the temporal and spiritual in- 
terests of the slaves was forcibly insisted upon. We did it, among other 
reasons, in order to shew that as the good men who preached those ser- 
mons, as well as the good men who listened to them, were, in their day, 
deluded, by their agents abroad, into a belief that the Society was doing 
its duty, and that the slaves were duly cared for, while they were in face 
neglected and left to perish (awful reflection !) generation after genera- 
tion, in ignorance of every thing belonging to their eternal peace ; so 
the good men of the present day ought to take warning by that affecting 
example, and not suffer themselves to be any longer deluded by agents 
unavoidably prejudiced, or by vehement party writers, into a similar be- 
lief that all is well now, because good sermons arc preached, and plausi- 
ble reports are written. 

, It is vain to lull the consciences of the Directors of the Society with 
such opiates as the British Critic would apply to them. Neither could 
the horrors of the slave trade while it lasted, nor can the still exist- 
ing abominations of West Indian economy, excuse them for having 
continued for 120 years, and for continuing even to this day, to partici- 



of the Propagation Society considered—Manumission. 477 

pate iu the guilt of that wicked and unchristian system which makes 
man the slave, ihe chattel, of his fellow man. Thousands upon thousands 
of slaves have been introduced, during that time, to the enjoyment of li- 
berty, (of such qualified liberty at least as negroes can enjoy in the West 
Indies), while the Society's slaves have, with a few exceptions, continued 
the thralls of that degrading bondage, by which, as our Critic well re- 
marks, (p. 413,) "the whole order of nature is reversed — the labourer 
being excited to labour not by hope but by fear — punishments inflicted in 
England by the magistrates for crimes, being inflicted there by a master," 
(or hireling manager) " for idleness or inpertinence — the supply of daily 
ibod, and the maintenance of wife and children not being dependent 
on the exertion, self-denial, skill, or good character of the individual — 
Christian marriage," (nay all marriage) " being almost unknown, — the 
human form divine being treated as if it were no better than a brute or 
a machine — degraded to a chattel, seized by the creditor, sold in the 
market place, and exposed to every indignity which tyranny or caprice 
may dictate." — This, be it remembered, is not our picture ; it is the 
picture drawn, by the Society's too zealous advocate, of the condition 
of social life on the Society's own estates ; on estates which have been 
administered by it during 120 years; — for our Critic professes to describe, 
in the above passage, not " the excesses," but " the regular necessary 
practices" of the system. 

Philalethes tells us, in the Christian Remembrancer for April 1829, 
p. 244, that the Rev. Mr. Pinder is the owner of four slaves. But he 
adds, "judging from the fact of his having manumitted one at con- 
siderable expense to himself, (who became his property at his owil 
earnest request) and of his having promised manumission to the others, 
when Christian character qualifies them for the boon, I cannot think 
that he need be uneasy at the imputation of being a slave-holder." Now 
when we consider the prejudices in which Mr. Pinder has been edu- 
cated, and that the manumission of his slaves may cause him a pe- 
cuniary sacrifice which may be inconvenient, v/e think him entitled to 
respect for what he has done, as well as for what he purposes to do. 
We do not however admit for one moment that he can find the slightest 
justification for delaying to execute his good intentions on the ground 
which he has alleged. For what does it imply ? The monstrous pro- 
position that all but Christians ought to continue slaves ;* slavery being 
the penalty of refusing to embrace the gospel. We fear that many 
Barbadian whites as well as Barbadian blacks would have to be con- 
demned to slavery on such a principle. It is admitted by Mr. Coleridge. 
the tourist, that many of the freed population of the West Indies are 
highly respectable, and no one can shew that they have in general 
abused their liberty to disloyal purposes. But it is very doubtful 
whether one of them would to this hour have been manumitted had 
svLchdi qualification, for the boon of liberty, been previously required, as 
Mr. Pinder insists upon. In truth, this is one of those subtle artifices 
of the West Indian party^ for riveting the chains of their bondsmen, by 



* And might it not be inferred as a coroilaiy from suciv a jiroposition, that 
all wb» &t^ not Christians may be made slaves ? 

3 M 



428|,. The British Critic* s Vindication 

which good men hke Mr. Pinder are sometimes imposed upon, and to 
which certain West Indian governors of the Conversion Society have 
not a little contributed to give currency.* But the proposition is both 
false and mischievous, as we hope to shew, when v/e come to consider 
the conduct pursuing by that Society, in opposition to right and justice, 
with respect to the Lady Mico's charity. We can only glance at this 
subject at present and must return to the point in hand. 

If Mr. Pinder ihen has felt, as we are told, the obligation incumbent 
■ on him as a Christian to manumit his slaves, even at much personal ex- 
pense, what shall we say of the Propagation Society, whose members are 
free both from the prejudices and the pecuniary restraints which an in- 
dividual like Mr. Pinder may feel, for having, during 120 years, takeri 
no effective steps to this end ? It makes no profit, we are told, (at 
least so says Philalethes, Christian Remembrancer, p. 246), of their 
slaves. Be it so ; then one formidable hindrance to manumission is re- 
moved ; though, if it were otherwise, we should not concede, for one 
moment, that any Christian (much less a Christian Society comprising 
the hierarchy of England, and incorporated for the express purpose of 
evangelizing the world) may attempt to reconcile God and Mammon by 
receiving the gains of unrighteousness, even if those gains should be 
applied to holy uses. The Society will do well therefore to imitate the 
honest conscientious conduct of its chaplain, while it takes a less 
erroneous view of the obstacle he supposes to stand in his way, and ab- 
stains from making manumission a brilje for embracing Christianity. 
And here let us not be met by tales of trust deeds, or legal difficulties. 
These are all to be surmounted, if men are really in earnest. The asso- 
ciated hierarchy of England cannot fail in obtaining even parliamentary 
intervention, if that should be necessary for their relief from their pre- 
sent painful and embarrassing position ; and as for funds, these can never 
be wanting to enable them to comply with the plain requisitions of hu- 
manity and justice, and to fulfil their manifest and imperious duty both 
to God and man. Indeed the British Critic removes all apprehension 
on that score by the view he gives of the prosperous state of its 
finances (p. 447). s 

In 1776, an honest Quaker of the name of Nottingham, became, by 
marriage, the owner of 26 slaves in Tortola. He immediately deter- 
mined on manumitting them. And though the deed of manumission 
was executed by him in June of that same year, it was not, from the 
neglect of agents or other causes, carried into full effect, and the slaves 
actually emancipated, until 1790, when the 26 were found to be reduced 
in number to 20 souls, eight males and twelve females, being a decrease, 
during the 14 years they remained in slavery, of 23 per cent. In 182S, 
after a lapse of 33 years more, this number of 20 had grown to 44, 
being an increase of 120 per cent, in that time, during which time too 
they lived entirely by their own industry, conducting themselves, without 
exception, both loyally and peaceably ; and most of them indeed being now 

* To make the slaves Christians is asserted to be a necessary preliminary to 
freedom ; and yet the sabbath, vtithout which there is little hope of their be- 
coming Christians, is systematically withheld from them. Does not the piie- 
tfnce seem a little hypocritical.' -.;onth^> 



of the Propagation Society considered — Marriage. 479 

Christians, and members of the Methodist vSociety. We would recommend 
the whole of this case to the Propagation Society's attention. It may 
be found detailed in the Appendix to the Debate on Slavery, of the 15th 
May, 1823, p. 234, and in a pamphlet published for Hatchard, in 1824, 
entitled a Review of the Quarterly Review, (see pp. 39 and 91.) 
_ Speaking of his slaves in the deed of manumission, Mr. Nottingham 
says, " Considering that liberty is their right and property, which, in 
equity, justice, and good conscience, ought to be restored to them; and 
leaving a testimony in my heart against the iniquitous practice of en- 
slaving our fellow men,'' &c. therefore, he proceeds to grant them free- 
dom, and to bestow upon them some landed property, in order to sup- 
ply them with the means of subsistence.* 

What then, we ask, is to hinder the Society from acting as this wor- 
thy Quaker acted, under much greater disadvantages of time, and place, 
and agency, and other circumstances, than the Society now labours 
under. Its path is plain. May it have courage to enter upon it and to 
pursue it with fidelity. 

:: We have already in our last number sufficiently explained our views re- 
specting the management of the Codrington estates ; and we do not find 
that our Critic has said any thing of them requiring our further notice, 
except on the single point of Marriage. " Every one," he says, " will 
agree with Mr. Pinder and Mr. Clarke in thinking that slaves should not 
be encouraged to marry until they are duly sensible of the obligations 
of matrimony, and resolved to observe them." Prior to experience, we 
could not have believed that any Christian man, with the page of his- 
tory from the creation to this hour open before him, should be found 
deliberately to maintain so licentious, so monstrous an opinion. Is it not 
notorious that marriage has always existed in the world as the very basis 
of social life ? It existed prior to Christianity, nay, was ordained by- 
God himself, on the creation of man, as the source of domestic virtue 
and happiness and the maintainer of all the domestic affections. It 
has existed and now exists independently of Christianity. It existed in 
ancient Egypt, and Greece, and Rome. It existed in every part of an- 
cient Germany and Scandinavia, It existed in Britain itself, while its 
inhabitants were far more barbarous than is now the Barbadian slave. 
It exists among the heathen natives of Africa at this moment, and has 
always existed among them.f It exists among every people without the 
pale of Christendom, from the Icy Cape to the South Pole, and from 
California to Japan and Kamschatka, except only among the wretched 
thralls of Christian masters in Christian colonies. — Let us only contem- 
plate what would have been the state of ancient Rome without marriage, 
with no restraint placed on impurity and licentiousness, with no sanc- 

* Other cases of a similar kind might be cited. David Barclay, a Quakei-j 
of Walthamstow, became, about the year 1784, a proprietor of about twenty: 
slaves in Jamaica. He soon after took measures for manumitting them, and^ 
carried his purpose into full effect. — We would also refer to an account of the 
c<mdnet of Governor ('ole, of the Illinois, as given in the Christian ()bserv«r 
for 182S, p. 617 ; as well as to the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 27, p. 37 ; and in., 
conclusion would only add, " Go and do thou likewise," Luke x. 37. '/,' 

t'See Mutigo Park's decisive testimony to this point, >fol.l,i'p,7|3}^^.^j|9^^ 
edition. -./:---■:,•.'-.; .. L'.-'t-__ t3_.L.;*:^. 



480 The British Critic's VindiedMn^ ^^%\>. 

"tion given to the connubial tie, with none of the safeguards and chsttt- 
|i,es of donnestic life. Our Critic, it seems, with Mr. Finder and Mr. 
;t51arke, the chaplain and agent of the Propagation Society, as his autho- 

.jXlties, thinks it wrong to encourage marriage among our West Indian 

"blacks, till they shall have become sensible of its obligations. And yet 
Hvhat has been done to produce this feeling? Was it not in the power 

■ "di" ihe Society^ by its agents, exercising not only the rights of mastefs 
but of magistrates, and of parents too within the boundaries of its Own 
domain, to have laid down rules to restrain licentiousness, or even to pu- 
nish it, if necessary; among its dependents, its quasi subjects, servants, 
and children ? In what state of society, however rude, we confidently 
ask, except in communities under the despotic rule of Christian masters, 
has not something of this kind been instituted? Had the Society but 
placed a restraint upon the open and unblushing license of its planta- 
tions, even this would necessarily have led the way to such lastirig; 
unions of the sexes, as might have been made binding by the authority 
of the master. Can we then reflect with patience on a condition of so- 
ciety, such as has continued for 120 years on these estates, where So 
means have been employed to restrain licentiousness, and no pains taken 
to encourage marriage, and all on the futile pretence that the slaves ate 
not religious enough to justify the requiring of them to restrain their li- 
centious habits, and to form lasting unions of the sexes. 

Until the Advocates, the Chaplain, and the Agent of the Propagation 
Society had propounded these novel doctrines on the subject of mar- 
riage, we should have thought that regulations proscribing lewdness, and 
enjoining and protecting marriage, were only the more needed by any 
people in proportion to the weakness of the religious principle among 
them. Christianity, if it be truly received, would of itself restrain its 
professors from vicious indulgences, and induce them to form suitable 
and permanent unions. It is in the absence of the commanding in- 
fluence of Christian principle that the restraints of law are especially 
called for, to prevent the ruinous effects on society of that open and un- 
bounded licentiousness which pervades our slave colonies, and to serve 
as some substitute for higher motives of action ; and that the provisions 
of law are especially needed to legalize and protect marriage with all 
the unnumbered blessings which result from that institution. But instead 
of taking this rational view of the matter, the advocates and agents of the 
Propagation Society have the hardihood to come forward and say, in fact, 
that fornication ought not to be restrained, and that marriage ought 
not to be encouraged among the slaves, until some undefinable progress 
has been made in communicating to them right notions of marriage. 
So that the servants, the domestics, the children, in fact, of this Society, 
have been permitted, and are still permitted to cohabit on the footing of 
dogs and cattle, until the ideas of decorum as well as morality are al- 
most as much forgotten with respect to the human as to the brute ani- 
mal. — Let us again look to ancient heathen Rome, or at modern Africa, 
and contrast with them the sftite of the Codrington plantations, after 
having enjoyed for 120 years the superintendance, magisterial and pa- 
rental, of this Christian Society, and we may well blush both for our 
country and our church. We solemnly call on all its members to conr 



of the Propagation Society considered — Marriage. 481 

template this state of things, and no longer to suffer themselves to be 
deluded by such vain, or rather wicked pleas as we have been exposing. 
We had hoped that what we had already said would have been suffi- 
cient lo lead to remedial measures ; but these indiscreet advocates have 
forced us to throw aside the reserve we had imposed on ourselves, and 
to sift this momentous question to the bottom. And who will dare to 
deny that the desecration of the Sabbath and the want of marriage, 
which we have been occupied in denouncing, have lain as cankers at 
the root of every religious efTort, on the part of this and other religious 
bodies ; and must continue to do so, until every refuge of lies shall be 
swept away, by which such abominations have been palliated and apo- 
logised for, if not even vindicated, by men who ought to have adopted 
a very different tone. 

The British Critic professes to be extremely puzzled to answer the 
inquiry, " Why cannot you induce the slaves to marry ?" The answer 
is very simple. No one appears to have seriously thought of inducing 
them to do so ; nor has any serious attempt been made to encourage 
marriage among them, by surrounding it with the necessary legal sanc- 
tions. On the contrary, the whole system of colonial legislation, as 
well as the whole course of colonial conduct, has operated to the direct 
discouragement of that sacred institution. 

The separation of these human chattels, at the wili, or for the debts, or 
for the convenience of the master, placed them somewhat on the footing 
of the dogs of a pack. Like them they might move in couples, but 
there existed for their union no security beyond the day ; and their off- 
spring, when born into the world, were no longer their father's or their 
mother's, but their masters. As for the marriage of a negro, these lawgivers 
would, of themselves, as soon have thought of legislating for the marriage 
of a horse or a cow. It would have been deemed, by most Barbadians, 
a most daring act of presumption in a slave to have aspired to a parti- 
cipation with the white in such an institution. Scarcely any clergyman 
there had ever dreamed of such a thing, and it would have excited in- 
finite surprise in most of them had a negro suggested a doubt as to the 
perfect lawfulness of the state of concubinage in which he lived, or de- 
sired, on Christian, or on any grounds, to have his union with the female 
of his choice sanctified. The only slave marriage which took place in 
Barbadoes, prior to 1825, excited as much dissatisfaction in the island, 
both with the presumptuous parties who had the audacity to aspire to 
such a distinction, hitherto reserved for their superiors, and with the 
clergyman who had lent himself to the unprecedentedly wicked deed ; 
as did afterwards the insurrectionary atrocity (as it v/as deemed) of the 
same clergyman, in having dared to administer the sacramental bread 
to a person of colour, at one extremity of the sacramental table, while 
his curate was administering the cup to a white person at the other.* 

* The bishop of Barbadoes deserves high commendation for the firm stand 
he made to protect this persecuted individual from the rage of his enemies. 
We honour him for it. We take this opportunity also of expressing our appro- 
bation of his Lordship's printed address to candidates for holy orders, as far as 
it goes; although it would suit England as well as the West Indies, having in 
it little that is appropriate; and we sincerely rejoice also to perceive that in the 

3m? 



482 .,^^-.^^^.^i^^he British Critics Vindication 

But in this case we have to deplore not merely the absence of all 
laws for repressing the open licentiousness of sexual intercourse, or for 
inducing and protecting purer and more lasting alliances among the 
slaves, but that the dominant white should be himself the seducer, the 
direct encourager, by his practice and example, of that lawless licence 
among his slaves, which was wholly inconsistent with the effort or the 
hope of introducing the marriage union among them. The owners, the 
managers, and the overseers on plantations were generally disposed to 
regard the females, committed to them, no less as the ready instruments 
of their lust than as the submissive subjects of their power ; and did in 
fact so consider them. Andinsuch a stateof things how could it possibly be 
otherwise than that the negro women, especially, should acquire, as the 
British Critic states, a dislike to the idea of marriage. To reform habits 
of licentiousness is always a difficult task, and the desire to do so is not 
likely to arise spontaneously, or to be very strong, in the minds of per-i 
sons sunk in ignorance and vice. Besides, in what a dilemma must the ' 
poor negressfeel that she would be placed, if, liable to be tempted or 
terrified into a compliance with a manager's wishes, she had a husband 
with a legal right to call her to account and to resent and punish her 
infidelity. What motives also have either men or women hitherto had 
to desire the restraints of marriage, when no security, no apparent ad- 
vantage arises to them from it; when they witness their superiors in 
general deriding it in their language, and outraging it in their practice, 
and even the clergy hesitating to recommend and encourage it ; and above 
all, when no degree of discredit in society attaches to the habitual in- 
dulgence, on the part either of men or women, of their impure desires ? 

It is further to be considered that the practice of concubinage has 
prevailed generally among the free, whether white or black, as well 
as among the slaves ; the concubines of the whites being generally 
sought either among the slaves or among the black or coloured free. 
Profligacy and corruption were thus diffused through the whole mass of 
society, so that even if a respectable free coloured man had wished to 
marry a wife of his own complexion, he could find few among them 
whom either he could induce to marry, or who had not been already 
living in habits of vicious indulgence. — This whole class of evils, among 
the most destructive which can pollute and curse society,* the West 
Indian clergy too have seemed, by a sort of tacit deference to public 
feeling, to consider as out of the line of their public denunciations and 
remonstrances. They were in the habit of associating familiarly with 
those around them, even with married men who were living in open and 
habitual concubinage with black or coloured women. Will this view of 
things be thought exaggerated ? Non mens hie Sermo. We refer in proof 

Report of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge for 18?8, his Lordship 
is represented as considering the teaching of the slaves to read as indispensably 
necessary, in order to effect any permanent improvement among them. (British 
Critic, 431.) 

** Dr. Paley justly represents this vice to be, from whatever cause, the most 
depraving to the moral principle and character of any of the vices. Is it not 
because the Almighty meant to brand, with a peculiar mark of degradation, a 
vice which strikes at the root of domestic virtue and happiness ? 



of the Propagation Society considered— Marriage. 483 

of its accuracy to various West Indian writers. Bryan Edwards is 
clear and explicit on the subject in his history of the West Indies, (see 
vol. ii. p. 19, &c. 5th Ed.) No less so is Mr. Stewart in his " past 
and present state of Jamaica ;" also Dr. Williamson, Mr. Bickell, and 
many others. But no man's testimony is more to our purpose than that 
of Mr. Orderson of Barbadoes, a man well known in that island, who, 
ia a pamphlet published during the period of the discussion on the re- 
gistry bill in 1815 and 1816, scrupled not to admit or rather to declare^ 
that scarcely was there any one in Barbadoes, however favoured in his 
domestic relations, who had not reason to blush for illicit connections of 
this kind. 

And amidst this overflowing tide of iniquity, what have the Society 
and its agents done to counteract it on the Codrington estates ? They 
do not even profess to have discouraged concubinage, or to have given 
encouragement to pure and permanent unions between the sexes, at 
least until very recently. What hope indeed could we entertain that 
these estates should form an oasis in this moral desert, while both the 
chaplain of the establishment and the agent of it concur in thinking 
that slaves should not be encouraged to marry till they are instructed to 
observe the obligations of matrimony. Till then, young and old, white 
and black, male and female, are to be left, (on estates which ought to be 
the shrine and sanctuary, as it were, of pure Christianity), to pursue their 
own sensual inclinations, unfettered by any law or regulation, restrained 
by no tie, and disturbed by no exhortations, even from the pulpit, tdr ; 
" abstain from those fleshly lusts which war against the soul." 

Those will not think that we have been too diff'use in our remarks on 
this great subject, or that our language has been too strong, who re- 
member, as we have already stated, that the permanent union of the 
sexes was ordained, by God himself, on the creation of man, to be the 
basis of domestic virtue and happiness, the source and the support of 
all the domestic and social affections. Long, however, as we have dwelt 
on this important topic, we have by no means exhausted it ; but we 
hope we have said enough to rouse the good vSense and Christian feeling 
of the members of this Society to a due consideration of the case. If 
our statements be denied, we are fully prepared to support them by the 
most decisive and overwhelming evidence. But what we have already 
said we trust will have its effect, and that we shall have no more apolo- 
gies for fornication, and no more discouragements to marriage, from the 
chaplains and advocates of this venerable Society. 

We- shall not think it necessary to follow our Critic through his pre- 
posterous speculations on Colonial Slavery, or through his attacks on 
the "conduct either of the Anti-Slavery Society or of individual members 
of it. He seems to have borrowed his views chiefly, either from the 
Quarterly Review of 1824, or from Mr. Wilmot Horton, whose opinions 
he nevertheless condemns on the important point of the compulsory 
manumission clause. We will leave our opponent to settle, as he may, 
his diff'erences with that Right Honourable Gentleman, only observing-, 
that if he chooses to follow out his lucubrations on the singular and, as 
we think, mischievous crotchets of Mr. Horton, he may find ready help 
in our pages. Before however we quit this branch of our Critic's at- 
tack, we think it right to say, that he has shewn profound ignorance of 



484 The British Critic on Colonial Slavery. 

many parts of the question, and has committed blunders, not a few 
which he could not have honestly committed had he consulted those 
sources of information which are quite accessible with a sincere desire 
to ascertain the truth. To leave him without any future excuse for 
such ignorance, in respect to the principles and past proceedings of the 
Anti-Slavery Society, we refer him to the list of publications inserted at 
the close of the Reporter, No. 32, pp. 175, 176, of which we would 
recommend to his "Special consideration, (besides Stephens's Delineation 
oy Slavery, ) the Preface to the Debate of May, 1823; the pamphlets 
called Negro Slavery, and The Slave Colonies of Great Britain; and 
the Reporters, Nos. 11, 13, 14, 18, 19, 26, 27, and 31. Several of the 
subsequent numbers of the same work will also be found to contain by 
anticipation an answer to some of our Critic's unfounded statements 
and vague speculations, all of which he seems to have borrowed, either 
from the Quarterly Review, or from the pamphlets of Mr. Dwarris and 
Mr. W. Horton, or from the speech of Lord Seaford in the last Session; 
and to all of which an answer has already been given in our pages, as he 
may see by a perusal, in addition to the above references, of the Reporter, 
No. 37 with its supplement; and of Nos. 38, 39, 40, and 43.* 

It would be unjust however to the British Critic, and to the cause 
which we have uniformly, cordially, and perseveringly, however feebly; 
advocated, were we to overlook the aid which, by his admissions, he 
has rendered to that cause. We wonder indeed where his Anti-Slavery 
zeal has been slumbering duing the six or seven years which have elaps- 
ed since 1822. But though coming into the field somewhat late in the 
day, we nevertheless hail him as an important auxiliary, and we proceed 
to avail ourselves of his gratifying and decisive avowals, leaving to him- 
self a task which would be beyond our power, that of reconciling those 
avowals with other parts of his review, and particularly with his vehe- 
ment abuse of us who are his precursors, at least, in that career of philan- 
thropy on which he is now entering. 

* No part of the Critic's statement is more wide of the truth than the dispa- 
raging account which he gives, p. 423, of the exertions of the Moravians and 
Wesleyan Methodists among the slaves in the West Indies, while he exagge- 
rates the good effected by the Establishment. The Moravian and Methodist 
missionaties, we think, are chargeable in some degree with the same faults of 
vagueness, and of silence, as to some great prevalent evils, with which we have 
charged the Conversion Society ; and they may have been too ready to sacrifice, from 
a well meant, but, as we think, mistaken policy, their ovpn just rights and those of 
their unfriended and oppressed converts, to the anli-christian spirit of the colo- 
pists. Still it is certain that they were long almost the only effective labourers 
in the vineyard of the West Indies, and that much fruit has resulted from their 
labours. The Moravians, indeed, have not had much success in any of the 
English islands excepting Antigua and St. Kitts, in the former of which islands 
they reckon about eight or nine thousand slaves as belonging to their church. 
But the Methodists, at the close of 1828, actually numbered among their mem- 
bers, in the West India colonies, 22,590 slaves, and 6470 free blacks and per- 
sons of colour, all of whom had at least arrived at the age of puberty, and must 
have been maintaining something of a Christian walk ; as they could not other- 
wise, according to the rules of Methodist discipline, have been enrolled and con- 
tinued as members of the Methodist society. This certainly cannot be called 
forming congregations ou a small scale, as the British Critic describes them; as 
the above numbers comprise only the adults in Society, not the mere'atendants 
on worship, or the children taught. 



■i^he British Critic on Colonial Slavery. 485 

" Putting," says the British Critic, p. 412, " the errors and exagge- 
rations of the Anti-Slavery Society," (of which by the way he prudently 
avoids all specification,) *' entirely out of sight, looking solely at noto- 
rious and acknowledged facts, drawing our information exclusively from 
the West Indians themselves, the system ptirsued zn a heir country is 
one which must be radically reformed. The voice of this great 
empire calls imperiously for such a measure. If," he adds, " the idle 
din and clamour of the Anti-Coionial party were once effectually si- 
lenced" — (and yet to what but to their din and clamour is it owing that 
the voice of this great empire now calls imperiously for a radical Colo- 
nial reform, or that the British Critic himself has become awake to the 
call?) the nation, he goes on to argue, might then learn something of 
the real state of the case, (might learn it, viz. from the British Critic;) 
and then, when, by the silence of the Anti-Colonists and the eloquence 
we presume of the British Critic, light is diffused, and the present 
" apathy is overcome," — (we had heard just before of the imperious 
call of this great empire for a radical Colonial reform !) then, we shall be 
able, the Critic thinks, to see and appreciate the difference between our 
own happy lot and that of our unhappy brethren in the West Indies. 

He then proceeds to give us that just description of the condition of 
the slaves which we have already twice quoted, (see above p. 477, and 
No. 47, p. 461,) — and at the close of it adds, warmed with his subject, 
" We protest therefore, once for all, against those defences and palliations 
of the West India system which formerly were familiar in the mouths of 
all, and are still to be heard from some who consider themselves bound 
to persevere in upholding the Colonial interest, or in opposing the at- 
tempts of the abolitionist," p. 413. And, "What, in one word," he 
asks, '* was the condition of the British West Indies previously to the 
formation of the Colonial Episcopate?" — (Ought not the question to 
have been. What was it previous to the formation of the Anti-Slavery 
Society, to which even the Episcopate has owed its existence ?) To that 
question the following is his answer ; and on that answer we shall take 
the liberty of making a comment or two. 

" The religious teachers (of the West Indies) were such as they hate 
been just described— few in number, and cramped in their operations.* 
The whites were far behind their European brethren in general character 
and attainments, and were wedded to a system which it was impossible 
to defend, and most difficult to relinquish or reform. The coloured po- 

* The description given, by the British Critic, of the West Indian clergy of 
former times is, we fear, far more favourable than the truth will warrant. It 
is true that in general they were wholly regardless of the spiritual inte- 
rests of the slaves, not even considering them as a part of their flock, though 
ready to pour the water of baptism upon them when requested to do so, and paid 
fordoing it, and that they miserably neglected also their duties to the free 
whether white or coloured, except when gain accrued to thein from the perform- 
ance of the occasional services of the church, burials, marriages, and christen- 
ings'; but it is also true that the conduct of many of them (notwithstanding a 
few bright examples of a contrary kind) was of the most opprobrious description, 
and strangely at variance with the decencies and proprieties of the clerical 
character ; so that even in the midst of a eominunity of peculiarly dissolute habits, 



486^ , e The British Critic oti Colonial Slaver u. , 

pulation of all shades and ranks were degraded to a degree of which it 
is difficult to form an adequate conception. Even the free and the 
Avealthy were deprived of every political privilege, for no other offence: 
than the colour of their skins ; while the slaves, if not treated with cru^ ' 
elty which, in later times, at least, was the exception rather than the] 
rule, yet passed their lives in severe labour, men and women working tOtV 
gether in a state of total, or nearly total nakedness; their sabbath, ini^n 
stead of being a day of religious rest, was commenced by public mar- 
ketings, and concluded by public dances; the marriage of one man to 
one woman was hardly known ; their very names were the names which 
were given to monkeys or puppy dogs ; the small portion of them that 
were initiated into the Christian church were reminded of their wretched 
condition and inferiority as often as they entered the house of God, andii 
even when they knelt at his altar ; and when they came to die, theiifa 
bodies were buried with the burial of an ass, and the whites would have?) 
considered their cemetery as profaned, if the bones of a black had found 
admission within its pale. We do not lay these things to the charge of 
the individuals who exercised authority in the colonies, but to that of 
the system under which they were unhappily born. For a long course 
of years they had been supplied by the slave trade with labourers;; 
whom they treated as if they had been brutes ; and when labour^ 
though still too severe, was in some degree lightened, and cruelty was 
in a great measure renounced, contempt, the bitterest and most un- 
mitigated remained, and was strengthened by the absence of other aadlJ 
more detestable feelings."* B. C. p. 426. /ijiidassi 

_ ''"': :oiiilod K 

they became too often the song of the drunkard and the merry jest of the pro-.^ 
fane; not, as sometimes is the case, on account of the sanctity of their demeati- 
our, but because they outdid those around them in the Irregularity and corrupt^^ 
ness of their example. We speak, of course, of by-gone, though not very remote ' 
periods. Whether such instances find their parallel in the present day we do 
not take it upon us to affirm ; but that approximations to them may still be met 
with, no one is permitted to doubt who has read the Rev. Ricliard Bickell's 
West Indies as they are ; or who is familiar with the colonial transactions of '' 
late years. ^ 

* The British Critic seems to speak of all these abominations as if they were 
matter only of past history. But whatever he may have been informed, or may 
dream to the contrary, they characterise, though still faintly, the actual, the now 
existing state of society, with very few exceptions, throughout our slave colO' y 
nies. Speaking generally, the whites are still very low in character and attain- 
ments ; the free black and coloured population are still deeply degraded and i 
oppressed ; the slaves are still treated with cruelty, still driven to excessive and . 
uncompensated labour, men and women, by brute force; still deprived of their 
sabbaths: still strangers to the marriage tie and the charities of domestic life;- 
and still treated as brute animals, a race beneath humanity's level, and, as the' 
reviewer admits, so bitterly contemned as not to be even entitled to the sym- 
pathy which their namesakes of the horse and dog species receive ; while their 
lives, loe add, are fast wearing away by excess of toil and scantiness of food. 
This is now, as we maintain, and have, over and over again, proved, in spite of 
all the tales with which Mr. Dwarris, or the Quarterly Review, or the British 
Critic, or other West India writers may attempt to delude the public, the aqtuftl 
state of things, at the present day, in our slave colonies. — See Reporters, No5.^ ., 
5 ; 16 ; 18 ; 19; 21 ; 25 ; 26 ; 28, p. 96 ; 30 ; 31, p. 135 ; 37 ; 41 ; 42 ; 43 ; 44 ;| 
45, I), 411 ; 46, p. 439 ; and 47, p. 461. ^ ' ^ J 'iiii ' 

.■•oa y. ..' . ,. ( 

• ' " If .lip. WO03S 



Colonies menaced by the British Critic ^ Quarterly Review. 487 

li; We have shewn, in a note, (last page,) how incorrect our Critic is in 
representing the evils which he enumerates as past, and not as now exist- 
ing; imitating, in this respect, the successive advocates of colonial bondage 
during half a century, who have never been able to find in their vocabu- 
lary any present tense for the atrocities of the system. But we must 
do our Critic the justice to say, that he himself appears to have some 
misgivings on the subject; for he seems unwilling to quit it without at- 
tempting to obviate the effect of his too flattering delineations of the 
colonial desire of improvement. He even shakes his mantle in a som.e- 
what menacing attitude while he utters his valedictory warning, " that, 
unless the progress of colonial reform is materially accelerated in the 
course of the present year, no one will believe that the colonial legis- 
latures entertain a sincere desire for the religious instruction of the 
slaves. There are rules and practices, and even laws," he adds, '• still 
existing in almost every colony, which no member of the West Indian 
body in England would venture to defend either in parliament or in any 
other public assembly. The Sunday markets, the rejection of slave 
evidence, and the whipping of women" (Is this all? might he not have 
greatly swelled the list ?) " are condemned by the unanimous voice of this 
great empire ; and, if the colonial legislatures refuse to purge them- , 
selves of these abominations, they must even take the con- 
sequences." p, 454. 

Nor is it only the British Critic who has surprised the world by this 
threatening language. The Quarterly Review, which, in 1 824, was fairly, 
embarked as a partizan in support of the colonial cause, and loaded the 
abolitionists with heavy censures for the unconciliating tone of their 
Anti-Slavery proceedings, and was particularly loud in denouncing 
whatever partook of menace, (see Nos. 58 and 60,) seems now, after a 
silence of some years, either to have changed its opinions or to have had^^ 
new opinions dictated to it. In the last number, (No. 78,) its port to-ii- 
wards the Colonists is still more unequivocally one of reproach and.i 
defiance than even that of the British Critic. Well may they say *' et^^ 
tu Brute !" The Quarterly Reviewer seems almost to have had in his eye', 
an article in the 81st number of the Edinburgh Review, which, at the 
tithe of its appearance, was denounced as outrageously offensive. ,« 

' " With regard to Jamaica, and some other of the West India Islands," ' 
(says the last Quarterly Review, p. 343,) " which have their houses of 
assembly ; their systematic opposition to every measure proposed by the ., 
King's government, considering the precarious situation in which they o 
stand, appears to us to be little short of insanity. They seem not to 
know that they are tottering on the very brink of a volcano, which the 
first blast of a trumpet from St. Domingo would cause to explode, and . 
bury in one common ruin, man, woman, and child. As it is, nothings 
hut the King's armed force preserves them from destruction. And yet:* 
these silly people have been so unwise as to refuse to continue the sup-/, 
plies which they are bound to furnish to the troops who protect them,i 
nay, even to throw out something of a threat to sever themselves fromk 
the mother country, and seek for protection elsewhere. Is it possible ^ 
that these people can for a moment forget that England protects thent' 
and their sugars at the expense of her other colonies ? Do they not 
know that if she were to admit the sugars of the East Indies and the 



488 Advice of the British Critic lo the Anti-Slavery Society. 

Mauritius,* on the payment of equal duties ; or still more effectually if 
she were to levy a discriminating duty on West India sugar, the sua of 
their prosperity would immediately set ? Let the House of Assembly 
look at these things, and desist in time from using or abusing its autho- 
rity, by a vexatious opposition ta his Majesty's Government." 

Before we close this long article, we feel called upon to acknowledge 
our obligations to the British Critic for the kind advice he has lavished 
upon us. He warns us, (p. 41 8,) that the work of weaning men from 
their errors, or of reforming such a body as the whites in our slave 
colonies, " is not to be accomplished by ridicule, misrepresentation, 
threats, or blows; that the abolitionist should enter upon his work with 
clean hands and a single eye ; that good sense and moderation should 
be conspicuous in his conduct ; that he should bring forward no charges 
which he cannot substantiate ; that he should be ready to soften rather 
than exaggerate existing abuses ; and that if he does not succeed in re- 
moving the suspicion, quieting the fears, and doing away the prejudices 
of the planter, he should, at least, conduct his cause in a manner which, 
in the estimation of impartial men, ought to produce these effects." 

This good counsel our Critic follows up by the rather hazardous 
observation, that not a single abolitionist will be found to say that his 
party have adhered to these maxims, and, at least, that no one out of 
their ranks would venture on such an assertion. We know not what 
those out of their ranks may say, but we will boldly maintain that we 
have acted up to, and even beyond, the Critic's beuu ideal of an Aboli- 
tionist, and of which, we suspect, he must have even borrowed his con- 
ception from our pages. He must, moreover, be little acquainted with 
the feelings of abolitionists, if he does not know that the moderation of 
the Anti-Slavery Reporter is deemed by some of them one of its great 
faults. Leaving him and our ultra friends to settle between them their 
conflicting views of our conduct, we challenge both to quit their vague 
aqd general accusations, and to condescend to point out in our pages 
the particular and specific instances, either of a charge which we have 
made and not substantiated, or of an existing abuse which we have 
exaggerated, or of one just and essential principle which we have com- 
promised ; — and we promise to give them ample satisfaction. 

Before we conclude, we take this opportunity of again thanking the 
British Critic for the opportunity he has given us of so fully vindicating 
our principles and our conduct, and we shall rejoice if the result shall 
prove as satisfactory to him, as we have no doubt it will to the public 
at large. 

* Does the Quarterly Reviewer not know that the Mauritius sugars have been 
admitted for some years to home consumption on equal duties with those of the 
West Indies. They have obtained this favour for no other reason that we can 
discover, but, because they are, like the sugars of the West Indies, grown by 
slaves ; while the sugars of Bengal, the growth of free labour, are subjected to 
heavy duties, for the common benefit of all British slaveholders. 

END OF SECOND VOLUME. 



London; IJaifsfer ami 'll\on\s, Printers, 14, V.artlioloniew Close 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, 



Vols. I. axd IL 



Aberdeen, Anti-Slavery Society of; their Address 
to the Public, i. 23. 

Abolitionists, Defence of, from the Attacks of the 
Quarterly Review, i. 17I— from the Charges of 
Mr. Canning, i. 199— of Mr. Dvvarris, ii. 237— 
and of Lord Seaford, ii. 293 : — Their objects de- 
clared by Mr. Denman, ii. 224, and by Mr. Bux- 
ton, ii. 228:— Remarks on their alleged Calumnies 
against the Planters, ii. 305. 

African Institution, Extract from Twenty-tirst 
Report of, on the Trial of Capt. Young, ii. 136. 

Algiers, its White Captives compared with the 
Negro Slaves of our Colonies, i. 223 :— Its Infrac- 
tions of the Law of "Nations not worse than our 
own in the West Indies, i. 287 ; ii. 144. 

Amelioration o/.S/i7M)y,— Mr. Dwarris's Statements 
on this subject commented on, ii. 222, 227, 237. 

America, ISortfi, vide United States. 

South, the extent of Free Labour In- 
dustry there, described by Humboldt, ii. 37. 

Antigua, Statistics of, ii. 11, 13, 17, 430 :— Progress 
of Legislative Reform, ii. 80, 350 : — Case of the 
Slave Grace, ii. 143 :— Observation of the Sab- 
bath, ii. 221—232: — Religious Instruction, ii. 325, 
404, 446. 

Anti-Slavery Associations, Address to, i. ], 9: — 
Arguments for their multiplication, i. 248: — 
Notice of, in the United States, ii. 8: — Increase 

; of, in this Country, i. ,32 ; ii. 252. 

Anti-Slavery Cause, Remarks on its state in 1828, 
ii. 174, 205-Remarks by Mr. Wilberforce, ii. 214 : 
—Writers in support of it, ii. 176. 

Anti-Slavery Meetings ; at Norwich, Oct. 20, 182.'5, 
i. 57— Bath, Feb. 3, 1826, i. 86-Buckingham, .Ian. 
17, 1826, i. 87-Edinburgh. Feb. 1, 1826, i. 90- 
Liverpool, i, 185— County of Surrey, Oct. 25,1827, 
ii. 138-Dublin, Nov. 17, 1827, ii. 143:-lSotice 
of Meetings in 1828 at Liverpool, Birmingham, 
&c. &e. ii. 2,36. 

Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter ; Objects for which 
it was commenced, i. 1 :— Defence of it against the 
charges of the West India Reporter, i. 313, 360 ; 
ii. 95, 119-of the British Critic, ii. 398,451,470, 
488— of a tract issued by the " Conversion So- 
ciety," ii. 446— of an Article in the " Christian 
Remembrancer," ii. 457. 

Anti-Slavery Society ; Proceedings of the second 
General Meeting, April .30, 1825— Speeches of 
Lords Calthorpe and Milton, Messrs. Buxton, 
Wilberforce, Brougham, Denman, Whitmore, 
Sykes, Lushington, and O'Connell, Sir John Se- 
bright, and the Duke of Gloucester, i. 2, 8 :— 
Report of the third General Meeting, Dec. 21, 
1826, i. 61 — Resolutions and Petition adopted, 
i. 71— Proceedings, i. 73— Speeches of Mr. Wilber- 
force, Sir J. Mackintosh, Messrs. Brougham. 
Buxton, Denman, Gurney, Dr. Lushington, and 
Mr. Cropper, i. 73 :— List of the Society's Pub- 
lications, ii. 175:— Proceedings of the fourth Ge- 
neral Meeting, May 3, 1828— Speeches of ftlessrs. 
Brougham, Wilberforce, Denman, Sir James 
Mackmtosli, Mr. Buxton, Rev. Gerard Noel, 
Rev. W. Cunningham, Mr. Sykes, and the Duke 
of Gloucester, ii. 213—235. 

Appraisement ; Clause in the Trinidad Order on 
this subject, i. 139— references to and remarks 
on this Clause, i. 148, 218, .300, .301, 323 ; ii. 25- 
50, 72, 90, 93:— Unjust principle adopted in 
Trinidad, ii. 70, 122. Vide Manumission. 

Arbitrary Punishment, Master's power of inflict- 
ing, limited by the Trinidad Order, i. 140,192: 
Enactments in St. Vincent's i. 163— in Jamaica, 
i. 307 ; ii. 252, 355— in Barbadoes. ii. 90— in 



Dominica, ii. 99— in St. Kitts, ii. 271 :— Law 

and Practice in the Mauritius, ii. 3.35, .379 :— 

Remarks by Mr. Huskisson, ii. 178, 344 :— Mr. 

Dwarris's Statements, ii. 246. 
Archdechie, Mr. of Jamaica ; his overseer's account 

of the treatment of the Slaves under his charge, 

i. 191. 
Atkinson, Mr. of Jamaica, his Speech in the House 

of Assembly, i. 309. 
Atkinson, Elizabeth of Berbice, and her Slaves, 

i. 41, 236. 
Austin, Mr. of Berbice, i. 44, 45. 

Bahamas ; New Slave Law, i. 50 : — Law and 
Practice in regard to Marriages of Slaves, i. 
265; ii. 17— Separation of families, i. 272— Pau- 
perism, i. 275 ; ii. 13— Manumission, i. 279, 284 ; 
li. 17 :— Value of Slaves, i. 282 ; ii. 17:— Abolition 
of Driving Whip and flogging of Females nega- 
tived by House of Assembly, i. 307 :— State of 
Slaves contrasted with condition of those in 
Sugar Islands, i. 186, 314 :— Condition of Land- 
owners, i. 315 ;— Statistical view, ii. 16, 17 :— 
Remarks on Report of Select Committee ot 
House of Assembly, and on new Slave Act, ii. 
80— Mr. Huskisson's opinion of this Act, ii. 346 : 
Progress of Reform, i. 151; ii. 80, 150:— Cruel 
treatment of a female Slave, ii. 462. 

Barbadoes ; Slave Law of 1825, i. 50 :— Condition 
of Slaves, i. 67, 183 :-Evidence of Mr. Dwarris, 
i. 256; ii. 238:— Remarks by Mr. Brougham on 
law of 1824, i. 76 :— Progress of Legislation 
—Speech of Mr. Hinds, i. 209 :— Speech of 
Mr. Pile on Sunday Markets, i. 215:— Barbadian 
Newspaper on the Colonial Question, i. 217 : 
— " Dominica Planter's," remarks on the cause of 
the insurrections of 1816, i. 255:— Law and Prac- 
tice in regard to Slave Marriages, i. 265; ii. 13 
—Separation of families, i. 272— Pauperism, i. 
275 ; ii. 1,3-Manumission, i. 279, 284 ; ii. 13, 
17-90:-Value of Slaves, i. 282, 283; ii. 13:— 
Liability of Free Blacks and persons of Colour 
to be sold as Slaves, i. 285 :— Compulsory Ma- 
numission, i. ,301 :— Driving Whip and flogging 
of Females, i. 307 :— Mr. Shrewsbury, i. 326 :- 
The Negro Atherley and his Family, i. 272 :— 
Case of 19 Slaves, escheats of the Crown, i. 273 ; 
ii. 90:— Statistics— Population, and Sugar Culti- 
vation, ii. 11, 13: — Persecution of Rev. W. M. 
Harte, ii. 20, 96, 135:— Slave Law of 1826 ex- 
amined, ii. 87, 91, 150 :— Mr. Huskisson's Re- 
marks, ii. 345 :— Sunday Labour, ii. 316 :— Con- 
version Society's Report on the progress of 
Education and Religious Instruction, ii. ,325: — 
Remarks on Reports of the Propagation Society 
respecting their Slaves, ii. 414, 420. 

Barbadoes, "Rhhop of; Abstract of his Reports, 
with remarks, i. 194 ; ii. 1.35, 454:— his conduct 
in the Case of Rev. Mr. Harte, ii, 96, 135. 481 :- 
his regulations in regard to Catechists, ii. ,326 : 
—Notice of his Sermon on the non-observance, of 
Sunday, ii, 451. 

Barclay, Mr. Alexander, Observations on his 
Statements respecting Negro Slavery, i. 195; ii. 
396- and on his alleged Refutation of Mr. Ste- 
phen,^ 249— 264 :— Gratuitous circulation of 1000 
Copies of his " Practical View of Slavery," i. 
,309 :— His Statements respecting Sunday Labour, 
ii. 315, 409. 

Barclay, Mr, David, Manumission of his Slaves, ii. . 
479. 

Baring, Alexander, Esq. M. P. Notice of his Re- 
marks on Slavery, i, 48. 
I Barker, Rev. Blr. his Testimony respecting the ob- 
A 



INDEX TO AXTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND II. 



servance of the Sabbath in the West India Colo- 
nies, ii. 447, 448, 450, 452, 471. 
Barnes, Mr. Ma^'or of Kingston, i. 29. 

Barrett, Mr. liis Speech on the Driving Whip, i. 
307 ; ii. SJ49. 

Bath, Anti-Slavery Meeting at, i. 86. 

Bath and Wells, Bishop of, his Speech at a public 
Meeting at Bath, i. 8ti— Speech in the House of 
Lords, March 7, 1826, i. 113. 

Bailmrst, Earl, his Speech in the House of Lords, 
March 7, 1826, i. 108; ii. 73-his Instructions to 
the Governors of Slave Colonies, i. 131, 296 ; ii. 
76:— Remarks on his Despatches to the Governor 
of Dtmerara, i. 146-150; ii.68:-his Remarks re- 
specting Sunday Labour and Sunday Markets, 
i. .303 ; ii. 31— his Observations on the Case of 

r Betto Douglas, ii. 4— and on the new Law of Do- 
minica, ii. 101— his conduct in regard to the Mau- 
ritius, ii. 337. 

Beame, Rev. H. of St. James, Jamaica, i. 193. 

Beaiimont, Mr. A. H. gratuitous Circulation of his 
Works on Compensation, by .the Assembly of 
Jamaica, i. 309. 

Bel Ombre, a Plantation in the Mauritius, treat- 
ment of the Slaves, ii. 376, .377, 380. 

Beimel, Mr. Fiscal of Berbice, vide Berbice. 

Berbice, Fiscal's P^eturns of Cases of Complaints 
of Slaves, viz. Slaves of Jlrs. Sanders, i. 33, 34, 
227— Slave Woman on Plantation Guilderland, 

' i. 35, 229— Slave belonging to Mr. Bourmester, i. 
35, 229-Minkie, a Slave of T. C. Jones, i. 35, 
£29 ; ii. 28, 307 :— Manager on " Plantation Scot- 
land," i. 36— Manager on " Plantation Provi- 
dence," i. 37:— Mr. Elwes' Slaves, i. 37, 232— 
Slave Girl belonging to Mr. ObermuUer, i. 37. — 
Slave Rosa and Mr. Grade, i. 39, 233 :-Slaves 
of Mr. Katz, i. .38, 232, 235:-Slaves on Rose 
Hall, i. 38, 333— on i'Esperance, Reliance, Sand- 
voort, and Beerensteen,i. 39 :-The Planters Span- 
genburg and Brittlebank, and Davies, Manager 
of Saudvoort, i. 40, 237 :-Slaves of Mr. Luyken, 
Elizabeth Atkinson, and xMr. Calmer,!. 41,236, 
237 :— Slaves of General Murray, i. 41, 42, 2,37 :— 

• Slaves on Plantation Prospect, i. 42:— Slaves of 

■ Mr. Ross, i. 43,237 :— Slaves Tommy and Brutus, 
i. 230, 231 :— Mr. Austin, i. 45:— Plantation Pro- 
fit, i. 45, 237 :-Slaves of Dr. Monro, i.'46 :-Planta- 
tion Herstelling, i. 46.— Plantation Port Morant, 
i. 47 : — General Remarks on the Fiscal's Re- 
turns, i. 61—63, 186, 258 :— Resolutions of Coloni- 
al Council respecting " Calumniators," i. 225]:— 
Vindication by the Fiscal of his Report, {.1225— 
examination of his Vindication, i. 227—240:— 
Progress of Legislative Reform, i. 145 ; ii, 92, 
148 :-Statistics, ii. 11, 13-Slave Marriages, i. 
266 ; li. 13, 93, 359— Separation of FamiTies, i. 
274; ii, 93— Pauperism, i. 276; ii. 13-Manu- 
missions, i. 279, 284; ii. 13, 17, 52, .361-Valueof 
Slaves, i. 282, 283 ; li. 13, 17 :-Remarks on Slave 
Ordinance of 1826, i. 311 ; ii. 92, 148:-Petition 
and Memorial of Planters, examined, ii. 25 :— 
Reports of Slave Protector, ii. 359 :— Recent Com- 
plaints of Slaves, ii. 362 :— Slaves of Mr. Gallez, 
li. 439. 

Berkley, Bishop, on the Duty of Instructing the 
Slaves, ii. 415. 

£er»j!irfa, Statistics of, ii. 11 :— Condition of Slaves, 
ii. 327 ;— Bermudiau Slaves at Belfast in 1828, ii. 
326. 

Bernal, Ralph, Esq. M. P. liisSpeech in the House 
of Commons, May 15, 1827, i. 376. 

Bickell, Rev. R.description by him of the distress 
occasioned by the Sale of Slaves for their Mas- 
ters' debts, i. 11 — examples of branding wit!) a 
hot iron, i. 11 — account of time of labour in the 
field, i. 13— of effects of Sunday Markets, i. 13— 
of general Licentiousness of White Population, 
i. 14— of Hospitals for Slaves in Sickness, ih.—oi 
their Food, Clothing, and Lodging, i. 14, 15— tes- 
timony as to the " happiness" of Slaves, i. 257. 

L'ot/iam, Mr. his testimony respecting Free Labour 

Industry in Java, ii. 40. 
Bounties and Protecting Duties on Slave-cultured 
■Sugar; general Remarks on their effects, i. 6,16, 
69. 188, 204, 224, 241, 316, 318, .329 ; ii. 204, 207, 
297 :— Difference between the Sugar and Corn 
Monopolies, i. 313 :— Argument of the West In- 
dians, i. 317 :-Opinions of Mr. Whitmore. i. 6, ,363 
-of Mr. .Sykes, i. 6, 374-of Mr, Huskisson, i, 



369, 378, 38.3-of Mr. W. Smith, i. 375— of Mr. 
Bernal, i. 376-of Mr. Brougham, i. ib. 

Bourmester, a Planter in Berbice, i. 35, 229. 

Braer, Dr. a Planter in Berbice, i. 36. 

Branding of Slaves, i. 12, 254, 308; ii. 109. 

Brathwaite, Mr. of Barbadoes, ii. 416, 

Brazil, Slavery in, ii. 253. 

Brazilian Mining Company, Slave Trading of, ii. 
95. 

British Public, Appeals to in behalf of the Slaves 
in our Colonies, i, 82 ; ii. 214, 226. 

British Critic, its Vindication of the Conversion 
Society examined, ii. 3y7, 451, 470 :— Vindication 
of the Propagation Society, ii. 475— its picture of 
Colonial Slavery, ii. 462— important Admissions, 
ii. 484— its Charges against and advice to the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, ii. 397, 488. 

Brittlebank, Mr. F. a Planter in Berbice, i. 40. 

Brougham, H. Esq. his speech at the Second Gene- 
ral Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, i. 6— 
Speech at "the Third General Meeting, i, 76— 
Speeches in the House of Commons, March 1 
and 4, 1826, i. 105-107-Speech, March 2, 1826, i. 
123-Speech, May 15, 1827, i, 376-Questions ni 
the House of Commons, March 5, 1828, on the 
Subject of Colonial Reform, ii. 186— Speech at 
the Fourth General Meeting of the Society, ii. 
213— Announcement of a Motion on Slave Evi- 
dence, ii. 252, 278. 

Brydges, Rev. Mr. of Jamaica ; Slave Marriages 
and Baptisms solemnized by him, i. 18, 269 ; ii. 
326 :— Notice of a Discourse delivered by him on 
Christmas Day, 1826, i. 326:-Attack on Mr. Wil- 
berforce, i. 327 :— His clerical labours, ii. 323. 

Buckingham., Anti-Slavery Meeting at. Speech of 
Lord Nugent, i. 87- 

Burgess, Dr. Bishop of Salisbury, on Slavery, ii. 43,3. 

Buxton, T. F. Esq. his Speech at the Second Gene- 
ral Meeting of Anti-Slavery Society, i. 4— Speech 
at Third General Meeting, i, 78— Speech in the 
House of Commons, March 1, 1826, 1. 97— Speech 
in ditto, March 2, 1826, i. 117 :— Observations on 
his Conduct and that of his Friends in regard 
to Compulsory Manumission, ii. 159: — His 
Speech at the Fourth General Meeting of the 
Anti-Slavery Society, 1828, ii. 228— Remarks in 
the House of Commons, July 25, 1828, ii. 285. 

Calmer, Mr. a Planter in Berbice, i. 41, 2,37. 

Calthorpe, Lord, his Speech at the Second General 
Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, i. 2, ,3— 
Speed] in the House of Lords, March 7, 1826, 
i. 109-Speech in ditto, July 18, 1828, ii. 279. 

Cameron, Mr. a Planter in Berbice, i, 39. 

Canning, Hon. George, his Speech in Parliament 
on the Slavery Question, March 1, 1826, i. 99 ; 
ii. 73-Speech, March 2, 1826, i. 124:— Remarks 
on his Speech, April 20, 1826, i. 199 :-His Pledge 
respecting Sunday Labour and Sunday Markets, 
i. 303 :^Minute of his Conference with Mr. Bux- 
ton respecting Compulsory Manumission, ii. 196 : 
— his memorable Words respecting the ineffici- 
ency of Colonial Legislation, ii. 202:— Remarks 
by Mr. Denman and Sir .1. Mackintosh on his 
Exertions in the tJause of A bolition, ii. 218, 226. 

Cape of Good Hope ; account of the State of Sla- 
very by a British Settler, i. 289 :— Malay Slave 
at Graaff Reinett, i. 290:— Slave Woman near 
Algoa Bay, i. 291 :— Testimony of the Traveller 
Sparrman, i. 291 :— Cases of Slave Murder, i. 
292 :— A Slave Woman condemned to death for 
the crime of her mistress, i. 293 :— Families sepa- 
rated by Sale, i. 294 :— Inequality of the laws as 
they affect Masters and Slaves, i, 294 :— Instance 
of a Person eager to profit by the sale of his own 
Children, i, 296:— Notice ot Ordinance promul- 
gated in June, 1826, ii. 94, 148:— Declaration of 
Slave Owner on its promulgation, ii. 162 :— De- 
moralizing influence of Slavery, illustrated chief- 
ly by facts and observations drawn from this 
Colony, i. 295 ; ii. 161 :— Desperation of a Slave 
Woman who flung her three children into the sea, 
ii. 172 :— Formation of a Society for redeeming 
Slave Children, ii. 44J. 

Cardin, Mr, Attorney or Overseer of Lord Rom- 
ney's Estates in St. Kitt's, ii. 1, 3. 

Cart Whip, vide Driving Whip. 

Cat-o'' -nine-tails, compared with the Cart Whip 
i, 306, 307- 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPOUIER, VOLS. I. AND II. 



Chains atid Fetters, enormous weiglit of those used 
at the Mauiitius, ii. 335, 379, 382, 383. 

CMna, Remarks on the Tiade with, i. 318, 367. 
Chrisiian Knowledge Society, vide Society for 
promoting Christian Knowledge, 

Christianity, incompatible witli Slavery, i. 113, 
178 ; ii. 232, 433 :— State of Christianity in Bar- 
badoes, ii. 20, (vide Religious Instruction.) 

Claggett, Bishop, on the duty of good Treatment of 
Slaves, ii. 415. 

Clarke, Rlr. Forster, Agent on the Estates of the 
Propasation Society m Barbadoes, notice of his 
evidence, ii. 420, 457, 479. 

Clothing, inadequacy of that furnished to the Slaves, 
i. 260 :-Regulations in St. Lucia, ii. 114 :-State 
of the Slaves in the Mauritius in this respect, ii. 
379. 

Cockhurn. H. Esq. Advocate, his Speech on Negro 
Slavery at a public meeting iu Ediiiburgli. i. 91. 

Coffee, quantity of, produced in different West India 
Colonies, ii. 10:— Quantity that may be picked 
in a day by an able Negro, ii. 358. 

Cole, Sir Lowry, Remarks on some of his Ordi- 
nances, &c. in the Mauritius, ii. 335. 

Colonial Legislation, vide Legislation. 

Colonial Newspapers, Extracts from. viz. Royal 
Gazette of Jamaica, i. 213, 211, 217— 221— Trini- 
dad Newspapers, i. 215 — Barbadoes ditto, i. 215. 

Colonial Reform, View of the progress of, since 
May 15, 1823, i. 130; ii. 73, 97, 121-Summai7 of 
its progress during the same jberiod, ii. 145, 205 
—tabular view of ditto, ii. 152, 203 :— Measures 
proposed by Government, i. 130; ii. 145;— In- 
structions sent to the Governors of Slave Colo- 
nies, i. 131; ii. 74 :— Clamour against improve- 
ment, i. 131 :— Enforcement of the Trinidad Or- 
der, i. 132- Examination of this Order, i. 132— 
145; ii. 78— and of the Demerara Ordiuance of 
Jau. 1. 1826, i. 146 :— Necessity of Parliamentary 
Interference, i. 165; ii. 197, 288:— General Re- 
marks on the slow progress of Colonial Reform, 
i. 241 ; ii. 215, 219 :— Hopelessness of any effec- 
tual Reform from the Colonial Authorities, i. 
271; ii. 290 :— Statement of Lord Bathurst's Pro- 
positions transmitted to the Colonial Legislatures 
in 1826, i. 297— their Rejection, i. 298:— Exami- 
nation of the new Slave Bill of Jamaica, i. 298; 
ii. 261 :— Amount of actual Reform introduced 
by the several West India Legislatures, i. 164, 
298—310 :— Examination of what has been done 
in the Crown Colonies, i. 311; ii. 196 :— Further 
progress of Colonial Reform— general Remarks, 
ii. 73, 136, 174; ii. 197, 269, 286:- Legislation in 
Antigua and the Bahamas, i. 151 ; ii. 80— in Bar- 
badoes, i. 209; ii. 87— in Jfeerbice, ii. 92— at the 
Cape of Good Hope, ii. 94— Demerara, ii. 97— 
Dominica, ii. 98-Greuada, i. 155 ; ii. 102— J a-, 
maica, ii. 102, 269— Nevis, and St. Christophers, 
ii. 112, 270-St. Lucia, ii. 112, llS-St.! Vincents, 
i. 162; ii. 116-Tobago, ii. 117-Trinidad, ii. 121 : 
—Statements of Mr. Huskisson in the House of 
Commons, in March, 1828, on this subject, ii. 185 : 
—Examination of Mr. Dwarris's Statements re- 
specting the improvement of the Slave Laws of 
the Colonies, ii. 240. 

Colonial Slavers/ , Brief Sketch of, i.lO :— itsdemorali- 
zing Effects, i. 14, 179, 270 ; ii. ,35, 161, 174, 486 :- 
Sale of Slaves for their Master's Debts, i. 11 :— 
Brandiug of Slaves with a hot iron, i. 12, 254 :— 
Description of the Hospitals for Slaves, i. 14 :— 
Comparison of the state of the Slaves with that 
of the English poor, as regards food, clothing and 
lodging, i. 14, 15;— Slaves declared to be chattels, 
i. 19 ; ii. 32:— Avowal that the " JVAip is essen- 
tial to West Indian Discipliue," i. 19 :— State of 
Slavery in Mauritius,!. 21 ; ii. 373, .395 :— as de- 
picted by the Colonists themselves, i. 239— an un- 
j)rofi table System, i.243 :-state at the Cape, i. 289 ; 
li. 161 ;— inimical to Agricultural improvement, 
i. 320 :— Misery of the Slave, and Distress of the 
Planter run parallel to fertility of the Soil, i. .322, 
.385 ;— its general Character and Effects, i. 14 ; ii. 
.35, 229 ;— List of PubliLations by the Society ou 
this Subject, ii. 175;— Anomaly ot considering rl/iai 
legal in the West Indies which has been declared 
felony on the coast of Africa, ii. 137 :— Domestic 
and Predial Slavery distinguished, ii. 161 : — 
State of Slavery in Cuba, ii. 255— and in Brazil, 
ii. 253 :— Reply to Mr. Dwarris on the alleged 
Improvements in the Colonies, ii. 237 -and to 



Lord Seaford, ii. 293 :— Illustrations from Ber- 
bice, ii. 439 :— Distuictions between the Slavery 
in our Colonies and the ancient villenage of Eng- 
land, ii. 296 :— Testimonies of distinguished Pre- 
lates of the Church of England on Negro Slavery, 
ii. 41.3, 434:-Granville Sharpe's Appeal to the 
Bench of Bishops, ii. 438. 

Compensation to the Slave Holders, on Account 
of the Abolition or Mitigation of Slavery, re- 
marks of Lord Suftield, i. 177 :— Claims of the 
Planters, i. 231, 315 ; ii. 33 :— Extravagant prin- 
ciple of Appraisement in Trinidad, ii. 123 :— 
Alleged insufficiency of the indemnity in Com- 
pulsory Manumission, ii. 68 :• — Principles'and 
Proposals of the Abolitionists on this Point.Mi. 
300, 303 :-Letter from a Correspondent, ii. 329. 

Complaints of Slaves ; Unjust Regialation on this 
point in the Trinidad order, i. 144 ; ii. 190, 335:— 
Grenada Enactment, i. 160:— State in Deme- 
rara, i. 180 :-Course adopted by the Slave 
Protector in this Colony, ii. 355 :— Comparison 
of the treatment of complaints from Masters and 
from Slaves, i. 239 :— Practice at tlie Cape of 
Good Hope, i. 295 :— Unjust Clause in the new 
Jamaica Slave Bill, i. 308 :— Mr. Huskisson's re- 
marks on Ditto, ii. 179:-Lord Bathurst's remarks 
on the St. Vincent's Clause, ii. 117. 

" Considerations in Defence of the Trinidad Order 
in Cfl«Kc?7."<SfC.,"Remarkson the Pamphlet under 
this title, i. 55. 

Contumacy of the West India Planters,' remarks 
on, by Mr. Brougham, i. 6, 105-byMr. Buxton, 
i.:97-by Mr. Canning, i. 100, ii. 73-by Mr. W., 
Smith, i. 103-by Mr. Wilberforce, li. 214-by 
Mr. Denman, ii. 218 :— General remarks, i. 298, 
,301 ; ii. 259. 

Conversioji Society, vide Society for the Co?iversion, 
i^c. of Negro Slaves. 

Copley, Sir John, (Attorney General); his obser- 
vations in the House of Commons, March 2, 
1826, on the Slave Law of Jamaica, Trials for 
Rebellious Conspiracy, 5:c. i. 117. 

Corterand, a Negro who gave evidence on the 
alleged Conspiracies in Jamaica, i. 115—173. 

Corporal Punishment of Slaves ; Regulations of the 
Trinidad Order, i. 140:— Omissions and Defects 
of the Demerara Order, i. 149-and of the Bahama 
Slave Law, i. 152 :— Regulation in the New- 
Grenada Slave Act, i. 158— (vide Flogging.') 

Cotton Trade with India, remarks on, by Mr. 
Whitmore, i. 362. 

Cowper, the Poet, his Opinion respecting the 
Amelioration of Slavery, ii. 434. 

Craioford, Mr., his Opinion on our Trade in the 
Indian Archipelago, i. 366-and on the Trade 
with China, i. 367. 

Crimes of Slaves, Remarks on 'the Record of, kept 
by the Protector in Trini<lad, ii. 129 ;-Mr. Hus- 
kisson's remarks on the Barbadoes Law as re- 
gards this point, ii. .348. 

Cropper, J axne?,, Esq., his remarks on Free and'Slave 
Labour, i. 80— Speech at a Meeting at Liverpool, 
against Negro Slavery, i. 185 :— Reference to his 
Pamphlets on West Indian Distress, and " In- 
jurious Effects of High Prices," &c., i. 321. 

Cruelty of the Svstem of Slavery in the West In- 
dies, ii. 14, 28, 35— in the Mauritius, i. 20 ; it. 
331, 336, 377, .380-395. 

Cruelty in the Punishing of Slaves, remarks on, 
by Mr. Huskisson, ii. 347. 

Cruelty, Cases of, in Slave Colonies, i. 33, 41, 227, 
236, 291 ; ii. 362, 376, 462. 

Ctiba, Sugar Cultivation in, compared with the 
Free Labour System of Mexico, ii. 252. 

Cuffee, Notice of his Case, i. 285. 

Cunningham, Pv,ev. J. W., his Speech at the 4tli 
General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
1828, ii. 232. 

Davies, Mr., of Berblce. i. 40. 

Decrease of the Slave Population, see Population. 

Demerara, Coixluct of the Planters in regard to 
Slave Marriages, and Manumissions, i. 18 ; ii. 43, 
62 :— Lord Bathursf s instructions to the Goveinor. 
i. 145 :— Conduct of the Court of Policy, i. 145, 
ii. 25, 139:— Remarks on New Slave Law, i. 
146—1,50 ; ii. 26, 42, 98, 149 :— Demerara Gazette 
on calling Slaves ' brethren,' i. 178 :— Treatment 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND II. 



of Slaves compared with that in the Bahamas, i. 
186 :— Practicability of Cultivation by Free 
Labour, i. 242 :— Statistics, ii. 11 :— State in regard 
to Slave Marriages, i. .51, 2fi6 ; ii. 13, 27— Separa- 
tion of Families, i. 274— Pauperism, i. 277 ; ii. 
13— Value of Slaves, i. 282, 283 ; ii. 13-Manu- 
missions, i. 279, 284 ; ii. 13, 17, 357— Complaints 
of Slaves, i. 180 :— Petition and Blemorial of the 
Planters examined, ii. 25 :— Slave's right of Pro- 
perty, ii. 27 :— Progress of religious Instruction, 
ji. 326:— Remarks on the Slave Protector's Re- 
ports, ii. 355. 

Demoralishig ivflueiice of Slavery — as regards the 
state of Society and moral feeling in Slave 
Colonies, i. 14, 270; ii. 64, 455, 459, 480, 486 :- 
More particularly illustrated by f.icts and ob- 
servations chiefly drawn from the Cape of Good 
Hope, i. 295; ii. 161:— love of arbitrary Power 
and indulgence of vindictive feeliiiss, ii- 162:- 
Concubinage with Slave women, ii. 165,486:— 
Avarice in the Masters and dishonesty in the 
Slaves, ii. 167 :— Testimony of a Planter executed 
for Slave murder, ii. 173 :— Evidence of Captain 
Owen, and anecdote of Senor D'Almeydraof 
Mozambique and his lady, ii. 171. 

Denman, T. Esq., his remarks at tlie second Gene- 
ral Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, i. 6— 
Speech at the third General Meeting, i. 79— 
Speeches in the House of Commons, March 2, 
1826, i. 113, 125:-Notice of his Speeches by the 
Quarterly Review, i. 171 :— Speech at the fourth 
GenerarMeeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, ii. 

' 217 :— His remarks on Mr. Dwarris's pamphlet, 
ii. 218. 

Dnmhiica ; Draft of a new Slave Bill, i. 163:— 
Law and Practice in regard to the Marriages of 
Slaves, i. 266; ii. 13,99— Separation of Families, 
i.274 ; ii. 13-Pauperi5m, i. 277 ; ii- 13-Value of 
Slaves, i. 282 ; ii. 13, 17— Manumissions, i. 279, 

, 284; ii.l3, 17 :-Statistics, ii. 11, 13:-Progress of 
Reform, ii. 98, 150 : — Legislative Legerdemain, 
ii. 101 :— State of Religious Instruction, ii. 325. 

Dominica Planter, Reply to the Statements and 
Arguments published under that signature, i. 249. 

Douglas, Betto, a Slave woman of St. Kitts, parti- 
culars of her Case, ii. 1, 95. 

Driving Whip, declared to be " Essential to West 
India Discipline," i. 19 :— Observations on its use, 
by Mr. Paterson of Grenada, i. 162— in a letter 
from London by a West- Indian, i. 215— by Mr. 
.1. Stewart of Jamaica, i. 218— by a Writer in 
Jamaica Gazette, i. 221— by Major Moody, i. 263— 
by Mr. Barrett of Jamaica, i. 306— by Mr. Dwarris, 
ii. 220, 245-by Mr. Huskisson, ii. 377 :— Legisla- 
tion respecting it in Trinidad Order, i. HI— by 
Grenada Assembly, i. 159— by St. Vincent's, i. 
163-by Nevis, ii. 112-by St. Kitts, ii. 272 :-Re- 
fusal to abolish it by Jamaica, Barbadoes, and 
the Bahamas, i. 305, .307 ; ii. 103:-lts non-ex- 
istence in Hayti, i. .351; ii. 57: — Kot used in 
Sugar cultivation in Mexico, ii. 250:— Still used 
on the estates of Propagation Society, ii. 424. 

Driver, erroneously alleged to be synonymous with 
the Ilaytian Conducteur, i. 354. 

Drumviond, Bishop, his remarks on hinderingSIaves 
from becoming Christians, ii. 415. 

Dudley and Tl'ard, Lord, his Speech in the House 
of Lords, March 7, 1826, i. Ill :-Extracts from 
his Speech on the Abolition of the Slave Trade, 
March 6, 1807, i. 174 ;— His inconsistency on the 
subject of Slavery, i. 175 :-Queries respecting 
his own Slaves, i. 176. 

Dutch Larc, Claims of the Demerara Planters on 
this ground, ii. 29. 

Djoarri.i, Mr., remarks on his " Report on the Civil 
and Criminal Justice of the West Indies," i. 63— 

, his view of the general condition of the West 

, India Slaves, i. 64— and of the unfranchised Po- 
pulation, ii. 52— of the condition of the Slaves in 
Barbadoes, i. 67, 69, 210, 258 ;-Ob3ervations on 
his Reports, by Sir J. fllackintosh, i.74— by Mr. 
Brougham, i. 76— and by Lord Suftield, i. 176, 
183 :-Reniarks on his Pamphlet, "The West 
India Question plainly stated," ii. 218,2.37, 250. 

East India Slavery, Notice of Documents on this 
subject, printed by order of the House of C;om- 
mons :— great difference between East and West 
India Slavery, ii. 328, 329. 

Ea\l India Sngar, Not cultivated by Slave Labour, 
li. 398.-(vide Sugar. y. 



East India Trade; Statements and remark* 
upon the restrictions to which it is subjected, in 
favour of Slave-grown Produce, i. 224, 288, 315 
—322 :— Petition from Manchester on this sub- 
ject, i. 328 :— Debate in the House of Commons, 
May, 15, 1827, with Speeches of Jlessrs. Whit- 
more, Slaney, Leycester, Huskisson, Phillips, 
Sykes, Ross, W. Smith, Bernal, Brougham, 
Wynn, Lord Milton, and Sir C. Forbes, i. 361— 
378 :— Examination of the West-India Monopoly 
as it affects the importation of East-India Sugar, 
i. .378-381 :— Ollicial Statement of East and West 
India Exports and Imports, ii. 18. 

Edinburgh, AntT-Slavery Meeting at, Feb. 1, 1826, 
i. go. 

Education of Negro Slaves, Bishop of Jamaica's 
Report upon, i. 189 :~Statement of Mr. Stephen 
on this point defended, i. 251 :— Report of C'on- 
version Society examined, ii. 315, 398, 400, 408 : 
— Sir R. Farquhar's Statement respecting the 
Education of Mauritius Slaves, ii. 380. CVide 
lleligions Instructioyi) 

Eldon, Earl of, his Speech in the House of Lords 
on the subject of Slavery, March ", 1826, i. 111. 

Ellenhorongh, Lord, his Speech in the House of 
Lords on the Slavery Question, March 7, 1826, 

■ i. 110. 

Elliott, Archdeacon, Extract from a Sermon 
preached by him in Barbadoes, ii. 446. 

Elwes, Mr., a Planter in Berbice, i. 37, 232. 

Emancipation, Vide Manumission. 

" England enslaved by her own Colonies^'' a Pam- 
phlet by Mr. Stephen— Defence of, against a 
writerlin the Quarterly Review, i. 173. 

Escheats of the Crown; Cases of Slaves in Barba- 
does sold under this title, i. 272—274 ; ii. 90. 

Evidence of Slaves in Courts of Justice, Remarks 
upon, by Mr. Peel, i. 103— by Mr. Scarlet, i. 104 
—by Mr. Brougham, i. 106— by Mr. Denman. i. 
114 ; ii. 220-by Mr. .Stewart of Jamaica, i. 218— 
by Jamaica Gazette, i. 221— by Mr. Dwarris, ii. 
250— by Mr. Huskisson, ii. 179, 266, 347 :— De- 
fects of Trinidad Order on this point, i. 1.36 ; ii. 
124, 188 ;— Enactments, in Demerara, i. 150 — in 
Grenada, i. 157, 162— in St. Vincents, i. 163 ; ii. 
117— in Jamaica, i. 298; ii. 105— in Bahamas, ii. 
84— in Barbadoes, ii. 88— in Dominica, ii. 100— in 
St. Kitts, ii. 275— at the Cape of Good Hope, ii. 
95— at St. Lucia, ii. 115. 

Farqnhar, Sir Robert, and the Mauritius, ii. 335— 
338, 374. 

Ferns, the Bishop of, on the Slavery Question, 
i. 113. 

J^iSJti'ft^j/ 0/ 5(i!7, disadvantageous to the condition 
of the Slaves, ii. 16, 18,211. 

Field Labour, cause of its being shunned by free 
blacks and persons of colour, ii. 48, 49. 

Flogging, Master's arbitrary power in the infliction 
of, limited by the Trinidad Order, i. 140; ii,192: 
— Legislation on this subiecf, in St. Vincent's, i. 
163— in Jamaica, i. 307, 355 : ii. 252— in Dominica, 
ii. 99 :— Reply to Assertion that flogging is sel- 
dom applied, i. 254 :— Reason assigned by Bar- 
badoes Assembly for not limiting the Master's 
power, ii. 90 :— Mode of flogging in the Mauritius, 
ii. 378. 

Flogging of Women, abolition of, by the Trinidad 
Order, i. 1 10 :— Remarks and Statements respect- 
ing, by Mr. Paterson of Grenada, i. 161 — by a 
West Indian Proprietor, i. 215-by Mr. J. Stew- 
art of Jamaica, i. 218— by another Colonist, i. 
221-by Mr. Dwarris, ii. 248:-Abolition of, re- 
fused by Jamaica, i. .30; ii. 80, 26.3— by Barba- 
does and Bahamas, i. .307 : ii. 80, yO-by Domi- 
nica, ii. 99 :— Enactments respecting, in Baha- 
mas, ii. 80, 84— and in St. Kitt's, ii. 273 :— Law 
and Practice of the, Mauritius, ii. .3,36, 378. 

Food, state of Slaves in regard to— in Dominica, i. 
261— and in Mauritius, ii. 377. 

Forbes, Sir Charles, his Speech in the House of 
Commons, on Free Trade with India, i. 374. 

Franklin, Mr., his Claims on the Jamaica Assem- 
bly, ii. 427. 

Eraser, Mr. William, of Berbice, i. 231. 

Free Coloured and Black Population; numbers, 
condition, and character of this class in the Bri- 
tish West India Colonies, i. 323 :— Statistical 
View of, ii. 13, 49-56 :— 'I heir exclusion from 
Juries, &c. i. 167 :— Liability to be deprived of 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND II. 



their Freedom, i. 285— sttite of tlie laws in^this 
respect, i. 287; ii. 266 :— Enactment in Grena- 
da, i. 163 :— Slight relief of Disabilities in Ja- 
maica, i. 308: -Enactment in Barbadoes, ii. 
349 :— Advantaaes of HaytiHO Population, i. .360 : 
—Number of this Class in Cuba, ii. 258 :— Causes 
of their aversion to field labour in the British 
Slave Colonies, ii. 47 :— Mr. Dwarris's Testimony 
to their progressive advance in Civilization, ii. 
56 :— Contrast between the increase of the p'ree 
Black and the decrease of the Slave Population 
in Trinidad, ii. 156— and in Mauritius, ii.431. 

Free Labour Sugar, remarks on, i. 224, 241— how 
distinguished from Mauritius Sugar, i. 248, Cvide 
Sug-ar.) 

Free and Slave Labour, comparison between, by 
Mr. Cropper, i. 187 :— Remarks on the Allegation 
that voluntary Labour is inconsistent with the 

. Negro Cliaracter, i. 218, 242; ii. 41, 47, 140:- 
Restrictions on East Incfia Produce in favour of 
Slave-grown Sugar and Coffee, i. 224, 241 :— 
Regulations of the Haytian Code compared 
with some of those of English law, i. 356 :— Sir 
Ralph Woodford on Free Labour, and on the 
management of a gang of Government Slaves 
in Tnnidad, ii. 126— Task Work, ii. 129 :-Mr. 
Mitcliell of T'rinidad on the Cultivation of Sugar 
by Free Labour, ii. 167, 212 :— Free Labour and 
Slavery, how they operate on each other at the 
Cape of Good Hope, ii. 163:— Reference to Pub- 
lications of the Anti-Slavery Society on this topic, 
ii. 176 :— Cultivation of Sugar in Mexico by Free 
Labour, contrasted with tlie Slave System of the 
West India Islands, ii. 251. 

Gallez, Mr., of Berbice, Case of his Slaves, ii. 439. 

" Genius of Universal Emancipation" an Anti- 
Slavery Newspaper established at Baltimore, 
. ii. 8— extracts from it, ii. 21. 

Gilding, "Rev. Mr. Lansdown, of St. Vincent's— on 

Slaves being married by Methodist Preachers, 

i. 270. 
Gillgrass, Mr. a Methodist Missionary in Jamaica, 

his Statement of the Case of of a Female Slave, 

i. 257. 
Glosler, Mr. Protector of Slaves at Trinidad, on 

the exorbitant Appraisement of a Slave, ii. 70, 

122. 

Glojccester,'ihe Duke of, his Speech at the Second 
General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
i. 8.— Speech in the House of Lords, March 7, 
1826, i. Ill- Speech at the Fourth General Meet- 
ing of the Anti-Slavery Society', 1828, ii. 235. 

Goldfrap, Mr, of St. Kitt's, ii. 1. 

Goulburn, H. Esq. his Speech in Parliament, i\Iarch 

2, 1826, i. 122. 
Graaff-Reinett, in South Africa, Cases of Slaves 

at, 1.290,293. 

Grace, a Slave of Antigua; Remarks on Lord 
Stowell's Judgment in her Case, ii. 143. 

Grade, IManager of Plantation I'Esperance, in Ber- 
bice, i. 39, 233, 235. 

Grant, Governor, of the Bahamas, and the Case of 
Mr. and INIrs. Moss, ii. 466. 

Green, Bishop, Remarks by, on Slavery, ii. 415. 

Green, Mr. formerly of Jamaica, his statements 
respecting Sunday Labour, ii. 315. 

Grenada, Condition of the Slaves in, i. 68 :— Pro- 
gress of Legislation, i. 155, 161, 183 ; ii. 102, 150 : 
—Law and Practice as regards Slave Marriages, 
i. 267; ii. 13— Separation of Families, i. 274— 
pauperism, i. 277 ; ii. 13— Manumission, i. 279; 
ii. 13,17-value:of Slaves, i. 282, 283 ; ii. 13, 17 :- 
Statistics, ii. 11, 13, 17 :— Numbers and Character 
of tlie unfranchised Population, ii. 51. 

Guilder/and, Plantation, in Berbice, treatment of 
Female Slaves on, i. 35, 229. 

Gvrney, John Joseph, Remarks by him at the Third 
General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
i. 79. 

Happiness of Slaves, Notice of Statements on, 
i. 255 :— Evidence respecting, by the Rev. Mr. 
Bickell, Mr. Stewart, Mr. de la Beche, Dr. 
Williamson, Mr. Gillgrass, Mr. Dwarris, Tho- 
mas Bennett, &c. i. 257 :— Comfort of the Slaves 
in an inverse ratio to the profits of the Master 



and the fertility of the soil he cultivates, i. 321— 
385 :— Refutation of the Statements of the Planters 
of Demerara and Berbice on this subject, ii. 27 ; 
—Remarks of Bishop Burgess, ii. 436. 
Harte, Rev. Mr. his boldness in celebrating a 
slave marriage in Barbadoes, i. 265— Persecution 
by the Planters, ii. 20 :— Defence of his conduct 
in a letter to the Bishop of Barbadoes, ii. 96 :— 
Report of the Bishop respecting his exertions for 
the improvement of the Slaves, ii. 135. 

Hayii, recognition of its Independence by France, 
i. 25 :— Condition as regards Government, Po- 
lice, Morals, Education, Religion, &c. i. 26—28 : 
—illiberal Conduct of the British Government, 
i. 54— and danger to our West India Colonies 
from this course, i. 55 :— Erroneous Statement 
respecting tlie Population of Hayti, and the free 
Persons of Colour who emigrated thither from 
the United States, i. 219:— Fabricated Proclama- 
tion, with extracts from the Code Rural, i. 309— 
Remarks on these Documents, and on the Contro- 
versy between Mr. Hibbert and Mr. Henderson, 
i. 310, .324 :— Translation of the Code Rural, i. 
330—344 :— Examination of the Provisions of this 
Code :— Refutation of the Allegation of the West 
Indians that the driving system is enforced by it, 
i. 353 ; ii. 57 :— Comparison of the latest .Tamai- 
ca Legislation with the Haytian Code, i. 355 ; 
ii. 58 :— Its coercive Provisions compared with 
some of those in English Law, i. 356 ; ii. 58 : — 
Real Freedom, and progressive Improvement of 
the Population of Hayti, i. 223, 357 ; ii. 59 :— 
Military Organization, i. .357 ; ii- 60 :— State of 
the Haytian Labourers, i. 358 ; ii. 59 :— Increase 
of the Population, and general Condition as 
compared with the Negroes of Jamaica, ii. 15. 

Henderson, Mr. a Merchant of Hayti, his Contro- 
versy with fllr. Hibbert respecting the Haytian 
Proclamation &c. i. 325. 

Herstelling, Plantation, in Berbice, Complaints of 
Slaves against the Manager, i. 46. 

Hubert, Mr. Agent for Jamaica in England, in- 
structions transmitted to him from the Assembly 
for circulation of the Publications of Messrs. 
Barclay and Beaumont, and for the publication 
of Haytian Proclamation, &c. i. 309, 310 :-His 
Contros'ersy with Mr. Henderson, i.'.325. 

Hill, Mr. Abraham Chalmill, of Tortola, cases of 
eight .Slaves belonging to his Estate, decided 
on by Lord Stowell. i. 392. 

Hilton, Mr. of Jamaica, his Speech in the Assem- 
bly respecting the use of the Cart Whip, i. 305. 

Hinds, Mr. Remarks on his Speech in the Assem- 
bly of Barbadoes on proposing a new Slave 
BUI, i. 209. 

Holberton, Rev. Mr. Notice of a Sermon preached 
by him in Antigua, ii. 446, 449. 

Honduras, Law and Practice of, in regard to the 
marriages of Slaves, i. 268 ; ii. 13— Separation of 
Families, i. 274— Pauperism, i. 277 ; "■ 1.3— Ma- 
numission, i. 279 ; ii. 17, 4!— Value of Slaves, i. 
282, 283 ; ii. 13, 17, 45 :— Statistical View and 
Decrease of the Slave Population, ii. 11, 

Horses, Comparison of their State as to animal 
Comforts with that of the Slaves in our Colo- 
nies, i. 261. 

Horton, R.Wilmot, Esq. his Speecli on the Slavery 
Question, March 1, 1826, i. 104, 107-Defence 
of the Magistracy and Government of Jamaica 
in regard to the alleged Rebellious Conspira- 
cies of Slaves in 1823-4, i. 115— Mistake re- 
specting Mr. Canning's Views on compulsory- 
Manumission, ii. 196 :— Reply to his Arguments 
on the Spanish System, ii. 258. 

Hours of Labour ; Defects of the Trinidad Order 
on this point, i. 143; ii. 157, 193 :— Provision of 
the Demerara Order, i. 149 :— New Laws, of Gre- 
nada, i. 160^of Berbice, ii. 93-of Cape of Good 
Hope, ii. 94— of Dominica, ii. 100— of St. Lucia, 
ii. 114— of Jamaica, ii. 105 :— Mr. Huskisson's 
Remarks Ton the Jamaica Provisions, ii. 193, 
344 :— Remarks by JMr. Dwarris on excess of 
Labour, ii. 221 :— Extent of daily Labour exacted 
in the Mauritius, ii. 378— and on the Estates of 
the Propagation Society in Barbadoes, ii. 460. 

Humboldt, '&ax on. his Evidence respecting the ex- 
istence of free Labourers in the tropical Regions 
of South America, ii. .37. 

Hume, Joseph, Esq. M.P. Remarks b}', respecting- 
Slavery in India, i. 105. 
B 2 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. Ai\D II. 



Ilusiisson, Rt. Hon. W. liis Speech in tlie House 
of Commons, on the 15th of May, 1827, respect- 
ing Free Trade with India, i. 369 :— Abstract 
of his Dispatch in disallowance of the Jamaica 
Slave Law of 1826, ii. 177 :— His Correspondence 
with Jamaica on the same subject, ii. 341— with 
Barbadoes, ii. 345— with St. Lucia, ii. 354 :— His 
Comments on the draft of a Slave Ordinance for 
the Mauritius, ii. 367 :~His Statement in the 
House of Commons, March 5, 1828, on Colonial 
Reform, ii. 185. 

Hutclihison, Manager of Plantation Profit in Eer- 
bice, i. 45. 

I}idemniJicatio7i, allowed to tlie Owners of Slaves 
condemned to Death or Transportation, Remarks 
of Mr. Huskisson upon, ii. 181. 

Independence, of the Colonial Legislatures, consti- 
tutional extent of, ii. 287. 

Ireland, Statement by Mr. Whitmore, of the 
average quantity of Sugar consumed in, i. 364:— 
Cotton Manufactures in, i. 365 :— Features of 
Similitude between Ireland and India, and the 
Cure for the Evils of both, ib. : — Mr. Huskis- 
son's Opinion on this point, i. 372. 

Jamaica; Case of Separation of Slave Mother and 
Child at Kingston, i. 10 :— Distress occasioned 
by the Sale of Slaves for their Master's Debts, 
i. 11 :— Advertisements respecting the Sales, fee. 
of Slaves, from Royal Gazette, i. 12, 84, 94— 
96 ; ii. 23 : — Case of Messrs. Lecesne and Escof- 
fery deported from the Island, i. 28 :— Speech of 
the Duke of Manchester on the Prorogation of 
the House of Assembly, Dec. 21, 1825, i. 81:— 
Samples of Colonial Jurisprudence, i. 83 :— Dis- 
cussion in the House of Commons respecting 
Trials of Jamaica Slaves charged with Conspiracy 
^nd Rebellion, i.ll3 :— Case of Slaves executed on 
this Charee, and Trials on similar Accusations, 
i. 113 :— Cases of Slave Murder and Blutilation 
mentioned in the House of Assembly, i. 115 :— 
Opinions of Sir J. Copley, Dr. Lushington, 
Mr. Brougham, Mr. Denman, &c. on the admi- 
nistration of Justice in this Colony, towards the 
Slave Population, i. 117—125 :— Iritling Regula- 
tions adopted respecting Slaves, i. 151 : — Notice 
of the Quarterly Review in Defence of the 
Jamaica Magistracy, i. 171 :— Prejudices against 
Improvement and Education, i. 180, 191 :— Sum 
voted to iMr. M'Queen, i. 191; ii. 429 :— Speech of 
Mr. J. Stewart of lYelawny on improvement of 
the Slave Law, i. 217 :— Extracts from Jamaica 
Papers on same subject, i. 219-222 :— Blr. Bar- 
clay's Testimony respecting the Happiness of 
the Negroes examined, i. 255:— Law and Prac- 
tice in regard to Marriages of Slaves, i. 268 ; ii. 
13, 103 -.—unsanctioned Marriages, i. 268 :— Mr. 
Brydges' Marriages, i. 269 :— Separation of Fa- 
milies, i. 254, 274 ; ii. 103 :— Pauperism, i. 278 ; 
ii. 13 : — Manumission, i. 279 ; ii. 17 :— -Value of 
Slaves, i. 282, 283; ii. 13, 17 :-Liability of free 
Blacks and Persons of Colour to be sold as 
Slaves, i. 285— Instances of this, ii. 340 :— Case 
of Cuffee, i. 2B5 :— Case of Nancy Rider, a 
Slave Girl— Conduct of her several Owners, 
and of the " Council of Protection," i. 286:— 
Rejection by the Assembly of the new Slave 
Bill proposed by Lord Eathurst, i. 298:— Exami- 
nation of the amount of Improvement intro- 
duced by their own Slave Bill of 1826, i. 298— 
310 ; ii. 102-151, 262-270 :-Address of Colonial 
Council to the Duke of Manchester, on the re- 
jection of Lord Bathurst's Bill, i. 308 :— Compa- 
rison of last enactments respecting arbitrary Pu- 
nishments, with alleged severity of the Ilaytian 
Code, i. .355 :— Condition of the Negroes as com- 
pared with those of Hayti, ii. 15 :— Statistics— De- 
crease of Slave Population — extent of Sugar 
Cultivation, ii. 11: — Comparative Numbers of 
White, free Black and Coloured, and Slave 
Population, ii. 13 :— Condition of enfranchised 
Negroes, ii. 50 :— Examination of a Petition to 
the King from the Jamaica Assembly, ii. 105 :— 
Abstract of Mr. Huskisson's Dispatch disallow- 
ing the New Slave Law, ii. 177— Violence and 
Clamour of the Colonists on its publication, ii. 
181 :— Correspondence of Mr. Huskisson with 
Jamaica on the objectionable Clauses of the 
new Slave Law, ii. 341 :— Report of the C'onver- 
sion Society respecting this Colony examined, 
ii. .321:— Persecution ot Missionaries, ii. .370, 442 
— Imprisonment of Mr. Whiteliouse and Mr. 
Orten, ii. 370— Arrest of Rev. Samuel Brom- 
ley, ii. 413 :— I'etition presented to the Assembly 



by Mr. James Franklin, ii. 428 :— Re-enactment 
01 the dwallowed Slave Law, Nov. 1828, ii. 432. 

Jamaica, the Bishop of, Abstract of his Report on 
the State of his Diocese, i. 189 ; ii. 133, 454. 

Jamaica Gazette, Extracts from, viz. :— Letters from 
London explanatory of West Indian Policy, i. 
205; Sii. 441— Letters fiom Mr. M'Queen of 
Glasgow, and a "Holder of West India Property 
m London," i. 213, 214, 215 :-Remarks on the 
proposed Reforms in the Slave Code, i. 219— 
221 :— Proofs of the frequent Separation of Fa- 
milies by Sale, i. 254. 

Java, Statements of Sir S. Raffles and Mr. Bo- 

tliam, respecting Free Labour Industry and the 

Cultivation of Sugar in, ii. 38. 
Jones, Thomas C. of Berbice, and the Slave 

Woman Minkie, i. 35, 229-258. 
Justice, Administration of, in Slave Colonies, i. 

294 ; ii. 201, 382, 390. 

/iffW, Hon. W. a Planter in Berbice, and the 

Slaves on his Property, i. 38, 232, 235. 
K^ewley, Proprietor of Plantation 49 in Berbice, 

and the Slaves on his Estate, i, 45. 
Kilbee, Mr. his Evidence respecting the Law and 

Practice of the Island of Cuba in regard to 

Slavery, ii. 255. 

IiLOSter, Mr. his Statements respecting the Situation 
of the Brazilian Slaves, ii. 253. 

Lansdorvne, the Blarquis of, his Speech on the sub- 
ject of Slaver3', in the House of Lords, May 7. 
1826, i. 112. 

Lanra, a Slave Woman, case of,;i. 39. 

Law of Nations, West India Slavery a gross 
Breach of, i. 222, 287. 

Lecesne and Escoffery, Messrs. two Gentlemen of 
Colour of Jamaica, banished by the Duke of 
Manchester, i. 14 :— Their case brought before 
the House of Commons by Dr. Lushington, i. 
28— Details of it, i, 28-32. 

Legal Protection of the Slaves, Mr. Dwarris's 
Statements on, examined, ii. 238. 

Legislation, West Indian, alleged Improvements 
in, fallacious, i. 50-Sentinients of Mr. Canning, 
i. 51 ; ii. 36 :— Vanity of expecting adequate 
Improvement of the Slave Laws from the Co- 
lonial Assemblies, i. 58, 81 : ii. 35, 198, 304 :— 
Remarks on the Spirit of the local Legislatures, 
i. 62 :-General Remarks, i. 165, 202 ; ii. 140, 
286, 349 :— Remarks by Mr. Buxton, i. 98— by 
Lord Suffield, i. 180-by Lord Calthorpe, ii. 279 
—by the Duke of Wellington, ii. 283 :— Remarks 
on the Jamaica Slave Law of 1816, ii. 106, 111 — 
and on Bill of 1826, i. 298 ; ii. 102 :-Progress of 
Legislation in the other Slave Colonies, i. 151, 
155, 162, 298, 312; ii. 80-95, 97-1 19 :-Corre- 
spondence of Rlr. Huskisson with the Colonies 
on the new Slave Acts, ii. 341,— (.Vide Colonial 
Reform.) 

VEsperance, Plantation in Berbice, Treatment of 
the Slaves upon, i. ,39. 

Leicester, Mr. M.P. his Speech in the House of 
Commons on Free Trade with India, i, 368. 

Liverpool, Earl of, his Speech in the House of 
Lords on the adoption of the Resolutions of the 
Commons of 15th May, 1823, i. 110 :-His Cor- 
i-espondence with Governor Farquhar respecting 
the State of the Slaves in the Mauritius, ii. ,337. 

Liverpool, Public Meeting at, April 24, 1826, 
i. 185. 

Lodging, State of the Slaves in regard to, in the 
West Indies, i. 261 — in the Mauritius, ii. 380. 

Luyien, Manager of Estate of Bertingdigheid in 
Berbice, i. 41, 236. 

Liishington, Di'. his Speech at the second General 
Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, i. 6:— Case 
of Lecesne and Escoffery brought by him be- 
fore Parliament, i. 28: — Speech at the General 
Meeting of Society, Dec. 21, 1825, i. 79 :-Speech 
in the House of Commons, March 2, 1826, on 
Mr. Denman's Motion respecting the Trials of 
Slaves for Rebellious Conspiracy in Jamaica, 
i. 119: — Statement in the House of Commons, 
of an Attack on the Methodist Missionaries, at 
St. Ann's, Jamaica, i. 326 : — licleicnce to the 
Bill introduced by him prohibiting the interco- 
lonial Slave Trade, i. ,388. 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND II. 



Macdermot, Robert, of Berbice, and the Slave 
Brutus and his Daughter, i. 232. 

Macdonnell, ]Mr. Alex, on " Compulsory Manu- 
mission," replied to, i. 32."? : — His Statement re- 
specting picking of Coffee, ii. 3o8. 

Macqiieen, Mr. James, Sum of £3000. voted to, 
tiy the Jamaica Assembly, i. 191 ; ii. 429— Con- 
fidential Letter from, to the Editor of the Ja- 
maica Gazette, i. 213: — Notice of his Attemi)t 
to establisli a Pro-Slavery Paper in London, i. 
214 : — His Remarks on the " genial warmth" of 
a tropical Sun as refreshing to the labouring 
Negro, i. 263 :— Discrepancy between his Argu- 
ments and those of Major Moody, eV/. :— Now be- 
come a great West India Pioprietor, ii. 429. 

dl'Goxnn, a Planter of St. Lucia, ii. 115. 

Mackmtosh, Sir James, his Speech at the third 
General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Societv, 
Dec. 31, 1825, i. 74 :-Speech at the fourth Gene- 
ral Meeting, 1828, ii. 225. 

Mairaoaring, General, Governor of St. Lucia; 

Remarks on his Despatches to Lord Bathurst, ii. 

113 — and on his Correspondence with Mr. Hus- 

kissou, ii. 354. 
Mais, Blr. of Jamaica, Declaration by, respecting 

the Cart Whip, i. 306. 
Manchester, Petition from, against the West India 

Sugar Monopoly, i. 327. 

Manchester, Duke of. Extracts from his Speech 
on proroguing the Assembly of Jamaica, Dec. 
21, 1825, i. 81 :-Statements made by him to the 
Home Government respecting the I'rials of 
Slaves for Conspiracy in 1823, i. 110 :— Remarks 
on this subject by Dr. Lushington, i. 119— by 
Mr. Brougham, i. 123— by Blr. Canning, i. 124— 
and by Mr. Denman, i. 126. 

Manumission, Clause— in the new Bahama Act, 
i. 152; ii. 82, 8o:-Grenada Act, i. 158 :— Mr. 
Stewart of Jamaica's ^Notions on this subject, i. 
218, 220:— Statistical Details respecting the 
Number of Manumissions, and the Amount of 
Fees and Taxes exacted on them, in the different 
Slave Colonies, i. 279-284; ii. 11, 16, 430:— 
Law and Practice at tlie Cape of Good Hope in 
J825, i. 290 :— Clauses in the new Jamaica Slave 
Bill, i. 308 ; ii. 103 ;-Suggestiou of Mr. Mitchell 
of Trinidad respecting Manumission, ii. 158 : — 
Remarks of Mr, Huskisson on the Provisions of 
the new Jamaica Law, ii. 179 :--Scheme of Mr. 
Dwarris, ii. 223 ; — and of Governor Farquhar in 
the Mauritius, ii. 335 : — Manumissions in De- 
merara, ii. 357 ;— and on the Estates of the Pro- 
pagation Society in Earbadoes, ii. 425. 

Mannmission C Compnlsori/ ^—Provision in the Tri- 
nidad Order in Council, to enable the Slave to 
purchase his own freedom or that of his family, i. 
139 :-Inferiority of this provision to that of the 
Spanish Code, ii. 194 :— The latter fully explained, 
ii. 253 :— Defect of the Demerara Order on this 
point, with Lord Bathurst's remarks, i. 148 :— 
New Bahama Act, ii. 86 :— Rejection by the Ja- 
maica Assembly of Lord Bathurst's proposition, 
i. 300 :-Legislators of Bardadoes respecting Com- 
pulsory Manumission, i. 301, ii. 90 :— Remarks on 
the conduct of the Colonists on this subject, i. ,301 : 
-West India Manifesto upon it, i. 323 :— Examina- 
tion of the Petition and Memorial of the Planters 
of Demerara and Berbice, ii. 25-72— inquiry before 
the Privy Council, ii. 153, 223 :— Consideration of 
the question— J* the market price of a Slave an 
adequate compensation to the master, ii. 182— Im- 
portance of adhering to this principle, ii. 195,259 :— 
Minute of a conference held with Mr. Canning 
on this fidiject, ii. 196 :— Case of Pamela Monro, 
a Slave manumitted at Trinidad, ii.70, 122 :— Un- 
just mode of appraisement in Berbice ii.93,361. 

" Marls/, or a Planter's Life in Jamaica," extract 
from, respecting the continuance of hoe cultiva- 
tion in Jamaica, ii. 250, 451. 

Maroons, of Jamaica, Remarks on a Statement 
respecting them, by Mr. J. Stewart, i. 220:— 
T'heir condition as compared with the Slaves, 
ii. 15. 

Marriages of Slaves; Provision of the Trinidad 
Order on this point, i. 138 :— Demerara Ordi- 
nance, i. 146 :— Legislation in the Bahamas, Bar- 
badoes, and Demerara, i. 50, 51, 152 ; ii, 85, 89— 
in Grenada, i. 159-in St. Vincent's, i. 163:— 
Statistical details of the Law and Practice 
respecting Slave-marriages in the West India 



colonies, i. 26a-272; ii. 13, 17, 4.30, 432 :-Cause 
and consequence of this state of things, i. 270:— 
Practice at the Cape of Good Hope, 1825, i. 290- 
and at the Mauritius, ii. 380 :-Remarks on tlie 
Marriage Clause in the New Jamaica Slave Bill, 
1.302; 11. 103, 110, 265 :-Mr. Iluskisson's remarks 
on this clause, ii. 179— and on the new Laws of 
St. Kitts, li. 275-and of Barbadoes, ii. 374:- 
Observations by Mr. Wilberforce, ii. 216 :-State- 
ments of Mr. Dwarris, ii. 219, 244 :-Conduct of 
the Conversion Society in regard to Slave 
Marriages, ii. 320, 400, 402 :-State of the Slaves 
of the Propagation Society, ii. 422, 459, 479 :- 
Novel Doctrines on this subject, ii. 479. 

Manrititis ; Jlemoranda on the subject of Slavei-y' 
and on the character and condition ot the Slave 
population in this colony, by an eye-witness, i. 
20:— Large portion of the Slave property in tlie 
Island acquired by illicit Slave traffic, i. 22:— 
State of the class of Negroes called " Govern- 
ment Apprentices," z'A.— Mauritius Sugar fraudu- 
lentlysold as "free labour Sugar," i. 248:— In- 
justice and impolicy- of this colony being put 
upon the footing of the West Indies, in regard 
to Import Duties, i. 20, 319-Mr. Brougham's 
opinion on this subject, i. 377 :— Slave laws of 
the Mauritius, ii. 332, 373 :— Remarks on an edict 
ot Sir U. Farquhar, ii. 334;— and on two Ordi- 
nances, &c. of Sir Lowry Cole, ii. 3.35— Corre- 
spondence of Sir Lowry with the Government, 
ii. 368 :— Sir Robert Farquhar's Measures for 
improving the condition of the Slaves, ii. 337, 
373— remarks on his correspondence with Lore! 
Liverpool and Lord Bathurst, ii. 337, 374, 380;— 
Draft of a Slave Ordinance for the Mauritius 
witli Mr. Huskisson's comments, ii. 367 :— Picture 
of the Negro Slavery existing in the Mauritius- 
general remarks, ii. 373, 394— enormous mortality, 
li. 375, 431 — general treatment of the Slaves, ii. 
377— testimony of witnesses, ii. 392;— cases of 
cruelty, ii. 380-Case of V^irgiuie, 382-of Azor, 
383— of Pedro, .384-of Antoine, 385-of Le Cotfe, 
.385-of Edward, 386— of Felix, ii.-of Auguste, 
388-of two Negro boys, 389— of Seraphine, Hi — 
atrocities of Cotry, Bauvet, Rocan, Madame 
Nayle, and Prevost, ii. 390 :-Fresh proofs of 
horrors, ii. 431 :-Stati3tics of the Mauritius, ex- 
tracted from parliamentary returns, ii. 430. 

Medical Treatment, expense of, in a Jamaica Plan- 
tation, i. 261. 

Methodist Missionaries ; attack on tlieir Meeting 
and Dwelling Houses, in Jamaica, i. 326 :— Im- 
prisonment of Messrs. Whitehouse and Orten in 
■Tamaica, ii. 370:— Exertions of Missionaries for 
the Instruction of the Slaves, ii. 484. 

Mexico, Facts respecting the Cultivation of Sugar 
in tliat country by Fiee Labour, stated by Mr. 
Ward, ii. 251. 

Milton, Lord, his Speech at the Second General 
Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society,!. 3 — Speech 
in the House of Commons on May 15, 1827, on 
a free trade with India, i. 373. 

Minkie, a Slave Woman in'Berbice, her Case, i. 
35, 229-258. 

Missionaries in Slave Colonies, their Persecution, 
ii. 326, .370, 442, (vide Methodists, Moravians.') 

Mitchell, Mr.- Hector, of Jumaica, i. 29. 

Mitchell, Mr, Planter of Trinidad, his Opinion re- 
specting Manumission, ii. 158 :— His Evidence 
respecting the culture of Sugar by Free Labour, 
ii. 193. 

Molasses, possibility of extensive Frauds on the 
Revenue by the Importation of Sugar in this 
shape, i. 383. 

Monopoh/ fWest Indian), compared with that of 
the English Agriculturists, i. 313 :— Reply to 
the West Indian Arguments for its continuance, 
i. 314, ,324:— Its injurious EITects on the East 
India Trade, i. 318— to the British Manufacturers, 
i. ,32ti— tothe Planter as well as to the Slave, and 
to the prosperity generally of the West Jndia 
Colonies, i. ,321 :— A new Reason for its Aboli- 
tion, i. ,323— Discussion in the House of Com- 
mons, May 15, 1827, on the East and West India 
Monopolies, i. ,361— reference to Publications of 
Anti-Slavery Society on this subject, ii. 176, 
(vide Bounties and Protecting Duties, and East 
India Trade.) 

Monro, Pamela, a Slave Girl of Trinidad, Ap- 
praisement of, ii. 70, 122. 

Monro, X)i\ PlanterTn Berbice, i. 46. 



8 



INDEX XO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND IL 



Moody, Major, Remarks ou his Theories respect- 
iiiK Negro Industry and tropical Free Labour, i. 
215 ; ii. 36, 42 :— IIis Evidence adduced in Rei'u- 
tation of Assertions of the general Happiness 
and Comfort of the Slaves, i. 262 :— Notice of his 
" Phj'sical Facts" and " Philosophy of Labour," 
i. 263 : — Discrepancy between his Arguments and 
those of IMr. Macqueen, i. 264 :-Remarks on his 

~ Reasoning-, that the Negroes are doomed to re- 
main for ever an inferior Cast, i. 271 :— His Tes- 
timony respecting the comparative Ease and 
Comfort of the Slaves of Tortola, i. 386 ; ii. 42. 

Moore, Archbishop, his Remarks on Slavery, ii. 
416. 

Moravian Missionaries, notice of their Exertions 
in the West Indies, ii. 481. 

Mortality in the Slave Colonies— generally increases 
iu proportion to the extent of Sugar Cultivation 
and the fertility of the Soil, ii. 16, 121-enormous 
in the Mauritius, ii. 376. (Vide Population.) 

Moss, Mr. and: Mrs. of Bahamas, their Treatment 
of their Slave Kate, with Mr. Huskisson's Com- 
ments, ii. 462 :— Remarks on this Case, ii. 466. 

Montserrat, Statistical details respecting its Slave 
Population, ii. 11, 432. 

Munnings, BIr. acting Governor of the Bahamas, 
his Report to Earl Bathurst of the Case of the 
Mosses, ii. 466. 

Murray, Sir George, his Speech in the House of 
Commons, July 25, 1828, ii. 285. 

Murray, General, late Governor of Demerara, situ- 
ation of the Slaves on his.Estates, i. 41, 237. 

Nash, the Rev. W. of Grenada, on the religious in- 
struction, cSic. of the Slaves, i. 267. 

Natural Rights, vide Rights of Negroes, and Pro- 
perty in Slaves. 

Nayle, Madame, of the Mauritius, ii. 390. 

Negroes, alleged incurable indolence of, examined, 
ii. 41, 49. 

Nevis, Law and practice "of, in regard to Slave 
marriages, i. 269; ii. 13— separation of families, 
i. 274— pauperism, i. 278; ii. 13— manumissions, 
i. 281 ; ii. 17-value of Slaves, i. 282 ; ii. 13, 17 :- 
Statistical view, ii. 11, 13 :— Progress of legisla- 
tive reform, ii, 112. 

Noel, Hon. and Rev. Gerard, his Speech at the 
fourth General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety 1828, ii. 230. 

Norfolk, Anti-Slavery Meeting of the County, held 
at Norwich, Oct. 20, 1825, i. 57— remarks by the 
Fiscal of Berbice on some of the Speeches de- 
livered at this meeting, i. 226. 

Nottingham, a Quaker, his manumission of 26 
Slaves in Tortola, and the results, ii. 478. 

Nugent, Lord, his Speech at an Anti-Slavery 
Meeting at Buckingham, Jan. 17, 1826, i. 88. 

Oheah, Superstition— Jamaica law on the subject, 
ii. 267, 315. 

Obea Jack, ot Jamaica, remarks on his confession, 
i. 115; ii. 173. 

Ohermuller, J. F. a Planter in Berbice, i. 37. 

O'Connell, Daniel Esq., his Speech at the second 
General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
i.7. 

Orten, Rev. Joseph, a Methodist Missionary in Ja- 
maica, persecuted, ii. 371. 

Oreen, Capt. W. F. on the demoralizing effects of 
the Slave system on the whites residing at Mo- 
zambique and Delagoa Bay, ii. 17 1 • 

Padmore, Mr. case of his Slaves, i. 65. 

Pallmer, C. N. Esq. M. P. for Surry, his state- 
ment respecting the Christianizing of his Slaves, 
i. 196 ; ii. 322. 

Parliamentary Proceedings, on the subject of 
Slavery ;— Debate on the presentation of a Peti- 
tion from the inhabitants of London and its 
vicinity, March 1, 1826, i. 97 :- Debate on 4th 
March on the presentation of a Petition trom 
Nottingham, i. 106— Debate on 2d March on a 
motion by Mr. Denman respecting the trials of 
certain Slaves in Jamaica, charged with con- 
spiracy and rebellion, i. 113;— Speech of Lord 
SuHield in the House of Lords, April 17, 1826, i. 
177 :-Motion of Mr. W. Smith, respecting the 



administration of the Colonial Slave Laws, April 

20, 1826, i. 199:-Remarks on Mr. Canning's 
Speech on this occasion, zi. :— Remarks on pro- 
ceedings in Parliament, in a letter from a West 
Indian in England to a friend in Jamaica, i.206.: 
—Remarks upon the several motions on the Slave 
Question brought forward in 1824-5-6, i. 208 : — 
Dr. Lushington's Statement respecting the At- 
tack upon the Wesleyan Missionaries in Jamaica, 
i. ,326 :— Proceedings relative to Sugar Duties, i. 
327 '.—Discussions in the House of Commons on 
the 15th May, 1827, respecting the restrictions on 
the Trade with India, i. .361 :— Review of proceed- 
ings on the subject of Slavery, in Session 1827-8 : 
—Speeches in the House of Lords, by Lord Cal- 
thorpe, ii. 279-and by the Duke of Wellington, 
ii. 284 :— Discussion in the House of Commons, 
July 25, 1828 :— Speeches of Sir J. Mackintosh, 
ii. 278— Sir George Min-ray and Mr. Buxton, ii. 
285— of Mr. Peel li. 286 : — remarks on this Discus- 
sion, ii. 286:— Remarks on two Speeches of Lord 
Seatord's in the House of Lords, in June 23, and 
July 18, 1828, ii. 293 :-Defence of the Abolitionists 
from his Lordship's misrepresentations, ii. 303. 

Parliamentary Resolution of 15th May, 1823, state- 
ment of measures consequently adopted by Go- 
vernment, i. 201. 

Parry, Archdeacon, his Testimony on the Desecra- 
tion of the Sabbath ii. 446, 448, 449, 471. 

Paterson, Mr. of Grenada, his Letter to Lord 
Bathurst^ on flogging Females, and Sunday 
Markets, &c. i. 161. 

Paterson, Mr. of Berbice, i. 40. 

Pauperism, comparative State of, as regards the 
White and free Black and Coloured Classes in 
the West Indies, i. 275 ; ii. 13, 17. 

Peel, Hon. Robert, his Speech on Slave Evidence, 
March 1, 1826, i. 103-Kemarks in the House of 
Commons, July 25, 1828, ii. 286. 

Petilioyis to Parliament, for the Abolition of 
Slavery, Sugar Monopoly, &c., from |the Gene- 
ral Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society, Dec. 

21, 1825, i. 72— from Norfolk, Norwich, Bir- 
mingham, Hull, Beverly, Derby, Ipswich,' i. 
71— trom London and its Vicinity, i. 97— from 
Nottingham, i. 106<lia<^#-Petitions presented 
during the Session 'l82y-6, i. 197 :-Reply to 
Allegations against them, i. 197, 198 :— Peti- 
tions from the Surrey Anti-Slavery Society, 
i. 287 ; "• 138— from Manchester, i. 327— from 
Birmingham, Leeds, Halifax, Manchester, Hull, 
&c. &c. i. 361. 

Pickering, Mr., of Tortola, forcible Transporta- 
tion ot his Slaves to Trinidad, i. 388. 

" Picture of Negro Slavery draion hy the Colonists 
themselves,'" Remarks by Mr. H. Cockburn or 
Edinburgh on the Pamphlet so entitled, i. 91 — 
Attack upon it in the Quarterly Review, i. 172. 

Pile, Mr. his Speech ag;ainst the Abolition of 
Sunday Markets in the Barbadoes Assembly, 
i. 215. 

Finder, Rev. I. H. Agent of the Propagation So- 
ciety in Barbadoes, notice of his Evidence re- 
specting the Condition of the Slaves, &c. ii. 420, 
457, -177, 479. 

Philips, Mr. his Speech on Slavery, March 1, 1826, 
i. 104— his Speech in the House of Commons, 
May 15, 1827, i. 373. 

Planters, their regard of the Feelings and In- 
terests of the Slaves, i. 65— contumacious Con- 
duct, i. 82 — Defence of them by the Quarterly 
Review, i. 171— their Claims for Compensation, 
i. 221— delusive Policy, i. 213-222— Unfitness 
for legislating for the Slaves, ii. 290. (Vide 
Colonial Reform and Legislation.) 

Plough and Hoe Cultivation, in the Colonies com- 
pared, ii. 260. 

Population, Negro, Causes of the Decrease of, in 
in Jamaica, i. 193-and in the Sugar Colonies 
generally, i. 321; ii. 295 :— Statistical Abstracts, 
exhibiting the Amount of the Population of the 
several West India Colonies, between 1818, and 
1824-and the Increase or Decrease in that pe- 
riod, ii. 10 :— Remarks on the general Decrease 
of the Slave Population and its Causes, ii. 12, 
14 :— Extraordinary Decrease of Slave Popula- 
tion in Trinidad contrasted with the Increase ot 
Free Blacks in the same Island and of the 
Slaves in the Bahamas, ii. 155 :— Remarks by 
the Surrey Society, ii. 139 :-Decrease in Deme- 
rara, ii. til- and on Lord Seaford's Estates, ii. 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTEK, VOLS. 1. AKD II. 



■ 296 :— Reference to Anti-Slavery Society's Pub- 
lications on this Topic, ii. 176 :— Mr. Dennnan's 
Comment on Mr. Dwarris's Remarks, ii. 222 :— 
Notice of the Motion of Mr. Ellis CLord Sea- 
ford) in 1797, with a view to promote the In- 
crease of the Slave Population, &c. ii. 298 : — 
Enormous Decrease in the Mauritius, ii. 337, 
374. 

Porieus, Bishop, his Appeal in behalf of the 
Slaves, ii. 417. 

Port Moraiit, Plantation, in Berbice, treatment 
of the Slaves, i. 47, 48. 

Preaching and Teaching, penal Enactment in the 
new Jamaica Code, against Slaves " found 
guilty of," ii. 104. 

Price of Slaves, in different West India Colonies, 
i. 233, 284, 322 ; ii. 13. 

Profit, a Plantation in Berbice, condition of the 
Slaves, i. 45, 238, 260. 

Propagation Society, vide Society for the Propaga, 
tio7i of the Gospel, 4"f . 

Property iji Slaves, Master's alleged Riglit of, 
examined, ii. 29, 31 :— Claims of the Planters, 
ii. .308 :— Resolutions on this subject passed at 
a Meeting of the Surrey Anti-Slavery Society, 
Oct. 25, 1827, ii. 138, 142 :-Observations on the 
nature of this Right, in connection with the Case 
of the Slave Grace, ii. 143. 

Property of Slaves, Provision in the Trinidad 
Order in Council respecting-, i. 138 ; ii. 190 : — 
Remarks on the Restrictions imposed by the 
Demerara Order, i. 147 :— Grenada Act on this 
point, i. 158 — Bahama Act, ii. 86— Barbadoes Act, 
ii. 88, .347— Berbice Act, ii. 9.3— Dominica Act, 
ii. 99-St. Vincent's Act, i. 163 :— Mr. Stephen's 
Statement as to the Slaves' legal Rights of 
Property defended, in Keply to Mr. ISarclay 
and others, i. 250:— Inefficient Clause introduced 
into the new Jamaica Slave Code.i. 304:— Jamai- 
ca Act of 1826, ii. 103, 108, 261— Mr. Huskisson's 
Remarks, ii. 179 : — Slaves' Property better se- 
cured in St. Lucia than elsewliere, ii. 115:— 
Examination of Mr. Dwarris's Statements, ii. 
241: — Remarks on Mr. Huskisson's View of the 
St. Kitt's Law, ii.274. 

Prospect, a Plantation in Berbice, Complaints of 
the Slaves, i. 42. 

Protector of Slaves ; defects of the Trinidad Order 
on tills point, i. 142 ; ii. 192— of the Demerara 
Order, i. 159- of the Berbice Order, ii. 92— and 
of the New Grenada Law, i. 160:— Objections to 
this Office by Mr. Paterson of Grenada, i. 161 :— 
Its rejection by the Assembly of Jamaica and 
other Colonial Legislatures, i. 298; ii. 80:— Jamai- 
ca Council of Protection, ii. 102 :— Mr. Huskis- 
son's Remarks on ditto, ii. 178, 193, 261, 287 :— 
Duke of Wellington's Remarks, ii. 284, 286:— 
Committee of Protection of Barbadoes, ii. 88 
— Mr. Huskisson's Remarks on it, ii. .345:— Op- 
position in St. Lucia to the appointment of a 
Slave Protector, ii. 354:— Reports from Protector 
of Slaves, in 'J rinidad, ii. Sol— in Demerara, ii. 
355— and in Berbice, ii. 359. 

Providence, a Plantation in Berbice, conduct of the 
Manager, i. 37. 

Provisio?i Grounds, necessarily cultivated by the 
Slaves on Sundays, i. 1.33; ii. 131, 315 :— Pro- 
posal in the Jamaica Gazette to substitute Satur- 
days for their Cultivation, i. 221 :— Mr. Huskis- 
son's Remarks on the Provisions of the Jamaica 
Law, ii. 180 :— Refutation of the Statements of 
Mr. Barclay and Mr. Green of Jamaica respect- 
ing Sunday Labour, ii. 315 :— Situation of the 
Slaves in Barbadoes in this respect, ii. 316. (Vide 
Sioiday Labour.') 

Quarterly Review, Reply to an Article in the 66th 
Numberof, i. 17 1-173 :-Notice of some of its State- 
ments respecting Slavery at the Cape of Good 
Hope, i. 289, 295 :— Its Notice of the contuma- 
cious Conduct of the Colonial Legislatures, ii. 
487. 

RadcUffe, Mr. Weslcyan Missionary in Jamaica, 
outrageous Attack on his Meeting and Dweliitig 
House, i. ,326. 

Raffles, Sir Stamford, his Testimony respecting Free 
Labour Industry in Java, ii. 38. 

Rarolins, Mr. Stedman, J. and W. Wharton, Gen- 
tlemen in St. Kitt's, ii. 3, 5. 



Kedesdale, Lord, Remarks by, on the Amelioration 
of Slavery, March 7, 1826, i. 111. 

Registrations of Slaves, statistical Abstracts taken 

from, ii. 9. 
Registry of Slaves, Remarks on its Effects, i. 217. 
Reliance, a Plantation in Berbice, i. 39. 

Religiov-s Instruction of the Slaves, no Regulation 
providing tor, in the Trinidad Order in Council, 
1. 132, 135; ii. 186:— Inoperative Enactments on 
this point in the Bahamas, i. 151- in Jamaica, i. 
151 ; ii. 264— in Grenada, i. 155:— No Provision 
in the new Bahama Law, i. 153 :— Inadequate 
Clause m the St. Vincent's Act, i. 163 :-Report of 
the Bishop of Jamaica, i. 189; ii. l,33:-Keport of 
the Bishop of Barbadoes, i. 194; ii. 135 :— Re- 
marks by Mr. Stewart of Jamaica, i. 218 ; ii. 108 : 
—Mr. Stephen's position in regard to this sub- 
ject confirmed by the Bishop's Report, i. 252 :— 
Delusive assertions of Mr. Barclay, i. 252 :— N e w 
Enactment in Barbadoes. ii. 89 :— Exertions for 
the religious improvement of the Slaves by the 
Rev. Mr. Harte of Barbadoes, and his persecu- 
tion by the Colonists, ii. 20,96, 1.35;— No legisla- 
tive measures yet adopted for promoting the In- 
struction of the Slaves, ii. 153 :— Intolerant Pro- 
visions in the new Jamaica Slave Code, ii. 104: 
—Mr. Huskisson's Remarks on ditto, ii. 177, 341 : 
— Remarks on ditto by Mr. Wilberforce,ii. 215:— 
State of religious instruction among the Slaves 
in the West Indies more particularly examined, 
ii. 309 :-Want of a Christian Sabbath for the 
Slaves, ii. 310, 471 :— Reports of the Conversion 
Society examined, ii. 310, 398, 446, 469:— their 
Statements respecting Sunday Schools, ii. 473: — 
Details respecting Jamaica, li. ,322, 400— respect- 
ing Barbadoes Diocese, ii. 325, 412:— State of 
religious instruction in Berbice, ii. .359— and in 
the Mauritius, ii. ,380 :— Remarks on the instruc- 
tion of the Slaves by Bishop Fleetwood and 
Dean Stanhope, ii. 413— by Bishops Berkley, 
Claggett, Seeker, Drummond, ii. 415-by Bishops 
Moore and Porteus, ii. 416— and by Archbishop 
Manners Sutton, ii. 419 :— Examination of the 
Statements of the Propagation Society respecting 
their Slaves in Barbadoes, ii. 420, 457 : — State- 
ment in the Report of the Society for promoting 
Christian Knowledge, ii. 471. 

Religions Societies, their want of Sympathy with 
tlie temporal sutTerings of the Slaves, ii. 412:— 
Silence respecting the desecration of the Sabbath, 
ii. 471. (Vide Societies, &c.) 

Religious State of the Slaves, and Unchristian Na- 
ture of Slavery, List of Society's Publications 
on, ii. 176. 

Rider. Nancy, a Slave Girl of Jamaica, her Case, 
i. 286. 

Rights of Negroes, Remarks on, by " a Surrey 
Fieeholder,'* i. 222 :— Further Remarks on, i. 
287 ; ii. 1,38, 142, 143. 

Rights of Slaves, Lord Bathurst's Statement of, ii. 
31. 

Right of Property in Slaves, vide Property. 

Riland, Rev. J. notice of his Remarks on the Pro- 
pagation Society, in regard to the Instruction of 
their Slaves, ii. 325, 419, 472. 

Roberts, a Butcher at Port Maria, in Jamaica, i. 
113. 

Romney, Earl of. Case of a Slave Woman on his 
Estates in St. Kitt's, ii. 1. 

Rosa, or Roosje, a Slave Woman belonging to the 
Estate I'Esperance in Berbice, Treatment of, i. 
39, 2,33. 

Rose Hall, a Plantation in Berbice, Treatment of 
the Slaves, i. 38, 233. 

Ross, Mr. M. P. his Speech in the House of Com- 
mons, May 15, 1827, on Free Irade with India, 
i. 375. 

Ross, Mr. Attorney, of Prospect Plantation in Ber- 
bice, i. 43. 

Ross, Mr. Proprietor of Calcairn Plantation in Ber- 
bice, i. 43, 2.37. 

Rural Code, vide Hayti. 

Sabbath, Desecration of, in Jamaica, i. 252, 303— in 
the Mauritius, i. 22; ii. 3,36-and in the Slave 
Colonies generally, i. 133; ii. .310, ,315:— Conduct 
of Conversion Society in regard to this point, ii. 
311, 408, 445, 452, 471 :— Testimony of the Rev. 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND U. 



W 

Mr. Davis, ii. 445— nf Rev. Mr. Barker, ii. 446— 
and of Archdeacon Parry and Rev. Mr. Tlolber- 
ton, ii. 446 :— Silence of West [ndia Cler!,'j' in 
general, ii. 456. (Vide Sundai/ Labour, and Sun- 
day Marketsd 
St. Christophefs or St. Kittys, Law and Practice 
of, in regard to Slave Marriages, i. 270; ii. 1.3, 
275— Separation of Families, i. 274 ; ii. 274— 
Pauperism, i. 278; ii. 13— Manumission, i. 281 ; 
ii. 17-Value of Slaves, i. 282; ii. 13, 17 '.-Sta- 
tistics, ii. 11 :— Case of Betto Douglas, a Slave 
Woman, ii. 1 :— Progress of legislative Reform, 
ii. 112. 270— Mr. Iluskisson's Keiruirks, ii. 350 :— 

- Unjust Laws unrepealed, ii. 270:— State of reli- 
■ gious Instruction, ii. .325. 

St. Laicia, Statistics of, ii. 11, 13 :-SIave Mar- 

• riages, ii. 13, 355, 432 :- Value of Slaves, li. 17 :- 

• Condition of tlie enfranchised Population, ii. 50 : 
—Remarks on the improved Slave Law, ii. 113, 
149:— Remarks on General Mainwaring's De- 
spatches, ii. 113, .354 ;— i'reatment of a Slave by a 
Mr. M'Gowan, ii. 115:— Opposition of the Plan- 
ters to a Slave Protector, or to abandon the driv- 
ing Whip and the flogging of Females, ii. 354. 

St. Vincent's, Examination of the new Slave Act 

. of, i. 162; ii. 151— its great Defects, i. 163- Lord 

Bathurst's Strictures upon it, ii. 116 :— Remarks 

by Lord Suffteld on Mr. Dwarris's Statement re- 

- specting the Slaves of this Colony, i. 184:— Ex- 
tract fiom the St. Vincent's Gazette on the pro- 
gress of the improvements suggested by the Bi- 

' shop, i. 212 :— Law and Practice in regard to 
Slave Marriages, i. 270; ii. 13-Separatinn of 
Families, i. 274— Pauperism, i. 278— Manumis- 
sions, i. 281 ; ii. 17— Value of Slaves, i. 282 : 
ii. 13. 17 :-Statistics, ii. 11,43:— State in regard 
to religious Instruction, ii. 325. 

Sanders, Mrs. of Berbice, Treatment of her Slaves, 
i. 33, 227.; 

SflKrfftwrt, a Plantation in Berbice,Treatmentof the 
Slaves upon, i. 39. 

Savings' Banks, establisliment of, for Slaves, in 
Trinidad, i. 142— their Operation there, ii. 352— 
their Effects in Berbice, ii. 94, 361— and in St. 
Kitts, ii. 275. 

Scarlet, Mr. his Speech on Slavery, Maixh i, 1826, 
i. 10.3. 

Scotland, Plantation in Berbice, Treatment of the 
Slaves by the Manager, i. 36. 

Seaford, Lord, P^emarks on two Speeches delivered 
by, ill the House of Lords, on June 23 and.Iuly 
18, 1828'. ii. 293:— Condition of the Slaves on 
his Lordship's own Estates, ii. 295, 359 :— Exa- 
mination ot his defence of the West-India Colo- 
nists, ii. 297— and of his Accusations against the 
Abolitionists, ii. 300. 

Seeker, Archbishop, Remarks by, on negLcting the 
spiritual Improvement of the Slaves, ii. 415. 

Separation nf Families hy Sale, the jirovision of the 
Trinidad Order restricted to judicial sales, i. 139 ; 
ii. 191 :-Regulations in the Bahamas, i. 153, ii. 
85 ;— defective enactments inGrenada,,i. 158— and 
in Dominica, ii. 99 :— Silence of the St. Vincent's 
Act, i. 163 :— Remarks by Mr. .T. Stewart of Ja- 
maica, i. 218:— Examination of the assertions of 
Mr. Barclay and others on this subject, and de- 
fence of Mr. Stephen's statement, i. 250 :— Proofs 
of the existing practice in JaniMica, i. 254 :— Law 
and Practice in regard to the Separation ot 
Families in fourteen West Indiacolonies, i. 272— 
and at the Cape of Good Hope in 1825, i. 290- 
clause of the ^ ew Cape Ordinance on this point, 
ii. 91 ;-Barbadoes, ii. 90-at St. Kitts, ii. 274: 
— IJefects of Lord Bathurst's proposition on 
this point, i. 304 :— Jamaica legislation, i. 305; 
ii. 103, 110, 264— Mr. Iluskisson's remarks on 
it, ii. 179:— Important regulations in Berbice, ii. 
93, and in St. Lucia, ii. 114. 

S/iarpe, Granville, his Appeal to the Bench of 
Bisl^jops on Colonial Slavery, ii 4.38. 

Shrewsbury, Mr., Wesleyan Missionary, i. 5, 326. 
Simpson, James, a person in Jamaica, i. 122. 
Sincapore, its importance as an Emporium of our 

Trade in the East, i. .366, ,371. 
Slaney, Mr., M. P. his Speech in the Ilouse of 

Commons, on Free Trade with India, i. 368. 
Slavery, distinguished into two kinds, domestic and 

predial, ii. 162. (Vide Colonial Slavery.) 
Slaves, Negro, their condition in Demerara, i. 10— 



in Berbice, i. 33, 48-in the West Indies generally, 
i. 64-at the Cape of Good Hope, i. 289-at Mau- 
ritius, i. 21 ; ii, 273 :-Separation of families by sale, 
i. 65 :— Mode of their trial and execution, i. 66 :— 
Mr. Dwarris's account of their treatment in Bar- 
badoes, i. 67 :— Remarks by Sir James Mackintosh 
on their brutalized condition, i. 75 :— Enactment 
in St. Vincent's as to the master's right of pro- 
perty in Slaves, i. 163 :— Statistical details and 
tables illustrative of the real circumstances of 
the Slaves in the West Indies and their rapid de- 
crease in population, ii. 1—18:— System of kid- 
napping and breeding Slaves for sale in the 
United States, ii. 7. iViAe Colonial Slavery.') 

" Slave Colonies of Great Britain, or a Picture of 
.Slavery drawn by the Colonists themselves," 
remarks upon and extracts from the pamphlet 
bearing this title, i. 49. 

Slave Co?()7.y, description oftheir mode of procedure 
in Barbadoes, i. 66. 

Slave Evidence, vide Evidence of Slaves. 

Slave Laivs, vide Eegislation. 

Slave Trade ; present anomaly of British law, ■which 
renders legal in our Slave colonies what is a 
capital crime on the coast of Africa, ii. 137, .301 : 
—Continuation of the Slave Trade in the Mauri- 
tius recommended by Governor Farquhar on his 
tirst arrival in that colony, ii. 3.37. 

Stnith, W. Esq. M. P., his Speech at the second 
General Meeting ot the Anti-Slavery Societj', i. 
3— Speech in the House of Commons, on Jlarch 
2, 1826, i. 121— motion in the House of Commons, 
April 20, 1826, urging the expediency of a 
reform of the administration of the Slave laws, 
i. 199— his Speech in the House of Commons, May 
15, 1827, on a Free Trade with India, i. 375. 

" Society for the Conversion, Instruction, and Edu- 
cation of Negro Slaves;" examination of their 
Reports, ii. 310 :— Reply to their Vindication by 
the British Critic, ii. 397, 451, 469 :— Their 
silence in regard to tiie desecration of the Sab- 
bath, ii. 311, 398. 408,446, 449, 451, 471 :-Na- 
ture of the education imparted by them 
to the Slaves, ii. 315, 400, 408 :-Overlookmg ot 
the legal sanctions of marriage, ii. 320, 399 : — 
Want of precision and distinctness in the Reports 
of this and similar Societies, ii. 319, .320, 398,407, 
447, 469 :-Un fairness of their Report, u. ,321, 
406 :— Details respecting the progress of education 
and religious instruction in Jamaica, ii. .322, 400— 
and in Barbadoes, ii. .324, 402 :-Comparison of 
the opinions ot the Society and ot Mr. Huskisson 
in regard to the legislation of Barbadoes, li. 
345:-Uemarks on tlie duties of Conversion So- 
cieties, ii. 313, 412, 471:-Notice of Tract en- 
titled " Extracts of Sermons of the West India 
Clergy on the Obiervance of the Lord's Day," 
&c. ii. 445:— Reply to an article signed " Phi- 
laltthes" in the "Christian Remembrancer, ii. 
457, 477. 

Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge ; notice 
of its Report for 1828 respecting the progress of 
religious instruction in the West Indies, ii. 398, 
471. 

Society for the T'ropagation of the Coipe/; their 
supineness in regard to the improvement of their 
Slaves exposed by the Rev. J. Riland, ii. .32,5, 
483 :— I'.xamination of their proceedings, ii. 413, 
420, 475 :— Extracts from annual Sermons preach- 
ed on account of this Society, viz. by Bishop 
Fleetwood, ii. 41.3— by Dean Stanhope, ii. 414— by 
Bisliop Claggett, Seeker, Druminoiid and Green, 
ii. 415— by Bishops Moore and Porteous, ii. 416, 
and by Archbishop Manners Sutton, ii. 41 9:— Con- 
dition of the Society's Slaves in Barbadoes, ii. 
416, 419, 421, 457, 479 :— Evidence of Messrs. 
Brathwaite, Parry and Steele examined, ii. 416 : 
Evidence of Rev. J. II. Pinder and Mr. Forstur 
Clarke, ii. 420, 457, 460, 477. 

Sommerset, the Negro, allusion to his case in re- 
ference to that of the Slave Grace, ii. 144. 

Spangenburg, a Planter in Berbice, i. 40, 237. 

Solicitor General, (.\Niiti^ern\\') his .Speech on Mr. 
Denman's Motion in the House of Commons, 
March 2, 1826, i. 120. 

Spanish Slave Euw, nut enforced in Trinidad by 
the English Govenioi', i. l:»:--View ot the Law 
and PiactKc in the Spanisli Colonies respecting 
ManuiniSMiin, i. i:il) ; ii. 253— in regard to the 
Separation ol 1'uiiiili.s hy .Sale, i. HO; ii. 19.1 ; 
in regard to the 1 iii.c allowed to the Slave tor 



INDEX TO ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND II. 



his own use, ii. 132, 187, 253 ■-Coartad,} System, 
ii. 254 :-Mr. Kilbee's Evidence, ii. 255. 

Sparrman, Dr. the Swedish Traveller, his Ac- 
count of the Effects of Slavery in South Africa, 
i. 2ai -.—Tragical Case related by hira of two 
Slaves forbidden to marry, i. 292. 

Stanhope, Rev. Dean, his Remarks on the Re- 
ligious Instruction of blaves, ii. 414. 

Statistics of Slave Colonies, extracted from Re- 
turns ordered to be printed by Parliament, in- 
cluding Information respecting the Marriages of 
Slaves— Separation of Families— Pauperism— Ma- 
numissions— Slaves sold in Execution— Value of 
Slaves— Liability of free Blacks and Persons of 
Colour to be deprived of ihcir Freedom— Free 
Black and Coloured Population— Slave do. i. 
265, 272, 285 ; ii. 430 :— View of the comparative 
Amount of the Slave Population in 1818 and 
1824, and the actual Increase or Decrease during 
that term, ii. t):— Remarks on the Causes of the 
enormous General Decrease, and on the real 
Circumstances of the several West India Colo- 
nies, ii. 12, 18. 

** Stephen's Delineation of Colonial Slavei'j/^" At- 
tempts to decry this valuable Work, i. 49:— 
Its great Excellence in elucidation of West In- 
dian Legislation, i. 50— defended from the Attacks 
of Mr. Barclay and others, i. 249-and of Mr. 
Dwarris, ii. 240. 

Stewart, Hon. .lames, his Speech at a public Meet- 
ing in Jamaica, on the proposed Amelioration 
of the Slave Code, i. 217 :— His Evidence re- 
specting Suuday Labour, ii. 318. 

Stowell, Lord, his Decision in the Case of eight 
Slaves belonging to the Estate of A. C. Hill, of 
Tortola, i, 3y2 :— Remarks on his judgment in 
the Case of the Slave Grace, ii. 143. 

Suffield, Lord, his Speed) in the Ilduse of Lords, 
April 17, 1826, i. 177— 185 :— Defence of his 
Lordship's Statements in regard to the Case of 
the Slave Rosa in Berbice, 1. 233-235. 

Sugar, alleged Staple of the West Indies support- 
ed by an impolitic Monopoly, i. 315, 328, 329:— 
Reply to a Statement by Major Moody, i. 321 : 
Mortality of the Slaves generally in proportion 
to the extent of Sugar Cultivation, i. .322 :— Du- 
ties on East and West India Sugar, i. .'U8, 363, 
.369 ; ii. 202:— State of the Trade in East India 
Sugar, and its capability of Extension, i. .364, 
.368, 370, 373, 374, 375, 376, .381 :-Average Quan- 
tity of Sugar consumed in England and in 
Ireland by each Individual, i. 364 :— Statements 
of Mr. Huskisson respecting East and West 

' India Sugar, i. .369, 370 — Opinions of Jlr. Sykes, 

• of Mr. W. Smith, and of Mr. Brougham, i. .374, 
375, 376 :— Particular Examination of the Ef- 
fects of the Sugar Duties, Bounties, Drawbacks 
on refined Sugars, &c. i. 378, .383 ; Ii. 208 :— 
Mauritius Sugars admitted on equal Duties 
Vfith West Indian, ii. 488 :— Average Amount of 
Sugar imported from the West India Colonies 
into Great Britain and Ireland from 1822 to 
1826, exhibiting the average Proportion of Sugar 
cultivated by each Slave, ii. 10, 11. 

Sugar Planting, as it is conducted in the West 
Indies, decidedly imfriendly to Human Life : 
Causes of this, i. 321 ; ii. 15, 48, 210. 

Sunday Lahour, Practice of, in the Jlauritius, i. 
22; ii. 336— in the Slave Colonic^ generally, i. 
133 — its Compulsory Nature proved, ii. 315:— 
Testimonies and Opinions respecting it. by Lord 
Bathurst, i. 146, 303 ; ii. 27, 31, 32, 126-by Mr. 
Pile of Barbadoes, i. 215— by Dr. Williamson, 
Mr. Stewart and the West India Committee, &c. 
ii. 317— by Mr. Dwarris, ii. 221 :— Claims of the 
Demerara Planters, i. 146 :— Enactments in Gre- 
nada, i. 156 : — Omissions in .lamaica Slave Bill, 
i. .302 ; ii. 103, 108, 263 :— Imperfections of 
Trinidad Order, ii. 131, 186 :— Regulations in 
St. Lucia, ii. 114 :-Law of St. Kitts, ii. 273, 
321 :— Recommendations in Blauritius, ii. 335. 

Sunday Markets ; Provisions of the Trinidad Or- 
der, i. 132; ii. 1.32, 186 — and of the Grenada 
Slave Law, i. 157 :— Defence of, by Mr. Paterson 
of Grenada, i. 162:— Clause in St. Vincent's Act, 
i. 163 :— Speech of Mr. Pile in the Barbadoes 
Assembly, i. 215 : — Proposal in the Jamaica 
Gazette, i. 221 :— Inadequate Clause in the new 
Jamaica Slave Law, i. .302 ; ii. 263 : — Enact- 
ments in the Bahamas, ii. 86— in Barbadoes, ii. 
89, 346, 425-in Berbice, ii. 02— at Cape of Good 
Hope, ii, 94— in Jamaica, ii. 103, 110-in St. 



11 

Kitts, ii. 273 :— Statement on this Subject by the 
Chaplain of the Propagation Society, ii. 425. 
(Vide Sabhath.-) 

Surrey, Anti-Slavery Society of, their Petition to 
Parliament in 1826, i. 287— Resolutions passed 
at a Meeting on 25th Oct. 1827, ii. 138. 

Surrey Freeholder. Extract from an Article on 
Slavery under this Signature, i. 222. 

Sidton, Archbishop Manners, on duty lo Slaves, 
ii. 419. 

Sykes, Daniel, Esq. M.P. his Remarks on tlis 
Effect of the Sugar Duties, i.- 6— on the Pro- 
gress of Colonial Reform, i. 105— respecting free 
Trade with India, i. .374— Speech at the l?ourth 
Meeting of the A. S. Society, 1828, ii. 234. 

Thomson, Kev. Dr. A., reference to his Sermon on 
Slavery, ii. 461. 

Threlfall, Miss, remarks on her application to Par- 
liament for permission to transport her Slaves 
from Tortola to St. Jan, i. 384 :— Comparison of 
this case with that of Mr. Pickering's Slaves,!. 
388— and with a case decided on by Lord Stowell, 
i. 392. 

Tohago;VTe?iimeut of the Slaves in, as stated by Chief 
Justice and Attorney General, i. 68:— Progress of 
legislative reform, i. 155 ; ii. 151 :— Discussion on 
Lord Bathurst's eiglit Bills, ii. 117:— Law and 
Practice in regard to marriages of Slaves, i. 270 ; 
ii. 13— separatiou of families, i. 274— pauperism, 
i. 278— manumission, i.281 ; ii. 17— value of .Slaves, 
i. 283 :— Statistics, ii. 11, 13 :— Slave evidence, ii. 
250. 

Toel, Mr., of Berbice, i. 35. 

Tortola, its cost for protection, i. 255 :— Law and 
Practice in regard to the marriages of .Slaves, i. 
270— separation of families, i. 274— pauperism, i. 
278— manumissions, i. 281 ; ii. 17— value of Slaves, 
i. 283, ii. 13 ;— Miss Threlfall and her Slaves, i. 
.38! :— Mr. Pickering's Slaves transported to Trini- 
dad, i. 388 :— Eight Slaves belonging to the estate 
of Abraham Chalmill Hill, i. 392 :-Statistics,,ii. 
11, 13. 

Trade, Restrictions on, in favour of Slave labour, 
i. 224, 241, 248:— Arguments in favour of the 
Sugar Monopoly,!. 313 :— Number of seamen and 
tons of shipping employed in the West India 
trade, piohts of this trade, i. 315. (Vide East 
India Trade — Monopoly—anA Bounties and Sugar 
Duties.^ 

Transfer of Slaves from one West India Colony to 
another, imperfection of the Parliamentaiy re- 
turns on this point, ii. 12 :— Proceedings in Trini- 
dad, ii:'353. 

Treui, Rev. Mr., notice of his exertions in the re- 
ligious instruction of the Slaves, ii. 402. 

Trinidad; declaration in its Gazette " that the whip 
is essential to West Indian discipline," i. 19 :-Lav/ 
and Practice in regard to Sunday labour, i. 133; 
ii. 121, 133, 316 :— Right of the Slave to the Sun- 
day, ii. 31 :— Opposition to Slave evidence, i. 215— 
reform on this point, ii. 121, 133 :— Law and 
Practice in regard to Slave marriages, i. 270 ; ii. 
1.3— separation of families by sale, i. 275— pauper- 
ism, i. 278 ; ii. 1,3— manumission, 1. 281 ; ii. 17, 45, 
352 :— Compulsory manumission, ii. 25, 121, 133, 
351— exorbitant appraisement of a Slave girl, 
ii. 12, 122 :-Value of Slaves, i. 283 ; ii. 46, ,352 :— 
Statistics, ii, 11 :— Free labour, ii. 121, 1.33 :— Task 
work, ii. 121 :— State of crime, ii. 121 :— Decrease 
of the Slave population, ii.ll, 46, 122,155,353:— 
Condition ot the enfi'anchised Negroes as com- 
pared with the Slaves, ii. 50, 156 :— Progress of 
reform, ii. 121, 133, 146 :— Administration of jus- 
tice, ii. .351 :— Transference of Slaves from other 
colonies, ii. ,353 :— Case of the Slaves of Mr. Bur- 
ton Williams, ii. 156, ,353. 

Trinidad Order in Council— opposed by the colonists, 
i. 62, 211 :— Exaniination of this Order, i. 1,32— its 
superiority to the Berbice Ordinance, i. 312— its 
defects examined in detail, ii. 186— 195 :— Esti- 
mate of its effects on the situation of the Slaves, 
i. 131 ; ii. 186. 

Tropical Free Labour, arguments of Major Moody 
and the Demerara Planters upon, ii, 36— testimo- 
nies of Baron I^umboldt, Sir Stamford RafHes, 
and Mr. Botham, ii. 37—11. 

United States, statement respecting the character 
of Free Negroes of, i. 219:— Remarks respecting 
the persons of this class who were sent to Hayti, 



INDEX TO ANXJ-SLAVERY REPORTER, VOLS. I. AND If, 



ib. ."-Why the West India colonists are dependant 
on America, i. 314 :— System of kidnapping and 
breeding Slaves for tlie market, ii. 7 :— Increase 
of the blave population contrasted witli the de- 
crease in the West India colonies, ii. 12—' Genius 
of Universal Emancipation,' an Ariti-Slavery 
Newspaper establislied at Baltimore, ii. 8— ex- 
tracts from this publication, ii. 21. 

Value of Slaves, tlie market price the fairest cri- 
terion of, ii. 68, 122. (Vide Price of Slaves J 

Villenage, essential distinctions between it and West 
India Slavery, ii. 296. 

Walton, Mr. W., his testimony respecting the 
Slaves ill the Spanish colonies, ii. 254. 

Ward, Mr., British Envoy to Mexico, notice o^ 
facts disclosed by him respecting the cultivation 
Qf Sugar in that country by free labour, ii. 251. 

Watkins, .Toseph, a free black, officiating as a 
Preacher in the Bahamas, ii. 134. 

Wellington, the Duke of, his Speech on the Slavery 
Question in the House of Lords, July 18, 1828,ii. 
284. 

Wesleyan Methodists, exertions of, in the West In- 
dies, ii.484. (Vide Methodists.} 

West Indian Body in England, virtually pledged to 
support Parliamentary Legislation for the 
colonies, i. 52 :— Their preponderating influence 
in Parliament, i. 54 ;— Supported in expenditure 
by the Sugar Monopoly, i. 314:— Keal sources of 
their Revenues, ii. 7- 

West Indian Clergy, remarks on their silence gene- 
rally respecting the Slave's want of a Sabbath, 
ii. 456 :— Remarks on the West India Clergy of 
former times, ii. 485. (Vide Religious Inslmction.) 

West Indian Colonies, their annual expence to the 
nation, i. 16— Reply :to the allegation that the 
emancipation of the Slaves will be destructive 
to them, ii. 67. 

West Indiari Committee, their secret service fund, 
i. 191— conduct in connection with Mr. Ellis's 
motion in 1797, ii. 298— and in regard to Sunday 
labour, ii. 318— tlieir pro-Slavery rent, and pay- 
ment of mercenary writers, ii. 427. 

West Indian Co7itroversy :—'B.ev\y to arguments of 
" a Dominica Planter," i. 249— to IWajor Moody's 
"Philosophy of Labour," i. 215, 263, 271, .321, 
357— to Mr. A. Macdonnell on " Compulsory 
manumission," i. 32.S— to the West Indian Re- 
porter, i. 313 ; ii. 19— to'allegations respecting the 
Rural Code of Ilayti, i. 324, 353-360-to the 
petition and memorial of the Planters of Deme- 
raraand Berbice, ii.25, 72 :-Remarks on a petition 
to the King from the Jamaica House of Assem- 
bly, ii. K)5— on the pamphlet of Mr. Dwarris, 
" The West India Question," i.l68; ii.219. 



West Indian Reporter, commenced by the West In- 
dians in opposition to the Anti-Slavery Reporter ; 
Reply to its arguments in favour of West India 
monopoly, i. 313-and of the New Jamaica Slave 
Act, i. 360:— Its accusation respecting the Slave 
dealing of the Brazilian Mining Company, ii. 95 : 
—Reply to several of its charges against the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, ii. 119. 

West hidian Slavery, vide Colonial Slavery. 

West Indian Statistics, vide Statistics. 

West Indian Society and Morals, remarks on the 
state of, i. 270 ; ii. 63. (Vide Demoralizing in- 
fluence of Slavery.) 

WIntehouse, Rev. Isaac, Methodist Missionary in 
Jamaica, his persecution by the colonists, ii. 370. 

Wliitmore, W. W. Esq., his observatioiis on the re- 
strictions on the importation of Free Labour 
Sugars, i. 6 — Motion in Parliament, i. .327— 
Speech in the House of Commons on the 15th of 
May, 1827, respecting the Restrictions on the 
'I'rade with India, i. 360, .378. 

Wilberforce,^ . Esq., his Speech at the third Gene- 
ral Meeting of the Society, December 21, 1825, i. 
7.3-80— Speech at the fourth General Meeting of 
the Anti-Slavery Society, 1828, ii. 214 :— Remarks 
on his exertions in the cause of humanity, by Mr. 
Denman, ii. 222. 

Wilberforce, Wm. Esq. junior, his Speech at the 
second General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety, i. 4. 

Williamson, Dr., his Evidence as to the Treatment 
of the Negroes in Jamaica, i. 257— on the em- 
ployment of the driving whip. ii. 249— on the 
Desecration of the Sabbath, ii. 317. 

Wilson, Sir Robert, his Speech in the House of 
Commons respecting the Trials for Conspiracy 
in Jamaica, i. 122. 

Wilson, Mr. T., M. P., his remarks in the Debate 
in Parliament, March 1, 1826, i.l05. 

Woodford, Sir Ralph, Governor of Trinidad, his 
letters to Mr. Horton on the proposed revision 
of the Trinidad Order, and on the subject of 
Free Labour, ii. 126 :— His correspondence with 
Government respecting the transference of Slaves 
from other West Indian colonies to Trinidad, ii. 
353. 

Wynn, Mr., his Speech in the House of Commons, 
May 15, 1827, on Free Trade with India, ii. 377- 

Young, Thomas, captain of a trading vessel on the 
coast of Africa, tried for Slave trading, i. 136. 

Young, Sir William, his testimony in 1811 respect- 
ing the administration of justice in the colonies, 
ii. 299. 

Young, Colonel, protector of Slaves in Demerara, 
remarks on his Reports, ii. 355. 



London : Bagster and Tiioms, Printers, 14, Bartliolomew Close. 



^- 



^^^2 1912 



