SPEECH 



THE HON. HENRY CLAY, 



IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES, 



ON THE SUBJECT OF 



ABOLITION PETITIONS, 



FEBRUARY 7, 1839. 



BOSTON: 

JAMES MUNROE & COMPANY. 
1839. 



SPEECH 



THE HON. HENRY CLAY, 



IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES, 



ON THE SUBJECT OF 



ABOLITION PETITIONS, 



FEBRUARY 7, 1839. 



BOSTON: 

JAMES MUNROE &l COMPANY. 
1839. 



S'^')^^fO_^oJ_ 



CAMBRIDGE PRESS : 
METCALF, TORRY, AND BALLOU. 



SPEECH. 



I HAVE received, Mr. President, a petition to the 
Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States, which I wish to present to the Senate. It is 
signed by several hundred inhabitants of the District 
of Cohimbia, and chiefly of the city of Washington. 
Among them I recognise the name of the highly 
esteemed mayor of the city, and other respectable 
names, some of which are personally and well known 
to me. They express their regret, that the subject of 
the abolition of slavery within the District of Colum- 
bia continues to be pressed upon the consideration of 
Congress, by inconsiderate and misguided individuals 
in other parts of the United States. They state that 
they do not desire the abolition of slavery within the 
District, even if Congress possess the very question- 
able power of abolishing it, without the consent of 
the people whose interests would be immediately and 
directly affected by the measure ; that it is a question 
solely between the people of the District and their 
only constitutional legislature, purely municipal, and 
one in which no exterior influence or interest can 



justly interfere ; that, if at any future period the peo- 
ple of this District should desire the abolition of sla- 
very within it, they will doubtless make their wishes 
known, when it will be time enough to take the mat- 
ter into consideration ; that they do not, on this occa- 
sion, present themselves to Congress because they are 
slaveholders, — many of them are not, some of them 
are conscientiously opposed to slavery, — but they 
appear because they justly respect the rights of those 
who own that description of property, and because 
they entertain a deep conviction, that the continued 
agitation of the question, by those who have no right 
to interfere with it, has an injurious influence on the 
peace and tranquillity of the community, and upon 
the well-being and happiness of those who are held 
in subjection. They finally protest as well against 
the unauthorized intervention of which they complain, 
as against any legislation on the part of Congress in 
compliance therewith. But, as I wish these respecta- 
ble petitioners to be themselves heard, I request that 
their petition may be read. 

I am informed by the committee which requested 
me to offer this petition, and believe, that it expresses 
the almost unanimous sentiments of the people of the 
District of Columbia. 

The performance of this service affords me a legiti- 
mate opportunity, of which, Vvith the permission of 
the Senate, I mean now to avail myself, to say some- 
thing, not only on the particular objects of the peti- 



tion, but upon the great and interesting subject with 
which it is intimately associated. 

It is well known to the Senate, that I have thought 
that the most judicious course with abolition petitions 
has not been of late pursued by Congress. I have be- 
lieved that it would have been wisest to have received 
and referred them, without opposition, and to have 
reported against their object in a calm and dispassion- 
ate and argumentative appeal to the good sense of 
the whole community. It has been supposed, how- 
ever, by a majority of Congress, that it was most expe- 
dient, either not to receive the petitions at all, or, if 
formally received, not to act definitively upon them. 
There is no substantial difference between these 
opposite opinions, since both look to an absolute 
rejection of the prayer of the petitioners. But there 
is a great difference in the form of proceeding ; and, 
Mr. President, some experience in the conduct of 
human affairs has taught me to believe that a neglect 
to observe established forms is often attended with 
more mischievous consequences than the infliction of 
a positive injury. We all know, that, even in private 
life, a violation of the existing usages and ceremonies 
of society cannot take place without serious prejudice. 
I fear. Sir, that the abolitionists have acquired a con- 
siderable apparent force by blending with the object, 
which they have in view, a collateral and totally differ- 
ent question, arising out of an alleged violation of 
the right of petition. I know full well, and take great 
pleasure in testifying, that nothing was remoter from 

1* 



the intention of the majority of the Senate, from 
which I differed, than to violate the right of petition 
in any case in which, according to its judgment, that 
right could be constitutionally exercised, or where the 
object of the petition could be safely or properly 
granted. Still, it must be owned that the abolitionists 
have seized hold of the fact of the treatment which 
their petitions have received in Congress, and made 
injurious impressions upon the minds of a large por- 
tion of the community. This, I think, might have 
been avoided by the course which I should have been 
glad to have seen pursued. 

And I desire now, Mr. President, to advert to some 
of tliose topics, which, I think, might have been 
usefully embodied in a report by a committee of the 
Senate, and which, I am persuaded, would have 
checked the progress, if it had not altogether arrested 
the efforts of abolition. I am sensible. Sir, that this 
work would have been accomplished, with much 
greater ability and with much happier effect, under the 
auspices of a committee, than it can be by me. But, 
anxious as I always am to contribute whatever is in 
my power to the liarmony, concord, and happiness 
of this great people, I feel myself irresistibly impelled 
to do whatever is in my power, incompetent as I feel 
myself to be, to dissuade the public from continuing 
to agitate a subject fraught with the most direful con- 
sequences. 

There are three classes of persons opposed, or ap- 
parently opposed, to the continued existence of slave- 



ry in the United States. The first are those who, 
from sentiments of philanthropy and humanity, are 
conscientiously opposed to the existence of slavery, 
but who are no less opposed, at the same time, to any 
disturbance of the peace and tranquillity of the Union, 
or the infringement of the powers of the States com- 
posing the Confederacy. In this class may be com- 
prehended that peaceful and exemplary society of 
" Friends," one of whose established maxims is an 
abhorrence of war in all its forms, and the cultivation 
of peace and good-will amongst mankind. The next 
class consists of apparent abolitionists, — that is, those 
who, having been persuaded that the right of petition 
has been violated by Congress, cooperate with the 
abolitionists for the sole purpose of asserting and 
vindicating that right. And the third class are the 
real ultra abolitionists, who are resolved to persevere 
in the pursuit of their object at all hazards, and with- 
out regard to any consequences, however calamitous 
they may be. With them the rights of property are 
nothing ; the deficiency of the powers of the general 
Government is nothing; the acknowledged and incon- 
testible powers of the States are nothing ; civil war, 
a dissolution of the Union, and the overthrow of a 
government in which are concentrated the fondest 
hopes of the civilized world, are nothing. A single 
idea has taken possession of their minds, and onward 
they pursue it, overlooking all barriers, reckless and 
regardless of all consequences. With this class, the 
immediate abolition of slavery in the District of Co- 



8 

lumbia, and in the Territory of Florida, the prohibi- 
tion of the removal of slaves from State to State, and 
the refusal to admit any new State, comprising within 
its limits the institution of domestic slavery, are but 
so many means conducing to the accomplishment of 
the ultimate but perilous end at which they avowedly 
and boldly aim, — are but so many short stages in the 
long and bloody road to the distant goal at which they 
would finally arrive. Their purpose is abolition, univer- 
sal abolition, peaceably if it can be, forcibly if it must. 
Their object is no longer concealed by the thinnest 
veil; it is avowed and proclaimed. Utterly destitute 
of constitutional or other rightful power, living in 
totally distinct communities, as alien to the commu- 
nities in which the subject on which they would oper- 
ate resides, so far as concerns poUtical power over that 
subject, as if they lived in Africa or Asia, they never- 
theless promulgate to the world their purpose to be to 
manumit forthwith, and without compensation, and 
without moral preparation, three milhons of negro 
slaves, under jurisdictions altogether separated from 
those under which they live. 

I have said that immediate abolition of slavery in 
the District of Columbia and in the Territory of Flor- 
ida, and the exclusion of new States, were only means 
towards the attainment of a much more important 
end. Unfortunately, they are not the only means. 
Another, and much more lamentable one, is that, 
which this class is endeavoring to employ, of arraying 
one portion against another portion of the Union. 



With that view, in all their leading prints and publi- 
cations, the alleged horrors of slavery are depicted in 
the most glowing and exaggerated colors, to excite the 
imaginations and stimulate the rage of the people in 
the free States against the people in the slave States. 
The slaveholder is held up and represented as the 
most atrocious of human beings. Advertisements of 
fugitive slaves, and of slaves to be sold, are carefully 
collected and blazoned forth, to infuse a spirit of de- 
testation and hatred against one entire and the largest 
section of the Union. And, like a notorious agitator 
upon another theatre, they would hunt down and 
proscribe from the pale of civilized society the in- 
habitants of that entire section. Allow me, Mr. 
President, to say, that, whilst I recognise in the justly 
wounded feelings of the Minister of the United States 
at the Court of St. James much to excuse the notice 
which he was provoked to take of that agitator, in my 
humble opinion he would better have consulted the 
dignity of his station and of his country in treating 
him with contemptuous silence. He would exclude 
us from European society — he who himself can only 
obtain a contraband admission, and is received with 
scornful repugnance into it ! If he be no more desir- 
ous of our society than we are of his, he may rest 
assured that a state of eternal non-intercourse will 
exist between us. Yes, Sir, I think the American 
Minister would have best pursued the- dictates of true 
dignity, by regarding the language of the member of 
the British House of Commons as the malignant rav- 



10 

ings of the plunderer of his own country, and the 
libeller of a foreign and kindred people. 

But the means to which I have already adverted are 
not the only ones which this third class of ultra aboli- 
tionists are employing to effect their ultimate end. They 
began their operations by professing to employ only 
persuasive means, in appealing to the humanity, and 
enlightening the understandings, of the slaveholding 
portion of the Union. If there were some kindness 
in this avowed motive, it must be acknowledged that 
there was rather a presumptuous display also of an 
assumed superiority in intelligence and knowledge. 
For some time they continued to make these appeals 
to our duty and our interest; but, impatient with the 
slow influence of their logic upon our stupid minds, 
they recently resolved to change their system of 
action. To the agency of their powers of persuasion, 
they now propose to substitute the powers of the 
ballot box ; and he must be blind to what is passing 
before us, who does not perceive that the inevitable 
tendency of their proceedings is, if these should be 
found insufficient, to invoke, finally, the more potent 
powers of the bayonet. Mr. President, it is at this 
alarming stage of the proceedings of the ultra aboli- 
tionists, that I would seriously invite every considerate 
man in the country solemnly to pause, and deliber- 
ately to reflect, not merely on our existing posture, 
but upon that dreadful precipice down which they 
would hurry us. It is because these ultra abolitionists 
have ceased to employ the instruments of reason and 



11 

persuasion, have made their cause poUtical, and have 
appealed to the ballot box, that I am induced, upon 
this occasion, to address you. 

There have been three epochs in the history of our 
country, at which the spirit of abolition displayed 
itself. The first was immediately after the formation 
of the present Federal Government. When the Con- 
stitution was about going into operation, its powers 
were not well understood by the community at large, 
and remained to be accurately interpreted and defined. 
At that period numerous abolition societies were form- 
ed, comprising not merely the Society of Friends, but 
many other good men. Petitions were presented to 
Congress, praying for the abolition of slavery. They 
were received without serious opposition, referred, 
and reported upon by a committee. The report stated 
that the general Government had no power to abol- 
ish slavery as it existed in the several States, and that 
these States themselves had exclusive jurisdiction over 
the subject. The report was generally acquiesced in, 
and satisfaction and tranquillity ensued ; the abolition 
societies thereafter limiting their exertions, in respect 
to the black population, to offices of humanity within 
the scope of existing laws. 

The next period, when the subject of slavery and 
aboUtion incidentally was brought into notice and dis- 
cussion, was that on the memorable occasion of the 
admission of the State of Missouri into the Union. 
The struggle was long, strenuous, and fearful. It is 
too recent to make it necessary to do more than 



12 

merely advert to it, and to say, that it was finally 
composed by one of those compromises characteristic 
of our institutions, and of which the Constitution it- 
self is the most signal instance. 

The third is that in which v/e now find ourselves. 
Various causes, Mr. President, have contributed to 
produce the existing excitement on the subject of 
abolition. The principal one, perhaps, is the example 
of British emancipation of the slaves in the islands 
adjacent to our country. Such is the similarity in 
laws, in language, in institutions, and in common 
origin, between Great Britain and the United States, 
that no great measure of national policy can be 
adopted in the one country, without producing a con- 
siderable degree of influence in the other. Confound- 
ing the totally different cases together, of the powers 
of the British Parhament and those of the Congress 
of the United States, and the totally different situa- 
tions of the British West India Islands, and the slaves 
in the sovereign and independent States of this Con- 
federacy, superficial men have inferred from the unde- 
cided British experiment the practicability of the abo- 
lition of slavery in these States. The powers of the 
British Parhament are unlimited, and are often de- 
scribed to be omnipotent. The powers of the Amer- 
ican Congress, on the contrary, are few, cautiously 
limited, scrupulously excluding all that are not granted, 
and, above all, carefully and absolutely excluding all 
power over the existence or continuance of slavery in 
the several States. The slaves, too, upon which Brit- 



13 

ish legislation operated, were not in the bosom of the 
kingdom, but in remote and feeble colonies having no 
voice in Parliament. The West India slaveholder 
was neither represented nor representative in that 
Parliament. And whilst I most fervently wish com- 
plete success to the British experiment of West India 
emancipation, I confess that I have fearful forebodings 
of a disastrous termination of it. Whatever it may 
be, I think it must be admitted, that, if the British 
Parliament treated the West India slaves as freemen, 
it also treated the West India freemen as slaves. If, 
instead of these slaves being separated by a wide 
ocean from the parent country, three or four millions 
of African negro slaves had been dispersed over Eng- 
land, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland, and their owners 
had been members of the British Parliament, — a case 
which would have presented some analogy to that of 
our own country, — does anyone believe that it would 
have been expedient or practicable to have emanci- 
pated them, leaving them to remain, with all their em- 
bittered feelings, in the United Kingdom, boundless as 
the powers of the British Parliament are ? 

Other causes have conspired with the British exam- 
ple to produce the existing excitement from abolition. 
I say it with profound regret, but with no intention to 
occasion irritation here or elsewhere, that there are 
persons in both parts of the Union who have sought 
to mingle abolition with politics, and to array one por- 
tion of the Union against the other. It is the misfor- 
tune in free countries, that, in high party times, a dis- 
2 



14 

position too often prevails to seize hold of everything 
which can strengthen the one side or vv^eaken the 
other. Charges of fostering abolition designs have 
been heedlessly and unjustly made by one party 
against the other. Prior to the late election of the 
present President of the United States, he was charged 
with being an abolitionist, and abolition designs were 
imputed to many of his supporters. Much as I was 
opposed to his election and am to his administration, 
I neither shared in making nor believing the truth of 
the charge. He was scarcely installed in office before 
the same charge was directed against those who op- 
posed his election. 

Mr. President, it is not true, and I rejoice that it is 
not true, that either of the two great parties in this 
country has any designs or aim at abolition. I should 
deeply lament if it were true. I should consider, if 
it were true, that the danger to the stabiHty of our 
system would be infinitely greater than any which 
does, I hope, actually exist. Whilst neither party can 
be, I think, justly accused of any abolition tendency 
or purpose, both have profited, and both have been 
injured, in particular localities, by the accession or 
abstraction of abolition support. If the account were 
fairly stated, I believe the party to which I am op- 
posed has profited much more, and been injured much 
less, than that to which I belong. But I am far, for 
that reason, from being disposed to accuse our adver- 
saries of being abolitionists. 

And, now, Mr. President, allow me to consider the 



15 

several cases in which the authority of Congress is 
invoked by these abohtion petitioners upon the subject 
of domestic slavery. The first relates to it as it exists 
in the District of Columbia. The following is the 
provision of the Constitution of the United States in 
reference to that mattei^: — 

" To exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatso- 
ever over such District (not exceeding ten miles square) as 
may, by cession of particular States, and the acceptance of 
Congress, become the seat of Government of the United 
States." 

This provision preceded, in point of time, the 
actual cessions which were made by the States of 
Maryland and Virginia. The object of the cession 
was to establish a seat of Government of the United 
States ; and the grant in the Constitution of exclusive 
legislation must be understood, and should be always 
interpreted, as having relation to the object of the 
cession. It was with a full knowledge of this clause 
in the Constitution that those two States ceded to the 
general Government the ten miles square constituting 
the District of Columbia. In making the cession, 
they supposed that it was to be applied, and applied 
solely, to the purposes of a seat of Government, for 
which it was asked. When it was made, slavery 
existed in both those Commonwealths, and in the 
ceded territory, as it now continues to exist in all of 
them. Neither Maryland nor Virginia could have 
anticipated, th^t, whilst the institution remained within 



16 

their respective limits, its abolition would be attempted 
by Congress without their consent. Neither of 
them would probably have made an unconditional 
cessioUj if they could have anticipated such a re- 
sult. 

From the nature of the provision in the Constitu- 
tion, and the avowed object of the acquisition of the 
territory, two duties arise on the part of Congress. 
The first is, to render the District available, comforta- 
ble, and convenient, as a seat of Government of the 
whole Union ; the other is, to govern the people 
within the District so as best to promote their happi- 
ness and prosperity. These objects are totally distinct 
in their nature, and, in interpreting and exercis- 
ing the grant of the power of exclusive legislation, 
that distinction should be constantly borne in mind. 
Is it necessary, in order to render this place a com- 
fortable seat of the general Government, to abolish 
slavery within its Hmits ? No one can or will ad- 
vance such a proposition. The Government has re- 
mained here near forty years without the slightest 
inconvenience from the presence of domestic slavery. 
Is it necessary to the well-being of the people of the 
District that slavery should be abolished from amongst 
them ? They not only neither ask nor desire, but are 
almost unanimously opposed to it. It exists here in 
the mildest and most mitigated form. In a popula- 
tion of thirty-nine thousand eight hundred and thirty- 
four, there were, at the last enumeration of the popu- 
lation of the United States, but six thousand one hun- 



17 

dred and nineteen slaves. The number has not prob- 
ably much increased since. They are dispersed over 
the ten miles square, engaged in the quiet pursuits of 
husbandry, or in menial offices in domestic life. If it 
were necessary to the efficiency of this place, as a 
seat of the general Government, to abolish slavery, 
which is utterly denied, the abolition should be con- 
fined to the necessity which prompts it, that is, to the 
limits of the city of Washington itself. Beyond those 
limits, persons concerned in the Government of the 
United States have no more to do with the inhabi- 
tants of the District than they have with the inhabi- 
tants of the adjacent counties of Maryland and 
Virginia, which lie beyond the District. 

To aboUsh slavery within the District of Columbia, 
whilst it remains in Virginia and Maryland, situated, 
as that District is, within the very heart of those 
States, would expose them to great practical inconve- 
nience and annoyance. The District would become 
a place of refuge and escape for fugitive slaves from 
the two States, and a place from which a spirit of 
discontent, insubordination, and insurrection might be 
fostered and encouraged in the two States. Suppose, 
as was at one time under consideration, Pennsylvania 
had granted ten miles square within its limits for the 
purpose of a seat of the general Government ; could 
Congress without a violation of good faith, have intro- 
duced and established slavery within the bosom of 
that Commonwealth, in the ceded territory, after she 
had abohshed it so long ago as the year 1780 ? Yet 
2* 



18 

the inconvenience to Pennsylvania in the case sup- 
posed vv^ould have been much less than that to Vir- 
ginia and Maryland in the case w^e are arguing. 

It vi^as upon this view of the subject that the Sen- 
ate, at its last session, solemnly declared that it would 
be a violation of implied faith, resulting from the 
transaction of the cession, to abolish slavery within 
the District of Columbia. And would it not be ? By im- 
plied faith is meant, that, when a grant is ma"de for one 
avowed and declared purpose, known to the parties, 
the grant should not be perverted to another purpose, 
unavowed and undeclared, and injurious to the grant- 
or. The grant, in the case we are considering, of the 
territory of Columbia, was for a seat of Government, 
Whatever power is necessary to accomplish that 
object is carried along by the grant. But the 
abolition of slavery is not necessary to the enjoy- 
ment of this site as a seat of the general Govern- 
ment. The grant in the Constitution, of exclusive 
power of legislation over the District, was made to 
insure the exercise of an exclusive authority of the 
general Government, to render this place a safe and 
secure seat of Government, and to promote the well- 
being of the inhabitants of the District. The power 
granted ought to be interpreted and exercised solely 
to the end for which it was granted. The language 
of the grant was necessarily broad, comprehensive, 
and exclusive, because all the exigencies, which might 
arise to render this a secure seat of the general Gov- 
ernment, could not have been foreseen and provided 



19 



for. The language may possibly be sufficiently com- 
prehensive to include a power of abolition, but it 
would not at all thence follow that the power could 
be rightfully exercised. The case may be resembled 
to that of a plenipotentiary invested with a plenary 
power, but who, at the same time, has positive instruc- 
tions from his Government as to the kind of treaty 
which he is to negotiate and conclude. If he vio- 
lates those instructions, and concludes a different 
treaty, his Government is not bound by it. And if 
the foreign Government is aware of the violation, it 
acts in bad faith. Or it may be illustrated by an exam- 
ple drawn from private life. I am an endorser for my 
friend on a note discounted in bank. He applies to 
me to endorse another to renew it, which I do in 
blank. Now, this gives him power to make any other 
use of my note which he pleases. But if, instead of 
applying it to the intended purpose, he goes to a 
broker and sells it, thereby doubling my responsi- 
bility for him, he commits a breach of trust, and a 
violation of the good faith implied in the whole trans- 
action. 

But, Mr. President, if this reasoning were as erro- 
neous as I believe it to be correct and conclusive, is 
the affair of the liberation of six thousand negro 
slaves in this District, disconnected with the three 
millions of slaves in the United States, of sufficient 
magnitude to agitate, distract, and embitter this great 
Confederacy ? 

The next case, in which the petitioners ask the exer- 



20 

cise of the power of Congress, relates to slavery in the 
Territory of Florida. 

Florida is the extreme southern portion of the 
United States. It is bounded on all its land sides by 
slave States, and is several hundred miles from the 
nearest free State. It extends almost within the trop- 
ics, and the nearest important island to it on the water 
side is Cuba, a slave island. This simple statement 
of its geographical position should of itself decide 
the question. When, by the treaty of 1819 with 
Spain, it was ceded to the United States, slavery ex- 
isted within it. By the terms of that treaty, the 
effects and property of the inhabitants are secured to 
them, and they are allowed to remove and take them 
away, if they think proper to do so, without limitation 
as to time. If it were expedient, therefore, to abolish 
slavery in it, it could not be done consistently with 
the treaty, without granting to the ancient inhabitants 
a reasonable time to remove their slaves. But fur- 
ther. By the compromise which took place on the 
passage of the act for the admission of Missouri into 
the Union, in the year 1820, it was agreed and under- 
stood that the line of 36 degrees 30 minutes of north 
latitude should mark the boundary between the free 
States and the slave States, to be created in the terri- 
tories of the United States, ceded by the treaty of 
Louisiana ; those situated south of it being slave States, 
and those north of it free States. But Florida is south 
of that line, and, consequently, according to the spirit 
of the understanding which prevailed at the period 



21 

alluded to, should be a slave State. It may be true 
that the compromise does not in terms embrace Flor- 
ida, and that it is not absolutely binding and obligatory ; 
but all candid and impartial men must agree that it 
ought not to be disregarded without the most weighty 
considerations, and that nothing could be more to be 
deprecated than to open anew the bleeding wounds 
which were happily bound up and healed by that 
compromise. Florida is the only remaining Territory 
to be admitted into the Union with the institution of 
domestic slavery, while Wisconsin and Iowa are now 
nearly ripe for admission without it. 

The next instance in which the exercise of the 
power of Congress is solicited is that of prohibiting 
what is denominated by the petitioners the slave-trade 
between the States, or, as it is described in abohtion 
petitions, the traffic in human beings between the 
States. This exercise of the power of Congress is 
claimed under that clause of the Constitution, which 
invests it with authority to regulate commerce with 
foreign nations, and among the 'several States, and 
with the Indian tribes. The power to regulate com- 
merce among the several States, like other powers in 
the Constitution, has hitherto remained dormant in 
respect to the interior trade by land between the 
States. It was a power granted, like all the other 
powers of the general Government, to secure peace 
and harmony among the States. Hitherto it has not 
been necessary to exercise it. All the cases, in which, 
during the progress of time, it may become expedient 



22 

to exert the general authority to regulate commerce 
between the States, cannot be conceived. We may 
easily imagine, however, contingencies, which, if they 
were to happen, might require the interposition of the 
common authority. If, for example, the State of 
Ohio were, by law, to prohibit any vessel entering the 
port of Cincinnati, from the port of Louisville, in 
Kentucky, if that case be not already provided for by 
the laws which regulate our coasting-trade, it would 
be competent to the general Government to annul the 
prohibition emanating from State authority. Or if the 
State of Kentucky were to prohibit the introduction, 
within its limits, of any articles of trade, the produc- 
tion of the industry of the inhabitants of the State of 
Ohio, the general Government might, by its authority, 
supersede the State enactment. But I deny that the 
general Government has any authority whatever, 
from the Constitution, to abolish what is called the 
slave trade, or, in other words, to prohibit the 
removal of slaves from one slave State to another 
slave State. 

The grant in the Constitution is of a power of reg- 
ulation, and not prohibition. It is conservative, not 
destructive. Regulation, ex vi termini, implies the 
continued existence or prosecution of the thing regu- 
lated. Prohibition implies total discontinuance or 
annihilation. The regulation intended was designed 
to facihtate and accommodate, not to obstruct and 
incommode, the commerce to be regulated. Can it be 
pretended, that, under this power to regulate commerce 



23 

among the States, Congress has the power to prohibit 
the transportation of Hve stock, which, in countless 
numbers, are daily passing from the Western and 
interior States to the Southern, Southwestern, and 
Atlantic States? The moment the incontestable fact 
is admitted, that negro slaves are property, the law of 
movable property irresistibly attaches itself to them, 
and secures the right of carrying them from one to 
another State, where they are recognised as prop- 
erty, without any hindrance whatever from Con- 
gress. 

But, Mr. President, I will not detain the Senate 
longer on the subjects of slavery within the District 
and in Florida, and of the right of Congress to pro- 
hibit the removal of slaves from one State to another. 
These, as I have already intimated, with ultra aboli- 
tionists are but so many masked batteries, concealing 
the real and ultimate point of attack. That point of 
attack is the institution of domestic slavery as it exists 
in these States. It is to liberate three millions of slaves 
held in bondage within them. And now allow me, 
Sir, to glance at the insurmountable obstacles which 
lie in the way of the accomplishment of this end, and 
at some of the consequences which would ensue if it 
were possible to attain it. 

The first impediment is the utter and absolute want 
of all power on the part of the general Government 
to effect the purpose. The Constitution of the United 
States creates a limited Government, comprising com- 
paratively few powers, and leaving the residuary mass 



24 

of political power in the possession of the several 
States. It is well known that the subject of slavery 
interposed one of the greatest difficulties in the forma- 
tion of the Constitution. It was happily compromised 
and adjusted in a spirit of harmony and patriotism. 
According to that compromise, no power whatever was 
granted to the general Government in respect to do- 
mestic slavery, but that which relates to taxation and 
representation, and the power to restore fugitive slaves 
to their lawful owners. All other power in regard to 
the institution of slavery was retained exclusively by 
the States, to be exercised by them severally, accord- 
ing to their respective views of their own peculiar 
interest. The Constitution of the United States never 
could have been formed upon the principle of invest- 
ing the general Government with authority to aboHsh 
the institution at its pleasure. It never can be con- 
tinued for a single day if the exercise of such a power 
be assumed or usurped. 

But it may be contended by these ultra abohtionists 
that their object is not to stimulate the action of the 
general Government, but to operate upon the States 
themselves in which the institution of domestic sla- 
very exists. If that be their object, why are these 
abolition societies and movements all confined to the 
free States ? Why are the slave States wantonly and 
cruelly assailed ? Why do the abolition presses teem 
with publications tending to excite hatred and animos- 
ity on the part of the inhabitants of the free States 
against those of the slave States ? Why is Congress 



25 

petitioned ? The free States have no more power or 
right to interfere with institutions in the slave States, 
confided to the exclusive jurisdiction of those States, 
than they would have to interfere with institutions 
existing in any foreign country. What would be 
thought of the formation of societies in Great Britain, 
the issue of numerous inflammatory publications, and 
the sending out of lecturers throughout the kingdom, 
denouncing and aiming at the destruction of any of 
the institutions of France ? Would they be regarded 
as proceedings warranted by good neighborhood ? Or 
what would be thought of the formation of societies 
in the slave States, the issue of violent and inflamma- 
tory tracts, and the deputation of missionaries, pour- 
ing out impassioned denunciations against institutions 
under the exclusive control of the free States ? Is 
their purpose to appeal to our understandings, and to 
actuate our humanity ? And do they expect to accom- 
plish that purpose by holding us up to the scorn, and 
contempt, and detestation of the people of the free 
States and the whole civilized world ? The slavery 
which exists among us is our affair, not theirs ; and 
they have no more just concern with it than they have 
with slavery as it exists throughout the world. Why 
not leave it to us, as the common Constitution of our 
country has left it, to be dealt with, under the guid- 
ance of Providence, as best we may or can ? 

The next obstacle in the way of abolition arises out 
of the fact of the presence in the slave States of 
three millions of slaves. They are there, dispersed 
3 



26 

throughout the land, part and parcel of our popula- 
tion. They were brought into the country originally 
under the authority of the parent Government whilst 
we were colonies, and their importation was continued 
in spite of all the remonstrances of our ancestors. If 
the question were an original question, whether, there 
being no slaves within the country, we should intro- 
duce them, and incorporate them into our society, 
that would be a totally different question. Few, if 
any, of the citizens of the United States would be 
found to favor their introduction. No man in it 
would oppose, upon that supposition, their admission 
with more determined resolution and conscientious 
repugnance than I should. But that is not the ques- 
tion. The slaves are here ; no practical scheme for 
their removal or separation from us has been yet de- 
vised or proposed ; and the true inquiry is. What is 
best to be done with them ? In human affairs we are 
often constrained, by the force of circumstances and 
the actual state of things, to do what we would not 
do if that state of things did not exist. The slaves 
are here, and here must remain, in some condition ; 
and, I repeat, how are they to be best governed? 
What is best to be done for their happiness and our 
own ? In the slave States the alternative is, that the 
white man niust govern the black, or the black govern 
the white. In several of those States, the number of 
the slaves is greater than that of the white population. 
An immediate abolition of slavery in them, as these ultra 
abolitionists propose, would be followed by a despe- 



27 

rate struggle for immediate ascendancy of the black 
race over the white race, or rather it would be follow- 
ed by instantaneous collisions between the two races, 
which would break out into a civil war that would end 
in the extermination or subjugation of the one race or 
the other. In such an alternative, who can hesitate ? 
Is it not better for both parties that the existing state 
of things should be preserved, instead of exposing 
them to the horrible strifes and contests which would 
inevitably attend an immediate abolition ? This is 
our true ground of defence for the continued exist- 
ence of slavery in our country. It is that which our 
Revolutionary ancestors assumed. It is that which, in 
my opinion, forms our justification in the eyes of all 
Christendom. 

A third impediment to immediate abolition is to be 
found in the immense amount of capital which is invest- 
ed in slave property. The total number of slaves in the 
United States, according to the last enumeration of 
the population, was a little upwards of two millions. 
Assuming their increase at a ratio, which it probably 
is, of five per cent, per annum, their present number 
would be three millions. The average value of slaves 
at this time is stated by persons well informed to be 
as high as five hundred dollars each. To be certainly 
within the mark, let us suppose that it is only four 
hundred dollars. The total value, then, by that esti- 
mate, of the slave property in the United States is 
twelve hundred millions of dollars. This property is 
diffused throughout all classes and conditions of soci- 



28 

ety. It is owned by widows and orphans, by the aged 
and infirm, as well as the sound and vigorous. It is 
the subject of mortgages, deeds of trust, and family 
settlements. It has been made the basis of numerous 
debts contracted upon its faith, and is the sole reli- 
ance, in many instances, of creditors within and with- 
out the slave States, for the payment of the debts due 
to them. And now it is rashly proposed, by a single 
fiat of legislation, to annihilate this immense amount 
of property ! — to annihilate it without indemnity and 
without compensation to its owners ! Does any con- 
siderate man believe it to be possible to effect such an 
object without convulsion, revolution, and bloodshed ? 
I know that there is a visionary dogma which holds 
that negro slaves cannot be the subject of property. 
I shall not dwell long with this speculative abstraction. 
That is property which the law declares to be prop- 
erty. Two hundred years of legislation have sanc- 
tioned and sanctified negro slaves as property. Under 
all the forms of government which have existed upon 
this continent during that long space of time, — under 
the British Government, — under the Colonial Govern- 
ment, — under all the State Constitutions and Govern- 
ments, — and under the Federal Government itself, — 
they have been deliberately and solemnly recognised 
as the legitimate subjects of property. To the wild 
speculations of theorists and innovators stands opposed 
the fact, that, in an uninterrupted period of two hun- 
dred years' duration, under every form of human 
legislation, and by all the departments of human gov- 



29 

ernment, African negro slaves have been held and 
respected, have descended and been transferred, as 
lawful and indisputable property. They were treated 
as property in the very British example which is so 
triumphantly appealed to as worthy of our imitation. 
Although the West India planters had no voice in the 
United Parliament of the British Isles, an irresistible 
sense of justice extorted from that Legislature the 
grant of twenty millions of pounds sterling to com- 
pensate the colonists for their loss of property. 

If, therefore, these ultra abolitionists are seriously 
determined to pursue their scheme of immediate abo- 
lition, they should at once set about raising a fund 
of twelve hundred millions of dollars to indemnify 
the owners of slave property. And the taxes to raise 
that enormous amount can only be justly assessed 
upon theinselves or upon the free States, if they can 
persuade them to assent to such an assessment ; for it 
would be a mockery of all justice and an outrage 
against all equity to levy any portion of the tax upon 
the slave States to pay for their own unquestioned 
property. 

If the considerations to which I have already advert- 
ed are not sufficient to dissuade the abolitionists from 
further perseverance in their designs, the interest of 
the very cause which they profess to espouse ought to 
check their career. Instead of advancing, by their 
efforts, that cause, they have thrown back for half a 
century the prospect of any species of emancipation of 
the African race, gradual or immediate, in any of the 
3* 



30 

States. They have done more ; they have increased 
the rigors of legislation against slaves in most, if not 
allj of the slave States. Forty years ago the question 
was agitated in the State of Kentucky of a gradual 
emancipation of the slaves within its limits. By grad- 
ual emancipation I mean that slow but safe and cau- 
tious liberation of slaves which was first adopted in 
Pennsylvania at the instance of Dr. Franklin, in the 
year 1780, and according to which the generation in 
being were to remain in slavery, but all their offspring 
born after a specified day were to be free at the age of 
twenty-eight, and in the mean time, were to receive 
preparatory instruction to qualify them for the enjoy- 
ment of freedom. That was the species of emanci- 
pation which, at the epoch to which I allude, was dis- 
cussed in Kentucky. No one was rash enough to 
propose or think of immediate abolition. No one was 
rash enough to think of throwing loose upon the com- 
munity, ignorant and unprepared, the untutored slaves 
of the State. Many thought, and I amongst them, 
that, as each of the slave States had a right exclusive- 
ly to judge for itself in respect to the institution of 
domestic slavery, the proportion of slaves, compared 
with the white population in that State, at that time, 
was so inconsiderable that a system of gradual eman- 
cipation miglit have been safely adopted without any 
hazard to the security and interests of the Common- 
wealth. And I still think that the question of such 
emancipation in the farming States is one whose solu- 
tion depends upon the relative numbers of the two 



31 



races in any given State. If I had been a citizen of 
the State of Pennsylvania when Frankhn's plan was 
adopted, I should have voted for it, because by no 
possibility could the black race ever acquire the as- 
cendancy in that State. But if I had been then, or 
were now, a citizen of any of the planting States — 
the Southern or Southwestern States — I should have 
opposed, and would continue to oppose, any scheme 
whatever of emancipation, gradual or immediate, be- 
cause of the danger of an ultimate ascendancy of 
the black race, or of a civil contest which might 
terminate in the extinction of one race or the 
other. 

The proposition in Kentucky for a gradual emanci- 
pation did not prevail, but it was sustained by a large 
and respectable minority. That minority had in- 
creased, and was increasing, until the abolitionists 
commenced their operations. The effect has been to 
dissipate all prospects whatever, for the present, of 
any scheme of gradual or other emancipation. The 
people of that State have become shocked and alarmed 
by these abolition movements, and the number who 
would now favor a system even of gradual emancipa- 
tion is probably less than it was in the years 1798-9. 
At the session of the Legislature held in 1837-8, the 
question of calling a convention was submitted to the 
consideration of the people by a law passed in con- 
formity with the Constitution of the State. Many 
motives existed for the passage of the law, and among 
them that of emancipation had its influence. When 



32 

the question was passed upon by the people at their 
last annual election, only about one fourth of the whole 
voters of the State supported a call of a convention. 
The apprehension of the danger of abolition was the 
leading consideration amongst the people for opposing 
the call. But for that, but for the agitation of the 
question of abohtion in States whose population had 
no right, in the opinion of the people of Kentucky, to 
interfere in the matter, the vote for a convention 
would have been much larger, if it had not been car- 
ried. I felt myself constrained to take immediate, 
bold, and decided ground against it. 

Prior to the agitation of this subject of abolition, 
there was a progressive melioration in the condition of 
slaves throughout all the slave States. In some of 
them, schools of instruction were opened by humane 
and religious persons. These are all now checked ; 
and a spirit of insubordination having shown itself in 
some localities, traceable, it is believed, to abolition 
movements and exertions, the legislative authority has 
found it expedient to infuse fresh vigor into the police 
and laws which regulate the conduct of the slaves. 

And now, Mr. President, if it were possible to over- 
come the insurmountable obstacles which lie in the 
way of immediate abolition, let us briefly contemplate 
some of the consequences which would inevitably en- 
sue. One of these has been occasionally alluded to 
in the progress of these remarks. It is the struggle 
which would instantaneously arise between the two 
races in most of the Southern and Southwestern 



33 

States. And what a dreadful struggle would it not 
be 1 Embittered by all the recollections of the past, 
by the unconquerable prejudices which would prevail 
between the two races, and stimulated by all the hopes 
and fears of the future, it would be a contest in which 
the extermination of the blacks, or their ascendancy 
over the whites, would be the sole alternative. Prior 
to the conclusion, or during the progress, of such a 
contest, vast numbers, probably, of the black race 
would migrate into the free States ; and what effect 
would such a migration have upon the laboring classes 
in those States ! 

Now the distribution of labor in the United States 
is geographical ; the free laborers occupying one side 
of the line, and the slave laborers the other ; each 
class pursuing its own avocations almost altogether 
unmixed w^ith the other. But, on the supposition of 
immediate abolition, the black class, migrating into the 
free States, would enter into competition with the 
white class, diminishing the wages of their labor, and 
augmenting the hardships of their condition. 

This is not all. The abolitionists strenuously op- 
pose all separation of the two races. I confess to you, 
Sir, that I have seen, with regret, grief, and astonish- 
ment, their resolute opposition to the project of colon- 
ization. No scheme was ever presented to the ac- 
ceptance of man, which, whether it be entirely prac- 
ticable or not, is characterized by more unmixed hu- 
manity and benevolence than that of transporting, 
with their own consent, the free people of color in the 



34 

United States to the land of their ancestors. It has 
the powerful recommendation, that whatever it does is 
good ; and, if it effects nothing, it inflicts no one evil 
or mischief upon any portion of our society. There 
is no necessary hostility between the objects of coloni- 
zation and abolition. Colonization deals only with 
the free man of color, and that with his own free, vol- 
untary consent. It has nothing to do with slavery. 
It disturbs no man's property, seeks to impair no power 
in the slave States, nor to attribute any to the general 
Government. All its action and all its ways and 
means are voluntary, depending upon the blessing of 
Providence, which hitherto has graciously smiled upon 
it. And yet, beneficent and harmless as coloniza- 
tion is, no portion of the people of the United States 
denounces it with so much persevering zeal and such 
unmixed bitterness as do the abolitionists. 

They put themselves in direct opposition to any 
separation whatever between the two races. They 
would keep them forever pent up together within the 
same limits, perpetuating their animosities, and con- 
stantly endangering the peace of the community. 
They proclaim, indeed, that color is nothing ; that the 
organic and characteristic differences between the 
two races ought to be entirely overlooked and disre- 
garded. And, elevating themselves to a sublime but 
impracticable philosophy, they would teach us to erad- 
icate all the repugnances of our nature, and to take to 
our bosoms and our boards the black man as we do 
the white, on the same footing of equal social condi- 



35 

tion. Do they not perceive, that, in thus confounding 
all the distinctions which God himself has made, they 
arraign the wisdom and goodness of Providence itself? 
It has been His divine pleasure to make the black 
man black, and the white man white, and to distin- 
guish them by other repulsive constitutional differen- 
ces. It is not necessary for me to maintain, nor shall 
I endeavor to prove, that it was any part of His di- 
vine intention that the one race should be held in 
perpetual bondage by the other ; but this I will say, 
that those, whom He has created different, and has 
declared, by their physical structure and color, ought 
to be kept asunder, should not be brought together by 
any process whatever of unnatural amalgamation. 

But if the dangers of the civil contest, which I have 
supposed, could be avoided, separation or amalgama- 
tion is the only peaceful alternative, if it were possible 
to effectuate the project of abolition. The abolition- 
ists oppose all colonization, and it irresistibly follows, 
whatever they may protest or declare, that they are in 
favor of amalgamation. And who are to bring about 
this amalgamation ? I have heard of none of these ultra 
abolitionists furnishing in their own families or persons 
examples of intermarriage. Who* is to begin it ? Is 
it their purpose not only to create a pinching compe- 
tition between black labor and white labor, but do 
they intend also to contaminate the industrious and 
laborious classes of society at the North by a revolting 
admixture of the black element ? 

It is frequently asked, What is to become of the 



36 

African race among us ? Are they forever to remain 
in bondage ? That question was asked more than 
half a century ago. It has been answered by fifty 
years of prosperity but little checkered from this cause. 
It will be repeated fifty or a hundred years hence. 
The true answer is, that the same Providence, who 
has hitherto guided and governed us, and averted all 
serious evils from the existing relation between the 
two races, will guide and govern our posterity. '' Suf- 
ficient unto the day is the evil thereof." We have hith- 
erto, with that blessing, taken care of ourselves. Pos- 
terity will find the means of its own preservation and 
prosperity. It is only in the most direful event which 
can befall this people, that this great interest, and all 
other of our greatest interests, would be put in jeopar- 
dy. Although in particular districts the black popu- 
lation is gaining upon the white, it only constitutes 
one fifth of the whole population of the United States. 
And, taking the aggregates of the two races, the Eu- 
ropean is constantly, though slowly, gaining upon the 
African portion. This fact is demonstrated by the 
periodical returns of our population. Let us cease, 
then, to indulge in gloomy forebodings about the im- 
penetrable future. * But, if we may attempt to lift the 
veil, and contemplate what lies beyond it, I, too, have 
ventured on a speculative theory, with which I will 
not now trouble you, but which has been published to 
the world. According to that, in the progress of time, 
some one hundred and fifty or two hundred years 
hence, but few vestiges of the black race will remain 
among our posterity. 



37 

Mr. President, at the period of the formation of 
our Constitution, and afterwards, our patriotic ances- 
tors apprehended danger to the Union from two 
causes. One was, the Alleghany Mountains, dividing 
the waters which flow into the Atlantic Ocean from 
those which found their outlet in the Gulf of Mexico. 
They seemed to present a natural separation. That 
danger has vanished before the noble achievements of 
the spirit of internal improvement, and the immortal 
genius of Fulton. And now, nowhere is found a more 
loyal attachment to the Union than among those very 
Western people who, it was apprehended, would be 
the first to burst its ties. 

The other cause, domestic slavery, happily the sole 
remaining cause which is hkely to disturb our har- 
mony, continues to exist. It was this which created* 
the greatest obstacle and the most anxious solicitude 
in the deliberations of the Convention that adopted 
the general Constitution. And it is this subject that 
has ever been regarded with the deepest anxiety by 
all who are sincerely desirous of the permanency of 
our Union. The Father of his Country, in his last 
affecting and solemn appeal to his fellow-citizens, de- 
precated, as a most calamitous event, the geographi- 
cal divisions which it might produce. The Conven- 
tion wisely left to the several States the power over 
the institution of slavery, as a power not necessary to 
the plan of union which it devised, and as one with 
which the general Government could not be invested 
4 



38 

without planting the seeds of certain destruction. There 
let it remain undisturbed by any unhallowed hand. 

Sir, I am not in the habit of speaking lightly of 
the possibility of dissolving this happy Union. The 
Senate knows that I have deprecated allusions, on 
ordinary occasions, to that direful event. The country 
will testify, that, if there be anything in the history of 
my pubhc career worthy of recollection, it is the truth 
and sincerity of my ardent devotion to its lasting pre- 
servation. But we should be false in our allegiance 
to it, if we did not discriminate between the imaginary 
and the real dangers by which it may be assailed. 
Abolition should no longer be regarded as an imaginary 
danger. The abolitionists, let me suppose, succeed 
in their present aim of uniting the inhabitants of the 
free States as one man against the inhabitants of the 
slave States. Union on the one side will beget union 
on the other. And this process of reciprocal consoli- 
dation will be attended with all the violent prejudices, 
embittered passions, and implacable animosities which 
ever degraded or deformed human nature. A virtual 
dissolution of the Union will have taken place, whilst 
the forms of its existence remain. The most valuable 
element of union, mutual kindness, the feelings of 
sympathy, the fraternal bonds, which now happily unite 
us, will have been extinguished forever. One section 
will stand in menacing and hostile array against 
the other. The collision of opinion will be quickly 
followed by the clash of arms. I will not attempt to 
describe scenes which now happily lie concealed from 



39 

our view. Abolitionists themselves would shrink back 
in dismay and horror at the contemplation of deso- 
lated fields, conflagrated cities, murdered inhabitants, 
and the overthrow of the fairest fabric of human gov- 
ernment that ever rose to animate the hopes of civil- 
ized man. Nor should these abohtionists flatter them- 
selves, that, if they can succeed in their object of unit- 
ing the people of the free States, they will enter the 
contest with a numerical superiority that must insure 
victory. All history and experience proves the haz- 
ard and uncertainty of war ; and we are admonished 
by Holy Writ " that the race is not to the swift, nor the 
battle to the strong." But if they were to conquer, 
whom would they conquer ? A foreign foe ? one 
who had insulted our flag, invaded our shores, and 
laid our country waste ? No, Sir ; no. Sir. It would 
be a conquest without laurels, without glory, — a self, 
a suicidal conquest, — a conquest of brothers over 
brothers, — achieved by one over another portion of the 
descendants of common ancestors, who, nobly pledg- 
ing their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor, 
had fought and bled, side by side, in many a hard 
battle on land and ocean, severed our country from 
the British Crown, and established our national inde- 
pendence. 

The inhabitants of the slave States are sometimes 
accused by their Northern brethren with displaying too 
much rashness and sensibility to the operations and 
proceedings of abolitionists. But, before they can be 
rightly judged, there should be a reversal of condi- 



40 

tions. Let me suppose that the people of the slave 
States were to form societies, subsidize presses, make 
jarge pecuniary contributions, send forth numerous 
missionaries throughout all their own borders, and 
enter into machinations to burn the beautiful capitals, 
destroy the productive manufactories, and sink in the 
ocean the gallant ships of the Northern States. 
Would these incendiary proceedings be regarded as 
neighborly, and friendly, and consistent with the fra- 
ternal sentiments which should ever be cherished by 
one portion of the Union towards another ? Would 
they excite no emotion, occasion no manifestations 
of dissatisfaction, nor lead to any acts of retaliatory 
violence ? But the supposed case falls far short of 
the actual one, in a most essential circumstance. In 
no contingency could these capitals, manufactories, 
and ships rise in rebeiUon and massacre inhabitants of 
the Northern States. 

I am, Mr. President, no friend of slavery. The 
Searcher of all hearts knows that every pulsation of 
mine beats high and strong in the cause of civil lib- 
erty. Wherever it is safe and practicable, I desire to 
see every portion of the human family in the enjoy- 
ment of it. But I prefer the liberty of my own coun- 
try to that of any other people ; and the liberty of 
my own race to that of any other race. The hberty 
of the descendants of Africa in the United States is 
incompatible with the safety and liberty of the Euro- 
pean descendants. Their slavery forms an excep- 
tion — an exception resulting from a stern and inexo- 



41 

rable necessity — to the general liberty in the United 
States. We did not originate, nor are we responsible 
for, this necessity. Their liberty, if it were possible, 
could only be estabhshed by violating the incontesta- 
ble powers of the States, and subverting the Union. 
And beneath the ruins of the Union would be buried, 
sooner or later, the liberty of both races. 

But if one dark spot exists on our political horizon, 
is it not relieved by the bright and effulgent and 
cheering light that beams all around us ? Was ever a 
people before so blessed as we are, if true to our- 
selves ? Did ever any other nation contain within its 
bosom so many elements of prosperity, of greatness, 
and of glory ? Our only real danger lies ahead, con- 
spicuous, elevated, and visible. It \vas clearly discerned 
at the commencement, and has been distinctly seen 
throughout our whole career. Shall we wantonly run 
upon it, and destroy all the glorious anticipations of 
the high destiny that awaits us ? I beseech the abo- 
litionists themselves solemnly to pause in their mad 
and fatal course. Amidst the infinite variety of ob- 
jects of humanity and benevolence which invite the 
employment of their energies, let ihem select some 
one more harmless, that does not threaten to deluge 
our country in blood.. I call upon that small portion 
of the clergy, whicli has lent itself to these wild a!nd 
ruinous schemes, not to forget the holy nature of the 
Divine mission of th^ Founder of our religion, and 
to profit by his peaceful example. I entreat that 
portion of my countrywomen who have given their 



42 

countenance to abolition to remember that they are 
ever most loved and honored w^hen moving in their 
own appropriate and delightful sphere ; and to reflect 
that the ink which they shed in subscribing with their 
lair hands abolition petitions may prove but the pre- 
lude to the shedding of the blood of their brethren. 
1 adjure all the inhabitants of the free States to re- 
buke and discountenance, by their opinion and their 
example, measures which must inevitably lead to the 
most calamitous consequences. And let us all, as 
countrymen, as friends, and as brothers, cherish in un- 
fading memory the motto which bore our ancestors 
triumphantly through ail the trials of the Revolution, 
for, if adhered to, it will conduct their posterity through 
all that may, in the dispensations of Providence, be 
reserved for them. 



JAMES MUNROE AND COMPANY 



ARE PUBLISHERS OF 



THE FOLLOWING WORKS. 



SLAVERY, by William E. Channing. Fourth Edi- 
tion. 

LETTER of William E. Channing to James G. Bir- 

NEY. 

LETTER to the Hon. Henry Clay on the Annexation 
of Texas to the United States, by William E. 
Channing. 11th Edition. 

SERMON on war, by William E. Channing. 

SELF-CULTURE, by William E. Channing. 2d fidi-, 
tion. 12mp. 

A LETTER to the Hon. Harrison Gray Otis, Peleg 
Sprague, and Richard Fletcher, Esq. 

ARCHY MOORE, or Memoirs of a Slave. 2 \'ols. in 
one^ 2d Edition. 12mo. 



