THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. L] 



JULY, 1833. 



[NO. VII. 



PROGRESS OF PREJUDICE AND PERSECU- 
TION. 

A law, the substance of which we give be- 
low, was passed by the legislature of Connec- 
ticut at its late session and approved by the 
governor May 24, 1833. This statute is en- 
titled ' An Act in addition to an Act for the 
Admission and Settlement of Inhabitants in 
Towns? The preamble recites that ' attempts 
have been made to establish literary institu- 
tions in this State for the instruction of color- 
ed persons belonging to other States and coun- 
tries, which would tend to the great increase 
of the colored population of the State, and 
thereby to the injury of the people,' and there- 
fore enacts in the first section ' that no person 
shall establish in this State any school, or lit- 
erary institution for the instruction or educa- 
tion of colored persons, who are not inhabitants 
of this State, nor instruct in any school, or 
other literary institution whatsoever in this 
State, or harbor or board for the purpose of 
attending or being instructed in any such 
school, or literary institution any colored per- 
son who is not an inhabitant of any town in 
this State, without the consent in writing first 
obtained of a majority of the civil authority, 
and also of the Selectmen of the town in which 
such school, or literary institution is situated ; 
and every person who shall knowingly do any 
act forbidden as aforesaid, or shall be aiding 
therein, shall, for the first offence, forfeit and 
pay to the treasurer of this State a fine of one 
hundred dollars, and for the second offence, 
a fine of two hundred dollars, and so double 
for every offence of which he or she shall be 
convicted. 

' Provided that nothing in this act shall ex- 
tend to any district school established in any 
school society under the laws of this State, 
or to any school established by any school so- 
ciety under the laws of this State, or to any 
incorporated academy or incorporated school 
for instruction in this State.' 

The second section provides ' that any col- 
ored person not an inhabitant of this State, 

VOL. I. 



who shall reside in any town therein for the 
purpose of being instructed as aforesaid, may 
be removed in the manner prescribed in the 
sixth and sevenths sections of the act to which 
this is an addition.' 

The third section merely provides for per- 
sons who are not inhabitants of the State, but 
residents for the purpose of being instructed, 
being witnesses in cases of prosecution under 
the act. 

The fourth section enacts, ' that so much of 
the seventh section of the act to which this is 
an addition, as may provide for the infliction 
of corporeal punishment, be and the same is 
hereby repealed.' 

Our readers will at once perceive that this 
statute was enacted as a sequel to the Can- 
terbury farce. It is hardly necessary to men- 
tion that Andrew T. Judson, the great Can- 
terbury agitator was the prime mover of this 
act. 

We confess that we were surprised at the 
passage of a statute so inhuman and so dis- 
graceful to the State of Connecticut. It is 
not, perhaps, to be regretted on account of the 
colored people at whom it is aimed. The ex- 
cess of its malice and violence must, we think, 
render it impotent, and at the same time call 
forth the feelings of many benevolent minds 
in favor of the intended victims of this legis- 
lation. 

We could hardly credit our senses when 
we read this barbarous statute. Can the le- 
gislators of Connecticut seriously believe that 
colored persons are made worse by instruc- 
tion ? Or do they fear that all the institutions 
of their State are to be swept away by an ir- 
ruption of colored Vandals, if a school for 
young colored girls be tolerated for a moment. 

We rejoice in believing that this petty 
ebullition of prejudice is likely to be totally 
harmless as it regards the colored citizens of 
the other States. The constitution of the 
United States provides that 'the citizens of 
each State shall be entitled to all the privileges 
and immunities of citizens in the several 
13 



res.5S7<?.£'? 



98 



Slaveri/ in the United States. 



States. The meaning of this clause is suffi- 
ciently clear ; and its application to the Con- 
necticut statute very obvious. A colored citi- 
zen of Massachusetts or any other State going 
into Connecticut is entitled to all the privileges 
and immunities of a citizen of Connecticut. If 
then it is not a penal offence for a citizen of 
Connecticut to reside in any town in that State 
for the purpose of being instructed, it cannot 
be made a penal offence for a citizen of Mas- 
sachusetts to commit the same act. When 
the legislature of Connecticut shall make it 
criminal for her own citizens to be instructed, 
it may also make it penal for the citizens of 
other states coming within her borders, to re- 
ceive instruction ; and not before. 

It gives us great pleasure to say that Miss 
Crandall's school has not as yet been put down. 
It appears from a communication from Mr. 
George W. Benson, in the Liberator, of June 
15th, that she has eighteen or twenty scholars. 
We understand that she is prepared to contest 
the constitutionality of the Connecticut statute, 
whenever she has an opportunity. 



SLAVERY IN THE UNITED STATES. 
In our last number we gave some extracts 
from Mr. Stuart's Three Years in America. 
The following passages are from the same 
work. Mr. Stuart's observations on slavery in 
this country deserve attention, because he is 
evidently a man of great "fairness and candor. 
If his work shows any marks of partiality, they 
,are in favor of the United States. What he 
says upon this subject, therefore, must be re- 
garded as the reproof of a friend, not as the 
attack of an enemy. 

' A pamphlet was lately published by a free 
man of color, at Boston, named Walker, expa- 
tiating on the cruelty of the treatment to which 
men of color were subjected in many of the 
States, which has excited great indignation 
in the southern slaveholding states ; — and it so 
happened that upon the very day on which I 
attended the sitting of the legislature at Rich- 
mond, a letter from the mayor of Boston, in 
answer to a communication from the slave- 
holding states, declaring his disapprobation of 
the pamphlet, but at the same time expressing 
his opinion, that the writer did not seem to 
have violated the law, was laid before the 
house. Mr. Otis, the mayor of Boston, while 
in that letter he makes a declaration that the 
pamphlet does not contravene any law, with 
singular inconsistency adds, in his public let- 
ter, that he regards it with deep disapproba- 
tion and abhorrence. This seemed a strange 
communication from a magistrate in a non- 



slaveholding state. A bill was immediately 
brought into the House of Delegates here, 
which from its title, ' To prevent the circula- 
tion of seditious writings,' I should rather have 
expected to be proposed in some other coun- 
try than this. The fate of this bill I never 
knew. 

'I was anxious to see the anti-slavery 
pamphlet, which was making so much noise, 
and went into a bookseller's store of the name 
of Scaraway, or some such name, as I think, 
but I found his prejudices were as strong as 
those of any of his countrymen. 'Any man 
that would sell it should (he said) be gibbeted.' 
' The effects of slavery are nowhere more 
visible than in Virginia ; the population not 
having increased like that of the free states 
of the north. In 1790, Virginia contained in 
her boundaries one-fifth part of the whole po- 
litical power of the American confederation, 
was twice as large as New-York, and one- 
third larger than Pennsylvania; — but times 
are changed. Her political weight will be 
just one-half of that of New- York in the Con- 
gress under the new census, and one-third 
less than that of Pennsylvania; — she will'have 
to rank with Ohio, — a state that was not in 
existence when she was in the zenith of her 
prosperity.' — Vol. ii. pp. 54, 55. 

'We were ferried over the Roanoke river 
in a flat, drawing not six inches of water, by 
slaves, without the horses being taken out of 
the stage, and afterward stopped at Halifax to 
change horses. While I was sitting in the 
portico there, for the day was very hot, I was 
accosted by a gentleman who requested me 
to let him know what was the number of slaves 
for sale at the court-house to-day. I explain- 
ed his mistake to him, and I then asked him 
some questions with respect to the slave-mar- 
ket here. He said the price generally given 
for a young man was 375 dollars, though for the 
best hands 400 dollars are sometimes given ; 
that 250 dollars was the price for a fine young 
woman, until after she had her first child, after 
which she becomes more valuable, as she was 
then more to be depended on for increasing 
the stock. He never, he said, separated hus- 
band and wife, but some people did separate 
them, as well as children, and then they had 
a crying scene, that was all.' — Vol. ii. p. 56. 

' I have already mentioned that all the wait- 
ers in the hotels where I lodged were slaves, 
but they were not positively ill treated, like 
the unfortunate creatures at Charleston. They 
had no beds, however, to sleep upon, — all 
lying, like dogs, in the passages of the house. 
Their punishment was committed by Mr. La- 
vand to Mr. Smith, the clerk of the house, who 
told me that no evening passed on which he 
had not to give some of them stripes ; and on 
many occasions to such an extent, that he was 
unable to perform the duty, and sent the un- 
happy creatures to the prison, that they might 



Slavery in the United States. 



99 



have their punishment inflicted there by the 
jailor. Nothing is more common, than for the 
masters and mistresses of slaves, either male 
or female, when they wish them to be punish- 
ed, to send them to the prison, with a note to 
the jailer specifying the number of lashes to 
be inflicted. The slave must carry back a 
note to his master, telling him that the pun- 
ishment has been inflicted. If the master so 
orders it, the slave receives his whipping laid 
flat upon his face upon the earth, with his hands 
and feet bound to posts. In passing the prison 
in the morning the cries of the poor creatures 
are dreadful. I was anxious to get into the 
inside of this place, but though a friend applied 
for me, I did not succeed. Mr. Smith told me 
that he was very desirous to leave his situa- 
tion, merely because he felt it so very disa- 
greeable a duty to be obliged to whip the 
slaves. 

'There were about 1000 slaves for sale at 
New-Orleans while I was there. Although I 
did not myself witness, as I had done at 
Charleston, the master or the mistress of the 
house treating the slaves with barbarity, yet I 
heard enough to convince me that at New- 
Orleans there are many Mrs. Streets. The 
Duke of Saxe Weimar, who was at New-Or- 
leans in 1826, and who lodged in the boarding 
house of the well-known Madame Herries, one 
of the best boarding-houses at New-Orleans, 
has given a detailed account of the savage 
conduct of this lady to one of her slaves, which 
I transcribe in his own words : ' One particu- 
lar scene, which roused my indignation in the 
highest manner, on the 22d March, I cannot 
suffer to pass in silence. There was a young 
Virginian female slave in our boarding-house, 
employed as a chambermaid, a cleanly, atten- 
tive, quiet, and very regular individual. A 
Frenchman residing in the house called in the 
morning early for water to wash. As the 
water was not instantly brought to him, he 
went down the steps and encountered the poor 
girl, who just then had some other occupation 
in hand. He struck her immediately with the 
fist in the face, so that the blood ran from her 
forehead. The poor creature, roused by this 
unmerited abuse, put herself on her defence, 
and caught the Frenchman by the throat. He 
screamed for help, but no one would interfere. 
The fellow then ran to his room, gathered his 
things tog-ether, and was about to leave the 
house. But when our landlady, Madame Her- 
ries, was informed of this, in order to satisfy 
the wretch, she disgraced herself by having 
twenty-six lashes inflicted upon the poor girl 
with a cow-hide, and refined upon her cruelty 
so much, that she forced the sweetheart of the 
girl, a young negro slave who waited in the 
house, to count off the lashes upon her. This 
Frenchman, a merchant's clerk from Montpe- 
lier, was not satisfied with this : he went to 
the police, lodged a complaint against the girl, 
had her arrested by two constables, and whip- 



ped again by them in his presence. I regret 
that I did not take a note of this miscreant's 
name, in order that I might give his disgrace- 
ful conduct its merited publicity.' 

' The laws respecting slaves are as cruelly 
strict and tyrannical here as at Charleston, or 
in Georgia. The state Legislature have now, 
on the 6th and 17th days of March, passed two 
acts, not many days before I reached New- 
Orleans, containing most objectionable pro- 
visions. 

'The first act provides, 1st. That whosoever 
shall write, print, publish, or distribute any 
thing having a tendency to create discontent 
among the free colored population of this 
state, or insubordination among the slaves 
therein, shall, at the discretion of the court, 
suffer death, or imprisonment at hard labor for 
life. 

'2d. That whosoever shall use language in 
any public discourse, from the bar, the bench, 
the stage, the pulpit, or in any place, or in pri- 
vate discourse or conversation, or shall make 
use of signs or actions having a tendency to 
produce discontent among the free colored pop- 
ulation in this state, or to excite insubordina- 
tion among the slaves therein, or whosoever 
shall knowingly be instrumental in bringing 
into this state any paper, pamphlet, or book, 
having such tendency as aforesaid, shall, at 
at the discretion of the court, suffer at hard 
labor not less than three years, nor more than 
twenty years, or death. 

' 3d. That all persons who shall teach, or 
cause to be taught, any slave in this state to 
read or write, shall be imprisoned not less than 
one, nor more than twelve months. 

'The second act provides, 1st. For the ex- 
pulsion from the state of all free people of 
color, who came into it subsequently to the 
year 1807 ; and then confirms a former law, 
prohibiting all free persons of color whatever 
from entering the State of Louisiana. 

' 2d. It sentences to imprisonment, or hard 
labor for life, all free persons of color, who, 
having come into the state, disobey an order 
for their departure. 

' 3d. It enacts, that if any white person shall 
be convicted of being the author, printer, or 
publisher of any written or printed paper 
within the state, or shall use any language 
with the intent within the state, or shall use 
any language with the intent to disturb the 
peace or security of the same, in relation to 
the slaves or the people of this state, or to di- 
minish that respect ichich is commanded to free 
people of color for the whites, such person shall 
be fined in a sum not less than 300 dollars, 
nor exceeding 1000 dollars, and imprisoned 
for a term not less than six months, nor ex- 
ceeding 1 three years ; and that, if any free per- 
son of color shall be convicted of such offence, 
he shall be sentenced to pay a fine not ex- 
ceeding 1000 dollars, and imprisoned at hard 
labor for a time not less than three years and 



100 



Professor Wright. 



not exceeding five years, and afterward ban- 
ished for life. 

' And 4th. It enacts, that in all cases it 
shall be the duty of the attorney-general and 
the several district attornies, under the penalty 
of removal from office, to prosecute the said 
free persons of color for violations of the act, 
or, whenever they shall he required to prosecute 
the said free persons of color by any citizen of 
this state. 

'These acts are signed by Mr. Roman, 
Speaker of the House of Representatives ; by 
Mr. Smith, President of the Senate ; and by 
Mr. Dupre, Governor of the State of Louisiana, 
all in March, 1830. 

- Nothing can be more clear than that neith- 
er the liberty of the press, nor the liberty of 
speech, exists in a state or country where 
such laws are to be found in the statute-book. 
The following occurrence proves pretty con- 
vincingly the truth of this observation. It took 
place on one of the last days of March, while 
I was at New-Orleans : — A slave was hung 
for some trifling offence, but none of the news- 
papers took the slightest notice of the execu- 
tion ; the editors being naturally afraid that 
their doing so might be construed into an of- 
fence against the laws passed only a few days 
previously. I only accidentally heard of the 
execution some days after it happened, and 
was told there were not thirty persons present 
at it. 

' What makes the severity of those laws 
even more galling is, that their retrospective 
effect forces into banishment many citizens of 
New-Orleans, — free men of color, — who were 
among the most conspicuous defenders of the 
state during the invasion of the British in 1814. 

'The enactment against writings was in- 
tended to be enforced against the only liberal 
paper in New-Orleans, 'Le Liberal,' which 
occasionally inserted articles favorable to the 
black population. 

'The publication of newspapers is not a 
thriving speculation in the despotic states of 
the Union. I view South Carolina, Georgia, 
and Louisiana decidedly in that light, because 
in those states the liberty of the press is de- 
nied altogether to the colored, and, in a very 
considerable degree, to the white population. 
Compare the increase of newspapers in some 
of the free states with their present condition 
in the three slaveholding states to which I 
have alluded, and the result will go far to es- 
tablish my proposition. Sixty-six newspapers 
were published in the State of New- York in 
the year 1810 : 211 are now published. Sev- 
enty-one newspapers were published in Penn- 
sylvania in 1810: 185 are now published. 
Fourteen newspapers were published in Ohio 
in 1810 : sixty-six are now published. But in 
South Carolina ten newspapers were publish- 
ed in 1810, and only sixteen now. Thirteen 
newspapers were published in Georgia in 
1810. and only the same number now. Ten 



newspapers were published in Louisiana in 
1810, and now only nine are published. Lou- 
isiana is the only state in which the number 
of newspapers has decreased during the last 
twenty years, and yet during that period the 
population has increased from 20,845 to 215,- 
272, so that while the population is nine [ten] 
times as great as in 1810, the effect of arbitrary 
laws has been to render the number of news- 
papers less for 215.000 inhabitants than for 
20,000.— Vol. ii. pp. 132, 133, 134, 135. 

' Every thing I saw in my perambulations 
and rides in the neighborhood of New-Orleans 
confirmed me in the belief that the slaves, es- 
pecially the females, are in general cruelly 
treated in respect to the tasks allotted to them, 
and the stripes and degradation to which they 
are subjected. In this warm climate they sel- 
dom complain of want of clothing. In most 
cases it is not so much with the quantity, as 
with the quality, of their food that they find 
fault.'— Vol. ii. p. 138. 



PROFESSOR WRIGHT. 

The abolitionists in Boston have been re- 
cently favored by a visit from Professor Wright 
of the Western Reserve College. During* 
his stay in this place, he delivered several lec- 
tures on the subject of slavery, to crowded 
auditories. We have every reason to believe 
that these powerful and eloquent addresses 
produced a very favorable impression for the 
cause which he espoused. 

Mr. Wright also had two public discussions 
with Robert. S. Finley, Esq. the champion of 
Colonization Society. The first was held at 
Park-street Church on Thursday, May 30, on 
the following propositions, maintained by Pro- 
fessor Wright, and denied by Mr. Finley. 

I. The operations and publications of the American 
Colonization Society tend to increase the prejudice al- 
seady existing against the people of color. 

II. The influence of the colony, as it is at present 
managed, is injurious to Africa. 

The second discussion was held in Bowdoin 
Street Church, on Friday, May 31, on the fol- 
lowing propositions, of which Mr. Wright sup- 
ported the affirmative, and Mr. Finley the neg- 
ative. 

I. The operations and publications of tne Society 
tend to perpetuate slavery. 

II. The only hope of abolishing slavery lies in pro- 
mulgating thedoctrine of immediate EMANCIPATION. 

Both discussions were very animated and 
were listened to with deep interest. Mr. 
Wright spoke with great earnestness and 
maintained his positions by close and logical 
arguments. Mr. Finley, on the other hand, as 
we have been informed, for we had only an 
opportunity of hearing a small part of these 



The American Colonization Society. 



101 



discussions, contented himself, for the most | 
part, with saying such things as would make 
an agreeable impression on the audience, with- 
out caring to defend the points which had 
been assailed by his adversary. Mr. Finley 
is apparently a practised speaker. His man- 
ner is fluent and familiar, and well calculated 
to interest a general audience. 

The advocates of both parties, in these dis- 
cussions, we believe claim the victory, for 
their respective champions. But the friends 
of slavery and colonization, can hardly deny 
that some of the most weighty arguments ad- 
vanced by Mr. Wright, were left unanswer- 
ed by Mr. Finley. 



THE AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 

(Concluded.) 

We affirm that our statement of the proba- 
ble cost of transportation was not, as our 
friend asserts ' flagrantly ex parte and extrava- 
gant.' We did not borrow from Mr. Taze- 
well's report, or adopt his views. This gen- 
tleman may or may not be opposed to coloni- 
zation — but what matters it, if his logic be 
correct, whether he be friend or foe ? Truth 
is not less truth, because it is told by an ene- 
my. However, we did not reckon from his 
data, but from those of the Repository. We 
made our calculation, and stated a much 
smaller result than Mr. Tazewell did. We 
said that colonization would cost fifty-four 
dollars a man and the Repository confirms it. 
Mr. Tazewell says it will cost a hundred dol- 
lars a man. We quoted Mr. Tazewell's re- 
port, merely to show that our estimate was not 
extravagant, and this our moderation, the wri- 
ter perverts and casts at us as a reproach. We 
say again, what we proved in our former ar- 
ticle, that the Colonization Society has re- 
peatedly held up the deportation of slaves as 
an inducement to add to their funds, and this 
being a fact, it is fair to cast the market price 
of the slaves into the estimate, for the expe- 
rience of the Society has shewn exclusively 
that very little is to be hoped from the liber- 
ality of the masters. We have given our au- 
thority, which is the official organ of the So- 
ciety, and not Mr. Tazewell, and if the result 
of our calculation does not please our friend, 
he ought to complain of the Repository only. 

'He divides the whole income of the Soci- 
ety up to 1831, $145,000, by the number of 
emigrants carried over, 2,500 : and so makes 
it as clear as a sum in simple division, that 
each man has cost over fifty dollars. This is 
calculation again with a vengeance. It estab- 
lishes-^-what? — the cost of individual trans- 
portation at this time ? By no means. &c. &c.' 

It is, indeed, calculation with a vengeance, 
for neither our friend nor the Colonization So- 
ciety will ever be able to get over it. It is 



this, probably, which makes him so angry and 
abusive. What would he have clearer? 
What! shall we say that indivividuals trans- 
ported cost the people of the United States 
no more than their passage money ? Shall 
we not cast into the account the sums paid 
for territory, for rum and gunpowder, to civil- 
ize the natives, the salaries of we know not 
how many agents and sub-agents, the pittance 
of scribblers who puff the Society in maga- 
zines and newspapers, the cost of transporting 
many emigrants to the sea board, and the aid 
they receive after they land in Liberia ? This 
would be, to use our candid friend's own 
words, calculation with a vengeance. We 
suppose we shall be told next, that a company 
on the peace establishment (of 50 men) costs 
but $250 a month. Surely, — they receive but 
five dollars each. The pay of the officers, the 
cost of clothing, arms, equipments, ammuni- 
tion, rations and barracks, ought doubtless to 
be left out of the estimate. 

We can assure the writer that when the 
people shall know that they have expended 
$145,000 to export free blacks, and that but 
2500 have been exported, all his logic will 
not persuade them that they have not paid over 
fifty dollars a head—a great deal too dear for the 
whistle. As such has been the aggregate re- 
sult of many years' experience, we think it 
is not very likely that the price of the coloni- 
zation of a free christian black man will ever 
materially diminish. We have neither time 
nor inclination to follow our friend through 
the former fluctuations of the market, nor is it 
at all essential. We have proved all we un- 
dertook to prove, and that is enough for our 
humble ambition. As to what is said of the 
probability that the emigrants will one day de- 
fray their own expenses, it is mere specula- 
tion, and we decline to notice it farther. 

We doubt not that there are more colored 
persons willing to emigrate than the Coloni- 
zation Society have means to transport, — but 
not from any part of the Union where they 
have freedom of choice. The Society cannot 
get a man from Massachusetts. Doubtless, in 
States whence free men are forbidden to em- 
igrate on pain of being sold into perpetual 
slavery, where they may be apprehended on 
the mere suspicion of any white vagrant, and 
sold to pay their jail fees, there must be many 
who are willing to leave a land where there is 
neither peace nor justice for them. These, 
we suppose, are the numerous applicants of 
whom our friend speaks. We think an apol- 
ogist for the Colonization Society ought to be 
ashamed to avow the fact, since he must at 
the same time acknowledge that if the insti- 
tution does not use compulsion itself, it abets 
the compulsion of others. Perhaps, too, we 
might say that the oppressive laws to which 
we have alluded would never have been made 
but for the influence of the Colonization Soci- 
ety. Such is the presumption, we may say,, 



102 



The American Colonization Society. 



the conviction of many solid persons. Our 
people, said the committee of the Maryland 
Legislature (in substance) shall not emanci- 
pate unless they colonize also. Directly after, 
a law was passed, which operates so hardly 
on the free colored people, that it seems to 
have been intended to drive them into the 
arms of the Colonization Society. 

The Society has abolished the slave trade, 
says our friend, along two hundred and eighty 
miles of sea coast, whence 5,000 slaves were 
formerly taken annually. What then — the 
slaves are still sold, though in another market. 
We shewed in our first paper that the Socie- 
ty admit that the slave trade has increased 
constantly ever since they have been in oper- 
ation. After this, what need to speak of abol- 
ishing the trade by the ministry of the Socie- 
ty ? We shall here add the opinion of Capt. 
Morrell, a recent voyager on the coast of Af- 
rica, which is all that need farther be said on 
the subject. 

'How,' says this very intelligent writer, 'is 
this horrible traffic to be finally and totally 
abolished. The root, the source, the foun- 
dation of this evil is in the ignorance and su- 
perstition of the negroes themselves. How- 
ever severe the edicts which nations may pass 
against the slave trade, they will never deter 
from engaging in it a certain class of reckless 
adventurers which are found in every coun- 
try ; whose motto is ' neck or nothing.' They 
.are willing to run the risk of dying the death 
,of pirates in consideration of the immense 
emolument which attends the successful issue 
of the perilous enterprise. Like every species 
of smuggled goods, slaves will always find a 
ready market, and a price proportionably high 
•to the hazard of introducing them : and so 
long as a door remains open for disposing of 
human beings, the progress of reform in this 
•particular will be very slow. It is of but little 
use to block up the mouth of the Senegal or any 
other river in Africa tohile the ivhole extent of 
coast remains open and may be landed on at 
different seasons of the year. Afothing but a 
total, unqualified prohibition of this soul-debas- 
ing traffic by every nower in both hemispheres, 
particularly by those of South America can af- 
ford any rational hove of its final abolition.' 1 

Capta'n Morrell does, indeed, speak favora- 
bly of Liberia and the Colonization Societv a 
little after, but as what he says is avowedly 
taken from a newsnaper extract, it cannot be 
considered an offset against his own opinion 
just above expressed. 

Our friend goes on to show that the main 
object of the Society is as he states by ex- 
tracts from certain speeches and letters, 
which go to shew that some good has been 
done and that the removal of our entire color- 
ed population is not contemplated. It seem'' 
to us singular, however, that he should avail 
himself of a kind of evidence which he will not 
permit us to use. When toe quote the works 



of any eminent colonizationist as explanatory 
of the views of the Society, they only express 
the opinions of an individual ; but when he 
thinks fit to quote Mr Blackford's speech and 
Mr Early's letter, it is ' to shew that he has 
not mistaken his own principles for the Soci- 
ety's. He ought to remember that what is sauce 
for goose is sauce for gander ; that what is 
not sufficient evidence for us is not sufficient 
evidence for him. We think this unfair prac- 
tice, though Ave do not impute an unfair inten- 
tion to him. Moreover, Mr Blackford is not 
even a member of the Colonization Society. 
We know not who Mr Early is. 

We never imputed to all auxiliary societies 
the principles of the parent Society, and we 
believe we have never quoted any thing 
against the parent Society, which was not ex- 
pressed by some of its members. If the Aux- 
iliary Society of Fredericksburg do not aim at 
the removal of the entire colored population, 
it is to their credit, and proves that they may 
justly claim an intellectual superiority to the 
mother institution. 

The last of the extracts is an avowal by the 
National Society that they had done ' all that 
could reasonably be expected to be done by 
their instrumentality.' We verily believe it. 
They have done all that could reasonably have 
been expected of persons of their principles ; 
but not all they contemplated or had repeat- 
edly held up to the people as their design. 

The writer shews, plainly, that the Coloni- 
zation Society is opposed to slavery in the ab- 
stract. They say, as we never denied, that 
slavery is an evil, and that something ought 
to be done, in a hundred places. But they do 
not say what shall be done. They say that 
the question ought not to be agitated, that 
they have no design to interfere with the 
rights of slave owners to their property, that 
'emancipation without emigration is dreamy 
madness.' We shewed in our former paper 
that they do unequivocally, in the most expli- 
cit terms, express their disapprobation of 
emancipation on any terms but emigration, 
and of all efforts to remove what they ac- 
knowledge to be a national curse. They nev- 
er let slip an opportunity to abuse those who 
think that the subject should be agitated, and 
that speedier means than theirs should be em- 
ployed. We have studied their documents 
very attentively, and this seems to us to be 
the synopsis of their doctrine. ' Slavery is a 
great evil and a fruitful source of crime and 
oppression. But it would be criminal to at- 
tempt to remove it. It is a crime in one man 
to keep another in bondage. But by ceasing 
to sin, he would sin yet more. Circumstances 
have made that which is essentially criminal 
and vile, innocent and praiseworthy.' 

If these are not the views of the Society 
we are unable to comprehend our mother 
tongue. Else why so many expressions of 
disapprobation of slavery and of all attempts 



The American Colonization Society. 



J 03 



to remove it as are found in all the matter 
they have printed. The Society blows hot 
and cold upon the idea of emancipation in the 
same breath, but unless we are greatly mis- 
taken, the cold greatly exceeds and prevails. 

Alter all, the difference of opinion on this 
subject between colonizationists and abolition- 
ists (among which last we are proud to be 
ranked) may be summed up in a few words. 
The former look on the slaves as property ; 
we look upon them as men. They consider 
only the rights of the masters ; we have re- 
gard to the rights of both masters and slaves. 
This is the true distinction in this matter, and 
we should be sorry and ashamed if there were 
not many more points of difference. 

We said that the Colonization Society hab- 
itually vilify the free blacks, and gave what 
we thought and think sufficient proof of the 
charge. Our friend denies it, saying that the 
Society was and still is a charitable institu- 
tion, whose prime object was the benefit of 
the free blacks. At the same time he says 
that the Society 'have not scrupled to de- 
scribe the situation of that class in this coun- 
try in its true light.' We deny that the So- 
ciety do describe that class in its true light, 
and whether it does or not, we say that our 
friend knows nothing of the matter. We be- 
lieve that he is not acquainted personally with 
any negro in the world. How then does he 
pretend to know the moral condition of the 
whole class ? We are better informed in this 
particular. We know a great many blacks, 
and consequently esteem many of them. If 
our friend will take one of our arms, highly as 
we esteem him, we will give the other to one 
out of many of our colored friends, and walk 
through Washington-street between them, 
feeling equally honored with the company of 
each. 

If the object of the Colonization Society 
be, as our friend states, for the benefit of the 
free blacks, it seems to us that these last 
should by this time have discovered and ap- 
preciated the benevolence of the Society. It 
is not so however. They consider themselves 
wronged, oppressed and insulted by it, and 
detest its very name. The name of a coloni- 
zationist is to them as that of Benedict Arnold 
is to their white brethren. They never go to 
the Colonization Society for advice regarding 
their affairs, they never ask them for the 
means of instructing their children in letters 
and the mechanic arts ; on the contrary, they 
avoid them as they would a pestilence. They 
apply, on occasion, to the abolitionists. Dogs 
have the faculty of discovering their friends 
and enemies. Have the colored race less in- 
telligence than dogs ? 

The writer admits, and we thank him for 
the admission, that the blacks themselves 
ought to be the judges of the colonization pro- 
ject. ' Let the blacks decide the matter for 
themselves. If they can be comfortable here, 



or think they can, let them remain, and God 
help them to be so.' With this sentiment at 
heart our friend should never have written a 
syllable on the Colonization Society. The 
blacks have decided on the question unequiv- 
ocally. Their opinion, as expressed by their 
representatives, is, that those who consent to 
be colonized, are ' enemies and traitors.' We 
are aware that our writer affirms that this is 
but the sentiment of a party ; but can he 
shew any proof that there is a party any 
where among the free blacks who hold a con- 
trary opinion ? He cannot. There is no such 
party in any place where freedom of choice is 
permitted. Let the blacks themselves be the 
judges, with all my heart. But let their judg- 
ment be free. Where they are liable to be 
apprehended on the suspicion of the lowest 
vagabond and sold into slavery, where they 
are banished at a month's warning from their 
homes, where their lives are rendered insup- 
portable by the colonization and nullification 
spirits, it cannot be said that they are free 
agents, and the fact, that a thousand poor, 
persecuted colored people have been compell- 
ed to be willing to emigrate, is no proof that 
any, even the most inconsiderable portion of 
the colored population approve the principles 
of the Colonization Society. 

One more point of our friend's argument re- 
mains to be noticed. He treats the idea that 
his beloved institution holds up contrary mo- 
tives to the south and north in the same or- 
gans, as supremely ridiculous. We cannot 
see it in the same light. When the idea of 
the ultimate termination of African slavery is 
held up by the Society as a motive to contrib- 
ute to their funds, is not this argument evi- 
dently addressed to the north ? Would such 
discourse (alone, without qualification) be pal- 
atable to the south ? When the Society prom- 
ise to secure the tenure of property by remov- 
ing the free blacks, is it to the north that they 
address themselves ? Surely the two promis- 
es do not coincide with each other. It is the- 
Society, and not us, whom our friend ought to 
blame for this inconsistency, which, we take 
it, is indicative of a mean, shuffling policy, 
which dares to take no decided stand, and 
which, we trust, will never be imitated by the 
abolitionists. 

In answer to all the sneers cast by our 
friend at the abolitionists, Ave say that we took 
the field one year only since, twelve in num- 
ber, with a ' quaker and hatter ' at our head. 
We are now a thousand, and every day brings 
recruits to our ranks. The Colonization So- 
ciety is the main obstacle in our way, and its 
course, we think, is and must be henceforth 
downwards. We found the Leviathan wel- 
tering in the sea of popularity, unconscious of 
a foe, and despising him when he appeared. 
We roused him from his torpor, and compelled 
him to give proof of vitality. We have fixed 
the harpoon, and the monster begins to blow 



104 



Slavery in Pennsylvania. 



and bellow. We are now pulling upon the 
line, and we shall soon, we trust, come to lanc- 
ing. Above all, we have planted the banner 
of Freedom to Mankind. Pluck it up who 
can. 

To conclude ; for we are in truth very 
weary of trying to extract argument out of 
that which contains none — our friend has not 
disproved one of our positions by logical de- 
duction. He has given us an exposition of the 
views of the Colonization Society, drawn, not 
from facts or past experience, but from the 
stores of his own invention. It is perfectly 
evident to us that he has not studied the sub- 
ject, for he has given us his own crude specu- 
lations instead of the truth. Were the Colo- 
nization Society what he imagines it to be 
and no more, we would join it to-morrow ; but 
we know and have proved it to be a different 
thing. When our friend can meet us fairly, 
we shall ever be ready to splinter a lance with 
him, but if he does not come into the lists bet- 
ter armed, we shall henceforth think it beneath 
our magnanimity to contend with one so ill 
prepared. His views, if we understand them 
right, are based not on what the Colonization 
Society is and has been, but on what it may 
be henceforth. It may, he says, rid the coun- 
try of the blacks, it may extinguish the system 
of slavery, it may give the slave taade a death 
blow, and it may convert and civilize Africa. 
Ay, it may — and the sky may fall, and we may 
catch larks. The one proposition is as well 
supported by experience and analogy as the 
other. 



SLAVERY IN PENNSYLVANIA. 

The friends of freedom were somewhat 
surprised and mortified, at seeing in the Cen- 
sus of 1830, the number of slaves belonging to 
Pennsylvania set down at 386, when the Cen- 
sus of 1820, had only shown 211 in the State. 
This unexpected result very properly excited 
the attention of the State ; and at the last ses- 
sion ofthe legislature a committee was appoint- 
ed in the Senate to investigate the cause of 
this apparent increase. Mr. Breck, from the 
committee, made a report in which the subject 
is very fully and satisfactorily examined. 

His report states that a law was passed in 
1780, enacting ' that all persons, as well ne- 
groes and mulattoes as others, who shall be 
born within this state from and after the first 
day of March, 1780, shall not be deemed and 
considered as servants for life, or slaves ; and 
that all servitude for life, or slavery of children 
in consequence of the slavery of their mothers, 
in the case of all children born within this 
state from and after the passing of this act, 
shall be, and hereby is, utterly taken away, 



extinguished, and forever abolished ; that eve- 
ry negro and mulatto child, born within this 
state after the passing of this act as aforesaid, 
shall be deemed to be, and shall be, by virtue 
of this act, the servant of such person, or his 
or her assigns, who would, in such case, have 
been entitled to the service of such child, un- 
til such child shall attain unto the age of twen- 
ty-eight years.' 

The report then proceeds. 

' In consequence of this provision for their 
gradual emancipation, we do not find, by the 
census of 1820, (forty years after the date of 
the act,) any person reported to be held in 
bondage in this commonwealth, under twenty- 
six, and few under forty-five years of age ; 
and all those who take an interest in the ex- 
tinguishment of slavery here, very naturally 
looked to the census of 1830, as the epoch 
that was to put a period, or nearly so, to that 
unhappy state of things amongst our colored 
population. What, then, must have been their 
astonishment, when the tables ofthe marshals 
of the two districts exhibited an increase, from 
211 individuals returned in 1820, to 386 re- 
turned in 1830 ! scattered, too, over twenty- 
seven counties, and of ages under twenty-six, 
and even under ten ! By what process was 
this brought about ? Unless founded in error, 
it was manifestly a gross violation of the 
statute of 1780. It is the principal duty of 
your committee to explain this ; and in endea- 
voring to do so, it will be necessary to advert 
to a misconstruction of that law in Washing- 
ton and other counties, by which the child of 
a servant, until the age of twenty-eight years, 
was held to servitude for the same period, and 
on the same conditions as its mother, who was 
the daughter of a registered slave. This error 
was practised upon up to the year 1826, and 
was the means of wrongfully keeping in bond- 
age many individuals, for several years beyond 
the legal period. At length the Supreme 
court settled the point definitely, at Pittsburg, 
on the 26th September, 1826, in the case of 
Miller v. Dwilling, and decided that no child 
can be held to servitude till the age of twenty- 
eight years, but one whose mother was a ser- 
vant for life, or a slave at the time of its birth. 

There cannot now, then, be any pretence 
for keeping children, born in this common- 
wealth, at service beyond the age of twenty- 
eight, nor would any such have appeared in 
the columns ofthe census of 1830, had not the 
two marshals, by their injudicious instructions 
to their deputies, directed them to enter as 
slaves, all colored people of both sexes, who 
were held to service for limited periods. These 
deputies, as is apparent on the face of their 
reports, have strictly followed those instruc- 
tions, and returned as slaves, even children 
under ten years of age, who could not legally 
be held to service under 21. As well might 



Slavery in Pennsylvania. 



105 



those officers have directed their assistants to 
register as slaves, all white children appren- 
ticed to trades. 

This irregularity on the part of the two of- 
ficers, has been the cause of reporting in 27 
counties : 

53 Children under 10 years, 
192 Individuals, aged from 10 to 24, 
45 do from 24 to 36, 

29 do from 36 to 55, 

319 

Making an aggregate of 319, of whom only 
a very few of the last class could possibly be 
legally held as slaves ; because the law of 
March, 1780, which declares all the children 
of slaves born in this commonwealth, after 
that date, free at twenty-eight, could not allow 
any person under fifty years of age to be held 
in slavery in 1830. So that very few of the 
class between thirty-six and fifty-five, which, 
in that year, contained only twenty-nine indi- 
viduals, could then be legally held in bondage. 
The gradual decrease, at the four first pe- 
riods at which the people of this nation were 
numbered, shows that no such ill-judged in- 
structions were then issued by the marshals to 
their deputies ; for, 

In 1790 3737 slaves are returned, 
" 1800 1706 " " 

" 1810 795 " " 

" 1820 211 " « 

and had not this palpable mistake been com- 
mitted in 1830, by which the return is increas- 
ed one hundred and seventy -five in ten years, 
we should have had for the true number, sixty- 
seven, instead of three hundred and eighty- 
six ; for these sixty-seven constitute the dif- 
ference between the whole number returned 
in the census, and the number reported under 
fifty-years of age. And this we find confirm- 
ed by the return made in the septennial state 
census, in 1828, when the official computation 
was only seventy-six. 

Your committee may, therefore, safely say, 
that, at this day, being nearly three years after 
the national census was taken, there cannot 
be more than sixty persons held as slaves in 
the whole commonwealth. 

But are there not many colored individuals, 
not born in Pennsylvania, and not of right 
classed as slaves, who are held to service for 
limited periods, even after the age of twenty- 
eight ? In answer to the question, your com- 
mittee will state such facts as have been com- 
municated to them by persons well acquainted 
with the subject. 

Negroes of all ages are brought, in consid- 
erable numbers, into the southwestern coun- 
ties, bordering on Virginia, and emancipated 
on condition of serving a certain number of 
years, seldom exceeding seven, unless they 
happen to be mere children. About half the 
usual price of a slave is paid for this limited 

VOL. I. 



assignment ; at the expiration of which, the 
individual obtains entire freedom, both for 
himself, and such of his children as may be 
born in Pennsylvania. 

In this manner, many colored people, of 
both sexes, are sent from the adjoining slave- 
holding states, particularly from the state of 
Delaware, and manumitted in this common- 
wealth. Deprived of this privilege, so advan- 
tageous, both to the benevolent master, and 
unhappy bondsman, what alternative remains 
for the poor slave ? None other than endless 
servitude, either in the place of his nativity, or 
among the cotton and sugar plantations of the 
south. Endless servitude, not only for him- 
self, but for his children, from generation to' 
generation. 

Asa proof that Delaware, and even Mary- 
land, send their slaves here, it may be stated, 
that in Delaware, the number of slaves has 
decreased in the last ten years, 1204, and in 
Maryland, 4520. 

Nevertheless, a doubt has arisen, whether 
it be proper to allow this state of things to 
continue, or to provide by law against the in- 
troduction amongst us of that species of popu- 
lation. 

On this subject, your committee beg to re- 
mark, that by the last census, our colored in- 
habitants amounted to about 36,000 ; of which, 
30,000 inhabit the eastern district, and only 
6,000 the western ; and this number, so small, 
compared to the white population, is scattered 
among fifteen hundred thousand of our own 
color ; making one colored individual to forty- 
two white. So few of these, it is believed, by 
your committee, need not at present be an ob- 
ject of uneasiness, and would not seem to re- 
quire the enactment of any restrictive laws ; 
more especially as they are, for the greater 
part, industrious, peaceable, and useful people. 
It is enough for us to take care that the chil- 
dren born in our own commonwealth be pro- 
tected against involuntary service, after the 
age of twenty-one, without preventing the 
humane or interested owners of slaves, born 
elsewhere, from manumitting them on our soil ; 
and thus, after a short service, giving liberty 
to themselves, and those of their children who' 
may be born among us ; and who, did not their 
masters possess this facility, would be held, 
they and their unhappy offspring in perpetual 
slavery. 

Such a course, then, as would shut the door 
of philanthropic Pennsylvania to those who,, 
from motives of humanity or interest, may 
wish to grant manumission to their slaves, 
could not but be repugnant to the feelings of 
every citizen within our borders. Believing 
this, your committee cannot recommend, for 
the adoption of the Senate, any measure that 
may tend to disturb the present usage, or that 
shall deprive a negro or mulatto, born a slave 
out of Pennsylvania, of a chance of obtaining 
his liberty by a commutation of his personal: 
14 



106 



British Opinions of the American Colonization Society. 



services during a brief period in this common- 
wealth, for those of perpetual bondage else- 
where. 

In drawing up this report, our object has 
been principally directed to the means neces- 
sary for an explanation of the causes which 
led to the erroneous returns of the marshals; 
and we have, in making the investigation, as- 
certained them to be, as we think, such as are 
set forth in the preceding pages, and which 
we will, in conclusion, briefly recapitulate. 

First — The illegal manner in which the 
grand children of the registered slaves of 
1780, were held to service for twenty-eight 
years, in some parts of Pennsylvania, until the 
decision of the Supreme court put a stop to it 
in 1826. 

Secondly — The practice, along our southern 
borders, of buying slaves born out of the state, 
from persons who manumit them in Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Thirdly — The mode in which the census 
was taken, and which classes as slaves, chil- 
dren and others who are only held to service 
for a comparatively short period ; after which 
they and their offspring born in this state, be- 
come free forever. 

It will be gratifying to your committee, if 
they shall have been at all instrumental in re- 
moving the imputation to which Pennsylvama 
seemed obnoxious, by the official act of the 
two marshals, and thus exonerate her from the 
stigma of fostering in her bosom, as it would 
appear by the census, a nursery of slaves. It 
is an opprobrium that nearly affects the char- 
acter of the state, and is not the less injurious, 
because it is undeserved. The honor of our 
citizens, collectively and individually, is con- 
cerned in having it wiped away ; and your 
committee flatter themselves, that by adopting 
this their investigation, which they respect- 
fully, and with great dejerence, submit to the 
Senate, an official denial of the imputation 
may be considered as flowing from that act of 
approval and adoption. 

The humane and liberal feeling exhibited 
in this report is highly creditable to the state of 
Pennsylvania. It presents a remarkable con- 
trast to the proceedings of the Connecticut 
legislature which Ave have just noticed. It is 
gratifying to find one State which is not un- 
willing to afford an asylum to the oppressed, 
-—one State which does not blindly adopt the 
common cant of southern feeling and southern 
prejudice. We recommend the statesman- 
like views of the imagined danger to Penn- 
sylvania from the influx of colored people, to 
the consideration of these Connecticut wise- 
acres, who foresee the impending ruin of their 
State in the establishment of a school for col- 
ored females. 



BRITISH OPINIONS OF THE AMERICAN 
COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 

A little pamphlet with the above title has 
just been published by Messrs. Garrison &. 
Knapp. The character of the publication may 
be judged of from the following advertisement 
which is prefixed to it. 

' During the past year the character of the 
American Colonization Society has been a 
subject of frequent discussion. The interest 
taken in the question has created a great de- 
mand for publications in relation to it. As a 
proof of this, it may be mentioned that a large 
edition of ' Garrison's Thoughts on Coloniza- 
tion] 2750 copies, was disposed of in the course 
of nine months. 

The interest in the subject has not in any 
degree abated at the present time. And those 
who are opposed to the Society have for a 
long time felt the want of some tract, in which 
the arguments against the institution should 
be presented in a form sufficiently cheap to 
fit it for general circulation. To supply this 
want is the object of the present publication. 
A number of pieces have lately appeared in 
Great Britain in which the pretensions of the 
Colonization Society are discussed with great 
candor and ability. The whole of one pamph- 
let on this subject and parts of others are em- 
braced in the following pages. 

Much has been recently written in this 
country as well as Great Britain, in relation 
to the Colonization Society, and with great 
ability. We have chosen to confine our re- 
publication to British articles, for several rea- 
sons. First, the British pieces have not, and 
cannot, without re-publication, enjoy so great 
a circulation among us as the American have 
already done : and secondly, the Englishmen 
who write upon this subject, are at a distance 
from the sources of American prejudices j 
their opinions, therefore, deserve respect as 
those of impartial spectators. 

We do not offer any remarks in favor of the 
articles contained in this pamphlet. They 
will recommend themselves to all who will 
read them. 

The articles now offered to the American 
public are as follow : 

1. The whole of a pamphlet with the follow- 
ing title, ' A Letter to Thomas Clarkson by 
James Cropper ; and Prejudice Vincible, or the 
practicability of conquering Prejudice by better 
means than by Slavery and Exile ; in relation 
to the American Colonization Society. By C. 
Stuart.' 

2. Extracts from a pamphlet entitled, 'Facts 
designed to exhibit the real character and ten- 
dency of the American Colonization Society. 
By Clericus.' 

3. Extracts from the Anti-Slaverif Reporter. 

4. Extract from the Liverjwol Mercury.'' 



^Colored People in Philadelphia. — Molition of Slavery in the British Colonies. 107 



We heartily recommend this pamphlet to 
•all who are desirous of judging fairly of the 
American Colonization Society. 

This tract is published cheap for the purpose 



cing some of the most distinguished members 
of the House. 

The committee, as we learn from the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, commenced its sittings on 



[From the Genius of Universal Emancipation.] 
COLORED PEOPLE IN PHILADELPHIA. 

'The colored population of Philadelphia 
have, for a few years past, progressed in the 
melioration of their moral and physical condi- 
tion with a rapidity which cannot but be grat- 
ifying to the philanthropic. Several libraries 
have been established, reading rooms opened, 
and debating societies organized. We have 
been informed by a gentleman present at the 
regular meeting of one of their debating clubs, 
that the discussions were conducted with a 
degree of spirit and propriety, and displayed 
a cogency and acuteness of reasoning and an 
elevation and elegance of language for which 
he was little prepared. The subjects of dis- 
cussion generally relate to their own rights 
and interests, and frequently result in decis- 
ions from which the prejudiced mind of the 
white man would startle with apprehension. 
A change is rapidly coming over this people. 
They are now numerous, united, and bitterly 
conscious of their degradation and their pow- 
er. To this let the pride, the independence, 
and ambition which science ever imparts, be 
added, and the consequences, though beyond 
the reach of conjecture, would doubtless be 
such as to involve the character and condition 
of the whole country.' 



of general circulation, being sold at 10 cents the 6th of June, and closed them on the 11th 
single, and $5 a hundred. of August, on which day they made a report 

to the House, embracing the minutes of the 
evidence taken before them. These minutes 
extend to 655 closely printed folio pages, and 
are contained in a volume which was ordered 
to be printed, August 11, 1832. 

The account of this interesting report, will 
be borrowed entirely from the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, for we have not seen the report it- 
self. 

In their report the Committee say. 

' In the consideration of a question involving 
so many difficulties of a conflicting nature, and 
branching into subjects so various and com- 
plicated, it appeared necessary to your Com- 
mittee, by agreement, to limit their direct 
enquiries to certain heads. 

'It was therefore settled that two main 
points arising out of the terms of reference 
should be first investigated, and these were 
embraced in the two following propositions : — 

' 1st. That the slaves, if emancipated, would 
maintain themselves, would be industrious, 
and disposed to acquire property by labor. 

'2d. That the dangers of convulsion are 
greater from freedom withheld, than from 
freedom granted to the slaves. 

' Evidence was first called to prove the affir- 
mative of these propositions, and had been 
carried on, in this direction, to a considerable 
extent ; and was not exhausted, when it was 
evident the session was drawing to a close ; 
and that this most important and extensive 
enquiry could not be satisfactorily finished. 
At the same time your Committee was unwil- 
ling to take an ex parte view of the case. It 
was therefore decided to let in evidence of an 
opposite nature, intended to disprove the two 
propositions, and to rebut the testimony ad- 
duced in their support. Even this limited ex- 
amination has not been fully accomplished, 
and your Committee is compelled to close its 
labors in an abrupt and unfinished state.' 

'On the affirmative side of the question, as 
to the expediency of an immediate or early 
extinction of slavery,' we learn from the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, that twelve witnesses were 
examined, and on the other side twenty-one. 

The Anti-Slavery Reporter says, 

' It will appear from the report of the Com- 
mittee that the main points of their enquiry 
were embraced by the two following proposi- 
tions, including, in fact, all that Mr. Buxton, 
in moving for that Committee, had pledged 
himself, or even thought it necessary to at- 
tempt to prove, viz : — 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE BRITISH 
COLONIES. 

Mutato nomine de te narralur. 

It has for some time past been obvious to 
all careful observers, that British Colonial 
Slavery was rapidly approaching its termina- 
tion. Every day's intelligence received from 
Britain affords fresh proof that Parliament will 
soon adopt some decisive measure in relation 
to this great subject. 

On the 24th of May, 1832, a select commit- 
tee of the House of Commons was 'appointed 
to consider and report upon the measures 
which it might be expedient to adopt for the 
purpose of effecting the extinction of slavery 
throughout the British Dominions at the ear- 
liest period compatible with the safety of all 
classes in the colonies, and in conformity with 
the resolutions of this House, of the 15th of 
May, 1823.' 

In pursuance of this resolution, a committee 
•of twenty-five persons was appointed, embra- 



108 



Abolition of Slavery in the British Colonies. 



*1. That the slaves, if emancipated, 
WILL adequately maintain themselves 
by their own labor ; and 2nd. That the 
danger of withholding freedom from 
the slaves is greater than that of 
granting it. 

' These two propositions, we conceive, the 
evidence before us has most irrefragably and 
triumphantly established; and the controversy, 
therefore, as respects the expediency of an 
early emancipation, may be considered as de- 
cided. The justice and humanity of such a 
measure has long ceased to be a question.' 

We shall extract some of the evidence as 
it appears in the Reporter. The following 
passages are from the evidence of Wm. Tay- 
lor, Esq., a gentleman who had resided 13 
years in Jamaica. 

* The younger Negroes on Mr. Wildman's 
estates had never received any instruction 
prior to his visiting Jamaica for the first time 
in 1826. This was done in consequence of 
the express injunctions of Mr. Wildman him- 
self. The adults now receive no education 
whatever. As to the capacity of the slaves 
for receiving instruction, they were much like 
other human beings ; some were apt, and oth- 
ers very stupid, and some remarkably acute. 
He could not say they were equally apt with 
the Scottish peasantry ; but their circumstances 
were disadvantageous in a peculiar degree, 
and in spite of these he had seen, in a multi- 
tude of instances, a wonderful aptness for in- 
struction. There appeared in them np natural 
incapacity whatever for instruction. He had 
been struck with the retentiveness and mi- 
nuteness of their memories, and especially in 
the children. 

' With respect to the provident or improvi- 
dent use of money, he thought them pretty 
much like the peasantry of other countries, 
but considerably less given to intoxication 
than the peasantry of Scotland, and infinitely 
less than the soldiery who go out to the colo- 
nies, the mortality among whom is attributed 
to their fondness for spirits. There were on 
the estates some Negroes who would not touch 
spirits, while others were incorrigible drunk- 
ards. Any money he paid the Negroes at any 
time for wao-es was generally expended in the 
purchase of food.' 

' He had never known an instance of a free 
black taking the hoe, and working in the field 
with the gang, or in the boiling house ; but he 
had known slaves to work for wages in their 
extra time on sugar estates. Soon after he 
took charge of Papine, a long line of fence 
was to be made between that and the Duke 
of Buckingham's estate, formed by a trench of 
four feet deep, with a mound thrown up. It 
is usual to do such labor by task work, at so 
many feet a day. The laborers complained 
that they could not perform it in the usual 



hours of labor. The overseer on the other 
hand affirmed that they were imposing upon 
me, and it was solely owing to sloth that they 
did not easily get through their task. The 
overseer wished of course to get as much work 
as he could, and they had naturally an indis- 
position to do more than they could help. They 
were told to resume their work the following 
morning, and, if they performed it within the 
time, they should be paid for every minute's 
or hour's additional work they might perform. 
They began the task at five in the morning, 
and had finished it by half-past one, and the 
very slaves who had before complained, re- 
ceived pay for four hours' extra labor.' 

' Mr. Taylor, being asked whether the stim- 
ulus of the whip, at present the only stimulus, 
being withdrawn, and the Negro made free, 
he thought he would be likely to work indus- 
triously for adequate wages, replied that, if 
the Negro is placed in a situation where he 
must starve or work, he would work. If in 
the present state of things he were to be told, 
Keep your provision ground, and keep your 
house, and come and work for a shilling or 
other sum a day, he would say, I will not do 
it ; for I can make more by working my 
grounds. But if the grounds were taken away, 
and he must understand that he must starve 
or work, he would work. The consideration 
by which in the case of freemen the matter 
would be governed would be this, whether it 
were most profitable to receive wages, or to 
rent land and raise produce upon it. If put 
into a situation where the fear of want would 
bear upon him, and the inducement to work 
was plain, then he would work. He drew 
this opinion partly from his knowledge of 
emancipated slaves, but chiefly from his know- 
ledge of the slaves under his own care, among 
whom the good preponderated far above the 
bad. He found them like the Scottish peas- 
antry, fulfilling all the relations of life. He 
found them revering the ordinance of marriage. 
He found them, particularly on the Vere es- 
tate, an orderly and industrious people ; and 
he was strongly impressed with the opinion 
that, if placed in the circumstances of the En- 
glish and Scottish peasantry, they would act 
similarly. They were, generally speaking, 
very industrious in laboring on their provision 
grounds. It was a frequent practice to work 
for one another for hire, the hire being 20 d. 
currency a day (I4rf. sterling,) and a breakfast. 
Mr. Wildman indulged his Negroes with fifty- 
two Saturdays in the year, instead of twenty- 
six, the number allowed them by law, that 
they might be able to attend divine service, 
and have no excuse for continuing to work on 
Sunday. This gave them additional time ; 
and as Mr. T. had a large garden, and was 
very unwilling to draw from the labor of the 
estate to keep it in order, he was frequently 
in the habit of hiring them to work there. 
Some would come and offer their services, for 



Jjbolition of Slavery in the British Colonies. 



100 



which he gave them their breakfast and 2s. lid. 
a day currency, being 2s. Id. sterling. He 
was decidedly of opinion that, when an offer 
- was made to pay Negroes for their labor, they 
were always ready to work. He had known 
them, even when digging cane-holes, perform 
the task of 120 cane-holes, and, on being of- 
fered pay, dig 20 and 40 cane-holes, after 
having finished their task. But, by the ordi- 
nary method, the same quantity would not 
have been dug except by tremendous whip- 
ping. Ninety cane-holes indeed on unplough- 
ed land was the general task ; but 120 if the 
land had previously been loosened by the 
plough. The farther exertion, however, pro- 
duced by the stimulus of wages was such that 
the driver said it was too much for them, and 
begged Mr. Taylor to interdict their doing so 
much. At the end of the week almost every 
slave had done so much extra work as to re- 
ceive 3s. 4d., which he paid them, according 
to agreement. If they had worked in the 
usual way under the whip they might have 
finished 120 holes in the course of the day, 
barely completing it at the end of the day ; 
but if told that, if they did the same work, 
they might as soon as it was done go away, 
they would, by abridging their intervals of 
rest, finish it before three o'clock in the after- 
noon, beginning at five in the morning.' 

'In general he found them willing to work 
in their extra time, for hire ; he spoke only of 
Mr. Wildman's slaves. Task work indeed 
was very generally resorted to, planters think- 
ing that in that way the Negro did his work 
in a much shorter time. At the same time he 
was convinced that a mixed system of slavery 
with its unavoidable expences, and free labor 
with its wages, would not answer in the long 
run. He conscientiously believed that if sla- 
very were put an end to, and the slaves eman- 
cipated, it would answer to the proprietor. 
He admitted that if a herald were at once to 
proclaim freedom in Spanish Town, in unqual- 
ified terms, to all slaves, anarchy and confusion 
might be the result. But, by proceeding cau- 
tiously, and previously providing the means of 
restraint, and, above all, by making it known 
to the slave that it was the King's pleasure 
that he should still labor when he became free, 
and if the planters concurred in using this 
language, so as to remove all idea that the 
King and his master were at variance, the 
freedom of the slaves might be safely, and 
easily, and even profitably accomplished.' 

' The desire of freedom was very prevalent 
among domestics as well as field slaves. He 
had known persons, especially in sickness and 
old age, indifferent to freedom, and the head 
man on an estate may be indifferent to it, but 
that is not the case generally. He could point 
out a head-driver, living on an estate where 
his privileges and means of acquiring property 
were great, and Avho, considering freedom as 
the being turned out upon the open Savan-i 



nah, said he would rather forego his freedom. 
Mostofthe cases of manumission he had known 
were among domestic slaves, and among them 
also most of the applications for manumission 
occurred ; but he does not know that this is 
owing to a more intense desire of, but simply 
to greater facilities of acquiring, freedom ; 
they therefore aim at it ; but generally through- 
out the island, the slaves of all classes are 
anxious to obtain their liberty.' 

'He could not even call to mind one in- 
stance of a slave having had his freedom offer- 
ed and refusing it, but he could call to mind 
almost hundreds of instances where pressing 
applications had been made for freedom by 
slaves, with applications to himself for money 
to enable them to buy it.' 

'Whenever they could contrive by task- 
work, or other arrangements, to obtain any 
extra time, their grounds were crowded with 
them, laboring for their own benefit. They 
cannot, therefore, be said to be an indolent 
race, or incapable of being actuated by the 
motives by which labor is generally prompted. 
His own experience assured him of the con- 
trary. He admitted that the propensity of the 
Negro, as of all men in warm climates, was to 
indolence ; but, whenever the hope of pecu- 
niary advantage could be brought to bear on 
this indolence, it was powerfully counteracted. 
He was well acquainted with the inhabitants 
of Scotland, and he had never known an in- 
telligent and well-instructed Scotchman who 
would work hard without an inducement ; but, 
for the same motive of personal advantage, 
the Negro might most decidedly be induced 
to work to an immense extent. Having tried 
the experiment of voluntary labor for wages in 
his own garden, the man who most frequently 
applied for employment was the most idle and 
worthless man on the estate. The steady 
Negroes were far less willing to work in his 
garden, having large and well cultivated 
grounds of their own ; while this fellow had 
neglected his ground and had therefore no 
temptation to go to it, and was glad therefore 
to be employed in the garden, or he would 
collect a little fruit, or procure some billets of 
wood, and carry them to Kingston market, 
converting them into cash. This man, more 
frequently than any other, came to work in 
the garden the whole day till four o'clock, and 
he then took his 2s. lid. of hire and proceeded 
to Kingston to convert the money into com- 
forts ; while the other Negroes were unwilling 
to do so, it beinff more profitable to goto their 
own grounds — thus decidedly showing their 
judgment in discriminating as to the kind of 
labor that would reward them best and select- 
ing that. In fact the negroes are far from 
being the rude uncultivated barbarians they 
are sometimes represented to be. The esti- 
mate in this country of their character is a 
great deal too low. He himself had no notion 
of it till ho was called to manage those es- 



no 



•Abolition of Slavery in the British Colonies. 



tates ; and he had been ten years in the island 
and was still in great ignorance of the agri- 
cultural laborers in Jamaica ; and he then 
found that far too low an opinion had been 
formed (and this he declared to many in Ja- 
maica) of their state of civilization. The Ne- 
groes who worked in his garden worked dili- 
gently, because he discharged them if they 
did not. The idle man, who was the chief 
laborer, was well watched by the gardener, 
and if slothful was sent away. The fear of 
this operated to produce application as the 
fear of the whip did in the field. Working in 
his garden was however less hard than digging 
cane-holes.' 

Mr. Taylor's views in regard to emancipa- 
tion, appear in a paper which he wrote some 
years ago for the information, and which was 
exhibited to him during his examination. It 
is as follows : 

' First let emancipation, and strict police 
arrangements, be contemporaneous. Ample 
materials would be found for a police corps in 
the colored class, whose services could be had 
at a low rate of charge. Avoid paying the 
emancipated Negroes by means of allotments 
of land, as those would detach them from 
regular daily labor ; but pay them in money. 
At first there would be difficulties, but gradu- 
ally the equitable price of labor would be as- 
certained, and act as the produce of regular 
labor. A stipendiary magistracy would be 
necessary, because the peculiar prejudices of 
the present magistracy generally unfit them 
for the office. The island would have to be 
divided into districts, each possessing a certain 
portion of the constabulary force, with a sti- 
pendiary magistrate, and a house of correction 
or other penitentiary. Were the island thus 
divided, and the police and magistrates prop- 
erly organized, I firmly believe that emancipa- 
tion might take place with perfect security. 
Of course there would be difficulties, obstacles, 
and disappointments, in carrying into effect 
the detail of the system of emancipation ; but 
if Government would address themselves ac- 
tually to the work, telling the planters on the 
one hand that such is their determination, and 
the Negroes on the other that while they aim 
at instituting equal laws, and securing them 
their civil and religious liberty, they by no 
means design that idleness should be at their 
option, — I am convinced that the result would 
be as beneficial, in a pecuniary way, to the 
planter, as it would be elevating and human- 
izing morally to the present degraded slave. 
The present system is incurable; it will not 
modify : it must be utterly destroyed. My 
experience,- as a planter, assures me that to 
attempt to ingraft religion and humanity upon 
slavery, with the hope of profitable results, is 
a vain and fruitless endeavor. A religious 
man is a most unfit person to manage a slave 
estate. The fact is, cruelty is the main spring 



of the present system. As long as slavery ex- 
ists, and the whip is the compeller of labor, it 
is folly to talk of humanity. Legitimate mo- 
tives are taken away, and coercion becomes 
the spring of industry ; and in proportion to 
the application of this, that is, coercion, is the 
effect on labor. The Negro character has 
been much underrated, even, I think, by the 
Negro's friends. When justice is done to 
him, even in his present degraded circumstan- 
ces, he shows a sagacity and shrewdness, and 
a disposition to a regular social life, which 
emphatically prove that he only requires free- 
dom secured to him by law to make him a 
useful, and, in his situation, an honorable mem- 
ber of the human family.' Mr. Taylor added 
that he firmly believed all that he had stated 
in this paper to be true. It had been private- 
ly written, and he never expected to see it 
again, but he perfectly agreed now in every 
sentiment it contained.' 

We regret that our limits will not permit us 
to make any farther extracts from this inter- 
esting report. 

The proceedings of the British government 
have recently exhibited a fixed determination 
to bring the system of colonial slavery to a 
termination. 

The following is an outline of a bill which 
the ministry have laid before Parliament. We 
copy from the Boston Daily Advertiser. 

' The plan devised by the British ministry for 
the abolition of slavery in the West Indies is 
given in the London Courier of the llth. The 
following is a view of the leading features. — 
Every slave is to be at liberty to claim to be 
registered as an apprenticed laborer. Accord- 
ing to the terms of this apprenticeship, the 
power of corporeal punishment is to be trans- 
ferred from the master to a magistrate. In 
consideration of food and clothing, and other 
usual allowances, the laborer is to work for 
the master three fourths of his time, and may 
claim employment from him, at a fixed rate of 
wages, for the remaining fourth, or may em- 
ploy himself elsewhere. At the time of the 
apprenticeship, a price is to be fixed upon the 
laborer, and the wages are to bear such a pro- 
portion to that price, that the laborer, if his 
whole spare time be given to his master, will 
receive one twelfth part of that price annually, 
and in the same proportion for a smaller term. 
On becoming an apprentice, the negro is to be 
entitled to a weekly money payment, if he 
shall prefer it, instead of food and clothing. 
Each of them is required to pay half yearly a 
portion of his wages, the rate of which is to be 
fixed, to an officer appointed by the King : 
and in default of such payment, the master is 
to be liable, and may in return, exact an equiv- 
alent amount of labor without payment in the 
succeeding half year. On payment of the 
price fixed, each apprenticed negro is to be 



The Slave Trade at Richmond. — Whittier on Slavery. 



Ill 



absolutely free. He may borrow the sum re- 
quired for this payment, and bind himself as 
an apprentice to the lender for a limited pe- 
riod. A loan, to the amount of £15,000,000 
sterling, is to be granted to the proprietors of 
West Indian estates and slaves, to be distrib- 
uted among the different colonies according 
to the number of their slaves, and the amount 
of their exports. The half yearly payments 
abovementioned are to be applied in liquida- 
tion of the debt thus contracted by the planter 
to the public. All children, under the age of 
six years at the time of the passing of the act, 
are to be free, and are to be maintained by 
their parents : but, on failure of such mainten- 
ance, may be apprenticed without receiving 
wages to the master of the parents, the males 
till the age of 24, and the females till the age 
of 20, when they and their children are to be 
absolutely free. The bill farther provides, 
that nothing contained in it shall prevent the 
King from assenting to such acts as may be 
passed by the Colonial Legislatures for the 
promotion of industry or the prevention of va- 
grancy, applicable to all classes ; and that, on 
the recommendation of these Legislatures, aid 
may be granted out of the revenue of Great 
Britain, for the purpose of justice, police and 
education.' 

The details of the foregoing plan are not 
all of them quite intelligible. As far as we 
can understand them, though the proposed 
measure is far from doing complete justice to 
the slave, it is yet immeasurably in advance 
of the present system, and will be hailed with 
joy by all the friends of emancipation. 



' THE SLAVE TRADE AT RICHMOND.' 

It is perhaps not an uncommon thing for 
the Richmond Enquirer to publish such ad- 
vertisements as that which follows, and which 
is taken, as will be seen by its date, from a 
recent number of that paper. It so happens, 
however, that our eye has not before been 
caught by any such ; nor even now, but for 
the words at the head of this paragraph, which 
form the pith of the advertisement, would it 
probably have attracted attention. But when 
all parties and all right thinking individuals in 
this country, and the law of the land, agree 
in considering the foreign slave trade as felo- 
ny of the worst sort, it does startle one not a 
little, to find, in the capital of Virginia a man 
thus advertising himself as carrying on a Slave 
Trade, not less objectionable on principle, and 
ostentatiously setting forth to 'gentlemen' 
the facilities, the accommodation, and the com- 
fort, (the 'jail attached ' constituting, we pre- 
sume, a part of the comfort) with which he 
can carry on the nefarious traffic. Surely, 
public sentiment, in such a civilized commu- 
nity as Richmond, must be outraged by such 
an open display of the evils incident to slave- 



ry, and which even those who profit by it must 
feel to be unfit, most unfit to be blazoned forth 
in the face of a free and christian community. 
— Journal of Commerce. 

' Notice. — This is to inform my former ac- 
quaintances and the public generally, that I 
yet continue in the Slave Trade at Richmond, 
Virginia ; and will at all times give a fair and 
market price for young Negroes. I live on 
Shockce Hill, near the Poor-house, where ap- 
plication is desired to be made. Persons in 
this State, Maryland or North Carolina wish- 
ing to sell lots of Negroes, are particularly 
requested to forward their wishes to me by 
mail at this place ; and also, persons living 
near Richmond, having one or more for sale, 
will please inform me of the same, which will 
be immediately attended to. Persons wishing 
to purchase lots of Negroes are requested to 
give me a call, as I keep constantly on hand 
at this place a great many for sale, and have 
at this time the use of one hundred likely 
young Negroes, consisting of boys, young 
men, and girls ; among which are several very 
valuable house servants of both sexes, and I 
will sell at all times at a small advance on cost, 
in lots to suit purchasers. Persons from the 
southern states wanting to buy a choice lot of 
slaves, will do well to call on me, as I shall be 
able to furnish them at any time ; and gentle- 
men in the south or elsewhere, who may wish 
to communicate on this subject are respect- 
fully requested to forward their letters to me 
at Richmond, which will be duly attended to. 
I have comfortable rooms, with a jail attached 
for the reception of Negroes ; and persons 
coming to this place to sell slaves can be ac- 
commodated, and every attention necessary 
will be given to have them Avell attended to ; 
and when it may be desired, the reception of" 
the company of g-entlemen, dealing in slaves, 
will conveniently and attentively be received. 
My situation is very healthy and suitable for 
the business. Lewis A. Collier. 

April 19. 

WHITTIER ON SLAVERY. 

Justice and Expediency ; or Slavery consid- 
ered ivith a view to its Right/id and Effectual 
Remedy — Abolition : By John G. Whittier., 
Haverhill: C. P. Thayer & Co., 1833, pp. 23. 

It is one of the most gratifying signs of the 
times, that publications are every day appear- 
ing both in Great Britain and this country, in 
which slavery is placed in a just light, its 
moral and political evils fearlessly denounced,, 
and the means for its removal distinctly point- 
ed out. Mr. Whittier's pamphlet is of this 
character. The author, after showing the in- 
efficiency of various modes which have been 
proposed for abolishing slavery, particularly 
colonization, devotes the greater part of work 



112 Wright'' s Sin of Slavery. — New Anti-Slavery Societies. — An Appeal for the Oppressed. 



to advocating immediate abolition. He does 
this with great warmth and eloquence. His 
arguments are sound, well arranged, and 
tersely expressed. Every part of his pamphlet 
exhibits high moral principle and strong mor- 
al feeling. As we think the work is calcula- 
ted to do good, we hope it will receive an ex- 
tensive circulation. 



WRIGHT'S SIN OF SLAVERY. 

The Sin of Slavery, and its Remedy ; con- 
taining some Refections on the Moral Influ- 
ence of African Colonization: By Elizur 
Weight, Jr., Professor of Math, and Nat. 
Phil. Western Reserve College. New-York : 
Printed for the Author. 8 vo. pp. 52. 

We did not receive this pamphlet till the 
day of our publication had so nearly arrived 
as to render an extended notice of it impossi- 
ble. Such of our readers as are familiar with 
the author's writings on the subject of slavery, 
will need no commendation from us to induce 
them to peruse it. We trust to be able to 
give a more full notice of it next month. 



NEW ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES. 

At a meeting of the friends of Abolition in 
Providence, R. I., a Society was organized 
and the following gentlemen unanimously e- 
lected as officers : 

JOSIAH CADY, President. 
RAY POTTER, Vice-President. 

Thomas Williams, Cor. Secretary. 

Henry E. Benson, Recording Secretary. 

John Prentice, Treasurer. 

Counsellors — Gilbert Richmond, Jas. Scott, 
Wyllis Ames, Wilbour Tillinghast, John Viall. 

We have heard of the formation of an Anti- 
Slavery Society in New-Haven, but have not 
received the names of the officers. 



CONVENTION OF PEOPLE OF COLOR. 

The Annual Convention of the people of color was 
held in Philadelphia last month. There were 56 del- 
egates present from the following places. 

New-York. City of N. Y. 5 ; Brooklyn, L. I. 2 ; 
Poughkeepsie 2; Newburg 2 3 Catskil! 1; Troy I3 
Newtown, L. I. 1. 

Connecticut. Hartford 1 ; New-Haven I. 

Rhode Island. Providence 1. 

Massachusetts. Boston 3 ; New-Bedford 1. 

Maryland. Baltimore 1. 

Delaware. Wilmington 1. 

Pennsylvania. Philadelphia 5; Westchester 5 ; 
Carlisle 4 ; Harrisburg 2 ; Pittsburgh . 

New-Jersey. Gloucester Co. 5 ; Trenton 2 3 Bur- 
lington 2 3 Newark 1. 

The Convention was organized by the choice of the 
following officers : 

Mr Abraham D. Shadd ; of Pennsylvania, Presi- 
dent ; Richard Johnson, of Massachusetts, 1st 
Vice do. John G. Stewart, of Albany, 2d Vice do. ; 
Ransom F. Wake, of New-York, Secretary 3 Henry 
Ogden, of Newark, N. Y. Assist. Secretary. 



From the Liberator. 
AN APPEAL FOR THE OPPRESSED. 

Daughters of the Pilgrim Sires, 

Dwellers by their mouldering graves, 

Watchers of their altar fires, 
Look upon your country's slaves. 

Look ! 'tis woman's streaming eye, 
These are woman's fetter'd hands, 

That to you, so mournfully, 

Lift sad glance, and iron bands. 

Mute, yet strong appeal of wo ! 

Wakes it not your starting tears ? 
Though your hearts may never know 

Half the bitter doom of hers. 

Scars are on her fettered limbs, 

Where the savage scourge has been 3 

But the grief her eye that dims, 
Flows for deeper wounds within. 

For the children of her love, 

For the brothers of her race, 
Sisters, like vine-branches wove, 

In one early dwelling place— 

For the parent forms that hung 

Fondly o'er her infant sleep, 
And for him to whom she clung, 

With affection true and deep — 

By her sad forsaken hearth, 

'Tis for these she wildly grieves ! 

Now all scatter'd o'er the earth, 
Like the wind-strewn autumn leaves ! 

Ev'n her babes so dear, so young, 

And so treasured in her heart, 
That the chords which round them clung, 

Seem'd its life, its dearest part — 

These, ev'n these were torn away ! 

These, that when all else was gone, 
Cheer'd her heart with one bright ray, 

That still bade its pulse beat on ! 

Then to still her frantic wo, 

The inhuman scourge was tried, 
Till the tears that ceased to flow, 

Were with redder drops supplied. 

And can you behold unmoved, 

All the crushing weight of grief, 
That her aching heart has proveu, 

Seeking not to yield relief ? 

Are not woman's pulses warm, 
Beating in that anguish'd breast ? 

Is it not a sister's form, 

On whose limbs those fetters rest ? 

Oh then save her from a doom, 
Worse then aught that ye may bear 5 

Let her pass not to the tomb, 
Midst her bondage and despair. 

GERTRUDE. 



[From the Sabbath School Visiter.] 
VERSIFICATION OF A RECENT ANECDOTE. 

A tawny slave whom grace had changed, 

Was asked, with scornful voice, 
' In what religion did consist, 

And why he should rejoice ? ' 

' Massa,' he cried with simple tone, 

' In my poor way I '11 tell, 
'T is only ceasing to do wrong-, 

And learning to do well* 

' And when poor black man feels his heart 

Filled with the love of God, 
He can rejoice, give thanks, and sing,t 

Though smarting with the rod. 
* Isaiah, i. 16, 17. \ Acts, xvi. 25. 



