THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



APRIL, 1833. 



[NO. IV. 



PROGRESS OF PRINCIPLE. 

It is very common to hear people say, 'Sla- 
very is a great evil, but Ave can do nothing to 
remedy it.' If all the world were of the same 
opinion, the curse would probably be handed 
down with undiminished strength to the re- 
motest generations. Slavery exists only be- 
cause it is tolerated by public opinion. When 
the great majority of the Christian world shall 
boldly proclaim that the system is iniquitous, 
it must cease. The consciences of slavehold- 
ers are seared, because too many of those who 
do not hold slaves appear to countenance op- 
pression either by silence or apologies. 

The standards of morals in the different 
parts of a nation like ours which have a con- 
stant and familiar intercourse with one anoth- 
er, are constantly assimilating. While the 
people of the North are content to adopt the 
feelings and cant of the South upon the sub- 
ject of slavery, no improvement is to be ex- 
pected in either quarter. But this ought not 
to be the case. The inhabitants of the non- 
slaveholding States are more favorably situated 
than those of the slave States for forming an 
unbiassed estimate of the moral qualities of 
slavery. Those who have formed opinions on 
the subject, ought to express them openly and 
boldly. Thousands among us have come to 
just conclusions on the subject, and yet refrain 
from avowing them, because they see that the 
men whom they are accustomed to follow are 
not ready to take the lead. 

This state of things cannot continue long. 
The people are beginning to think on the 
subject of slavery : and the 'shadows of com- 
ing events ' which must produce its dissolution 
are even now visible. 

It may be encouraging to many who have 
been accustomed to dwell on the miseries of 
slavery, to consider for a moment the prognos- 
tics from which we augur the termination of 
the system at no distant day. 

Slavery has already been abolished in Hayti, 
Mexico, Colombia, and twelve States of this 
nation. 

VOL. I. 



The change of opinion in Great Britain and 
this country in regard to slavery, within the 
last fifteen or twenty years, has been won- 
derful. After the slave trade was abolished, 
the enemies of slavery gazed on the system 
almost in despair, as the knight in old roman- 
ces is represented as gazing on some castle 
made apparently impregnable by enchant- 
ment. They knew not how to attack the in- 
stitution with any prospect of success. Their 
opinions as to the mode of removing the evil 
were wavering and unsatisfactory, even to 
themselves. But a few years ago, many of 
the most devoted philanthropists thought only 
of a remote and gradual abolition. 

Now every thing is changed. The numbers 
in favor of abolition in England are now over- 
whelming. Far the greater part of them sup- 
port immediate abolition. The whole system 
of slavery has been surveyed, and specific 
remedies pointed out for every evil. 

This change in opinion has already produ- 
ced most beneficial results. In some of the 
British Colonies, the flogging of females is 
entirely prohibited, and the flogging of men 
in some degree regulated ; in some, the free 
people of color are admitted to equal privi- 
leges with the whites ; in some, slaves are ad- 
mitted as witnesses in all cases like whites ; 
and in some, the separation of near relations in 
private or judicial sales is prohibited. The 
most important improvements are in the crown 
colonies. Besides this, all the slaves belong- 
ing to the crown, amounting to a considerable 
number, have been made free. 

It cannot be doubted by any one who has 
noted the progress of opinion in Great Britain, 
that a law for abolishing slavery in the colonies 
of the empire, ivill be passed within a few years. 

Though the people of the United States 
have not yet denounced slavery so loudly as 
those of Great Britain, yet while the mother 
country has moved forward so rapidly, the 
daughter has not been stationary. 

Several publications devoted to the aboli- 
tion of slavery are already established in this 
7 



res.55?2.5-? 



50 



The South Sea Islander. 



country ; and within a year or two, a large 
number of others have boldly attacked the 
system. 

Several anti-slavery societies have been es- 
tablished within two years in various parts of 
the States. 

The doctrine of gradual emancipation is 
falling into disrepute. A hundred persons are 
now in favor of immediate abolition for every 
one who supported it three years ago. 

Slavery has been more discussed within the 
last three years in print and conversation, than 
it had been during twenty years before. 

Maryland, Virginia, and Kentucky have 
lately exhibited a strong desire to obtain re- 
lief from the disease under which they are 
declining. Few of their politicians have come 
to sound conclusions on the subject. But the 
subject having been once touched, the people 
of those States will never rest till no slave is 
to be found upon their soiL 



[For the Abolitionist.] 
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDER. 

I was born on one of those remote Islands 
in the Pacific ocean, which had escaped the 
observation of the most adventurous voyagers ; 
and though it was endeared to me, by many 
agreeable associations, yet I could not but 
perceive that the clouds of ignorance rested 
upon it, and that it was disgraced by the prac- 
tice of many vices ; for I felt myself to be one 
of that small number, of which I believe no 
spot of the earth is entirely destitute,who aspire 
to something better, to whom the religion of 
nature is not totally unknown, and who discov- 
er glimpses of a Deity through the objects of 
beauty and grandeur which surround them. 
This, at least, was my case ; for whether I 
took up and examined the flower which grew 
at my feet, or surveyed the majestic river or 
lofty mountain, or above all the wonders of 
my own frame, each and all proclaimed an in- 
telligent author. Many hours were spent 
every day in musing upon this subject, and in 
endeavoring to give consistency and form to 
my crude ideas. 

I was one day roused from an unusually 
deep revery, by being told that the body of a 
man had been cast upon our coast, whose ap- 
pearance was altogether different from any 
ever before seen. I hastened to the spot, 
hoping by timely aid to restore its animation ; 
and after long and continued exertion, my 
hopes were realized. The pleasure which I 
experienced on this occasion, can be more 
easily imagined than described. Never, in- 
deed, was exertion more amply rewarded ; for 
I found in this fellow being a friend, an in- 
structor, a guide. We soon became almost 
inseparable companions, and spent much of 



our time in strolling about the surrounding' 
country, he in the hope that from some emi- 
nence which gave a view of the sea he might 
espy some vessel by which he might return to 
his native country — and I, ever eager to catch 
the wisdom which fell from his lips, seldom 
quitted his side. I had lost no time in acquir- 
ing a knowledge of his language, such was 
my zeal to learn every thing he could 
communicate. He scarcely spoke, but some 
new idea beamed upon my mind. From him 
I learned that one God made and governs all 
things — that in addition to that which may be 
learnt of him through his works, he had made 
repeated revelations of his character and will; 
but more especially by a being of such pre- 
eminence, that he styled him his beloved Son. 

One day I asked him to tell me what was 
the most prominent precept of his religion ? 
' Love, love,' said he, with energy, ' God is 
love — he sent his Son into the world on an er- 
rand of love — and he has commanded us to 
love him with all our hearts, and our neighbor 
as ourselves.' I was charmed with these sen- 
timents, and resolved that, should my new 
friend ever leave our island, I would accom- 
pany him to his favored home. 

It was not long before this resolution was 
put to the test ; for a sort of moving house, or 
what Philo (which was the stranger's name) 
called a ship, was discovered by his anxious 
and ever watchful eye ; by the aid of signals 
we succeeded in arresting the attention of 
those on board. I now mentioned the plan I 
had formed of leaving my native island. Philo 
was surprised, but said nothing to discourage 
me ; ' but I advise you,' said he, ' to go well 
provided with gold, for I can assure you, you 
will find it a useful possession where you are 
going.' With this I readily complied, for it 
was easily procured, though it had hitherto 
been useless to me. Philo was overjoyed to 
find that the vessel was bound to the very spot 
most dear to him of all the earth, his own na- 
tive city. We were soon in readiness ; and I 
took an affectionate leave of my friends, not 
without the fear that I should never again be- 
hold them. 

We now hastened on board the vessel, 
which soon bore us far away on the wide ocean. 
I was introduced to so new a scene, that it was 
long before my curiosity was satisfied. After 
some time, I observed that the sailors did not 
look upon me with much complacency, and 
paid little attention to my wants, till my friend, 
who also observed it, whispered something in 
their ears, which seemed to operate as a 
charm — for ever after, respect and kindness 
took the place of coldness and neglect. 

Philo soon brought me one of those sacred 
books, called the word of God, from whence 
he had obtained that religious knowledge 
which he had communicated to me. With 
his assistance, I was soon enabled to read it 
with tolerable ease. Oh ! how can I express 



The South Sea, Islander. 



51 



the pleasure I took in tracing, with my own 
eyes the words of heavenly wisdom which 
flowed from him, whom I now delighted to call 
my Savior ! The precepts, of which my friend 
had given me a few examples, filled me with 
fresh admiration — and the parables were pecu- 
liarly to my taste. How beautifully did that 
of the good Samaritan illustrate the duty of 
love to our neighbor — by giving a latitude to 
the word neighbor which we are too apt to 
forget belongs to it, and teaching that benevo- 
lence should be extended to the whole human 
race, without regard to any peculiarity in their 
condition. The story of the rich man and 
Lazarus was likewise strikingly in harmony 
with the sentiment he expressed, when, lifting 
up his eyes upon the multitude, he said, ' Bless- 
ed are ye poor, for yours is the kingdom of 
heaven.' I did not allow a day to pass, with- 
out spending several hours in studying this 
precious volume, so anxious was I to imbibe 
in some measure the spirit of their religion, 
before arriving in a land of Christians. 

After a very prosperous voyage, we reached 
the home of Phiio. He was hailed with rap- 
ture by his friends, whom I found good and in- 
telligent like himself, and no other recommen- 
dation to their favor was necessary than to be 
introduced as a stranger who had left his na- 
tive country in the pursuit of knowledge. But 
to some others, 1 found my friend was obliged 
to whisper the talismanic words which had be- 
fore wrought such a miracle in my behalf. It 
now produced the same effect, and I determin- 
ed to be more observing in future, that I might 
discover what was the nature of this wonder- 
working spell. It was not long before an op- 
portunity offered. We happened to fall in 
-company which seemed disposed to treat me 
with neglect, if not with contempt ; and seeing 
•him about to pronounce those mysterious 
words, I listened attentively, and they were 
these — ' He is very rich.' This is strange in- 
deed, thought I : of what possible consequence 
can it be to them, whether I possess treasure 
or not? and what possible effect can it have 
upon me ? Does it increase my understand- 
ing ? lessen my ignorance ? or give me beauty 
of person? This it certainly cannot do: per- 
haps they want my gold, and think by a little 
flattery to obtain it. No, it cannot be that — 
because some of these very people with whom 
I acquire so much consequence by being rich, 
seem to be in no want of wealth themselves — 
therefore they can want nothing of me. It 
puzzled me exceedingly, because it seemed so 
opposed to the precepts of their religion. I 
had even thought, at first, of concealing my 
wealth ; for judging from the bible, I had sup- 
posed that riches would be despised, and pov- 
erty ratheT sought than spurned — but, on the 
contrary, there scarcely was any possession 
more coveted — so much so, that even those 
who were in reality poor, often affected riches, 
either by a fine house, elegant furniture, or 



costly dress. I cannot but here mention one 
custom in use among the females of this coun- 
try, because it so agreeably reminded me of 
my own dear country-Avomen : it is that of 
suspending jewels in the ear by means of a 
perforation of the fleshy part of its lower ex- 
tremity. Still, though it pleased me, I confess 
it no less surprised me ; for I had read in their 
sacred book that the best ornament to a female 
was a meek and quiet spirit, which in the sight 
of God was of great price. 

But I had still another subject of surprise, 
when- 1 found the houses devoted to the wor- 
ship of this same being, were often a scene of 
the most brilliant display of finery. Indeed, I 
sometimes heard little children of six years 
old disputing about the comparative beauty or 
fashion of their church-going dresses. How- 
ever, these things, though evidently at variance 
with the bible, I thought might be pardonable : 
but as my intercourse with society increased, 
I saw many things practised which excited 
my grief and astonishment ; such as fraud, 
cruelty, falsehood, intemperance, and many 
other vices. At length, I unburdened my 
heart to my friend, and entreated him to ex- 
plain what I saw. ' Oh ! ' said he, ' I am not at 
all surprised at the feeling you express ; but 
I know you must soon learn that though Chris- 
tianity is the religion here professed, which 
you know to be a system replete with excel- 
lence, yet many, very many fall lamentably 
short of its requirements, and there are not a 
few who, I fear, reject its restraints altogether. 
But, come,' continued he, ' I want to introduce 
you to my sister, whose return you know I 
have been so impatiently expecting. Yester- 
day, I had the pleasure of again seeing my 
dear Ellen: she has been absent more than a 
year on a visit to a friend in a distant part of 
our country.' I accepted his invitation, and 
was introduced accordingly. I found her 
amiable and enlightened, like her brother. She 
entertained us with accounts of the delightful 
climate, scenery, and the almost tropical luxu- 
riance of the part of the country she' had visit- 
ed ; and we passed many pleasant, and to me 
instructive hours together. 

On one occasion when my friend and I en- 
tered the room where his mother and sister 
were sitting, we found them looking very 
melancholy. Philo, with some concern, in- 
quired the cause. 

' Oh,' replied his sister, 'I was only telling 
the story of poor Letty.' 

' And is it that which has so much affected 
you ? ' 

' Yes,' said his mother, ' I think no one could 
hear it unmoved.' 

' And will you not,' said I to Ellen, ' repeat 
the tale to us ? ' 
She made no reply, but looked at he rbrother. 

' Come,' said he, 'now you have excited our 
curiosity, you will surely not refuse to gratify 
it,' 



52 



The South Sea Islander, 



' I had rather not, indeed — pray, brother, ex- 
cuse me,' said Ellen. 

Her-brother inquired what could possibly be 
her objection ? 

'Because,' said she, 'I cannot bear the 
thought that your friend, who has already seen 
so much of the inconsistency of Christians, 
should be made acquainted with a system which 
makes every other deviation from the pure 
precepts of Christianity shrink into insignifi- 
cance.' 

' Alas ! ' said Philo, ' I now comprehend your 
motive, and do not wonder at your reluctance : 
but as our friend cannot long remain among 
us without hearing of some of its baneful 
effects, any secrecy on our part would be 
unavailing. At any rate, he had better know 
the truth, however mortifying it may be to us.' 

' Yes,' said I, ' I have no desire for the hap- 
piness of ignorance.' 

' Well, then,' said Philo, ' it is the dreadful 
system of Slavery which exists over the 
greater part of this otherwise free and happy 
country, of which I have the sorrow to inform 
you.' 

1 Oh ! I suppose,' said I, ' you still retain the 
barbarous custom, practised by uncivilized na- 
tions, of holding in bondage those of your ene- 
mies whom the chance of war has thrown into 
your hands.' 

' Alas ! ' said my friend, i though that is wide- 
ly opposed to the peaceful spirit of Christian- 
ity, yet it falls very far short of the cruel in- 
justice of which we are guilty. Know, then 
— for why should I attempt to hide our shame ? 
— that in this nominally free country, a sixth 
part of the peaceful and unoffending natives 
wear the insupportable yoke of slavery — are 
kept in total ignorance of the word of God — 
driven to their labor by the whip, the fruits of 
which go to enrich their oppressors, while 
they are scantily fed, and coarsely clothed.' 

' But,' said I, ' under what possible pretence 
can this be done ? Do not those who practise 
it offer some excuse for conduct which would 
make a heathen blush ? ' 

' The only excuse,' said he, ' they pretend, 
I believe, to offer, is, that as the ancestors of 
these people were either stolen from their na- 
tive country, or purchased perhaps for a few 
glass beads, or some intoxicating liquor, of 
some barbarous chief, and thus converted to 
slaves, all their descendants must share the 
same fate.' 

' A strange reason, indeed,' said I ; 'it seems 
to be saying that a man born in misery may 
as well remain in it because he is accustomed 
to it. But is this their only plea ? ' 

' None other than that of the tyrant's, that 
might gives right.' 

' Ah ! and is this the way that Christians 
obey the commands of Him whom they pre- 
tend to call their master ? Is this loving their 
neighbor as themselves ? or doing to others as 
they would that others should do to them ? ' 



Philo, now again asked Ellen to tell us the 
story. 'I suppose,' said he, 'Letty was a 
slave.' 

' Yes,' said she, ' Letty and George, a young 
married couple, were purchased by Dr. A. at 
whose house you know I passed most of my 
time during my absence. The woman was 
good tempered, obliging and gentle in her 
manners, and both capable and industrious. 
Her husband was not vicious, but he was very 
fond of music, and not very fond of work ; of 
course, he preferred playing a tune upon his 
fiddle, to performing his allotted task. Mrs. 
A., however, liked Letty so much that they 
continued to keep them, though they did not 
exactly answer their purpose — till Dr. A. hear- 
ing of a neighboring planter who was in quest 
of two such slaves, concluded to hire them out 
to him. This was sad tidings to the young 
couple — (for slaves always dread changing 
their masters.) Poor Letty was overwhelmed 
with sorrow, and entreated Dr. A., even upon 
her knees, not to send them away ; but the 
sighs and tears of slaves, avail but little, as 
was the case on the present occasion ; for 
though their grief excited some pity, yet, as 
the agreement had been made, there seemed 
no help for it, and they were obliged to go. 
But Dr. A. wishing to soothe their trouble a 
little, told George, that if either of them should 
be sick, to send for him. With this poor con- 
solation, they departed. Several weeks pass- 
ed away, when I was one day sitting in the 
parlor, engaged in conversation with a young 
lady, when she suddenly exclaimed, ' Who 
are those ? ' I turned my eyes towards the 
window, and saw Letty approaching the house, 
followed by a man on horseback. We ran 
out into the piazza to see what was the mat- 
ter, when she shot by us like an arrow, and 
disappeared. It was the overseer of her pres- 
ent employer, who was with her : he said she 
had run away several days before — that he had 
found her in a wood, and wished to take her 
back — but she had insisted upon coming there. 
Just as he concluded, I perceived Letty, from 
behind the door, beckoned me with a wild and 
disordered air. I followed her — and in a hur- 
ried manner she led the way to my chamber, 
when she immediately ran and hid herself be- 
neath the bed, and burst into an agony of 
grief, entreating me, as soon as her sobs would 
permit, to conceal her, and save her from re- 
turning to that dreadful place. ' I cannot, I 
cannot, go back ! ' she exclaimed : ' they have 
treated me cruelly when I tried to do every 
thing to please them. And poor George ! 
they have had no mercy upon him : not satis- 
fied with beating him, they have knocked out 
his front teeth, and ' 

I begged of her to be more calm — for her 
agitation was such, that it was impossible to 
come at the cause of their having been treat- 
ed with so much violence. However, she at 
length told me, that on one occasion she being 



Extracts from Mr. Snclling's Address. 



rather indisposed, George, in the simplicity of 
liis heart, recollecting - the direction of Dr. A. 
to send for him, if either of them wore sick,and 
not dreaming of its occasioning any expense 
(which certainly in this case was not intended 
by Dr. A.) took the enormous liberty of send- 
ing for the Dr. to see his wife. This was the 
unpardonable offence of which poor George 
had been guilty, and for which they had both 
suffered such severe consequences. 

At this sad recital, I mingled my tears with 
hers — that she should 'Suffer so innocently, 
was truly affecting ; but what could I say to 
console her ? To offer her any protection, 
was entirely out of my power. The most I 
could do was to prevail on Mrs. A. to let her 
remain with us a few weeks. She readily 
consented, for she was fond of Letty, and 
knew that she never required severity. Her 
gratitude was evinced by her cheerfully per- 
forming every duty ; and, indeed, if possible, 
anticipating eur wishes. 

At the end of a fortnight, however, I had 
the pain of seeing - her reclaimed by her re- 
lentless employer. I watched her slowly fol- 
lowing him till she was out of sight. ' And 
this,' thought I, ' is one of my own country- 
women, possessing the same natural right to 
freedom that I have, forced to drag out a mis- 
erable existence, exposed to all the bitter ef- 
fects of a state of slavery ! ' 

( To be concluded.) 



EXTRACTS FROM AN ADDRESS, 

DELIVERED BEFORE THE N. E. ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY, BY WM. J. SNELLING, ESQ,. 

(Continued.) 

The master too is to be pitied. He lives in 
continual fear. Accustomed to see his humors 
watched and his frowns feared, he becomes 
imperious and tyrannical. His children grow 
up among the abject beings whom their fathers 
have degraded. They are idle and useless on 
the face of the earth. The daughters, at least 
a great many of them, are accustomed to view 
human suffering with indifference ; even to 
chastise their female slaves with their own 
hands. But I will not dwell on such a state 
of society. 

Those whose exertions are directed to the 
removal of these evils are called visionaries 
and fanatics. If to wish to relieve our coun- 
trymen from what they all allow to be an evil 
of the greatest magnitude, is to be a fanatic ; 
if to wish to overthrow a system radically crim- 
inal, oppressive, impolitic and dangerous, is to 
be a fanatic ; if to wish to elevate those who 
are now little above brutes to the dignity of 
freemen and christians, is to be a fanatic ; — 
then, we are fanatics ; and I, for one, glory in 
the title. If to believe that these things are 
practicable, is to be visionary, then we are vis- 
ionaries. In what, even if our opinions be 
wrong, are we reprehensible ? We wrong no 



man — we stir up no one to sedition — we break 
no law. There is no law that forbids any free 
man to think, and to express his opinion. The 
Constitution of the United States, indeed, re- 
cognizes slavery; but our fathers, who framed 
it, never said or thought that it would be crim- 
inal to wish to amend it. If they had so thought, 
they would not have inserted a provision for 
its amendment. 

It will, perhaps, be asked, how, since we 
disclaim violence and insurrection, Ave do pro- 
pose to act ? We answer, by endeavoring to 
affect public opinion. Prejudice and apathy 
stand in our way, but we do not nevertheless 
despair. We may not effect all we propose, 
but still Ave shall do something ; for he, Avhose 
ambition is great, will never fail utterly. We 
publish pamphlets, Ave hold debates, Ave deliv- 
er discourses, and are sure that though we 
may fail to convince an individual, all Avhom 
Ave can bring to examine this subject and think 
for themselves, Avill eventually embrace our 
opinions. We hope in time, to direct the ear- 
nest attention of the nation to the system of 
slavery ; and if we can do this, Ave are confi- 
dent that it must go clown. In the meanwhile, 
Ave persuade such persons of color as are Avith- 
in our influence, to live christian lives, to con- 
tinue or become respectable citizens, as the 
case may be, to teach their children trades, and 
to send them to school. We aid them to put 
these counsels into practice, as far as our 
means will permit. 

There are many among us who hold that 
we should not take any measures concerning 
the abolition of slavery, lest we should offend 
and irritate our southern brethren. But admit 
this principle, and there is an end of all reform 
and improvement. On the same ground, we 
may suffer a single State to reverse the law of 
the land, and the decision of the Supreme Court;, 
Avithout comment. We must not mention the 
tariff, or express our wishes relative to the 
choice of the executive officer, on the same 
principle. I spurn such slavish doctrine. To 
embrace it, would be to surrender freedom of 
thought and speech. No subject of national 
importance can be mentioned, no abuse expo- 
sed, Avithout offending some one. We shall 
offend our southern brethren. Our fathers of- 
fended their English brethren when they threw 
the tea into the dock, and irritated them still 
more when, within cannon-shot of this hall, 
they taught their fellow subjects, that Amer- 
icans would not submit to wrong. We shall 
offend our southern brethren. I cannot ex- 
cuse them for retaining tAVo millions of their 
fellow men in galling and ignominious thral- 
dom. It may be that very many of them are 
unconscious of wrong doing ; but the Avrong is 
noftherefore the less evident, the less palpable. 
The muscles do not the less quiver, nor does 
the blood flow the less freely, because he who 
holds the scourge thinks he is doing a praise - 
Avorthy action. The tiger, when he springs 



i>4 



Extracts from Mr. Snelling's Address. 



upon his victim is conscious of no crime ; but 
his prey feels not the less agony. ' He who 
retains his fellow man in bondage is guilty of 
a wrong,' a grievous wrong — all the sophistry 
of the schools can make nothing else of it. If 
he does not know as much, we will tell him 
so ; and if it offends him — even let him be of- 
fended. 

Let us, in the midst of our fears of offending 
our brethren, inquire who are the persons best 
entitled to that affectionate appellation. Who 
felled the forest in the southern States ? The 
blacks. Who subdued the soil, whose labor 
furnishes us with cotton and sugar, and ena- 
bles those States to bear up under the ' accurs- 
ed tariff,' as it is emphatically called ? Who 
have most reason to complain of us, and who 
do us most good ? Who are the real working 
bees of the South, who are the authors of all 
the good we thence derive ? Above all, who 
are best entitled to claim, our sympathies ? — 
The blacks — the blacks — the blacks. By con- 
senting to, and approving their bondage, we 
have injured them, and we owe them repara- 
tion. By setting them free, we should injure 
their masters to the exact amount of their mar- 
ket value, considering them, as these last do, 
as mere merchantable cattle. At the same 
time we should do right, and prevent the mis- 
ery of unborn millions. Why should we be 
less fearful of offending them than their mas- 
ters ? They are formed alike in their maker's 
image, they constitute ahnort the whole value 
and political importance of the slaveholding 
States, and they respect us, which their op- 
pressors do not. If justice, humanity, and the 
dictates of common interest are of any conse- 
quence to a clear view of this question, the 
blacks are most emphatically our brethren. 

It is advanced with great confidence by 
slaveholders, that were we to set the slaves 
free, they would turn upon the whites, and 
massacre them. They are, it is said r extreme- 
ly ignorant and ferocious. Ignorant they are ; 
but I do not believe that they are either fero- 
cious or vindictive. My observation teaches 
me that the negro character is humble, mild 
and forgiving. Was it not so, could they be 
slaves now ? Indeed, I have rather seen rea- 
son to think that want of spirit was the fault 
of their character. Those who argue that 
they cannot be set free with safety, confound 
cause and effect. Ask any advocate of slave- 
ry why the slaves revolted in Southampton, 
and he will tell you that it was in the hope of 
obtaining freedom. Ask him why he fears to 
meet a slave alone, and he will answer that it 
is because the man is a slave. They would 
fight, it is known, to obtain their liberty, and 
they would also fight, it is said, because it was 
given them. This is strange logic ; and I pray 
you to observe that I am neither begging the 
question, nor setting up a man of straw to 
knock him down again. You know, every 
man who hears me knows, that the positions I 



have assumed are those most frequently hi 
the mouths of slaveholders. The slaves in 
Southampton massacred women and children, 
because they smarted under the sense of inju- 
ry, and because they knew that had they spar- 
ed these, they would have exercised the con- 
trol of masters over them some day. Setting 
them free will take away the motive of revolt, 
and, I think, all desire of revenge. It is not 
in the nature of man to requite good with evil. 
Some there may be, who would return evil for 
good, but these are exceptions to the general 
rule — moral monsters, who are not to be taken 
for specimens of their kind ; and, as I have not 
observed that the blacks are more vicious than 
equally ignorant whites, I do not believe that 
the black family would furnish more of these 
monsters than the white one. I say again, and 
it appears to me as plain as the light of hea- 
ven, that if you take away the motives to in- 
surrection, no insurrection will take place. — 
Suppose that there is danger, that the desire 
of revenge will operate more strongly on the 
slave than the sense of benefit received, is 
there not danger now ? Set them free, and 
the feeling of revenge will expire with the pre- 
sent generation. The next will have had no 
wrong to revenge. Keep them in bondage, 
and the danger will be perpetuated. We 
ought certainly to take care of ourselves, but 
we also owe something to posterity. 

Again, some say that ignorance makes the 
blacks ferocious. Others, and among them 
their masters, judging from the acts of south- 
ern legislation, think that knowledge is the 
thing that makes them dangerous. Strange 
that ignorance and knowledge should have one 
and the same effect! 

I have often been told that were the slaves 
set free, they would not know how to take 
care of themselves, but perish with literal 
want. If this supposition be true, it infers 
either some defect in the negro character, or 
that long years of slavery have withered their 
sinews and destroyed their mental en^^gi^o. 
We do not learn from Denham and Clapper- 
ton, or any other traveller, that such a disaster 
has ever occurred among any free tribe of 
Africans. Our slaves at present maintain 
themselves, and others who are engaged in the 
time hallowed occupation of doing nothing all 
the year round, also. It will be strange if 
a man who has the strongest motive for exer- 
tion, to wit, his own benefit, cannot labor as 
diligently as he, the profit of whose toil goes 
to feed and enrich another. Let any slave- 
owner who holds this doctrine, and there are 
many who do, propose the risk to his bonds- 
man. I think the slave will take his risk at 
starvation. 

There are hundreds who fear the imagina- 
ry evils above mentioned, and therefore op- 
pose an immediate emancipation of the slaves, 
who are yet willing to encom-age a gradual 
abolition. Gradual abolition, forsooth ! Fine 



Extracts from Mr. Snelling's Address. 



Words, to quiet guilty consciences. Since I 
can remember any thing, and I am not a very 
young man, I have heard of gradual abolition. 
It is a sop to the Cerberus Conscience. I mar- 
vel that no uneasy thief has thought of a grad- 
ual repentance and retribution. What has 
gradual abolition done, and what will it ever 
do ? Are the slaves an inch nigher freedom 
now than they were fifty years ago ? On the 
contrary, they are farther from it. The dan- 
ger, if there was any, that would have result- 
ed from it, has increased ; the bonds of iniqui- 
ty- — I mean the restrictive laws — have been 
gradually drawn closer and closer around 
them. Are there fewer slaves now in the U- 
nited States, than there were when gradual 
abolition was first devised ? On the contrary, 
their number has doubled, as you all know. 
Gradual abolition is like intended repentance, 
it has been put off till the time for it has pass- 
ed away. When I hear a man speak of grad- 
ual abolition, I at once conclude that he is a 
fool, a hypocrite, or that he has not studied 
the subject. Those two Avords have done the 
colored race more harm than all the speeches 
that ever were made in favor of slavery. We, 
that is the Society I have the honor to repre- 
sent, say, tamper not with conscience. Obey 
the dictates of religion, duty and humanity. 
Shew mercy — do justice now — this very now, 
and leave the consequences to God. The 
worst that can happen cannot be more offen- 
sive to Him who is all mercy, or more danger- 
ous to yourselves than the present state of 
things. 

I have often been surprised to observe how 
small is the difference between the opinions 
of some gradual abolitionists and those of the 
advocates of immediate emancipation. They 
admit that slavery is wrong, that it is a nation- 
al curse. They are willing to have the slave 
immediately exempted from the hardships pe- 
culiar to his condition, and from his liability 
to be bought and sold. Yet the words imme- 
diate emancipation frighten them. They im- 
agine that we wish to admit the slaves imme- 
diately to our houses, our tables, to all the 
privileges of fellowship, and to an equality of 
political rights. We desire no such things. 
We wish only for what every man, whose 
moral sense has not been stifled by interest 
or prejudice, will admit to be right. When we 
call for immediate emancipation, we mean 
that no man ought to hold property in man, 
that no man ought to have the power to apply 
the lash to his brother. We say that no man 
should be sold, like a beast of burthen. We 
say that the safety and honor of woman should 
have some better gua'ranty than the doubtful 
virtue of an absolute master. We insist that 
every man should be permitted to learn and 
to worship the Author of his being in the 
way most agreeable to his conscience. We 
say that he who has ploughed and sowed, 
should reap and keep the harvest. These 



things are what we understand by the words; 
immediate abolition, and who will say that wc 
ask any thing unreasonable ? Is there any 
descendant of those who fled from Britain to 
enjoy liberty of conscience in the wilderness 
who will forbid the black to participate in that 
right? Will any inhabitant of industrious 
New-England rebuke us for affirming that the 
laborer is worthy of his hire? We ask only 
that our countrymen should give a practical 
illustration of their own privileges, as avowed 
in the first clause of the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence, viz. ' All men are born free and e- 
qual.' 

Where would be the mighty evil of such an 
immediate emancipation as this ? What harm 
did such an immediate emancipation do the 
patriarchs of New-England? Did their freed- 
men massacre them for their benevolence ? 
Was there an individual attempt made at re- 
venge for past injuries ? Have the free blacks 
ever, in any degree, injured or retarded the 
march of our prosperity ? I have often been 
told that after having thus been emancipated, 
the southern blacks will acquire property, be- 
come half owners of the soil, and have an 
equal voice in the government. What then ? 
Every man has a right to acquire property. 
Every man, who is properly qualified by edu- 
cation and the payment of taxes, has a right 
to share in the management of his own affairs. 
The free blacks here have long been permit- 
ted to acquire property and to vote at the polls, 
and what white man considers himself injured 
thereby ? These are rights which prejudice 
alone disputes — reason cannot. 

But, say the enemies of emancipation, how- 
are the whites to cultivate their lands, if de- 
prived of their slaves ? Their climate will 
not permit them to Avork. Then let them seek 
a milder climate, or accept a subsistence from 
their black brethren as alms, or starve. No pre- 
cept is more just than this — 'He that Avill not 
Avork, neither shall he eat.' How Avould the 
Avorking men here receive a proposal to sup- 
port all Avhom laziness or other causes have 
rendered incapable of labor ? No, if a coun- 
try be unfit for a portion of the inhabitants, 
they have no business there. They should 
seek another — not depend upon those of a 
better physical conformation. HoAvever, I do 
not believe that there is any good cause for 
fear on this head. 

Another objection suggested by prejudice 
against emancipation is, that it would be fol- 
lowed by an amalgamation of the tAvo parties 
of our southern brethren. I acknoAvledge that 
a very general prejudice acts strongly a- 
gainst the negro. Few of us are without it. 
Still it is but a prejudice. If a colored person 
has the manners, the education and the char- 
acter of a gentleman and a christian, Avhy 
should any christian gentleman feel offended 
at his approach ? Yet I would not unneces- 
sarily irritate even prejudice. When the 



56 



Safety of Immediate Emancipation. 



slaves shall have become free and shall have 
made themselves respectable, it will be at the 
option of every white to associate with them 
or not. No man will be compelled to associ- 
ate or intermarry with them. Let the two ra- 
ces approximate toward an equality or not, 
the question has not the least bearing upon a- 
malgamation. Set the blacks free, and they 
will amalgamate with us — keep them in bond- 
age, and still they will amalgamate. Half the 
people of color now in the United States are 
of mixed blood. Amalgamation could not have 
proceeded faster, had the blacks been free 
since their first introduction into the country. 
(To be continued.) 



IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. No. IV. 

The actual condition of the hundred thous- 
and emancipated blacks and persons of color 
in the West India Colonies, certainly gives 
no reason to apprehend that if a general eman- 
cipation should take place, the newly freed 
slaves would not be able and willing to sup- 
port themselves. On this point the Returns 
from fourteen of the Slave Colonies, laid be- 
fore the House of Commons in 1826, give sat- 
isfactory information : they include a period 
of five years from January 1, 1821, to Decem- 
ber 31, 1825, and give the following account 
of the state of pauperism in each of these Col- 
onies. 

Bahamas. The only establishment in the 
Colony for the relief of the poor appears to be 
a hospital or poor-house. The number pass- 
ing through the hospital annually was, on the 
average, fifteen free black and colored persons 
and thirteen whites. The number of free 
black and colored persons is about double that 
of the whites ; so that the proportion of white 
to that of colored paupers in the Bahamas, is 
nearly two to one. 

Barbadoes. The average annual number of 
persons supported in the nine parishes, from 
which Returns have been sent, is 998, all of 
whom, with a single exception, are white. The 
probable amount of white persons in the isl- 
and is 14,500 — of free black and colored per- 
sons 4,500. 

Berbice. The white population appears to 
amount to about 600, the free black and color- 
ed to 900. In 1822, it appears that there were 
17 white and 2 colored paupers. 

Demerara. The free black and colored pop- 
ulation, it is supposed, are twice the number 
of the whites. The average number of white 
pensioners on the poor fund appears to be 51, 
that of colored pensioners 26. In occasional 
relief, the white paupers receive about three 
times as much as the colored. 
- Dominica. The white population is esti- 
mated at about 900 ; the free black and color- 
ed population was ascertained, in 1825, to a- 
mount to 3122. During the five years ending in 
November, 1825, thirty of the former class had 



received relief from the poor fund, and only 
ten of the latter, making the proportion of 
more than nine white paupers to one colored 
one in the same number of persons. 

Grenada. This colony contained in 1825, 
3486 free black and colored persons, and it 
does not appear that any relief whatever has 
been given to them dming the five years for 
which returns have been sent. 

Honduras. The free black and colored 
population, in 1824, amounted to 1750. The 
return of the Treasurer of the Colony is, 'that 
there are no funds raised for the support of the 
poor, there being so very few persons who are 
literally in distress from poverty ; but such 
as are so are readily relieved from the public 
funds. The number of free persons thus re- 
lieved has varied from 6 to 8 during the five 
years. 

Jamaica is supposed to contain 20,000 
whites, and double that number of free black 
and colored persons. The returns of paupers 
from the parishes which have sent returns ex- 
hibits the average number of white paupers to 
be 295, of black and colored paupers 148 : the 
proportion of white paupers to those of the 
other class, according to the whole population, 
being as four to one. 

JYevis. The white population is estimated 
at about 800, the free black and colored at a- 
bout 1800. The number of white paupers re- 
ceiving relief is stated to be 25 ; that of the 
other class 2 ; being in the proportion of 28 to 1. 

St. Christophers. The average number of 
white paupers appears to be 115 ; that of the 
other class 14 ; although there is no doubt that 
the population of the latter class greatly out- 
numbers that of the former. 

St. Vince7its. The white population in 1825 
was 1301 : the other class 2824. 'We have 
never had,' says the Governor Sir C. Brisbanes, 
' any poor rate. The few paupers (always 
white) who resort hither, are supported from 
town funds.' 

Tobago. The Governor, Sir F. P. Robin- 
son, informs Lord Bathurst that 'there is no 
fund for assisting paupers except that of the 
Church (which does not amount to sixty dol- 
lars per annum) as there are no other poor peo- 
ple who require that kind of relief.' 

Tortola. In 1825, the free black and color- 
ed population amounted to 607. The whites 
are estimated at about 300. The number of 
white paupers relieved appears to be 29 : of 
the other class 4 : being in proportion of four- 
teen to one. 

Trinidad. The white population is about 
3,500 ; the other class amounts to about 15,000. 
No funds raised for the poor. 

In short, in a population of free black and 
colored persons amounting to from 80,000 to 
90,000, only 229 persons have received any 
relief whatever as paupers during the years 
1821 to 1825, and these chiefly the concubines 
and chddren of destitute whites: while of 



Safety of Immediate Emancipation. 



57 



about 05,000 whites, in the same time, 1G75 
received relief. The proportion, therefore, of 
enfranchised persons receiving - any kind of 
aid as paupers in the West Indies, is about 
one in 370: whereas the proportion among the 
whites of the West Indies is about one in 
forty ; and in England, generally one in twelve 
or thirteen — in some counties, one in eight 
or nine. 

Can any one read these statements, made 
by the Colonists themselves, and still think it 
necessary to keep the negroes in slavery, lest 
they should be unable to maintain themselves 
if free ? There is clearly much more reason, 
on this ground, for reducing the poor whites, 
both in the West Indies and in England, to 
slavery, than for retaining the negroes in that- 
state. 

It is to be regretted that among the Parlia- 
mentary papers there are no returns of the 
comparative number of convicted criminals in 
the enfranchised and the white population, ex- 
cept one from Jamaica. As Jamaica, howev- 
er, contains as large a population as that of 
all the rest of the West India Colonies united ; 
this one will probably afford a tolerably fair 
estimate of the comparative quantity of crime 
in the two classes throughout the West Indies. 
The enfranchised inhabitants of Jamaica are 
considerably more numerous than the whites : 
and yet by a return from several of its parish- 
es, ordered to be printed by the House of Com- 
mons in 1815, (No. 478,) it appears that the 
proportion of criminal convictions of whites 
and of enfranchised persons Avas as twenty- 
four of the former to eight of the latter. 

Incontestable testimony, both public and 
private, has been given to the good conduct of 
the freed black and the colored people in many 
of the colonies. Mr. Steele, a considerable 
land and slave proprietor, in his answers to the 
queries of Governor Parry, gives the following 
account of the freed people in Barbadoes. 'It 
is in general obvious to any person of observa- 
tion, that free negroes and mulattoes must 
apply themselves to some kind of industry, as 
they are never seen begging, either males or 
females ; whereas the Island in general is pes- 
tered with white beggars of both sexes and of 
all ages, covered only with filthy rags ; whde 
the free negroes and mulattoes are well cloth- 
ed, and appear to be well fed. Many of the 
men work at the various trades of smiths, car- 
penters and masons ; and serve as militia ten- 
ants, and cultivate their tenements industrious- 
ly. Two free black tradesmen, a mason and 
a carpenter, are militia tenants on the estate 
of this respondent, and labor on their tenements 
with their own hands, living with sobriety and 
good order. Several others rent small parcels 
of land in this neighborhood, and some of them 
by their industry have been able to purchase 
little freeholds, and build good habitations on 
them.' 

Dr. Dickson, private Secretary to the late 



Honorable Edward Hay, Governor of Barba- 
does, says of the same people, 'Of one tiling 
I am as certain, as any man can be of a future 
event; that the generally peaceable, sober, in- 
dustrious, and even sensible people of the free 
colored class in Barbadoes, about 5,000 in 
number, (he is speaking both of free blacks 
and mulattoes,) would thankfully receive and 
endeavor to merit any privilege which might 
be conferred on them. Above six-and-twen- 
ty years ago, I publicly declared my good 
opinion of them, which has since been corro- 
borated by Mr. Steele and General Tottenham, 
and still more by their own general good con- 
duct.' 

Mr. Bickell, a clergyman of the Church of 
England, who lived six years in Jamaica, 
says, 'I am well aware it has been asserted 
that nothing but coercion can induce a negro 
to labor more than barely to raise enough for 
his subsistence. This is extremely erroneous: 
witness the great number of free blacks in the 
towns of Jamaica: in Kingston, they are most 
of them good mechanics, and work as regular- 
ly and as hard as white men in this country (En- 
gland.) They also conduct themselves as well, 
can read and write many of them, and are more 
respectably clad than white men of the same 
class in England. In Port Royal, just the 
same ; they are industrious and intelligent, and 
several of them have more, much more reli- 
gion, than the low white men there, who af- 
fect to despise them. They are very anxious 
to get their children educated, and in Kings- 
ton, Spanish-Town, Port-Royal, and other 
towns, most of the free children can read and 
write. In Kingston, the church is thronged 
every Sunday morning, principally by free 
people of color and free blacks. There is but 
one church: on this account, the dissenters 
have four or five places of worship. The 
means by Avhich some of these chapels were 
built, redound very much to the credit of the 
free people of color, free blacks and slaves of 
Kingston ; for I was credibly informed that it 
was principally through the donations and sub- 
scriptions of these too much despised classes, 
that two of these buildings Avere raised.'* 

In 1823, the Assembly of Grenada passed a 
resolution, declaring that the free colored in- 
habitants of these colonies Avere a respectable, 
well behaved class of the community, Avere 
possessed of considerable property, and Avere 
entitled to have their claims vieAved with fa- 
vor. 

In 1824, Avhen Jamaica had been disturbed 
for months by unfounded alarms relating to 
the slaves, a committee of the legislative as- 
sembly declared that 'the conduct of the freed 
people evinced not only zeal and alacrity, but 
a Avarm interest in the Avelfare of the colony, 
and every Avay identified them with those who 
are the most zealous promoters of its internal 



* West Indies as they are, page 16. 
VOL. I. 



58 



Safety of Immediate Emancipation. 



security.' The assembly confirmed this favor- 
able report a few months ago, by passing a 
bill conferring on all free black and colored 
persons the same privileges, civil and political, 
with the white inhabitants. 

In the Orders issued in 1829, by the British 
Government, in St. Lucia, placing all freemen 
of African descent upon the footing of equal 
rights with their white neighbors, the loyalty 
and good conduct of that class are distinctly 
acknowledged, and they are declared ' to have 
shown, hitherto, readiness and zeal in coming 
forward for the maintenance of order.' As 
similar Orders have been issued for Trinidad, 
Berbice, and the Cape of Good Hope, it may 
be presumed that the conduct of the free blacks 
and colored persons in those Colonies has like- 
wise given satisfaction to Government. 

In the South African Commercial Adverti- 
ser of the 9th of Feb. 1831, we are happy to 
find recorded one more of the numerous proofs 
which experience affords of the safety and 
expediency of immediate abolition. 

A gentleman, (Mr. Chase) a friend of slave- 
ry, asks this question : — ' Have the friends of 
immediate emancipation marked the conduct 
of the prize negroes in this colony, who have 
suddenly acquired liberty ?' The answer to 
this question is promptly given as follows: 
' We speak advisedly : — three thousand Prize 
Negroes have received their freedom, 400 in 
one day ; but not the least difficulty or disorder 
occurred : — servants found masters — masters 
hired servants ; all gained homes, and at night 
scarcely an idler ivas to be seen. In the last 
month, 150 were liberated under precisely 
similar circumstances, and with the same re- 
sult. These facts are within our own obser- 
vation ; and to state that sudden and abrupt 
emancipation would create disorder and dis- 
tress to those you mean to serve, is not reason ; 
but the plea of any and all men who are adverse 
to emancipation.' 

To this it is added that to these events the 
writer makes his appeal, and that they must 
be deemed satisfactory, until Mr. Chase 'shall 
have produced facts to establish the charge 
against the Prize Negroes, so strongly implied 
in the above quotation. Mr. Chase is respect- 
fully challenged to produce such facts.' 

No reply had appeared in any subsequent 
journal ; and as the controversy was proceed- 
ing actively, we conclude that none could be 
given. 

As far as it can be ascertained from the vari- 
ous documents which have been cited, and from 
others, which, from the fear of making this ac- 
count too long, are not particularly referred to, 
it appears that in every place and time in which 
emancipation has been tried, not one drop of 
white blood has been shed, or even endangered 
by it: that it hag every where greatly improv- 
ed the condition, of the blacks, and in most 
places has removed them from a state of deg- 
radation and suffering to one of respectability 



and happiness. Can it, then, be justifiable on 
account of any vague fears of we know not 
what evils, to reject this just, salutary and hith- 
erto uninjurious measure ; and to cling to a 
system which Ave know by certain experience 
is producing crime, misery and death, during 
every day of its existence ? Is it possible that 
any persons can persuade themselves that 
though emancipation, even when perfectly 
sudden and utterly unprepared for, has been 
harmless and beneficial wherever it has hith- 
erto been tried ; yet that if it should be legally 
established throughout the slave countries, and 
introduced into them with the most carefully 
considered precautions, it would be attended 
with the massacre of the whites and the ruin 
of the blacks? Those who do come to such 
an incomprehensible conclusion may, without 
self-reproach, speak, write or vote for meliora- 
tion, in other words for perpetual slavery, or 
at least of slavery which ■will in all probability 
continue till its victims are set free either by 
the frightful mortality which is so rapidly di- 
minishing their numbers, or by the strength of 
their own arm. 

But what rational motive is there for prefer- 
ring slavery to emancipation ? Slavery we 
know kills many thousands annually in our col- 
onies,inflicts most grievous sufferings on those 
whom it does not destroy, creates and nourish- 
es every bad passion in those by whom it is 
administered, Emancipation, as far as we 
know, has not destroyed any, has not inflicted 
sufferings on any, has not nourished bad pas- 
sions in any ; and no reason has ever been ad- 
vanced to make it appear probable that it 
would ever cause any of these evils in future. 
Why then should we prefer slavery to eman- 
cipation ? I believe many shut their eyes, and 
will not see that this is, in reality, all the choice 
they have. They fear that some evils may at- 
tend emancipation, and under the influence of 
this fear, they speak, write or resolve to vote 
against it, without distinctly bringing the fact 
to their minds that they are thus supporting 
slavery. They resolve to vote against eman- 
cipation, but flatter themselves that they will 
be voting only. for melioration : but the truth 
is, that they will be voting for slavery. They 
will be creating slavery for future years, as 
really as if they were at that moment estab- 
lishing it for the first time. They will be vot- 
ing for murder ; only endeavoring to prevent 
the number annually destroyed from amount- 
ing to so many thousands as it does now. 
They will be voting for the cultivation of pride, 
rage, hatred, ignorance, irreligion, licentious- 
ness and misery ; only endeavoring to prevent 
their growth from being so luxuriant as it has 
hitherto been. 

There are many who see the guilt of slav- 
ery, but who either from a panic fear of im- 
mediate emancipation, or from unwillingness 
to give too much offence to sbme friend or 
connexion,endeavor to satisfy their consciences 



Appropriations to the Colonization Society. 



59 



by declaring for melioration. I wish it were 
possible to induce such persons honestly to 
ask themselves, what reason they have for 
thinking that melioration will ever introduce 
emancipation. Is there any reason to suppose 
that the slaveholders will be more willing to 
set their slaves free at some future period, be- 
cause they will be a little better fed, a little 
less worked, and a little less flogged than they 
are now ?•* Will Government or the people 
be more desirous of procuring the freedom of 
the slaves when these improvements have ta- 
ken place ? Evidently the contrary : it is im- 
possible that they should not be more indiffer- 
ent on the subject, when they believe their 
sufferings to be lessened, than they are now. 
The majority, it is probable, will he tolerably 
satisfied with the improvements enacted, will 
flatter themselves that ail is going on well, 
and that the slaves are gradually but steadily 
advancing towards freedom, if, which is still, 
more probable, they do not altogether forget 
them. And even those who are the most deep- 
ly dissatisfied with such measures will almost 
inevitably become less anxious on the subject 
as time passes on: having failed in their ef- 
forts, and seeing no chance that an early re- 
petition of them could be of any avail, they 
will be too ready to rest from their hopeless 
labors ; and then the case of the poor slaves 
will'indeedbe desperate. 

Let the advocates of this mode of proceed- 
ing carefully and in real earnest consider, 
whether ten or fifty years hence, the very same 
reasons or fears may not be urged against 
emancipation, which they now think sufficient 
to justify its rejection. They wish, no doubt, 
that the meliorating measures may improve 
the slaves so much as to make "hat step safe 
and advisable which they now deprecate : but 
we are not at liberty to act on idle wishes 
when the most essential interests of our fel- 
low creatures are concerned. It is our duty 
to examine the subject, to inquire by what 
process, and with what degree of probabil- 
ity, any or all of the suggested improve- 



* Better taught we may be certain the generality of 
raasters will take care they shall not be, if education is 
to lead to emancipation. A hundred and thirty years 
ago, a law was enacted in Jamaica, declaring that ev- 
ery slave ought to be educated and to receive instruc- 
tion in the christian religion ; and this very year it is 
confessed that the Act has never been carried into ex- 
ecution. Can any one, who does not willingly blind 
himself,believe that the slaveholders will be more will- 
ing to execute it when they consider education as a 
preparatory step to emancipation ? If any one doubts 
what are the inclinations of the generality of slavehold- 
ers on this point, let him listen to the incontrovertible 
evidence of Mr. Trew, late Rector of St. Thomas in 
the East in Jamaica. 'Few masters,' he says, 'in 
Jamaica, will consent to have their slaves instructed at 
all, and the instruction given in ninety-nine out of one 
hundred cases is merely oral ; the simple boon of per- 
mitting them to learn to read is withheld by their supe- 
riors.' He adds that any general attempt to teach the 
slaves to read would be construed into an act little short 
of treason. 



ments will 'fit the slave for freedom,' as 
the phrase is. If, on such a careful examina- 
tion, we find that there is no reason to believe 
that they will produce this effect, let us speak 
out, and either say, 'Then the slaves shall be 
freed now,' or let us have the courage and sin- 
cerity to say, ' Then we consent to their be- 
ing slaves for ever.' 

It seems too certain that melioration, so far 
from being the harbinger of emancipation, is 
the best friend and the most power/id ally of 
slavery. It is indeed the only hope of slavery, 
which must inevitably be soon destroyed now 
that its enormities are brought to light, if the 
timid, and the indolent, and the unthinking, 
and the lukewarm, and the selfish friends of 
the slaves, can be prevented from falling into 
this fatal snare. 



VIRGINIA LEGISLATURE 

The Richmond Whig gives the following abstract of 
the law recently enacted by the Legislature of Virgin- 
ia, making appropriations for the removal of the free 
people of color. 

It appropriates the sum of eighteen thousand dollars 
annually for five years, to remove persons who are now 
free, and born and residing within the State, or their 
descendants, and who are willing to emigrate, to be 
selected from the different counties and corporations of 
the commonwealth, in proportion to the amount of rev- 
enue paid into the public treasury by such county or 
corporation ; and in case there be not sufficient in such 
counties willing to emigrate, then the balance of the 
appropriation unexpended may be equitably applied 
to the removal of free persons of color from other coun- 
ties, &c; appoints the governor, lieutenant governor, 
and first and second auditors, a board of commission- 
ers to carry the atit into effect. The appropriation to 
be paid to the American Colonization Society, upon 
proof of the actual transportation to the C0I0113- at Li- 
beria from this State, of such free persons of color, pro- 
vided not more than thirty dollars shall be allowed for 4 
transporting each person above the age of ten years, 
and not more than twenty dollars for each person under 
that age. The commissioners to make an animal re- 
port of their proceedings to the general assembly. 

We view with great regret this manifestation of the 
colonization spirit. We fear that it wili lead to the 
persecution of the free people of color in Virginia. 
When it is known that the legislature has appropriated 
funds, it will be in vain for colored men to refuse this 
bounty. From what we have read of voluntarij emi- 
gration from Virginia, it will differ from com-pulsory 
only in this respect : if the legislature had authorized 
compulsory colonization, force would have been em- 
ployed by authorized officers of the State ; as it is, 
the force will come from private citizens. 

The Boston Recorder, in reference to the above 
appropriation, says — 

' In one respect, however, if the above abstract is 
correct, the Virginia law is far enough from doing any 
honor to the wisdom, or justice, or philanthropy of its 
framers. Its benefits are not to extend to those who 
may be emancipated hereafter. It contains not one 
word to encourage emancipation. If any choose to 
give freedom to their slaves, the State gives them no 
aid or countenance. Perhaps we ought not to expect 
it ; but the omission, we confess, adds greatly to the 
strength of our fears respecting the general manage** 
ment of the appropriation.' 



CO 



Levying on Slaves.— Change of Sentiment. 



LEVYING ON SLAVES. 

The following account is extracted from 
Bickell's West Indies as they are. 

'The distress and terror among a gang of 
negroes, when the Marshal's Deputy, with his 
dogs, and other assistants, comes to levy in a 
large way, cannot be conceived by those who, 
happily for themselves, have never been spec- 
tators of such scenes, and can scarcely be de- 
scribed by those who have witnessed them. — 
I was once on a coffee mountain (staying for 
a few days with a brother Clergyman, who 
had permission to reside there) on which were 
about seventy or eighty negroes ; the proprie- 
tor was much in debt, and was aware that one 
or two of his largest creditors had for some 
time wished to make a levy on his slaves, to 
pay themselves ; — but by keeping his gates 
locked, and the fences round the dwelling- 
house and negro-houses in good repair, he 
had hitherto baffled the argus-eyed deputy 
and his deputies. The night after I arrived 
on the property, however, I was awaked about 
an hour before day-light, by a great noise, as 
of arms, with cries of women and children. — 
I at first scarcely knew what it was ; but in a 
few minutes a private servant came to my Avin- 
dow, and informed me that it was the Marshal's 
deputies making a levy on the negroes, and 
that the noise proceeded from the clashing of 
weapons ; for some of the slaves, he said, had 
stoutly resisted. I then alarmed my friend, 
being nearer the scene of action than he was, 
and we determined to go out to see that no 
improper use was made of the tremendous 
power given to these Cerberuses. By the 
time we arrived at the negro-houses, the re- 
sistance had ceased ; for the negroes being 
divided, had been overcome by the myrmidons 
of the law, they being eight or ten in number. 
One poor fellow, however, was being dragged 
along like a thief, by a fierce and horrid look- 
ing Irishman, who had been one of M'Gregor's 
freebooters, and who, when we came near, 
grasped his victim more tightly, and brandish- 
ed his broad-sword over the poor creature, 
with the grin and growl of a demon ; as much 
as to say, ' You dog, I will annihilate you 
and them too, if they attempt to interfere.' 

Many of the men escaped from the proper- 
ty, and some few others secreted themselves 
among the coffee trees, till the party had gone 
off with their prey. They secured, however, 
ten or twelve men, and most of the women 
and children, amounting, in the whole, to be- 
tween thirty and forty, which were huddled 
together on the outside of the principal fence, 
and presented such a heart-rending scene, as 
I never witnessed before, and should be very 
sorry ever to witness again. Some of the chil- 
dren had lost their mothers, and some of the 
mothers had been torn away from a part of 
their children ; for some of the little urchins 
also escaped. One woman, in particular, h&& 



six or seven children ; — two or three of them 
were seized, and the others escaped—but the 
youngest, an infant, had been caught, and she 
wept aloud, and very bitterly for it, saying — • 
' That she must give herself up, if the child 
were not got back ; for she could not live sep- 
arate from it.' There was many a bitter cry 
and sad lament among the women and chil- 
dren — for they loved their master, who was 
kind, and had also excellent provision-grounds 
for them. Two or three of the poor fellows 
were wounded ; and I was assured, by a free- 
born man, who was looking after the property 
in the master's absence, that had the proprie- 
tor been there, there would have been sad 
work, very likely murder ; for it was an illegal 
levy, and the resistance would have been des- 
perate under their master's eye and voice. — • 
They were tied together, or hand-cuffed, and 
driven off the same morning to Spanish Town 
gaol, a distance of twenty miles. I might here 
remark, that the labor is much lighter on a 
coffee mountain than on a sugar estate, and 
that the negroes are not required to be up so 
much at night, to pick and cure coffee, as they 
are to make sugar ; where, therefore, they have 
good provision-grounds, as they had on this 
mountain I have been speaking of, they are 
much more comfortable and less harassed 
than on a sugar estate.' 



CHANGE OF SENTIMENT. 

It is with great satisfaction that we insert 
the following letter from an esteemed clergy- 
man in an adjacent State. 

, Feb. 20, 1833. 

To the Editors of the Abolitionist. 

Messrs. Editors: — Having recently pe- 
rused the second No. of ' The Abolitionist,' 
containing extracts from the Report of the 
New-England Anti-Slavery Society ; and also 
a large pamphlet by Mr. Garrison, entitled 
' Tl noughts on African Colo7iization,'' I have 
been led into an entirely new series of reflec- 
tions on the subject of slavery. 

Although, for several years, I have sustain- 
ed the Colonization Society, by membership, 
publicly advocating its claims, and taking con- 
tributions in its support ; and although it is 
yet sustained by so many of our philanthro- 
pists of the north ; with my present views of 
the subject, I can stand by it no longer. For 
a while, I was led to believe that this Society 
should be encouraged as a kind of senior 
pastor, with its new colleague, the Abolition 
or ' Anti- Slavery Society ; ' but if not altogeth- 
er misled, as to the natural results of the 
Colonization Society, I am constrained to be- 
lieve, that, although good maybe accomplish- 
ed by it, in behalf of those who shall enjoy its 
benefactions in the Colony at Liberia, it has 
operated, and wdl continue to operate, if sup- 
ported, directly against our colored popula- 



A Canterbury Tale. 



61 



tion, both free and bond, in rendering the 
emancipation of the one more difficult and im- 
probable ; and the condition of the other, in 
America, more degraded and deplorable. 

The matters of fact, now before the public, 
appear to me amply sufficient to produce con- 
viction on the mind of every impartial and hu- 
mane individual, who carefully surveys them, 
that the above conclusion, concerning African 
Colonization, is neither preposterous nor ab- 
surd. 

As a token of sincerity, in saying what I 
have, and to evince my sympathies for that 
long suffering and exceedingly abused peo- 
ple, to whom the Almighty has given a skin 
of darker hue than our own, I here enclose 
$15, for the Treasury of the New-England 
Anti-Slavery Society, hoping thus, at least, in 
some degree, to expiate the injuries of my 
former course, and liberate myself from an 
apparent participation with slave dealers and 
their abettors, in the unparalleled wickedness 
of this traffic in the bodies and souls of our 
brethren of the human race. My name is also 
offered, if it may be accepted, as a life mem- 
ber of the Society. 

Another dollar I send you, for which you 
will please send me a copy of your paper, 
' The Abolitionist,'' for one year. 

Wishing you much of that wisdom which is 
from above, and great success in your righteous 
undertaking, 

I am yours, truly, H. J. 



A CANTERBURY TALE. 

' Thou hast most traitorously corrupted the youth of 
the realm by erecting a grammar school,' — Jack 
Cade. 

We scarcely know how to comment upon 
the disgraceful proceedings in Canterbury, 
which are recorded in the following letter of 
Mr. Benson. It appears incredible that in a 
Christian country, among a people who re- 
gard themselves as enlightened, the inhabit- 
ants of a single town should be found, who 
are desirous of withholding from any class of 
their fellow citizens the means of acquiring 
religion and knowledge. We never, till we 
read this letter, realized in its full measure 
and extent the blind and frantic prejudice 
against the people of color, which guides too 
many of those who style themselves Chris- 
tians. 

The idea entertained by the people of Can- 
terbury that the establishment of a school for 
the education of twenty or thirty little girls 
would bring ruin upon their town, would be 
merely ludicrous if it had not produced such 
melancholy results. It is perfectly obvious 
that a flourishing boarding school must tend 
to enrich the place in which it is situated. 



Money must be spent there, for the support of 
the scholars. The resort of their relations 
and friends to the place to visit them must 
also bring money to it. Such a school could not 
be successful without benefitting the town. 

We presume that the only serious objection 
to the proposed institution in Canterbury, was 
that its pupils were to be of the African race. 
Is it then to be established as a principle, that 
every person who has African blood in his 
veins, is to be denied the common means of 
education, by the people of New-England ? 
If not, how is the course of these misguided 
villagers to be justified ? For no reason can 
be given why the people of color should not 
be educated, which will not apply to every 
other place in New-England as well as to 
Canterbury. Do we believe that colored men 
are to be made better by ignorance ? or that 
the situation of the whites is to be improved by 
shutting the light of knowledge from their 
colored brethren ? If we admit that colored 
people have the same right to be educated as 
the whites, we must admit that they have a 
right to be educated in some place. 

Are the people of Canterbury afraid that 
their village will be ruined, by twenty or thir- 
ty young girls coming into it, because they 
are colored? If these children were to be 
paupers, we should not think the sensitiveness 
of the Canterburians so strange. But they 
will be the daughters of the richest and most 
intelligent among the colored people. It is 
absurd to suppose they will impose a burden 
on the village. 

We have endeavored, but in vain, to imag- 
ine what specific evil the townsmen of Can- 
terbury could anticipate. We can only ascribe 
their conduct to the workings of a deep and 
unrelenting prejudice against the colored peo- 
ple, which views with jealousy every attempt 
made to improve the African race among us, 
and wishes to drive the objects of its hatred as 
far as possible from its sight. 

If we had found any thing deserving the 
name of an argument in the report of the pro- 
ceedings at the Canterbury town meeting, we 
should have endeavored to answer it. As it 
is, we are satisfied with copying a scene from 
Shakspeare, in which the principal person- 
ages in their dislike for education, appear to 
have been animated with the same enlighten- 
ed spirit as the leaders of Canterbury. The 
judicial dignity of Cade, his patient hearing of 
the case in hand, the fairness and candor with 



G2 



A Canterbury Tale. 



which he weighed the arguments in favor of 
his prisoner, and the just severity of his sen- 
tence, were all successfully imitated in the 
deliberations of the Connecticut patriots. 

' Smith. The clerk of Chatham : he can read, and 
write, and cast accompt. 

Cade. O monstrous ! 

S:nith. We took him setting of boys 7 copies. 

Cade. Here 's a villain. 

Smith. H 'as a book in his pocket with red letters in it. 

Cade. Nay, then he is a conjurer. 

Dick. Nay, he can make obligations, and write 
court hand. 

Cade. I am sorry for 't : the man is a proper man, 
on mine honor ; unless I find him guilty, he shall not 
die. * * * * Dost thou use to write thy name ? 
or hast thou a mark to thyself like an honest plain deal- 
ing man 1 

Clerk. Sir, I thank God, I have been so well 
brought up that I can write my name. 

AIL. He hath confessed : away with him; he's a 
villain and a traitor. 

Cade. Away with him, I say : hang him with his 
pen and inkhorn about his neck.' 

{From the Liberator.] 
Providence, R. I. March 12th, 1833. 
Mr. Win. Lloyd Garrison. 

Dear Friend — You have, ere this, heard of 
the excitement that prevailed at Canterbury, 
when the intention of Miss Crandall to open 
a school for the education of colored females 
was made known to the inhabitants ; and you 
doubtless wish to hear the result of the Town 
Meeting that was warned to take place on 
Saturday last. 

I arrived at C. from Providence, just at the 
hour the freemen were assembling ; and when 
I entered the meeting-house, found that a 
moderator had been chosen, and the warrant 
for the meeting read. On rapidly glancing 
my eye over the assembled multitude, I was 
rejoiced to recognise the faces of our friends 
Messrs. Buffum and May, and one or two oth- 
ers, who I knew were the decided friends of 
our cause. But my attention was soon called 
to a protest against the establishment of the 
school, signed by many of the citizens, which 
showed precisely the sentiments with which 
they regarded it. A preamble, with two reso- 
lutions annexed, was then handed to the Town 
Clerk by Rufus Adams, Esq. and read to the 
people. The preamble stated the intention of 
Miss Crandall to establish a school in Canter- 
bury, for the education of young colored fe- 
males, and the resolutions amounted to this, 
viz — That the unqualified disapprobation of 
this meeting be expressed against the estab- 
lishment of the above mentioned school — that 
we will do all in our power to prevent it — and 
that a committee be appointed to visit Miss 
Crandall to inform her of the proceedings or 
result of the meeting, to endeavor to con- 
vince her of the injurious consequences that 
would inevitably result from the introduction 
of colored children into the town, and to per- 
suade her to relinquish her plans. 



Many remarks were offered upon these res- 
olutions by Andrew T. Judson, Esq. Rufus Ad- 
ams, and others, wholly unworthy of a civilized, 
much less of an enlightened, christian commu- 
nity. The injury that would accrue to the 
town from the introduction of colored children, 
was represented in an awful light by Mr. Jud- 
son. He said that the state of things would be, 
should such a school go into operation, pre- 
cisely as they now are in New-Orleans, where 
there is scarcely, said he, a happy person — 
that their sons and daughters would be forever 
ruined, and property be no longer safe. For 
his part, he was not willing, for the honor and 
welfare of the town, that even one corner of 
it should be appropriated to such a purpose. 
After the example which New-Haven has set, 
he continued, shall it be said that we cannot, 
that we dare not, resist ? We tell these pious 
gentlemen, said he, turning towards Messrs. 
Buffum and May, that the laws shall be put in 
force. I, for one, am happy to see the Rev. 
Gentleman here, who has attempted to impose 
upon me, and seek my property, and rouse my 
feelings — I am happy he is here to hear me. 

The feeling expressed by the citizens of 
New-Haven, in regard to the establishment of 
a College in that place for colored youth, was 
represented by him to be a feeling common 
throughout the State ; that it had been said 
that there was one town in Connecticut that 
was willing that a school of this kind should 
be established, and that was Union. He said 
there were about 75 voters in Union, and a 
freeman of that town told him a few days since 
that should Miss C. attempt to cross their line 
for the purpose of establishing a negro school, 
that every one of these voters would arrange 
themselves upon it, and if she gained admit- 
tance, it would not be until they were no lon- 
ger able to defend themselves. 

Mr. Judson farther stated that they had a 
law which would prevent that school from 
going into operation, the law that related to 
the introduction of foreigners — that it had 
been threatened that if they made use of that 
law, the constitutionality of it should be tried . 
in the Supreme Court of the United States. 
Fellow citizens, let it be done. Are we to 
be frightened because Arthur TappanofNew 
York and some others are worth a few mil- 
lions of dollars, and are going to use it in op- 
pressing us ? No. I know you will answer, 
No. 

Much more was said. Yes, much more was 
said. Shame, shame, shame to those gentle- 
men who had no more honor. The character, 
the motives of Miss Crandall, were basely 
misrepresented. And you will ask, was there 
no one to defend her ? Yes, there was one, 
one, who though he did not seem altogether 
to approve of the school, had moral courage 
enough to defend her character against the 
base insinuations of those who had so much to 
say about foreign influence and oppression 



JVeiv Anti-Slavery Societies. 



G3 



Tliat man was Mr. G. S. White, a tanner. lie 
said the gentlemen were excited, and did not 
rightly consider what they were about to do — 
that the i-csolutions in themselves might be 
well enough, but he thought it going too far 
to bring up an old blue law to support them 
— that that law never was intended, and never 
could be brought to bear upon the school in 
question. He did not believe that such a state 
of things would exist as Mr. Judson had 
represented, if colored children were admitted 
into the town ; for, said he, Miss Crandall is a 
Christian, and the evening and the morning 
prayer will daily ascend to the Father of mer- 
cies in their behalf, and he will vouchsafe his 
blessing. 

Mr. White was continually interrupted by 
one Solomon Paine, who, whenever he at- 
tempted to defend the character of Miss C. 
desired the Moderator, Mr. Asahael Bacon, 
to call him to order : and this was promptly 
done'. Indeed, sir, during the whole time that 
Mr. White was speaking, the house was in the 
utmost confusion : — and notwithstanding every 
liberty was allowed Mr. Judson and Mr. Ad- 
ams, none at al) was allowed him. 

Miss Crandall sent in two slips of paper, re- 
questing that Messrs. Buffum and May might 
be permitted to speak in her behalf. This 
seemed at once to arouse the feelings of the 
whole meeting, and Mr. Judson indignant- 
ly replied that he would not see the laws thus 
degraded and insulted ; and if the Rev. gen- 
tleman and his associate attempted to say any 
thing, the law should be immediately put in 
force. Whether any vote was taken upon 
this subject, I cannot say ; certain it is, that 
the gentlemen were not permitted to speak, 
and defend the cause of her who could not 
plead for herself. One thing was allowed — 
one thing was admitted — that the lady had 
borne an irreproachable character up to the 
time she first contemplated a school for color- 
ed females. Her unpardonable sin lay alto- 
gether in her wish to elevate the moral and 
intellectual condition of the blacks, and at- 
tempting to carry her plans into operation, 
without consulting them. 

The votes upon the resolutions were unan- 
imous. 

Immediately after the meeting was dissolv- 
ed, Mr. Judson told Mr. May to go home — 
that he had no right to interfere — and he did 
not want him there. Mr. May immediately 
requested to be heard — the meeting was over, 
and he was violating no law. A great uproar 
hereupon occurred; — some were for hearing 
him — others declared they would not. In the 
midst of this confusion, the voice of Andrew 
T. Judson, Esq. was heard at the door, order- 
ing the people to leave the house. But he 
found his power was not absolute, Capt. Rich- 
ard Fenner's assistance and aid notwithstand- 
ing. 

Mr. May was at last enabled to proceed, 



and spoke with great energy ; and, I doubt, 
not, with some effect, to about one third of the 
number first assembled. He soon gave way 
to Mr. Buffum, who commenced with defend- 
ing Miss Crandall ; but the door soon flew 
open, and about six men walked up the aisle, 
(the Committee, I conclude, of the house,) 
headed by Doctor Harris, a life member of the 
Colonization Society, who requested Messrs. 
Buffum and May to leave the house. The 
request was instantly complied with. 

In short, such disgraceful proceedings I 
never witnessed before, and little expected to 
witness in the middle of the nineteenth cen- 
tury. The present generation may hail them 
as just, but the very next will execrate them. 
The names of those who have been most ac- 
tive in attempting the suppression of this 
school, may be honored now, but future ages 
will consign them to ignominy and shame. 

I had hoped that, among the enlightened in- 
habitants of Connecticut, such a school would 
be hailed with joy. But I was deceived. Let 
not the voice of remonstrance against South- 
ern tyranny be raised by the people of that- 
State, for it will ' be a Gloucester at his devo- 
tions ' — ' it will be the devil chiding sin.' 

You will doubtless ask — How does Miss 
Crandall bear up under such a mighty opposi- 
tion? I reply — unmoved. Not a purpose of 
her heart is shaken — not a fear awakened 
within her bosom. Confident that she is pur- 
suing the path of duty, she is determined to 
press on to the end. No persecution that can 
assail her, will alter the steadfast purpose of 
her soul. She has received that consolation 
from above, which the world can neither give 
nor take away. 

In view of the great principles for which we 
are contending, I think every abolitionist will 
feel pledged to adopt immediate measures, if 
necessary, for bringing this case before the 
proper tribunal. Your friend, 

HENRY E. BENSON. 



NEW ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES. 
We notice with pleasure the formation of an Anti- 
Slavery Society at Bath in Maine, and of another at 
Reading in Massachusetts. They are both formed 
upon kindred principles with the New-England Anti- 
Slavery Society. The following are the officers of the 
Bath Society : 

Nathan Weld, President. 
John Masters, Vice President. 
Nathaniel Swasey, Secretary. 
John Hayden, Treasurer. 
Davis Hatch, } 

Wm. V. Moses, ^Counsellors. 

Freeman H. Morse, 3 



tO 3 The Treasurer of the New-England Antf-SIavery 
Society acknowledges the receipt of Fifteen Dol- 
lars from the Rev. Henry Jones of Cabot, Vermont, 
to constitute him a Life Member of the New-England 
Anti-Slavery Society. 



G4 



Abolition of Slavery in the British Colonies. — Poetry. 



CHEERING IEWS ! 
Abolition of Slavery in the British Col- 
onies. The system of oppression, which has so long 
been tolerated in the British Colonies, appears to be 
fast approaching its termination. It now scarcely ad- 
mits of a question that the British ministry has deter- 
mined upon the total abolition of slavery in the Colo- 
nies of the Empire. We have no room to express our 
feelings upon the glorious prospect. The following ex- 
tract is from the London Globe of January 29th. 

The West-India interest were thrown into consider- 
able alarm yesterday by a report that it was the inten- 
tion of Ministers to introduce a bill into the new Parlia- 
ment for theTmmediate emancipation of the slaves in the 
West Indies. It was stated that the purport of the bill 
was to limit the existence of slavery in the Colonies to 
three years, and that it was not the intention of the gov- 
ernment to offer any compensation to the planters or 
proprietors. 

In consequence of these rumors, a deputation of gen- 
tlemen connected with the West-Indies waited upon 
Lord Grey, and had an audience of the noble Earl at 
the Treasury, yesterday. They requested to be in- 
formed whether it was true that it was the intention of 
the government to emancipate the slave population? — 
The answer, we understand, was in the affirmative; — 
and that a bill for that purpose would, on an early day, 
be submitted to the consideration of Parliament. It 
was also intimated that three years would be the peri- 
od fixed for the extinction of slavery— that emancipa- 
tion of the negroes would be unconditional, and that 
no compensation, except under special circumstances, 
would be allowed. 

Sir Alexander Grant, who headed the deputation, 
inquired of the noble Premier whether it. was the inten- 
tion of Ministers to announce this important measure in 
the speech from the throne at the opening of the ses- 
sion. Lord Grey replied that the measure had been 
formally decided upon, but that he could not, without 
departing from the rules of courtesy, give airy intima- 
tion of the sentiments which his Majesty would com- 
municate in his address to both Houses of Parliament. 

Upon its being represented to the noble Earl the pro- 
bable consequence which might ensue in the colonies 
in case these measures were prematurely announced, 
his Lordship intimated that the government were pre- 
pared to meet the exigencies, and that an imposing 
force, consisting of 15,000 men, would forthwith be sent 
to the West-Indies. 

This is said to be the purport of the conversation 
which took place, after which the deputation withdrew, 
and communicated the result to their friends in the city. 
We beg it to be understood that we make these state- 
ments upon the rumors which were generally circulated 
in the- city yesterday among the West-India circles. 

This afternoon the business of the Colonial market 
has been suspended by the announcement that his Ma- 
jesty's ministers have made slavery a cabinet question. 
Report adds that slavery will be abolished in three 
years, and that no compensation will be given. This 
announcement has occasioned great agitation, and 
most of the West-India planters have withdrawn their 
sugars from sale, to await the issue of this great event. 

Jamaica. — A new and general ferment has been oc- 
casioned in the Island of Jamaica by the publication 
of a royal Proclamation issued by the king of England 
and accompanied by a circular from the Earl of Mul- 
grave, the Governor, prohibiting the formation or ac- 
tion of any societies for the forcible removal from the 
Island of the Dissenting Teachers and Ministers of 
Religion. His Majesty declares his intention to main- 
tain and defend the principles of religious toleration 
throughout all his dominions, and warns all persons not 
to transgress the injunctions of his Proclamation at 
their peril. 



[For the Abolitionist.] 

YE WHO IN BONDAGE PINE. 

I. 

Ye who in bondage pine, 
Shut out from light divine, 

Bereft of hope ; 
Whose limbs are worn with chains, 
Whose tears bedew our plains, 
Whose blood our glory stains, 

In gloom who grope : — 

II. 

Shout ! for the hour draws nigh, 
That gives you liberty ! 

And from the dust, — 
So long your vile embrace, — 
Uprising, take your place 
Among earth's noblest race, 

By right, thejirst I 



III. 



night 



The night — the long, ] 
Of infamy and slight, 

Shame and disgrace, 
And slavery, worse than e'er 
Rome's serfs were doomed to bear, 
Bloody beyond compare — 

Recedes apace ! 

IV. 

See! in the East breaks forth, 
Kindling the West and North, 

The glorious dawn 
Of Freedom's natal day, 
That shall your race repay 
For years of misery- 
Ages of scorn. 



For every tear of wo 

Ye 've shed — for every blow 

By tyrants given ; 
For all your groans and sighs 
Your agonizing cries, 
Piercing the far off skies, 

And moving Heaven : — 

VI. 

Impartial Providence 
A splendid recompense 

Will you insure : 
For you, wealth, station, fame, 
A proud and deathless name, 
And the world's loud acclaim, 

Time shall procure. 

VII. 

Lorn Africa once more, 
As proudly as of yore, 

Shall yet be seen 
Foremost of all the earth, 
In learning, beauty, worth- 
By dignity of birth 

A peerless queen ! 

VIII. 

Speed, speed the hour, O Lord \ 
Speak, and, at thy dread word, 

Fetters shall fall 
From every limb — the strong 
No more the weak shall wrong. 
But Liberty's sweet song 

Be sung by all ! 
Boston, March 20, 1833. 



W. L. g. 



