Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/proslaverytestimOOnewy 



1836.] PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 117 



them?" " Oh Massa, no matter 'bout dat — we no want to 
sell 'em if you please." All this was said with so much 
courtesy and sweetness, united with decision, that Rice's 
curiosity was excited, and he entreated to know their rea- 
sons. They replied, when they could no longer meekly 
refuse, " Massa, you no hear 'bout our good Missis, how she 
love us ? How she come, wid her little pickaniny in her 
arms, all across de great sea, to make us free ; and how mad 
her broder, and de oder buckra gentlemens wid her ; and 
all de trouble she got for we ; and. you tink Massa we now 
can forget her ? No ! Massa, we neber can forget her ; dere- 
fore we getting dese tings Massa, to send to her to England, 
to tell her how much we love her always." 

Why, alas ! will not the mighty learn, that love wins, 
with peace and sweetness, what force wades in vain through 
tears and blood, to compel. 



2 



PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED, 

BY THE EDITOE. 

We resume the consideration of the actual condition of 
the slaves, as indicated by the admissions of pro-slavery wri- 
ters. In this class we have good right to reckon Mr. Clay, 
of Bryan County, Georgia, whose " Detail of a plan for 
the moral improvement of negroes on plantations," has no 
reference to abolition, and who after full application of his 
plan upon his own plantation, still continues a slaveholder. 

It is not the purpose of Mr. Clay to describe the condition 
of the slaves, but to point out the duties of the masters. 
Among these duties he gives a prominent place to the en- 
couragement and regulation of marriage. The master is 
not only to give or withhold consent to the union, accord- 
ing to his discretion, but he is to be the arbiter of family 
quarrels. And in his office of peacemaker, as well as in 
his other offices, he can act by proxy. Mr. Clay advises 
that, " All disputes should first be brought to the Driver, 
and if he cannot restore peace, let the Master, or Overseer 
interfere." To say nothing of the wisdom of this advice, 
it reveals one important fact, viz : that there are upon plan- 
tations certain functionaries called drivers. We are not 



i \ *\ 

118 pro-slavery testimony examined. [January, 

informed by Mr. Clay what is the precise nature of their 
office, nor with what badges and insignia they are dignified. 
"We presume, however, that they have more to do than to 
make peace between husbands and wives. The name 
which they bear is significant, and could not be applied to 
them unless they were clothed with sufficient physical pow- 
er to make their commands respected. 

This testimony of Mr. Clay clearly proves that the power 
of licensing and regulating marriages lies absolutely with 
the master. " His breath can make them," and is it too 
much to suppose that it can unmake them 'I What man 
hath joined together, why should not man put asunder ? 
For our own part, we want no proof that man has here 
usurped the place of God. He first takes it upon himself 
to superintend the pairing of human beings, as if they were 
the cattle of his field, and then, if quarrels arise, he settles 
them by the authority of a driver ! From what chapter of 
the Hoiy Scriptures does he get his warrant for this interfe- 
rence 1 Was a policy of this sort resorted too on the plan- 
tation of Abraham ? 

"Particular attention should be paid to the manner in which they treat ani- 
mals. They are prone to abuse, to overwork, and to treat them severely. They 
should be taught that a merciful man is merciful to his beast; and reminded of 
the peculiar claims to their compassion, presented by those who stand in the same 
relation to them, that they hold to their masters : and as they expect kind treat- 
ment from their masters, so should they extend the same to the creatures submit- 
ted to their power. They should not be permitted to keep dogs, hogs, &c. unless 
they can afford to feed them sufficiently, without stinting themselves and children. 
One of the greatest pests on a plantation is a pack of mangy, starving curs, they 
steal to escape starvation, and are then most unmercifully beaten : the children 
seeing the cruelty of their parents, soon learn to imitate them, and both children 
and parents vent upon the poor animals, that passion which has been excited by 
some object beyond their power." 

Are we not taught by this passage, that the cruelty of 
the slaves is at second hand ? Is it to be supposed that 
these poor people do more than to repay in kind to the brute 
creation, those frequent kicks, cuffs, and beatings which they 
themselves receive from " some object beyond their power"? 
We think that Mr. Clay has here not only stated a fact, but 
afforded a reason for its existence, without which it would 
be utterly inexplicable. The poor are not usually cruel to 
animals, especially to dogs, which in most hovels may be 
seen sharing with their masters on very equal terms. But 
it seems that slaves are fond of having dogs, for the very 
purpose of inflicting upon them the vengeance awakened 



1836.] PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 119 

by their own superiors. They not only beat, but starve 
them. And why should they not ? Do they learn a better 
lesson of those who hold to them the same relation that 
they hold to their dogs ? 

The evils which flow from man's taking the place of God, 
are more fully apparent from what Mr. Clay says of " crimes 
and punishments." He recommends a very deliberate and 
careful investigation of all charges, in presence of all the 
slaves. He has even " heard of two large plantations, the man- 
agement of which was particularly good, where no negro was 
punished except by the verdict of a number of his fellow- 
slaves, who acted as jurors." Be it observed, that on these 
plantations the management was " particularly good." So 
much is self-government better than arbitrary power. The 
best managed plantations are those where the slaves are 
treated most like free men. For as our witness justly re- 
marks, " publicity of trial tends to establish among them a 
sense of character, which will do more towards the restraint 
of vice and crime, than can be effected alone, by any mode 
of punishment." But is such wise lenity common in the 
government of slaves 1 Hear Mr. Clay :> — 

" There are several 'prevailing errors connected with crime and punishment in 
the present system of plantation discipline. And first, there exists a wrong scale 
of crime. OfFences against the master, are more severely punished than viola- 
tions of the law of God, or faults which affect the slave's personal character or 
good. As examples, we may notice, that running away, is more severely punish- 
ed than aduliery, and idleness than Sabbath breaking, and swearing; and steal- 
ing from the master, than defrauding a fellow slave. Under the influence of such 
a code as this, it cannot be a matter of surprise that the negro forms false esti- 
mates of the comparative criminality of actions. And further the general mode 
of inflicting punishments, tends to confound these distinctions. The whip is the 
general instrument of correction, and so long as a negro is whipped without dis- 
crimination for neglect of work, for stealing, lying, Sabbath breaking, and swear- 
ing, he will very naturally class them all together as belonging to the same grade 
of guilt. In a good code of discipline, the punishment will always be suited to 
the nature and enormity of the crime ; and it is highly important that this mea- 
sure should be well adjusted, for the common people will judge of the criminality 
of the act, by the nature and extent of the punishment. 

Another error, is obvious in the defective presentation of the design of punish- 
ment. The negro is seldom taught to feel, that he is punished for breaking God's 
law. He only Knows his master as lawgiver and executioner, and the sole ob- 
ject of punishment held up to his view, is to make him a more obedient and pro- 
fitable slave. He oftener hears that he shall be punished if he steals, than if he 
breaks the Sabbath, or swears ; and thus he sees the very threatenings of God, 
brought to bear upon his master's interests. It is very manifest to him that his 
own good is very far from forming the primary reason for his chastisement ; his 
master's interests are to be secured at all events; — God's claims are secondary, or 
enforced merely for the purpose of advancing those of his owner. His own ben- 
efit is the residuum after this double distillation of moral motive — a mere ac- 
cident." 



120 pro-slavery testimony examined. [January, 

Now, what sort of a system, in its practical operation, 
must that be, where such " errors" prevail ? where a power 
of punishment, limited only in theory, is lodged in the hands 
of individuals, which they confessedly exercise for their own 
interests, and not for the good of the slave ?- Truly, Mr. 
Clay has good reason to say " God's claims are secondary" ! 
Whatever may be the case on his plantation, we give full 
credence to his testimony that the whip is no where else 
much used for the good of the soul. Let us endeavor to 
picture in our imagination the pious master enforcing " God's 
claims" with the whip. His slaves, according to the advice 
of Mr. Clay, are assembled at " evening prayers." One of 
them is accused by the driver of violating the third com- 
mandment ! As this crime is evidently greater than " run- 
ning away," or " idleness," the punishment must be more 
severe than for those delinquencies. The pious master, 
therefore, having finished the evening devotions, as it 
would ill comport with his dignity to take the cow-hide or 
cart-whip into his own hands, directs the driver to admin- 
ister thirty-nine lashes, well laid on. The culprit is 
stripped, laid upon his face, and held down by four stout 
slaves, while the driver executes the "pious sentence. It will 
be perceived at once that the efficacy of this punishment 
will depend much upon the character of the driver. If he 
be a profane swearer himself, it is not difficult to perceive 
the effect upon the gang. Whether the drivers and over- 
seers, whom Mr. Wirt has described as the "feculum of the 
human race," are likely to afford many individuals who can 
consistently enforce " God's claims," with the instruments 
of their office, the reader can judge as well as we. 

Mr. Clay plainly testifies to the fact, that the master stands 
to the slave, in the place of the civil law, as well as the 
divine. Hence that unfrequency of legal convictions, which 
is quoted by slaveholders as a proof of the good moral ten- 
dency of slavery : — 

" The civil offences of negroes are too often punished on the plantations, in- 
stead of being prosecuted according to law. They should be taught that they are 
subject to the laws of the State, both when they violate those laws, and when 
they are violated in their person. The fear of corporal punishment is the only 
motive peculiar to a system of slavery ; but if we desire to promote right conduct, 
for its moral, not pecuniary advantage, moral motives must be exhibited, for the 
character of an action partakes primarily of the nature of its motive. Should 
the fear of punishment alone deter the slave from stealing, he would still be desti- 



1836.] PRC -SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 121 



tute of the principle of honesty — nf that which constitutes a moral trait in his 
forbearance to take what belongs to another " 

Now, we should like to be present, when the masters sub- 
stitute " moral motives" for that which is " peculiar to slave- 
ry." At that moment would the moral question, of the right, 
or wrong - of slavery itself, be brought into debate between 
master and slave ; — unless, indeed, the " moral motives" 
should be administered sub terrore — with whip in hand 
to prevent " discussion." The presentation of " moral mo- 
tives" implies, that the being to whom they are addressed 
has a moral sense, consequently he cannot fail to perceive, 
that what justifies the master ill taking the slave, body and 
soul, will justify the slave in taking a pig or chicken from 
the master. It will be a miracle if the master does not meet 
an insuperable difficulty, in this argument, whenever he re- 
sorts to the "moral" mode of government. Even in the 
theory of the benevolent Mr. Clay, however, the whip, or 
something of that sort, has its place ; how much more then 
in the actual practice, which his plan is designed to amelio- 
rate ! After having strongly advised the use of moral influ- 
ence, he adds, " Physical suffering and restraint, however, 
must still enter into a system of discipline intended for be- 
ings of a compound nature. As men commit immoral ac- 
tions from physical motives, so immorality may be punished, 
and morality encouraged, by considerations appealing to the 
senses." 

Mr. Clay's testimony to the general coerciveness of slave- 
ry is not yet completed. He illustrates the forceful and op- 
pressive character of that institution, upon which he would 
engraft kindness and persuasion, in varied forms. We fear- 
lessly assert, that it is not in the power of language to con- 
vey to an intelligent mind, a picture more replete with hor- 
rors, than that which is contained in the following 1 honest 
admissions. Remember, they are descriptive of the general 
practice of men, who have absolute power. 

" Encouragement does not enter much into the discipline of plantations, as at 
present conducted. To be let alone, when the master's task is done, is the only 
condition offered as an inducement to the industry necessary to accomplish it, or 
secure an exemption from the punishment due for the neglect of it. Masters do 
not sufficiently acquaint themselves with the wants of their negroes. They are 
too prone to think them well supplied, when they have received their clothes and 
allowance, particularly if the pint of salt once a month is not forgotten." 

16 



122 pro-slavery testimony examined. [January, 

Again he says : — 

"The present economy of the slave system is, to get all you can from the 
slave, and give in return as little as will barely eupport him in working condi- 
tion*. Where there is not direct intention to infringe his comforts, they are but 
little consulted, and seeing his master wholly engrossed by his own advantage, he 
naturally adopts the same selfish course, and when not restrained by higher prin- 
ciples, becomes deceitful and thievish, and as it is generally taken for granted, that 
the negro will steal and lie, and his master takes no pains to conceal his suspi- 
cions, he feels when tempted to do either, that he has no character to lose." 

After this we want no array of whips, stocks, chains, iron 
neck-collars, and perforated paddles — no display of lacerated 
backs — no tally of stripes — no parting scenes of husband 
and wife — no details of gaunt starvation. We roll the bur- 
den of proof upon the masters. They must show us, that 
they are not of the same race with Pygmalion, Pizarro, and 
the wretch Collingwood, who threw one hundred and thirty- 
two sick slaves from the deck of the ship Zong, on the mid- 
dle passage, to defraud the underwriters ! Commend us to 
speedy death, by no matter what instruments of torture, 
when we are brought to depend for a pittance upon a fellow 
worm, whose economy it is, for his own selfish ends, •• barely 
to support" us in ■■ working condition." We are subject 
to a despot who has forgotten that we have a soul ; whose 
will is restrained by no superior law, which stupidity itself 
might not evade ; whose interests are built on the ruin of 
ours ; whose heart is soothed by our groans, and whose all 
absorbing claim grows with our growth, and strengthens 
with our strength. If there is any consolation for the mi- 
serable victims of such oppression, truly, it must come from 
another world. 

We now return to the " Essay on the management of 
slaves, and especially on their religious instruction ; read 
before the Agricultural Society of St. John's, Colleton : by 
Whitemarsh B. Seabrook, President. Published by or- 
der of the Society. Charleston, 1834." The testimony of 
the Hon. Mr. Seabrook was adduced, in our last number, 
to show that the masters consider their slaves their " lawful 
property," and exercise over them " executive, legisla- 
tive, and judicial powers," with no restraint that is more 
than nominal. We shall be able to derive from it further 
light, both as to the physical and the moral condition of the 
slaves. We wish it to be observed, that this is, in effect, the 
testimony of a society of slaveholders. That the witness is 



1836.] PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 123 

thoroughly pro-slavery, will appear from one of his " pre- 
liminary observations." 

"In the first place, I must be permitted to say, that, in the judgment of my 
fellow-citizens, slavery is not inconsistent with the laws of nature or of God. 
The Bible informs us, that it was established and sanctioned by divine authority 
among even the elect of heaven, and the history of every age and country attests, 
that personal servitude has been the lot of a considerable portion of mankind. I 
believe, moreover, that successfully to carry on the great business of the world, 
slavery in some form is as necessary as the division of labor itself." 

The common cry is, that the slaves, after all, are as well 
treated as the laboring class of any country. They are as 
free, in point of fact, as the laborers of the north. But we 
areiled to suspect a difference which is quite important, 
when we see Mr. Seabrook place among " considerations 
which should never be lost sight of," in the management of 
slaves, such as the following : — 

" 1. That the conduct of the slave is not to be regulated entirely by the same 
rules which are so well calculated to insure the faithfulness of the white servant." 

An employer that would insure the faithful services of a 
free laborer, must not only exercise a watchful supervision, 
but he must pay a just and delicate regard to the rights of 
the laborer. In the latter respect, it must be, that a different 
rule is recommended for the slave. Indeed, what can be 
plainer, than, that the rule of Mr. Seabrook, which immedi- 
ately follows the above, betrays an entire disregard of the 
rights of the slave, as a man, and recommends the holding 
of him in the capacity of a brute, as essential to the system? 

" 2. As slavery exists in South Carolina, the action of the citizen should rigidly 
conform to that state of things. If abstract opinions of the rights of man are 
allowed in any instance to modify the police system of a plantation, the authority 
of the master, and the value of his estate, will be as certainly impaired, as that 
the peace of the blacks themselves will be injuriously aflected. Whoever believes 
slavery to be immoral or illegal, and, under that belief, frames a code of laws for 
the government of his people, is practieally an enemy of the state, Such a per- 
son is utterly unfit to fulfil the obligations of his trust, and the most acceptable 
service he could render his fellow-citizens, would be to emigrate with his property 
to the land of the Tappans and the Garrisons." 

Let it be here observed, that it is not the " abstract opin- 
ions" that impair the " value of an estate," but modifying 
the " police system" in accordance with such opinions of 
the " rights of man? No matter whether those « abstract 
opinions" are just or erroneous, if they are opinions in rela- 
tion to the "rights of man," and are permitted to modify the 
common " police system of a plantation," they work out misr 



124 pro-slavery testimony examined. [January, 

chief. Under the ban of this rule would certainly fall those 
" two large plantations" spoken of by Mr. Clay, where no 
negro was punished except by the verdict of a jury of his 
fellow slaves ; and of which he testifies that the management 
was "particularly good." On these plantations the "police 
system," was either modified by abstract opinions on the 
rights of man, or, what is practically the same, it so ap- 
peared to be to the public. Now, the bearing of this testi- 
mony is on this point. What must be the general treatment 
of the slaves where a modification of the " police system," 
either really or apparently in favor of human rights, no 
matter how successful or profitable in its operation, cannot 
be tolerated ? Most assuredly bad. There can be no more 
doubt of it, than that the building into which fire must 
never be introduced, is a magazine of powder, or dangerous 
combustibles. If the general " police system" worked hap- 
pily for the slave, the mischiefs of modification would be 
confined to the individuals directly concerned, and the body 
of slaveholders would be neither hurt nor scared. Testi- 
mony could not, by any possibility, be stronger to the 
fact, that the rights op the slave are practically disre- 
garded, than that which proves that no modifications, which 
have these rights for their basis, will be allowed. It is to 
very little purpose, that Mr. Seabrook after propounding 
such a rule, declares that the slave, " amply provided with 
food and raiment, protected in his person, and without the 
cares that pollute the stream of the white man's happiness, 
toils in peace and contentment." Food, raiment, and pro- 
tection are among the rights of the slave, acquired by his 
labor ; if they are, in general practice, justly conceded, 
where is the danger of conceding them in accordance with 
a just abstract theory of the " rights of man" ? Either, then, 
there are other rights, which in general practice are vio- 
latad, or the rule of Mr. Seabrook is nugatory, and based 
upon a false view of facts, under his daily observation. 
The slaveholder may talk of men toiling in "peace and con- 
tentment" under the coercive lash, but no " food," " raiment" 
or " protection," can reconcile it with common sense. We 
take the liberty, however, from the principles avowed by 
this Agricultural Society of St. Johns, utterly to disbelieve 
in the sufficiency of food, raiment, and protection, furnished 
by them to their slaves- They proceed to say, in the Ian- 



1836.] PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 125 

guage of their president, " He (the slave) should be 
PRACTICALLY TREATED AS A SLAVE, and tho- 
roughly taught the true cardinal principle on which our pe- 
culiar institutions are founded, viz : that to his owner he is 
bound by the laws of God and man, and that no human 
authority can sever the link which unites them. The great 
aim, then, of the slaveholder should be to keep his people 
in strict subordination. In this, it may in truth be said, 
lies his ENTIRE DUTY." And how is the " true cardinal 
principle" to be taught? — morally? That would lead to a 
discussion of " abstract opinions on the rights of man." Of 
course, it is to be taught physically. Let us be no longer 
deceived. Men do not go to the expense of such abomina- 
ble principles, except for the profits of an equally abomina- 
ble practice. The atrocities of hierarchal usurpation may 
be learnt as plainly from the corrupt doctrines of the Jesuit 
fathers, as from the infernal racks, and pincers, and thumb- 
screws, and iron boots, and auto da fes of the " Holy Inqui- 
sition." 

Mr. Seabrook's paragraphs in regard to the punishments 
of slaves, throw so strong a light upon the great American 
house of bondage, that we quote them entire, bespeaking 
the reader's careful attention. 

" How ought slaves to be punished? On this subject we may safely appeal to 
experience. It is certain that no punishment is equally efficient in every case. 
Whilst the occasional application of the whip tends greatly to preserve the obedi- 
ence of some, it is not even dreaded by others. Under these circumstances the 
slaveholder is bound to study thoroughly the character of his people— to watch 
their conduct with a sleepless eye, in order to discover the secret spring of their 
actions. The punishments usually resorted to are— 1st. Corporal. 2d. Solitary 
confinement in stocks, or solitary confinement alone. 3d. Deprivation of privi- 
leges. 4th. Additional labor. 5th. Transportation. When corporal punishment 
is inflicted pursuant to a law of the state, the slave can receive but 39 stripes; it 
is seldom indeed that the owner gives as many. This mode of arresting the com- 
mission of crime cannot be dispensed with. In many cases it is the only instru- 
ment which can confidently be relied on to meliorate the character of the refrac- 
tory delinquent. If to our army the disuse of the lash has been prejudicial, to the 
slaveholder it would operate to deprive him of the main support to his authority. 
For the first class of offences, I consider imprisonment in the stocks at night, with 
or without hard labor in the day, as a powerful auxiliary in the cause of good go- 
vernment. His regular duty having been performed, the slave anticipates the ap- 
proach of night with the liveliest emotions. To him it is the period when he can 
freely indulge in the various inclinations of the mind. Then, unrestrained and 
unwatched, if I may be allowed the expression, he acts in any manner which his 
interest or his pleasure might dictate. Deprive him of this great source of enjoy- 
ment- take from him these hours usually passed with his associates, and you 
readily accomplish that which no other known scheme has yet effected. To the 
correctness of this opinion, many can bear testimony. Experience has convinced 
me, that there is no punishment to which the slave looks with more horror than 



126 pro-slavery TESTIMONY examined. [January, 



that upon which I am commenting, and none which has been attended with hap- 
pier results. 

Among the privileges of the slave, may be considered that oHask work. When 
his dailylabor is finished, he is at liberty to cultivate his crop, or otherwise to at- 
tend to his own concerns. For some offences the changing of task work into con- 
stant labor from sun to sun, reserving a short period only for meals, is a wise and 
usefal regulation. To this punishment, if the crime be of an aggravated nature, 
the withholding from the transgressor his usual portion of tobacco, meat and other 
comforts might be added. Another very efficacious means of correcting bad con- 
duct, is the imposition of labor additional to the task work. For theft, this is a 
rational punishment. It is proper on ordinary principles, that the slave by his la- 
bor should compensate for the loss, which, through his knavery, the master has 
sustained. Whenever it is obvious that the character of the criminal is not likely 
to be amended by any of the means to which I have so briefly adverted, or, that 
frequent recurrence to rigorous punishment, is unavoidable to attain that end, it is 
far better to expel him from society than to contaminate it by his example." 

The ingenuity of this plan of punishments cannot be 
denied. With a perfection of cruelty which commends it 
to the deepest execration of every generous heart, it is adapt- 
ed to meet all cases and tempers — to bring every face to 
the grind-stone of oppression. With consummate anato- 
mical skill it passes its fingers over every slave, finds the 
spot where he feels most sensibly, and cries, There apply the 
pincers — there let the iron enter the soul. The stocks ! 
What has inspired the Hon. Mr. Seabrook with his high 
admiration of this effectual punishment? How did he 
come to set so great value upon its " happier results" as an 
"auxiliary in the cause of good (!) government?" The 
answer deserves to be weighed. " Experience" has con- 
vinced him, " that there is no punishment to which the 
slave looks with more horror"! Yes EXPERIENCE ! ! !— 
not his own, we are sorry to say, but that of the wretched 
slave ! He has discovered by actual experiments upon the 
human flesh in his possession, that confinement in the stocks 
by night, will produce a given amount of " horror," with 
less waste of time from the master's service, than any other 
mode of giving pain. Hence he admires it ! Does any one, 
in his simplicity, suppose that the planters of Colleton Dis- 
trict have failed to avail themselves of the "experience" of 
this distinguished President of an Agricultural Society ? 
Does any one suppose that a poor wretch groaning all night, 
with his feet fast in those cursed appliances, is a rare phe- 
nomenon of cruelty in the neighborhood of Mr. Seabrook's 
well managed plantation ? Argument will be lost on the 
doubter. It was wholly unnecessary for Mr. Seabrook to 
allege that " many could bear testimony" to the correctness 



1836.] PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 127 

of his opinion ; if there were any who could keep their 
seats and smother their indignation under his avowals, the 
fact was proof enough that they were hardened by partici- 
pation in the guilt. What ! is it not enough to take the 
poor man's wages — the fruit of his hard toil — his wife and 
children ? Must the tyrant seize his slumbers too, and chain 
his very dreams? This is stealing from the famishing, 
throwing wormwood into the last dregs of comfort. We 
care not a straw for the guilt or innocence of the culprit, 
such a punishment, so administered, would be an outrage 
upon a devil ! Yet on the irrefragable testimony of slave- 
holders themselves, it is a common practice ! 

But the physical cruelty of slavery, great as it is, is by 
no means the darkest feature in the foul system. The 
herding together of human beings as brutes, and the ex- 
clusion to a great extent, of the healthful influences of the 
gospel, have induced a licentiousness which is far more la- 
mentable than toil and stripes, or even the barbarous stocks. 
Abolitionists have been much accused for their sweeping 
charges, on this subject. Bat it will be seen from Mr. Sea- 
brook, that the slaves owe little thanks to their masters if 
the whole is not true. He says, " in general the intercourse 
between servants is as unrestrained as the most unbridled 
ambition could desire. The daily business of the planta- 
tation having been finished, the power of the master practi- 
cally ceases. He knows not, and apparently cares not, in 
what way the hours of the night are passed by his people." 
" Polygamy," says Mr Seabrook, " was at one time a com- 
mon crime : it is now of rare occurrence." The change is 
not difficult to account for. Marriage is less frequent. A 
general system of concubinage prevails. Hence it is not 
without reason that pro-slavery writers urge upon masters 
the duty of encouraging marriages. In the true spirit of 
his system, Mr. Seabrook declares, that " every attempt to 
violate the moral law on this subject ought not only to be 
frustrated, but punished with exemplary severity." It is 
quite obvious that this advice is lost upon the master while 
" he knows not, and apparently cares not, in what way the 
hours of the night are passed by his people." But were the 
master disposed to enforce the obligations of the moral law 
it seems that he might be frustrated. " Between slaves on 
the same plantation," says Mr. S. " there is a deep sympa- 



128 PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. [JallUary, 

thy of feeling which binds them so closely together, that a 
crime committed by one of their number is seldom disco- 
vered through their instrumentality." It is true our author 
proposes a plan for overcoming this difficulty, but it is not 
easy to see how virtue will be the gainer by it. His advice 
is, " if your investigations prove unsuccessful, rather than 
that the law should be violated with impunity, it is far 
better that the whole plantation should be punished." 
We have the charity to suppose that such comprehensive 
injustice is seldom resorted to in behalf of the moral law. 
What is the amount of religious instruction enjoyed by 
the slaves? On this point the pamphlet of Mr. Seabrook af- 
fords a strong light. To all who are blessed with that valu- 
able gift denominated common sense, it is little better than 
a work of supererogation to go about to prove that those who 
enslave the body will not care much for the soul. If a man 
" love not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love 
God whom he hath not seen?" If he can disregard the 
claims of his brother, why should he regard those of his 
God? In spite, however, of the obvious incongruity of 
slavery with the instruction of the slaves, either mentally 
or morally, the impression has been made by those who 
would put off the day of release, that the slaves are the 
objects of a religious culture, which is preparing them, 
both for freedom in this world, and happiness in the next. 
The testimony of Mr. Seabrook, is well fitted to dispel any 
such delusion. He examines three plans, for the religious 
instruction of slaves, which have been recently put forth. 
1. That of the Synod of South Carolina and Georgia. 2. 
That of a writer in the Gospel Messenger ; and, 3. That 
contained in the pamphlet of Mr. Clay, which we have been 
examining. What amount of instruction do these plans con- 
template? The synod propose " to preach the gospel to ser- 
vants" to establish " schools, daily or weekly, for negro 
children," and, " to conduct the labor and discipline of the 
plantation on gospel principles.'''' The plan of the Gospel 
Messenger, recommends for the imitation of slaveholders, 
the example of Abraham, whose whole household, as well 
as his children, were under religious instruction. Mr. Clay 
recommends preaching, sabbath schools, and evening meet- 
ings to be conducted by slaveholders themselves None of 
these plans contemplate any other than ORAL instruction. 



1836b] PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 129 



They propose no assemblies except under the eye of the 
master, and no instruction except with his express ap- 
probation. That dangerous invention, the alphabet, has no 
place in either of them. Yet Mr. Seabrook, in opposing all 
these plans, proceeds upon the ground that they are dan- 
gerous innovations ! — unheard-of infringements of the pe- 
culiar institutions of the south ! — extravagant stretches of 
liberality to the lower caste ! — -and of direct revolutionary 
tendency ! Does the sun shine where this champion of dark- 
ness predicts the ruinous consequences of admitting a few 
rays of reflected light ?* 

Mr. Seabrook himself does not " deny the importance of 
religious instruction to slaves." But he would have it only 
in the day time, and confine it to those " prominent portions 
of Scripture which show the duties of servants and the 
rights of masters" ! And he is very solicitous, that the fear 
of God should not be substituted for the fear of man. " I 
would also add, " says he, " that the fears of the negro 
ought seldom to be appealed to by the clergyman ; a merci- 
ful Savior, and not a revengeful God, should, in the main 
be presented to his mind. Speak to him mildly as a human 
being liable to error, and persuade him to approach nearer 
to the throne of Jehovah by obeying those few and simple 
laws, a belief in which, we are taught, is essential to future 
happiness. If by word or manner he is inspired with terror, 
you may make him a madman, but never a Christian." If 
Mr. Seabrook is taught that God does not rule by terror, let 
us digress to ask, why does not he change his system and 
act upon God's plan 1 Why do his drivers frighten his 
slaves with threats of those horrible stocks ? — The truth is, 
that slaveholders generally, are unwilling that Christianity 
should be taught to their slaves, any further than they can 
make a tool of it to serve their own purposes ; and as it is 
a two-edged tool, they are mostly afraid to meddle with it at 
all. They complain that it has too little respect of persons. 

* Mr. Clay, it is true, recommends that the plantation schools for children' 
should imitate as "nearly as the nature of (he case will permit" the method of in- 
struction pursued in infant schools. "Hymns, scripture cards, the command- 
ments, parables, and other select portions of Scripture— especially such texts as 
reprove their prevailing faults, are the most suitable lessons." FTom this it must 
not be understood that the cards, glaring with the "incendiary" A. B. C, are put 
in the hands of the children. The teacher delivers them ORALLY. This is as 
near to the practice of freedom, "" as the nature of the ease will permit." 

17 



130 pro-slavery testimony examined. [January. 

to suit their " peculiar" state of society. " Is it wise," ask 
Mr. Seabrook, " on any occasion, to act as though the popu 
lation of South Carolina were homogeneous ? If our insti- 
tutions, require, that a portion of the people of the state 
should be treated in every place and at all times as a sub- 
ordinate caste, by what authority, human or divine, does 
the citizen violate that obligation. Need I say the experi- 
ence of the world attests, that the battle of the cross can no 
where be successfully waged, unless the laws of the land 
and the established usages of society are faithfully che- 
rished and supported" We cannot believe that Mr. Sea- 
brook would have hazarded this assertion, if the " experi- 
ence" of southern Christianity, as cherishing and support- 
ing the " usages of society" there, had not fully borne him 
out in it. 

The Synod of South Carolina and Georgia, in effect, con- 
fess that southern Christianity has supported slavery to the 
almost total neglect of the souls of the slaves. Here is the 
hideous picture which they draw of the moral influence of 
slavery. 

"The influence of the negroes upon the moral and religious interests of the 
whites is destructive in the extreme. We cannot go into special detail. It is un- 
necessary. We make our appeal to universal experience. We are chained to a 
putrid carcase ! It sickens and destroys us. We have a millstone hanging about 
the neck of our society, to sink us deep in the sea of vice. Our children are cor- 
rupting from their infancy, nor can we prevent it. Many an anxious parent, like 
the missionary in foreign lands, wishes that his children could be brought beyond 
the reach of the corrupting influence of the depraved heathen. Nor is this influ- 
ence confined to mere childhood. If that were all it would be tremendous. But 
it follows into youth, into manhood, and in old age. And when we come directly 
into contact with their depravity in the management of them, then come tempta- 
tions, and provocations, and trials that unsearchable grace only can enable us to 
endure. In all our intercourse with them, we are undergoing a process of intel- 
lectual and moral deterioration ; and it requires almost superhuman effort to main- 
tain a high standing either for intelligence or piety." 

This, too, is the testimony of slaveholders, who abjure 
with horror all sentiments of abolitionary tendency. While 
Mr. Seabrook discards the "necessity" of presenting such a 
picture, it meets from him a very slender denial. " Where," 
he exclaims, " was the necessity for this fancy sketch, as 
I hold it to be 7 Does it not leave room for suspicion, ad- 
mitting the soundness of the report on the matter under re- 
view, that the committee would prepare the way for what 
ought to happen ?" But the Synod were unwilling witnesses. 
They testified to their own neglect of duty. They were 



1836.] PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. 131 

driven out by the spirit of an advancing age. Driven, not 
to the extent of advocating instruction as a preparative to 
emancipation, but at the risk of such a possible result. " In 
rebutting" says Mr. S. " the argument, that the end of reli- 
gious instruction will be emancipation, the committee [of the 
synod] exclaim, ' Come what may, as Christians, we have 
no alternative. If we obey God our Savior, we must preach 
the gospel to servants.' This is an unfortunate declara- 
tion. Its inevitable effect will be to invalidate the opinions 
and principles which the authors of the Report so ably vin- 
dicate." But what are these "opinions and principles"? 
Assuredly those which support the right of the planters to 
their human chattels — the right of the south to its " pecu- 
liar domestic policy." The Synod are at special pains to 
vindicate themselves from all ''foreign interference." Have 
we not a claim then upon the Synod as pro-slavery wit- 
nesses? — The very pains taken by Mr. Seabrook to prove 
them in favor of abolition, shows strikingly the value of 
their testimony to us, as well as the exorbitant tyranny of 
slavery. It may not be unedifying to look at another of his 
arguments. 

" From the spirit and tenor of the pamphlet, as well as from matters need- 
lessly introduced,! deduce the inference, that, in the estimation of the Synod, 
slavery is unlawful. Considering the command, "Go ye into all the world and 
preach the gospel to every creature," as authority sufficient for us to bestow the 
gift of God, upon every one who does not possess it, undtr of course the limita- 
tions and restrictions imposed by society, the impropriety of the following quota- 
tions and comments will read ly be perceived : — ' God hath made of one blood all 
the nations of men.' 'Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.' 'The negroes are 
our neighbors, for they are men, members of the same great family. It they are 
not our neighbors, whom we are bound to love, we have no neighbors at all.' 
'All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to 
them' ! ' God is no respecter of persons' ! It is true the committee say, that ' this 
rule of action, does not recklessly break down just distinctions in society,' but it 
is equally true, that the sentences quoted contain the foundation argument on 
which the emancipationist proposes to erect the superstruction of his scheme." 

Hence we " deduce the inference," that the Synod of South 
Carolina, are to be quoted not only as pro-slavery, but as 
pro-slavery in spite of divine truth, so powerful that an 
ordinary slaveholder shrinks back from it as dangerous and 
incendiary. With scripture condemnation on their tongues, 
they dare to defend "southern institutions." The reader 
may, therefore, turn back to their picture of the moral influ- 
ence of slavery, with the absolute conviction that it is light 
and fair compared with the actual state of facts. 



132 PRO-SLAVERY TESTIMONY EXAMINED. [JailUaiy, 

The lights that have been kindled up in southern gloom, 
by Messrs. Jones, Clay and others, and which serve to make 
darkness visible, are treated by Mr. Seabrook with the most 
bitter contempt, and from the tone and temper of his remarks, 
we may infer that they are regarded by the mass of slave- 
holders, not only as innovations, but as attacks upon their 
right of property. One or two quotations will be sufficient 
to make us understood : — 

" That the slaveholder and his family should officiate as teachers to their own 
pe ople is so palpably objectionable, if it were practicable, in every light in which 
the suggestion can be viewed, that I need only observe, when the scene shall be 
exhibited of the people of South Carolina, tn-daily, according to Mr. Clay, or 
weekl y, as recommended by the committee, " reading and explaining the Bible, and 
conversing with their servants on the subject of the soul's immortality," the reign 
of fanaticism and misrule will have commenced." 

■ "I object totally, however, for the general reasons already advanced, 

and for others that wdt readily suggest themselves, to " the preacher adapting a 
part of every sermon to their intellectual wants," or, "to the giving out one or 
two lines of a hymn, that they may join in the exercises." This is a device of the 
levelers, and too heterodox for the present state of •public opinion." 

" Another mode of communicating religious information to slaves, upon which 
Mr. Clay comments, is, what he terms, domestic, to be conducted by the resident 
planter and his family. This mode must have been suggested to Mr. Clay by a 
Tappanist. If friendly to the policy and perpetuity of our institutions, it could 
not have been the fruit of his own reflections." 

These quotations we make with no reference to the feasi- 
bility of the various plans of oral religious instruction, but 
to show the present actual condition of the slaves, in regard 
to a knowledge of those truths, which are essential to human 
salvation. We think we have proved that slaveholders, as 
a mass, are guilty of the wilful murder of the souls on 
which they have laid their unhallowed hands. That nothing 
like a serious effort has ever been made, by any considerable 
body of slaveholders, for the instruction and salvation of the 
slaves — and that the slaveholders generally are determined 
it NEVER SHALL BE MADE. 

In conclusion, we hardly need remark, that when aboli- 
tionists assert that the slaves are defrauded of their wages, 
driven with the whip, over-worked, under-fed, cruelly and 
arbitrarily punished, sunk in brutal ignorance, and thrust 
away from the words of eternal life, they assert only what 
is admitted by the defenders of slavery themselves. The 
facts which they detail, as naturally flow from the causes 
which the slaveholders avow, and in which they glory, as 
ice collects about the pole, or darkness ensues the absence 
ef the sun. 



