TO THE HONOURABLE 

THE ♦ 

SENATE 

AND 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

OF THE 

Commonwealth or Pennsylvania, 

IN GENERAL ASSEMBLY MET : 

The Memorial of the Subscribers, free people of colour, 
residing in the City of Philadelphia, 

RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH, 

That having learned that 
memorials have been presented to the Legislature, praying 
for its action to prevent the further immigration of free 
coloured people into this Commonwealth, and believing that 
their rights and interests will be injuriously affected by any 
general enactment on the subject, they feel it to be due to 
themselves and to their families, respectfully and explicitly to 
state the view they have been taught to have of their rights, 
and the estimate they have formed of their own interests. 
In doing so they are confident they will not lose sight of 
the respectful deference due to your honourable body ; and 
trust that they may not violate even those feelings, of which, 
as the result of habit and circumstances, they will not com- 
plain. Your Memorialists ask to be listened to in the 
temper of impartial justice, and no more. They have too 
long, and too severely felt the pressure of an adverse public 
sentiment, to hope to be wholly exempt from it now : but 
coming, as they do, before the legislative wisdom of the 
Commonwealth, they trust they shall find at least there, 
an asylum from prejudice and a tribunal that will listen to 
the voice of truth, and decide in the spirit of justice. 

Unapprised, as your Memorialists are, of the specific 
legislation which is contemplated, they are induced to direct 
the observations they have to offer to the provisions of the 
bill, last year reported by a Committee of the house of 
Representatives, a copy of which is affixed to this memo- 



<*) ;H>.VA&£1 no-is- 

rial ; which, as the plan digested to obviate dangers similar 
to those now apprehended, they are led to suppose, may be 
the basis of any future legislative action on the subject. To 
the general object of that bill, as stated in the title, and to 
its specific provisions, they wish more particularly to direct 
the attention of the Legislature, 

Your Memorialists wish to be distinctly understood, that 
they appear here in an attitude strictly defensive. Their 
action on this occasion is not voluntary ; and they most ex- 
plicitly state that it is far from their wish or intention to 
trouble your honourable bodies with any abstractions or 
speculations, as to the absolute rights of the coloured man; 
still less to permit themselves to be regarded as obtrusive 
claimants for new privileges, or for the exercise of disputed 
rights. They are not here asking for a declaratory law, 
to secure to them the right of being assessed or voting. 
These slumbering privileges need not be awakened now : 
and your Memorialists have too clear a view of the elemen- * 
tary principles of the Constitution and laws, to believe that 
they ever ought to be urged here. Whether or no they 
have such privileges they have always been led to believe 
is an appropriate question for judicial decision. The colour- 
ed population merely ask to be left as they are. They be- 
lieve they have constitutional rights, and are sure* what- 
ever may be the state of other questions connected with 
them, that they are at least citizens for protection. It will 
be time enough to repel obtrusiveness, when they do ask for 
more than they enjoy ; and when in asking it, they deserve 
the repulse. They do not ask it now. 

Again, they earnestly remonstrate against any judgment 
of the Legislature, in examining the merits of the project 
now before them, on matters which have no connection 
with their rights ; and must be permitted to ask most re- 
spectfully, that this question may not be confounded with 
any other. It is not a question of property in runaway 
slaves, or the mode of securing it. That subject has been 
legislated upon, and is at rest. Neither is it a question of 
pauperism ; that too has its appropriate legislation. And 
when runaway slaves, or unsettled paupers, come into the 
Commonwealth, the community needs no additional legisla- 
tive protection ; or if it does, can have it in proportion to 
its necessities. That kind of protection is not asked now, 
and it forms one of the objectionable features of the bill* 



(8) 

that has been proposed, that it seems to contemplate a 
state of things, clearly within the purview of existing laws, 
and an evil for which there is already ample and unobjec- 
tionable provision. 

Your Memorialists do not deem it necessary to occupy 
the time of the Legislature, with any conjectures as to the 
object of the law now proposed. It is very distinctly stated, 
in the petitions that have been referred, as well as in the 
title to the last year's act ; and though the provisions of the 
latter may be supposed to be apparently inadequate to the 
contemplated object, it is believed that they will be found in 
faet to be amply sufficient. The act reportedTast year, by the 
Committee of the House of Representatives, is entitled, 
" An Act to prohibit the migration of negroes and mulat- 
toes into this Commonwealth ;" and it is in the estimate of 
your Memorialists, quite immaterial, so far as their consti- 
tutional rights are affected, whether it operates directly or 
indirectly, such being its proposed object. Its object they 
submit is prohibition — its means, prohibitory. Such being 
its object, and such its means, they respectfully represent, 
that there is a grave constitutional objection to its enact- 
ment, which, in the view they have been led to form of it, 
cannot be removed. By Article IV. Section 2, of the Con- 
stitution of the United States, it is provided : " That the 
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and 
immunities of citizens in the several States." It is scarce- 
ly necessary, in the view of the Memorialists, to ask your 
honourable bodies to enquire, what has been the uniform 
construction of this clause ; as it would seem to them in- 
disputable, that it was meant to secure the citizen of one 
State at least perfect freedom of ingress to the other States ; 
and such freedom of action there, as the citizens of those 
States respectively have. Your Memorialists have, however, 
been referred to a judicial construction of this section of 
the Constitution, by one of the ablest living expositors whom 
that instrument has, to which they will ask the attention of 
the Legislature. In the case of Livingston v. Tompkins :* 
Chancellor Kent said, that it meant " that the citizens of 
each State are entitled under the Constitution of the nation, 
to free ingress and regress, to and from any other State ; 
and are entitled to all immunities of citizens in every 
state." In the convention for altering the Constitution of 
New York, this section received a similar, though still 
* 4 John?. C. R. 430, 



(4) 

more liberal interpretation. It was there contended, by 
the ablest constitutional lawyers in that distinguished body, 
at a time too of remodelling their own form of State gov- 
ernment, when the argument of inexpediency could be most 
safely, and most strongly urged, that by this clause of the 
Constitution of the United States, the convention was 
prevented from depriving the coloured population even of the 
elective franchise. Into the force of this reasoning, or into 
the question, how far a state Constitution, in which the 
right of voting were withheld, would conflict with the Con- 
stitution of the Union, your Memorialists have no wish to 
go. It is a subject they have no occasion to consider. 
But what is important, beside the high authority of such an 
exposition, is the result, and the adoption into the new 
Constitution of a clause, to which your Memorialists would 
ask the special attention of the Legislature. By Article 
IV. Sect. 1, of the Constitution of New York, it is provi- 
ded, that " every man of colour, who shall have been three 
years a citizen of the State, and for one year next preceding 
any election, shall be seized and possessed of a freehold 
estate of the value of two hundred and fifty dollars, over 
and above all debts and incumbrances charged thereon ; and 
shall have been actually rated and paid a tax thereon, shall 
be entitled to vote in the town or ward in which he resides, 
for all officers that now are, or hereafter may be elective 
by the people." They are then citizens and qualified voters 
in the State of New York expressly. They are so by im- 
plication and well settled practice, in seven other states ; 
yet, that they are so in one is sufficient for the argument : 
and being citizens not merely for protection, but for the 
enjoyment of political privilege, it is respectfully submitted, 
that it is not competent to the Legislature to prohibit their 
migration into this State, without" a palpable violation of the 
Constitution of the United States. 

Your Memorialists are aware that it may be said, that 
the act does not actually prohibit the immigration of 
coloured people ; but that it is designed to regulate that 
species of population, when within the limits of the State, 
which is within the constitutional power of the Legislature. 
The answer to this is obvious : If it is not meant, and does 
not operate as a prohibition, it is manifestly no compliance 
with the petitions on which all this proposed legislation is 
founded. But even in this view, and conceding the dis* 



(5) 

tinction between prohibition and internal regulation, it is 
submitted that the constitutional difficulty is far from being 
removed. It has been stated what was the question agita- 
ted in the convention of New York, and what its decision. 
It will be seen at once how different the attitude of things was 
on that occasion, and how much more strongly every argu- 
ment which was there used, for the concession of privilege, 
operates here for the immunity of the coloured man. The 
people of that State had with all the requisite forms con- 
voked their immediate representatives to reconstruct their 
frame of government. The change was to be radical and 
complete, and the question of the regulation of the elective 
franchise, was necessarily among the first that were pre- 
sented. It was urged, that expediency and conformity 
with public sentiment, required the convention to confine 
the elective franchise to the white population ; but it was 
resisted, and, as has been stated, successfully, on the ground, 
that as the coloured population were recognized as citizens, 
and were entitled to vote in some of the States, the Con- 
stitution of the United States expressly prohibited their 
disfranchisement. What is however most material, and 
this is eminently worthy of the attention of the Legislature 
is, that even the argument against the extension of the 
elective franchise, conceded all that is relied on by your 
memorialists here. It was contended, and as your Memo- 
rialists are prepared to admit, with great force, that the 
clause of the Constitution of the United States, was intended 
to secure*rather personal, than political rights; and that the 
meaning of the restriction was, not that the qualified elector 
of Vermont, for example, should, as such, be a qualified 
elector in New York or Pennsylvania ; but, that ttie citizen 
of Vermont, when in New York or Pennsylvania, should 
have the same rights, and be as secure from molestation as 
the citizen of New York or Pennsylvania. This was the 
reasoning of those, who opposed the extension of the right 
of suffrage; and this is the reasoning on which your 
Memorialists claim protection for the citizens, of whatever 
complexion, of the other States, on whom the proposed pro- 
hibitory act is meant to operate. Admitting then, which they 
are far from doing, the distinction that may be attempted 
between this, as an act of prohibition, and an act of inter- 
nal police, your Memorialists see no cause for relying less 
confidently on the constitutional provision to which they 

A* 



<«> 

have already referred. The question then arises, whether 
this would be a constitutional law, as applied to all or any 
portions of the citizens of this Commonwealth, between 
whom and the rest a line is to be drawn, unauthorised at 
least by the letter of the Constitution. If it be competent 
to mark this distinction between classes of your own citizens, 
then, and not till then, can it be applied to the same classes 
of the citizens of other States, coming within your borders. 
It maybe said without fear of contradiction, that the Legis- 
lature of this State, has no constitutional right to impose re- 
strictions on one portion of the citizens of other States 
coming here, which it cannot impose in the mode prescri- 
bed by this act, on any one of its own citizens. No security 
for good behaviour can, in due course of law, be required, 
without a previous oath, except in cases of imminent danger 
of breach of the peace, when a magistrate's own view is 
equivalent : and it may reasonably be denied, that there is 
a right to subject the coloured citizen of another State, to 
a penalty and restriction, from which all our own citizens 
are thus exempt. Is it too much to question the right to 
legislate penally on a portion of the citizens of other States, 
whom accident or convenience may lead within our limits, 
and to say, as this act does, that those who are guilty oFa 
coloured complexion, if they are unable or unwilling to do 
what the Constitution has told them they need not do, are 
to be ignominiously punished as vagrants 1 It is, therefore, 
on the whole, contended most respectfully by your Memo- 
rialists, that whether this proposed law is intended as an 
actual prohibition or not, it is equally at variance with the 
Constitution of the Union ; and that if there is no right to 
prohibit the migration of citizens of other States within 
your borders, there certainly can be none to inflict penal- 
ties from which all and every of your own citizens are free. 
As long then as the rights of the coloured man are secured 
or enjoyed, under the Constitutions of other States, so long 
has he the same immunities here. 

But there is another point of view, from which this sub- 
ject must be regarded, connected with the operation of the 
proposed law, on the resident coloured people of this State. 
The fourth Section of the Bill of last year, provides for the 
registering of every negro and mulatto in the Common- 
wealth, and prohibits their even temporary removal from 
one County tp another, without a certificate of such regis- 



(7) 

try, under a heavy penalty ; — and the act thus becomes 
a direct legislative recognition of a difference between the 
white and coloured residents, as respects personal rights, 
which has never before been attempted. Had your Memo- 
rialists no other inducement to remonstrate against the 
passage of this bill, they would do it for this reason alone. 
They have always cherished the belief, that they were 
citizens, and as such entitled to all the immunities of the 
white population — that they had the same freedom of 
thought, of speech, of action ; and that within this Common- 
wealth, they could do what the white man can do, and go 
where the white man can go. Your Memorialists have no 
wish at this time, to go into an argument of their rights, 
under the Constitution, and have already disclaimed the 
pretension which alone makes that question an obnoxious 
one. It is a question, with the merits of which, every 
member of your Honourable bodies is doubtless familiar* 
In a memorial presented to the Legislature during their 
last session, and now on its files, your Memorialists invited 
public attention to this matter in detail ; but, compelled as 
they are again to appear in the attitude of supplication and re- 
monstrance, against a violation of what they have been 
^taught to believe to be their rights, they can only ask the 
worst enemy the coloured freeman has, to point out the 
word in the Constitution, or Bill of rights, that says they 
are not citizens, and then tti say, on what principle of 
natural justice, he can work disfranchisement and penalty, 
not by construction, but by interpolation. Does the Con- 
stitution recognize that intermediate state of social being, 
to which the friends of this Bill would reduce them 1 It says 
expressly the reverse; and saying, as it does that every 
freeman complying with certain conditions, shall be a citi- 
zen in the broadest sense of the word, it says more than 
your Memorialists contend for, and throws the burthen of 
implication elsewhere. The phraseology of the Constitu- 
tion was neither unadvised nor inconsiderate. There were 
many free blacks in the Commonwealth, at the time of its 
adoption. The word " freeman," as a generic term of wide 
significancy, was familiar to the individuals who framed 
that instrument ; — and the existence and condition of the 
free black population, were formally brought within the 
view of the Convention, as will be seen by the Journal. 
But more than that — There was fresh in the recollection 



(8) 

of that body, a statute, which your Memorialists are some- 
times led to fear, is fading fast in memory, the Abolition Act 
of 1780, then but ten years old; and it was not then forgot- 
ten, that the representative voice of this Commonwealth, 
had deliberately said*, " that it was not for them to enquire 
why, in the creation of mankind, the inhabitants of the 
several parts of the earth are distinguished by a difference 
of feature and complexion," and had pronounced that all 
persons of every nation and colour, should be " deemed, 
adjudged, and holden to be freemen and free women." Such 
is the language of the Act of Abolition ; and the Constitu- 
tion adopting the same phraseology says, that every free- 
man, having a residence, and being assessed in the manner 
specified, and paying taxes, shall be an elector. That re- 
cord of contemporaneous exposition is not yet obliterated 
from the Statute Book : and till your Memorialists can be 
Shown, that the freeman of the Constitution is a different 
being from the freeman of the Act of Abolition ; and who, 
or what the freeman of the Act of Abolition is, if not the 
freeman of the Constitution, they hope they may at least 
claim the rights of security and protection. 

But they have other rights than these ; and besides beina^ 
citizens for immunity, which is all they now contend for 
they, in one sense at least, are citizens for privilege ; 
and have been so adjudged by the highest judicial tribunal 
of the State.- In how many cases this has been done inci- 
dentally, your Memorialists will not pretend to say. One 
instance of a direct recognition, involving too the executive 
as well as the judiciary, they will however specify : by 
the Act of 1701, giving the Supreme Court, the Attorney 
General, and the Governor, authority to incorporate liter- 
ary, charitable and religious associations, they are express- 
ly limited to associations of citizens ; and under that Act, 
construed as it has been, most cautiously in this very par- 
ticular, a very great number of associations of coloured 
citizens have been incorporated. 

Your Memorialists have avoided examining the details of 
the bill proposed, for the obvious reason, that they believed 
that such legislation, as it involves, could and ought to be 
opposed on higher ground ; and because, even if exception- 
able details were amended, the main objection would still 
exist. There is in it, however, much that is singularly 
invidious, to some points of which they will call the at- 
tention of the Legislature. By the 2nd Section, any emi- 



(») 

grant coloured person, who does not give the security re- 
quired by the preceding section, may be arrested by a con- 
stable, either on his own view, or on information of any 
other person, and taken before an Alderman or Justice of 
the Peace, who may inflict such punishment as is now di- 
rected in the case of vagrants ; and this penalty is extended 
in certain specified cases, to the resident blacks. This 
provision is, in every view objectionable. It authorises an 
arrest without previous oath ; and it infringes fatally with 
the constitutional right of trial by jury. Where, your 
Memorialists will ask, is the provision by which the colour- 
ed man, under this Act, can have the benefit of a jury trial? 
There is no provision for an appeal ; and it is not enough to 
say, that the right of appeal is an incident. Whatever 
weight such an answer might have in a judicial considera- 
tion of this question, it can have none, when suggested on, 
a question of incipient legislation. It may be truly said, 
that in this point of view, this Act inflicts the penalties of 
the vagrant, without his privileges. By the 1st Section of 
the Act against vagrancy, a regular mode of trial is pre- 
scribed, and adequate and regular legal proof is required ; 
and by the 3rd Section, a right of appeal to the Court of 
Quarter Sessions is secured ; of both of which rights, the 
coloured man, under this Act, is deprived. The phrase is 
perfectly distinct and unequivocal, that when arrested and 
compelled to prove his own innocence, (not to encounter 
legal evidence of guilt,) if he -fail, the justice shall inflict 
such punishment as is now directed in the case of vagrants. 
But further, abject and hopeless as his case thus is, in com- 
parison of that of " the rogues, vagabonds, and other idle 
and disorderly persons," contemplated by the Act against 
vagrancy, it must be remarked, that by this Act the condi- 
tion of the free coloured people is even worse than that of 
the runaway slave. It is not necessary to call the atten- 
tion of the Legislature to the provisions of the Act of 1826, 
on the subject of fugitive slaves, all of which, however > 
whether as respects the oath on which the warrant of arrest 
issues, and the evidence to authorise a conviction, are far 
more favourable than this Act, but it is perfectly within the 
recollection of the Legislature, for the remedy of what evil 
that Act was passed. It was to prevent the incautious ar- 
rest and removal of fugitive slaves, which is equivalent to 
conviction under this Act. It took the cognizance of the 
question of property from the Alderman and Justices, aud 



(10) 

gave it exclusively to the Judges. Yet the poor privilege 
which a runaway slave has, of being tried before a higher 
Magistrate, is by this Act taken away from the respectable 
free coloured man, who if an emigrant, who is unable 
to give legal security, ($ 500,) for his good behaviour, or 
if a resident, who moves twenty miles from his home, without 
a certificate, which the carelessness of an Assessor may 
deprive him, is liable to be arrested and punished by im- 
prisonment of a month, at hard labour, in the common 
goal, at the joint caprice of any Constable and Justice of the 
Peace, within whose little jurisdiction he happens to pass. 
He has no right of trial by jury as the vagrant has ; not 
even the poor comfort of being sentenced by a Magistrate 
of higher commission, as the runaway slave has. It should 
be remembered too, that by the 11th Section of the x\ct of 
1826, the Abolition Act, with all its essential provisions, is 
fully recognized, and its clauses expressly secured. In the 
Bill now before the Legislature, that great Act seems to 
have been forgotten, especially that provision of it, which 
declares that the offences and crimes of negroes and 
mulattoes, as well slaves and servants as freemen, shall be 
enquired of, adjudged, corrected and punished in like man- 
ner as the offences and crimes of the other inhabitants of th"i3 
State are, and shall be enquired of, adjudged, corrected and 
punished, and not otherwise ; except that " a slave shall not be 
admitted to bear witness against a freeman." 

With this statement of their views on this to them most 
interesting subject, and in a spirit of perfect acquiescence 
to the will of any portion of the constituted authority of the 
country, your Memorialists submit this matter for the con- 
sideration and decision of the Legislature. All that has 
been said by them, is uttered in a spirit of gratitude, 
for all that they enjoy ; and in the hope, that they may 
not live to find that spirit changed, and to wish their lot had 
been cast elsewhere. They cannot believe such a result 
probable. Theyare, many of them, individuals, who have 
struggled long and anxiously with public prejudice, who have 
at least tried to lead lives of industry and morality ; and who, 
looking emulously to the level on which the practice of those 
virtues will place any man, white or black, are to be told, if 
such a bill as is contemplated, passes, that all this has been a 
fruitless effort ; — and however anxiously and honestly they 
may have laboured to raise themselves, on the scale of 
social being, it has been in vain ; and that unless they, their 



(11) 

wives and children, comply with restrictions and regulations, 
utterly repulsive to their feelings, let their condition be 
what it may, they are in the harsh language of this Act, to 
be adjudged as vagrants, without even, as they have en- 
deavoured to show, a vagrant's privilege. Signed, 

JOHN BOWERS, Chairman. 
JOHN B. BEPEE, SeSry. 

On behalf of a large and respectable meeting of the people 
of colour, convened in the City of Philadelphia, January 
15, 1833. 



No, 446.— House of Representatives File. 

READ MARCH 28, 1832. 

An Act to prohibit the migration of negroes and mulattoes 
into this Commonwealth, 

Section 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of 
Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in 
General Assembly met, and it is hereby enacted by the 
authority of the same, That from and after the first day of 
June next, no negro or mulatto person shall be permitted 
to migrate into and settle in this State, unless such negro or 
mulatto person shall, within twenty days after hfs or her 
arrival in any County of this State, enter into bond to the 
Commonwealth, with one or more sufficient surities, before 
the Clerk of the Court of Quarter Sessions of such County, 
to be approved by such Clerk, in the penal sum of five hun- 
dred dollars, conditioned for the good behaviour of such 
negro or mulatto person ; and moreover, for the maintain- 
ance of such person, in case he or she should become 
chargeable as a pauper on any City, County or Township 
in this Commonwealth. 

Sect. 2. And be it further enacted by the authority 
aforesaid, That if any negro or mulatto person shall mi- 
grate into, and remain within this State longer than the time 
prescribed by the first Section of this Act, without having 
complied with the provisions thereof, it shall be the duty of 
the Constable of any Ward, Borough or Township, either 
on his own view, or on the information of any other person, 
to arrest such negro or mulatto person, and take him or 



(13) 

her before some Alderman or Justice of the Peace, who shall 
inflict such punishment as is now directed in the case of 
vagrants. 

Sect. 3. And be it further enacted by the authority 
(foresaid, That it shall be the duty of the Clerk of the 
Court, to furnish to each negro or mulatto person, who 
shall have given the bond prescribed by the first section of 
this Act, a certificate under the seal his office, of that fact, 
and if any inhabitants of this state shall employ, harbor or 
conceal, any such negro or mulatto person, who shall come 
into this State after the first day of June next, and continue 
therein, without having complied with the provisions of this 
Act, every such person shall forfeit and pay for every such 
offence, the sum of fifty dollars, to be recovered before any 
Alderman of a City, or Justice of the Peace of a County, in 
which such offence shall have been committed, by action of 
debt, in the name of the Commonwealth ; one half of such 
penalty to be paid to the informer, and the other half to the 
proper overseer or directors of the poor, in such City, 
Township or County. 

Sect. 4. And be it further enacted by the authority 
aforesaid, That it shall be the duty of each Assessor, of 
the several wards of the Cities, and the several Townships 
in this Commonwealth, in addition to the duties now re- 
quired of him, to take a census of all negro and mulatto 
persons, who shall have resided within such Ward or Town- 
ship, on or before the first day of June next ; entering there- 
on the name, complexion, sex and age, of each, as nearly 
as he can ascertain it ; and return such census to the Com- 
missioners of the County. And the said Commissioners 
hall cause alphabetical lists of all such negroes and mul- 
toes so returned, and found resident in the County, to be 
made out ; designating the name, complexion, sex and age 
of each ; and the Ward or Township in which each has re- 
sided : and & copy thereof to be delivered to each Alder- 
man and Justice of the Peace, and Clerk of the Court of 
Quarter Sessions, of such City or County. And every 
negro or mulatto who shall remove from one County to 
another, within this State, shall be liable to the penalties 
of the first and second sections of this Act ; unless he or 
she shall produce the certificate of the Clerk of said Court, 
or of a Justice of the Peace, or Alderman of the district 
from which he removed, of his residence therein ,* of which 
said census shall be evidence. 



