
Le 



R 1 



s 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/abstractofreportOOgrea 



€ .f| 7 /./#st%-r* on 






ABSTRACT 



REPORT OF THE LORDS COMMITTEES 



CONDITION AND TREATMENT 



THE COLONIAL SLAVES, 

AND OF 

THE EVIDENCE TAKEN BY THEM ON THAT SUBJECT: 
WITH NOTES BY THE EDITOR. 



LONDON 



nm TED FOR THE SOCIETY FOB THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY THROUGHOUT 
THE BRITISH DOMINIONS. 

itD BY J. HATCHARD AND SON, PICCADILLY; BY J. AND A . ARCH C0RNH „ T . 
AND AT THE DEPOT FOR ANTI-SLAVERY PUBLICATIONS C0RNIULL ' 
15, PATERNOSTER ROW. 

1833. 



•i«iitfllM |f t 



London :-S. Bagster, Jun., Printer, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANALYSIS, &c. 



The Committee of the House of Lords commenced its sittings on the 
13th May, and closed them on the 9th August, 1832. 

The following 25 Peers were named upon it : — The Archbishop of 
Canterbury, and the Bishops of London and of Lichfield and Coventry ; 
the Dukes of Buckingham* arid Richmond ; the Marquises of Sligo* 
and Westminster ; Earls HarewOod,* Radnor, Selkirk,* and Bath- 
urst ; Viscounts Goderich, St. Vincent,* Combermere,* and Beres- 
ford ; and Lords Seaford,* Ellenborough, Suffield, Holland,* Howard 
de Walden,* Redesdale, Colville,* Napier, Auckland, and Bexley. 
Of these, the 10 noblemen distinguished by an asterisk are known 
to be either slave-holders or the very near relatives of those who are. 
The three prelates, together with the Marquis of Westminster, Earl 
Bathurst, Viscount Goderich, and Lord Bexley, it is reported, took 
no part in the Committee. The Duke of Richmond occupied the 
chair ; and of the remaining seven not one was recognized as a 
decided friend to anti-slavery principles, excepting Lord Suffield ; the 
views of the other six being, to say the least, doubtful. 

It was before a Committee thus constituted, as respected at least its 
practical efficiency, that this great question came on for investigation. 
Can any man wonder that the friends of the Negro regarded its 
appointment with some degree of apprehension and even dismay ? 
That their fears have been agreeably disappointed by the result, they 
must attribute to causes wholly independent of the constitution of the 
Committee, and which, under the overruling providence of God, are to 
be traced rather to the happy ignorance prevailing, among most of the 
noble slave-holders who attended the Committee, of the real nature 
of the system they were so eager to maintain, than to any skill they 
possessed either to veil its deformities or to give prominence to any, 
if any there were, of its inherent claims to support. With one or two 
exceptions, none of them were personally acquainted with the ob- 

B 



2 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

ject of their attachment. They may have previously known it only 
from the florid and delusive descriptions of interested agents, and were 
probably as much appalled by the disclosure of its undisguised linea- 
ments as certain monarchs are said to have been shocked by the 
naked forms of the consorts to whom they found themselves united 
by proxy. 

The following is the indecisive report of this Committee : " The Com- 
mittee have applied themselves to the matters referred to them, and 
considering that there was no prospect of their being able to examine 
into the state of all the West India Colonies during the continuance 
of the present session, came to an early determination to confine 
their enquiry, in the first instance, to the island of Jamaica ; and 
though they have collected much evidence upon the condition of the 
slaves in that island, some of which is of the most contradictory 
description, yet they have not found it possible to enter into a 
detailed examination of many of the other points referred to them ; 
and upon none has their inquiry been so complete as to enable them 
to submit to the House any definitive opinion. They have, amongst 
others, called before them planters, managers, and proprietors of 
estates, attorneys, overseers, persons having connection with the 
island, or who have visited it in public capacities, and missionaries of 
different persuasions ; and the most material points brought under 
their notice have been — 1st. Any progressive improvement which 
may have taken place in the state of the slaves since the abolition of 
the slave trade in 1807. 2nd. The actual state and condition of the 
slaves ; the nature and duration of their labour ; and also evidence as 
to instances of cruelty and gross abuse of authority and power. 
3rd. The increase or decrease of the slave population as it respects 
Africans and Creoles, and as affected or not by the state and system 
of slavery. — And 4th. Plans for improving the condition of the slave, 
or effecting his emancipation ; and opinions as to the probable con- 
dition of the Negro, and the effect upon society and property in the 
island which is likely to be produced by such emancipation. 

" Beyond this the enquiry has unavoidably diverged into various 
collateral matters, from which the Committee could not abstain with- 
out omitting many important points, the consideration of which would 
be essential to a satisfactory conclusion. 

" Under these circumstances, adverting to the advanced period of 



ok Colonial Slavery. 3 

the session, and to the probable arrival of persons of authority from 
Jamaica, whose evidence would be most desirable, they have deter- 
mined to postpone the consideration of any detailed report, and 
simply to lay the evidence collected before the House, with such an 
index as may enable the House, without difficulty, to refer to the 
information which has been obtained upon any of the objects of 
enquiry." 

The evidence thus taken fills nearly 1400 folio pages, many of them 
closely printed, and which certainly form altogether a most ponde- 
rous and unwieldy mass. The utmost, therefore, we can hope to 
accomplish, within any reasonable limits, is to give a very compressed 
view of their multitudinous contents. 

The pro-slavery witnesses examined by the Committee were as fol- 
lows : — 

1 . The Duke of Manchester, who was Governor of Jamaica for 
18 years, from 1807 to 1826 (p. 3—12 and p. 379—390). 

2. Henry John Hinchclifte, Esq., Judge of the Vice- Admiralty 
Court of Jamaica, who resided in Jamaica 17 years, from 1801 to 
1818 (p. 13—22 ; p. 322—328 ; and p. 339—345). 

3. John BAiLLiE,Esq., a planter and manager of estates in Jamaica, 
who resided in Jamaica from 1788 to 1815, being 27 years ; and after- 
wards revisited it in 1822 and 1825 (p. 22 — 25; 29—78; and 
92—163). 

4. Lord Seaford, a member of the Committee and a Jamaica 
planter (p. 88 — 92). 

5. Major-General Sir John Keane, K. C. B., late lieutenant-governor 
and commander-in-chief of Jamaica, who resided there eight years, 
from 1823 to 1830 (p. 163—185). 

6. William Shand, Esq., a Jamaica proprietor, attorney, and 
manager, who resided there from 1791 to 1823 ; revisiting it again for 
a year and a half in 1 825 and 1 826 ; being nearly 34 years in all 
(p. 187—245). 

7. Sir Michael Clare, M. D., who resided, with occasional ab- 
sences, 30 years in Jamaica, viz., between 1798 and 1831 (p. 263 
—290). 

8. Admiral Sir Lawrence Halsted, K. C. B., late commander- 
in-chief on the Jamaica station from 1823 to 1827 (p. 291 — 305 
and p. 321). 

b 2 



4 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

9. Lieutenant-Colonel Alexander Macdonald, of the Artillery, 
stationed for about five months in Jamaica, in 1829 and 1830, and for 
about six months in Honduras (p. 305 — 320 and p. 391 — 395). 

10. Rev. James Curtin, a missionary, and afterwards a parochial 
clergyman, in Antigua. He resided there from 1799 to 1830, in 
all 30 years (p. 345—367 and 396—412). 

1 1 . Lord Howard de Walden, a member of the Committee and a 
West-India proprietor (p. 369). 

12. Rev. Dr. Barrett, secretary of the Conversion Society (p. 
370—379). 

13. Edmund Sharp, a Jamaica overseer for about 20 years, be- 
tween 1811 and 1832 (p. 779—790). 

14. Andrew Graham Dignum, a solicitor residing in Jamaica for 
14 years, from 1818 to 1832 (p. 812—825 and p. 956—961). 

15. James Simpson, Esq., who had resided nearly 24 years in Ja- 
maica (p. 961). 

16. E. J. Wolsey, who resided at Hayti for six months and in the 
United States for three years (p. 1057 — 1065). 

17. Thomas Williams, a Berbice planter, resident there for 15 years 
prior to 1832 (p. 1065—1071). 

18. William Burge, Esq., late attorney-general of Jamaica, and 
now agent of that colony ; owner of a coffee plantation ; who resided 
there 20 years, from 1808 to 1828 (p. 965—976, 981—993, and 
997_1042). 

Besides these witnesses various papers and abstracts were produced, 
in the course of the enquiry, by Thomas Amyott, Esq., registrar of 
colonial slaves (p. 27 — 29) ; R. G. Amyott, Esq., his chief clerk (p. 
81—88; 248—261 ; 449—455; and 1079) ; and also by Mr. Edward 
Irving, an accountant (p. 976— 979; 993— 996; 1010—1013; 1072, 
andl073; and 1076 and 1077); and by Mr.E.R.FAYERMAN(p. 1013). 

The anti-slavery witnesses were nine in number, viz. — 

1. Rev. John Barry, a Wesleyan missionary, who quitted Ja- 
maica in 1832, after residing there six years (p. 412 — r448, and 
456—548). 

2. Vice-Admiral the Hon. Charles E. Fleming, commander-in- 
chief on the Jamaica station from 1827 to 1830 (p. 548 — 563) 

3. William Taylor, Esq., a merchant and manager of estates in 
Jamaica for 13 years, between 1816 and 1831 (p. 565 — 633). 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Duke of Manchester. 5 

4. Rev. Peter Duncan, a Wesleyan missionary during more than 
11 years in Jamaica, from 1821 to 1832 (p. 635—706). 

5. Rev. Thomas Morgan, a Wesleyan missionary, who resided in 
Jamaica and other West-India islands for 16 years, between 1812 and 
1831 (p. 707—722). 

6. Rev. William Knibb, a Baptist missionary, who resided in Ja- 
maica seven years, from 1825 to 1832 (p. 723—779, and 801—810). 

7. Rev. Thomas Cooper, a Unitarian missionary, who resided in 
Jamaica upwards of three years, from 1818 to 1821 (p. 790 — 799, and 
810—812). 

8. Thomas Fowell Buxton, Esq., M. P. (p. 827—956). 

9. Rev. John Thorpe, a clergyman of the established church, who 
resided in Jamaica for nearly three years, in 1827, 1828, and 1829 
(p. 1048—1750). 

Besides the examinations of these witnesses the Report contains 
a great mass of documentary evidence, to which we shall specifi- 
cally advert after we have given a brief abstract of the oral testimony 
on both sides, beginning with that which was adduced in favour of 
Slavery. 

PRO-SLAVERY WITNESSES. 

1. THE DUKE OF MANCHESTER. 

It is hardly possible to conceive any thing more meagre and unsa- 
tisfactory than the testimony given by this nobleman. After having 
filled the high office of governor of Jamaica for 18 years, during the 
interesting period which extended from the date of the abolition of the 
slave-trade, in 1807, to the passing of the disallowed slave-law (mis- 
named ameliorating) of 1826, he appears to know as little either of the 
events which took place under his government, or of the spirit and 
temper of the different classes of the population subject to his rule, or 
of the laws which he was appointed to administer, or of the changes 
in those laws which he was instructed to recommend or required to 
sanction, or even of the death-warrants he was called officially to sign, 
as might have been found (if not even less than might have been 
found) in the commonest observer of the same transactions who de- 
rived his information of them only from the journals of the day. His 
memory, which we should have thought must have been stamped with 
indelible impressions of the occurrences of that eventful and spirit- 
stirring crisis, exhibits a smooth and unruffled surface, an almost ab_ 



6 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

solute blank : and he reminds us much more forcibly of a sultan im- 
mured within the walls of his haram than of a high British functionary 
appointed by his sovereign to watch over the lives and the liberty, the 
well-being and the improvement, of nearly half a million of his fellow- 
subjects. This is indeed a melancholy exhibition ! We pretend not 
to say where the blame rests ; but we trust that the days have now 
vanished for ever which can be darkened and disgraced by so painful 
and mortifying a spectacle; and when the powers, whether of good or 
evil, possessed by the British Government over the destinies of distant 
provinces, are delegated to hands so little fitted to wield them. 

Mr. Burge, if we understand him correctly, has taken to himself 
the credit (p. 967) of having marshalled the array of the pro-slavery 
host for the late conflict. If so, he has certainly not shown himself 
an able tactician. His choice of the Duke of Manchester to lead the 
van of his battle in the House of Lords, and of Captain Williams to 
head that in the House of Commons, reflects no lustre on his dis- 
cernment. It exhibits rather something of that infatuation which we 
have been apt to impute to the West Indian body, but from which we 
were fully disposed beforehand to exempt that learned gentleman. 

The Duke of Manchester's testimony may be thus summed up : — 
The treatment of the slaves was excellent ; their food and clothing 
abundant (though he cannot specify quantities) ; and their dwellings 
remarkably good in general. They all had land to cultivate for them- 
selves, and the markets of the island were supplied from the excess of 
their produce with provisions, pigs, and poultry; and their property 
was secure. Such was their state as much when the Duke first 
landed in Jamaica as when he quitted it. The slaves might now be 
more enlightened, but, in other respects, not a bit better off than they 
were twenty years ago (p. 3,4). He did not recollect any legislative 
enactments tending to improvement in his time, though there may 
have been one or two since he came away ; but complaints of slaves 
were much more attended to. There was no feeling of private inse- 
curity while he remained, except during the latter years of his stay, 
when two or three partial insurrectionary movements occurred (p. 5). 
The only idea, he conceived, the slaves had of emancipation was the 
having nothing to do. Thirty days' labour in the year, or as he afterwards 
says (p. 381), on the authority of Bryan Edwards, twenty, was enough 
to supply their wants, and they would, therefore, have no motive to 
labour beyond this. As to confidence in their masters, the slaves could 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Duke of Manchester. 7 

feel little of it, as there are hardly any of their masters there. They 
did not know their masters generally. He believed the slaves possessing 
property were superior persons, but he did not know what distinctions 
there were among them, and could not specify instances (p. 6). He 
did not recollect what had passed in the Jamaica Assembly as to their 
refusal to appoint protectors, or as to the admission of slave evidence, 
except that it was admitted against their fellow-slaves, though not 
against white or free persons ; or as to compulsory manumission ; or 
as to marriage. Sunday markets were not abolished in his time ; but 
he believed, though of that he was not certain, that the slaves had 
Saturday as well as Sunday, or at least every other Saturday, except 
during crop. He was not aware of any law giving the slaves a legal 
right of property ; nor of any attempt to substitute the cat for the 
cart-whip, or to prevent indecency in the flogging of females ; nor 
could he tell whether the slaves, though liable, as he conceived, to be 
punished by magistrates, were also liable to be punished by councils 
of protection, for unfounded complaints (p. 7, 8). He recollected an 
attack on the house of aWesleyan missionary at Christmas, 1826; but 
he had not succeeded in discovering its authors, nor did he know 
that it was perpetrated by white militia-men, or that it was excited by 
an inflammatory sermon of the Rev. Mr. Bridges, which sermon he 
had nevertheless read, and did not consider as inflammatory at all* 
(P- 9). 

His Grace was further questioned as to certain trials and executions 
of slaves which had taken place under his sanction, in 1823 and 1824, 
in the parishes of St. Mary, St. George, St. James, and Hanover, but 
he was wholly unable to speak clearly as to the circumstances of any 
of them. He did not even know, though he admitted they were con- 
demned as rebels, that they were taken in arms. " I will not be cer- 
tain about arms, but they were taken in the act of rebellion cer- 
tainly;" but what act he could not tell. He had looked at all the evi- 
dence laid before him, but had called for no further evidence. He could 



* We also have read the sermon, and we cannot but marvel at his Grace's 
judgment of it. Its tendency, if not its aim, was to excite the white militia to 
rise from their Christmas revels to assail the Methodists. His Grace's apology 
for the transaction is that it was a drunken outrage. 



8 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

not recollect whether the whole of it was not hearsay. He did not believe 
that any witness for the prosecution had been cross-examined. " How, 
indeed," he aptly asks in reply, " could it have been?" for the accused 
were "certainly not defended by counsel." He had never heard that 
a promise of freedom was held out to the witnesses for the prosecu- 
tion ; or that a father named Stirling had been convicted and 
executed on the unsworn evidence of his own son, a lad of thirteen ; 
or that a husband had been found guilty and hanged on the evidence 
of his wife* (p. 10, 11). 

The Duke is questioned as to the fact of the indemnity made to the 
master for the slaves who may be executed. He admits that in such 
cases " the owner is allowed a sum of money," but, he believes, 
" generally much below the value. It used to be about £40. That 
is allowed by law"f (p. 11). On a subsequent examination which his 



* And yet such were the facts of the case, as exhibited on the very face of the 
evidence which was submitted to the Duke of Manchester, and on which he 
authorized the execution of eight of the king's subjects in one day ; and which 
he himself transmitted to Lord Bathurst ; and which Lord Bathurst laid before the 
House of Commons, and by whose order they were printed, on the 1st March, 1825, 
No. 66. — For a full account of the many foul judicial murders which occurred in 
Jamaica during the years 1823 and 1824, and of which his Grace's recollections 
are so feeble and imperfect, the reader may refer to this important parliamentary 
document, and to an abstract of it contained in a pamphlet published by Hat- 
chard, and to be had at the Anti-Slavery Office, entitled " The Slave Colonies of 
Great Britain, or a Picture of Negro Slavery, by the Colonists themselves" 
(p. 35 — 63) ; and also to' the speech of the present Lord Chief Justice, then Mr. 
Denman, delivered in the House of Commons on the 2nd of March, 1826, when 
he moved a resolution reprobating, in the strongest terms of sorrow and indigna- 
tion, the perversion of law and the violation of justice displayed in these trials and 
executions. See the parliamentary debates of that day, and the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, vol. I. No. 10, p. 113, &c. 

f The Duke is so far right, in saying that this most iniquitous practice is sanc^ 
tioned by law in Jamaica ; but he is quite mistaken in supposing that the in- 
demnity is limited to £40. On the contrary, in the case of the eight executions 
which he himself authorized in St. Mary's, the indemnities were as follows, viz. — 
Henry Nibbs (the man convicted by his wife), £50; Charles Brown, £100; 
James Stirling (the man executed on the evidence of his son), £65 ; Charles 
Watson, £80 ; Rodney Wellington, £70 ; William Montgomery, £100 ; Richard 
Cosley, £100 ; Morris Henry, £90. All these poor creatures, except the 



0)1 Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Duke of Manchester. 9 

Grace underwent respecting these trials (see p. 386), he aims at 
salving all defects and justifying the warrant to execute eight of the 
king's subjects, by stating that he could not recollect the evidence on 
which he had concluded they were guilty, and besides, no Governor, 
he conceives, could get any thing by sifting a Negro's evidence. " It 
must be done by persons who understood their language and habits, 
and are used to their tricks ;" implying, it would seem, that he felt 
himself wholly incompetent to the task of re-examining the evidence ; 
and he further, by way of making his apology complete, says, " I 
know that the persons executed all confessed." Mr. Burge, he thinks, 
was Attorney-General at the time.* 

first, belonged to an estate called Frontier, the property of Archibald Stirling, Esq., 
a Scotch gentleman, who stands high in reputation in Scotland as a religious 
character, but who seems to have pocketed £605 as the price of the blood of these 
seven innocent and murdered men. These valuations stand recorded in the 
Jamaica Royal Gazette, of the 28th December, 1823, which states that the crimes 
for which they were " all found guilty on the clearest evidence, and sentenced to 
be hanged," were " rebellious conspiracies, and other crimes, to the ruin and de- 
struction of the white people and others of this island, and for causing, exciting, 
and promoting others thereto ; and also for being concerned in rebellion, and 
designing to commit murder, felony, burglary, and to set fire to certain houses, 
and out-houses ; and compassing and imagining the death of the white people in 
the said parish" — (bless their majesties !) Can all this be believed ? And yet 
not one overt act of any kind was even alleged to have been committed. The 
only witnesses even of a design of committing any offence was a boy of thirteen, 
who charged his own father with it, and a man named Ned, who, we are ex- 
pressly told, in the Royal Gazette of the 21st of December, 1823, that of the 
preceding week, did not even depose to any such design on the part of any one, 
until he had " received a promise of pardon, and also of his freedom," if he 
would " discover the whole plot." And yet the Duke of Manchester, and Mr. 
Hinchcliffe, and Sir John Keane, and Mr. Shand, and Mr. Burge himself, who 
was the Attorney-General, the law adviser of his Grace at this time, cum multis 
aliis, can tell us fine tales of the effective protection and security, and of the un- 
rivalled felicity of men on whom such deeds may be perpetrated with impunity. 
Such is the state in which Sir Charles Rowley says he would prefer to be born 
to labour, rather than in that of the English peasant. See Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
No. 104, p. 443. 

* What part Mr. Burge may have taken in this matter we know not, though 
he and Mr. Bullock were probably the Duke's counsellors on the occasion. Mr, 



10 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

His Grace thinks that the insurrectionary movements of which he 
had spoken were to be traced to the Negro's desire to emancipate 
himself. This he believes was the sole cause of the disturbances in 
St. James and Hanover in 1824. They certainly did not arise, he 
says, from ill usage — (p. 380).* 

The Duke is of opinion that attorneys and overseers are as likely 



B. best knows. But certainly nothing can be more contrary to the fact than 
the statement made, on the Duke's alleged knowledge, " that the persons executed 
all confessed." This statement is directly contradicted by Colonel Cox, who 
was present at the trial and execution of those men. In a letter to the Duke, 
dated the day after the execution, viz. on the 25th of December, 1823, inserted 
in the papers of 1825, No. 66, p. 44, Colonel Cox says, " only one of the 
wretches confessed to the Rev. Mr. Gerod that it was their intention to have 
burned Frontier works, and Port Maria, and killed the whites. But none would 
mention any other Negroes connected with them, or show any symptoms of re- 
ligion or repentance. They all declared they would die like men, and they 
met their fate with perfect indifference." Even the qualified statement of Mr. 
Cox is untrue. On the very scaffold, as we should be able to show, pardon was 
offered to such of them as would acknowledge their guilt, and discover their 
accomplices, but they, one and all, persisted in protesting their own innocence, 
and positively refused to save their lives by criminating other persons of whose 
guilt they had no knowledge. We are the more forward to state these circum- 
stances, because not only is Mr. Burge in England, but Abraham Hodgson, Esq., 
the custos of St. Mary, who presided at the trial, and himself attended the exe- 
cution of these eight wretches, is now also in this country. He is one of the 
delegates sent from Jamaica along with Mr. Barrett to assist Mr. Burge in plead- 
ing the cause of slavery in the present session of parliament. It is awful to con- 
template the total indifference to Negro life, as well as to all the forms as well as 
essentials of justice which marked the whole of the proceedings of that feverish 
period. 

* Here again the Duke of Manchester is contradicted by the documents which 
he himself transmitted to this country in 1824. See the parliamentary papers 
already alluded to, No. 66 of 1825, p. 118. The disturbance on Argyle estate, 
in Hanover, belonging to Mr. Malcolm, was solely owing to that gentleman's 
having most unwarrantably and gratuitously endeavoured to shorten the slaves' 
Saturdays, by requiring them to muster in the field and work there some time 
before they were dismissed to their grounds. This conduct was not only unjust, 
but illegal, and it was obstinately persisted in by Mr. Malcolm, notwithstand- 
ing the complaints and remonstrances of his slaves. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Duke of Manchester. 11 

to manage well and leniently as the proprietors themselves — (p. 381). 
He was again questioned about the famous Slave Law passed by him 
in 1826, and disallowed by the Crown ; but he had forgot all about 
it, and could reply distinctly to none of the questions — (p. 383, 384). 
He was further questioned as to the attack on the Methodist Mis- 
sionary at St. Ann's, after an inflammatory sermon by Mr. Bridges, 
and he stated his incapacity to call to mind the circumstances of the 
case, or the causes which prevented the detection and punishment of 
the delinquents. He relieved himself at last by referring the whole 
matter to Mr. Burge, who, he thinks, was the Attorney General at the 
time, " and would be much more able to answer these questions than 
I can be." " It was his (Mr. Burge's) special duty to take measures 
for the discovery. He was instructed to do it"' — (p. 385). 

The Duke admitted that he had been intimate with Mr. Bridges 
who, he added, was " a person with whom any one would be glad to be 
acquainted, as a gentleman and a man of learning" — (p. 388). He 
had heard that day, for the first time, of the case of Mr. Bridges and 
Kitty Hilton.* Being shown a cart- whip, he said he had seen many 
such in Jamaica, though this, he thought, was somewhat larger than 
those used by the drivers. He had never, however, had one in his 
hand in Jamaica ; and had seen it hung over the driver's shoulder, or 
coiled round his stick. He admitted that they made a shocking- 
noise with their whips ; and that in Jamaica every thing was done by 
the whip : it was used for signals ; and, if a boy was set to drive chickens, 
the first thing he did was to make a whip. Every estate has stocks 
to confine Negroes (p. 388). 

On estates, the Duke always found old slaves comfortably pro- 
vided for, he supposed by their own families. Very few slaves went to 



* Mr. [Bridges has certainly succeeded in gaining the friendship of suc- 
cessive Governors. He was, it is asserted, no less the favoured associate of 
the convivial hours of the Duke's successor than he was of the Duke himself. 
Yet this chosen and familiar companion of his Majesty's representatives in 
that great island stands marked with infamy in the judicial records of Jamaica, 
and in the official communications of his Majesty's Secretary of State. He has 
also been convicted of a false and malicious libel on the courts of this country. 
See the Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol. iii., No. 66, and vol. iv., No. 76, p. 140, 
and No. 79, p. 246. 



12 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

church. The driver carried, of course, the whip to stimulate the 
slaves to work ; and, if they did not work, the driver would use his 
whip for that purpose — (p. 389, 390). 

Such is the evidence of the Duke of Manchester, brought forward 
in the front of their battle by the Colonial Committee, to establish 
their pro-slavery case, and to confute the calumnies of the Abolition- 
ists and of the Anti-Slavery Reporter. We greatly doubt whether the 
result will satisfy them. It perfectly satisfies us. We ought, perhaps, 
to apologize to our readers for giving so much space to it ; but the 
rank of the witness, and the importance attached to his evidence by 
the West Indians, seemed to justify this lengthened notice of it. 

2. H. J. HINCHCLIFFE, Esq. 

This lawyer, — for many years, we believe, the King's Advocate, and 
latterly the Judge of the Vice- Admiralty Court of Jamaica, — has sur- 
prised us by his evidence still more than even the noble Governor of 
that colony. His professional education and his legal habits were 
likely to have made his information, during 17 years of uninterrupted 
residence, of some value. It is nearly valueless. He knows nothing, 
he tells us, but "from general observation" of the condition of the slave 
population; but that, he conceives, enables him to state that, "as 
compared with the labouring population in any other country, it was 
exceedingly good indeed" (p. 13). Want, as to food or clothing, 
was unknown among them ; he had "no notion of any thing of the 
sort;" and, as far as he knew, their treatment was good and kind. 
He had not been led even to think of the subject of emancipation 
before he left the island in 1818 ; and now he had no idea of a slave, if 
freed, doing more than supply his own wants, and that he would not 
very soon relapse into barbarism. In his time, no religious instruction 
had been given to the slaves except by missionaries, and of them or of 
the state of religion he knows little. Few plantation slaves were 
then baptized, and he had never heard of a marriage among them. The 
planters were jealous of the influence of the missionaries in getting 
money from the slaves. He seemed to know absolutely nothing of 
any labours of clergymen among them (p. 14 — 16). Slaves had cer- 
tainly no legal right to property in his time, but he had never heard 
of its being interfered with, though many of them, he believed, pos- 
sessed property. The treatment of the slaves was, he also believed, 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of H. J. Hinchcliffe, Esq. 13 

lenient ; and the leaning of jurors, on trials, in their favour : but he 
could not recollect particular instances. Indeed he had never seen 
a slave trial. The judges were almost all planters, and not profes- 
sional men, and they acted in general without any legal assessor (p. 
17—19). 

Mr. Hinchcliffe underwent a second examination, but little more 
was elicited from him, by means of it, except matters of mere vague 
opinion and not of knowledge. He was inclined to think, upon the 
whole, that the act of 1831 did give slaves a legal right of property, 
but of this he was not sure. He much disapproved of a slave pro- 
tector, as being discourteous to the master, and as prejudicially inter- 
fering between him and the slave. On various other points he pro- 
fessed himself wholly uninformed. He knew no slave hat could read 
(p. 322—331). 

His statements were equally vague as to the industry whether of 
the slaves or of the free. He inclined to think, however, that the slave 
would work more diligently for himself on his own one day in the 
week, while compelled to work five days for his master. The late 
insurrection, he was of opinion, though he had no knowledge of the 
fact, was excited by the missionaries. Of the missionaries, however, 
whether white or black, he knew nothing, excepting in the case of 
one man, a Baptist, whom he believed to be a very respectable, well- 
behaved man. The general impression respecting them, however, 
among the planters, was unfavourable (p. 332 — 336). 

Mr. Hinchcliffe had witnessed punishments, but he did not think 
they could be called severe, if they permitted a man to return to his 
work immediately, or in a day or two after The flogging both of 
men and women was on the posteriors. He believed it was not 
uncommon to pickle the wounds after a flogging. He did not know 
how many lashes the driver might inflict of his own authority ; it 
might be five or ten. The master or manager might inflict 39. He 
believed that acts of cruelty would excite general indignation in 
Jamaica. He had never attended a slave court in his life ; but he 
believed the slave had no civil remedy. Of the means of redress, in 
other cases, enjoyed by the slaves, he begged to refer to the slave 
law. As to licentiousness, he seemed to admit that it was pretty 
general among all classes, but not attended with the same violations 



1 4 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

of external decency which might be witnessed in populous cities in 
Europe (p. 340—344). 

On the whole, the evidence of this gentleman might well have been 
spared ; but it is at least harmless. If it proves any thing, it proves 
this, that a man of good education and respectable acquirements may 
pass not merely a few months, but 17 or 18 years in a slave colony, 
and know as little of its interior as if he had passed his whole life in 
travelling between Lincoln's Inn and Westminster Hall. 

3. JOHN BAILLIE, Esq. 

We come at length to a planter, and a man of no small experience 
in that capacity, for he had resided in Jamaica 27 years at a stretch, 
till 1815, and had afterwards visited it twice between 1822 and 1826. 
His experience, during that time, taught him that the slaves were 
" happy and contented;" sufficiently provisioned, particularly in his 
own district, including Westmoreland, St. James, Trelawney, Hanover, 
and St. Ann ; and that they were remarkably improved in moral and 
religious feeling. The character of overseers, he said,was also improved. 
The property of slaves was uniformly protected. In case of ill usage, 
a slave generally obtained redress by going to a magistrate or a neigh- 
bouring gentleman. He had every facility in making his complaints, 
and also for religious worship. This testimony applied to the period 
even before 1815. He found matters still more improved in his last 
visits. Baptisms were more frequent, and that in gangs of 20, 30, or 
40. The clergyman was invited, and had a dinner, with a douceur of 
£25 or £30 besides. Before 1815, baptism was generally granted 
on request as a boon ; marriage, too, was now much more frequent. 
His own estate, Roehampton, in St. James's, has about 350 slaves. 
He had no school upon it, but he understood that schools had in- 
creased "for coloured children." Voluntary manumissions he under- 
stood also to have become very frequent. He had offered to sell 
manumission to his own slaves, but not one had ever accepted it. 
He thought all masters should be willing to do so whenever slaves 
apply for it. His own Negroes, to whom he offered to sell their 
freedom, had the means of paying for it. One of them, of the name of 
John Baillie, who refused the offer, possessed from £600 to £800 ; but 
he was executed the other day as a leader in the rebellion. He was 
originally a mason, and made a deal of money in that way; but, being 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of J. Baillie, Esq. 15 

a confidential person, he was made head driver, and getting lame, 
though only 48 years of age, he was then made a ranger to go round 
the estate, and had a mule to ride and a boy to attend him ; he had 
also his house and land, and cattle running on the estate. In the last 
return of May, 1831, he stood in the list "exempt from labour," and 
yet " he was one of the ringleaders in the rebellion." Mr. Baillie can- 
not tell precisely what property his Negroes were possessed of. * He 
had never known but one man, a brown man, who had applied to 
purchase his freedom and been refused. He was a slave of Mr. Gor- 
don, a gentleman who has distinguished himself in Greece (p. 22 — 25). 



* The above statement is, in some of its parts, so extravagant and incredible 
that we felt disappointed that it should have been followed by no cross-examina- 
tion. Iu a later part of the enquiry, however, we find it again adverted to, but 
still in a way which leaves a part of its strange inconsistencies unexplained. 
The only time, Mr. Baillie observes, that he offered his slaves leave to buy their 
freedom was (we presume during the Christmas revels) about Christmas, 1825. 
They refused it, but gave no reason for their refusal. They "laughed in his 
face," and an old African man, the same identical John Baillie, the ranger men- 
tioned above, speaking for the rest, said, "Massa, me know better, massa, than 
take freedom." "I never offered it," Mr. Baillie adds, "but on that occasion." 
" The whole gang were up, and I called three or four of them, and, in a laughing 
way, said, ' You have heard talk a great deal about freedom. If any of you 
want to be free, I am willing to give it to you. John, what do you think of it V 
It was done in a jocular way, but perfectly in earnest, if they would avail them- 
selves of it." This offer to sell them their freedom, he adds, was general, and, 
though the ranger alone answered, yet any one might have dissented from him. 
In speaking of the property of his slaves, however, on a former day, he had 
referred to this one man, his slaves generally " certainly not'''' having sufficient 
property to purchase their freedom. This man, he knew, did possess property, 
and the ground of his knowledge he thus states: " He had cattle running upon 
the estate (two cows and their calves) ; he had also a flock of goats, and he had 
also hogs and poultry ;" and, when the conversation took place as to his freedom, 
his daughter stated to him, "Massa, he can buy us free very well if he choose ; 
he have plenty of money." Being asked how he knew that this ranger, who 
was executed for rebellion, possessed the sum of £600 or £800, which he had 
represented him to possess, and also how it was invested, he said he had no 
other means of knowing the fact than he had already stated, and that the pro- 
perty was in " money, or in stock, as cattle, pigs, and so on ;" and if in money, it 
was " perhaps hid away." He could not tell what had become of this property 



16 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

When Mr. Baillie first went to Jamaica very little trouble was taken 
to instruct slaves ; much more has been taken latterly. Sunday is 
now never made use of as a day of labour ; formerly it was. Female 
slaves are not treated or punished indecently by their masters, who, he 
thinks, have less power, quoad licentiousness, than is possessed over 
maid-servants in England. Slaves are certainly not often subjected 
to barbarity in punishment, and the means of redress are always easily 
to be had. Complaints, whether trivial or serious, are never smothered. 
The slave law prohibits the separation of families. No difficulty 
attends slave evidence, in the case of acts of cruelty. Slaves, once 
made free, are never reduced to slavery again. No labouring popula- 
tion, certainly, can be better fed ; and no slave is compelled to do 
half the work of an English labourer. It is clearly the master's in- 
terest to feed and clothe his slaves well. Slaves are proud of wearing 
shoes,butthey throw them off when not waiting at table. The planter has 
to support the old and young, and all incapable of labour. Free labour 
is to be preferred to slave labour, if it can be obtained. A slave's dwell- 
ing is sacred from the master. The intrusion of a protector, therefore, 
would be offensive to him. Mr. Baillie objects strongly to a protector, 
as unnecessary and injurious, and as likely to generate discontents. 
The Negro houses are very comfortable, but he himself did not often 
enter them. He has gone into the house of his ranger, and had wine 
offered him there. His slaves had no day given them for their grounds in 
crop time, but he sometimes gave four or five additional days after crop. 
He admitted, however, that it would be an advantage to the slaves, at 



since the ranger's execution, but he hoped to ascertain it on his return to Jamaica, 
which was about to take place. Being further asked what he conceived had 
been the man's object in revolting, he replied, " It is totally impossible for me 
to conjecture ; I had such confidence in him that if my family had been there, 
even my daughters, I should have implicitly placed them in his charge and 
thought them perfectly safe." 

Now what can be said to all this ? It must either be the wildest fable ever 
fabricated, a mere romance, or this poor man must have suffered from his over- 
seer some very harsh and unworthy treatment of which his master knew nothing. 
The sound of a cart-whipping, and the groans it may have drawn from him, of 
course could not reach the ears of his master across the Atlantic ; and to what 
indignities besides he or his daughter may have been subjected who can tell ? 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of J. Baillie, Esq. 17 

all seasons, to have time for cultivating their grounds. The only slave 
on his estate who had cattle was his ranger : he had two cows, and 
some calves. The slaves do not eat much animal food, and what they 
do eat they like to eat in a putrid state * (p. 29 — 39). 

Then follow, in this and other parts of Mr. Baillie's evidence, ques- 
tions about the name and use of the cart-whip or driving whip, as if 
it were of the slightest importance what name it bears, or what is its 
precise form or size, so long as it serves to lacerate the bared limbs of 
human beings, men and women ; prickly rods being employed to 
aggravate its lacerations, and brine or lime-juice to add to its torture. 
Mr. Baillie, however, stands pre-eminent among pro-slavery witnesses 
for the unflinching boldness of his assertions respecting the non-use 
of the whip. Many years ago, this practical planter of thirty years' 
standing had seen such a thing as a cart-whip ; but, if used at all, it 
must have been before the abolition of the slave trade. No such thing has 
been known since; nay its inflictions have been wholly discontinued 
since 1795 ! He has not known it since that time, either on his own es- 
tate or on any of the estates in the surrounding district for twenty miles. 
The whip is carried into the field certainly ; but not as an instrument 
of punishment, only as an emblem of authority. Then, he says, the 
laws of Jamaica prohibit the use of the whip in inflicting punishments 
without ample time being allowed after the offence has been com- 
mitted ; whereas it is well known there is no such law in Jamaica. 
In short, the whole of his evidence is of so random and rambling a 



* It would be endless to expose all the strange unmeaning statements and mis- 
representations contained in the above abstract of ten pages of Mr. Baillie's 
evidence, contradicted too as much of it is by other pro-slavery witnesses ; — such 
as Sunday is never used as a day of labour — women are not indecently 
flogged, and are not exposed to licentious outrage — there are no barbarous 
punishments — the slaves have easy means of redress — there is no separation 
of families, &c. . Even when he speaks the truth he strangely disfigures it. The 
slaves do not eat much animal food in Jamaica. That is true. Many of them 
eat none at all. But then he would imply, because they eat it putrid, that they 
prefer it in that state. The fact is, they are driven by necessity to eat it putrid, 
for they can get little else. The Negroes in Cuba, Caraccas, and Hayti eat good 
beef daily. Why do they not in Jamaica ? Simply because they cannot get it. 
In Hayti, beef is twopence a pound — in Jamaica, a shilling ; and, if the slaves 
used it, it would be double that price in a week. 



18 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

nature, that we feel some difficulty in believing that the witness could 
understand the meaning of the words he uttered. At the very moment 
he is saying that the use of the whip has been discontinued since 1795, 
he limits the number of the lashes that may be given by the driver in 
the field to six. Again, he denies, in the strongest terms, the use of 
the whip to compel field labour ; yet, when he is asked, in a subse- 
quent part of his examination, whether there is a hope as to the fitness 
of the slaves for emancipation, he replies, "I conceive not ; for the 
nature of the Negro is such that, unless he is compelled, he will not 
work." He does not even think it possible that, in any number of years 
to come, the slave would be prepared to labour as labour is conducted 
in other parts of the world ; and, if free, he would be unable to take 
care of his family. Slaves made free, he maintains, become mere 
nuisances, and are no assistance to any one — (p. 41 — 45 and 60, 61). 
Emancipation would be the ruin of the slaves — (p. 115). 

What possible use can be made, even so as to form an intelligible 
abstract, of such wild and contradictory statements ? 

It will be wholly unnecessary to follow Mr. Baillie in his details 
(p. 45 — 60) of the various employments of his slaves by day and by 
night, and which occupy many pages that tend to nothing and con- 
vey no useful information whatever. In the course of his evidence he 
takes occasion to allude to his anxiety for the religious instruction of 
his slaves, and to his having even meditated building a chapel for them 
on his estate ; but his attorney told him it would be throwing away 
money to do so. He therefore abandoned the plan. His favourite 
ranger seems to have been little inclined to attend to religion : he 
preferred having three wives to paying it any attention — (p. 51, 52). 
The only conversation he states himself to have had with his slaves 
about marriage was to ridicule it (p. 157). 

"Sunday," says Mr. Baillie, " has become a day of rest by law;" 
and this he affirms in the teeth of the very last slave act, which legalizes 
Sunday markets till eleven o'clock. Again, " The slaves never have 
been compelled to cultivate their grounds on Sundays" (p. 55). — And 
yet they never had any other day allowed them by law but Sunday, 
until the very year, 1788, that Mr. Baillie first visited the island. 

The endless enquiries and remarks about shoes, and beards, and 
razors, are only laughable. The object seems to have been to prove 
that the Negro's foot was not made to wear shoes, although it is 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of J. Baillie, Esq. 19 

admitted they wear them if they can on gala days, and while waiting- 
at table, and that they may protect the feet from many an injury ; 
and also to prove that the Negroes, having no beards, do not want 
razors, though no man can take the trouble to inspect a Negro's face 
without seeing that the beard, which even Mr. Baillie admits is con- 
spicuous in the aged from its whiteness, is only obscured in the young 
by the common blackness of the hair and skin. 

We may also omit the details about spell-keeping, and hospitals, and 
ploughing, and holeing, summing up the whole in a brief sentence : — 
That, generally speaking, the slaves have, in crop-time, not more than 
six hours' rest in the twenty four ; that hospitals are sometimes coveted 
by the slaves as a respite from severe toil ; and that the hands of men 
and women are too generally employed in digging the ground, where 
ploughs and cattle would do the same work much more effectually, 
and to the obvious saving of human health and life. These are all 
points we need not touch upon or attempt to prove. 

It were still more vain to follow Mr. Baillie in his loose, undigested, 
and wholly unauthenticated statements respecting the increase and 
decrease of the slave population. He specifies, however, certain estates, 
in the management of which he himself was still concerned, and from 
which he had received recent returns of the population, which he affirmed 
to be increasing on all of them. But on inspecting the authentic ac- 
counts of the population of those particular estates in the year 1827, 
as compared with the year 1831, as they stand in the sworn returns of 
the overseers to the different parish vestries, it is evident that Mr. Baillie 
must have been misinformed on the subject. We find only two of the 
six estates he mentions to have increased in that time — namely, the 
estate of Home Castle in St. Ann, belonging to the late Mr. R. Hume 
Gordon, and Georgia in Trelawney, belonging to Mr. Thomas Gordon. 
On the former there were, in 1827, 318, and, in 1831, 339 ; so that, 
supposing there was no addition by purchase or removal, the increase 
by birth would be 21, or nearly two percent, per annum. On Georgia 
the number, in 1827, was 255, and, in 1831, 258. The population of 
the remaining four estates was as follows, viz. — Blackness, in West- 
moreland (the late Mr. Grant's), in 1827, 258 ; in 1831, 254; the 
decrease in the six previous years having been 33. Gibraltar, in Tre- 
lawney (Mr. Campbell's), in 1827, 163 : in 1831, 157. Steelfield, in 
Trelawney, in 1827,' 213; in 1831, 211; the decrease of the six pre- 

c 2 



20 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

vious years having been 26, and of the whole ten years 28. Orange 
Bay, in Hanover, in 1827, 281 ; and in 1831, 264 ; the decrease of 
the preceding six years having been 28, and of the whole ten years 45. 
Mr. Baillie blunders sadly about the law of slave evidence. In one 
place he says (p. 122) that he never knew it rejected. The only law 
on that subject, however, the law of 1831, may be seen in the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p. 446. He is certain, too, that a 
Negro cannot now be punished with 39 stripes, by his master or mana- 
ger, for merely being absent from his work (p. 76, 77). There exists, 
however, no law imposing any such restraint on the master's power. 
Indeed, Mr. Baillie himself afterwards admits this (p. 120). 

Being asked respecting the licentious intercourse between the sexes 
said to be prevalent in Jamaica, he replied that he did not consider 
that there was any licentious intercourse between them. It was true 
white people had all black or coloured mistresses living with them on 
the footing of man and wife in this country ; but he had never seen 
any violation of decency. He could not name one friend, or any 
overseer or other person, who did not indulge in this practice. He 
had never known any missionaries who did so, nor any clergyman ; but, 
if he were told they did, he would believe it (p. 108, 109). He could 
say nothing of schools : he had never visited any. Estates, he con- 
ceived, had nothing to do with schools. He had never put a slave to 
school, and never knew one who could read. He believed Mr. Charles 
Nicholas Pallmer had established a school on his estates* (p. 1 1 1, 1 12). 

Mr. Baillie did not know what allowance of food the law required 
to be given to a slave when he had no provision grounds of his own. 
The law of humanity was the only law he knew on that point. He 
never knew a penalty enforced for an insufficient supply of sustenance 
to a slave (p. 125, 126). 

In a later period of his examination, the driving whip was again the 
subject of enquiry; and he then contradicted much of what he had 
said before. He denied, indeed, vehemently, the use at all of the 
cart- whip in the field. It was quite another sort of whip which was 
carried there ; and even that was used, not for panishment, but show. 
It was generally discontinued — not, as he said at first, in 1795, but, 
he believed, in 1815. He even admitted that the driver is not now 



* The attempt failed. See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p. 346. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of J. Baillie, Esq. 21 

prevented from using it in the field by any law. On the contrary, he 
said that, during the twenty-seven years he had been a planter, men 
and women did labour under the direction of a driver with a whip in 
his hand (p. 128). 

Mr. Baillie had testified that the slave was not compelled to do half 
so much work as the English labourer did. Being re-examined on 
this point he acknowledged he knew absolutely nothing of English 
labour (p. 129, 130). 

The question of the duration of night-work was again resumed (p. 
130 — 137), and with the same confusion as we have noticed in every 
other pro-slavery witness. We again refer our readers on that subject 
to the notes in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p. 337, and 417 
and 418. 

The time required by the Negro to cultivate provisions for himself 
and family no witness could state very precisely. One witness, Mr. 
Shand, did not scruple to say that one day, in some instances, or a 
week in others, was quite sufficient. The Duke of Manchester and 
others raised the number to thirty or perhaps twenty. Mr. Baillie 
seemed to think that the 26 allowed by law might be enough ; but 
he always himself gave them four or five or six days more after 
crop, besides their holidays ; and the Sundays, he adds, they may oc- 
cupy as they please. He had denied, indeed, that they were under 
any necessity of working on the Sunday, and he never knew them 
compelled to do so. At length, however, on the eighth day of his 
examination, he went so far as to admit that " they do cultivate their 
grounds on Sundays, though he did not himself call them to do it" 
(p. 148, 149). 

Mr. Baillie was very anxious to the last to testify that the Negroes 
did not work by coercion, and that they would on no account work for 
wages if free ; but yet, after all, nothing but the fear of punishment 
really obtained from them the labour which was obtained, just as in 
the case, he said, of soldiers and sailors. But the Negroes differed 
from all other people, he added, in being more lazy. No man who 
was made free ever returned to work in the field (p. 151 — 154). 

He was against all interference of every kind between master and 
slave, whether by Protectors, or by Orders in Council, or by suggestions 
of Secretaries of State. If the West Indians had been left to themselves, 
he thought, improvement would have gone on much more rapidly ; it 



22 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

had been much retarded by the conduct of the Government and people 
of this country (p. 162). 

Such, in substance, is the evidence, the confused and contradictory 
evidence, of this great and experienced planter, put forward with no 
small promise and examined at much length. It forms altogether so 
strange a jumble of inconsistencies, and is so much at variance with 
truth, and even with probability, that we should have concluded that 
he had laboured, while delivering it, under some unfortunate aberra- 
tion of mind. This would have been our unavoidable conclusion, 
even if we had heard nothing of the fatal act which soon after closed 
his earthly course, and which seemed to confirm all our preconcep- 
tions on the subject. We can only wonder that so acute a man as 
Mr. Burge, and one so well acquainted with colonial matters, should 
have rested the mighty interests of which he is avowedly the advocate, 
as he is the agent, on the testimony of one so little fitted to serve the 
cause he was brought forward to support. But, though he has since 
been removed to another tribunal, his evidence still stands forth, in all 
its native force, to condemn the system in which he was nurtured, and 
to which, for so many years, he zealously and perseveringly clung, 

4. THE LORD SEAFORD. 

Lord Seaford presented to the Committee a report made to him by 
his attorney in Jamaica, on the 1st of August, 1825, of the condition 
of his three estates in St. James's, in respect to the grounds, and 
the quantity of stock of various kinds, possessed by his slaves. The 
recapitulation is as follows : — 

The slaves on the three estates amounted to 864, and they possessed 
among them about 52 acres of garden grounds, and about 590 acres of 
provision grounds, in all 642 acres, being nearly in the proportion of 
three-fourths of an acre to each individual. They were also found to 
possess 131 cows, 26 oxen, 53 heifers, and 81 calves, making 291 
head of horned stock, together with 522 hogs, and 1728 head of 
poultry. Besides the provision and garden grounds, the stock be- 
longing to the slaves ran in the pastures of the estate free of charge. 
The young oxen, when fit for the yoke, were bought for the use of the 
estate at £10 a piece. They ran with the estate's cattle, and were taken 
care of exactly in the same way. The stock, his Lordship states, is 
bona/ide the property of the Negroes. His manager has proposed to 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of Lord Seaford. 23 

deprive them of this indulgence, but added that it would be necessary 
to purchase it of them, as, by the new slave act, they had acquired a 
legal property in all that stock. The proposal was made in a letter 
which his Lordship had received only the day before, and was suggested 
as a punishment for the misconduct of the slaves in the late rebellion. 
Being asked whether he assented to this proposal, he said no. There 
had been, however, as yet no time for signifying either his assent or 
dissent. 

A question then arises respecting the law of 1831, which has affected 
to give to the slaves a legal right of property ; and Lord Seaford seems 
to be of opinion that the law is so framed as to confer that right upon 
them. This point being important, and believing Lord Seaford as well 
as his manager to be wrong in the interpretation of that clause, we 
shall deem it necessary to give the law at length. It is the 14th clause 
of the Act of 19th February, 1831, and is as follows: — 

" And whereas, by the usage of this island, slaves have always been per- 
mitted to possess personal property, and it is expedient that such laudable custom 
should be established by law : Be it therefore enacted, by the authority aforesaid, 
that if any owner, possessor, or any other free person whatsoever, shall wilfully 
and unlawfully take away from any slave or slaves, or in any way deprive, or 
cause any slave or slaves to be deprived of, any species of personal property, by 
him, her, or them lawfully possessed, such person or persons shall forfeit and pay 
to such slaves the value of such property so taken away as aforesaid, the same 
to be recovered under the hands and seals of any three justices of the peace be- 
fore whom the complaint shall be laid and the facts proved, which three justices 
of the peace shall have the power of summoning witnesses, who shall be bound 
to attend and give their testimony, under the penalty of five pounds : provided, 
nevertheless, that nothing in this act shall be construed or deemed to authorize 
any trespass, or to allow any slave or slaves to turn loose, or keep, on his owner's 
or other person's property, any horses, mares, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, hogs, 
or goats, without the consent of his owner, or person in possession of such lands, 
being first had and obtained : provided always, and be it further enacted, that the 
said justices shall not have power to investigate any proceeding under the pre- 
ceding clause unless the complaint be brought before them within twenty days 
of the alleged committal of the injury : and provided that such justices shall not 
take cognizance of any claims made by slaves for property above twenty-five 
pounds value, but all claims for sums above that amount shall and may be re- 
covered by the owner in the courts of this island, on behalf and for the use of 
such slave : but provided always that nothing herein contained shall be deemed 
to authorize the institution of any suit at law or in equity for the recovery of any 



24 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

such claim by any slave in his own name, or otherwise than in the name of his 
said owner." 

Now, instead of admitting that this law gives to the slaves any 
really available right of property, and especially as against his master, 
we pronounce it to be a deliberate mockery, a studied evasion of the 
very right it affects to confer. To say nothing of the provisos, which 
are framed so as to defeat all hope of redress in the case most im- 
portant to the slaves, that of spoliation by their master or his delegate, 
let us look at this boasted clause, as it stands, independent of these. 
Its purposed evasion will be more manifest if it be contrasted with the 
clause in the Trinidad Order in Council, which Lord Bathurst pro- 
posed to adopt, and which Mr. Burge, then Attorney-General of Ja- 
maica, embodied into a Bill which was prepared by him in September, 
1 826, and afterwards brought into the House of Assembly, but rejected 
by that body, who substituted the above worthless and evasive clause 
in its stead : — 

" Whereas, by the usage of Jamaica, persons in a state of slavery have hitherto 
been permitted to acquire and enjoy property, free from the control of their 
owners, and it is expedient that such laudable custom should be recognized and 
established by law, therefore be it enacted that no person in the island of Ja- 
maica, being in a state of slavery, shall on account of his condition be, or be 
deemed to be, incompetent to purchase, acquire, possess, hold, alienate, and dis- 
pose of lands situate in Jamaica, or money, cattle, implements, or utensils of 
husbandry, or household furniture, or other effects of such or the like nature, of 
what value and amount soever, and to bring, maintain, prosecute, and defend 
any suit or action in any court of justice, for or in respect of any such property, 
as fully and amply to all intents and purposes as if he or she were of free con- 
dition." — Papers by His Majesty's Command, Part I. 1827, p. 15. 

Mr. Burge's version of this clause, adapting it peculiarly to the 
circumstances of Jamaica, but entirely preserving the spirit of the 
Trinidad enactment, may be found in the same volume, p. 48. It re- 
quires a simple inspection of the two clauses to place, in full light, the 
intended frustration by the one clause of all the benefits conferred 
by the other. No one can peruse it without being led to admire 
the dexterity with which, in the actual law of Jamaica, the crime of 
robbing a slave is taken out of the class of crimes, and made a mere 
civil injury; and as, even in the new evidence law of Jamaica, slave evi- 
dence is not admissible, under any circumstances, in civil cases, though 
it be in some criminal cases, it will follow that the evidence of slaves 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of Lord Seaford. 25 

will be entirely shut out from admission in all suits respecting their 
property. It seems to us that there must have been something almost 
satanic in the mind of the man, whoever he was, who could combine 
such a preamble, and such a professed purpose, with such an enact- 
ment, holding forth some promise indeed to the ear, but entirely break- 
ing it to the sense. The whole forms as gross a deception as has ever 
been practised. 

These remarks were especially applicable to the disallowed law of 
1826. That of 1831 , as Lord Goderich justly observes in his despatch 
to Lord Belmore, dated 16th June, 1831, " is altered considerably to 
the slave's disadvantage ; and when the owner himself is the wrong- 
doer the slave is left without any remedy." The new law, too, instead 
of imposing, as the Act of 1826 did, a fine of £10, limits the sum to 
be paid by the trespasser to the precise value of the property stolen or 
plundered ; and expressly takes from the slave, and vests exclusively 
in his owner, all right, whether in law or equity, to sue for the reco- 
very of his stolen or plundered property. And this is called legal 
protection to property ! ! Lord Seaford and his manager may be quite 
at their ease as to any danger to them from this clause. It is perfectly 
harmless as respects them, do what they may. At the same time we 
are very far from supposing that Lord Seaford would require any law 
but that of his own sense of right to guide his conduct in such a case. 
All this, however, may show what incorrect views, not merely the 
public at large, but even well-informed men like Lord Seaford, are 
apt to take, being gulled by mere words. Reading in the margin of 
the Jamaica Act these deceptive words, " Property of slaves pro- 
tected," they take it for granted that the Act and the margin corre- 
spond ; whereas they are in direct variance. The intelligent mind of 
Lord Seaford, if he had read the law with any care, could not have 
overlooked its futile and utterly evasive nature.* 



* It ought not to be forgotten that, in a parliamentary paper printed on the 
28th March, 1831, No. 301, Mr. Burge joined the other West India agents in 
imposing on Parliament and the public the version of the above clause in the act 
of 1826, respecting property, with the real nature of which Mr. Burge especially 
had been so conversant, as a complete protection of slave property. " It secures," 
they say, " to slaves the possession of personal property." Can any assertion be 
less true? 



26 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

But there is another part of Lord Seaford's evidence to which we 
must object still more pointedly, as at war with fact. — " I cannot pre- 
sume," says his Lordship, " to say from what reasons the Assembly of 
Jamaica, having refused at one time to make an enactment, should at 
a subsequent period have thought fit to make it. They refused to 
admit the evidence of slaves by an overwhelming majority, only two 
members voting for it : two years afterwards an Act was passed ad- 
mitting the evidence of slaves without any restriction" (p. 99). 
Can Lord Seaford possibly have used these words, speaking upon his 
solemn oath ? We think there must be some mistake in the report. 
This law, which Lord Seaford affirms to admit the evidence of slaves 
without any restriction, will be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 
1 04, at p. 446. Even if Lord Seaford had not thought it necessary to look 
at the law before he deposed to this effect, he could hardly have 
wholly forgotten the comments upon it of his deceased friend, Mr. Hus- 
kisson. He might have learnt from him, as well as from the words of 
the act itself, that, instead of admitting, it absolutely excluded the evi- 
dence of slaves in all civil cases, which is to exclude it in a very vast 
majority of the cases in which slaves can have an interest, and ad- 
mitted it not in the multitudinous cases of wrong connected with the 
ordinary and daily course of plantation discipline, but "in those cases 
of crime only in which they (i. e. slaves) are usually either the actors 
or the sufferers, excluding their evidence in other cases; a distinction 
which," adds Mr. Huskisson, " does not seem to me to rest on any 
solid foundation." 

Nor is this all. Two slaves, examined apart, if there be no free 
witnesses, must depose consistently to the same fact, before any free 
person can be convicted ; so that the rape of a slave may altogether 
escape punishment. Again, no slave testimony will avail against a 
free person after twelve months from the commission of his crime, 
however atrocious it may be. Nay, however a man may have been 
maimed or mutilated, the very exhibition of his bleeding body in court 
would be a bar to that court to grant him his liberty ; and his muti- 
lator, though convicted, cannot be bereft of a master's absolute 
dominion over him. This is a most barbarous enactment, breathing 
the very spirit of cruelty and distrust ; and yet Lord Seaford says of 
it, on his oath, that it admits " the evidence of slaves without 

ANY RESTRICTION." 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of Sir John Keane. 27 

Before Lord Seaford was called to give his evidence, as it has now 
been analysed, an important paper was laid on the table of the Com- 
mittee, by Richard Garrett Amyot, Esq., first clerk in the Slave Re- 
gistry Office, containing a view of the births and deaths of Africans 
and Creoles on Lord Seaford's three estates in St. James's, between 
the years 1817 and 1829. We will state the gross results: — 

The number of slaves on these three estates, by the registry of 1817, 
was 450 males and 527 females, in all 977 slaves ; exhibiting a state 
of population, in regard to the sexes, highly favourable to its increase, 
the females being about a sixth more than the males. 

The number on these estates in 1829 is not given in this statement, 
which is a great defect, and serves very much to puzzle it ; but, as far 
as we are able to make it out, the excess of deaths over births, in the 
intervening time, was 101, which would make the population of 1829 
876, the males being 404 and the females 472 ; an equally favourable 
state of the population as was exhibited in 1817. 

The decrease, nevertheless, even thus shown, amounts to nearly one 
per cent, per annum. But this is clearly below the truth, as Lord 
Seaford's manager states the slaves at only 864 in 1825; and in 1830 
his returns to the vestries of Hanover and St. James were only 846. 

We are aware of the argument which it is intended to build on the 
distribution which is made, in this statement, of the deaths, into 
Africans and Creoles, and also on the distribution of the births between 
African and Creole mothers ; but we reserve this point, to which we 
shall have a sufficient answer hereafter, until we execute our pro- 
mised purpose, of taking a complete and comprehensive view of the 
whole question of population, as it has been argued both in this Com- 
mittee and in that of the House of Commons. Meanwhile we shall 
limit ourselves to the single remark, that until Lord Seaford shall be 
able to show how it happens that the slave population of the United 
States should have increased so rapidly as it has done, namely, at the 
rate of 2f per cent, per annum, since the date of the abolition of the 
American slave trade in 1808, and that his Lordship's slaves, dating 
from the same period of the abolition of the British slave trade, should 
have decreased at the rate of 1 per cent., — we shall deem this boasted 
argument of no value whatever. Supposing the population of 
his Lordship's estates, in 1808, to have been 1050, at the American 
rate of progress it would have amounted, in the year 1829, to 1600 ; 



28 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

instead of being, as it actually was in that year, only 876 ; leaving a 
positive waste of human life, on these three estates, in 21 years, as 
compared with America, of 724. No one will venture to say that this 
is not a murderous difference, which no special pleading about Afri- 
cans and Creoles can deliver from its guilty stain. 

In one point of view we cannot regret that the course of the exa- 
mination should have forced us to individualize on this occasion, pain- 
ful as it must be to his Lordship's feelings, and unquestionably so as 
it is to our own. But where could we have found an example of a 
slave-holder more entitled to the praise of humane and liberal conduct 
towards his slaves than this nobleman ? But such is the system which 
he has unhappily had to administer, that its inherent wickedness has 
set his Lordship's best wishes and efforts at defiance, and has triumphed 
over them all. On his beautiful estates, where all nature seems to 
smile, and both all vegetable life and all other animal life are seen 
luxuriating in the exuberance of their productions, 

" Man only is the growth which dwindles here." 
We have indeed heard the case of Lord Seaford, and his severe 
losses by the late insurrection, cited, not only with the commiseration 
for his share in that calamity which we participate with all who have 
access to know his urbanity and other estimable qualities, but as a 
proof of the innate obduracy and ingratitude of the Negro character, 
which no kindness can soften, and no obligations can bind. Here, 
however, we must wholly dissent. His slaves, we do not hesitate to 
say, owe Lord Seaford nothing. Even the kindness he may have 
meant them, if not intercepted in its distant progress, has reached 
them only through hearts and hands known to them, not by any inter- 
change of affection, but by the stern exaction of their unintermitted 
toil. While they have been surrounding him with every enjoyment 
which wealth can purchase, they have been wearing out their lives, by 
night as well as by day, in bitter bondage, under the frown or the lash 
of unfeeling task-masters. Compared with those under whom they 
plied their unremitting labours, what was Lord Seaford to them? Their 
happiness and their destinies, from day to day and from hour to hour, 
were not in his power, but in that of his overseers ; and while health 
and life were wasting, as we have seen, apace, it is but the dream of 
a driveller to suppose that there existed any principle which could 
enable them to avert their minds from the scenes around them, and 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of Sir John Keane. 29 

fasten them on the kindly feeling towards them which might dwell in 
his Lordship's bosom amid the festivities and splendours of his lordly 
mansion at Seaford or in Audley Square. 

5. MAJOR-GENERAL SIR JOHN KEANE, K. C. B. 

This gallant officer passed eight years in Jamaica, in the interesting 
period from 1823 to 1830, as Commander-in-chief of the forces ; and, 
during a year and a half of the time, he administered the civil govern- 
ment also. He conceived himself to have had abundant opportunities 
of becoming acquainted with the condition of the slaves, having moved 
about a good deal in the island, and visited many estates. We ques- 
tion, however, whether he could have been a very accurate observer of 
what was passing around him during those years. For example, — he 
says, speaking of the Negro, that he has always observed it to be 
"very much contrary to the nature of that animal to tell the truth." 
He thus illustrates this opinion : — " Since the enactment of slave evi- 
dence being admitted, it is quite extraordinary to see the proof given 
in courts. They will tell a thing off-hand, and you suppose they had 
it perfectly ; and on their cross-examination they will forget what they 
have said, and will tell a story diametrically opposite to what they 
have before told" (p. 167). Now this is certainly a very off-hand 
statement of Sir John's, considering that he is on oath. Sir John Keane 
himself tells us that he quitted Jamaica in 1830. But the act which 
admitted a slave to give any evidence at all against free persons did 
not pass till February, 1831, and was not in force until the November 
following. It was therefore impossible that the gallant General could 
really have witnessed what he swears to have taken place. It must 
have been the illusion of a dream. 

Again, Sir John Keane tells us on his oath that one man in England 
does more [labour] than ten Negroes (p. 168). 

Again, he never even heard of a Council of Protection in Jamaica : 
it must have been after his leaving the island (p. 169) ; while, in truth, 
it forms a part of the acts of 1816 and of 1826, and was renewed in 
the very act of 1829 upon which he himself put his veto as Governor. 

Sir John Keane says he never heard of one complaint from slaves 
during the whole time he was in Jamaica. Their condition was good; 
they were contented ; their food and clothing were sufficient. He was 
sure they would have complained had there been any cause ; but they 



30 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

never complained to him ; and he had never, even by accident, heard 
of their complaining. They were advancing fast, according to Sir 
John, in amelioration and moral improvement ; and he had never heard 
of such a thing as any obstruction to it (p. 163 — 165). 

The slaves, Sir John thought, if made free, would sit down and do 
nothing, like the Maroons — nothing for themselves and nothing for 
others ; and yet he says they had become excessively enlightened : many 
could read and write, and could understand their catechism ; yet they 
do not improve as to their habits of lying, thieving, dishonesty, and li- 
centiousness ; but they pay great attention to their offspring, and they 
have married more of late years. — The planters dislike the missionaries 
as alienating their slaves from their work and home. — A slave protector 
would, in his opinion, be of most dangerous tendency ; besides, such 
a person was not required. The Governor, the King's representative, 
was their best protector. In all his own visits round the country, he 
had never heard a complaint in Jamaica (p. 169). There was a strong 
disposition in the planters to improve the slaves in every way. A 
protector is wholly unnecessary. If the Governor wishes for informa- 
tion he can have it from the Gustos, or can write to the Custos for 
his opinion. No cruel proprietor or manager would be tolerated 
in Jamaica. The Negroes would go to a magistrate either in a body 
or individually ; but in the eight years he was in Jamaica he never 
heard of a complaint, and never heard of a cause of complaint (p. 170 
— 172). He is quite sure emancipation would lead to utter ruin and 
extermination; "because," says Sir John, " an aggregate body of 
350,000 slaves in Jamaica could not arrange, if they were emancipated 
to-morrow, any thing like a livelihood or a state of creditable being 
for themselves; and, with St. Domingo so close to them, I think they 
would follow the ruinous example of that ill-fated island" (p. 173). 

Sir John Keane reiterates with emphasis that he had never heard of 
any complaint whatever. He then corrects himself, and says, he had 
heard of one case of corporal punishment that took place when he 
was in Jamaica. It was the case of the Rev. Mr. Bridges of St. Ann. 
Being asked if he recollected the particulars, he said, "it was a very 
nonsensical thing about a turkey which Mr. Bridges was angry about, 
and he flogged his female slave in the most cruel manner in the 
world." He knew of no other instance of corporal punishment, 
and he never saw one himself, and never saw a slave struck. — How, 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of Sir John Keane. 31 

then, he is asked, are slaves made to work ? By usage and custom ; 
they are used to it from infancy. He cannot tell whether they are 
influenced by the fear of corporal punishment ; he never asked them 
what motive they had ; he supposed, however, that the law sanctioned 
the driver in arbitrarily punishing a slave, but over the law he had 
never had any control. Slaves worked from habit, and from a wish 
to serve their owners, but he understood they might be flogged if they 
did not work. Masters did not wish drivers to flog them, and they 
themselves had told him so. The magistracy of Jamaica he knew, 
and thought them incapable of concealing cruelty (p. 175, 176). 

The Negro, Sir John thinks, would consider emancipation as giving 
him the " free exercise of his own will, which, by the character of the 
animal, leads to idleness" (p. 177). He knew nothing of spell or of 
the interior management of estates but what he picked up in conver- 
sation, or had seen himself at times. " The Negroes in Jamaica are a 
magnificent race of people." He does not know whether the regula- 
tions of estates are likely to make the Negroes industrious, as " the 
nature of the animal differs so much;" but, if free, " they would not 
work as they now do, or work at all perhaps." And yet he saw nothing 
like disgust with their work. " It was a most extraordinary thing ; 
they were always singing," and they were most happy at the heaviest 
work, " cracking their jokes, and singing from one end to the other ;" 
but he has formed the opinion, and he " will stick to it," that they will 
not work if free (p. 178—180). 

He praised highly the discipline and good conduct of the black 
soldiers, but he can draw no comparison between a soldier and a 
Negro. The Negroes are idle; they would, if free, "like to enjoy 
themselves in the sun and scratch themselves" (p. 182). He pro- 
fessed great ignorance about religious instruction. He had never 
given slavery a thought before he went out to Jamaica (p. 184). 

Such is the evidence given by Sir John Keane, K.C.B., Commander 
in Chief of the forces, and Governor, for a time, of Jamaica ! With 
such Commanders and Governors no one can wonder that slavery, as 
a system, should have been so little understood in this country ; and 
that, with all its abuses, it should have lasted so long. But for the 
indignation such things excite, it would be truly ludicrous to listen to 
such dotages from public functionaries. 



32 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

6. WILLIAM SHAND, Esq. 

This gentleman was examined at great length before the House of 
Commons, and a full abstract of his evidence will be found in our last 
number, p. 431, &c. In substance, it is so identical with that given 
before the Lords' Committee that it would be superfluous to abstract it 
again. We find, however, a very few novelties, to which we shall 
briefly advert. 

Mr. Shand is explaining, philosophically, why the slaves eat little 
animal food. He says (p. 198), " a population little accustomed to 
eat animal food have no great desire for it. I believe, in many cases, 
the Highlanders of Scotland cannot eat animal food. There are people 
on my estate who have not tasted animal food, I should think, a 
hundred times in their lives. They are satisfied with potatoes or 
oatmeal."* 

He had frequently seen the whip applied to women as well as men. 
Both worked equally in the field. He did not know to how many lashes 
a driver was now limited, as the law had been altered since he left 
Jamaicaf (p. 204). 

Mr. Shand repeats (p. 206 and p. 208) the extravagant proposition 
that one day's labour might enable a slave to cultivate food enough for 
the whole year; and that he has no need to labour on Sunday (p. 207). 

The proceedings in this country are now, says Mr. Shand, the chief 
occasion of punishments. Otherwise there would be few (p. 209). 

" A slave is, in many respects, better off than if he were free. He 
no doubt would have more time if he chose to labour. Beggars 
swarm here. Mendicity is unknown in the colonies" (p. 209). 

Mr. Shand affirms that no slaves have been branded since the slave 
trade ceased : a law was then passed to forbid it"J (p. 210). 

The slaves do not generally use mattresses. They no more desire 



* The people on Mr. Shand's estates, whether in the West Indies or in the 
Highlands of Scotland, we presume, do not and cannot eat meat, precisely from 
the same cause in both cases, because they have it not to eat. 

f There has been no change in the law in this respect. It was ten lashes in 
1788. It is ten lashes in 1833. 

% The first law on that subject was in 1831. 



on Colonial Slave)']/. — Evidence of Sir Michael Clare. 33 

mattresses and bed-clothes than shoes. The Africans commonly prefer 
going- naked : their clothing is light, very light (p. 217). 

After much shuffling about night work, Mr. Shand admits that in 
crop-time he himself, as a book-keeper, was obliged to keep his eyes 
open 18 hours and a half out of the 24 (p. 282). The Negro, he ad- 
mitted, had daily six hours of additional work in crop-time (p. 283). 

7. SIR MICHAEL CLARE, M. D. 

This physician of 30 years' experience in Jamaica never knew or 
even suspected an instance of a Negro being turned out to work when 
unfit for it. Sick slaves had boards to sleep on, and, if their limbs 
were broken, they were supplied with blankets (p. 264). 

Suicide used formerly to prevail among Negroes. He could not tell 
why, but thought it was because they expected to get back to their 
country and friends on death. On one occasion, eleven slaves com- 
mitted suicide. " One hung the other ten. He did it by persuasion, 
and in a species of mirth and gaiety, and then hung himself, and, the 
withes breaking twice, he hung himself the third time with a withe which 
did not break ; and they were not discovered till all were perfectly 
dead"* (p. 266). 

Sir Michael scarcely recollected any slaves sent into the hospital in 
consequence of punishment. In that respect they were much better off" 
than soldiers, who were always sent there (p. 267). He recollected one 
instance of a white man of the name of Lee, punished with fine and 
imprisonment, and the freedom of his slave, a female, to whom he was 
made to pay £10 a year, and whom after flogging he had stamped on 
the breast with a heated stamping iron. And yet her crime was one for 
which she would have been hanged in England ; running away and 
stealing. She was a domestic. He did not recollect one act of cruelty 
on estates, either in the hospital or out of the hospital (p. 268). He 
had known sores indeed the effect of punishment, when Negroes hav- 
ing been punished kept out of the way. The sores became fly-blown 
(i. e. full of maggots). The custom is to confine the Negro who is 
punished in the stocks till he gets well, but he never saw one so 
punished as, if so confined, to make medical aid necessary. If allowed 

* The sapient physician did not explain how he came to know all this, none 
remaining to tell the tale. 

D 



34 Report of the Committee of the Bouse of Lords 

to walk about, bad sores may follow (p. 269). The sores are on the 
back and buttocks. But he never had to treat a slave medically merely 
for having 39 lashes, except there were sores. He remembered two or three 
cases of injuries inflicted on Negroes by persons acting under the im- 
pulse of violent passion ; — one where the Chief Justice, a gouty and 
passionate man, knocked out the teeth of his domestic, and injured his 
own hand, and lost two of his own fingers, and nearly died in conse- 
quence. He was not tried for the assault ; as the Negro made no 
complaint. He was a very good master, and never struck his domestic 
with that hand again (p. 269, 270). 

The Negroes are liable to sores from brushwood and other things. 
They will not, however, wear shoes at their work ; but only when in 
full dress. He never knew an instance of debility from overworking 
or insufficiency of food (p. 273). He kept the children on estates 
healthy by dosing them every Monday morning with salt water to carry 
off worms. The deficiency of breeding women was very striking, and 
the perpetration of abortion common (p. 274, 275). 

Negro parents are very severe, very harsh and tyrannical in punish- 
ing their children. They do it with ebony rods on the buttocks. It is 
a cruel and painful infliction : and he had heard, too, though he had 
never seen it, of their pickling them afterwards with brine ; that is, ap- 
plying salt over the raw part : but he never knew or heard of such 
things on the part of masters, but only of parents (p. 275, 276). He 
had seen it, however, in the army (p. 278). 

The morals of the Negroes were improved in appearance, but not in 
reality. They were all very licentious ; and proprietors, he thought, 
had no power, and made no attempt to stop it, or to prevent wealthy 
Negroes from engrossing several women. He saw no remedy but 
removing the children wholly from their parents. Parents, however, 
disliked this, as it deprived them of the aid of their children, whom they 
wished to work for them while they sat still. They are more polished, 
but not at all mended in reality as to morals ; and emancipation 
would aggravate their vices, and lead to the indulgence of every vice 
without restriction — (p. 277, 278). 

In the same vague, gossiping, and unsatisfactory style, this learned 
physician proceeds to talk upon a variety of topics, as abortion, po- 
lygamy, marriage, religious instruction, progress of population, medical 
treatment, day and night labour : but with respect to none of them had 



on Colonial Slaver//. — Evidence of Sir Laurence Halsted. 3& 

he ever once heard of anything to the disadvantage of the system, and 
with respect to none of them had he ever even heard of any thing 
occurring discreditable to it. He had never even heard of an instance 
of the whip being used to stimulate labour, or of any insufficiency of 
food, or of any waste of life by overworking or underfeeding. The 
slave, at the same time, will never work if he can help it, and his only 
idea of freedom is to sit down and do nothing (p. 279 — 287). No 
Negro, if freed, will ever hold a hoe — will ever touch it ; with much 
to the same effect (p. 288 — 290). And all this is sworn to by Sir 
Michael Clare, M. D. !* 

8. ADMIRAL SIR LAWRENCE HALSTED. 

By this witness's account, nothing could surpass the comfort of the 
slaves. They did not want to be free ; their comfort was studied to 
the utmost. He never saw such nice arrangements for the sick as in 
the hospital of Mr. Archdeckne's estates, in St. Thomas in the East. 
He saw no stocks, and never saw a Negro in them ; he never saw a 
hand lifted against a Negro, or a Negro scolded by his master. The 
slaves show no signs of being ill used, hard v/orked, or badly fed. 
His conversations with Sally Adams, his housekeeper and cook, which 
he details very minutely, proved to him the general comfort prevailing 
among them ; and, instead of any undue means being used to make 
women submit to licentious desires, the gentlemen of that country 
were most respectable and virtuous in their ideas and habits. He never 
saw a dejected countenance among slaves ; they all appeared cheerful, 
some hard at work and some idle, for they are indolent and required 
some one to stimulate them ; and without that he did not think they 
would work at all. Their houses were very comfortable, with decanters, 
tumblers, glasses, wine and spirits. They were not a bit jealous of 
his going into their houses (p. 291 — 294). 

He had seen an excellent school in Kingston attended by slave 
children. — He was much opposed to having protectors for the slaves. 
They would do harm and no good. He never knew but one or two 
instances of cruelty ; and, from the general disposition of the com- 

* It is worth while to contrast this account with the evidence of Dr. William- 
son, a contemporary of Dr. Clare, who lived on Lord Harewood's estate. See 
the Anti-Slavery Reporter, Vol. ii. p. 249 and 317, and the pamphlet " Negro 
Slavery." 

d 2 



36 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

munity, the injured slave was sure of redress (p. 296, 297). He 
always considered the slaves as completely happy and contented : 
they were better off than the peasantry in this country. Many 
Englishmen would be exceedingly happy to be in their situation ; not, 
indeed, to become slaves, for he did not think the system of slavery 
would be a good thing for Old England : but still he should like to see- 
the labouring population here as well off as they (p. 298, 299). He 
would not plead for making Englishmen slaves • but he never saw any 
cruelty, never heard any harsh language used to them. They had no 
complaints, and abounded in comforts. He never saw them driven at 
their work ; indeed he never was in the field when they were at work: 
but he knew there was a driver with them with a sort of whip. He 
had never seen ploughs at work, but he believed there were ploughs. 
A whip being shown to him, he said that was a most horrible thing, and 
had he seen that, he should have enquired more about it, for he could 
not conceive it to be used where people had any feeling (p. 300 — 
302). He did not know about their hours of labour, or their night 
work. If free, they were so indolent he thought they would not 
work without some law to compel them ; and yet those who supplied 
the markets must be industrious. Concubinage was not more com- 
mon, he thought, in Jamaica than in England (p. 304). 

9. COLONEL ALEXANDER MACDONALD. 

This officer was in Jamaica two months at one time, and three at 
another, and had been in the habit of visiting sugar estates. He had 
never known any acts of cruelty committed towards slaves, nor ever 
saw any punishments of field slaves. He had known a slave express 
an opinion that he was better off in a state of slavery than he should be 
in one of freedom (p. 305). 

He had invariably seen the slaves in Jamaica both happy and con- 
tented ; and he had known instances of slaves refusing their freedom, 
for this reason — that, if they were old and could not work, there was 
no one to take care of them ; but, by the slave laws, masters were 
obliged to clothe and feed them. The service required is not half of 
what was required in this country. He had never in his life known 
what he called cruelty (p. 306). In Honduras, the only labour was 
cutting mahogany : it is not severe labour. He never saw people 
better treated in any country. Their food is very good. He never 



on Colonial Slavery . — Evidence of the Rev. J. Oartin. 37 

saw any punishment inflicted on slaves there. Being Governor there, 
he never permitted it. Their religious instruction was much attended 
to, and all the slaves were in the habit of attending church. There was 
a school attended by children, both slaves and free. Offences were 
tried by magistrates chosen by the settlers of property, whether white 
or coloured. Some of the coloured people were magistrates. They 
had been treated ill by his predecessors ; but Sir George Murray had 
approved of his appointing them to the magistracy. The slaves make 
money by cutting logwood on their own account. There are Wesleyan 
and Baptist missionaries there, who have done much good. The male 
population exceeds the female, which is a great disadvantage. The 
habits of the slaves are naturally licentious ; and, if free, it would be 
morally impossible to keep them in order.* They are now kept in 
order by knowing they are subject to the will of their masters ; but, if 
left to themselves, they would not work at all. They are trusted with 
arms without any apprehension of danger. They are well clothed. 
They do not care for freedom ; and, in many instances, will not take 
itt (p. 307—320). 

10. THE REV. JAMES CURTIN. 

Mr. Curtin had resided 30 years in Antigua, to which he went in 
1799 as a missionary of the Conversion Society, and in 1819 took charge 
also of the parish of St. Mary. The only religion he found among 
the Negroes on going there had been imparted to them by the Mora- 
vians and Methodists, chiefly by the former. Religious instruction 
had made great progress since that time. The slaves were then gene- 
rally very ignorant, except those who attended the Methodists and 
Moravians. There were six parish churches ; but the clergy did not 
then consider it a part of their duty to instruct the Negroes. There 
was one Moravian and one Methodist meeting-house. There are now 
the same six parish churches and five chapels of the Church of England, 
also five Moravian and five Methodist establishments. The improve- 



* And yet the number of emancipated people is very considerable, and they 
are respectable and wealthy, by Colonel Macdonald's own admission. 

f And yet, by looking at the returns from Honduras, it will be found that a 
larger proportion of the slaves purchase their freedom there than in any colony 
in the West Indies. See the Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol. i., No. 19. 



38 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

ment had been great before the Bishop went out in 1825, and many 
could read the Scriptures well. He had baptized considerable num- 
bers, and married 150 couples up to 1824.* He instructed them ac- 
cording to the catechism of the Church, and the test of their being 
sufficiently instructed was, their taking pains to learn the Creed, the 
Lord's Prayer, and the Ten Commandments, as he could not enter 
into their natural habits and know what their state of life was.f He 
kept himself quite aloof from the sectarians, and minded his own 
business ; he could not tell, therefore, how they went on ; but he was 
on terms of courtesy with all religious parties, except sometimes the 
clergy. He got, however, on one occasion, into a quarrel with the 
President of the island, about some money matter, and was sharply 
rebuked for it by the Bishop of London ; but he had been irritated by 
being prevented by the President from adding to his small income of 
£200 a year (having a wife and family). He did not however lose in the 
end, as he afterwards got the charge, in addition to his salary as mis- 
sionary, of one of the island livings (p. 345 — 348). 

He was generally well received by proprietors, with one or two ex- 
ceptions. " I always found," he says, " the slaves on plantations 
very comfortably situated, generally speaking, and very rarely making 
complaints; they always looked well, cheerful, and happy." " I have 

* We find from the parliamentary returns, No. 204, of 1828, p. 18, that Mr. 
Curtin, in his capacity of missionary, had married only 21 couple of slaves, and, 
in his capacity of rector of St. Mary, 2 couple, from January 1, 1821, to Decem- 
ber 31, 1825 ; and he was the only clergyman by whom any were married in those 
years. This return is accompanied by a, letter from Mr. Lane, the Colonial 
Secretary and Clerk of the Crown of May, 1827, to the Governor's Secretary, 
stating that there was then no law in Antigua making marriage between slaves 
either a civil or religious contract, or for preventing the separation of husband 
and wife ; so that the surprise is that Mr. Curtin should have married so many 
even as 23. He alone indeed at that time married any. 

f And yet what is the business of a minister of the gospel but to turn men 
from their " natural habits," and to lead them to alter their " state of life ?" " But," 
says Mr. Curtin, " I could not enter" into that. Mr. Curtin, we find, from his 
evidence, had been a Catholic priest before he became a Church of England 
missionary. He seems to have adhered, in this case, to the doctrine of the suf- 
ficiency of the mere opus opera turn. He baptized them, and taught them to 
repeat the Creed and the Pater-noster, not entering into the question of their life 
and habits. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin. 39 

never known them grumble on the plantations with respect to their 
allowances. Perhaps there may be an exception or two, and very 
partial, by a few of the slaves." He had free access to plantations ; 
but he never did any thing- clandestinely, and always sent word to the 
manager when he was coming. He had not known of any acts of 
cruelty. He recollected once to have heard of a cruel thing, many 
years ago, by a coloured man to his slave, and the coloured man was 
put into prison for it. He did not think there were any severe and 
unnecessary punishments. His general impression, latterly, was, that 
the planters were very loth to punish their slaves, if they could help it ; 
they had a great deal of feeling for them, and this feeling was much 
stronger before he left the island (p. 349, 350). 

His mission was put an end to by the bishop in 1827. Prior to that 
he had had at his mission chapel 306 communicants. Only some of 
the clergy co-operated with him ; but others looked to the emoluments — 
meaning, we presume, the baptismal fees; for he had no claim, he says, 
on that score : he baptized free. The slaves were not buried in the 
church yards, but in places appropriated for them. He heard one or 
two instances of complaints from slaves of hardship or cruelty, but the 
evidence was ex parte, and he did not choose to act upon it. The 
magistrates, too, were always ready to give relief, and he advised their 
going to the magistrate rather than coming to him (p. 350, 351). 

Before marriages were so frequent as now, Negroes in many in- 
stances lived together as man and wife, though not married. But 
now their marriages are legalized and celebrated by banns, and the 
children are now taken better care of. Almost all in Antigua are now 
baptized. The Sunday is now well observed in Antigua, better than 
in some parts of England. The slaves go to church, carrying their 
prayer books, joining in the responses, and in the psalms and hymns. 
He has seen them with the Bible and prayer book on their own little 
tables, with decent chairs to sit on. A great number of them can read. 
The Methodist and Moravian slaves are generally very regular, good, 
well-behaved people. The slaves sometimes say they would prefer the 
church if they could have the regular clergy to attend to them, as it 
would be some saving of expense. Instruction has made the slaves, in 
every respect, better. He never had any idea of insurrection amongthem, 
and should not now but for excitement. The service is attended by 
white and black, but these sit separately. Formerly they did not com- 



40 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

municate at the same sacrament table. The prejudice is lessening, and 
the blacks are modest and do not press forward. He does not know 
that there is any jealousy between the church and the sectarians. He 
never disputed with them, or aided them, but was always civil to them. 
The Moravians had the greatest number of slaves, the Methodists the 
greatest number of the free people (p. 352 — 354). 

The slaves in Antigua were partly fed by a regular allowance from 
their masters, and some of them had grounds. They had their noon 
time to labour in their grounds ; and superannuated slaves and preg- 
nant women could also go to the provision grounds when they pleased. 
He had seen them working in their grounds, too, on Sunday : but not 
so much now ; they now go to church very much ; still they work 
habitually in their grounds on that day. The planters do not interfere 
to prevent this, and no steps had been taken by the legislature or by 
individuals to prevent Sunday labour for themselves ; they do not work 
for their masters on that day unless voluntarily, and when paid for it, 
except in picking grass for the cattle, which used to be done formerly, 
and, for aught he knows, may still be done out of church hours 
(p. 354, 355). 

Mr. Curtin never visited a slave property on any account without 
the leave of the master or manager ; he never attended the slaves 
privately unknown to him (ibid). 

When slaves complained to him he advised them to go to the magis- 
trates. He only recollected one instance of his mentioning the matter 
to the master. He once applied to the master to forgive a slave for 
running away. He refused, and the slave was punished (p. 356). 

The Sunday market has recently been abolished by law, but the 
slaves were averse to it, because they wished to go in their fine clothes, 
with their fruit, &c, to market on that day, and there was an insurrection 
about it. They need not have broken the Sabbath, but they did it 
that they might get another day, and they have got that other day 
since ; the Saturday, he understood, was now allowed (p. 356, 357). 

The excitement among the slaves to which he alluded arose from their 
reading publications stating slavery to be a crime and a sin, and that 
no man has a right to hold another man as his property. The slaves 
would be more contented if left quiet. He was not for the perpetuity 
of slavery, but for an imperceptible, gradual abolition of it ; and the 
best-thinking slaves themselves would be more contented to let things 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin. 41 

go on quietly, and gain their freedom, than to have a complete extinc- 
tion of it. The control of an owner over his slaves is so checked by 
law and magistrates that, if ill disposed, he cannot behave ill to his 
slaves. If a driver or manager punishes a slave arbitrarily he may be 
called to account for it. He does not think the driver has now autho- 
rity to flog a slave to a certain and limited extent. He had seen the 
custom of carrying a whip in the field cease in many cases. It is now 
carried in very few cases indeed ; and the Negroes know that so 
many eyes watch the driver that he does not use his whip, and he 
thinks it is not now applied to the person of the slave. In short, 
slavery is merely nominal in Antigua : it is no longer absolute power 
over the slave. The master is watched by the clergyman and the medi- 
cal man ; and the Governor cites the master to his bar, so that he is 
bound down by law (p. 358). 

We shall have some remarks to make on much of the above abstract 
of a part of this reverend gentleman's evidence before we have done 
with him. In the mean time, the following part of his examination is 
so striking a proof of his dexterity in evading inquiry, that we shall 
give it in his own words : — 

" Suppose a slave, when called upon to go into the field with the gang, refuses 
to go, what means are employed to make him go ? He must allege the cause 
for which he refuses ; he must give a reason. — Supposing it is an inadequate 
reason ? Then a complaint must be made to the owner or manager. — Is the 
whip employed to force him to go ? I do not think it is employed at these 
times. — Is he liable to be forced by the whip to go to his work ? If the driver's 
use of the whip is not abolished ; I do not know whether that is or not. — Do 
you believe, if not prohibited, that he would be liable to be coerced ? With 
that part of the business I was not so much engaged in ; mine was religious ; 
all I had to do when I visited them was to see that they were contented. — Do 
you believe that if the slave was coerced and punished, either for refusing to 
work or not working with sufficient diligence, any slaves being of your congre- 
gation would have stated to you the facts of the case ? Yes, I believe they 
would. — Have you ever heard such complaint? I have scarcely ever heard 
of one complaint. — Have you heard such complaint ? Yes, some years ago ; 
not of late. — How lately have you heard such complaints ? Perhaps not since 
1812 or 1813. — Is the slave in Antigua compelled to work by his apprehen- 
sions of the whip ? No, I do not think they are compelled to work ; I think 
they go voluntarily. The religiously educated Negroes will go to work from 
principle, as they conceive it is their duty to do. They must work. — Do you 



42 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

know how many hours they work ? That is another part of the business; I 
never heard of any excess of labour. — That has a good deal to do with volun- 
tary labour? The times that I thought the Negroes' appearance looked better 
was in crop time. When they laboured most they always appeared better 
in health and more cheerful than when they were not so employed. — Is 
it to the increase of labour you attribute their improved appearance ? No ; 
they receive more nourishment from the juice of the sugar cane, for they eat 
plentifully of it in the field ; I believe they were not restricted. — Do you think 
that the sugar cane, nutritious as it is, would improve thecondition of yourself or 
any other man who was fed at another time ? I do not know ; but I believe it 
is nutritious. — If it had this effect on the slave, and it would not have the same 
effect upon a well-fed man at another time, what inference is to be derived from 
the fact : is it not a fair inference that his food had not been so ample previously ? 
I think they are generally well fed. — Are they over-fed in crop time ? I never 
knew them to be under-fed : and I apprehend that at that time and at all times they 
have provision sufficient out of their own grounds to carry to market to dispose of, to 
buy them any thing they want. — You have been in the habit of seeing great brewers' 
draymen going about town ? I have seen a great many draymen. — Do you think 
they get fatter when they drink a great deal of porter ? I think that the draymen 
here work much harder than they do ; I never see them drag such loads as they 
do here. — If they refused to draw such loads in Antigua, what would be done to 
those slaves ? But they never did require it. — What would be the consequence 
to the slaves if they did refuse? The only instances I have seen of drawing is 
tanks from the ships. — What would be the consequences to a slave of refusing to 
do the work his master ordered him? would the slave be liable to corporal 
punishment for that rejection ? He would be liable to confinement or something" 
■ — Would he or not be liable to corporal punishment? I suppose he may be 
liable to corporal punishment. — Do you consider the coercion to labour, as regards 
the slaves in Antigua, as severe as that used in our navy and army? I do not think 
it is. I have seen sailors on board ships as I passed through, and I think they 
are treated with greater harshness than the slaves by their masters. On board 
merchant ships I have seen them treated with much more harshness by captains 
or owners than I ever saw a slave treated in Antigua. — If they are ill-treated, is 
that any reason why the Negroes should be ill-treated ? No : but I believe the 
proprietor of the slave treats him with more kindness, looking to him for his la- 
bour. — Do you conceive the sailors or soldiers are liable to the infliction of cor- 
poral punishment at the will of their superior? I have seen them get lashes with- 
out any order but the master's wish ; I have seen the cabin boy knocked about 
by the captain. — Have you ever seen an instance of a soldier or sailor flogged at 
the arbitrary will of his superior ? I have not been in the army. I can speak of 
what I have read in different papers about the flogging them. — As an English- 
man, do you not know that it would be contrary to law to inflict corporal punishment 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin, 43 

on any one without an order of some court ? It would be considered an assault 
for even a master to strike a servant, I conceive. — Would it be so in the case of 
a slave ? The slave could call his master before the justice for it ; he could go 
and take his complaint before the next justice, and the magistrate would imme- 
diately order an investigation. — In going to make his complaint, would he not be 
liable to be apprehended as a runaway unless he possessed a pass ? No : I do 
not know that he would be liable to be apprehended as a runaway : and there 
is another circumstance ; if the Negro slaves, whether male or female, considered 
themselves to be aggrieved or harshly treated by their owners, or felt it unpleasant 
to belong to such a man, they apply to the Governor, and he instantly 
listens to their remonstrance, and their owner is summoned before him, and he 
is desired to give that person a ticket to provide himself with another owner, and 
the slave is at liberty to look out for another owner ; he is not obliged to live 
with a person that he does not wish to serve ; if he says he is hardly treated by 
such a person, — ' He is very severe to us, and we wish to belong to another 
owner/ the magistrate says, ' You must give him a ticket to get another owner.' 
— Does he say, ' You must,' or ' I advise you V The owner in general would 
wish it, because he does not wish to possess an unwilling slave; he had rather 
give him the ticket to get rid of him. — How many instances have you known of 
such a case as that ? I have heard two or three instances. — Have the goodness 
to name them ? I cannot name them now. There is a general impression upon my 
mind, but I can remember one instance. I have been very frequently called upon 
to go to the slaves to visit them in their sickness and in the hour of their dis- 
tress ; I have been called upon to visit them in gaol, and when they were under 
sentence of death. In the year 1817, I think, there were two slaves condemned 
to die that belonged to the Treasurer of the island ; they were condemued for 
breaking open the bureau and getting money out of it. I was called to visit 
them, and administer baptism to one of them under sentence of death. When 
they were to be carried out to execution, I desired the black man — one was a 
fair-coloured man and the other black, — 'Speak to your friends every thing that is 
in your heart, and give them some advice, as you are going to leave the world, 
to show your regret and sorrow for robbing your master.' He told them that 
he was led into temptation, having free access to his master's keys, and that they 
took the keys out of the chest and robbed their master, and dissipated the money ; 
' But,' said he, ' I will tell you — I will tell it as a dying man — I wish it to be 
known to all the Negroes (this was at the place of execution), I wish it to be 
known to all bystanders, that if whites are to be attended, I would not advise 
them to be attended by Negroes, for whites are the properest persons to attend 
on white persons, for we are not willingly domestics or agriculturists to the white 
people.' This man said so on the place of execution. Now, said I, observe 
this, and I minuted it down, and I took notes. In the course of my ministry I 
always found au unwillingness in the Negroes who became free to become do- 



44 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

mestics and agriculturists; they will frequently reproach one another, and say, 
'You menial'" (p. 357—360). 

" Have the goodness to state what makes the essential difference between the 
Negro and the rest of mankind so great that he would not be actuated by the 
same stimulus to labour that the rest of mankind, being free, are actuated by ? I 
believe the climate has a great deal to do with it. — You are aware that there are 
free persons who labour in climates as hot as that at Antigua ? Yes ; I suppose there 
may. — Why should the Negro be unwilling to work for wages, when wages will 
induce others in a similar climate to labour? I only know this, that I believe 
the wants of the Negroes are so few that they would not expend much time at 
their work to have those wants supplied. They would require little clothing and 
little food. In those tropical climates they can do with much less food and 
clothing than in these northern climates. The Negroes are naturally inclined 
to indolence ; they would rather go a fishing, and so on, than give themselves up 
to agricultural labour. When they are made free they take trades, such as shop- 
keepers and dealers, and so on, to avoid being under any authority of any kind. They 
frequently go off to other islands seeking their fortune, and come back, not succeed- 
ing in other places, and go living among the Negro slaves on the plantations if they 
can. — You mean that the slaves in those hot climates would prefer fishing to cane- 
hole-digging ? Yes; if they were free. — From that you infer that the slave 
would not labour for his own subsistence if free ? They would labour in fishing 
or something of that kind, but they would not at other occupations. — Not even 
to save themselves and their families from starvation ? I have no great opinion 
of their foresight ; I think they generally look to the present time. — You have 
stated that they have, in many instances, acquired considerable property? They 
have acquired property, some of them. — By what means did they acquire this 
property? By raising vegetables, and fruit, and stock. — Is not that done by the 
exertions of their own industry ? Yes ; but there are exceptions to general 
rules; there are a few exceptions. — How can you reconcile with the fact that 
the slaves labour on their provision grounds during the portion of time which is 
their own, the great portion of it being devoted to the service of their master, the 
supposition that if made free they would not labour for their own subsistence, 
having the command of all their time ? I think 1 can reconcile that by showing 
that those slaves I allude to are in superior circumstances to some of the other 
Negroes, as there are in all gradations of society persons of superior talent ; and 
by the perquisites those superior Negroes receive, by saving some of those per- 
quisites they have, they are able to lay up something ; and then, by having a 
power over other slaves, they can make up this deficiency. — You mean to say 
that the possession of property is confined to the superior class of slaves, such as 
head men, drivers, and artificers ? The possession of considerable property. — 
You know no instance of field Negroes possessing such property ? Yes ; there 
are field Negroes I have seen very comfortable too. — You would not call the 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin. 45 

field Negroes a superior class? The field Negroes frequently appear to be such. 
They have a good deal of stock. I have bought stock from them myself, and 
fruit. — Have you ever known an instance of a free man returning to labour in the 
field ? Never. — You say many of the slaves possess horses : are they allowed 
1o possess horses? I believe there is no law now against it ; I have seen them 
come to church and driving about with their horses on Sunday. — Do you speak 
of common field Negroes keeping horses ? No, not the common field Negroes : 
the head men on the estates. There was another instance I knew ; — a boat was 
carried away with some slaves from the island by a storm ; it was carried to 
another part of the country ; and I have known an instance of them returning 
to their owners rather than remain free ; I knew a man, and I spoke to him one 
day; I said, ' You have returned ?' He said, 'Yes, massa; I have returned 
in preference, to live on massa's property.' — You are aware that there are on the 
island of Antigua several hundred free Negroes, under the name of liberated 
Africans ? Yes. — They are persons who have been captured in consequence of 
the abolition of the slave trade, and as such are free ? Yes ; there are, I believe, 
a few hundreds, not very many, perhaps two or three hundred. I have baptized 
and administered the sacraments to some of them as African apprentices ; they 
were never considered as slaves. — Do you know any thing of the mode in which 
they maintain themselves? They were maintained for a time by the Custom 
House. — How long has that ceased? I know it has ceased, and that they were 
directed to be freed, and that they went about as jobbers, in the town, as porters, 
and things like that: but I did not see any of them go to agricultural labour. — 
How long is it since you were in the island ? A year and ten months ago. I 
had two of these African apprentices myself. I will tell an instance regarding 
one of those men. I got one of them apprenticed to me in the year 1811. — As 
what ? He was apprenticed to me. It was thought advisable to put them to 
some trade. I had a Negro a tailor, and I bound him to that tailor to learn 
that trade: he was with me from the year 1811 to nearly the time I left. There 
was an order sent from Government to make them free ; this man came and 
said, ' I have an order, Sir, to be free.' I said, ' You have been free these three 
years, why do not you accept it ?' — ' Oh massa, I had rather remain with you.' 
I said, ' You may remain as you are.' He remained there for a few months, 
but some free person put it into his head that he ought to get more wages from 
me. He came and applied for more wages; I said, 'No; you said you were 
contented to remain ; if any body puts it into your head, go where you can 
better yourself;' and he went from me, kept away for about six weeks, and then 
returned about three months before I left the island, and he said, ' Massa, they 
make me fool.' He had been to persons to work for them, but be said he had 
worked harder, and had rather come back. — Do you know whether those free 
persons maintain themselves in the island by their own industry and by the 
wages of labour, or by what means ? I believe some of them maintain them- 



46 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

selves by their own industry; but I believe some of them live on the plantations 
among the Negro slaves, and work for the Negro slaves on the plantations ; 
whether they are connected by having wives, or women having husbands, and so 
that they live with those people, I cannot say : they will not go to agriculture 
willingly. — Do you or not know that those persons actually do maintain them- 
selves by the produce of their own industry ? I do not know that they do. — 
Did you not say that they worked about the town? Some of them. — And some 
you say you saw on different estates? Yes. — Those persons you describe as 
going and living among the slaves are persons who have within a very few years 
been brought to the island from Africa? Yes. — They are not Creoles ? No, — 
Have you known any instance, of your own knowledge, of those native Africans 
who have spoken no English at all going and living among the slaves on any 
plantation ? Not the newly-arrived Africans ; they have been some time on the 
island as apprentices to people ; then when they become liberated they have 
liberty to go on the plantations. — Their numbers have been increasing year by 
year ? I do not think there are more than three or four hundred altogether. — 
Do you know, of your own knowledge, that any of those persons had gone and 
lived among the slaves on the plantation doing nothing ? I do not mean to say 
doing nothing ; they work with the slaves. — Who pays them? The master of 
the estate does not pay them. — They are supported out of a portion of that which 
the master gives to support the slave ? Yes ; or they may perhaps work to help 
the slave to keep house or to mind his stock. — Were those captured Africans in 
any instance among the proprietors of Antigua as apprentices ? were they desir- 
ous of obtaining them? Yes; they were desirous of obtaining them when they 
first arrived ; I did not hear of any latterly coming there. — Did they continue 
in general satisfied with the services of those apprenticed Africans ? Yes, gene- 
rally ; there have been complaints. — Do you know the Governor of Antigua ? 
Yes, perfectly well. — He is not liable to misrepresent any thing ? Not at all. — 
If he were to represent that they were remarkably well conducted, very indus- 
trious, and supporting themselves by the produce of their own industry, with 
very few complaints against them for misconduct, should not you suppose that 
to be conclusive evidence that those persons were not precluded, either by their 
habits or dispositions, from supporting themselves by honesty and industry ? If 
the Governor gave that testimony positively and decidedly, after proper inquiry 
and investigation, I should begin to hesitate ; but from my own knowledge — I 
do not speak of the Governor's knowledge, and I think I have as much right to 
know as the Governor about those Negroes — I have known of several complaints 
on estates of their trespassing on the properties, and I have known them to be 
idle in the towns, and taken before the magistrates. I do not think it is so much 
in the Governor's way to know of these sort of things as a person who is living 
as I am among the Negroes. — Supposing the Governor's account of the condi- 
tion of those Negroes should have been given lately, you having been absent a 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Cur tin., 47 

year and ten months ? Then there must have been a great change since I was 
there. — Have the goodness to state some instance of the trespass you refer to ? 
I recollect no instances; I have had a general impression upon my mind they 
are on Sir Henry Martin's, and on an estate on another part of the island, 
towards the old road. — When did this take place? It took place before my leav- 
ing the island. — How long before? Perhaps a year or two before I left the , 
island. — How do you know that those trespasses were committed by the liberated 
Africans ? I know the Africans to be living upon the estates, and I have heard 
it from the managers. — Do you mean to say that a trespass took place on the 
property ? They lived upon the estate. I do not know whether it is to be called 
a trespass. — You stated that they had been guilty of trespassing? 1 do not know 
that they had been guilty. They were living among the Negroes on the estates. — 
What do you mean by the word trespass ? Living on other person's estates. — 
Against their will ? Perhaps without their consent. — You do not mean to repre- 
sent that they had been guilty of any crime ? No ; I cannot say as to crime. 
If they had been guilty of crime, they would have been amenable to the laws. — 
In whose houses did they live ? In the Negro houses. — The houses of the plan- 
tation grounds ? Yes. They helped the Negroes where they had husbands and 
wives. — Did you ever hear of an instance of one of those Africans going to field 
labour? No, I never did. I had one of them, called an African apprentice, 
and he would not work in the garden if I sent him. — What wages did they get? 
Haifa dollar a week, besides any clothes they wanted — Were those board wages? 
Yes; they had wages and board wages, and clothes whenever they wanted them. 
— Was that half dollar a week board wages, or did you feed them besides? 
They got that to feed themselves, and they were frequently fed off the table. — 
Did they get nothing but the half dollar a week ? They got clothes besides, and 
occasionally something from the table. — Did they get that every day ? When 
they wanted it. — You have been asked about a slave having made money by his 
industry, his labour consisting of rearing poultry and small stock ; is that at all to 
be compared to field labour ? No, certainly not ; but those men frequently got 
perquisites. — Is it your opinion that the attendance of the Negroes on divine 
worship would be increased or diminished by their emancipation ? That is a 
question I should wish to take time to consider. — Do you think the attendance 
of the Negroes at divine service would be increased or diminished if they were 
emancipated? May I ask whether the question refers to their being let loose 
without restraint? — If their manumission took place, would their attendance on 
divine worship be increased or diminished thereby ? I do not know what to say 
to that question ; I think they act as well now as they would do when emanci- 
pated. — Do you think they would attend as well ? I think they attend as well 
now as they would then. — Do you think, if they were freed from all restraint, 
they would attend as well ? I do not think they would attend as well if they were 
free from all restraint Do you believe that in the same situation in which eman- 



48 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

cipated Negroes now are, they would attend as well ? I do not think they would. 
Do you know any instance of emancipated slaves attending a place of worship 
now ? Yes. — What reason have you to think that the slaves who might be eman- 
cipated hereafter would not attend church as regularly and as willingly as slaves 
who have been manumitted ? The reason I think so is, that the slaves who have 
been manumitted have been gradually brought up and inured to attending church ; 
but that with immediate extinction of slavery, that would throw things into such 
a state of confusion that I cannot tell what they would do. — You assume that 
which is not intended in the question, namely, that upon emancipation the slaves 
are to be freed from all restraint whatever ; whereas the question supposes the 
slaves being manumitted, and legal restraint substituted for absolute power, proper 
means of instruction being afforded them, and every sort of means used to secure 
good order and proper conduct among them ? I will answer that question in 
this manner : — if any sudden change took place in the system at present, they 
would not draw that distinction your Lordship does ; but they will say, ' If we 
are to be free, we will do what we please, and go where we please.' The Negroes 
would not take that into consideration ; they would imagine themselves to be a 
free people. — Do you mean the freedom from the whip ? I mean that freedom 
being given them, or any change of this kind, would upset their ideas altogether, 
and that they would not know what they were about ; they would say, ' The law 
is a sufficient protection for us ;' though I conceive the laws could not sufficiently 
protect him. — Do you apprehend that emancipation, in the opinion of the slave, 
means freedom from restraint of the law ? I conceive that emancipation, in their 
opinion, is exemption from any kind of control whatever ; not merely from legal 
restraint. I conceive that any slaves would immediately conceive they were 
exempt from any control. — Do you conceive that they would consider it as exemp- 
tion from the municipal law as the law exists ? I do not know ; they do not en- 
quire about the municipal law ; they will say, ' We are free, and we will be free.' 
— They know the difference between restraint and slavery ? I think they are 
satisfied as they are at present. — Would they not think it an exchange between 
present slavery and a proposed state of restraint ? I do not think they would. — 
You think their notion of emancipation is entire exemption from all labour ? 
From all control. — Do you think that they understand it also as an exemption 
from labour ? Some of them do. — Have any pains been taken to correct that 
erroneous opinion ? Some pains have been, and some are content enough to labour ; 
but if they are to be exempted, who is to give them land, and what is to become of their 
old and their young people ? — Where they have been convinced of their error, you 
do not mean to say that the slaves do understand emancipation to be freedom from 
control? It is a very delicate subject; the more I think of it the more I 
think it is hazardous to touch upon it. There have been great improvements lately. 
I am for amelioration, and progressive amelioration, and that by episcopal control; 
and that gradual amelioration has taken place in a wonderful degree. — In how 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin. 49 

many years do you think that the slaves might possibly arrive to a fit state, in 
your opinion, to be emancipated ? Perhaps it may take half a century; but I will 
mention one circumstance that will lead to conclusions. Out of 5560 slaves I 
baptized as slaves, nearly one-fifth part of them became free by the voluntary 
consent of their owners, so that they were become fit subjects for freedom, and no 
doubt many others will become fit subjects for freedom, — You think that the 
emancipation should take place gradually ? Yes. — Those persons have conducted 
themselves well since ? Yes ; I have seen their children and grandchildren ; but 
the generality of new slaves would not do at all to be freed, — Did those persons 
remain in the island after they had been freed ? Yes, some of them have. — You 
have spoken of persons trespassing; you do not mean as a crime, but that they 
had lived with others, and obtained a livelihood in that way ? Yes. I cannot 
tell what has happened since I left. — Do you mean by trespass that they were 
living in those houses without the knowledge of the master or manager ? I do not 
wish to use the word * trespass ;' but perhaps the master does not choose, for 
kindness to his own slave, to interfere with them if they have a husband or wife 
there. — In a part of your evidence respecting the punishment of slaves in going to 
the field, you have stated there was no necessity for punishment, as they went out 
voluntarily to labour ; explain that word ' voluntarily ;' do you mean by voluntary 
labour that their habits were such as to induce them to go into the field without 
compulsion? or did you mean what others understand by it, with a reference to 
labouring or doing nothing? I mean that the slaves, when they are going to work, 
go as a matter of course, as they know it is their duty ; and therefore they 
willingly do what they know to be their duty. — Do they not know that they 
would be flogged if they omitted it ? They know that they might be confined or 
flogged, but they do not go under fear of the whip. — You know that ? I know 
that they may go reluctantly ; but there are very few cases in which they are re- 
luctant; but very few" (p. 360 — 366). 

" Is there any regulation in Antigua that they shall have one day to themselves 
in every fortnight ? Since I left it I understand there has been ; it was in some 
places when I left. — Have they plenty of time to cultivate their own provision 
grounds, without working on Sunday, if so disposed ? No ; I think they must 
intrench upon the Sunday for their plantation grounds before this allowance lately 
made to them was made. — Are the free people considered in general to live by 
industry, or are they charged with encouraging plunder on estates ? With regard 
to the free people of Antigua, I know many of them are in a very respectable 
class ; some are not respectable, and some are trespassers — the lower orders of 
them. — Is it a matter of complaint amongst the proprietors that the free people 
are often harboured upon their plantations without their knowledge, and that 
plunder is encouraged by them ? I have heard that complaints are made, and 
very serious complaints too; I have heard of free people taking boats and 
taking people's slaves off the island, and I have heard them complain that their 

e 



50 Report of the Committee of the House oj Lords 

stores have been robbed by the free people. — Is it not possible' k that many of those 
liberated Africans subsist by the plunder of the plantations on which they reside, 
where they are harboured in the Negro houses ? I suppose they are like other 
free people ; some of them are very good characters, educated men ; but many 
are otherwise" (p. 367). 

"You say you occasionally heard complaints ; that you discouraged ex parte 
statements, and you recommended them to go to the magistrates. You were 
asked whether you could bring to mind any case, and you could not recollect 
any instance ? I could not bring to my recollection any instance when asked 
yesterday. I think I recollect one case — the case of an estate called Miller's. 
A white man came to me to make complaint that the manager of Miller's estate 
had used a woman very ill, and he brought the woman with him. She was a 
woman that he kept ; he was an overseer on the estate. That being out of my 
line I did not feel it right to make any interference in these sort of things. I sent 
one of our old nurses, a slave woman, to look at this woman, to see what inflic- 
tion of punishment there had been upon her, and she made a report that she was 
punished, and I immediately sent for the man. I said, ' I shall not take upon 
myself to look at this punishment, it does not belong to me as a minister, but you 
will go directly to a magistrate and show this woman, and make a report.' He 
did not go as I directed, but he waited three or four days before he went; then 
he was obliged to undergo a trial, and I believe was imprisoned for a false accu- 
sation. I consulted Mr. Burke, the Attorney-General, and he said I did very 
properly in not interfering ; that it was a malicious charge against the manager. — 
The complainant in that case, when you did interfere, was punished for interfer- 
ing? He could not make out the case. — How was he punished? I think he was 
put in prison. There was an action for slander, or something to that effect, brought 
against him. — The fact was that the woman was flogged ? Yes ; but not with that 
severity that the man described. She was flogged on the back. It was a woman 
that he cohabited with ; and the man himself turned out no great things after- 
wards. — Do you recollect the name of the woman that was flogged ? I do not; 
perhaps it may be on my minutes ; but the name of the manager against whom 

the charge was made was , a Scotch gentleman. I think that was about 

the year 1807. I said there were exceptions to the general good conduct, and 
that was one of the exceptions. — Are you acquainted with the estate of the 

Honourable Mr. , called Orange Valley ? Yes, I am very well acquainted 

with it. — Is not Mr. a magistrate and a member of His Majesty's 

Council ? He was a member of His Majesty's Council. I have been told lately 
that he is not now. — What was the treatment of die slaves on that plantation; 
was it not humane and indulgent? Taking it upon the whole he was a good man. 
He kept his slaves well clothed and well fed. Taking it upon the whole, it was 
reported he worked them hard ; but I did not observe much about that. — You 
considered Mr. to be a kind m?ster? Taking the man altogether he was 



on Coloninl Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin. 51 

a good master. He had little freaks and oddities of his own, but not cruel. — 
Was he not generally respected in the island ? He was in the first class in the 
island ; I used to meet him at the Governor's myself. He was not considered a 
cruel man by any means ; he had enemies, I know. I used to find myself 
a little rough language from him. From the nature of the business I 
was employed in I was looked upon with a sort of suspicious eye. I 
was called a friend to the slaves; and now I am here I am said to be 

a friend to the planters. Mr. would say, ' Oh, you are an emancipator.' — 

Have you been so called here? 1 was called so by a clergyman of Bristol. 
I was visiting, and met with clergymen who are of the Anti-Slavery party ; they 
asked me a number of questions, and in return I demanded of them what they 
thought of my opinions ; they said, ' We cannot contradict you, for we have not 
been there; but we think you are a friend of the planters, and a practical minis- 
ter to the slaves.' — Did you not know the late James , a magistrate ? 

Yes ; but never as a magistrate. — Did you know Mr. , the magistrate ? 

I never knew him as a magistrate. I have been told since I came here that 

Mr. has been put into the commission. — You knew them as gentlemen? 

Mr. was a gentlemanly man. — Was not ? Mild, with a rude 

character. — Were not they persons of respectability and good character ? 

was not a bad character. — Were they religious men ? I do not know much 

about religion ; I know he was a freemason, — Have you not heard of 

Mr. shooting one of his boys ? Yes, I heard a report of it. It happened 

long before I got into the parish where he was ; it was when I was a missionary. 
— You were in Antigua at the time ? Yes. — Can you state the circumstances 
under which it took place ? I know no more about it than what I observed in 

the island at the time; I only heard the report. — Did you hear of Mr. 

killing another Negro, and buiying him in a pond ? — I never heard of his killing 
a Negro, but I heard of his burying a white matross in the sand ; but that was 
only hearsay. I only heard of it from persons, perhaps, that were not his friends. 
With regard to shooting the Negro, he went and gave himself up for that, and I 
believe he was acquitted, or the coroner's inquest brought in a verdict of acci- 
dental death. There was some sort of trial, but I believe there was a great deal 
said about it that probably he did not deserve ; I think so.— Was he tried for it? 
I think he was ; he gave himself up to the Attorney General for the time. I am 
not clear about it. I asked him the question about it once ; he said it was some 
accidental thing ; he was shooting out in a part near his own house, and that this 
was a favourite slave, and that the gun went off when he did not intend it, and some 
one gave it out that it was intended. — Was he tried ? I believe he was. — Were 
you in the island at the time ? Yes ; but it did not come so much within my 
-view; I was only a missionary. — You heard of his burying another slave? Yes; 

but that is no proof that he killed him.— Is not the nephew of Mr. now 

E 2 



52 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

in this country? I heard somebody say that he was going out to Antigua. I 
know him well too" (p. 401, 402). 

" Was not Mr. the manager of Rigby's estate ? Yes, he was once. — 

Did not that estate belong to Mr. ? Yes. — Was not that let to ? 

Yes, as I have heard. — At the expiration of that lease did not Mr. , the 

father-in-law of Mr. , recover damages in an action at law from the lessees 

for injury done to the slave gang under Mr. management? I cannot 

speak to that any further than I heard there was an action at law ; but I never 
heard it was for an injury to the slave gang ; I heard it was for an injury to the 
property generally. — The slave gang would be a part of that property ? Yes ; I 
heard of the trial, but I was not in the court house. — Do you know the result of 

that trial ? I know that the action was given in favour of Mr. ; I believe 

he recovered damages. — Was not Mr. a member of your vestry at the 

Valley Church ? Yes. — Have the goodness to state what conversation you have 

had with Mr. at any time respecting the stated cruelty of Mr. 

towards the slaves ? I do not recollect any conversation with Mr. upon 

that business. — Are you sure you never had any ? Never, that I know of, about 
the cruelties of Kearns" (p. 402). 

" Have you ever heard of a Mustee slave, belonging to Mr. , of the 

name of Betsey White ? Yes, I have. — Was she not confined by Mr. 

in his dungeon ? I cannot from my own knowledge say any thing of that. — You 
have spoken of what you heard of the liberated Africans ; do you or not believe 
this to have been the fact ? I do not know to my own knowledge ; I heard a 
report of it. — Did you believe the report ? I think in the general way it is pos- 
sible it may have been the case. — Was she not delivered of a child during the 
night in the dungeon ? I do not know that ; I heard talk of it. — Do you believe 
it ? I did not give much attention to it ; I do not think it was at the time I was 
rector of the parish, or I should have given more attention to it. — Was not the 
woman without assistance in that dungeon? I cannot tell. — Did you not hear 
it ? I might have heard it, and not believed it. — Do you believe it, or not ? I 
do not think I can believe it to the extent which will authenticate it, for I know 
that this gentleman had enemies. — Was it not discovered in the morning that the 
child had been devoured by rats during the night? That is a question I know 
nothing of from my own knowledge ; people may say that. — Did you hear it ? 
Yes, I heard such things. — Was not this slave subsequently sold, with the rest 
of her children, to Mr. George White, the Collector of the Customs? I think I 
heard that too ; but I do not think I knew it. I do not think that happened 
when I was rector of the parish. — Did not this sale take place by advice of the 
magistrates ? I declare I do not know that either. — You do not know those 
facts ? No ; I might hear them, but I do not know them ; and I did not know 
the woman. — You have no other knowledge of those circumstances but rumour? 
Yes ; just so. — Was not the advice of the magistrates as to this sale given in con- 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin. 53 

sequence of Mr. Osborne's cruelty to the slave? I cannot say, indeed. — Did 

you ever hear of Rock Dungeon belonging to Mr. ? This is the first 

time I ever heard of it. — Did you ever hear of any dungeon belonging to Mr. 

, in which he confined his slaves ? I was never there ; I never saw it. — 

Do you recollect having heard of a dungeon in which he confined his slaves ? I 
really do not know. I heard nothing particular of his dungeon more than other 
people's dungeons. — You have heard of a good many people's dungeons ? Yes ; 
there are dungeons ; and many persons considered it proper to have a dungeon, 
though they did not probably use it. — Will you state that you do not know any 
instance of a slave being confined in a dungeon? Yes; I believe there have 
been instances of slaves being confined in a dungeon. — Then they are not entirely 
for the purposes of terror ? Not entirely ; partly for terror, partly for punish- 
ment, — Have you ever seen one of those dungeons ? Yes ; I recollect having 
seen one some years ago ; that was a stone building, with a proper door and a 
window, like the cages I have seen in Ireland. — Were they under ground ? No ; 
they were well ventilated. I saw one in Briggens, and the manager told 
me that he kept it for terror, for that the Negroes were more afraid of con- 
finement on the Saturday evening than of any thing. — Were they subter- 
raneous? No. — Did you ever see a dungeon dug out of a solid rock, 
without any aperture except the front? No, never .-^-Did you ever hear of 

Mr. confining a slave boy a whole year in his dungeon? No. — 

Nor for any considerable length of time? No. — Nor for any time at all? 

No. Mr. is only just a friend of mine ; I cannot say a friend, any more 

than a parishioner. I have been on the estate frequently, and I think if there 
was any cruelty among the Negroes upon that estate I should have heard of it 
one way or the other, and I never heard of that word, rock dungeon, upon his 
estate. — Did any of the Negroes ever complain to you of cruelty ? No, no more 
than other people's Negroes ; they always told me that they were well fed. — 

Was not Mr. connected with an estate called Harvey's estate? Yes ; he 

is of Harvey's. — Was he not prosecuted ? I understood since I left the island 
that he was. — Will you state the offence for which he is said to have been prose- 
cuted ? I have seen some newspaper from Antigua. — Is the newspaper the only 
source of your information upon the subject ? Yes ; I have had no particular 
communication from any inhabitant upon the subject.— Have you not heard any 
thing from any friend as to the prosecution of Mr. — ? I have been con- 
versing with the proprietor, a very old gentleman, Mr. of Portland-place, 

who told me that they had been prosecuting his attorney.— Are you ignorant of 
the offence for which he was prosecuted ? Quite ignorant.— You do not know 
that it was for cruelty — flogging some Negroes on Harvey's estate ? No, I do 
not.— You have not heard that? Really I do not know whether I heard it was 
for cruelly flogging or not'' (p. 403 — 405). 



54 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

Having given these characteristic extracts, we now proceed with 
the abstract of what remains of Mr. Curtin's evidence. 

He could not tell very clearly how many hours of the day the slaves 
worked in Antigua, but he believed from sunrise to sunset, with 
intervals of half an hour or an hour for breakfast, and two hours for 
dinner. If they are required to work during these intervals, they are 
paid for it. In crop time they are allowed every thing requisite 
(p. 366, 367). 

A question arose with respect to the slaves in his congregation who 
were polygamists, which was referred to the Society at home. By 
their advice he required that every slave, previous to baptism, should 
renounce a plurality of wives, and he did not admit to it those, who re- 
fused to select one wife of the two or more he had (p. 396, 397). 

The living to which he was appointed in 1819 had a population of 
4132, the slaves being 4000, and the plantations twenty-five. He 
was himself possessed of slaves by marriage, about eighteen or nineteen 
at one time. He had manumitted one of them, a female, for six joes. 
It was against her own wish ; but he urged her, because he thought, 
as she had already three or four children free, she might as well 
be free with them. He had, it was true, given an opinion to the Com- 
mittee, that slaves, if free, would not labour for their subsistence, 
being of indolent habits and disinclined to industry j and that therefore 
to give them their freedom would be anything but kindness. He was 
still of that opinion generally, but there were exceptions as in this 
case. Some will work well when free. This woman would work : 
she was a very valuable woman, and made dresses, and net laces, and 
things of that kind. There are also exceptions of valuable men, who 
deserved to be made free, who yet lived content as slaves. He had tried 
to sell all his slaves since he came to England, but had not succeeded 
in his negociation ; but he did not care about it. If he could have got 
rid of them, he and Mrs. Curtin were disposed to do so (p. 399). 

He did not think the Methodist slaves were better than the 
Moravian. But he thought the Church of England best of all, and 
free from cant and hypocrisy. He had never made any calculation as 
to the more or less of crime among the different classes (p. 403). 

The Sunday schools were open for slaves except during service. 
He has seen them there from morning to evening, as many at one 
time as at another, domestic slaves taking it, he supposed, by turns. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Cur tin. 55 

The liberated African apprenticed to him was an inoffensive creature, 
but a man of small intelligence, and could scarcely learn his trade of 
a tailor (p. 407 and 408). The liberated Africans he thought inferior 
to the free Creoles, but superior to the slaves ; but the slaves attended 
Church (we presume as contradistinguished from Methodist and Mo- 
ravian places of worship) more than either the liberated Africans or 
the free (p. 407). 

He had quitted the Catholic Church for the Church of England on 
conviction that the latter was the most scriptural (p. 406). 

He had had a dispute with a gentleman, a lawyer in Antigua, in 
1814, whom he had charged with being a coward, because he took ad- 
vantage of his cloth to insult him by doubting his word, and giving 
him the lie. He did not choose to horsewhip the lawyer as it was 
before a magistrate ; but, being very indignant, as they went down 
the steps of the magistrate's office, he took the lawyer by the ear, and 
the lawyer put his hand to his face and broke a pimple on his cheek 
which bled. It was not a boxing match : this was all. Neither 
struck the other any more. They were prevented by the crowd, and 
were both bound over by the magistrate to keep the peace (p. 406 
and p. 409, 410). 

Mr. Curtin was further examined about Betsy White, the Mustee 
slave. He knew nothing, he said, but by common report. He had 
heard, but could not tell, that she was confined by Mr. — in a dun- 
geon, and had been delivered there without assistance, and that the 
child was devoured by rats ; but the report was vague and he did not 
inquire into it, and did not believe it to be true. It made no impression 
on him ; he knew the man had enemies. He did not believe it 
enough to think it worth while to make any inquiry into the subject. 

We have thus given the evidence of Mr. Curtin very fully and fairly, 
and we have purposely avoided to break its continuity, however much 
we were tempted to do so, by any partial observations. But, now that we 
have brought it to a close, we must take the liberty of making upon 
its statements a few passing comments, which may possibly run to some 
length. The occasion, however, seems to require this; because in the 
whole host of pro-slavery witnesses, produced before the Lords' Com- 
mittee, we have met with none more justly chargeable with a want 
of ingenuousness in the course of his examination, and whose an- 



56 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

swers are more dexterously calculated to mislead the ignorant and 
unwary, than those of this reverend gentleman. We proceed to make 
our charge good : 

1 . It is a regular plan with Mr. Curtin to guard his. answers, as far 
as he can, from all awkward hazards of cross-examination, by reserving 
in most cases " an exception or two" from the generality of his praise 
of the humanity of the slave system and its administrators. But, in 
his account of the allowances of food to the slaves which the law pre- 
scribes, he entirely avoids stating the amount of those allowances, and 
how very scanty he knew them to be ; for this would at once have 
revealed to the Committee the fact of their entire incompetency for the 
comfortable subsistence of a working slave. He says nothing therefore 
of quantity, but speaks of the absence of all grumbling about it on 
the part of the slaves, unless in a few excepted cases ; and the inference 
he obviously meant should be drawn from his evidence is, that the 
provision for the slaves, generally speaking, was abundant. But what 
was the fact, — a fact that must have been perfectly well known to Mr. 
Curtin, because he had slaves of his own to whom he was bound to deal 
Out the allowances prescribed by law ? It was this ; that the master 
was required (Act of 1798, sec. 1) to give weekly to each adult slave 
eight pints of flour and twenty ounces of herrings, or equivalent food; 
and half that quantity to children. Mr. Curtin knew very well that 
this was a miserably starving allowance ; but he knew too, and the 
slaves knew, that it was fixed by law, and that complaint therefore was 
vain. But he suppresses the fact of the amount of the allowance, and he 
swears that the slaves were contented with it, and that few grumbled. 
What greater act of unkindness could any man have been guilty of 
towards the slaves of Antigua than so to state their case, under the 
sanction of his clerical character and the solemnity of an oath, as to 
lead Parliament to believe that the food allowed them is ample, 
though it was such as he himself, if confined to it, must have sunk under? 

2. Let us take a review next of the way in which this clergyman treats 
the important question of the Sabbath. He does not tell us frankly 
of the long and obstinate adherence of the planters of Antigua to the 
practice of Sunday markets, and of the injury thus done to religion. 
He does not tell us plainly of their refusing to give the slaves by law a 
single day in the year, except Sunday, for cultivating any little 
ground that might be allowed them, or for eking out in any other way 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Curtin. 57 

their meagre weekly allowance ; or when, in mere spite, they at length 
suppressed the Sunday market, of their refusing to grant them by law a 
single hour in lieu of Sunday for going to market. He suppresses or slurs 
over all this in the masters, and imputes to the slaves all the blame of 
the turbulence which the unjust suppression of the Sunday market, with- 
out any equivalent, had almost of necessity produced. He says they broke 
the Sabbath wilfully, without any necessity, merely to display their 
fine clothes and sell their fruit, &c. ; while the masters, who suppressed 
the Sunday market without giving time for any other, are not censured. 
Will Mr. Curtin venture to affirm, on his oath, that with their miserable 
allowance of food, and without a single week-day allowed them by 
law, either for going to market or for cultivating their grounds, the 
slaves were not driven, by sheer, stern, necessity, to violate the Sabbath 
by doing both on that day ? 

3. But Mr. Curtin takes upon him to state, on his oath, that time 
on the Saturday, in lieu of Sunday, is now given to the Antigua slave 
by law, for marketing and working in his grounds. We challenge 
him to point out any such law. It is utterly untrue that any such 
law has been enacted. — In the same way, he insinuates that the driver 
cannot now by law stimulate or punish slaves by the whip, of his own 
authority. Again we say, No such law has passed in Antigua. 

4. The extreme caution and reserve with which Mr. Curtin always 
adverts to the delinquencies of the white class, as contrasted with his 
confident assertions respecting the demerits of blacks and browns, 
clearly shows the effect of thirty long years of intercourse with colonial 
society, and the depth of his colonial prejudices. At first, for example, 
he cannot call to mind a single instance of cruelty that he had ever heard 
of in Antigua. Happily, however, for the colonial cause, he recollects 
one such act, perpetrated, not by a white (that of course could not be), 
but by a man of colour, who not only did the cruelty, but, what was 
still more impossible in the case of a white, was punished for it. — The 
tendency, in short, of all this clergyman's evidence, is to exalt all the 
whites, "with exceptions," and to vituperate all the browns and the 
blacks, "with exceptions" also. He seems to have forgotten that while 
the whites in Antigua amount scarcely to 2000, of whom more than 
one in ten are paupers, the free coloured and black inhabitants are 
upwards of 5000, of whom Archdeacon Parry distinctly reports, in 
July, 1827 (see paper No. 204 of 1828), that " there were no free 



58 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

coloured or black paupers provided for by the parish." The paupers 
receiving parish relief were all white ; and yet Mr. Curtin scruples not 
to insinuate, for he does not venture to assert, that not only the liber- 
ated Africans, but many of the free black and coloured Creoles live 
by what he calls trespass ; a slander for which there is no ground 
whatever, as the judicial records of Antigua will testify. 

5. Mr. Curtin has, moreover, the hardihood to affirm that the 
magistracy of Antigua, if even they could be suspected of doing wrong 
and neglecting their high duties, are so watched and controlled by 
clergymen and medical practitioners that they would not dare to 
transgress. (What control, we should be glad to know, has Mr. Cur- 
tin exercised over them?) Nay, he even affirms that any man who 
acts ill is amenable to the Governor, and may be cited by him to his 
bar. This is melancholy ! 

6. In the same spirit, he assures us, that the harder the slave is 
worked the better off he is. Indolence being his besetting sin, the 
stimulus of long-continued toil, and night labour, and protracted 
sleeplessness, are essential to his well-being. Crop time is the hey- 
day of Negro enjoyment ; the fattening cane juice then swells out 
his flaccid frame, and inspires him with unwonted vigour. Why did 
he not also tell the Committee, that so kindly considerate are the 
planters, and so fearful of surfeiting the luxurious slave with the 
superabundance of the good things then bestowed upon them, that, to 
prevent the evils of repletion, they have actually, in their parental 
tenderness, made a law to cut off, in crop time, one-fifth part of the 
usual allowances ? Happy slaves to be thus anxiously cared for ! 

7. Mr. Curtin could not recollect any instances (with one or two 
exceptions) of cruel treatment of slaves in Antigua, during his thirty 
years' experience ; but, being reminded of a certain dungeon of a 
friend of his own, in which certain atrocities had taken place, the Rev. 
gentleman, in his too eager desire to vindicate his friend, maintained 
that at least his dungeon was not worse than the dungeons of others, 
there being many such in Antigua. But then, whatever might pass in 
the interior of these dungeons, he was at least able to say that they 
had the advantages of light and ventilation, so as to obviate all impu- 
tation on the humanity of those who erected those places of torture, and 
who had filled them with their wretched inmates. 

8. But if there be evils existing in Antigua, and if slavery is to be 



on Colonial Slavery . — Evidence of the Rev. J. T. Barrett, D. D. 59 

deemed one of them, Mr. Curtin would have them all reformed in due 
time. He, too, is for emancipation, but, to suit his taste, it must be very 
gradual, nay, imperceptible, in its progress. The slave must not have 
the even tenor of his destiny disturbed by idle but inciting declama- 
tions about whips, and chains, and dungeons, and freedom, and such 
stuff. The planters must be left to pursue their own projects of ame- 
lioration, and then he has no doubt that, some fifty years hence, the 
effect of their assiduous cares will be seen in some approach to fitness 
for that freedom which, if rashly dealt out to them by modern 
visionaries, Mr. Curtin would regard as a curse and not a blessing. 

But we must now take our leave of Mr. Curtin, and, after this ex- 
posure of his evidence, leave him to his own reflections, and to the 
admiration of all who love to contemplate bright specimens of dexterous 
evasion. 

11. THE LORD HOWARD DE WALDEN. 

This Noble Lord's evidence is confined to a document which he had 
extracted from some papers relating to certain items of civil and 
ecclesiastical expenditure in Jamaica, and a summary of which will be 
found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p. 461. 

12. REV. JONATHAN TYERS BARRETT, D. D. 

This witness merely laid before the Committee an abstract of in- 
formation taken from the reports of the Society for the Conversion of 
Negro Slaves, a great part of which will be found in our preceding 
volumes by refering to the Index. Those who have read the successive 
numbers of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, or who have attended to the evi- 
dence of Mr. Wildman, will not be surprised by the language the Bishop 
employs in his recent correspondence with this country. — " Our in- 
stitutions," he says, " are improving, and our chapels are building. 
These are measures much too slow for some persons. I confess I dread 
the consequences of precipitancy in a matter of such importance, and 
so materially affecting the property and security of His Majesty's 
subjects." In speaking of the insurrection, he is strongly impressed 
with the '.' atrocities attending it, and the " audacity of the slaves, as 
well as their duplicity and treachery towards their masters." He adds, 
" Their huts are all consumed, and the hospitals and stores on every 
estate are no longer open to their necessities." " The poor creatures 



60 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

are sullen and desponding, and, although they have returned to work, 
their behaviour is constrained and sulky, and they feel bitterly the 
effect of their own misdeeds." He says little of the equally great atro- 
cities of the white rebels, but only regrets " the ebullition of public 
feeling" in " the destruction of many Baptist chapels." This is speak- 
ing lightly of such crimes as arson, and robbery, and murderous ex- 
cesses, committed in open day even by magistrates. The bishop seems 
also to have yielded to the colonial prejudice against the missionaries. 
For what else does he mean by alluding to the mischief alleged to have 
arisen from "the perversion of Scripture, and the fatal effect produced 
thereby on the minds of the Negroes?" This evil he has been trying 
to counteract by printing extracts from the Homilies on rebellion, &c. 
The bishop has under him in the whole diocese of Jamaica, includ- 
ing the Bahamas, 28 catechists. — But what are they among so many ? 

13. Mr. Edmund Sharp. 

Mr. Sharp lived in Jamaica from 1811 to 1832, and had been a 
book-keeper two years, and an overseer afterwards on various estates, 
having on them from 150 to 600 slaves. He has no property there him- 
self. He had observed the following improvements of late:— 1st. 
Slave evidence was allowed against free persons, though, h*e admitted, 
so recently that no instance of its operation had come under his ob- 
servation. 2nd. Marriage was allowed, but with the owner's sanction. 
3rd. The separation of families was forbidden.* Plantation labour com- 
menced at sunrise and continued to sunset, f with intervals of two hours 
and a half. The hardest work is digging cane-holes, but it is not so hard 
as coal-heaving ; 70 cane-holes is a day's work for an able man or 
woman. When dug by task the slave saves time, sometimes two or 
three hours, with which he does what he pleases. The other work of 
an estate is comparatively light. In crop-time about 26 persons are 
employed about the works, so that 52 are required for keeping spell, 
dividing the night between them. Those who keep spell at night leave 
the field half an hour before the others. On strong-handed estates, 
affording three spells, the night labour is lighter, and one spell rests 

* This, however, is a mistake. The law is just in the same defective state 
as ever. 

f The law says, from five in the morning till seven at night. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of Mr. Edmund Sharp. - 61 

the whole of every alternate night. He considers 26 clays in the year, 
with occasional reasonable additions, sufficient for cultivating- their 
grounds ; he does not say whether with or without Sunday labour. 
The slave seldom has to resort to his master's store for food if he pro- 
perly employs his own time. His property is his own to sell, or will, 
as he pleases. Mr. Sharp's remarks on population partake of all the 
hackneyed and mistaken notions of the colonists on that subject, and 
may be fairly thrown aside as unsound both in fact and argument. 
Mr. Sharp finds it difficult to decide when the slave will be fit for 
emancipation ; but he is quite sure he will not work when free beyond 
his own few immediate wants. The condition of the slaves is much 
improved, Mr. Sharp thinks, of late years ; but here he blunders in 
confounding law with practice. Catechists are occasionally employed 
to teach the slaves, but he does not specify what is taught, or how 
much time is given to instruction. The slaves were improving in dis- 
position, but they have been unhinged by late events. They now look 
to emancipation as leading to a life of idleness, free from all restraint. 
Emancipation in their present state would lead to all excess, and pro- 
perty and life would be insecure. The African dreads it as a subjec- 
tion of the weak to the strong, and the old and young would be- 
come destitute ;* and the property of the planters, without labourers, 
would become valueless, f Nine hours a day, prescribed by the Order 
in Council, is too limited for the manufacture of sugar. J Sending out 
two pair of shoes would be ruinous. § The matter of food should be 
left to the kindly feelings of planters, who must be the best judges. || 
Immediate emancipation would be the greatest misfortune that could 
befal the slaves (p. 779—781). 

Mr. Sharp had known free men cultivate coffee, never sugar. The 
free man would not degrade himself by labouring with the slave. If 



* And yet nothing is more certain than that even now, in a state of slavery,, 
the old and young are not maintained by the masters, but by the slaves. 

t What, then, is to become of the labourers ? Are they to die of freedom? 

J Mr. Sharp makes the present labour out of crop to be only nine hours and a 
half, and the Order in Council does not forbid the planter to hire night labour. 

§ Why send them out ? Are there no hides in the island ? 

|| Unfortunately this is a bad dependence, as is proved by experience ; witness 
the Leeward Islands (above, p. 56). 



62 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

all were free, still they would not labour in the field ; and this he in- 
ferred from no free man ever having done it. On coffee planta- 
tions, free men, he says, work with their own slaves. Yet he does not 
believe the free would cultivate the ground for hire in any case. Free 
men sometimes cultivate sugar canes for their hogs. The lands of the 
Negroes are generally well cultivated. On good soil 26 days are 
enough; not on bad soil. Poor soils will not yield enough by 26 days' 
cultivation. Some cultivate on Sundays and at their dinner hours. 
The punishments he inflicted were rare, and with switches, not with the 
whip. The whip in. the field, he thinks, may be abolished ; he has 
done without it himself, and substituted solitary confinement, and the 
stocks, and switches which draw blood but do not leave marks ; they 
are inflicted on the posteriors of men and women, and on both by the 
hands of men (p. 782—786). 

The hogs of slaves were shot when they got into the cane pieces 
(p. 786). 

Many free people lived about the estates he managed ; some were 
mechanics, and some cultivated land, if they could get it, raising food 
for themselves, and growing cocoa, arrow-root, &c. ; but he had never 
seen them acquire much property beyond that. Many slaves acquire 
property, not only by cultivation, but by raising hogs and poultry. A 
slave of Mr. Mitchell's, on Bushy Park, a mason, who built the works 
there, had slaves of his own, and possessed some houses in Spanish 
Town : he treated his own slaves kindly, as far as he knew (p. 787, 788). 

Mr. Sharp admitted that slaves working at task- work were much 
more industrious, that they might gain time; but did not believe, not- 
withstanding this, that they would work for wages. The book-keepers 
and overseers are bound to inspect the Negro grounds, for they make 
a return on oath every three months. The return is made and sworn 
to, but the grounds are not always inspected. There are few proprietors 
in Jamaica ; therefore the slaves cannot be attached to them : their 
attachment to an overseer depends on circumstances (p. 789, 790). 

Mr. Sharp is, on the whole, the fairest colonial witness we have 
met with. 

14. ANDREW GRAHAM DIGNUM, Esq. 

The evidence of this gentleman before the House of Commons will be 
found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No.l04,at p. 440. That given before 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of A. G. Dignum, Esq. 63 

the House of Lords hardly differs from it, and need not be re-stated. 
He tells the same absurd story, with embellishments, of his going, at 
the head of an armed party, into a Negro village, and having a dis- 
claimer from them of any wish for freedom. Mr. Dignum's credulity 
is the most absurd part of this absurd story and of the sweeping in- 
ference he draws from it. It may be useful to give Mr. Dignum's 
explanation to the slaves of what he meant by freedom, and which, 
doubtless, is the orthodox colonial doctrine on the subject. The fol- 
lowing dialogue takes place between him and Timothy, the head driver, 
an intelligent man. There was a great number of slaves listening to 
it. " Timothy," said Mr. Dignum, " suppose your master says he will 
give you free to-morrow ; — but this is not your land : you may take 
your hogs and poultry with you. But, if he makes you free, you must 
go and work some where for any body who will take you ; and he 
must get some one in your place, and give him this house." He said, 
" Ah, you hear the word the Captain say !" Mr. Dignum continued, 
" Your master says you are free, and you may go away, Timothy. 
You get on the road, and are very hungry, and have nothing to fill 
your belly. You know that Negroes do not like to see free people 
coming to their place to beg for food. You will be turned away like 
a dog, as you always turn away the free people when they come to beg 
of you here. You will be driven away in the same manner. Then you 
will get very sick on the road, and call for doctor. Now, Timothy, 
you must recollect master will not pay for doctor. When you are his 
servant, it is his interest to keep you in good health. Now you work 
for him, and you have a comfortable house according to your desert." 
He said, " You hear the good word the Captain say. I hope the 
Captain does not suspect any one of us. We are all good people. 
Massa, we no want for free ;" meaning they had no wish to be eman- 
cipated. 

What a driveller must Captain Dignum have appeared in the eyes 
of Timothy, if he regarded this conversation as serious ! And how much 
more surprised will he be if he should hear that the Captain had pro- 
duced it on oath, before a Committee of the House of Lords, as a proof 
that neither he nor his fellows desired their freedom ! — (p. 813.) 

As for Mr. Dignum's circumstantial details respecting the evidence 
taken in Manchioneal, which he says showed a connection of the late in- 
surrection with St. Domingo and a general ramification throughout the 



64 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

island (all this being stated on mere hearsay), — together with the story of 
Mr. Panton's slave having taken a letter from St. James to Manehio- 
neal, and afterwards having killed himself, — there is not one syllable 
of it in the examinations taken by the Jamaica Assembly, and which 
have been laid on the table of Parliament. The whole, therefore, must 
be regarded as a fable, as the mere gossip of Mr. Dignum and his 
informants (p. 814 — 821). 

Mr. Dignum understood that the sectarian chapels were destroyed 
by the militia, aided by the slaves belonging to the sectarian congre- 
gations ; but this he only knew from newspaper rumour. A slave of 
his own had belonged to a Methodist chapel, who told him he was not 
obliged to contribute money, but he nevertheless did do so. All he 
knew of the bad instruction given by the sectarian missionaries was 
from newspaper reports. He knew nothing of it himself (p. 818, 819). 
And as to free men being mendicants, he only knew of that too from 
hearsay, however confidently he had spoken of it (p. 820). He saw 
no jealousy on the part of the slaves to his entering their houses, 
though he went at the head of an armed party ; but still he thought 
they would be jealous of the visits of a protector. The appointment 
of a protector, moreover, would degrade the master's authority in the 
eyes of the slaves, and would breed discontents and complaints, and 
do much evil (p. 824). 

Mr. Dignum said that, in the late insurrection, great barbarities, 
amounting to murder and rape, had been committed by the slaves, in 
every instance where whites had fallen into their power, such as rip- 
ping open bowels, and scalping heads, and throwing children into the 
fire. He had heard of trials proving these facts in St James but 
he had not been present at them himself* (p. 657). 

Mr. Dignum did not believe there was any truth in what was said 
of the attachment of slaves to the missionaries, or their regret for the 
burning of the chapels ; he thought it was quite the contrary. To 
prove this, he told one of his strange stories, as follows : " On my way 
to the assizes, in July last, I staid a day or two with Mr. Jobson, of 
Cotton Pen, in St. Ann. He told me it was very unpleasant to him — 
the constant singing during the night of psalms and hymns by the 

* This must also be untrue. We have seen the Jamaica newspapers and have 
met with no such trials. 



on Colonial Shivery .—Evidence of A. G. Dignum, Es/j. 65 

slaves ; that he could not rest, and he thought it injurious to their 
health. But he did not like to prevent it; for rather than be troubled 
with questions from the Colonial Office, as Mr. Betty* was, he pre- 
ferred the annoyance going on to interfering with it. On my visit 
to him in March last, on my way to the assizes, I heard the gomby and 
the slaves dancing to it ; and, on my making the remark that the sounds 
were very different from those I heard last July, his answer was that 
he had been speaking to his head driver that morning, and asking him 
how Methodism was going on ; his answer was, ' Massa, I am very 
glad Methodism is all over, chapel down, and minister gone, for so 
long as the chapel was standing and minister there we were obliged 
to give our money, or we should be read out of the chapel, but now 
we have our fowls and our money, and do not spend our money as 
we did before, and we go to church.' While he was saying this, a 
man passed, and addressed him ' Daddy,' the name he was called 
among the Baptists, he being a Baptist ; he said, ' Do not call me 
daddy now ; call me father, as you used to do.' Mr. Jobson added 
that since the chapel was destroyed the slaves were more cheerful, and 
had their amusements of dancing and gomby, and were attending 
church. He had heard complaints about losing rest by singing 
psalms at late hours, ever since the missionaries had been in the 
island (p. 958). 

Mr. Dignum had never heard the slaves complain of the courts that 
tried them. The slaves were many of them very ignorant ; but it 
was their feeling that they could obtain justice against acts of oppres- 
sion, though the oppressor was their master. He does not believe 
that of late the slaves are disposed to suppress their complaints from 
a fear of not having redress ; but frivolous complaints have of late 
been so much attended to by Government that complaints multiply : 
and this Mr. Dignum thought a strong argument against having pro- 
tectors (p. 559). There is no bias which prevents a slave obtaining 
justice. He has seen, by the newspapers, of overseers being fined for 
misconduct. He has heard also of many frivolous complaints being 
dismissed. He had never heard of slaves being oppressed by overseers 
for having made frivolous complaints to magistrates, or of their having 
been punished for the evidence they may have given. 

* See Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol. iii., No. 69, p : 431 ; and vol. iv., No. 76, 
p. 136; No. 77, p. 145. 



66 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

15. JAMES SIMPSON, Esq. 

This gentleman's evidence was confined to one or two points, and 
did not go to the same extent as in the House of Commons. He 
seems to have been called chiefly to weaken, if he could, the powerful 
effect of Mr. Taylor's evidence, by representing him on his oath, to the 
Committee, as a weak and chimerical visionary, unworthy of attention : 
an attempt, we doubt not, in which he completely failed. And he 
took the occasion to declare also, on his oath, his belief that any 
overseer . who should be mad and profligate enough to punish a 
woman for refusing to sleep with him would incur the risk of being 
driven from society and punished. This, however, is quite as true 
as that Mr. Taylor is a weak and chimerical visionary. 

16. Mr. EDWARD JOHN WOLSEY. 

Mr. Wolsey, a native of the United States, resided in Hayti six 
months as a merchant, collecting debts for his father. He had been on 
estates growing the sugar cane; but sugar is badly manufactured, from 
the ignorance of the Negroes who manage the estates. The labourers 
are indolent and do little, but are happy in their indolence. They 
grow a great deal of coffee, which does not require much labour, but 
not sugar. They trade much both with the United States and with 
England. Many of the population, both black and coloured, wear 
shoes. The blacks and browns do not seem to like each other. The 
trade, he thought, had fallen off from the very low price of produce, 
added to the indolence of the people. They were expecting there 
might be a French invasion, but had no fear of the result. He saw 
much of the blacks. Reading and writing are the chief branches of 
education, and music, of which they are fond, and play well. Piano- 
fortes are very common among them. Music is taught by blacks. The 
religion is Catholic. The proportion of the married is small ; but 
their manners are not dissolute, for they maintain a kind of -matri- 
monial connection among all classeSj high and low. They call it 
placing themselves, and, though no legal ceremony takes place, they 
raise and educate their children and treat them as if they were legally 
married (p. 1057—1060). 

Mr. Wolsev lived on a plantation which grew cane, the juice of which 
was boiled into thick syrup and made into rum. The labourers worked but 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of Thomas Williams, Esq. 67 

little, though they were partners in the estate, every one receiving his 
share. All the cultivators were partners in the produce of the estate, 
but he did not know the proportions. He has, however, seen beautiful 
sugar made in Hayti ; but in general they use syrup instead of sugar, 
and the syrup is so thick that it does not ferment He has not seen 
any of them work hard. A few hours' labour in the day is enough 
for their wants. He never knew any instance of coercion but one, 
where a man was brought back to the estate, having quitted it, but he 
was not flogged (p. 1061, 1062). 

Mr. Wolsey was also on a cotton estate belonging to an English- 
man, worked by slaves, in South Carolina. He never saw the whip 
used there, though they worked indolently. Rice and tobacco are 
also grown by slaves. He believed very little of either would be grown 
if the blacks were made free. The blacks were lazy, but it was possi- 
ble the whites might be equally lazy, if they were placed in the same 
situation in that hot climate. The climate enervates the system ; he 
found it so himself (p. 1062, 1063). 

The public works and roads in Hayti are very good, — beautiful. 
The French, he believes, made them. He saw the Haytian troops ; 
they are not in a bad state ; they looked very well. He understood 
there were 45,000 of them. The Hayti tobacco is very good. 
Coffee, mahogany, and logwood are their chief exports. He had no 
fear of insecurity in Hayti. A man may safely avow himself a Pro- 
testant there. The missionaries are chiefly in towns (p. 1064,1065), 

17. THOMAS WILLIAMS, Esq. 

Mr. Williams resided 15 years in Berbice as a planter, and left it 
in May, 1832. A body of slaves, called the Winkels, chiefly arti- 
ficers belonging to Government, were emancipated lately : their 
number is about 300. A great many are men of very good character, 
well disposed ; some are vagrants. Most of them were educated, par- 
ticular attention having been bestowed on them by Mr. Wray, a mis- 
sionary. This, therefore, Mr. Williams thinks, is no fair experiment. 
These men too are artificers. It does not follow that emancipated 
persons will work as agricultural labourers for hire. He offered a free 
man a dollar a day to cut canes, but he refused with disdain (p. 
1066,1063). 

Mr. Williams had 370 slaves, and his estate made 500 hogsheads of 



68 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

sugar. They work by task. The plough is not used : it does not 
answer. No whip is carried in the field in Berbice, and having tasks 
assigned it may be dispensed with. The hours of labour are from six 
to six, with intervals of three hours. There are two missionaries in 
Berbice, and in some places education is beginning (p. 1068, 1069). 

Being asked if the Winkels had become a burden to the colony, he 
said, Not so much as they will be. Freedom is a novelty to them at 
present, and many of them have it in view to procure fine clothes and 
luxuries, but, having obtained these, many will become indolent. He 
thought only one-fourth of them would work industriously. — That is 
saying, in fact, though reluctantly, that they are not burdens on the 
colony, and are industrious (p. 1070). 

Mr. Williams has known £500 paid for a valuable slave, a boiler, 
and for a good field slave £300 ; but their price would now be not 
more than a third. 

18. WILLIAM BURGE, Esq. 

We come now to the last remaining witness who was examined on 
the pro-slavery side in the House of Lords, Mr. Burge, the late 
Attorney-General of Jamaica, and now the salaried agent of that colony. 
Much of this gentleman's evidence, if evidence it can be called, more 
resembles the ex parte pleading of an advocate than the testimony of 
a sworn witness deposing to the facts of a case ; indeed, it is avowedly 
a defence of his constituents as well as of himself personally, and was 
evidently prepared and arranged with considerable care. But we are 
willing to accept it even on these terms; for we are far from thinking 
that it has had any very great effect in bolstering up the sinking cause 
of slavery, but rather has aided in its subversion. 

Mr. Burge was 20 years resident in Jamaica, and is owner, by right 
of his wife, of a coffee plantation in Manchester, with about 1 30 slaves 
upon it. 

Mr. Burge first produces a statement to the Committee the object 
of which is to show that the property in slaves had been created by 
this country. This statement contains the following heads : — 

A. Origin and foundation of the African trade, and proceedings of 
Government and Parliament relative thereto.* 

* A part of these papers relates to the transactions of the Jamaica Assembly in 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burge, Esq. 69 

B. Respects laws and other proceedings for the melioration of the 
slave population. 

C. Laws for the melioration of the free people of colour. 

D. Papers relative to certain instances of maltreatment of slaves, 
and proceedings thereupon. 

E. Papers relating to the late rebellion in Jamaica. 

F. Miscellaneous papers. 

All of these, with the exception of that part of the last head which 
relates to the condition, in 1825, of three estates belonging to Lord 
Seaford, and the list of manumissions granted in Jamaica between 
1817 and Dec. 1830, are a mere transcript of papers already on the 
table, and in the hands of every member, of Parliament ; and, with re- 
spect to the exceptions, they are papers destitute of any adequate 
authentication, the agent of Lord Seaford, whoever he may be, being 
alone answerable for the one, and no responsible officer of the Crown 
being answerable for the correctness of the other, as has always been 
the case in every return of the same nature from other colonies. The 
Jamaica returns come to us in this instance from the Assembly through 
Mr. Burge, instead of coming through the Governor to the Secretary 
of State, under the official signature of the proper officer, who, we be- 
lieve, is the Secretary of the island. The omission of this necess*ary 
formality, in the case of Jamaica alone, renders the accuracy of the 
document an object of some suspicion, especially as there are variations, 
in the different returns which have been received from Jamaica re- 
specting manumissions, which cannot be reconciled except by explana- 
tions which the proper officer is alone competent to give ; and in the 
case of bequests of freedom especially, dependent on conditions, no 
distinct information is given as to the fulfilment of such bequests. See 
papers of 1823, No. 347, and of 1826, No. 353, &c, compared with 
the document now furnished by Mr. Burge. 



1774, on the subject of a duty which they levied on slaves imported, but which 
was disapproved by the then Board of Trade. The whole turns out to be a mere 
financial operation, an easy mode of replenishing the Jamaica treasury, which 
the Government at home disallowed, but which had not the slightest mixture of 
any philanthropic desire to lessen the horrors of that trade, or to deprive Jamaica 
of what were supposed to be the advantages of its importations. It is downright 
hypocrisy to refer to it in that view. 



70 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

We have so often exposed the defence again set up by Mr. Burge 
for the conduct adopted by the Assembly of Jamaica, in regard to the 
pretended amelioration of their slave laws, and generally of their in- 
tolerant enactments in respect to religion, that we should only be re- 
peating what has already been said over and over again, even to satiety. 
All we think it necessary to do, therefore, is to refer to the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, vol. ii., No. 29, p. 103 — 111; No! 33, p. 177 — 182; 
and No. 38, p. 261—270; vol. iii., No. 65, p. 349—361 ; vol. iv., 
No. 82 ; and vol. v., No. 93. Mr. Burge admitted that, officially, he 
had never known of any pecuniary contributions to the mission fund 
which were not perfectly voluntary, free-will offerings on the part of 
the slaves, or that any inconvenience to the police and good government 
of the island had arisen from the nightly meetings of sectarian congre- 
gations (p. 968, 969), 

Mr. Burge states that " the two particular clauses which caused the 
act of 1826 to be rejected by his Majesty are not contained in the act 
of 1831." He is then asked, "Are there clauses of a similar nature 
in the law of 1831 ?" His reply is, " I will beg to refer your Lord- 
ships to the clause itself. By the 84th clause, the practice of nightly 
and other meetings is declared unlawful, and punishment inflicted on 
persons attending them." Now this clause 84 in the act of 1831 cor- 
responds, verbatim et literatim, with clause 88 of the act of 1826,, 
and has no relation whatever to the three — (not two, as Mr. Burge 
asserts) — particular clauses which have been expunged from the act of 
1831, viz. clauses 85, 86, and 87 of the act of 1826. Does Mr. Burge, 
then, mean to say that the clause 88 of the act of 1826, which is retained 
and now forms clause 84 of the act of 1831, was directed by a side 
wind against religious meetings ? If so, then the proceedings of the 
Assembly are still more insidious than we were disposed to believe. 
Both these clauses are directed against the practice of nightly and 
other private meetings of slaves. Was it meant that in the term 
private meetings were to be comprehended meetings for public religious 
worship with open doors? If not, then the object of his reference is 
not very obvious ; because this cannot be said to be a law of " a simi- 
lar nature" to the rejected clauses, which were directed exclusively to 
Religion. But if he does mean that the term is to be understood as com- 
prehending nightly public meetings for religious worship, then we should 
be at a loss for words to designate as it deserves such atrocious obli- 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burye, Esq. 71 

quity of legislation, such a fraud on the government, and parliament, 
and people of England. Mr Burge, we conceive, is bound to clear 
up this ambiguity, if it were only for the sake of his constituents. 

Mr. Burge very dexterously suggests to their Lordships, as an apo- 
logy for the existing slave legislation of Jamaica, viz. the law of 1831, 
the consideration that, " if they looked merely at the written laws 
which regard the condition of the slaves, they would do great injustice ; 
they must enquire, not only for the written law, but the usage" (p. 970). 

Now we do not deny that, if we were contemplating an enactment 
which, being of ancient date, had become obsolete, and being super- 
seded by usage, like the old laws against witchcraft in tnis country, had 
fallen into total desuetude, the argument of Mr. Burge might be a very 
fair and legitimate argument. But what would the parliament or public 
of England say to a grave proposal to re-enact the statutes against 
witchcraft in the year 1831 ? The charge against the Assembly of 
Jamaica is not that they had formeriy enacted bad laws ; but that 
being called to repeal bad laws, and having professed to employ them- 
selves in a thorough revision of their slave code, they had deliberately, 
and in direct opposition to the urgent representations of the King's 
government and the unanimous voice of the British nation, determined 
to re-enact them. The very apology of Mr. Burge candidly admits 
the badness of the former enactments ; and yet the Assembly adhere 
to them as to their very life's blood ; and are ready to dare the omni- 
potence of the British parliament, in order to retain them entire on 
their statute book. The laws which Mr. Burge ventures to defend — 
(we commiserate the necessity he is under of doing so), — such as the 
law respecting slave evidence and bequests to slaves, as well as that 
respecting Sunday markets, are instances in point. They are a solemn 
mockery of legislation ; and Mr. Burge must be convinced that they 
are so. Let the reader look especially at those laws which he repre- 
sents as the masterpieces of improved Jamaica legislation, the law on 
evidence, and that on property, as they stand in the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, No. 104, p. 446, and above at p. 23, and he will be satis- 
fied on this point. They are not laws — they are frauds in the shape 
of laws. So the provision for " abolishing" Sunday markets is, in 
fact, a provision for legalizing them during a moiety of the Sunday ; 
and the law for securing^- (see the margin of clause 15 of the act of 
1831) — bequests to slaves contains the proviso " that nothing therein. 



72 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

contained shall be deemed to authorize the institution of any action or 
suitat law or in equity for the recovery of such legacy, or to make it 
necessary to make any slave a defendant to a suit in equity;" and that 
even if the legatee's owner should institute a suit for his benefit he 
shall first give " security for costs." 

In the same spirit Mr. Burge holds high the justice and liberality 
of the Jamaica planters for not molesting their slaves in the possession 
of their grounds and of any peculium they may thence raise. We are 
not disposed to dispute the fact that proprietors in general, nay, we 
may say almost universally, are disposed to encourage and protect their 
slaves, in cultivating land and raising provisions for their own use and 
that of their families, and that the very first and most essential means 
of attaining this object is a reasonable degree of security to the slave 
that he shall not be disturbed in the enjoyment of what he may raise. 
Without this the slave would have no motive to cultivate his allotment, 
and the master would in that case be forced to supply him with food, 
or suffer him and his family to perish from absolute want. The 
master gives him land, therefore, and time to cultivate it, not from 
any feeling of humanity, but on the pure principle of commercial 
economy. The clear obligation of the master is to feed the slaves. 
He frees himself entirely from this indispensable and onerous obliga- 
tion, by throwing the whole burden of it upon them, substituting land 
and time for the food that must otherwise be supplied to them. To 
abridge them of either, or of any part of the produce they raise by 
means of them, would be an act not only of the most atrocious pillage, 
but of the most egregious folly. It would be as if a master, having 
given to a slave the daily loaf he deemed adequate to his subsistence, 
were then to rob him of half and apply it to his own use. We can 
conceive no human beings so utterly destitute of all feeling of right as 
to act on any such system. Thus far, therefore, the disclaimer of 
Mr. Burge was wholly uncalled for, and he might have spared it. But 
is the property of the slave therefore secure, in point either of law or 
of fact ? In point of law it obviously is not. He is debarred from all 
right of suit or action on account of it, not only against his master or 
manager, but against any other person whatever, unless by his mas- 
ter's direct intervention. But, besides this, he may at any time be 
seized and incarcerated for an indefinite time, and finally sold for his 
master's debts, without the power of revisiting his domicile, or taking 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burge, Esq. 73 

a single step to realize it, or to preserve it from ruin. Nay, what does 
Mr. Sharp, one of Mr. Burge's own witnesses, tell us (see his evidence, 
p. 786) ? When a slave's hog, he says, gets into a cane piece, " the 
usual practice is that the watchman kills it." And in Berbice, before 
the law of slave property was altered, as it ought to have been altered 
in Jamaica, we read of a case of a manager, Mr. Luyken, who ad- 
mitted that he had killed ten hogs belonging to one slave, named Leander , 
and then put him in the stocks for complaining. The Fiscal dismissed 
the case as one violating no law (see the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
vol. i. pages 41, and 236). Numberless other cases might be stated, 
where, without any direct spoliation, the property of a slave is liable 
to be completely destroyed by the conduct of a manager. See the evi- 
dence of Mr. Duncan, as it was given before this Committee. Take for 
example also the instance of the wanton and cruel outrage committed 
by Mr. Betty, the magistrate of St. Ann, on the person of Henry Wil- 
liams, not only in punishing him, but sending him, by his own autho- 
rity, and without trial or even the allegation of crime, to a distant 
work-house, and there confining him for months under its torturing 
discipline, and all this with perfect impunity to the perpetrator beyond 
the expression of Lord Goderich's displeasure. Let this one case be 
duly considered, and we shall at once be enabled to appreciate the inse- 
curity of slave property in a state of the law such as that which Mr. 
Burge so warmly eulogizes. The spoliation of the property of Henry 
Williams, we admit, was not Mr. Betty's direct object, but that property 
was as effectually injured as if Mr. Betty had robbed him of it with 
his own hand (see Anti-slavery Reporter, vol. hi. p. 356 and 431). 

Mr. Burge's statement on oath, therefore, of the effect of the 14th 

clause of the Jamaica Act of 1831, as giving a legal right of property 

to the slaves, is a gross misconstruction of its plain and obvious tenor. 

The invidious remarks about the Colonial Office, by whomsoever 

suggested, are wholly beneath notice (p. 975). 

. Mr. Burge takes immense pains to establish a communication 
between the Colonial Office and the insurgent Negroes in Jamaica — 
between Mr. Stephen, we presume, and the rebel Gardiner; for he 
infers, from the confession of a man of that name, that he was ac- 
quainted with the intention of Lord Goderich to recal Lord Belmore 
six weeks before the despatch was. sent from this country. And all this 
mighty structure he founds on these words in Gardiner's confession. 



74 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

Mr. Burge is evidently ashamed to quote them, he only refers to them. 
" We did not think," says Gardiner, " that the king's soldiers or 
sailors would fight against us. I even heard that the king had taken 
away the Governor some weeks ago, and that the country was left to 
ourselves ; and that Colonel Williams, who is master of plenty of slaves, 
was joining in keeping back our freedom, and to get himself made the 
Governor down this side. I also thought that other gentlemen who 
were in other parts, and had plenty of slaves, were doing as Colonel 
Williams was trying to do" (p. 1352). Now all this wretched drivel- 
ling would really be below contempt but for the dark insinuation 
grounded upon it in a grave and solemn tone by Mr. Burge. It shows 
at least to what extremities his perverse ingenuity has reduced him in 
order to fix some traitor in the Colonial Office with the guilt of ori- 
ginating the Jamaica conspiracy, and of conveying, to some one from 
whom Gardiner hears it, that Lord Belmore was to be taken away, and 
Colonel Williams (who is he ?) named as his successor. The whole 
affair is really too ridiculous for any purpose but to show that there 
exist minds capable of the fatuity of drawing such inferences from such 
premises. 

Mr. Burge also seems to have altogether forgotten that, supposing 
the confession of Gardiner to contain any allusion to Lord Belmore's 
recal, there were in the course of that and the preceding year 
abundant grounds for such a rumour. The sharpness of the re- 
bukes Lord B. had received in regard to his supineness in the affair 
of Mr. Betty and Henry Williams, all of which were published 
in Jamaica, was sufficient of itself to produce such an impression 
and such a rumour. But the most extraordinary part of the case is 
that Mr. Burge should think of bringing such nonsense, passing 
verbally through so many different unknown channels, as evidence to 
be adduced on oath before the Committee of the House of Lords. It 
is importing the laughable looseness of Jamaica examinations into 
England. It reminds us of the evidence in the St. Mary's plot, to 
which we have adverted above. 

And as for the belief of the slaves that the British Government de- 
sired their freedom, and that the planters did not, but were violently 
opposed to it, what was this but the truth ? — a truth which the planters, 
by the violence and exaggeration of their speeches and resolutions, 
during the months immediately preceding the insurrection, did all they 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burge, Esq. 15 

could (as if it had been their interest thus to delude, the slaves) to 
impress upon their minds, and that to an extent far beyond the 
truth. This delusion was their own proper work. The fact that it 
was so, is written as with a sunbeam in the pages of all the Jamaica 
journals during- the months of July, August, September, and October, 
1831. 

Mr. Burge further labours to convey to the Committee the impres- 
sion that the violent conduct of the planters of Jamaica was reasonably 
excited against the government in 1823 and 1824, by the belief that the 
abolitionists then enjoyed the confidence, and guided the counsels, of 
his Majesty's ministers. Never was any statement more untrue than 
that which would represent Mr. Canning and Lord Bathurst, and Mr. 
Huskissou and Mr. Wilmot Horton, as swayed by the abolitionists. 
No confidence existed between them whatever. Neither in parliament 
nor out of parliament was there any concord, but much disagree- 
ment. The abolitionists disapproved entirely of the policy of that 
administration in leaving the work of legislation to the colonies ; and 
even the very measures proposed to their adoption were suggested to 
ministers by the colonial club ; and so Lord Bathurst openly avowed. 
In confirmation of this fact it is certain that any dissent from the minis- 
terial measures of 1823 and 1824 expressed in Parliament, was not by 
the West Indians, but by the abolitionists ; and almost the last act of Mr. 
Wilberforce's parliamentary life, which gave great umbrage to Mr. Can- 
ning, and excited from him a reply of some asperity, was to declare his 
utter hopelessness of any beneficial result fronv the plan pursued by 
ministers. Mr. Canning's habits of familiar intercourse lay with West 
Indians ; for example, with Lord Seaford and Lord Dudley. Lord 
Bathurst's speech in the House of Lords, in 1 824, was almost dictated 
by Major Moody ; and Mr. Wilmot Horton's pamphlets and reviev/s 
were put into active circulation by the colonial club, and by them 
dispersed throughout the colonies. Is it not, under these circum- 
stances, something too much for Mr. Burge to come before the Com- 
mittee to swear to such a mis-statement? — (p. 982, 983.) 

Mr. Burge gets a question put to him about his own appointment, 
which gives him the opportunity of highly praising his official conduct, as 
Attorney-General, and holding it up as a model of zeal and vigilance on 
behalf of the slaves. When he became Attorney-General, he became, 
he says, emphatically , the protector of the blacks. We pretend not to 



76 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

say what Mr. Burge may have done privately, in the use of his powers, 
for the redress of individual cases of cruelty. He may, for aught we 
know to the contrary, have been as active, and watchful, and liberal, as 
he asserts himself to have been. But we do know that he was the adviser 
of the Duke of Manchester in 1823 and 1824, during which time more 
acts of unrighteous oppression (and for these we refer to the records 
of parliament) took place, than it were easy to enumerate. And 
among them were the trials and executions in St. Mary, in which re- 
volting case the Duke of Manchester distinctly says he acted on Mr. 
Burge's advice. There were also the cases of trials and executions in 
St. George, in Hanover, and in St. James, all marked with the same 
traits of illegality, injustice, and oppression, as those of St. Mary. 
There were also the cases of Lecesne, Escoffery, and Gonville, in which 
Mr. Burge was a principal actor, but in which he was so signally 
worsted. Of all these cases Mr. Burge was cognizant. In some of 
them he took a prominent part. In all of them he was the Duke of 
Manchester's law adviser ; and we feel perfectly persuaded that against 
his advice the Duke would not have acted. Certainly we find nothing 
in these transactions which manifests the deep interest he professes to 
have taken in protecting slaves from oppression. 

All the cruelties detailed in anti-slavery publications, he says, have 
taken place since he quitted the island. But he had not quitted either 
office or the island in 1 823 and 1 824. All the atrocities that have occur- 
red since do not equal those of that period. The St. Mary's affair alone 
would stamp an age with cruelty and injustice, to say nothing of the 
others. All that Mr. Burge, therefore, states, on his oath, in praise 
of his administration of the law, must give way before the broad, 
the immovable facts of those cases, the evidence on all of which Mr. 
Burge had seen before they were transmitted to England ; for he was 
the Attorney-General at the time (p. 982, 986). 

Mr. Burge proceeds to praise the magistracy of Jamaica, as persons 
who would be most unjustly described as men of hardened feelings. 
He thought favourably of them, as well as of the general tone of moral 
and religious feeling in Jamaica (p. 986, 987). We do not admit the 
competency of any man, who took the part that Mr. Burge took in the 
St. Mary's trials and executions, and in the other transactions of 1823 
and 1824, including Lecesne's affair, to be a witness in a matter not of 
fact, but of feeling. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burge, Esq. 77 

He swears that he believes the assembly and planters of Jamaica are 
not anxious to perpetuate slavery : they only desire the Negro's fitness 
for freedom. — Mr. Taylor's views he, of course, considers as visionary 
and impracticable (p. 988). 

He labours hard to prove that the law of Jamaica may punish an 
overseer who is not able to show that he had good ground for inflicting 
thirty-nine lashes, or any smaller number, on any slave, male or female, 
subject to him. The attempt, with all Mr. Burge's special pleading, 
is an utter failure. It is true that clauses 29, 30, 31, and 32, of the 
last Act, do provide that owners or managers, mutilating or dis- 
membering, or wantonly or cruelly whipping, maltreating , beating, 
bruising, wounding , or imprisoning or confining without sufficient 
support, or branding, any slave, shall be liable to be indicted for such 
offence, and upon conviction may be punished by fine, not exceeding 
£100 currency [about £70 sterling; of course the fine may be one 
farthing, for there is no minimum], or imprisonment not exceeding 
twelve months, or both, for each slave so treated, with a power to 
the court, in atrocious cases, if the court thinks it necessary, to 
declare the slave free, and to assign to the slave when free an 
annuity of £10 ; and further empowering the slave so treated to 
apply to any justice of the peace, and, if the justice is satisfied of the 
truth of the complaint, he shall certify the matter to the Custos, ivho 
shall convene a special sessions to make further enquiry ; and, if they 
find the complaint well-founded, they shall certify the same to the 
clerk of the peace with a view to the prosecution of the offender, and 
bind over the offender and the witnesses to appear ; and the said special 
sessions shall constitute a council of protection to prosecute to effect 
such offender, the parish paying the expense, if the offender cannot. 
Now all this process is cumbersome enough. However, if it were effec- 
tive to its object, its defect in this respect might be forgiven. But 
then, that there may be no mistake as to such an enactment being 
intended to interfere with the moderate and customary exercise of 
plantation discipline, these four clauses are immediately followed by 
another, the 33d, which is intended, most plainly and obviously, to set 
masters and managers completely at rest as to any apprehension, that 
they shall be liable to the penalties of the former clauses, if they do but 
restrain themselves within certain prescribed limits, viz. drivers within 
ten lashes, and owners, managers, or their delegates, within thirty-nine 



78 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

lashes, at one time and for one offence, and shall not inflict the same 
twice in one day, or until the delinquent shall have recovered from the 
effects of his former ten or thirty-nine lashes. And the violation of 
these restrictions may be visited summarily, on conviction before three 
magistrates, by a fine of not less than £10 currency, or more than 
£20, or commitment to prison for not more than ten days. 

We have been thus precise, in order to show the utter fallacy of Mr. 
Burge's law on this subject. The clause which restricts masters or 
managers to thirty-nine lashes, and drivers to ten, does not say one word 
of the offences, on the part of the slave, which must be pleaded in justifi- 
cation of these licensed inflictions. He must be proved to have 
exceeded the legal limit as to the number of lashes, or to have inflicted 
them twice in one day, or before former stripes were healed ; other- 
wise the penalty does not attach. Mr. Burge knows as well as any 
man that penal statutes must be construed strictly ; and here there 
is not one word, no not a single letter, which can affect any owner or 
overseer, or any delegate of such, who shall (he being present) inflict, 
or cause to be inflicted, with or without one reason proved or even as- 
signed ; for any offence, or for no offence ; 39 lashes of the cart-whip, or of 
the driver's whip, if Mr. Burge is too squeamish to endure the former 
term. We may, therefore, leave Mr. Burge to his ingenious special 
pleading on the subject, throwing in Mr. Dignum to aid him in mak- 
ing out his argument. It is really too bad to have our common sense 
insulted by such Tom-fooleries, under the name of law. Even Boyden's 
case, we venture to say, is not correctly represented by Mr. Burge. 
For there (we speak from recollection) not only was circumstantial evi- 
dence of the strongest kind adduced against him, but there was one 
free witness who directly testified to the outrage, (p. 989). 

Mr. Burge's opinion, which he enforces certainly with great in- 
genuity as well as force, as to the unfitness of the slaves in Jamaica 
for immediate emancipation, is of course just such an opinion as was 
to be expected from Mr. Burge. He has done his best for his clients. 
But all his efforts, if they were multiplied tenfold, will not explain, 
consistently with his reasoning, the appalling and damnatory fact that 
his constituents should have renewed, in 1831, with scarcely any 
material improvement, the slave law of 1816; even the seeming im- 
provements being no better than studied evasions (p. 990 — 993). 

Mr. Burge evidently dislikes the missionaries. He swears that he has 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burge, Esq. 79 

not and has never had any feeling of intolerance, but he thinks it better 
that religious instruction should be given by clergymen (the Bishop to 
wit, and Archdeacon Pope, with his 700 slaves, and Mr. Bridges, the 
master of Kitty Hilton, and Mr. Girod, &c. &c.) But one great fault 
he has to find with the missionaries is their not having mixed with the 
general society of the whites, and with the bar at the assizes. What 
kind of missionaries must they have been to have done so ? How many 
houses could they have entered where the vice of concubinage did not 
obtrude itself upon them with brazen front ? And as for a missionary 
taking part in grand night, at a Kingston or Cornwall assize, it would 
have been not a little incongruous with his character. It was for Mr. B. , 
and such as he, to have sought out these humble and retiring servants 
of Christ, and to have given them countenance and protection. He 
was struck, it seems, with the feelings of irritation that some of them 
had manifested in the course of their examination in the Committee, 
and he supposes it might have been modified by the turtle and Madeira 
in which the prejudices of the whites had excluded them from partici- 
pating. We know the potency which West Indians ascribe to good 
dinners, and their fatal influence on many a member of Parliament in 
relation to this question. But Mr. Burge mistakes his men. He is not 
to suppose because Mr. Barry, and Mr. Duncan, and Mr. Knibb have 
astonished him and their Lordships, by their manly bearing, by their 
dauntless self-possession, by their powers of intelligence and observa- 
tion, and shown themselves fully equal to any association even with 
the noble, that it was the object of their low ambition to covet the 
favour and convivial intimacy of their superiors. Their ambition took 
a loftier flight. They were intent on pursuing their high and holy call- 
ing. They had a mighty task committed to their trust;— to rescue the 
perishing souls of thousands from sin and eternal death ; — to break the 
spiritual fetters which bound them in a still bitterer bondage than that 
of the stocks and the cart-whip ; — and to raise them from the slavery of 
Satan to the liberty of the sons of God. And they have done much ; 
and they have already had their rich reward : and He, whose they are, 
and whom they serve — He who can form a more correct judgment of 
their conduct and their motives than Mr. Burge, will one day say to 
them, " Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared 
for you" (p. 997, 998). 

Mr. Burge, while he disclaimed getting up a case for the House of 



80 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

Lords, frankly and candidly admitted that he ; aided by Mr. Markland, 
a solicitor, had been industrious in obtaining witnesses of information 
and experience to appear at their Lordship's bar (p. 1000). His suc- 
cess has certainly not been signal. 

He also frankly admitted that the funds of the West India Committee 
were employed in repelling calumnies and misrepresentations by the pub- 
lication of suitable works (p. 1001). It cannot be said that these, though 
they have been costly, have been very influential. 

Mr. Burge very properly, as we conceive, declined to enter on the 
case of Lecesne and Escoffery (p. 1003). 

He professed to take his estimate of the effects of emancipation from 
the confessions of the slaves lately executed for partaking in the in- 
surrection ; and expressed his belief, on oath, that immediate emanci- 
pation would be attended with inevitable destruction to the colony. 
We trust, for the sake of Mr. Burge himself, and of his 130 slaves, 
that he will prove in this a false prophet (p. 1003, 1004). 

Mr. Burge affirmed also on his oath that it is certainly a fact that 
there is a rooted inveteracy on the part of the slaves towards the 
coloured population (p. 1004). 

Speaking of the Jamaica press, he alluded to the Watchman news- 
paper, which he said, but without one word of truth in the statement, 
had been set on foot by the Anti-Slavery Society. Had he been 
Attorney General, he would have put it down. " My firm persuasion 
is," says Mr. Burge, and certainly never was a more gross untruth 
littered, either with an oath or without one, " my firm persuasion is 
that the Anti-Slavery people in this country have been in the habit of 
making communications to certain agents of theirs in the island of 
Jamaica, and this information has been circulated among the slaves. 
The mischief is done by the communication which takes place, to the 
slaves themselves, from hence" (p. 1005). Again we say that this is as 
gross an untruth as was ever uttered, and is totally destitute of even 
the. shadow of a fact on which to rest. — He seemed to think, indeed, that 
they employed the leaders of the sectaries to facilitate their communi- 
cations, as far more excitement had existed since missionaries had gone 
out. And did he ever suppose that knowledge could be communicated 
without excitement ? He must have been a very careless observer of 
what has been passing, if he indulged that day-dream. No, no ; 
knowledge is power in Jamaica as well as in England, and that Mr. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burge, Esq. 81 

Burge and his constituents will know ere long. They are not the men 
to arrest its march. They must consult their own safety by yielding 
in time to its resistless progress. 

Mr. Burge himself had been very discreet, and employed, with his 
slaves, no men who professed " to preach the whole word," and who held 
slavery to be incompatible with Christianity. His slaves went to church, 
and were instructed by the curate, and a better-disposed and more 
orderly set was nowhere to be found. They continued their work while 
the overseer was on militia duty. The effects of their instruction thus 
proved its beneficial tendency. He believed it possible to make them 
moral and religious — good subjects, good slaves, and good Christians, 
without producing that abhorrence of slavery which, it is said, they 
must feel, if they are properly instructed (p. 1006). 

Now this is all very sound and orthodox doctrine, and we perfectly 
concur in it. There fortunately was no disturbance in any part of 
Manchester. Had the slaves of Mr. Burge been exposed to the trial, 
we trust his care, in having them educated, would have been amply re- 
warded by their peaceable and submissive demeanour. That is quite 
the natural effect of religion in such circumstances ; and such was its 
effect, as is abundantly proved by the evidence before the Committee, in 
the case of all the slaves who were really converted by the Methodist 
and Baptist missionaries, as he may see by the incontestible proofs 
to that effect'adduced by the missionaries. Numerous instances are given 
by the missionaries, in their evidence, of religious slaves, in the very 
heart of the disturbed districts, pursuing the very same eourse, under 
circumstances of infinitely greater difficulty, which his own slaves are 
stated by him to have pursued inManchester. Andthisisas it oughttobe. 
But ought no credittobe given, for this result, to the instruction of the 
Methodists and Baptists, as well as to that of the curate of Manchester ? 
But let him not suppose that the best-instructed pupils of either school 
will decline their freedom when it is placed fairly within their reach. If 
they are men and Christians, they must have learned to appreciate the 
blessings of freedom. Moreover, to what, even in the disturbed dis- 
tricts, is to be ascribed the little white blood that has been shed, but 
to the influence of those very instructions of sectarian missionaries which 
Mr. Burge and his constituents, in their thorough ignorance of the charac- 
ters and motives of the men, are disposed to view with so much suspicion ? 
Mr. Burge has great objections to compulsory manumission. But 



82 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

we need not follow him in his reasonings upon it : they are happily 
effete (p. 1006). He is also against abolishing female flogging. He 
wishes women to be liable to be flogged a little longer ; but he objects to 
a direct law on the subject. In point of fact, female flogging exists to a 
small extent, and it must be allowed to wear out. But how does Mr. 
Burge know this ? Can he swear that 100 women were not flogged yes- 
terday, and 100 the day before ? Or can he tell how many ? To female 
flogging Mr. Burge does not seem very sensitive ; but still, to propitiate 
English feeling, not to spare the bared bodies of women from lace- 
ration, it might be desirable to make the experiment of abolishing it 
by an express law. — Neither does he think the whip in the field can be 
safely abolished. — Neither would it be safe to substitute the magistrate 
for the master in inflicting corporal punishment. — In short, like a du- 
tiful agent, he is quite of the mind of his employers on all points of 
improvement (p. 1007). With them, also, he thinks ill of Hayti, and 
the Code Rural, and stipendiary magistrates. The planter-magistrates 
are every thing that can be wished. The slaves confide in them 
(p. 1008, 1009). 

Mr. Burge then exhibits a statement of the wealth and resources of 
Jamaica, which would make it appear that his constituents are the 
richest, while they cry out lustily that they are the poorest, people on 
earth. But all this is en regie. He then gives tables, which may be 
fairly passed by, making Jamaica worth 58 millions, and the whole 
West Indies worth 101 millions sterling (p. 1015 — 1034). 

He then goes on to state the case of West India distress, in the 
approved style of perennial wailing, and enlarges on the absurd hypo- 
thesis that the happiness of the slave is intimately linked with the 
prosperity of the master ; when the very reverse, as every body knows, 
is the fact (p. 1036, 1037). 

Mr. Burge is certain that no overseer who has been guilty of cruelty 
would find employment in Jamaica. (Cruelty, of course, is a relative, 
not a positive term. Mr. Burge, for example, could tolerate a little 
female flogging, while there are some so squeamish as to condemn it 
altogether.) — There are no cruel overseers injamaica, at least accord- 
ing to Mr. Burge's standard (p. 1038, 1039). 

Mr. Burge is quite sure, in common with his constituents, although 
almost every set of parochial resolutions passed, in 1831, by those 
constituents, proves the contrary, that the apprehension of being 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of W. Burge, Esq. 83 

transferred to America never occurred to the Negroes, or had any 
influence upon them (p. 1039). 

He labours also to assure their Lordships, notwithstanding the com- 
plete exposure of his views on that subject by Lord Howick in the 
House of Commons, that the practice of separating families in Jamaica 
has no foundation in law or in fact ; but all his renewed special plead- 
ings on that subject serve, as it appears to us, only to confute his own 
positions (p. 1040). 

Mr. Burge concludes the whole of his harangue (for be it known 
to our readers that Mr. Burge was not catechised like an ordinary 
witness, but had the privileges of an ex parte pleader allowed him), 
he winds up, we say, the whole with a pathetic peroration, appealing 
to the commiseration of their Lordships, and supplicating for delay; 
till they shall hear what certain delegates, then on their passage to 
England, have to say to their Lordships ; and lest also, by their pre- 
cipitancy, they shall produce a recurrence of the dreadful scenes we 
have already witnessed. 

We have alluded to the peculiarity of what is called the evidence of 
Mr. Burge, in its being neither more nor less than the speech of an able 
advocate broken by a few questions. Our mode of treating it has 
therefore differed from the course we have thought it right to pursue 
with other witnesses. We are not conscious, however, of having mis- 
stated a single sentiment of his address, though we believe we have not 
left any of his positions altogether unshaken. He is certainly a for- 
midable opponent ; but we are, nevertheless, so well satisfied with the 
issue of this first encounter, that we look forward to a second meeting 
without the slightest fear of the result. 

We have now paid our respects to all the pro-slavery witnesses 
whom Mr. Burge marshalled under his standard ; and we trust that 
our readers will have been able to form a tolerably just appreciation 
of their respective claims to credit. Our remaining task will be com- 
paratively easy, while we pass in review the Anti-Slavery array which 
appeared before the Committee. 



g 2 



84 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

ANTI-SLAVERY WITNESSES. 
Of these no less than eight were likewise examined by the Com- 
mittee of the House of Commons, and their evidence has been already 
analysed in No. 104 of the Anti-Slavery Reporter (published also 
as a separate pamphlet), viz. — Mr. Barry, Admiral Fleming, Mr. 
Taylor, Mr. Duncan, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Morgan, Mr. Knibb, and Mr. 
Thorp. The evidence given by these gentlemen in both cases being 
substantially the same, it would be a useless waste of time and labour 
to do more than supply any additional matter which the course of 
examination may have elicited in the Lords' Committee^ and which 
may not have been drawn out by the more limited enquiry In that of 
the House of Commons. Our present abstract, therefore, will be con- 
fined to what may be new in their evidence. 

I. THE REV. JOHN BARRY. 

This gentleman's evidence occupies from p. 341 to 352 of the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104. 

Mr. Barry was travelling, in the public coach between Kingston and 
Spanish Town, with a member of the House of Assembly, who in the 
course of conversation stated that he hated England, on account of 
the efforts making there to deprive the colonists of their property. Mr. 
Barry observed that the colonists had much cause to blame them- 
selves for the part England had taken ; as they had misrepresented 
facts. They had stated, for example, that the use of the cart- whip had 
been abolished in Jamaica, while they all must know that it was as 
much used at this day as it was forty years ago. The honourable mem- 
ber admitted this, but added, "They tell lies upon us, and we are jus- 
tified in telling lies too by way of defence" (p. 431). 

The drivers often inflicted punishment on the slaves in the absence 
of the overseer. He once, in travelling, was arrested by the shrieks 
of a woman who was undergoing a punishment with the cat. She was 
extended on the ground. She was raised up and sent to her work on 
his coming up ; but she was unable to stand upright, so severely had 
she been punished. He was shown a whip, and he pronounced it to be 
what is called the cart-whip, the instrument commonly used. He had 
seen hundreds of them (p. 433). He believed the driver's whip to be 
still used on all estates except a very few where it has been abolished. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. John Barry. 85 

He had many and many a time seen the slaves struck, in the field, 
with such a whip as that now shown to him (p. 440). 

Mr. Barry produced a copy of the instructions given by the Society 
at home to all their missionaries (p. 456). These warn the missionaries 
generally to avoid meddling with political parties or secular disputes, 
and to enforce, by precept and example, a cheerful obedience to law- 
ful authority. The "West Indian missionaries are particularly enjoined 
to exclude from the Society all who relapse into polygamy and adultery, 
and all who are idle and disorderly, or disobedient to their owners, or 
who shall steal or act in any other way immorally or irreligiously. Their 
only business being to promote the moral and religious improvement 
of the slaves, they are not, in the least degree, in public or in private, 
to interfere with their civil condition ; and they are diligently to 
enforce on the slaves the apostolical injunctions — Ephes. vi. 5 — 8, and 
Coloss. iii. 22 — 25. No person living in polygamy, or in concubinage, 
or in promiscuous intercourse, is to be admitted into the Society. The 
missionaries must take no part in civil disputes or local politics, 
and they are to keep at the remotest distance from all temptation to a 
secular or mercenary temper. No missionary can raise contributions 
for himself, or be allowed to receive donations, except for the mission 
(p. 467). A very interesting sketch is given of the state of the Wes- 
leyan missions in the West Indies in 1830 (p. 461 — 466). 

While Mr. Barry resided in St. Thomas in the Vale, he was sur- 
rounded by coffee plantations, and he was in the habit of hearing, 
almost incessantly, the sound of the whip, from morning till night. He 
could not mistake the sound of the driver's whip inflicting punishment 
for that of the mule driver. The regular and measured sound of the 
former was not to be mistaken. No man familiar with slave proper- 
ties could mistake it. The crack of the whip is so loud that it can be 
heard at an immense distance. This use of the whip was so frequent 
that it ceased to surprise him (p. 470, 471). 

It is well known in Jamaica, Mr. Barry observed, one of those facts 
indeed that everybody knows, that in many cases overseers conceal from 
the inspection of surgeons severe inflictions of punishment. After the 
infliction, slaves are sometimes locked up for days in a state of solitary 
confinement. He fully understood this to be the case, though he 
could not prove it (p. 473). 

Mr. Barry believed that, among the planters of Jamaica, humanity 
was the exception, not the rule. 



86 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

He also believed that the slave population decreases, and this 
from causes connected with slavery. The maroons increase, and the 
free black and coloured population increase ; the decrease of the slaves 
must be ascribed to causes connected with their condition. One of 
these he believes to be excessive punishment. The punishments are 
so severe sometimes as to occasion death. The late hours at which they 
are obliged to labour, and their licentiousness, are also causes (p. 476). 

Mr. Barry does not think that any laws which have been passed will 
restrain men from inflicting' severe and unnecessary punishment, or 
secure the slaves any adequate means of redress. In very few cases, 
he is convinced, will the Negroes be willing to run the hazard of in- 
curring a proprietor's or overseer's displeasure by applying for redress. 
The practice of inflicting corporal punishment hardens the sensibilities 
of the human heart, and magistrates who are themselves slave-holders 
are deeply interested in upholding the system, and feel also the strong 
influence of prejudice, He detailed several cases of oppression arising 
out of the power possessed by masters and overseers to oblige female 
slaves to submit to their desires, as well as cases of excessive punishment 
for other causes (p 414, 415, 469, 475, 488). Another at p. 479 
seems hardly credible, and, as the papers relating to it were lost, it 
would have been better to withhold the details entirely. 

Mr. Barry communicated a letter which he had received from Ja- 
maica from a brother missionary, Mr. Bleby, dated Montego Bay, 24th 
April, 1832, proving the violent excitement still existing against the 
missionaries, though they had been declared innocent by the highest 
authorities. Mr. Bleby writes as follows : — 

" You will have heard through other channels of the proceedings on the north 
side about the time of your leaving Jamaica. The acquittal of the Baptist mis- 
sionaries was a complete triumph, and disclosed such a scene of villany and 
corruption as will for ever stamp this country with disgrace and infamy. The 
suborning false evidence against Mr. Burchell, and the attempt to assassinate 
him after his acquittal, — the miserable mockery of justice in the cases of Gardiner 
and Knibb, and all the other acts of violence and injustice perpetrated by the in- 
fatuated colonists, — will tend only to unfold more fully the direful influence of 
slavery on the human mind, and subvert the wretched system they are intended 
to support. 

" The*people in Trelawney seem to have become as bad as in that hot-bed of 
oppression, violence, and infidelity, St. Ann's; and a foul attempt was made 
there to murder me a short time since, from which I was only delivered by the 
merciful interposition of Providence" (p. 488). 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. John, Barry. 87 

" On the 6th of April a letter was brought to me which had been taken up in 
the enclosure in the front of the house, evidently written in a disguised hand by 
some person who can write well, threatening me with tar and feathers, and the 
demolition of the house, unless I left the town. The letter was, signed 'Mob.' 
This I did not think necessary to take notice of, further than to request several of 
our people to sleep in the lower part of the house as a guard the following night. 
The next evening (Saturday the 7th) we had just sat down to tea, when a band 
of white ruffians forced an entrance into the house, and came up stairs into the 
room where we were sitting. They were nearly all armed with bludgeons. 
Thinking they had the appearance of constables, I addressed myself to the two 
first, and enquired what was their business with me ; they answered, they were 
come to take tea with us. A number of them then seized me, and with much 
abusive language, cursing me as a preaching villain, &c, forced me backwards to 
the other side of the room, one of them striking me a heavy blow on the head. 
One of them having brought a keg of tar into the room, several of them held me 
fast against the window frame, while others covered my head, face, and breast 
with tar. In the meanwhile another of the ruffians took the candle from the 
table and attempted to set me on fire by applying it to my pantaloons ; but, being 
frustrated in this attempt, he attempted, by putting the candle to the tar on my 
breast and neckcloth, to effect my destruction ; but Mrs. Bleby, seeing his de- 
sign, dashed the candle from his hand on the floor, by which means it was ex- 
tinguished. By this time an alarm had been given, and several people came to 
my assistance ; — the ruffians who were up stairs, hearing the scuffle below, left 
me and went down stairs, and ultimately succeeded in making their escape. It 
appears that in the dark several of the ruffians were mistaken by their fellows for 
me and Mr. Whitehorne, the Baptist missionary, whom they expected to find 
with me, and so severely beaten with their bludgeons, that one is not expected to 
recover ; another has his scull fractured, one his collar-bone broken, and another 
his thumb disjointed. Mrs. Bleby twice thrust herself between the assailants 
and me ; the first time one of them seized her, and threw her with violence on 
the floor, from which she is still suffering ; the second time she interfered two of 
the ruffians dragged her away, and attempted to lock her up in the pantry, but 
could not succeed, as she clung to them, and got out with them. The child was 
lying on the sofa asleep ; but being disturbed by the noise, and beginning to cry, 
one of the fellows called out, ' Throw the child through the window,' which Mrs. 
Bleby prevented by snatching it up in her arms. When they were gone down 
stairs, she succeeded in getting away through the back door with the child, with- 
out a bonnet, and with only one shoe, having been pretty well covered with tar 
in her efforts to prevent them from injuring me. 

" Having made my way down into the yard, the same man who attempted to set 
me on fire rushed on me, and aimed a violent blow at my head, which I avoided 
by stooping. I again ran up stairs, and one of them struck at me on the stairs 



88 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

with a bludgeon : but the blow, falling short of me, fell with a tremendous noise 
on the stairs. I finally succeeded in making my escape over the fence at the back 
of the house, and took refuge in the Kou-se of a person of colour who offered me 
shelter and protection" (p. 489). 

Mr. Barry was asked whether he would not have been perfectly 
justified in interfering on behalf of the suffering slaves, when he wit- 
nessed marked violations of the law. He replied, — 

" Your Lordships must see the very delicate situation in which we were placed ; 
a very strong feeling of prejudice existed against our mission, and it was our de- 
sire to meet that prejudice as far as we could, and this was also the wish of our 
managing Committee; if we had interfered in any degree in the circumstances to 
which the question alludes, the cry would immediately have been raised by the 
planters, ' Here are these missionaries interfering between the relative duties of 
master and slave ;' and that would greatly add to the effect of the often-raised 
though unfounded report, that we were agents to the Anti-Slavery Society at 
home. We certainly have very frequently, under those circumstances, done 
violence to our own feelings ; but we were restrained entirely by these prudential 
motives" (p. 494). 

The following is Mr. Barry's view of the general circumstances of 
the men who fill the situation of overseers in Jamaica : — 

" The men who go to Jamaica for the purpose of being overseers are generally 
adventurers, who hope to improve their secular interests by that change ; they are 
generally men of humble character in life — men who possessed little or no in- 
fluence in their own country. Any man acquainted with the general feelings and 
principles of human nature must admit that there is a strong desire to govern in 
the human mind — a strong tendency to the possession of authority. These men, 
when introduced to properties, are, in the first instance, to a very great extent, 
debarred from all the advantages of religion and religious worship : it. is not ne- 
cessary for me to go into particulars to prove this ; it is well known that such is 
the case throughout the whole island of Jamaica ; and of course whatever ele- 
vating impulse or principle they might have previously possessed must, under 
those circumstances, very soon become deteriorated ; independently of this, they 
have the example of their attorneys and overseers before their eyes living in a 
constant state of demoralization. While inferior officers upon the properties, 
they are invested with authority over the slaves, and that authority may be im- 
properly exercised, from a variety of causes; some of these, I have stated, may 
be excited by a refusal of the Negress to satisfy the impure desires of the person 
placed over her, and also the influence of passion and prejudice in those 
men ; and I believe it will hardly be denied, that in the same proportion in 
which they become inured to the infliction of corporal punishment the feelings of 
humanity become benumbed and deadened; That benumbing and deadening 



on Colonial Slavery . — Evidence of the Rev. John Barry. 89 

influence will increase in an increased proportion of the infliction of punishment, 
and the co-operation of these causes I do generally assign as the reason why 
we see so litde humanity among the overseers generally. There may be other 
causes which will operate, but these I believe to be the principal" (p. 501, 502). 

The planters, Mr. Barry admitted, speak a great deal about the 
amelioration of slavery, but he did not believe that they, including the 
legislature, were willing to effect it. They might be more willing if a 
state of amelioration did not include the information of the Negro 
mind, and thus militate against the perpetuation of the system ; for he 
was convinced they would ever be opposed to whatever was calculated to 
make inroads on the continuance of slavery. He believed the planters 
and the legislature to be most decidedly anxious for the perpetuation 
of slavery, and they have publicly declared their purpose to maintain 
it (p. 509). The punishment of the whip is frequently aggravated by 
inflicting further licks with the ebony bush, which contains a number 
of small but sharp prickles (p. 512). 

An overseer, Mr. Barry thinks, has the power of inflicting great per- 
sonal suffering on slaves without violating the letter of the law. He 
may confine a slave ; he may inflict tremendous punishment within the 
legal limit of 39 lashes ; and even if he violates the law he runs no 
great risk of detection, slaves being prevented by the dread of subse- 
quent punishment and ill treatment from preferring complaints, 
(p. 531.) 

" An old lady in Spanish Town, a proprietress of slaves, was one day visited 
by one of our female subordinate teachers, a most intelligent woman ; she had 
previously spoken to a slave belonging to this old lady on the subject of religion ; 
however, she did not think it would be prudent to allow this slave to meet in 
religious society without the consent of the owner : she waited upon the owner, 
and told her that she had spoken to this woman on the subject of religion, and 
that she hoped she (the owner) would throw no obstacles in the way; she said, 
« I certainly cannot allow her to pray (which is the general expression for reli- 
gion in Jamaica) ; she is a young woman, and I must keep her to breed ;' and 
that was the sole objection which the lady had to her meeting in religious 
society (p. 531). 

Mr. Barry states that the law does not recognize the separation of 
families ; but he is inaccurate in this statement, for there is no law 
which prohibits either separation by private sales, or separate levies 
in execution, though if families are levied upon together, which is not 
necessarily the case, they must be sold together. He adds, — 



90 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

"A lady, a member of our society in Kingston, of the name of Miss Barrett, 
unfortunately became indebted ; the child of a female slave was seized, I think 
by the marshal ; after the seizure the woman herself came to my house. I lived 
immediately opposite, and was well acquainted with the mistress, and she told Mrs. 
Barry that such an act had taken place, and she hoped that the minister would in- 
terfere. I was not at home, and knew nothing of it until afterwards ; the child 
was sold, and I knew that woman in consequence to die of a broken heart.- — I 
knew another instance of the same kind in Spanish Town, though not followed 
by the same effects ; it was a young man, the son of a slave woman, who was 
sold from her, not by consent of the mother ; she was totally averse to it ; she 
lived near our chapel yard, and was engaged in cleaning the chapel ; and I have 
frequently seen her weeping bitterly on account of her loss, though the boy was 
not removed to any great distance" (p. 535). 

2. VICE-ADMIRAL C. E. FLEMING. 

This officer's evidence before the Committee of the House of Com- 
mons will be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p. 378 — 392. 
In his evidence before the present Committee, he makes a mistake in 
supposing that the use of the whip in the field was forbidden by the 
disallowed act of 1826. There was no clause to that effect in that act ; 
a motion indeed was made to substitute the cat for the driving whip, 
but it was rejected. A whip being exhibited to him, he allows that 
that is the whip generally used for punishing slaves. He had seen 
it applied both to men and women when lagging behind (p. 550). 

Were any one to tell him the whip was not used as a stimulus to 
labour he would not believe him. He had never heard it denied 
(p. 552). In other points his evidence is much the same as in the 
Commons. 

3. WILLIAM TAYLOR, Esq. 

Mr. Taylor's evidence before the House of Commons will be found 
in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p. 319 — 341. 

Mr. Taylor repeated his belief that overseers have the power of 
inflicting a very great degree of personal suffering on slaves without 
violating the letter of the law. 

" I have known," he says, " eighteen lashes cause a degree of suffering that 
was dreadful, and called for notice; but, the law having allowed thirty-nine 
lashes, the parties who sought redress were completely baffled. The case was 
one of a young girl of eighteen who received eighteen lashes ; it was one on 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of William Taylor, Esq. 91 

which many men felt deeply, and the chief magistrate of the parish took it up 
very warmly, and the official people of the parish took it up very warmly, but the 
overseer set them all at defiance by simply pointing to the statute. It was in 
October 1830. The chief magistrate was Mr. Custos Maize of St. Andrew's ; 
the public prosecutor of the parish was Mr.Clement; the person offended against 
was a girl, Jane, of Temple Hall ; the perpetrator was Martin, the overseer of 
Temple Hall. They carried the thing as far as they could do ; it went before 
the Attorney General" (p. 570). 

In this instance, Mr. Taylor thinks that if the overseer had violated 
the letter of the law, he would have been punished. The cause 
assigned for the punishment was insolence. The cause she gave was 
a very different one, and that was believed. He had heard many 
instances of barbarous floggings ; and in mixing in West India society 
you hear particular men pointed out as kind, or as savage as brutes. 
A man of a harsh temper indulges his temper, and the law gives him 
abundant scope to do so. 

" I remember," he added, " a poor creature came to complain, thinking I 
could do something for him. He stated himself to have been barbarously flogged ; 
and on being stripped, which I caused him to be, his body did present a most 
dreadful aspect. He was suffering at the time from disease ; he was weak in 
body ; he was perfectly unfit to be punished, however flagitious his conduct 
might have been. I told him what the law was ; that he might go before the 
magistrate and exhibit his person, which of itself was abundant evidence, and 
called for a council of protection ; but the man said there was no use in doing 
that ; that it would end in his getting another lashing, and that he would rather 
let it pass unless I would go with him, which I could not, for I was about to 
embark for England. This was on Prospect Hill in St. Andrew's. I had him 
inspected by old Negroes, who had witnessed these things themselves and had 
suffered them, and they told me it was a dreadful punishment he had got. I am 
sure he got no redress, for he determined to go home. I should doubt whether 
he was alive, for he seemed in bad health ; I think he must have died some 
months after. 1 do not mean to say that the flogging killed the man ; he seemed 
as if he would not long live, he was in such a state of health. He was certainly 
not in a condition to receive such punishment" (p. 570, 571). 

" I have met with many instances of very cruel treatment, but on examining 
into them there was no law to meet them, and therefore it was impossible to do 
any thing. There was another case of a girl of nineteen; the only redress 
her friends had was to get her manumitted ; an individual applied for her manu- 
mission ; her owner, a cruel woman, I suppose did not wish to get into any 
altercation with this person, and she consented to sell her, and she is now free. 
She was severely flogged in the St. Andrew's workhouse, worked in the chain, and 



92 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

flogged after. There was no redress for it ; I could only tell them that the mis- 
tress had a legal right to do so" (p. 571). 

This girl was confined to the workhouse by her mistress's sole au- 
thority. This was allowed by law, and therefore the way to redress 
was barred. Women and men were equally liable to be flogged, and were 
constantly flogged in the St. Andrew's workhouse. Mr. Taylor saw four 
or five women flogged ; they were of all ages ; one of sixteen, another 
of twenty-two, another of thirty-five, and an old woman of sixty, a 
grey-headed woman ; that was the only female punishment he ever 
witnessed, and he never wished to witness it again. It was very 
dreadful. They were made fast by means of a block and tackle they 
had in the workhouse, which not only confined them, but stretched 
them — they were flogged with a cat-o'-nine-tails. He did not mean to 
say that the stretching was done to add to the torture, but it did so 
unavoidably. He spoke to two Negroes who were punished in that 
workhouse, and they told him it was the severest part of the punish- 
ments ; their expression was, that "they were stretched till their backs 
cracked" (p. 571,572). 

" On one occasion," says Mr. Taylor, " I saw two women flogged ; 
I would not call it severe flogging, for it was nothing compared to the 
flogging I have described in the first part of my examination; but, 
riding in a remote part of the island, I came upon the spot, and saw 
the punishment. I did interfere, but it was useless, for it was legal. 
The individual who was employed in flogging told me, very firmly but 
very respectfully, that he could not help it — he was a slave himself — he 
was obliged to do it, and was acting under his orders, and those orders 
were perfectly legal. I was myself a magistrate of the neighbouring 
district, but I could not interfere. If one had been his mother, and 
the other his sister, he would have been equally obliged to flog them. 
The law makes no reservation" (p. 578). 

He had heard slaves state that they were deterred from marriage by 
their repugnance to seeing their wives flogged. It is the custom to 
flog women as well as men in the home-yard or in the field, where their 
nearest relatives may be ; and their relatives may be employed to flog 
them. A driver is compelled to flog any one he is told to flog : he 
has no choice (p. 581). 

Mr. Taylor was asked, " Did you ever know an instance of a hole 
being dug to enable the driver to place a Negro woman that was preg- 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of William Taylor, Esq. 93 

nant in the hole to flog her V He replied, " Yes ; I was told that by 
the head driver of Papine, a man that I have every reason to believe 
was respectable, a man I had very little to do with. I had been told 
those stories about flogging pregnant women. My attention being 
called to the subject, I was exceedingly anxious to arrive at the truth 
by asking other people, and I was determined to ask the Negroes and 
overseers and book-keepers. Among others I asked this head driver 
of Papine, a decent man, as I thought him, and he told me one instance 
in which he had himself inflicted the punishment. The woman was 
pregnant, and he told his story very clearly. This woman had been 
punished in that way. What made me believe it was, — this was a 
woman who had carried some complaint to Mr. Wildman ; she com- 
plained of her being punished and losing her children in the womb ; 
and afterwards she brought forth her children." His impression was, that 
the loss of the foetus was in consequence of this. The driver told him 
there was an excavation made, and she was placed in it, and he flogged 
her with a whip, and afterwards, Mr.Taylor thought, with the ebony switch, 
After giving them the thirty-nine, they switch them. There was another 
respectable Negro upon the estate whom I examined separately. He 
had not been present, but he said he believed the thing did happen, 
and that during his residence on the estate those things had often 
happened ; that pregnant women were often flogged ; and he believed 
every woman upon the estate had been flogged over and over again. 
This was before Mr. Wildman went out to Jamaica (p. 592). 

Mr. Taylor admitted that much exaggeration had taken place at 
pu blic meetings held for Anti-Slavery purposes . H e was asked whether 
he believed it to be true, as had been said at one of those meetings, 
" that a person had been scourged to the borders of the grave for no 
other crime than worshipping his God ?" He answered, " I do believe 
in Jamaica there are instances of Negroes who have been severely and 
repeatedly flogged for no other reason than worshipping their God ; I 
would not say to the borders of the grave ; it does not consist with my 
knowledge that they have been scourged to the borders of the grave, 
I do not know that they have died, in consequence of that" (p. 594). 

Again — 

" If you had heard it stated that the Church Union Society was organized for 
two distinct objects — the demolition of places of worship and the banishment or 
murder of the missionaries, would you consider that a gross exaggeration ? 



94 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

" No ; from what I have heard of the proceedings in Jamaica, I should not 
consider it at all an exaggeration, for I think it is borne out by facts. It was organized 
since I left the country ; with the exception of one man, I do not know any of 
them, and I would believe that man capable of any wickedness. I am asked 
about a society of which I know nothing ; I only know the proceedings of the 
society from certain imputations in the Jamaica newspapers ; it was organized 
since I left the country. I have read of gross outrages committed upon the per- 
sons of missionaries, which certain documents and newspapers have said were 
perpetrated by members of the Colonial Church Union; I have no other informa- 
tion. Assuming that for truth, the inference is by no means a gross exaggeration ; 
but your Lordships will observe, I only gather that from -the public prints" — 
(p. 525). 

Mr. Taylor was asked whether the newspaper called the Watchman 
was not supported by the Anti-Slavery Society's principal agent there. 
His reply was, " I do not know any agent of the Society there ; I never 
knew any. I have often enquired for the Anti-Slavery Reporters 
there, and could not procure them" (p. 609). 

4. THE REV. PETER DUNCAN. ' 
The evidence of Mr. Duncan before the House of Commons Com- 
mittee will be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, p. 352 — 
365. Mr. Duncan stated to the Committee the following facts, 
though he himself had not often been in situations to witness the 
inflictions of punishment : — 

" I have seen myself instances of very great strictness respecting the punctu- 
ality of Negroes attending at the hours of labour ; and I have also seen instances 
of severity used when they happened to be a few minutes behind the hour. 
Perhaps your Lordships will allow me to refer to one particular case : I remem- 
ber once sitting in my lodgings in Manchioneal Bay, when I saw about a dozen 
of females that came into the field five or ten minutes too late, and each received 
a number of lashes from the driver. I have witnessed similar cases" (p. 637). 

" In the year 1823 I knew of a slave driver having to flog his mother. In the 
year 1827 or 1828 I knew of a married Negress having been flogged in the pre- 
sence of her fellow slaves, and I believe her husband too, for it was her husband 
and herself and other slaves who told me the circumstances. Merely because this 
Negress would not submit to satisfy the lust of her overseer, he had flogged and 
confined her for several days in the stocks. I was then in St. Thomas in the Vale. 
Connected with that station, we had two places of worship, one in the St. An- 
drew's mountains, but just on the boundaries of St. Thomas in the Vale and 
St. Mary's ; a considerable number of Negroes from St. Mary's attended at that 
place of worship ; among others there was one of the name of ■ , from 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 95 
. I was always particularly struck with her regularity in attend- 



ing divine service ; I observed her absence on one or two sabbaths, and I asked 
a lady what had kept her away. She said she believed Ann had got into trouble 
again, poor thing ; that she had been punished by the overseer, whose name was 

. The name of the lady was Mrs. Lawrence; she told me that Ann 

had been often punished for coming to the chapel by her former overseer, whose 
name was ; but that she believed she was coming the next sab- 
bath, and I should hear her statement. The next sabbath a considerable number 
of Negroes from that property came to me, and among others Ann and her hus- 
band. I asked her what had kept her from the chapel. She said she had been 
severely flogged ; she looked very ill ; she was scarcely able to walk. I said, 
' What have you done V She said she had done nothing, but her overseer had 
wished her to come and sleep with him. She said, ' No, Massa ; I am a mar- 
ried woman, and I was married in the Church of England on the Parade at 
Kingston, and I cannot do any thing of the kind.' Other Negroes told me that 
they were present at a part of this conversation, and saw Ann flogged, avowedly 
for that reason, and among the rest her husband; she was very severely flogged ; I 
was told she got about fifty lashes, and was then put into the stocks. After she 
had remained in the stocks two or three days, the overseer asked her whether she 
would come and sleep with him yet. She said, No; she was ready to do her 
master's duty, but could not do any thing of that sort. He brought three or four 
others, and pointed her out by way of scorn, and said, ' This is a holy woman — 
this is a married woman ; she cannot come and sleep with me because she is a 
Methodist, and has been married in the Church of England.' There were a con- 
siderable number of Negroes with her at the time I saw her, who were witnesses 
to the whole or part of these facts. The woman was in a very poor state, hardly 
able to walk, in consequence of the very severe flogging she had got, and for the 
reason stated. Though I do not at present recollect any other such flagrant 
instance of cruelty as that, it was no uncommon thing to me to hear that the 
young female slaves had been flogged because they would not comply with those 
wishes of their overseers" (p. 641, 642). 

The Negroes had been described by one witness as happy and cheer- 
ful. Mr. Duncan's opinion of that statement being asked, he said, 
" I have seen some apparently happy enough ; but I do not conceive 
they are all cheerful and happy, or that cheerfulness and happiness 
are very common among the slaves. As it regards punishments, I 
have already observed they are generally inflicted in such a way and at 
such a place that strangers have seldom the opportunity of beholding 
those punishments in the act of infliction ; but I have seen some 
punished myself; I have seen Negroes who have been punished scarcely 
able to move ; I have also seen one or two others with their flesh most 



96 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

shockingly torn. I cannot conceive how it is possible they can be 
cheerful and happy" (p. 643). 

The property of the slaves was generally respected ; but he had 
known instances to the contrary. 

" I have known Negroes complaining at least, in my hearing, in different parts 
of the island, that their provision grounds had been taken from them by the over- 
seer, and that they had got in lieu of them uncultivated grounds, and had to begin 
all their work again ; and I have heard frequently of managers or owners injuring 
the property of a slave, by shooting his hogs or poultry, without the possibility of 
their obtaining redress" (p. 645). 

The means of redress to the slaves, for injuries or harsh treatment, 
he believed to be extremely difficult ; and he stated the following as 
one instance in proof of it : — 

" When I resided at Montego Bay, in 1829, there was a very painful case 

brought to my knowledge, — an estate, either Flint River or Tryall — I think the 

former ; they are just contiguous ; on which estate we have a number of Negroes 

connected with our societies. I was informed that they had no day for several 

months allowed them to work their provision grounds ; that they went to their 

overseer, and he had promised them Saturday, but when the Saturday came he 

ordered them to finish the remainder of the cane piece; they refused, and 

went in a body to Lucea, either on Sunday or Monday, and complained to the 

magistrates that they had not had a day so long, and that their overseer had 

deprived them of this Saturday. I believe they were nearly all flogged ; the 

matter was perfectly notorious : the flogging began, as the person who was a 

spectator informed me, about two o'clock, and continued till about five ; men 

and women stripped, exposed, and flogged in the market-place : the whole of 

this case is fresh in my recollection. According to the rules of our society, by 

which we act in Jamaica, we are bound to censure such slaves as may disobey 

their masters. There were two of the Negroes in company with those slaves who 

went away to Lucea; and according to that rule, though a painful circumstance 

to my own mind, I was compelled to expel them from our society. The matter was 

public, and therefore quite well known. It was not, I believe, denied that the 

slaves had been refused their Saturday, nor was it ever called in question that 

they had no day of their own for weeks, and perhaps months ; but because they 

came away on Monday they were all flogged" (p. 646). 

The cases of Henry Williams and Kitty Hilton were then largely 
referred to. We will merely quote a passage from the conclusion of 
it. Henry Williams had himself told Mr. Duncan that the sufferings 
he had endured from the flogging he had received from Mr. Betty, 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 97 

and his subsequent treatment in the workhouse for attending the 
Methodist chapel, had broken his constitution. He feared he never 
should be strong again. It was not by the magistrates that he was 
flogged, but by the arbitrary will of his master, Mr. Betty ; and by the 
same arbitrary will he was sent to the St. Thomas in the Vale work- 
house, and that workhouse has the worst public character for severity 
of any in the whole island. The treatment in the St. Thomas in the 
Vale workhouse is considered to be much more rigid and severe than 
in any other in Jamaica. This workhouse was not in the parish to 
which he belonged ; he was in St. Ann's parish ; but he was sent to a 
much greater distance, to this workhouse in St. Thomas in the Vale. 
" I believe also the Rev. Mr. Bridges sent some of his Negroes to that 
workhouse, and he stated it was because the discipline was more rigid 
in that workhouse than in that in the parish of St. Ann. The word 
discipline, as referring to slaves in Jamaica, means simply punish- 
ment" (p. 651). 

In neither of the cases, neither that of Henry Williams nor that of 
Kitty Hilton, whom the Rev. Mr. Bridges flogged and treated so 
cruelly, was any redress obtained (ibid). 

The barrenness of the women in Jamaica he considered to be at- 
tributable both to the severity of their labour and the looseness of 
their morals (p. 652). 

The whole of the parochial resolutions published in Jamaica in 
1831 conveyed to the Negroes the information, in clear and unquali- 
fied terms, that the government of Great Britain wished to make them 
free, and that the planters were opposed to it. Mr. Duncan added, 

." His Majesty has not in his dominions a people more loyal and devoted to his 
person and government than the religious slaves. They revere the name of His 
Majesty and of his government too ; and, as the inhabitants of Jamaica have pub- 
lished to the world that His Majesty and His Majesty's government wished to 
give the Negroes their freedom, this brought the matter before the Negroes in this 
way : Here are the King and his government wishing to make us free ; here are 
our masters will not allow it : and I am well aware, should there be a question 
between the King and their masters respecting the Negroes, which side they (the 
Negroes) will go to." 

" I consider that the principal cause of the late insurrection has been the hasty 
and intemperate proceedings of the colonists themselves, and the violent manner 
in which they have opposed the wishes of His Majesty's government from year to 
year; the violent language which has been used, both in the legislature and oat 

H 



98 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

of it. I cannot conceive it possible that such language could have led to any 
other result. I have already intimated to your lordships the natural impressiou 
made upon the minds of the slaves would be this : His Majesty's government 
wish to ameliorate our condition, and ultimately to make us free, but that every 
measure tending to this has been most violently opposed by the colonists, both in 
and out of the legislature." 

Mr. Duncan entered into considerable details respecting the perse- 
cutions that had been endured by the missionaries. We need not 
follow him in these details. They are sufficiently known, and are not 
questioned. He enters into many details, also, to show that the op- 
position of the planters is not to the sectarian missionaries alone, but 
to religion itself ; and as much to clergymen of the established church 
as to Wesleyans or Baptists (p. 672, 673). 

He produced also some important documents in proof of his state- 
ments, as to the persecution of missionaries (p. 681 — 685). 

Exorbitant sums are often asked for the manumission of slaves, as 
much as £300. A planter told him that a man of the name of James 
Walker, on Holland estate, offered a very large sum for his freedom to 

Mr. , whose answer was, " Ah, James, if you were free, you 

would go to the devil. — Go to your work" — (p. 690). 

Mr. Duncan has known fifty lashes avowedly given to a slave, 
with a whip nearly resembling that now shown him, and equally 
efficient. 

" A Negro was laid down to be flogged almost under my window, when I re- 
sided at Morant Bay — at least at no great distance. His master went to the 
workhouse; he came back with the supervisor, and four workhouse Negroes 
came along with the master and supervisor ; two of them had whips. The 
Negro man was laid down ; two of the Negroes held him down, one at the feet, 
and the other by the hands ; and the Negroes who had the whips went one to 
each side of the man thus laid down and stripped. I counted either thirty-nine 
or forty lashes ; that was with a cart-whip — I mean what is called a cart-whip." 
This was in 1821. " The Negro man received thirty-nine or forty lashes with the 
whip. I observed that they still kept him down, while the two men, the 
Negroes who had been flogging him, went some little distance, and came back 
with tamarind switches — they are hard and flexible almost as wire — and then they 
began upon him again, to flog him with those tamarind switches. I did not 
count the strokes they gave with the switches ; but to the best of my knowledge 
they were as many as had been given before. I observed, when the former 
lashes were inflicted, the slave never uttered any thing more than a deep groan; 
but, when he came to be flogged with the tamarind switches, he shrieked most 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P, Duncan. 99 

dismally. His flesh was first lacerated with the whip, and then those small 
switches gave him great pain. I would observe this is a very common course in 
Jamaica ; after they have received thirty-nine or forty lashes with the whip, then 
to use the tamarind switches ; the common expression is, ' beating out the 
bruised blood.' " 

" I have seen many cases of flogging (but not very near where I happened to 
be), when travelling through the country, especially on the sugar estates. When 
I went first to the island, my attention was often arrested by the sound of the 
whip, a sound very well known to those who have resided any time in Jamaica. 
I have looked in the direction, and seen persons subject to punishment, and have 
counted more lashes than the law allowed. When residing at Morant Bay, the 
workhouse punishments I knew particularly; at that time they generally em- 
ployed two Negroes for flogging ; I never knew that on estates; and I have known 
them to exceed thirty-nine lashes, or even fifty lashes, without intermission ; I 
did not see them punishing, but I know that so many have been inflicted without 
intermission. From the particular sound, I could judge of the instrument — a 
whip something like that produced to me" (p. 696). 

" I recollect, in St. Thomas in the East, a man of the name of Phelp or Philp ; 
he was flogged ; he told me it was for attending a meeting for prayer. After a 
week or two, he came up to see me, and I desired him to sit down in the balcony 
of my house ; he was not able to sit, but he leaned against a post. He after- 
wards went up to the curate of the established church ; the curate told me he 
had examined him, and he was most dreadfully cut up. This, I think, was about 
1824. I recollect again another case, of a coloured slave, belonging to Rhine 
estate; he was a tradesman; he had been flogged. I know it was many weeks 
before he got over it. He used to walk about with his stick : he was unable to 
do any thing. He told me that he got fifty lashes, and that each lash cut him. 
About the same year, I recollect another case, in St. Thomas in the East, in 
which I was at a property for change of air — myself with my family ; the properly 
belonged to a distant relation of my own. I recollect the overseer one night 
threatening to flog a young Negro woman (a woman about eighteen or twenty 
years of age), and I merely asked him what she had done. He told me she said 
there was no pleasing Buckra ; but it was not for that, but because she had said 
Aha ! (a very common mode of expression), that he would flog her" (p. 697). 

" I remember another ease, of a young woman coming from the workhouse at 
Morant Bay ; she was coming over with one of her fellow slaves, who had been 
sent to the workhouse with her. I did not see her flogged, but she had on an 
Oinaburgh petticoat, and it was literally saturated with blood, which had been 
dropping on the ground all the way along. That was during my residence in St. 
Thomas in the East. After I went to Kingston, I saw persons who had been 
flogged looking very ill indeed. I do not know that I can now particularise any 
of them. I have seen flogging in St. Thomas in the Vale ; I have seen children 



100 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

of from ten to twelve and fifteen laid down and flogged in 1827 or 1828. From 
that station I went in 1829 and 1830 to St. James, and I saw other slaves, who 
had been flogged. I have heard of others ; I have heard, from a number of 
slaves that came, about one young woman particularly ; her flesh was almost torn 
from her body, because, as I was told, she would not sleep with the overseer" — 
(p. 697). 

" There is one estate, a coffee property, situate next to my house in St. Thomas 
in the Vale, Mount Concord. That property is very much embarrassed. The 
Negroes belonging to it have a very excellent character given them ; indeed they 
bore an excellent character for many years ; but, in consequence of severe labour, 
a number of those who had been the most steady, excellent, and valuable people 
upon the estate actually ran away. I found two of the Negroes, members of our 
society, had run away ; those people, much against my personal feeling, I was 
obliged to exclude. I was well acquainted with the gentleman who was the 

overseer of that property. His name was . The overseer informed me 

that the case was this : that the debt of the property must be paid off, and there- 
fore a considerable number of Negroes w«re sent out to job. I believe the 

distance was between twenty and thirty miles. Mr. told me himself 

it was a great hardship upon the Negroes, and the Negroes were determined they 
would not put up with it any longer, and for these reasons : in the first place, 
they had harder work ; then, they were a week or a fortnight away from their 
families at a time, and never saw them but on Sunday ; that they had no oppor- 
tunity of returning to the property to which they belonged ; that their provision 
grounds were at that time uncultivated ; and their allowance nothing like a com- 
pensation for losing their provisions ; that they had nothing like a comfortable 
house — nothing but temporary booths covered with cocoa-nut branches, on the 
sides of the road, instead of their comparatively comfortable huts on their own 
properties ; therefore, as they were harder wrought, and taken away from their 
families, they were determined to put up with it no longer, and ran away to the 
woods. The overseer told me it was very hard, and he felt it so, but that the 
property was so involved; and he thought he could clear £500 a year by this kind 
of jobbing. I have known much individual suffering from slaves being taken to gaol, 
where they were confined for the debt of their master. I have seen the Deputy 
Marshal (or, as he is called, the Marshal's Dog), arrest Negroes, and drag them 
away for miles ; and I have seen them crying and tearing themselves in the most 
violent manner. I remember once a young woman, who was arrested in a house 
svhere I happened to be at the time, on account of some debt owing to a gentle- 
man by her owner. This young woman was about fifteen when she was arrested 
by the Deputy Marshal; the lady in whose house she was was very much 
affected, and appeared very indignant. I asked what was the matter ; she said 
she had heard the Negro state there would be a fine prize at night for the gaol, 
f Now,' says she, mentioning the name, ' this is a girl, though she does not be- 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. T. Morgan. 101 

long to me, whom I have brought up as my own child ; she has been religiously 
instructed, and can read the Scriptures ; she is going at night to get into the 
fangs of one of those villains that belong to the gaol, and he will make her his 
temporary wife ; that is a common case with the young Negro women about her 
age, when they are cast into gaol for the debts of their owners.' I was present 
at the time, and if I had not assisted to redeem the girl, she would have been 
taken to the gaol. There was another case, of a young lad, about fifteen years 
of age I should suppose ; he belonged to a property which was very considerably 
involved ; he was a very decent young man ; there was also the mother of this 
lad, with about seven children ; they were a very comfortable family, and re- 
ligiously instructed and well taken care of: this lad was seized and was taken to 
gaol, and kept there for some time ; then sold and separated thirty or forty miles 
from where he had been brought up, and where the other branches of his family 
were. This I state from personal knowledge, that he was removed from his 
mother and brothers and sisters. I have also, in visiting the gaols, seen re- 
spectable Negroes, or at least apparently respectable quiet-looking people ; I 
have asked what they were there for : I was told for their master's debt. They 
had been confined a longer or a shorter time" (p. 700, 701). 

5. THE REV. THOMAS MORGAN. 

The evidence of this missionary before the Committee of the House 
of Commons will be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, pp. 
391, 392. 

Mr. Morgan is asked, " Have you heard or known of an instance of 
Negroes being addicted to vindictiveness and cruelty ?" His reply is, 
" When I was in Antigua, there was a member of our society executed 
for murdering his overseer, but it was in consequence of the overseer 
debauching his wife." He knew of none in Jamaica (p. 712). He 
thought the slaves remarkable for their attachment to those who 
treated them kindly. He believed that, in regard to missionaries, 
the Negroes were disposed to lay down life for them ; and he had wit- 
nessed many instances in regard to their owners also, when treated 
with anything like kindness (ibid). 

He considered the distress of the planter to arise mainly from 
slavery itself. It was founded on wrong. It was an iniquity calling 
he feared, for the judgment of heaven (pp. 713, 714). 

If slaves were emancipated, he believed the parents woud be eager 
to have their children instructed, and would pay for their instruction. 
On plantations children go to work at five years of age (p. 715). 

He has seen the slaves beaten in the field with the cart- whip, the same 
kind of whip now shown, only the handle not quite so long (p. 717). 



102 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

If the slaves were emancipated, there would still be law, of course, 
to restrain them ; and in proportion as religious influence extended 
among them there would be peace and order (p. 718). 

He always commended the slaves for attending to religious worship, 
and where there was any failure of attendance urged them to it. He 
considered neither himself nor them as breaking any law in pressing this 
duty upon them, whatever the wish of their masters might be (p. 720). 

6. THE REV. WILLIAM KNIBB. 

The evidence of this missionary before the House of Commons' 
Committee is contained in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 1 04, pp. 
392—405. 

Our readers will recollect how roughly Mr. Knibb was handled in 
that Committee, and particularly how it was attempted to falsify his 
testimony as to the confidence reposed in him by Mr. Miller, the custos, 
in respect to the examination of the Negro insurgents, who were under 
sentence of death, particularly in the evidence of Mr. Baker and 
Mr. Dignum (see Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 104, pp. 339, 341). 
He now produced a letter from this identical Mr. Miller (who was the 
attorney of Mr. Hankey's estates, and also of Lord Seaford's), addressed 
to Mr. Knibb on the eve of his absenting himself, for a few months, 
from Jamaica, on account of his health, and to which island he re- 
turned just after the Baptist chapels had been destroyed, in February 
1832. It is dated Falmouth, 12th June, 1831, and is as follows : — 

" Dear Sir, 

" I am sorry to find from your letter that your ministry at Rio Bueno and 
Arcadia is about to cease, particularly as you have acquired the respect and 
esteem of the white persons residing at Arcadia, as well as of the slaves. 

" I send enclosed a note for Mr. Whitehouse, requesting him to attend at Ar- 
cadia in your stead, which you will oblige me by conveying to him. 

"Soon after my arrival in England I shaHcall on Mr. Hankey, when he will 
no doubt be particular in his enquiries respecting the progress his slaves are 
making in religious instruction, and in every matter which relates to their 
welfare. 

•' Please accept my best thanks for your kind wishes on my behalf; and wishing 
you the enjoyment of health and happiness," &c. (p. 738.) 

Instantly on his return to Jamaica (in February, 1832, as mentioned 
above), Mr. Custos Miller sent for Mr. Knibb, and had a conversa- 
tion with him for two hours, in which he stated his sorrow for the 
demolition of the chapels, and said the island was ruined by it (p. 738). 



On Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 103 

Lord Belmore issued a proclamation about the destruction of the 
chapels, which was nugatory. No attempt was made to prosecute the 
offenders, some of them magistrates, though the missionaries in their 
memorial gave him the names of the whole of the magistrates and 
officers of militia, whom they said they could prove to have been en- 
gaged in the demolition of the chapels (p. 739). 

Mr. Knibb produced to the Committee Jamaica newspapers stating 
the formation of the Colonial Church Union, framed for expelling dis- 
senters and screening the destroyers of their chapels, stating the day 
of meeting, the proceedings and objects of the society, and the per- 
sons, magistrates and others, by whom it was formed. Among the 
resolutions of one of these meetings, held at Falmouth, in Trelawney, 
on the 24th March 1832, and signed by the custos, James Macdonald, 
who was in the chair, are the following:- — 

" 1st. That the representatives of this parish be instructed to support every 
measure that may be brought forward in the house of assembly for preventing 
the sectarians any longer being permitted to disseminate their dangerous tenets 
amongst our slave population. 

" 2d. That it appears from a mass of moral evidence, that the sect called Bap- 
tists has been most instrumental in misleading our slave population by the incul- 
cation of doctrines teaching disobedience to their masters. As Sectarianism 
leads to revolution both in church and state, it behoves us to adopt means to 
prevent any other than duly authorised ministers of the established churches of 
England and Scotland from imparting religious instruction to the slaves; and in 
furtherance of this measure we call upon all proprietors of estates, or their attor- 
neys, to put down all sectarian meetings on their respective properties. 

" 3d. That our magistracy should be most strongly urged to withhold, for the 
future, their license to sectarian ministers and their places of worship. 

" 6th. That this meeting pledges itself to operate with the other parishes in this 
island in the general Colonial Church Union, for the purpose of protecting our 
interests from the diabolical machinations of the anti-slavery party in England, 
and their emissaries the sectarian preachers in this island" (p. 740). 

As to pulling down the chapels, the Cornwall Courier, edited by 
Mr. Dyer, a magistrate, contains the following passage : — 

" The war now may be considered at an end. The deluded victims of sec- 
tarian treachery have tried their strength, and are satisfied of their utter incapacity 
for warlike operations. The ease and celerity with which they have been sub- 
dued, and appalling examples, have struck a terror which will not be got the 
better of; and we might anticipate a long series of peace, were it not for the 



104 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

portentous events with which the political horizon of the parent state is over- 
charged. There we are to expect nothing but what the most rancorous animosity, 
backed by power, may inflict ; but we are happy to observe that a feeling 
and spirit is aroused throughout the island which will enable the injured and 
insulted inhabitants to withstand and repel the assaults of their enemies. This 
has been manifested in the destruction of those dens of sedition and hypocrisy, 
the sectarian chapels. 

" Retribution has been inflicted in the most speedy manner, and it has been in- 
flicted by those who had a full right to do so. Society has its rights as well as 
legislature. The prerogative of society is undeniable ; it is at all times greater 
than that of legislature, which is dependent on it. Here is one of those instances 
where the representatives were powerless, and the people have taken itin their own 
hands. When we say the people, we do not mean a mob — a gang of thieves 
and pickpockets, such as the happy politics of England now acknowledge as 
their liege lords; but we mean the magistrates, vestrymen, and freeholders of the 
island, who have been in arms to preserve their property, and who have in open 
day done this thing in self-defence" (p. 741). 

The Jamaica Courant of the 1st March, 1832, a paper universally 
circulated in the island, contains the following denial of the slaves 
owing 1 allegiance to the crown, but only to their masters. 

" On an attentive reperusal of the governor's opening speech to the legislature, 
we are sorry to remark that his Excellency persists in his allusions to ' the ma- 
chinations which have been employed to seduce the slaves into rebellion ;' and to 
talk of their allegiance ! ! and the duty they owe to their masters. The Earl of 
Belmore has been long enough in Jamaica to know that the slaves owe no alle- 
giance, and that the contract between their owners and the government of the 
mother country provides only for their obedience to their masters ; and we de- 
precate the idea of inculcating upon the Negro mind the bare supposition that 
the king has any control whatever over him ; and we have no doubt that to the 
frequency with which such doctrines have been held out by the sectarians is 
mainly to be attributed the cause of the late rebellion" (p. 741). 

Mr. Knibb had heard of instances of torture being used to extort 
evidence from slaves against the missionaries. 

" I have," he said, " the history of one man as he wrote it down as soon as he had 
been flogged, and I can produce that. I have heard of other cases ; and a female 
told me, Miss M'Clellan,when she was taken up, she was shown the gallows, and 

told, if she did not tell all that Parson had told her, she would be hung there ; 

and she was asked how she would like it. I do not mean to say that I have 
every word, but I have the substance of what she said. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 105 

" During our endeavours to collect witnesses, William came to a brother 

missionary, and told him he was smoked with fire and brimstone a long time in 

the gaol, because he would not implicate Mr. . This I was told by the 

attorney who was employed to obtain evidence for our defence. I know Wil- 
liam ; I was in the house when he told it, but I had my own witnesses 

to examine" (p. 742). 

He had known also an instance of a slave being flogged by his 
master for refusing to assist in demolishing the chapels. The man had 
been Mr. Knibb's own servant for two years. 

" He told me that his master requested him to go and assist to pull down the 
Baptist chapel; his master lives just opposite to it; that he beat him very un- 
mercifully ; that he took away fifteen flag stones, with some timber, and that 
these were then in his master's kitchen. He came to beg my pardon for doing 
it, and I said it was not his fault. He said he was unmercifully beaten for re- 
fusing to pull down the chapel ; he said this to me when I returned ; he had 
been a servant of mine ; I was rather attached to the lad, and I was desirous to 
purchase his freedom if I could have done it. I had heard that the boy had 
been there and had taken a part in it, and he came to beg my pardon, and stated 
that his master had made him do it." 

The following is the statement that was enclosed in the further 
memorial of the Baptist missionaries to Lord Belmore, dated 18th 
April, 1832, and which they pledged themselves to substantiate: — 

" During martial law the following property in which the Baptist missionaries 
were entrusted was destroyed by the militia : 

"A new chapel called Salter's Hill, in St. James, just completed, was set on 
fire by a party of the St. James militia, under the command of F. B. Gibbs, 
Esq. and Captain George Gordon. 

" A. private house in St. James, called Pulfney, rented as a place of worship, 
and a residence called Wellington, in Hanover, the property of Mr. Burchell r 
were severally burnt by the militia ; and a house in Hanover, called Shepherd's 
Hall, hired as a place of worship, was entered by the militia, and the pews, 
furniture, and pulpit therein, belonging to Mr. Burchell, were taken out and 
burnt. 

" On the 8th of February last the Baptist chapel at Montego Bay was pulled 
down at noon-day, by a large mob, among whom were the following magistrates 
and officers of militia, most of whom were actually engaged : — 

" Lieutenant-Colonel William Charles Morris, Major John Coates, Captains 
Geo. Gordon, Wm. Mitchell Carr, John Cleghorne, Joseph Bowen, Benjamin 
Hampton Thorpe, Magistrates. Captains Wm. Nettleton Balme, John Thaife, 
Edmund Evans. Lieutenants James Gordon, Joseph Tray, Wm. Plummer, 



1 06 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

Thomas Watson, Charles Wallace Ogle, John Henry Morris, George M'Far- 
quhar Lawson, Jun. Adjutant, Henry Hunter. Ensigns William Fowle Holt, 
James Coates, Wm. Gordon, Joseph ^Gill Jump. Alexander Campbell, Esq., 
Charles O'Conner, Esq., Wm. Keith, Esq., Magistrates. Wm. B. Popkins, 
Head Constable, 

" This outrage occurred within two hours after the custos, and G. M. Lawson, 
colonel of the St. James regiment, and a magistrate also, had been informed that 
it was about to take place, yet the parties met with no interruption in their pro- 
ceedings. 

" The perpetrators of this act are well known at Montego Bay ; and no diffi- 
culties whatever exist in discovering the authors of the outrage. 

" The governor's proclamation of the 13th February was posted about the town 
of Montego Bay, but within an hour after it was torn down. 

" On the 14th of March the lodgings of Mr. Burchell, a Baptist missionary 
(the indictment against whom had been that day ignored), was approached by a 
mob, composed chiefly of white persons, for the purpose, as they said, of doing 
him some bodily injury ; and but for the voluntary opposition offered by private 
persons, all their purposes would have been effected before a magistrate came to 
the spot, and during the time occupied by some of the authorities in procuring 
affidavits of Mr. Burchell's danger, which they required, though they saw him 
surrounded by the mob, before they would call in a military guard. Mr. Bur- 
chell was obliged to quit the island for the preservation of his life. 

" On the night of the 12th of February the Baptist chapel at Rio Bueno was 
attacked and partially destroyed by the grenadier company of the Trelawney 
regiment, dressed in their regimentals, which was stationed at Bryan Castle 
estate, near that place ; and on the evening of the 1 8th it was burnt down. 

" On the February the chapel at Stewart Town in Trelawney was partially 

pulled down by some persons, also connected with the militia. 

" The Baptist chapel at Falmouth had been occupied during martial law as 
barracks by the St. Ann's regiment. On the 7th of February, when that corps 
was about to quit the town, Mr. Isher, Mr. Gaiver, a magistrate and ensign, and 
Adjutant Samuel Tucker, commanded the men to break down the chapel, and 
themselves set the example, saying those were the orders they had received. It 
was completely demolished. 

" While the work of destruction was proceeding information was given to 
Lieutenant Thomas Tennison, of the Trelawney regiment, the officer on guard 
in the town. His reply was, ' that it was no matter whether they broke it or 
not ; he supposed they would set it on fire.' 

" Mr. Knibb, one of the missionaries, paid a visit to Falmouth early in March. 
For three successive nights his lodgings were stoned ; and he was cautioned by 
two respectable gentlemen against venturing out in the evening, as a party had 
clubbed together to tar and feather him. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev, W. Knibb. 107 

"After martial law was discontinued the horses of Mr. Knibb were taken 
from Falmouth by Major-General Hilton, who has till very recently retained 
possession of them. 

" At Lucea, on the 6th of January, Lieutenant-Colonel John Edward Payne, 
and Major Richard Chambers, magistrates, and Mr. Heath, the rector, went to 
Mr. Abbott, the Baptist missionary's residence, and stated that he had run away. 
Mr. Payne asked if he had any letters from Burchell, and said, ' the Baptists 
had tried to ruin them ; but, instead of that, the Baptists would be ruined them- 
selves.' 

" Mr. Chambers opened Mrs. Abbott's desk with a false key, though he was 
told it was hers, and searched her letters. They locked, nailed, and sealed up 
the doors and windows of the house, and used a great deal of abusive language 
to Miss Dixon, who had charge of his house. Mr. Heath took away Mr. Ab- 
bott's church books, which have never been returned. 

"On Thursday, February 9th, in the morning, the Baptist chapel at Lucea 
was destroyed. The following parties were among the perpetrators of the out- 
rage : — John B. Heath, Rector, D. A. Binns, Charles Younge, Constable. 

" Mr. Alex. Campbell, of Lucea, a magistrate, was present, and did not at- 
tempt to prevent it. Mr. Heath, the rector, asked a gentleman to go with him 
and destroy the d d Baptist chapel. 

" Mr. Richard Chambers, on the evening of the same day, refused to exercise 
his authority as a magistrate when Mr. Abbott's dwelling house was violently 
entered by D. Binns and others, armed with hatchets, &c, for the purpose of 
destroying his furniture. On this occasion a respectable female, attempting to 
protect Mr. Abbott's property, was struck with a horsewhip by D. Binns, who 
threatened to push her down the steps if she did not go. 

"Several dozens of wine were destroyed ; and several of Mr. Abbott's books 
and clothes stolen. 

" On Friday night, February 10th, at about ten o'clock, a number of men 
rushed into the chapel at St. Ann's Bay, and violently destroyed the windows, 
with part of the pews and benches, causing great alarm to the missionary and his 
wife, who were residing under the same roof. The next day that missionary 
brought this outrage before two of the magistrates, Messrs. Thomas Rafhngton 
and W. S. Harker, who examined several witnesses, but afforded no adequate 
protection. In consequence of being left without protection by those who had 
the military force under their command, the missionary, his wife, and infant 
child, were compelled to flee from their home for safety ; and on the following 
Tuesday, in the forenoon, the whole building, comprising the chapel and resi- 
dence, was pulled down, and the materials stolen. Among the parties engaged 
in this act were Dr. George R. Stennett, and Lieutenant Henry Cox, junior, 
magistrates, Captain Samuel Drake, and the head constable. 

" We are informed that, on the last-mentioned day, some magistrates sent for 



108 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

the boxes of the missionary to the court-house, searched them, and took out sun- 
dry papers and others of their contents. 

" On the 24th of February Ebeny chapel, at Hayes Savanna, in Vere, was 
wilfully destroyed by fire. A day or two before, Mr. Heath, Mr. Lean Wood, a 
magistrate, with another person, went and broke some of the windows of the 
chapel, and took away the key. 

" On Friday, the 6th of April, about ten o'clock at night, a mob of white men, 
armed with swords, pistols, muskets, and bayonets, went to Mount Charles cha- 
pel, in St. Andrews. In the way from the gate of the premises to the house they 
met with a poor old man (a free negro), unarmed, and fell upon him with their 
swords, cutting him severely in several places on his head and body, and one of 
them with a bayonet stabbed him in his side. 

" When they got to the house they broke open the door, and fired in at it. 
Some of them broke the windows of the bed-room, forcing in the glass frames, 
and shutters with such violence that the bed on which Mrs. Baylis (the mission- 
ary's wife) and her infant were lying was nearly covered with pieces of glass. 
They then fired in at each of the windows, and one of the ruffians applied acandle 
to one side of the room, for the purpose of setting it on fire, but it was put out. 
They proceeded to break the hall window, swearing the house should be down 
that night. Seeing the candle was out, one of them broke open the door of an 
outhouse, saying he wanted fire, and that he would burn down the house; but, 
the alarm being given, they made off. 

" The chapels and places of worship at the following places have also been 
destroyed : — Savanna-la-Mar and Fullersfield, Westmoreland ; Green Island, 
a hired house; Brown's Town, and Ocho Rios, St. Ann's. 

"On the 10th of January nine dozens of Madeira wine, which were being 
sent from Mr. Burchell's residence inMontego Bay to him on board the ship Gar- 
land Cume, were taken possession of by Lieutenant John Henry Morris, and 
have never since been restored. On the 12th the same person returned, accom- 
panied by Mr. James Gordon, a magistrate, who said that, by order of Sir Wil- 
loughby Cotton, he came to see what quantity of wine was remaining. They 
went into the store, counted the wine, locked up the store, and took the key 
away. The key was not returned so late as the 5th of April. 

" Besides the particular instances mentioned, much more of the private pro- 
perty of the missionaries has been destroyed or injured during and since. 

" The loss of property sustained by the mission amounts to upwards of 
20,000/. currency. 

" The Jamaica Courant (understood to be the newspaper most extensively cir- 
culated in this island) has endeavoured, and still endeavours, with impunity, to 
excite the inhabitants to the commission of every species of outrage on the mis- 
sionaries, recommending destruction of property, and even threatening life if they 
remain in the island. This paper is generally (and from the almost universal 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 109 

support it receives is properly) considered as the organ of the colony. Concur- 
ring in opinion with the Jamaica Courant and other newspapers, many of the 
inhabitants of this island have connected themselves in an association, under the 
designation of < the Colonial Church Union,' the predominant object whereof is 
to procure the expulsion of all the missionaries from the island — an endeavour, 
in fact. ' Englishmen have the right to abide in their own country as long as 
they please, and not to be driven from it, unless by the sentence of the law ;' and 
they submit that an association for such a purpose is illegal, and at variance 
with the whole spirit of the British constitution. 

"The first place at which this Union was set on foot was St. Ann's Bay, where, 
on the 1 5th of February, after the demolition of several chapels, and the pro- 
mulgation of the proclamation, the following among'other resolutions was passed : 
" 6th. That it is expected from every member of this Union that he will lend 
his influence and support on all occasions to those patriots who, in behalf of the 
paramount laws of society, have hazarded their personal responsibility for our 
preservation from the murderous machinations of our enemies." 

" The presidents of this meeting publicly announced are — Honourable Henry 
Cox, Gustos of St. Ann's, major-general of the militia, and member of the House 
of Assembly, and James Laurence Hilton, Esquire, a magistrate of that parish, 
and also a major-general, — two of the authorities who are required by the pro- 
clamation to prosecute the offenders and prevent further outrages in that parish. 
" In Spanish Town the Colonial Church Union for the county of Middlesex 
was held on the 21st of March, and the resolutions of all the parochial meetings 
seem to have been then recognized and amalgamated. The Honourable John 
Lunan, a judge of the Supreme Court of the island, custos of the precinct of St. 
Catherine, and member of Assembly, was appointed president of this meeting. 

" It would be an endless undertaking to enumerate all the law preservers and 
justices of the peace who are members of this illegal and peace-disturbing Society; 
but the missionaries cannot omit to notice that the custodes of the several parishes 
of Trelawney, Manchester, and Vere have accepted the office of president in their 
respective parishes. In the parish of Trelawney, one magistrate, Mr. W. Dyer 
publishes a newspaper called the ' Cornwall Courier,' in which he has repeatedly 
urged that the missionaries should be tarred and feathered. An attempt was 
made, on the 7th of April, to practise this on the Wesleyan missionary at Fal- 
mouth ; and in the next number of that paper this act was spoken of with appro- 
bation. Our eyes cannot be shut to the fact that William Dyer, editor, and 
Mr. Dyer, magistrate, are one and the same person ; and it seems a little too 
much to expect from human nature, that what the editor recommends and ap- 
plauds the magistrate will very rigidly judge or severely punish. 

" Another magistrate, Joseph Hodgson, who resided within a few doors of the 
place where this disturbance occurred, was applied to for assistance ; his reply to 
the applicant was, that ' she had better go home, they would not hurt the minister.' 



110 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

These instances of the degree of sanction which some magistrates give to the acts 
of violence committed on the missionaries were adverted to in a letter addressed 
to His Excellency's Secretary on the 14th instant" (p. 750 — 753). 

The correspondence also which took place between the Baptist mis- 
sionaries and Commodore Farquhar, who was on the Montego Bay 
station, was also given in evidence by Mr. Knibb. This officer had 
thought proper, in an address to the inhabitants of St. James, to 
say to them, " Gentlemen, I rejoice and do most sincerely congra- 
tulate you that this most unnatural rebellion (raised in a great measure 
by the fanatical preaching and teaching of the sect called Baptists) is 
now at an end." The missionaries wrote to him demanding an explana- 
tion. He did not deign to reply to them. A second letter was written 
to him renewing the demand, and intimating that the correspondence 
would be laid before the Admiral and the Lords of the Admiralty. To 
this he replied by his secretary, that he did not hold himself respon- 
sible for any letter in the public prints which he had not ordered to be 
inserted ; he had nothing to do with the steps the missionaries might take ; 
and he declined all further correspondence with them (p. 757 — 760). 

We trust the Lords of the Admiralty will teach this commodore a 
lesson he has not yet learnt ; that even missionaries have rights as 
British subjects which he is bound to respect, and not to outrage, as 
he has most unwarrantably done. 

Mr. Knibb gave further, in evidence, copies of the confessions made 
to him by the Negro convicts, in compliance with the request made to 
him by Mr. Custos Miller ; and of the striking testimony in his favour 
by Mr. Samuel Moulton Barrett,* the brother of the Jamaica delegate 
to this country (p. 760 — 764). 

There are in Jamaica many religionists among the slaves who call 
themselves Baptists, but who are in no degree connected with 
the Baptist missionaries, and whom it was not impossible that over- 
seers, or any other ignorant persons, might confound with the mission- 
aries and the slaves of their congregations. Mr. Knibb said he him- 
self had a congregation of about 3000, whose contributions amounted 
in the year to about £600, half of that sum being contributed by free 
persons, and half by slaves. The contributions were quite voluntary, 
and were quite unconnected with admission or rejection (p. 767, 768). 

* See a copy of this letter in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 101, p. 282. 



on Colonial Slavery . — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. Ill 

Mr. Knibb was not aware that reports of cruelties to slaves were 
circulated in his congregation against the planters. He very seldom 
heard of them. 

" The slaves are by no means desirous of telling acts of cruelty ; they will 
conceal them. They feel the degradation of being flogged so much, that it is 
with the greatest difficulty they will tell when they have been flogged." 

He therefore thinks there were a great many such cases which he 
had not heard of. " Flogging is as common on the estates as eating," 
p. 768. 

He was led to believe that the condition of the slaves was rendered 
worse by the insurrection. 

".In the disturbed districts they were obliged to work harder, at least as I was 
informed ; I left that part of the island, for safety, as soon as I could ; but so 
much being destroyed, I was credibly informed that all were obliged to work 
harder, which is rather the natural result after so much property had been de- 
stroyed. I consider that being made to work harder is severe treatment. I 
was told that they were obliged to work all the Lord's day, but I did not see 
that" (p. 770). 

The following is a copy of the affidavit of Mr. Reaburn, a magis- 
trate, respecting one Stennett, who was suborned to inform against 
Mr. Burchell, and who offered, before two Montego Bay magistrates, 
Messrs. Reaburn and Manderson, to swear that the information he had 
given was false, and that he had been bribed to give it. They (the 
magistrates) declined receiving it, and Stennett has been committed to 
take his trial for the perjury. 

" Personally appeared before me Thomas Reaburn, who, being duly sworn, 
maketh oath and saith, that he was the non-commissioned officer on guard at the 
court house on Wednesday the 22d instant ; that he was called upon by J. 
Manderson, Esquire, a justice of the peace, and requested to accompany him to 
the room in which Samuel Stennett and a number of prisoners were confined, as 
he, the said John Manderson, wished me to hear some confession that the said 
S. Stennett was anxious to make. That this deponent together with J. M. and S. 
S. went into a separate apartment, when the said S.S. was told by Mr. M. to relate 
what he had to say ; he then stated that he had done wrong in swearing against 
the Baptist parsons, as the statement therein contained was false and unjust. 
That this deponent then asked him what motive he could have to make this de- 
claration, as he must be aware he would place himself in a very strange situation. 
He said he could not help it ; he wished to appease his conscience, or words to 



112 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

that effect. This deponent asked him if he had made the affidavit against Bur- 
chell and Gardner when under the influence of fear. He said no, he was induced 
to do so from a promise of reward, as four gentlemen (naming them) had assured 
him that he would be well thought of by the gentlemen, that he would be al- 
lowed ten pounds a year from the country, and that one of the said gentlemen 
would make the sum fifty. The said S. Stennett further stated, that he never 
joined the Baptist Society, as a member, until Mr. B. had left the country ; that 
he knew nothing of the missionaries Burchell and Gardner, and expressed his will- 
ingness to make oath to what he then stated. This deponent further saith, that 
he never before had any conversation with the said Samuel Stennett. So help 
me God. (Signed) T. Reaburn. Sworn before me this 24th February 1832. 
(Signed) William Ewart" (p. 771). 

Mr. Knibb also delivered in a statement of all their baptized, in 
other words, of all their communicants ; for the baptized and commu- 
nicants are identical in the Baptist churches ; amounting, at 24 different 
stations, to 10,838. This of course does not include enquirers (about 
17,000 in number), nor persons excluded for misconduct. The 
number of these was 111, of whom 69 had been restored. 

Mr. Knibb further swore that, on first hearing of the rebellion, he 
had felt the strongest desire, and made the very utmost efforts, to 
quiet it. 

" I instantly warned some of our congregation. We had a chapel to open the 
day before the rebellion broke out ; I rode between thirty and forty miles, and 
had a free person with me, of the name of Vaughan, and went among them, and 
stated that I understood they were going to refuse to work, and assured them 
they were totally mistaken about a free paper ; and I gave an address to all the 
people I had with me, and I sent my deacons to more than fifty properties ; and 
not on one single estate where I sent was there any insurrection" (p. 773). 

A report having reached Falmouth, on the 4th of January, 1832, 
that Mr. Knibb was to be shot, the following letter was sent to him 
to Montego Bay by express, signed by Mr. Barrett, a proprietor of two 
estates, and a member of the Church of England, and two Presby- 
terian ministers, viz. — 

" My dear Sir, Falmouth, 4th January, 1832. 

" It was only when we returned from Cinnamon Hill, last night, that we heard 
of your accusation and arrest. We deeply sympathize with you and your brethren 
in your present trouble. We have heard this morning of apprehensions being 
entertained for your safety, and use the utmost haste to assure you that we are 
convinced you have not been either intentionally or directly guilty of creating the 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. T. Cooper. 113 

present insurrection. We are prepared to repair to Montego Bay and witness to 
this effect, and, as far as our knowledge goes, to your peaceable character as a 

Christian and a minister. 

" We are, dear Sir, 

With most sincere feeling for your affliction, 
To the Rev. William Knibb, H. M. Waddell. 

Montego Bay. S. M. Barrett. 

George Blyth." 

(p. 773.) 
Mr. Knibb further swore that he made it a conscientious rule never 
to talk with the slaves about emancipation, and being asked how he 
reconciled that with his feeling of the impropriety of his holding 
language in England which he would have thought wrong in the West 
Indies, he replied — 

" My duty in the West Indies was to instruct the slaves in religious matters ; 
when in England, I am speaking to free people. It is my firm opinion that Chris- 
tianity and slavery are entirely incompatible. I consider myself, when in Eng- 
land, justified in using any language which I consider consistent with truth, and 
that I am not responsible for where my language may go. In point of fact, I do 
consider that Christianity and slavery cannot possibly be co-existent; that is my 
firm conviction." 

It will be allowed by every candid reader, that the missionaries, 
Mr. Barry, Mr. Duncan, Mr. Morgan, and Mr. Knibb, have done 
themselves the very highest honour by their examination in the Com- 
mittees of both Houses. 

7. THE REV. THOMAS COOPER. 

This gentleman's evidence before the Committee of the House of 
Commons stands in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, at page 365 — 367 of 
No. 104. 

When Mr. Cooper was in Jamaica, prior to 1821, he did not know 
that there was any school of any kind in the parish of Hanover. 
There was, it is true, a charity school in that parish, of which the Rev. 
Mr. Rose, the rector, was the master, and received the salary ; but 
during upwards of three years that Mr. Cooper lived in that parish, 
it was of no use to any one person in the world, but to Mr. Rose. 
One free brown boy may have attended the school, but not a slave. 
The salary was paid from the Jamaica treasury. He knew Mr. Rose 
very well, and assisted him in teaching his own children, and two or 
three others (p. 791, 792). 



H4 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

All slaves not above forty are desirous of freedom, and if made free, 
he believes they would be a happy and useful peasantry. He never 
knew any other stimulus applied to obtain labour from them but coer- 
cion. All in Jamaica, planters, clergymen, and others, all conceived 
nothing was to be done but by the whip. The free people are indus- 
trious and make money. He had heard of money-making among the 
slaves only as a miracle, not as a general rule. If masters resisted 
emancipation, danger might follow, not otherwise. He had never heard 
of free people requiring parish relief. He considered the peasantry 
of this country as princes compared with the slaves (p. 795). 

Planters resident in this country, he believed, knew very little of 
the real condition of their slaves, or they would be the first to make 
thern free. He considered the supply of food to the slaves very 
inadequate (p. 796). 

" The field Negro received seven or eight salt herrings in the week ; at Christ- 
mas, a small supply of salt fish, by way of present ; he was allowed to cultivate 
land on the back parts of the estate, and I believe he was not restricted with regard 
to the quantity of land ; he had to cultivate that land on a Sunday, and on the 
days allowed by law, amounting to twenty-six, I think, in the year.' 7 

The Sunday too was his own, and with that employed they might 
obtain enough. He did not say that they suffered in health from 
want of food, but they dwindled from 410 to 393 while he was there. 
The treatment was not more harsh than on other estates. There was 
no cruelty for cruelty's sake. The harshness he complained of was 
the every day practice. He remembered sitting at breakfast and hear- 
ing the whip going at a distance. After breakfast, a young woman 
came up to him and told him to look at her. She turned round, and 
all across she was cut in a dreadful manner, and the blood running. 
They were removing dung, and she could not keep up with the rest. 
She had no idea the driver did it out of spite ; he might or he might 
not (p. 799). 

Mr. Robert Hibbert was the owner of that estate. On Mr. C.'s 
return to England he paid Mr. H. a visit at his seat in the country, 
and reported to him the state of his Negroes. He told Mr. Hibbert 
that he had been invited to publish his observations on the state of 
slavery, and Mr. Hibbert encouraged him to do so. His mission was 
so far successful as to satisfy himself that slavery must give way before 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. John Thorp. 115 

Christian instruction, and this he wrote to Mr. Hibbert before he left 
his estate. Mr. Hibbert wrote back to request him to remain on the 
estate, but prohibiting him from teaching the slaves to read. Finding 
he could be of no further use to the slaves, and that his situation had 
thus become a sinecure, he resigned it. 

Those who wish to appreciate the value of Mr. Cooper's testimony may 
turn to the evidence which he gave in the year 1822, soon after his re- 
turn from Jamaica, and which may be seen at length — and an invaluable 
document it is — in a pamphlet entitled " Negro Slavery ; or a View of 
the more prominent Features of that State, and especially in Jamaica," 
fourth edition (printed for Hatchard), p. 36 — 55. That evidence pro- 
duced a most powerful effect at the time ; and was, in fact, the pre- 
cursor of all the Anti-Slavery efforts which have since been made. 

8. THE REV. JOHN THORP. 

Mr. Thorp's evidence before the House of Commons' Committee 
may be seen in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, at p. 370 — 372 of No. 104. 

There were two estates in St. Thomas in the East where reading was 
taught to the slaves. These belonged to Sir George Rose. Letters were 
taught in the Sunday school ; but the impediments were very great, as 
even the children had to attend their grounds on Sunday, and the same 
children could not attend more than once in two or three months. They 
had fresh slaves every Sunday. The slaves, at the same time, were 
very eager to receive instruction (p. 1044). 

Mr. Thorp admitted it would be very desirable that ministers of the 
gospel should conciliate the esteem of the planters, only as far, how- 
ever, as they could do so conscientiously. But the immoral lives of the 
planters would prevent such persons from forming any very intimate 
connexion with them. The connexion he formed with them was more 
from his situation as the curate than from any other circumstance. 
Were he to return to the colony again, he certainly should not visit them, 
even to the limited extent he did when there. His reason for entertain- 
ing that opinion was the decidedly immoral state of the planters, which 
he thought compromises the character of a Christian, especially of a 
Christian minister ; they live in open and avowed concubinage. He 
knew of no exception on any estate whatever, except one, that of Sir 
Henry Fitzherbert. There was scarcely another instance of an attorney 
or overseer being married. 



116 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

The slaves had sufficient vegetable food, but that is not enough for 
hard-working slaves. The slaves, he thinks, are overworked to the 
injury of health and the shortening of life, by their labour being pro- 
tracted to too great length. The hours of labour by law are from five 
in the morning to seven at night, with intervals of two hours and a 
half, being eleven hours and a half of labour. The hours of labour are 
not from sunrise to sunset, but, by law, from five to seven ; and to the 
night-work of crop there is no legal limit. It makes sixteen hours 
daily in some cases, and in others eighteen. The night labour of crop 
is not so laborious as cane-hole digging ; but it requires not only con- 
stant attendance, but constant and brisk action, and must be very la- 
borious. He had heard it said that the Negroes were best off in crop; 
but he could not say he had observed that. He thinks them over- 
worked to the waste of life (p. 1047 — 1050). 

The whip was always carried in the field ; he never saw a gang 
without it. It was carried for the purpose of being used, and he has 
seen it used (p. 1050). 

Mr. Thorp knew the case of a slave on Serge Island estate, who 
died, it was supposed, from excessive punishment. The coroner's 
jury brought in their verdict, " Died of erysipelas, accelerated by the 
punishment previously inflicted." The overseer, who had absconded, 
was indicted ; but the grand jury ignored the bill. 

The jurors on the coroner's inquest were neighbouring overseers 
(p. 1054). 

Emancipation, he thought, would produce an advantageous change 
of system. Ploughs and cattle would be substituted for manual labour, 
and the establishment of whites on estates might be reduced. At pre- 
sent the plough was in very little use indeed (p. 1055). 

He conceived there was no sort of artificer's work could be wanted 
in the colony to which the Negroes are not equal. Not only did the 
free people work in the neatest and handsomest manner, but he knew 
many slave carpenters who were equal to any thing, even making 
writing-desks and dressing-cases. 

Mr. Thorp's belief was that the slave population in Jamaica was 
decreasing, while the free black and coloured population were in- 
creasing. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of T. F. Buxton, Esq. 117 

9. THOMAS FOWELL BUXTON, Esq. M. P. 

Mr. Buxton was the only remaining witness on the Anti-Slavery 
side examined before the Committee of the House of Lords. His evi- 
dence was given at considerable length, and embraced all the variety 
of topics which might be supposed to have occupied the mind of so able 
a leader in this great cause — such as the moral debasement and the 
physical sufferings of the slaves ; the frightful waste of human life 
produced by slavery ; the impediments to religious instruction ; the 
religious persecutions that had taken place ; the causes and progress 
of the late insurrection ; the cruelties of various kinds incident to 
slavery ; the advantages of an early emancipation to masters as well 
as slaves, and the dangers of delaying it ; together with a variety of 
proofs, drawn from history and experience, both of the perfect safety 
of such emancipation, and of the certainty of deriving, from free labour, 
an adequate supply of all the articles now grown by slave labour. It 
would be evidently impossible for us to follow Mr. Buxton over this 
wide field, nor is it necessary. He has it happily in his power to urge 
all these fruitful topics, in his place in parliament, with much more 
effect than we, by any abstract of ours, could impart to them. We 
therefore desist from the attempt, being satisfied, by the proof he has 
here given of his thorough mastery of the subject, that it is wholly 
unnecessary. 

Mr. Buxton underwent a long cross-examination respecting his po- 
pulation tables and the inferences he had drawn from them ; and it 
seemed clearly to appear in the result that his references were cor- 
rect, and his reasonings and conclusions from the facts before him 
perfectly sound. This we hope, ere long, fully to establish. 

In the mean time there are two observations we have to make. 
One is, that he has conceded too much to his opponents in admitting 
that the age of puberty in Negro females is as early as ten ; whereas 
the fact is that it is not earlier than in Europe, namely, in general 
about fifteen. This is an extremely important fact to be kept in view 
in estimating the childbearing ages of the slave population. 

Our second observation is this, that even if we were to admit, 
which we do not, that the partially selected returns which were 
made the ground of his cross-examination were fair and accurate — 
there would still remain one conclusive and overwhelming argument, 



118 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

which no ingenuity can by any possibility evade; and that is the 
argument drawn from the parallelism of the cases of the slave popu- 
lation of the United States of America and of that of the British West 
Indies, in that only respect on which the West Indians can for one 
moment rest the shadow of an apology for the destruction of human 
life attendant on their system. That argument we shall transcribe in 
the words in which it appeared in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 
100, p. 264. 

"The slave trade ceased in the United States of America, and in the 
British West Indies, in the very same year, namely, 1808. The re- 
lative proportion of imported Africans, on which the West Indians 
lay so much stress as accounting for the decrease of their slaves, not- 
withstanding the boasted lenity of their treatment, must therefore 
have been nearly the same in the two cases. But have the results 
been the same ? 

"In one of our late numbers (No. 97, p. 102) we have shown that, 
in 1808, the slave population of the United States must have amounted 
. to about 1,130,000, and that of the British West Indies to about 
800,000. 

"In 1830, after an interval of 22 years, the slaves of the United 
States amounted, by actual census, to 2,010,436 ; being an increase 
of 880,436, or about 80 per cent, in that time. 

"It appears that, in 1830, the slaves in all the British West Indies 
could not exceed 695,000, being a decrease of at least 105,000 slaves 
in the same period of 22 years. 

"Now, had the "British slaves increased, during that time, at the 
same rate with the American slaves, their number, in 1830, instead of 
being only 695,000, would have been 1,423,317, making the enor- 
mous decrease, as compared with the progress of population in the 
United States, of 728,317, a waste of life exceeding, by nearly 5 per 
cent., the number of the existing population. 

"A similar result would be produced by a comparison of the pro- 
gress of population, among the slaves, with that of the free black and 
coloured classes inhabiting the same colonies. Had they even in- 
creased at the rate of the Maroons in Jamaica, the least favourably 
circumstanced of those classes, the 695,000 slaves of the West Indies 
would have grown, in 1830, to 1,240,000, or, if at the rate of the 
free classes in Trinidad, to 1,500,000. 



on Colonial Slavery. — Evidence of T. F. Buxton, Esq. 119 

" These facts constitute a charge against colonial slavery which no 
sophistry can elude. After every deduction which the most elaborate 
ingenuity can suggest, it will remain under the stigma of being one 
of the heaviest curses which afflicts humanity, and this independently 
of the unnumbered political, moral, and spiritual evils which directly 
flow from it. And yet here have we, with our Government, and our 
parliament, in this land of Christian light and liberty, been coolly 
deliberating for ten years (and still are deliberating) whether this curse, 
inflicted by ourselves on our fellow subjects, shall be at once removed, 
or shall be permitted, for months or years longer, to oppress and deso- 
late one of the fairest portions of the creation of God ! How long 
shall we continue to endure this depressing load of conscious guilt ? 
Let the electors, aye, let the legislators too, of the United Kingdom see 
to it ! They are now on their trial at the bar of the Most High !" 

But one of the most important portions of Mr. Buxton's evidence 
remains still to be noticed— we mean the documentary part, which 
is so important that any member who shall overlook it will have made 
himself very imperfectly acquainted with the evidence adduced before 
the Lords' Committee. We must limit ourselves, however, at present, 
to a mere catalogue raisonnee of its contents. 

1. A statement of the case of Hayti, from 1789 to the present 
time, with the causes and consequences of its revolution ; drawn from 
authentic sources (p. 840 — 853). 

2. Extracts from the minutes of the board of trade of Bengal, of 
the 7th of August, 1792, on the culture of sugar by free and slave 
labour (p. 856). 

3. Extracts of a letter from William Fitzmaurice, Esq., on the same 
subject, dated Calcutta, 5th Feb. 1793 (p. 857). 

4. Extracts from Dr. Roxburgh's account of the Hindoo method of 
cultivating the sugar cane, and of manufacturing sugar in the northern 
provinces of India (p. 857 — 860). 

5. Extract from the History of Java, by Sir T. S. Raffles, published 
in 1817, on the culture of sugar by free labour in Java (p. 860). 

6. Extracts from Remarks on the Husbandry and internal Com- 
merce of Bengal, in 1806, relative to the Culture of Sugar (p. 861). 

7. Extracts from Sir George Staunton's Account of Lord Macart- 
ney's Embassy to China in 1793, on the Culture of Sugar in Cochin 
China and China (p. 863). 



120 Report of the Committee of the House of Lords 

8. Extracts from M. de Guigne's Voyages to Pekin, Manilla, &c, 
1784 to 1801, on the Culture of Sugar in China (p. 862). 

9. Extracts from Mr. Abel's Narrative of a Journey in the interior 
of China in 1816 and 1817, on the Culture of Sugar in China (p. 862). 

10. Extracts from Barrow's Travels in China, on the Culture of 
Sugar there (p. 863). 

1 1 . Extracts from Crawford's History of the Indian Archipelago 
in 1820, on the culture of sugar there by free labour (p. 865). 

12. Extracts from Mr. Botham's evidence before the Privy Council 
in 1789, on the enquiry relative to the slave trade ; being on the cul- 
ture of sugar, both by free and by slave labour (p. 867). 

13. Extracts from the evidence taken before a Committee of the 
House of Commons, engaged in enquiring into the trade of India, 
showing the state of the sugar trade at Calcutta in the years 1828 
and 1829 (p. 869). 

14. Statement by T. F. Buxton, Esq., of the decrease of the slave 
population of the sugar colonies, drawn from official returns (p. 
872—881). 

15. Reply to the West Indian explanations of the decrease of the 
slave population in the British sugar colonies (p. 891 — 893). 

16. Correspondence of Viscount Goderich with the Bishop of Ja- 
maica, and the Bishop's reply of the 29th August, 1831, on the state 
of religion in Jamaica and its dependencies (p. 896—900). 

17. The case of Mr. Custos Jackson and his wife, respecting their 
treatment of two female slaves, as contained in a despatch of Viscount 
Goderich of the 1st November, 1831 (p. 905—908). 

18. An account of the complete enfranchisement of the forfeited 
Africans, and of the slaves belonging to the Crown in all the colonies, 
as drawn from official and parliamentary documents (p. 921 — 924). 

19. The history and the effects of emancipation in the case of 
Guadaloupe, as drawn from authentic sources, and accompanied by 
official documents (p. 924 — 929). 

20. An account of the emancipation of slaves, and of the culture 
of sugar by free labour, in Mexico, drawn from the official corre- 
spondence of Mr. Ward, the Mexican envoy, with Mr. Canning, and 
from Mr. Ward's work on Mexico (p. 929, 930). 

21. The case of the emancipation of slaves in Columbia, from 
authentic sources (p. 930, 931). 



on Colonial Slavery. — Concluding Remarks. 121 

22. The case of the Maroons in Jamaica, with official statements of 
the progress of population among them, as compared with the sur- 
rounding slave population (p. 931 — 934). 

23. The question of the tendency of emancipation to produce 
pauperism, as it appears in official West Indian returns, considered 
(p. 934—936). 

24. Comparative view of the progress of the slave, and of the free 
black and coloured, population, in the Island of Trinidad, as far as it 
can be ascertained from official documents (936 — 938). 

25. A view of the state of free labour and its advantages, in the 
Island of Trinidad, drawn from official returns (p. 938 — 940). 

26. A view of the progress of the free coloured population in the 
colonies of Antigua, Barbadoes, Demerara, Grenada, St. Lucia, and 
Mauritius, drawn also from official returns (p. 940, 941). 

27. An account of the receipts and disbursements of the Anti- 
Slavery Society from its commencement in 1823, to the end of 1831 
(p. 949—956). 



We have now finished our task of analysing the bulky volumes which contain 
the evidence on colonial slavery taken in the last session of parliament, by the com- 
mittees of both houses. And, in bringing our labours to a close, we cannot deny 
ourselves the pleasure of again congratulating our friends, throughout the United 
Kingdom, on the results of the enquiry — results which we cannot but regard as 
most triumphant. 

At the close of our last number we did not hesitate to express our entire con- 
viction that the abolitionists had established their case in evidence. We do so 
on the present occasion, if possible, with a still more undoubting confidence. 
It has been proved, with the clearness of demonstration, that colonial slavery 
may be abolished forthwith, to the unspeakable advantage of the suffering slave, 
and without danger either to the public peace or to the persons or property of 
the master. What motive, therefore, can exist for any further delay ? What 
course can now remain for a Christian Government and a Christian Parliament 
to take, but to pronounce its immediate and entire extinction, accompanying the 
measure by such wise and just precautions as may obviate the alarms of the most 
timid ? 

We put these questions at the close of our last number. Since we uttered 
them, parliament has assembled, and our position is somewhat changed by what 
has taken place there. In reply to Mr. Buxton, who had given notice of a mo- 



122' Concluding Remarks. 

tion for abolishing- slavery, unless government should take the matter into their 
own hands, Lord Althorp stated that it was their intention so to do, and that 
he should bring before the House, as soon as it was matured, a measure which 
he trusted would be both safe and satisfactory. 

Of the details of this measure we can of course know nothing ; but we hail the 
announcement of it with unfeigned delight, and with heart-felt gratitude to the 
great Disposer of all events for this cheering indication of his favour. 

It would argue an utter ignorance of the frank and manly character of Lord 
Althorp to entertain the smallest doubt as to the sincerity with which this 
pledge has been given, and as to its entire accordance with the purposes of His 
Majesty's government. We therefore await the fuller developement of the pro- 
posed plan with confidence, indeed, but yet with intense anxiety. And this we 
apprehend is the feeling of the whole nation. They are looking forward, in a 
state of breathless expectation, for the result ; and we trust that they will not be 
disappointed of their hope. The opponents of emancipation, we are well aware, 
will not be inactive. They are skilled in the mechanism of unfounded alarms, 
and no artifice will be spared to create such alarms. Only therefore let us be 
vigilant, watching with calmness the course of events, but prepared at a moment's 
notice to act with energy and decision ; and then we need not doubt that the 
irreversible decree shall ere long go forth, which shall for ever efface this stain 
from the national character, and give liberty to the now prostrate slave in every 
corner of His Majesty's dominions. May God Almighty fulfil that expectation ! 



London: S. Bagster, Jun., Printer, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



