3 S & >a«i««l 1 



o. 48. 



The Joint Special Committee, to whom was referred an order 
of the House of Representatives of January 12th ; also the 
petition of J. Ingersoll Bowdiich and others, merchants of 
Boston ; also the report and resolutions of the State of Geor- 
gia, transmitted by His Excellency the Governor ; also an 
order of the House of the 11th inst. : and lastly, the Message 
of His Excellency the Governor, communicating copies of 
papers in the executive department since 1834, — all which 
orders and papers have reference to the imprisonment of 
colored seamen, citizens of Massachusetts, in the southern 
ports of the United States, — ask leave to 

\ 

REPORT: 

The fact of the existence of laws, in most of the southern 
States, in which slavery is established, by the operation of 
which any colored seaman, sailing in the vessels of Massachu- 
setts, is subjected to imprisonment, and to slavery if the expen- 
ses attending that imprisonment are not paid, is now too gen- 
erally known to need any explanation. The Legislature of 
this State has heretofore expressed the sentiment of the State, 
in remonstrance against this most arbitrary and unjust species 
of legislation. It has appealed to the provision of the federal 
constitution, which gives to her citizens not simply protection 
from wrong, but the privileges and immunities in other States, 






2 IMPRISONMENT OF COLORED SEAMEN. [Feb. 

which citizenship in those States confers. And, at the session 
of the General Court in 1842, it went so far as, by a resolve, to 
vest in the Governor for the time being a discretionary power, 
whenever application should be made to him in behalf of any 
citizen imprisoned in the manner specified, to take measures for 
the release of such prisoner, and for the submission to the Uni- 
ted States Court of the question of legality of his imprisonment. 
It does not appear that any application has been virtually made 
to the Governor under this resolve. The reason of this may 
be readily comprehended, when your committee reflect that 
most of the persons liable to be affected by the operation of 
these laws, are either wholly friendless, and are consequently 
sold into slavery and heard of no more, or else that they are 
attached to merchant ships, which cannot conveniently lose 
their hands, and the captains of which prefer to pay the ex- 
penses of redeeming them, rather than to be detained in trying 
tha question of legality of their imprisonment. 

It has not heretofore been the desire, or the policy of Massa- 
chusetts, to make complaint of the violation of her rights by 
other States, where such violation appears to have been inci- 
dental to the attainment of some useful object, or unintentional 
as it respected her citizens. So long as Sonth Carolina alone 
had adopted such a law as the one referred to, in a moment of 
exaggerated alarm at the threatened rising of her slave popula- 
tion, there was reason to suppose that the evil complained of 
might be only temporary, and that it would be removed with 
the decline of the feeling that occasioned it. But since time 
has shown not only the perseverance against all remonstrance 
of South Carolina, but the adoption of the same law by the 
other States of the south, there is good reason to suppose that 
no relaxation of the system can be expected to take place. 
Indeed, your committee understand this to be definitively de- 
clared by the report and resolutions of the Legislature of Geor- 
gia, which have been referred to them for consideration. 

It remains, then, to be considered what should be done. One 
of two things must be settled. The State must either sit down 
quietly under the wrong, and determine to put up with it, for 
the sake of the general attachment it bears to the Union, or it 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 48. 3 

must endeavor to do something more effective than has yet 
been attempted, for the protection of citizens who have a right 
to claim it. Your committee have no doubt on which side of 
the alternative duty calls them to act. They perceive, in the 
petition of J. I. Bowditch and others, which has been referred 
to them, a prayer that an agent, may be appointed, in one or 
two of the southern ports, for the purpose of collecting informa- 
tion, as to the names and number of citizens of Massachusetts 
who may be imprisoned there, as well as for the more certain 
prosecution of the question of the validity of the laws under 
which they are imprisoned, before the United States tribunals. 
This suggestion is worthy of adoption. The expense attend- 
ing it will be trivial, in comparison with the solemn principle 
which is involved. Your committee ask leave to report the 
following resolves. 

By order, 

€. F. ADAMS. 



IMPRISON MEN V OF COLORED SEAMEN. [Feb. 



:otmifoutu$aUt) est M^nm^nmttu* 



In the year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Forty- 
Three. 



Relating to the Imprisonment of Citizens of this Common- 
wealth in other States. 

Resolved, That the perseverance of many of the States 
in the Union, against all remonstrance on the part of Mas- 
sachusetts, in seizing and imprisoning her citizens without 
the allegation of any crime, is calculated to weaken the 
confidence which she has in the good disposition of those 
States to maintain their engagements to the Constitution 
of the United States inviolate. 

Resolved, That his excellency, the governor, with the 
advice and consent of the council, be authorized to employ 
an agent in the ports of Charleston, in South Carolina, and 
New Orleans, in Louisiana, for a term of time not to ex- 
ceed one year, for the purpose of collecting and transmit- 
ting accurate information respecting the number and the 
names of citizens of Massachusetts, who have heretofore 



1843.] HOUSE— No. 48. 5 

been or may be, during the period of his engagement, im- 
prisoned without the allegation of any crime. The said 
agent shall also be enabled to bring and prosecute, with 
the aid of counsel, one or more suits in behalf of any citi- 
zens that may be so imprisoned, at the expense of Massa- 
chusetts, for the purpose of having the legality of such im- 
prisonment tried and determined upon in the Supreme 
Court of the United States. 

Resolved, That his excellency the governor, be hereby 
authorized to draw his warrant to cover any necessary 
expenses incurred in carrying into effect the aforegoing 
resolves, after the same shall have been audited and al- 
lowed by the council, to be paid out of the public treasury. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/jointspecialcomm1843mass 



