(*s.55?2.3b *o.6 



THE BLACK BONBMAN. 



Over- wrought zeal is assuredly injuring a cause which every friend 
of humanity would strive to serve, but the true friend of humanity is ex- 
ceedingly cautious where danger may arise or disadvantage to a whole 
community, and to this very cause itself, by too heated and intemperate 
zeal, when reviewing, and commenting upon its peculiar features. Men 
" should be temperate in all things." It is too frequently asserted that 
the Bond Sons and Daughters of Africa in the Southern States are not 
Religiously instructed — with many other incorrect sayings, relative to 
their general treatment. A few instances shall be noticed in correction 
of these misrepresentations— and first a short extract— "The Charleston 
Observer publishes the annual Report of the Missionary to the Negroes 
of Liberty County, Georgia, who labors there under the direction of a 
society of Planters on their own estates. He preaches on the Lord's 
Day, and has catechetical lectures at different plantations during the 
week according to the convenience of the owners. He formed a class 
for the particular benefit of Communicants, and others for children and 
youth. In the district in which he has labored (one-third of the county) 
nearly fifty plantations haveoeen opened to religious services by the own- 
ers." And now an old observer begs leave to state, that in every part 
of South Carolina, you may on the Lord's Day ride from sun rise to a 
late hour of evening, when on the whole road, and leading to every Plan- 
tation you will behold Blacks, respectably dressed— male, female and 
children walking as may have suited their convenience or choice, to or 
from a place of worship, of such a denomination as they prefer — within 
reach of returning home at night. Let no false statement, originating in 
want of ocular demonstration be listened to, purporting that the Slaves 
are denied the word of God, or instructions from it at the South, though 
instruction to write, and recently to read may be forbidden ; the latter 
because they should not read the incendiary papers cast among them. 
Not that any generous mind would accuse, or for an instant conceive it 
possible that another generous mind would in any manner contribute to 
sow discor^d andhorror, where order and gentleness should be inculca- 
ted. But to read such things as some ignorant and heartless men have 
presented to them, will most improperly stimulate, and cause them to 
act contrary to their benefit and improvement, compelling the owners 
of this class to forbid what otherwise might be allowed to the advantage 
and happiness of both parties. For Religious instruction , we know that 



// 

not only places of public worship are every where open to them in Soutfe 
Carolina, but also at plantations such instruction as they are willing and 
invited to receive; opposed but by those moths of society, the frivolous,, 
uneducated, or irreligious, few in comparison with the strong-minded, 
wise, and christian men of the South. Among very many zealous pastors r 
one at this moment is present to pleasing recollections — the Rev. Mr. 
Tschoudy— catechising after divine service, (St. John's Berkley, South 
Carolina) — and preparing for baptism and the Holy Communion at other 
suitable times, at many plantations during the year. If trver-zealous 
Abolitionists will only let "Patience do her work" firmly believing, and 
giving evidence of their belief— that, as God ruleth over all events, this mat- 
ter must progress only according to his appointment who commands that 
men should " do as they would be done by" in every point of circum- 
stances — " do their duty in that state of life unto which it hath pleased 
God to call them" — they will act more in conformity themselves by thus 
preaching and teaching rather than stimulating in the present apparent- 
ly dangerous way. If they are truly concerned for the souls of the Slaves, 
let them remember that God in mercy to their bondage, requires of them 
such plain and simple duties, that if honestly complied with, they cannot 
materially sin, for the strong and numerously surrounding temptations 
and corruptions encompassing the free in the world's common accep- 
tation of the word, are not endangering them. The responsibilities of 
other men fall not upon them, but alas, upon their masters most 
heavily and pitiably, who must not only provide for their bodily 
maintenance and clothing in infancy, age, accident or sickness without 
any remuneration, but all that time, and manhood and service, feel that 
their soul's cultivation is their owner's work, — infinitely more heavy than 
any manual labor of the Slaves. Thus is the black Bondman more free 
than his owner in the most important points. Let him weigh the matter y 
and calmly looking round, as he smokes his well-used pipe, seated by 
moonlight at the door of his little dwelling, and hearing the merry Ban- 
jor, and time-keeping feet of the young dancers, with occasional ballad- 
words they chorus out, then listening on the other side to the as merry 
corn grinders — he presently sees a staggering white man approach half 
drunk, but free! Let him ask what is freedom worth, unless strictly 
made a proper use of? Who is quite free ? I see that my master in his 
way is a servant of the public, and has a thousand cares by day and night 
that 1 have not, I know that same public will hang him for a crime 
which only causes me a whipping. The soldier cannot feel as much at 
liberty as I do, for when my task is done — sometimes by noon — I employ 
the time as I like till dawn of day again — or may, with a proper pass — 
visit a friend very many miles distant before that time. The sailor is 
flogged or put in irons at sea. The tread-mill and prisons punish men 
for offences I cannot commit because not in my way. That dangerous 
thing called money cannot stick to hands in which it is not deposited and 
tempt to crime. 



The families of the free, beginning with my master, should they fail 
by misfortunes or fault, who will feed and clothe? My hands are strong, 
my wants few from habit, and the heat of summer and the fevers of au- 
tumn do not affect my health — they are the seasons of my greatest enjoy- 
ment—while the white man would die in the air of his plantation. Win- 
ter is mild, fuel ever abundant — moss furnishes a bed beneath my blan- 
kets, if I am disposed to pull it ; — the woods abound in wild animals, 
which my dog assists me to kill ; — the rivers abound in fish, which no 
man forbids my catching ; — my bread is certain,— my clothing also, as 
far as necessary for comfort and decency, with common care ; — poultry 
1 may raise and dispose of; — my little garden, hen-house, and dwelling 
are my own, upon the door of which 1 place a padlock if I please, when 
working in the field or wood — and, if honest and industrious, I am che- 
rished, and fear nothing. But then 1 am a slave, my children, and 
childrens' children ! yet 1 am not in a condition prepared for instant 
freedom. I feel like a child in leading strings — I feel that those bad pas- 
sions, which immediate freedom might call into operation against my 
own peace, and that of my fellow creatures, are now controlled, and will 
not rise in judgment against me, when God calls me to account. The 
humbly submissive to His will on earth, will find a place through Jesus 
Christ our Divine Saviour and Redeemer among his many mansions in 
Heaven! Could a way be arranged peacefully by which my children, 
from the age of twenty-one, should in perpetuity be free, and in the 
meanwhile educated as circumstances suited best, so as to make a 'pro- 
per use of freedom— I mean duly prepared to act wholly for themselves 
in the wide world of trial and hardship— I should prefer it to my own im- 
mediate freedom, — for how could 1 now feed, clothe, house, and sustain 
these little ones, with their nearly helpless grand parents, in accident or 
sickness? Now all provided for, and free from care. But, by degrees, 
masters and slaves might eventually prepare for emancipation under 
wisely-devised, equitable arrangements, when thousands would like to 
labor in the Southern climate for moderate wages, while other thousands 
would arrange under the new colonization plan, which provides a settle- 
ment of healthy promise, and consequently banishing apprehensions on 
that important point. The location changed, prosperity will wholly en- 
sue. It must be remarked, that, when emigrating from any part of the 
world to another, the change will affect the life and health of some of the 
settlers, as in the first Liberia settlement ; — that choice of situation 
proved not so judicious as subsequent observation selected. Similar in- 
stances have occurred elsewhere. The City of Charleston, South Caro- 
lina, was first commenced on the opposite side ef Ashley River, the 
spot still called Old Town, but though only across that river, the settlers 
found how infinitely more healthy than where they first fixed for their 
city was the present location, and successfully removed to it. Let the 
weekly Charleston obituary be looked over for many a year, when the 
astonishingly few deaths, except in seasons of yellow fever, strikingly 



4 

demonstrate its general salubrity— though the summer heat debilitates 
the white inhabitants, who may not with impunity sleep across the river 
at Old Town, during the season from June to November frost. Coloni- 
zation friends wish to make it appear only in true colouring that Liberia 
is not the only place where death occasionally and sickness is encoun- 
tered by emigrants. Look at the flourishing towns and villages in the 
unparalleled State of New York. The pioneers met with trials of health 
most notoriously, but they persevered, and are rewarded. A few years 
ago, a new settlement, about ten or twelve miles from Rochester, on the 
canal, suffered so severely that the people of Rochester sent medicines, 
provisions, and nurses to their relief ; since that period every year has 
proved the advantage of perseverance. A hundred instances in the 
newly settled portions of many of the States could be enumerated, but 
enough is said, and the free and the bond-coloured man may confidently, 
Under the blessing of God, look forward to possessing their own Africa, 
as the final and most eligible haven of their earthly rest. 

The Abolitionists observe that many cruelties are exercised upon the 
slaves, and this calls imperiously loud for their interference in procuring 
immediate emancipation. Are no cruelties committed by Northern or 
other apprentice or bond-servant holders? May not the slave holders 
ask and return the thunders to be hurled against them — upon those 
among whom many enormities are committed and complained of occa- 
sionally? It is a painful truth that power has been found a hard task- 
master — a harsh monster in too many human hearts and hands every 
-where. Suppose the Southern thunderers, in reply to some recent sono- 
rous threatenings, should in conclave exclaim : — We resolve that hence- 
forth you Northern brethren shall not be permitted to hold apprentices 
and bond-servers, because sometimes you abuse your privileges and com- 
mit cruelties. — Resolved, therefore, that you are no longer to detain 
those persons in your bonds — and that we interfere with your concerns, 
attending to your business, instead of keeping all right at home. 

PATIENCE, 



