{) '"-^^ ON I 

I AMERICAN SLAVERY. | 

Eifth edition Sold by Isaac Knapp, Hoston. 



^^9b^ 




Sbc. b. No member shall hare the liberty to transfer his right to take out books, 
to a person not a member of the Association. 




Rooais open firoiu. 1 o'clock to 10 o'clock., P. M. 



fiaad. Printer. 3 e«nbUt 



■^■^^56e< 



/r^' ^ 









*». % ^f. "N ■*•'•• ••** ^ «:; 





LETTERS " 



AMERICAN SLAVERY, .. 



ADDRESSED TO Mp 






MR. THOMAS RANKIN, . 

Merchant at Middlebrook, Augvista Co., Va. *^mH 



BY JOHN RANKIN, 

Pastor ofthe Presbyterian Churches of Ripley and Strait-Creek, Brown County, Ohio, 






FIFTHEDITION. ;^"ii| 

— r , 



BOSTON: 

PUBLISHED BY ISAAC KNAPP 

25 Corn HILL. 

1838. 



, N''/ 



Zj^.i^S 






MARDEN & KIMBALL, PRINTERe. 
No* 3 School street. 



PREFACE, 



The following Letters were originally designed for tte 
benefit of the Brother to whom they were addressed. For 
his convenience they were inserted in the Castigator, and by 
that means were first brought to public view. 

The solicitations of a few friends, in connection with the 
desire of aiding and encouraging every effort for the libera- 
tion of the enslaved and degraded Africans, were the means 
of bringing them before the public a_ second time, and in 
another form. 

They have received several alterations and additions. And 
some efforts have been made to render the work more com- 
plete than it was in its original form ; but still, it is far from 
possessing that excellence of composition which the impor- 
tance of its subject requires. Therefore, it is desired that its j 
imperfections may be attributed to the weakness of its au- 1 
thor, and not to that of the cause it is intended to support. 

But little can reasonably be hoped in relation to the sue 
cess of this work, when it is considered that, in addition to 
the difficulties arising from its own imperfections, it must 
bear the charge of fanaticism, and contend with prejudices 
that have been rapidly increasing for ages. In opposition 
to it, more than ten thousand envenomed tongues, and pens 
dipt in the gall of unrelenting avarice, may be expected to 
plead the cause of injustice. 

These difficulties, hoM^ever, should be considered as so 
many arguments in favor of the work. If but a little good 
can be done, it is the more necessary that that little should 
be done. That involuntary slavery is a very dangerous evil, 
and that our nation is involved in it, none can, with truth, 
deny. And that the safety of our government, and the hap- 
piness of its subjects, depend upon the extermination of this 
evil, mast be ob-vious to every enlightened mind. Nor is it 
less evident, that it is the duty of every citizen, according to 
his station, talents and opportunity, to use suitable exertions 



IV PREFACE. 

for the abolition of an evil which is pregnant with the grow- 
ing principles of ruin. Surely, no station should be unim- 
proved, no talent, however small, should be buried ; nor 
should any opportunity of doing good be lost, when the safety 
of a vast nation, and the happiness of millions of the hu- 
man family, demand prompt and powerful exertions. Every- 
thing that can be done, either by fair discussion, or by any 
other lawful means, ought to be done, and done speedily, in 
order to avert the hastening ruin that must otherwise soon 
overtake us ! 

Let all the friends of justice and suffering humanity, do 
what little they can, in their several circles, and according 
to their various stations, capacities and opportunities ; and 
all their little streams of exertion will, in process of time, 
flow together, and constitute a mighty river that shall sweep 
away the yoke of oppression, and purge our nation from 
the abominations of slavery. 



LETTERS ON SLAVERY 



LETTER 1. 



My dear Brother: 

I received yours of the 2d December, with 
mingled sensations of pleasure and pain; it gave 
me pleasure to hear of your health, and pain to 
hear of your purchasing slaves. 1 consider in- 
voluntary slavery a never-failing fountain of the 
grossest immorality, and one of the deepest sour- 
ces of human misery; it hangs like the mantle of 
night over our republic, and shrouds its rising 
glories. I sincerely pity the man who tinges his 
hand in the unhallowed thing that is fraught with 
the tears, and sweat, and groans, and blood of 
hapless millions of innocent, unoffending people. 

A mistaken brother, who has manifested to me 
a kind and generous heart, claims my strongest 
sympathies. When I see him involved in what is 
both sinful and dangerous, shall 1 not strive to 
liberate him? Does he wander from the paths of 
rectitude, and shall not fraternal affection pursue, 
and call him from the verge of ruin and the un- 
perceived precipice of wo, to the fair and pleas- 
ant walks of piety and peace.? Shall I suffer sin 
upon my brother.'' No — his kindness to me for- 
bids it, fraternal love forbids it, and what is still 



, \ n / 



LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 



more to be regarded, the law of God forbids it. 
Though he has wandered for the moment, may I not 
hope to show him his error, and restrain his wan- 
derings ? 

Under such views and feelings, I have resolved 
to address you, in a series of letters, on the in- 
justice of enslaving the Africans. This I hope 
you will receive as an expression of fraternal af- 
fection, as well as of gratitude to you for former 
favors. I entreat you to give me that candid at- 
tention which the fondness of a brother solicits, 
and the importance of the subject demands. In 
the commencement 1 think it proper to apprise 
you that several things, connected with the pres- 
ent condition of the Africans, tend to bias the 
mind against them, and consequently incapacitate it 
for an impartial decision with respect to their rights. 

I. Their color is very different from our own. 
This leads many to conclude that Heaven has ex- 
pressly marked them out for servitude; and when 
the mind once settles upon such a conclusion, it 
is completely fortified against the strongest argu- 
ments that reason can suggest, or the mind of 
man invent. In order to save you from a conclu- 
sion so false and unreasonable, let me invite your 
attention to the book of inspiration ; there you 
will find that the blackness of the African is not 
the horrible mark of Cain, nor the direful effects 
of Noah's curse, but the mark of a scorching sun. 
* Look not upon me because I am black, because the 
sun hath looked upon me: my mother^ s children were 
angry with me ; they made me the keeper of the vine- 
yards.^ Canticles i. 6. In this passage the Church 
of Christ evidently speaks of herself under the 
figure of an Ethiopian, on whom the sun had 
looked with such intensity as changed his color, 
and so rendered him the object of hatred to the 
rest of mankind, who with himself originally sprang 



LETTER I. 7 

from the same mother, and were in reality his 
brethren. The text may be thus paraphrased. 
Look not upon me (with indignation) because I 
am black; because the sun hath looked upon me 
(so as to make me black) my mother's children 
were angry with me. This conveys, evidently, 
the true meaning of the passage, and shows that 
the Divine Spirit by whom it was dictated, as- 
sumed it as a correct principle, that the blackness 
of the Ethiopian's skin is caused by the sun. 
The word Ethiopian, which is frequently found 
in Scripture, denotes, according to its derivation, 
a person whose visage is changed to blackness by 
burning. The same truth is evident from the face 
of the world, which exhibits various shades of 
human color, according to all its variegated cli- 
mates. 

' To prove that color is the effect of climate it 
is only necessary to attend to certain facts which 
are notorious to the slightest observation. 

' Geographers have divided our earth into five 
zones — the torrid, two temperate, and two frigid 
zones. The torrid zone, extending 23 1-2 de- 
grees on each side of the equator, forms a belt of 
47 degrees, running from east to west quite round 
the globe; to every part of which the sun is ver- 
tical at least once in the year. The ancients 
supposed that this region was not habitable, in 
consequence of the intense heat of a vertical sun. 
In this they were mistaken. It is found support- 
ing, in general, as dense a population as either of 
the temperate zones, which lie between it and the 
polar circles ; with, however, this remarkable 
difference — its inhabitants are black, or approach- 
ing to black. As this zone in its whole breadth 
sweeps over the continent of Africa, it embraces 
most of its inhabitants, who are consequently 
black or nearly so. As we recede from the equa- 



8 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

tor toward the poles, the complexion of the inhab- 
itants becomes gradually lighter, until in the ex- 
tremities of the temperate and in the frigid zones, 
which lie around the poles, they are white. 

' Such is the fact. And this fact alone, were 
we unable in the slightest degree to account for 
it, ought to be sufficient to satisfy the honest in- 
quirer after truth, that color is the effect of cli- 
mate. But the fact may be, we apprehend, in 
some degree at least, accounted for. Various an- 
atomical experiments prove, beyond all contra- 
diction, that the human skin consists of two lami- 
OA n^ or coats, which are in all cases white; and 
i that the color depends on a coagulated substance 
which lies between those coats. The exterior 
coat, being transparent and exceedingly porous, 
permits the sun's rays to act upon the coagulated 
substance freely; which, in every instance, if the 
action be sufficiently protracted, gives a tinge or 
coloring proportioned to the intensity of the sun's 
heat. 

' To this it may be objected, that the color of 
the inhabitants of the several countries of our 
globe is not invariably the same in both parallels. 
This is admitted; but the objection, when exam- 
ined, goes to establish our position. It is well 
known that the intensity of the sun's heat depends 
much on the nature of the earth's surface. From 
a smooth, level surface, the power of reflection is 
much greater than it is on a broken and irregular 
surface; and it has long been remarked, that the 
inhabitants of the level, sandy countries of Africa, 
are much blacker than those of the hilly and moun- 
tainous parts. 

' And no matter what the original complexion 
of the emigrants to any country may have been, 
it is always found to accommodate itself to the 
hue peculiar to that country or climate. Hence 



LETTER I. 9 

the Jews, who were doubtless originally all of the 
same complexion, and who never intermarry with 
the nations among whom they sojourn, are found 
to be white in Germany and Poland, swarthy in 
Spain and Portugal, olive in the Barbary States 
and in Egypt, and black jn Hindoostan. And 
hence a colony of Ethiopians, who settled at Col- 
chis, on the Black Sea, two thousand years ago, 
have now become white, and the Portuguese who 
settled two hundred years since on the coast of 
Africa, black. 

'But still we are asked, " If color be the effect 
of climate, why the negroes born in the United 
States are not white?" We answer, various 
reasons may be given. Though we are in a 
great measure ignorant of the econom.y of nature, 
yet we see that the complexion as well as the 
form of the body is propagated from father to son, 
and that any change which takes place in either 
form or complexion, must be effected by the tardy 
but certain operation of natural causes. We 
know also that it is an established law of nature, 
that it is much easier to communicate a slain 
than to purge it away. Hence we frequently see 
a swarthy hue contracted by boatmen and sailors 
in a few months, which it requires years to re- 
move. 

' It should moreover be recollected, that ours 
is not the country of white men naturally — and 
that, as has already been remarked, the color 
natural to our climate will be swarthy, probably 
very nearly that of the Spaniards v/ho live in the 
same parallels. Are we then to be surprised that 
the African, who, under a tropical sun, bears the 
accumulated stain of a thousand generations, is 
not, in our climate, bleached white in two or 
three .^' 

Thus you see that reason and observation unite 



10 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

in confirming the truth of revelation with regard 
to the color of the Africans. Hence we conclude 
with safety, that a black skin is no peculiar mark 
of Heaven's displeasure, nor any evidence that he 
who wears it is doomed by tlie Creator to endless 
servitude. The Africans are the children of our 
common mother: let us not be angry with them 
because the sun hath looked upon them; the 
change of complexion ought never to break the 
ties of humanity. God ' hath made of one blood 
all nations of men.' Whenever we find a man, 
let us treat him as a brother without regard to his 
color; let our kindness sooth his sorrows and 
cheer his heart. 

n. The Africans are deeply degraded. The 
hand of oppression has pressed them down from 
the rank of men to that of beasts; they are bought 
and sold, and driven from place to place like mere 
animal herds; — this fetters the mind, and prevents 
that expansion of soul which dignifies man and 
ornaments civilized life. 1 hey seldom have any 
opportunities of improvement, any encouragement 
for the efforts of genius, or any inducements to 
enter the field of science. Hence, in many in- 
stances, the strongest powers of mind remain un- 
folded; over them oppression draws her sable 
mantle, on them she lays her cruel hand, and 
forbids them ever to rise. Under such circum- 
stances they sink into the grossest ignorance, and 
appear to be very destitute of energetic powers of 
mind. This leads many to conclude that they are 
naturally inferior to the rest of mankind in respect 
to strength of mind, and that the Creator has thus 
marked them out for servitude. But how false, 
how ungenerous, how unreasonable is such a 
conclusion! What people, in similar circum- 
stances, have ever given stronger m^arks of ge- 
nius than are exhibited by the enslaved Africans 



LETTER I. 11 

in the United States? A better exhibition of 
mental capacity than they give ought not to be 
expected from a people long enslaved and sorely 
oppressed. Under such oppression, powers of 
mind, merely ordinary, cannot unfold; the gloomy 
prospect of perpetual bondage hovers continually 
around, and cuts off every enterprise v^hich might 
elicit the native energies of the soul, or give oc- 
casion for the vigorous efforts of genius. Hence 
talents that, under other circumstances, would 
appear to very good advantage, are totally ob- 
scured. And, even after a people that have long 
been enslaved are emancipated, it will require 
them to pass through several generations in order 
to regain their original strength of mind, and give 
the world a fair exhibition of the powers they 
really possess. Under this view of our subject, 
it is easy to account for the apparent want of 
talent in our Africans; it is owing, totally owing, 
to the cruel hand of oppression. There is but 
one other source from which we suppose it will 
be pretended it has originated; which is that of a 
different organization from the rest of mankind. 
But such organization would be universal in its 
effects, and thus prohibit a single instance of pro- 
digious genius; for if it admit of one, it may, on 
the same principles, admit of a thousand. Among 
the Africans there are many who possess the 
strongest powers of mind; this I apprehend none 
that are well informed will deny. 

In a neighboring State lives an African boy, 
who, while he was a slave, and before he arrived 
to twenty years of age, by his own exertions, 
without the benefit of a school, save for the space 
of two weeks, acquired the science of reading, 
writing, arithmetic and geography, and made 
some advances in astronomy. Would Sir Isaac 
!Mewton have done more, had he been a slave? 



12 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

While other slaves spent in idleness the few lei- 
sure moments allowed them, this youth was en- 
gaged in acquiring useful knowledge, and he had 
what is generally called a humane master, who, 
perhaps, gave him some instruction. Would not 
this youth, under other circumstances, have daz- 
zled the eyes of the civilized world by the brilliant 
display of powerful intellect? Not the mountain 
weight of oppression could wholly suppress his 
gigantic power — in vain slavery with her sable 
mantle attempts to shroud his luminous mind — it 
breaks through the darkest shades — its noble en- 
ergies rise beneath the ponderous mass, scan the 
power of numbers, grasp the circumference of the 
earth, and stretch a line to the stars. Such an 
instance of remarkable genius among the Africans, 
shows that the organization of their mental pow- 
ers is equal to that of the rest of mankind. And 
how can it be otherwise, seeing all mankind orig- 
inally sprang from one common parent, and con- 
sequently possess precisely the same nature? 

in. In connection with the bias of mind which 
may arise against the Africans, in consequence of 
their color and degradation, I wish to mention 
another which is more powerful in its nature, and 
more injurious in its effects ; it is that which 
arises from love of gain, and has a most blinding 
influence upon the mind; with thousands it is 
heavier than sand, while the strongest arguments 
are lighter than feathers. The love of gain is the 
polluted fountain whence issue all the dreadful 
evils that pervade our world; it gives energy to 
the tyrant's sword, it drenches the earth with 
blood, and binds whole nations in chains; from it 
every argument is drawn in favor of cruel injus- 
tice; it is the nauseous source of every hateful 
crime. The love of gain first introduced slavery 
into the world, and has. been its constant support 



LETTER I. 13 

in every age. It was the love of gain that first 
enslaved the African race, and it now invents 
every possible argument against their emancipa- 
tion. This is equally manifested in the social 
circle, and on the legislative floor; individuals 
and States will argue in favor of slavery in propor- 
tion as they view their interest at stake. And no 
doubt they often argue according to what they 
suppose to be right; though naturally honest as 
other men, they are pressed to the side of injus- 
tice by the weight of interest. And thus we often 
see the love of gain weighing down the finest 
feelings of the soul, blunting the most acute pow- 
ers of perception, crushing the strongest faculty 
of judgment, breaking the most powerful ties of 
humanity, falling upon the unhappy African and 
binding him in chains of perpetual bondage! 
When once it takes full possession of the heart, 
the strongest faculties yield to its influence; it 
triumphs alike over the polished statesman, the 
courageous general, the accomplished gentleman, 
and the humble peasant. Its principal power lies 
in concealment ; it operates under a thousand 
difl^erent masks ; unperceived it obtrudes itself 
upon every order, it pervades the bar, finds its 
way to the hearts of judge and jury; it even en- 
ters the sanctuary and climbs the altar. The 
best of men are liable to yield too far to the love 
of gain, especially when large sacrifices must 
attend a right decision. And you, my dear broth- 
er, have considerable at stake; you must wade 
through much loss, if you would come to a right 
conclusion, and obey the imperious voice of jus- 
tice; but remember that loss will be temporal, 
and from it may spring eternal gain. Therefore 
it is better to lose for the sake of doing justice, 
than to gain by oppression. Hence I entreat you 
let temporal interest have no influence upon your 



14 LETTERS OX SLAVERY. 

mind; divest yourself of every prejudice; throw 
open all the faculties of the soul for a fair and 
full investigation of the subject under considera- 
tion, and let an ardent desire to know the very 
truth be the governing principle; and you shall 
not wander long in the maze of error, nor stray 
far from the path of truth. Give me, I pray you, 
a candid ear while I plead with you for a poor, 
dejected and despised people, who dare not plead 
for themselves, and for whom, alas! too few will 
either lift the tongue or move a pen. Let not 
their color, their degradation, nor the predomina- 
ting principle of self-interest, bias your mind 
against them. Let their miseries excite your 
pity, and incline you to justice. 

In my next I will endeavor to prove from the 
nature of the Africans that they were not created 
for slavery. From your Brother. 



LETTER II 



Loving Brother: 

I hope, by this time, your mind is divested of 
every prejudice against the Africans, and that 
you have opened a candid ear to their plea for 
liberty. Inspired by this hope I now proceed, 
according to promise made in my last, to prove 
from the nature of the Africans that they were not 
created for slavery. 

The Creator is infinitely wise, and consequent- 
ly must have created every being in his universe 
for occupying some particular station in the scale 
of created existence. . To suppose him to create 



LETTER II. 15 

without design, is to suppose him unwise. Again, 
if he has created every being to occupy a partic- 
ular station in the scale of existence, he must 
have adapted the nature of every being to the 
station for which it was intended. To create 
for a particular purpose, and not adapt the thing 
created to that purpose, would argue the great- 
est want of wisdom. Hence we conclude that 
if the Creator formed the Africans for slavery, 
he has suited their nature to the design of their 
creation, and that they are incapacitated for free- 
dom. This would be according to the whole 
analogy of creation, in which every creature 
has a nature suited to the station for which it 
was intended. But we find that the Africans 
are rational creatures, are of the human spe- 
cies, possess all the original properties of hu- 
man nature, and consequently are capacitated for 
freedom; and such capacity shows the design of 
their creation. It is most absurd to imagine that 
beings created with capacity for liberty were de- 
signed for bondage. Did the capacity for free- 
dom stand alone, it might itself be considered an 
argument sufficient to establish our point; but it 
stands not alone; it combines with it all the origi- 
nal properties of human nature; with it all these 
unite as so many heralds sent by the Almighty to 
declare that man never was formed for involuntary 
slavery. Every man, who possesses all the origi- 
nal properties of humanity, desires to obtain knowl- 
edge, wealth, reputation, liberty, and a vast va- 
riety of other objects which are necessary to 
complete his happiness. Now who does not see 
how inconsistent slavery is with the acquirement 
and enjoyment of all these objects of desire, and 
how directly it is opposed to the happiness of man ? 
It obstructs the natural channels in which all his 
passions were designed to flow, contracts the 



16 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

whole sphere of mental operation, and offers vio- 
lence to the strongest propensities of his nature. 
Does he desire to enter the delightful paths of 
science, and store his mind with such knowledge 
as is calculated to expand the noble powers of the 
soul, and raise man to the dignified station for 
which he was designed? This is forbidden; an 
indignant master frowns upon him, and drives him 
back into the shades of ignorance and hopeless 
toil. Does he wish to acquire such property as 
may be necessary to render him comfortable in 
his passage through life? Even this is denied 
him; he is doomed to labor all his days in heaping 
up treasure for another; and to death, fraught 
with terrors as it is, he must look for deliverance, 
and to the gloomy grave he must go as his only 
asylum from his sufferings and toils. Does he 
incline to move in the honorable and useful spheres 
of civil society? It is considered a crime for him 
to aspire above the rank of the grovelling beast: 
he must content himself with being bought and 
sold, and driven in chains from State to State, as 
a capricious avarice may dictate. Does he desire 
to enter the conjugal state, and partake of hyme- 
neal enjoyment? The pleasure of any unfeeling 
master may forbid the object of his choice, and 
cause him to languish beneath the ravages of dis- 
appointed affection. Or is he a tender husband? 
He must see the object of his warmest affection 
bleeding beneath the torturing lash — her cries 
and her tears penetrate the inmost recesses of his 
heart, and seem ready to burst the tender fibres 
that twine around the seat of life; floods of ten- 
derness roll from his eyes, but his sympathies 
cannot stay the cruel hand of the vengeful tyrant, 
nor heal the wounds inflicted by his malice. He 
dare not even attempt to console her grief by the 
language of tenderness, nor to wipe away her 



LETTER II. 17 

tears with the soft hand of compassion. I cannot 
conceive how flesh and blood can bear so much! 
You, brother, once sustained the relation of hus- 
band, and doubtless possessed all the tenderness 
of that endearing relation; and though the object 
of your warmest embraces now lies cold and silent 
in the grave, yet her very dust is dear to you, and 
her memory awakes the liveliest emotions in your 
heart; and how dreadful was the hour of final sep- 
aration, when cruel death closed her youthful 
eyes, that beamed upon you with such innocence 
and love as banished the sorrows and cares of life! 
And how cruel was that shroud which inclosed 
from your sight the beauteous form that so often 
enraptured your heart! Tell me, dear brother, 
how could you have endured to see her tender 
frame bleed beneath the lacerating whip? Could 
you have witnessed her innocent tears and cries, 
without being overwhelmed with the mingled 
floods of compassion, resentment and grief? Lit- 
tle less near to you is the dear little daughter, and 
only child, whom you cherish with almost une- 
qualled tenderness! How could you bear to see 
her tender skin cruelly torn by the torturing lash 
of a wicked master, whose heart by cruel indul- 
gence has become totally estranged from the feel- 
ings of compassion? Would not such a scene 
shock the whole current of your nature, and turn 
all the streams of tenderness into the channel of 
direful revenge, which even the fear of a most 
terrible death could scarcely restrain? Slavery 
is often clothed with such scenes of cruelty and 
blood, and often sports with everything that is 
dear to man! — it breaks the most tender relations 
of life. Tell me not that the Africans are desti- 
tute of the fine feelings of tenderness towards 
their wives and children, which are manifested by 
the rest of mankind. The flood of grief that rolls 



18 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

over the sable and wo-worn cheek, when a wife 
or a child is snatched from the embraces of the 
fond husband or parent, speaks the passions of 
the soul in a language too strong to be resisted 
by anything less than implacable prejudice! Slave- 
ry interferes with all the social and relative duties, 
and what is still a more serious evil, it interferes 
with the divine prerogative over man, and robs 
the Almighty of the service which is due to him 
from the creatures of his power. 

Finally, every man desires to be free, and this 
desire the Creator himself has implanted in the 
bosoms of all our race, and is certainly a conclu- 
sive proof that all were designed for freedom; 
else man was created for disappointment and mis- 
ery. All the feelings of humanity are strongly 
opposed to being enslaved, and nothing but the 
strong arm of power can make man submit to the 
yoke of bondage. What, my brother, would be 
more distressing to you, than to have the yoke of 
slavery put upon your neck and that of your little 
daughter,, that you might, with her, wear out your 
life in laboring for the wealth and ease of one 
who perhaps would not regard a single tender 
feeling of your nature? And though you think 
your slaves are in very comfortable circumstan- 
ces, and I have no doubt but you treat them as 
kindly as is compatible with their present station, 
yet were you and your little daughter in the very 
same circumstances in which they are now placed, 
I think I would cVieerfully part with all I possess 
to purchase your freedom, if nothing less would 
procure it; and if I should not, I apprehend you 
would think me an ungenerous and cruel brother. 
How then can you withhold from others what is 
so dear to yourself ? The Africans possess all the 
original properties of humanity, and v/ere, as we 
have fairly proven from their nature, created for 



LETTER III. 19 

freedom; and, therefore, to enslave them is both 
unjust and cruel. 

In my next 1 intend to point out, more fully than 
I have done in this, some of the evils that attend 
slavery. 

I AM YOURS IN FRATERNAL AFFECTION. 



LETTER III 



My DEAR Brother: 

As involuntary slavery is opposed to all the 
original properties of human nature, it may be 
expected to involve its subjects in a vast variety 
of the most serious evils. And some of these, 
according to an intimation given in my last, I am 
now to point out more fully than the limits of the 
preceding letter would permit me to do. And this 
I do in order to illustrate and enforce those argu- 
ments against slavery, which arise from the nature 
of man. 

The first evil I shall mention as resulting from 
a state of mancipation, is that of gross ignorance. 
It must be obvious to every one capable of re- 
flection, that a variety of circumstances combine 
to deprive slaves of the means of mental improve- 
ment. They are chained down to a life of labo- 
rious servitude, without the hope of release; and 
the gloomy prospect of such a life sinks every 
rising hope, cuts off every inducement to literary 
enterprise, and totally indisposes the mind to the 
labor of acquiring useful knowledge. And of 
such indisposition, gross ignorance is the certain 
result. Hence were the means of instruction af- 



'\ 



20 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

forded them, they would in many cases prove en- 
tirely unsuccessful. But we often find on the 
part of the master still less inclination to afford 
such means, than there is in the slave to improve 
them when afforded. The education of slaves 
must be attended with much loss of labor as well 
as considerable expense, and this is very incon- 
sistent with the main object of their mancipation. 
The design of slaveholding is to make gain, and 
therefore few masters are willing to undergo the 
expense and loss of time from labor that must ne- 
cessarily attend the education of their slaves. 
And this is no matter of wonder, when many pa- 
rents are too avaricious to bear the expense of 
educating their ovv^n children. Now when pa- 
rental affection is often insufficient to break the 
fetters of avarice, and induce parents to afford 
their own offspring the ample means of mental im- 
provement, what can break loose the ice-bound 
heart of the man who is urged by the impetuous 
torrent of avaricious feeling to bind with the 
chains of mancipation a number of his fellow- 
creatures, and cause them, hungry and naked, to 
toil throughout life in heaping up treasure to sat- 
isfy his inordinate and rapidly increasing thirst 
for gain? I say, what can break loose the heart 
of such a man, inspire him with the feelings of 
tenderness towards the victims of his avarice, and 
induce him to sacrifice his gain in giving them 
•that knowledge which is unnecessary to fit them 
for the laborious task? To this nothing can in- 
duce him while the love of gain is the predomina- 
ting principle, and such, doubtless, will be the 
case while slavery exists in the world; for the 
very moment the principle of justice gains the as- 
cendancy over that of avarice, must slavery cease 
to exist. Avarice tends to enslave, but justice 
requires emancipation. And nothing can be more 



LETTER III. 21 

evident than that the very principle in which 
slavery originates, withholds from the enslaved 
the means of acquiring knowledge, and conse- 
quently ignorance must be the necessary result. 
And to this we may add, that when the slave pop- 
ulation becomes extensive, a carnal policy dic- 
tates the necessity of suppressing the means of 
information, lest the oppressed should come to 
know their rights, and endanger the state. This 
kind of policy prevails to such a degree in every 
slaveholding State, that there are very few places 
in which there is not strong opposition made to 
every benevolent attempt to teach the poor slaves 
to read even the words of eternal life! I know 
from experience that this is the case, even where 
slavery exists under its best and mildest form. 
Thus I believe it does exist in the State of Ken- 
tucky. If there be any place in the United Stales 
where it wears a tolerable aspect, 1 am persuaded 
it is in that State; and though, as you know, I am 
no Kentuckian, yet I must say that if any slave- 
holding people can be generous, the Kentuckians 
are such. But the mildest form of slavery is like 
'the tender mercies of the wicked,' very cruel. 
Though there is no law in Kentucky designed to 
prohibit the teaching of slaves, yet such is the 
opposition made against it by the populace, that 
but few Sabbath-schools for the instructic.n of the 
Africans are permitted to exist in the State. It 
often happens that the benevolent teachers of Sab- 
bath-schools find themselves, and their poor, un- 
offending scholars, on the sacred morning, sur- 
rounded by men armed with whips, clubs and 
guns, for the violent dispersion of the unhappy 
and innocent victims of their rage! Thus Sab- 
bath-schools are broken up in Kentucky with a 
violence and cruelty that ought to shame the most 
enfeeling band of Algerines! Nor is such violent 



2Si LETTERS ON SLAVERY. ' 

opposition to teaching slaves confined to the more 
ignorant parts of the State; it is equally manifest- 
ed in the most enlightened places. A few years 
since in the neighborhood of Lexington, and in 
one of the oldest and best settlements in the State, 
a Sabbath-school was instituted, and taught by 
some very respectable gentlemen, and the pros- 
pect of doing good was exceedingly fair; but, 
alas! all the rising hopes of benevolence were 
soon blasted. One sacred morning the poor slaves 
assembled at the school-room with the pleasing 
expectation of learning to read the word of eternal 
life: but to their sad surprise, about sixty men 
soon appeared for their dispersion, armed with 
clubs and guns, and thus the school was dispersed 
never to meet again! It is painful to record such 
instances of cruel outrage on oppressed innocence 
and humane feeling; and I do it not by way of 
reproach, but because it is necessary to show the 
real state of things even where slavery assumes 
her mildest aspect; for I still believe that slaves 
fare upon the whole better in Kentucky than they 
do in other slaveholding States. But the spirit 
which, in Kentucky, is so strongly manifested 
by the populace, has, it seems, in Virginia found 
its way into the Legislature.* And, as 1 am in- 

* Extract from a letter to the Editor of the Emancipator, from a corres- 
pondent in Norfolk, Virginia, dated 

August, 27, 1820. 

There is now a law in this State, which took place on the 1st day of 
January last, which prohibits schools being kejit for teaching colored 
people, under the penahy of three dollars for every offence, if free, or 
twenty lashes on the bare back ; or if slaves, twenty lashes. It subjects 
white persons to tJie same penalty ; and enjoins on all magistrates and 
sheriffs, under the penalty of eight dollars for refusing, to execute the 
law. The informer is to have the whole of the fine 

jMy wife, \iho had a Sabbath-school for colored children, which she 
taught gratis for three or four years past, has been compelled to give it up, 
although none were admitted but those who were free, and those who had 
written permits from their owners. She had more than one hundred 
scholars at a time ; and although the school was supported by some of the 
best men in town, and several of the magistrates yet I was presented be- 
fore the grand jury, and nothing saved me but the presentment being made 



LETTER III. 23 

formed, a law has, sometime since, actually passed, 
prohibiting all, and every person from teaching a 
school for the benefit of slaves, under the penalty 
of twenty lashes! And thus the last hope of the 
poor, oppressed African is cut off — the clouds of 
ignorance, like the shades of eternal night, must 
ever settle around him! And thus the innocent 
and good citizen, whose feeling stoops to the 
most oppressed and degraded of our race, in or- 
der to grasp them from interminable ruin, must 
be subjected to the painful and shameful penalty 
of twenty lashes, as the reward of most disinter- 
ested acts of kindness, and that in a land far- 
famed for the equity and mildness of its govern- 
ment! Oh! tell it not in Europe, publish it not 
in the courts of despotism, lest the European des- 
pots rejoice! Thus has Virginia disgraced her 
nation, she has shrouded the rising glories of the 
American government, and she now hangs, as a 
ponderous mass, upon the wing of the American 
eagle, and prevents her from soaring to the sub- 
lime heights of pure republican liberty! Instead 
of removing every vestige of oppression, she is 
strengthening the yoke and tightening the chains 
of cruel bondage! This violent opposition to the 
instruction of slaves, whether it arises from a 
mistaken policy or from avaricious motives, will 
increase in proportion as the slave population be- 
comes more extensive. And here I must remark 
upon one main objection to the emancipation of 
slaves; it is that they are, in consequence of the 
want of information, incapacitated for freedom, 

before'the law became in force. Before I consented for the school to be 
■broke up, I consulted with the State's attorney, who was much in favor 
of the school, and a pious man, who said that it was so pointedly against 
.the law, that he himself as the prosecutor, would be obliged to take notice 
of it. 

I am so disgusted with my native State, that if I could dispose of my 
property without too great sacrifice, old as I am, I would remove to a 
landof libertjJ 



24 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

and that it is necessary to detain tliem in bondage 
until they may be better prepared for liberation; 
but from the preceding remarks it is abundantly 
evident that they are now better prepared, with 
respect to information, for emancipation, than they 
will be at any future period, and that less incon- 
venience and danger would attend their liberation 
at the present than at any future time. It must 
be obvious to every one capable of discernment, 
that the inconvenience and danger of emancipa- 
tion will increase in proportion as slaves become 
more numerous. Indeed all the difficulties that 
attend emancipation are rapidly increasing; and 
they must certainly be endured at some period, 
sooner or later; for it is most absurd to imagine 
that such an immense body of people, most rap- 
idly incr«asmg, can always be retained in bond- 
age; and therefore it is much better to endure 
those difficulties now than it will be when they 
shall have grown to the most enormous size. 
But perhaps you may hope that the benig^n influ- 
ence of the gospel will remove the obstacles that 
now lie in the way of teaching slaves, and conse- 
quently will lessen the difficulties that now attend 
their liberation; and that such would be the ten- 
dency of the gospel, M^ere its influence generally 
and truly felt, I readily admit; but this cannot be 
reasonably expected, when we consider that a 
vast variety of obstacles combine to prevent the 
prevalence of evangelical feelinfi; in slaveholding 
States. The whole system of slavery is unfavor- 
able, in its consequences as well as in its nature, 
to the extension of gospel influence. I readily 
acknowledge that there are, in all the slavehold- 
ing States, some who possess so high a degree of 
moral feeling as induces them, amidst sneering 
opposition, to pay some conscientious regard to 
the religious education of their slaves; but such 



LETTER IV. 23 

are very rarely found, even among those who ^ 
profess Christianity, and much less must be ex- 
pected from the unbelieving world. It is a mat- 
ter of deep regret, that a large number of those 
who profess to be Christians, have not religion 
enough to induce them to give proper attention to 
the education of their own offspring, and certainly 
such will pay much less attention to the education 
of slaves. It is undeniable, that many of the 
slaveholding clergy and ruling elders do not teach 
their slaves to read the scriptures, nor even cause 
them to attend upon their family devotion! I have 
seen the preacher and elder bow their knees 
around the family altar, while their poor slaves 
remained without, as if, like mere animal herds, 
they had no interest in the morning and evening 
sacrifices! Now when men who profess to believe 
and teach the mild and benevolent principles of 
the gospel, can be so destitute of evangelical feel- 
ing as totally to neglect the instruction of their 
slaves, what must be expected from those who 
scorn the sacred volume, and regard none of its 
heavenly precepts? Hence I must still conclude 
that gross ignorance in the enslaved must be the 
certain result of involuntary slavery, even where 
it assumes its mildest forms. 

My letter is, perhaps, already too long, and 
therefore I must desist for the present. You may 
expect me to pursue the subject in my next. 

Farewell, my Brother. 



LETTER IV. 



Loving Brother: 

The slave population in every country where 
slavery exists, is in a state of gross ignorance. 



26 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

and this confirms the arguments adduced, in the 
preceding letter, to show that such ignorance 
must be the certain result of involuntary slavery, 
even where it wears the mildest aspect. And 
that this is a very serious evil will appear, if we 
duly consider its tendency. And to this design, 
at present, I invite your attention. 

I have already shown, in a preceding letter, 
that many of the Africans possess the finest pow- 
ers of mind, and that, in this respect, they are 
naturally equal to the rest of mankind. Now take 
a view of the slave population in the United States, 
and you will see that a vast quantity of the very 
best talent is entirely suppressed by want of suit- 
able means of improvement — it lies buried deep- 
ly in the wreck of liberty, and the cruel hand of 
oppression draws around it the dark shades of 
endless night. Thus brilliant talents, immortal 
powers, designed to enrich, illuminate and ag- 
grandize the world, lie dormant and useless be- 
neath the grossest covering of unavoidable igno- 
rance! and all that is noble and grand in our na- 
ture, wastes in the drudgery of a servile life! 
Were all the talent that is now suppressed by 
slavery, in all our slaveholding States, properly 
improved, liberated, and brought into action, how 
vastly would it add to the strength, wealth, and 
intelligence of our nation! There are at present, 
in different parts of oar country, a considerable 
number of amiable and wealthy inhabitants, who 
were once in a state of bondage. 

The Rev. John Gloucester, lately pastor of an 
African church in the city of Philadelphia, but 
now no more in time, passed a considerable part 
of his life in slavery, yet after his liberation he 
became an able and useful minister of the gospel. 
His piety and talents recommended him to the be- 
nevolence of Union Presbytery, East Tennessee, 



LETTER IV. 27 

by whose generous exertions he, with his wife 
and children, were liberated from bondage; and 
he educated, and afterwards set apart to the gos- 
pel ministry. And though he spent in servitude 
the part of life in which the powers of the mind 
are most susceptible of improvement, yet the 
strength of his mind was such as enabled him soon 
to acquire so considerable a fund of knowledge 
as rendered him an useful and acceptable preach- 
er, both to the white and black inhabitants of Phi- 
ladelphia. He possessed, as we believe, the con- 
fidence and esteem of his brethren in the ministry, 
some of whom are among the nijost eminent in our 
nation for piety, talents and literature. Had it 
not been for the benevolence of Union Presbytery, 
this man, amiable as he was, in the possession of 
the strongest powers of mind, and all the fine sen- 
sibilities of our nature ornamented and improved 
by the renovating influence of divine grace, must 
have worn throughout life the iron yoke of cruel 
and unjust bondage! He is now released from 
all his labors and sufferings; and though here he 
was covered with a sable skin, and was once a 
poor, dejected and despised slave, we have rea- 
son to believe he will shine forever as a bright 
star in the firmament of eternal glory! Who 
would not execrate the chains that bound such a 
man! And such the chains of slavery did bind, 
and thousands such they do still bind, and cause 
to wear out their lives in degradation and misery! 
Thus the finest powers of soul which the benevo- 
lent Creator has bestowed on man and designed 
for the noblest exercise and the noblest ends, are 
defaced and deprived of the means of useful op- 
eration, and consequently are entirely lost to the 
world! Such suppression of useful talent is cer- 
tainly a sore evil. 

Union Presbytery has been the means of liber- 



28 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

ating and educating another man of color, who is 
now preaching the gospel. And though he was 
far advanced in life before his liberation, yet he, 
in preaching, excels many white men who in 
early life have had all the advantages of a liberal 
education! I have myself heard him deliver some 
discourses that would be no discredit to the best 
of talents in a state of the best improvement! 
Thus Union Presbytery has given the world to 
see what vast improvement poor African slaves 
are capable of making, even after spending the 
prime of life in oppressive servitude! 

It is with pleasure 1 speak of the benevolence 
of that Presbytery, because they have opposed 
slavery, not in word only, but also in deed. They 
have done much to wipe away the reproach of the 
hapless and degraded Africans, and have shown, 
by actual experiment, that they are capable of the 
highest degree of mental improvement, and of 
filling the most useful stations in the civilized 
world. How much good might other Presbyteries, 
Conferences and Associations do, by copying their 
example ! 

Again, the ignorance which results from slave- 
ry is a fruitful source of immorality, and conse- 
quently a very serious evil. 

Such is the corrupt tendency of human nature 
that nothing short of a high degree of moral sen- 
sation is sufficient to restrain man from vicious 
indulgence. And to such sensation knowledge is 
indispensably necessary. The cannibal kills and 
eats a man with as little consciousness of guilt as 
a Christian feels when he slaughters and eats his 
animal herds, and yet rational powers are alike 
common to both ; but the one is involved in the 
grossest ignorance, while the other possesses a 
knowledge of the purest standard of moral recti- 
tude. Hence the one is estranged from moral 



LETTER IV. 29 

feeling while the other possesses it to a high de- 
gree, and consequently is shocked at the very- 
idea of killing and eating his fellow man! The . 
poor African slaves are generally raised without 
moral instruction, and therefore are but little ac- 
quainted with the character of God, the purity of 
his law, their obligations to obey it, and the hap- 
piness that springs from piety, or the miseries that 
arise from vice; and consequently they possess a 
very low degree of moral feeling ; and this ren- 
ders them an easy prey to the corrupt propensities 
of their nature. And in addition to this, they are 
deprived of such motives to virtuous conduct as 
arise from reputation and honor. Thus every- 
thing that was calculated to stem the impetuous 
torrent of vicious feeling and inspire them with 
the love of virtue, is taken from them. Hence, 
regardless of all consequences, they rush into the 
deepest abyss of the most destructive and degra- 
ding immorality ! Their being slaves to men be- 
comes the principal means of making them slaves 
to vice. And this evil assumes a still more dread- 
ful aspect when it is viewed in connection with 
eternity. It is not only a deep source of misery 
in time, but it is also a never-failing fountain of 
suffering in the world to come; it incapacitates 
the soul for celestial enjoyment, and prepares it 
for the doleful abodes of endless wo. Oh! hapless 
immortals ! Their sufferings here are but the 
beginnings of endless sorrows ! They are too 
deeply sunk in pollution to enter, as they are, 
into the pure abodes of bliss; and cruel oppression 
forbids them to bathe in the fountain of life, to 
wash away their guilt, and fit them for the heav- 
enly state ! The key of knowledge is taken away, 
the path of life is closed up, and the immortal 
mind is sealed in everlasting night! 'Where 
there is no vision the people perish.' And, alas! 



30 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

millions of poor disconsolate slaves have no vision 
— the lamp of life is not permitted to illuminate 
their dreary huts or cheer their wo-worn hearts 
with the soul enlivening beams of heavenly light! 
Thick moral darkness, without interruption, dwells 
in all their abodes, and the shades of endless de- 
spair settle around them — they have nothing in 
time but the prospect of misery and toil, and noth- 
ing beyond but the prospect of interminable wo! 
Thus slavery chains men down to a life of labor 
and sufferings in this word, and by depriving 
them of the means of salvation, chains them down 
to everlasting misery in the world to come ! And 
thousands of the most worthless of our race are 
not only rioting on the wreck of liberty, but actu- 
ally rioting on the wreck of the immortal mind — 
the very bread they eat is died in the blood of 
souls ! ' O my soul, come not thou into their secret ; 
unto their assembly, mine honor, be not thou uni- 
ted;' for their tyranny is more terrible than death, 
and their avarice more cruel than the grave ! 

You tell me that many of the poor Africans will 
be thankful that they were brought from the dark 
regions of Africa, and made slaves in a land of 
gospel-light, where they have become the subjects 
of salvation ! And on this ground many justify 
themselves in holding slaves, and on the same 
principle the Jews might have justified themselves 
in crucifying the Saviour; for by it redemption 
was brought to a ruined world; but we ought to 
remember that it is the province of the Almighty 
to bring good out of evil, and that it is not the 
province of man to ' Do evil that good may come.' 
We have no right to promote the curse of slavery 
because a benevolent Providence sometimes turns 
it into a blessing. The question with us is not 
whether the Africans are now in a better or worse 
condition than they would have been in their own 



LETTER V. 31 

country ; but this is the question — is it just for us 
to enslave them, and by it render them miserable 
in life, and deprive them of the means of happi- 
ness beyond the grave ? It is undeniable that 
their being slaves to men involves them in igno- 
rance, and makes them slaves of vice, and so be- 
comes a source of endless misery. 

Let me now in the close of this letter invite you 
to call up all the tender sensibilities of your na- 
ture, and drop a tear of compassion over the vast 
multitudes of hapless Africans who are marching 
on to eternity fast-bound in the fetters of igno- 
rance and vice — pursue them to the grave, pur- 
sue them beyond it, and see what dreadful misery 
entails on our fellow immortals ! And while your 
sympathies are aroused, remember that you have 
practically sanctioned slavery, which is the source 
of their terrible sufferings, and that it is not all 
your kindness to your slaves can atone for such 
a crime ! Remember, you must ' Do justly, love 
mercy — break every yoke, and let the oppressed 
go free.' 



LETTER V. 



Dear Brother: 

The longer I reflect upon involuntary slavery, 
the more 1 abhor it, as being a combination of the 
most flagrant injustice and cruelty. It makes an 
innocent man the property of another, Avho may, 
if he please, deprive him of all the comforts of 
life, and subject him to a thousand sufferings. 
This appears to me as most unjust and cruel, when 



32 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

1 consider that the very best of men are fallen 
creatures, and, as such, naturally disposed to tyr- 
annize over the subjects of their power. The his- 
tory of the world is but one general display of ty- 
rannical oppression — every nation has been made 
to agonize beneath the weight of cruel despotism; 
every sect or party, that has in any age been 
vested with absolute power, whether civil or eccle- 
siastical, has manifested a strong tendency to- 
wards tyranny. Indeed such corrupt tendency 
marks the whole character of a fallen man, and is 
often displayed where the God of nature seems to 
have placed the strongest guard against it — pa- 
rents frequently break over the strong barrier of 
natural affection, and oppress their own offspring. 
It is true that some men are more humane than 
others, yet even such are liable to tyrannize, in 
some instances, over the subjects of their power. 
Hence David, though one of the most humane 
princes of antiquity, exercised most horrible ty- 
ranny in the case of Uriah ; and the personal at- 
tendants of the Saviour, though they had heard 
from his sacred lips the most tender lessons of 
compassion, were anxious to command fire down 
from Heaven, in order to consume a whole city ! 
Thus we see how the corruptions of the very best 
of men occasionally triumph over them, and, with 
dreadful impetuosity hurry them into scenes of 
most shocking cruelty ! Hence we conclude that 
the very best of men are disqualified for the prop- 
er exercise of such absolute power as involuntary 
slavery confers on the proprietor of slaves. And 
how much less the worst of men are qualified for 
the suitable exercise of such power, will appear 
more evidently, while we consider the immense 
degree to which it extends. 

I. The law of involuntary slavery makes the 
slave the property of his master, who is no more 



LETTER V, 33 

bound to supply his natural wants, than he is to 
supply those of his beasts. But notwithstanding 
the slave is shoved down to the rank of the 
beast, he is still a man, and needs comfortable 
clothing to shield him from the chilling blasts of 
winter, as well as for the sake of decent appear- 
ance. And this the master is not bound to give 
him, but may either clothe him in rags or turn 
him naked, as an inordinate love of gain may dic- 
tate. Hence in some parts of Alabama you may- 
see slaves in the cotton-fields without so much as 
even a single rag upon them, shivering before the 
chilling blasts of mid-winter. In some sections 
of old Virginia, they have been seen naked as in 
the hour of their birth attending on their master's 
table. And doubtless the like may be seen in 
South Carolina, Georgia and Mississippi. Indeed 
in every slaveholding state many slaves suffer ex- 
tremely, both while they labor and while they 
sleep, for want of clothing to keep them warm. 
Often they are driven through frost and snow 
without either stocking or shoe, until the path 
they tread is dyed with the blood that issues from 
their frost-worn limbs ! And when they return to 
their miserable huts at night they find not there 
the means of comfortable rest ; but on the cold 
ground they must lie without covering, and shiver 
while they slumber. 

In connection with their extreme sufferings oc- 
casioned by want of clothing I shall notice those 
which arise from the want of food. As the making 
of gXain is the main object of their mancipation, 
masters will sacrifice as little as possible in giving 
them food. It often happens that what will barely 
keep them alive, is all that a cruel avarice will 
allow them. Hence, in some instances, their al- 
lowance has been reduced to a single pint of corn 
each during the day and night. And some have 



34 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

no better allowance than a small portion of cotton 
seed ! ! And in some places the best allowance 
is a peck of corn each during the week, while 
perhaps they are not permitted to taste meat so 
much as once in the course of seven years, except 
what little they may be able to steal ! Thousands 
of them are pressed with the gnawings of cruel 
hunger during their whole lives ; an insatiable 
avarice will not grant them a single comfortable 
meal to satisfy the cravings of nature ! Such 
cruelty far exceeds the powers of description.^ 

You tell me that ' If the poor negroes were set 
free, they would either starve or turn to highway 
robbing.' But certainly their situation could not 
be worse than it now is with regard to starvation 
and robbing. Thousands of them are really 
starving in a state of slavery, and are under the 
direftil necessity of stealing whatever they can 
find that will satisfy the cravings of hunger ; and 
I have little doubt but many actually starve to 
death. Should they starve when free, the fault 
would, in some measure, be their own; and should 
they steal they could be punished for it in the 
same manner that white thieves are punished for 
their thefts. 

II. The £;laveholder has it in his power to vio- 
late the chastity of his slaves. And not a few are 
beastly enough to exercise such power. Hence 
it happens that, in some families, it is difficult to 
distinguish the free children from the slaves. It 



* Alas, poor hapless slaves are doomed to toil. 
With naked limbs, beneath the direful rage 
Of fiercely burning suns, and chilling blasts 
That beat upon them with alternate strokes ; 
While long years of fierce starvation onward 
Koll, with lingering pace, and the grating wheels 
(!f time, that measure out the dreary span 
Of hard servile life scarcely seem to move. 
And the toil-worn and weather-beaten flesh, 
Longs for the peaceful, lasting sleep of death, 
And seeks a shelter in the silent grave, 
From hunger, toil, and raging elements. 



LETTER V. 35 

is sometimes the case that the largest part of the 
master's own children, are born, not of his wife, 
but of the wives and daughters of his slaves, whom 
he has basely prostituted as well as enslaved. 
His poor slaves are his property, and therefore 
must yield to his lusts as well as to his avarice ! 
He may perpetrate upon them the most horrid 
crimes, and they have no redress ! The wretched 
slave must, without a murmuring v/ord, give up 
his wife or daughter for prostitution, should his 
master be vile enough to demand her of him ! It 
must be a horrid crime for any State to give one 
man such power over another ; and such crime 
has every slaveholding State committed. I am far 
from wishing to intimate that this power is gen- 
erally so grossly exercised as it might be. Some 
slaveholders are, doubtless, as chaste as any 
other people, and conscientiously endeavor to 
preserve the chastity of their slaves ; but I wish 
to show the extent of the power with which they 
are vested, and the shocking manner in which it 
is sometimes exercised. 

In addition to this, we may remark, that the 
proprietors of slaves have it in their power to 
crowd the males and females together in such a 
manner as is calculated to induce criminal inter- 
course, and to the great disgrace of human nature 
this is sometimes done for the base purpose of 
breeding slaves for market, as though they were 
mere animals and not human beings ! 

In this place I will further remark, that slavery 
not merely puts the chastity of the slave in the 
power of the master, but also exposes it to attacks 
from every lecherous class of men. Slaves cannot 
bear testimony against people that are white and 
free — hence a wide door is opened for the prac- 
tice, both of violence and seduction, without de- 
tection ; and the consequences of this are exceed- 



36 LETTERS OxN SLAVERY. 

ingly manifested in every slaveholding country — 
every town and its vicinity soon become crowded 
with mulattoes. In this respect slavery is the 
very sink of fikhiness, and the source of every 
hateful abomination. It seems to me astonishing 
that any government, much more that of the Uni- 
ted States, should sanction such a source of mon- 
strous crime as slavery evidently is ! And I am 
still more astonished that you, my brother, should 
countenance it in the least degree, either in the- 
ory or practice. It is fraught with such horrible 
abominations as ought to shock you and cause 
you to shrink from its first approaches. I would 
rather beg my bread from door to door, long as I 
live, than enslave even the meanest of my fellow 
creatures. My soul abhors the crime. 

I intend to dwell more upon the horrors of 
slavery in my next. Farewell Brother. 



LETTER VI. 



Affectionate Brother : 

In the preceding letter I commenced pointing 
out the extent of the slaveholder's power over his 
slaves, and therefore, in the present, I intend to 
continue the course thus begun. 

1 have already shown that the proprietors of 
slaves may deprive them of food and raiment, and 
even violate their chastity as w^ell as place them 
in such circumstances as are unfavorable to purity. 

And did their power extend no further than 
these particulars, it would in other respects be 
well for poor slaves ; but alas, these are merely 



LETTER VI. . 37 

the beginnings of their miseries ! And therefore 
in connection with the remarks made in the pre- 
ceding letter, I further observe that the slave- 
holder's power extends over the married relation 
among his slaves. He may prohibit them from 
forming that relation, and may also violate it after 
it is formed, and the exercise of such power often 
becomes a source of great misery. 

One of the most imperious laws of human na- 
ture is, that a man shall leave his father and his 
mother and cleave unto his wife. 'And the two 
shall be one flesh.' Mutual affection between the 
parties is the foundation upon which the married 
relation ought to be formed, and it is also the 
principal source of happiness after its formation. 
Hence the voices of nature and revelation unite 
in declaring that every man who has come to ma- 
ture age, ought to have liberty to possess the per- 
son of his choice when it is reciprocated by the 
person chosen. But a domineering master may 
prohibit his slave from enjoying the object of his 
choice, and doom him either to choose perpetual 
celibacy, or to enter into the nuptial relation with 
a person on whom he cannot place his affections ; 
and such alternative must be attended with most 
injurious effects. Perpetual celibacy, though not 
in every instance to be considered criminal, is ev- 
idently opposed to one of the strongest currents 
of nature, and one which sometimes, by unnatural 
obstruction, inundates the whole man, and involves 
him in dreadful ruin. And to marry a person for 
whom there is no affection, is to enter on a life of 
unabating misery — it opens a door to such do- 
mestic broils as nothing but final separation can 
terminate — it often becomes the means of the 
basest lewdness, and thus produces incalculable 
evil. We may reasonably conclude that much of 
the want of chastity which manifestly exists among 



38 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

slaves, has originated in the unjust control of 
their affections. 

Again, the proprietors of slaves have power not 
merely to prohibit them from marrying the per- 
sons of their choice, but may even separate them 
from such after the nuptial relation is formed. 
Indeed slavery seems to be almost entirely in- 
compatible with the married state. Slaves, like 
other property, are liable to be taken by execution 
and sold for debt, and so must fall into the hands 
of the highest bidders, who may drive them to 
some distant section of the country, and separate 
them from those to whom they are bound by the 
endearing relation of marriage. And they are 
liable to similar separation by falling into the 
hands of heirs who may scatter them abroad into 
far distant places. And we may further remark, 
that many wilfully sell their married slaves to men 
who follow the horrible practice of driving them 
to distant markets, without paying the least re- 
gard to any of the tender relations of life ! Hence 
it often happens that the poor slave, while labor- 
ing in the field, is suddenly seized by the cruel 
slavedriver, bound fast in iron fetters, and hur- 
ried off to a far distant market, without being per- 
mitted to return to his hapless hut, and there pour 
out his bursting floods of sorrow in taking his 
final leave of his disconsolate wife and children ! I 
Had he ten thousand worlds he w^ould gladly give 
them all for the warm embraces of his affectionate 
wife and fondling babes ! Oh ! what would he 
not give for the privilege of bathing the object of 
his affection in his parting tears ! The inmost re- 
cesses of his nature ardently crave the mingled 
floods of final separation ! ! But alas ! he must 
see the objects of his love no more ! no more enjoy 
the warm embrace ! and no more must he clasp 
to his tender heart his prattling babes ! Hope- 



LETTER VI. 39 

less man ! witness the anguish of his heart ! see 
what torrents gush from his eyes ! behold his 
downcast and sorrowful aspect ! listen to his 
plaintive sighs ! hear his piteous cries and ago- 
nizing groans ! His trembling nature racked in 
every part by the rising billows of sudden and 
overwhelming grief, calls for pity in accents 
melting as the doleful notes of expiring life ! 
But all is in vain ! The cruel slavedriver, long 
accustomed to such scenes of sorrow, remains 
unmoved by the agonizing groans of suffering hu- 
manity ; he is so far estranged from every tender 
feeling, that he even sports himself with the suf- 
ferings of his fellow creatures ; the groans of the 
poor slave seem to be as music to his ears, and 
the blood elicited by his torturing lash appears to 
be delightful to his eyes ! In vain the bereaved 
husband, with languishing eye, looks for pity — 
the cruel whip urges him on to a far distant land 

— away he must move, loaded with weighty fet- 
ters, which are but faint emblems of his still more 
weighty sorrows — his affections linger far behind 

— his mind wanders far back, and hovers round 
the now disconsolate hut^ where once the kind at- 
tentions of an affectionate wife and the innocent 
prattling of his sportive babes dispelled the gloom 
and sweetened the toils of a servile life. O could 
he now awake and find that all has been a fright- 
ful dream, how would his sorrowful heart rejoice! 
but, alas ! all is dreadful reality. The last hope 
is gone ! All that could cheer the heart and bear 
up the desponding mind amidst the sufferings and 
toils of unjust and cruel bondage, is gone ! forever 
gone! horrible tyrants have robbed him of the last 
drop of consolation! His wife and children, uncon- 
scious of what has happened, long and anxiously 
wait his return; but, ah! he is never to return! nev- 
er again to cheer the dreary hut with his presence, 



40 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

or gladden the hearts of his wife and children by 
his visits of love ! His innocent hands are bound 
with cruel fetters, and wicked monsters are drag- 
ing him to a far distant land where he must 
throughout life endure still harder bondage, and 
even that embittered by the loss of all that is dear 
to an affectionate father and tender husband. At 
length the sad news arrives at the miserable hut 
that the father and husband is gone ! gone in 
chains ! gone to a distant land ! gone to return no 
more ! gone, not down to the peaceful chambers 
of death no more to weep, no more to sigh; but 
gone to a land where slavery sits upon her ebon 
throne, and thence dispenses all her blackest hor- 
rors ! a land where starvation reigns in all its 
meagre forms ! and where cruelty deals out long 
years of death ! Hapless mother ! hapless chil- 
dren ! By relentless tyranny bereaved of every 
hope, of all that is dear on earth, and doomed to 
linger out a servile life in hopeless grief ! The 
little hut is filled with throbs, and sighs, and ago- 
nizing groans ! It is now more like the abodes of 
ruined spirits, in which doleful despair in mid- 
night horror reigns, than like the abodes of man !* 
In the public papers of slaveholding States, yoU' 
may see fathers and mothers, and husbands and 
wives, and children advertised for public sale, and 
that in connection with a variety of beasts. And 
in those States, while droves of slaves are collect- 
ing for a distant market, the public prisons are 
frequently crowded with parents and children, and 
husbands and wives, who are thus imprisoned for 
no other crime than that of loving their corres- 
ponding relatives ! And as soon as the drove is 
completed, they are loaded with chains, and drivea 
like beasts to a distant market ! Thus in the 
boasted land of freedom you may hear the clank- 
ing chains of the most horrible oppression ! Yes^ 



LETTER VI. 41 

in America, the far-famed America, you may hear 
the clankings of the chains that bind innocent hus- 
bands and wives, and parents and children, in 
order that they may be forever separated from the 
objects of their affections and all that is dear to 
them in life ! Could the tyrannical Pharaoh be 
more cruel than are the slaveholding States ? 

These horrible things happen not merely where 
slavery assumes its worst form, but very frequent- 
ly take place where it wears the mildest aspect: 
they often happen, even in Kentucky ; and some 
years since a respectable petition praying for the 
prohibition of slave driving and its attendant cru- 
elties, was forwarded to the Legislature, by a 
considerable number of the most humane citizens 
of that State, but was rejected ! And thus Ken- 
tucky has, by the voice of her Legislature, said 
that she will not prohibit one of the most shock- 
ing cruelties ever inflicted on man. She has said 
she will not regard the tears and groans and 
dreadful sufferings of the poor and despised Afri- 
cans. She has sanctioned all the horrors of slave- 
driving, and she, as a State, must answer for vio- 
lating the most sacred rights of man. 

Since the rejection of this humane petition, one 
of the grossest insults has in that State been of- 
fered to the general government of the United 
States, as well as to the most tender feelings of 
humanity, by the slavedriving Stone and Kin- 
ningham, of Bourbon Co., Kentucky. These un- 
feeling wretches purchased a considerable drove 
of slaves — how many of them were separated 
from husbands and wives, I will not pretend to 
say — and having chained a number of them to- 
gether, hoisted over them the flag of American 
liberty, and with the music of two violins marched 
the wo-worn, heart-broken and sobbing creatures 



42 LETTERS OX SLAVERY. 

through the town of Paris ! * Thus, in horrible 
contempt of the American government, innocent 
men are led in chains beneath its flag. And the 
eyes of the sublimely soaring eagle of American 
liberty are highly insulted while she is made to 

* In relation to this matter I will give you the statements of the Rev, 
James H. Dickej', who met the drove to which I allude before it entered 
Paris. 

" In the summer of 1822, as I returned with my family from a visit to 
the Barrens of Kentucky, I witnessed a scene such as 1 never witnessed 
before, and such as 1 hope never to witness again. Having passed through 
Paris, in Bourbon county, Ky., the sound of music (beyond a little rising 
ground) attracted my attention; f looked forward and saw the flag of my 
country waving. Supposing; that I was about to meet a military parade, 
1 drove hastily to the side of the road ; and haying gained the top of the 
ascent, I discovered (f suppose) about forty black men all chained together 
after the following manner ; each of them was handcuffed, and they were 
arranged in rank and file. A chain, perhaps 40 feet long, the size of a fifth- 
horse-chain, was stretched between the two ranks, to which short chains 
were joined, which connected with the handcuffs. Behind them were, I 
suppose, about thirty women, in double rank, the couples tied hand to 
hand. A solemn sadness sat on every countenance, and the dismal silence 
of this march of despair v/as interrupted only by the sound of two violins ; 
yes, as if to add insult to injury, the foremost couple were furnished with 
a violin apiece; the second couple were ornamented with cockades, while 
near the centre waved the Republican flag carried by a hand literally in 
chains. T perhaps have mistaken some punctilos of the arrangement, for 
• my soul was sick,' my feelings were mingled and pungent. As a man, I ■ 
sympathized with suffering humanity, as a Christian, 1 mourned over the 
transgressions of God's holy law, and as a republican I felt indignant, to 
see the flag of my beloved country thus insulted I could not forbear ex- 
claiming to the lordly driver who rode at his ease along side, 'Heaven will 
curse that man who engages in such traffic, and the government that pro- 
tects him in it.' I pursued my journey till evening, and put up for the 
night ; when 1 mentioned the scene I had witnessed, ' Ah !' cried my land- 
lady, ' that is my brother.' From her I learned that his name is Stone, of 
Bourbon county, Kentucky, in partnership with one Kinningham of Paris ; 
and that a few days before he had purchased a negro woman from a man 
in Nicholas county ; she refused to go with him ; he attempted to compel 
her, but she defended herself. Without farther ceremony, he stepped back 
and by a blow on the side of her head with the butt of his whip brought 
her to the ground ; he tied her and drove her off. I learned farther, that 
besides the drove I had seen, there were about thirty shut up in the Paris 
prison for safe keeping, to be added to the company, and that they were 
destined for the Orleans market. And to this they are doomed for no 
•other crime than that of a black skin and curled locks. 

Ah me, what wish can prosper, or what prayer 

For merchants rich in cargoes of despair > 

Who drive a loathsome traffic, guage and span, 

And buy the muscles and the bones of man. Cowper. 

Shall I not visit for these things, saith the Lord? shall not my soul be 
avenged on such a nation as this .' 
But i forbear, and subscribe myself yours 

JAMES H. DICKEY. 
September 30, 1824." 



LETTER VII. 43 

hover over the detestable chains of cruel bondage! 
And the feelings of humanity are shocked at see- 
ing the most oppressive sorrows of suffering in- 
nocence mocked with all the lightness of sportive 
music ! And who can help feeling indignant at 
seeing the American flag becoming the derision 
of tyrants ! 

O that every tender heart could be made ac- 
quainted with the sorrows of the poor enslaved 
Africans ! O that every sympathetic ear could 
hear their agonizing groans. Then would the 
energies of our nation arise and demand their re- 
lief But their sufferings are unknown ; they far 
transcend the highest description that can be 
given by the pens of mortals ! 

Eternal Sovereign of the sky, 

Wilt thou not hear the negro's sigh? 

Wilt thou not break his galling chains, 

And ease liim from his dreadful pains .' 

Yes, mancipators ail must feel 

Thy vengeance like a racking wheel, 

That on them shall forever turn, 

Long as thy ceaseless wrath shall burn! 

Beware, brother, lest this vengeance may light 
on you. 

Perhaps you are tired of hearing of the horrors 
of slavery, but I feel disposed to dwell longer 
upon them. Adieu for the present. 



LETTER VII. 



Affectionate Brother : 

I must still continue to unfold the extent of the 
slaveholder's power over his slaves. 

In addition to what we have already said upon 
this subject, we remark that slaves are moral 



44 LETTERS ON Sl.AVERY. 

agents, and therefore are accountable creatures, 
and bound to worship God according to the dic- 
tates of his word ; but a wicked master may ac- 
tually prohibit them from obeying the ordinances 
of God, deprive them of hearinor the gospel, and 
even compel them to do what is absolutely forbid- 
den by the divine law, and what is entirely con- 
trary to the dictates of their own consciences. 
And thus he is permitted to tyrannize over the 
consciences of men, which is the worst of all ty- 
ranny. The rights of conscience have, by all' 
good men in every age of the world, been deemed 
most sacred. For them thousands of our ances- 
tors beyond the great water shed the last drop of 
their blood, and for them thousands more lied to 
the savage wilderness of America, and have here 
erected the standard of religious liberty. ' They 
have made the solitary places glad, and the wil- 
derness to blossom as the rose.' But in this now 
highly favored land, thousands of innocent men 
are enslaved, and deprived of the rights of con- 
science. They are, in many instances, prohibited 
from attending either to the concerns of their own 
souls, or those of their children. And nothing but 
some extraordinary exercise of divine sovereignty 
can prevent the wicked slaveholder from fixing the 
eternal destiny of his slaves. To give fallen men 
such absolute control over the eternal destinies 
of the immortal mind is cruel beyond all descrip- 
tion. You perhaps may reply, that parents exer- 
cise a similar control over the destinies of their 
children, and that expressly by divine permission. 
To this I answer that the absolute power of pa- 
rents over their children is sweetly tempered with 
parental affection, and is thus strongly guarded 
against injurious effects ; and it extends no further 
than mmor age, and they are solemnly commanded 
to use it with lenity, and to bring up their ' chil- 



LETTER VII. 45 

dren in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.' 
Hence it is evident that the power of slaveholders 
over their slaves, and that of parents over their 
children, are essentially different ; the one is mild, 
natural and necessary, and the other is unnatural, 
unnecessary and cruel. 

Again, the proprietors of slaves may exact from 
them excessive labor, and thus lay upon them an 
intolerable burden during life. It is well known 
that many masters are so avaricious that they can- 
not be satisfied with a reasonable quantity of labor. 
The manner in which these unfeeling monsters 
exact labor from their poor slaves may be illustra- 
ted by a single fact, the knowledge of which came 
to me from a respectable source, and though it 
appears most shocking to every humane feeling, 
yet I believe it can be fully attested. 

A wealthy citizen of Georgia purchased, on 
shipboard, six African girls, who probably were 
directly from Africa, and having brought them 
home, he put them into the hands of his overseer, 
and ordered him to assign them a certain portion of 
labor during each day of the week, and in case they 
should fail to perform it, he was commanded to 
give them a considerable number of lashes each, 
and to add the remainder of the task to the next 
day's labor ; and in case they should fail to per- 
form the whole he was ordered to add to the num- 
ber of lashes in proportion to the failure, and still 
to add the deficiency to the next day's labor ; and 
thus he was daily to increase both the labor and 
stripes in case of failure. The overseer, hard- 
hearted as he was, expostulated with him, and as- 
sured him that the labor was more than the girls 
were able to perform, but he swore with a tremen- 
dous oath that they should do it or die. The poor 
creatures commenced the dreadful task, but being 
unaccustomed to such labor, their hands were soon 



46 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

worn to the quick ; this they endured with patience, 
and did all they could to perform what was assigned 
them, but they were totally unable to accomplish 
it ; they failed on the first day and recived the 
cruel lashes. The next morning with sore backs 
and bleeding hands they attempted the enlarged 
task — their hoe-handles were soon made red with 
their innocent blood — they labored with great as- 
siduity, but they could not perform the unreason- 
able task, and consequently received the enlarged 
number of lashes. On the third morning they 
commenced again, but the task was so much en- 
larged that all hope of performing it was entirely 
precluded, and the enormously increased number 
of lashes became certain — the unhappy creatures 
despaired of life, and concluded that they must 
inevitably die under the torturing lash, unless 
they could despatch themselves in some other 
method. This appeared to be the only means of 
escaping the most terrible cruelty. Hence they 
formed and executed the dreadful design of hansf- 
ing themselves. The horn blew for dinner, all 
started to their huts, but these unfortunate girls 
lingered behind, and unobserved by the rest of 
the company turned aside into a thicket, and there 
all six hanged themselves ! They were soon mis- 
sed, and search was quickly made for them — 
they were immediately found, and the cruel mas- 
ter, enraged by the disappointment and loss, made 
every possible exertion to bring them back to life, 
that they might again fall under the weight of his 
vengeance ! but all his attempts were in vain — 
their souls were gone into awful eternity, and had 
their eternal destiny unalterably fixed ! And being 
exceedingly exasperated on finding that they had 
escaped from his hand, he ordered a hole to be 
dug for them, and caused them to be tumbled into 
it like mere animal carcasses, while he vented the 



LETTER VII. 47 

most awful imprecations upon them ! And the 
overseer was ordered to exact from the rest of 
his slaves what labor he intended them to perform. 

Thus we see that a single tyrant has driven six 
poor, helpless females out of life by exacting from 
them excessive labor. And who can estimate the 
sum of similar cruelties that are practiced upon 
the poor Africans, by the many thousand tyrants, 
who, from the slaveholding States, have literally 
received license for tyrannical exercise ? To per- 
mit men to hold slaves is in reality the same thing 
as to give them license to commit cruelties, and 
those even of the most shocking kind. By such 
license the poor African girls we have just men- 
tioned perished, and by it thousands are daily 
dropping into eternity from under the grievous 
burdens of excessive toil. That men will work 
their slaves to excess, must be expected when the 
inordinate love of gain is the predominating prin- 
ciple in the whole system of involuntary slavery. 
This principle induces many slaveholders to em- 
ploy such overseers as are destitute of humane 
feeling, and naturally propense to cruelty, and 
thus well prepared to drive poor slaves to the 
highest degree of excessive labor. And in some 
instances they are given such an interest in the 
pending crops as stimulates them to the greatest 
severity in driving the miserable creatures whom 
they oversee. Thus the principles of avarice and 
cruelty in heaping most oppressive burdens of la- 
bor upon slaves, and that under such circumstan- 
ces their situation is most deplorable, must be 
obvious to every one capable of reflection. 

The same principle which induces some to place 
their slaves under the most merciless overseers, 
prompts others to take theirs to public places and 
let them for hire, to the highest bidders. In this 
way slaves often fall into the hands of the most 



48 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

cruel tyrants the world can produce, and conse- 
quently are most grievously oppressed by exces- 
sive labor — they must undergo whatever an insa- 
tiable avarice is pleased to lay upon them, and, 
like the ever yawning grave, it never says it 
is enough — it never compassionates the weary 
limbs ot the poor enslaved Africans, nor proposes 
rest to those whom it chains down to servile life. 
It even drives them to the laborious task while 
they are sinking under the influence of mortal 
disease. 

Those who are unacquainted with the depravity 
of the human heart, may be disposed to believe it 
impossible that any should be so cruel as to drive 
their slaves to work while they are laboring under 
mortal disease ; but it can be established by the 
best of testimony that slaves have been thus 
driven, and that almost to the moment of expira- 
tion ! 

A respectable gentleman, who is now a citi- 
zen of Flemingsburg, Fleming county, Kentucky, 
was, when in the State of South Carolina, invited 
by a slaveholder to walk with him and take a view 
of his farm. He complied with the invitation thus 
given, and in their walk they came to the place 
where the slaves were at work, and found the 
overseer whipping one of them very severely for 
not keeping pace with his fellows — in vain the 
poor fellow alledged that he was sick and could 
not work. The master seemed to think all was 
well enough, hence he and the gentleman passed 
on. In the space of an hour they returned by the 
same way, and found that the poor slave who had 
been whipped as they first passed by the field of 
labor, was actually dead ! This I have from un- 
questionable authority. 

Thus we see that a merciless overseer will push 
his hapless slave for his labor, to the last moment, 



LETTER VIII. ' 49 

and follow him with the torturing lash into the very 
gates of eternity ! 

Similar cruelty has happened in Kentucky. In 
that State an unfeeling woman compelled a female 
slave to labor during the space of four days after 
she had received the mortal attack ! Thus are 
the poor creatures driven while their mortal frames 
are able to move. And the manner in which they 
are often treated after they are so reduced by dis- 
ease as to be no longer able to move, is equally 
cruel. 

A respectable physician of my acquaintance and 
now residing in the State of Alabama, did in that 
State attend upon twenty slaves, who were con- 
fined by severe fevers, and that in an open pen 
without roof, and thus were exposed to every 
shower of rain that fell during the time of their 
sickness. 

This seems to be almost incredible ; but the 
source from which I have it is so unquestionable 
as to remove from my mind every doubt of its 
truth. 

You may soon expect to hear from me again. 

I AM YOURS, &c. 



LETTER VIII. 



Dear Brother: 

I design, in the present letter, to remark upon 
the extent of the slaveholder's power in relation 
to the infliction of corporeal punishments. 

It is undeniable that the proprietors of slaves 
may punish them in any manner which a cruel 



50 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

spirit of revenge may dictate, provided they do 
not break limbs or take life. Hence they may 
torture them extremely during many years, and 
cause them to endure more than a thousand ordi- 
nary deaths, and yet neither take life nor even 
break a limb. Hence, 1 apprehend, there never 
has been among men a law productive of more 
misery than the one which permits men not mere- 
ly to enslave, but even torture their fellow-crea- 
tures according to the dictates of every vengeful 
passion. I cannot express the indignation which 
I feel, when contemplating the injustice and cru- 
elty of this detestable law. I abhor it more than 
I do the most loathsome carcass, and I detest all 
who, either in theory or practice, give it their 
sanction. But I am too passionate ; let me recall 
this harsh expression, which has been dictated by 
the tumultuous passions of my soul, aroused to the 
highest pitch of indignant feeling by the horrible 
scenes of cruelty that were presented to my mind! 
My flighty imagination added much to the tumult 
of passion by persuading me, for the moment, that 
I myself was a slave, and with my wife and chil- 
dren placed under the reign of terror. I began 
in reality to feel for myself, my wife, and my 
children — the thoughts of being whipped at the 
pleasure of a morose and capricious master, 
aroused the strongest feelings of resentment ; but 
when 1 fancied that the cruel lash was approach- 
ing my wife and children, and my imagination de- 
picted in lively colors, their tears, their shrieks, 
and bloody stripes, every indignant principle of 
my nature was excited to the highest degree, and 
I could not well avoid execrating the law that per- 
mitted such injustice and cruelty, and my soul de- 
tested all who either in theory or practice gave it 
their sanction. But my mind has now returned 
from its reverie, and 1 find that these dreadful 



LETTER VIII. 51 

sufferinofs are not so near home as 1 had imagined 
— the enslaved Africans have to endure them, 
and not I and my family, and therefore my bois- 
terous feelings are sinking into a calm, and I be- 
gin to lament my harshness — and you, my broth- 
er, will readily forgive it, if}^ou will but bring the 
subject home to yourself by imagining that you 
are a slave, and, as such, subjected to the unre- 
lenting lash of a cruel master, who delights to 
show his authority, and to treat you with the ut- 
most indignity. And unless you will do this I am 
afraid you will be often offended with my warmth 
and severity. We are naturally too callous to 
the sufferings of others, and consequently prone 
to look upon them with cold indifference, until, in 
imagination we identify ourselves with the suffer- 
ers, and make their sufferings our own. And the 
moment we do this, our whole nature teems with 
sympathy, our feelings become impetuous, and the 
wings of passion bear us away to the abodes of 
suffering humanity, there to administer relief. 
When 1 look upon slavery as a distant thing, and 
inflicted upon an indifferent race of beings, it seems 
to wear a tolerable aspect; but when I bring it 
near, inspect it closely, and find that it is inflicted 
on men and women who possess the same nature 
and feelings wiih myself, my sensibility is imme- 
diately roused — but when I, who sustain the re- 
lations of husband and father, see a husband and 
father whipped severely in the presence of his 
wife and children, and that perhaps merely to 
gratify the caprice of an ill-natured master, my 
feelings become indignant ; and when I see the 
mother most cruelly scourged in the presence of 
her husband and children, my feelings grow intol- 
erable — my soul sickens at the sight, and my in- 
dignation almost prompts me to unlawful deeds of 
i^engeance. But how can I quell my tumultuous 



52 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

passions, when, in addition to all this, I see the 
poor little children whipped in the presence of 
their parents, until their little backs are literally 
covered with blood ? Had you, my brother, to 
endure all these cruelties, would you not abhor 
the law that permitted them to be inflicted upon 
you ? And would you not detest all the people, 
who, either in theory or practice, gave it their 
sanction ? Indeed, such a law must appear most 
detestable to every one that views it in its real 
nature and tendency — it sanctions the most tragi- 
cal scenes of cruelty ever witnessed among men 
— it permits the slaveholder to bind his fellow- 
man, strip him naked, and whip him on the bare 
skin, with the keenest whips that art can invent, 
and that just so long as the most vengeful passion 
may dictate, provided the life is spared ! Hence 
many poor slaves are stript naked, stretched and 
tied across barrels, or large logs, and tortured 
with the keenest lashes, during hours and even 
whole days, until their flesh is mangled to the 
very bones. Others are stript and hung np by 
the arms, their feet are tied together, and the end 
of a heavy piece of timber is put between their 
legs in order to stretch their bodies, and so pre- 
pare them for the torturing lash — and in this sit- 
uation they are often whipt until their bodies are 
covered with blood and mangled flesh, and in or- 
der to add the greatest keenness to their suffer- 
ings, their wounds are v/ashed with liquid salt ! 
And some of the miserable creatures are permitted 
to hang in that position until they actually expire; 
some die under the lash, others linger about for 
some time, and at length die of their wounds, and 
many survive, and endure again similar torture. 
These bloody scenes are constantly exhibited in 
every slaveholding country — thousands of w^iips 
are every day stained in African blood ! Even 



LETTER VIII. 53 

the poor females are not permitted to escape these 
shocking cruelties. Of this I will give you an in- 
stance. 

A certain citizen of Kentucky purchased a piece 
of furniture, and after he brought it home, his 
wife unfortunately broke some small part of it, 
and that in the presence of a neighboring gentle- 
man ; she, nevertheless, charged it upon a black 
girl of about seventeen years of age. The girl 
honestly declared her, innocence, but the mistress 
persisted in her charge against her. At length 
the brutish master seized the poor unfortunate 
girl, drew her clothes up over her head, hanged 
her by them to the limb of a tree, and in that 
shameful position vvhipt her several times very 
severely. By the extremity of torture she was 
sometimes forced to say that she did break the 
furniture, but in the moment of respite, she would 
honestly deny it again — and this subjected her to 
more torture. Fortunately for the poor girl the 
gentleman who was present wh^n the woman 
broke the furniture, happened to be passing by ; 
he paused in amazement at the shocking scene — 
he soon discovered th€ cause of the cruelty ; in- 
dignation overcame him ; he approached the bru- 
tish master, and told him that his own wife had 
broken the furniture in his presence, and declared 
that if he did not cease from torturing the poor 
girl he would give him as much as he had given 
her; with this the shameless monster thought it 
necessary to comply, and for that time the poor 
girl was released from his torturing hand. The 
gentleman who rescued the girl and stated this 
fact, is now a resident of the State of Ohio, and is 
known to be a man of truth. 

It is painful to my feelings to record such a 
shameful outrage upon decency and humanity ; 
but it is necessary to do it in order to show the 



54 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

horrible extent of the slaveholder's power over 
his slaves. Every slaveholder has power to strip 
his female slaves, and treat them in the same dis- 
graceful manner, and thousands of them are base 
enough to put such power into exercise. It really 
grieves me to think that any government, and 
much more that our own, does sanction such an 
abomination. 

Finally, our system of slavery puts it completely 
in the power of the slaveholders to dismember 
their slaves, or even murder them at pleasure I 
It is true that slaveholding States have enacted 
laws to prohibit the proprietors of slaves from 
breaking their limbs or taking their lives ; but 
what avail such laws while slaves are made the 
property of their masters .'' May not men order 
their property to any place to which they may 
wish it to go .'* Hence, may not the vengeful 
master order his slave into his kitchen, or some 
other secret place, and there break all his limbs, 
tear out his eyes, and even murder him with the 
most savage cruelty } Or may he not do all this, 
even in the open field, in the presence of a thou- 
sand other slaves, and yet escape the sentence of 
the law .'* Not one of all this thousand could be 
a witness against him, and perhaps not one of 
them would even so much as dare to mention the 
crime. Hence, the poor slave has no security, 
either for his limbs or his life, further than what 
is in the will of his master. And, alas! there is 
often but little there. Could you secretly attend 
the fields, the kitchen, and the huts in which 
slaves labor and live, you would see limbs broken, 
skulls fractured, and even eyes torn out. And 
what is, if possible, still worse, you would see 
many most cruelly murdered. 

A respectable young lady of my acquaintance^, 
received a most painful shock by unexpectedly 



LETTER VIII. 55 

discovering one of the terrible things which are 
sometimes done in the kitchen. She visited the 
house of a certain Kentuckian, who was consid- 
ered reputable. There she seemed at first to en- 
joy a pleasant hour in the social circle. In the 
parlor everything appeared comfortable and de- 
cent — every countenance was so cheerful that 
one might have imagined that good nature and 
happiness resided in the bosom of each member 
of the family. But, alas ! she unfortunately 
stepped into the kitchen. And, ah ! how changed 
was the scene. The most doleful aspect sa- 
luted her delicate eyes ; there sat a poor old 
black woman with one of her eyeballs hanging on 
her cheek ! it had been torn from the socket by 
the hand of her mistress ! how painful was the 
sight, and how doleful was the tale of wo ! and 
how little did the young visitant expect to wit- 
ness such a scene ! She could not conceal her 
feelings — she wept, and she retired with emo- 
tions of horror ! This shocking cruelty was com- 
mitted with impunity — no law could possibly reach 
the case. The tale of the poor sable sufferer 
would not be heard in court, and such crimes are 
seldom perpetrated in the presence of such as 
would be heard ; and when they are, but few if 
any are willing to be at the expense and trouble 
of commencing and supporting a prosecution on 
the behalf of slaves. The truth is, when once a 
man is made the property of another, and thus put 
completely under his control, it is impossible to 
enact laws that will protect either his life or his 
limbs. And every attempt to punish the master 
for abusing the slave will but instigate him to 
greater cruelty ! The love of gain affords all 
the protection the poor slaves can have, and it is 
well known that this has but little influence on the 
violent passions of men — to the vicious heart re- 
venge is gain. 



5Q LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Ill spite of all law, slaveholders have the power 
of life and death over their slaves. And some of 
them do exercise such power with perfect impu- 
nity. It is undeniable that some drive their slaves 
nearly naked through frost and snow until they 
perish with cold ; some gradually starve them to 
death ; and some cause them to expire beneath 
the burden of excessive toil ; others whip them to 
death in a manner that more than equals the cru- 
elty of the most barbarous savages ; and not a 
few murder them with clubs, axes and guns, or 
such like fatal weapons ! It is undeniable, that 
in these several ways many slaves are murdered 
with the utmost impunity ! It is seldom that even 
so much as a prosecution is incurred by murdering 
them ; and I do not recollect of ever hearing of 
a single individual being executed for taking the 
life of his slave. I am persuaded there is as much 
humane feeling in Fleming county, Kentucky, as 
can be found in any slaveholding section of coun- 
try, of the same extent, and I think this will be 
readily admitted by all who are acquainted with 
the people of that county ; and yet there is a cer- 
tain individual, in consequence of an unjust sus- 
picion, fell upon his poor old slave, beat him in 
the face, and mashed it in such a manner as soon 
terminated his life; yet by it he incurred not evea 
so much as a prosecution ! I mention this case, 
not because it is either singular or novel, but be- 
cause it happened in one of the most humane sec- 
tions of one of the mildest slaveholding countries, 
and therefore, is well calculated to show what is 
the real state of things, even where slavery wears 
its mildest aspect. It shows clearly that the sys- 
tem of slavery in its best form is fraught with the 
most horrid murders^ 

I will close this part of my subject by giving 
you an account of the most terrible display of 



LETTER VIII. 57 

slaveholding power, one that ought to make every 
slaveholding nation tremble, and one that must fill 
every humane bosom with horror ! I will give it 
just as I received it from the pen of the Rev. Wil- 
liam Dickey, who is well acquainted with the cir- 
cumstances which he describes, and who is a man 
of undoubted veracity. 

"In the county of Livingston, Ky., near the 
mouth of the Cumberland, lived Lilburn Lewis, a 
sister's son of the venerable Jefferson. He, who 
'suckled at fair Freedom's breast,' was the wealthy 
owner of a considerable number of slaves, whom 
he drove constantly, fed sparingly, and lashed se- 
verely. The consequence was, they would run 
away. This must have given to a man of spirit 
and a man o>f business great anxieties until he 
found them, or until they had starved out and re- 
turned. Among the rest was an ill-grown boy 
about seventeen, who having just returned from a 
skulking spell, was sent to the spring for water, 
and in returning let fall an elegant pitcher. It 
was dashed to shivers upon the rocks. This was 
the occasion. It was night, and the slaves all at 
home. The master had them collected into the 
most roomy negro-house, and arousing fire made. 
When the door was secured, that none might es- 
cape, either through fear of him or sympathy with 
George, he opened the design of the interview ; 
namely, that they might be effectually taught to 
stay at home and obey his orders. All things be- 
ing now in train, he called up George, who ap- 
proached his master with the most unreserved sub- 
mission. He bound him with cords, and by the 
assistance of his younger brother, laid him on the 
broad bench or meat-block. He now proposed to 
WHANG off George by the ancles ! ! It was with 
the broad axe ! — In vain did the unhappy victim 
SCREAM AND ROAR; he was completely in his mas- 



58 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. ' 

ter's power. Not a hand amongst so many durst 
interfere. Casting the feet into the fire, he lec- 
tured them at some length. He whacked him 
OFF below the knees ! George roaring out, and 
praying his master to begin at the other end ! 
He admonished them again, throwing the legs into 
the fire ! Then above the knees, tossing the joints 
into the fire ! He again lectured them at leisure. 
The next stroke severed the thighs from the body. 
These were also committed to the flames. And 
so off" the arms, head and trunk until all was in 
the fire ! still protracting the intervals with lec- 
tures, and threatenings of like punishment in case 
of disobedience and running away, or disclosure 
of this tragedy. Nothing now remained but to 
consume the flesh and bones ; and for this pur- 
pose the fire was briskly stirred until two hours 
after midnight, when, as though the earth would 
cover out of sight the nefarious scene, and as 
though the great Master in Heaven would put a 
mark of his displeasure upon such monstrous cru- 
elty, a sudden and surprising shock of earthquake 
overturned the coarse and heavy back wall, com- 
posed of rock and clay, which completely covered 
the fire, and the remains of George. This put an 
end to the amusement of the evening. The ne- 
groes were permitted to disperse, with charges to 
keep this matter among themselves, and never to 
whisper it in the neighborhood under the penalty 
of a like punishment. When he retired, the lady 
exclaimed, ' Oh, Mr. Lewis, where have you been, 
and what have you done !' She had heard a 
strange pounding, and dreadful screams, and had 
smelt something like fresh meat burning ! He 
said that he had never enjoyed himself at a ball so 
well as he had enjoyed himself that evening. 
Next morning he ordered the negroes to rebuild 
the back wall, and he himself superintended the 



LETTER VIII. 59 

work, throwing the pieces of flesh that still re- 
mained with the bones behind it as it went up, 
thus hoping to conceal the matter. But it could 
not be hid ; much as the negroes seemed to haz- 
ard, they whispered the horrid deed to the neigh- 
bors, who came and before his eyes tore down the 
wall, and findino; the remains of the boy they tes- 
tified against him. But before the court sat, to 
which he was bound over, he was, by an act of 
suicide, with George in the eternal world. 

Sure there are bolts red with no common wrath 
to blast the man. WILLIAM DICKEY. 

Bloomingsburg, Oct. 8, 1824. 

N. B. This happened in 1811, if I be correct, 
the 16th of December. It was the Sabbath !" 

This awful scene of cruelty exhibits what tre- 
mendous things the slaveholder may do ! And 
though the dreadful wretch was taken up on sus- 
picion, and bound over to court, yet 1 apprehend 
there was little probability of his actually falling 
under the sentence of the law.* He might have 
eventually so managed the matter as to make the 
sentence fall upon the heads of his slaves. But 
be that as it might, it is certain that the State, by 
making men his property, gave him the opportu- 
nity of perpetrating the horrid deed, and therefore 
it stands first in the list of crimes ! 

From your Affectionate Brother. 

* This apprehension is rendered very probable by the fact that the popu- 
lace actually let him out of prison in order to screen him from justice. 



60 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 



LETTER IX. 

Kind Brother: 

In the preceding letters I believe it is clearly 
shown, that involuntary slavery is opposed to the 
strongest principles and feelings of human nature, 
and if so, it forms a relation for which the God of 
nature, in the organization of the human system, 
has made no provision ; and it appears to me self- 
evident that a relation so unnatural must be a 
constant source of misery to the several parties it 
unites. I invited your attention to its dreadful 
effects upon the party enslaved, while I was point- 
ing out the extent of the slaveholder's power; and 
I shall now proceed to notice its tendency in re- 
spect to the enslaving party. 

I. It is opposed to domestic peace. Slaves, 
as we have before shown, are generally raised 
without moral instruction, and consequently pos- 
sess a low degree of moral feeling, and therefore 
they are not very conscientious in regard to the 
preservation of domestic peace. And a variety 
of families and individuals of different habits and 
feelings are crowded too^ether in such a manner 
as is calculated to produce fierce contention. 
This disturbs the peace of the master's own family, 
and so becomes a source of perpetual vexation. 

Again, slaves generally consider that they are 
laboring for others and not for themselves, and 
therefore they will avoid performing the labor as- 
signed them as much as they can with safety to 
their backs, and even what they do is seldom 
done in a suitable manner. These things are a 
constant source of provocation to masters and 
overseers, and often instigate them to the greatest 
outrage and cruelty. 



LETTER IX. 61 

And we may further remark that slaves are 
generally but little influenced by the principles 
either of honor or piety, and consequently they 
often give themselves up to the practice of intem- 
perance, falsehood, treachery, dishonesty and 
lewdness ; and all these vices are frequently 
made to bear upon the master's family in such a 
manner as entirely banishes domestic peace. Thus 
a variety of circumstances conspire to deprive 
slaveholding families of that peace which is most 
essential to happiness, and the more they enslave 
and oppress their fellow-creatures, the more they 
increase their own disquietude and misery. 

II. Idleness is generally one result of slavery. 
Necessity is the parent of industry — few are 
willing to labor when necessity does not inipel 
them ; and slaveholding families seldom feel the 
influence of this impelling principle. Conse- 
quently, where slaveholding parents feel disposed 
to raise their children to habits of industry, they 
generally find it exceedingly difficult, and in 
many instances totally impracticable. Children, 
in slaveholding countries, early imbibe the senti- 
ment that work is the business of slaves, and that 
for free people to labor is of course disgraceful. 
This pernicious sentiment soon finds its way 
through the whole slaveholding community. Hence 
parents cannot brook the idea of shoving their 
children down to the rank of slaves, by making 
them labor. And the consequence of this is soon 
strongly manifested by the conduct of the rising 
family. The young masters cannot deign to pol- 
lute their hands with domestic concerns — and 
when they wish to ride abroad, their horses must 
be equipped and brought to the door, and the 
stirrups held by the humble slave while the young 
gallants mount. And should the delicate young 
misses sweep the house, or carry a bucket of 



62 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

water, they would scarcely be able to survive the 
disgrace ! 

These gentry despise and treat with contempt 
the laboring class of the community. They con- 
sider them to be no better than slaves, and there- 
fore will not admit them to the privileges of equals ; 
and in consequence of this many become ashamed 
to labor. Hence some who are scarcely able to 
procure bread, hire slaves to do the very labor 
which they might, and ought, but are ashamed to 
do themselves. 1 know by actual observation tliat 
this is true. And I presume that none who are 
acquainted with the slaveholding States will deny 
that slavery tends to idleness. 

III. Slavery promotes vice among the free in- 
habitants of slaveholding States. By producing 
idleness it affords the opportunity of practicing 
immorality. Those who are closely engaged in 
useful occupations have little time for the practice 
of vice, but those who are idle have ample, time 
for obeying the calls of every vicious appetite and 
passion, and consequently soon become a prey to 
their corrupt inclinations. Hence we may always 
expect to find the most confirmed habits of vice 
where idleness prevails. 

Again, slaves, in consequence of the manner in 
which they are raised, are generally prone to 
vicious indulgence, and many of them are exceed- 
ingly profligate ; their master's children often 
mingle with them, and not only witness their vi- 
cious practices, but also listen to lascivious con- 
versation, and thus from infancy they become fa- 
miliar with almost everything wicked and obscene. 
And this in connection with easy access, becomes 
a strong temptation to lewdness. Hence it often 
happens that the master's children practice the 
same vices which prevail among his slaves ! and 
even the master himself is liable to be overwhelmetl 



LETTER IX. 63 

by the floods of temptation. And in some instan- 
ces the father and his sons are involved in one 
common ruin ; nor do the daughters always es- 
cape this impetuous fountain of pollution. Were 
it necessary I could refer you to several instances 
of slaves actually seducing the daughters of their 
masters ! Such seductions sometimes happen 
even in the most respectable slaveholding fam- 
ilies. 

Further, slaves that are closely driven can earn 
much more than the coarse food and raiment 
which they eat and wear ; and therefore, by be- 
coming a source of gain, they afford the means of 
vicious indulgence. Hence gaming and intem- 
perance are often the products of slavery. It is 
well known that a vast number derive such profit 
from the labor of their slaves, as enables them to 
devote their time to gaming, lewdness and intem- 
perance. This class often give their whole atten- 
tion to the practice and propagation of vice, and 
thus spread their baneful influence over the whole 
face of society. Hence it appears to me that if 
a State were to design the propagation of immo- 
rality, it could scarcely devise a better plan for the 
accomplishment of such design than is that of our 
present system of slavery. It implants the prin- 
ciples of vice in children as soon as their minds 
are capable of rational exercise ; it cultivates 
them in the season of youth, and affords them the 
means of luxuriant growth in mature age. 

IV. Slavery debilitates the constitution of slave- 
holding people. Man was formed for action, and 
therelore exercise is as necessary to his health as 
food is to his life ; when he becomes inactive the 
powers of his nature languish, and debility per- 
vades his whole constitution. Hence, in order to 
call man forth to action the beneficent Creator 
formed the earth for culture, and beneath its sur- 



64 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

face deeply buried the richest treasures. But 
slavery violates the plan of infinite wisdom by 
dooming some to excessive toil, while it releases 
others from the healthful field of exercise, and 
thus gives them over to debility, sickness and 
death. And in connection with this, we may fur- 
ther observe, that so far as slavery promotes lewd- 
ness, luxury and intemperance, it must have a 
most debilitating effect upon the constitution. 
And under the operation of such effects every 
slaveholding people must ultimately become sickly 
and short-lived. 

V. Slavery must eventually tend to poverty. 
Slaveholders will engross large quantities of land, 
and this, in a great measure, will prevent the 
poorer class of people from acquiring real estates, 
or even a comfortable subsistence. Hence, ex- 
treme poverty in many instances must be inevita- 
ble. And even the richest slaveholders are not 
beyond the danger of poverty. Although great 
profit is often derived from the labor of slaves, 
yet that very profit iTequently becomes the means 
of confirming such habits of gaming, intemperance 
and extravagance as eventually reduce tlie most 
wealthy to the most extreme indigence. To this 
we may add, that the children of the most wealthy 
slaveholders are generally raised to such idleness 
and extravagance as completely prepare them for 
squandering the estates left them by their parents; 
and consequently it often happens, that in a short 
time after they become masters of great estates, 
they are involved in the deepest poverty ; and 
finally become the most worthless vagabonds the 
world can produce. 

We may further observe that in proportion as 
slaves increase, slaveholders will engross larger 
bodies of land, and of course there will be less 
room for free inhabitants ; therefore a diminution 



LETTER IX. 65 

of the free population must be the certain result 
of the increase of slaves. And persons who are 
enslaved have not the same motives to industry 
which influence those who are free when they la- 
bor for themselves, and consequently they are not 
equal, in the performance of labor, to an equal 
number of free men. Hence, not only the pov- 
erty of individuals, but also that of the state must 
be the certain result of slavery. And when slaves 
become so numerous that there is not land enough 
for them to cultivate, extreme indigence must 
soon be the consequence, both to the State and in- 
dividuals. 

VI. Ignorance is another result of slavery. It 
is seldom that persons who are brought up in idle- 
ness and ease, will endure the labor necessary to 
a liberal education. They often drone out many 
long years at college, and return home mere 
quacks in learning. They cannot be induced to 
make that application which is necessary in the 
pursuit of science. They have generally a much 
stronger propensity for pleasure and amusement, 
than for the acquirement of useful knowledge. 
And in addition to this, they have too high an 
opinion of their own dignity to submit to the gov- 
ernment of well-regulated seminaries. They 
often take ofl^ence at the very best regulations, 
and consequently desert the means of a good ed- 
ucation. And in some cases it is necessary to 
expel them from institutions of learning, in con- 
sequence of their vicious habits and ungovernable 
tempers. Thus a propensity for idleness, the love 
of pleasure, vicious habits and untractable dis- 
positions all conspire to prevent the slaveholding 
community from making progress in the paths of 
science. And though some noble minds may 
occasionally stem these difficulties, and climb to 
the highest eminence in learning, yet the great 



66 LETTERS OS SLAVERY. 

mass of the people will be more liable to retro- 
grade than to advance in literature. 

VII. Slavery weakens every State in which it 
exists. Slaveholders, as we before stated, will 
engross large bodies of land, and this of course 
leaves less room for free citizens, who, having to 
labor for the sustenance of themselves and their 
families, are despised and shoved down to a rank 
little above that of slaves ; this becomes to them 
a strong inducement to move into free States, 
where they can be admitted to an equal rank with 
their fellow-citizens. We may further add, that 
many of the very best citizens of the slaveholding 
States are conscientiously opposed to slavery, 
and fully apprized of its pernicious tendency upon 
society in general and particularly upon the rising 
generation ; and therefore, in order to save their 
offspring from temptation and impending ruin, 
they move into the free States^ where they may 
more easily train up their children to industry and 
morality. And, besides all this, slavery is the 
means of promoting lewdness, intemperance and 
luxury, by which thousands of the free inhabitants 
perish. Under the operation of these several 
causes every slaveholding State must grow weaker 
in proportion as the slave population increases. 
Slaves know they ought to be free, and therefore 
may be expected to embrace the first opportunity 
of breaking the yoke of bondage. This is fully 
established by the many insurrections that take 
place in various slaveholding countries ; hence 
almost every slave is to be considered an internal 
enemy. And in some States the slave population 
is already more extensive than the free, and is 
still rapidly increasing ; and must therefore soon 
become able, without foreign assistance, to over- 
power their oppressors. And. it is obvious that 
persoois raised in idleness, luxury and ease, are 



LETTER IX. 67 

but little calculated for making powerful resist- 
ance, and therefore must become an easy prey to 
their enemies. From all these circumstances we 
may safely conclude that all the slaveholding 
States will eventually become dependent on the 
free States for protection, both from their slaves 
and foreign invasion. Slaveholding States never 
can be powerful in war. Those who are unac- 
customed to labor cannot endure the fatigue of a 
campaign, and being habituated to commanding 
they are seldom willing to be commanded, and 
therefore are likely to become a prey to their own 
rashness. This doubtless occasioned some of the 
misfortunes of the Kentuckians during the last 
war. They were brave, but ungovernable; hence 
they fell into the hand of the enemy. 

VIII. Slavery cultivates a spirit of cruelty. 
Slaves consider themselves unjustly enslaved, and 
consequently they often neglect and slight the 
service assigned them ; this instigates the mas- 
ter to cruelty. And indeed many of the poor 
creatures, in consequence of the want of moral 
instruction, are so vicious as to elicit cruel treat- 
ment even from the most humane. Thus the 
children of slaveholders from infancy have the 
opportunity of becoming familiar with scenes of 
cruelty. This has a tendency to blunt the tender 
sensibilities of their nature, to make them think 
lightly of human misery, and fully prepare them 
for cruel indulgence when they arrive at mature 
age. Therefore it is obvious that a disposition to 
cruelty must in some measure pervade every 
slaveholding community. 

IX. Slavery tends to tyranny.* It is directly 
opposed to those fundamental principles of republi- 

*Tlie children of slaveholders are, in many instances, habituated to 
tyrannizing over slaves. This cultivates in them the spirit of tyranny. 
In this respect slavery has a most direct tendency to make tyrants. 



68 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

canism maintained in that part of the Declaration 
of Independence, which declares, ' That all men 
are created equal ; that they are endowed by 
their Creator with certain inalienable rights ; 
that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit 
of happiness.' These principles are absolutely 
denied by the slaveholding States. They prac- 
tica,lly declare that all men are not created equal, 
that liberty is not an inalienable right, and that a 
certain class of people have not a right to pursue 
their own happiness. They do in their constitu- 
tions create distinctions among men ; some they 
forever consign to the service of others. They 
tell us ' That no freeman ought to be taken or 
imprisoned, or deprived of his freehold, liberties, 
or privileges, or outlawed, or exiled, or in any 
manner destroyed, or deprived of his life, liberty, 
or property, but by the judgment of his peers, or 
by the law of the land,' [See the constitutions of 
Maryland, N. and S. Carolina, and Tennessee.] 
This plainly implies that the slave ought to be 
taken, imprisoned and destroyed without either 
judgment or law. The constitution of Kentucky 
tells us, ' That all freemen when they form a so- 
cial compact are equal.' [See the constitution of 
Kentucky, Art. X. Sec. I.] Kentucky cannot ad- 
mit ' i hat all are created equal,' nor that even 
freemen are equal until they become so by social 
compact. Thus she plainly denies a fundamental 
principle of the Declaration of Independence. 
And how widely does she differ from the free 
States, which declare in their constitutions ' That 
all men are born equally free and independent.' 
There is no State in the Union that makes stronger 
pretensions to republicanism than does Kentucky, 
and yet she both theoretically and practically de- 
nies the fundamental principle upon which the 
whole republican system rests. The truth is, all 



LETTER IX. 69 

the slaveholding States do practically maintain the 
fundamental principles of, absolute mon^irchj — 
which are, that all men are not equal, and that all 
men are not born equally free and independent. 
Every slaveholder is an absolute monarch to his 
slaves, and they are bound to approach him with 
all the sensibilities of inferiority which absolute 
monarchy can require. And many slaveholders 
do manifest by their conduct that they feel the 
same superiority over their poor slaves that ab- 
solute monarchs do over their miserable and abject 
subjects. 

It is well known that the slaveholding States 
have, ever since the Declaration of Independence, 
manifested a propensity for the unjust acquisition 
of power. They have ever had an unequitable 
representation in Congress. They consider slaves 
to be mere property, and yet for every seventy 
thousand of them they claim the right of sending 
one representative to Congress. This is de- 
cidedly a representation of property. The slave 
representation is as unjust and unreasonable as a 
cattle representation would be. Did they permit 
the poor slaves to choose for themselves a repre- 
sentation which might contend for their rights 
in the national legislature, none would have rea- 
son to reproach them for injustice with respect to 
such representation. But, alas ! the slave repre- 
sentation is for a far different purpose. It is to 
strengthen the yoke and tighten the chains of 
cruel oppression. But the slave representation 
appears to me still more unjust, when I consider 
that the States which hold the greatest number of 
slaves, and of course have the greatest slave rep- 
resentation, must be of the least service for the 
defence of the nation in time of war. They have 
many voices, and of course are immensely pow- 
erful in the national legislature, but are perfect 



70 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

weakness in the field of battle — perhaps it re- 
quires all their strength to keep their slaves in 
subjection. 

The tenacity with which the slaveholding States 
retain this unjust principle manifests a strong pro- 
pensity for the usurpation of power. And this 
circumstance shows that they have in them the 
spirit of tyranny. 

Now brother, I think it must be evident to you 
that slavery, in the several particulars to which I 
have invited your attention, has a pernicious ten- 
dency upon the free inhabitants of the slaveholding 
States ; and hence you have another conclusive 
proof that slavery is opposed to the natural prin- 
ciples and feelings of our nature, and that of 
course, as we said before, it forms a relation for 
which the Creator, in the organization of the hu- 
man system, has made no provision. From the 
plain principles of nature as well as from its dread- 
ful tendency, it evidently appears that involuntary 
slavery is both unnatural and unjust. 

In my next, I intend to investigate the title by 
which slaves are held in servitude. Adieu. 



LETTER X. 



Affectionate Brother : 

According to promise, I am now to enter upon 
the investigation of the title by which slaves are 
held in servitude. 

It must be admitted that the Africans and the 
rest of mankind have all sprung from one common 
father ; and consequently all originally were alik© 



LETTER X. 71 

free. It will also be admitted that the Africans 
were not enslaved for crime ; hence we conclude 
with the utmost certainty that they were unjustly 
enslaved. They must have been taken either by 
theft or open violence, and sold into slavery ; 
therefore it inevitably follows that the title to them 
was originally derived from those who either stole 
them or took them by unjust violence, and sold 
them into bondage ; consequently it must be most 
unjust ; nor neither time, nor custom, nor gov- 
ernment can change its nature — it stands in eter- 
nal opposition to right. Property that is stolen 
or taken by unjust violence, though it pass 
through a thousand hands by honest purchase, 
still belongs to the original owner ; and to him, 
according to the plainest principles of justice, it 
must revert. The right to freedom belongs to 
the Africans, and therefore it is as unjust to hold 
it from them as it is to hold stolen property from 
its right owner. Suppose that your little daughter 
were to be stolen in her infantile state and sold 
for a slave, would she not, according to the plain- 
est principles of justice, be as much entitled to 
freedom as she now is? Again, suppose that 
an unjust and arbitrary power should detain her 
posterity in slavery to a thousand generations, 
would not the last generation be as much entitled 
to freedom as the mother originally was } Do 
you believe that any one would be just in de- 
priving them of their right to freedom, merely be- 
cause he had purchased them from those who had 
no right to sell them .'' No ; you certainly be- 
lieve that it would be most unjust. Now this is 
precisely the situation of the Africans you hold in 
servitude. Their ancestors were originally free ; 
but were unjustly taken and sold into bondage, 
and by an unjust and arbitrary power their off- 
spring are stiJl enslaved. You suppose that you 



72 ~ LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

have a right to them by honest purchase, but they 
are the same as stolen property. The title to 
them was originally derived IVom the hand of the 
thief. Hence the man from whom you purchased 
them had no just title to them, of course had no 
right to sell them ; you had no right to buy them ; 
and consequently can have no right to detain 
them in servitude. The right to freedom is origi- 
nal in all the human race. ' That all men are 
created equal ' is a truth that no true-hearted re- 
publican will deny. Hence, while you hold slaves, 
you hold the right of freedom from its real owners. 
And is not freedom more precious than property ? 
And therefore is it not more criminal to hold it 
from your fellow-creatures than it is to deprive 
them of their property .'' How then can you per- 
sist in holding them as slaves, merely because 
you purchased them from such as had no right to 
sell them ^ Should you purchase a stolen horse, 
would you pretend to keep him from his real 
owner, merely because you had purchased him 
from the thief who had stolen him ? No, you 
would certainly give him up to the real proprietor 
as soon as he should exhibit sufficient evidence 
of the justness of his claim. Then why not de- 
liver up to your slaves their liberty, seeing they 
are undoubtedly entitled to freedom .'' We, as a 
nation, in our Declaration of Independence, have 
declared that the right to liberty is unalienable. 
1 know the laws of your State permit you to en- 
slave a certain class of your fellow-creatures ; but 
the peruiission of a State cannot change moral 
principle. Should this State permit you to en- 
slave my children, would it be honest in you to 
take advantage by such permission to make them 
slaves ? Certainly you must admit, that to take 
such advantage would be both unjust and cruel. 
And is it not equally unjust and cruel to enslave 



LETTER XI. 73 

the poor Africans, merely because the State gives 
permission for such oppression ? The man who 
will be just no farther than the State compels him, 
is a rogue in heart. And the man who will take 
away the liberty of another whenever the State 
permits him, would also take the property of 
another if similar permission was granted him. 
I do not say that all slaveholders are rogues in 
heart. I hope many of them have acted more 
from mistake than from real dishonesty. But I do 
not hesitate in saying that they all unjustly take 
away the liberty of their fellow creatures, who, 
according to the principles admitted by our nation, 
* were born equally free and independent.' 

I shall next attempt, by the scriptures, to prove 
the injustice of involuntary slavery. 

Farewell. 



LETTER XI. 



Loving Brother : 

According to an intimation given in my last, 1 
am to show that the modern system of slavery is 
prohibited by the book of inspiration. And as 
many of the abettors of this system pretend to 
support it by the sacred Scriptures, I deem it ne- 
cessary to examine the principal arguments which 
they have drawn from this source. 

L I shall first consider the one which is found- 
ed upon Noah's curse. It is argued that this 
curse consigns all the posterity of Ham to per- 
petual slavery ; that the Africans descended from 
him; and therefore it is right to enslave them. 



74 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

I consider that this argument is, in several re- 
spects, ill founded. 

First, it is not true that the curse consigns all 
the posterity of Ham to perpetual servitude. Let 
us hear what it says. (Gen. ix. 25.) ' Cursed be 
Canaan ; a servant of servants shall he be unto 
his brethren. ' Thus we see that but one of Ham's 
sons was included in the curse. Canaan, doubt- 
less was deeply concerned with his father in the 
guilt which gave rise to this denunciation an^ainst 
him, else why was he so signally marked as the 
subject of the curse } The rest of Ham's sons 
it seems were innocent, and consequently were 
not included in it. The history of the world 
shows that many of the nations which descended 
from them have been respectable, and subjected 
to no calamities but such as are common to the 
rest of mankind. Hence it is as plain as stubborn 
fact can make it, that the curse did not include all 
of Ham's posterity. It was denounced against 
Canaan, and history shows that it fell upon his 
posterity. Our Africans did not descend from 
him, and therefore were not with him consigned 
to servitude. 

2d. The doom was not perpetual. Sacred his- 
tory shows that the descendants of Canaan became 
powerful and wealthy nations before the curse 
was inflicted upon them. It was first inflicted by 
the Israelites, who descended from Shem, and 
who had been servants to some of Ham's poster- 
ity in Egypt. They destroyed vast numbers of 
the Canaanites, and eventually reduced the rest 
of them to very abject circumstances, and made 
them tributary. And thus they became the trib- 
utary servants of those who had been servants. 
Hence the following predictions of Noah were 
literally fulfilled. ' Cursed be Canaan ; a ser- 
vant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.' 



LETTER XI. 75 

'Blessed be the Lord God of Shem ) and Canaan 
shall be his servant.' 

Again, it is said Japhet 'shall dwell in the tents 
of Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant.' This 
was doubtless accomplished when the Greeks and 
Romans, who were descendants of Japhet, by 
conquest took possession of the tents of Shem. 
At this period the remnant of the Canaanites be- 
came tributary to the offspring of Japhet, and thus 
Canaan became the servant of Japhet. Hence 
the prediction, so far as it related to servitude, 
has long since had its accomplishment. The Ca- 
naanites have mingled with other nations, and so 
do not now exist as a distinct people, and conse- 
quently the term of their servitude must be ter- 
minated. And when we consider the manner in 
which these ancient predictions were fulfilled, we 
believe that they related not so much to the slavery 
of individuals as to national subjugation. There 
were so few of Canaan's posterity reduced to in- 
dividual slavery, that we cannot reasonably con- 
clude that to be the kind of servitude predicted. 
It appears from sacred history that fewer of the 
descendants of Canaan than those of Shem were 
reduced to individual slavery. People who are 
subjugated and made tributary, must labor in 
order to pay their tribute, and therefore are the 
servants of their conquerors. This kind of ser- 
vitude the Canaanites endured to great extremes. 
The Israelites conquered them, and took posses- 
sion of their cities, their houses, and their lands, 
and thus enjoyed the fruits of their labor ; and 
those of them that escaped the sword were event- 
ually made tributary. This evidently appears to 
be the kind of servitude predicted in Noah's curse, 
and if so, our kind of slavery is not even so much 
as found in this ancient prediction. The Israelites 
were not commanded to enslave, but to exter- 
minate the nations of Canaan. 



76 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Finally, if the prediction had included all Ham's 
posterity, and had consigned them to perpetual 
servitude, still it could not justify our system of 
slavery. Predictions are not given in Scripture 
as rules of moral action. It was predicted, and 
even decreed, that Jesus Christ should be cruci- 
fied, and yet his crucifiers were full as guilty as 
they would have been if no such prediction and 
decree had ever existed. The Israelites did not 
proceed against the Canaanites on the ground of 
prediction, but on that of divine command, and 
that command was not founded upon prediction, 
but upon the full cup of their iniquities. The 
Lord gave the Canaanites a dispensation of grace 
under the ministrations of Melchisedec, and sus- 
pended the infliction of the curse until they had long 
abused his mercy and filled full the cup of their 
iniquities. Hence, their enormous wickedness was 
the real cause of their calamities, and the means of 
bringing the curse upon them. But even on the 
supposition that this prediction were a rule of moral 
action, still it could not justity our system of 
slavery, because we have not sufficient proof that 
our Africans descended from Ham. We suppose 
they are of his posterity, but this supposition 
cannot be supported by satisfactory evidence. 
The revolutions of nations and time have put the 
matter beyond the possibility of certain proof. 
Therefore the whole argument for slavery drawn 
from Noah's curse, is without foundation. It 
rests wholly upon bold assertion and mere con- 
jecture, and it certainly must be the product of 
avaricious derangement. 

II. I shall consider the argument which the 
friends of involuntary slavery have adduced from 
the example of Abraham. It is alledged that Abra- 
ham, the father of the faithful,, held slaves, and 
therefore involuntary slavery must be right. 



LETTER XI. 77 

This argument, like the one before considered, 
appears to me to be inconclusive in several re- 
spects. 

First : It is not evident that Abraham's ser- 
vants were held to involuntary servitude. It is 
true that he had servants born in his house, and 
servants bought with his money ; but these cir- 
cumstances do not absolutely prove that their ser- 
vitude was involuntary. Abraham was a prince; 
the children of Heth addressed him as such ; (Gen. 
xxiii. 6.) 'Thou art a mighty prince"among us.' 
On one occasion he armed three hundred and 
eighteen trained servants that were born in his 
house, and with them gained a signal victory over 
several of the most powerful kings of the age. 
(Gen. xiv. 1 — 16.) Hence it appears that the ser- 
vants born in his house were merely his subjects. 
Abraham had no fixed residence, and therefore 
he and his subjects dwelt in tents. ' By faith he 
sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange 
country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and 
Jacob.' (Heb. xi. 9.) Thus we see that Abraham's 
house was but a tabernacle or tent ; and it was 
made large enough to shelter him and all his sub- 
jects ; and this shows how it happened that the 
three hundred and eighteen before-mentioned ser- 
vants were born in his house. These were all 
fit to bear arms ; and therefore, according to the 
nature of human increase, we must conclude that 
Abraham had many others likewise born in his 
house, who were too young for military service, 
and there must have been nearly an equal num- 
ber of females — and to all these we may add all 
those bought with his money. From these cir- 
cumstances it is reasonable to conclude that Abra- 
ham's servants, at least, amounted to more than 
one thousand. Hence it is most absurd to sup- 
pose that a single individual while passing from 



78 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

place to place in a strange country, could compel 
so large a number of persons to involuntary ser- 
vitude. And would any man in his senses, under 
such circumstances, arm three hundred and 
eighteen involuntary slaves, and march them out 
against his enemies ? Would such a number of 
armed slaves submit to a single man, cheerfully 
fight his battles, and thus risk their lives in his 
defence ? Abraham was a wandering stranger, 
unprotected by civil government, and therefore 
his servants were not restrained by fear of pun- 
ishment in case of rebellion ; consequently we 
may safely conclude that the service which they^ 
rendered him was of the voluntary kind. But the 
question still recurs, were not those whom he 
bought with his money slaves .'' To this I answer 
that ' Abraham was very rich in cattle, in silver, 
and in gold ;' and was as benevolent as he was 
rich ; of course he would have many strong in- 
ducements to redeem miserable captives taken in 
war; and these, from a sense of gratitude as well 
as for the sake of protection, would become his 
subjects ; and such being redeemed by their own 
consent would be under the most solemn obliga- 
tions to render him faithful service. Perhaps 
Hagar the Egyptian was bound to his service 
from some such consideration, and therefore was 
called a bond-woman. Indeed Abraham mani- 
fested so much benevolence in several instances, 
as might lead us to the conclusion that he was 
wholly indisposed to the practice of involuntary- 
slavery. And his whole conduct towards his ser- 
vants shows that he considered them to be merely 
subjects, and not slaves. Hence we find him 
bringing his eldest servant under solemn oath not 
to take a wife to Isaac of the daughters of the 
Canaanites. Gen. xxiv. !2, 3. This we might 
expect a prince to require of a subject, but not a 



LETTER XI. 79 

master to require of a slave. This same servant 
had all his master's property in his hand ; and 
even had authority over Isaac. Does this look 
like modern slavery ? Thus a variety of circum- 
stances make it evident to me that Abraham did 
not hold involuntary slaves. But again, if Abra- 
ham did practice involuntary slavery, still the ar- 
gument adduced from his example must be incon- 
clusive. He was an imperfect man, and therefore 
his example cannot be a standard of moral recti- 
tude. He had two wives at one time ; but who 
will argue from his example that polygamy is right. 
And it must be equally absurd to argue from his 
example that slavery is right Such an argument 
evidences a bad cause. 

HI. I shall examine the argument which the 
defenders of our slaveholding system have ad- 
duced from the Mosaic institutions. 

This argument they consider as fully supported 
by Lev. xxv. 44, 45, 46. 'Both thy bond-men, 
and thy bond-maids, which thou shalt have, shall 
be of the heathen that are round about you ; of 
them shall ye buy bond-men and bond-maids. 
Moreover of the children of strangers that do so- 
journ among you, of them shall ye buy, and of 
their families that are with you, which they begat 
in your land : and they shall be your possession : 
and ye shall take them as an inheritance — for 
your children after you to inherit them for a pos- 
session ; and they shall be your bond-men for- 
ever ;* but over your brethren the children of 
Israel, ye shall not rule one over another with 
rigor.' 

As this sacred passage is considered to be one 
of the strongest pillars upon which the modern 

*This may mean that the tiebvews mii'ht keep up a succession of ser- 
vants by successive purchase, and not that any individuals would be held 
in servitude forever. 



80 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

system of slavery rests, it will be necessary to 
give it a careful and candid examination. Hence 
we remark, 

First ; That it gives to the children of Israel, 
by special grant, some of the heathen for slaves. 
This, it is thought, fully justifies our system of 
slavery ; but I apprehend that the opposite is 
true. 1 his special grant implies that the chil- 
dren of Israel without it had no right to enslave 
even the heathen. These were the property of 
the Creator ; therefore none could have a right to 
possess them but by the special grant from him. 
The Israelites held slaves by special license from 
their Creator and real proprietor, and such special 
license amounts to a real prohibition of similar 
privilege to all to whom it is not given. When I, 
for instance, make grant of a certain piece of 
property, my conduct in that case plainly declares 
that I consider myself the real proprietor of that 
property, and that none have a right to it but by 
special title from me. And thus the special grant 
which God made of the heathen to the Israelites, 
shows plainly that he considered himself the real 
proprietor, and that none had a right to hold them 
as a possession but by special grant from him. 
No such grant has ever been made to any people, 
and therefore, the very text on which slaveholders 
rely for support, amounts to a real prohibition of 
slavery in all cases except the one which it speci- 
fies. Hence, do not modern slaveholders rob the 
Almighty while they hold his property for a pos- 
session ? And ' Shall a man rob God and pros- 
per ?' 

2d. The text specifies the character sustained 
by the persons consigned to servitude. They 
must not be servants of the true God, for of these 
the Lord says, ' They are my servants. — They 
shall not be sold as bond-men ;' but they must be 



LETTER XI. 81 

heathen ; that is, thej must be idolaters. Hence 
it is evident that thej were enslaved for the crime 
of idolatry. And when they ceased to be heathen, 
embraced the true religion, and thus become the 
servants of Jehovah, they were entitled to the 
benefits of jubilee. The covenant made with 
Abraham required them to be circumcised, and 
of course to be taught the principles of true re- 
ligion. (Gen. xvii. 18.) ' He that is born in thy 
house, and he that is bought with thy money must 
needs be circumcised.' The same is required in 
Exodus, xii. 44, 45. ' But every man's servant 
that is bought for money, when thou hast circum- 
cised him, then shall he eat thereof A foreigner 
and an hired servant shall not eat thereof And 
when servants, after being circumcised as mem- 
bers of a believer's household, made a full profes- 
sion of their faith by eating the passover, they were 
to be considered the servants of God, and therefore 
were entitled to the privileges of Israelites, who, 
according to law, could not be enslaved ; ' But 
over your brethren, the children of Israel, ye 
shall not rule one over another with rigor.' And 
v^hy .^ Because ' Vaey are my servants ; ' and 
this reason was equally applicable to all professors 
of true religion, ' One law shall be to him that 
is home-born, and unto the stranger that sojourn- 
eth among you.' — ' And he shall be as one born 
in the land.' But to this it may be you will reply 
that the law expressly says, ' They shall be your 
bondmen forever,' and therefore their servitude 
was perpetual. 

1 readily admit that the words ' for ever' do, 
according to their primary signification, express 
endless duration, and that they are always to be 
thus understood when used in relation to eternal 
things ; but when used in relation to temporal 
things they are limited by the nature and circum- 

6 



82 LETTERS ON SLAV^ERY. 

stances of the subjects to which they relate. It 
is said in Exodus, xxi. 6, that a Hebrew servant, 
under the circumstances there mentioned, should 
serve his master 'for ever,' but according to 
another law he could not be made to serve longer 
than to the year of jubilee. And hence it is evi- 
dent that the words are used in a figurative sense, 
and not in their original sense, and merely in- 
tended to express the duration of forty-nine years, 
the time between the years of jubilee ; so I ap- 
prehend they are limited in respect to other ser- 
vants, by the same law. 'And ye shall hallow 
the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throughout 
all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.' 
(Lev. XXV. 10.) According to this law, none 
could be enslaved longer than from the time they 
were purchased to the year of jubilee. Then 
liberty must be proclaimed to the captives. (Isa. 
Ixi. 1.) Hence the slavery permitted by the Mo- 
saic institutions was not similar to that which ex- 
ists among us. It was for the punishment of idol- 
atry; it was by divine permission, and it was not 
perpetual. The poor slave expected a year of 
universal liberation, a glorious emblem of the 
gospel-day. But the slavery among us is not for 
crime, is not by divine permission, and is perpet- 
ual. No joyful year of jubilee is now expected 
by the miserable slave ! And even many of the ser- 
vants of Jehovah are enslaved. Consequently 
the attempt to support our system of slavery by 
the Mosaic institutions is most absurd. 

AdieUc 



LETTER XII. 83 



LETTER XII. 



Dear Brother: 

I shall in the present letter give you a few re- 
marks upon the arguments which the Rev. Ar- 
chibald Cameron, of Kentucky, has presented to 
the public in the first number of the Monitor, 
printed at Lexington, A. D. 1806. The reverend 
gentleman possesses both the talents and literature 
necessary to making the best of the cause he at- 
tempts to defend. And could we suppose him 
actuated by the unhallowed motives of self-interest, 
we would say he had from that source sufficient 
inducement to the greatest industry in the man- 
agement of his subject ; for, as we understand, 
he had, and perhaps still has, considerable prop- 
erty in human flesh, and blood, and souls ! ! And 
it became him, as a public teacher, to show, if 
possible that his practice was in accordance with 
the gospel. In short, v/e believe that if Mr. Cam- 
eron had been unsuccessful in adducing argu- 
ments to justify the practice of slavery, it was 
entirely ov/ing to a bad cause, and not to the want 
of talents, literature, or industry. 

His arguments are principally drawn from sev- 
eral passages in the New Testament in which 
servants are mentioned. He lays his strong foun- 
dation in the signification of the word doulos, 
which is translated into the word servant. He 
says, ' It is well known to those who are in the 
habit of reading the writings of the ancients, that 
DOULOS in Greek, the word used above, and servus 
in Latin, are used to signify that kind of servitude 
which is perpetual or for life, which we call slavery. 
Elutheros, the Greek word for free, it set in 



84 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Opposition to doulos, servant, which shows that 
the Apostle meant a bondman, or a slave, when 
he used the term.' 

This argument is plausible, but not solid. Paul 
11 says, 'Though I be (Elretheros) free from all men, 
yet (edoulosa) I have made myself servant unto 
all.' (1 Cor. ix. 19.) And he commands the 
Galatians (douleuete) to serve one another by 
love. (Gal. v. 13.) Edoulosa signifies I have 
made myself (doulos) a servant ; and ' is set in 
opposition to ' (Elutheros) free ; but who would 
argue from this that Paul was an involuntary slave 
for life "i Yet such an argument would be just as 
conclusive as the one which Mr. Cameron has 
advanced in the passage we have quoted from the 
Monitor. I readily admit that the apostle had 
reference to some kind of servitude when he said, 
'Art thou called being (doulos) a servant- care 
not for it ; but if thou mayest be made (Elu- 
theros) free, use it rather.' (1 Cor. vii. 21.) 
But there is no evidence from the language of 
the text what kind of servitude was meant. The 
Greek word doulos, like the English word ser- 
vant, specifies no particular kind of servitude. 
Hence the translators have not, in a single in- 
stance, in all the New Testament, translated the 
word DOULOS into the word slave. The word 
slave is specific in its meaning, and always, ex- 
cept when used figuratively, denotes one bound to 
involuntary and perpetual servitude ; and in all 
its more general applications, it still refers to one 
particular kind of bondage. Every slave is a ser- 
vant, but every servant is not a slave. All ap- 
prentices are servants, and actually bondmen 
during their apprenticeship, and are, in many in- 
stances, subjected to stripes ; but they are not 
called slaves. Hirelings are servants, and in 
some parts of the world even these have endured 



LETTER XII. 85 

stripes ; yet no accurate writer would call them 
slaves. The translators thought it proper to use 
the word slave in but a single instance, in all the 
New Testament. (Rev. xviii. 13.) ' Slaves and 
souls of men ' are mentioned as the unhallowed 
merchandise of spiritual Babylon. And here the 
Greek word is not doulos but somaton, the gen- 
itive plural of SOMA. The truth is, the word 
doulos has such an extensive and various appli- 
cation in the sacred scriptures, that it would be 
very injudicious to translate it into a word so 
limited and determinate in its signification as is 
the word slave, which properly denotes a person 
bound to involuntary and perpetual servitude. 
Doulos has no such definitive meaning, but an- 
swers to the English word servant, which is as 
applicable to the subject of a prince, to the com- 
mon hireling, or even to the apprentice, as it is 
to the slave. In many instances it would be most 
ridiculous to translate doulos into slave, as a 
single specification will show. ' Paul (doulos) a 
slave of Jesus Christ.' Kow ridiculous is such a 
translation ! Christ is ' The Prince of the Kings 
of the earth.' Paul is his servant, but not his in- 
voluntary slave. Doulos is used in relation to 
the subjects of kings or nobles. (Luke xix. 17.) 
•'Weil, thou good (doule) servant — have thou 
authority over ten cities.' Certainly the subject 
of a prince, and not a slave, must have been in- 
tended by DOULE in this passage. Who would 
imagine that authority over ten cities would be 
given to a slave .'* Doulos is likewise used in 
relation to hired servants. The penitent prodigal 
■said, ' How many (misthioi) hirelings, or hired 
servants of my father's have bread enough.' 
And again, when expressing his willingness to 
accept of the lowest station in his father's house, 
lie saidj ' i am no more warthy to he called thj 



86 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

son : make me as one of thy hired servants.* 
But the father said to his (doulos) servants, bring 
forth the best robe and put it on him. (Luke, xv. 
11 — 32.) The prodigal said that the hirelings 
were his father's, and had bread enough and to 
spare. This would be quite unnatural, if there 
were still a lower order of servants in his father's 
house, and indeed would imply that such servants 
had not bread enough. Again, he says, make me 
as one of thy hirelings. This, on the supposition 
that there were still a lower order than these in 
his father's family, was as good as saying, I am 
not yet unworthy enough to take the lowest place 
in thy family ; and would destroy both the beauty 
and fitness of the parable, which was intended to 
illustrate the nature of true repentance, and the 
willingness of our heavenly Father to receive the 
humble penitent. The truly penitent sinner is 
willing to take the lowest station in his father's 
house. But Mr. Cameron, contrary to the nature 
of the parable, supposes that the father of the 
prodigal held slaves ; but upon such supposition 
the prodigal was very unlike the penitent sinner 
whom he was intended to represent. Hence it is 
evident that the father's (douloi) servants were 
his hirelings. 

Once more. Doulos is used in relation to such 
as dedicate themselves to the service of others. 
So Paul, as we have already shown, made himself 
(doulos) a servant unto all. And so those who 
have dedicated themselves to the service of God 
are called his servants. (Rev. xxii. 3.) 'And 
bis (douloi) servants shall serve him.' The elder 
brother of the prodigal is represented as saying 
to his father, ' Lo, these many years (doulueo) do 
I serve thee !' And our Lord says, ' Whosoever 
commiteth sin, is the (doulos) servant of sin.* 
(John viii.. 34.) Paul also saySj ' To whom ye 



LETTER XII. 87 

yield yourselves (douloi) servants to obey, his 
(douloi) servants ye are.' (Rom. vi. 16.) 

Consequently, Mr. Cameron must be mistaken 
when he says, 'that doulos in Greek — (is) used 
to signify that kind of servitude which is perpetual 
or for life, which we call slavery.' It has no 
such definite signification; no difference whether 
a man serves voluntarily or involuntarily, whether 
he serves an hour or during life, he is (doulos) a 
servant during the time he serves. It is a gen- 
eral term which is equally applicable to all kinds 
of servants, without regard either to the nature or 
duration of their servitude. Hence, it affords no 
proof either for or against our present system of 
slavery. Thus far we think Mr. Cameron has 
failed in his arguments. 

Again, Mr. Cameron, on pages Sth and 10th 
quotes 1 Tim. vi. 1, 2. 'Let as many servants 
as are under the yoke, count their own masters 
worthy of all honor ; that the name of God and 
his doctrine be not blasphemed. And they that 
have believing masters, let them not despise them 
because they are brethren ; but rather do them 
service because they are faithful and beloved par- 
takers of the benefit.' He appears to be confident 
' that this has a reference to slavery, or perpetual 
servitude.' And in connection with it, he tells us 
of an ancient custom of making captives pass un- 
<ler the yoke as a token of their subjection to 
slavery, that such * Were sold and bought like 
other property,' and that of this description of 
persons the Apostle Paul says, ' Let as many 
servants as are (upozugon) under the yoke, count 
their own masters worthy of all honor.' But I 
see not the least evidence that the apostle had 
any reference to such custom. The apostle does 
not say, let as many servants as have passed under 
the yoke ; but he says, 'Let as many servants as 



88 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

are under the yoke, count their own masters 
worthy of ail honor.' The yoke which he men- 
tions is not one under which they had passed ; 
but one that was still upon them. And according 
to Mr. Cameron's own description of the instru- 
ment under which captives were made to pass, it 
is evident that the apostle had no reference to it 
as an emblem of perpetual slavery. In a note on 
the word yoke he says, ' Jugum, a yoke, a con- 
trivance with forks and spears, like a gallows, 
under which enemies vanquished were forced to 
go. Hence it is used to signify bondage or 
slavery.* But zugon, the word which the apostle 
uses, signifies no such kind of yoke as ft-r. Cam- 
eron here describes ; it is derived from the Greek 
verb ZEUGNUO, (I join together,) and consequently 
signifies an instrument of conjugation, such as the 
yoke which unites or couples oxen together ; and 
because it thus couples them, it is called zugon, 
(a yoke) ; therefore, it is not the kind of instru- 
ment under which Mr. Cameron says captives 
were made to pass as an emblem of their bein^ 
subjected to slavery. In allusion to the yoke which 
binds the ox to his fellow, bondage of various 
kinds is in the scriptures termed a yoke. Sub- 
jects are bound to obey their prince, and thus are 
under the yoke. (1 Kings, xii. 4.) ' Thy father 
(king Solomon) made owr yoke grievous.' Christ 
is a king, and they that will be his subjects must 
take his yoke upon them — 'Take my yoke upon 
you — For my yoke is easy.^ (Matt. xi. 29, 30. 

Again, the husband is bound to the wife, and 
the wife to the husband,^ and though they be thus 
bound by voluntary engagement, and though their 
union be a source of their greatest happiness, yet 
they are under the yoke. Hence, Paul says, C^ 
Cor. vi. 14.) ' Be ye not unequally yoked to- 
gether.' (Phil. iv. 3) 'I entreat thee, also, true?- 



LETTER XII. ' 89 

yoke fellow.' This was a certain person who had 
voluntarily associated himself with Paul in propa- 
gating the gospel among the heathen. 

These instances are sufficient to show that the 
word yoke is figuratively used as a general term, 
which is equally applicable to every kind of bond- 
age. Mr. Cameron himself, on page 27th, admits 
that every ' obligation to virtue ' is a yoke. He 
there argues that ' If the phrase every yoke, be 
not qualified and restricted, it will be proper to 
break asunder the yoke of Christianity, the yoke 
of the civil law, the yoke of marriage, and every 
other obligation to virtue.' Thus while he pleads 
for a limitation of the phrase 'every yoke,' he 
admits the universal application of the term yoke 
in respect to every 'obligation to virtue.' It is 
strange that he makes such admission, after lim- 
iting the term to perpetual and involuntary slavery. 
But what is still more strange, he first argues that 
the term yoke is applicable to slavery alone, when 
used by the Apostle in relation to servants ; but 
when he is commanded to 'break every yoke,' 
(Isa 58) he argues that the phrase ' every yoke' 
must be so ' qualified and restricted ' as not to 
include slavery ; else, he says, ' It will be proper 
to break asunder the yoke of Christianity, the 
yoke of civil law, the yoke of marriage, and every 
other obligation to virtue.' If the phrase 'every 
yoke ' does not include slavery, I do not see how 
the phrase ' under the yoke ' can signify slavery. 
That the apostle had reference to some kind of 
bondage when he used the phrase ' under the 
yoke,' I readily admit ; but I see no evidence 
that he had reference to involuntary and perpet- 
ual slavery. Hired servants were in that age 
very numerous. The father of the prodigal is 
represented as having many of them in his ser- 
vice. The prodigal says, ' How many hired ser- 



90 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

vants of my father's have bread enough.' And 
the Apostle James in his epistle severely re- 
proves the rich for defrauding the laborers that 
had reaped their fields. (James v. 4.) 'Behold, 
the hire of the laborers who have reaped down 
your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, 
crieth, and the cries of them which have reaped 
are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth.' 
This shows that the fields of the rich were gene- 
rally reaped by hired servants, and not by slaves. 
Now, had slaves been so exceedingly numerous 
as Mr. Cameron, on page 11th, attempts, by pro- 
fane history, to prove them to have been, the rich 
would have no need to hire reapers. If slaves 
were held they were held by the rich ; but James, 
in a general epistle intended for the use of all the 
churches, represents the rich as hiring their reap- 
ers. This does not evidence that slaves were nu- 
merous. But had the rich generally held slaves, 
and treated them with so shocking cruelty as Mr. 
Cameron says they did, can we suppose that the 
agonizing cries of the poor slaves would not have 
' entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth,' as 
well as the cries of defrauded hirelings ? Has 
the Almighty no compassion for the hapless .slave? 
Surely the Sovereign of the universe is no re- 
specter of persons, his compassion descends to 
the meanest of his creatures; the angel and the 
worm are alike the subjects of his care. Hence 
it is most reasonable to conclude, that had there 
been suffering slaves in the hands of the rich, 
their cries must have been heard in Heaven, and 
also regarded in the denunciations delivered by 
the inspired apostle. 

Persons who were in a state of abject poverty 
were under the necessity of devoting themselves 
to the service of the rich for wages, and that in 
many instances, during the space of several years 



LETTER XII. 91 

together; and when they entered into a contract 
of such duration, they were bound to fulfil the 
term of service if required ; and thus they were 
under the yoke ; and when they bound themselves 
to the service of ill-disposed masters it became a 
grievous yoke ; but, nevertheless, they were gen- 
erally obliged to bear it until their term of service 
was completed according to agreement. Some in 
consequence of being in debt sold themselves for 
a limited time in order to make payment ; other 
insolvent debtors might be sold by their creditors; 
and we may suppose some sold for crime. In ad- 
dition to these, we may also suppose that many 
were bound as apprentices. All these several 
classes were under the yoke during the time for 
which they were bound to service ; and therefore 
might be properly addressed in the language of 
Paul. ' Let as many servants as are under the 
yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, 
that the name of God and his doctrine be not 
blasphemed. And they that have believing mas- 
ters, let them not despise them.' That the apostle 
addressed servants, and not slaves, appears evi- 
dent when we consider that God long before, pos- 
itively prohibited the enslaving of his people, and 
with the prohibition he assigned the reason on 
which it was founded ; 'They are my servants.' 
This reason must stand alike good in every age, 
and ever prohibit Christians from enslaving their 
brethren. 'But over your brethren — ye shall 
not rule — with rigor.' 'For they are my ser- 
vants.' (Lev. XXV. 42, 46.) I cannot believe 
that the apostle under the inspiration of the Holy 
Spirit did, in opposition to this positive command, 
permit Christians to hold their brethren as slaves 
for life, and also to have the power of selling both 
them and their offspring as mere property ! But 
it would be proper for the several classes of ser- 



92 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

vants we have mentioned to fulfil their terms, and 
render the service due to their own masters, 
whether Christian or heathen. And to the hea- 
then they ought to be both faithful and respectful, 
lest they should cause them to say that Christian- 
ity made their servants dishonest, or unwilling to 
render them such service and regard as were 
justly due. And love to their Christian masters, 
who were faithful and beloved brethren, ought to 
induce them to render them still more willingly 
the service and honor which were justly due ; and 
thus while fulfiling their just obligations, they 
would be doing good to their brethren, and so 
would enable them to extend their liberality to 
those who were propagating the gospel. And I 
do not see why all the addresses made to servants 
in the apostolic epistles might not be applicable 
to persons bound to servitude for a limited time. 
Such as were bound to intolerate heathen might 
endure great evils ; in such cases it would be de- 
sirable to be liberated by satisfying the master in 
some lawful way for the service due him. And, 
perhaps it was on this account that Paul said, 
* Art thou called being a servant; care not for it; 
but if thou mayest be free, use it rather.' But 
when this could not be obtained in an equitable 
manner, it would be their duty to serve even the 
froward as well as the gentle — it was such ser- 
vice as justice required ; hence, it was proper to 
enjoin obedience upon them. ' Servants, obey in 
all things your masters according to the flesh ; 
not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in 
singleness of heart fearing God.' (Col. iii. 22.) 
This plainly implies that the service was justly 
due ; and that, therefore, it should be rendered 
in the fear of God, who would punish them in 
case they should defraud their masters. And 
these same masters were commanded to give unto 
their servants whatever wages were due for their 



LETTER XII. 93 

services. ' Masters, give unto your servants that 
which is just and equal.' (Col. iv. I.) But in 
some instances, reference is made to the stripes 
which servants endured. And from this Mr. 
Cameron concludes such servants were slaves for 
life ; but many who were servants for a limited 
time have endured stripes. Hence, enduring 
stripes is no certain proof of the existence of per- 
petual slavery. Again Mr. Cameron attempts, on 
page 2], to prove by the Greek phrase, o pais 
Mou, that the Centurion's servant whom our Lord 
healed was a slave born in his family ; but the 
word pais is sometimes used as doulos, a servant. 
(Luke, i. 54.) * He hath holpen his servant Is- 
rael.' (Luke XV. 20.) 'And he called one of the 
servants.' Pais is used in both those passages to 
signify servant. Hence the phrase, o pais mou, 
signifies ' my servant,' just as it is expressed in 
our translation. (Luke, vii. 7.) Therefore it 
has no reference to the servant being born in 
the Centurion's family, nor does it afford any ev- 
idence that he was a slave for life. 

I have now considered the principal arguments 
which Mr. Cameron has adduced to prove that the 
apostles did permit the primitive Christians to 
hold slaves ; and though 1 readily grant that they 
are the best his cause will admit, yet I do not 
think them sufficient to establish his point, or to 
justify his practice of holding as property his fel- 
low-men. I am fully persuaded that a point so 
unreasonable, and a practice so unjust, can never 
jfind support from the sacred volume. 

I have now completed my examination of the 
principal arguments which the abettors of slavery 
have drawn from the scriptures in order to sup- 
port our modern system of cruel oppression. 

You may expect me in my next to show that 
the scriptures do condemn the practice of slavery. 

Adieu. 



94 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 



LETTER XIII. 



Dear Brother: 

I shall now present to your consideration sev- 
eral passages of the sacred scriptures which I 
believe to be decidedly opposed to the kind of 
slavery which exists in our siaveholding States. 

The first I shall invite you to consider is a pre- 
diction found in Gen. xv. 14. ' That nation whom 
they shall serve will I judge, and afterward shall 
they come out v/ith great substance.' This pre- 
diction relates to the slavery which the Egyptians 
inflicted upon the descendants of Abraham. And 
for such infliction God said he would judge them; 
but if it be not unjust to enslave our fellow-men, 
why did the Almighty denounce sentence of judg- 
ment against the Egyptians for enslaving the na- 
tion of Israel ? And why did he execute that 
sentence by inflicting upon them ten most deso- 
lating plagues ? What were the disgusting 
plagues of bloody fountains, croaking frogs, loath- 
some and devouring insects and horrible diseases, 
but so many different emblems of the divine ab- 
horrence of the crime of inflicting slavery upon 
an innocent nation .f* What were the plagues of 
massy hail-stones, terrific fire, and tremendous 
thunder, of horrible darkness, and of the destroy- 
ing angel, the messenger of sudden death to all 
the first-born of Egypt, but the emblems of divine 
indignation against the injustice of slavery ? 
Surely the various punishments inflicted upon the 
Egyptians for enslaving the Israelites are so 
many demonstrations that the practice of slavery 
is a crime of the greatest magnitude, and as such 
highly offensive to Jehovah. The great substance 



LETTER XIII. 95 

v/hich the prediction awarded to the nation of 
Israel is likewise a striking demonstration of 
the injustice of enslaving the human species. The 
Egyptians did not escape with merely suffering 
severe inflictions of punishment ; but they were 
made to remunerate the Israelites for the service 
which they had unjustly exacted from them. 
Hence, according to the prediction, the nation of 
Israel came out of Egypt 'with great substance.' 
Let it not be said that the Israelites were the 
chosen people of God, and that, therefore, to en- 
slave them was peculiarly criminal. There could 
be no more natural injustice in enslaving them 
than there is in enslaving any other innocent peo- 
ple. And let it be remembered that God has 
given to his Son ' the heathen for his inheritance, 
and the uttermost parts of the earth for his pos- 
session.' (Psalm, ii. 8.) Then all nations are 
now the property of the Son of God, and conse- 
quently to enslave any of them must be as crim- 
inal as it was to enslave the nations of Israel. 
Permit me here to remark that the crime of the 
Egyptians in enslaving the Israelites was in sev- 
eral respects less aggravated than is that of the 
Americans in enslaving the Africans. The 
Egyptian slavery was much less rigorous than is 
that which exists in our slaveholding States. 1 he 
Israelites were- not made the property of indi- 
viduals, as are the Africans in America — conse- 
quently they were nt^t liable to be taken from 
their families and sold in the markets like beasts, 
nor does it appear that the females were at all 
enslaved ; but that merely the males were made 
to labor under task-masters, in the service of the 
king. They were permitted to live in a body to- 
gether, and to hold property ; they had elders or 
rulers among them whom they could convene to- 
gether when necessary ; and according to their 



96 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

own testimony they were plentifully fed. These 
statements are fully verified by the book of Exo- 
dus ; and they show that the slavery to which the 
Egyptians subjected the Israelites was much more 
tolerable than is that to which the Africans are 
now subjected by the Americans. Hence in this 
respect the crime of the Egyptians was less hei- 
nous than is that of the American slaveholders, 
who alike enslave male and female, make them 
private property, separate them from their dearest 
relatives, and without regard to age or sex, buy 
and sell them in the markets as though they were 
beasts. And in many instances, they are made to 
endure nakedness and hunger. It is true that 
Pharaoh devised a cruel method of preventing the 
increase of the Israelites ; but it does not appear 
to have been executed to any considerable extent, 
and even that device, dreadful as it was, fell far 
short of the cruelty of subjecting men to a whole 
life of the severe torture, excessive toil and starva- 
tion, to which thousands of the Africans are sub- 
jected in various parts of the United States. Bet- 
ter far, for many of the hapless Africans to have 
entered the world under the bloody decree of 
Pharaoh, to have died by it, in an infantile state, 
than to endure a whole life of death under Amer- 
ican bondage. It is undeniable, that in every 
slaveholding State many slaves endure sufferings 
immensely more dreadful than were those inflicted 
upon the new-born infants of Israel by the bloody 
command of Pharaoh. Plence, when the slavery 
of Egypt is viewed even in its worst forms, it 
does not appear to equal in cruelty that which ex- 
ists among us. Consequently, it appears to me 
that the criminality of modern slavery does far 
exceed that of the slavery of Egypt. 

I think it is proper to remark further, that at 
the time in which the Israelites were enslaved by 



LETTER XIII. 



9^ 



the Egyptians, the knowledge of the natural rights 
of man was very limited, and of course despotism 
pervaded the world. The Egyptians were doubt- 
less very ignorant in respect to the injustice of 
enslaving the Israelites, and although this did not 
free them from crime, yet it tended to the miti- 
gation of their guilt ; but there has been no period 
in which the natural rights of man have been bet- 
ter understood than they are at this age, nor are 
they generally so well understood in tiie present 
time by any other nation as they are by the United 
States of North America, in which experience has 
proved the truth of theory in relation to both civil 
and religious liberty. Hence, we conclude that 
slavery never was in any other age attended with 
so high a degree of criminality as it is in the pres- 
ent ; nor is the crime of it in any other nation at- 
tended with so many aggravations as it is in our 
own. Consequently, if the crime of slavery in 
Egypt was great, it is immensely greater in 
America ! 

The second passage of Scripture I shall pre- 
sent to your consideration, is found in Exodus 
xxi. 16. ' He that stealeth a man and selleth him, 
or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be 
put to death.' This law is recognized and re- 
sanctioned by the apostle Paul, (1 Tim. i. 9, 10.) 
' The law is not made for the righteous man, but 
— for men-stealers.' It is evident that there is no 
method of introducing innocent men into a state 
of slavery, that is more just than that of stealing 
them. The criminality of stealing does not con- 
sist in the secret manner in which it is effected, 
but in the unjust violation of another's right. 
Hence, it is evident that the lavr against man- 
stealing forbids alike every other method of en- 
slaving the innocent. 1 admit that a man by 
crime may forfeit his own right to liberty, but such 



98 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

forfeiture cannot justly take away the liberty of 
his offspring. Consequently, hereditary and in- 
voluntary slavery cannot possibly exist but by the 
violation of natural and unforfeited rights, and of 
course by the violation of the law which prohibits 
man-stealing. The very design of giving such a 
law was undeniably that of securing to innocent 
persons the natural right of freedom. I presume 
you will not imagine that the man who raises 
another has a right to his services during his life. 
Thousands of hapless orphans, without the means 
of support, are providentially cast upon society ; 
but who will pretend that they who raise them, 
are entitled to their services during their lives, 
and therefore may justly enslave them ^ The ser- 
vice of a person until he arrives at the age of twenty- 
one years, is considered by the laws of our nation 
the price of his raising. Such service parents 
are allowed to receive for raising their children. 
And certainly slaveholders who raise Africans 
cannot be justly entitled to longer service. In- 
deed most, if not all of them, according to the 
plainest principles of justice, are not entitled to a 
moment's service from the Africans they raise. 
They generally bring them up in a very coarse 
manner, have not the trouble of nursing them, 
give them no education, and at the same time re- 
ceive such labor from their parents as more than 
compensates for the little expense incurred by 
supporting them during their minority. Hence 
there are very few if any cases at all, in which 
slaveholders are justly entitled to the services of 
African children until they become twenty-one 
years of age, and surely much less are they en- 
titled to the services of any of them during life. 
Consequently, from well established principles, it 
is evident that the man who . enslaves another 
merely because he has raised him, violates his 



LETTER XIII. 99 

rights as much as the man-stealer does those of 
the man he steals and enslaves. But perhaps you 
may even suppose that they who purchase slaves 
have a just title to their offspring, and of course 
may enslave them without the violation of natural 
rights. But it ought to be recollected that the 
slaves who are thus purchased were themselves 
unjustly enslaved — they were either stolen or 
they descended from those who were stolen, and 
therefore none can have any right to buy or sell 
them. But were the parents justly bound to ser- 
vice during life, even that could not give the right 
of enslaving the offspring. It is admitted by all 
enlightened nations, that parents have no right to 
the service of their own children beyond a limited 
time, and therefore they are neither permitted to 
hold them in perpetual bondage themselves, nor 
to sell them for slaves during life. And certainly 
if parents, who generate, bear, and nurse chil- 
dren, have no right to hold slaves during life, no 
others can have such right. It cannot be even 
pretended that slaveholders have as much right 
to the service of children whom they have neither 
generated, borne, nor nursed, as parents have to 
those of their own offspring. If generating, bear- 
ing, and nursing a man cannot give the right of 
perpetual property in him, nothing else short of 
creating him can. Hence we conclude, with the 
utmost certainty, that the practice of our kind of 
Itf slavery, which originated in violence and theft, 
and is perpetuated by means equally unjust as 
those by which it had its origin, is a flagrant vio- 
lation of the divine law against man-stealing. 
And it is worthy of remark, that the original 
word which the Apostle uses, (1 Tim. i. 10) and: 
is translated into the word men-stealers, compre- 
hends not merely those who steal men, but also 
all who are concerned either in enslaving any of 



100 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

the human species, or retaining them in slavery. *" 
Indeed, it might be rendered slave-dealers with 
as much propriety as it is rendered men-stealers. 
And, in reality, there is no essential difference 
between these two classes of men ; both alike de- 
prive innocent persons of their liberties : the one 
commits the theft, and the other consents to it, 
and receives and vends what is stolen. Now all 
slaveholders are in some degree concerned both 
in men-stealing and slave-dealing, and therefore 
the law is made for slaveholders as well as for 
men-stealers and slave-dealers. That they are 
all alike guilty to the same degree, I will not pre- 
tend to assert ; but that the most innocent and 
unsuspecting among them are ' partakers of other 
men's sins,' seems to me undeniable. And though 
' they escape the judgment of men, yet they shall 
not escape the righteous judgment of God.' The 
sentence which God has annexed to the law 
against man-stealing, shows how much he abhors 
slavery. Death ! certain death ! is the penalty 
which the Almighty has attached to the crime of 
depriving an innocent person of his liberty. 'He 
that stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be 
found in his hand, he shall surely be put to 
DEATH.' And it ought to be remembered that this 
awful penalty was annexed to the crime of en- 
slaving the innocent at a period of the world when 

* To this purpose is the following note, which Avas privately inserted in 
the Confession of Faith, revised A. I). 1805, by the Gene'al Assembly of 
the Presbyterian Church. [' 1 Tim. i. 10. (The law is made) for whore- 
mongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for men-stealers. 
This crime among the Jews exposed the perpetrators of it to capital pun- 
ishment. (Exodus xxi. 16.) And the apostle here classes them with sinners 
of the first rank. The word he uses in its original import, comprehends 
all who are concerned in bringing any of the human race into slavery, or 
detaining them in it. Hominum fures, qui servos vel liberos abducant, re- 
tinent, vendunt vel emunt. Stealers of men are all those who bring off 
slaves or freemen, and keep, sell, or buy them. To steal a freeman, says 
Grotius, is the highest kind of theft. In other instances we only steal hu- 
man property, but when we steal or retain men- in slavery, we seize those 
who, in common with ourselves, are constituted by the original grant lord* 
of the earth. (Gen. i. 28.) Vid- Poll synopsin in loc.'] 



LETTER XIII. 101 

the ignorance of the rights of man tended much to 
mitigate the guilt of slavery. The criminality of 
slavery continually increases with the progress of 
knowledge. 

The third passage I shall invite you to consider 
is found in Deut. xxiii. 15, 16. ' Thou shalt not 
deliver unto his master the servant which is es- 
caped from his master unto thee. He shall dwell 
with thee, even among you, in that place which 
he shall choose in one of thy gates, where it 
liketh him best : thou shalt not oppress him.' 

In this passage we have the judgment of God 
against one kind of servitude ; the justice of the 
command necessarily supposes the injustice of the 
servitude to which it refers. And be that kind of 
servitude what it might, I am sure it could not be 
worse than that which is involuntary and perpet- 
ual ; therefore the divine decision against it must 
be equally against that which exists in modern 
times. This divine decision originated in the 
principles of justice and mercy, and, of course, 
must be as immutable as are the principles in 
which it had its origin. Justice and mercy can 
never cease to require the protection of those who 
ily to us from oppression. Hence we conclude 
that the passage under consideration does fully 
condemn the modern practice of slavery. 

The fourth passage I shall present to your con- 
sideration you will lind in Isaiah Iviii. 6. ' Is not 
this the fast, that I have chosen ? To loose the 
bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, 
and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break 
every yoke.' That the Israelites did attempt the 
practice of involuntary and perpetual slavery is 
evident from Jer. xxxiv. 8, 17. In this they 
transcended the limits of divine permission in re- 
lation to servitude. Hence they were commanded 
^toiettke oppressed go free, and — break every 



10^ LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

yoke.' And if it was criminal in them to extend 
servitude beyond the limits of divine permission, 
it must be equally so in us. There is no divine 
permission for enslaving the Africans, and there- 
fore the command is as obligatory upon their en- 
slavers as it was upon the mancipating Israelites. 
Hence every slaveholder is commanded to break 
the yoke of bondage, and ' to let the oppressed 
go free.' 

The fifth and last passage I shall present to 
your consideration contains the substance of the 
law and the prophets. It is found in Matt. vii. 12. 
' Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that 
men should do to you, do ye even so to them : for 
this is the law and the prophets.' 

Every man who is acquainted with the atten- 
dant and consequent evils of slavery would, if a 
slave, desire to be liberated. And certainly such 
desire would be consistent with the divine law. 
Hence, no man can hold an innocent person to 
involuntary servitude without violating the Sa~ 
vior's law of love. For in doing this he does to 
another what he would not wish another to do to 
him. No earthly consideration could induce the 
slaveholder to take the place of his slaves. There- 
fore it is abundantly evident that he does? not do 
to them as he would have them do to him. He 
does hold them to service to which he would not 
wish himself to be held. There is no way of 
evading the force of these conclusions, but by first 
limiting the Savior's injunction to lawful desires, 
and then asserting that it is unlawful for a slave to 
desire to be free — consequently we find many add- 
ing ' like circumstances ' to the text, in order to 
make it tally with their own conduct. I readily ad- 
mit that the injunction necessarily supposes that we 
are bound to desire of others nothing but what is' 
in accordance v/ith the divine law ;, but nothings, 



LETTER XIII. 103 

except a mind under the infatuating influence of 
an insatiable avarice, can imagine that it is un- 
lawful for a slave to desire freedom. All men 
were alike ' created free ; ' and for a man to de- 
sire what is his natural and unforfeited right, 
never can be discordant with the law of God. 
Hence Paul, when addressing servants, says, 'If 
thou may€st be free, use it rather.' Now this, 
whether it has reference to mere servants or in- 
voluntary slaves, proves that the desire for free- 
dom is lawful, and that it is even a duty to obtain 
liberty when it is attainable. But perhaps you 
may ask, is it lawful for a slave to desire the mas- 
ter who has purchased him to liberate him with 
the loss of the purchase money ? I say it is law- 
ful. None have a right to sell a man who has 
never forfeited his liberty, and of course none can 
have a right to purchase him ; and if a man has 
no right to purchase another, he has no right to 
hold him when purchased. And it is easier for a 
man to endure the loss of a few hundred dollars, 
than it is for one to endure a whole lite of bondage. 
Hence we say, when one man holds another in 
bondage during life merely because he has given 
a few hundred dollars for him, he gives the most 
decisive evidence that he does not love him as he 
does himself The slaveholder would give a 
million of dollars if he had them, rather than be a 
slave during life ; yet for the sake of a i^ew hun- 
dred he will hold another in slavery during life, 
and at the same time profess to love him as he 
does himself! But how absurd is such a profes- 
sion I Could the most malignant hatred do worse 
than hold a man in abject slavery for life ? Thus 
it is most evident that the slaveholder does violate 
the law and the prophets. And the New Testa- 
ment is but a development of the principles con- 
tained in the law and the prophets. Hence the 



104 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

whole Bible is opposed to slavery. The sacred 
volume is one grand scheme of benevolence. 
Beams of love and mercy emanate from every 
page, while the voice of justice denounces the 
oppressor, and speaks his awful doom ! 

Finally, I shall consider some of the excuses 
which have been offered for the practice of slavery. 

I, It is said ' the government has enslaved the 
Africans, and therefore slavery is the sin of the 
nation, and not of individuals/ Nothing can be 
more fallacious than this excuse. The govern- 
ment never made nor held a single slave, nor did 
it ever compel a single individual to become a 
slaveholder. Individuals first made, and still 
continue to hold slaves, and for these purposes 
they sought and obtained permission and protec- 
tion from government. Hence they involved both 
themselves and the government in the guilt of 
slavery. Therefore it is as unjust as it is vain for 
slaveholders to charge their sin upon the govern- 
ment. Every one of them shall bear his own sin. 

II. It is said, ' the laws of the slaveholding 
States prohibit the liberation of the slaves, and 
therefore the crime of slavery falls upon the 
States, and not upon individuals.' To this I 
reply, that those States did not compel any to be- 
come slaveholders, and therefore individuals stand 
first in the list of crimes. And besides this slave- 
holders made the very laws which prohibit eman- 
cipation, and they are the very men who prevent 
the repeal of those laws. Hence, they are the 
sole cause of the evil. It is vain for us to charge 
our sins upon the government which we made 
ourselves, and may alter when we please. And 
we may further add, that they who wish to liberate 
their slaves may give them a pass, and send them 
into other states whose laws vvill free them. 

in. It is saidj ' Alasl poor creatureSj freedom 



LETTER XIII. 105 

would ruin them; they are not capable of doin^ 
for themselves ; they would all either starve or 
steal.' 

Immaculate tenderness ! Astonishing sympa- 
thy ! But what is to be dreaded more than such 
tenderness and sympathy ? Who would wish to 
have them exercised upon himself? The asser- 
tion that ' they are not capable of doing for them- 
selves ' is false, as may be shown by a thousand 
instances. Were not the Haytiens once in a 
state of the most abject slavery ? Did they not 
liberate themselves ? And have they not honor- 
ably maintained their independence, in spite of 
the powerful efforts of the French nation to sub- 
due them .'' Have they not formed a respectable 
republican government ? Have they not made 
wise regulations for the promotion of science 
among them ? And have they not the prospect 
of becoming an enlightened and happy nation ? 
And have not many of those who have been eman- 
cipated in America become wealthy and good 
citizens ? And where shall we find any instances 
of starvation among them .'' Have not the poor- 
est economists among them been able to provide 
something better than the few pints of corn per 
week in many places allowed to slaves ? How 
many of them have gone entirely naked ? And 
where have they committed worse thefts than 
have been committed by the whites ? And is it 
not well known that many of the crimes charged 
upon the Africans have been perpetrated by 
white men r It appears to me undeniable, that 
freedom with its worst consequences, is better 
than slavery with its best consequences. The 
most miserable of those who are free, are not so 
miserable in every respect as are some in slavery. 
Hence, we say that the tenderness which induces 
men to hold others in abject slavery^ in order to 



106 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

save them from the ruinous effects of freedom, is 
but a mere palliative for a guilty conscience, and 
must be the offspring of blind avarice. 

IV. It is said ' that some slaves have very 
cruel masters, and therefore it is an act of be- 
nevolence in the humane to buy and hold them in 
bondage, in order to better their condition.' 

This is a very plausible excuse for the practice 
of slavery, and has no doubt had a powerful in- 
fluence upon many well-meaning people ; but it 
is as false as it is plausible. Every man readily 
supposes himself to be humane ; hence every man 
upon the same principle would think himself au- 
thorized to purchase and hold slaves, and thus the 
widest door would be opened to the practice of 
what we admit to be in itself unjust. If all the 
humane would refuse to hold slaves, the evil of 
slavery would soon be banished from the world. 
The example of the humane encourages the cruel 
by giving countenance to their oppressions ; and 
their kindness to their slaves keeps out of view 
many of the worst evils of slavery, and causes it 
to assume a mild and tolerable aspect ; thus their 
partial benevolence becomes universal cruelty. 
If slavery is unjust, it must be criminal to sanction 
it by our example. 

Again, suppose you were to purchase from the 
Algerines an unfortunate captive whom they were 
determined to enslave during life, do you suppose 
that their determination to deprive him of liberty 
would justify you in subjecting him to similar 
bondage with some mitigations of suffering ? Cer- 
tainly you would never so much as think of sub- 
jecting such a person to slavery for life unless 
his skin were black. But the color of the skin 
does not in the least alter the nature of the case; 
the law of love knows no distinction in colors ; it 
binds us alike to regard the natural rights of all 



LETTER XIII. 107 

men ; whatever is naturally due from us to a white 
man, is equally so to one that is black. 

V. It is said, 'that the Africans are in slavery, 
and will certainly be continued in it, and therefore 
one may as well hold them as another ; and he 
who holds them does not take away their liberty, 
for this they never possessed.' 

Suppose a man were to happen with a band of 
robbers, and they should invite him to join them 
in robbing a travelling gentleman of his money. 
He at first expostulates with them about the cruelty 
and injustice of robbery — they tell him he may 
have his choice as to the matter in question, but 
they are determined to have the traveller's money. 
He at length says — Alas! poor man, they will 
certainly take his money, and my refusing to take 
part with them will not alter the case, nor better 
the condition of the unfortunate stranger ; there- 
fore I may as well join and get a share of the 
spoil — I may as well have it as another. Away 
he goes with the rest, and takes his share of the 
money. Is he the less guilty because the others 
would certainly have committed the robbery with- 
out him ? Then surely a man is not the less 
guilty in holding an innocent person in bondage, 
because he would certainly be held in it by another. 
An innocent man has ever a right to freedom, and 
therefore whoever holds him in bondage does take 
away his liberty. 

VI. Finally, it is said, ' It will not do to free 
them among us. If they must be among us, let 
them be slaves.' 

We are commanded to ' do justly and love 
mercy,' and this we ought to do without delay, and 
leave the consequences attending it to the control 
of Him who gave the command. We ought also 
to remember that no excuse for disobedience will 
avail us any thing when he shall call us to judg- 



108 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

merit. If we refuse to do the Africans justice, we 
may expect the supreme Governor of the world 
to avenge their wrongs, and cause their own arm 
to make them free ! Hence, our own safety de- 
mands their liberation. Hold them in bondage, . 
and you will inure them to hardship and prepare 
them for the day of battle. You will also keep 
them together, increase their numbers, and enable 
them to overpower the nation. Their enormous 
increase beyond that of the white population is 
truly alarming. But liberate them and their in- 
crease will become proportionate to the rest of 
the nation. They will scatter over this Union — 
many of them will emigrate to Hayti and Africa. 
Prepare them for citizenship, and give them the 
privileges of free men, and they will have no in- 
ducements to do us harm ; but persist in oppress- 
ing them, and ruin will eventually burst upon our 
nation. The storm is gathering fast — dismal 
clouds already begin to darken our horizon. A 
{gw more years and the work of death will com- 
mence ! 

Now, my dear brother, I think I have clearly 
shown that both reason and revelation do con- 
demn the practice of slavery. I therefore entreat 
you to liberate the poor Africans you have pur- 
chased, and provide for them some comfortable 
way of living. To have done this will give you 
no painful sensations upon a dying bed. 

I must now close my series of letters. 1 hope 
you will receive them as so many tokens of sin- 
cere affection for you. My heart fills as I ap- 
proach the closing moment. It seems as if I am 
about to bid you a long and uncertain farewell ! 
All the tender scenes of our youthful days seem 
at once to rise to view, to awaken the softest sen- 
sibilities of nature, and excite the strongest so- 
licitude for your happiness ; while the appalling 



LETTER XIII. 109 

thought presses upon me that you will refuse to 
hear a brother's voice, the voice of reason, and 
what is infinitely more, the voice of God. A 
brother pleads with you; nature by all hertender- 
est sensibilities, and the God of nature, by all 
those heavenly sympathies that issued from a 
Savior's bleeding heart, plead with you to ' do 
justly, to love mercy,' 'and to let the oppressed 
go free !' And can you refuse ? And if you do, 
I am your brother — 1 will not speak your doom ! 

Farewell. 



THE END, 



STANDARD ANTI-SLAVERY BOOKS 

FOR SALE BY 

ISAAC KNAPP, 



APPEAL, in favor of that class of Americans 
called Africans, by Mrs. Child, a work which 
throws a flood of light on the subject of slavery, 
colonization, &c. Enriched with many rare and 
interesting anecdotes, and adorned with engra- 
vings. l'2mo. pp. 216. Price 37i cents single, 
$33.33 per hundred. 

BOURNE'S PICTURE OF SLAVERY IN 
the U. S. 10 engravings. A book made up 
of facts which fell under the writer's own observa- 
tion, illustrating abominations in the South. ]8mo. 
pp. 228. Price, bound, 50 cents single, §37.50 
per hundred. 

CHARLES BALL, a story told by himself of 
a man who lived 40 years in Md., S. C. and Ga., as 
a slave under various masters, giving an account 
of the manners of the planters, and the condition 
and treatment of the slaves, with the perils and 
sufferings of a slave who twice escaped from the 
cotton country, A narrative of uncommon in- 
terest. 12mo. pp. 517. Price §1.25 single, §1 
by the hundred. 

GEORGE THOMPSON IN AMERICA. Let- 
ters and addresses during his residence in the U. 
S. from Oct. 1834, to Nov. 1835. 8vo. pp. 126. 
Price Sl-l cents single, §30 per hundred. 

GEORGE THOMPSON'S RECEPTION IN 
Great Britain, 18mo. pp. 238. Price 37^ cents 
single, §33.33 per hundred. 

GEORGE THOMSON'S LECTURES AND 
Debates in England. 12mo. pp. 190. Price 50 
cents single, §44 per hundred. 

GODWIN ON SLAVERY, a valuable work 
by the well-known author of the treatise on Athe- 



ism. 12mo. pp. 258. Price 62i cents single, 
^56 per hundred. 

GUSTAVUS VASA, written by himself. Th6 
life of a native African, who was ' stolen out of 
his own land,' lived as a slave in Pennsylvania, 
went several voyages to the W. 1. and Europe, 
and passed through a variety of wonderful scenes 
which give his narrative an interest scarcely sur- 
passed by Robinson Crusoe ; with two fine litho- 
graphic prints. 12mo. pp. 294. Price 62| cents 
single, $56 per hundred. 

JAY'S INQUIRY into the nature and tendency 
of the American Colonization and Anti-Slavery 
Societies, 4th edition. This masterly collection 
of facts and arguments is unanswerable. 12mo. 
pp. 206, 37i cents single, $33.33 per hundred. 

LECTURES OF GEORGE THOMPSON, 
with a full report of the discussion between Mr. 
Thompson and Mr. Borthwick, the pro-slavery 
agent, held at the Royal Amphitheatre, Liverpool, 
Eng., and which continued for six evenings with 
unabated interest : compiled from various Eng- 
lish editions. Also, a brief history of his con- 
nection with the Anti-Slavery cause in England. 
By Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Boston. 12mo. pp. 190. 
Price 50 cents single, $44 per hundred. 

"NEGRO PEW" — an inquiry concerning 
the propriety of distinctions in the house of God 
on account of color. 18mo. pp. 108. 25 cents 
single, $22 per hundred. 

PHILLIS WHEATLEY ; the memoir and 
poems of one who was a native African and a 
slave. With a beautiful lithographic likeness. 
Modern edition, 18mo. pp. 110. 37J cents single, 
$30 per hundred. 

POEMS written during the progress of Aboli- 
tion in 1830-38, by J. G. Whittier. Embellished 
with a beautiful London copperplate engraving. 
37i cents single, $30 per hundred. 



.Y 



