Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lettertolordchanOOIond 



LETTER 



THE LORD CHANCELLOR 



#• 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY. 



BY A WEST INDIAN, 



LONDON: 

B. FELLOWES, LUDGATE STREET, 

1833. 



1?es. VS'g&'.S? n^'O 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The following Letter was sent to Lord 
Brougham in Decemher, 1830. As the writer 
has seen no reason to change his views, and, 
as the present ministerial plan appears to him 
a very dangerous one, it is now printed. 



TO THE RIGHT HON. 



LORD BROUGUAM AND VAUX, 

ILoiti ibiqf) GTfianrpIlor of OSreat Britain. 



My Lord, 

Whatever view your Lordship may take 
of the plan I am about to offer for the settlement 
of the Negro Slavery question, I am confident 
that we are agreed about the objects which are 
proposed to be accomplished by that plan : — that 
Negro Slavery must cease ; that its abolition 
should be effected with the least possible mischief 
and offence ; and that the means adopted for 
this purpose should be formed without any, the 
remotest, reference to party-spirit and party- 
interests, to the competition between East and 



West Indian industry, or to any principle but 
that of humanity and justice. 

I believe many well-meaning people are so 
weak as to think that the British Parliament need 
only pass a bill for setting free all slaves, and at 
once they will be in the condition of labourers in 
a country always free, and their masters in that of 
farmers in such a countr3^ This would be silly 
enough any where, but in England it is a refusal 
to learn from our own experience ; for how 
immense are the difficulties of rectifying our poor 
laws system, which has gone a little way towards 
introducing a kind of Slavery. 

It was the opinion of the wisest ancient writer 
on politics,* that a slave is entitled to liberty only 
as soon as he is capable of using it. The justness 
of this view is unquestionable; but unluckily it so 
happens that no one can be so well qualified as 
the master, both to judge when the slave is fit 
for freedom, and to make him fit ; and yet it 

* Aristotle. 



is usually the master's interest to keep him a 
slave. That system, therefore, and that only 
can effectually put an end to slavery, so as to 
benefit the slave himself, which shall make his 
emancipation flow from the will and self-interest 
of the master. Keeping this principle in view, 
I propose. 

First, That there be a transfer either of the ivhole 
or of a portion of the tax noiv laid on sugar in 
the shape of duties, to one on slaves. 

Secondly, That the tax be an ad valorein 
tax, and the valuation fixed by the slave-owner, 
and appended to the registry of the slave. 

Thirdly, That the owner be compelled to sell 
his slave at the price so fixed, whenever the 
slave demands it, or any other person offers to 
purchase him for the purpose of setting him 
free. 

Fourthly, That some representation of the 
colonies in Parliament |3e allowed, and the 



duties and powers of the colonial legislatures 
limited accordingly. This last measure (inde- 
pendently of its being otherwise expedient and 
just) is necessary for carrying into effect the 
former, the colonies having been guaranteed by 
the Act of 1778, from internal interference.* 

The manner in which the measures proposed 
by me may be expected to operate, is briefly this : 

The owner of the slave will be made the 
voluntarij instrument of emancipation, by render- 
ing it his interest to convert the taxed slave into 
the untaxed free labourer. And he will not be 
able to evade the pressure of the tax by setting a 
lower valuation than the true one on his slave, 
inasmuch as he will be compelled to sell the 
slave at that price whenever his redemption is 
claimed. 

* The consent of the colonial legislatures to a taxation of 
slaves, instead of the duties on sugar, would, of course, render 
this part of the scheme unnecessary ; and it is possible that 
their consent may now be obtained, especially if the choice 
should be between this and the obnoxious measure at present 
contemplated by government. 



9 

It may be objected, indeed, " How are the 
slaves to be redeemed, even if the price were 
thus lowered ? " The better sort, I answer, by 
the savings of their little perquisites, — perquisites 
which the master will never curtail, because he well 
knows that they are necessary to render the slave 
valuable, — to make him trustworthy, and to give 
him influence with the inferior sort. Something 
more might be done by voluntary contribution ; 
but the main point is, that it would be palpably 
the master's interest to convert his taxed labourer 
into an untaxed one, and that he would not long 
ask for a boon to induce him to do this. In many 
instances, he would perhaps free the slave under 
an agreement of his afterwards working out his 
price. 

Old prejudices may for a time keep many 
back, and this would, on the whole, be beneficial; 
it would be just the " lock in the wheel" of a 
system which ought not to move with unchecked 
velocity. The result would be, that the better 
sort of slaves only would, in the first instance, 
be set free, or encouraged to purchase their 



10 

freedom on low terms, because their value being- 
the highest, the tax on them would be the heaviest. 
Now these are the slaves best prepared for free- 
dom ; and it is most desirable that they should 
first enjoy it, and not all simultaneously. But 
once having tried the experiment on these, and 
having found that free labour yields a greater 
return than slave labour did, the slave owner 
would inevitably go on to free all his slaves. 
Prejudices that will yield to nothing else, will 
give way when self-interest is palpably opposed 
to them.. Variations and impediments in the 
working of the system there must be ,• but this 
is the natural operation of it. It addresses not 
the humanity of men, which may grow cool, 
but self-interest which never does ; it makes the 
interest of the planters and the cause of emanci- 
pation coincide. 

At the same time, no one can be better aware 
than your Lordship of the suspicion with which 
any measure, professing as its object the emanci- 
pation of the slaves, is likely to be regarded by 
the proprietors. Certain and evident as is the 



11 

advantage of such a system to them, I question 
whether they do not look with so much mistrust 
on any interference of this kind, as to make it 
likely that they would reject the proposal, unless 
it carried with it an important concession to 
their wishes ; wishes which I know have long 
been ardently entertained. Let the Colonies 
be represented in the British Parliament ;* not, 
indeed, each colony by a separate member, but 
in such proportion to their importance as may 
seem fit on a careful survey of the interest to be 
represented. Representation they must have, if 
they are themselves to be treated in this matter 
like freemen, and not like slaves. This must be 
the preliminary measure to any amicable and 
equitable adjustment of the question. The 
details of such an arrangement, as may secure 
an adequate representation without adding too 
many members to Parliament, (perhaps four 
might be suflScient,) I shall not enter upon; it 
is, I am sure, practicable, although it may, 
probably, be necessary to admit of some anomaly 

* See Note, p. 8. 



}2 

in the period for which a member should be 
elected. The distance between the colonies 
and the mother country may make it necessary 
that in case of a dissolution of Parliament the 
former member should be considered as member 
in the new house, pro tempore. Some difficulties 
again may be suggested in the mode of election, 
owing to the difference between the interests to be 
represented in some colonies, — as Trinidad and 
St. Lucia, — contrasted with others, — such as 
Barbadoes and Jamaica ; but it is plain that 
they all by some means do contrive at present 
to appoint representatives. The agents for the 
colonies are, in fact, a clumsy attempt at repre- 
sentation ; and if the clashing and ill-defined 
interests of some of the colonies have never 
prevented the appointment of such persons, they 
cannot now be supposed to do so. 

I shall not anticipate further the many arguments 
which I am aware may be urged, for argument 
sake, against my proposal ; but there is one point 
of difficulty which I feel, and of which I am not 
competent to say, whether it is sufficient to deter 



13 

Government from advocating this measure. There 
must be some sacrifice of revenue on the part of 
Great Britain, — a gradual, but still a considerable 
sacrifice. Whilst the system is v^^orking, w^hilst 
the transition from taxed slaves to untaxed free 
labourers is going on, the revenue derived from 
the colonies must decrease. I state the objection 
in the strongest form, because my design is, not so 
much to advocate my present scheme, as to ascer- 
tain the practicability of the object which is to be 
accomplished by this or by some other means; and 
I should be glad to see it placed in its strongest 
light before the public, if only to clear the national 
character from the charge of canting hypocrisy on 
this subject. The country cannot surely refuse to 
make some sacrifice for the attainment of this 
great object, unless the voice of humanity and 
generosity, w^hich has been so long echoing from 
one end of Great Britain to the other, be indeed 
only the whine of sickly sentimentality or party 
cunning. Can we, in the same breath, continue 
to demand slave emancipation, and refuse to con- 
tribute something, for a few years, whether it be 
from our abiirulance, or our need, to eiccom- 



14 

plish it ? Taxation is, to be sure, biirthensome 
enough already, but this would be no tax, — it 
would be a national charity. No sensible man 
can expect the same sort of legislation for the 
removal of an old, obstinate, and enormous evil, 
as for the continuance and improvement of a good 
or tolerable system. Obstacles of some sort 
must stand in the way of settling this question ; 
but are we to leave our neighbour to struggle, 
and sink, and drown, because we are afraid of 
catching cold in helping him out of the water? 

Still it is a difficulty, and if it be met in the 
first instance by a readiness on the part of this 
country, to make such a temporary sacrifice, as 
shall go hand in hand with our professions of 
philanthrophy, it will also require the prospective 
wisdom of the Legislature to replace gradually, 
at the proper season, and in some different shape, 
on the colonies, their present share of the burthen 
of taxation. Meanwhile, the breathing time which 
will be given them, is necessary for their future 
prosperity, I should almost say for their commercial 
existence. 



15 

Nor should I then anticipate any serious oppo- 
sition to such a measure, from the colonies them- 
selves. Matters of this kind will be far more 
readily and satisfactorily arranged, when parlia- 
mentary representatives in England, instead of 
legislators abroad, are the parties to be consulted, 
and to decide. These will always be, as the 
Agents now are, permanent residents of Great 
Britain, removed from scenes which may be 
supposed to foster prejudice; more accessible, 
and more under that sort of control which alone 
should be exercised by a free country over any 
of its members. Had the United States of Ame- 
rica been formerly represented (according to 
Adam Smith's plan), it is a question whether 
any discontent on their part would yet have 
divided us. It is better, no doubt, for both coun- 
tries that a separation did take place; but if it be 
our policy to retain our present colonies much 
longer, the same views of policy as well as of 
justice require, that the colonists should be 
admitted to all the rights of their fellow- subjects 
at home. 



If) 

The suggestions which I have offered will, 
unless I am much mistaken in your Lordship's 
character, be estimated simply by their intrinsic 
claim to consideration. But it may still be neces- 
sary for me to add, that they are not mere abstract 
speculations, which have exercised my ingenuity 
in seclusion, and at a distance from the actual 
scene of slavery. I have lived long in the colonies, 
have spent indeed some of my best years in hard 
service there; I know the people, black and white, 
master and slave ; and whatever reception this 
proposal of mine may meet with, sure am I that 
no emancipation measure will be either safe or 
effectual, that shall not so far coincide with it, as 
to recognize the principle of the master becoming 
the voluntary instrument of freedom to the slave. 

I have the honour to be 

' My Lord, 

Your Lordship's obedient Servant, 

A WEST INDIAN. 

December, 1830. 



R. CLAY, FIUNTLK, H KE A D-STREET-HILL. 



