res. 557<R.52> 



[Penny Tracts.] [Number 1.] 

DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS 



OF THE 



AMEEIOAI AITI-SLAYEEY SOCIETY. 

Adopted at the Formation of said Society, in Philadelphia, 
on tlie 4th day of December, 1833. 



Tke ConventiGii assembled in the City of Philadelphia^ to organize a National Anti- 
Slavery Society, promptlj^ seize the opportunity to promulg;ite the following DECLA-RA- 
TION OF SENTIMENTS, as cherished by them in relation to the enslavement of one-sixth 
portion of the American people. 

More than fifty-seven years have elapsed since a baud of patriots convened in this placf, 
to devise measures for the deliverance of this country from a foreign yoke. The corner- 
stone upon v/kich they founded the Temple ok Freedo.ii was broadly this — " that all men 
are created equal ; and they are endowed by tlwir Creator v^ith certain inalienable rights ; 
that a,mong these are life, LIBERTY, and the {pursuit of happiness." At the sound of their 
U-urapet-call, thi-ee millions of people rose up as from the sleep of death, and rushed to the 
strife of blood; deeming it more glorious to die instantly as freemen, than desirable to live 
ome hour as slaves. They were few iu number — poor in resources ; but the honest convic- 
tion that TuuTH, Justice, and Right were ou their side, made them invincible. 

We have met together for the achievement of an enterprise, without which that of our 
fathers is incomplete; and which, for its magnitude, solemnity, and probable results upon 
the destiny of the world, as far transcends theirs as moral truth does physicaT force. 

In purity of motive, in earnestness of zeal, in decision of purpose, in intrepidity of action, 
in steadfastness of faith, iu sincerity ef spirit, we would not be inferior to them. 

Tkcir principles led them to wage war against their oppressors, and to spill Iniman blood 
like water in order to be free. Ours forbid the doing of evil that good may come, and lead us 
to reject, and to entreat the oppressed to reject, the use of all carnal weapons for deliverance 
from bondage; relying solely upon those which are spiritual, and mighty through God to the 
pulling down of strongholds. _ 

Their measures were physical resistance— the marshalling in arms — the hostile aixay — the 
mortal encounter. Ours shall be such only as the opposition of moral purity to moral corrup- 
tion — the desti-uction of error by the potency of truth — the overthrow of prejudice by the 
power of love — and the abolition of slavery by the spirit of repentance. 

T'heir grievances, great as they were, were tritiing in comparison with the wrongs and sitf- 
ferings of those for v/hom we plead. Our fathers were never slaves — never bought and sold 
like cattle — never shut out from the light of knowledge and religion — never subjected to the 
lash of brutal task-masters. 

But those for whose emancipation we are striving — constituting, at the present time, at 
least one^sixth part of our countrymen — are recognized by the law, and treated by their fel- 
low-beings, as marketable commodities, as goods and chattels, as brute beasts ; are plundered 
daily of the fruits of their toil without redress ; really enjoying no constitutional nor legal pro- 
tection from licentious and murderous outrages upon their jjersons, are ruthlessl)^ torn asun- 
der — the tender babe from the arms of its frantic mother — the heart-broken wife from her 
weeping husband — at the caprice or pleasure of irresponsible tyrants. For the crime of hav- 
ing a dark complexion, they suffer the pangs of hunger, the infliction of stripes, and the igno- 
miny of brutal servitude. They are kept in heathenish darkness by laws expressly enacted 
to make their instruction a criminal offence. 

These are the prominent circumstances in the condition of more than two millions of our 
people, the proof af which may be found iu thousands of indisputable facts, and iu the laws 
of the slavehokling States, 

Hence we maintain, — that iu view of the civil and religious privileges of this nation, the 
guilt of its oppression is uneqitalled by any other on the face of the earth ; and, therefore, 

That it is bound to repent instantly, to undo the hea\'y burden, to break every yoke, and to 
let the oppressed go free. 



We fiu'tber maintain, — that no man has a right to enslave or imbriite Lis brother — to holder 
ackuo'.vledge him, for one moment, as a piece of merchandize — -to keep back his hire by frauci 
— or to biiitalize his mind by denying him the means of intellectual, social, and uwral im- 
provement. 

The right to enjoy liberty is inalienable. To invade it is to usnrp the prerogative of Jeho- 
vah. Every man hat; a righf to his own body — the products of his own labor — to the protec- 
tion of law, and to the common advantages of society. It is piracy to buy or steal a native 
AtHcan, and subject him to servitude. Surely the sin is as great to enslave an Americam as- 
an Afkicax. 

Therefore we Ijelieve and affirm — That there is no difference in principle, between the Afri- 
can slave-trade and American Slaveiy. 

That every American ciiizeii wlio retains a human being in involuntary bondage as hi» 
pi'02")erty, is, according to Scripture (Ex. xxi. 16), a max stealer: 

That the slaves ougiit instantly to be set free, and brought under the protection of law : 

That if they lived from the time of Pharaoh down to the present period, and had been en- 
tailcjd tliroLigh successive generations, their riglit to be free could never have been alienated, 
but their claims would have constantly risen in solemnity. 

That all those laws which are now in force, admitting the right of slavery, are therefore 
before God utteiiy null and void ; being an audacious usurpation of the Divine prerogative, a 
daring infringement on the hiw of nature, a base overthrow of the very foundations of the so- 
cial compact, a complete extinction of all the relations, endearments, and obligations oi' man- 
kind, and a presumptuous transgression of all the holy commandments — and that therefore 
they ouglit instantly to be abrogated. 

We further believe and affirm — That all persons of color who possess the qualifica- 
tions which are demanded of others, ought to be admitted forthwitli to the enjoyment of the 
same privileges, and the exercise of the same prerogatives, as others; and that the paths O'f 
preferment, of wealth, and of intelligence, should be opened as widely to them as to persons 
of a white complexion. 

We maintain lliat no compensation should be given to the plantei's emancipating the 
slaves ; 

Because it would be a surrender of the great fundamental principle that man cannot hold 
property in man ; 

Because Slavery is a crime, and therefore is not an article to be sold : 

Because the holders of slaves are not the just proprietors of what they claim ; freeing the 
slaves is not depriving them of property, but restoring it to its rightful owners; itiis uotvirroug- 
ing the master, but righting the slave — restoring him to himself; 

Because inihiediate and general emancipation would only destroy nominal, not real pro- 
perty ; it would not amputate a limb or break a bone of the slaves, but by infusing motives 
into their breasts, would malie them doubly valuable to the masters as free labourers ; and 

Because, if compensation is to be given at all, it should be given to the outraged and guilt- 
less slaves, and not to those who have plundered and abused them. 

We regard as delusive, cruel, and dangerous, any sclieme of expatriation, which pretends- 
to aid, either directly or indirectly, in the emancipation of the slaves, or to be a substitute 
for the immediate and tutal abolition of Slavery. 

We fully and unanimously recognize the sovereignty of each State, to legislate exclusively 
on the subject of the Slavery which is tolerated within its limits ; we concede that Congress, 
under thepresent national compact, has no right to interfere with any of the slave States, in 
relation to this momentous subject: 

But v>e maintain that Congress has a right, and is solemnly bound, to suppress the domestic 
slave-trade between the several States, and to abolish Slaveiy in those portions of oiu* terri- 
tory which the Coustituticni has placed under its exclusive jurisdiction. 

We also maintain that there are, at the present time, the liighest obligations resting upon 
the people of the free States, to remove Slavery by moral and political action, as prescribed 
in the Constitution of the United States. They are now living under a pledge of tlieir tre- 
mendous physical force, to fasten the galling fetters of tyranny upon the limbs of millions in 
the Southern States; they are liable to be called at any moment to suppress a general iusm'- 
rection of the slaves; they authorize the slave owner to vote on three-fifths of his slaves as 
pi'operty, and thus enable him to perpetuate his oppression; they supjiort a slanduig army at 
the South for its protection ; and they seize the slave who has escaped into their territories, 
and send him back to be tortured lay an enraged master or a brutal driver. This relation to 
Slavery is criminal and full of danger: it must be broken up. 

These are our views and principles — these our designs and measures. With entire confi- 
dence in the overruling justice of God, we plant ourselves ujian the Declaration ot our Inde- 
pendence and the truths of divine revelation as upon the Everlasting Rocjc. 

We shall organize Anti-Slavery Societies, if possible, in every city, town, and village, vx 
our land. 

\Ve shall send forth agents to lift up the voice of remonstrance, of warning, of entreaty 
and rebuke. 

We shall circulate, unsparingly and extensively, anti-slavery tracts and periodicals. 



( 3 ) 

We shall enlist the pulpit and the press in the cause of the suiFering and the dumb. 

We shall aim at a purification of the churches from all participation in the guilt of Slavery. 

We sliall encourage the labor of freemen rather tlian that of slaves, by giving a preference 
to their 2^roductions : and 

We shall spare no exertions nor means to bring the w^hole nation to speedy repentance. 

Our trust for victory is solely in God. VVe may be personally defeated, but our principles 
never. Truth, Justice, Season, Humanity, must and will gloriously triumph. Already a 
host is coming up to the help of the Lord against the mighty, and the prospect before us is 
full of encouragement. 

Submitting this DECLARATION to the candid examination of the people of this country, 
and of the friends of liberty throughout the world, we hereby affix our signatures to it; 
pledging ourselves that, under the guidance and by the help of Almighty God, we will do all 
that in us lies, consistently with this Declaration of our principles, to overthrow tlie most 
execrable system of Slavery that has ever been witnessed upon earth — to deliver our land 
from its deadliest curse— to wipe out the foulest stain which rests upon our national escut- 
cheon — and to secure to the colored population of the United States all the rights and privi- 
leges which belong to them as men, and as Americans — come what may to our persons, our 
interests, or our reputation — whether we live to witness the triumph of liberti", justice, 
and HUMANITY, or perish untimely as martyrs in this great, benevolent, and holy cause. 

Done at Philadelphia, the 6th day of December, A. D. 1833. 



PREAMBLE 

TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

Whereas, the Most High God "hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on all 
the face of the earth," and hath commanded them to love their neighbors as themselves; 
and whereas, our national existence is based upon this principle, as recognized in the Decla- 
ration of Lidependence, " that all men are created equal, and that they are endowed by their 
Ci'eator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap- 
piness ;" and whereas, after the lapse of nearly eixty years, since the faith and honor of the 
American people were pledged to this avowal, before Almighty God, and the world, nearly 
one-sixth part of the nation are held in bondage by their fellow-citizens ; and whereas. Slavery 
is contrary to the principles of natural justice, of our republican form of Government, and of 
the Christian Religion, and is destructive to the prosperity of the country, while it is endan- 
gering the [)eace, union, and liberty of the States ; and whereas, we l^clieve it the duty and 
interest of the masters, immediately to emancipate their slaves, and that no scheme of expa- 
triation, either voluntary or by compulsion, can remove this great and increasing evil : and 
whereas, we bSfieve that it is practicable, by appeals to the consciences, hearts, and interests 
of the people, to awaken a public sentiment throughout the nation, that will be opposed to the 
continuance of Slavery in any part of the Republic, and by effecting the speedy abolition of 
Slavery, prevent a general convulsion; and whereas, we believe we owe it to the oppressed, 
to our fellow-citizens wlio hold slaves, to our whole country, to posterity, and to God, to do 
all that is lawfully in our power to bring about the extinction of Slavery, we do hereby 
agree, with a prayerful reliance on the Divine aid, to form ourselves into a society, to be 
governed by the following Constitution. 



The Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society we omit, to make room for 
a brief extract from the Addi-ess adopted by the Society in 1844. The position then as- 
sumed, the Members of the Society hold to be strictly in accordance with the Declaration of 
Sentiments and the Constitution of 1833. We can give only the commencement of the Ad- 
dress — which is long. From this brief statement of tlie i^rinciples of the American Anti- 
Slavery Society, the intelligent reader will understand our aims and our measures. , * 



ADDRESS. 

At the Tenth Anniversaiy of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in the city of New- 
York, May 7th, 1844, — after grave deliberation, and a long and earnest discussion, — :it was de- 
cided, by a vote of nearly three to one of the members i^resent, that fidelity to the cause of 
human freedom, hatred of oppression, sympathy for those who are held in chains and slaveiy 
in this republic, and allegiance to God, require that the existing national compact should be 
instantly dissolved ; that secession from the government is a religious and political duty ; that 



( 4 ) 

tlie motto inscribed on the iDauner of Freedom should be, NO UNION WITH SLAVE- 
HOLDERS ; that it is impracticable for tyrants and the enemies of tyranny to coalesce and 
legislate together for the preservation of human rights, or the promotion of tlse interests of 
Liberty ; and that revolutionary ground should be occupied by all those who abhor the 
thought of doing evil that good may come, and who do not mean to compi'omise the princi- 
ples of Justice and Humanity. 

A decision involving such momentous consequences, so well calculated to startle the pub- 
lic mind, so hostile to the established order of things, demands of us, as the official represen- 
tatives of the American Anti-Slavery Society, a statement of the reasons which led to it. Tliia 
is due not only to the Society, but also to the country and the world. 

It is declared by the American people to be a self-evident truth, " that all men are created 
equal; lUat they are endov^'ed BY THEIR CREATOR with certain inalienable rights; that 
among these are life, LIBERTY, and the pursuit of happiness." It is further maintained by 
them, that " all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed :" that 
" whenever any form of government becomes destructive of human rights, it is the riglit of the 
people to alter or to abolish it, and institute a new government, laying its foundation on such 
principles, and organizing its powers in .such form, as to them sliall seem most likely to effect 
their safety and happiness." These doctrines tlie patriots of 1776 sealed with their blood. 
They would not brook even the menace of oppression. They held that there should be tio 
delay in resisting, at whatever cost or peril, the first encroachments of power on their liber- 
ties. Appealing to the great Ruler of the universe for the rectitude of their course, they 
pledged to each other " their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor," to conc[uer or 
perisii in their struggle to be free. 

For the example which they set to all people subjected to a despotic sway, and the sacri- 
fices which they made, their descendants clierish their memories with gratitude, reverence 
their virtues, honor their deeds, and glory in their triumphs. 

It is not necessary, therefore, for us to prove that a state of Slavery is incompatiblfe vf'iXh 
the dictate.s of reason and humanity : or that it is lawful to throw off a government which is 
at war with the sacred rights of mankind. 

We regard this as indeed a solemn crisis, which reqtiires of every man Sobriety of thought 
prophetic forecast, independent judgment, invincible detei'mination, and a sound heart. A 
revolutionary step is one that should not be taken hastily, nor followed under the influence 
of impulsive imitation. To know what spirit they are of— whether they have counted the 
cost of the warfare — what are the principles they advocate — and hov\f tliey are to achieve 
their object — is the first duty of revolutionists. 

But, while circumspection and prudence are excellent qualities in ejvery gi-eat emei'gency, 
they become the allies of tyranny whenever they restrain prompt, bold and decisive action 
against it. 

We charge upon the present national compact, that it was formed at the expense of human 
liberty^, by a profligate sun-ender of principle, and to this hour is cemented with human blood. 

We charge upon the American Constitution, that it contains provisions, au^ enjoins duties, 
which make it unlawful for freemen to take the oath of allegiance to it, because they are 
expressly designed to favor a slaveholding oligarchy, and, consecjueutly, to make one portion 
of the people a prey to another. 

We charge uptm the existing national government, that it is an insupportable despotism, 
wielded by a power which is superior to all legal and constitutional restraints — equally indis- 
posed and unable to protect the lives or liberties of the people — the prop and safeguard of 
American Slaveiy. * * * * * * * * , * 



ANTI-SLAVERY NEWSPAPERS. 

The AntitSlavery Bugle is published weekly, at Salem, O., at $1 50 per annum. 

The Pennsylvania Freeman is published weekly, at the office of the Eastern Pennsylvania 
Anti-Slavery Society, No. 31 North Fifth street, Philadelphia, at $1 per annum. 

The Liberator is published weekly, at the ofRce of the Massachusetts Auti-Slaveiy Society, 
No. 21 Cornhill, Boston, at $2 per annum. 

The National Anti-Slavery Standard is published weekly, at the office of the American 
Auti-Slavery Society, No. 142 Nassau sti;eet, New York, at $1 per annum. 

(tt5-ANTl-SLAVERY PUBLICATIONS FOR SALE AT ALL THE ABOVE OFFICES. 

PVBHSHED BY THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 142 {f ASSAU-STREET, NEW-YORK. 

William S. Dorr, Printer. 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2011 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/declarationofsen1833amer 



