Boston, April 15, 1834, 



Mr DEAR Sir: 



Knowing that you have long felt, not only a deep interest in the prosperity of the Liberator, bat also a 
personal friendship for me, which not all the calumnies of the enemies of freedom have been able to shake, 
I feel emboldened to put the accompanying appeal into your hands, to be used discreetly and confidentially 
among those, who in your opinion, may be disposed to unite for the support of the paper. If this were strictly 
in behalf of myself, I should feel extremely mortified, and would not on any account make it; but it does not 
so much concern me, or my partner, as it does an immense multitude of victims upon whom are rivetted the 
galling fetters of tyranny, and four hundred thousand persons who are nominally free, and yet deprived 
of almost every privilege that makes life pleasant and serviceable. Will you endeavor to ascertain how many 
individuals, within the immediate circle of your acquaintence, are willing to assist in raising the sum proposed 
on the following page, by taking shares at the specified rate ? By sending the paper to no subscribers here- 
after, who do not pay in advance, its circulation will probably be diminished, but to its benefit rather than to 
its injury ; for then we shall be sure of two things — first, of getting all our dues, and secondly, of losing a 
heavy burden growing out of the delinquencies of those who patronise us by never paying a farthing for the 
paper. I am sure that our friends every where, — and especially our colored friends, — will say, and make good 
their declaration, that the expenses of printing and editing the Liberator, at a suitable compensation, shall 
be guaranteed and paid. Yours Respectfully, 

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. 



TO THE FRIENDS OF THE LlBEHATOll. 



SHALL THE LIBERATOR DIE ? 

Once more, and with great mortification, — and probably for the last time, — we make our appeal to j-ou in behalf of the Lib- 
erator. Its pecuniary embarrassments have now reached a crisis, which is speedily to determine its fate. Unless they be mcl 
and obviated promptly by the combined efforts of its friends, the paper must cease on the first of July. And, if it be safi'ered to 
go down for the want of patronage, it will unquestionably go ill with the sacred cause which it has so long and so strenuously 
advocated, and invigorate the drooping spirits of the enemies of justice, humanity and righteousness. The Liberator has identi- 
fied itself with the present glorious conflict which is now going on between Liberty and Tyranny. It has been the pioneer in ex- 
ploring the great wilderness of human suffering which e.\ists in out land ; and to its bold appeals, its unflinching courage, its un- 
compromising principles, and its faithful disclosures, may be attributed, instrumentally speaking, the overthrow of that stupen- 
dous system of fraud, injustice and corruption, commonly called the colonization system, and the stirring up of thatjiiighty 
mass of human sympathy and moral power which is now expanding daily, and we trust is soon to fall, with mountainous weight, 
upon the throne of despotism, grinding it to powder. 

Nothing strikes so much dread into the bosoms of American oppressors, and of their corrupt apologists, and of those who 
are determined to drive the colored population of this country into banishment, as the Liberator. They hale it with a perfect 
hatred— and mighty and ceaseless have been their efforts to crush it. The life of its editor has been in constant peril, in conse- 
quence of their malignity and rage. They have offered, publicly and privately, large rewards for his destruction. He has been 
made the victim of all that is venomous in prejudice, and cruel in slander, and intolerant in persocution. But, by the help of 
God, he continues unto this day, still bearing his testimony against oppression— still lifting up the banner of emancipation— still 
wrestling against principalities and powers, and spiritual wickedness in high places. And shall he now, at this auspicious pe- 
riod, when Truth and Love are going forth victoriously through the length and breadth of this land, and Falsehood and Preju- 
dice are expiring together— shall he now be abandoned, and lea to stagger under a burden which must ultimately crush him to 
the earth 1 Shall he be compelled, by imperious necessity, to forsake the cause which is so near to his heart, and turn his atten- 
tion to other pursuits in order to get his daily bread ? Shall he be forced to occupy a station, in which he can give, in- 
stead of a constant and vigorous co-operation, but an incidental and trifling support to a cause which needs a vast accession of 
strength to secure its final triumph 1 In one sentence— SHALL THE LIBER.\TOR DIE ?— not so much in consequence of 
the opposition of its enemies, as the indifference of its friends ? 

Permit us briefly to trace our career. We commenced the Liberator without having obtained previously a single subscriber. 
In the course of the first volume, about 500 subscribers were added to our list : of course, this number was inadequate to our 
support. It slowly increased, however, during the second and third volumes, up to 1000, and then to about 1400 ; and so did its 
expenses increase, owing to its enlargement, without enhancing the terms of subscription. All this time, we lived in the most 
frugal and humble manner, in order by the utmost self-denm! to sustain the paper, and disappoint the hopes and predictions of 
its enemies. Still we struggled under many embarrassments, and were in bondage to penury. We gratefully acknowledge that 
several generous donations were made to us for the support of the paper, from various persons and societies ; and had it not 
been for these, it would have long since ceased to exist. These were not sufficient to remove the burden, although they allevi- 
ated its pressure. .... 

In commencing our present volume, (the fourth,) we again enlarged the Liberator, still affordmg it at its ongmal price. At 
first, the prospect looked very encouraging. In less than three months, six hundred new subscribers were added to our subscrip- 
tion list— principally obtained.in the cities of New York and Philadelphia, but under such circumstances as to afford us no sub- 
stantial aid ; in fact, so remiss have they been up to this hour, in complying with the terms of the paper, that they have only in- 
creased our difficulties. 

We have been continually harassed and fettered in our pecuniary resources, then— 1st. Because at no one time since its com- 
mencement, anterior to the present volume, have there been subscribers enough to defray its expenses. 2d. Because there are 
over ,g2000 due us for the three volumes, a very large proportion of which sum we never expect to realize. 3d. Because the 
expense of postage, the discount on foreign bills, the payment for the transportation of bundles and distribution of papers by car- 
riers, the allowance lo agents, &c. &c. have reduced the sura of ^2,00 on each subscriber who has punctually paid, to less than 
,gl,50. 4th. Because, in our anxiety to advance the sacred cause of freedom, we have liberally distributed copies of the paper 
whLre we deemed they were specially needed, and also gratuitously printed and circulated addresses, tracts, pamphlets, &c. on 
the subject of slavery and colonization, to a large amount. 

Besides all this, the editor has been put to great expense in travelling unremunerated from place to place, delivering ad- 
dresses, attending public meetings, conventions, &c. &c. Moreover, the low price at which the paper is afforded to subscribers 
allows scarcely any profit, even when they are punctual in their payments. 




It is a remarkable fact, that of the whole number of subscribers to the Liberator, only about one-fourth arc while. The pa- 
per, then, belongs emphatically to the people of color— it is their organ— and to ihem its appeals will come with peculiar force. 
Letthem'rememberthatsostrongare the prejudices of the whites against it, we cannot at present e.xpect much support from 
them. And surely, by a very trifling combination of effort and means, the colored population might easily give vigor and sta- 
bility to the paper. In Philadelphia, they number 25,000 ; in New-York, 20,000 ; in Baltimore, 10,000; and ihey are numerous 
in other places. True, they are poor and trodden down ; but how can they arise, without having a press to lift up its voice in 
their behalf T They are poor— but taking the paper will not make (hem any poorer— il will add to iheir respcclabilily, their in- 
telligence, and their means. It is for them, therefore, to decide this question— 

'shall the liberator die 1. 

We now print and circulate 2300 copies of the Liberator, Weekly. Of this number, 400 are taken m Philadelphia; 300 in 
New- York • 200 in Boston ; and the rest are scattered through (he free States ; making a total of about 2000 actual subscribers. 
Of (he rema'ining 300, we send 40 (o Hayli, and the same number to England. Our exchange with other papers has been about 
150_olher copies are distributed gratuitously. 

The following is a moderate estimate of the expense of printing these 2300 copies, at printers' prices. 
In each number of the paper, there is on an average of new matter, 

76 000 ems, at 40 cts. per 1000, amounting to ^30 per week, or in round numbers annually to 

10 tokens press-work, at 80 cts. per token, gS weekly, or annually, 

Mailing, and wrapping paper and twine for do., at %3 weekly, or annually. 

Distributing papers in Boston, New-York, &c. g3 weekly, or annually, 

Postage (this includes the correspondence growing out of our connexion with the cause,) annually, 

White paper, §20 weekly, or annually, in round numbers. 

Total, ^3,300 

Leaving for the support of the editor, 700 

S4,000 
Now, 2000 subscribers, each paying punctually |r2,00, (making no allowance for any loss, or any expense incurred 
in collecting it,) would make the necessary sum of ^4,000, and, consequently, alTord us a decent support. 
From these 2000, deduct at least 500, from whom we may expect to receive nothing; 

this leaves 1500 at g2,00, amounting to g.jOOO 

Deduct for bad debts, expense of agencies and of collecting dues, &c. &c. not less than 700 

Total, - ,^2300 

Deduct g2300 from ,?4000, will leave at a moderate compensation for printing and editing the 

paper a deficit annually of ^^^700 ! ! 

How long can we afford, or would it be just for us, to continue our arduous labors at this rate ? You perceive, dear friends, 
that we do not realize even ' bread and water,' clear of the actual exjicnses of the paper. 
SHALL THE LIBER.VTOR DIE? 

What shall be done ? We propose that the following plan be adopted to secure its conliauance. ' Many hands make light 
work.' Let a fund be created by the voluntary subscriptions of the friends of the paper in the various cities and towns — say 
100 shares at SIO a share — the money (subject to our order) to be pa'd into the hands of JAMES C. ODIORNE, Esq. of 
Bsston Treasurer of the New-England Anti-Slavery Society on or before the middle of June next, and our'accounls to be. 
examined at staled periods by the Managers of the Society, who shall make an annual report of Iho pecuniary condition of 
our eslablishment to the several contributors. 

We believe that the Liberator can he made to sustain itself, provided our friends will exert themselves to extend its circula- 
and no subscribers are received hercaricr who do not pay in advance. 03° We are now resolved to make payment in ad- ->t~.- 

in all cases, a condition of receiving the paper, whether we print one hundred or two thousand. Thus we shall be sure of - 

lies, be they more or less. XD . our • 

case is before you. If we — if the cause of bleeding humaiiily — have any claims upon you for assistance, it is for you y^^^ 

e this momentous question, promptiy and dutifully — j^ deci<' 

.\LL THE LIBERATOR DIE? js; 

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, ^ 

BosTo.v, April 15, 1834. ISAAC KNAPP. J^' - 



Suhscribers J^amcs. J^o. of Slutrcs. 



T 







J^ 




J 

^ 





^a^A 




% 




L 



