qH 



IV 



C N S T I T U T I O N 



Kebj=12nfilantJ &ntt=<Slatari> Soctctg 



TOGETHER WITH ITS 



13 n*5h 4i ^g a 



A LIST OF ITS OFFICERS. 



BOSTON : 
GARRISON AND KNAPP, PRINTERS. 

1832. 



ces.7S&*'5* *•'* 



PREAMBLE. 



We, the undersigned, hold that every person, of full 
age and sane mind, has a right to immediate freedom 
from personal bondage of whatsoever kind, unless im- 
posed by the sentence of the law for the commission 
of some crime. 

We hold that man caunot, consistently with reason, 
religion, and the eternal and immutable principles of 
justice, be the property of man. 

We hold that whoever retains his fellow-man in 
bondage is guilty of a grievous wrong. 

We hold that a mere difference of complexion is no 
reason why any man should be deprived of any of his 
natural rights, or subjected to any political disability. 

While we advance these opinions as the principles 
on which we intend te act, we declare that we will not 
operate on the existing relations of society by other 



than peaceful and lawful means, and that we will give 
no countenance to violence or insurrection. 

With these views, we agree to form ourselves into a 
Society, and to be governed by the rules, specified in 
the following Constitution, viz : 

CONSTITUTION. 

Article 1. This Society shall be called the New- 
England Anti-Slavery Society. 

Art. 2. The objects of the Society shall be to en- 
deavor, by all means sanctioned by law, humanity and 
religion, to effect the abolition of slavery in the United 
States, to improve the character and condition of the 
free people of color, to inform and correct public opin- 
ion in relation to their situation and rights, and obtain 
for them equal civil and political rights and privileges 
with the whites. 

Art. 3. Any person by signing the Constitution, 
and paying to the Treasurer fifteen dollars as a life 
subscription, or two dollars annually, shall be consider- 
ed a member of the Society, and entitled to a voice 
and vote in all its meetings, and to a copy of any pub- 
lications or communications, which may be distributed 
among its members. Honorary members may be cho- 
sen by a vote of the Society. 

Art. 4. There shall be an annual meeting of the 
Soeiety on the second Wednesdav in January, at which 



a report of the transactions of the Society Tor the pas< 
year, and of its income, expenditures and funds shall 
be presented by the Board of Managers, and the fol- 
lowing officers elected by ballot, viz. A President, 
two Vice Presidents, six Counsellors, a Treasurer, Cor- 
responding Secretary and Recording Secretary, who 
shall hold their respective offices until the next annual 
meeting. 

Art. 5. The said twelve officers shall together 
constitute a board of Managers, to whom shall be en- 
trusted the disposition of the funds, and the manage- 
ment of the concerns of the Society. They shall have 
power to fill any vacancy, which may occur in their 
board until the next meeting of the Society, and it shall 
be their duty to consider and adopt the means best cal- 
culated to promote the objects of the Society, and re- 
port the same to the Society. 

Art. 6. Meetings of the Managers may be called 
by the President, or in his absence by either of the 
Vice Presidents, when they shall judge it necessary, or 
on application to them from any one of the Managers 
for any specific purpose ; and special meetings of the 
Society may be called by vote of the Managers, or on 
application of the members of the Society to the Re- 
cording Secretary, and the time and place of the meet- 
ings of the Society shall be determined by the Mana- 
gers. 



Art. 7. The President shall preside at all meet- 
ings of the Society and of the Managers ; in his absence, 
one of the Vice Presidents ; and in their absence, the 
oldest Manager present. 

Art. 8. The Treasurer shall collect the subscrip- 
tions and grants to the Society, and hold all its funds, 
and make payments according to the votes of the Man- 
agers, and he shall keep a true account of the same, 
and render an annual statement to accompany the an- 
nual report to the Society. v 

Art. 9. The Corresponding Secretary shall receive 
and keep all communications or publications, directed 
to the Society, and transmit those issued by them, and 
shall correspond with the agents, or any other bodies 
or individuals according to the directions of the Society 
or the Managers. 

Art. 10. The Recording Secretary shall notify all 
meetings of the Society, and of the Board of Managers, 
and shall keep the Records of the same, and of the 
transactions of the Society, and shall furnish copies of 
any votes to any persons, when required by the Presi- 
dent, or a Vice President. 

Art. 11. The Board of Managers may appoint an 
agent, or agents, to be employed in any part of the 
United States, in obtaining or communicating intelli- 
gence, in the publication or distribution of tracts, 
books, or papers, or in the execution of any measure, 
which may be adopted, to promote the objects of the 



Society. The compensation of the agents shall be de- 
termined by the Board of Managers. 

Art. 12. Any Anti-Slavery Society, or any associa- 
tion founded on kindred principles, in the New-England 
States, may become auxiliary to this Society, by con- 
tributing to its funds, and by sending a delegate or 
delegates to attend its meetings. 

Art. 13. There shall be a regular meeting of the 
Society on the last Monday of every month. 

Art. 14. The Constitution may be altered at any 
annual meeting, by a vote of two thirds of those pres- 
ent. 



BY-LAWS. 



Article 1. All addresses shall be made to the 
Chair, and no member of the Society shall be interrupt- 
ed while speaking, except for the purpose of calling to 
order, or to correct a misstatement. 

Art. 2. No member shall speak, unless upon a 
motion before the meeting, without permission of the 
presiding officer. 

Art. 3. When two motions are presented at the 
same time, or two members of the Society shall arise 
simultaneously to address the Chair, the President shall 
decide which shall take precedence. 

Art. 4. A motion indefinitely to postpone shall 
take precedence of all other motions. 

Art. 5. A motion to adjourn shall always be in 
order. 



Art. 6. No motion shall be put twice, unless are- 
consideration is called for ; and such motion for recon- 
sideration shall be always in order. 

Art. 7. If the presiding officer wishes to make re- 
marks on any motion before the Society, he shall ap- 
point some person to occupy his place while he is 
speaking. 

Art. 8. The Corresponding Secretary shall lay before 
the Society, at each meeting, a report of his corres- 
pondence and labors in behalf of the Society. 

Art. 9. The Recording Secretary shall read at the 
commencement of each meeting the proceedings of the 
last. 

Art. 10. In ail meetings of the Society, regularly 
notified, one fourth of the whole number of members 
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. 
A smaller number may adjourn from time to time. 



OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY. 

PRESIDENT. 

ARNOLD BUFFUM. 
JAMES C. ODIORNE, 1st Vice-President. 
ALONZO LEWIS, 2d Vice-President. 

CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 

WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 

RECORDING SECRETARY. 

JOSHUA COFFIN. 

TREASURER. 

MICHAEL H. SIMPSON. 

COUNSELLORS. 

MOSES THACHER, ROBERT B. HALL, 

JOHN E. FULLER, BENJAMIN C. BACON. 

OLIVER JOHNSON, JOHN STTMPSON. 




W:i^0%;£$;&l 



