Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofthomasjr1832rand 



SPEECH 






THOMAS j. RANDOLPH, 



IN 'MM. 



HOUSE OF DELEGATES OF VIRGINIA, 



ON THE 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY 



RICHMOND : 

TAINTED BY SAMUEL SHEl'HEKD &, CO. 

1832. 



f £5. 757X% no- \ 



@*~ *£ 



r*& 



* ? jt 






I 






HOUSE OF DELEGATES OF VIRGINIA 



WEDNESDAY, January 11, 1832. 

Mr. Goodk of Mecklenburg, rose to move the following resolu- 
tion : 

Resolved, That the select committee raised on the subject of 
slaves, free negroes, and the melancholy occurrences growing out 
of the tragical massacre in Southampton, be discharged from the 
consideration of all petitions, memorials and resolutions, which have 
for their object, the manumission of persons held in servitude trader 
the existing laws of this commonwealth, and that it is not expedient 
to legislate on the subject. 

Mr. Randolph moved the following substitute, to be inserted 
after the word " Southampton :" 

" be instructed to inquire into the expediency of submitting 

to the vote of the qualified voters in the several towns, cities, bo- 
roughs, and counties of this commonwealth, the propriety of pro- 
viding by law, that the children of all female slaves, who may be 
born in this state, on or after the 4th day of July, 1840, shall be- 
come the property of the commonwealth, the males at the age of 
twenty-one years, and females at the age of eighteen, if detained 
by their owners within the limits of Virginia, until they shall respec- 
tively arrive at the ages aforesaid, to be hired out until the nett sum 
arising therefrom,' shall be sufficient to defray the expense of their 
removal, beyond the limits of the United States, and that said com- 
mittee have leave to report by bill or otherwise." 



MONDAY, January 16, 1832. 

Mr. Brodnax, from the committee on the coloured population, 
presented the following report : 

The select committee, to whom was referred certain memorials, 
praying the passage of some law providing for the gradual abolition 
of slavery in the commonwealth, have, according to order, had the 
same under consideration, and have come to the following resolution 
thereupon : 

Resolved as the opinion of this committee, That it is inexpe- 
dient for the present legislature to make any legislative enactment 
for the abolition of slavery. 



Mr. Preston moved that the resolution reported from the com- 
mittee, be amended, by striking out the word "inexpedient," and 
inserting the word " expedient." 



SATURDAY, January 21, 1832. 

On motion of Mr. Randolph of Albemarle, the Report of the 
committee on slaves, free negroes and mulattoes, and the amend- 
ment of Mr. Preston, were taken up ; when Mr. RANDOLPH 
rose and addressed the house as follows : 

Mr. Speaker, 

I feel in all its force, the embarrassing circum- 
stances under which I throw myself upon the courtesy of this house. 
Unprepared by the habits of my life, which have been agricultural 
and not professional, the little information I possess, having been 
gathered more from the study of men in the collisions of the busi- 
ness of an active life, than from books. I know, sir, I cannot do 
justice to the subject under consideration : I feel, that humble as 
my pretensions are, I cannot do justice to myself; the thoughts 
which flow in a sufficiently connected train in my closet, the words 
which occur with sufficient distinctness to express them, all vanish 
in the presence of a public assemblage, as mist before the sun. It 
would have been far more agreeable to me, to have been a silent 
spectator of the debate passing before me; to have witnessed the 
corruscations of wit, and the shock of argument between the con- 
tending champions ; but, sir, having entered the lists imprudently, 
perhaps very imprudently, having received the onset of skilled and 
talented antagonists, I cannot now retreat with honour, I must de- 
fend myself as best I may ; believing myself sufficiently honoured 
to be deemed worthy of the attack of such distinguished gentlemen. 

In all the phases and aspects under which this subject has pre- 
sented itself to the house, I recognize in it but the same thing, viz : 
the question of the expediency of legislation. The resolution of 
the gentleman from Mecklenburg, (Mr. Goode,) involved this ques- 
tion ; the amendment to it offered by myself, was but the quo mo do 
of that legislation ; the amendment of the gentleman from Mont- 
gomery, (Mr. Preston,) to the report of the committee, expresses 
it directly. Under this view of the subject, with the leave of the 
house, I will take a retrospective glance to the arguments used when 
the former resolution and amendment were under consideration, as 
applying to the proposition now before us. 

I will make a single remark to correct an erroneous impression, 
which has arisen from an expression used the other day by my 
friend from Campbell, (Mr. Rives,) " that this was the plan of Mr. 



Jefferson." It bfl been un«]<r I j bg the idea that Mr. 

Jefferson bad left i full? developed plan of abolition : thii is not the 
feet. The idea is contained in bia publiabed work.-. I canool now 
tell whether I received it from them, or from th<- impn of so- 

cial intercourse, probably from both: die impression bai long beeo 
deeply imbued in my mind. If io the resolution there is one sug- 
gestion worthy of notice, bo the honour to him j whatever is objec- 
tionable, be toe odium and disgrace upon my bead. I 

made tin- explanation several days since, but Consulting with friends 

more versed in the usages of public bodies, I svi adi d it would 

be time enough when I should address you in my own defence. 
The gentleman from Petersburg, (.Mr. Brown,) said that u this was 
not the plan of Mr. Jefferson:" this fact will be developed in the 
course of this debate. My colleague, (Mr. Wood,) said that he 
did not knoiv, that this was the plan of Mi. Jefferson. He might 
have known, air, Jf lie had chosen to ask. These expr< 
tended to convey the idea that there was some concealment ; an at- 
tempt to foist upon the house a plan bearing the authority of Mr. 
.Jefferson's name, which was not his. I do not believe, sir, my col- 
li tagoe intended to convey this idea. 

[ Mr. Wood of Albemarle, said he had not intended to convey the 
idea that his colleague had presented his plan as that of Mr. Jef- 
ferson, when it really was not, nor to intimate that his proposition was 
not in part the plan of Mr. Jefferson. But he had expressed a 
doubt whether Mr. Jefferson would now present such a plan were he 
living. It had been far from him to impute to his colleague the in- 
tention of deceiving the house, by presenting as Mr. Jefferson's, a 
plan which was not his.] 

Mr. Randolph. It will be borne in mind, sir, that the amend- 
ment I offered the other day, to the resolution of the member from 
Mecklenburg, was a resolution of enquiry only ; that it pointed 
simply to a specific object, and necessarily could not have the 
developements of a bill or report ; and many amendments and mo- 
difications must of necessity have been adopted, before it could 
have assumed that shape, in accordance with the developement of 
my own ideas upon the subject. When resolutions are favourably 
received, they are usually left to the discretion of the committee, 
subject to the approval of the house, retaining their generic cha- 
racter to modify them into specific enactments. It has not been 
the custom, it is not, and from the nature of things, never can be, 
to submit resolutions of enquiry in the matured and expanded form 
of bills. This resolution propositi to enquire into the expediency 
of not allowing slaves, born subsequent to the year 1840, to be re- 
tained in the commonwealth, after the females shall attain the age 
of 18, and the males 21 years; and if retained to be removed by 
the commonwealth, the expenses of such removal to be remune- 
rated out of the property itself. The master is allowed IS and 21 



years after the birth of each, to remove them, and 28 years are 
allowed before the first are required to be removed ; a period, in 
which, according to the bills of mortality, near three-fourths of the 
grown persons now living, will have died. It in fact operates upon 
posterity, and not upon the present generation. It levies no money 
tax upon the people — each slave pays his own removal by his hire. 
The number exported annually after the year 186 1 , by their owners 
or the commonwealth, would amount to four or five per cent. No 
slave now living, and none born prior to 1840, would be subject to 
the operation of the law. Emancipation in the state is forbidden, 
and not a part of the plan. Before they attain respectively the 
ages of 18 and 21, they may be sold out of the state by their 
owners, who would pocket the money. Eighty years will be ne- 
cessary to work their entire extinction ; a period sufficiently long 
for their gradual removal, and the introduction of free labour. If 
in 1800, the evil is found irremediable, a repeal of the law will 
place us where we now stand. It is contended, and I agree in the 
opinion, that they would prefer remaining here in bondage, to trans- 
portation to the coast of Africa, and no insurrectionary movement 
could be apprehended from the repeal. The legislature are not to 
act upon this plan until it has received the sanction of the people. 
It is the people who are interested — it is the people who are ex- 
posed to the dangers of its retention, as 5,000 to one compared to this 
house. They are the best judges of their own interest, and the 
necessities for the limitation of that interest. I cannot concur in 
the views of gentlemen who distrust the people; who fear them; 
and who will not submit to their decision in this matter. Great 
reprobation has been thrown upon this plan, because it is said to 
contain no guarantee for property. The resolution does not pre- 
scribe the condition upon which it shall become the property of the 
commonwealth. Whether by the surrender of such portions as are 
not removed within the time specified — whether by payment for it 
at birth, at its full value, or at a reduced average, or such portions 
of it at this age, as the funds of the commonwealth would justify, 
to be apportioned in such manner as may be provided by law, to 
be left with the masters of their mothers until their services shall 
have paid the expense of rearing, or in any other manner that the 
wisdom of this house should direct. I appeal to my friend from 
Goochland to say that these were my opinions expressed to him 
before any discussion took place on this subject in this body, and 
that it is not an after thought to elude the force of gentlemen's ar- 
guments. To have inserted all these provisions in a resolution to 
enquire, would not have been warranted by the usages of this house. 
Gentlemen have chosen to argue upon this resolution as if it were a 
bill. It was not for me to prescribe the course of their arguments. 
They have chosen to erect phantoms at which to charge their ca- 
reering chivalry, and display the force and dexterity with which 



they could Wield their w I lid not prohibit them this in- 

dulgence. They were members ol the committee to vrbom it w 
proposed to refer this resolution, and might hare i d it to suit 

their views. As they hare i&id bo much Bbout the property feature, 

I will take a pa? ing notice <<f it. I do m I ur in t; 

opinions of the gentlemen "I tin- West. I i 
hopeless, ultra ah ra <>\ tin- Smith. It has been I 

Of legislation here, to consider slavi clusively p< 

clusively property, or bs partaking jointly of both, : 
of tin: commonwealth have required. Under the Constitut 
of the United States, slaves are deemed pei aded, if 

true, into two-fifth-, hut nevertheless as |" nd representation 

is claimed for them as such. I'nder several of our laws, they are 
deemed exclusively persons, inasmuch as the r cannot kill 

them as he would his oxen ; nnr can ho maim or disfi hem — 

he ennnot give them tin' ear-marks ol his cattle or hi ■ sheep. I 
offences they are tried as persons, and, with tin: ion of the 

jury trial, (to which they are not entitled,) can claim of right, and 
are entitled to counsel to defend them — to all the formalities of 
law, and all the rules of evidence. In most of our police laws, 
they are deemed exclusively persons, and for violations of them are 
punished as such. This, then, having been the approved course of 
our legislation, the people, through their representatives, have the 
right to legislate upon them in this instance, either as persons or 
property, as their wisdom and the exigencies of the commonwealth 
shall direct. The gentleman from Dinwiddie, (general Brodnax,) 
denies to the non-slaveholder the right to vote upon this question, 
yet he admits that this body can decide it. The non-slaveholders, 
sir, constitute a numerous body of our constituents, lie admits 
the power of the representative, but denies this power to his con- 
stituent. This appears to me strange and inconsistent doctrine. H< 
gives to the creature the power that he denies to the creator ; to the 
agent what he denies to the principal; to the servant that power 
which he denies to the master. 

[Gen. Brodnax rose to explain. He had argued that the legis- 
lature was not the creature of the people, in consequence of the 
division of political power which was agreed upon by the late con- 
vention, by which the preponderancy was given to the East, and 
it would be a departure from that principle, to submit this subject to 
the voters of the state.] 

Mr. Randolph. The gentleman cither makes a distinction 
where there does not exist a dillerence, or he argues because the 
people of one portion of the state have acquired more power than 
the people of another, that the people of the whole state have lost 
a portion of their rights, a conclusion to which I feel assured my 
constituents will not be disposed to come. The plan suggested in 
the amendment is so distant in its operation, that it allccts our cbil- 



8 

dren and not ourselves. If the children of non-slaveholders, should 
possess slaves, certainly the non-slaveholder would have an interest 
in the distant increase of them, and a right to decide any question 
affecting them by his vote now. On the contrary, it often happens, 
that the children of slaveholders do not possess slaves. I, Mr. spea- 
ker, know many instances of this : they would be less interested in 
the decision than the non-slaveholder. Perhaps the gentleman in- 
tends to offer us some law of entail which shall keep these castes 
perpetually distinct in their descendants. If you deny to the non- 
slaveholder the right to vote upon this question, in which his property 
and the lives of his family are interested, is it not just that he should 
have some sufficient guarantee from his wealthy neighbour, the 
slaveholder, that his wife and children should not be butchered by 
his slaves ? Suppose, sir, hydrophobia recurred so often in dogs as 
to produce a sense of insecurity in the people of this common- 
wealth, the danger of being bitten at any moment while employed 
in their daily avocations ; would the gentleman from Dinwiddie con- 
tend that none but dogholders ought to have the right to decide the 
question, whether the dogs should be destroyed or not ? are not the 
children of the non-dogholder as likely to be bitten and to die of this 
frightful disease as the family of the dogholder ? Yet, sir, you will not 
allow the non-slaveholder to vote in the decision touching that property 
whose benefits I acknowledge he does not participate, but in whose 
inconveniences and perils he has more than his full share. It is 
well known that it has been the practice, if not the policy of the 
large slaveholder, to make the poor man the instrument of their 
police and their punishments to their slaves ; which has begotten 
hostility between the slave and the less wealthy, that makes their 
condition the most perilous in all insurrectionary movements. The 
gentleman from Brunswick, (Mr. Shell,) who amused us so much 
yesterday with his wit and his genius, in converting a grave subject 
into one of merriment and laughter, admitted that if the public safe- 
ty required it, if the case of the salus populi (safety of the people) 
existed, this property might be limited. Now, sir, this case of the 
salus pojpuli, although not existing at this moment, may be proven 
with the accuracy of arithmetical calculation, with the certainty of 
mathematical demonstration, with all those proofs that bring convic- 
tion tO the human mind, to oxist in a certain future. Let US see the 

proofs. I will quote, in part, the statistics of the gentleman from 
Dinwiddie, whose accuracy cannot be questioned. Judging the 
future by the past, in 40 years the coloured population in Eastern 
Virginia, will exceed the white 200,000. In the last 40 years, the 
whites in the same district have increased 51 per cent. : the blacks, 
186 per cent. : 40 years ago, the whites exceeded the coloured 
25,000 : the coloured now exceed the whites 81,000 ; a nett gain 
of the blacks over the whites in forty years, of 106,000 ; and these 
results too, during an exportation of near 260,000 slaves since the 



year 1700, now perhaps the fruitful progenitors of half a million in 
other states. By reference to document No. 1 6, on your table, 
you will perceive that in the year 1830, of that part of the popu- 
lation of JO years old and under, the Marks exceed the whites .. 
per cent : over that age only 3 per cent. What a change will not 18 
years make for the worse? when these children shall be grown. 
What will not 40 years, with its geometrical progression evolve, when 
they shall hecome fathers and mothers, and some of them errand- 
mothers ? If exportation ceases, some of those now within the 
hearing of my voice, may live to see the coloured population of 
Virginia 2,000,00aor 2,500,000 : children now born may live to 
see them 3,000,000, determining the increase by their average in- 
crease in the United States in the last 40 years. Sir, is not the 
case of the salus populi demonstrated to exist in the certain future? 
Who will be so hardy as to assert, that when the time arrives, a 
remedy can be applied : who will say, that 2,000,000 can be at- 
tempted to be removed : they will say to you long before that, "we 
will not go." Here, sir, applies that wise maxim of the law, " veni- 
enti occurite morbo, (meet the coming ill.) 

The gentleman from Dinwiddie, or some other gentleman, for I 
have had such an host upon me, that I must be excused if I can- 
not recollect whence every shot came, argued, that successful in- 
surrection would be impossible ; that if the powers of the state were 
not sufficient to quell it, the United States would inundate the 
country with her troops. I admit it, sir, but if her intervention is 
to be waited for, she may probably reclaim a country smoking with 
the blood of its population. She may reclaim districts, the titles 
of whose lands shall have reverted to the commonwealth from the 
extinction of the heirs of their former proprietors. Be this how- 
ever as it may, there is one circumstance to which we are to look 
as inevitable in the- fullness of time ; a dissolution of this Union. 
God grant it may not happen in our time, or that of our children ; 
but sir, it must come, sooner or later ; and w r hen it does come, bor- 
der war follows it, as certain as the night follows the day. An ene- 
my upon your frontier offering arms and asylum to this population, 
tampering with it in your bosom, when your citizens shall march 
to repel the invader, their families butchered and their homes deso- 
lated in their rear, the spear will fall from the warrior's grasp, his 
heart may be of steel, but it must quail. Suppose an invasion by 
your enemy, in part with black troops, speaking the same language, 
of the same nation, burning with enthusiasm for the liberation of 
their race ; if they are not crushed the moment they put foot upon 
your soil, they roll forward, an hourly swelling mass ; your ener- 
gies are paralized, your power is gone ; the morasses of the low- 
lands, the fastnesses of the mountains, cannot save your wives and 
your children from destruction. Sir, we cannot war with these dis- 
advantages ; peace, ignoble, abject peace ; peace upon any condi- 

2 



10 

tions that an enemy may offer, must be accepted. Are we then pre- 
pared to barter the liberty of our children for slaves for them. Is 
it not wise policy, while the evil is still within our grasp ; when we 
can gradually obliterate it, with gentle forbearance to all ; while we 
can still restrain it, by the strong hand of power, or crush its move- 
ments in blood if necessary, to prepare the way for better prospects 
to our children, brighter hopes to posterity. 

The gentleman has objected to the West deciding this question. 
He has again misconstrued the resolution. It is, or intended to be 
permissive and not obligatory, upon the subsequent legislature. It 
is to ascertain unequivocally the sense of the people, that this house 
might be guided by their wishes. No man would desire so great a 
revolution by a small majority. We have heard enough here, sir, to 
intimate to us unequivocally, that we must act with a majority whose 
power shall awe into obedience, any portion of the state, if any 
such there he, which should prove disloyal. He has objected to 
the plan as being too deferred in its commencement ; others have 
objected that it commences so soon : this proves that it has the 
character of moderation, for it strikes the medium between the 
views of different individuals. 

The gentleman from Fauquier, (Mr. Marshall,) has objected be- 
cause it does not come from the people, and is too exclusive. On all 
occasions of vital interest, where the prosperity of the commonwealth 
is endangered, it is the duty of the legislature to take the lead it is 
their duty to call public attention to the evil ; such was the practice 
of our ancestors during that war which tore them from the parent 
stem, and gentlemen have urged, and I agree with them, that this 
revolution is not less important in its consequences. Attract and 
concentrate public opinion on the subject ; obtain a full, an unques- 
tioned expression of the public will. Members can then act under- 
standingly, advisedly. No member will then fear the misconception 
of the will of his constituents ; his course will be decisive, and no 
longer doubtful. It will not do to submit an abstract proposition of 
abolition to the people. Abolition may be to-day, to-morrow, the 
next year or ten years hence. It may be sudden, convulsing society 
to its centre, or it may be gradual and harmless ; all this they must 
know, to decide correctly ; you must give them the general princi- 
ples of the plan you intend to pursue ; they must see and under- 
stand it in all its bearings ; weigh its effects upon individual interests, 
and the general prosperity ; then, sir, they can give you an une- 
quivocal demonstration of that will, which shall be to me, the polar 
star of my political life. 

The gentleman from Brunswick, (Mr. Gholson,) spoke of the po- 
pular voice, when it should be heard among members ; he spoke of 
the meeting held by the citizens of Albemarle on this subject, in deri- 
sion, comparing it to a Clay meeting, (doubtless in his county.) My 
colleague too, united to discredit this expression of the opinion of 



11 

his constituents. He bfl I 1m <:i abused by hi its. I In 

it from honourable gentlemen who prere present) ihit it was one of 
the largest ever held in the court-hot] e. T the oom 

of Albemarle, in a village of n< I '» inhabitants, in I 
of a fertile and populous di nt and 

highly respectable* Th ided over by the individual m 

distinguished for his long public s< , and tl itv of i 

offices be had filled] of any man now among u . He the 

Bond resolution, and it was carried by ao overwhelming majority, 
m defiance of ni opposition. This resolution was reed by my 
Colleague in his place?, for the purpose of discrediting it. I j 

day received a letter informing me who had presented thifl resolu- 
tion ; it whs presented by a talented friend, whom 1 know to concur 
with me in the plan contained in the resolution I submitted. A num- 
ber of individuals who wem thoro pttoen i btrd known of this plan 
and approved if. Among my neighbours, on my r. < < nt % i -u te tuf 
home, it was a subject of conversation, and approved, as 1 0O0\ 
stood, by all ; they were individuals who owned ten, thirty, fifty, 
sixty and seventy negroes; man}' of them earned by a Ion- course 
of frugal and successful industry. Little did they or I think of the 
high evidence of patriotism and generosity they evinced, when th 
proposed to surrender the petit nati of these. Honest, generous 
hearted men, little did they imagine that when this idea was pro- 
posed to others, that it should he received with deep and damning 
reprobation, as a scheme of robbery and plunder. Gentlemen may 
suppose that I had an influence over these neighbours. No, sir, 
they were individuals from whom I had been separated by an here- 
ditary feud. I had rarely concurred in opinion, or acted with them. 
Whatever have been the causes which have separated us, they shall 
exist on my part no longer. I have learned here to appreciate their 
virtue and their patriotism, and shall feel myself proud to claim 
them as friends and neighbours. I do not fear, sir, to meet the 
public award in the conscientious discharge of my duty. The high 
minded feelings of the gentleman from Brunswick, teach him that 
lust of office is not the sole motive of action with an honourable 
man. My colleague, (.AJr. Wood.) has dwelt much upon wild and 
visionary schemes, lie has argued both sides of this question, 
doubtless for the benefit of tho houcc : he has been the advocate of 
slavery, and avowed himself the friend of abolition. His arguments 
appear to me to have been inconsistent. He spoke of the massacre 
of Southampton as a trifling affair; this he could not have meant; 
it escaped him in the heal of debate. I can assure the worthy 
member from Southampton, that he did not mean it ; and I will 
ask him when he shall return to his constituents, to say to them, 
that the people of Albemarle mourned For them as brethren of the 
same family; they had our sympathies: our deep commiseration; 
there was not a bosom which did not heave its sigh ; there was not 



12 

a heart among us that did not feel its thrill of agony at the recital 
of their sufferings. • 

The gentleman from Brunswick, (Mr. Gholson,) said that the 
legislature had even doubted the propriety of submitting the Con- 
vention question to the people, when they had the names of 40,000 
memorialists on their table, praying it. I have understood the his- 
tory of that matter differently, sir. The legislature did doubt, but 
their doubts were solved by their masters, the people ; they bade 
them submit it, and they dare not disobey. It was made a test 
question at the elections, and gentlemen were not returned here, un- 
less they pledged themselves to vote for its submission. He believed 
it would be dangerous to attempt to remove this post nati, because 
exportation would be deemed a punishment. These post nati, if 
none had been sent out by their masters, would amount to between 
four and five per cent, per annum. The young ones would be too 
young to join in rebellion. Those over 21 were not to be removed. 
Would they rebel because they were not to be punished ? Certainly 
not, sir. He has said, that if this question was submitted to the 
people, laws would be passed in other states, prohibiting the intro- 
duction of our slaves into them. He has ascribed the cause to the 
effect, the antecedent to the succeeding. These laws have already 
passed. I hope, sir, they may not be operative. The gentleman 
from Petersburg, (Mr. Brown,) and the gentleman from Brunswick, 
have spoken with much exultation of what they are pleased to call 
the decrease of the ratio of the coloured population since 1790. 
Since 1790, the blacks have increased upon the whites in East Vir- 
ginia, 106,000. There was a regular increase of the ratio from 
1790 to 1820. The ratio is now, in the whole state, one-third of 
one per cent, less than in 1790 ; and this has been effected by the 
revulsion of prices of 1819, which threw thousands of slaves upon 
the market in the following years, and swept over the land with the 
devastation of a tornado, uprooting the proudest oaks, and break- 
ing the noblest hearts. May God in his mercies avert a reduction 
by similar means. The gentleman from Brunswick has said, that 
when Pennsylvania and the other northern states abolished slavery, 
the western states were unsettled, and many of them went thither. 
I think, sir, they abolished by emancipation without expulsion ; and 
blacks never go west, except from a slave to a free state. But 
Louisiana was not then acquired. A new world has been opened. 
The regions watered by the arms of the mighty Mississippi — the 
rival of the Amazons, and the La Plata — the Ganges and the Nile, 
whose^ sources are unknown, except to the wandering savage and 
the daring hunter ; the destined seats of future empires, unexplored 
and unpeopled. Here the African will find boundless forests to fell 
with his forced and reluctant labor. He will find the wide expanse 
of varied soils to desolate. Here he will pass away from the wasted 
lands of Virginia, and from a people, whose only curse was to have 



13 

him thrust upon them. The maledictions which the gentleman has 
so glowingly depicted as falling upon my head, I can bear cheer- 
fully with this house. I can share with the people of my native 
state — with them I can abide through weal and through woe : but 
when the battle has been fought, and irrevocably lost, 1 must bear 
my children to a land, where, in the current of time, they will not 
descend to inevitable perdition. 

The gentleman from Dinwiddie spoke of the mischievous effects 
of gentlemen's offering plans, and not being prepared to vote for 
them. I repel with indignation the inferences of his remark. I 
repudiate every thing inconsistent with the character of an honour- 
able man. The gentleman distorted my expressions. I explained, 
I repeated, that I was prepared to vote for the submission of this 
plan to the people — that I was not prepared, and that I would not 
vote for any legislative act upon this subject, which was not to be 
submitted to the people. He repeated his distortion, it was what 
I had not expected from a fair and a courteous adversary — it is what 
I had least expected from the high character and honourable feel- 
ings of the gentleman from Dinwiddie. 

[Mr. Brodnax rose to explain. It was singular, he said, that 
the gentleman should, after having taken a rest of eight days, 
make an attack upon him in regard to a matter which was fully ex- 
plained at the time. He had stated, that the gentleman was not 
prepared to vote on any specific plan, but wished to submit the sub- 
ject to the people. The gentleman from Albemarle rose, and made 
an explanation, which placed his opinions in precisely the light 
in which he (Mr. B.) at first understood them, and he proceeded 
with his remarks accordingly. It had not entered his mind to im- 
pute to the gentleman from Albemarle a dishonourable course of 
conduct.] 

Mr. Randolph.' Many honourable gentlemen of this house un- 
derstood my explanation distinctly, and took the same view of this 
matter that I have done. I felt too indignant under what I con- 
ceived the contumely of the gentleman from Dinwiddie, to attempt 
to correct him a second time, until I should come to it in the regu- 
lar course of this debate. I have alluded to it now, not from any 
unkind feelings towards that gentleman, but from a sense of what 
was due to myself. I feared, from the apologetic strain nC his pre- 
fatory remarks, that he would depart from ttie track of just argu- 
ment. He reminded me of a certain Trozes Echelle, executioner, 
I think, sir, to Lewis the XI, who always addressed his victims in 
the kindest and most endearing terms, while he was adjusting upon 
them the noose which was to launch them into eternity. I would 
abandon my own views, and become a proselyte to the gentleman's 
plan, or any other feasible plan to effect this grand object, could my 
understanding become convinced of its practicability. He levies a 
tax on the people, of $ 200,000 per annum ; he proposes to ex- 



14 

port with this sum, annually, 6,000, being the annual increase of 
slaves and free negroes. The exportation has averaged 8,500 for 
the last 20 years. If any check is given to this latter export, we 
have an increasing population. Under his scheme, I think, sir, the 
expenditure is too great for the efficiency of the plan. He asks 
annually from the generosity and patriotism of individuals, these 
6,000 young grown slaves of the capital stock of the present effec- 
tive labour of the country, and he can see nothing wrong in it ; yet 
he views with the most damning opprobium, my application to the 
same patriotism and generosity for the post nati, those to be born 
after the year 1840, a thing not now in existence, and not likely to 
be available in our lives. He has spoken of the impolicy of sub- 
mitting a statute to the people. He ought to have said the general 
principles of a statute. The people are the best judges of their 
own interest — They ought to be consulted in matters deeply and 
vitally interesting to them — There is no danger in them — If he 
knew them as well as I do, he would not fear them. I have often 
broken the poor man's bread, and shared his pallet — 1 have en- 
joyed his hospitality. There is not a more virtuous, a more just, 
or kinder hearted people on earth, that what are called the common 
people of Virginia. I believe them, if not the wisest, the safest 
depositories of our rights. I prefer myself honest ignorance to in- 
terested intelligence. He has expressed his belief, that if Mr. 
Jefferson had lived, he would have seen this plan of abolition more 
impracticable now than at the revisal after the revolution. He has 
not lived, sir, to see this revolution in the public mind of Virginia. 
He has not lived to see a majority of the house of delegates in 
favour of abolition in the abstract. Sixty-two years ago, when a 
proposition was made in the legislature of Virginia, by one of the 
oldest, ablest, and most respected members of that body, to ame- 
liorate (not to abolish slavery, as my friend from Montgomery the 
other day had supposed) the condition of the slave, who was scarcely 
known to the law but as property, he was treated with the utmost 
indecorum, and denounced as an enemy of his country — Now it 
can be debated here among gentlemen without insult. To those, 
Mr. Speaker, who have more bile than brain, the softness of whose 
intellect must be compensated by the hardness of their words, we 
must allow the few advantages which nature has given them. 

The gentleman from Petersburg, (Mr. Brown) stated that " this 
was not the plan of Mr. Jefferson ;" that it was " a vision of his 
philanthropic mind." It would have been very indelicate in me, 
sir, to have quoted Mr. Jefferson as authority to this house upon 
any subject ; but when in addition to the talents arrayed against me, 
and which have pressed upon me so heavily — the weight of his name 
is to be thrown into the scale to press me down still farther, it be- 
comes my duty to shew that his opinions are at least not against me, 
and that they may be with me. For this purpose, I beg leave to 



15 

read some extracts from a letter of bis which I hold in my bind* 
" Nursed and educated in the daily babit ol seeing the degraded 

condition, hoth bodily and nuaital, ol those unfortunate beings — not 
reflecting that that degradation PflW very imuli the work ol" them- 
selves and their latin rs, l«w minds had y< t doubted bit that they 
were as legitimate subjects of property B8 their horses or cattle." 
Again, sir, "your solitary, but welcome foiC6 i- the fust which lias 
brought this SOttnd to my ear, and I have Considered the general 
silence which prevails on this subject, as indicating an apathy un- 
favorable to every hope. Yet the hour of emancipation is advanc- 
ing in the march of time. It will come, and whether brought on 
by the generous energy of our own minds, or by the bloody process 
of St. Domingo, excited and conducted by the power of our pre- 
sent enemy, if once stationed permanently within our country, and 
oiFering asylum and arms to the oppressed, is a leaf of our history 
not yet turned over. — I hope then, my dear sir, you will reconcile 
yourself to your country, and its unfortunate condition, that you 
will not lessen our stock of sound disposition by withdrawing your 
portion from the mass. That on the contrary, you will come for- 
ward in the public councils, become the missionary of this doctrine, 
truly christian, insinuate and inculcate it softly but steadily through 
the medium of writing and conversation, associate others in your 
labors, and when the phalanx is formed, bring on and press the pro- 
position perseveringly until its accomplishment. It is an encouraging; 
observation that no good measure was ever proposed, which, if 
duly pursued, failed to prevail in the end." 

[Mr. Brown rose to explain that he had no other information on 
the subject than what he derived from a letter of Mr. Jefferson's to 
Jared Sparks, in the fourth volume of his correspondence, in which 
he recognized slaves as property, and declared that where they 
were taken from the owner by government, adequate compensation 
must he made.] 

Mr. Randolph. I know that Mr. Jefforson considered them as 
property, nor am I aware that they ever have been considered other- 
wise by any one. Mr. Jefferson fixed the price of the post nati at 
$ 12 50, which would indicate the belief of the necessity of a 
compromise between the holder and the public. The letter which I 
have just read is dated August, 1S14. Tt npppnrc, thpn, that in 
1770, 1814, 1S24, he still deemed abolition indispensable to the 
safety of the country. These dreams of his lasted a long time — 
some sixty years. 

I agree with gentlemen in the necessity of arming the state for 
internal defence. I will unite with them in any effort to restore 
confidence to the public mind, and to conduce to the sense of the 
safety of our wives and our children. Yet, sir, I must ask upon 
whom is to fall the burthen of this defence; not upon the lordly 
roasters of their hundred slaves, who will never, turn out except to 



. 16 

retire with their families when danger threatens. Noj sir, it is to 
fall upon the less wealthy class of our citizens ; chiefly upon the 
non-slaveholders. I have known patrols turned out where there 
was not a slaveholder among them, and this is the practice of the 
country. I have slept in times of alarm quietly in bed without 
having a thought of care, while these individuals owning none of 
this property themselves, were patrolling under a compulsory pro- 
cess, for a pittance of seventy-five cents per twelve hours, the very 
curtilage of my house, and guarding that property, which was alike 
dangerous to them and myself. After all, this is but an expedient. 
As this population becomes more numerous, it becomes less produc- 
tive. Your guard, must be increased, until finally its profits will not 
pay for the expense of its subjection. Slavery has the effect of 
lessening the free population of a country. The wealthy are not 
dependent upon the poor for those aids and those services, com- 
pensation for which, enables the poor man to give bread to his 
family. The ordinary mechanic arts are all practised by slaves. 
In the servitude of Europe in the middle ages, in years of fa- 
mine, the poor had to barter their liberty for bread : they had to 
surrender their liberty to some wealthy man to save their families 
from the horrors of famine. The slave was sustained in sickness 
and in famine upon the wealth of his master, who preserved him as 
he would any other species of property. All the sources of the 
poor man's support were absorbed by him. In this country, he can- 
not become a slave, but he flies to some other country more congenial 
to his condition, and where he who supports himself by honest labor 
is not degraded in his caste. Those who remain, relying upon the 
support of casual employment, often become more degraded in their 
condition than the slaves themselves. 

The gentleman from Petersburg has spoken of the depression 
which this scheme would produce in the value of slave property. 
Let us examine his position. No slave now living, or to be born 
prior to the year 1840, would be at all operated upon by this plan. 
The young slaves now living, and those to be born prior to 1840, 
would be in their prime for effective labour, from 1860 to 1870; 
but this is the period at which those born between 1840 and 1850 
are being removed, and labour must become scarce at this moment, 
until it is supplied by free labour. Is the value of labour dimin- 
ished by an increased demand tor labour ? Certainly not. But of 
necessity enhanced. Then, sir, the value of the young slaves now 
living, and to be born prior to 1840, who will be held to bondage 
for life, will be enhanced, because their labour will be in increased 
demand; but the female slaves, whose offspring after 1840, are 
prohibited from being kept in the state, will be diminished. They 
will be diminished in value to retain them, but not to sell them 
out of the state. They would sell as. well for exportation as they 
did before. We will take the whole subject as a calculation of 



17 

profit and loss. We know, sir, that if nothing is done towards ulti- 
mate abolition, that there are thousands of families in the state ready 
to abandon it from utter despair of the future. These will throw large 
bodies of land upon the market ; the moiiied men from the same 
distrust are not disposed to vest a dollar in land ; the inevitable re- 
sult is an alarming depression in the value of real property : no 
man can foretell to what extent it will decline. As the tide of emi- 
gration flows, those who remain feel themselves more insecure, and 
become anxious to follow in the footsteps of those who have gone 
before them. These emigrants, warned by ills real or imaginary 
here, will seek asylums mostly in free states ; their slaves will be 
thrown upon the market in such numbers as to reduce the Value of 
this property also. You have then on one hand, if the hope of 
abolition should be held out, an increase in the value of your young 
male slaves, a sustained or an increased value in your landed pro- 
perty, (for lands are always higher in the free, than in olavo dates,) 
with a depression in the value of female slaves. On the other, you 
have the prospect of entire prostration of the value of real estate, 
and a probable depression of slaves generally : on one hand hope, 
on the other, despair. The gentleman has spoken of the increase 
of the female slaves being a part of the profit : it is admitted ; but 
no great evil can be averted, no good attained, without some incon- 
venience. It may be questioned, how far it is desirable to foster 
and encourage this branch of profit. It is a practice, and an in- 
creasing practice in parts of Virginia, to rear slaves for market. 
How can an honourable mind, a patriot, and a lover of his coun- 
try, bear to see this ancient dominion, rendered illustrious by the 
noble devotion and patriotism of her sons in the cause of liberty, 
converted into one grand menagerie where men are to be reared 
for market like oxe.n for the shambles. Is it better, is it not 
worse, than the slave trade, that trade which enlisted the labour of 
the good and the wise of every creed and every clime to abolish it ? 
The trader receives the slave, a stranger in language, aspect and 
manner, from the merchant who has brought him from the interior. 
The ties of father, mother, husband and child, have all been rent 
in twain ; before he receives him, his soul has become callous. But 
here, sir, individuals, whom the master has known from infancy, 

whom he has seen sporting in tho innocent gambols of childhood, 

who have been accustomed to look to him for protection, he tears 
from the mother's arms, and sells into a strange country among 
strange people, subject to cruel task-masters. In my opinion, sir, 
it is much worse. He has compared slave property to a capital in 
money. I wish it were money, sir, or any thing else than what it 
is. It is not money, it is labour ; it is the labour which produces 
that, of which money is the representative. The interest on money 
is 4 to 6 per cent. The hires of male slaves is about 15 per cent, 
upon their value : in ten years or less, you have returned your 

3 



18 

principal with interest. Thus it is with much of the 100,000,000 
of property, the loss of which the gentleman has so eloquently de- 
picted as ruining the country. He has attempted to justify slavery 
here, because it exists in Africa, and has stated that it exists all 
over the world. Upon the same principle, he could justify Ma- 
hometanism, with its plurality of wives, petty wars for plunder, 
robbery and murder, or any other of the abominations and enormi- 
ties of savage tribes. Does slavery exist in any part of civilized 
Europe? No, sir, in no part of it. America is the only civilized 
Christian nation that bears the opprobrium. In every other coun- 
try where civilization and Christianity have existed together, they 
have erased it from their codes, they have blotted it out from the 
page of their history. He has attempted to reconcile us to the 
dangers of negro slavery by comparison with slavery as it existed 
among the ancients. There is unc view of this subject which has 
escaped the gentleman, and which I think reverses his conclusions. 
The slaves of the ancients were of the same species of the human 
race ; they were of different nations it is true, taken in war, but 
nevertheless white, bearing no distinctive specific mark, stamped 
upon their countenances, which should designate them through il- 
limitable generations as a distinct race. In the march of events 
their blood mingled with their masters ; all varieties of dialect or 
language, the slight differences of aspect and countenance became 
blended into one mass. These, from individual genius and assidui- 
ty, from high, moral and intellectual qualities, could rise separately 
into the higher classes. Such was Esop, Phgedrus, Narses, Terence, 
and the father of Juvenal, who have transmitted their names to an 
immortal posterity, while their proud masters sleep in oblivion with 
the common herd. To rise by single merit was practicable : there 
was no inducement to attempt to elevate violently a caste with 
whom they had no community of interest or feeling. The ancients 
even forbade badges of slavery to be worn, fearing to mark them 
too plainly, lest they might see their own strength ; and with all this 
precaution, Italy was ravaged by servile wars. The slave Sparta- 
cus kept the field for three years in the heart of Italy, repeatedly 
defeating consular armies. But, sir, how different is it with the 
African : nature has stamped upon him the indelible mark of his 
species; no lapse of time or generations, no clime or culture can 
weaken or obliterate her impression from his countenance. On the 
burning sands of Africa, in the snowy regions of Canada, as the 
naked hunter of his native woods, pursuing with the poisoned dart 
the lion or the elephant, or here, sir, after two hundred years of 
culture, it remains unfaded, unchanged, and unchangeable. No 
matter what the grandeur of his soul, the elevation of his thought, the 
extent of his knowledge, or the purity of his character ; he may be a 
Newton or a Des Cartes, a Tell or a Washington, he is chained down 
by adamantine fetters ; he cannot rear himself from the earth with- 



out elevating hi who] with bim, to the utter destruction el 

all above him. Here is the danger; here is die melanchol 
ence between modern and ancient l 

the European and the African, cannot exist upon the same soil in 
an equality of condition; one will govern : - will 

rebel in bloody massacre, to be repre « d by the exterminating i 
geance of the white man. No one can doubt, rir, but that the 
power of extermination is now in our hands. V't . in catcu- 

lat-o me actions of brutal ignorance and moral iation under the 

impulses of superstition, fanaticism or folly. The- gentleman has 
appealed to the Christian religion in justification of slavery. I 

would ask him upon what part of those pure doctrines docs he re- 
ly ; to which of those sublime precepts docs he advert to sustain 
his position? Is it that which teaches charily, justice and good will 
to all, or is it that whieh reaches " that ye do unto others as ye 
would ihev should do unto you ?" 

[Mr. Newton said, he supposed the gentleman from Albemarle had 
alluded to some remarks which he, (.Mr. N.) had made the other daw 
If his allusion had not been to him, he should not debate the sub- 
ject; but if he did, he would proceed and oiler a few remarks. 
He had told the gentleman from Petersburg, that after his eloquent 
speech, he, (Mr. N.) would not attempt an argument on the sub- 
ject: that he would burn his notes and not attempt to add a capital 
to a perfect pillar. But if the gentleman from Albemarle had al- 
luded to him, he should take occasion to address the house in a few 
brief remarks.] 

Mr. Randolph. The difference between the gentleman from 
Westmoreland and myself is political. I did not suppose, in his 
denunciation of democracy the other day, that he had proposed to 
hang me up on the wall as a scare-crow to all future democrats, ns 
a terror to all evil doers against his own principles. I believed his 
allusion was to the political opinions I entertained : our political 
principles are as wide asunder as the poles. I am a democrat ; my 
highest wish would be to have the name inscribed upon my tomb. 
He denounces democracy, and would stamp the name of democrat 
upon the wall as a mark of infamy : here, sir, is the difference be- 
tween us. 



The following is the inter from which the above extracts were 

tn ken. 

MONTICELLO, Auoust 25, '14. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favour of July 31, was duly received, and was 
read with peculiar pleasure. The sentiments breathed through the 
whole do honour to both the head and heart of the writer. Mine 



20 

on the subject of the slavery of negroes have long since been in 
possession of the public, and time has only served to give them 
stronger root. The love of justice and the love of country plead 
equally the cause of these people, and it is a mortal reproach to us 
that they should have pleaded it so long in vain, and should have 
produced not a single effort, nay I fear not much serious willingness 
to relieve them and ourselves from our present condition of moral 
and political reprobation. From those of the former generation 
who were in the fulness of age when I came into public life, which 
was while our controversy with England was on paper only, I soon 
saw that nothing was to be hoped. Nursed and educated in the 
daily habit of seeing the degraded condition, both bodily and men- 
tal, of those unfortunate beings, not reflecting that that degradation 
was very much the work of themselves and their fathers, few minds 
had yerdoubted but that they were as legitimate subjects of pro- 
perty as their horses or cattle. The quiet and monotonous course 
of colonial life had been disturbed by no alarm, and little reflection 
on the value of liberty. And when alarm was taken at an enter- 
prize on their own, it was not easy to carry them the whole length 
of the principles which they invoked for themselves. In the first 
or second session of the legislature after I became a member, I 
drew to this subject the attention of col. Bland, one of the oldest, 
ablest, and most respected members, and he undertook to move for 
certain moderate extensions of the protection of the laws to these 
people. T seconded his motion, and, as a younger member, was 
more spared in the debate : but he was denounced as an enemy to 
his country, and was treated with the grossest indecorum. From 
an early stage of our revolution other and more distant duties were 
assigned to me, so that from that time till my return from Europe 
in 1789, and I may say till I returned to reside at home in 1809, 
I had little opportunity of knowing the progress of public sentiment 
here on this subject. I had always hoped that the younger genera- 
tion receiving their early impressions after the flame of liberty had 
been kindled in every breast, and had become as it were the vital 
spirit of every American, that the generous temperament of youth, 
analogous to the motion of their blood, and above the suggestions 
of avarice, would have sympathized with oppression wherever 
found, and proved their love of liberty beyond their own share of 
it. But my intercourse with them, since my return, has not been 
sufficient to ascertain that they had made towards this point the 
progress I had hoped. Your solitary but welcome voice is the first 
which has brought this sound to my ear; and I have considered the 
general silence which prevails on this subject as indicating an apathy 
unfavourable to every hope. Yet the hour of emancipation is ad- 
vancing, in the march of time. It will come ; and whether brought 
on by the generous energy of our own minds, or by the bloody 
process of St. Domingo, excited and conducted by the power of 



21 

our present enemy, if once stationed permanently within our coun- 
try, and offering asylum and arms to the oppressed, is a leaf of our 
history not yet turned over. 

As to the method by which this difficult work is to be effected, 
if permitted to be done by ourselves, I have seen no proposition so 
expedient on the whole, as that of emancipation of those born after 
a given day, and of their education and expatriation at a proper age. 
This would give time for a gradual extinction of that species of 
labour and substitution of another, and lessen the severity uf the 
shock which an operation ser fundamental cannot fail to produce. 
The idea of emancipating the whole at once, the old as well as the 
young, and retaining them here, is of those only who have not the 
guide of either knowledge or experience of the subject. For, 
men, probably of any colour, but of this colour we know, brought 
up from their infancy without necessity for thought or forecast, are 
by their habits rendered as incapable as children of taking care of 
themselves, and are extinguished promptly wherever industry is 
necessary for raising the young. In the meantime they are pests 
in society by their idleness, and the depredations to which this leads 
them. Their amalgamation with the other colour produces a de- 
gradation to which no lover of his country, no lover of excellence 
in the human character can innocently consent. 

I -am sensible of the partialities with which you have looked to- 
wards me as the person who should undertake this salutary but ar- 
duous work. But this, my dear sir, is like bidding old Priam to 
buckle the armour of Hector " trementibus cevo humeris et inutile 
ferrumeingi." .. No, I have overlived the generation with which 
mutual labours and perils begat mutual confidence and influence. 
This enterprize is for the young ; for those -who can follow it up, 
and bear it through to its consummation. It shall have all my 
prayers, and these are the only weapons of an old man. But in 
the meantime are you right in abandoning this property, and your 
country with it ? I think not. My opinion has ever been that, until 
more can be done for them, we should endeavour, with those whom 
fortune has thrown on our hands, to feed and clothe them well, pro- 
tect them from ill usage, require such reasonable labour only as is 
performed voluntarily by freemen, and be led by no repugnancies 
to abdicate them, and our duties to them. The laws do not per- 
mit us to turn them loose, if that were for their good : and to com- 
mute them for other property is to commit them to those whose 
usage of them we cannot controul. I hope then, my dear sir, 
you will reconcile yourself to your country and its unfortunate 
condition ; that you will not lessen its stock of sound disposition bv 
withdrawing your portion from the mass. That, on the contrary 
you will come forward in the public councils, become the mis- 
sionary of this doctrine truly christian ; insinuate and inculcate it 
softly but steadily, through the medium of writing and conversation; 



22 

associate others in your labours, and when the phalanx is formed, 
bring on and press the proposition perseveringly until its accom- 
plishment. It is an encouraging observation that no good measure 
was ever proposed, which, if duly pursued, failed to prevail in the 
end. We have proof of this in the history of the endeavours in 
the British parliament to suppress that very trade which brought 
this evil on us. And you will be supported by the religious pre- 
cept, " be not weary in well-doing." That your success may be 
as speedy and complete, as it will be of honourable and immortal 
consolation to yourself, I shall as fervently and sincerely pray as I 
assure of my great friendship and respect. 

TH : JEFFERSON. 
Edward Coles, Esq. 



v 



