yr X 



REASONS 



FOR ESTABLISHING 



A REGISTRY OF SLAVES 



IN THE 



BRITISH COLONIES 



A REPORT OF A COMMITTEE 



AFRICAN INSTITUTION. 



PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THAT SOCIETY. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY ELLERTON AND HENDERSON, 

JOHNSON'S COURT, FLEET STREET. 

SOLD BY J, IIATCHARD, BOOKSELLER AND PUBLISHER, 
190, PICCADILLY. 

1815. 



A 






710 






'^ff^' 






REASONS, 

arc. &v. 



SECTION I. 

The fatal Effects of an illicit Importation of Slaves 

into the British Colonies. 

JLF there remained in this country any difference 
of opinion on the subject of the slave trade, in 
one point at least we should be unanimous. The 
Abolition, to produce any salutary effects, must 
be a reformation in practice, as well as in law. 

Let it be supposed that negroes from Africa 
are clandestinely brought into our sugar islands 
and there held in slavery, and it will be plain, 
that, to the extent of this practice at least, the 
abolition laws are worse than useless. 

The same crimes are committed, the same mi- 
series are inflicted in Africa, and a still greater 
destruction of human life must take place on 
the passage, not only from the circuity which 
may be necessary to elude detection and seizure, 
but from the absence of those legislative regula- 

B 



2 

tions which mitigated the letharious horrors of 
the voyage, while the commerce was permitted 
bylaw. The smuggler, having to risk the for- 
feiture of his ship as well as cargo, in a prohibited 
trade, will take care that the tonnage is as scan- 
tily proportioned as possible to the number of the 
captives on board. He has now the temptation of 
reducing by that means, not only the expense, but 
the legal perils of the adventure, in their propor- 
tions to his possible gains. 

There is also less chance than before of his 
being restrained in such barbarous practices, 
either by humanity or prudence. Tlie British 
slave trader cannot now be a man whom preju- 
dice, early habit, and reputable example, may have 
seduced into crimes repugnant to his general prin- 
ciples and feelings, and who may therefore be 
expected to soften as much as possible, in their 
execution, the cruel methods of confinement and 
coercion which are essential to the trade; neither 
can we expect from him that cautious and calcu- 
lating regard to self-interest, which may sometimes 
have supplied, in such points of conduct, the 
want of humanity, in a prudent and experienced 
trader. 

The poor Africans who may now be carried 
into slavery by British hands, must be commit- 
ted to men not only hardened by the habits of 
oppression, but reckless of public shame, con-^ 
lemptuous of all authority, human or divine, and 



s 

addicted to the most desperate hazards, for the 
sake of lawless gain. 

It is, in a word, by felons, by the sanie descrip- 
tion of characters that break into our houses at 
midnight, or rob us on the highway, that Africans 
smuggled by British subjects must now be drag- 
ged from their native shores, and carried across 
the Atlantic. 

That one of the consequences will be increas- 
ed severity of treatment, especially in respect of 
the close and crowded confinement on board, does 
not rest upon conjecture. It is fully attested by 
experience. The contraband slave traders of 
America notoriously crowd their ships beyond 
any example to be found in the same commerce 
while it was allowed by their laws, 
y Several shocking instances of this inhumanity 
have come under the cognizance of our prize 
courts. The same dreadful distinctions also have 
marked the cases of ships under Portuguese and 
Spanish colours, which have been proved, or 
reasonably presumed, to belong to British or 
American smugglers. 

These, however, are not the only, nor the worst, 
evils which would flow from a contraband im- 
portation into our colonies. It would be fatal to 
one of the dearest hopes of abolitionists, the melio- 
ration of the treatment of those unfortunate fellow^ 
creatures, our West-Indian slaves. 

As it is impossible suddenly to break their 



fetters, without danger of calamitous coiise* 
quences, not only to their masters but themselves, 
we must suffer them to remain, for some consider- 
able period, in their present state of bondage. The 
most extreme and abject slavery that ever de* 
graded and cursed mankind, must yet continue 
to be the reproach of the freest and happiesi 
empire that ever the sun beheld. 

But who is there so dead to the impulse of hu- 
man sympathy, who so regardless of the claims 
of justice and mercy, who so unconscious of his 
duties as an Englishman, a Christian, and a Man, 
as not to deplore that cruel necessity, and to 
desire to give to its duration the narrowest limit 
that humanity itself will allow ? 

Here there neither is, nor ever has been, 
any controversy in Parliament since the subject 
was first brought to its notice. All have pro- 
fessed to regard colonial slavery as an evil which 
we were bound to terminate, as a reproach which 
we were called on to wipe off, though the nature 
tf the case would not permit us to do so in any 
but a slowly progressive course. 

The advocates of a gradual abolition, and the 
few who refused even to prescribe any term to 
the slave trade, professed themselves to be as 
earnest in their desire to reform, by all safe means, 
and ultimately to abolish the slavery of our co- 
lonies, as Mr. Wilberforce himself The only 
questions were, whether an immediate abolition 



of the African slave trade was the best meaft 
to that desirable end ; and whether a temporary- 
continuance of the trade was not even necessary 
to prepare the means of mitigating the labour, 
preserving the numbers, and ultimately improv- 
ing into freedom the state of the colonial negroes. 

The speeches of eminent statesmen, the writings 
of the colonial party, the votes and addresses of 
Parliament, and the official correspondence of 
ministers with the colonial governors, might all 
be appealed to in proof that such has always 
been the unanimity of sentiment on this very 
interesting head. 

What are the means then that can be devised 
for the attainment of a reformation so dear to the 
wishes, and so necessary to the honour, of our 
country ? 

They can only be of two general kinds; com- 
pulsory or persuasive. Regarding the end as 
one which Parliament is bound, in some way, to 
attain, it must either be accomplished by direct 
legislation, accompanied with coercive sanctions, 
or by such parliamentary measures as may incline 
those who have the power of meliorating the lot 
of the slaves, to engage willingly in that beneficent 
work. 

The mode of direct legislation, by Act of Par- 
liament, would be obviously attended with great 
difficulties, and was therefore by all parties de- 
clined, or at least postponed. It was the unani- 



6 

moiis opinion that the indirect course was the 
best, as far as the work was to be prosecuted by 
any parliamentary means. But on a subordinate 
question, the difference of opinion was great. It 
was thought by the party which opposed the Abo- 
lition of the slave trade, that without that great 
measure, and without any statute directly acting 
on the colonial system of slavery, the necessary 
reformation might be attained, and the sla?e trade 
itself even eff'ectually suppressed, by influencing 
the assemblies to reform their own laws, and to 
pass acts for improving the moral and civil state 
of their slaves. For this purpose it was thought 
enough to communicate the sense of Parliament 
by means of addresses to the Crown, and to obtain 
in consequence, official recommendations from 
the Crown to the Assemblies. 

On the other side, the advocates for an im- 
mediate Abolition maintained, that while the 
slave trade subsisted, the colonial assemblies 
would never seriously and effectually engage in 
the desired work of reformation. 

Nor was it to Acts of Assembly in any case, that 
Abolitionists professed chiefly to look for the melio- 
ration of the state of the slaves. They did not de- 
cline indeed, on the contrary they earnestly desired, 
the enactment of meliorating laws. In some cascSj, 
the existing oppression arises not from the abuse 
of a master's powers, but from the direct and im- 
mediate operation of the colonial laws themselves j 



and therefore, a repeal of those laws is the effect- 
ual and only relief. But those evils which consti- 
tute, beyond all proportion, the largest share of 
the miseries of slavery, flow from misadmini- 
stration of discretionary private powers, with 
which the master himself and his agents are 
necessarily intrusted, wherever that relation sub- 
sists ; and to controul the exercise of these by 
public laws, is as impossible as it would be to 
prevent by the interposition of the courts in this 
country, evils that flow from the wickedness, the 
imprudence, or negligence of parents; or to heal 
the infelicities of conjugal life. 

In all such cases, the interference of the magi- 
strate, unless directed to a separation of the parties, 
is for the most part, not only impotent but mis- 
chievous. It inflames, rather than mollifies, the 
bad passions whose action it can but for a moment 
restrain. 

For these reasons, it has always been felt by 
the best-informed friends of that oppressed race, 
that the bad treatment of the slaves in our 
colonies can never be effectually prevented by 
the direct operation of a law, whether passed 
by their interior legislatures or by Parliament, 
that is to be enforced by the civil magistrate. 
The laws to which alone they have looked with 
confidence for that purpose, are such as will ope- 
rate in the mind of the master ; inclining him 
powerfully for his own sake, to promote the hap- 



piness, and improve the condition of his slaves, 
and to submit to any present sacrifices that may 
be necessary for their conservation and native 
increase. 

Such are the laws for the Abolition of the Afri- 
can slave trade. To them their promoters have 
confidently looked, not only for the deliverance 
of Africa from the horrors of that traffic, as far as 
Great Britain can effect it, but for the future pro- 
gressive deliverance of our colonial slaves from a 
most cruel and destructive bondage. 

Accused by their opponents of meditating a 
general emancipation, they denied the charge. 
But it was denied only in the insidious meaning 
of the imputation itself. They did not aim at an 
emancipation to be effected by insurrection in the 
West Indies, or to be ordained precipitately by 
positive law : but they never denied, and scrupled 
not to avow, that they did look forward to a future 
extinction of slavery in the colonies, to be accom- 
plished by the same happy means which formerly 
put an end to it in England ; namely, by a benign, 
though insensible revolution in opinions and man- 
ners, by the encouragement of particular manu- 
missions, and the progressive melioration of the 
condition of the slaves, till it should slide insen- 
sibly into general freedom. They looked in 
short, to an emancipation, of which not the slaves, 
but the masters should be the willing instruments 
or authors. 



in regarding the abolition of the slave trade 
as a first, an essential, and even a singly-sufficient 
mean to this beneficent end, they relied not upon 
untried theories, nor solely upon the known and 
universal springs of human action, but on all the 
experience that history records on this subject. 
In every country in v^^hich slavery has been mi- 
tigated in its kind, or ceased to exist after having 
once extensively prevailed, the supply of foreign 
slaves has first been cut off. 

Till the almost universal extent of the Roman 
Empire had precluded the former copious influx 
of vendible bondmen, captives in foreign wars, 
the slavery of Rome was not softened or re- 
trenched 5 but, on the contrary, became progres- 
sively more cruel and extensive. But when, 
under Augustus and his early successors, pri- 
soners of war became scarce, the Roman masters 
began of necessity to bend their attention to the 
care and preservation of the slaves which they 
already possessed*. 

Their condition vi^s soon after materially im- 
proved by law. Christianity, under Constantine 
and his successors, hastened the process by its^ 
benevolent spirit ; but the reformation was already 
begun. Stipendiary service was progressively 
substituted for servile labour in the towns j the 
riiodified slavery of the adscripti glebiS succeeded 
to it in the country; manumissions became eji- 

* See Gibbon's Roman History, 1st vol. cap. 2, and Hume's 
Essay on Population. 

C 



10 

tremely frequent; and before the dissolution of 
the empire, the number of persons held in pure 
slavery became comparatively small, though the 
institution itself was never expressly abolished. 

In modern Europe the case was similar. The 
practice of reducing a conquered people to sla- 
very, and of selling prisoners of war, had every 
where ended, before the slave laws were re- 
formed, or the servile condition was materially 
softened in practice or reduced in its extent'. 

In England, not only the sale of prisoners, but 
every other source of bondage, except that of 
procreation by bondmen, had ceased in law before 
the slavery, or villeinage, once comprising so large 
a portion of our English ancestors, began to 
decline. 

A case perfectly in point has not arisen since 
the opprobrious renovation of slavery in the 
Western World. The African markets have been 
too recently, and too imperfectly and uncer- 
tainly shut against some of the colonies before 
supplied from them, to afford a specimen ; but it 
is undeniable, that the colonies which have had 
for a century or more the largest and most regu- 
lar supplies from Africa, are those in which the 
treatment of slaves, and their condition by law, 
are notoriously the worst. 

The Spanish colonies, from the want of capital 
or enterprise in their merchants, and from the 
jealousy of their government, have had in general 
an extremely scanty and precarious supply; 



II 

and there it is that negro slavery is mitigated 
in the greatest degree, and manumissions are 
by far the most frequent. But in the island 
of Trinidad, Spain, by opening a free port to 
foreign merchants, and encouraging anxiously 
the importation of negroes, obtained a plen- 
tiful slave market; and there, in consequence, 
her humane regulations soon became a dead 
letter, and the treatment of slaves fell to 
the harsh standard of the Dutch and English 
islands. 

There is nothing in these facts, or in the prin- 
ciples of action which they illustrate, that is at all 
extraordinary. We are not surprised to see a man 
take more pains to preserve the trees in his plea- 
sure-grounds, than those in his woods. It is 
because the former, if suffered to decay, cannot 
be soon or easily replaced ; whereas the timber 
market may supply the coarse uses of the 
latter. 

Is it objected that humanity makes a difference, 
where sentient beings, and children of Adam, are 
the subjects ? Be it so ; but he who supposes 
humanity alone to be as powerful and steady an 
impulse, as humanity and self-interest united, 
knows little of mankind in general, and less of 
the masters of slaves. The friends of colonial 
reformation, then, have reasonably placed their 
hopes in the effects of the Abolition Acts, more 
than in all other means that can possibly be 
devised. 



12 

But to hopes so precious in the eye of huma- 
nity, a contraband slave trade must be fatal. 

This is sufficiently plain, perhaps, from the 
obvious nature of the case. A law that is in 
many instances violated or eluded, may neverthe- 
less, in part produce the direct and immediate 
effect vphich the lawgivers designed. An Act 
imposing an import duty, for instance, may be 
often evaded by clandestine importation, but still, 
in proportion as it is executed, the intention of 
raising a revenue is accomplished ; but a collate- 
ral or secondary good, which is to grow out of the 
primary effect of a law, may be wholly lost even 
by its partial evasion. 

In the present case it is necessary to the effect 
desired, not only that the primary object should 
be fully attained, bqt that its full attainment should 
be certain, known, and foreseen. It is not the 
prohibition of the slave trade by law, but the 
consequent inability to supply hereafter any defi- 
ciency in the requisite number of slaves by any 
other means than native succession and increase, 
that is to operate m the mind of the master. He 
is expected to change his system, not because the 
importation of African slaves is illegal, but be- 
cause he knows that they are not> and believes 
that they will not hereafter be imported. It is not 
the penalties of the Act, but the actual waiit of aj 
slave market, his fear of which is to* influence his 
conduct, and make him submit to all necessary 
sacrifices for the preservation of his gang. 



IS 

But if the Abolition Acts are known to be 
already evaded by smuggling (and, supposing such 
evasions to exist in a small island, they cannot in 
a general way be unknown to the community at 
large), there is an end to this salutary apprehension. 
The planter may reasonably calculate, that if 
such abuses are not effectually prevented at this 
period, they will not be checked hereafter, but 
that they will rather progressively increase, and 
will always be proportionate to the actual demand 
for slaves. He may therefore safely proceed in 
his present system; secure that, whatever the 
effects of it may be in future, he shall not be with- 
out a resource. 

It may be objected perhaps, by those who have 
not well considered the case, that there must at 
least be a great advance in the price of negroes 
unlawfully imported, from the perils to which the 
smuggler must expose his property and his per- 
son ; and that the high price of slaves, or even 
the prospect of it, may operate powerfully on the 
mind of the master in the salutary way desired, 
though he does not see or apprehend a total stop 
to the importation. 

That there will be an advance in price, is pro- 
bable ; that it will be extremely great, may well be 
doubted; for it will be seen, in the course of these 
observations, that there will, as the law now stands, 
be the greatest facilities in smuggling without any 
serious risk of seizure or conviction. But no sup- 



u 

posable advance in the price of slaves will suffice 
to deter the planters in general from pursuing their 
present course, and engage them to submit to all 
the sacrifices which are necessary, in order effec- 
tually to adopt what has been called the breeding, 
in opposition to the biiyingy system. To raise the 
price of Africans by duties on their importation, 
was one of the substitutes formerly proposed for 
the immediate abolition of the trade. On gene- 
ral commercial principles the plan was specious, 
its object being to diminish, and, ultimately, 
stop importation, by the comparative cheapness 
of breeding. But this is a case to which the or- 
dinary maxims and expedients of commercial 
policy cannot be safely applied. The authors of 
that plan did not know the great sacrifices which 
must be made at the outset, by a planter who 
would keep up or enlarge a declining gang by 
means of native increase. A great diminution of 
labour, especially among the females, is essential 
to that change: so are a more liberal and expen- 
sive sustentation of the slaves in general, a more 
chargeable care of infants and invalids, and some 
other additions to the annual disbursements upon 
an estate of which the produce is to be at the same 
time diminished. 

It was not known or considered, how few 
planters, comparatively, are in circumstances to 
afford such improvements, or have even the pre- 
sent capacity to make them. The concurrence of 



15 

their mortgagees, and of other creditors, must often 
be necessary: for the case in very many instances 
is, that the average difference between the present 
annual expenses of an estate, and the net pro- 
ceeds of present crops, will barely suffice to keep 
down interest on the incumbrances, and enable 
the planter thereby to retain possession of his 
estate. 

It is idle to tell men in such circumstances, of 
benefits to be attained, or savings to be made, 
fifteen or twenty years hence ; and yet they must 
wait so long at least, before they profit or save 
through the labour of children yet unborn, and 
by means of regulations which are to prepare for 
the obtaining, as well as the preserving, a large 
native increase. 

Besides, the hope of distant advantages, and 
the cautious, calculating, patient views of the 
economist in the walks of European agriculture 
or commerce, have little or no place in the ardent 
and adventurous mind of a West India planter. 
He has staked his capital or credit, and with it 
his health and his life perhaps, on a game over 
which chance has far more influence than pru- 
dence. It is a game, too, at which the chances are 
greatly against him. Sugar planting is a lottery 
in which there are many blanks to a prize ; but 
then the prize is very splendid; he may attSLin 
to great opulence, and in a very few years. This 
is the irresistible excitement by the effect of 



16 

which men are drawn into the hazardous specula* 
tion of buying or settling sugar estates ; and when 
such dazzling objects are in view, and such risks 
incurred, slow-growing, and distant gains or hopes 
can have little to attract or deter. 

The sugar planter, whether he buys or inherits 
his estate, possesses a property which is the sport 
of fortune, and has not therefore such inducements 
as other landholders have, to make sacrifices 
for its future improvement. The best settled 
sugar plantation is exposed to such extreme 
vicissitudes, that the fruits of patient self-denial 
may be lost, or the waste of improvidence repaired 
in a single season. 

Hence the peculiar rapidity with which such 
patrimony is often spent ; and hence a strong 
temptation to neglect the suggestions of prudence 
in the case we are considering. Convince the 
proprietor, if you can, that by planting ten acres 
less this year than before, and consequently dimi- 
nishing his consignments by ten hogsheads of 
sugar in the next year, he may save three times 
the value in the price of slaves to be purchased^ 
fifteen years hence : what then ? " I shall lose," he 
might truly reply, "250/. in my next yearV income, 
which will oblige me to submit to the painful re- 
trenchment of my present comforts; perhaps, for 
instance, the laying down my carriage : and, aftet^ 
all, the sacrifice may prove to have been either 
unnecessary or fruitless. Hurricanes, epidemic 



17 

diseases, droughts, or other causes, may ruin my 
estate long before the period you mention ; or 
good crops and good markets may so enrich me 
within the same time, that the laying out even 1 000/. 
in slaves will require no unpleasant sacrifice, and 
put me to no inconvenience. Either of these 
changes is far more probable than that matters 
should go on in such an equable course, with pro- 
perty of that precarious kind, as to secure to me 
the distant benefit you propose." 

In fact, the experiment in question has been 
sufficiently tried. The price of African slaves in 
the West Indies had risen before the Abolition to 
three times its former average j yet the buying 
system was confessedly adhered to in preference 
to the breeding *. 

For these reasons, and for others which might 
be adduced, it is in vain to expect such voluntary 
reformation, by masters in general, as the Aboli- 
tion of the slave trade is calculated to produce, 
unless the trade be totally abolished in practice as 
well as in law. 

Then, indeed, we may reasonably expect that 
the independent planter will be willing, and the 
needy planter enabled, to make all such present 
sacrifices as are necessary to secure a native suc- 

* See a very important pamphlet, by Mr. Mathison, a 
planter of Jamaica, entitled, " Notices respecting Jamaica," 
published by Stockdale in 1811;- in which some of these views 
are very impressively opened, though for a dilFerent practical 
purpose. 

D 



IS 

cession and increase. To neglect or postpone 
them, will be seen to be certainly ruinous to the 
master's property, and consequently to the secu- 
rity of his creditors and mortgagees. The latter, 
therefore, will not only concur in, but require 
and stipulate for, every measure that is essential 
to the preservation of the gang. The planter's 
credit will absolutely depend on his being able to 
shew that his estate is well stocked with healthy 
slaves, and that, by the most recent returns of 
births and deaths among them, their numbers are 
not declining. 

But to these salutary ends it is necessary, for 
the reasons assigned, that the Abolition shall not 
only be, but be generally known to be, an efficient 
and permanent law. 

If the hope of a future resource by contraband 
trade be not finally suppressed, the necessary in- 
fluence on the minds of the planter and his creditors 
Avill not be obtained, the breeding system will not 
be decidedly adopted, and the oppressions which 
diminish population will not be reformed. 

If we have thus far reasoned justly, the clear con- 
clusions are, that the illicit importation of slaves 
must wholly disappoint the hopes of humanity in 
our colonies, as well as in Africa ; that the trade 
will be even more barbarous and destructive to 
its immediate victims, than it was while permitted 
by law; and that the unfortunate colonial negroes 
will gain nothing by the change. 



The event, as to the latter, perhaps, will be more 
than negative evil. In many cases, they mav 
find in this abortive law an aggravation of their 
lot. It will serve as an excuse to such tenants for 
life, and other temporary owners of a plantation, 
as ought to keep up the numbers of their slaves, 
for omitting to do so, and casting on a reduced 
gang the same work that belonged to its former 
complement. The check of reproach also will 
be removed from those absolute owners of estates 
who, from their avarice or necessities, are tempted 
to practise the same species of oppression. 

In these, and many other cases, the law may 
serve as a pretext for evil, rather than an instru- 
ment of good. It is clear, at least, that nothing 
will have been gained, except (what is indeed in- 
estimable) the deliverance of the mother country 
from the guilt and shame of the slave trade ; and 
even this will be lost, if having the power to make 
the Abolition effectual in practice, we now should 
refuse to do so. 



m 



SECTION II. 



The Acts of Parliament already passed are insvffi- 
cientfor the Prevention of these Mischiefs, 

Such being the pernicious consequences which 
would certainly flow from a contraband slave trade 
in the British colonies, the inaportant practical 
question is, whether Parliament can and ought to 
do more at present than has been already done for 
the prevention of so great a mischief. 

To determine this, it is necessary to inquire^ 

1st, Are the existing laws effectual ? 

2dly, If not, are there any means of greater 
and surer efficacy in the power of Parliament? 

5dly, If such means can be suggested, is there 
any good reason why they should not be imme- 
diately employed ? 

In the first place then, let us consider whether 
the laws in being can be relied upon for effec- 
tually and certainly preventing the introduction 
of slaves into the British colonies by a contra- 
band trade ; and for so cutting off the hope of that 
resource, as to induce our planters in general to 
meliorate the state of their slaves, in the degree 
necessary to their preservation and native increase. 

If it can be shewn, in point of fact, that slaves 
have already beeu clandestinely imported into 



SI 

aqy of those colonies, since the Abolition Acts 
were passed, this question will be at once decided 
in the negative. A law which has already been 
evaded, may be evaded again; unless indeed, 
the facility of committing the offence be now 
lessened, or the means of prevention enlarged. In 
this case there has been no such favourable change. 
On the contrary, the termination of war has 
opened extensive new facilities to the smugglers, 
and diminished greatly the preventive powers of 
the Government. Slaves may now be brought 
from Africa under foreign and friendly flags, with 
plausible foreign destinations, in such a course as 
to sweep almost the very shores of our islands. 
They may also be deposited in foreign colonies 
within three or four hours' sail of our own. On 
the other hand, we shall in time of peace pro- 
bably not have one-fourth of the number of ships 
of war (those only guardians of our abolition laws 
in the West Indies) that has hitherto been sta^ 
tioned among our islands, ever since the Acts 
were passed. Besides, the right of visitation and 
search exists only while our flag is belligerent. 

The actual existence of slave smuggling there- 
fore, since that period, would prove a Jortiori its 
possibility in future. But the converse of the 
proposition is not true. If such smuggling has 
not hitherto been carried on, this by no means 
proves that we have now a sufficient security 
against it in the laws already passed* 



That African negroes have been illicitly im- 
ported into some, if not all our islands, since the 
year 1808, and even since the offence was made 
felony, there is abundant reason to conclude. 

Direct information of such practices has been 
several times transmitted to the friends of the 
Abolition in England, from different quarters. 
The particular modes, too, have been pointed out, 
viz. the running the poor captives on shore at night 
from a neighbouring foreign island ; or the carry- 
ing them in small numbers from a more distant 
port in the dresses of Creole negroes, and under 
the pretended characters of sailors or passengers. 

Many smuggled slaves were brought by these 
modes from the Swedish island of St. Bartholomew, 
and dispersed among the British colonies in the 
Leeward Island government; and more especially 
in St. Croix, then in his Majesty's possession^ 
In the latter island, the practice was so extensive 
and notorious that the Collector of the Customs 
found himself bound to take public notice of it, 
and advertised rewards for the discovery of the 
importers. 

Letters and personal communications from 
gentlemen of respectability, to the Secretary and 
General Committee of the African Institution, 
would suffice to remove all doubt of the existence 
of such offences, to some extent at least, if it 
were not a necessary precaution with that body, 
to conceal the names of individuals resident 



23 

in, or connected with, the "West Indies, who send, 
them, from humane motives, useful information. 
The transmission of it might otherwise danger- 
ously expose the authors to popular odium or 
private resentment in that country. 

To demand the highest evidence of such of- 
fences when consummated by actual importation, 
namely, the judicial conviction of the smugglers, 
would be to assume that legal prc^ofs of the crime, 
and prosecutors bold enough to explore and bring 
them forward, might have been found within the 
islands where the slaves have been landed. But no 
man Vv^ho knows the West Indies, or who will reason 
from the well-known laws and manners of that 
country, will expect either of these requisites 
there. 

In a place where nine persons out often of the 
whole population are incompetent to give testi- 
mony against a free man, a smuggler must be 
heedless indeed to put himself in the power of 
any witness. In landing the slaves, and deliver- 
ing them upon a plantation by night, it would 
cost much more trouble to incur, than to avoid, 
the risk of envploying a free agent, or enabling a 
free spectator to prove the true nature of the 
transaction. Boatmen, and all other descriptions 
of persons whom it might be necessary to em- 
ploy as inferior agents in such offences, are inva- 
riably of servile condition. 

As to informers for penalties under the laws of 



24 

trade, not being officers of the Navy or Custom- 
house, officially bound to make seizures, it is a 
character of which perhaps, one specimen only 
has been found in the British West Indies within 
thirty years. About that time ago, a man was 
bold enough .to inform, in one of the most impor- 
tant and most polished of the Leeward Islands, in 
a case of prohibited importation. He was imme- 
diately seized, tried publicly by a self-constituted 
court, convicted of the foul offence of being an 
informer, and sentenced to tarring and feather- 
ing, and perpetual banishment. Accordingly, in 
contempt of his privileges as a white man, he 
was stripped to the skin, covered with tar and 
feathers, and carried, with a drum beating the 
rogues' march, at mid-day, through all the streets 
of the town, no magistrate or peace-officer daring 
or choosing to interfere. He was next put on 
board an American ship then passing the har- 
bour, and carried off as a convict to the distant 
island of Jamaica, from whence he could not re- 
turn to his home without going first to North 
America. He had the hardihood, nevertheless, 
in a few months to return ; called on the Govern- 
ment for redress; and the Attorney-General was 
ordered to prosecute the judge of the mock tri- 
bunal, and the immediate executioners of the 
sentence. He did so, with much zeal, for the ho- 
nour of the Government ; but to no effect. Not 
a witness but the prosecutor himself, could be 



25 

found, to depose to facts which one half the 
free population of the island had seen; and the 
jury, some of whom could probably have con- 
firmed him as eye-witnesses, chose to disbelieve 
him, and found a, verdict of, not guilty. The man, 
who had been kept in the gaol for his security 
during tJie prosecution, was glad at the end of it, 
to become a voluntary exile for life*. 

After such an example, it will hardfy be 
thought that prosecutors are easily found in a 
West-India island, upon laws so unpopular there, 
as the acts for the abolition of the slave trade. 

There, nevertheless, have been seizures, by 
officers of the customs, of slaves unlawfully 
imported ; and many cargoes of negroes from 
Africa seized at sea have been condemned in the 
prize courts, several of which were reasonably 
presumed to be British property. A direct desti- 
nation from Africa to a British port, of course, did 
not appear, and could not well be suspected ; 
but that many of the slaves were destined to be 
circuitously and clandestinely brought to our 
colonies, cannot be reasonably doubted. 

It is, however, still more decisive, that there 

* The official report of this case is, probably, still to be 
found among the papers in the office of Secretary of State for 
the Home Department. The informer's name was Smith : the 
pi'osecution was under the title of the King v. Allason and 
others, in the Court of King's Bcncji and Common Pleas of St. 
Christopher. The case arose in or about the year 1785. 

E 



26 

have been numerous condemnations in the WesS^ 
Indies of small vessels, with each a few negroes- 
en board, seized in the neighbourhood of our 
islands, and prosecuted under the Abolition Acts. 
A list of thirty West-Indian condemnations under 
these acts, as returned to the House of Commons, 
is printed in the eighth Report of the African 
Institution; and it will be found, on referring to- 
it, that in sixteen of those cases, in which the 
sentences were acquiesced in, or confirmed on 
appeal, the numbers of slaves were so small that 
they do not average above four to each vessel. 
They must, therefore, have been chiefly engaged 
in the smuggling trade from the foreign islandsi 
that has been already described, as twenty 
times the number of slaves would hardly have 
sufficed to yield profit enough for an Africaa 
voyage*. 

* It may be necessary to caution the reader against a palpable 
mistake in these returns. All the slaves comprised in them, 
without exception, are described as Creole Slaves. This can- 
not possibly be true ; because the far greater part of them were 
captured on the coast of Africa, and condemned at Sierra 
Leone. Probably the officers Avho made out the returns from 
ihe West Indies took the descriptions from the claims, which 
naturally, though untruly, following up the fraudulent pre- 
tences v/e have described, called the slaves, Creoles, The 
returns from Sierra Leone, when added to them for the infor- 
mation of Parliament, may have been arranged, from inadver- 
tency, under the same running title of " Creole Slaves con*-, 
f^iemned." 



27 

There is a colony, in which the copious actual 
introduction of slaves by contraband means, is not 
only reported on good authority, but may be de- 
monstrated from public facts, ofTicially attested, 
more conclusively than by many convictions. 

In Trinidad, by the last official returns, prior 
to the abolition of the slave trade, the number of 
slaves did not exceed 20,000; being but a small 
increase from 1805, when their numbers are 
stated by Sir William Young, from returns of 
that date, to have been 19,709- The intermediate 
loss, by an excess of deaths beyond births, must 
have nearly equalled the whole numbers imported^ 
though there can be no doubt that these, in 
1806 and 1807, had been unusually large. Ne- 
vertheless, from the 1st of January, 1808, when, 
legal importation from Africa ceased, the slave 
population there appears to have rapidly in- 
creased. The returns for 1810, being 20,729; 
and for 1811, 21,288. 

In the following year, preparations were made, 
by his Majesty's Government, for registering in 
public books of record the names and descriptions 
of all the slaves in the island, for the important 
purposes of precluding the illicit increase of their 
numbers. An order of the King in Council for 
establishing such a registry, of which we shall 
bave occasion to speak more fully hereafter, was 
passed on the 26th March, 1812 ; and in the year 



28 

1813 *, blank books for containing the regi^ 
stry were prepared in this country, and trans- 
mitted to the island j it having been found that 
books proper for the purpose could not be pro- 
cured on the spot. From inattention to the re- 
turns of the later years, or from their not having 
then been received by Government, it was at that 
time computed, that the numbers to be registered 
would not exceed 17 or 18,000, and the register 
books were, therefore, fitted to contain not more 
than 20,000 names and descriptions of slaves. 
Long after their arrival, and when the returns 
were for the most part made, the registrar, an in- 
telligent gentleman long resident in the island, 
supposed that the numbers would not exceed that 
amount, and that his books would consequently 
contain them. 

What was the result ? The books were found 
insufficient : new delays were consequently incur^ 
red ; additional books were sent from England 5 
and by the month of December, 1813, when the 
original registration was completed, no less than 
twenty-jive thousand seven hundi^ed and seventeen 
slaves were found to be returned on oath, with their 
names and descriptions, as owned and resident in 
Trinidad; and were registered accordingly. 

To conceive adequately the proper inference 

* TLe delay had arisen from accidents which it wouW te 
tedious, and is needless, to explain. 



Q9 

arising from these facts, as to the extent of the 
importation subsequent to the abolition of the 
slave trade, we must take into account the pro- 
bable loss on the former stock, by the balance 
of mortality compared with native increase. 
This, in Trinidad, has been dreadfully great, 
from the notorious bad effects of opening 
new lands in the West Indies on the health of 
the slaves, and from the great inequality of num- 
bers between the two sexes on estates recently 
settled. It appeared from official information 
transmitted to his Majesty's Government, that the 
decrease of numbers, by the excess of deaths be- 
yond births, had in a year or years prior to 1805, 
amounted to the enormous rate of 14 per cent, 
per annum. 

Nor will our estimate, from such premises, of 
the extent of the contraband trade that must have 
prevailed, be materially affected by the consi- 
deration that some slaves may have been lawfully 
brought Trom other British colonies. It would be 
a large allowance to suppose 1000 may have 
been so brought from the 1st of January, 1808, 
when the Abolition took effect, to the month of 
December, 1813, when the original registry was 
completed. The planters of other colonies had 
in general no slaves to spare, and were not likely 
to strip their estates of labourers that could not 
now be replaced. 

If such lawful importations had been large. 



30 

fact must have been notorious, because slaves 
sent from one British colony to another, since 1st 
January, 1808, must have been cleared out and 
entered at the Custom-houses : but the only 
explanation attempted in the island, was, that 
the former returns, made annually under a Spa- 
nish law, must have been deficient. This is 
easily said ; but they were adopted as authentic 
hy successive governors and commissioners in 
their reports of the population. Besides, our 
inference partly rests on a comparison of these 
very returns with each other. 

We have not the same means of demonstrating 
that like abuses have taken place in other islands. 
Jf we had similar returns even to compare, the 
result would perhaps not be strong enough 
to manifest either that smuggling had, or that it 
iiad not, prevailed : for unless the difference were 
very large, a decrease might be accounted for 
hy the balance formerly usual on the side of 
mortality ; and a small increase, on the other 
iiand, might be explained by supposing a reverse 
of that balance. 

It is indeed probable, that in some or most of 
the British colonies, the numbers clandestinely 
imported have hitherto been very small, when 
compared with their whole stock of slaves. In 
fact, the old islands, if we except Jamaica, dealt 
but little in the African market for their own use 
for several years prior to the Abolition j and the 



31 

low prices of West-India produce, with the Frencli 
system of continental exclusions, would have since 
afforded our planters little temptation, and scarcely 
any means, to recruit their gangs by purchase, 
even if the trade had been open and safe. 

After all, it is not the actual degree of illicifc 
slave trade, as has been already shewn, that con- 
stitutes its mischievous tendency in our colonies 
in the preventing improvements 3 so much as its 
known practicability, and the consequent expec- 
tation of &ueh a resource when wanted. Neither 
would the mischief be prevented, if the abuse 
were known to exist only in a single island. This 
would be enough, as the law stands, for the ef- 
fectual and open supply of all the rest. It would 
also be felt, that what was easily done at St. Vin- 
cent's or Dominica, could be imitated, in case o£ 
need, at Jamaica or St. Kitt's. 

Upon the same principle, if it could be still 
doubted whether this detestable species of smug- 
gling has any where taken place, the colonial 
mischiefs which have been pointed out would 
nevertheless in a great degree arise from a general 
consciousness among our planters, that they have 
a potential resource in the clandestine importa- 
tion of slaves, whenever their future necessities 
may require it. 

The existing laws must therefore be very ineffec- 
tual to many of their important and interesting pur- 



3^ 

Jibses, unless their inherent efficacy is known and 
felt throughout the British West Indies. It would 
not be enough that, whether from present con- 
venience or any other cause, a voluntary obe- 
dience was paid to them; it is indispensibly 
necessary that they should be regarded as forming 
a compulsory and inevitable rule of future actions 
in order to add to present obedience, immediate 
preparation for their future and permanent conse- 
quences. We want, as has been already shev/n, not 
only a primary and. present, but a secondary and 
future effect. The former may be provided by 
the immediate observance of the law; but the 
latter only by a conviction in the master's breast 
that it cannot hereafter be eluded. 

If a general opinion, of the inefficiency of 
these laws would clearly preclude present refor- 
jnation in the colonies, that evil would scarcely 
be less certain, though the opinion were that of a 
majority only, or of any considerable proportion 
of the resident planters ; for it might be shewn 
that such changes in the existing system as are 
necessary to the maintaining the present black 
population in point of numbers; and still more 
such changes as may raise its moral and civil 
character, so as to clear the way for future and 
gradual emancipation, must be general, in 
order to be adopted by individuals, without great 
prejudice to themselves, and offence to the com* 



munity around them. This is not hard to coropre- 
liend, if we suppose sugar-planters to be, what 
they really are, rival manufacturers, carrying on 
the same expensive process, and supplying the 
same market with the article they make. It is 
evident that, in such cases, improvements which 
materially increase the expense of the manufac- 
tory, without adding to the value of the article, 
or augmenting the gross returns, cannot be 
adopted by a few of the manufacturers, without 
the concurrence of the rest ; or persisted in even 
by a majority of them, if a considerable minority 
should stand out. 

If, for instance, a cotton-manufacturer, who 
employs a number of children, should be dis- 
posed to build and support a school and chapel 
for their education and religious improvement, 
to provide them with separate apartments suit 
ed to their ages and sexes, and with proper 
inspectors of their conduct, so as to guard them 
from the moral contagion to which their crowded 
and promiscuous intercourse might expose them, 
and ultimately to provide for their honest and 
profitable employment in some other line of 
business, when they were no longer fit for his 
purpose ; it is plain that he could not afford such 
liberal and humane improvements, unless the/^ 
were to be adopted at the same time by all, or 
nearly all, his competitors in the same manu- 

F 



54 

facturing linev The addition they would make 
to the expense of his establishment, and to his 
future annual charges, would otherwise disable 
him from selling his cotton goods so cheap as the 
Same articles might be sold by others; and sinee 
competition must m general fix the market-price 
at the minfmum of fair and necessary profit, his 
manufactory would soon become a losing or 
ruinous business. 

If, on the contrary, all who supplied, or could 
laiwfully supply, the same market, were disposed 
to concur in the improvements, it is plain that 
they might be safely made, however chargeable 
they might be to the manufacturers in general. 
The new expense would raise in an equal de- 
gfefe the market price of the article, and would 
fall on the pirrchasers Or consumers. 

The British planters, if unanimous, would 
have the same happy facility. They possess a 
monopoly of the home market for their produce ; 
and it Will tdke Off all they ought to make. Let 
them limit their sugar-planting to the fair capacity 
of their gangs, after such a retrenchment of labour 
a^s is necessary to maintain native population; 
and they will want no market but the British ; 
in which they have not any competition to fear, 
Except from each other. Their common increase 
o'f expense, therefore, being in proportion to th« 
quantity of their produce, will fall, not on th^m- 



35 

selves, but upon, those who for such a purpose 
will cheerfully bear it, their fellow-subjects in 
Europe. 

This reasoning, it may be objected, assumes 
that the expense of the improvements will be a 
loss J whereas the charge of such melioration of 
the treatment of slaves as may be necessary to 
maintain their numbers by native increase, will" 
be compensated by saving the expense of future 
purchases of such property. 

It may be so ; but if the change of system can- 
not be effected without a temporary increase of 
expenses and diminution of returns ; and if the 
future benefits are not to be derived until a period 
beyond the ordinary range of West Indian spe- 
culations, we cannot expect that the present in- 
convenience will be encountered willingly for the 
sake of the distant good. That the breeding is 
permanently more costly than the buying system, 
is a proposition which we do not maintain ; 
though it was an opinion held and acted upon 
by many Planters before the abolition of the 
trade*. 

The obstacles to a reformation that is not 
general in the same colony, are not wholly, 
however, of a commercial kind. If the difliculty 
we have glanced at were surmounted, the laws of 
the place would present many others j and its 
manners still more. 

♦ See Mr. Mathison's pamphlet before referred to, p. 12, &c. 



3d 

Here we have the clearest and most melancholy 
proof of the inefficacy of the Abolition Acts, as 
to the interesting and necessary object of colonial 
reformation. 

What benefit have the slaves in any one island 
yet derived from the Abolition Acts, and from the 
favourable disposition in the Government and 
Parliament of Great Britain ? In their legal con- 
dition, certainly none at all. They are still the 
absolute property of their master ; still fed, and 
clothed, and vrorked, and punished, at his discre- 
tion J a few ostensible regulations excepted, which 
were demonstrably futile, and have confessedly 
proved to be useless. Still this extreme bondage 
is hereditary, and perpetual ; and still the slaves 
are daily subjected by law to hardships and mise- 
ries, against which even the champions of the 
colonial system have exclaimed, as cruel and 
needless aggravations of their lot. They are still 
liable to be sold at the suit of the master's credi- 
tors, as well as by the voluntary act of the master 
himself; to be stripped from the domain, and 
exiled for ever from their homes, their families, 
and friends, without the imputation of a fault. 

The inexorable maintenance of this last ac- 
knowledged grievance, is the more worthy of ob- 
servation, becauseParliament was accused of being 
its author, and was called on by the colonial party 
to reform it. The change of that part of the colo- 
nial code was accordingly prepared for by the 



37 

repeal of part of the statute 5tli Geo. II. cap. 7, 
which was untruly represented as having given 
birth to this cruel branch of the law of slavery ; 
but which certainly stood in the way of its re- 
formation. At the instance of the late Mr. Bryan 
Edwards, the Act 37 Geo. III. cap. 1 19, was passed 
for that purpose ; and it was expected that the 
colonial assemblies, following up the same prin- 
ciple, would repeal their own Acts, which made 
slaves liable to be severed by sale from the plan- 
tation to which they belong. 

That reformation was afterwards specifically 
and earnestly recommended by Government, in. 
consequence of a parliamentary address ; but not 
one colonial legislature, out of thirteen which 
exist under his Majesty's dominion in the West 
Indies, has yet thought proper to comply ! The 
slaves are every where still subject in this instance 
to a most needless, unjust, and unmerciful aggra- 
vation of their lot, peculiar to the bondage of 
the British colonies, though eighteen years ago it 
was reprobated by all parties in Parliament, and 
renounced by the British Legislature. Not a 
voice has ever been raised iu its defence; not an. 
apology has ever been offered for adhering to it; 
yet still, in contempt of the recommendations of 
Parliament, the odious oppression is maintained. 

The same is the opprobrious truth as to every 
pther legal reformation that is necessary to pro- 
mote the native increase of the slaves, and melio- 



rate their condition. Nothing, in short, has even 
been, ostensibly attempted, but that which the 
assemblies have admitted to be impracticable, 
and which every reflecting mind must perceive t& 
he so — the protection of slaves against domestic 
oppression in the exercise of the master's power. 
For this idle purpose, indeed, mock laws have 
heen made, have been laughed at, and forgot; 
and men who dare not complain, v/ho are incom- 
petent to prosecute, and whose evidence cannot 
be received in any court, against any free person, 
are referred to the law for redress, when in the 
bosom of the master's domain, they are not suffi-' 
ciently fed, are worked to excess, or receive 
more than a limited number of lashes at any one 
time HI 

Even against the more cruel wrongs of strangers 
the assemblies admitted that these poor beings 
are not practically protected by law; because 
their evidence, and the evidence of all their com- 
panions, is rejected*. Yet in no island has this 
legal impediment yet been removed. 

* See the Privy Council Report on the Slave Trade, part 3 ; 
title, Grenada and St, Christopher's, A. No, 4. ** Those 
who are capable of the guilt," say the Council and Assembly 
of Grenada, " are in general artful enough to prevent any but 
slaves being witnesses of the facts" (facts of gross and wantoa 
cruelty by free persons toward slaves), *' and the danger of 
admitting the testimony of slaves to affect the life or fortune of 
a free person is so obvious," &c. *' As the matter stands, 
though we hope the instances in this island are at this day 



39 

Insular laws, whose policy plainly depends on 
the permanence of the Slave Trade, also remain 
unrepealed. Many of them, for instance, discou- 
rage the breeding system, instead of favouring 
it; and that in no small degree. In most colonies 
the revenues raised for public or parochial pur- 
poses, are chiefly raised by a poll tax upon slaves, 
which attaches on them from the birth to the 
grave, without any allowance for infancy, or for 
other disability to labour for the master, either 
through infirmity or age. The planter, therefore, 
who has the largest proportion of native slaves, 
bears, in comparison with his^ ability, the heaviest 
share of the public burdens. If a mother should 
be released from field labour on account of her 
pregnancy, or her duties as a nurse, the master 
is nevertheless rated for her and for her infants 
too. If feeble life is kindly cherished after the 
hope of productive labour has ceased, the poll 
tax still continues, and operates in effect as a 
discouragement to humanity and justice. 

In another instance, loudly demanding the 
attention of Parliament, the assemblies have 
not only continued, but in some colonies have 
very recently originated, laws calculated to 



not frequent, yet it must be admitted with regret, that tbe, 
persons prosecuted, and who certainly were guilty, have 
'Escaped for want of legal proofs." 



40 

perpetuate slavery, by obstructing manumis- 
sions. 

One of the most efficacious means, not merely 
for the gradual disuse of slavery, but for the 
encouragement of good conduct among those who 
are still held in that state, is to make enfranchise- 
ment the prize of great individual merit. It is the 
strongest excitement to industry and self-govern- 
ment that a master, or a human law-giver, can 
possibly hold forth. It has therefore been much 
in use in every country, ancient or modern, in 
which slavery has prevailed. It has every where 
been encouraged by the laws, and in a variety of 
cases ordained by them as the reward of public 
merit. 

In Greece, in Rome, and still more in England, 
the modes of manumission were varied and mul- 
tiplied, both by the legislature and by the judicial 
expositors of the laws, so as not only to facilitate 
the master's beneficence, but almost to ensnare 
him into it. 

He was also supplied by the Greek and Roman 
laws with very powerful motives for manumitting 
his slaves in the valuable and honourable rights 
of the Jus Patronatus over his Freedmen. 

In England, if it be asked what cause most 
powerfully contributed to the dissolution of the 
degrading bondage of our ancestors, the answer 
must clearly be, the extreme favour shewn to 



41 

individual enfranchisements by the judges and 
the laws. That baneful growth of foreign con- 
quest or early barbarism, villeinage, had nearly 
overspread the whole field now covered with 
the most glorious harvest of liberty and social 
happiness that ever earth produced, and where 
not one specimen of the noxious weed remains , 
yet it was not ploughed up by revolution, or 
mown down by the scythe of a legislative aboli- 
tion; but was plucked up, stalk by stalk, by 
the progressive hand of private and voluntary 
enfranchisement. Slavery ceased in England 
only because the last slave at length obtained 
his manumission, or died without a child. 

Even the sordid and odious slavery to which the 
injured Africans have been reduced in the New 
World, has not been every where unaccompanied 
by the consolatory hope of its future extinction by 
the same means. In the Spanish and Portuguese 
colonies, in the former especially, manumissions 
are greatly encouraged ; and a right of self-redemp- 
tion also given to the slaves, upon terms as easy 
and as equitable as the nature of their state allows. 
The consequence is, that in most of the colonies 
of Spain, the negroes and mulattoes still in sla- 
very, are inferior in number to the free inhabi- 
tants. In Cuba even, where enormous importa- 
tions from Africa have taken place during the last 
twenty years, the free population, by the latest 
official returns, amounted to 388,000 ; while the 

c 



42 

^lat^es were no more in number than 2l2,00(y. 
That this is the effect of manumissions, is undeni- 
able 5 for of the 388,000 free inhabitants, 114,000 
are negroes or coloured persons. In the returns 
for the Havannah and its suburbs, the different 
colours are distinguished ; and it appears that the 
free negroes ^^reatly exceed the free mulattoes ; 
the former being 1 6,604, and the latter only 
9,743; which makes it probable, that the manu- 
missions have been recently very copious. The 
slaves were no more than 28,728^ *. 

In what country accursed with slavery, then, is 
this sinking fund of mercy, this favour of the laws 
to human redemption, taken away ? 

¥/here, by an opprobrious reversal of legislative 
maxims, ancient and modern, do the lawgivers 
rivet, instead of relaxing, the fetters of private bon- 
dage, stand between the slave and the liberality 
of his master by prohibiting enfranchisements, 
and labour as much as in them lies to make that 
dreadful, odious state of man, which they have 
formed, eternal ? 

Shame and horror must not deter us from re- 
vealing the truth : It is in the dominions of Great 
Britain. This foul and cruel abuse of legislative 
power has been reserved for Assemblies boastful 
of an English Constitution, and convened by the 
British Crown. 

* These returns are dated the 20th July, 1811, and were 
officially made to the Cortes. 



43 

Can the case be further aggravated ? Yes : in the 
obstinate rejection of better principles, in a per- 
verse opposition to the voice of a liberal age, and 
in the contumacy of these petty lawgivers to- 
wards the mother country which protects, and the 
Parliament that has power to controul them. The 
insular laws alluded to, which in many or most 
of our colonies restrain, and virtually prohibit, 
manumissions, have all originated within a very few 
years. They have in their odious principle even been 
innovations on the former slave codes, which freely 
permitted, though they did not hold out positive 
inducements to, enfranchisement by the act of the 
master ; and some of these cruel innovations have 
been made, since the time that humane reformatio^ 
of the colonial slave laws was the unanimous wish 
of Parliament, declared in votes and addresses to 
the Crown, and officially made known to the As- 
semblies, 

• '[Further aggravation still, may seem scarcely 
possible; yet such is to be found in the hypocrisy 
of some of these iniquitous laws. With the frau- 
dulent design of concealing from European eyes 
their true principle, they avoid the positive pro- 
hibition of enfranchisement, but lay a tax upon it, 
heavy enough to insure, generally speaking, the 
same effect ; and pretend that the object is to pre- 
vent free coloured persons becoming chargeable 
to their parishes, or the public. The pretence h 



not only false, but inconsistent with notorious 
truth. In the few islands in which a poor rate is 
ever known, the objects for relief are exclusively 
white persons ; and the authors of these laws might 
be challenged to shew a single instance of a free 
coloured person being relieved as a parish pauper 
in any part of the West Indies. In fact, persons 
of that class have so many resources, from their ca- 
pacity of sustaining labour without inconvenience 
from the heat of the climate, and from their mu- 
tual sympathies, connections, and attachments, 
that absolute indigence is rarely, if ever, known 
among them. 

Others of these acts have spoken of dangers, 
from the enfranchised persons becoming indigent 
or idle, in a more general way, as if they went on 
a principle of police. But in neither of these 
cases is the tax so applied, as to prevent the miS' 
chiefs pretended to be feared. It is to go into the 
insular treasury for general public purposes. The 
freed person may be in want, or be idle, and dis- 
solute, just as naturally, and with as little remedy, 
as if no duty had been laid on his enfranchisement. 
The only difference is, that by all the amount of 
the duty, his own ability, or that of his patron, to 
protect him from future want, is reduced. If he 
could himself pay or raise the sum imposed, there 
can be no doubt he would do so to obtain his free- 
dom; and the law would then guard him from in- 



4.5 

digence, by taking from him all that he possessed* 
or obliging him to borrow on the credit of his fu- 
ture labour! 

This cruel mockery must enhance the pain of 
the oppression*. 

* The Legislature of Grenada in its first Act of this kind, 
passed in 1797, thought that decency, if not justice, required 
a deviation from this general course; and therefore, in im- 
posing a tax of 100/. on manumissions, allowed an annuity of 
10/. for life to the freedman. But by another Act of 1806, 
it threw off this troublesome mask, repealing all the clauses 
and parts of clauses which related to the annuity, and retaining 
the tax of 100/. without any allowance whatever ! At the same 
time, consistently and fairly enough, it altered the preamble, 
so as clearly to shew that the considerations of police recited 
in the first Act were mere pretences, and boldly to avow 
hostility to freedom alone as its true motive. 

As this is a curious case, and will throw light on the 
true motives of the other colonial legislatures, we subjoin the 
preamble as it stood in the Act of 1797, and print in Italics 
the part left out by the Act of 1806. 

" And vjhereas the manumitting end setting free slaves diS" 
eased, blind, aged, or otherwise disabled from working, without 
making provision for their sustenance and comfort, ought to 
be prevented, as it obliges them to ramble about and beg for 
subsistence, ivhich frequently compels them to the necessity of 
robbing and stealing, and leads them to other bad practices to 
support themselves" (no relief from poor rates pretended here); 
" and whereas it is also necessary to discourage the two fre- 
quent and indiscriminate manumission of slaves without a 
siifficient provision being made for their support." 

The tax, the reader is desired to observe, is not imposed on 
the manumission of " diseased, blind, aged, or disabled'' 
slaves, only, but of any slave whatever. It was very proper^ 
therefore, in the Grenada assembly to repeal the whole of the 



46 

The master, then, who would improve the moral 
conduct of his slaves, and render their lot more 
cheerful, by the all-powerful prospect of freedom, 
as a reward to superior merit, or who would con- 
fer that reward for the past services of some faithful 
and useful slave, as an example to the rest, would 
find himself in this point, as in others, opposed by 
the insular law. He must, on the manumission, 
sacrifice a large sum of money in addition to the 
value of the slave. In some colonies, in one of 
them at least, this iniquitous tax is as high as 
500/., in others 300/., and it is not known to be in 
any place less than 100/. currency. 

Nor is there any exemption from this charge 
in any case whatever. The father cannot without 
paying that oppressive tax release his own off"- 
spring from slavery; nor the husband redeem 
his wife, so as to become the father of freemen, 
instead of wretches to be driven like cattle for 
life. 

Such pitiable cases must frequently arise under 
these shameful and merciless laws. Nothing is 
more common than for free blacks and mulattoes 
to be the husbands and fathers of slaves. In such 
cases, they were often known to labour with in- 
credible patience and perseverance to raise money 

preamble, except what is above printed in common type, tQ- 
gether with the annuity clauses. 
See Mr. Smith's edition of the Acts of Grenada, pp. 3^0, 32t, 



4^ 

for purchasing the freedom of the wife and chil- 
dren. But now, that heart-stirring object must be 
hopeless J and the sad effects on moral character, as 
well as on domestic happiness, may be easily 
conceived. 

Had there been any honest or rational principle 
in these laws, exceptions might have been ex- 
pected for encouraging exemplary good conduct 
in the servile state, or increasing native popula- 
tion. It has often been proposed, for instance^ 
as a happy mean of promoting the latter object, 
to enfranchise a mother who has borne, and raised 
to maturity, a given number of children. The 
most intelligent colonists have recommended this 
expedient j and some masters, perhaps, had begun 
to practise it. But now such means of improver 
ment are effectually taken away. 

The colonial legislatures, if they had regarded 
the Abolition as effectual, would also have been 
anxious to promote the religious instruction of 
their slaves. However adverse or indifferent, in. 
general, to the cause of Christianity, they would 
have desired to take the benefit of its influence, 
in the restraint of polygamy, and other practices- 
adverse to the interests of population. But no 
Act of Assembly can b'^ shewn which has redeemed 
our islands, in any degree, from the reproach of 
their former gross neglect in regard to this sacred 
duty : on the contrary, laws have been passed 
aggravating that sin by positive obstructions to 



the pious purpose of a master who should desire 
to reform the morals and manners of his slaves 
"by the means which Christianity affords. In 
some of our colonies at least, and Jamaica in 
particular, laws have been passed opposing positive 
prohibitions to the only attainable means of re- 
ligious instruction and worship; and though the 
royal negative has been properly applied as often 
as such Acts of Assembly have been transmitted 
for his Majesty's allowance, their temporftFji 
operation and renewal, aided by means of per- 
secution which have been craftily resorted to 
under other and still subsisting laws, have very 
materially checked the charitable zeal of those 
who would have communicated freely the bene- 
ficent light of the Gospel to the poor pagan bonds- 
men of our colonies. 

Other instances of a spirit directly opposite to 
the spirit of the Abolition might be adduced; 
but we must avoid all unnecessary details; and it 
would be singly enough to say, that the grievous 
oppression before noticed as condemned by Mr. 
B. Edwards, and the colonial party in the British 
Parliament, has no where yet been removed. It 
is a sufficient indication of the fact we wish to 
establish that plantation slaves are not yet in any 
island annexed to the estate they cultivate, so as 
X\o longer to be liable to be severed from it by 
(execution at law^ 

Though humanity had failed to recommend 



49 

such a measure, common policy would have im- 
periously dictated its adoption upon the prohi- 
bition of the slave trade, if that commerce had 
been regarded as really and finally cut oiF. To 
strip a plantation of its slaves, would have been 
seen to be remediless waste. Justice to credi- 
tors, to heirs, to the planters themselves, would 
have prescribed the immediate repeal of laws 
which not only permit, but direct, that the slave 
shall be sold separate from, and prior to, the lands 
and buildings. In islands where they are, in law, 
personal estate, and go as such in cases of intes- 
tacy to the administrator, provisions would have 
been made, if not to reverse that rule, at least to 
modify it, for the protection of the heir at law; as 
by enabling him, for instance, to retain them, on 
payment of the value, to the personal representa- 
tives. In one or two of our islands, this case was 
so provided for a century ago, as between the heir 
and younger children : the expedient, therefore, 
was well known to the assemblies. Formerly, it 
was for mutual convenience only : now it has be- 
come matter of necessity ; not only in that parti- 
cular case, but in all others, where a planter dies 
intestate. Yet nothing has been done. Heirs 
have been left every where at the mercy of the 
personal representatives, as well as that of the 
creditors. 

A hundred cases might be instanced, in which 
consequences the most unjust, and the most re- 

H 



50 

pugnant to acknowledged policy, must flow from 
this single neglect of legislative duty, if the Abo- 
lition is supposed to be effectual. Lessors, for 
instance, might be ruined by their lessees ; for it 
was a common agreement, that the latter should 
be bound only to account for the value of the 
slaves at a price settled by appraisement, when 
they were not forthcoming at the end of the term. 
Various contracts of different kinds, and many 
settlements and trusts were founded on similar 
views ; namely, that as importation always sup- 
plied a copious slave market, gangs could always 
be easily recruited, enlarged, or replaced ; and that, 
therefore, payment of the value was equivalent 
to the specific restitution of such property. Nu- 
merous, therefore, were the calls for new legisla- 
tive regulation and protection of private rights, 
if those views were reversed by the Abolition. 

But they were not reversed or altered in the 
minds of the assemblies. They knew, indeed, 
that Creole or native gangs were rarely to be ob- 
tained at any price, in many islands not at all, 
even while planters had the African market open 
to replace the labourers they might sell. They 
must have seen, therefore, that such purchases 
would now be quite impracticable, if that market 
were really shut ; but they relied on the contra- 
band resource ; and therefore only were supine^ 
Such considerations were not overlooked by them. 
Some of the most intelligent colonial advocates^, 



^1 

in opposing the Abolition in Parliament, pointed 
out these very effects on contracts, trusts, and 
family settlements, as strong arguments ab incon- 
vejiienti against that measure. It was not their 
business to point out the remedial expedient of 
annexing the slaves to the soil, or the other legal 
regulations by which such inconveniences might 
be in a great degree prevented; but these were 
too obvious, and too important to have escaped 
the notice of West-Indian lawgivers, if they had 
been willing to conform to the Abolition, when 
enacted by Parliament, or had felt that it was 
necessary so to do. 

Others, of the same party in the controversy, 
avowedly took a different view, and that to which 
the assemblies have practically adhered: they 
maintained, that smuggling could not possibly be 
prevented, and inferred, that the legal prohibi- 
tion was vain. In reference to such Acts of Par- 
liament as have been already passed, or any other 
ordinary means of preventing contraband impor- 
tation, the proposition, if not the consequence, 
was true. The opinions here maintained, and 
the belief that slaves have not ceased to be im- 
ported into our islands, to the extent of the actual 
demand for them, are so far in unison with argu- 
ments which the colonies advanced, or adopted 
before the experiment was made. 

If, then, great inconveniences have not been felt, 
from the causes adverted to, in the absence of 



52 

remedial laws, and if loud calls have not been 
made on the assemblies by injured creditors, and by 
trembling heirs and reversioners, to protect them 
from ruinous waste, it may fairly be inferred that 
illicit importation has prevailed j and that there 
Ms existed in our colonies, little or no fear of 
the slave market being irretrievably lost. 

Every unrepealed law adverse to the breeding 
system, every unrestrained oppression that impairs 
the health, shortens the lives, or diminishes the 
prolific powers of the negroes, points to the same 
conclusion. They collectively afford evidence of 
the strongest kind, that the assemblies do not re- 
gard the Abolition as effectual, but still look to 
Africa for the supply of their wasting population. 



SECTION III. 



There is one only effectual Mean of preventing 
the illicit Importation of Slaves into the British 
Colonies; which is that of a Public Registry. 



The first of the three inquiries proposed, need 
not be pursued any further. More might be said, 
but more cannot be necessary, to prove that the 
Acts of Parliament already passed are not effec- 
tual for the purpose of preventing the introduc- 



53 

tion of slaves into our colonies by clandestine 
means. That such mischievous abuses have been 
practised during the operation of those laws, has 
been sufficiently proved ; that they may be prac- 
tised hereafter with still greater facility, has also 
been shewn ; and it has been demonstrated upon 
undeniable premises, that an expectation of such 
supplies in future, prevails in the British West 
Indies, and, by its pernicious influence on the 
minds of the planters and the assemblies, frus- 
trates the happy tendency of the Abolition to 
meliorate the lot of the slaves. 

Let us proceed, then, to the second of the pro- 
posed inquiries, Whether any means of greater and 
surer efficacy are in the power of the British Par- 
liament P 

The Acts in question seem to have done as 
much, or nearly as much, as was in the power of 
the Legislature to do, for the extinction of the 
slave trade in all its branches, except one. To 
carry it on from British ports, or from Africa in 
British ships, and in general to prosecute the trade 
at sea, or in any foreign part of the world, on 
account of, or by the agency of his Majesty's 
subjects, is made as difficult and dangerous to the 
parties, as Parliament could possibly make it. 
The penalty of death can only be superadded ; 
and this, though by no means too severe, on 
the ordinary principles of criminal law, for the 
nature of the crime, would probably, from the 



54 

scruples of prosecutors and courts, be less effeC" 
tual than the existing penalty of transportation. 

But that branch of the trade in respect of 
which we had the highest and the most inte- 
resting duty to perform, was the importation of 
slaves into our own colonies. Here the legis* 
lature had also the greatest cause to fear there 
would be eager and persevering efforts to elude 
its prohibitions; and that the former sanctions 
of restrictive trade laws, would not be found 
effectual. Yet here, and here only, the preven- 
tive and remedial powers of Parliament have 
not hitherto been fully employed. 

As a British statute has no force in a foreign 
colony, we cannot enact that the people of Cuba 
or Martinique, shall not receive slaves brought 
to them in breach of our laws ; or shall not detain 
them in slavery ; still less can we give effect t© 
such an enactment, by regulations to be enforced 
in those islands. If a cargo of slaves from Africa 
should be carried, on British account, on a voy- 
age to the Havannah, all that we can do is, to 
intercept them on the passage, if we can : if 
that opportunity be lost, the case, as far at 
least as concerns the poor injured Africans, is 
remediless. But if the slave trade continues 
to be sanctioned by foreign governments, irj 
time of peace, such cases will be open to two 
very consolatory reflections; first, that we are. 
jpot guilty, as a nation, of the crimes of British 



55 

subjects, which our laws did not permit, and could 
not possibly prevent ; and secondly, that those 
crimes are not likely to be very numerous, or to 
add materially to the general ravages of the slave 
trade. For the carriage of slaves by or for ac- 
count of British subjects, being hazardous to the 
ship and cargo, while the carriage of them by 
and on account of foreigners, is safe from all fiscal 
and war risks, the profit of the former, to the bad 
men engaged in it, must soon be annihilated by 
the competition of the latter. It must at least be 
reduced to too low an ebb, to leave an adequate 
temptation to the British contraband traders ; who 
must add their own personal dangers from the 
law, to that of the capture and confiscation of 
their property. 

But if illicit importation into our own colonies 
takes place as the law now stands, we shall have 
no such consolation. Independently of the secon- 
dary evils which have been noticed, every slave 
brought thither will be one more victim added to 
the multitude that British avarice has made. 
Parliament will, therefore, not be guiltless, unless 
we can truly affirm, that it possesses no means 
within those colonies of prevention and remedy 
beyond those penal and other sanctions with 
which the general prohibitions of the slave trade 
are at present armed, in other parts of the 
world. 

Without anticipating the question, whether 



56 

further means would be effectual, it may be easily 
shewn, that untried means are yet to be found. The 
acts in existence, for instance, contain no practical 
provisions for the cases of negroes unlawfully im- 
ported into our colonies, but not seized and con- 
demned for that cause; so as to prevent their being 
kept in a wrongful slavery, within the British 
dominions, for life. 

Perhaps a reader unacquainted with colonial 
laws and customs, will be ready to exclaim, " What 
new provision of that sort can be wanted ? Have 
we not courts of law," it may be asked, ** in these 
colonies ? How then can a man be held there in 
an illegal slavery for life, without his own con- 
sent?" 

A man the most conversant with the laws of sla- 
very now existing, or that ever did exist upon earths 
except that of negroes in the western world, might 
be posed with the same apparent difficulty. He 
would conclude, that the oppressed African had 
only to invoke the civil magistrate, in order to 
obtain immediate redress, and severely to punish 
the oppressor. Such a man would know the anxious 
care with which the awful question of slave or 
free has been provided for, in point of evidence 
and trial, by every slave code, ancient or mo- 
dern, of which the historian or the lawyer is 
informed. Tlie presumption of law was every 
where in favour of freedom; the otms probandi 
was every where cast upon the master ; the forms 



SI 

of judicial Investigation and rules of judgment, 
were calculated to favour the claim of liberty so 
greatly, that it was next to impossible such a 
claim, when well founded, should fail of success. 
It may be supposed then, that the "West-Indian 
master would be called on to shew his titles and 
that when it appeared to be derived under a con- 
traband importation, the negro would at once 
be enlarged, and compensated in damages for his 
extorted labour, his false imprisonment, and the 
other wrongs he had received. 

Unluckily, however, these remedies, and the 
right of even alleging the wrong in a civil action, 
are barred in the British West Indies by one short 
objection which the complainant cannot remove : 
" The man is a slave." 

The ancient lawgivers had weak nerves in 
framing their slave-codes when compared to our 
British assemblies. Instead of giving the slave? 
a right of invoking the civil magistrate against 
all men but his master, and in some cases against 
the master himself, the assemblies have disabled 
their slaves from applying to the law for relief in 
any case, against any free person whatever. They 
cannot be heard as complainants, prosecutors, or 
witnesses; except against persons of their own 
unhappy condition. 

** But here," it may be replied, **you are on a 
question of slave or free. The complainant 
denies that he is in law a slave; and therefore it 

I 



would be absurd as well as unjusC, to turn him 
away on the ground of his slavery, "^ non valet 
exceptio ejusdem cujus petitur dissolatio,* is a 
maxim not of any particular code, but of univer- 
sal law; because a plain rule of eternal reason and 
justice/* • 

Very true ; but the colonial courts have still one 
short rejoinder: ^' His skin is blacks 

The assemblies here again have improved 
wonderfully upon the slave codes of all other 
countries and timeSo They have absolved the 
master from the troublesome duty of proving his 
title. They have reversed the universal pre*- 
sumption of other laws , placing it, not in favour 
of freedom, but against it. They have cast the 
burthen of proof on the weaker and helpless 
party. The English lordj when trying the ques- 
tion of villeinage with his alleged villein or slave^ 
was obliged even to bring into court the near 
relations of his opponent to prove the hereditary 
condition. The West-India master need produce 
only the alleged slave himself. His condition is 
recorded on his face. 

This comparison between ancient and modern 
lawgivers is, we should admit, in one respect 
more favourable to the former in the apparent, 
than the true conclusion to which it leads. Thei? 
slave-codes, on the whole, were certainly far less 
illiberal and harsh than those of the West-India 
islands I but in their care to prevent free men 



59 

from being wrongfully reduced to slavery, the 
ancient legislators had motives and feelings from 
which lawgivers in the new world, in forging 
fetters for the unfortunate Africans, have been 
exempt. If the former had suffered the rights of a 
master to be wrongfully assumed over a free per- 
son without providing a remedy for the wrong, 
they themselves, their friends, or their posterity, 
might have been victims of such injustice. Tlie 
voice of the free part of the community would 
have exclaimed against the dangerous defect. 
But assemblies of white men, elected by white 
men alone, had no danger to fear for them- 
selves or their constituents from maxims of law 
that exposed negroes to oppression. As slave 
masters, and purchasers in the African market, 
it was convenient to them that their titles 
should not be disturbed by claims of freedom. 
As men tinctured with creolian prejudice, they 
had little tenderness for the freedom of the Afri- 
can race. They rather wished that every black man 
were in fact, as well as by legal presumption, a 
slave. 

In this, and other instances, negro slavery is a 
source of great injustice, from the same peculi- 
arity that has given birth to most of its practical 
aggravations; the strong and repulsive corporeal 
distinctions between the slaves and the free 
members of the community in which they live. 
It not only destroys sympathy, and increases the 



60 

contempt every where inspired by a servile state, 
but facilitates oppressive legislation. 

While an ordinary title to slaves in our colo- 
nies, was a purchase made of them in the yard of 
a Guinea factor, there was, we should further 
admit, some slight apology for reversing the rule 
of other slave codes in the way that has been 
noticed. It might have been modified, at least, 
without further blame than such as arose from 
the nature of the slave trade itself. The title of 
the seller in Africa, could not be traced and 
verified on the other side of the Atlantic. It 
must have depended in point of right, so to speak, 
not only on facts arising in Africa, but on African 
law. It might have been excusable, therefore, to 
require of the master of a native African claim- 
ing to be free, to prove only his purchase from 
the Guinea factory and that the negro was one 
of a cargo previously brought from Africa in a 
slav^ ship; leaving it open to him to impeach that 
title if he could, by shewing that he had been 
wrongfully carried from the coast. In other 
words, the legal presumption should have gone 
no further than this, that prima fade every negro 
exported from Africa, as a slave, was actually 
in that condition by the law of the country from 
which he came. To extend it further, was clearly 
to outstep the necessity of the case. |n applying 
the presumption of slavery, therefore, to every 
man with a black skin, whereyer born, and in 



61 

whatever way he came into the master's posses- 
sion, the assemblies were guilty of a harsh inno- 
vation, for which no excuse could be alleged, 
even while the slave trade was permitted by 
law. 

But however far the rule might have been 
defensible at that period, the Abolition, if sin- 
cerely acquiesced in by the assemblies, would 
have plainly prescribed to them to pass a law 
for its immediate repeal. 

The case was now radically changed. Instead 
of importation from Africa raising a presumption, 
of lawful slavery, it was to constitute in future a 
clear title to freedom. 

In respect of past importations, indeed the rule, 
reduced to the dimensions already suggested, might 
have been specially retained. Proof of a purchase 
under an importation from the slave coast, prior to 
January 1808, might have been allowed to esta- 
blish prima facie the condition of slavery. But 
thenceforth, no legal right to hold a negro in 
bondage, could arise by any means whatever out 
of the British West Indies; consequently the right 
itself could always admit of proof within the 
master's power. The failure of such proof, there- 
fore, must warrant the conclusion, that the condi- 
tion has been unlawfully imposed. 

To continue the general presumption of law, 
still, on the other side, what is it but virtually 



62 

to witlisfancl and frustrate the enactments of the 
Bntish Parliament B 

Let us look at a particolar and very probable 
case, that may arise on the Abolition, Act 47th 
Geo. III. cap. SQ, sec. 7. Native Africans, when 
tmlawfully imported or carried as slaves, are, after 
seizure and condemnation, to be apprenticed, of 
otherwise provided for by a guardian ; but they 
a^e to be free. Creble negroes, the subjects of a 
like offence, are, after condemnation, to be free 
whbout any such temporary restraint. In both 
cases, their title to the rights of free men, in the 
British territory to which they are carried, is not 
only the necessary effect, but the express ordina-= 
tion of the statute. Yet what would be the effect 
of the insular law, if any of these men, or the issue 
of the women, thus enfranchised by Parliament, 
were afterwards held in slavery in a British island? 
They could not stand in judgment to assert that 
statutable right. If asserted for them, by Habeas 
Corpus, at the instance of some bold and generous 
patron, their colour is a presumption of slavery 
which he could not repel, unless volunteer wit- 
nesses of the same character would come forward 
to prove by affidavit all the necessary facts. He 
would then have to work up against the wind and 
tide of local prejudice, at a heavy expense ; and 
nfter all, without the good will of a bench of slave 
masters, could not hope for success. The onus. 



probandi resting upon him, any flaw in his evi- 
dence as to identity, or otherwise, would be deci- 
sive against him ; and if the decision were unjust, 
he could have no appeal. 

If a condemnation under which the enfran- 
chisement arose, were recent indeed, and in the 
same island, some facilities of proof might be ex- 
pected ; at least where the negro had been in the 
charge of a public guardian, whose official cha- 
racter would naturally prompt him to furnish a 
voluntary affidavit, and protect him from resent- 
ment in that offensive service ; but still, the gene- 
rous patron must be found, and a serious expense in- 
curred, before the case could be brought at all to 
judicial notice. 

The cases, however, which are most likely to 
arise, and vi^hich unquestionably at this momenb 
exist, in most if not all of our islands, are those of 
Africans clandestinely imported, who never have 
been seized and enfranchised by condemnation, 
and therefore can have no evidence of their right to 
freedom (which they nevertheless clearly possess) 
unless they could prove the offence of which they 
have been the victims. 

If these men could lawfully implead their 
oppressor, and if in such a suit or upon any com- 
plaint on their behalf, before a competent tribunal, 
he were bound to prove his right to detain them 
in slavery, they might probably obtain relief ; for 



64 

without the aid of perjurious testimony,8ind forgery 
too in most cases, he could not make out his title. 
But the iniquitous rule in question delivers 
him from all these embarrassments. They are 
Macks ; and the presumption of law absolves him 
from the task of proving either his title, or their 
condition. 

As to the act of contraband importation, how are 
they to prove it, even if they could compel the at- 
tendance of witnesses for the purpose ? Their fel- 
low-sufferers are not competent, from the same opi^ 
pressire rule j for though free in law like them- 
selves, they must be presumed to be slaves. Being 
negroes, they cannot be sworn as witnesses till 
their own freedom is established. The white per- 
sons, if any, who know the facts, are not only 
friends or dependants, but most probably accom- 
plices, of their opponent. 

It is plain then, that in this most probable and 
ordinary case, relief would be in general hopeless. 
Accordingly with all the reasons that have beeni 
noticed for concluding, that the illicit introduction 
of slaves has been large in some colonies, and has 
taken place in some degree in them all, no instance 
of legal redress to any of the sufferers has yet 
been heard of; nor any application to a court 
or magistrate on their behalf. 

If negroes entitled to freedom under the Abo- 
lition Acts were delivered even from the hands of 



65 

their private oppressors, as they would be in cases 
of seizure and condemnation, their freedom would 
still be in extreme and constant peril, while this 
iniquitous presumption of law, and some practical 
rules that are founded upon it, remain unrepealed. 
To such a cruel extreme does the principle pre- 
vail in Jamaica and most other colonies, that a 
negro is presumed to be, and is dealt with as, a 
slave, even when nobody lays claim to him as 
master. Such persons are actually taken up, 
seized and sold upon that presumption only, 
and upon the no less inequitable inference 
drawn from it, that they are fugitives, and 
of a character dangerous to the police. By 
positive law a negro, who has no master, may be 
apprehended by any white person and carried to 
the nearest gaol. The gaoler, or deputy provost- 
marshal, is then required to advertise him, with 
his bodily description : and if he be not claimed by 
some master who can prove his property within a 
limited time, the prisoner is to be publicly sold 
as a slave, and the price lodged in the colonial 
treasury, to be paid over to the master if he 
afterwards appears, otherwise to be applied to 
the public service. 

No exception is mad^ in those acts in favour 
of negroes claiming to be free; nor any means 
whatever provided to enable them to prove their 
liberty. If a man were to be sold with his deed 
of manumission in his hand, it would be per- 

K 



66 

fectly consistent with the law; and the purchaser 
would nevertheless have a good title to hold him 
in slavery for life. 

Nor are these acts a dead letter. On the con- 
trary, they are in very frequent use ; as every man 
who reads the West-India newspapers must know. 
In the Jamaica Gazettes especially, it is quite 
common to see notices from the deputy provost- 
marshall's office in respect of negroes thus 
dealt with, who are advertised to be sold, unless 
claimed by somebody that can prove his property 
as master. 

In the greater part of those ordinary cases, or 
nearly the whole of them, it may fairly be inferred 
that the unfortunate prisoner alleged himself to 
be a free man ; because if he had confessed himself 
a slave he would presumably also have told to 
whom he belonged, or given such further account 
of himself as would have led to the discovery of 
the master. Men claiming their freedom there- 
fore, and found in the actual possession of it, and 
contradicted by nobody, are sold into slavery by 
the police, merely because they are black. The 
only additional requisite is a non-claim which 
tends to make it highly probable that they are 
lawfully free. 

What is to guard negroes imported in a clan- 
destine slave trade from being victims of these 
most unjust and inhuman laws? They might be 
imported even with that very view; for these acts 



67 

present an obvious and easy course by which the 
smuggler or his vendee might contrive to gain a 
good title, in contempt of the Britlsth statutes. 

Surely the abrogation of laws like these, is one 
mean at least which ought to be tried for the more 
effectual abolition of the slave trade. 

But here a difficulty may, perhaps, suggest it- 
self, as to the execution of any measure whatever, 
adapted to such an end, within the British islands. 
If such be the hostility to those laws in the minds 
of the colonists in general, and if judges and 
others concerned in the administration of public 
justice are too much infected with, or overawed 
by, that popular feeling, to execute the laws with 
impartiality in cases of contraband importation, 
and of slavery wrongfully imposed ; how, it may be 
asked, are those evils to be prevented by any new 
enactments that are to be executed in the West 
Indies by the colonial courts ? 

*' Reverse," it may be said, "the unjust and op- 
probrious maxim that is here complained of; place 
the presumption of law where it ought to be, on 
the side of freedom ; provide for the convenient 
trial of the question slave or free; and lay the o?itis 
proba7idi in it on the master; still, if that question 
must be tried by a colonial court and jury, there 
will be a strong leaning on the master's side; 
and in the clearest case of freedom, the party un- 
justly held in bondage may obtain no relief." 



68 

The conclusion, in regard to any measure which 
depends for its efficacy solely on forensic proceed- 
ings in the colonies, is right. Much, indeed, would 
be done to lessen the evil by those improvements 
in the law. There are limits beyond which local 
prejudices, however powerful, will not always be 
able easily to warp the administration of public 
justice. In flagrant cases, a sense of what is due to 
character, or even sometimes higher principles of 
conduct, may turn the scale in favour of the 
oppressed. Besides, means might be found to 
review, by appeal, decisions manifestly unjust. 
Every lawyer at least will feel the vast importance 
of the difference between the present state of 
things, and one in which the negro could put the 
alleged master on the proof of that right which 
he assumes, in the form of an issue at law. It is 
even the more important on account of the dis- 
favour which he has to expect from the court. 

Still, however, partiality would operate, we 
admit, in a great and mischievous degree. It is 
highly desirable, therefore, in this and every view, 
that means should be devised, if possible, to make 
the true condition of the colonial negroes matter of 
public, notorious, and conclusive evidence; such 
as can never be wanting to prove a true case, and 
cannot be fabricated to support a false one. 

It is a still greater desideratutn that the means 
so to be provided should be calculated to act in 



69 

general without the direct and active aid of any 
court or magistrate. The regulations on thi^. 
subject should be such as may, if possible, ensure 
their own execution. 

There are means, happily, by which all these 
desiderata may be supplied, and perfect obedience, 
to the abolition laws, within our islands, effec- 
tually secured. 

The means are not hard to fmd. They have 
been already devised, by his Majesty's Govern- 
ment. They have been established by law in 
three of our sugar colonies. In one, they have 
been carried into full execution. These means 
are no other than the establishing throughout, 
the British West Indies, a public registry of slaves, 
with regulations similar to those which are con- 
tained in an instrument before alluded to, the 
Order of his Royal Highness the Prince Regent 
in Council for registering the Slaves in Trinidad. 

A short explanation of the general plan of that 
registry, and the leading provisions of the Order 
in Council which established it, will furnish nearly 
all that it is necessary to add under the present 
head of inquiry. 



General Plan of a Registry of Slaves. 

The general object of this plan is to obtain a 
public record of the names and descriptions of all 
persons lawfully held in slavery in each respective 



70 

island. For this purpose, it is obviously necessary, 
in the first place, that full and accurate returns 
should be made of the existing stock of Slaves. 
These, which are required to be made as soon as 
conveniently may be after promulgation of the 
law, are called the original returns, and the record 
which is to be made of them the original registry. 
But the individuals composing this unfortunate 
class will be progressively changed, by deaths, 
by births, by enfranchisements, and by importa- 
tion from other British colonies (if that practice 
be still permitted). It is necessary, therefore, 
that the original registry should be periodically 
corrected and enlarged, by new returns of all 
such changes as have taken place since the last 
preceding registration. 

Annual returns have been thought not too 
frequent for this purpose. It is, therefore, re- 
quired that within a limited time after a given 
day in each year, new returns shall be made, 
specifying all such subsequent changes ; and that 
by these the records of the original registry shall 
be from time to time corrected and enlarged ; so 
that they may always exhibit, immediately after 
the last annual returns are recorded, an account 
and specification exactly corresponding with the 
stock of slaves at that time existing in the colony. 

Such a registry being formed, and perpetually 
kept, in a public office within the colony, is to 
be hereafter the necessary evidence of the servile 



71 

condition of persons resident within the island to 
which it belongs. No negro or mulatto is to be 
hereafter treated, sold, or conveyed, as a slave, 
unless he has been duly registered as such. On 
the question of slave or free, the absence of the 
party's name and description in the registry, is 
to be conclusive evidence of his freedom. 

In framing records that are to have these im- 
portant consequences, great care must be taken 
to secure their fulness and precision, their truth, 
their accuracy, and their duration. 

To these ends, every owner of slaves in the 
colony is required, on pain of the loss of his pro- 
perty in them, to make his return of them upon 
oath, in a prescribed form, and with a variety of 
specifications, such as are best calculated to pre- 
vent any future incertitude as to their identity. 
Their sexes, names, ages, statures, and other cor- 
poreal distinctions, are to be set forth, truly and 
carefully, in schedules annexed to the returns: 
These are all to be inserted in the books of record, 
and the slaves are tcJ be registered under the 
names of the different plantations or owners to 
whom they respectively belong. Any change 
of property in them is to be notified in the next 
annual return, and the registry is to be corrected 
accordingly. 

Provisions are made for correcting or supplying 
involuntary errors or omissions, during sush a 



72 

limited period as will enable owners, whether 
present in, or absent from the colony, to discover 
and repair the errors or defaults of their agents j 
but after that period no alteration in the original 
dr annual registries, is to be allowed. 

Special exceptions, however, are made, and 
carefully guarded from abuse, in favour of owners 
under temporary disabilities; and of parties having 
property or interests in slaves of which they are 
not in immediate possession. 

In the latter case, the general nature of the 
expedient is to transfer to the parties out of 
possession, e, g. mortgagees, or parties having 
reversionary interests, the title forfeited by the 
party in possession ; and to cast on them also the 
duty of repairing his default by a proper registra- 
tion within a limited time*. 

- * The non-registration of any slaves by mortgagors in pos- 
session, the abuse most likely to happen, is, perhaps, not 
guarded against in the Trinidad Order so strongly as others. 
The mortgagee becomes entitled to immediate possession, and 
is to hold the unregistered slaves irredeemably without any 
allowance for their value in a future account; but it would 
have been better if the equity of redemption of the whole 
mortgaged premises had been forfeited. 

The same principle, perhaps, ought to have been extended 
to forfeitures by other defaulters, having limited interests in 
possession, who omit to register part only of the slaves ; and 
to the avoidance also of an entire conveyance of slaves, or 
l^and and slaves together, where some only of the slaves are 
unregistered. By the Trinidad Order it is void as to the 
fatter only. 



IS 

To protect still better the rights of infants, and 
other incompetent persons, an official inquest is 
superadded, to discover and supply any defaults 
of their guardians or trustees. 

A variety of other provisions are made, to pre- 
vent, as much as possible, any particular injustice, 
hardship, or inconvenience to which individuals 
might be exposed by the errors or defaults of 
others. 

The danger of fraudulent alterations and inter- 
polations in the registry, and of the destruction or 
mutilation of the registry itself, by fire or other 
means, wilful or accidental, is guarded against by 
a special provision, which, in other important 
respects also, is essential to the plan. Exact 
duplicates are to be made of the books of original 
registry, and full abstracts are to be formed of 
the subsequent annual returns : and both are to 
be transmitted, promptly and carefully, to his 
Majesty's principal Secretary of State for the colo- 
nial department in England, in whose office they 
are to remain ; and the entries in these are to be 
continued by the periodical corrections and addir 
tions which the abstracts from time to time supply. 
It is obvious that a separate public office in 
London would be a fitter depository for this 
duplicate registry ; as it will be necessary to allow 
of frequent searches in itj and the colonial de- 
partment is already but too much overcharged 
with business in proportion to its official esta- 

L 



74 ' ■ 

blishments. But the King in Council had not the 
power of establishing by the royal authority a 
register office, with proper regulations, in this 
country. 

The books, and duplicates, and abstracts, are 
all to be certified in the most solemn manner by 
the Registrar, and verified bj his oath before the 
Governor J whose hand and seal of office are 
further to authenticate these important records. 

The severest penalties are annexed to any act 
of forgery or fraud on the part of the Registrar 
or his clerks ; and anxious provisions are made 
for his independency, and for exempting him as 
much as possible from local influence. 

Persons convicted of holding or attempting to 
hold in slavery, any negro unlawful!}' imported, 
by means of any fraudulent return, or entry, are^ 
besides a severe penalty, incapacitated afterwards 
to hold or possess any slaves. -' ^ 

Extracts from the books certified by the^^^ie- 
gi^trar are declared to be prima facie evidence of 
the registration of the slaves contained in them ; 
but liable to be corrected by production or exa- 
mination of the books themselves. Such evidence 
is made necessary to the establishment of the 
master's title, not only as between himself and 
a negro claimed as his slave, but in any action 
brought for the recovery of such property be- 
tween free persons. 

In proceedings under this law, it is to bene ex- 



75 

oeption to the person of the plaintiff, or prosecutor, 
that he is a slave, when his right to freedom may 
depend on the event of the suit^ and the evidence 
of indifferent witnesses being, or alleged to be, 
slaves, may be admitted, subject to all just objec- 
tions to their credit. 

Such is the general outline and effect of this 
new law at Trinidad ; by an extension of which^ 
with a few amendments, to our colonies at large, 
all the desiderata before indicated will be fully 
supplied. Every mean of evading the Abolition 
Acts which has been shewn to be left open by the 
existing laws, will, by such a measure,be precluded. 
The suppression of the slave trade, so far as 
respects importation into the British colonieSj 
will be effectual and complete. What is still 
better, the mischievous hope of a future supply 
from illicit importation, will be extinguished ; 
and the beneficent effects which the Abolition is 
fitted to produce upon the treatment of the slaves, 
will in consequence be realised and secured. 

'It is evident that such a law will prevent 
the illicit introduction of slaves into the Bri« 
tish colonies, far better than the severest penal- 
ties denounced by a prohibitory statute ; for it 
will take away all the advantages of the crime. 
No property in the injured Africans can be ac« 
quired or transferred to others. No length of 
time can ever give a right of o\^nersbip over 
tbem, or their offspring. No valid security upon 



76 

them can be created. Every mortgage or convey- 
ance, of which they are the subject, will be void 
in law*. 

To put them on a plantation, and mix them 
with a registered gang, will produce consequen- 
ces fatal even to the security and alienability of 
the property with which they are so blended. 
The gang will no longer correspond with the 
recorded list and descriptions — the future annual 
returns must thenceforth be for ever false and per- 
jurous; or a discovery ofthe offence will be made. 
If the estate is to be sold or mortgaged, there will be 
a similar dilemma. The smuggled negroes must 
be excepted, and the fraud and perjury which 
had been practised in that way disclosed ; or else 
the conveyance will be vitiated, and a forfeiture 
ofthe property incurred. 

The hazards incident to offences against the 
laws now in existence, will at the same time be 
multiplied. If a prosecutor be found, or if the 
complaints of the negroes wrongfully enslaved, 
be brought in any manner to judicial notice, 
a reference to the public register will at once 
conclusively shew that the complainants are free 
men in point of law. They must, therefore, be 
discharged ; and will become competent witnesses 
to bring home to their oppressor the felonious 
crime which he has committed. If he was not 

* See the last note. The amendment there suggested is 
assumed to be made in some of the following remarks. 



77 

concerned in the importation, but purchased 
them of the smugglers prior to the last annual 
return, the crime of perjury under the Register 
Act at least may be brought home to him by 
their evidence. 

Besides, a planter thus offending, would not 
only have to expose his own property to forfeiture, 
and himself to an infamous judgment by his own 
personal returns ^ he must also, when an ab- 
sentee (the most ordinary case of West India 
proprietors), find agents willing to sacrifice their 
consciences, and expose themselves to public in- 
famy, by swearing to false returns on his behalf, 
in order to bear him out in the crimes he has 
committed. To attornies and managers of that 
profligate character, he must commit the care of 
a valuable estate; for in his absence the annual 
returns must be made on his behalf by the same 
representatives who are intrusted with the pos- 
session of the estate and slaves. Men capable of 
such offences are not likely to be very provident 
for the sake of others; yet it may sometimes be 
a further consideration, deterring from the crime, 
that the executors and trustees and other posthu- 
mous representatives of the offender must also be 
men of profligate principles, willing to commit 
perjury in the custody and administration of his 
property : for otherwise discovery and forfeiture 
must infallibly take place at his decease. 



73 

The last and most important of the desiderata 
which we noticed, then, will by such means be hap- 
pily supplied. The sanctions of aRegister Act have 
an inherent self-dependent efficiency; a power of 
exacting obedience to the rules prescribed, with- 
out the intervention of any colonial court, or 
executive officer to enforce them. From re- 
gard to his own interest, from the fear of losing 
his power over his own property, and even the 
property itself, the owner of slaves will be 
careful to have them duly returned, and to make 
the registered evidence of his title always cor- 
respond with the existing state of the gang. 



The inquiry secondly proposed is thus brought 
to a satisfactory close. There are means in the 
power of Parliament, not only more effectual than 
any which it has yet employed, but such as have 
a sure and sufficient efficacy to prevent the 
clandestine importation of slaves into our colo- 
nies. All the mischiefs that have been shewn to 
be the melancholy fruits of that abuse, or of the 
expectation of it, may be easily precluded. Par- 
liament has only to do in our colonies at large, 
what the Crown has already done at Trinidad, St. 
Lucie, and the Isle of France, 



79 



SECTION IV 



The Objections that may be raised to an Act of 
Parliament for registering the Slaves in the Bri' 
'^ tish Colojiies, considered. 

It remains only to consider the last subject of in- 
quiry proposed, " whether the means which have 
been suggested are of such a kind, that there is 
any just reason why they should not be imme- 
diately adopted?" ;,; .w^^u viuJ iioi.i 

The objections which inay be raisred' against 
the establishing a registry of slaves in all our 
colonies on the pirinciples which have now been 
indicated, are partly the same which were made 
in the case of Trinidad ; and partly those which 
may be drawn from the different constitutions and 
laws of other colonies. 

The former may be dispatched with a more 
summary consideration than the latter ; because 
as they were, after very patient and full delibera- 
tion, over-ruled by his Majesty's Government, a 
presumption against them fairly arises on that 
ground ; and because also, they have now in part 
received a practical refutation. 

The measure, in the first place, was truly said 
to be one that offered great violence to the popu- 
lar feelings in Trinidad j and the same objection 



80 

may no doubt be raised with equal truth in respect 
of Jamaica, and all other sugar colonies. Un- 
derstanding, as we here must, by the people, not 
the population at large, but the small minority 
who have white complexions, it is probable that 
their voices would be pretty strongly, and pretty 
unanimously, opposed to a measure of this kind. 
But if this were a valid objection, we ought not to 
have passed the Abolition Acts ; for it is impossible 
that a more general, or a more violent opposition, 
can be raised among the white colonists, against a 
register act to enforce the Abolition, than that 
with which they combated, the Abolition itself. 

The popular voice in every country certainly 
deserves great respect from the legislature j for 
the grand object of all good laws, is the happi- 
ness of the people at large ; and though a com- 
munity may sometimes widely mistake the proper 
means of its own happiness, this, among a polished 
and intelligent people, is more likely to be the 
exception than the rule. Besides, it is one species 
of infelicity to have laws imposed upon us which 
we greatly dislike. 

But the case is very different, when one order 
in a state has interests distinct from, and opposite 
to, those of the rest, and opposition comes frona 
that order alone: more especially when that 
order comprises, like the white class in our colonies, 
a very small proportion only of those whose welfare 
may be affected by the law in question. Nor is 



SI 

the opposition of such a particular order, deseirv- 
ing of the more respect, because the great majority, 
comprising all other classes, is silent, when that 
silence is known to be not a matter of choice, 
but a necessary consequence of the strict and des- 
potic subordination in which they are held. In 
such a case, the legislature is bound to consider 
whether the silent majority have really an interest 
in the adoption of the measure opposed. If sOj 
dum tacent clamant; their incapacity to speak for 
themselves, is equivalent to a host of petitions : 
the popular voice is virtually on that side. 

To deny this, would be to adopt the principles 
of West-Indian legislation, and to suppose that 
laws ought to be made for the sake of the privileged 
order alone. 

The measure was also represented in the peti- 
tions and remonstrances from Trinidad, to be ob - 
jectionable in point of expense. The charges of 
the registry were provided for in the Order in 
Council by some very moderate fees to be paid on 
returns and official certificates; and in the general 
disposition to quarrel with the measure at large, 
the produce of these fees was magnified by the 
complainants beyond all bounds of probability. 
Such an objection as this, however, if well 
founded, might have been easily obviated without 
sacrificing any thing essential to the plan of a 
registry itself. It need not, tlierefore, be further 
noticed liere. 

M 



82 

The personal duties imposed on the awners 
were also complained of as unreasonably onerous* 
It is natural enough for men to be averse to any 
species of trouble the object and fruits of which 
they dislike. But surely it is not too much ta 
require of one man to write a few lines once a 
year, in order that another may not be unlaw- 
fully compelled to drudge for him under the whip 
for life. 

All that these gentlemen are called upon to 
do, is less than every housekeeper in England 
must perform every year, not merely for the pur- 
pose of ascertaining his property and establish- 
ment, but for the unpleasant further purpose of 
paying taxes upon them. Printed blank forms in 
be distributed by the registrar in the West Indies, 
may be filled up by a man who has many slaves^ 
in less time than a gentleman in this country can 
make his returns for the property tax, the 
assessed taxes, and the returns under the militia 
acts. 

In truth, the new personal duties would be less 
onerous than those which are already imposed in 
the coloniesjby subsisting laws, for which they might 
be made the substitute. At present, in most of our 
islands, annual returns of slaves are required for the 
purposes of internal revenue; and in some of them, 
the hew meliorating acts have required annual 
returns of the births and deaths on each plantation, 
with many other specifications^ as checks on the 



83 

inhumanity of masters. That these laws have not 
been, and were never meant to be obeyed, is an 
answer to which the supposed objectors will per- 
haps not choose to resort. 

Precedents still fitter to silence such complaints 
may be found among these insular laws. An act 
of Grenada, for instance, dated in 1786, obliges 
all free negroes, mulattoes, and other coloured 
persons to do the same identical acts for the public 
manifestation of their numbers, persons, and con- 
^ dition, that are here in question in respect of the 
slaves. They are compelled to return for regi- 
stration in a public office, their names, places of 
abode, ages, sexes, and colour, and those of their 
children, and moreover the nature of their claims 
to freedom*. Upon what principle can it be 
decently denied, that the same publicity ought to 
be given to the condition of the same race of 
men, when held in slavery ? If such precautions 
are proper to prevent the unlawful assumption of 
freedom, surely the unlawful privation of it, ought 
not to be guarded against with less care ; espe- 
cially as the latter, is by far the more probable 
mischief. 

To all objections of this class we might also 
oppose the positive advantages which the owners 
of slaves will obtain by a registry, in the greater 
security of their property, and the facility of prov- 
ing their titles. 

* Printed Acts of Greuada, No. 51. § 1, 2. 



84 

To fair creditors and incumbrancers, the ad- 
vantage will be still greater. Already the registry 
at Trinidad has been found, in this respect, to 
produce a very salutary though unforeseen effect, 
by bringing to light the true property in slaves, 
which their owners had bought in other persons' 
names, with a view to protect them from their 
creditors, and to withdraw them from the estate, 
when the mortgagees should assert their right to 
the possession. Frauds of that kind have been 
frequent in all the islands, when the slaves have 
been mortgaged with the land, with covenants 
from the debtor, that all after-born and new- 
purchased slaves shall be subject to the same 
incumbrance. The mortgagor in possession has 
often so managed as to elude those agreements ; 
and when compelled at length to resign the estate 
to the mortgagees, has stripped it of its most valua- 
ble slaves. To such bad practices, peculiarly 
ruinous to the securitv of the creditors since the 
abolition of the slave trade, a general register 
would be the most effectual bar. 

The penal and remedial sanctions, which are 
provided by the Orders in Council, for Trinidad, 
and which are essential to the plan of a registry, 
have also been subjects of objection. 

To deprive the master of his property in a 
slave, which he omits to register, has been thought 
too harsh. But if such provisions are severe^ or 
unreasonable^ how many of our English statutes 



85 

ought to be repealed ? The Navigation Act, for 
instance, of the present reign, which does such 
honour to the name of Lord Liverpool, and all 
the acts for registering ships which preceded it, 
must be regarded as oppressive. Various trouble- 
some acts, forms and solemnities are prescribed by 
these statutes, as to the registration of a ship, the 
obtaining a certificate from the custom-house, the 
recital of the certificate upon any subsequent 
transfer, and the official correction of it upon any 
•changes of ownership or construction : and if these 
acts are not performed, or these solemnities are 
not fully and accurately observed by the owners, 
they not only lose the necessary evidence of their 
title, but the property itself, if employed in pri- 
vileged British navigation, and all the other pro- 
perty found on board, are in most cases forfeited 
and lost. 

So the purchaser of an annuity, who gives the 
fullest value for it, and under the fairest circum- 
stances, forfeits the whole, unless he take care to 
have it registered within a limited time, accord- 
ing to the strict requisitions of the Annuity Act. 

Is the liberty of a man and all his posterity, of 
less value than the privileges of a ship, or the pro- 
perty of a spendthrift ? 

It would be endless to cite the examples of a like 
severity, that are to be found in our statute books. 
AVhat, for instance, are all the important provisions 
of the statute of frauds, against parol agreements 



8d 

and trusts, and wills not duly attested, but so many 
forfeitures imposed on those who suffer by the 
avoidance of the contract trust or devise, because 
they, or the parties under whom they claim, 
omitted to perform certain positive acts required 
hy the law ? 

The sufficient defence of all such enactments, 
is, that they are necessary to important political 
or judicial ends; and that no man can suffer by 
them, but through a default that might easily 
have been avoided. It is, however, a further de^ 
fence in general, and strictly applicable to the 
case before us, that in precluding the assertion of 
rights not legally evidenced, the law proceeds on 
a fair presumption, that they do not really exists 
The object is not to take away interests justly 
acquired, but to prevent the fraudulent acqui- 
sition, or claim of them to the prejudice of 
others. 

The ship, for instance, when not duly registeredj, 
is presumed not to be really intitled to the privi- 
leges of British navigation in respect of her con- 
struction and ownership ; but a foreign vessel frau- 
dulentl}'- usurping those privileges. So here, the 
unregistered negro may justly be presumed not 
to be the property of the asserted master, but a 
free man wrongfully enslaved. 

The assemblies, if they bring forward such un- 
reasonable complaints, might also be referred to 
their own acts for registering deeds and wills. In 



87 

most or all the islands, this is required to be done; 
and in the very troublesome and expensive mode 
of an enrolment at length in a public office, within 
a limited time; and the penalty of any default is the 
loss of the estate granted or devised; in some cases 
absolutely, and in all so far as the giving a prefer- 
ence to purchasers or mortgagees, claiming under 
a subsequent but registered title. These acts also 
extend to slaves; and that even in colonies in 
which slaves are personal estate; so that in truth a 
general registry on the principles here proposed, 
would do little more than provide a clearer speci- 
fication of the registered property, and extend the 
same protection to personal freedom which the co- 
lonial laws have given to property; and on the 
same principle, that of excluding frauds by pubr 
licity of title. 

A register act of this kind, it is true, explodes 
tliat more than barbarous maxim, that unprece- 
dented despotism, born of the African slave trad& 
and colonial legislation, which presumes a man's 
slavery from the colour of his skin ; but at the 
same time, it gives a new and very convenient 
species of evidence to the true master, for the 
proof not only of the servile condition, but of his 
own property in the slave. 

If through perverseness or negligence, he wilt 
not provide that evidence, in the simple and easy 
way prescribed to him by the law, it is just, and 
it i;» necessary, that he should be debarred from 



8S 

exercising the rights of an owner. It is impose 
sible to be more tender of those rights, without 
leaving in extreme jeopardy, the far more valua- 
ble rights of free men, who have committed no 
default at all. 

The enfranchisement of unregistered slaves^ 
considered as a loss to the contumacious or 
negligent owner, can require no further defence. 
But an objection has been started to this course 
on the ground of local policy. It has been pre- 
tended that the enfranchisement of slaves by the 
operation of a register act, would be dangerous 
to the peace and safety of the colonies, by in- 
creasing too much the numbers of the free co- 
loured class, in proportion to the whites. 

Among the decisive answers which may be 
given to this objection, that which a well informed 
advocate of the poor Africans would be most de- 
sirous to give, and which might well be singly 
relied upon, is that the political principle 
assumed is radically vicious and absurd. Though 
a simultaneous enfranchisement of the whole, or 
any large proportion of the slaves in any colony, 
might certainly be attended with much public 
inconvenience and danger, the progressive increase 
of the free coloured people, in their proportion 
to the whites on the one hand, and to the slaves 
on the other, is so far from being adverse to the 
public peace and security, that it is in truth the 
best and only certain way to maintain them. 



89 

There is no point in which the self-interested 
and prejndiced feelings of the white colonists 
are more demonstrably at war with common sense 
and experience than in their violent adherence to 
the opposite opinion. The history of the Spa- 
nish colonies alone might serve to convince any 
thinking man that the larger proportion there is of 
that middle class, the safer an island is from in- 
ternal convulsions and foreign conquest; as well 
as the more valuable to the manufacturing coun^ 
try from which it derives its supplies. 

It is absolutely necessary, unless negro slavery 
is to be eternal, that those who legislate for the 
British West Indies should soon come to a right 
conclusion on this important point; to which end 
no more is wanting than that they should not take 
their opinions from the foolish prejudices and noisy 
clamours of a small self-interested colonial mino- 
rity, but from the clear voice of reason and experi- 
ence. If manumissions are to be still discouraged 
and restrained by the colonial codes, slavery can 
end only by terrible revolutions, or by dangerous 
experiments at best ; for the only tried, safe, and 
convenient way to get rid of that odious institu- 
tioD, is progressively to increase the middle class 
by individual enfranchisement, according to the 
examples, before adverted to, of other nations and 
times. 

But as it is not convenient here to expose in 
an adequate manner, the false and preposterous 

N 



90 

policy of keeping down the free coloured popu- 
lation, it may be right to repel the objection last 
stated, by another answer, which rests on no con- 
troverted ground. The shortest reply to it is this : 
The subject of pretended inconvenience would 
)iot in fact arise. The number of negroes enfran- 
chised by a register act, would be as small in 
proportion to the whole black population, as 
the number of ships condemned here for want 
of a register, is to our whole commercial 
marine. 

Masters will not be such enemies to their own 
property as to refuse or omit to comply with the 
requisitions of a register act when they see that 
it is become an operative law, and know what 
will be the legal effects of their default. 

Here also experience has confirmed the sug- 
gestions of reason. In Trinidad an opposition 
the most general, strenuous, and violent was made 
to the execution of the Order in Council, from 
the moment of its promulgation. The opposition 
was countenanced even by persons in authority 
there; and many of the largest proprietors, if not 
a great majority of their body, pledged themselves 
by public declarations and mutual agreements, 
that they would never make the prescribed re- 
turns of their slaves for the purpose of registra-* 
tion. Nothing could be more apparently hope- 
less than a general compliance; yet before the 
expiration of the time first limited by public 



91 

notification, a very great majority had sent in 
their returns to the registry. 

It was thought necessary by the local govern- 
ment to enlarge that time, on account of impe- 
diments and causes of delay not foreseen by the 
framers of the law; and before the extended 
period had elapsed, all the defaulters complied. 
It is not known at least that any one owner of 
slaves ultimately stood out; though a few returns 
came so late that it was supposed they could 
not be registered consistently with the general 
regulations of the law, unless under a special 
power given to the governor in cases of involun- 
tary default. 

If, however, there were any probability that a 
large number of negroes might become entitled 
to freedom for non-registration, and if that were a 
real political evil, it is still absolutely necessary to 
the general principle of a register act, and to the 
effectual suppression of the slave trade, that they 
should be enfranchised. It would be monstrous 
to presume them to have been unlawfully en- 
slaved, and yet not to set them free ; and it would 
open a door for fraudulent expedients by which 
the albolition and register acts might both be 
eluded. Above all, it would tend to diminish 
very much the self-executing energy of the law. 

The cases of default, by tenants for life, by 
mortgagors in possession, and other masters, hav 



92 

Jng a limited or qualified interest, are capable of 
another remedy, and the remedy ought to be such 
as will not prejudice the rights of persons not in 
possession, or incapable of making the return. 
The general nature of the provisions made by the 
Trinidad Order for cases of those descriptions, 
has been already indicated. In thdm, enfranchise- 
ment is no immediate consequence of the default; 
yet it must ultimately be made such, if the default 
be riot retrieved, within a reaisonable time, on the 
part of the jiarties interested in remainder or 
reversion; fdr otherwise frauds might easily be 
committed, subversive of the general object. 
These special cases, it must be admitted, are 
father of delicate and difficult treatment; since 
ia period must be allowed within which the condi- 
tion of the unregistered negro is equivocal. He 
cannot be immediately set free ; for that would 
be to prejudice the party having an interest dis" 
tinct from the estate of the defaulter : but neither 
ought he to be left in the possession of the latter ; 
who, having lost the rights and interests, could 
hot safely be trusted with the powers of a master; 
and who, before the slave could be claimed by 
the party ne^it entitled, or enfranchised by his 
default, might remove him, perhaps, out of the 
reach of the law. ? )9«94l98 9«lri' 

The only expedient that could be fdund by the 
framers of the Orders in Council for Trinidad^ 



93 

was to confide persons in this doubtful state to 
the special protection and keeping of the local 
government. 

In this respect the provisions of that law may 
admit, perhaps, of improvement ; or, perhaps, 
the best course that can be devised, may be liable 
to equal objection. Few subjects of legislation are 
so tractable that a good general object can be at- 
tained without some partial inconveniences j and 
how much less likely is this to be the case with 
the unnatural and corrupting institution of sla- 
very. Laws which are designed to regulate, or 
even to reform it, must inevitably be attended 
with many difficulties, while they permit the sta.te 
in any degree to remain. In all such cases we 
must be content with expedients which contain 
the largest promise of practical good, with the 
least admixture of unavoidable inconvenience 
and defect. 



The only objection which remains to be noticed, 
is that which will demand the most attention ; 
because, as it had no relevancy to the cases of 
Trinidad, St. Lucie, or the Isle of France, it has 
not yet been practically over-ruled by his Ma- 
jesty's Government; and because also it affects 
to stand upon ground of great general impor- 
tance, — the constitutional limits of the jurisdictioo 
of Parliament over the British colonies. 



94 

Errors which are very gross and palpable, may 
nevertheless deserve a careful refutation, when 
they take post upon sacred principles; and are 
likely, if admitted, to draw after them very mis- 
chievous results. 

The objection in substance is, that, admitting 
the propriety and necessity of establishing in all 
our colonies, a registry of slaves, such as has been 
established in Trinidad, it ought not to be done by 
Act of Parliament; because it is matter of regula- 
tion within the colonies, which constitutionally 
belongs to the colonial legislatures alone. 

There are some champions of the colonies, 
however, who think it prudent to take narrower 
ground, and soften this objection into matter of 
prudential, rather than constitutional principle. 
They hold, that whether Parliament has the right 
of internal legislation or not, the exercise of it in 
this case would not be expedient. The same 
persons, also, affect to talk of the imprudence of 
stirring nice constitutional questions ; and hint, 
by allusions to the case of the American Revolu- 
tion, that there is no small danger of resistance. 

The first remark on these objections is, that if 
the views of their authors are correct. Parliament 
should not only stop, but turn back; for it cannot 
be forgotten, that the same objections were raised 
and the same apprehensions excited, to avert the 
abolition of the slave trade. That excellent and 
most popular measure was represented by the 



95 

same persons as an invasion of the constitutional 
rights of the colonies; and a wrong to which they 
would never submit. Afterwards, indeed, when 
the general Abolition Act had passed, the 
assemblies prudently shifted their ground, af- 
fecting to consider the act rather as a prelude 
to some intended attack on their legislative 
rights, than an actual invasion of them. It was 
felt that though the slave trade was lost in 
theory, it would be saved in practice, if Par- 
liament could be deterred from giving effect to 
its own prohibitions as to maritime trade, by 
auxiliary regulations on shore. 

But without prejudice from the motives of the 
objectors, let us fairly examine the merits of the 
objection itself; first, in a constitutional view; 
and secondly, as it affects to raise a question of 
political prudence. 

An exclusive right of internal legislation in the 
assemblies, would amount to that political soli- 
cism, imperium in imperio ; as was clearly shewn 
in many arguments still extant, which our quarrel 
with the North- American colonies produced. 
Many, indeed, of the zealous champions of those 
colonies admitted, that such a right would be a 
virtual independence ; and they, therefore, dis-r 
claimed any pretension to it, until independence 
itself was asserted. 

The exclusive right of the colonies to impose 
taxes on themselves, stood on very different prin- 



96 

ciples, and was well maintained by argument, 
as well as by arms. But most of those who stre- 
nuously asserted the latter, were careful to dis" 
tinguish it from the former; and admitted that 
internal legislation by Parliament, except for the 
purpose of raising a revenue, could not be ra- 
tionally questioned. Among those was the illusr 
trious Chatham, that determined enemy to the 
American war. 

A slight degree of reflection will suffice to shew 
the extravagant consequences that would flow 
from a contrary doctrine. 

The power of giving laws, is not merely essential 
to sovereignty, but is sovereignty itself. The 
lawgiver is in effect the sovereign. Nor is 
there any sound difference, in this respect, be- 
tween a general legislative authority, and the ex- 
clusive possession of that which the colonial ad- 
vocates call internal legislation. They who can 
alone prescribe the lex loci, are the sovereigns of 
the place. The Berlin Decree was the law of 
France, though it related to maritime commerce, 
and was opposed at sea by the irresistible navy 
of England. To allow this claim, would be to 
place the sugar islands in the same relation to 
us as Hanover ; but with this, to us, most unjust 
and degrading difference, that we are bound to 
sustain and protect, though not allowed to govern, 
theni. 

Are we told that we may regulate their iiay.i'» 



97 

gation and trade ? By what right ; and by what 
means? If their colonial constitutions have given 
to their assemblies the sole power of framing 
laws for their respective islands, let the excep- 
tions be shewn of their ports, their dock-yards, 
or their trade. Let it be shewn also, how our 
navigation or trade acts are or can be enforced, 
without numerous official establishments, and 
auxiliary regulations, provided by the same au- 
thority, which are to operate on shore. 

Is it replied, that the exception extends to such 
local regulations as are necessary to give effect to 
those laws ? Then there is an end of the prac-t 
tical question. A registry of slaves is a regulation, 
and a necessary regulation, to effectuate the Aboli- 
tion Act, which is a law of navigation and trade.. 

The claim being liable to such answers in point 
oi principle, how stands it as to precedent .^ If the 
parliamentary authority in question may fairly 
rest, like every other constitutional rule, upon 
ancient, continued, and unquestioned practice, the 
case is not less clear on this ground, than on 
the principles of reason and justice. 

From the first settlement of our colonies, Pai*- 
liament has not ceased to exercisa a general ju- 
risdiction over them ; and this without opposition 
or complaint. Until the practice was extended 
to the invidious and dangerous purpose of direct 
taxation, no objection was ever made, or none so 

O 



§8 

audible as to have reached the ear of historians. 
Many instances of the practice might be pointed 
out which were even solicited by the colonies 
themselves. 

To enumerate the various acts of Parliament 
w^hich have been passed at different periods, le- 
gislating for his Majesty's colonies in America 
and the West Indies, for purposes both external 
and internal, would be a very tedious work; but 
the reader may be requested to open the volumes 
of our statutes, from the Restoration downwards, 
to examine their indexes under the titles, Colonies 
and Plantations, and to find, if he can, a single 
book in which precedents of the practice in ques- 
tion do not occur. Yet numerous are the in- 
stances in which acts expressly extending to the 
colonies, are not to be found by such a summary- 
mode of research. It has been common to extend 
the operation of an act to his Majesty's colonies 
and plantations in America, by a clause, which, 
not being noticed in the title of the act, has 
escaped the observation of the editors of the 
Statutes at large. ' 

" It is no objection to say that these acts were 
chiefly made to regulate the external trade and 
navigation of the colonies. Such have certainly 
been the purposes which have most commonly 
invited the exercise of the jurisdiction in question. 
Parliament, erroneously and most unfortunately 



99 

thought, that matters of interior jurisprudence, 
and police, in general, might be safely lefl to 
local and subordinate legislatures. 

If such ill-judged abstinence had been invari- 
able, and had now become an obligatory rule ; 
if the right of the supreme legislature could be 
lost by disuse; still it would not avail the objector, 
in the case before us; because, for the purpose of 
enforcing exterior commercial restrictions, a< 
least, Parliament has always copiously exercised 
its right of legislation, as well within the colonies 
as without; and such is the object of the registry 
in question. 

The e are not wanting, however, many instances 
ofstatut.oe hich have altered or introduced rules 
of law within the colonies, in matters not at all 
of a maritime nature, and where there was no 
purpose of either restraining or regulating trade*. 

* Such is the statute 5th Geo. II, cap. 7, before referred to, 
which, besidesthe subjecting lands, and tenements, and slaves to 
be sold by executions, and making them assets for the satis- 
faction of simple contract debts, obliges the colonial courts to 
receive evidence of debts not admissible by the laws of this 
country. No law is of more frequent use in the West Indies ; yet 
Mr. Bryan Edwards, the champion of the assemblies, when he 
obtained, in 1797, a repeal of a particular clause of this act, 
did not complain of, but by plain implication admitted, the 
authority of the rest. 

Such also are the statutes, 25 Geo. II. cap. 6, which ex- 
tended to the colonies, the provision for proving wills attested 
by interested witnesses ; 14 Geo. II. cap. 37; prohibiting stock 



100 

It would, to be sure, be a strange boundary 
line of constitutional legislation by the supreme 
power, that should divide its lawful from its un- 
lawful exercise, by the nature of the subject; 
and yet our objector must contend for this, and 
more. As the Abolition Act is of a commercial 
nature, he must also deny the fitness or necessity 
of a registry to give effect to that law, and must 
anaintain that the power of Parliament is circum- 
scribed not only by the nature of the object, but 
by the suitableness or necessity of the means. 

Subordinate authority, though of a legislative 
nature, may be so limited; as in the case of 
corporation bye-laws; but who is to decide, in 
the case of the Parliament, whether it ^rzeeds the 
limits of its jurisdiction ? Are the courts of law 
in the colonies to adjudge that a British statute 
is not binding in respect of its subject, or its prac- 
tical means, when the King, Lords, and Commons, 
have held the reverse ? Or, supposing an appeal, 
is the King in his Privy Council to reverse that 

subscriptioiis, transfers, &c. there ; the 12th Geo. III. cap. 20, 
which provides for the case of persons standing mute upoti 
arraignment in the criminal courts of the colonies; the 13th 
Geo. III. cap. 14, which enables aliens to lend money on real 
estates tlrere, and regulates the mode of enforcing their mort- 
gages in the colonial courts; the 14th Geo. III. cap. 79, which 
gives validity to mortgages of estates there, though made in 
England, at more than our legal interest, and which expressly 
directs the registration of such mortgages within the colonies; 
with other acts that might be added. 



101 

rule, which, as one of the co-estates in Parlia- 
ment, he has concurred in ordaining ? 

These difficulties were softened, if not solved, 
in the case of taxation, by a distinction drawn 
from the anomalous nature of a tax act, and from 
the first principles of our free constitution. " Tax- 
ation" (argued Lord Chatham) " is no part of 
the governing or legislative power. Taxes are a 
voluntary gift and grant of the Commons alone. 
In legislation, the three estates of the realm are 
alike concerned; but the concurrence of the 
Peers, and the Crown, to a tax, is only necessary 
to clothe it in the form of a law. The gift and 
grant is of the Commons alone." 

If this be not quite satisfactory, how much less 
so, the distinction between an act of Parliament 
which compels the registering of a ship built in 
the colonies, and an act of Parliament which 
compels the registering of a negro born there; 
between the declaring that Africans shall not be 
bought or held in slavery within a West-India 
island, and providing a mean there to enforce 
the prohibition ? 

Some of the many precedents which never 
were the subjects of complaint, approach closely 
to the specific purpose of a registry of slaves. 
In point of analogy they cannot well be 
closer. 

A naval officer, for instance, has been consti- 
tuted in every island, to assist and check the go- 



102 

vernors and colonial custom-houses in executing 
the laws of navigation and trade*. The whole 
system almost, of fiscal police, as administered in 
port or on shore by officers of the customs in 
England, has been extended to the colonies by 
Stat. 7 and 8. Will. III. cap. 22, § 6, and other 
more modern statutes. Stronger still, special 
jurisdictions have been constituted there, un- 
known to English law, and subversive of the trial 
by jury, in all cases of seizures under these sta- 
tutes. To surmount those difficulties in their 
execution, which restrictions offensive to popular 
feelings, and adverse to local interests, could not 
fail to meet, means of that extraordinary kind 
have been devised and followed up from the 8th 
year of William III., to the present period. The 
Abolition Acts 46 Geo, III. cap. 52, § 17, and 
47 Geo. III. cap. 36, § 13, pursued in this re- 
spect, but did not exceed, the str^ong precautions 
of very numerous former statutes, many of them 
passed in the present reign, and subsequent to 
the American war. 

Why the establishment of vice-admiralty reve- 
nue courts, should be tacitly acquiesced in, and 
the inoffenive measure of a registry, when di- 
rected to the same end, objected to, cannot be 
easily explained ; except on the true hypothesis, 
that the end is extremely disliked, and the regis-r 
try known to be the only effectual mean. 

* 15 Car. II., cap. 7, § 8 ; 7 and 3 Will. Ill, cap. 22, § 5, 



103 

Sinee principle and practice, both thus clearly 
support the legislative authority in question, what 
objection to it, on legal or constitutional ground, 
can remain to be answered ? 

We are aware but of one ; and that is an ob- 
jection resting upon a mistake as to historical 
fact, which a reference to the statute-book will 
remove ? 

Some persons, when told that such a doubt 
has been raised, have inclined for a moment 
to adopt it, from an imperfect recollection 
of ihe grounds of the American quarrel, and 
of the concessions that were fruitlessly made on 
the part of Great Britain. " Did we not," such 
persons have asked, " assert a general legislative 
authority over the colonies, and did we not after- 
wards expressly renounce it?" 

To answer that question satisfactorily, and to 
put all doubts on this score for ever at rest, it 
may be proper to state all that Parliament has 
ever done, or declared in the abstract, on this 
constitutional question. 

The assemblies having taken upon them, prior 
to the 7th and 8th Will. III. cap. 22, to pass certain 
acts militating against the provisions of our navi- 
gation and trade laws, it was by the 9th section 
of that statute enacted and declared, that " all 
laws, bye-laws, usages or customs, in any of 
the plantations, against the provisions of this 
or any other act of Parliament made, or to be 



104 

hereafter made, so far as such acts shall relate to 
and mention the said plantations, are illegal, 
null and void, to all intents and purposes what- 
soever." 

Thus the law stood, in point of express general 
rule, and thus it was invariably held and acted 
upon, till the Stamp Act, and other tax-bills, had 
given rise to the dispute with the North-Ameri- 
can colonies. The controversy then turned, as 
has been already observed, not on the general 
right of parliamentary legislation, but on that of 
imposing taxes; and so the act next mentioned in 
its preamble recites. But Parliament, thinking it 
best to maintain the particular, as a branch of 
the general right, passed as a pledge of its firm-' 
ness the general Declaratory Act (6 Geo. III. 
cap. IS), asserting, that " the King's Majesty, by 
and with the advice and consent of the Lords 
spiritual and temporal, and Commons of Great 
Britain in Parliament assembled, had, hath, and 
of right ought to have, full power and authority 
to make laws and statutes of sufficient force and 
validity to bind the colonies and people of Ame- 
rica, subjects of the Crown of Great Britain, in 
all cases whatsoever."' 

In consequence of the events of war, between 
the passing of this act, and the year 1778, it w^as 
thought necessary, for the •sake of conciliation, 
to recede from, or §,t least partially to qualify, 
this assertion of legislati've authority. The A^t 



18 Geo. III. cap. 12, was therefore passed; which, 
without repealing the Declaratory Act, enacts or 
promises, " that, after the passing of this act, the 
King and Parliament of Great Britain will not im- 
pose any duty, tax, or assessment whatever, pay- 
able in any of his Majesty's colonies, provinces, 
and plantations in North America or the West 
Indies; except only such duties as it may be 
expedient to impose for the regulation of com- 
merce : the net produce of such duties to be 
always paid and applied to and for the use of 
the colony, province, or plantation in which 
the same shall be respectively levied, in such 
manner as other duties collected by the authority 
of the respective general courts, or general assem- 
blies of such colonies, provinces, or plantations, 
are ordinarily paid and applied." This Act also, 
in its preamble, recites the right of taxation by * 
Parliament as the only subject in dispute. 

Unfortunately, this concession was ineffectual j 
not, however, because it was too sparing, but be* 
cause it came too late to have the desired effect. 
In America, the republican party and the friends 
of French connection had prevailed; and if Par- 
liament had in that act renounced the right of 
making laws to bind the colonies in any case 
whatever, that virtual abdication of sovereignty 
over them would not have averted their express 
jnd open independence. 

After the statement of these facts from the sta- 



106 

tute book, it may be thought, perhaps, that ail 
our former reasoning was superfluous. The rigfet 
in question, far from haying been shaken by any 
parliam=entary concession, as some persons have 
erraneously suppt^ed, has been perseveringly 
asserted and maintained* by Parliamefvt, even^ 
under circumstances of the greatest difficulty, by 
its express and repeated declarations, as well a&> 
by its uniform practice.. 



The political prudence of now adapting the 
proposed measure by Act of Parliament, is the^ 
only remaining point which we proposed^ to con- 
sider. 

It having been shewn that a registry of slaves is- 
the necessary mean of giving effect to the aboli- 
tion of the slave trade, ought Parliament imme- 
diately to exercise that right which it clearly pos- 
sesses, by establishing such a registry in all aur 
colonies ?/ 

Since the measure is proper in itself, the only 
question can be, by what authority it ought to be 
effected. And as the King has no authority to^ 
enact laws for colonies in which representative 
legislative assemblies exist. Parliament must 
either do the work itself, or leave it to the colo- 
nial assemblies. 

To the latter course, there are many decisive- 
ebjections; and among themrtiie disposition whicb 



107 

has been shewn to prevail in those petty bodies, 
and with the planters who elect them. The work, 
if left to them, certainly will not be done. The 
Crown may recommend ; but we have seen that its 
recommendations are fr^iitless. Parliament may 
express its wishes by addresses, or in any other 
way short of actual enactment ; and that wish will, 
us before, be treated with contempt. 

Should the fear of the mother country taking 
the work into her own hands, now produce a less 
openly contumacious spirit than before, the fruit 
would be no better than ostensible and impotent 
4aws. Registries would be establislied perhaps; 
but on such a defective plan, and with such inade- 
quate legal sanctions, that the desired effect would 
be lost, and the system itself would be brought 
into discredit; nay, would be made perhaps a 
^over for those very frauds which it was designed 
to prevent. Besides, the authority that makes the 
Isiw can repeal it. If a registry w€re established 
by act of assembly, the colonists might naturally 
therefore expect from their own representatives, 
some future suspensions or.relaxations of its rules; 
and we have shewn how essential it isthat a law to 
preclude the illicit importation of slaves, should 
be regarded as one of sure and perpetual force. 

The assemblies, in the next place, are not only 
avej-se to the work, but unequal to it. 

If, after the remarks that have been here offered, 
a favourable disposition could be supposed in 



IG8 

those bodies, th^r constituents, and the white 
colonists in general, would not suffer them to act 
upon it. They are not independent enough of 
the voice of the little societies for which they re- 
spectively legislate, to adopt, with safety to their 
seats, or even without danger to their persons 
perhaps, a highly unpopular law. 

Another cause of their impotence is still clearer, 
and might be singly decisive. The separate co- 
lonial legislatures want that comprehensive juris- 
diction, which is necessary to give full effect to 
the proposed registry, as a general system. 

Each of those bodies can make laws for the 
colony only over which it presides : an act of 
Grenada has no force in Montserrat, nor an act of 
St. Kitts in Jamaica. We have now thirteen dif- 
ferent colonies in the West Indies, including the 
Bermudas, which have their separate representa- 
tive assemblies and councils, forming, with the 
governor, their interior legislatures 5 and in each 
of these colonies, the acts of the other twelve are 
as impotent as the laws of France. 

How incompatible would this be with the per^ 
fection of the plan in question, even in a single 
colony, much more with its uniformity in all ! 

The legislature of Nevis, for instance, having no 
power to ordain that the slaves in the neighbour- 
ing islands of St. Kitts, Montserrat, or Antigua, 
shall be registered according to rules adopted by 
itself} could take no security that slaves should 



109 

not be fraudulently put on the registers of those 
islands, to be transferred by exportation to its 
own. Nor could it, on the other hand, declare, 
that negroes, cleared out as slaves from either of 
those islands, shall not be imported into Nevis, 
British statutes, as well as royal instructions, must 
be repealed, before precautions like that could be 
taken, by one colony disposed to adopt the re- 
gistering system, against its fraudulent evasion 
through importations from other British colonies; 
if they should choose to reject it, or to adopt it 
in an insecure or evasive mode. 

Still less could the remedies be extended into 
another jurisdiction. A St.Vincents register act 
could not appoint that an offence against itself 
might be punished in the courts of Grenada, if 
the offender were found in that island; or that a 
negro enfranchised in consequence of non-regis- 
tration in St.Vincents, should be free if carried 
to Dominica. 

In these, and other views, there would be 9 
natural repugnance in every island to take the 
lead in the measure proposed; lest the rest should 
not follow the example, or not with equal effect. 
For, in that case, the good consequences to the 
reforming colony would be greatly impaired, 
while the inconveniences would be seriously felt. 
Islands that continued to act on the old system, 
would have very unfair advantages over those 
which had exchanged it for the new. 



no 

Let it be supposed even that all the British 
colonies were disposed to register their slaves, and 
to do it simultaneously; still these difficulties 
would be felt ; for what pledge could they give 
to each other that such unanimity of intention 
existed, and would produce a practical uniformity 
in their respective laws ? What congress could 
form a treaty between them for that purpose? 
What power could guarantee its execution ? 

Nor would the difficulty end here. If a per- 
fect uniformity of laws could be assured to them, 
and actually obtained ; if the order in council 
for Trinidad were enacted totldem verbis in every 
British colony; still a mutuallity of rights and 
remedies under their respective register acts, and 
a co-operation of their courts to enforce them, 
could not be derived from the acts of their sepa- 
rate and mutually independent legislatures. The 
correspondence of their respective laws would not 
obviate the practical objections before stated, so 
as to make an offence against the register act of 
one island punishable by the courts of another. 

Besides, to make the system effectual and com- 
plete, offences must be constituted, remedies 
given, and establishments formed, beyond the 
local limits of all those insular jurisdictions. 
None of them, for instance, has j^ right to declare 
that negroes shall not be carried on the high seas 
as slaves, though brought from a British island, un- 
less they shall first have been duly registered there. 



Ill 

*nd cleared out on the registrar's certificate ; or to- 
enact, that, if so carried in a British ship, she shall be 
liable to seizure at sea. Yet who can doubt, that, 
supposing the registering system universal, this 
would be a proper provision ? 

Agam : a general public registry for colonial 
slaves to be kept in a public office in Eng- 
land, has been shewn to be an essential part of 
the plan. AVithout it, British mortgagees and 
creditors, or purchasers, would not be perfect- 
ly safe. But it is obvious that Parliament alone 
can create and regulate such an establishment 
here. In the case of Trinidad, the want of it 
has been imperfectly supplied by directions for 
keeping the duplicate registry in the office of 
the Secretary of State ; but no such expedient, 
imperfect and inconvenient as it is, can be formed 
by a colonial assembly, whose mandate the Secre- 
tary of State cannot recognize, and is not bound 
^o obey. 

Auxitiary regulations, also, of decisive iufluence, 
which might be easily grafted on such an esta- 
blishment, and which ought to make part of the 
system, can be ordained by Parliament alone. 

A more effectual mean, perhaps, than any other, 
of securing obedience to a register act, would 
be to prohibit tlie lending money, by persons 
resident in the United Kingdom, on the security 
of West-India estate and slaves, unless the latter 
*»haH appear by returns to the English office to 



l^ave been duly registered. To this measure the as- 
semblies themselves will hardly object as exceeding 
the fair exercise of the authority of Parliament. 

Without any further examples, it will be abun- 
dantly clear that the limited local extent of the 
colonial jurisdictions would alone make the as- 
semblies unfit instruments of the work in ques- 
tion, were they ever so willing, and in other re- 
spects able, to perform it. 

The legislatures of the Leeward Islands have 
themselves admitted this species of unfitness, and 
attempted a partial remedy for it, in a case rela- 
tive to the same subject with the present. 

When, in the year 1798, they were called on to 
meliorate the condition of their slaves, and affect- 
ed to listen to the call, they all, being five in num- 
ber, represented to their common governor the 
expediency or necessity of having, in such a case, 
a uniformity or identity of laws j and requested, 
that, for this end, a general council and assembly 
of all the respective islands might be convened at 
St. Christophers, though there had been no prece- 
dent of such a measure since their separation into 
different legislative bodies, about a century before. 
That extraordinary general legislature was ac- 
cordingly convened ; and passed an act for the 
protection and preservation of slaves. Its pro- 
visions, indeed, were for the most part illusory 5 
but this cannot impeach the principle of the ex- 
traordinary convocation itself. Now, the same 



principle evidently would have led to the con- 
voking a colonial legislature competent to make 
laws for all the British West-India Islands collec- 
tively, had that been possible. But no such legi- 
slature having ever existed, and the comprehen- 
sive povrer of Parliament alone being competent 
to bind them all, the same reasons of convenience 
plainly call for the exercise of that power in the 
case before us. 

The principle here indeed applies with much 
greater force; for in the case of the Leeward 
Islands, convenience alone, not necessity, demand^ 
ed the legislative union. There was nothing in 
the proposed work that required the hand of a 
legislature competent to regulate the mutual 
intercourse of the colonies with each other, 
to give powers of seizure at sea, or to create 
establishments for any auxiliary purpose in 
England. 

This last argument, for the expediency of Par- 
liamentary interposition, would be strong enough 
to support even the constitutional right, if, after 
what has been already offered, any doubt could 
possibly remain on that point. When a legal 
question arises between two colonies, which can 
be determined by the Courts of neither, as in a 
dispute about boundaries, the King in Council 
exercises an original jurisdiction, though from 
the constitution and practice of that Court very 

Q 



114 

inconvenient, merely because there is no other 
resort*. 

But if it be asound consitiitional maxim,that there 
must always reside somewhere a judicial juris- 
diction, the same may be affirmed of the legislative 
A want of power, therefore, in the assemblies, 
would serve to demonstrate the constitutional 
power of Parliament. 

But resting the right upon the other and irrefra- 
gable reasons that have been offered, we have 
here at least a consideration of expediency, which 
it will be impossible to repel. It cannot be denied, 
that the registry may be made much more effec- 
tual by the means which have been already 
indicated, or that uniformity and mutuality in 
our colonial institutions on this subject are 
highly desirable, if not indispensably necessary; 
and these are desiderata which Parliament only 
can supply. 

It is, perhaps, superfluous to add, as a further 
consideration, the great inconveniences that would 
probably flow from delay; and the length of time 
that must elapse before it would be possible to 
obtain the concurrence and co-operation of thir- 
teen different colonies. It is at this moment, 
when peace and the revival of foreign slave trade 
make illicit importation far more easy than 
before, that a register act is most urgently 
wanted, in order to secure the effect, to obtain the 

'* Penn, and Lord Baltimore, — 1 Vezey, 446. 



115 

benefits^ and demonstrate the sincerity, of our 
own reformation. 

Nor is it less necessary to prevent reasonable 
discontent in our newly-acquired colonies. The 
registries of Trinidad, St. Lucie, and the Isle of 
France, will become fruitless of any good conse- 
quences, unless we either establish similar insti- 
tutions in the other British colonies, or prohibit the 
carrying of slaves from the latter to either of the 
former J a restriction which would be disadvan- 
tageous and unjust to the islands where registries 
are established by the Crown. In other, and im- 
portant respects, the distinction would be inju- 
rious, as well as invidious, to those new colonies; 
and it is not too much to say, that, unless the 
system be now made general, the Orders in 
Council for registering slaves in the ceded French 
islands, at least, ought to be repealed. For all 
these reasons, the expediency of an immediate 
parliamentary interposition is not less apparent 
than the constitutional right. 



The task we proposed to ourselves is now fully, 
though feebly, accomplished. A general registry 
of the slaves in the British colonies, has been 
shewn to be necessary to the guarding them from 
a contraband slave trade j to the maintenance 



116 

of their agriculture by innocent means ; arid 
to the preservation of the interesting hope that 
their opprobrious slavery will be henceforth 
so mitigated in practice, as to prepare the means 
of its future extinction. It has been further 
shewn, that this measure is clearly within the 
constitutional authority of Parliament; that it may 
most conveniently be taken by that authority; 
and that it neither will, nor effectually can, pro- 
ceed from any other. 

The question is not. By whom shall the law be 
passed? but. Shall the m.easurebe adopted at all? 
Will you make it impossible that men shall 
be held in bondage, under the British Crown, 
contrary to law ? Or shall man-stealers be en- 
couraged to pursue their felonious and inhuman 
crimes, by the facility of holding their victims^ 
when brought into our colonies, in perpetual and 
hereditary slavery ? 

Surely it is enough, after these observations, to 
appeal to principles on which all British subjectsare 
now happily agreed ; to the same moral principles 
upon which this country, to its immortal honour, 
has abolished the slave trade; and which we have so 
generously laboured to inculcate on other nations. 
A registry of slaves is in truth a plain, practical 
corollary from the abolition. In limiting the 
lawful sources of slavery to existing titles and 
their hereditary fruits, we virtually bound our- 
selves to take care that this limitation shall be 



117 

effectual within all the British dominions. Wc 
may not be able to obtain the same moral re- 
formation in foreign territories ; but it would be 
opprobrious not to secure itin ourown. As philan- 
thropists, we must deplore the continuance of the 
slave trade by other countries^ but as moralists, 
it should cost us as much deeper regret, if even a 
small number of unfortunate Africans were car- 
ried into slavery by British subjects, and kept in 
bondage for life, within the dominions of his Ma- 
jesty, through means which we had the power to 
exclude. 

Humanity, also, would soon have reason 
to regard the latter mischief, with more concern 
than the former. If a general registry be 
not speedily established, the abolition will be 
fatally prejudiced in the eyes of foreign powers, 
who will carefully watch the effect of the 
experiment we have made. The existing stock 
of slaves in our islands, instead of being kept 
up and increased by natural means, through a 
meliorated treatment, will, by perseverance in 
former habits on the part of their masters, be 
rapidly reduced; unless smuggling on a large scale 
should supply the want of legal importations. In 
the one case, our new system will be discredited 
by the ruin of our colonial agriculture j in the 
other case, by the inefficiency of our laws. In 
either case, foreign governments will be deterred 
from following our example. They will ascribe 



lis 

the failure, not to the defect of our mearig^ 
but to the impracticability of our object; and 
the British Abolition, instead of delivering Africa 
from the slave trade, may rather tend to make 
its ravages eternal. 

Let the system, then, that has been wisely 
begun by his Majesty's Government, be immedi- 
ately followed up by Parliament. It is due to 
half a million of human beings, whose bondage 
we are bound to alleviate : it is due even to those 
benevolent masters who may otherwise possess the 
will, without the power, to reform existing abuses i 
it is due to Africa, which has so deep an interest 
in the credit of the British Abolition : and, above 
all, we owe it to ourselves ; to those high princi- 
ples of public conduct which have exalted us 
among the nations of the earth, and recommend- 
ed us, as we may humbly hope, to the protection 
and favour of Heaven. 



THE END. 



£i]«rton and Henderson, Printers* 
Johnsoa's Courts Lendun. 



