

y 





CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT, 3 



AGAINST 



AMERICAN SLAVERY. 



BY GERRIT SMITH, 



UTICA, N. Y. 

PUBLISHED BY JACKSON & CHAPLIN. 
1844. 




GERRIT SMITH'S 

CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT 

PUBLISHED BY JACKSON & CHAPLIN. 



3?eterboro, July 18, 1844. 
John G. WHiT^iER/of Massachusetts. 
My Dear Friend, 

I welcomed the organization of the Non-Resistant Society. 
I flattered myself, that, among its least ^benefits, it would 
help solve my doubts respecting the " Peace Question." I 
hung up its "Declaration of Sentiments" m one of the most 
public rooms of my house, it hangs there still. If its doc- 
trines are not true, (and, though not yet convinced, that they 
are, neither am I yet clear, that they are not,) they, never- 
theless, testify, most honorably, to the Conscientiousness, self- 
denial, and intrepidity, of its signers. The organization of 
this Society tvas a bold assault on Civil Government : and 
the rightfulness of Civil Government I had never been 
taught t© question. Still, I was willing to see Civil Govern- 
ment fafl, if it could be shown, that to take human life is 
Wrong;;— for, I could not deny, that the taking — or, what, 
in principle, is the same thing, the threatening — of human 
fife, is essential to the "maintenance of Civil Government. 

The Liberty Party, no less, of course, than other political 
parties, recognizes the rightfulness of Civil Government. 
It is, therefore, consistent for the Non-Resistants to oppose 
it; and they do oppose it. But, notwithstanding this oppo- 
sition, the Party is increasing. It will not yield to the argu- 
ment, that Civil Government is a wrong institution ; or, in 



2 CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

other words* that the inviolability of human life, which is 
the fundamental principle of the Non-Resistants, is a right 
principle. But, their failure to overcome the Liberty. Party, 
by the force of this principle, has not discouraged the Non- 
Resistants. They have, recently, rallied for a new attack, 
on a^newgrouxid— the ground, that the Federal Constitution 
is a pro-slavery instrument. Their grandest and most trum- 
peted deduction from the assumed pro-slavery character of 
this instrument is, that the Northern States should separate 
from the Southern States. A deduction, so illegitimate and 
absurd, should not, indeed, be suffered to call in question 
the soundness of the premises; but, it, necessarily, im- 
peaches the wisdom of those, who make it. That wisdom 
had, already, become questionable. It had become so, when 
the Non-Resistants, alleging, that some four or five promi- 
nent members of the Liberty Party were bad men, made 
this allegation a. sufficient ground for urging the Party to 
disband. It had become so, in view of the extravagance of 
the charges against these men ; and in view of the wonder 
of the Non-Resistants, that these., charges, which made our 
Stanton, and Leavitt, and Birney, and Tappans guilty of a 
State Prison grade of offences, were, not believed. An old 
lady, who lived and died in my neighborhood, used to say 
to persons,, who were about to carry their claims into Courts 
of Law: " Don't lay your action too high,.." Great -as. is 
the popular credulity,, nevertheless,, the Non-Resistants, in 
preferring tha charges in. question, "laid their action too 
high" for it. Abby. Kelly expressed her. surprise, last Fall, 
that I had not investigated these charges.. I, very probably, 
should have investigated them, if they had not "laid the ac- 
tion too high" for my bump of marvelousness. Were I to 
see a newspaper article entitled: "W. L. Garrison a horse 
thief," or " Edmund Quincy a burglar," 1 should either not 
read it, at all, or read it to enjoy,a joke. The article would 
" lay its action too high" to merit my sober reading. And,, 
yet, it couUl not surpass, in extravagance, the reproaches,, 
which these very gentlemen have uttered in America,. andi 



CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 3 

which their brother, John A. Collins, was commissioned to 
utter in England, of men, whose integrity is, certainly, as 
far above suspicion, as is that of their accusers. 

But, to return from this digression : — why should slavery, 
as the Non-Resistants say it should, separate the North from 
the South ? Why should Northern slaveholders disdain 
connection with Southern slaveholders 1 Why should "pot 
call kettle black?" The slaveholding North, so far from 
being less guilty than the slaveholding South, is as much 
guiltier, as greater light and weaker temptation can make 
it. The national parts of slavery — such as slavery in the 
District of Columbia and in the Territory of Florida — de- 
pending, as they all do, for continued existence on the will 
of the North — are as much more guilty than the slavery in 
the Southern States, as the people of those States are less 
aroused, than the people of the Northern, tothe wickedness 
of slavery. Nay, the laws and usages, by which the free 
people of color in the Northern States, are vexed, hampered, 
outraged, crushed, constitute so gratuitous, so wantonly 
wicked, a chiming with the slaveholding policy of the South, 
and so indispensable a prop of this policy, as to make them 
not less guilty than her bloodiest slave codes. When I 
think of this project of separating the Northern from the 
Southern States, I am led to ask, as did Mr. Webster, in 
one of his Faneuil Hall speeches : "Where shall I go V 1 — 
and, finding my answer, also, in the words of another (, Mr. 
Gurley,) to reply: "I go with the South." If I must go 
with the North or* the South, let it be with the least guilty — 
and that is the. South. 

The American Anti-Slavery Society, which, whatever it 
may have been up to this time, is, certainly, now, in the 
hands of the Non-Resistants, and does, certainly, now, take 
its tone from them, calls upon us to "agitate, agitate," for 
the separation of the Northern from the Southern States- 
Not to speak of any other evil, that will result from this agi- 
tation; — rhow strong will be its tendency to create and foster 
the. delusion,, that, in thsk matter of slavery, the. North is 



4 CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

guiltless, and has nothing to do but to get out of the bad 
company, into which her innocence has been drawn ! 

Why should we regard the Federal Constitution as pro- 
slavery ] "Whenever I read it, it presents itself as a noble 
and beautiful Temple of Liberty. Whenever 1 read its 
Preamble, I see the Goddess of Liberty standing in the 
porch of this Temple ; and, whenever I read its Amend- 
ments, so fraught, as they are, with the deep solicitude of 
our fathers for the utmost security of human rights, I see in 
them the buttresses, by which the builders of this Temple 
gave it additional strength and glory. Is the Constitution 
pro-slavery, because the Government of the United States 
has, almost from its beginning, been administered for the 
advantage of slavery % As well might you hold the Consti- 
tution responsible for any other trampling on its principles. 
To seek in that instrument for authority for the conduct of 
Government, in the cases of the Creole, Amistad, Florida 
War, or, in any other of its murderous and diabolical agen- 
cies in behalf of slavery, would be as vain, as to seek there 
for the justification of its violations of Indian Treaties. 
(What, however, were these violations for, but to serve the 
demands of slaveholders ]) The fact, that the nation, in its 
national capacity, favors and upholds slavery, proves nothing 
against the Constitution; — for this it may do, and the Con- 
stitution not be responsible for it — for this it may do, in utter 
repugnance, and in bold defiance, of the Constitution. 

I repeat my question : " Why should we regard the Fed- 
eral Constitution as pro-slavery V Is it, because it does 
not, specifically, provide for the overthrow of slavery in the 
States, which adopted it ? It does not provide for tfee cor- 
rection of any of their vicious practices ; and is it, therefore, 
proper to say, that it is in favor of gambling and drunken- 
ness ? It certainly is, if it is proper to say, that its want of 
jurisdiction, in respect to the slavery of those States, merits 
the stigma of being pro-slavery. I ask again : " Why- 
should we regard the Federal Constitution as pro-slavery V* 
Is it because of its guarantees of slavery ? I hear and read. 



CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 5 

frequently, of these guarantees. Even distinguished states- 
men speak and write of them. But it is in vain„ that I look 
into the Constitution for them. They are not there; nor 
any thing else, which bears the slightest resemblance to 
guarantees of slavery. Or, is the Constitution pro-slavery, 
because of the existence of slavery in the District of Colum- 
bia, in the Territory of Florida, and under the protection of 
the American flag ? But, all this slavery is, manifestly, in 
violation of, not in accordance with, the Constitution. It 
was well said by Mr. Davis on the floor of Congress, last 
Winter: "Congress can no more make a slave than a king/' 
When it is said, that the Constitution i£ pro-slavery, the 
proper interpretation of the charge is, that the Constitution 
does itself favor slavery — does itself contribute to uphold it. 
But, that the charge, so interpreted, is unsustainable, none 
can deny. Who can deny, that the faithful carrying out of 
die principles of the Constitution would result in the speedy 
abolition of the whole system of American slavery ? Who 
believes, that this system could endure five years, should 
Congress, at its next session, abolish slavery in the District 
©f Columbia, and in the Territory of Florida, and, with a 
concurring Executive and Judiciary, go to the whole extent 
of its Constitutional duty, in withholding protection from 
the abomination, and in discountenancing it? Who believes, 
that American slavery could have endured until this tirrie, 
had the Government conformed to the Constitution, and 
confined slavery to the- original thirteen States ? Must we 
call that a pro-slavery instrument, when they, who framed, 
and they, who adopted it, believed, and joyfully believed, 
that American slavery was to endure but a few years ? 
That such was the belief, at that time, of well nigh the 
whole country, is- manifest from the fact, that Congress, 
under the Confederation, in 1787, unanimously decided, and 
tli at Congress under the Constitution, two years after, did 
also, with, the single exception; of Bobert Yates of New 
York,. unanimously decide, that the vast territory north of 
the Ohio, from which we have erected several States, should 



6 CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

be forever clear of slavery. That the Constitution was 
framed in 1787, and adopted two years afterwards, shows a 
remarkable and instructive coincidence with the above 
dates. And must we call that a pro-slavery instrument, 
the pages of which are unpolluted by the words "slave" and 
"slavery V 9 — and not one line of which will transmit to pos- 
terity the disgraceful fact, that slavery w 7 as ever among the 
crimes of the American people 1 — -and not one line of which 
will need alteration to adapt it, more perfectly, to the state 
of things in our country, when slavery shall have totally dis- 
appeared from it ? 

Away then widi the charge, that the Federal Constitution 
is pro-slavery ! Not so, however, it is said ; — for there are 
in that instrument, as alleged, some pro-slavery exceptions 
to its confessedly reigning anti-slavery principles. But, if 
these exceptions exist, it is, nevertheless, untrue, that they 
are entitled to give character to the instrument. The cur- 
rent of a stream is not determined by its eddies; nor a prin- 
ciple overthrown by the exceptions to it. The general prin- 
ciples, scope, and tendency of the Federal Constitution 
decide whether it is, or is not, pro-slavery. Nothing, how- 
ever, would be risked by conceding, that the supposed 
exceptions have power to decide this question ; — for, in the 
whole instrument, there is not one pro-slavery line — not 
one line, which, justly interpreted, contributes to the up- 
holding of slavery. All agree, that, if there is such a line, 
it is found in the provision, respecting the apportionment of 
representatives ; or, in that, respecting "the migration or im- 
portation" of certain persons ; or in those respecting " insur- 
rections" and "domestic violence ;" or, in that respecting "a 
person held to service or labor." 

There is no evidence whatever, that the first mentioned 
provision was designed to promote slavery. On the contra- 
ry, it is a bounty on liberty, and presents a strong induce- 
ment to every State to raise its inhabitants to the rank of 
freemen. Rather than call it a pro-slavery provision, I 
would charge it with seeking to promote the anti-slavery 



CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 7 

cause, not only at the expense of concerning itself imperti- 
nently with the internal institutions and arrangements of the 
States : but, even at the expense of violating the great Con- 
stitutional principle, that every man is a man— a whole man 
—and, in no part, a chattel. Not only, the Supreme Court 
of the United States, but all the ablest expounders of the 
Constitution, give this principle a place in it : and maintain, 
that the Constitution knows no man, as a slave — knows no 
man, as less, or other, than a person. I complain of the 
provision in question for its unmanning process. It should 
have suffered every man, especially every man, who has not 
lost his freedom by his crimes, to count one. This reduction 
of a man to the fraction of a man is an indignity to sacred 
manhood, which, even if one of its purposes was to subserve 
the cause of freedom, is not only unatoned for by that purpose, 
but is entirely unadapted to subserve that cause. Far bet- 
ter were it for that cause, if this three-fifthing of the man, 
who has fallen under the yoke of slavery, had not taken 
place; and if every such man had been counted a whole 
one. But, it is said, that, inasmuch as the slaves are not 
allowed to vote, and their interests are, therefore, not only 
not represented, but misrepresented, by those, who get elect- 
ed to office, they ought not to be counted at all in the appor- 
tionment of representatives. There are States, however, in 
which white men, unless they have property, can not vote, 
and in which they are, consequently, misrepresented by 
those, who get office : — nevertheless, they are reckoned in 
this apportionment; and we all do, and should, think it right, 
that they are. The free people of color also (numbering 
some four hundred thousand) are, frorh the denial of the 
right of nearly all of them to vote, as much unrepresented, 
and misrepresented, as the slaves ; and, yet, no one denies 
the propriety of their being included in the apportionment. 
It is contended, that the Constitution, studying the protec- 
tion of the slaves, should have shut them entirely out of the 
apportionment. But, in tny judgment, it should no more 
have done this, than have sought to protect the poor white 



8 CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

man and the free colored man, by visiting upon them a simi- 
lar degradation. These three classes of men are all wrong- 
ed ; — not, however,, in being counted! in the apportionment*— » 
in being counted by the nation — but in being disfranchised; 
by their respective States. They and their interests are un- 
represented and misrepresented, not through the fault of the 
Constitution, but through their want of votes. 

The Non-Resistants lay great stress on Mr. Adams' and 1 
Mr. Giddings' late Report. Shame on them, that they do ! 
These two gentlemen would have us believe, that the Con- 
stitutional provision under consideration — that the counting 
of slaves in the apportionment of representatives— is the 
reason* why the Government is administered, in behalf of 
slavery. Shame on Mr. Adams and! Mr. Giddings also! 
Shame on them for keeping out of view the fact, that the 
whites of the free States, being more than twice as numerous, 
as the whites of the slave States, can have an anti-slavery 
Administration, whenever they please. Shame on them for 
thus attempting to turn off the public eye from the true 
cause, why our Administrations are pro-slavery. That cause 
will cease, and only then, when Mr. Adams and Mr. Gid- 
dings, and the other men of the North, shall cease from the 
crime of electing pro-slavery men to office* That Mr. Ad- 
ams and Mr. Giddings should, whilst holding votes for Hen- 
ry Clay between their fingers, set up such a loud lament 
over the tendency of the Constitution to, sustain slavery, 
would, most certainly, pass for the height of affectation, if 
it were riot true>. that even the wisest and best men may 
be the subjects of very glaring delusions. And is it 
not a great shame, that the Non-Resistants should use 
this Report of Mr. Adams and Mr. Giddings to justify 
their interpretation of the Constitution, when they so well 
know, that this Report goes to relieve the conscience of 
the North,, by concealing the fact of the ability and duty 
©f the North to overthrow the national parts, and arrest 
the spread* of slavery ; and to relieve it, too, by refer- 
ring the aggressions of slavery to a fault in the Consti- 



CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 9 

fcution and in our fathers rather than to. ourselves and to our 
violations of the principles of that instrument'? 

The provision respecting the African slave trade, (for, I 
admit, that, if, not exclusively, it, nevertheless, respects that,) 
is to be regarded^ as anti-slavery, because it is a part of an 
anti-slavery agreement. This provision and the power of 
Congress over commerce show what is this agreement ; — 
for, notwithstanding, they lack juxtaposition in the Consti- 
tution, they make up this agreement. But, for the qualifi- 
cation of the power by the provision, the power would not 
have been granted. That the agreement in question is anti- 
slavery is deduced! from the following considerations. 

Before the Colonies came under the Federal Constitution r 
they were independent of each other and of the world. 
They had, each, as perfect a right, as any State or Nation,, 
to prosecute the African slave trade, and to prosecute it too, 
forever. But now, each agreed with its partners under the 
new compact — not that it would continue this trade for 
nineteen years, (that would have been a pro-slavery agree- 
ment — ) but, that, if it continued it at all; it would discontin- 
ue it, after nineteen years, (and that makes it an anti-slavery 
agreement.) Had the agreement been, that each of the 
partners would, forthwith, discontinue the traffic, it would, 
certainly, have been of a far more meritorious* anti-slavery 
character :. but, that does not render the actual agreement 
pro-slavery. I enter into a partnership, mercantile or other, 
with a man, who is a drunkard, and I obtain from him a 
written stipulation, that he will drink no more intoxicating 
liquor after six months ; and, thai?,, should' he, I may resort 
even to force itself to restrain his indulgence. Now, I 
readily admit, that astipulation for the immediate relinquish- 
ment of his vice would far more deserve the name of a tem- 
perance stipulation. Nevertheless, I- can not consent, that 
what I do obtain from him, argues no regard, on my part, 
for temperance. Still less, can I consent, that it makes me 
responsible for his continued intemperance, and, numbers- 
me with the opposers of temperance. So is it with the- 



10 CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

Constitution. If it does' less against the African slave trade, 
than is desirable, it, nevertheless, should have credit for 
what it does. Above all, that which it does against the 
trade, should not be construed into friendship for it. 

I am aware, that it maybe said, that a Colony, on coming 
into our Union, acquired a more efficient protection for its 
commerce, than it before enjoyed. Let this incidental ad- 
vantage to the African slave trade — this incidental additional 
security for it — pass for what it is worth toward giving a 
pro-slavery character to the anti-slavery agreement under 
consideration. 

I close my remarks under this head by saying, v that the 
year eighteen hundred and eight has long since passed 
away; and that, if ever the Constitution had a pro-slavery 
operation, in virtue of its relation to the African -slave trade, 
that operation has long since ceased. 

The provisions concerning " insurrections " and " domestic 
violence" are neither pro-slavery nor anti-slavery. The 
powers, which they convey, are indispensable to prevent 
and arrest lawlessness and bloodshed-^are indispensable, 
indeed, to the upholding of Civil Government. It is true, 
that these powers may, sometimes, be employed against a 
right cause ; but they are, dftener, employed against a 
wrong one : for lawlessness and violence are, more fre- 
quently, called in to the aid of a wrong, than a right cause. 
If the provisions in question stand in the way of the lawless 
and violent abolition' of slavery: so, also, do they stand in 
the way of the like 'abolition of every other form of evil ; 
and, so also, do they stand in the way of every lawless and 
violent attempt to introduce, or establish, any form of good, 
They forbid the helping of the cause of liberty, by the law- 
less and violent breaking up of slavery. But, they, also 
forbid the helping of the cause of temperance, by the law- 
less and violent breaking up of distilleries and rum-shops ; 
and thelielping of the* cause of purity, by the like breaking 
up of brothels. So, too, let a system of religion be ever so 
perfect, these provisions of the Constitution forbid the in- 



CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 11 

traduction, or propagation, of it, by lawlessness and violence. 
I need say no more of these provisions, than that, inasmuch 
as they hinder not the application of lawful and peaceful 
means for the overthrow of slavery, they hinder not the ap- 
plication of the only means, which abolitionists choose to 
employ, or have employed. 

The last provision of the Constitution, which I have pro- 
posed to examine, respects fugitives from service. Greater 
reliance is laid cm this, than on any other, to prove, that the 
Constitution is pro-slavery : and the arguments drawn, and 
attempted to be drawn, from this provision, to prove the 
pro-slavery character of the Constitution, have been immea- 
surably more embarrassing to the Liberty Party, than those 
drawn, and attempted to be drawn, from any, or every, other 
part of that instrument. 

Even under the pro-slavery construction of this provision, 
it can, Constitutionally, operate but little in favor of slavery. 
For no fugitive from the District of Columbia, or the Terri- 
tory of Florida, or from any slave State, which is not one of 
the original thirteen States, or which, at farthest, was not 
erected within one of them; and no fugitive from any one of 
those thirteen States, who has ever been permitted to go be- 
yond the present, or, at farthest, beyond the original bounda- 
ries of those States; can, in the eye of the Constitution, be a 
slave. Again, the tide of Northern anti-slavery sentiment 
has now risen so high, and acquired so much strength, as to 
bear to almost certain safety every fugitive, who is so fortu- 
nate, as to get upon it. Not ten in a thousand of the runa- 
way slaves, who now reach a free State, are replunged into 
slavery. Again, if the part of the Constitution, which we 
are now considering, or any other part, be found to be in 
conflict with righteousness, let us remember, that the Con- 
stitution is, by one of its provisons, amendable. Let us, in 
that case, correct, but not discard it. 

But, I am, now, to prove, that the provision in question is 
not susceptible of the pro-slavery construction or meaning ; 
or, in other words, that it does not favor, or countenance, 
the recapture of fugitive slaves. 



1)2' CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

I will neither reject, nor adopt, any of the published views 
of this provision. I will pronounce them neither sound, nor 
unsound. Among these views is, that : 

It is a provision capable of innocent uses — such as the re- 
covering of fugitive apprentices, minor^children, fyc. 8fc, 

Nevertheless, it must be admitted ; that one, and the lead- 
ing one, of the objects, in bringing this provision into the 
Constitution, was to facilitate the retaking of fugitive slaves : 
and,. it must also be admitted, that, if this object gives char- 
acter and effect to the provision, the Constitution has a pro- 
slavery taint. 

Another of these views is, that : 

If it is a provision to promote the recovery of fugitive slaves,, 
it" is contrary to the Divine law, and is, therefore 7iull and void. 

It is certainly true, that, in such case, it is null and void> 
in foro consciences : but, whether it is- consistent for him, 
who swears to support the Constitution, or who, otherwise, 
recognizes its validity, to admit even this much, remains a 
question.. 

The last of these views, which I shall notice, is, that : 

The Constitution is to be understood, as they, who adopted 
it, understood it ,\ and that they looked upon the innocent face 
of this provision, and did not pry into the occult and guilty 
meani?ig, which is imputed tont. 

There is certainly great force in this view. But, would' 
there not, also, be great force in replying to it, that the 
framers of the Constitution were the agents of its adopters ; 
and, that these adopters are concluded by the evidences of 
what their agents intended to do, and actually did ? 

Conceding.', every doubtful ground, and. confining myself 
to that, which is certain, I admit that, on either of the two 
following conditions, the pro-slavery construction or mean- 
ing, of the provision ■, should prevail. 

1st. If that construction* or meaning, isexpressed in the 
provision. 

2nd, If k could' have beep : or, in other words,, if the? 



CONSTITUTIONAL iTRGUMENT. 13 

-framers and adopters of the Constitution would have suffer- 
ed it to be expressed. 

That the first of these two conditions is unfulfilled, and 
that, so far, therefore, the provision is not susceptible of the 
pro-slavery meaning, is abundantly manifest from two con- 
siderations. 1st. The provision speaks of " service or labor 
due" But, by the definitions of the Southern slave codes, 
(and Southern slaveholders are, of course, concluded by 
those definitions,) the slave is a chattel ; and hence to pred- 
icate indebtedness of a slave is, in the light of those defini- 
tions, as absurd, as to predicate it of a horse, or a stone. 
2nd. The " Madison Papers" inform us, to use their own 
language precisely, that : " On motion of Mr. Randolph, 
the word ' servitude' was struck out (by the Convention, 
ffrom Article 1st, Sec. 2,) and ' service* unanimously inserted, 
the former being thought to express the condition of slaves, 
and the latter the obligations of free persons." 

We, now, proceed to the second condition. And I would, 
Jhere, remark, for the purpose of abating any surprise at my 
extensive, perhaps too extensive, concession in this condi- 
tion, that I made the concession, because there is not a little 
collateral evidence, that a part of the framers of the Consti- 
tution intended, that the provision should carry the pro- 
slavery meaning ; and, that the remainder, if not also in- 
tending it, were, at least, willing to seem to intend it. 

The question to be answered, at this stage of our remarks, 
is, whether the framers and adopters of the Constitution 
would have suffered the pro-slavery meaning of this provi- 
sion to be expressed in it — to be distinctly, unambiguously, 
►expressed in it. Who can read the " Madison Papers," 
and, in other ways, also, acquaint himself with the mind of 
the Convention, which framed the Constitution, and, yet, 
believe, that the Convention would have suffered it ? Who 
can believe, that this Convention, which would not suffer 
the word " slave," or the word "slavery," or even the word 
" servitude," to have a place in the Constitution.; which 
agreed with its Mr. Gerry, that it " ought to be careful not 



14 CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

to give any sanction to slavery ;" and which, ta use the very 
words of its leading member, Mr. Madison, on the floor of 
the Convention, " thought it wrong to admit in the Consti- 
tution the idea, that there could be property in man" — who, 
I say, can believe, that this Convention would have consent* 
ed to let the Constitution declare, in plain and unequivocal 
terms, the right of the slaveholder to chase down, and to 
chase down unhindered, the poor innocent fugitive from 
slavery ] More difficult, however, would it be for any one, 
who has informed himself of the strong anti-slavery senti- 
ment, which then existed in almost every part of our coun- 
try, to believe, that the Constitution would have been adopt- 
ed, had it so spoken. 

I need say no more to show what must be the answer to 
the question proposed at the beginning of my last paragraph. 
It must be prompt and decisive against those, who would 
make a pro-slavery use of the Constitution. . Hence, there 
is no more foundation in fact for the second, than for the first, 
of the two conditions, on which, and* on either of which, I 
admitted the right of giving the pro-slavery construction to 
the provision in question. 

That there is any other condition* on which it is right to give 
the; pro-slavery construction, I deny. It may be said, that 
the pro-slavery intention of the provision, as gathered from 
collateral testimonies, should govern the interpretation of 
it. I admit (, and the admission is. perhaps, excessively 
liberal,) that it should, provided it (the intention) could have 
been, expressed in the provision. But, I maintain, that, if it 
could not— that, if the moral- sense. of those, who framed, 
and those, who adopted the Constitution, would ^have revolt- 
ed at, and forbidden such expression— r-that, then, these col- 
lateral testimonies are to have-no weight whatever. To il- 
lustrate ; — I will suppose, that I have made, a written con- 
tract with my neighbor, under -which I claim, that he has 
sold me a certain privilege. I seek to enforce my claim to 
that privilege, in a Court of Law. He resists. On the tri* 
ajy I am constrained to admit, that I was aware, that the 



CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 1£ 

idea of selling the privilege was. deeply offensive and revolt- 
ing to the moral sense of my neighbor ; and that, in all 
probability, his , execution of the contract could not have 
heen obtained,. had the contract described the privilege in 
plain terms, instead of attempting to describe it in, circuitous 
and vague phraseology. In these circumstances, let me ad- 
duce what collateral evidence I may, that he> intended to 
sell me the privilege ; the Court will be steadfast against 
my claim to it ; — and, the more so, if the contract, as is the 
case with the Constitutional provision in question, clearly 
expresses . tbe right to certain other things ;— and, still the 
more ; so, if,; as in that case, it wholly fails to describe the 
claimed privilege. Thus defeated, I might regret, that I 
had not accosted my neighbor with, a plain and direct propo- 
sition.for the privilege ; — for, possibly, he might have em- 
braced it, and executed , a contract expressive of it. But, 
my regret would be unavailing. So, » too, the pro-slavery 
party may now regret, that it did not try those, who framed, 
and those, who adopted the Constitution, with a plain and 
direct proposition, for the unmolested pursuit of runaway 
slaves. But, regret in this case, as well as in the ; other, 
would come too late. This- party had its choice ; and it 
chose to couch its guilty indention in circumlocution and ob- 
scurity, rather than risk defeat upon a direct and plain ex- 
pression of it. Had it chosen the latter, it might, possibly, 
have,suGceeded — that is, it might, possibly, have succeeded 
in a bold and shameless attempt to reconcile^he Convention 
and the People to such an expression. But, to say, that 
this party, should benefit by the bare supposition of its possi- 
ble success in a certain course — -and, that too, when a con- 
trary course was its actual choice-^is the very height of 
absurdity, 

I need say. nq, more to. show, that the innocent meanings, 
which lie on the face of this provision should not be sup- 
planted by the guilty one, which, it is said, to conceal. I 
need say no more to prove, that this provision is to be cpn^ 
strue$, as having no. reference to slavey . 



16 CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. 

Is it asked, why these views, of the correctness of which 
•I am so confident, have not been entertained by our Courts 
•of Law? — it is readily answered, that it is because those 
'Courts are involved in the public sentiment of our country, 
and because this public sentiment is tyrrannized over, de- 
bauched, bewitched, by slavery. The judges of our land 
are as little able, and as little disposed, as the clergymen of 
our land, to resist the authoritative commands and blinding 
influences of slavery. 

I am glad to see so many pens employed to vindicate the 
Constitution from the charge of being pro-slavery. It is an 
anti-slavery instrument ; and needs but be administered in 
consistency with its principles, to effectuate the speedy 
overthrow of the whole system of American slavery. It is 
a power in the "hands of the People, which they can not fling 
away, without making themselves guilty of ingratitude to 
God, and treason to the slave;— for God has given it to 
them ; and the slave vitally needs their righteous use of it. 
It may cost them much toil, and self-denial, and vexation of 
spirit, to recover that power from the perversions, by which 
it has upheld, and extended, the dominion of slavery : — but, 
to all this they must submit ; and, the more readily, because 
they have shared, and largely too, in the guilt of those per- 
versions. This shield, which God has given ns to put over 
the head ©f the slave, we have, traitorously, made the pro- 
tection ©f the slaveholder. This weapon, which God has 
given us, for fighting the battles of the oppressed, we have, 
murderously, wielded on the side of the oppressor. It will 
be a poor fruit of repentance, or, rather, a fruit of poor re- 
pentance, if now, when our hearts are smitten with a sense 
of our wrong use of this shield and weapon, we shall, from 
our study of ease and quiet, from our desire to promote a 
favorite theory, or from any other cause, throw them away* 
instead of manfully, courageously, perseveringly, and there* 
fore, successfully, putting them to a right use. 
With great Tegard, your friend, 

GERRIT SMITH, 



