THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. L] 



AUGUST, 1833. 



[NO. VIII. 



COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 
We have received from a correspondent the 
following account of the meeting of a Colo- 
nization Society in Connecticut. We give it 
as another proof, if any were wanting, of the 
tendency of the American Colonization Soci- 
ety, to which this is an auxiliary, to foster and 
increase the disgraceful prejudices against the 
people of color, which already prevail to so 
melancholy an extent in our country. 

On Thursday last, I attended the Annual 
Meeting of the Colonization Society. The 
address was from Hon. Eben. Young, member 
of Congress and President of the Society. 
He drew a contrast between the Anti-Slavery 
principles and Colonization principles. He 
then went on to show how easily the Coloni- 
zation Society, if unopposed, would go on to 
rid the country in a few years of the curse of 
slavery. 

Afterwards the Report was read — in which, 
among other things, it was stated, ' that the 
practicability of the removal to Africa of the 
entire colored population, had been demon- 
strated.' Its acceptance was moved. The 
Rev. Samuel J. May, rose and objected to its 
acceptance on the ground that it contained 
several very inaccurate statements, and com- 
mented upon them. It was however accept- 
ed. Soon after Mr. May brought forward the 
following resolution. 

'Resolved, That the avowed objects of this 
Society, i. e. the establishment of a Colony in 
Liberia of suitable persons — and the evangel- 
ization of Africa, cannot be effected until an 
improved class of colored people shall have 
heen raised up in our own country. They 
must be educated here, that they may he pre- 
pared for Africa. The fountains of knowl- 
edge and of grace should be open to all per- 
sons in our own country, especially to those 
whom we purpose to send out to enlighten the 
dark places of the earth, and disseminate the 
hlessings of knowledge and of religion.' 

Mr Judson, who has come out a zealous colon- 
izationist, immediately proposed the following 
amendment — ' provided the sentiments of the 
Abolitionists be considered by us dangerous to 
the peace of the country, and the preservation 
of the union.' Mr. May replied that he had 
no objection to Mr. Judson's bringing forward 
any resolutions he pleased. If Mr. Judson 

VOJ&. I. 



meant to attack the principles of the Anti-Sla- 
very Society, Mr. May said he was then ready 
for their defence ; but that he could see no 
propriety in Mr. Judson's appending such an 
amendment to the resolution. After a good 
deal of debate Mr. May was permitted to speak 
to his resolution. He said he should speak as 
a colonizationist, though his connexion with 
the Society would cease with that meeting. 
He would not utter all the thoughts and feel- 
ings which pressed for utterance whenever he 
thought of the too long disregarded claims of 
our colored brethren to all the blessings of 
knowledge and religion. He would speak in 
behalf of the avowed objects of the Coloni- 
zation Society, and in view of them he insist- 
ed that they could not be attained, unless a 
better class of emigrants could be prepared 
here by education. 

As soon as Mr. May was seated Mr. Judson 
rose and declared, that neither he nor any one 
else, was opposed to the education of the col- 
ored people ; but he and ethers were opposed 
to their being taught the principles of the An- 
ti-Slavery Society, the first of which was, he 
said, that the Constitution of the United States 
was not to be at all regarded, &c. &c. He 
went on to say that the resolution was in effect 
asking the Col. Society to encourage the plan 
of teaching the colored people sentiments at 
war with the objects and purposes of the So- 
ciety, and sentiments too of a treasonable 
character, &c. 

Mr. May replied that the gentleman had 
gone out of his way to misrepresent the Anti- 
Slavery Society, and to pervert the meaning 
of the resolution — that he meant by education 
what we all mean by the word, when we ap- 
ply it to white children; that he was willing 
to specify the branches of science if that 
would satify Mr. Judson ; and that his simple 
object in bringing forward the resolution was 
to ascertain whether the Colonization Society 
meant to encourage the education and eleva- 
tion of the colored population of these States. 

One gentleman rose, and said he objected 
to the resolution, because it was bringing the 
Society into collision with a recent Act of the 
Legislature. Mr. May very properly replied 
that believing as he did the truth set forth in 
the resolution, as a member of that Society, 
he should feel called upon to expose the im- 
propriety of that Law — and of the conduct of 
those men through whose influence it was 
15 



114 



Dialogue between a Colonizalionist and an Abolitionist 



enacted: that if the laws of our Legislature 
were not vdiolesome, we were bound to op- 
pose them, and labor to procure their repeal ; 
and he for one was always ready to do so. 

Another gentleman rose and said he should 
oppose the resolution, because he thought it 
squinted at the Canterbury School, and he 
did not wish the Colonization Society, to take 
part in the contest one way or the other. 

Mr. May replied that it looked right at the 
Canterbury School ; and said, Mr. President, 
this Society cannot help taking some, part in 
the controversy that has been awakened con- 
cerning it. The leaders in the persecution 
against that School have publicly appealed to 
the Colonization Society as having acted in 
its behalf, and the Society is now called npon 
to say whether it approves or disapproves the 
things which have been done avowedly under 
its auspices. 

The debate lasted more than an hour, and 
then the resolution was indefinitely postponed. 

We beg our readers to reflect upon the facts 
which our correspondent has stated, in connex- 
ion with previous occurrences in Connecticut. 
Miss Crandall attempts to establish a school 
for colored girls at Canterbury. A town meet- 
ing is held, in which violent resolutions are 
passed in order to deter her from proceeding. 
At this meeting Andrew T. Judson Esq. acts 
a conspicuous part. The authorities of the 
town, perhaps feeling conscious that these pro- 
ceedings were not quite creditable to them, 
address a vindication of their proceedings to 
the Colonization Society. Mr. Judson's name 
is appended to this manifesto. By the influ- 
ence of Mr. Judson a law is soon after passed 
by the legislature of Connecticut making it a 
penal offence, to establish a school for colored 
children who are not inhabitants of the State. 
Mr. Judson is, in short, without dispute, the 
prime mover of all these atrocities. 

Under these circumstances it seems to us 
that the branches of the American Coloniza- 
tion Society, but more especially a branch of 
it established in Connecticut, were loudly 
called upon to declare publicly and explicitly 
their opinion of the attempts in Connecticut 
to deprive people of color of the blessings of 
education. The Connecticut Society whose 
proceedings we have recorded, we readily ac- 
knowledge, has returned an explicit, if not a 
satisfactory answer, to the question which the 
Canterbury affair and the Connecticut law had 
presented to them. The Society refuses, in 
the first place, to entertain a resolution in 
which the necessity of educating the colored 
people here is maintained, and that there may 



be no room for doubt or cavil in regard to the 
opinions of its members upon this subject, 
elects Mr. Judson, the great leader of the Con- 
necticut crusade against education, — its agent 
and orator. 



[For the Abolitionist.] 
Messrs. Editors : 

Having been present at an animated con- 
versation between two intelligent gentlemen 
of New-Haven, on the subject of Slavery and 
the Anti-Slavery association, in- which some 
interesting topics were discussed, I wrote 
down, from memory, the principle part of what 
I heard, and offer the notes of the dialogue to 
your notice, in the belief that the summary of 
argument, presented with all the simplicity of 
unpremeditated talk, may interest your read- 
ers,, as it certainly did more than one bystander 
beside myself. 

One of the gentlemen being a member of 
the Colonization Society, I have prefixed the 
letter C to his part of the debate, and desig- 
nated by the letter A the share taken by the 
other, who is a member of an Anti-Slavery or 
Abolition Society. 

The allusions to a local occurrence and the 
sentiments expressed by a distinguished pri- 
vate citizen of New Haven did not, as it seems 
to me — confine the interest of the matter ta 
this place. The principles are of general and 
national importance. 

Respectfully yours, &c. 

A NEUTER. 

JYew Haven, July 13, 1833. 

DIALOGUE 

between c, a colonizationist, and a, an 

abolitionist, on the subject of the 
Anti-Slavery Society. 

C. I do not question the sincerity of your 
motives, but surely you and the rest of the 
Anti-Slavery ultras are doing much mischief 
by the intemperance of your zeal. 

A. Is the sentiment just expressed by you 
an individual opinion of your own ? Is it 
adopted on the view of any actual instance of 
evil ? Or do you speak a general idea of our 
proceedings, — and is your particular judgment 
founded only on the fact that an impression 
unfavorable to our Society and its principles, 
is very extensively diffused in the community ? 

C. The impression is certainly very gene- 
ral, among sensible men, that you are wrong, 
and the universality of that opinion is with me 



Dialogue between a Colonizationtsl and an Abolitionist. 



115 



as strong presumptive proof of its correctness. 
You allow your feelings to hurry you along 
without the guidance of your reason ; and only 
help to rivet the chains that you profess to be 
so anxious to remove ; and you are exciting 
ill-will, prejudice, and jealousy among the 
Southern people. 

A. I beg pardon for so boldly differing 
from you ; but it seems to me that those per- 
sons may be most justly charged with yield- 
ing too much to their feelings, and disregard- 
ing the dictates of reason, who take up an 
opinion, as you have done, without examining 
its foundation, and merely because it is fash- 
ionable. If your judgment of us is correct, it 
would be equally so though it were peculiar to 
yourself. An unfounded opinion is a preju- 
dice ; and gains no valid authority from the 
number of persons who imbibe it. And, pray, 
whom do you" call particularly sensible men? 

C. It is hardly necessary to mention names, 
ah uno disce omnes — one will suffice, — the 
learned and experienced -Noah Webster 
publicly avowed himself a disapprover of your 
doctrines, at the meeting house, when Profes- 
sor Wright delivered his address.. You know 
too that a majority of tlfe most respected citi- 
zens of Connecticut agree with Dr. Webster 
in this opinion ; and that elsewhere, the same 
class of men are generally on the same side. 

A. I grant that a majority of the well in- 
formed do not yet give us their active support, 
and yet do not see that I am necessarily in 
error. 

C. The opinions of such men, surely, are 
entitled to great weight. 

A. Not as a matter of course, nor without 
exception. The opinion of no man is of any 
authority on a subject that he has not exam- 
ined. You and I will not differ in respect to 
the character of the excellent and venerable 
citizen whom you have named, — but you would 
be as far as I am from allowing his opinion 
(for example,) or that of any other man breath- 
ing, to guide your conduct or your thoughts 
in a matter which he knows nothing about— 
or knows but superficially. If your child is 
ill, there are many wise and learned men 
whose advice you would not take as to the 
medical treatment of his disease. You would 
not allow even such men as Dr. Webster to 
model your opinions on religious or political 
subjects — nor advise you about the docking 
an entail or foreclosing a mortgage. 

C. On subjects in their nature abstruse, 



or technical, of course I should rely on the 
judgment of men that are by profession ac- 
quainted with the particular subject. But 
slavery is a matter that we all can understand 
— and all men are competent to judge of the 
probable effect of your measures. 

A. All men may, with equal truth, be said 
to be competent to make shoes or cut down 
trees ; yet those who never learn how, will re- 
main ignorant; and the opinion of a learned 
professor of moral philosophy as to the best 
mode of cobbling shoes or felling timber, may 
be as worthless as that of a cobbler upon a 
question in metaphysics. You ought to seek 
for a surer footing on which to rest your cen- 
sure of us, than merely an unthinking clamor. 

C. But it is more probable that so many 
sensible men should be right than a few who 
differ from them. I do not know that the 
members of the Anti-Slavery Society have any 
remarkable degree of learning or skill on the 
subject, to entitle" them to be our instructors. 

A. I will suppose that you agree with me 
in thinking the mere fact of numbers ought 
not to govern in a question of opinion ; and 
that the few may be right, although in a mi- 
nority. Now as to the probability, you must 
remember the French proverb, which being 
rendered, signifies that truth and probability 
are not alivays the same. The whole world 
of sensible and practical men, (except a few,) 
railed against the project of making 'steam- 
boats ; but the few persevered, till all acknowl- 
edged they were right. 

C. The absurdity and impropriety of our 
meddling with a matter over which we cannot 
have any lawful control, strikes every mind. 
The southern States will only be exasperated 
by such impertinent interference with their 
domestic concerns. The northern people have, 
manifestly no right to dictate to them, and 
ought not to touch the subject. 

A. Well, now having got rid of the au- 
thority of numbers — the infallibility of a ma- 
jority and the despotism of prejudice — let us 
use our reason as if the question were entirely 
open, and every man at liberty to think for 
himself. Whether he has a right to speak 
what he thinks is perhaps a necessary prelim- 
inary question. 

C. No, I will not allow that there is any 
such question. We all have a right, both le- 
gal and moral, to speak our thoughts, but that 
is no reason for talking of our neighbors 1 do- 
mestic concerns. The question of emancipa- 



116 



Dialogue between a Colonizationist and an Abolitionist. 



tion is one exclusively belonging to the slave- 
holding States, and the Constitution prohibits 
our interference with it. Talking about it, 
and scolding the slaveholders can do no pos- 
sible good, and must cause irritation. In fact 
it has caused irritation. 

A. The right to speak our thoughts is, then, 
granted ; and the possibility of an opinion en- 
tertained by a large number of sensible men, 
turning out to be a mere prejudice, is also ad- 
mitted. We shall come by degrees to the 
real merits of the question. If you had not 
tacitly admitted that the many, and the wise, 
may be blinded by prejudice, or uninformed on 
a particular subject, I should have reminded 
you of the history of the temperance reforma- 
tion, which began with a very few who were 
called zealots— ultras — fanatics— and so forth. 
The same objections were urged to their 
' quixotic ' efforts, (as they were called) that 
are now arrayed against the Abolitionists. 
We were told that a man's diet was a matter 
we had no right to meddle with — that it was 
impertinent to tell a man what he ought or 
ought not to drink — and that our zeal, being 
indiscreet, would do harm. And what is the 
result? The zealots and ultras persevered 
against a cry of disapprobation and discour- 
agement not less loud or general, and proceed- 
ing from no less respectable individuals, till 
the force of truth and moral suasion has pre- 
vailed. The friends of freedom and of human 
rights ought to persevere in like manner, if 
their cause is just ; and may look forward to 
eventual success. 

C. But intemperance was a matter of uni- 
versal interest ; and it would have been fatal 
to the cause of that reformation if those who 
preached temperance had not also set an ex- 
ample by practising it too. Now we, at the 
North, cannot emancipate slaves — all we can 
do is to claim from others a sacrifice which 
will cost us nothing — we are utterly powerless 
as to all practical measures. The analogy in 
this respect fails. 

A. You take a very contracted view of the 
subject ; and therein consists your error — and 
the common error ; and I deny the authority 
of all opinions that are thus made up, without 
looking more deeply into the matter. I do 
not say that we, of the Anti-Slavery associa- 
tion, are very learned, or fully informed — but 
our imperfect knowledge may be so much bet- 
ter than the absolute and total neglect to think 
on the subject, so prevalent in the community, 



that iv e are perhaps better prepared to form a 
correct judgment, and therefore more likely 
to be in the right than some of those who op- 
pose us. The opposition of the Colonization 
Society, may stand on other foundations. I 
speak now of the disapprobation expressed by 
such as are not members of either association. 

C Wherein consists the difference ? How 
do you take a more enlarged or more enlight- 
ened view of the subject than others? 

A. In the first place, we contend for inde- 
pendence of thought, speech, and action ; and 
feeling ourselves right we go on, without being 
deterred by a clamor or temporary irritation 
among well dressed, well educated, and well 
disposed people. On the contrary, our oppo- 
nents too often condemn us merely because of 
the clamor, without exercising their own in- 
tellect to ascertain whether the clamor is well 
founded. 

C. I grant you the merit of boldness and 
independence, worthy a better, that is, a more 
practical cause. 

A. Very well. The merit is not very com- 
mon, A small proportion only of mankind has 
intrepidity enough to think, speak and act 
merely with a view to truth and justice. Grant- 
ing us, therefore, independence, sincerity, 
disinterestedness, and some knowledge drawn 
from closer attention to the subject, we are, 
at all events, entitled to a respectful hearing. 

C. I do not admit that you are ; because 
here your doctrines are mere theories, without 
any possible results in practice ; and in the 
South you must be considered as merely in- 
termeddlers. On what ground then do you 
claim an attentive hearing ? 

A. As men, by your admission, (and unde- 
niably) disinterested, independent, sincere and 
well informed by examination and consulta^ 
tion, upon a subject of deep interest to the 
citizens of Connecticut as well- as Maryland — 
the North as well as the South, and the treat- 
ment of which has practical ?'esults, well de- 
serving the anxious care of every patriot and 
every Christian. 

C. Those are bold positions, and I should 
guess, not easily sustained. 

A. Not more bold than true ; which can 
you doubt ? 

C. I am entirely at a loss to imagine what 
practical results can be at stake, or how the 
Northern States can act on such a subject, or 
why we need feel any further interest in it 



Slavery in the United Slates. 



117 



than such as arises from our sympathy with 
our Southern neighbors. 

A. You are not singular, but plainly in 
error. That the existence of slavery and the 
internal slave trade in this country, and the 
actual condition and treatment of the slaves, 
are a national reproach and a national crime, no 
man can doubt. That a concomitant of this 
national shame is a feeling of contempt and 
ill-ivill very generally cherished towards the 
colored population, and in itself scarcely less 
unchristian, and unjustifiable ; if not so ob- 
vious, is nevertheless true. Now upon both 
these matters the people of the North can act 
practically, constitutionally and legally ; and 
moreover they must act, in one way or anoth- 
er, and by legislation too. Upon the conduct 
of the free States, (their conduct ivithin the 
Constitution) must defend the question wheth- 
er these stains on our national character, these 
reproaches to us as a Christian people, shallbe 
extended, aggravated, and perpetuated, or 
limited, mitigated, and at some future day, 
abolished. It is a very mistaken view of the 
case to suppose its consideration belongs ex- 
clusively to the Southern States. It is our 
right and our duty to consider and discuss it, 
freely, fearlessly, and in despite of whatever 
irritation the slaveholding people may please 
to indulge or to affect. And this I can demon- 
strate, and will, if you please to listen. 

C. I shall be glad to hear it. But at pres- 
ent I must leave you. 

(To be continued.) 



SLAVERY IN THE UNITED STATES. 

We continue our extracts from Stuart's 
Three Years in North America. 

The following notices in relation to General 
Hampton's treatment of his slaves, ought to be 
generally circulated throughout our country. 

' Dr. Tidyman mentions that, with kind mas- 
ters, the condition of slaves is rendered as 
happy as a state of slavery can admit of. This 
is unquestionably true. Indeed I myself have 
seen instances of quite as strong, if not stron- 
ger attachment, on the part of a slave, than 1 
ever saw on the part of a white man to his 
master ; but the master may at pleasure be 
guilty of abuse of power to his slave; and it 
is quite notorious in the southern parts of 
America, that the greatest slave proprietors, 
whose interest ought to lead them to treat 
their slaves well, treat them worst. I could 
easily refer to many instances. One, howev- 
er, is so well known, that there is no impro- 
priety in mentioning it, viz. that of General 

H , one of the greatest, if not the very 

greatest slave proprietor in the United States, 



a South Carolinian, with, however, the chief 
part of his property situated in Louisiana. 
He not only maltreats his slaves, but stints 
them in food, overworks them, and keeps them 
almost naked. I have seen more than one of 
his overseers, whose representations gave a 
dreadful account of the state of slavery on his 
plantations, and who left his service because 
they would no longer assist in the cruel pun- 
ishments inflicted upon his slaves ; but I do 
not mention such a fact as this merely on such 

authority. General H 's conduct towards 

his slaves is a matter of notoriety.' — Vol. ii. 
pp. 70, 71. 

'General Hampton has great plantations on 
the banks of the river, about seventy miles 
from New Orleans. I could have wished that 
he had been present, to hear the remarks made 
by the passengers in the boat generally on the 
severe and cruel treatment with which his nu- 
merous bands of slaves are treated ; and that 
here, where people are obliged to speak with 
great caution, not one individual said a Avord 
on the subject, who did not express themselves 
in terms of commiseration for the unfortunate 
creatures subjected to his tyranny.' — Vol. ii. 
p. 164. 

' Here, [in Illinois,] I met a person who was 

lately an overseer on one of General H 's 

plantations, and who left his situation because 
the treatment of the slaves was so cruel, that 
he would no longer be concerned in it.' — Vol. 
ii. p. 245. 

The remaining extracts compose, we be- 
lieve, everything important in Mr. Stuart's 
book in relation to slavery, not already given. 

'I, however, [in South Carolina,] found an 
excellent breakfast prepared for me when I 
did appear, and was not a little surprised, when 
I sat down to partake of it, to find one female 
slave fanning me from the opposite side of the 
table with a fan of peacock feathers, while 
another brought me what I required at break- 
fast. The slaves here, as in other countries, 
speak a broken language peculiar to them- 
selves, — the consequence of their total want 
of education, — but still many of them go to 
church, and are admitted to church privileges. 
Although the church is ten miles distant from 
the plantation where I stopped, many of the 
slaves go to it.' 

'In the journey from Richmond to the 
neighborhood of Charleston, a very visible 
change in the appearance and manners of the 
people has taken place. Slaves become more 
numerous in proceeding towards the south, and 
the whites become comparatively languid and 
inactive-looking-.' — Vol. ii. pp. 59, 60. 

; One individual here [in Savannah] gave 
me an account of the treatment of the slaves, 
very much resembling what I had witnessed 
in Charleston. I was prepared to expect this 
from observing, that the city council of Sa- 
vannah had lately passed a law, imposing 
a tax of 100 dollars on free persons of color 



US 



Letter from Hon. William Jay. 



coming to that city. Can there be a more 
atrocious violation of the principles of lib- 
erty than is contained in such a regulation 
as this, which may render it impossible for a 
free man even to visit his father or mother at 
the point of death ? but the prohibition is posi- 
tive in Louisiana and South Carolina, which 
no freed man from another state dare, on any 
terms, enter.' — Vol. ii. p. 80. 

'The laws on the subject of slavery in the 
State of Georgia are as tyrannical as in any 
of the States. 

' In case any slave or free person of color 
teach any other slave or free person of color, 
to read or to write either written or printed 
characters, the free person of color, or slave, 
is punished by fine and whipping ; and a white 
person so offending is punished with a fine, 
not exceeding 500 dollars, and imprisoned in 
the common jail. 

' Any slave, or free person of color, or any 
other person, circulating- papers, or bringing 
into this state, or aiding in any manner in 
bringing into the state, papers for the purposes 
of exciting to insurrection, conspiracy, or re- 
sistance among -the slaves, or free persons of 
color, against their owners, or the citizens, is 
,to be punished with death. 

' All ships coming into any port of this state, 
having on board any free negroes, or free per- 
sons of color, whether passengers, or in any 
other capacity, are subject to quarantine for 
forty days. This regulation is obviously in- 
tended as a prohibition of free persons of 
color from entering the state by sea. 

'Cutting off the ears and the pillory are 
punishments for slaves sanctioned by the Le- 
gislature of Georgia; but the universal pun- 
ishment is whipping. Its infliction, to the 
extent of twenty lashes, on the bare back, is 
deemed in a great variety of cases of insuffi- 
cient moment to claim the intervention even 
f of a single magistrate. Any white person, a 
drunken patrol, an absconding felon, or a vaga- 
bond mendicant are supposed to possess dis- 
cretion enough to interpret the laws, and to 
wield the cow-skin or cart- whip for their in- 
fraction; and should death ensue by accident, 
while the slave is thus receiving moderate 
correction, the constitution of Georgia kindly 
denominates the offence justifiable homicide.' 
—Vol. ii. pp. 85, 8(3. 

' My driver was a free man of color. He 
gave a frightful account of the treatment to 
which he and all the people of color, whether 
free or slaves, are subject in this State. He 
had been accustomed formerly to go every 
season to the State of New York during the 
period when, owing to the inhabitants leaving 
the city, business was almost at a stand ; but, 
by an act passed a few years ago, it is de- 
clared that a free person of color leaving the 
State, though merely crossing the boundary, 
shall not be allowed to return ; and as he has 
a wife and family, he feels himself really and 



truly a prisoner in the State of South Caroli- 
na. The same law declares, that it shall not 
be lawful for free persons of color to come 
from another State into this. If they should 
be brought in a vessel, they are immediately 
confined in jail till the vessel is ready to pro- 
ceed to sea, — the captain paying the expenses 
of their detention. It is now contrary to law 
that even free persons of color should be edu- 
cated ; they are incompetent witnesses in any 
case where the rights of white persons' are 
concerned ; and their trials are conducted by 
a justice of the peace and freeholders, without 
the benefit of a jury. So far as respects the 
slaves, they are even in a worse situation ; for, 
though their evidence is in no case admissible 
against the whites, the affirmation of free per- 
sons of color, or their fellow-slaves, is receiv- 
ed against them.' — Vol. ii. p. 72. 

' The police, considering the great number 
of strangers in the city and on the levee, did 
not seem to me to he faulty. There is a corps 
of mounted gens d'armes. In this respect, in 
the appearance of an armed police, Charles- 
ton and New-Orleans do not resemble the free 
cities of America ; but the great number of 
blacks, and the way in which they are treated 
by the whites, render this precaution, I have 
no doubt, indispensably necessary.' — ib. p. 130. 

' One plantation was pointed out to me, the 
owner of which, named Mitchell, has been 
lately apprehended on a charge of having 
murdered three of his slaves some years ago.' 
—Vol. ii. p. 165. 

' I have no doubt from what I heard, that 
portions of the Missouri State may be as at- 
tractive for emigrants in almost all the partic- 
ulars I have mentioned, but slavery exists in 
that State, and wherever it does exist in North 
America, it is obviously a bar to improvement, 
of which the States of Virginia and Kentucky 
afford decided proofs. Besides, I have seen 
enough of the slaveholding States to be very 
much disposed to agree in opinion with Mr. 
Birkbeck, "that every class of the white pop- 
ulation is in those States more or less corrupted 
by idleness, extravagance, and debauchery.'" — 
Vol. ii. p. 243. 



[From the Emancipator.] 
LETTER PROM HON. WILLIAM JAY. 
Bedford, Westchester Co. May 1, 1833. 
Sir: — The duty and policy of immediate 
emancipation, although clear to us, are not so 
to multitudes of good people who abhor sla- 
very, and sincerely wish its removal. They 
take it for granted, no matter why, or where- 
fore, that if the slaves were now liberated, 
they would instantly cut the throats, and fire 
the dwellings of their benefactors. Hence, 
these good people look upon the advocates of 
emancipation, as a set of dangerous fanatics, 
who are jeoparding the peace of the Southern 
States, and riveting the fetters of the slaves. 



The Plea of Justice. 



110 



by the very attempt to break them. In their 
opinion, the slaves are not yet Jit for freedom, 
and therefore it is necessary to wait patiently 
till they are. Now, unless these patient wait- 
ers can be brought over to our side, emanci- 
pation is hopeless ; for, first — they form an 
immense majority of all among us, who are 
hostile to slavery; and, secondly — they are 
as conscientious in their opinions as we are 
in ours, and unless converted, will oppose and 
defeat all our efforts. But how are they to 
be converted ? Only by the exhibition of 
TRUTH. Many a bad cause, but I suspect 
no good one, has triumphed through the agen- 
cy of falsehood. The moral, social, and poli- 
tical evils of slavery are but imperfectly known 
and considered. These should be portrayed 
in strong but true colors, and it would not be 
difficult to prove, that however inconvenient 
and dangerous emancipation may be, the con- 
tinuance of slavery must be infinitely more in- 
convenient and dangerous. On this head, 
statements of the future number of slaves, of 
their increasing intelligence and strength, and 
of the probable influence of abolition in the 
1 West Indies and Brazil, combined with the 
change of opinion on this subject throughout 
the world, would be useful* 

An inquiry into the histdry of emancipation 
in South America and elsewhere, would tend 
to show the safety with which it may be ac- 
complished. 

Constitutional restrictions, independent of 
other considerations, forbid all other than 
moral interference with slavery in the South- 
ern States. But, we have as good and per- 
fect a right to exhort slaveholders to liberate 
their slaves, as we have to exhort them to 
practice any virtue, or avoid any vice. Nay, we 
have not only the right, but, under certain 
circumstances, it may be our duty to give 
such advice ; and while we confine ourselves 
within the boundaries of right and duty, we 
may and ought to disregard the threats and 
denunciations by which we may be assailed. 

The question of slavery in the District of 
Columbia, is totally distinct, as far as we are 
concerned, from that of slavery in the South- 
ern States. 

As a member of Congress, I should think 
myself no more authorized to legislate for the 
slaves of Virginia, than for the serfs of Rus- 
sia. But Congress have full authority to abol- 
ish slavery in the District, and I think it their 
duty to do so. The public need information 
respecting the abominations committed at 
Washington, with the sanction of their repre- 
sentatives — abominations which will cease 
whenever those respresentatives please. If 
this subject is fully and ably pressed upon the 
attention of our electors, they may perhaps 
be induced to require pledges from candidates 
for Congress for their vote for the removal of 
this foul stain from our National Government. 

For success in this great cause, we must 



look to the blessing of God ; and to obtain his 
blessing, we must use only such means as He 
approves. Of course, every exaggeration — 
every deviation from truth — all gratuitous and 
uncharitable crimination, should be scrupu- 
lously avoided. Without resorting to fiction, 
we may have facts in abundance, which will 
make the ears of all who hear them to tingle- 

The Emancipator will, I trust, be edited 
with such adherence to accuracy, and in such 
a spirit of Christian candor, as to give no cause 
of regret to its friends, nor for reproach to it© 
enemies, and I hope its facts and arguments 
will be such as to disprove the charge that 
the advocates of emancipation are weak and 
ignorant fanatics. 

As to the Colonization Society, it is neither 
a wicked conspiracy on the one hand, nor a 
panacea for slavery on the other. Many wise 
and good men belong tb it, and believe in its 
efficacy. The Society may do good in Afri-- 
ca; and it will rescue many free negroes from 
oppression, by removing them from the Slave 
States. As to the voluntary manumissions 
which it prompts or facilitates, I much doubt 
whether they will sensibly lessen the number 
of slaves ; nor is it clear to me that the extinc- 
tion of slavery would be hastened by the im- 
mediate removal to Africa of one half of all 
the slaves in the country ; as the value of the 
remaining half would thus be greatly enhan- 
ced, and their owners would of course be less 
disposed to part with them than they are now. 
Your obed't servant, 

WILLIAM JAY, 



THE PLEA OF JUSTICE. 

The following article is taken from the 
Christian Register, in which paper it appeared 
a few years ago. As that paper is probably 
not seen by a large number of our readers, 
we venture to copy it. The intrinsic merit of 
the piece renders any commendation of it on 
our part unnecessary. 

I remember when quite a child, being a 
good deal disturbed by the expression in some 
little book — such a thing was ' not only wick-- 
ed but foolish.' What, said I, is it not a great 
deal worse to be wicked than foolish ! The 
wickedness being proved, I thought it perfect- 
ly superfluous to inquire further respecting its 
folly. Besides the hut appeared to me de- 
signed to introduce a sort of climax, and thus 
folly seerred tfo be placed higher in the rank 
of evil than wickedness, which was quite con- 
trary to my simple view of the nature of things. 
No doubt I somewhat misconceived the au- 
thor's aim, for I certainly do not now perceive 
the sort of discordancy and absurdity by which 
I was then not only struck but troubled, in the 
idea of showing an action to be ' not only 
wicked but foolish.' Yet something of the 
same feeling remains with me to the present 



120 



The Plea of Justice. 



day. 1 dislike to hear questions of right and 
justice argued upon grounds of expediency, 
. even though the case may be well argued, 
and on the right side; or to have the justice 
of the case referred to slightly, while interest 
and expediency are made the main ground ot 
argument, which has much the same effect. 
As a matter of taste merely, it produces a 
sense of disproportion and unsuitableness, 
like seeing a large and heavy structure sup- 
ported on a slender foundation, or the adjuncts 
and ornaments of a building enlarged and ex- 
tended till the main building is concealed 
from view. But it is not as a matter of taste 
chiefly, that this mode of proceeding should 
be regarded. It is not rendering to justice 
her rightful homage. It is not placing things 
on their true foundation. However expedi- 
ent an act of justice may be, yet it should be 
performed for the sake of justice, and not of 
expediency. We should desire it, and plead 
for it, because it is just, and not because it 
is expedient. It is true that the champion of 
the right may espouse it himself simply be- 
cause it is the right, though he defends it by 
such arguments as he thinks will make most 
impression upon others. But it should be re- 
collected, that if he accomplishes his purpos- 
es by such means, he has done nothing to ex- 
tend the influence and authority of the princi- 
ple of justice. Nay, by not appealing to it, by 
leaving it out of sight, he seems to disclaim it 
himself. By descending to argue the expe- 
diency of the measure he recommends, he 
seems to acknowledge either that the require- 
ments of justice are doubtful, or that consider- 
ations of justice are not of themselves deci- 
sive. Nor can there be a doubt that an im- 
pression of this kind, indistinct, but not less 
■pernicious, must often be produced, though 
not intended, by the kind of reasoning now 
referred to. If indeed arguments of expedi- 
ency are used as auxiliaries, merely, to clear 
away those illusions of interest which cloud 
the understanding, and prevent it from dis- 
cerning the full force of the moral argument, 
all is well. But let it plainly appear that they 
are considered as subordinate to that main 
argument, on whose strength the advocate of 
justice relies with perfect confidence. And 
this may and ought to be done by some strong 
and decided reference to it, even when the 
subject is viewed principally in the aspect of 
expediency, because it is supposed that the 
question of right has been too often examined 
and decided to admit of farther discussion. 

We should find that there is a sense of right 
and justice in all men, if we only knew how 
to reach it. It is wronging human nature to 
take it for granted that motives of right and 
justice (which Bishop Butler calls 'the just 
and natural motive of action,') will have less 
weight than motives of interest. To induce 
men to act from the highest motives is doing 
them a benefit, to lead them to act from the 



lowest an injury. The former too are the mo- 
tives which they like best to have appealed 
to, and from which they Avill act with most 
satisfaction. What is gained in this way to 
the right cause is gained surely, but the rela- 
tions of interest are constantly fluctuating. 

The kind of argument to which I have been 
objecting has I think of late been too frequent- 
ly adopted in speaking on the subject of sla- 
very. In considering it as an evil and a mis- 
fortune, its iniquity seems to be overlooked ; 
the interests of the masters, not the rights of 
the slaves, are urged as the reason for eman- 
cipation; interest, and not conscience, is the 
motive appealed to. We remonstrate with 
the slaveholder, not that men have no right to 
compel others to labor for them, but that free 
labor is the cheapest. Now the masters may 
naturally suppose that of their own interest 
they themselves are the best judges, since 
they have every opportunity for a knowledge 
of the facts and motives to sharpen their sa- 
gacity. But when the cause is argued on the 
ground of justice, it is impossible, but it must 
occur to them, that an indifferent spectator is 
as well qualified to judge of this, as those are 
whose opinions are necessarily liable to be 
warped by interest, and by custom. If then 
the slaves have a right to their freedom, if 
there is injustice in withholding it, this is the 
point of view in which the subject should be 
habitually regarded, which should never be 
lost sight of as the sufficient, the unanswer- 
able argument why they should receive their 
freedom. And that they have this right is so 
obvious to the simplest apprehension, on a 
plain statement of the case, that to use argu- 
ments to prove it, seems almost preposterous. 
What right has any man to freedom which 
they have not? On what do we ground our 
own right to freedom, to the free use of our 
powers, to the produce of our own labor ? — 
Common sense ? — the implied will of our Cre- 
ator ? — the want of right in any other human 
being to deprive us of them? Whatever is 
the foundation of our own right to liberty, ev- 
ery negro slave has the same. For how can he 
have lost his original rights ? By the act of 
violence which tore him from his native land ? 
No one will assert it, for no one will feel that 
by virtue of such an act his own rights could 
be extinguished. By the first act of sale 
which transferred him to another hand, — by 
the mysterious efficacy of the first money 
which was paid for him ? No one will assert 
it, for no one will suppose that the kidnapper 
could have conveyed that right which was not 
his. No one will assert it, for no one will say 
that were he in that slave's place, he should 
now feel his rights at all diminished. By the 
second or the third transfer ? No one will 
assert it, for no one can conceive that a thou- 
sand such transfers could deprive himself of 
his inherent right to freedom, if he had been 
wrongfully dispossessed of it. The negro's 



The Plea of Justice. 



121 



right to his liberty is then, so far, unimpaired, 
it is as perfect and entire as when he wander- 
ed unshackled and uncontrolled in his native 
Africa. But he dies a slave, and the whole 
generation of those who were violently de- 
prived of the liberty to which they were born, 
disappears. Those who now occupy their 
place were born in slavery, they are the chil- 
dren of slaves. Now there is no pretence for 
saying that if the parents had really lost or 
given up any of their natural rights, as by a 
voluntary contract, or in the case of a just 
punishment for crime, the child would there- 
fore be born with Ms rights at all less perfect. 
But this is not the present case. The parent's 
rights were in their full strength. Does then 
the circumstance of a child's being born of 
enslaved parents deprive him of his natural 
right to liberty, and make him truly and law- 
fully the property of his nominal owner ? No 
one I think will assert it, for this reason among 
others, that no one will feel that if he were 
violently seized and carried into captivity, 
suppose by a party of wild Indians, his inno- 
cent children would therefore belong of right 
to the lawless kidnappers, or purchasers from 
them. 

Each successive generation of slaves then, 
viewing the subject thus in its simplest ele- 
ments, has the same absolute right to freedom 
that their progenitors had who were brought 
from Africa, or in other words, that any in- 
habitants of earth has. 

But it is said that this view of the subject, 
though obviously just so far as it goes, leaves 
entirely out of sight the rights of the masters. 
What rights ? If the slaves have an entire 
right to their liberty, it follows that their mas- 
ters have none to detain them in slavery. 
And yet — let us not be hasty, but pause, and 
weigh this matter deliberately. A certain 
slaveholder does in perfectly good faith, we 
will suppose, believe that his slaves are his 
property, as much as his land, or houses, or 
cattle, are his property. He has become pos- 
sessed of them in precisely the same way, 
having either inherited them as he has his 
lands, or purchased them with his money the 
fruit of his own industry and enterprise. Why 
then are not his negroes as truly and right- 
fully his property as any other thing which he 
possesses ? Simply because these negroes, 
having all along retained a right to freedom, 
(as perfect as their master's to his freedom,) 
could never have become the property of him, 
from whom the present master purchased or 
inherited. , 

But many persons have a vague idea that 
however unjust it was originally to enslave 
the Africans, yet that the passage of time, or 
the course of events, or some peculiar combi- 
nation of circumstances, has at length con- 
ferred a right of property upon the masters. 
To every such person it is recommended to 
ask himself, what process he can imagine him- 
vol. i. 



self to go through, at the end of which he 
would feel himself the property of another. If 
he can find no such process, it may be that he 
will arrive at the conclusion that ' man cannot 
be the property of man.' 

Let him suppose himself captured by the 
Algerines, would he be troubled with any 
scruples about the rights of the Moor, who 
chanced to purchase him, or feel himself the 
Moor's property, or be prevented by such 
scruples from regaining his liberty if opportu- 
nity offered ? 

The case of a slaveholder has sometimes 
been compared to thatof a purchaser of stolen 
goods. And as in mathematics, a truth de- 
monstrated in small numbers may be extended 
with perfect certainty to any other case, how 
much larger soever the numbers, or how dif- 
ferent soever the practical application, provi- 
ded the numbers bear the same proportion, or 
relation to each other — so in morals a conclu- 
sion, fairly deduced from an acknowledged 
principle in one case, must be allowed to ex- 
tend to every other case, in which the parties 
concerned bear the same relation to each 
other. No difference of circumstances, how- 
ever great, weakens the conclusion, unless it 
is clearly of such a kind as to alter the rela- 
tive position of the parties, in those respects 
to which the reasoning refers. The advan- 
tage of reasoning from parallel cases, is, that 
we more readily perceive the truth in a sim- 
ple, than in a complicated case, and it may also 
happen, that we view the one with less preju- 
dice than we do the other. 

To return to our parallel case of the pur- 
chaser of stolen goods. No one doubts that 
the original owner may claim them again 
wherever he can find them, nor will the hon- 
est purchaser detain them from him when he 
discovers his claims, though he had previously 
supposed himself the lawful owner. Nor 
would any honest man who had inherited from 
his father a certain valuable lot of goods, which 
he knew to be stolen, hesitate about restoring 
them. Every slave is stolen property ; and 
however the nominal owner came into posses- 
sion, he is bound in equity to restore it to the 
real owner, that is to the slave himself. But 
it may be argued that after a piece of proper- 
ty which was originally fraudulently obtained, 
has continued in a family for many genera- 
tions, long possession gives a sort of right, 
and the obligation to make restitution becomes 
continually less and less strong. This may 
be allowed, for a very plain reason, that it is 
no longer possible to restore it to the original 
owner. But this case is no longer parallel .to 
that of the slaveholder. In the person of the 
slave, there is the original owner, the defraud- 
ed man is himself before us. It is not only 
the fruit of his ancestor's injustice that the 
slaveholder possesses, but a renewed robbery 
is committed upon every individual born upon 
the estate and detained in slavery. 
16 



122 



Wright's Sin of Slavery. 



But is it not a hard case that a man should 
be required to resign the chief part of his 
property, to annihilate almost the value of his 
plantation by giving up the laborers who cul- 
tivate it, that the poor widow whose chief 
maintenance is derived from the dozen or half 
dozen slaves whom she possesses, should be 
required to reduce herself and children to ac- 
tual want, unused as she is to labor with her 
ownhands? Who requires it ? — Justice. Will 
you appeal from her authority ? Is it not an 
equally hard case when a man who has sup- 
posed himself rich, is required to reduce him- 
self to poverty by restoring to its rightful 
owner the estate which he discovers was ob- 
tained by fraud by the person from whom he 
inherited it ? Yet the honest and honorable 
man will do this, although the law of the land 
should not oblige him to : the poor widow, if 
honest and honorable, would do the same even 
if she should be obliged to beg her daily bread. 
It is justice that makes the demand in both 
cases. The sacrifice may be great, but who 
might not envy the feelings of him who had 
made it ? 

How can the honorable mind which would 
disdain to make use of property for a moment, 
after it discovers that it belongs to another, 
be aware of the rights of the slaves, and yet 
willingly detain them another hour in bondage, 
or consent to be profited to the amount of even 
another dollar by their compelled and uncom- 
pensated labor? How is it that the master 
of slaves is not aware of their rights ? Is it 
that he turns from such thoughts with feelings 
like those of the young man who ' went away 
sorrowful for he had great possessions ?' 

The rights of the persons held in slavery 
impose the most absolute obligation upon eve- 
ry slaveholder who can discern the obligation, 
at whatever sacrifice of property^or worldly in- 
terest, to liberate them, unless circumstances 
render this, in the most literal sense of the 
word, impossible. But it is not to be doubted 
that there are slaveholders who are good and 
upright men and yet do not discern their duty 
in this respect, nor perceive the rights of the 
enslaved persons, but honestly regard their 
slaves as property. It is not very strange that 
it should be so. The strongly marked line of 
distinction which color makes between master 
and slave— the actual state of degradation of 
the blacks, — the universality of the custom of 
slavery all around them — and perhaps, the 
total absence of any expression of doubt 
among their fellow citizens as to its lawfulness 
— the habit of regarding and speaking of the 
blacks not as persons, but as property, not as 
fellow beings, but as an inferior race of ani- 
mals, — all these circumstances must tend to 
confirm in the mind of the slaveholders those 
views and opinions to which they have been 
accustomed from their infancy. The power 
of custom to produce this effect cannot be 
doubted by those who call to mind the many 



instances in which it has produced equally ex- 
traordinary effects. To refer only to the often 
quoted example of the belief in witchcraft. 
No one supposes that those persons were 
guilty of murder who condemned to death in- 
nocent women on the charge of having com- 
mitted this imaginary crime ; and equally un- 
just would it be to accuse of wilful injustice 
all who hold their fellow creatures in slavery. 
It is much less easy to judge of the rectitude 
of persons, than of the rectitude of actions. 
Yet let it be remembered that the nature of 
justice remains the same however we may 
fail to discern it. Let it be remembered that 
wilful blindness on such a subject, is guilt ; 
that he who in a case of duty stifles the dawn- 
ings of conviction, is a criminal ; that the slave- 
holder to whom it has ever occurred, either 
through his own reflection, or the suggestion 
of others, that possibly he has no right to hold 
his fellow creatures in bondage, and who does 
not pursue the thought fairly, and without re- 
gard to consequences, but drives it from him, 
lest by and by conscience should command 
him to resign his possessions — let it be remem- 
bered that he who thus refuses to know what 
duty requires cannot be guiltless. 



WRIGHT'S SIN OF SLAVERY: 
We noticed this pamphlet very briefly in 
our last number. We now add a few extracts. 
In speaking of the Colonization Society Mr. 
Wright uses the following severe, though, it 
seems to us, justifiable language. We regret 
that our limits will not permit us to transcribe 
the whole of the chapters on this subject. 

'No matter how sincere, the Colonization 
Society is too pusillanimous to deserve the 
high station which it has assumed. It is 
afraid to speak the whole truth. And if the 
mass of American Christians are to have any 
thing- to do in setting free two millions of op- 
pressed men, the American Colonization So- 
ciety must be given up, or it must retire into 
the comparative insignificance, I might say 
cringing sycophancy, of the object proposed 
in its constitution ; it must leave the grcuud 
of operation against slavery clear to a society 
which shall use a more aggressive moral influ- 
ence. What ! Is that to be dignified with the 
name of a moral influence, which abstains from 
a correct representation of its object, lest the 
equanimity of those whom it would persuade 
should be disturbed ? — lest passion should be 
excited, and the ground of hostility should be 
taken? Here is a most singular phenomenon: 
a society professing to exert a moral influ- 
ence against slavery, and yet afraid to state 
facts, and when compelled to state facts, afraid 
to use language appropriate to them. A so- 
ciety which, when speaking of the most odious 
system of oppression, takes special care to 
avoid the Avords sin, crime, guilt, and speaks 



Wrighfs Sin of Slavery. 



123 



of it as a burden, a curse, a sore * eviV Is 
such a 'moral ' remedy for sin likely to effect 
a cure ? Are the slaveholders in reality not 
slaveholders, but virtuous men, keeping- their 
slaves merely under that name, from necessity, 
till it shall be practicable to enlarge them ? 
Can this be proved of a single individual ?' 

' Patrons of the Colonization Society ! you 
form a body sufficiently powerful to wage a 
successful war with this popular prejudice. 
You may procure the repeal of every oppres- 
sive law, if you please ; you may open the 
door to fair competition in all the arts of life 
before the colored race, and persuade them to 
enter, if you please ; you may bring them all 
under the blessed influence of divine truth, if 
you please. Do that ; at least, attempt it, 
before you claim benevolence as the motive of 
your colonizing scheme. Till you have made 
the attempt, whatever may be said of the Af- 
rican skin, it has never been used to conceal 
hypocrisy, so loathsome and putrifying as 
yours, if haply, you yourselves are not the 
victims of a miserable delusion. It grieves 
me to the heart to bring charges of this kind, 
which I have reason to believe will be appro- 
priated to themselves — and too justly — by 
many, whom, in other things, I respect and 
love. But facts are stubborn, and the princi- 
ples of God's word, are unbending. Even if 
an angel from heaven were to embark on the 
principles which the Colonization Society has 
avowed, in regard to the free blacks, he would 
sink. 

'Let us not be told that the colored men go 
voluntarily to Liberia. There is not Jesuit- 
ism enough in the world to conceal such a lie 
from any, but the willingly blind. The plain 
fact is this, and every colored man, at least, 
knows it well, the white community, under 
the name of ' The Colonization Society,' 
merely receive the volunteer emigrants — no 
compulsion — all fair ; but mark, the same com- 
munity, without this name, sanction the op- 
pressive laws, utter the public sentiment, and 
point the finger of scorn, which, together, 
amount to a bitter persecution, and compel the 
poor blacks to volunteer. What a convenient 
thing is a name, which can be put on and off 
at pleasure. Here is my neighbor, a simple, 
good-natured man, dwelling securely by me. 
I heartily despise him, and would gladly have 
him out of the way ; but how to do it, is the 
thing. The problem may be thus solved. In 
every-day life, I am Mr. Prejudice. Under 
this name, I tell lies about my neighbor, and 
make sport of him at the taverns and grog- 
shops ; I abuse and mortify him on all occa- 
sions ; I throw down his fences, filch away 
his cattle, and refuse redress, till his life is a 
burden to him. But, on the Fourth of July, 
and some other great occasions, I am Mr. 
Generosity. I go to my neighbor with my 
new name, and my best Sunday suit, and say 
to him, ' You know Mr. Prejudice is very 



powerful in these parts ; he cannot be resist- 
ed ; you had better emigrate, and if you will 
do so, I will generously bear the expense. If, 
in the simplicity of his heart, my neighbor 
mistakes me for a different man from his old 
enemy, my success is almost certain. If he 
does not, perseverance in this double dealing 
will wear out the most mulish pertinacity. 

'That similar duplicity is justly chargeable 
upon the Colonization Society, is evident from 
the fact, that it not only does not condemn, 
but it hails with pleasure, those oppressive en- 
actments which are designed to banish the 
colored race. Is the conclusiveness of this 
argument doubted? Take an illustration. In 
the recesses of yonder grated and gloomy 
pile, there is a spacious room, hung round with 
nameless furniture, into which curiosity is not 
permitted to pry. By the light of a single ta- 
per, you see the pale, half naked prisoner ; 
the monkish executioner, fiendishly busy ; 
the instruments of torture — the trickling blood 
— the quivering lip — the very anguish of the 
soul. But what has that man in black to do 
with the scene, who sits sedately by, and as 
he sees limb after limb stretched upon the 
rack, and screw after screw applied, and turn- 
ed, and tightened to the bone, says to the exe- 
cutioners, ' Take courage, brethren, we shall 
get the confession soon,' and to the prisoner, 
' Only confess now, and you will for ever bless 
God for his mercy on your soul !' ? 

1 Say you, this flight to the inquisition is a 
flight of fancy ! Then let it go for that ; but, 
after all, in sober sense, how can the Society 
approve, or how can it even fail to condemn 
that prejudice and oppression which render its 
interference necessary ? Let the organs of 
the Society, at length, answer this question. 
Surely, it has been asked by friends, and ask- 
ed by them in vain, till, in many cases, they 
have waked up in the ranks of the Society's 
decided enemies. To put the case in the most 
favorable light, by the supposition that the sin 
of the legislators is, by the Society's scheme, 
overruled for good, has the Society any right 
to rejoice at the sin ? Does not the divine jus- 
tice condemn the sinner, and does not the di- 
vine compassion weep over him, even while 
the divine wisdom brings good out of his evil ? 
On the example of the Society, when we do 
evil from which good may be extracted, we 
have a right to calculate on the approbation of 
all those angels of mercy, at least, whose busi- 
ness it may be to bring glory to God out of 
the wickedness of men. 

'On these grounds, it is concluded that the 
Society's plan is adjusted to the wicked pre- 
judices of the community against the people 
of color, and, of course, that its action cher- 
ishes these prejudices to the injury of inno- 
cent men.' 

It is delightful to peruse such manly and 
generous sentiments as those which follow : — 



m 



Anti-Slavery Society at Amherst College. 



'But there remains another charge. The 
Colonization Society basely slanders the 
whole body of the free people of color. It 
makes them a degraded, vicious, incurably be- 
sotted class, who not only never can rise, but 
never can be raised, and are properly to be 
got rid of as a nuisance. How would the wel- 
kin have rung with peals of indignation if 
such a charge had been uttered against any 
class of our white fellow citizens ? Eyen if it 
had been true, how would it have been repre- 
sented as abusive and unchristian ? But no 
.candid man needs to be told that against the 
free men of color the charge is false, and ca- 
luminous as it is cruel. There is, as might be 
expected of necessarily poor and ignorant 
men, goaded by prejudice and persecution, 
much vice among them. They do not belong 
•to that class of refined and innocent victims 
of oppression, which abound in novels, it may 
be ; neither is their depravity sufficiently dig- 
nified to suit the lovers of romance ; but it is 
an ill-looking, every-day, matter-of-fact thing. 
They need the same moral discipline which is 
needed by any other portion of the communi- 
ty. But amidst all their faults there are re- 
deeming qualities, which must put to shame 
every white man who has not lost the power 
to blush. No field in the world is richer in 
instances of stern moral courage, unbending 
decision of character, exact integrity, unas- 
sailable fidelity, self-sacrificing patriotism, ar- 
dent thirst for knowledge, disinterested benev- 
olence, and unfeigned piety, than the history 
of our free colored brethren. Multitudes of 
them have risen spontaneously from the low- 
est depths of slavery, have bought their free- 
dom by years of toil, have risen amidst un- 
measurable reproach and obloquy to an em- 
inence that has extorted the admiration of 
their oppressors. Others have braved death 
for liberty, have been hunted from mountain 
to mountain, have been ferreted from city to 
city, by monsters attracted by the price set 
upon their heads, till at length they have foil- 
ed all the advantages of their pursuers, and 
have planted themselves as quiet and indus- 
trious citizens of our northern republics. Some 
of them have borne away the palm of genius, 
by their own unaided endeavors. As a class, 
they have moved steadily forward, till they 
have consummated a union, whose voice, by 
its dignity and manful energy, has arrestedthe 
attention, and called forth the admiration of 
the wise and good in both hemispheres.' 



CONVENTION OF COLORED PEOPLE. 

We have not yet seen any report of the 
proceedings of this convention. We have, 
however, received an address issued by it, ad- 
dressed to the Free Colored Inhabitants of 
the United States. It is a paper which will 
interest those to whom it is addressed, and all 
their true friends. A report of the Committee 



on African Colonization, accompanies the 
address. Both the address and the report 
speak of the Colonization Society with strong 
and just reprobation. 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY AT AMHERST 
COLLEGE. 

We have lately received the following in- 
teresting communication from this institution. 
It gives us the highest gratification to find 
good principles gaining ground so rapidly 
among the young men of our country. 
To the Editor of the Abolitionist. 

Amherst College, July 25, 1833. 

Sir : — It affords us pleasure to inform you, 
that an Auxiliary to the New England Anti- 
Slavery Society, has recently been formed in 
this Institution. The number of its members, 
though at present comparatively small, is in- 
creasing. All other circumstances connected 
with the progress of the Society thus far, have 
been peculiarly auspicious and animating. If 
a thorough understanding of the cause we 
plead — deep-felt sympathies for the suffering 
slave — a perfect unity of feeling and effort — 
and 'a mind to work' may constitute strength 
— then we are strong. We have adopted a 
constitution fundamentally the same with that 
of the Parent Society. The noble cause of 
Immediate Emancipation — advocated by your 
Society, has been rapidly gaining ground in 
this College for a few months past. Three of 
our number listened to the recent public de- 
bate in Boston, between Messrs. Wright and 
Finley. Previously they had been zealous 
defenders of the principles of African Coloniz- 
ation — and by education were strongly preju- 
diced in their favor ; but by that discussion 
they were led to an examination of tb,e princi- 
ples of the two Societies, which resulted in 
the firm persuasion that the cause of ' imme- 
diate abolition ' was the cause of God and hu- 
manity — and that the advocates of gradual 
emancipation were but dallying with the sin 
of slavery — while the influence of their meas- 
ures was to render more hopeless the condi- 
tion of the slave. Among other resolutions 
submitted at our last meeting were the follow- 
lowing : 

1. Resolved, That the principles of the 
New England Anti-Slavery Society harmon- 
ize with the plainest precepts of Patriotism, 
Philanthropy and Religion. 

2. Resolved, That we cordially approve 
the plan adopted by the New England Anti? 



Anti-Slavery Society in Oneida Institute — Abolition of Slavery in British Colonies, fyc. 12. r > 



Slavery Society to establish an Institution for 
the instruction of colored youth — and as a So- 
ciety, pledge ourselves to raise for so be- 
nevolent an object, such sums as our means, 
from time to time will admit — and also to ex- 
ert ourselves to elevate and enlighten the col- 
ored population of our own vicinity, as well 
as abroad. 

3. Resolved, That we view with unquali- 
fied disapprobation and utter abhorrence the 
barbarous treatment of Miss Crandall, and 
that she is justly entitled to the prayers and 
sympathies of the Christian community while 
suffering persecution for her laudable and 
Christian efforts to instruct the ignorant and 
oppressed. 

The above resolutions were accompanied 
by interesting remarks, and unanimously 
adopted. 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY IN ONEIDA IN- 
STITUTE. 

The same mail which brought us the ac- 
count of the formation of an Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety in Amherst College, also conveyed to us 
the cheering news of the formation of a sim- 
ilar association in Oneida Institute. The fol- 
lowing is an extract from our correspondent's 
letter : — 

' An Anti-Slavery Society has been formed 
in this Institution, of a respectable number. 
The second Article of our constitution is as 
follows : " The object of this Society shall be 
to endeavor by all means sanctioned by Law, 
Humanity, and Religion, to effect the immedi- 
ate abolition of slavery in the United States 
without expatriation : to improve the charac- 
ter and condition of the free people of color ; 
to inform and correct public opinion in rela- 
tion to their situation and rights ; and obtain 
for them civil and political rights and privi- 
leges, equal with those of the whites.' 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE BRIT- 
ISH COLONIES. 

The last arrivals received from Great Bri- 
tain announce the paassage of the following 
resolutions in the House of Commons. The 
total abolition of slavery in the British Colo- 
nies is now no longer doubtful. That this 
measure will have a powerful tendency to 
overthrow the system in the Southern States, 
does not admit of a question. The glorious 
result which the labors of British Abolition- 
sts have thus secured, ought to inspire every 



enemy of slavery in America, with renewed 
zeal and vigor. 

1. That immediate and effectual measures 
be taken for the entire abolition of slavery 
throughout the colonies, under such provi- 
sions for regulating the condition of the ne- 
groes as may combine their welfare with the 
interests of the proprietors. 

2. That it is expedient that all children 
born after the passing of any act, or who shall 
be under the age of six years at the time of 
the passing of any act of Parliament for this 
purpose, be declared free ; subject, neverthe- 
less, to such temporary restrictions as may be 
deemed necessary for their support and main- 
tenance. 

3. That all persons now slaves shall be 
registered as apprenticed laborers, and acquire 
thereby all rights and privileges of freemen ; 
subject to the restriction of laboring under 
conditions and for a time to be fixed by Par- 
liament, for their present owners. 

4. That, towards the compensation of the 
proprietors, His Majesty is enabled to grant 
to them a sum not exceeding £20,000,000 
sterling, to be appropriated as Parliament shall 
direct. 

5. That His Majesty be enabled to defray 
any such expense as -he may incur in estab- 
lishing an efficient stipendiary magistracy in 
the colonies, and in aiding the local Legisla- 
tures in providing upon liberal and comprehen- 
sive principles for the religious and moral ed- 
ucation of the negro population to be emanci- 
pated. 

THREE MONTHS IN JAMAICA. 

We have recently received a little tract 
published in England, entitled ' Three Months 
in Jamaica in 1832, comprising a residence of 
Seven Weeks on a Sugar Plantation — By 
Henry White! ey.' This tract deserves great 
attention. The author, from the testimonials 
appended to the narrative, appears to be i a 
highly respectable young man, of unimpeach- 
able integrity as a man and as a christian.' 
He evidently gives an ' unvarnished tale,' of 
what fell under his own observation, in a sit- 
uation which gave him peculiar opportunities 
for seeing all the unveiled horrors of the slave 
system. No man, we venture to say, whose 
feelings have not been hardened by the prac- 
tice of oppression, can read Mr. Whiteley's 
unpretending pages, without coming to the 
conclusion that slavery ought to be abolished. 

He gives several cases of punishments 
which he saw inflicted — we extract the 12th 
and 13th. 

' 12th. The first of these two cases was that 
of a married woman, the mother of several 



12G 



School for Colored Children. 



children. She was brought up to the over- 
seer's door one morning- ; and one of the drivers 
who came with her accused her of having sto- 
len a fowl. Some feathers, said to have been 
found in her hut, were exhibited as evidence 
of her guilt. The overseer asked her if she 
would pay for the fowl. She said something 
in reply which I did not clearly understand. 
The question was repeated, and a similar reply 
again given. The overseer then said, 'Put her 
down.' On this the woman set up a shriek, 
and rent the air with her cries of terror. Her 
countenance grew quite ghastly, and her lips 
became pale and livid. I was close to her, 
and particularly noticed her remarkable aspect 
and expression of countenance. The over- 
seer swore fearfully, and repeated his order — 
' Put her down !' The woman then craved 
permission to tie some covering round her na- 
kedness, which she was allowed to do. She 
was then extended on the ground, and held 
down by two negroes. Her gown and shift 
were literally torn from her back, and, thus 
brutally exposed, she was subjected to the 
cart-whip. The punishment inflicted on this 
poor creature, was inhumanly severe. She 
was a woman somewhat plump in her person, 
and the whip being wielded with great vigor, 
every stroke cut deep into the flesh. She writh- 
ed and twisted her body violently under the 
infliction — moaning loudly, but uttering no ex- 
clamation in words, except once when she 
cried out, entreating that her nakedness (her 
parts of shame) might not be indecently ex- 
posed, — appearing to suffer, from matronly 
modesty, even more acutely on account of her 
indecent exposure than the cruel laceration of 
her body. But the overseer only noticed her 
appeal by a brutal reply (too gross to be re- 
peated), and the flogging continued. Disgust- 
ed as I was, I witnessed the whole to a close. 
I numbered the lashes stroke by stroke, and 
counted fifty, — thus exceeding by eleven the 
number allowed by the Colonial law to be in- 
flicted at the arbitrary will of the master or 
manager. This was the only occasion on 
which I saw the legal number of 39 lashes ex- 
ceeded, but I never knew the overseer or head 
book-keeper give less than 39. This poor vic- 
tim was shockingly lacerated. When permit- 
ted to rise, she again shrieked violently. The 
overseer swore roughly, and threatened, if she 
was not quiet, to put her down again. He 
then ordered ber to be taken to the hot-house 
or hospital, and put in the stocks. She was 
to be confined in the stocks for several nights, 
while she worked in the yard during the day 
at light work. She was too severely mangled 
to be able to go to the field for some days. 
This flogging took place on the 27th of Sep- 
tember. 

13th. The flogging of an old man, about 
60 years of age, is the last case I shall men- 
tion. He was the third driver upon the estate, 
— there being five altogether, whose sole em- 



ployment was literally driving, or coercing by 
the whip, the negro population to labor. With 
this old man I had had some conversation, and 
felt particularly interested in him, for his sil- 
very locks and something in his aspect remind- 
ed me powerfully of my aged father, whom I 
had left in England. He had been upon the 
estate a great number of years. He told me 
that not one of the negroes belonging to the 
gang he wrought in when he first came to New 
Ground was now alive. He came up to the 
overseer's door at shell-blow one day, and gave 
in, as is the practice, on a tally or bit of notch- 
ed stick, his account of the half day's work of 
the gang he superinted. The overseer was 
dissatisfied — said it was insufficient — and or- 
dered nim to get a flogging. The old man 
said, ' Well, Busha, me could have done no 
better, had you been standing by.' Then, 
groaning deeply, he laid down his staff and 
whip, unloosed his clothes, and lay quietly 
down to be flogged without being held. One 
of the other drivers, who had been called for- 
ward, appeared very reluctant to perform the 
office ; but, on the overseer swearing a rough 
oath or two, he proceeded to inflict the usual 
punishment of 39 lashes. The old man, look- 
ing up in the overseer's face imploringly, cried 
out after every stroke for several minutes — 
'Busha! Busha! Busha!' but seeing no signs 
of relenting, he ceased to callonhim, express- 
ing his feelings only by groans. I was deep- 
ly affected by the sight, and felt at the mo- 
ment that these groans were an awful appeal 
to the judgment seat of Him who heareth the 
cry of the oppressed. When the punishment 
was over, and the poor man arose, the other 
drivers looked at each other and shook their 
heads, but uttered not a word. They dared 
not.' 



SCHOOL FOR COLORED CHILDREN. 

We, with several other gentlemen, visited, 
during the past month, a primary school for 
colored children in Boston, kept by Miss Paul. 
We were highly gratified. This school does 
great credit to the instructress. The children 
appeared very cheerful, and were remarkably 
orderly. They seemed to be effectually gov- 
erned, obeying a word or sign of their teacher 
with great readiness. It is, however, her 
kindness which directs them, much more than 
force, to which we believe she seldom if ever 
resorts. We heard the children go through 
some of their exercises, in which it did not 
seem to us they appeared at all inferior to 
white children. They also sung two or three 
times, to the high gratification of their visitors. 
It struck us, though we are no great judge 
of singing, that their performance was quite 
equal, if not rather superior to any that we 
had ever heard at schools of white children. 



Emancipation Concert — Intelligence from Liberia. 



127 



EMANCIPATION CONCERT. 
The following information is extracted from 
the Religious Intelligencer of May 4, publish- 
ed at New-Haven, Conn. It affords one 
among many proofs of the increasing interest 
which is felt in our colored population. 

'A monthly concert of prayer has been es- 
tablished in this city, to be holden on the eve- 
ning of the last Monday of each month, in be- 
half of the millions of our fellow men who are 
kept in slavery. At the last meeting which 
was attended by Christians of different names 
and different colors, but of one mind and one 
spirit, the following resolution was adopted. 

Resolved, That with reference to the eman- 
cipation of the enslaved in this and other lands, 
and also the improvement and salvation of the 
people of color in the United States and the 
world; that 'all our expectation is from God;' 
that while we engage in efforts to promote 
these great and important ends, we would in- 
vite the followers of Christ, every where, to 
unite with us in a concert of prayer to Almigh- 
ty God on the last Monday evening of each 
month, to plead for the oppressed and neglect- 
ed people of color — that His arm would bring 
about their emancipation, improvement and 
salvation. 

The meeting also voted that a copy of the 
Resolution be presented to the Editor of the 
Religious Intelligencer, for publication, ac- 
companied with a request to the publishers of 
other religious papers to give it an insertion 
in their columns. 

Will not the children of God, every where, 
unite in this great enterprise ? We know of 
no subject of deeper interest, than the univer- 
sal abolition of slavery ; and we know of no 
way to accomplish it, but to ask counsel of 
God. At the throne of grace all parties can 
meet. The friends of immediate emancipa- 
tion who can think of no plan to accomplish 
their wishes, may ask the Lord to interpose, 
and rejoice that He reigns.' 



INTELLIGENCE FROM LIBERIA. 
Extracts of a Letters from Dr. Mechlin. 
Liberia, March 7, 1833. 

Dear Sir : — I am still in this land of pro- 
bation, laboring in the cause of African Colo- 
nization, and am happy to find that my efforts 
have not been entirely unsuccessful, 'Tis 
true the materials to be operated upon have 
not been of the best kind, and to this cause 
our slim progress is mainly attributed. Could 
we have a greater proportion of intelligent and 
enterprising people of color sent out, every 
thing would soon assume a different appear- 
ance ; and our agriculture, which is now in a 
languishing condition, would advance pari 
passu with our commercial prosperity. 

Your friend, the Rev. J. B. Pinney, is still 
here and in excellent health; how long he 



will continue so I cannot say ; the fever must 
and will have him ere many days have elaps- 
ed. It was his intention to have left this im- 
mediately for the interior, but yielding to the 
solicitations of Dr. Hall and myself, he has 
consented to remain some time longer, in or- 
der to undergo the severe process of acclima- 
tion. He is, I think, well calculated for the 
work he has undertaken — perhaps a little too 
confiding in the integrity of our natives ; this, 
however, a little intercourse will soon correct ; 
as those on the coast have just so much of civil- 
ization as to become the most accomplished 
rogues the world can produce.' 

' This season has been unusually unhealthy. 
* * * We had, at one time, upivards of FOUR 
HUNDRED invalids on our list: of these, by 
far the greater number (say two-thirds) were at 
Caldwell, and the remainder scattered over 
the town of Monrovia, in such shelters as could 
be procured. Under these circumstances, it 
was impossible that any one physician could 
give the requisite attendance. Dr. Hall made 
the attempt, but was soon attacked Avith fever, 
induced by the great fatigue and exposure 
which he underwent. From this attack he can 
scarcely be considered convalescent : and the 
consequent prostration is so great, that I have 
advised him to return to the United States in 
the vessel that conveys this ; there being but 
little probability of his recovering sufficient 
strength and health to be of any service, with- 
out a temporary residence in a more healthy 
climate ; and to remain here during the rainy 
season, would, I am convinced, be to sacrifice his 
life. He has, therefore, although reluctantly, 
yielded to my solicitations ; and should his life 
be spared, you may expect to see him at Wash- 
ington shortly after the receipt of this. His 
departure will, of course, throw the whole of the 
medical duties on me, and these I cannot dis- 
charge, although I have every disposition to af- 
ford all the aid and assistance in my power. I 
have already,since the departure of Dr.Todsen, 
been twice confined to my bed with severe in- 
disposition, occasioned by fatigue and expo- 
sure to the sun and night air, during my atten- 
dance on the sick ; and there is every proba- 
bility, should the necessity for my services 
continue, that I shall have repeated attacks ; 
but as this is unavoidable, I will continue in 
the course I am pursuing - , and willingly abide 
the result.' 



COLONIZATION CORRESPONDENCE. 

A Correspondence between sundry citizens 
of New York, viz: Arthur Tappan, George 
Bourne, William Goodell, Joshua Leavitt, Lew- 
is Tappan, S. P. Hines, Henry R. Piercy, C. 
W. Dennison, L. D. Dewey, Theodore D. Weld, 
C. G.Finney, and G. R.Barker,and R.R. Gurley, 
Secretary of the American Colonization Society 
has lately appeared in an Extra Emancipator. 



128 New Publications — New Anti-Slavery Society — Poetry — Money collected. 



The reply of the New York gentlemen to Mr. 
Gurley, contains a powerful, and we may say 
unanswerable confutation of the principles of 
the American Colonization Society. We 
should be glad to publish it, if our limits 
would permit. 



NEW ANTI-SLAVERY PUBLICATIONS. 

We have received several new anti-slavery 
publications. We have time and space barely 
to mention their names. 

An Address to the citizens of Philadelphia, 
on the subject of Slavery. Delivered in 
the hall of the Franklin Institute, on the 
4th of 7th month, (July,) A. D. 1833. By 
Edwin P. Atlee, M. D. of Philadelphia. 
Published by particular request. 

The sound principles advocated in this ad- 
dress are highly favorable to the author, and 
can scarcely fail to produce good effects. 

Four Sermons, preached in the chapel of the 
Western Reserve College, (Ohio) on Lord's 
days, November 18th and 25th, ^nd De- 
cember 2nd and 9th, 1832. By Beriah 
Green, Professor of Sacred Literature, in 
the College. 

We have just received these valuable dis- 
courses, we hope to notice them more fully in 
a future number. 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY AT ASSONET. 

The following is an extract of a letter from Arnold 
Buffum to the Corresponding Secretary of the New- 
England Anti-Slavery Society, dated July 16 : 

' In my last from Taunton I mentioned that it was 
proposed to form an Anti-Slavery Society at Assonet. 
I returned there and gave them an address on Friday 
evening of last wees, written expressly for the occa- 
sion, containing a historical narration of the rise and 
progress of the anti-slavery cause, showing its result 
in an imperishable monument of 350,000 persons of col- 
or delivered from personal bondage. I then showed 
them how the increase of free persons of color alarmed 
the legislature of Virginia and the slaveholders in gen- 
eral, and led to the formation of the Colonization 
scheme. I gave them the history, character and prinr 
ciples of that scheme, and exhibited the deception 
practised by the agents of the slaveholders, and invit- 
ed them to organise a Society to resist the progress of 
these deceptions, and to promote the anti-slavery 
cause. I then read our constitution, and took a vote 
whether they would proceed to form a Society. The 
vote was unanimous in the affirmative. Three cler- 
gymen all in the place were present, and all spoke in 
favor of forming a Society, and all pat down their 
names as members. Our constitution, so altered as to 
adapt it to an auxiliary society, was unanimously 
adopted. Dea. Burt was chosen Chairman, and Rev. 
Wm. Coe Secretary ; a number of names were given 
and a Committee appointed to solicit further subscrip- 
tions to the constitution, and the meeting was adjourn- 
ed one week to meet for the choice of officers. I saw 
the Committee the next morning ; they said they should 
have a very respectable Society, and they think they 
will send a delegate to Philadelphia, to assist at the 
formation of the National Society.' 



' THE HUMMING BIRD.' 

The following lines form the motto of an 

English periodical work, with the above title. 

As the small Bird, that fluttering roves 
Among Jamaica's tam'rind groves, 

A feathered busy bee, 
In note scarce rising to a song, 
Incessant, hums the whole day long, 

In slavey's Island, free ! 

So shall ' A still small voice' be heard, 
Though humble as the Humming Bird, 

In Britain's groves of oak ; 
And to the peasant from the King, 
In every ear shall ceaseles sing, 

' Free Afric from her yoke!' 

COLLECTIONS MADE BY ARNOLD BUFFUM 

FOR THE NEW-ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

At Maiden 2 50 

Baptist meeting in New-Bedford - - 15 50 

African do. do. - - - 11 75 

Baptist Meeting in Newport - - - 4 68 

Bristol 00 91 

Taunton 5 00 

Providence - - - i . _ 5 75 

Pawtucket 3 70 

Woonsoeket 1 50 

Slaterville 1 35 

Uxbridge 17 16 

Grafton 7 80 

Leicester - - - - - - -3 00 

Worcester - 1 37 

Ware 00 71 

Belchertown --.... 152 

Springfield 00 75 

Sunderland 2 50 

Greenfield - - - - - 00 76 

Brattleboro' - 2 30 

Walpole, N. H. 4 00 

Keene - - -- - - - 7 00 

Newport, R. I. 1 75 

Taunton 9 00 

Dorchester 9 00 

Lowell 15 30 

Andover 2 69 

Newburyport - - - - - - 5 00 

Lowell 4 50 

Rev. Mr. Himes' church, Boston - - 14 00 

Lynn 6 57 

Woburn 7 00 

Fall River 5 75 

African Church, New-Bedford - - 4 27 

Christian do. do. - - - 10 25 

Emerson's do., Boston - - - - 22 45 

West Bridgewater - - - - - 1 80 

North do. 1 75 

West Randolph 3 80 

Brighton 3 90 

Congregational Church, New-Bedford - 4 40 

Danvers, Sewall's church - - - 7 00 

Lynn 1 25 

Discussion at Salem - - - - 20 12 

William Ladd 5 00 

Beverly 4 70 

Tabernacle, Salem - - - - - 6 50 

3d African Church, Philadelphia - - 22 70 

Dea. Dean, New-Haven - - - - 2 00 

Total, - - - #303 90 
The Treasurer of the N. E. Anti-Slavery Society 
acknowledges the receipt of the following in July : 

From Charles Stuart, Esq. of Liverpool. Eng. 15 00 

Annual assessments from members - 9 00 
Amount of collections at Masonic Hall and 

Boylston Hall .... 54 57 

Total --- #78 57 

i JAMES C. ODIORNE, Treasurer. 



