AMERICAN SLAVERY 



! 



AS IT IS: 



TESTIMONY 



OF 



A THOUSAND WITNESSES. 



" Behold the wicked abominations that they do !"— Ezkkxkl, viii. 9. 

"The righteous conbimreth the cause of the poor; but the wicked regardeth not to know it."— Prov. 29, 7. 

" True humanity consists not in a sQUKJiWi'SH bar, but in listening to the story of human suffering and endea- 
voring to relieve it." — Charles James Fox. 



\ 



NEW Y .0 R K ; 
PUJ>.^SHED BY THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

OFFICE, No. 143 NASSAU STREET. 

^ 183 9. 



r 




AMERICAN SLAVERY 



AS IT is: 



TESTIMONY 



OF 



A THOUSAND WITNESSES. 



" Beliold the wicked abominations that they do !" — Ezekiel, viii. 9. 

"Tlie righteous consideretii the cause of the poor; but the wicked regardeth not to know it." — Prov. 29, 7. 

'True humanity consists not in a squeamish ear, but in listening to tlie story of human suffering and endea- 
voring to relieve it." — Charles James Fox. 



NEW YORK: 
PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

OFFICE, No. 143 NASSAU STREET. 

18 3 9- 



ADVERTISEMENT TO THE READER. 

A MAJOBiTT of the facts and testimony contained in this work rests upon the authority of 
SLAVEHOLDERS, whose names and residences are given to the public, as vouchers for the truth of 
their statements. That they should utter falsehoods, for the sake of proclaiming their 
own infamy, is not probable. 

Their testimony is taken, mainly, from recent newspapers, published in the slave states. Most 
of those papers will be deposited at the office of the American Anti-Slavery Society, 143 Nas- 
sau street, New- York City. Those who think the atrocities, which they describe, incredible, 
are invited to call and read for themselves. We regret that all of the original papers are not in 
our possession. The idea of preserving them on file for the inspection of the incredulous, and the 
curious, did not occur to us until after the preparation of the work was in a state of forwardness ; 
in consequence of this, some of the papers cannot be recovered. Nearly all of them, however 
have been preserved. In all cases the name of the paper is given, and, with very few excep- 
tions, the place and time, (year, month, and day) of pubhcation. Some of the extracts, however 
not being made with reference to this work, and before its publication was contemplated, are 
without date ; but this class of extracts is exceedingly small, probably not a thirtieth of the whole 

The statements, not derived from the papers and other periodicals, letters, books, &c., pub- 
lished by slaveholders, have been furnished by individuals who have resided in slave states, many 
of whom are natives of those states, and have been slaveholders. The names, residences, &c. 
of the witnesses generally are given. A number of them, however, still reside in slave states ;— 
to publish their names would be, in most cases, to make them the victims of popular fury. 

NeiD-York, May 4, 1839. 



NOTE. 

The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, while tendering their grate, 
ful acknowledgments, in the name of American Abolitionists, and in behalf of the slave, to those 
who have furnished for this publication the result of their residence and travel in the slave states of 
this Union, announce their determination to publish, from time to time, as they may have the ma- 
terials and the funds, tracts, containing well authenticated facts, testimony, personal narratives, 
&c. fully setting forth the condition of American slaves. In order that they maybe furnished with 
the requisite materials, they invite all who have had personal knowledge of the condition of slaves 
in any of the states of this Union, to forward their testimony with their names and residences. To 
prevent imposition, it is indispensable that persons forwarding testimony, who are not personally 
known to any of the Executive Committee, or to the Secretaries or Editors of the American Anti- 
Slavery Society, should furnish references to some person or persons of respectability, with whom, if 
necessary, the Committee may communicate respecting the writer. 

Facts and testimony respecting the condition of slaves, in all respects, are desired ; their food, 
(kinds, quality, and quantity,) clothing, lodging, dwellings, hours of labor and rest, kinds of labor, 
with the mode of exaction, supervision, &-c. — the number and time of meals each day, treatment 
when sick, regulations respecting their social intercourse, marriage and domestic ties, the system 
of torture to which they are subjected, with its various modes ; and in detail, their intellectual 
and moral condition. Great care should be observed in the statement of facts. Well-weighed 
testimony and well-authenticated facts, with a responsible name, the Committee earnestly desire 
and call for. Thousands of persons in the free states have ample knowledge on this subject, de- 
rived from their own observation in the midst of slavery. Will such hold their peace ? T hat which 
maketh manifest is light; he who keepeth his candle under a bushel at such a time and in such 
a cause as this, forges fetters for himself^ as well as for the slave. Let no one withhold his testi- 
mony because others have already testified to similar facts. The value of testimony is by no 
means to be measured by the novelty of the horrors which it describes. Corroborative testimony, 
— facts, similar to those established by the testimony of others, — is highly valuable. Who that 
can give it and has a heart of flesh, will refuse to the slave so small a boon ? 

Communications may be addressed to Theodore D. Weld, 143 Nassau-street, New -York. 
New York, May, 1839. 



CONTENTS. 



Introduction. — ^7-10. 

Twenty-seven hundred thousand free bom citizens of 
fie U. S. in slavery, 7 : Tender mercies of slaveholders, 8 : 
Abominations of slavery, 9: Character of the testimo- 
ny, 9-10. 

Personal Narratives— Part I. pp. 10-27. 

Narrative of Nehemiah Caulkins, 102; North 
Carolina slavery, 11 ; Methodist preaching slavedriver, 
Galloway, 12 : Women at child-birth, 12 : Slaves 
at labor, 12 : Clothing of slaves, 13 ; Allowance of 
provisions, 13 ; Slave-fetters, 13 ; Cruelties to slaves, 13, 
14, 15 , Burying a slave alive, 15 ; Licentiousness of Slave- 
holders, 15, 16 ; Rev. Thomas P. Hunt, with his " hands 
tied," 16 ; Preachers cringe to slavery, 15 ; Nakedness of 
slaves, 16 ; Slave-huts, 16 ; Means of subsisten:5e for 
slaves, 16, 17 ; Slaves' prayer, 17. 

Narrrative of Rev. Horace Mowlton, 17 ; Labor 
of the slaves, 18 ; Tasks, 18 ; Whipping posts, 18 ; Food, 
IS : Houses, 19 ; Clothing, 19 ; Punishments, 19, 20 ; 
Scenes of horror, 20 ; Constables, savage and brutal, 20 ; 
Patrols, 20; Cruelties at night, 20,21; Paddle-torturing, 
20 ; Cat'haiiling, 21 ; Branding with hot iron, 21 ; Murder 
with impunity, 21 ; Iron collars, yokes, clogs, and bells, 21. 

Narrative of Sarah M.Grimke, 22; Barbarous Treat- 
ment of slaves, 22 ; Converted slave, 22 ; Professor of reli- 
gion, near death, tortured his slave for visiting his com- 
panion, 33; Counterpart of James Williams' description of 
Larrimore's wife, 23 ; Head of runaway slave on a pole, 
23 ; Governor of North Carolina left his sick slave to per- 
ish, 23 ; Cruelty to Women slaves, 34 ; Christian slave a 
martyr for Jesus, 24. 

Testimony of Rev. John Graham, 25 ; Twenty-seven 
slaves whipped, 26. 

Testimony of William Poe, 26 ; Harris whipped a 
gir) to death, 26 ; Captain of the U. S. Navy murdered 
his boy, was tried and acquitted, 26 ; Overseer burnt a 
slave, 26 ; Cruelties to slaves, 26. 

Privations of the slaves, pp. 27 — 44- 

FOOD, 28-31 ; Suffering from hunger, 28 ; Rations in 
the U. S. Army, &c , 32 ; Prison rations, 33-34 ; Testimo- 
ny, 34, 35. LABOR, 35 ; Slaves are overworked, 35; Wit- 
nesses, 35, 36 ; Henry Clay, 37 ; Child-bearing prevented, 
37 ; Dr. Channing, 38 ; Sacrifice of a set of hands every 
seven years, 38 ; Testimony, 39 ; Laws of Georgia, Louis- 
iana, Maryland, South Carolina, and Virginia, 39. 
_ CLOTHING, 40 ; Witnesses, 40, 41 ; Advertisements, 
41; Testimony, 41; Field-hands, 41; Nudity of slaves, 
42; John Randolph's legacy to Essex and Hetty, 42. 
DWELLINGS, 42 ; Witnesses, 43 ; Slaves are wretchedly 
sheltered and lodged, 43. TREATMENT OF THE 
SICK, 44. 

Personal Narratives, Part II. pp 45-57. 

Testimony of the Rev. Wiilliam T. Allan. 45; 
Woman delivered of a dead child, being whipped, 46 ; 
Slaves shot by Hilton, 46 ; Cruelties to slaves, 46 ; Whip- 
ping post, 46 ; Assaults, and niaimings, 46, 47 ; Mur- 
ders, 47; Puryear, "the Devil," 47; Overseers always 
armed, 44 ; Licentiousness of Overseers, 47 ; " Bend your 
backs," 47 ; Mrs. H., a Presbyterian, desirous to cut Arthur 
Tappau's throat, 47 ; Clothing, Huts, and Herding of 
slaves, 47 ; L'on yokes with prongs, 47 ; Marriage un- 
known among slaves, 46 ; Presbyterian minister at HuMts- 
ville, 47 ; Concubinage in Preacher's house, 47 ; Slavery, 
the great wrong, 47. 

Narrative of William Lffxwich, 48, 49 ; Slave's life, 
,48,49. 



Testimony of Lemuel Sahngton, 49; Naked»ess of 
slaves, 49 ; Traffic in slaves, 49. 

Testimony of Mrs. Lowry, 50 ; Long, a professor of 
religion killed three men, 50 ; Salt water applied to 
wounds to keep them from putrefaction, 50. 

Testimony of William C. Gildersleeve, 50 ; Acts of 
cruelty, 50. 

Testimony of Hiram White, 51 ; Woma» with a child 
chained to her neck, 51 ; Amalgamation, and mulatto 
children, 51. 

Testimony of John M. Nelson, 51 ; Rev. Conrad 
Speece influenced Alexander Nelson when dyiii;; not to 
emancipate his slaves, 52 ; George Bourne opposed .'lavery in 
1810, 52. 

Testimony of Angelina Grimke Weld, 52 ; House- 
sfervants, 52 ; Slave-driving female professors of religion at 
Charleston, S. C, 53 ; Whipping women and prayer in the 
sam« room, 53 ; Tread-mills, 53 ; Slaveholding religion, 
54 ; Slave-driving mistress prayed for the divine blessing 
upon her whipping of an aged woman, 54 ; Girl killed with 
impunity, 54 ; Jewish law, 54 ; Barbarities, 54 ; Medical 
attendance upo'i slaves, 55 ; Young man beatea to epilepsy 
and insanity, 55 ; Mistresses flog their slaves, 55; Blood- 
bought luxuries, 55 ; Borrowing of slaves, 55 ; Meals of 
slaves, 55 ; All comfort of slaves disregarded, 56 ; Severance 
of companion lovers, 56 ; Separation of parents and children, 
56 ; Slave espionage , 57 ; Sufferings of slaves, 57 ; Horrors 
of slavery indescribable, 56. 

Testimony of Cruelty inflicted upon slaves, 57 ; 
Colonization Society, 60 ; Emancipation Society of North 
Carolina, 60 ; Kentucky, 61. 

PUNISHiMENTS, 62-72 ; Floggmgs, 62 ; Witnesses and 
Testimony, 62, 63. 

Slave Driving, 69 ; Droves of slaves, 70. 

Cruelty to Slaves, 70 ; Slaves like Stock without ai 
shelter, 71 ; " Six pound paddle," 71. 

Tortures of slaves. Iron collars, chaiis, fetters, and 
hand-cuffs, 72-76 : Advertisements for fugitive slaves, 7.'' ■ 
Testimony, 74, 75: Iron head-frame, 76: Chain coffl? . . 
76 ; Droves of human cattle,' 76 : Washington, the N;i. 
tional slave market, 76 : Testimony of James K. Pauld- 
ing, Secretary of the Navy ; Litsrary fraud and pretaideii 
prophecy by Mr. Paulding, 77 : Brandings, Maiiniugs, and 
Gun-shot wounds, 77 : Witnesses and Tcsthnony, 77-F2 : 
Mr. Sevier, senator of the U. S. 79: Judge Hitchcock, ot 
Mobile, 79 : Commendable fidelity to truth in the advertise- 
ments of slaveholders, 82 : Thomas Aylethorpe cut off a 
slave's ear, and sent it to Lewis Tappan, 33 : Advettise- 
mants for runaway slaves with tlieir teeth muti- 
lated, 83, 84; Excessive cruelty to slaves, 85: Slaves 
burned alive, 86 : Mr. Turner, a slave-butcher, 87 : 
Shaves roasted and flogged, 87 : Cruelties common, 83 : 
Fugitive slaves, 88 : Slaves forced to eat tobacco worms, 
88 : Baptist Christians escaping from slaveiy, 88 ; Chris- 
tian whipped for praying, 88 : James K. Paulding's testi- 
mony, 89 : Slave driven to death, 89 : Coroner's inquest on 
Harney's murdered female slave, 89: Man-stealing en- 
couraged by law, 90 : Trial for a murdered slave, 90 : Fe 
male slave whipped to death, and during the torture deliv- 
ered of a dead infant. 90 : Slaves murdered, 90,91,92: 
Slave driven to death, 92 : Slaves killed with impunity, 
93 : George, a slave, chopped piece-meal, and burnt by 
Lilburn Lewis, 92 ; Retributive justice in the awful death 
of Lilburn Lewis, 94 : Trial of Isham Lewis, a slave mur- 
derer, 94. 



VI 



Contents. 



Personal Narratives — Part hi. Page 94-109. 

•Jarrative of Rev. Francis Hawley, 94 ; Plantations, 
94 ; Overseers, 95 ; No appeal from Overseers to Masters, 
95. 

Clothing, 95 ; Nudity of slaves, 95. 
Work, 95 ; Cotton-picking, 96 ; Mothers of slaves, 96 ; 
Presbyterian minister killed his slave, 96 ; Methodist co- 
lored preacher hung, 96 ; Licentiousness, 97 ; Slave-traffic, 
97 ; Night in a Slaveholder's house, 97 ; Twelve slaves 
murdered, 97 ; Slave driving Baptist preachers, 97 ; Hunt- 
iii'i of runaways slaves, 97 ; Amalgamation, 97. 

Testimony of Reuben C. Macy, and Richard Macy, 98. 
Whipping of slaves, 98, 99. Testimony of Eleazer Powel, 
99; Overseer of Hinds Stuart, shot a slave for opposing the 
torture of his female companion, 100. 

Testimony of Rev. William Scalks, 100. Three slaves 
murdered with impunity, 100 ; Separation of lovers, par- 
ents, and children, 101. 

Testimony of Jos. Ide, 101. Mrs. T. a Presbyterian kind 
woman- killer, 101; Female slave whipped to death, 101; 
Food, 101 ; Nakedness of slaves, 101 ; Old man flogged 
after praying for his tyrant, 101 ; Slave-huts not as comfort- 
able as pig- sties, 101. 

Testimony of Rev. Phineas Smith, 101. Texas, 102 ^ 
Suit for the value of slave ' property,' 102 ; Anson Jones, 
Ambassador from Texas, 102 ; No trial or punishment for 
the murder of slaves, 102 ; Slave- hunting in Texas, 102; 
Suffering drives the slaves to despair and suicide, 102. 
Testimony of Phil'n Bliss, 102. Ignorance of northern 
citizens respecting slavery, 102,Betting upon crops, 103 ; Ex- 
tent and cruelty of the punishment of slaves, 103 ; Slavehold- 
ers excuse their cruelties by the example of Preachers, 
and professors of religion, and Northern citizens, 104 ; Novel 
torture, eulogized by a professor of reUgion, 104 ; Whips as 
common as the plough, 104 ; Ladies use cowhides, with 
shovel and tongs, 104. 

Testimony of Rev. Wm. A. Chapin, 105. Slave-labor, 
105 ; Starvation of slaves, 105 ; Slaves lacerated, without 
clothing, and without food, 105. 

Testimony OF T. M. Macy, 105. Cotton plantations on St. 
Simon's Island, 105 ; Cultivntion of rice, 106 ; No time for 
relaxation, 106; Sabbath a nominal rest, 106; Clothing, 
106; Flogging, 106. 

Testimony of F. C. Macy, 106. Slave cabins, 106 ; Food, 
106 ; Whipping every day, 106 ; Treatment of slaves as 
brutes, 106 ; Slave-boys fight for slaveholder's amusement) 
107 ; Amalgamation common, 107. 

Testimony of a Clergyman, 107. Natchez, 107 ; ' Lie 
down,' for whipping, 107 ; Slave-hunting, 108 ; ' Ball and 
chain' men, 108 ; Whipping at the same time, on three 
plantations, 108 ; Hours of Labor, 108 ; Christians slave- 
hnnthig, 108 ; Many runaway slaves annually shot, 108 ; 
Slaves in the stocks, 108 ; Slave-branding, 108- 

Oondition of Slaves, 108. Slavery is unmixed cruelty, 
108 ; Fear the only motive of slaves, 109 ; Pain is the 
means, not the end of slave-driving, 109; Characters of 
Slave drivers and Overseers, brutal, sensual, and violent, 
109 ; OvTuership of human beings utterly destroys their 
comfort, 109. 

OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED :— Page 120—210. 
T. Such cruelties are incredible, 110. Slaves deemed to 
'je working animals, or merchandize ; and called ' Stock,' 
' Increase,' ' Breeders,' ' Drivers,' ' Prope*ty,' ' Human 
cattle,' 110 ; Testimony of Thomas Jefferson, 110 ; Slaves 
worse treated than quadrupeds, 111, 112 ; Contrast between 
the usage of slaves and animals, 112 ; Testimony, 112 ! 
Northern incredulity discreditable to consistency, 1 12 ; 
Religious persecutions, 113 ; Recent ' Lynch ings,' and Riots, 
in the United States, 113 ; Many outrageous Fek)nies perpe- 
trated with impunity, 113 ; Large faith of the objectors who 
' can't believe,' 114 ; 'Doe faces,' and' Dough faces,' 114; 
Slave-drivers acknowledge their own enormities, 114; 
Slave plantations in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi, 
' second only to hell,' 114 ; Legislature of North Carolina, 



115 ; Incredulity discreditable to mtelligence, 115 ; Abuse of 
power in the state, and chuiches, 115 ; Legal restraints, 116 ; 
American slaveholders possess absolute power, 116 ; Slaves 
deprived of the safeguards of law,116; Mutual aversion be- 
tween the oppressor and the slave, 116 ; Cruelty the product 
of arbitrary power, 117 ; Testimony of Thomas Jefferson, 
117 ; Judge Tucker, 117 ; Presbyterian Synod of South 
CaroUna, and Georgia, 117 ; General William H. Harrison, 
117; President Edwards, 118 ; Montesquieu, 118; Wilber- 
force, 118 ; Whitbread, 118 ; Characters, 118, 121. 

Objection II.—" Slaveholders protest that they treat their 
slaves well.'' 121 Not testimony but opinion, 122; 'Good 
treatment' of slaves,' 123 ; Novel form of cruelty, 125 . 

Objection Til — " Slaveholders are proverbial for their 
kindness, and generosity, 125 ; Hospitality and benevolence 
contrasted, 125, 126 ; Slaveholders in Congress, respecting 
Texas and Hayti, 126 ; ' Fictitious kindness and hospitality,' 
128. 

Objection IV.—" Northern visitors at the south testify 
that the slaves are not cruelly treated," 128. Testimony, 
128, 129 ; ' Gubner poisened,' 129 ; Fiela-hands, 130 ; Par- 
lor slaves, 130 ; Chief Justice Durell, 131. 

Objection V.—" It is for the interest of the masters to 
treat their slaves well," 132; Testimony, 133. Rev. J. N 
Maffitt, 134 ; Masters interest to treat cruelly the great body 
of the slaves, 134, 138 ; Various classes of slaves, 135, 136 ; 
Hired slaves, 136 ; Advertisements, 136, 137. 

Objection VI:—" Slaves multiply ; a proof that they are 
not inhumanly treated, and are in a comfortable condition, 
139. Testimony, 139; Martin VanBuren, 139; Foreign 
slave trade, 139 ; ' Beware of Kidnappers,' 140 ; ' Citizens 
sold as slaves,' 141 ; Kidnapping at New Orleans, 141 ; Slave 
breeders, 142. 

Objection VII. — " Public opinion is a protection to the 
slave, 143." Decision of the Supreme Court of North and 
South Carohna, 143 ; ' Protection of slaves,' 143 ; Mischiev- 
ous effects of ' public opinion' concerning slavery, 144 ; 
Lawsof different states, 144 ; Heart of slaveholders, 14-5 ; 
Reasons for enacting the laws concerning cruelties to 
slaves, 147 ; ' Moderate correction,' 148 ; Hypocrisy and 
malignity of slave laws, 148 ; Testimony of slaves excluded, 
149 ; Capital crimes for slaves, 149 ; ' Slaveholding brutali- 
ty,' worse than that of Caligula, 149 ; Public opinion destroys 
fundamental rights, 150 ; Character of slaveholders' adver- 
tisements, 1?>2 ; Pubhc opinion is diabolical, 152, 154 ; 
Brutal indecency, 154 ; Murder of slaves by law, 155,156; 
Judge Lawless, 157 ; Slave-hunting, 159, 160 ; Health of 
slaves, 161 ; Acclimation of slaves, 162 ; Liberty of Slaves 

162 ; Kidnapping of free citizens, 162 ; Law of Louisiana, 

163 ; Friends', memorial, 164 ; Domestic slavery, 164 ; Ad- 
vertisements, 164, 167 ; Cli!ldhood,old age, 167 ; Inhumani 
ty, 169 ; Butchering dead slaves, 169 ; South Carolina 
Medical college, 169 ; Charleston Medical Inhrmary, 172 ; 
Advertisements, 172, 173 ; Slave murders, 173 ; John Ran- 
dolph, 173 ; Charleston slave auctions, 174 ; ' Never lose.a 
day's work,' 174; Stocks, 175 ; Slave-breeding, 175 ; Lynch 
law, 175 ; Slaves murdered,176 ; Slaveiy among Christians, 
176, 180 ; Licentiousness encouraged by preachers, 180 ; 
' Fine old preacher who dealt in slaves,' 180 ; Cruelty to 
slaves by professors of religion, 181; Slave-breeding, 182; 
Daniel O'Connel, and Andrew Stevenson, 182 ; Virginia a 
negro raisuig menagerie, 182 • Legislature of Virginia, 182 ; 
Colonization Society,183; Inter-state slave traffic, 184 ; Bat- 
tles in Congress, 184; Duelling, 185; Cock-fighting, 186; 
Horse-racing, 186 ; Ignorance of slaveholders, 187 i ' Slave- 
holding civiltzation, and morality,' 188; Aikansas, 188; 
Slave driving ruffians, 189, 190 ; Missouri, 191 ; Alabama, 
192 ; Butcheries hi Mississippi, 194 ; Louisiana, 198; Ten- 
nessee, 200 ; Fatal Affray in Columbia, 201 ; Presentment 
of the Grand Jury of Shelby County, 202 ; Testimony of 
Bishop Smith of Kentucky, 204, 206. 

! Atlantic Slaveholding Region, 206. Georgia, 206 ; 
North Carolina, 209 ; Trading with Negroes, 209 ; Conclu- 
sion, 210. 



INTRODUCTION. 



Reader, you are empannelled as a juror to try 
a plain case and bring in an honest verdict. 
The question at issue is not one of law, but of 
fact — "What is the actual condition of the 
slaves in the United States?" A plainer case 
never went to a jury. Look at it. Twenty- 
seven HUNDRED THOUSAND PERSONS in this Coun- 
try, men, women, and children, are in slavery. 
Is slavery, as a condition for human beings, 
good, bad, or indifferent? We submit the 
question without argument. You have common 
sense, and conscience, and a human heart ; — pro- 
nounce upon it. You have a wife, or a husband, 
a child, a father, a mother, a brother or a sister — 
make the case your own, make it theirs, and 
bring in your verdict. The case of Human 
Rights against Slavery has been adjudicated in 
the court of conscience times innumerable. The 
same verdict has always been rendered — " Guil- 
ty ;" the same sentence has always been pro- 
nounced, " Let it be accursed ;" and human na- 
ture, with her million echoes, has rung it round 
the world in every language under heaven, " Let 
it be accursed. Let it be accursed." His heart is 
false to human nature, who will not say "Amen." 
There is not a man on earth who does not be- 
lieve that slavery is a curse. Human beings 
may be inconsistent, but human nature is true 
to herself. She has uttered her testimony 
against slavery with a shriek ever since the mon- 
ster was begotten ; and till it perishes amidst the 
execrations of the universe, she will traverse 
the world on its track, dealing her bolts upon its 
head, and dashing against it her condemning 
brand. We repeat it, every man knows that 
slavery is a curse. Whoever denies this, his lips 
libel his heart. Try him ; clank the chains in 
his ears, and tell him they are for him. Give 
him an hour to prepare his wife and children for 
a life of slavery. Bid him make haste and get 
ready their necks for the yoke, and their wrists 
for the coffle chains, then look at his pale lips and 
trembling knees, and you have nature's testimony 
against slavery. 



Two millions seven hundred thousand persons 
in these States are in this condition. They were 
made slaves and are held such by force, and by 
being put in fear, and this for no crime ! Reader, 
what have you to say of such treatment ? Is it 
right, just, benevolent ? Suppose I should seize 
you, rob you of your hberty, drive you into the 
field, and make you work without pay as long as 
you live, would that be justice and kindness, or 
monstrous injustice and cruelty? Now, every 
body knows that the slaveholders do these things 
to the slaves every day, and yet it is stoutly af- 
firmed that they treat them well and kindly, and 
that their tender regard for their slaves restrains 
the masters from inflicting cruelties upon them. 
We shall go into no metaphysics to show the 
absurdity of this pretence. The man who rohs 
you every day, is, forsooth, quite too tender- 
hearted ever to cuff* or kick you ! True, he can 
snatch your money, but he does it gently lest he 
should hurt you. He can empty your pockets 
without qualms, but if your stomach is empty, it 
cuts him to the quick. He can make you work 
a life time without pay, but loves you too well 
to let you go hungry. He fleeces you of your 
rights with a relish, but is shocked if you work 
bareheaded in summer, or in winter without 
warm stockings. He can make you go without 
your liberty, but never without a shirt. He can 
crush, in you, all hope of bettering your condition, 
by vowing that you shall die his slave, but though 
he can coolly torture your feelings, he is too com- 
passionate to lacerate your back — he can break 
your heart, but he is very tender of your skin. 
He can strip you of all protection and thus ex- 
pose you to all outrages, but if you are exposed 
to the weather, half clad and half sheltered, how 
yearn his tender bowels ! What ! slaveholders 
talk of treating men well, and yet not only rob 
them of all they get, and as fast as they get it, 
but rob them of themselves, also ; their very hands 
and feet, all their muscles, and limbs, and senses, 
their bodies and minds, their time and liberty and 
earnings, their free speech and rights of con- 



8 



Introduction, 



science, their right to acquire knowledge, and 
property, and reputation ; — and yet they, who 
plunder them of all these, would fain make us 
believe that their soft hearts ooze out so lovingly 
toward their slaves that they always keep them 
well housed and well clad, never push them too 
hard in the field, never make their dear backs 
smart, nor let their dear stomachs get empty. 

But there is no end to these absurdities. 
Are slaveholders dunces, or do they take all 
the rest of the world to be, that they think 
to bandage our eyes with such thin gauzes ? 
Protesting their kind regard for those whom 
they hourly plunder of all they have and all 
they get ! What ! when they have seized their 
victims, and annihilated all their rights, still 
claim to be the special guardians of their happi- 
ness ! Plunderers of their liberty, yet the careful 
suppliers of their wants ? Robbers of their earn- 
ings, yet watchful sentinels round their interests, 
and kind providers of their comforts ? Filching all 
their time, yet granting generous donations for rest 
and sleep ? Stealing the use of their muscles, yet 
thoughtful of their ease ? Putting them under driv- 
ers, yet careful that they are not hard-pushed ? 
Too humane forsooth to stint the stomachs of 
their slaves, yet force their minds to starve, and 
brandish over them pains and penalties, if they 
dare to reach forth for the smallest crumb of 
knowledge, even a letter of the alphabet ! 

It is no marvel that slaveholders are always 
talking of their kind treatment of their slaves. 
The only marvel is, that men of sense can be 
gulled by such professions. Despots always insist 
that they are merciful. The greatest tyrants that 
ever dripped with blood have assumed the titles 
of " most gracious," " most clement," " most 
merciful," &c., and have ordered their crouching 
vassals to accost them thus. When did not vice 
lay claim to those virtues which arc the oppositcs 
of its habitual crimes ? The guilty, according to 
their own shov»^ing, are always innocent, and 
cowards brave, and drunkards sober, and harlots 
chaste, and pickpockets honest to a fault. Every 
body understands this. When a man's tongue 
grows thick, and he begins to hiccough and walk 
cross-legged, we expect him, as a matter of course, 
to protest that he is not drunk ; so when a man is 
always singing the praises of his own honesty, we 
instinctively watch his movements and look out 
for our pocket-books. Whoever is simple enough 
to be hoaxed by such professions, should never be 
trusted in the streets without somebody to take 
care of him. Human nature works out in slave- 
holders just as it does in other men, and in Ame- 
rican slaveholders just as in English, French, 
Turkish, Algcrine, Roman and Grecian. The 
Spartans boasted of their kindness to their slaves, 
while they whipped them to death by thousands at 



the altars of their gods. The Romans lauded 
their own mild treatment of their bondmen, while 
they branded their names on their flesh with hot 
irons, and when old, threw them into their fish 
ponds, or like Cato " ihe Just," starved them to 
death. It is the boast of the Turks that they 
treat their slaves as though they were their chil- 
dren, yet their common name for them is " dogs," 
and for the merest trifles, their feet are bastina- 
doed to a jelly, or their heads clipped off with the 
scimetar. The Portuguese pride themselves on 
their gentle bearing toward their slaves, yet the 
streets of Rio Janeiro are filled with naked men 
and women yoked in pairs to carts and wagons, 
and whipped by drivers like beasts of burden. 

Slaveholders, the world over, have sung the 
praises of their tender mercies towards their 
slaves. Even the wretches that plied the African 
slave trade, tried to rebut Clarkson's proofs of 
their cruelties, by speeches, afllidavits, and pub- 
lished pamphlets, setting forth the accommoda- 
tions of the " middle passage," and their kind 
attentions to the comfort of those whom they 
had stolen from their homes, and kept stowed 
away under hatches, during a voyage of four 
thousand miles. So, according to the testimony 
of the autocrat of the Russias, he exercises great 
clemency towards the Poles, though he exiles 
them by thousands to the snows of Siberia, and 
tramples them down by millions, at home. Who 
discredits the atrocities perpetrated by Ovando in 
Hispaniola, Pizarro in Peru, and Cortez in Mexi- 
co, — because they filled the ears of the Spanish 
Court with protestations of their benignant rule ? 
While they were yoking the enslaved natives 
like beasts to the draught, working them to death 
by thousands in their mines, hunting them with 
bloodhounds, torturing them on racks, and 
broiling them on beds of coals, their representa- 
tions to the mother country teemed with eulogies 
of their parental sway ! The bloody atrocities of 
Philip II., in the expulsion of his Moorish sub- 
jects, are matters of imperishable history. Who 
disbelieves or doubts them ? And yet his cour- 
tiers magnified his virtues and chanted his cle- 
mency and his mercy, while the wail of a million 
victims, smitten down by a tempest of fire and 
slaughter let loose at his bidding, rose above the 
Te Deums that thundered from all Spain's cathe- 
drals. When Louis XIV. revoked the edict of 
Nantz, and proclaimed two millions of his sub- 
jects free plunder for persecution, — when from 
the English channel to the Pyrennees the man- 
gled bodies of the Protestants were dragged on 
reeking hurdles by a shouting populace, he claim- 
ed to be " the father of his people," and wrote 
himself " His most Christian Majesty." 

But we will not anticipate topics, the full dis- 
cussion of which more naturally follows than 



Introduction^ 



9 



precedes the inquiry into the actual condition and 
treatment of slaves in the United States. 

As slaveholders and their apologists are volun- 
teer witnesses in their own cause, and are flood- 
ing the world with testimony that their slaves 
arc kindly treated ; that they are well fed, well 
clothed, well housed, well lodged, moderately 
worked, and bountifully provided with all things 
needful for their comfort, we propose — first, to dis- 
prove their assertions by the teettmony of a multi- 
tude of impartial witnesses, and then to put slave- 
holders themselves through a course of cross-ques- 
tioning which shall draw their condemnation out 
of their own mouths. We will prove that the slaves 
in the United States are treated with barbarous in- 
humanity ; that they are overworked, underfed, 
wretchedly clad and lodged, and have insufficient 
sleep ; that they are often made to wear round 
their necks iron collars armed with prongs, to 
drag heavy chains and weights at their feet while 
working in the field, and to wear yokes, and bells, 
and iron horns ; that they are often kept confined 
in the stocks day and night for weeks together, 
made to wear gags in their mouths for hours or 
days, have some of their front teeth torn out or 
broken off, that they may be easily detected 
when they run away ; that they are frequently 
flogged with terrible severity, have red pepper 
rubbed into their lacerated flesh, and hot brine, 
spirits of turpentine, &c., poured over the gashes 
to increase the torture ; that they are often strip, 
pcd naked, their backs and limbs cut with knives, 
bruised and mangled by scores and hundreds of 
blows with the paddle, and terribly torn by the 
claws of cats, drawn over them by their tormen- 
tors ; that they are often hunted v»rith blood hounds 
and shot down like beasts, or torn in pieces by 
dogs; that they are often suspended by the 
arms and whipped and beaten till they faint, and 
when revived by restoratives, beaten again till 
they faint, and sometimes till they die ; that their 
ears are often cut oflf, their eyes knocked out, 
tlieir bones broken, ilieir flesh branded with red 
hot irons ; that they are maimed, mutilated and 
burned to death over slow fires. All these things, 
and more, and worse, we shall prove. Reader, 
we know whereof we affirm, we have weighed 
it well; more and worse WE WILL PROVE. 
Mark these words, and read on ; we will establish 
all these facts by the testimony of scores and hun- 
dreds of eye witnessses, by the testimony of slave- 
holders in all parts of the slave states, by slavehold- 
ing members of Congress and of state legisla- 
tures, by ambassadors to foreign courts, by 
judges, by doctors of divinity, and clergy- 
men of all denominations, by merchants, 
mechanies, lawyers and physicians, by presi- 
dents and professors in colleges and profes- 
sional seminaries, by planters, o^'orseers and 



drivers. We shall show, not merely that such 
deeds are committed, but that they are frequent ; 
not done in corners, but before the sun ; not in one 
of the slave states, but in all of them ; not perpe- 
trated by brutal overseers and drivers merely, but 
by magistrates, by legislators, by professors of 
religion, by preachers of the gospel, by governors 
of states, by " gentlemen of property and stand- 
ing," and by delicate females moving in the 
" highest circles of society," We know, full 
well, the outcry that will be made by multitudes, 
at these declarations ; the multiform cavils, the 
flat denials, the charges of " exaggeration" and 
" falsehood" so often bandied, the sneers of af 
fected contempt at the credulity that can believe 
such things, and the rage and imprecations 
against those who give them currency. We 
know, too, the threadbare sophistries by which 
slaveholders and their apologists seek to evade 
such testimony. If they admit that such deeds 
are committed, they tell us that they are exceed, 
ingly rare, and therefore furnish no grounds for 
judging of the general treatment of slaves ; that 
occasionally a brutal wretch in the free states 
barbarously butchers his wife, but that no one 
thinks of inferring from that, the general treat- 
ment of wives at the North and West. 

They tell us, also, that the slaveholders of the 
South are proverbially hospitable, kind, and 
generous, and it is incredible that they can per- 
petrate such enormities upon human beings ; fur- 
ther, that it is absurd to suppose that they would 
thus injure their own property, that self interest 
would prompt them to treat their slaves with 
kindness, as none but fools and madmen wantonly 
destroy their own property ; further, that Northern 
visitors at the South come back testifying to the 
kind treatment of the slaves, and that the slaves 
themselves corroborate such representations. All 
these pleas, and scores of others, are bruited in 
every corner of the free States; and who that 
hath eyes to see, has not sickened at t'he blind- 
ness that saw not, at the palsy of heart that felt not, 
or at the cowardice and sycophancy that dared 
not expose such shallow fallacies. We are not 
to be turned from our purpose by such vapid bab- 
blings. In their appropriate places, we propose 
to consider these objections and various others, 
and to show their emptiness and folly. 

The foregoing declarations touching the inflic- 
tions upon slaves, are not hap-hazard assertions, 
nor the exaggerations of fiction conjured up to 
carry a point ; nor are they the rhapsodies of en- 
thusiasm, nor crude conclusions, jumped at by 
hasty and imperfect investigation, nor the aim- 
less outpourings either of sympathy or poetry ; 
but they are proclamations of deliberate, well- 
weighed convictions, produced by accumulations 
of proof, by affirmations and afiidavits, by writ. 



10 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Caulkins. 



ten testimonies and statements of a cloud of wit- 
nesses who speak what they know and testify 
what they have seen, and all these impregnably 
fortified by proofs innumerable, in the relation of 
the slaveholdear to his slave, the nature of arbitrary 
power, and the nature and history of man. 

Of the witnesses whose testimony is embodied 
in the following pages, a majority are slavehold- 
ers, many of the remainder have been slaveholders, 
but now reside in free States. 

Another class whose testimony will be given, 
consists of those who have furnished the results 
of their own observation during periods of resi- 
dence and travel in the slave States. 

We will first present the reader with a few Per. 
soNAL Narratives furnished by individuals, na- 
tives of slave states and others, embodying, in the 
main, the results of their own observation in the 
midst of slavery — facts and scenes of which they 
were eye-witnesses. 

In the next place, to give the reader as clear 
and definite a view of the actual condition of 
slaves as possible, we propose to make specific 



points, to pass in review the various particulars 
in the slave's condition, simply presenting sufii- 
cient testimony under each head to settle the 
question in every candid mind. The examination 
will be conducted by stating distinct propositions, 
and in the following order of topics. 

1. The food of the slaves, the kinds, quality 
and quantity, also, the number and time of 
meals each day, &c. 

2. Their hours of labor and rest. 

3. Their clothing. 

4. Their dwellings. 

5. Their privations and inflictions. 

6. In conclusion, a variety of objections and 
arguments will be considered which are used 
by the advocates of slavery to set aside the 
force of testimony, and to show that the slaves 
are kindly treated. 

Between the larger divisions of the work, brief 
personal narratives will be inserted, containing a 
mass of facts and testimony, both general and 
specific. 



PERSONAL NARRATIVES. 



Mr. Nehemiah Caulkins, of Waterford, New 
London Co., Connecticut, has furnished the Ex- 
ecutive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery 
Society, with the following statements rela- 
tive to the condition and treatment of slaves, in 
the south eastern part of North Carolina. Most 
of the facts related by Mr. Caulkins fell under 
his personal observation. The air of candor 
and honesty that pervades the narrative, the 
manner in which Mr. C. has drawn it up, the 
good sense, just views, conscience and heart 
which it exhibits, are sufficient of themselves to 
commend it to all who have ears to hear. 

The Committee have no personal acquaintance 
with Mr. Caulkins, but they have ample testimo- 
nials from the most respectable sources ; all of 
which represent him to be a man whose long es- 
tablished character for sterling integrity, sound 
moral principle and piety, have secured for him 
the uniform respect and confidence of those who 
know him. 

Without further preface the following testimo- 
nials are submitted to the reader. 

" This may certify, that we the subscribers have lived 
for a number of years past in the neighborhood with Mr. 
Nehemiah Caulkins, and have no hesitation in stating that 
we consider him a man of high respectability and that his 
character for truth and veracity is unimpeachable." 

Peter Comstock. D. G. Otis. 

A. F. Perkins, M.D. Philip Morgan. 

Isaac Beebe. James Rogers, M. D." 

LoDowicK Beebe. 
Waterford, Ct., Jan. IGth, 1839. 



Mr. Comstock is a Justice of the. Peace. Mr. 
L. Beebe is the Town Clerk of Waterford. Mr. 
J. Beebe is a member of the Baptist Church. 
Mr. Otis is a member of the Congregational 
Church. Mr. Morgan is a Justice of the Peace, 
and Messrs. Perkins and Rogers are designated by 
their titles. All those gentlemen are citizens of 
Waterford, Connecticut. 

" To whom it may concern. This may certify that Mr. 
Nehemiah Caulkins, of Waterford, in New London County, 
is a near neighbor to the subscriber, and has been for many 
years. I do consider him a man of unquestionable veracity 
and certify that he is so considered by people to whom he 
is personally known. Edward R. Warren." 

Jan. 15th, 1839. 

Mr. Warren is a Commissioner (Associate 
Judge) of the County Court, for New London 
County. 

" This may certify that Mr. Nehemiah Caulkins, of the 
town of Waterford, County of New London, and State of 
Connecticut, is a member of the first Baptist Church in said 
Waterford, is in good standing, and is esteemed by us a 
man of truth and veracity. 

Francis Darrow, Pastor of said Church." 

Waterford, Jan. 16th, 1839. 

" This may certify that Nehemiah Caulkins, of Water- 
ford, lives near me, and I always esteemed him, and believe 
him to be a man of truth and veracity. 

Elisha Beckwith." 

Jan. 16th, 1839. 

Mr. Beckwith is a Justice of the Peace, a Post 
Master, and a Deacon of the Baptist Church. 

Mr. Dwight P. Janes, a member of the Second 
Congregational Church in the city of New Lon- 
don, in a recent letter, says ; 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Caulkins. 



11 



*' Mr. Caulkins is a member of the Baptist Church 
m Waterford, and in every respect a very worthy 
citizen. I have labored with him in the Sabbath 
School, and know him to be a man of active 
piety. The most entire confidence may be placed 
in the truth of his statements. Where he is 
known, no one will call them in question." 

We close these testimonials with an extract, of a 
letter from WiUiam Bolles, Esq., a well known 
and respected citizen of New London, Ct. 

" Mr. Nehemiah Caulkins resides in the town 
of Waterford, about six miles from this City. 
His opportunities to acquire exact knowledge in 
relation to Slavery, in that section of our country. 



to which his narrative is confined, have been very 
great. He is a carpenter, and was employed 
principally on the plantations, working at his 
trade, being thus almost constantly in the com- 
pany of the slaves as well as of their masters. 
His full heart readily responded to the call, [for in- 
formation relative to slavery,] for, as he expressed 
it, he had long desired that others might know 
what he had seen, being confident that a general 
knowledge of facts as they exist, would greatly 
promote the overthrow of the system. He is a 
man of undoubted character ; and where known, 
his statements need no corroboration. 

Yours, &c. William Bolles. 



NARRATIVE OF MR. CAULKINS. 



I feel it my duty to tell some things that I 
know about slavery, in order, if possible, to awak- 
en more feeling at the North in behalf of the 
slave. The treatment of the slaves on the plan- 
tations where I had the greatest opportunity of 
getting knowledge, was not so bad as that on 
some neighboring estates, where the owners 
were noted for their cruelty. There were, how- 
ever, other estates in the vicinity, where the 
treatment was better ; the slaves were better 
clothed and fed, were not worked so hard, and 
more attention was paid to their quarters. 

The scenes that I have witnessed are enough 
to harrow up the soul ; but could the slave be 
permitted to tell the story of his sufferings, ^ hich 
no white man, not linked with slavery, is allowed 
to know, the land would vomit out tiie horrible 
system, slaveholders and all, if t2iey would not 
unclinch their grasp upon their defenceless vic- 
tims. 

I spent eleven winters, between the years 
1824 and 1835, in the state of North Carolina, 
mostly in the vicinity of Wilmington ; and four 
out of the eleven on the estate of Mr. John 
Swan, five or six miles from that place. There 
were on his? plantation about seventy slaves, male 
and female : some were married, and others 
lived together as man and wife, without even a 
mock ceremony. With their owners generally, 
it IS a matter of indifference ; the marriage of 
slaves not being recognized by the slave code. 
The slaves, however, think much of being mar- 
ried by a clergyman. 

The cabins or huts of the slaves were small, 
and were built principally by the slaves them- 
selves, as they could find time on Sundays and 
moonlight nights ; they went into the swamps, 
cut the logs, backed or hauled them to the 
quarters, and put up their cabins. 

When I first knew Mr. Swan's plantation, his 
overseer was a man who had been a Methodist 
minister. He treated the slaves with great 
cruelty. His reason for leaving the ministry 
and becoming an overseer, as I was informed, 
was this : his wife died, at which providence he 
was so enraged, that he swore he woukl not 
preach for the Lord another day. This man 
continued on the plantation about three years ; 
at the close of which, on settlement of accounts, 
Mr. Swan owed him about ^400, for which he 
turned him out a negro woman, and about twen- 



ty acres of land. He built a log hut, and took 
the woman to live with him ; since which, I 
have been at his hut, and seen four or five mu- 
latto children. He has been appointed a justice 
of the peace, and his place as overseer was after- 
wards occupied by a Mr. Galloway. 

It is customary in. that part of the country, to 
let the hogs run in the woods. On one occasion 
a slave caught a pig about two months old, which 
he carried to his quarters. The overseer, getting 
information of the fact, went to the field where 
he Nvas at work, and ordered him to come to 
iiim. The slave at once suspected it was some- 
thing about the pig, and fearing punishment, 
dropped his hoe and ran for the woods. He had 
got but a few rods, when the overseer raised his 
gun, loaded with duck shot, and brought him 
down. It is a common practice for overseers to 
go into the field armed with a gun or pistols, and 
sometimes both. He was taken up by the 
slaves and carried to the plantation hospital, and 
the physician sent for. A physician was employ- 
ed by the year to take care of the sick or wound, 
ed slaves. In about six weeks this slave got bet- 
ter, and was able to come out of the hospital. 
He came to the mill where I was at work, and 
asked me to examine his body, which I did, and 
counted twenty-six duck shot still remaining in 
his flesh, though the doctor had removed a num- 
ber while he was laid up. 

There was a slave on Mr. Swan's plantation, 
by the name of Harry, who, during the absence 
of his master, ran away and secreted himself in 
the woods. This the slaves sometimes do, when 
the master is absent for several weeks, to escape 
the cruel treatment of the overseer. It is com- 
mon for them to make preparations, by secreting 
a mortar, a hatchet, some cooking utensils, and 
whatever things they can get that will enable 
them to live while they are in the woods or 
swamps. Harry staid about three months, and 
lived by robbing the rice grounds, and by such 
other means as came in his way. Tlie slaves 
generally know where the runaway is secreted, 
and visit him at niglit and on Sundays. On the 
return of his master, some of the slaves were 
sent for Harry. When he came home he was 
seized and confined in the stocks. The stocks 
were built in the barn, and consisted of two 
heavy pieces of timber, ten or more feet in length, 
and about seven inches wide ; the lower one, on 



12 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Caulkins. 



the floor, has a number of holes or places cut in 
it, for the ancles ; the upper piece, being of the 
same dimensions, is fastened at one end by a 
hinge, and is brought down after the ancles are 
placed in the holes, and secured by a clasp and 
padlock at the other end. In this manner the 
person is left to sit on the floor. Harry was 
kept in the stocks day and night for a week, and 
flogged every morning. After this, he was taken 
out one morning, a log chain fastened around his 
neck, the two ends dragging on the ground, and 
he sent to the field, to do his task with the other 
slaves. At night he was again put in the stocks, 
in the morning he was sent to the field in the 
same manner, and thus dragged out another 
week. 

The overseer was a very miserly fellow, and 
restricted his wife in what are considered the 
comforts of life — such as tea, sugar, &lg. To 
make up for this, she set her wits to work, and, by 
the help of a slave, named Joe, used lo take from 
the plantation whatever she could conveniently, 
and watch her opportunity during her husband's 
absence, and send Joe to sell them and buy for 
her such things as she directed. Once when 
her husband v/as away, she toW Joe to kill and 
dress one of the pigs, sell it, and gel her some tea, 
sugar, &LC. Joe did as he was bid, and she gave 
him the offal for his services. When Gulloway 
returned, not suspecting his wife, he asked ti^r if 
she knew what had become of his pig. She told 
him she suspected one of the slaves, naming him, 
had stolen it, for she had heard a pig squeal the 
evening before. The overseer called the slave 
up, and charged him with the theft. He denied 
it, and said he knew nothing about it. The over- 
seer still charged him with it, and told him he 
would give him one week to think of it, and if he 
did not confess the theft, or find out who did steal 
the pig, he would flog every negro on the planta- 
tion ; before the week was up it was ascertained 
that Joe had killed the pig. He was called up 
and questioned, and admitted that he had done 
so, and told the overseer that he did it by the or- 
der of Mrs. Galloway, and that she directed him 
to buy some sugar, &c. with the money. Mrs. 
Galloway gave Joe the lie ; and he was terribly 
flogged. Joe told me he had been several times 
to the smoke-house with Mrs. G, and taken hams 
and sold them, which her husband told me he 
supposed were stolen by the negroes on a neigh- 
boring plantation. Mr. Swan, hearing of the cir- 
cumstance, told me he believed Joe's story, but 
that his statement would not be taken as proof ; 
and if every slave on the plantation told the same 
story it could not be received as evidence against 
a white person. 

To show the manner in which old and worn- 
out slaves are sometimes treated, I will state a 
fact Galloway owned a man about seventy 
years of age. The old man was sick and went to 
his hut ; laid himself down on some straw with 
his feet to the fire, covered by a piece of an old 
blanket, and there lay four or five days, groaning 
In great distress, without any attention being paid 
bjm by his master, until death ended his miseries ; 
Ke was then taken out and buried with as little 
ceremony and respect as would be paid to a brute. 

There is a practice prevalent among the plant- 
ers, of letting a negro off from severe and long- 



continued punishment on account of the mterces. 
sion of some white person, who pleads in his be- 
half, that he believes the negro will behave better ; 
that he promises well, and he believes he will 
keep his promise, &c. The planters sometimes 
get tired of punishing a negro, and, wanting his 
services in the field, they get some white person 
to come, and, in the presence of the slave, inter- 
cede for him. At one time a negro, named 
Charles, was confined in the stocks in the build- 
ing where I was at work, and had been severely 
whipped several times. He begged me to inter- 
cede for him and try to get him released. I told 
him I would ; and when his master came in to 
whip him again, I went up to him and told him I 
had been talking with Charles, and he had pro- 
mised to behave better, &c., and requested him 
not to punish him any more, but to let him go. 
He then said to Charles, "As Mr. Caulkins has 
been pleading for you, I will let you go on his 
account ;" and accordingly released him. 

Women are generally shown some little indul- 
gence for three or four weeks previous to child- 
birth ; they are at such times not often punished 
if they do not finish the task assigned them ; it is, 
in some cases, passed over with a severe repri- 
mand, and sometimes without any notice being 
taken of it. They are generally allowed four 
weeks after the birth of a child, before they are 
compelled to go into the field, they then take the 
child with them, attended sometimes by a little 
girl or boy, from the age of four to six, to take 
cai<i of it while the mother is at work. When 
there 'as, no child that can be spared, or not young 
enough lor this service, the mother, after nursing, 
lays it undei a tree, or by the side of a fence, and 
goes to her task, returning at stated intervals to 
nurse it. While I was on this plantation, a little 
negro girl, six years of age, destroyed the life of a 
child about two months old, which was left in her 
care. It seems this little ivurse, so called, got 
tired of her charge and the la\ior of carrying it to 
the quarters at night, the mother being obliged to 
work as long as she could see. One evening she 
nursed the infant at sunset as usual, and sent it 
to the quarters. The little girl, on her wa.y home, 
had to cross a nm, or brook, which led down into 
the swamp ; when she came to the brook she fol- 
lowed it into the swamp, then took the infant and 
plunged it head foremost into the water and mud, 
where it stuck fast ; she there left it and went to 
the negro quarters. When the mother came in 
from the field, she asked the girl where the child 
was ; she told her she had brought it home, but 
did not know where it was ; the overseer was im- 
mediately informed, search was made, and it was 
found as above stated, and dead. The little girl 
was shut up in the barn, and confined there two 
or three weeks, when a speculator came along and 
bought her for two hundred dollars. 

The slaves are obliged to work from daylight 
till dark, as long as they can see. When they 
have tasks assigned, which is often the case, a 
few of the strongest and most expert, sometimes 
finish them before sunset ; others will be obliged 
to work till eight or nine o'clock in tlie evening. 
All must finish their tasks or take a flogging. 
The whip and gun, or pistol, are companions of 
the overseer ; the former he uses very frequently 
upon the negroes, during their hours of labor, 



Personal Narratives— Mi\ Caulkins. 



13 



without regard to age or sex. Scarcely a day 
passed while I was on the plantation, in which 
some of the slaves were not whipped ; I do not 
mean that they were struck a few blows merely, but 
had a set flogging. The same labor is commonly 
assigned to men and women, — such as digging 
ditches in the rice marshes, clearing up land, 
chopping cord-wood, threshing, &-c. I have 
known the women go into the bam as soon as 
they could see in the morning, and work as late 
as they could see at night, threshing rice with the 
flail, (they now have a threshing machine,) and 
when they could see to thresh no longer, they had 
to gather up the rice, carry it up stairs, and de- 
posit it in the granary. 

The allowance of clothing on this plantation to 
each slave, was given out at Christmas for the 
year, and consisted of one pair of coarse shoes, 
and enough coarse cloth to make a jacket and 
trowsers. If the man has a wife she makes it 
up ; if not, it is made up in the house. The 
slaves on this plantation, being near Wilmington, 
procured themselves extra clothing by working 
Sundays and moonlight nights, cutting cord- 
wood in the swamps, which they had to back 
about a quarter of a mile to the river ; they would 
then get a permit from their master, and taking 
the wood in their canoes, carry it to Wilmington, 
and sell it to the vessels, or dispose of it as they 
best could, and with the money buy an old jacket 
of the sailors, some coarse cloth for a shirt, &c. 
They sometimes gather the moss from the trees, 
which they cleanse and take to market. The 
women receive their allowance of the same kind of 
cloth which the men have. This they make into 
a frock ; if they have any under garments they 
must procure them for themselves. When the 
slaves get a permit to leaye the plantation, they 
sometimes make all ring again by singing the fol- 
lowing significant ditty, which shows that after 
all there is a flow of spirits in the human breast 
which for a while, at least, enables them to forget 
their wretchedness.* 

Hurra, for good ole Massa, 
He giv me de pass to go to de city 

Hurra, for good ole Missis, 
She bile de pot, and giv me de licker. 

Huira, I'm goin to de city. 

Every Saturday night the slaves receive their 
allowance of provisions, which must last them 
till the next Saturday night. " Potatoe time," as 
it is called, begins about the middle of July. The 
slave may measure for himself, the overseer being 
present, half a bushel of sweet potatoes, and 
heap the measure as long as they will lie on ; I 
have, however, seen the overseer, if he think the 
negro is getting too many, kick the measure ; and 
if any fall off", tell him he has got his measure. 
No salt is furnished them to eat with their pota- 
toes. When rice or corn is given, they give them 
a little salt ; sometimes half a pint of molasses 
is given, but not often. The quantity of rice, 
which is of the small, broken, unsaleable kind, is 

* Slaves sometimes sing, and so do convicts in jails under 
sentence, and both for tlie same reason. Their singing 
proves that they want to bo happy not that tliey are so. It is 
the means that they use to make themselves happy, not the 
evidence that they are so already. Sometimes, doubtless, 
the excitement of song whelms their misery in momentary 
oblivion. He who argues from this that they have no con- 
scious misery to forget, knows as little of human nature as 
of slavery.— Editor. 



one peck. When com is given them, their allow- 
ance is the same, and if they get it ground, (Mr. 
Swan had a mill on his plantation,) they must 
give one quart for grinding, thus reducing their 
weekly allowance to seven quarts. When fish 
(mullet) were plenty, they were allowed, in addi- 
tion, one fish. As to meat, they seldom had any. 
I do not think they had an allowance of meat 
oftener than once in two or three months, and 
then the quantity was very small. When they 
went into the field to work, they took some of 
the meal or rice and a pot with them ; the pots 
were given to an old woman, who placed two 
poles parallel, set the pots on them, and kindled 
a fire underneath for cooking ; she took salt with 
her and seasoned the messes as she thought pro- 
per. When their breakfast was ready, which 
was generally about ten or eleven o'clock, they 
were called from labor, ate, and returned to work ; 
in the afternoon, dinner was prepared in the same 
way. They had but two meals a day while in 
the field ; if they wanted more, tliey cooked for 
themselves after they returned to their quarters 
at night. At the time of killing hogs on the 
plantation, the pluck, entrails, and blood were 
given to the slaves. 

When I first went upon Mr. Swan's plantation, 
I saw a slave in shackles or fetters, which were 
fastened around each ankle and firmly riveted, 
connected together by a chain. To the middle 
of this chain he had fastened a string, so as in a 
manner to suspend them and keep them from 
galling his ankles. This slave, whose name was 
Frank, was an intelligent, good looking man, and 
a very good mechanic. There was nothing vi- 
cious in his character, but he was one of those 
high-spirited and daring men, that whips, chains, 
fetters, and all the means of cruelty in the power 
of slavery, could not subdue. Mr. S. had em- 
ployed a Mr. Beckwith to repair a boat, and told 
him Frank was a good mechanic, and he might 
have his services. Frank was sent for, his shackles 
still on. Mr. Beckwith set him to work making 
trunnels, &c. I was employed in putting up a 
building, and after Mr. Beckwith had done with 
Frank, he was sent for to assist me. Mr. Swan 
sent him to a blacksmith's shop and had his 
shackles cut off* with a cold chisel. Frank was 
afterwards sold to a cotton planter. 

I will relate one circumstance, which shows 
the Httle regard that is paid to the feelings of the 
slave. During the time that Mr. Isaiah Rogers 
was superintending the building of a rice machine, 
one of the slaves complained of a severe tooth- 
ache. Swan asked Mr. Rogers to take his ham- 
mer and knock out the tooth. 

There was a slave on the plantation named 
Ben, a waiting man. I occupied a room in the 
same hut, and had frequent conversations with 
him. Ben was a kind-hearted man, and, I be. 
lieve, a Christian ; he would always ask a bless- 
ing before he sat down to eat, and was in the con- 
stant practice of praying morning and night. — 
One day when I was at the hut, Ben was sent 
for to go to the house. Ben sighed deeply and 
went. He soon returned with a girl about seven- 
teen years of age, whom one of Mr. Swan's 
daughters had ordered him to flog. He brought 
her into the room where I was, and told her to 
stand there while he went into the next room : I 



14 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Caulkins. 



heard him groan again as he went. While there 
I heard his voice, and he was engaged in prayer. 
After a few minutes he returned with a large cow- 
hide, and stood before the girl, without saying a 
word. I concluded he wished me to leave the 
hut, which I did ; and immediately after I heard 
the girl scream. At every blow she would shriek, 
" Do, Ben ! oh do, Ben !" This is a common ex- 
pression of the slaves to the person whipping 
them : " Do, Massa !» or, " Do, Missus !" 

After she had gone, I asked Ben what she was 
whipped for : he told me she had done something 
to displease her young missus ; and in boxing 
her ears, and otherwise beating her, she had 
scratched her finger by a pin in the g'rl's dress, 
for which she sent her to be flogged. I asked 
him if he stripped her before flogging ; he said, 
yes ; he did not like to do this, but was obliged 
to : he said he was once ordered to whip a wo- 
man, which he did without stripping her : on her 
return to the house, her mistress examined her 
back ; and not seeing any marks, he was sent for, 
and asked why he had not whipped her : he re- 
plied that he had ; she said she saw no marks, 
and asked him if he had made her pull her clothes 
off"; he said, No. She then told him, that when 
he whipped any more of the women, he must 
make them strip oflT their clothes, as well as the 
men, and flog them on their bare backs, or he 
should be flogged himself. 

Ben often appeared very gloomy and sad : I 
have frequently heard him, when in his room, 
mourning over his condition, and exclaim, " Poor 
African slave ! Poor African slave !" Whipping 
was so common an occurrence on this plantation, 
that it would be too great a repetition to state 
the many and severe floggings I have seen in- 
flicted on the slaves. They were flogged for not 
performing their tasks, for being careless, slow, 
or not in time, for going to the fire to warm, &c. 
&c. ; and it often seemed as if occasions were 
sought as an excuse for punishing them. 

On one occasion, I heard the overseer charge 
the hands to be at a certain place the next morn- 
ing at sun-rise. I was present in the morning, 
in company with my brother, when the hands ar- 
rived. Joe, the slave already spoken of, came 
running, all out of breath, about five minutes be- 
hind the time, when, without asking any ques- 
tions, the overseer told him to take off his jacket. 
Joe took off his jacket. He had on a piece of a 
shirt ; he told him to take it off : Joe took it off : 
he then whipped him with a heavy cow-hide full 
six feet long. At every stroke Joe would spring 
from the ground, and scream, " O my God ! Do, 
Massa Galloway !" My brother was so exasper- 
ated, that he turned to me and said, " If I were 
Joe, I would kill the overseer if 1 knew I should 
be shot the next minute." 

In the winter the horn blew at about four in 
the morning, and all the threshers were required 
to be at the threshing floor in fifteen minutes after. 
They had to go about a quarter ol a mile from 
their quarters. Galloway would stand near the 
entrance, and all who did not come in time would 
get a blow over the back or head as heavy as he 
could strike. I have seen him, at such times, 
follow after them, striking furiously a number of 
blows, and every one followed by their screams. 
I have seen the women go to their work after \ 



such a flogging, crying and taking on most pile- 

ously. 

It is almost impossible to believe that human 
nature can endure such hardships and sufferings 
as the slaves have to go through : I have seen 
them driven into a ditch in a rice swamp to bail 
out the water, in order to put down a flood-gate, 
when they had to break the ice, and there stand 
in the water among the ice until it was bailed 
out. I have often known the hands to be taken 
from the field, sent down the river in flats or boats 
to Wilmington, absent from twenty-four to thirty 
hours, without any thing to eat, no provision being 
made for these occasions. 

Galloway kept medicine on hand, that in case 
any of the slaves were sick, he could give it to 
them without sending for the physician ; but he 
always kept a good look out that they did not 
sham sickness. When any of them excited his 
suspicions, he would make them take the medi- 
cine in his presence, and would give them a rap 
on the top of the head, to make them swallow it. 
A man once came to him, of whom he said he 
was suspicious : he gave him two potions of salts, 
and fastened him in the stocks for the night. His 
medicine soon began to operate ; and there he lay 
in all his filth till he was taken out the next day. 

One day, Mr. Swan beat a slave severely, for 
alleged carelessness in letting a boat get adrift. 
The slave was told to secure the boat : whether 
he took sufficient means for this purpose I do not 
know ; he was not allowed to make any defence. 
Mr. Swan called him up, and asked why he did 
not secure the boat : he pulled off his hat and be- 
gan to tell his story. Swan told him he was a 
damned liar, and commenced beating him over 
the head with a hickory cane, and the slave re- 
treated backwards ; Swan followed him about 
two rods, threshing him over the head with the 
hickory as he went. 

As I was one day standing near some slaves 
who were threshing, the driver, thinking one of 
the women did not use her flail quick enough, 
struck her over the head : the end of the whip 
hit her in the eye. I thought at the time he had 
put it out ; but, after poulticing and doctoring for 
some days, she recovered. Speaking to him about 
it, he said that he once struck a slave so as to put 
one of her eyes entirely out. 

A patrol is kept upon each estate, and every 
slave found off the plantation without a pass is 
whipped on the spot. I knew a slave who started 
without a pass, one night, for a neighboring 
plantation, to see his wife : he was caught, tied 
to a tree, and flogged. He stated his business to 
the patrol, who was well acquainted with him, 
but all to no purpose. I spoke to the patrol about 
it afterwards : he said he knew the negro, that 
he was a very clever fellow, but he had to whip 
him ; for, if he let him pass, he must another, &c. 
He stated that he had sometimes caught and flog, 
ged four in a night. 

In conversation with Mr. Swan about runaway 
•"laves, he stated to me the following fact : — A 
slave, by the name of Luke, was owned in Wil- 
mington ; he was sold to a speculator and carried 
to Georgia. After an absence of about two 
months the slave returned ; he watched an oppor- 
tunity to enter his old master's house when the 
family were absent, no one being at home but a 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Caulkins. 



15 



young waiting man. Luke went to the room 
where his master kept his arms ; took his gun, 
with some ammunition, and went into the woods. 
On the return of his master, the waiting man told 
him what had been done : this threw him into a 
violent passion ; he swore he would kill Luke, or 
lose his own life. He loaded another gun, took 
two men, and made search, but could not find 
him : he then advertised him, offering a large re- 
ward if delivered to him or lodged in jail. His 
neighbors, however, advised him to offer a reward 
of two hundred dollars for him dead or alive, which 
he did. Nothing however was heard of him for 
some months. Mr. Swan said, one of his slaves 
ran away, and was gone eight or ten weeks ; on 
his return he said he had found Luke, and that 
he had a rifle, two pistols, and a sword. 

I left the plantation in the spring, and returned 
to the north ; when I went out again, the next 
fall, I asked Mr. Swan if any thing had been 
heard of Luke ; he said he was shot, and related 
to me the manner of his death, as follows : — Luke 
went to one of the plantations, and entered a hut 
for something to eat. Being fatigued, he sat down 
and fell asleep. There was only a woman in the 
hut at the time : as soon as she found he was 
asleep, she ran and told her master, who took his 
rifle, and called two white men on another planta- 
tion : the three, with their rifles, then went to the 
hut, and posted themselves in different positions, 
so that they could watch the door. When Luke 
waked up he went to the door to look out, and 
saw them with their rifles, he stepped back and 
raised his gun to his face. They called to him 
to surrender ; and stated that they had him in 
their power, and said he had better give up. He 
said he would not ; and if they tried to take him, 
he would kill one of them ; for, if he gave up, he 
knew they would kill him, and he was determined 
to sell his life as dear as he could. They told 
him, if he should shoot one of them, the other 
two would certainly kill him : he replied, he was 
determined not to give up, and kept his gun mov- 
ing from one to the other ; and while his rifle was 
turned toward one, another, standing in a differ- 
ent direction, shot him through the head, and he 
fell lifeless to the ground. 

There was another slave shot while I was 
there ; this man had run away, and had been 
living in the woods a long tune, and it was not 
known where he was, till one day he was dis- 
covered by two men, who went on the large 
island near Belvidere to hunt turkeys ; they shot 
him and carried his head home. 

It is common to keep dogs on the plantations, 
to pursue and catch runaway slaves. I was 
once bitten by one of them. I went to the 
overseer's house, the dog lay in the piazza, as 
soon as I put my foot upon the floor, he sprang 
and bit me just above the knee, but not severely ; 
he tore my pantaloons badly. The overseer 
apologized for his dog, saying he never knew 
him to bite a white man before. He said he 
once had a dog, when he lived on another planta- 
tion, that was very useful to him in hunting run- 
away negroes. He said that a slave on the 
plantation once ran away ; as soon as he found 
the course he took, he put the dog on the track, 
and he soon came so close upon him that the man 



had to climb a tree, he followed with his gun, 
and brought the slave home. 

The slaves have a great dread of being sold 
and carried south. It is generally said, and I 
have no doubt of its truth, that they are much 
worse treated farther south. 

The following are a few among the many facts 
related to me while I lived among the slavehold- 
er. The names of the planters and plantations, 
I shall not give, as they did not come under my 
own observation. I however place the fullest 
confidence in their truth. 

A planter not far from Mr. Swan's employed 
an overseer to whom he paid ^400 a year ; he be- 
came dissatisfied with him, because he did not 
drive the slaves hard enough, and get more work 
out of them. He therefore sent to South 
Carolina, or Georgia, and got a man to whom he 
paid I believe ^800 a year. He proved to be a 
cruel fellow, and drove the slaves almost to 
death. There was a slave on this plantation, 
who had repeatedly run away, and had been 
severely flogged every time. The last time he 
was caught, a hole was dug in the ground, 
and he buried up to the chin, his arms being 
secured down by his sides. He was kept in this 
situation four or five days. 

The following was told me by an intimate 
friend ; it took place on a plantation containing 
about one hundred slaves. One day the owner 
ordered the women into the bam, he then went 
in among them, whip in hand, and told them he 
meant to flog them all to death ; they began immedi- 
ately to cry out " What have I done Massa ?" 
What have I done Massa ?" He replied ; " D — n 
you, I will let you know what you have done, 
you don't breed, I haven't had a young one from 
one of you for several months." They told him 
they could not breed while they had to work in 
the rice ditches. (The rice grounds are low and 
marshy, and have to be drained, and while dig- 
ging or clearing the ditches, the women had to 
work in mud and water from one to two feet in 
depth ; they were obliged to draw up and secure 
their frocks about their waist, to keep them out 
of the water, in this manner they frequently had 
to work from daylight in the morning till it was 
so dark they could see no longer.) After swear- 
ing and threatening for some time, he told them to 
tell the overseer's wife, when they got in that way, 
and he would put them upon the land to work. 

This same planter had a female slave who was 
a member of the Methodist Church ; for a slave 
she was intelligent and conscientious. He pro- 
posed a criminal intercourse with her. She would 
not comply. He left her and sent for the over- 
seer, and told him to have her flogged. It was 
done. Not long after, he renewed his proposal. 
She again refused. She was again whipped. 
He then told her why she had been twice flogged, 
and told her he intended to whip her till she 
should yield. The girl, seeing that her case 
was hopeless, her back smarting with the scourg- 
ing she had received, and dreading a repetition, 
gave herself up to be the victim of his brutal lusts. 

One of the slaves on another plantation, gave 
birth to a chUd which lived but two or three 
weeks. After its death the planter called the 
woman to him, and asked her how she came to 



16 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Caulkins. 



let the child die ; said it was all owing to her 
carelessness, and that he meant to flog her for it. 
She told, him with all the feeling of a mother, 
the circumstances of its death. But her story 
availed her nothing against the savage brutality 
of her master. She was severely whipped. 
A healthy child four months old was then consid- 
ered worth $100 in North Carolina. 

The foregoing facts were related to me by 
white persons of character and respectability. 
The following fact was related to me on a plan- 
tation where I have spent considerable time 
and where the punishment was inflicted. I 
have no doubt of its truth. A slave ran away 
from his master, and got as far as Newbern. 
He took provisions that lasted him a week ; but 
having eaten all, he went to a house to get some- 
thing to satisfy his hunger. A white man sus- 
pecting him to be a runaway, demanded his pass: 
as he had none he was seized and put in New- 
bern jail. He was there advertised, his descrip- 
tion given, &c. His master saw the advertise- 
ment and sent for him ; when he was brought 
back, his wrists were tied together and drawn over 
his knees. A stick was then passed over his 
arms and under his knees, and he secured in this 
manner, his trowsers were then stripped down, 
and he turned over on his side, and severely 
beaten with the paddle, then turned over and 
severely beaten on the other side, and then turn- 
ed back again, and tortured by another bruising 
and beating. He was afterwards kept in the 
stocks a week, and whipped every morning. 

To show the disgusting pollutions of slavery, 
and how it covers with moral filth every thing it 
touches, I will state two or three facts, which I 
have on such evidence I cannot doubt their truth. 
A planter offered a white man of my acqaintance 
twenty dollars for every one of his female slaves, 
whom he would get in the family way. This 
offer was no doubt made for the purpose of im- 
proving the stock, on the same principle that 
farmers endeavour to improve their cattle by 
crossing the breed. 

Slaves belonging to merchants and others in 
the city, often hire their own time, for which 
they pay various prices per week or month, ac- 
cording to the capacity of the slave. The fe- 
males who thus hire their time, pursue various 
modes to procure the money ; their masters mak- 
ing no inquiry how they get it, provided the 
money comes. If it is not regularly paid they 
are flogged. Some take in washing, some cook 
on board vessels, pick oakum, sell peanuts, «fec., 
while others, younger and more comely, often 
resort to the vilest pursuits. I knew a man from 
the north who, though married to a respectable 
southern woman, kept two of these mulatto girls 
in an upper room at his store ; his wife told some 
of her friends that he had not lodged at home 
for two weeks together, I have seen these two 
kept misses, as they are there called, at his store ; 
he was afterwards stabbed in an attempt to ar- 
rest a runaway slave, and died in about ten 
days. 

The clergy at the north cringe beneath the 
corrupting influence of slavery, and their moral 
courage is borne down by it. Not the hypocriti- 
cal and unprincipled alone, but even such as can 
hardly be supposed to be destit^e of sincerity. 



Going one morning to the Baptist Sunday 
school, in Wilmington, in which I was engaged, 
I fell in with the Rev. Thomas P. Hunt, who 
was going to the Presbyterian school. I asked 
him how he could bear to see the little negro 
children beating their hoops, hallooing, and run- 
ning about the streets, as we then saw them, 
their moral condition entirely neglected, while 
the whites were so carefully gathered into the 
schools. His reply was substantially this : — " I 
can't bear it, Mr. Caulkins. I feel as deeply as any 
one can on this subject, but what can I do ? My 

HANDS ARE TIED." 

Now, if Mr. Hunt was guilty of neglecting his 
duty, as a servant of Him who never failed to re- 
buke sin in high places, what shall be said of 
those clergymen at the north, where the power 
that closed his mouth is comparatively unfelt, 
who refuse to tell their people how God abhois 
oppression, and who seldom open their mouths on 
this subject, but to denounce the friends of eman- 
cipation, thus giving the strongest support to the 
accursed system of slavery. I believe Mr. Himt 
has since become an agent of the Temperance 
Society. 

In stating the foregoing facts, my object has 
been to show the practical workings of the sys- 
tem of slavery, and if possible to correct the mis- 
apprehension on this subject, so common at the 
north. In doing this I am not at war with slave- 
holders. No, my soul is moved for them as well 
as for the poor slaves. May God send them re- 
pentance to the acknowledgment of the truth ! 
Principle, on a subject of this nature, is dearer to 
me than the applause of men, and should not be 
sacrificed on any subject, even though the ties of 
friendship may be broken. We have too long 
been silent on this subject, the slave has been too 
much considered, by our northern states, as being 
kept by necessity in his present condition. — Were 
we to ask, in the language of Pilate, " what evil 
have they done" — we may search their history, 
we cannot find that they have taken up arms 
against our government, nor insulted us as a na- 
tion — that they are thus compelled to drag out a 
life in chains ! subjected to the most terrible inflic- 
tions if in any way they manifest a wish to be 
released. — Let us reverse the question. What evil 
has been done to them by those who call them- 
selves masters ? First let us look at their per- 
sons, " neither clothed nor naked" — I have seen 
instances where this phrase would not apply to 
boys and girls, and that too in winter. I knew 
one young man seventeen years of age, by the 
name of Dave, on Mr. J. Swan's plantation, 
worked day after day in the rice machine as nak- 
ed as when he was born. The reason of his 
being so, his master said in my hearing, was, that 
he could not keep clothes on him — he would get 
into the fire and burn them off". 

Follow them next to their huts ; some with and 
some without floors : — Go at night, view theii 
means of lodging, see them lying on benches, 
some on the floor or ground, some sitting on stools, 
dozing away the night ;^others, of younger age, 
with a bare blanket wrapped about them ; and 
one or two lying in the ashes. These things I have 
often seen with my own eyes. 

Examine their means of subsistence, which 
consists generally of seven quarts of meal or 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Horace Moulton. 



17 



eight quarts of small rice for one week; then 
follow them to their work, with driver and over- 
seer pushing them to the utmost of ihcir strength, 
by threatening and whipping. 

If they are sick from fatigue and exposure, go 
to their huts, as I have often been, and see them 
groaning under a burning fever or pleurisy, lying 
on some straw, their feet to the fire with barely a 
blanket to cover them ; or on some boards nailed 
together in form of a bedstead. 

And after seeing all this, and hearing them 
tell of their sufferings, need I ask, is there any 
evil connected with their condition ? and if so ; 
upon whom is it to be charged ? I answer for my- 
self, and the reader can do the same. Our govern- 
ment stands first chargeable for allowing slavery 
to exist under its own jurisdiction. Second, the 
states for enacting laws to secure their victim. 
Third, the slaveholder for carrying out such 
enactments, in horrid form enough to chill the 
blood. Fourth, every person who knows what 
slavery is, and does not raise his voice agairist 
this crying sin, but by silence gives consent to its 
continuance, is chargeable with guilt in the sight 
of God. " The blood of Zacharias who was 
slain between the temple and altar," says Christ, 

" WILL I REQUIRE OF THIS GENERATION." 

Look at the slave, his condition but httlc, if at 
all, better than that of the brute ; chained down 
by the law, and the will of his master ; and every 
avenue closed against rehef ; and the names of 
those who plead for him, cast out as evil ; — must 
not humanity let its voice be heard, and tell Israel 
their transgressions and Judah their sins ? 

May God look upon their afflictions, and deliver 
them from their cruel task-masters ! I verily be- 



lieve he will, if there be any efficacy in prayer. I 
have been to their prayer meetings and with them 
offered prayer in their behalf. I have heard some 
of them in their huts before day-light praying in 
their simple broken language, telling their hea- 
venly Father of their trials in the following and 
similar language. 

" Fader in heaven, look upon de poor slave, 
dat have to work all de day long, dat cant have 
de time to pray only in de night, and den massa 
mus not know it.* Fader, have mercy on massa 
and missus. Fader, when shall poor slave get 
through the world ! when will death come, and de 
poor slave go to heaven ;" and in their meetings 
they frequently add, " Fader, bless de white man 
dat come to hear de slave pray, bless his family," 
and so on. They uniformly begin their meet- 
ings by singing the following — 

" And are we yet alive 

To see each other's face," &.c. 

Is the ear of the Most High deaf to the prayer 
of the slave ? I do firmly believe that their de- 
liverance will come, and that the prayer of this 
poor afflicted people will be answered. 

Emancipation would be safe. I have had 
eleven winters to learn the disposition of the 
slaves, and am satisfied that they would peacea- 
bly and cheerfully work for pay. Give them 
education, equal and just laws, and they will be- 
come a most interesting people. Oh, let a cry 
be raised which shall awaken the conscience of 
this guilty nation, to demand for the slaves im- 
mediate and unconditional emancipation. 

Nehemiah Caulkins. 

* At this time there was some fear of insurrection and 
the slaves were forbidden to hold meetings. 



NARRATIVE AND TESTIMONY OF REV. HORACE MOULTON. 



Mr. Moulton is an esteemed minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, in Marlborough, 
Mass. He spent five years in Georgia, between 
1817 and 1824. The following communication 
has been recently received from him. 

Marlborough, Mass., Feb. 18, 1839. 
Dear Brother — 

Yours of Feb. 2d, requesting me to write out a 
few facts on the subject of slavery, as it exists 
at the south, uas come to hand. I hasten to 
comply with 3 our request. Were it not, how- 
ever, for the claims of those " who are drawn 
unto death," and the responsibility resting upon 
me, in consequence of this request, I should for- 
ever hold my peace. For I well know that I 
shall bring upon myself a flood of persecution, 
for attempting to speak out for the dumb. But 
I am willing to be set at nought by men, if I 
can be the means of promoting the welfare of 
the oppressed of our land. I shall not relate 
many particular cases of cruelty, though I 
might a great number ; but shall give some 
general information as to their mode of treat- 
ment, their food, clothing, dwellings, depriva- 
tions, &LC. 

Let me say, in the first place, that I spent 
nearly five years in Savannah, Georgia, and in 

3 



its vicinity, between the years 1817 and 1824. 
My object in going to the south, was to engage 
in making and burning brick ; but not immedi- 
ately succeeding, I engaged in no business of 
much profit until late in the winter, when I took 
charge of a set of hands and went to work. 
During my leisure, however, I was an observer, 
at the auctions, upon the plantations, and in al- 
most every department of business. The next 
year, during the cold months, I had several two- 
horse teams under my care, with which we used 
to haul brick, boards, and other articles from the 
wharf into the city, and cotton, rice, corn, and 
wood from the country. This gave me an ex- 
tensive acquaintance with merchants, mechanics 
and planters. I had slaves under my control 
some portions of every year when at the south. 
All the brick-yards, except one, on which I was 
engaged, were connected either with a corn field, 
potatoe patch, rice field, cotton field, tan-works, 
or with a wood lot. My business, usually, was 
to take charge of the brick-making department. 
At those jobs I have sometimes taken in charge 
both the field and brick-yard hands. I have 
been on the plantations in South Carolina, but 
have never been an overseer of slaves in that 
state, as has been said in the public papers. 
I think the above facts and explanations are 



18 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Horace Moulton. 



necessary to be connected with the account I 
may give of slavery, that the reader may have 
some knowledge of my acquaintance with 
practical slavery : for many mechanics and 
merchants who go to the South, and stay there 
for years, know but little of the dark side of 
slavery. My account of slavery will apply to 
field hands, who compose much the largest por- 
tion of the black population, (probably nine- 
tenths,) and not to those who are kept for kitchen 
maids, nurses, waiters, &c., about the houses of 
the planters and public hotels, where pei'sons 
from the north obtain most of their knowledge 
of the evils of slavery. I will now proceed to 
take up specific points. 

THE LABOR OF THE SLAVES. 

Males and females work together promiscuously 
on all the plantations. On many plantations tasks 
are given them. The best working hands can 
have some leisure time ; but the feeble and unskil- 
ful ones, together with slender females, have in- 
deed a hard time of it, and very often answer for 
non-performance of tasks at the wJiippivg -posts. 
None who worked with me had tasks at any 
time. The rule was to work them from sun to 
sun. But when I was burning brick, they were 
obliged to take turns, and .5?'^ up all night about 
every other night, and work all day. On one 
plantation, where I spent a few weeks, the slaves 
were called up to work long before daylight, 
when business pressed, and vi^^orked until late at 
night ; and sometimes some of them all night. 
A large portion of the slaves are owned by mas- 
ters who keep them on purpose to hire out — and 
they usually let them to those who will give the 
highest wages for them, irrespective of their 
mode of treatment ; and those who hire them, 
will of course try to get the greatest possible 
amount of work performed, with the least possi- 
ble expense. Women are seen bringing their 
infants into the field to their work, and leading 
others who are not old enough to stay at the 
cabins with safety. When they get there, they 
must set them down in the dirt, and go to work. 
Sometimes they are left to cry until they fall 
alseep. Others are left at home, shut up in their 
huts. Now, is it not barbarous, that the mother, 
with her child or children around her, half 
starved, must be whipped at night if she does not 
perform her task ? But so it is. Some who 
have very yormg ones, fix a little sack, and place 
the infants on their backs, and. work. One 
reason, I presume is, that they will not cry so 
much when they can hear their mother's voice. 
Another is, the mothers fear that the poison. 
ous vipers and snakes will bite them. Truly, I 
never knew any place where the land is so in- 
fested with all kinds of the most venomous 
snakes, as in the low lands round about Savan- 
nah. The moccasin snakes, so called, and water 
rattle-snakes — the bites of both of which are as 
poisonous as our upland rattle-snakes at the 
north, — are found in myriads about the stag- 
nant waters and swamps of the South. The fe- 
males, in order to secure their infants from these 
poisonous snakes, do, as I have said, often work 
with their infants on their backs. Females are 
sometimes called to take the hardest part of the 
work. On some brick yards where I have been, 



the women liave been selected as the moulders 
of brick, instead of the men. 

IL THE FOOD OF THE SLAVES. 

It was a general custom, wherever I have been, 
for the masters to give each of his slaves, male 
and female, one peck of corn per week for their 
food. This at fifty cents per bushel, which was 
all that it was worth when I was there, would 
amount to twelve and a half cents per week for 
board per head. 

It cost me upon an average, when at the south, 
one dollar per day for board. The price of four- 
teen bushels of corn per week. This would make 
my board equal in amount to the board oi forty-six 
slaves ! This is all that good or bad masters al- 
low their slaves round about Savannah on the 
plantations. One peck of gourd-seed corn is to 
be measured out to each slave once every week. 
One man with whom I labored, however, being 
desirous to get all the work out of his hands 
he could, before I left, (about fifty in number,) 
bouglit for them every week, or twice a week, a 
beef's head from market. With this, they made a 
soup in a large iron kettle, around which the 
han'}s came at meal-time, and dipping out the 
soup, would mix it with their hommony, and eat it 
as though it were a feast. This man permitted his 
slavesto eat twice a day while I was doing a job for 
him. He promised me a beaver hat and as good a 
suit of clothes as could be bought in the city, if I 
would accomplish so much for him before I return- 
ed to the north ; giving me the entire control over 
his slaves. Thus you may see the temptations 
overseers sometimes have, to get all the work 
they can out of the poor slaves. The above is an 
exception to the general rule of feeding. For in 
all other places where I worked and visited ; the 
slaves had nothing from their masters hut the corn, 
or its equivalent in potatoes or rice, and to this, 
they v/ere not permitted to come but once a day. 
The custom was to blow the horn early in the 
morning, as a signal for the hands to rise and go 
to work, when commenced ; they continued work 
until about eleven o'clock, A. M., when, at the 
signal, all hands left off, and went into their huts, 
made their fires, made their corn-meal into hom- 
mony or cake, ate it, and went to work again at 
the signal of the horn, and worked until night, or 
until their tasks were done. Some cooked their 
breakfast in the fi.eld while at work. Each slave 
must grind his own corn in a hand-mill after he 
has done his work at night. There is generally 
one hand-mill on every plantation for the use of 
the slaves. 

Some of the planters have no corn, others often 
get out. The substitute for it is, the equivalent of 
one peck of corn either in rice or sweet potatoes ; 
neither of which is as good for the slaves as corn. 
They complain more of being faint, when fed on 
rice or potatoes, than when fed on corn. I was 
with one man a few weeks who gave me his 
hands to do a job of work, and to save time one 
cooked for all the rest. The following course was 
taken, — Two crotched sticks were driven down at 
one end of the yard, and a small pole being laid 
on the crotches, they swung a large iron kettle on 
the middle of the pole ; then made up a fire 
under the kettle and boiled the hommony ; when 
ready, the hands were called around this kettle 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Horace Moulton. 



19 



with their wooden plates and spoons. They dip- 
ped out and ate standing around the kettle, or sit- 
ting upon the ground, as best suited their conve- 
nience. When they had potatoes they took them 
out with their hands, and ate them. As soon as it 
was thought they had had sufficient time to swal- 
(ow their food they were called to their work again. 
This was the only meal they ate through the day. 
Now think of the little, almost naked and half- 
starved children, nibbling upon a piece of cold 
Indian cake, or a potato ! Think of the poor fe- 
male, just ready to be confined, without any thing 
that can be called convenient or comfortable ! 
Think of the old toil-worn father and mother, with- 
out any thing to eat but the coarsest of food, and 
not half enough of that ! then think of home. 
When sick, their physicians are their masters and 
overseers, in most cases, whose skill consists in 
bleeding and in administering large potions of Ep- 
som salts, when the whip and cursing will not 
start them from their cabins. 

III. HOUSES. 

The huts of the slaves are mostly of the poor- 
est kind. They are not as good as those tempo- 
rary shanties vv'hich are thrown up beside rail- 
roads. They are erected with posts and crotches, 
with but little or no frame-work about them. 
They have no stoves or chimneys ; some of them 
have something like a fireplace at one end, and a 
board or two off at that side, or on the roof, to let 
off the smoke. Others have nothing like a fire- 
place in them ; in these the fire is sometimes made 
in the middle of the hut. These buildings have 
but one apartment in them ; the places where 
they pass in and out, serve both for doors and 
windows ; the sides and roofs are covered witji 
coarse, and in many instances with refuse boards. 
In warm weather, especially in the spring, the 
slaves keep up a smoke, or fire and smoke, all 
night, to drive away the gnats and inusketoes, 
which are very troublesome in all the low country 
of the south ; so much so that the whites sleep 
under frames with nets over them, knit so fine that 
the musketoes cannot fly through them. 

Some of the slaves have rugs to cover them 
in the coldest weather, but I should think more 
have not. During driving storms they frequently 
have to run from one hut to another for shelter. 
In the coldest weather, where they can get wood 
or stumps, they keep up fires all night in their 
huts, and lay around them, with their feet to- 
wards the bla . Men, women and children all 
lie down toget'icr, in most instances. There may 
be exceptions to the above statements in regard 
to their houses, but so far as my observations 
have extended, I have given a fair description, 
and I have been on a large number of planta- 
tions in Georgia and South Carolina up and down 
the Savannah river. Their huts are generally 
built compactly on the plantations, forming villa- 
ges of huts, their size proportioned to the number 
of slaves on them. In these miserable huts the 
poor blacks are herded at night like swine, without 
any conveniences of bedsteads, tables or chairs. 
O misery to the full ! to see the aged sire beating 
off the swarms of gnats and musketoes in the 
warm weather, and shivering in the straw, or 
bending over a few coals in the winter, clothed 
in rags. I should think males and females, both 



lie down at night with their working clothes on 
them. God alone knows how much the poor 
slaves suffer for the want of convenient houses 
to secure them from the piercing winds and howl- 
ing storms of winter, especially the aged, sick 
and dying. Althougli it is much warmer there 
than here, yet I suffered for a number of weeks 
in the winter, almost as much in Georgia as I do 
in Massachusetts. 

IV. CLOTHING. 

The masters [in Georgia] make a practice of 
getting two suits of clothes for each slave per year, 
a thick suit for winter, and a thin one for summer. 
They provide also one pair of northern made sale 
shoes for each slave in winter. These shoes usu- 
ally begin to rip in a few weeks. The negroes' 
mode of mending them is, to wire them together, 
in many instances. Do our northern shoemakers 
know that they are augmenting the sufferings of 
the poor slaves with their almost good for nothing 
sale shoes ? Inasmuch as it is done unto one of 
those poor sufferers it is done unto our Saviour. 
The above practice of clothing the slave is cus- 
tomary to some extent. How many, however, 
fail of this, God only knows. The children and 
old slaves arc, I should think, exceptions to the 
above rule. The males and females have their 
suits from the same cloth for their winter dresses. 
These winter garments appear to be made of a 
mixture of cotton and wool, very coarse and 
sleazy. The whole suit for the men consists of 
a pair of pantaloons and a short sailor-jacket, 
without shirt, vest, hat, stockings, or any kind of 
loose garments ! These, if worn steadil)^ when 
at work, would not probably last more than one 
or two months : therefore, for the sake of saving 
them, many of them work, especially in the sum- 
mer, with no clothing on them except a cloth 
tied round their waist, and almost all with nothing 
more on them than pantaloons, and these fre- 
quently so torn that they do not serve the pur- 
poses of common decency. The women have 
for clothing a short petticoat, and a short loose 
gown, something like the male's sailor-jacket, 
ivithout any under garment, stockings, bonnets, 
floods, caps, or any kind of over-clothes. When 
at work in warm weather, they usually strip off 
the loose gown, and have nothing on but a short 
petticoat with some kind of covering over their 
breasts. Many children may be seen in the sum- 
mer months as naked as they came into the world. 
I think, as a whole, they suffer more for the want 
of comfortable bed-clothes, than they do for wear- 
ing apparel. It is true, that some by begging or 
buying, have more clothes than above described, 
but the masters provide them with no more. They 
are miserable objects of pity. It may be said of 
many of them, " I was naked and ye clothed me 
not." It is enough to melt the hardest heart to 
see the ragged mothers nursing their almost nak- 
ed children, with but a morsel of the coarsest 
food to eat. The Southern horses and dogs have 
enough to eat and good care taken of them, but 
Southern negroes, who can describe their misery ? 

V. PUNISHMENTS. 

The ordinary mode of pimishing the slaves is 
both cruel and barbarous. The masters seldom, 
if ever, try to govern their slaves by moral influ- 



20 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Horace Moulton. 



ence, but by whipping, kicking, beating, starving, 
branding, cat-hauling, loading with irons, impris- 
oning, or by some other cruel mode of torturing. 
They often boast of having invented some new 
mode of torture, by which they have " tamed 
the rascals." What is called a moderate flogging 
at the south is horribly cruel. Should we whip 
our horses for any offence as they whip their slaves 
for small offences, we should expose ourselves to 
the penalty of the law. The masters whip for the 
smallest offences, such as not performing their 
tasks, being caught by the gaard or patrol by 
night, or for taking any thing from the master's yard 
without leave. For these, and the like crimes, 
the slaves are whipped thirty-nine lashes, and 
sometimes seventy or a hundred, on the bare back. 
One slave, who was under my care, was whipped, 
I think one hundred lashes, for getting a small 
handful of wood from his master's j-ard without 
leave. I heard an overseer boasting to this same 
master that he gave one of the boys seventy lashes, 
for not doing a job of work just as he thought it 
ought to be done. The owner of the slave ap- 
peared to be pleased that the overseer had been so 
faithful. The apology they make for whipping 
so cruelly is, that it is to frighten the rest of the 
gang. The masters say, that what we call an 
ordinary flogging will not subdue the slaves ; 
hence the most cruel and barbarous scourgings 
ever witnessed by man are daily and hourly in. 
flicted upon the naked bodies of these miserable 
bondmen ; not by masters and negro-drivers only, 
but by the constables in the common markets 
and jailors in their yards. 

When the slaves are whipped, either in public 
or private, they have their hands fastened by the 
wrists, with a rope or cord prepared for the pur- 
pose : this being thrown over a beam, a limb of a 
tree, or something else, the culprit is drawn up 
and stretched by the arms as high as possible, 
without raising his feet from the ground or floor : 
and sometimes they are made to stand on tip-toe ; 
then the feet are made fast to something prepared 
for them. In this distorted posture the monster 
flies at them, sometimes in great rage, M'ith his 
implements of torture, and cuts on v/ith all his 
might, over the shoulders, under the arms, and 
sometimes over the head and ears, or on parts of 
the body where he can inflict the greatest torment. 
Occasionally the whipper, especially if his victim 
does not beg enough to suit him, while under the 
lash, will fly into a passion, uttering the most hor- 
rid oaths ; while the victim of his rage is crying, 
at every stroke, " Lord have mercy ! Lord have 
mercy !" The scenes exhibited at the whipping 
post are awfully terrific and frightful to one whose 
heart has not turned to stone ; I never could look 
on but a moment. While under the lash, the 
bleeding victim writhes in agony, convulsed with 
torture. Thirty-nine lashes on the bare back, 
which tear the skin at almost every stroke, is 
what the South calls a very moderate punishment ! 
Many masters whip until they are tired — until 
the back is a gore of blood — then rest upon it : 
after a short cessation, get up and go at it again ; 
and after having satiated their revenge in the blood 
of their victims, they sometimes leave them tied, 
for hours together, bleeding at every wound. — 
Sometimes, after being whipped, they are bathed 
with a brine of salt and water. Now and then a 



master, but more frequently a mistress who has 
no husband, will send them to jail a fcAv days, 
giving orders to have them whipped, so many 
lashes, once or twice a day. Sometimes, after 
being whipped, some have been shut up in a dark 
place and deprived of food, in order to increase 
their torments : and I have heard of some who 
have, in such circumstances, died of their wounds 
and starvation. 

Such scenes of horror as above described are so 
common in Georgia that they attract no atten- 
tion. To threaten them with death, with break- 
ing in their teeth or jaws, or cracking their heads, 
is common talk, when scolding at the slaves. — 
Those who run away from their masters and are 
caught again generally fare the worst. They are 
generally lodged in jail, with instructions from the 
owner to have them cruelly whipped. Some or- 
der the constables to whip them publicly in the 
market. Constables at the south are generally 
savage, brutal men. They have become so accus- 
tomed to catching and whipping negroes, that 
they are as fierce as tigers. Slaves who are ab- 
sent from their yards, or plantations, after eight 
o'clock P, M,, and are taken by the guard in the 
cities, or by the patrolB in the country, are, if not 
called for before nine o'clock A, M. tire next day, 
secured in prisons ; and hardly ever escape, until 
their backs are torn up by the cow-hide. On 
plantations, the evenings usually present scenes 
of horror. Those slaves against whom charges are 
preferred for not having performed their tasks, 
and for various faults, must, after work-hours at 
night, undergo their torments, I have often heard 
the sound of the lash, the curses of the whipper, 
and the cries of the poor negro rending the air, 
late in the evening, and long before day-light in 
the morning. 

It is very common for masters to say to the 
overseers or drivers, " put it on to them," " don't 
spare that fellow," " give that scoundrel one hun- 
dred lashes," &lc. Whipping the women when 
in delicate circumstances, as they sometimes do, 
without any regard to their entreaties or the en- 
treaties of their nearest friends, is truly barbarous. 
If negroes could testify, they would tell you of 
instances of women being whipped until they 
have miscarried at the whipping-post. I heard 
of such things at the south — they are undoubted- 
ly facts. Children are whipped unmercifully for 
the smallest offences, and that before their mo- 
thers, A large proportion of the blacks have their 
shoulders, backs, and arms all scarred up, and 
not a few of them have had their heads laid open 
with clubs, stones, and brick-bats, and with the 
butt-end of whips and canes — some have had 
their jaws broken, others their teeth knocked in or 
out ; while others have had their ears cropped 
and the sides of their cheeks gashed out. Some 
of the poor creatures have lost the sight of one of 
their eyes by the careless blows of the whipper, 
or by some other violence. 

Butpunishingof slaves as above described, is not 
the only mode of torture. Some tie them up in 
a very uneasy posture, where they must stand 
all night, and they will then work them hard all 
day — that is, work them hard all day and tor- 
ment them all night. Others punish by fastening 
them down on a log, or something else, and 
strike them on the bare skin with a board paddle 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Horace Moulton. 



21 



full of holes. This breaks the skin, I should 
presume, at every hole where it comes in 
contact with it. Others, when other modes of 
punishment will not subdue them, cat-haul them 
— that is, take a cat by the nape of the neck and 
tail, or by the liind legs, and drag the claws 
across the back until satisfied. This kind of pun- 
ishment poisons the flesh much worse than the 
whip, and is more dreaded by the slave. Some 
are branded by a hot iron, others have their 
flesh cut out in large gashes, to mark them. 
Some who are prone to run away, have iron fet- 
ters riveted around their ancles, sometimes they 
are put only on one foot, and are dragged on the 
ground. Others have on large iron collars or 
yokes upon their necks, or clogs riveted upon 
their wrists or ancles. Some have bells put upon 
them, hung upon a sort of frame to an iron collar. 
Some masters fly into a rage at trifles and knock 
down their negroes with their fists, or with the 
first thing that they can get hold of. The whip- 
lash-knots, or rawhide, have sometimes by a 
reckless stroke reached round to the front of the 
body and cut through to the bowels. One slave- 
holder with whom I lived, whipped one of his 
slaves one day, as many, I should think, as one 
hundred lashes, and then turned the butt-end 
and went to beating him over the head and ears, 
and truly I was amazed that the slave was not 
killed on the spot. Not a few slaveholders whip 
their slaves to death, and then say that they died 
under a " moderate correction." I wonder that 
ten are not killed where one is ! Were they not 
much hardier than the whites many more of 
them must die than do. One young mulatto 
man, with whom I was well acquainted, was 
killed by his master in his yard with impunity. 
I boarded at the same time near the place where 
this glaring murder was committed, and knew 
the master well. He had a plantation, on 
which he enacted, almost daily, cruel barbarities, 
some of them, I was informed, more terrific, if 
possible, than death itself. Little notice was 
taken of this murder, and it all passed ofl" without 
any action being taken against the murderer. 
The masters used to try to make me whip their 
negroes. They said I could not get along with 
them without flogging them — but I found I could 
get along better with them by coaxing and en. 
couraging them than by beating and flogging 
them. I had not a heart to beat and kick about 
those beings ; although I had not grace in my 
heart the three first years I was there, yet I sym- 
pathised with the slaves. I never was guilty of 
having but one whipped, and he was whipped 
but eight or nine blows. The circumstances 
were as follows : Several negroes were put under 
my care, one spring, who were fresh from Congo 
and Guinea. I could not understand them, nei. 
ther could they me, in one word I spoke. I 
therefore pointed to them to go to work ; all 
obeyed me willingly but one — he refused. I told 
the driver that he must tie him up and whip him. 
After he had tied him, by the help of some others, 
we struck him eight or nine blows, and he 
yielded. I told the driver not to strike him ano- 
ther blow. We untied him, and he went to work, 
and continued faithful all the time he was with 
me. This one was not a sample, however — many 
of them have such exalted views of freedom that 



it is hard work for the masters to whip them into 
brutes, that is to subdue their noble spirits. The 
negroes being put under my care, did not prevent 
tiie masters from whipping them when they 
pleased. But they never whipped much in my 
presence. This work was usually left until I 
had dismissed the hands. On the plantations, 
the masters chose to have the slaves whipped in 
the presence of all the hands, to strike them with 
terror. 

VI. RUNAWAYS. 

Numbers of poor slaves run away from their 
masters ; some of whom doubtless perish in the 
swamps and other secret places, rather than re- 
turn back again to their masters ; others stay 
away until they almost famish with hunger, and 
then return home rather than die, while others 
who abscond are caught by the negro-hunters, in 
various ways. Sometimes the master will hire 
some of his most trusty negroes to secure any 
stray negroes, who come on to their plantations, 
for many come at night to beg food of their 
friends on the plantations. The slaves assist 
one another usually when they can, and not be 
found out in it. The master can now and then, 
however, get some of his hands to betray the run- 
aways. Some obtain their living in hunting after 
lost slaves. The most common way is to train 
up young dogs to follow them. This can easily 
be done by obliging a slave to go out into the 
woods, and climb a tree, and then put the young 
dog on his track, and with a little assistance he 
can be taught to follow him to the tree, and when 
found, of course the dog woidd bark at such 
game as a poor negro on a tree. There was a 
man living in Savannah when I was there, who 
kept a large number of dogs for no other pur- 
pose than to hunt runaway negroes. And he 
always had enough of this work to do, for hun- 
dreds of runaways are never found, but could he 
get news soon after one had fled, he was almost 
sure to catch him. And this fear of the dogs re- 
strains multitudes from running off". 

When he went out on a hunting excursion, to be 
gone several days, he took several persons with him , 
armed generally with rifles and followed by the 
dogs. The dogs were as true to the track of a 
negro, if one had passed recently, as a hound is 
to the track of a fox when he has found it. When 
the dogs draw.near to their game, the slave must 
turn and fight them or climb a tree. If the latt er, 
the dogs will stay and bark until the pursuers 
come. The blacks frequently deceive the dogs 
by crossing and recrossing the creeks. Should 
the hunters who have no dogs, start a slave from 
his hiding place, and the slave not stop at the 
hunter's call, he will shoot at him, as soon as he 
would at a deer. Some masters advertise so much 
for a runaway slave, dead or alive. It undoubt. 
edly gives such more satisfaction to know that 
their property is dead, than to know that it is 
alive without being able to get it. Some slaves 
run away who never mean to be taken alive. I 
will mention one. He run oflf and was pursued 
by the dogs, but having a weapon with him he 
succeeded in killing two or three of the dogs ; 
but was afterwards shot. He had declared, that 
he never would be taken alive. The people 
rejoiced at the death of the slave, but lamented 



22 



Personal Narratives — Sarah M. Grimke. 



the death of the dogs, they were such ravenous 
hunters. Poor fellow, he fought for life and 
liberty like a hero ; but the bullets brought him 
down. A negro can hardly walk unmolested 
at the south. — Every colored stranger that walks 
the streets is suspected of being a runaway slave, 
hence he must be interrogated by every negro 
hater whom he meets, and should he not have a 
pass, he must bs arrested and hurried off to jail. 
Some masters boast that their slaves would not 
be free if thoy could. How little they know of 
their slaves ! They are all sighing and groaning 
for freedom. May God hasten the time ! 

VII. CONFINEMENT AT NIGHT. 

When the slaves have done their day' s work, 
they must be herded together like sheep in their 
yards, or on their plantations. They have not as 
much liberty as northern men have, who are 
sent to jail for debt, for they have liberty to 
walk a larger yard than the slaves have. The 
slaves must all be at their homes precisely at 
eight o'clock, p.m. At this hour the drums beat 
in the cities, as a signal for every slave to be in 
his den. In the country, the signal is given by 
firing guns, or some other way by which they 
may know the hour when to be at home. After 



this hour, the guard in the cities, and patrols ir^ 
the country, being well armed, are on duty until 
daylight in the morning. If they catch any 
negroes during the night without a pass, they are 
immediately seized and hurried away to the 
guard-liouse, or if in the country to some place 
of confinement, where they are kept until nine 
o'clock, A. M., the next day, if not called for by 
that time, they arc hurried off to jail, and there 
remain until called for by their master and his 
jail and guard house fees paid. The guards and 
patrols receive one dollar extra for every one 
they can catch, who has not a pass from his 
master, or overseer, but fev/ masters will give 
their slaves passes to be out at night unless on some 
special business : notwithstanding, many venture 
out, watching every step they take for the guard 
or patrol, the consequence is, some are caught 
almost every night, and some nights many are 
taken ; some, fleeing after being hailed by the 
watch, are shot down in attempting their escape, 
others are crippled for life. I find I shall not be 
able to write out more at present. My ministe- 
rial duties are pressing, and if I delay this till the 
next mail, I fear it will not be in season. Your 
brother for those who are in bonds, 

Horace Moulton. 



NARRATIVE AND TESTIMONY OF SARAH M. GRIMKE. 



Miss Grimke is a daughter of the late 
Judge Grimke, of the Supreme Court of South 
Carolina, and sister of the late Hon. Thomas S. 
Grimke. 

As I left my native state on account of slave- 
ry, and deserted the home of my fathers to escape 
the sound of the lash and the shrieks of tortured 
victims, I would gladly bury in oblivion the re- 
collection of those scenes with which I have been 
familiar; but this may not, cannot be; they 
come over my memory like gory spectres, and 
implore me with resistless power, in the name of 
a God of mercy, in the name of a crucified Sa- 
vior, in the name of humanity ; for the sake of 
the slaveholder, as well as the slave, to bear 
witness to the horrors of the southern prison 
house. I feel impelled by a sacred sense of 
duty, by my obhgations to my country, by sym- 
pathy for the bleeding victims of tyranny and 
lust, to give my testimony respecting the system 
of American slavery, — to detail a few facts, most 
of which came mider my personal observation. 
And here I may premise, that the actors in these 
tragedies were all men and women of the high- 
est respectability, and of the first families in 
South Carolina, and, with one exception, citi- 
zens of Charleston ; and that their cruelties did 
not in the slightest degree affect their standing 
in society. 

A handsome mulatto woman, about 18 or 20 
years of age, whose independent spirit could not 
brook the degradation of slavery, was in the 
habit of running away : for this offence she had 
been repeatedly sent by her master and mistress 
to be whipped by the keeper of the Charleston 
^ork-house. TJfiis had been done with such in- 
human severity, as to lacerate her back in a 



most shocking manner; a finger could not be 
laid between the cuts. But the love of liberty 
was too strong to be annihilated by torture ; and, 
as a last resort, she was whipped at several dif- 
ferent times, and kept a close prisoner. A heavy 
iron collar, with three long prongs projecting 
from it, was placed round her neck, and a 
strong and sound front tooth was extracted, to 
serve as a mark to describe her, in case of es- 
cape. Her sufferings at this time were agoniz- 
ing ; she could lie in no position but on her back, 
which was sore from scourgings, as I can testify, 
from personal inspection, and lier only place of 
rest was the floor, on a blanket. These outrages 
were committed in a family where the mistress 
daily read the scriptures, and assembled her 
children for family worship. She was account- 
ed, and was really, so far as alms-giving was 
concerned, a charitable woman, and tender 
hearted to the poor ; and yet this suffering slave, 
who was the seamstress of the family, was con. 
tinually in her presence, sitting in her chamber 
to sew, or engaged in her other household work, 
with her lacerated and bleeding back, her muti- 
lated mouth, and heavy iron collar, without, so 
far as appeared, exciting any feelings of com- 
passion. 

A highly intelligent slave, who panted after 
freedom with ceaseless longings, made many at- 
tempts to get possession of himself. For every 
offence he was punished with extreme severity. 
At one time he was tied up by his hands to a 
tree, and whipped until his back was one gore 
of blood. To this terrible infliction he was sub- 
jected at intervals for several weeks, and kept 
heavily ironed while at his work. His master 
one day accused him of a fault, in the usual 
terms dictated by passion and arbitrary power ; 



Personal Narratives — Sarah M. Grimke. 



^8 



the man protested his innocence, but was not 
credited. He again repelled the charge with 
honest indignation. His master's temper rose 
almost to frenzy ; and seizing a fork, he made a 
deadly plunge at the breast of the slave. The 
man "being far his superior in strength, caught 
his arm, and dashed the weapon on the floor. 
His master grasped at his throat, but the slave 
disengaged himself, and rushed from the apart- 
ment. Having made his escape, he fled to the 
woods ; and after wandering about for many 
months, living on roots and berries, and enduring 
every hardship, he was arrested and committed 
to jail. Here he lay for a considerable time, 
allowed scarcely food enough to sustain life, 
whipped in the most shocking manner, and con- 
fined in a cell so loathsome, that when his mas- 
ter visited him, he said the stench was enough 
to knock a man down. The filth had never 
been removed from the apartment since the poor 
creature had been immured in it. Although a 
black man, such had been the effect of starva- 
tion and suffering, that his master declared he 
hardly recognized him — his complexion was so 
yellow, and his hair, naturally thick and black, 
had become red and scanty ; an infallible sign of 
long continued living on bad and insufficient 
food. Stripes, imprisonment, and the gnawings 
of hunger, had broken his lofty spirit for a season ; 
and, to use his master's own exultmg expression, 
he was " as humble as a dog." After a time he 
made another attempt to escape, and was absent 
so long, that a reward was offered for him, dead 
or alive. He eluded every attempt to take him, 
and his master, despairing of ever getting him 
again, offered to pardon him if he would return 
home. It is alvv^ays understood that such intel- 
ligence will reach the runaway ; and according- 
ly, at the entreaties of his wife and mother, the 
fugitive once more consented to return to his bit- 
ter bondage. I beheve this was the last effort to 
obtain his liberty. His heart became touched 
with the power of the gospel ; and the spirit 
which no inflictions could subdue, bowed at the 
cross of Jesus, and with the language on his 
lips — "the cup that my father hath given me, 
shall I not drink it?" submitted to the yoke of 
the oppressor, and wore his chains in unmurmur- 
ing patience till death released him. The mas- 
ter who perpetrated these wrongs upon his slave, 
was one of the most influential and honored citi- 
zens of South Carolina, and to his equals was 
bland, and courteous, and benevolent even to a 
proverb. 

A slave who had been separated from his 
wife, because it best suited the convenience of 
his owner, ran away. He was taken up on the 
plantation where his wife, to whom he was ten- 
derly attached, then lived. His only object in 
running away was to return to her — no other 
fault was attributed to him. For this offence he 
was confined in the stocks six weeks, in a mis- 
erable hovel, not weather-tight. He received 
fifty lashes weekly during that time, was allow- 
ed food barely sufficient to sustain him, and when 
released from confinement, was not permitted to 
return to his wife. His master, although him- 
self a husband and a father, was unmoved by 
the touching appeals of the slave, who entreated 
that he might only remain with his wife, promis- 



ing to discharge his duties faithfully ; his master 
continued inexorable, and he was torn from his 
wife and family. The owner of this slave was a 
professing Christian, in full membership with the 
church, and this circumstance occurred when he 
was confined to his chamber during his last ill- 
ness. 

A punishment dreaded more by the slaves 
than whipping, unless it is unusually severe, is 
one which was invented by a female acquaint, 
ance of mine in Charleston — I heard her say so 
with much satisfaction. It is standing on one 
foot and holding the other in the hand. After- 
wards it was improved upon, and a strap was 
contrived to fasten around the ankle and pass 
around the neck ; so that the least weight of the 
foot resting on the strap would choke the person. 
The pain occasioned by this unnatural position 
was great ; and when continued, as it sometimes 
was, for an hour or more, produced intense 
agony. I heard this same woman say, that she 
had the ears of her waiting maid slit for some 
petty theft. This she told me in the presence of 
the girl, who was standing in the room. She 
often had the helpless victims of her cruelty se- 
verely whipped, not scrupling herself to wield 
the instrument of torture, and with her own 
hands inflict severe chastisement. Her husband 
was less inhuman than his wife, but he was often 
goaded on by her to acts of great severity. In 
his last illness I was sent for, and watched be- 
side his death couch. The girl on whom he had 
so often inflicted punishment, haunted his dying 
hours ; and when at length the king of terrors 
approached, he shrieked in utter agony of spirit 
" Oh, the blackness of darkness, the black imps, 
I can see them all around me — take thera 
away !" and amid such exclamations he expired. 
These persons were of one of the first families in 
Charleston. 

A friend of mine, in whose veracity I have en- 
tire confidence, told me that about two years ago, 
a woman in Charleston with whom I was well 
acquainted, had starved a female slave to death. 
She was confined in a sohtary apartment, kept 
constantly tied, and condemned to the slow and 
horrible death of starvation. This woman was 
notoriously cruel. To those who have read the 
narrative of James Williams I need only say, that 
the character of young Larrimore's wife is an ex- 
act description of this female tyrant, whose coun- 
tenance was ever dressed in smiles when in the 
presence of strangers, but whose heart was as the 
nether millstone toward her slaves. 

As I was traveling in the lower country in 
South Carolina, a number of years since, my at- 
tention was suddenly arrested by an exclamation 
of horror from the coachman, who called out, 
" Look there. Miss Sarah, don't you see?"-I looked 
in the direction he pointed, and saw a human 
head stuck up on a high pole. On inquiry, I found 
that a runaway slave, who was outlawed, had been 
shot there, his head severed from his body, and 
put upon the public h;;^liway, as a terror to deter 
slaves from running away. 

On a plantation in North Carolina, where I was 
visiting, I happened one day, in my rambles, to 
step into a negro cabin ; my compassion was in- 
stantly called forth by the object which presented 
itself. A slave, whose head was white with age, 



24 



Personal Narratives — Sarah M. Grimke. 



was lying in one corner of the hovel ; he had un- 
der his head a few filthy rags, but the boards were 
his only bed, it was the depth of winter, and the 
wind whistled through every part of the dilapi- 
dated building— he opened his languid eyes when 
I spoke, and in reply to my question, " What is the 
matter ?" he said, " I am dying of a cancer in my 

side." As he removed the rags which covered the 

sore, I found that it extended half round the body, 
and was shockingly neglected. I inquired if he had 
any nurse. " No, missey," was his answer, " butde 
people (the slaves) very kind tome, dey often steal 
time to run and sec me and fetch me some 
ting to eat ; if dey did not, I might starve." 
The master and mistress of this man, who had 
been worn out in their service, were remarkable 
for their intelhgence, and their hospitality knew 
no bounds towards those who were of their own 
grade in society : the master had for some time 
held the highest military office in North Carolina, 
and not long previous to the time of which I 
speak, was the Governor of the State. 

On a plantation in South Carolina, I witnessed 
a similar case of suffering—an aged woman suffer. 
ing under an incurable disease in the same miser- 
ably neglected situation. The " owner" of this 
slave was proverbially kind to her negroes ; so 
much so, that the planters in the neighborhood 
said she spoiled them, and set a bad example, 
which might produce discontent among the sur- 
rounding slaves ; yet I have seen this woman 
tremble with rage, when her slaves displeased her, 
and heard her use language to them which could 
only be expected from an inmate of Bridewell ; 
and have known her in a gust of passion send a 
favorite slave to the workhouse to be severely 
whipped. 

Another fact occurs to me. A young woman 
about eighteen, stated some circumstances rela- 
tive to her young master, which were thought de- 
rogatory to his character ; whether true or false, I 
am unable to say; she was threatened with 
punishment, but persisted in affirming that she 
had only spoken the truth. Finding her incorrigible, 
it was concluded to send her to the Charleston 
workhouse and have her whipt ; she pleaded in 
vain for a commutation of her sentence, not so 
much because she dreaded the actual suffering, 
as because her delicate mind shrunk from the 
shocking exposure of her person to the eyes of 
brutal and licentious men ; she declared to me that 
death would be preferable ; but her entreaties 
were vain, and as there was no means of escapmg 
but by running away, she resorted to it as a des- 
perate remedy, for her timid nature never could 
have braved the perils necessarily encountered by 
fugitive slaves, had not her mind been thrown mto 
a state of despair.— She was apprehended after a 
few weeks, by two slave-catchers, in a deserted 

12 



house, and as it was late in the evening they con- 
cluded to spend the night there. What inhuman 
treatment she received from them has never been 
revealed. They tied her with cords to their bo- 
dies, and supposing they had secured their victim, 
soon fell into a deep sleep, probably rendered 
more profound by intoxication and fatigue ; but 
the miserable captive slumbered not ; by some 
means she disengaged herself from her bonds, and 
again fled through the lone wilderness. After a 
few days she was discovered in a wretched hut, 
which seemed to have been long uninhabited ; 
she was speechless ; a raging fever consumed her 
vitals, and when a physician saw her, he said she 
was dying of a disease brought on by over fatigue ; 
her mother was permitted to visit her, but ere she 
reached her, the damps of death stood upon her 
brow, and she had only the sad consolation of 
looking on the death-struck form and convulsive 
agonies of her child. 

A beloved friend in South Carolina, the wife 
of a slaveholder, with whom I often mingled my 
tears, when helpless and hopeless we deplored 
together the horrors of slavery, related to me 
some years since the following circumstance. 

On the plantation adjoining her husband's, 
therewasa slave of pre-eminent piety. His master 
was not aprofessorof religion, but the superior ex- 
cellence of this disciple of Christ was not unmark- 
ed by him, and I believe he was so sensible of the 
good influence of his piety that he did not de- 
prive him of the few religious privileges within 
his reach. A planter was one day dining with 
the owner of this slave, and in the course of con- 
versation observed, that all profession of religion 
among slaves was mere hypocrisy. The other as- 
serted a contrary opinion, adding, I have a slave 
who I believe would rather die than deny his Sa- 
viour. This was ridiculed, and the master urged 
to prove the assertion. He accordingly sent for 
this man of God, and peremptorily ordered him 
to deny his belief in the Lord .Jesus Christ. The 
slave pleaded to be excused, constantly affirming 
that he would rather die than deny the Redeemer, 
whose blood was shed for him. His master, 
after vainly trying to induce obedience by threats, 
had him terribly whipped. The fortitude of the 
sufferer was not to be shaken ; he nobly reject- 
ed the offer of exemption from further chastise- 
ment at the expense of destroying his soul, and 
this blessed martyr died in consequence of this 
severe infliction. Oh, how bright a gem will 
this victim of irresponsible power be, in that 
crown which sparkles on the Redeemer's brow ; 
and that many such will cluster there, I have 
not the shadow of a doubt, 

Sarah M. Grimke. 
Fort Lee, Bergen County, 

New Jersey, 3rd Month, 26th, 1830. 



Personal Narratives — Rev. John Graham. 



25 



TESTIMONY OF THE LATE REV. JOHN GRAHAM, 



of Townsend, Mass., who resided in S. CaroHna, 
from 1831, to the latter part of 183.3. Mr. Gra- 
ham graduated at Amherst College in 1829, 
spent some time at the Theological Seminary, in 
New Haven, Ct., and went to South Carolina, for 
his health in 1830. He resided principally on 
the island of St. Helena, S. C, and most of the 
time in the family of James Tripp, Esq., a 
wealthy slave holding planter. During his 
residence at St. Helena, he was engaged as an 
instructer, and was most of the time the stated 
preacher on the island. Mr. G. was extensively 
known in Massachusetts ; and his fellow students 
and instructors, at Amherst College, and at Yale 
Theological Seminary, can bear testimony to 
his integrity and moral worth. The following 
are extracts of letters, which he wrote while in 
South Carolina, to an intimate friend in Concord, 
Massachusetts, who has kindly furnished them 
for publication. 

EXTRACTS. 

Springfield, St. Helena Isl, S. C.,Oct. 22, 1832. 
" Last night, about one o'clock, I was awaken- 
ed by the report of a musket. I was out of bed 
almost instantly. On opening my window, I 
found the report proceeded from my host's cham- 
ber. He had let off his pistol, which he usually 
keeps by him night and da}^ at a slave, who had 
come into the yard, and as it appears, had been 
with one of his house servants. He did not hit 
him. The ball, taken from a pine tree the next 
morning, I will show you, should I be spared by 
Providence ever to return to you. The house 
servant was called to the master's chamber, 
where he received 75 lashes, very severe too ; and 
I could not only hear every lash, but each groan 
which succeeded very distinctly as I lay in my 
bed. Whai was then done with the servant I 
know not. Nothing was said of this to me in 
the morning and I presume it will ever be kept 
from me with care, if I may judge of kindred 
acts. I shall make no comment." 

In the same letter, Mr. Graham says : — 
" You ask me of my hostess" — then after 
giving an idea of her character says : " To day, 
she has I verily believe laid, in a very severe 
manner too, more than 300 stripes, upon the 
house servants," (17 in number.) 

Darlington, Court House. S. C. March, 28th, 1838. 
'' I walked up to the Court House to day, 
where I heard one of the most interesting cases 
I ever heard. I say interesting, on account of 
its novelty to me, though it had no novelty for the 
people, as such cases are of frequent occurrence. 
The case was this : To know whether two 
ladies, present in court, were white or black. 
The ladies were dressed well, seemed modest, 
and were retiring and neat in their look, having 
blue eyes, black hair, and appeared to under- 
stand much of the etiquette of southern behav- 
iour. 



"A man, more avaricious than humane, as .s 
the case with most of the rich planters, laid a 
remote claim to those two modest, unassuming, 
innocent and free young ladies as his property, 
with the design of putting them into the field, 
and thus increasing his STOCK ! As well as 
the people of Concord are known to be of a 
peaceful disposition, and for their love of good 
order, I verily believe if a similar trial should be 
brought forward there and conducted as this 
was, the good people would drive the lawyers 
out of the house. Such would be their indigna- 
tion at their language, and at the mean under-hand- 
ed manner of trying to ruin those young ladies, 
as to their standing in society in this district, 
if they could not succeed in dooming them for 
life to the degraded condition of slavery, and all 
its intolerable cruellies. Oh slavery ! if statues 
of marble could curse you, they would speak. 
If bricks coal4speak, they would all surely thun- 
der out their anathemas against you, accursed 
thing ! How many white sons and daughters, 
have bled and groaned under the lash in this 
sultry climate," &c. 

Under date of March, 1832, Mr. G. writes, 
" I have been doing what I hope never to be 
called to do again, and wiiat I fear I have badly 
done, though performed to the best of my ability, 
namely, sewing up a very bad wound made by a 
wild hog. The slave was hunting wild hogs, 
when one, being closely pursued, turned upon his 
pursuer, who turning to run, was caught by the 
animal, thrown down, and badly wounded in the 
thigh. The wound is about five inches long and 
very deep. It was made by the tusk of the ani- 
mal. The slaves brought him to one of the huts 
on Mr. Tripp's plantation and made every exer- 
tion to stop the blood by filling the wound with 
ashes, (their remedy for stopping blood) but findiri'^ 
this to fail they came to me (there being no other 
white person on the plantation, as it is now holi- 
days) to know if I could ''top the blood. I went 
and found that the poor creature must bleed to 
death unless it could be stopped soon. I called 
for a needle and succeeded in sewing it up as 
well as I could, and in stopping the blood. In 
a short time his master, who had been sent for 
came ; and oh, you would have shuddered if you 
had heard the awful oaths that fell from his lips, 
threatening in the same breath " to pay him for 
that .'" I left him as soon as decency would per- 
mit, with his hearty thanks that I had saved him 
^500 I Oh, may heaven protect the poor, suflfer- 
ing, fainting slave, and show his master his wan- 
ton cruelty — oh slavery ! slavery !" 

Under date of July, 1832, Mr. G. writes, " I 
wish you could have been at the breakfast table 
with me this morning to have seen and heard 
what I saw and heard, not that I wish your ear 
and heart and soul pained as mine is, ' with 
every day's' observation ' of wrong and out- 
rage' with which this place is filled, but that you 
might have auricular and ocular evidence of the 
cruelty of slavery, of cruelties that mortal lan- 
guage can never describe — that you might see 
the tender mercies of a hardened slaveholder, 
one who bears the name of being one of the mild- 



26 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Poe. 



est and most merciful masters of which this isL 
and can boast. Oh, my friend, another is scream- 
ing under the lash, in the shed-room, but for 
what I know not. The scene this morning was 
truly distressing to me. It was this : — After the 
blessing was asked at the breakfast table, one of 
the servants, a woman grown, in giving one of 
the children some molasses, happened to pour out 
a little more than usual, though not more than ihe 
child usually eats. Her master was angry at the 
petty and indifferent mistake, or slip of the hand. 
He rose from the table, took both of her hands 
in one of his, and with the other began to beat 
her, first on one side of her head and then on the 
other, and repeating this, till, as he said on sitting 
down at table, it hurt his hand too much to con- 
tinue it longer. He then took off his shoe, and 
with the heel began in the same manner as 
with his hand, till the poor creature could no 
longer endure it without screeches and raising her 
elbow as it is natural to ward off the blow^s. He 
then called a great overgrown negro to hold her 
hands behind her while he should wreak his ven- 
geance upon the poor servant. In this position 
he began again to beat the poor suffering wretch. 
It now became intolerable to bear ; she fell, 
screaming to me for help. After she fell, he beat 
her until I thought she would have died in his 
hands. She got up, however, went out and 



washed off the blood and came in before we rose 
from table, one of the most pitiable objects I 
ever saw till I came to the South. Her ears 
were almost as thick as my hand, her eyes aw- 
fully blood-shotten, her lips, nose, cheeks, chin, 
and whole head swollen so that no one would 
have known it was Etta — and for all this, she had 
to turn round as she was going out and thank her 
master ! Now, all this was done while I was sit- 
ting at breakfast with the rest of the family. 
Think you not I wished myself sitting with the 
peaceful and happy circle around your table ? 
Think of my feelings, but pity the poor negro 
slave, who not only fans his cruel master when 
he eats and sleeps, but bears the stripes his ca- 
price may inflict. Think of this, and let heaven 
hear your prayers." 

In a letter dated St. Helena Island, S. C, Dec. 
3, 1832, Mr. G. writes, " If a slave here complains 
to his master, that his task is too great, his master 
at once calls him a scoundrel and tells him it is 
only because he has not enough to do, and orders 
the driver to increase his task, however unable he 
may be for the performance of it. I saw tweinty- 
SEVEN whipped at one time just because they did 
not do more, when the poor creatures were so 
tired that they could scarcely drag one foot after 
the other." 



TESTIMONY OF MR. WILLIAM POE. 



Mr. Poe is a native of Richmond, Virginia, and 
was formerly a slaveholder. He was for several 
years a merchant in Richmond, and subsequently 
in Lynchburg, Virginia. A few years since, he 
emancipated his slaves, and removed to Hamil- 
ton County, Ohio, near Cincinnati ; where he is 
a highly respected ruling elder in the Presbyterian 
chiu:ch. He says, — 

I am pained exceedingly, and nothing but my 
duty to God, to the oppressors, and to the poor 
down-trodden slaves, who go mourning all their 
days, could move me to say a word. I will 
state to you a few cases of the abuse of the 
slaves, but time would fail, if I had language to 
tell how many and great are the inflictions of 
slavery, even in its mildest form. 

Benjamin James Harris, a wealthy tobacconist 
of Richmond, Virginia, whipped a slave girl 
fifteen years old to death. While he was whip- 
ping her, his wife heated a smoothing iron, put it 
on her body in various places, and burned her 
severely. The verdict of the coroner's inquest 
was, "Died of excessive whipping." He was 
tried in Richmond, and acquitted. I attended 
the trial. Some years after, this same Harris 
whipped another slave to death. The man had 
not done so much work as was required of him. 
After a number of protracted and violent scourg- 
ings, with short intervals between, the slave died 
under the lash. Harris was tried, and again 
acquitted, because none but blacks saw it done. 
The same man afterwards whipped another slave 
severely, for not doing work to please him. After 
repeated and severe floggings in quick succes- 



sion, for the same cause, the slave, in despair of 
pleasing him, cut off his own hand. Harris soon 
after became a bankrupt, went to New Orleans 
to recruit his finances, failed, removed to Ken- 
tucky, became a maniac, and died. 

A captain in the United States' Navy, who 
married a daughter of the collector of the port 
of Richmond, and resided there, became offended 
with his negro boy, took him into the meat 
house, put him upon a stool, crossed his hands 
before him, tied a rope to them, threw it over a 
joist in the building, drew the boy up so that he 
could just stand on the stool with his toes, and 
kept him in that position, flogging him severely 
at intervals, until the boy became so exliausted 
that he reeled off the stool, and swung by his 
hands until he died. The master was tried and 
acquitted. 

In Goochland County, Virginia, an overseer 
tied a slave to a tree, flogged him again and 
again with great severity, then piled brush around 
him, set it on fire, and burned him to death. 
The overseer was tried and imprisoned. The 
whole transaction may be found on the records 
of the court. 

In traveling, one day, from Petersburg to 
Richmond, Virginia, I heard cries of distress at a 
distance, on the road. I rode up, and found two 
white men, beating a slave. One of them had 
hold of a rope, which was passed under the bottom 
of a fence; the other end was fastened around 
the neck of the slave, who was thrown flat on 
the ground, on his face, with his back bared. 
The other was beating him furiously with a 
large hickory. 

A slaveholder in Henrico County, Virginia, 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



27 



had a slave wlio used frequently to work for my 
father. One morning he came into the field witli 
his back completely cut uj), and mangled from 
his head to his heels. The man was so stiff 
and sore he could scarcely walk. This same 
person got offended with another of his slaves, 
knocked him down, and struck out one of his 
eyes with a maul. The eyes of several of his 
slaves were injured by similar violence. 

In Richmond, Virginia, a company occupied 
as a dwelling a large v/arehouse. They got an- 
gry with a negro lad, one of their slaves, took 
him into the cellar, tied his hands with a rope, 
bored a hole through the floor, and passed the 
rope up through it. Some of the family drew up the 
boy, while others whipped. This they continued 
until the boy died. The warehouse was owned 
by a Mr. Whitlock, on the scite of one formerly 
owned by a Mr. Philpot. 

Joseph Chilton, a resident of Campbell County, 
Virginia, purchased a quart of tanners' oil, for 
the purpose, as he said, of putting it on one of 
his negro's heads, that he had sometime previous 
pitched or tarred over, for running away. 

In the town of Lynchburg, Virginia, there was 



a negro man put in prison, charged with having 
pillaged some packages of goods, which he, as 
head man of a boat, received at Richmond, to 
be delivered at Lynchburg. The goods belonged 
to A. B. Nichols, of Liberty, Bedford Countjs 
Virginia. He came to Lynchburg, and desired 
the jailor to permit him to whip the negro, to make 
him confess, as there was no proof against him. 
Mr. WiUiams, (I think that is his name,) a 
pious Methodist man, a great stickler for law 
and good order, professedly a great friend to the 
black man, delivered the negro into the hands of 
Nichols. Nichols told me that he took the slave, 
tied his wrists together, then drew his arms down 
so far below his knees as to permit a staff to 
pass above the arms under the knees, thereby 
placing the slave in a situation that he could not 
move hand or foot. He then commenced his 
bloody work, and continued, at intervals, until 
500 blows were inflicted. I received this state- 
ment from Nichols himself, who was, by the way, 
a son of the land oj " steady habits,^' where there 
are many like liim, if we may judge from their 
writings, sayings, and doings. 



PRIVATIONS OF THE SLAVES. 



I. FOOD. 

We begin with the food of the slaves, because 
if they are ill treated in this respect we may be 
sure that they will be ill treated in other respects, 
and generally in a greater degree. For a man 
habitually to stint his dependents in their food, is 
the extreme of meanness and cruelty, and the 
greatest evidence he can give of utter indiffer- 
ence to their comfort. The father who stints his 
children or domestics, or the master his appren- 
tices, or the employer his laborers, or the officer 
his soldiers, or the captain his crew, when able 
to furnish them with sufficient food, is every 
where looked upon as unfeeling and cruel. All 
mankind agree to call such a character inhuman. 
If any thing can move a hard heart, it is the ap- 
peal of hunger. The Arab robber whose whole 
life is a prowl for plunder, will freely divide his 
camel's milk with the hungry stranger who halts 
at his tent door, though he may have just waylaid 
him and stripped him of his money. Even sava- 
ges take pity on hunger. Who ever went fam- 
ishing from an Indian's wigwam. As much as 
hunger craves, is the Indian's free gift even 
to an enemy. The necessity for food is such a 
universal want, so constant, manifest and impe. 
rative, that the heart is more touched with pity 
by the plea of hunger, and more ready to supply 
that want than any other. He who can habitu- 
ally inflict on others the pain of hunger by giv- 
ing them insufficient food, can habitually inflict 
on them any other pain. He can kick and cuff 



and flog and brand them, put them in irons or 
the stocks, can overwork them, deprive them of 
sleep, lacerate their backs, make them work with- 
out clothing, and sleep without covering. 

Other cruelties may be perpetrated in hot 
blood and the act regretted as soon as done — the 
feeling that prompts them is not a permanent 
state of mind, but a violent impulse stung up by 
sudden provocation. But he who habitually 
withholds from his dependents sufficient suste- 
nance, can plead no such palliation. The fact 
itself shows, that his permanent state of mind 
toward them is a brutal indifference to their 
wants and sufferings — A state of mind which 
will naturally, necessarily, show itself in innu- 
merable privations and inflictions upon them, 
when it can be done with impunity. 

If, therefore, we find upon examination, that 
the slaveholders do not furnish their slaves with 
sufficient food, and do thus habitually inflict upon 
them the pain of hunger, we have a clue furnish- 
ed to their treatment in other respects, and may 
fairly infer habitual and severe privations and in- 
flictions ; not merely from the fact that men are 
quick to feel for those who suffer from huno-er, 
and perhaps more ready to relieve that want 
than any other ; but also, because it is more for 
the interest of the slaveholder to supply that 
want than any other ; consequently, if the slave 
suffer in this respect, he must as the general rule, 
suffer 7nore in other respects. 

We now proceed to show that the slaves have 



28 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



insufficient food. This will be shown first from 
the express declarations of slaveholders, and other 
competent witnesses who are, or have been resi- 
dents of slave states, that the slaves generally are 
under-fed. And then, by the laws of slave states. 



and by the testimony of slaveholders and others, 

the kind, quantity, and quality, of their allowance 

will be given, and the reader left to judge for 

I himself whether the slave must not be a sufferer. 



THE SLAVES SUFFER FROM HUNGER DECLARATIONS OF SLAVE-HOLDERS AND OTHERS 



WITNESSES. 

Hon. Alexander Sraylh, a slave hold- 
er, and for ten years, Member of 
Congress from Virginia, in his speech 
on the Missouri questioii. .Ian 28th, 
1820. 

Rev. George Whitefield, in his letter, 
to the slave holders of Md. Va. N C. 
S. C. and Ga. published in Georgia, just 
one hundred years ago, 1739. 

Rev. John Rankin, of Ripley, Ohio, a 
native of Tennessee, and for some year's 
a preacher in slave states. 



Report of the Gradual Emancipation 
Society, of North Carolina, 1826. Sign- 
ed Moses Swain, President, and Wil- 
liam Swain, Secretary. 



TESTIMONY. 

" By confining the slaves to the Southern states, where crops 
are raised for exportation, and bread and meat are purchased, 
you doom them to scarcity and hunger. It is proposed to hem in 
the blacks where they are ill fed." 

" My blood has frequently run cold within me, to think how 
many of your slaves have not sufficient food to eat ; they are scarcely 
permitted to pick up the crumbs, that fall from their master's table." 

" Thousands of the slaves are pressed with the gnawings ot 
cruel hunger during their whole lives." 

Speaking of the condition of slaves, in the eastern part of 
that state, the report says, — " The master puts the unfortunate 
wretches upon short allowances, scarcely sufficient for their 
sustenance, so that a great part of them go half starved much of 
the time." 



Mr. Asa A. Stone, a Theological 
Student, who resided near Natchez, 
Miss., in 1834-5. 



Thomas Clay, Esq., of Georgia, a 
Slaveholder. 



Mr. Tobias Boudinot, St. Albans, 
Ohio, a member of the Methodist 
Church. Mr. B. for some years navi- 
gated the MississippL 

President Edwards, the younger, in a 
sermon before the Conn. Abolition So- 
ciety, 1791. 

Rev. Horace Moulton, a Methodist 
Clergyman of Marlboro' Mass., who 
lived five years in Georgia. 

Rev. George Bourne, late editor of 
the Protestant Vindicator, N. Y., who 
was seven years pastor of a church in 
Virginia. 



" On almost every plantation, the hands suffijr more or less 
from hunger at some seasons of almost every year. There is 
always a good deal of suffering from hunger. On many planta- 
tions, and particularly in Louisiana, the slaves are in a condition 
of almost utter famishmev,t, during a great portion of the year." 

" From various causes this [the slave's allowance of food] is 
often not adequate to the support of a laboring man." 

" The slaves down the Mississippi, are half-starved, the boats, 
when they stop at night, are constantly boarded by slaves, begging 
for something to eat." 

" The slaves are supplied with barely enough to keep them 
from starving." 

" As a general thing on the plantations, the slaves suffer ex- 
tremely for the want of food." 

" The slaves are deprived of needful sustenance." 



Hon. Robert Tumbull, a slavehold- 
er of Charleston, South CaroUna. 



Mr. Eleazar Powell, Chippewa, 
Beaver Co., Penn., who resided in Mis- 
sissippi, in 1836-7. 

Reuben G. Macy, a member of the 
Society of Friends, Hudson, N. Y., who 
resided in South Carolina. 

Mr- William Leftwich, a native of 
Virginia, and recently of Madison Co., 
Alabama, now member, of the Presby- 
terian Church, Delhi, Ohio. 



2. KINDS of food. 

" The subsistence of the slaves consists, from March until 
August, of corn ground into grits, or meal, made into what is 
called hominy, or baked into corn bread. The other six months, 
they are fed upon the sweet potatoe. Meat, when given, is only 
by way of indulgence or favor." 

" The food of the slaves was generally corn bread, and some, 
times meat or molasses.'' 

" The slaves had no food allowed them besides corn, except- 
ing at Christmas, when they had beef." 

" On my uncle's plantation, the food of the slaves, was corn- 
pone and a small allowance of meat." 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



29 



William Ladd, Esq., of Minot, Me., president 
of thj American Peace Society, and formerly a 
slaveholder of Florida, gives the following testi- 
mony as to the allowance of food to slaves. 

" The usual food of the slaves was corn, with 
a modicum of salt. In some cases the master 
allowed no salt, but the slaves boiled the sea 
water for salt in their little pots. For about 
eight days near Christmas, i. e., from the Satur- 
day evening before, to the Monday evening after 
Cliristmas day, they were allowed some tneat. 
They always with one single exception ground 
their corn in a hand-mill, and cooked their food 
themselves. 

Extract of a letter from Rev. D. C. Eastman, 
a preacher of the Methodist Episcopal church, 
in Fayette county, Ohio. 

" In March, 1838, Mr. Thomas Larrimer, a 
deacon of the Presbyterian church in Blooming- 
bury, Fayette county, Ohio, Mr. G. S. FuUcrton, 
merchant, and member of the same church, 
and Mr. William A. Ustick, an elder of the 
same church, spent a night with a Mr. Shep- 
herd, about 30 miles North of Charleston, S. 
C., on the Monk's corner road. He owned 
five families of negroes, v/ho, ho said, were 
fed from the same meal and meat tubs as himself, 
but that 99 out of a 100 of all the slaves in that 
county saw meat but once a year, which was on 
Christmas holidays." 

As an illustration of the inhuman experiments 
sometimes tried upon slaves, in respect to the kind 
as well as the quality and quantity of their food, we 
solicit the attention of the reader to the testimony 
of the late General Wade Hampton, of South 
Carolina. General Hampton was for some 
time commander in chief of the army on the 
Canada frontier during the last war, and at the 
time of his death, about three years since, was 
the largest slaveholder in the United States. The 
General's testimony is contained in the following 
extract of a letter, just received from a distin- 
guished clergymen in the west, extensively known 
both as a preacher and a writer. His name is 
with the executive committee of the American 
Anti-Slavery Society. 

" You refer in your letter to a statement made 
to you while in this place, respecting the late 



General Wade Hampton, of South Carolina, and 
task me to write out for you ihe circumstances of 
the case — considering them well calculated to 
illustrate two points in the history of slavery : 
1st, That the habit of slaveholding dreadfully 
blunts the feelings toward the slave, producing 
such insensibility that his sufferings and death 
are regarded with indifference. 2d, That the 
slave often has insufficient food, both in quantity 
and quality. 

'• I received my information from a lady in the 
west of high respectability and great moral worth, 
— but think it best to withhold her name, although 
the statement was not made in confidence. 

" My informant stated that she sat at dinner 
once in company with General Wade Hampton, 
and several others ; that the conversation turned 
upon the treatment of their servants, «fec. ; when 
the General undertook to entertain the company 
with the relation of an experiment he had made 
in the feeding of his slaves on cotton seed. He 
said that he first mingled one-fourth cotton seed 
with three-fourths corn, on which they seemed to 
thrive tolerably well ; that he then had measured 
out to them equal quantities of each, which did 
not seem to produce any important change ; af- 
terwards he increased the quantity of cotton seed 
to three-fourths, mingled with one-fourth corn, 
and then he declared, with an oath, that ' they 
died like rotten sheep I !' It is but justice to the 
lady to state that she spoke of his conduct with 
the utmost indignation ; and she mentioned also 
that he received no countenance from the com- 
pany present, but that all seemed to look at each 
other with astonishment. I give it to you just as I 
received it from one who was present, and whose 
character for veracity is unquestionable. 

"It is proper to add that I had previously 
formed an acquaintance with Dr. Withcrspoon, 
now of Alabama, if alive ; whose former resi- 
dence was in South Carolina ; from whom I re- 
ceived a particular account of the manner of 
feeding and treating slaves on the T^lp.ntations of 
General Wade Hampton, and others in the same 
part of the State ; and certainly no one could 
Hsten to the recital without concluding that such 
masters and overseers as he described must have 
hearts like the nether millstone. The cotton 
seed experiment I had heard of before also, as 
having been made in other parts of the south ; 
consequently, I was prepared to receive as true 
the above statement, even if I had not been so 
well acquainted with the high character of my 
informant." 



2. QUANTITY OF FOOD. 

The legal allowance of food for slaves in North Carolina, is in the words of the law, " a quart 
of corn per day." See Haywood's Manual, 525. The legal allowance in Louisiana is more, a 
barrel [flour barrel] of corn, (in the ear,) or its equivalent in other grain, and a pint of salt a month. 
In the other slave states the amount of food for the slaves is left to the option of the master. 

WITNESSES. 

Thos. Clay, Esq., of Georgia, a slave 
holder, in his address before the Georgia 
Presbytery, 1833. 



TESTIMONY. 



" The quantity allowed by custom is a peck of corn a week ! 



The Maryland Journal, and 
more Advertiser, May 30, 1788. 



" A single peck of corn a week, or the like measure of rice, is 
Baiti- ^^^ ordinary quantity of provision for a hard-working slave ; to 
which a small quantity of meat is occasionally, though rarely, 
added." 



80 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



W. C. Gildersleevc, Esq., a native of 
Georgia, and Elder in the Presbyterian 
Ciiurch, Wilksbarrc, Penn. 



Wm. Ladd, of Minot, Maine, former- 
ly a slaveholder in Florida. 



Mr. Jarvis Brewster, in his " Exposi- 
tion of the treatment of slaves in the 
Southern States," published in N. 
Jersey, 1815. 

Rev. Horace Moulton, a Methodist 
Clergyman of Marlboro', Mass., w^ho 
lived five years in Georgia. 

Mr. F. C. Macy, Nantucket, Mass., 
who resided in Georgia in 1820. 

Mr. Nehemiah Caulkins, a member of 
the Baptist Church in Waterford, 
Conn., who resided in North Carolina, 
eleven winters. 

William Savery, late of Philadelphia, 
an eminent Minister of the Society of 
Friends, who travelled extensively in 
the slave states, on a Religious Visi- 
tation, speaking of the subsistence of 
the slaves, says, in his pubhshed 
Journal, 

The late John Parrish, of Philadelphia, 
another liighly respected Minister of 
the bociety of Friends, who traversed 
the South, on a similar mission, in 
1804 and 5, says in his " Remarks on 
the slavery of Blacks ;" 



" The weekly allowance to grown slaves on this plantation, 
where I was best acquainted, was one peck of corn. ^' 

" The usual allowance of food was one quart of corn a day, 
to a full task hand, with a modicum of salt ; kind masters allow- 
ed a ^ecA: o/ corn a toee A:; some masters allowed no salt." 

" The allowance of provisions for the slaves, is one peck of 
corn, in the grain, per week." 

" In Georgia the planters give each slave only one peck of 
their gourd seed corn per week, with a small quantity of salt." 

" The food of the slaves was three pecks of potatos a week 
during the potato season, and one peck of corn, during the re- 
mainder of the year." 

" The subsistence of the slaves, consists of seven quarts of meal 
or eight quarts of small rice for one week I 



" A feck of corn is their (the slaves,) miserable subsistence for 
a week." 



" They allow them but one peck of meal, for a whole week, in 
some of the Southern states." 



Richard Macy, Hudson, N., Y. a 
Member of the Society of Friends, who 
lias resided in Georgia. 



Rev. C. S. Renshaw, of Q,uincy, 111., 
(the testimony of a Virginian.) 



" Their usual allowance of food was one peck of corn per 
week, which was dealt out to them every first day of tlte week. 
They had nothing allowed them besides the corn, except one 
quarter of beef at Christmas." 

" The slaves are generally allowanced : a pint of corn meal 
and a salt herring is the allowance, or in lieu of the herring a 
" dab" of fat meat of about the same value. I have known the 
sour milk, and claubor to be served out to the hands, when there 
was an abundance of milk on the plantation. This is a luxury not 
often afforded." 

Testimony of Mr. George W. Westgate, member of the Congregational Church, of Quincy, Illi- 
nois. Mr. W, has been engaged in the low country trade for twelve years, more than half of each 
year, principally on the Mississippi, and its tributary streams in the south-western slave states. 

" Feeding is not sufficient, — let facts speak. On the coast, i, e. Natchez and the Gulf of Mexico, 
the allowance was one barrel of ears of corn, and a pint of salt per month. They may cook this in 
what manner they please, but it must be done after dark ; they have no day light to prepare it by. 
Some few planters, but only a few, let them prepare their com on Saturday afternoon. Planters, 
overseers, and negroes, have told mc, that in pinching times, i. e. when corn is high, they did not 
get near that quantity. In Miss., I know some planters who allowed their hands three and a halt 
pounds of meat per v.'eek, when it was cheap. Many prepare their corn on the Sabbath, when they 
are not worked on that day, which however is frequently the case on sugar plantations. There 
are very many masters on " the coast" who will not suffer their slaves to come to the boats, be- 
cause they steal molasses to barter for meat ; indeed they generally trade more or less with stolen 
property. But it is impossible to find out what and when, as their articles of barter are of such 
trifling importance. They would often come on board our boats to beg a bone, and would tell how 
badly they were fed, that they were almost starved ; many a time I have set up all night, to pre- 
vent them from stealing something to eat." 



3. QUALITY or FOOD. 

Having ascertained the kind and quantity of food allowed to the slaves, it is important to know 
something of its quality, that we may judge of the amount of sustenance which it contains. For, 
if their provisions are of an inferior quality, or in a damaged state, then, power to sustain labor 
must be greatly diminished. 

TESTIMONY. 



WITNESSES. 
Thomas Clay, Esq. of Georgia, in an 
address to the Georo'ia Presbytery, 1834, 
speaking of the quality of the corn given 
to the slaves, says, 



There is often a defect here" 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



31 



Rqv. Horace Moulton, a Methodist 
clergyman at Marlboro', Mass. and five 
years a resident of Georgia. 

The "Western Medical Reformer," 
in an article on the diseasps peculiar to 
negroes, by a Kentucky physician, says 
of the diet of the slaves ; 



Professor A. G. Smith , of the New 
York Medical College ; formerly a phy- 
sician in Louisville, Kentucky. 



The food, or ' feed ' of slaves is generally of the poorest 



kind. 



" Thev live on a coarse, crude, unwholesome diet" 

I have myself known numerous instances of large families of 
badly fed negroes swept off by a prevailing epidemic; and it is 
well known to many intelligent planters in the south, that the best 
method of preventing that horrible malady, Chachexia Africana, 
is to feed the negroes with nutritious food. 



4. NUMBER AND TIME OF MEALS EACH DAY. 

In determining whether or not the slaves suffer for want of food, the number of hours intervening, 
and the labor performed between their meals, and the number of meals each day, should be taken 
into consideration. 



WITNESSES. 

Philemon Bliss, Esq., a lawyer in 
Elyria, Ohio, and member of the Presby- 
terian church, who lived hi Florida, in 
1834, and 1835. 

President Edwards, the younger. 

Mr. Eleazar Powell, Chippewa, Bea- 
ver county, Penn., who resided in Mis- 
sissippi in 1836 and 1837. 

Mr. Nehemiah Caulkins, Waterford, 
Conn., who spent eleven winters in 
North Carolina. 

Rev. Phineas Smith, Centreville, N. 
Y., who has lived at the south some 
years. 



Rev. C. S. Renshaw, Cluincy, Illinois, 
— the testimony of a Virginian. 



TESTIMONY. 

" The slaves go to the field in the morning ; they carry with 
them corn meal wet with water, and at noon build a fire on the 
ground and bake it in the ashes. After the labors of the day 
are over, they take their second meal of ash-cake." 

" The slaves eat twice during the day." 

" The slaves received two meals during the day. Those who 
have their food cooked for them get their breakfast about eleven 
o'clock, and their other meal after night" 

" The breakfast of the slaves was generally about ten or elenen 
o'clock." 



" The slaves have usually two meals a day, viz 
o'clock and at night." 



at eleven 



" The slaves have two meals a day. They breakfast at from 
ten to eleven, A. M., and eat their supper at from six to nine or 
ten at night, as the season and crops may be." 



The preceding testimony establishes the fol- 
lowing points. 

1st. That the slaves are allowed, in general, no 
meat. This appears from the fact, that in the 
only slave states which regulate the slaves' rations 
bylaw, (North Carolina and Louisiana,) the legal 
ration contains no meat. Besides, the late Hon. 
R. J. Turnbull, one of the largest planters in 
South Carolina, says expressly, " meat, when 
given, is only by the way of indulgence or favor." 
Tt is shown also by the direct testimony recorded 
bove, of slaveholders and others, in all parts of 
the slaveholding south and west, that the geiie- 
ral allowance on plantations is corn or meal and 
salt merely. To this there are doubtless many 
exceptions, but they are only exceptions ; the 
number of slaveholders who furnish meat for 
their field-hands, is small, in comparison with the 
number of those who do not. The house slaves, 
that is, the cooks, chambermaids, waiters, &c., 
generally get some meat every day ; the remain, 
der bits and bones of their masters' tables. But 
that the great body of the slaves, those that 
compose the field gangs, whose labor and expo- 
sure, and consequent exhaustion, are vastly greater 



than those of house slaves, toiling as they do from 
day light till dark, in the fogs of the early morn- 
ing, under the scorchings of mid- d.iy, and amid 
the damps of evening, are in general provided 
with no meat, is abundantly established by the 
preceding testimony. 

Now we do not say that meat is necessary to 
sustain men under hard and long continued labor, 
nor that it is not. This is not a treatise on dietetics ; 
but it is a notorious fact, that the medical facul- 
ty in this country, with very few exceptions, do 
most strenuously insist that it is necessary ; and 
that working men in all parts of the country do 
believe that meat is indispensable to sustain them, 
even those who work within doors, and only ten 
hours a day, every one knows. Further, it is no- 
torious, that the slaveholders themselves believe 
the daily use of meat to be absolutely necessary 
to the comfort, not merely of those who labor, 
but of those who are idle, is proved by the fact 
of meat being a part of the daily ration of food 
provided for convicts in the prisons, in every one 
of the slave states, except in those rare cases 
where meat is expressly prohibited, and the con- 
vict is, by way of extra punishment confined to 



32 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



bread and water ; he is occasionally, and for a lit- 
tle time only, confined to bread and water ; that 
is, to the ordinary diet of slaves, with this differ- 
ence in favor of the convict : his bread is made for 
him, whereas the slave is forced to pound or grind 
his own corn and make his own bread, when ex- 
hausted with toil. 

The preceding testimony shows also, tliat 
vegetables form generally no part of the slaves' 
allowance. The sole food of the majority is corn : 
at every meal — from day to day — from week to 
week — from month to month, corn. In South 
Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, the sweet pota- 
to is, to a considerable extent, substituted for 
corn during a part of the year. 

2d. The preceding testimony proves conclu- 
sively, that the quantity of food generally allov/- 
ed to a full-grown field-hand, is a peck of corn a 
week, or a fraction over a quart and a gill of 
corn a day. The legal ration of North Carolina 
is less — in Louisiana it is more. Of the slave- 
holders and other witnesses, who give the fore- 
going testimony, the reader will perceive that no 
one testifies to a larger allowance of com than a 
peck for a week ; though a number testify, that 
within the circle of their knowledge, seve7i quarts 
was the usual allowance. Frequently a small 
quantity of meat is added ; but this, as has al- 
ready been shown, is not the general rule for 
field.hands. We may add, also, that in the sea- 
son of '' pumpkins," " cimblins," " cabbages," 
" greens," «Slc., the slaves on small plantations 
are, to some extent, furnished with those articles. 

Now, without entering upon the vexed ques- 
tion of how much food is necessary to sustain the 
human system, under severe toil and exposure, 
and without giving the opinions of physiologists 
as to the insufficiency or sufficiency of the slaves' 
allowance, we affirm that all civilized nations 
have, in all ages, and in the most emphatic man- 
ner, declared, that eight quarts of corn a week, 
(the usual allowance of our slaves,) is utterly in- 
sufficient to sustain the human body, under such 
toil and exposure as that to which the slaves are 
subjected. 

To show this fully, it will be necessary to make 
some estimates, and present some statisties. 
And first, the aorthern reader must bear in mind, 
that the corn furnished to the slaves at the south, 
is almost invariably the tchite gourd seed corn, 
and that a quart of this kind of corn weighs five 
or six ounces less than a quart of " flint corn," 
the kind generally raised in the northern and 
eastern states ; consequently a peck of the com 
generally given to the slaves, would be only 
equivalent to a fraction more than six quarts and 
a pint of the corn commonly raised in the New 
England States, New York, New Jersey, &c. 
Now, what would be said of the northern capital- 



ist, who should allow his laborers but six quarts 
and five gills of corn for a week's provisions '! 

Further, it appears in evidence, that the corn 
given to the slaves is often defective. This, the 
reader will recollect, is the voluntary testimony 
of Thomas Clay, Esq., the Georgia planter, whose 
testimony is given above. When this is the 
case, the amount of actual nutriment contained 
in a peck of the " gourd seed," may not be more 
than in five, or f^ur, or even three quarts of 
"flint corn." 

As a quart of southern corn weighs at least 
five ounces less than a quart of northern corn, it 
requires little arithmetic to perceive, that the 
daily allowance of the slave fed upon that kind 
of corn, would contain about one third of a pound 
less nutriment than though his daily ration were 
the same quantity of northern corn, which would 
amount, in a year, to more than a hundred and 
twenty pounds of human sustenance ! which 
would furnish the slave with his full allowance 
of a peck of com a week for two months I It is 
unnecessary to add, that this difference in the 
weight of the two kinds of corn, is an item too 
important to be overlooked. As one quart of the 
southern corn weighs one pound and eleven-six- 
teenths of a pound, it follows that it would be 
about one pound and six-eighths of a pound. We 
now solicit the attention of the reader to the fol- 
lowing unanimous testimony, of the civilized 
world, to the utter insufficiency of this amount of 
food to sustain human beings under labor. This 
testimony is to be found in the laws of all civil- 
ized nations, which regulate the rations of sol- 
diers and sailors, disbursements made by govern- 
ments for the support of citizens in times of pub- 
lic calamity, the allowance to convicts in prisons, 
&c. We will begin with the United States. 

The daily ration for each United States' soldier, 
established by act of Congress, May 80, 1796, 
was the following : one pound of beef, one pound 
of bread, half a gill of spirits ; and at the rate of 
one quart of salt, two quarts of vinegar, two 
pounds of soap, and one pound of candles to 
every hundred rations. To those soldiers " who 
were on the frontiers," (where the labor and ex- 
posure were greater,) the ration was one pound 
two ounces of beef and one pound two ounces of 
bread. Laws U, S. vol. 3d, sec. 10, p. 431. 

After an experiment of two years, the preced- 
ing ration being found insufficient, it was in- 
creased, by act of Congress, July 16, 1798, and 
was as follows : beef one pound and a quarter, 
bread one pound two ounces ; salt two quarts, 
vinegar four quarts, soap foiu- pounds, and can- 
dies one and a half pounds to the hundred ra- 
tions. The preceding allowance was afterwards 
still further increased. 

The frest * daily ration for the United States' 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



33 



soldiers, is, as we learn from an advertisement of 
Captain Fulton, of the United States' army, in a 
late number of the Richmond (Va.) Enquirer, as 
follows : one and a quarter pounds of beef, one 
and three-sixteenths pounds of bread ; and at the 
rate of eight quarts of beans, eight pounds of 
sugar, four pounds of coiFee, two quarts of salt, 
four pounds of candles, and four pounds of soap, 
to every hundred rations. 

We have before us the daily rations provided 
for the emigrating Ottawa Indians, two years 
since, and for the emigrating Cherokces last fall. 
They were the same — one pound of fresh beef, 
one pound of flour, &.c. 

The daily ration for the United States' navy, 
is fourteen ounces of bread, half a pound of beef, 
six ounces of pork, three ovmces of rice, three 
ounces of peas, one ounce of cheese, one ounce 
of sugar, half an ounce of tea, one-third of a 
gill molasses. 

The daily ration in the British army is one and 
a quarter pounds of beef, one pound of bread, &c. 

The daily ration in the French army is one 
pound of beef, one and a half pounds of bread, 
one pint of wine, &c. 

The common daily ration for foot soldiers on 
the continent, is one pound of meat, and one and 
a half pounds of bread. 

The sea ration among the Portuguese, has be- 
come the usual ration in the navies of European 
powers generally. It is as follows : " one and a 
half pounds of biscuit, one pound of salt meat, 
one pint of wine, with some dried fish and 
onions." 

Prison Rations. — Before giving the usual 
daily rations of food allowed to convicts, in the 
principal prisons in the United States, we will 
quote the testimony of the " American Prison 
Discipline Society," which is as follows : 

" The common allowance of food in the peni- 
tentiaries, is equivalent to one pound of meat, 

ONE POUND of bread, AND ONE POUND OF VEGETA- 
BLES PER DAY. It varies a httle from this in some 
of them, but it is generally equivalent to it." 
First Report of American Prison Discipline So- 
ciety, page 13. 

The daily ration of food to each convict, in the 
principal prisons in this country, is as follows : 

In the New Hampshire State Prison, one and 
a quarter pounds of meal, and fourteen ounces 
of beef, for breakfast and dinner; and for sup- 
per, a soup or porridge of potatos and beans, or 
peas, the quantify not limited. 

In the Vermont prison, the convicts are al- 
lowed to eat as much as they wish. 

In the Massachusetts' penitentiary, one and a 
half pounds of bread, fourteen ounces of meat, 
half a pint of potatos, and one gill of molasses, 
or one pint of milk. ' 



In the Connecticut State Prison, one pound 
of beef, one pound of bread, two and a half 
pounds of potatos, half a gill of molasses, with 
salt, pepper, and vinegar. 

In the New York State Prison, at Auburn, 
one pound of beef, twenty-two ounces of flour 
and meal, half a gill of molasses ; with two 
quarts of rye, four quarts of salt, two quarts of 
vinegar, one and a half ounces of pepper, and 
two and a half bushels of potatos to every hun- 
dred rations. 

In the New York State Prison at Sing Sing, 
one pound of beef, eighteen ounces of flour and 
meal, besides potatos, rye coffee, and molasses. 

In the New York City Prison, one pound of 
beef, one pound of flour ; and three pecks of po- 
tatos to every hundred rations, with other small 
articles. 

In the New Jersey State Prison, one pound 
of bread, half a pound of beef, with potatos and 
cabbage, (quantity not specified,) one gill of 
molasses, and a bowl of mush for supper. 

In the late Walnut Street Prison, Philadel- 
phia, one and a half pounds of bread and meal, 
iialf a pound of beef, one pint of potatos, one 
gill of molasses, and half a gill of rye, for coffee. 

In the Baltimore prison, we believe tiie ration 
is the same with the preceding. 

In the Pennsylvania Eastern Penitentiary, one 
pound of bread and one pint of coffee for break- 
fast, one pint of meat soup, with potatos without 
limit, for dinner, and mush and molasses for sup- 
per. 

In the Penitentiary for the District of Colum- 
bia, Washington city, one pound of beef, twelve 
ounces of Indian meal, ten ounces of wheat flour, 
half a gill of molasses ; with two quarts of rye, 
four quarts of salt, four quarts of vinegar, and 
two and a half bushels of potatos to every hun- 
dred rations. 

Rations in English Prisons. — The daily ra- 
tion of food in the Bedfordshire Penitentiary, is 
two pounds of bread; and if at hard labor, a 
quart of soup for dinner. 

In the Cambridge County House of Correction, 
three pounds of bread, and one pint of beer. 

In the Millbank General Penitentiary, one and 
a half pounds of bread, one pound of potatos, six 
ounces of beef, with half a pint of broth there- 
from. 

In the Gloucestershire Penitentiary, one and a 
half pounds of bread, three-fourths of a pint of 
peas, made into soup, with beef, quantity not 
stated. Also gruel, made of vegetables, quantity 
not seated, and one and a half ounces of oatmeal 
mixed witli it. 

In the Leicestershire House of Correction, two 
pounds of bread, and three pints of gruel ; and 
when at hard labor, one pint of milk in addition. 



34 



Privations of the Slaves — Food. 



and twice a week a pint of meat soup at dinner, 
instead of gruel. 

In the Buxton House of Correction, one and a 
half pounds of bread, one and a half pints of 
gruel, one and a half pints of soup, four-fifths of 
a pound of potatos, and two-sevenths 6f an ounce 
of beef. 

Notwithstanding the preceding daily ration in 
the Buxton Prison is about double the usual 
daily allowance of our slaves, yet the visiting 
physicians decided, that for those prisoners who 
were required to work the tread-mill, it was en- 
tirely insufficient. This question w^as considered 
at length, and publicly discussed at the sessions 
of the Surry magistrates, with the benefit of 
medical advice ; which resulted in " large addi- 
tions" to the rations of those who worked on the 
tread-mill. See London Morning Chronicle, 
Jan. 13, 1830. 

To the preceding we add the ration of the Ro- 
man slaves. The monthly allowance of food to 
slaves in Rome was called " Dimensum." The 
"Dimensum" was an allowance of wheat or 
of other grain, which consisted of five modii a 
month to each slave Ainsworth, in his Latin 
Dictionary estimates the inodius, when used for 
the measurement of grain, at a peck and a half 
our measure, which would make the Roman 
slave's allowance two quarts of grain a day, just 
double the allowance provided for the slave by 
law in North Carolina, and six quarts more per 
week than the ordinary allowance of slaves in 
the slave states generally, as already established 
by the testimony of slaveholders themselves. 
But it must by no means be overlooked that this 
** dimensum," or monthly allowance, was far from 
being the sole allowance of food to Roman slaves. 
In addition to this, they had a stated daily allow- 
ance (diarium^ besides a monthly allowance of 
money, amounting to about a cent a day. 

Now without further trenching on the reader's 
time, we add, compare the preceding daily allow- 
ances of food to soldiers and sailors in this and 
other countries ; to convicts in this and other 
countries; to bodies of emigrants rationed at 
public expense ; and finally, with the fixed al- 
lowance given to Roman slaves, and we find the 
states of this Union, the slave states as well as 
tire free, the United States' government, the dif- 
ferent European governments, the old Roman 
empire, in fine, we may add, the world, ancient 
and modern, uniting in the testimony that to 
furnish men at hard labor from daylight till dark 
with but ll lbs. of corn per day, their sole suste- 
nance, is to MURDER THEM BY PIECE-MEAL. The 

reader will perceive by examining the preceding 
statistics that the average daily ration throughout 
this country and Europe exceeds the usual slave's 
allowance at least a pound a day ; also that one. 



third of this ration for soldiers and convicts in 
the United States, and for soldiers and sailors in 
Europe, is meat, generally beef; whereas the al- 
lowance of the mass of our slaves is corn, only. 
Further, the convicts in our prisons are sheltered 
from the heat of the sun, and from the damps of 
the early morning and evening, from cold, rain, 
&-C. ; whereas, the great body of the slaves are 
exposed to all of these, in their season, from day- 
light till dark ; besides this, they labor more 
hours in the day than convicts, as will be shown 
under another head, and are obliged to prepare 
and cook their own food after they have finished 
the labor of the day, while the convicts have 
theirs prepared for them. These, with other cir- 
cumstances, necessarily make larger and longer 
draughts upon the strength of the slave, produce 
consequently greater exhaustion, and demand a 
larger amount of food to restore and sustain the 
laborer than is required by the convict in his 
briefer, less exposed, and less exhausting toils. 

That the slaveholders themselves regard the 
usual allowance of food to slaves as insufiicient, 
both in kind and quantity, for hard-working men, 
is shown by the fact, that in all the slave states, 
we believe without exception, white convicts at 
hard labor, have a much larger allowance of food 
than the usual one of slaves ; and generally more 
than one third of this daily allowance is meat. 
This conviction of slaveholders shows itself in 
various forms. When persons wish to hire slaves 
to labor on public works, in addition to the m- 
ducement of high wages held out to masters to 
hire out their slaves, the contractors pledge them- 
selves that a certain amount of food shall be 
given the slaves, taking care to specify a larger 
amount than the usual allowance, and a part of 
it meat. 

The following advertisement is an illustration. 
We copy it from the " Daily Georgian," Savan- 
nah, Dec. 14, 1838. 



NEGROES WANTED. 

The Contractors upon the Brunswick and Al- 
atamaha Canal are desirous to hire a number of 
prime Negro Men, from the 1st October next, for 
fifteen months, until the 1st January, 1840. They 
will pay at the rate of eighteen dollars per month 
for each prime hand. 

These negroes will be employed in the exca. 
vation of the Canal. They will be provided with 
three and a half pounds of pork or bacon, and 
ten quarts of gourd seed corn per week, lodged in 
comfortable shantees, and attended constantly by 
a skilful physician. 

J. H. COUPER, 

P. M. Nightingale. 

But we have direct testimony to this point. 
The late Hon. John Taylor, of Caroline Co. Vir- 
ginia, for many years Senator in Congress, and 
for many years president of the Agricultural So- 



Privations of the Slaves — Labor. 



35 



ciety of the State, says in his "Agricultural Es- 
says," No. 30, page 97, " Bread alone ought 

NEVER to be considered A SUFFICIENT DIET FOR 
SLAVES EXCEPT AS A PUNISHMENT." Hc UrgCS Upon 

the planters of Virginia to give their slaves, in ad- 
dition to bread, '' salt meat and vegetables," and 
adds, " we shall be astonished to discover upon 
trial, that this great comfort to them is a profit 
to the master." 

The Managers of the American Prison Disci- 
pline Society, in their third Report, page 58, say, 
" In the Penitentiaries generally, in the United 
States, the animal food is equal to one pound of 
meat per day for each convict." 

Most of the actual suffering from hunger on the 
part of the slaves, is in the sugar and cotton-grow- 
ing region, where the crops are exported and the 
corn generally purchased from the upper country. 
Where this is the case there cannot but be suffer- 
ing. The contingencies of bad crops, difficult 



transportation, high prices, &c. &-C., naturally 
occasion short and often precarious allowances. 
The following extract from a New Orleaas paper 
of April 26, 1837, affords an illustration. The 
writer in describing the effects of the money 
pressure in Mississippi, says : 

" They, (the planters,) are now left without 
provisions and the means of living and using their 
industry, for the present year. In this dilemma, 
planters whose crops have been from 100 to 700 
bales, find themselves forced to sacrifice many of 
their slaves in order to get the common necessaries 
of life for the support of themselves and the rest of 
their negroes. In many places, heavy planter sr 
compel their slaves to fish jor the means of sub* 
sistence, rather than sell them at such ruinous 
rates. There are at this moment THOUSANDS 
OF SLAVES in Mississippi, that KNOW NOT 
WHERE THE NEXT MORSEL IS TO 
COME FROM. The master must be ruined to 
save the wretches from being STARVED " 



II. LABOR. 

THE SLAVES ARE OVERWORKED. 

This is abundantly proved by the number of hours that the slaves are obliged to be in the field. 
But before furnishing testimony as to their hours of labor and rest, we will present the express decla- 
rations of slaveholders and others, that the slaves are severely driven in the field. 

witnesses. TESTIMONY. 

" Many owners of slaves, and others who have the manage- 
ment of slaves, do confine them so closely at hard labor that they 
have not sufficient time for natural rest. — See 2 Brevard's Di- 
gest of the Laws of South Carolina, 243." 

" So laborious is the task of raising, beating, and cleaning 
History of Carolina.— Vol. i, page rice, that had it been possible to obtain European servants in 

sufficient numbers, thousands and tens of thousands must have 

PERISHED." 

"Is it not obvious that the way to render their situation ?norc 
comfortable, is to allow them to be taken where there is not the 
same motive to force the slave to incessant toil that there is in 
the country where cotton, sugar, and tobacco are raised for ex- 
portation. It is proposed to hem in the blacks where they are 
HARD worked, that they may be rendered unproductive and the 
race be prevented from increasing. * * * The proposed 
measure would be extreme cruelty to the blacks. * * * 
You would * * * doom them to hard labor." 



The Senate and House of Represent- 
atives of the State of South Carolina. 



190. 



Hon. Alexander Smyth, a slavehold- 
er, and member of Congress from Vir- 
ginia, in his speech on the " Missouri 
luestion," Jan. 28, 1820. 



"Travels in Louisiana," translated 
from the French by John Davies, Esq. 
—Page 81. 



The Western Review, No. 2, — article 
•' Agriculture of Louisiana." 

W. C. Gildersleeve, Esq., a native of 
Georgia, elder of the Presbyterian 
church, Wilkesbarre, Penn. 

Mr. Asa A. Stone, a theological stu- 
dent, near Natchez, Miss., in 1834 and 
1835. 



Philemon Bliss, Esq., a lawyer of 
Elyria, Ohio, who lived in Florida in 
1834 and 1835. 



" At the rolling of sugars, an interval of from two to three 
months, they work both night and day. Abridged of their sleep, 
they scarce retire to rest during the whole period." 

*' The work is admitted to be severe for the hands, (slaves,) 
requiring when the process is commenced to be pushed night 
and day." 

" Overworked I know they (the slaves) are." 

" Every body here knows overdriving to be one of the most 
common occurrences, the planters do not deny it, except, per- 
haps, to northerners." 

" During the cotton-picking season they usually labor in the 
field during the whole of the daylight, and then spend a good 
part of the night in giiming and baling. The labor required is 
very frequently excessive, and speedily impairs the constitution." 



36 



Privations of the Slaves — Labor. 



WITNESSES. TESTIMONY. 

Hon. R. J.Tumbul) of South Caroli- ' ^F ^^^ pregnant loomen even, on the plantation, and weak 

na, a slaveholder, speaking of the har- and sickly negroes incapable of other labor, are then in reqvi. 

vesting of cottoD, says : sitiony 



Asa A Stone, theological student, a 
classical teacher near Natchez, Miss., 
1835. 



Mr. Cornelius Johnson, of Famring- 
ton, Ohio, who lived in Mississippi a 
part of 1837 and 1838. 



W. C. Gildersleeve, I3sq., Wilkcs- 
barre, Penn., a native of Georgia. 



Mr. William Leftwich, a native of 
Virginia and son of a slaveholder — he 
has recently removed to Delhi, Hamil- 
ton county Ohio. 

Mr. Nehemiah Caulkins, Watorford, 
Conn., a resident in North Carolina 
eleven winters. 

Mr. Eleazar Powel, Chippewa, Bea- 
ver county, Penn., who lived in Missis- 
sippi in 1836 and 1837. 

Philemon Bliss, Esq., a lawyer in Ely- 
ria, Ohio, who resided in Florida in 
1834 and 1835. 



"Ti'avels in Louisiana," page 87 



Mr Heniy E. Knapp, member of a 
Clnistian church in Farmington, Ohin, 
wiio lived in Mi-sisiiippi in 1837 and 
1838. 



HOURS OF LABOR AND REST. 

" It is a general rule on all regular plantations, that the slaves 
be in the field as soon as it is light enovgh for them to see to 
work, and remain there until it is so dark that they cannot see." 

" It is the common rule for the slaves to be kept at work fif- 
teen hours in the clay, and in the time of picking cotton a certain 
number of pounds is required of each. If this amount is not 
brought in at night, the slave is whipped, and the number of 
pounds lacking is added to the next day's job ; thiis course is often 
repeated from day to day." 

" It was customary for the overseers to call out the gangs 
long before day, tay three o'clock, in the winter, while dressing 
out the crops ; such work as could be done by fire light (pitch 
pine was abundant,) was provided." 

" From dawn till dark, the slaves are required to bend to their 

work." 

" The slaves are obliged to work from daylight till dark, as 
long as they can sec." 

" The slaves had to cook and eat their breakfast and be in the 
field by daylight, and continue there till dark." 

" The slaves commence labor by daylight in the morning, and 
do not leave the field till dark in the evening." 

" Both in summer and winter the slave must he in the field by 
the first dawning of day." 

" The slaves were made to work, from as soon as they could 
see in the morning, till as late as they could sec at night. Some- 
times they were made to work till nine o'clock at night, in such 
work as they could do, as burning cotton stalks, &c." 



A New Orleans paper, dated March 23, 1826, 
says : " To judge from the activity reigning in 
the cotton presses of the suburbs of St. Mary, 
and the late hours during which their slaves 
work, the cotton trade was never more brisk." 

Mr. George W. Westgate, a member of the 
Congregational Church at Quincy, Illinois, who 
lived in the south western slave states a num- 
ber of years, says, " The slaves are driven to the 
field in the morning about four o'' clock, the gene- 
ral calculation is to get them at work by day- 
light ; the time for breakfast is between nine and 
ten o'clock, this meal is sometimes eaten ' bite 
and work,^ others allow fifteen minutes, and this 
is the only rest the slave has while in the field. 
I have never known a case of stopping an hour, 
in Louisiana ; in Mississippi the rule is milder, 
though entirely subject to the will of the master. 
On cotton plantations, in cotton picking time, that 
is from October to Christmas, each hand has a 
certain quantity to pick, and is flogged if his task 
is not accomplished ; their tasks are such as to 
keep them all the while busy." 

The preceding testimony under this head has 
sole reference to the actual labor of the slaves in 
the field. In order to determine how many hours 
are left for sleep, we must take into the account, 
the time spent in going to and from the field, 



which is often at a distance of one, two and 
sometimes three miles ; also the time necessary 
for pounding, or grinding their corn, and prepar- 
ing, over night, their food for the next day ; also 
the preparation of tools, getting fuel and prepar- 
ing it, making fires and cooking their suppers, if 
they have any, the occasional mending and wash- 
ing of their clothes, &c. Besides this, as everj 
one knows who has lived on a southern planta- 
tion, many little errands and chores are to be 
done for their masters and mistresses, old and 
young, which have accumulated during the day 
and been kept in reserve till the slaves return 
from the field at night. To this we may add that 
the slaves are social be-ings, and that during the 
day, silence is generally enforced by the whip of 
the overseer or driver.* When they return at 
night, their pent up social feehngs will seek vent, 
it is a law of nature, and though the body may 
be greatly worn with toil, this law cannot be 
wholly stifled. Sharers of the same woes, they 
are drawn together by strong affinities, and seek 

* We do not mean that they are not suffered to speak, 
but, that, as conversation would be a hirjdrance to labor, 
they are generally permitted to indulge in it but little. 



Privations of the Slaves — Labor. 



37 



the society and sympathy of their fellows ; even 
" tired nature" will joyfully forego for a time 
needful rest, to minister to a want of its being 
equally permanent and imperative as the want of 
sleep, and as much more profound, as the yearn- 
ings of the higher nature surpass the instincts of 
its animal appendage. 

All these things make drafts upon tifne. To 
show how much of the slave's time, which is ab- 
solutely indispensable for rest and sleep, is neces- 
sarily spent in various labors after his return from 
the field at night, we subjoin a few testimonies. 

Mr. Cornelius Johnson, Farmington, Ohio, 
who lived in Mississippi in the years 1837 and 38, 
says : 

" On all the plantations where I was acquaint- 
ed, the slaves were kept in the field till dark ; af- 
ter which, those who had to grind their own corn, 
had that to attend to, get their supper, attend to 
other family affairs of their own and of their mas- 
ter, such as bringing water, washing clothes, &c. 
&/C., and be in the field as soon as it was suffi- 
ciently light to commence v;ork in the morning." 

Mr. George W. Westgate, of Quincy, Illinois, 
who has spent several years in the south western 
slave states, says : 

" Their time, after full dark until four o'clock 
in the morning is their own ; this fact alone 
would seem to say they have sufficient rest, but 
there are other things to be considered ; much of 
their making, mending and washing of clothes, 
preparing and cooking food, hauling and chop- 
ping wood, fixing and preparing tools, and a va- 
riety of little nameless jobs must be done between 
those hours." 

Philemon Bliss, Esq. of Elyria, Ohio, who re- 
sided in Florida in 1834 and 5, gives the follow- 
ing testimony : 

" After having finished their field labors, they 
are occupied till nine or ten o'clock in doing 
chores, such as grinding corn, (as all the corn in 
the vicinity is ground by hand,) chopping wood, 
taking care of horses, mules, «&c., and a thousand 
things necessary to be done on a large plantation. 
If any extra job is to be done, it must not hinder 
the ' niggers' from their work, but must be 
done in tire night." 

W. C. Gildersleeve, Esq., a native of Georgia, 
an elder of the Presbyterian Church at A^llkes- 
barre, says : 

" The corn is ground in a handmiil by the slave 
after his ta': is done — generally there is but one 
mill on a plantation, and as but one can grind at 
a time, the mill is going sometimes very late at 
nightJ" 

We now present another class of facts and tes- 
timony, showing that the slaves engaged in 
raising the large staples, are overworked. 

In September, 1834, the writer of this had an 
interview with James G. Birney, Esq., who then 
resided in Kentucky, having removed with his 
family from Alabama the year before. A few 
hours before that interview, and on the morning 



of the same day, Mr. B. had spent a couple of 
hours with Hon. Henry Clay, at his residence, 
near Lexington. Mr. Birney remarked, that 
Mr. Clay had just told him, he had lately beer t 
led to mistrust certain estimates as to the in . 
crease of the slave population in the far sout h 
west — estimates which he had presented, I thin' k, 
in a speech before the Colonization Society. I le 
new believed, that the births among the slaves in 
that quarter were not equal to the deaths — a nd 
that, of course, the slave population, independisnt 
of innnlgration from the slave-selling staUes, 
was 7iot sustaining itself. 

Among other facts stated by Mr. Clay, 'was 
the following, which we copy verbatim from the 
original memorandum, made at the time by Mr. 
Birney, with which he has kindly furnished us. 

" Sept. 16, 1834. — Hon. H. Clay, in a conver- 
sation at his own house, on the subject of shive- 
ry, informed me, that Hon. Outerbridge Horsey, 
formerly a senator in Congress from the state; of 
Delavv^are, and the owner of a sugar plantation 
in Louisiana, declraed to him, that his ovenseer 
worked his hands so closely, that one of the wo- 
men brought forth a child whilst engaged in the 
labors of the field. 

"Also, that a few years since, he was at a brick 
yard in the environs of New Orleans, in which 
one hundred hands were employed ; among them 
were from twenty to thirty young women, in the 
prime of life. He was told by the proprietor, that 
there had not been a child born among them for 
the last two or three years, although they all had. 
husbands.'''' 

The preceding testimony of Mr. Clay, is 
strongly corroborated by advertisements of 
slaves, by Courts of Probate, and by executors 
administering upon the estates of deceased per- 
sons. Some of those advertisements for the sale 
of slaves, contain the names, ages, accustomed 
employment, ^c, of all the slaves upon the 
plantation of the deceased. These catalogues 
show large numbers of young men and women, 
almost all of them between twenty and thirty- 
eight years old ; and yet the number of young 
children is astonishingly small. We have laid 
aside many lists of this kind, in looking over the 
newspapers of the slaveholding states ; but the 
two following are all we can lay our hands on 
at present. One is in the " Planter's Intelligen- 
cer," Alexandria, La., March 22, 1837, contain- 
ing one hundred and thirty slaves ; and the other 
in the New Orleans Bee, a few days later, April 
8, 1837, containing fifty-one slaves. The for- 
mer is a " Probate sale" of the slaves belonging 
to the estate of Mr. Charles S. Lee, deceased, 
and is advertised by G. W. Keeton, Judge of the 
Parish of Concordia, La. The sex, name, and 
age of each slave are contained in the advertise- 
ment, which fills two columns. The following 
are some of the particulars. 



i\^8-' 



Privations of' the Slaves — Labor. 



The whole number of slaves is one hundred 
art d thirty. Of these, only three are over forty 
yed 'TS old. There are thirty. five females between 
the ages of sixteen and thirty.threc, and yet there 
are only thirteen children under the age of 
thirteen years ! 

Itl is impossible satisfactorily to account for 
such' a fact, on any other supposition, than that 
these! thirty-five females were so overworked, or 
undei 'fed, or both, as to prevent child-bearing. 

Th e other advertisement is that of a " Probate 
gale,'*' ordered by the Court of the Parish of Jef- 
ferson — including the slaves of Mr. William 
Gormley. The whole number of slaves is fifty- 
one ; the sex, age, and accustomed labors of 
each qre given. The oldest of these slaves is but 
thirty-, nine years old : of the females, thirteen are 
between the ages of sixteen and thirty -two, and 
the ojldest female is but thirty.eight — and yet 
there I are but two children under eight years 
old! \ 

Aniother proof that the slaves in the south- 
weste-rn states are over-worked, is the fact, that 
so few of them live to old age. A large majori- 
ty of them are old at middle age, and few live 
beyond fifty-five. In one of the preceding ad- 
vertisements, out of one hundred and thirty 
slaves, only three are over forty years old ! In 
tlie other, out of fifty-one slaves, only two are 
over thirty-five ; the oldest is but thirty-nine, and 
the way in which he is designated in the adver- 
tisement, is an additional proof, that what to 
others is " middle age," is to the slaves in the 
south-west " old ag« :" he is advertised as ^^old 
Jeffrey." 

But the proof that the «lave population of the 
south-west is so over- worked that it cannot supply 
its own waste, does not rest upon mere inferen- 
tial evidence. The Agricultural Society of Ba. 
ton Rouge, La., in its report, published in 1829, 
furnishes a labored estimate of the amouivt of ex- 
penditure necessarily incurred in conducting " a 
well-regulated sugar estate." In this estimate, 
the annual net loss of slaves, over and above the 
supply by propagation, is set down at two and a 
HALF PER CENT ! The late Hon. Josiah S. John, 
son, a member of Congress from Louisiana, ad- 
dressed a letter to the Secretary of the United 
States' Treasury, in 1830, containing a similar 
estimate, apparently made with great care, and 
going into minute details. Many items in this 
estimate differ from the preceding ; but the esti- 
mate of the annual decrease of the slaves on a 
plantation was the same — two and a half per 

CENT ! 

The following testimony of Rev. Dr. Chan- 
NiNG, of Boston, who resided some time in Vir- 
ginia, shows that the over-working of slaves, to 
Buch an extent as to abridge life, and cause a 



decrease of population, is not confined to the far 
south and south-west. 

'' I heard of an estate managed by an Individ 
ual who was considered as singularly successful, 
and who was able to govern the slaves without 
the use of the whip. I was anxious to see him, 
and trusted that some discovery had been made 
favorable to humanity. I asked him how he 
was able to dispense with corporal punishment. 
He replied to me, with a very determined look. 
' The slaves know that the work must be done, 
and that it is better to do it without punishment 
than with it.' In other words, the certainty and 
dread of chastisement were so impressed on 
them, that they never incurred it. 

" I then found that the slaves on this well- 
managed estate, decreased in number. I asked 
the cause. He replied, with perfect frankness 
and ease, ' The gang is not large enough for the 
estate.' In other words, they were not equal to 
the work of the plantation, and yet were made to 
do it, though with the certainty of abridging life. 

" On this plantation the huts were uncom- 
monly convenient. There was an unusual air 
of neatness. A superficial observer would have 
called the slaves happy. Yet they were living 
under a severe, subduing discipline, and were 
over-worked to a degree that shortened life." — 
Channing on Slavery, page 162, first edition. 

Philemon Bliss, Esq., a lawyer of Elyria, Ohio, 
who spent some time in Florida, gives the fol- 
lowing testimony to the over-working of the 
slaves : 

"It is not uncommon for hands, in hurrying 
times, beside working all day, to labor half the 
night. This is usually the case on sugar planta- 
tions, during the sugar-boiling season ; and on 
cotton, during its gathering. Beside the regular 
task of picking cotton, averaging of the short 
staple, when the crop is good, 100 pounds a day 
to the hand, the ginning (extracting the seed,) 
and baling was done in the night. Said Mr. 
to me, while conversing upon the cus- 



tomary labor of slaves, ' I work my niggers in a 
hurrying time till 11 or 12 o'clock at night, and 
have them up by four in the morning.' 

" Beside the common inducement, the desire of 
gain, to make a large crop, the desire is increased 
by that spirit of gambling, so common at the 
south. It is very common to bet on the issue of 
a crop. A. lays a wager that, from a given num- 
ber oi hands, he will make more cotton than B. 
The wager is accepted, and then begins the con- 
test ; and ^vho bears the burden of it ? How 
many tears, yea, how many broken constitutions, 
and premature deaths, have been the effect of 
this spirit ? From the desperate energy of pur- 
pose with which the gambler pursues his object, 
from the passions which the practice calls into 
exercise, we might conjecture many. Such is 
the fact. In Middle Florida, a broken-winded 
negro is more common than a broken-winded 
horse ; though usually, when they are declared 
unsound, or when their constitution is so broken 
that their recovery is despaired of. they are ex- 
ported to New Orleans, to drag out the remain- 
der of their days in the cane-field and sugar 
house. I would not insinuate that all planters 
gamble upon their crops ; but I mention the 



Privations of the Slaves — Labor. 



89 



practice as one of the common inducements to 
' push niggers.' Neither would I assert that all 
planters drive the hands to the injury of their 
health. I give it as a general rule in the district 
of Middle Florida, and I have no reason to think 
that negroes are driven Vi^orse there than in other 
fertile sections. People there told me that the 
situation of the slaves was far better than in Mis- 
sissippi and Louisiana. And from comparing 
the crops witli those made in the latter states, 
and for other reasons, I am convinced of the 
truth of their statements." 

Dr. Demming, a gentleman of high respectabili- 
ty, residing in Ashland, Richland county, Ohio, 
stated to Professor Wright, of New York city, 

" That during a recent tour at the south, while 
ascending the Ohio river, on the steamboat Fame, 
he had an opportunity of conversing with a Mr. 
Dickinson, a resident of Pittsburg, in company 
with a number of cotton-planters and slave-deal- 
ers, from Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi. 
Mr. Dickinson stated as a fact, that the sugar 
planters upon the sugar coast in Louisiana had 
ascertained, that, as it was usually necessary to 
employ about twice the amount of labor during 
the boiling season, that was required during the 
season of raising, they could, by excessive driv- 
ing, day and night, during the boiling season, 
accomplish the whole labor with one set of hands. 
By pursuing this plan, they could afford to sacri- 
fice a set of hands once in seven years ! He fur- 
ther stated that this horrible system was now 
practised to a considerable extent ! The cor- 
rectness of this statement was substantially ad- 
mitted by the slaveholders then on board." 

The late Mr. Samuel Blackwell, a highly re- 
spected citizen of Jersey city, opposite the city of 
New York, and a member of the Presbyterian 
church, visited many of the sugar plantations in 
Louisiana a few years since ; and having for 
many years been the owner of an extensive sugar 
refinery in England, and subsequently in this 
country, he had not only every facility afforded 
him by the planters, for personal inspection of 
all parts of the process of sugar- making, but re- 
ceived from them the most unreserved commu- 
nications, as to their management of their slaves. 
Mr. B., after his return, frequently made the fol- 
lowing statement to gentlemen of his acquain- 
tance, — " That the planters generally declared 
to him, that they were obliged so to over-work 
their slaves during the sugar-making season, (from 
eight to ten weeks,) as to use them up in seven 
or eight years. For, said they, after the process 
\s commenced, it must be pushed without cessa. 
uon, night and day ; and we cannot aiford to 
leep a sufficient number of slaves to do the extra 
A^ork at the time of sugar-making, as we could 
«iot profitably employ them the rest of the year." 

It is not only true of the sugar planters, but of 
the slaveholders generally throughout the far 
south and south west, that they believe it for their 
interest to wear out the slaves by excessive toil in 
eight or ten years after they put them into the 
field.* 

* Alexander Jones, Esq., a large planter in West Feliciana, 
Louisiana, published a communication in the " North Ca- 
rolina True American," Nov. 25, 1838, in which, speaking 



Rev. Doctor Reed, of London, who went 
through Kentucky, Virgiiiia and Maryland in the 
summer of 1834, gives the following testimony: 

" I was told confidently and from excellent 
authority, that recently at a meeting of planters 
in Soutli Carolina, the question was seriously dis- 
cussed whether the slave is more profitable to the 
owner, if well fed, well clothed, and worked 
lightly, or if made the most of at once, and ex- 
hausted in some eight years. The decision was 
in favor of the last alternative. That decision 
will perhaps make many shudder. But to my 
mind this is not the chief evil. The greater and 
original evil is considering the slave as property. 
If he is only property and my property, then I 
have some right to ask how I may make that 
property most available.''^ 

"Visit to the American Churches," by Rev. Drs. Ried 
and Mattheson. Vol. 2. p. 173. 

Rev. John O. Choules, recently pastor of the 
Baptist Church at New Bedford, Massachusettf, 
now of Buffalo, New York, made substantially 
the following statement in a speech in Boston. 

" While attending the Baptist Triennial Con- 
vention at Richmond, Virginia, in the spring of 
1835, as a delegate from Massachusetts, I had 
a conversation on slavery, with an officer of 
the Baptist Church in that city, at whose house 
I was a guest. I asked my host if he did not 
apprehend that the slaves would eventually rise 
and exterminate their masters. 

" Why," said the gentleman, " I used to ap- 
prehend such a catastrophe, but God has made a 
providential opening, a merciful safety valve, and 
now I do not feel alarmed in the prospect of 
what is coming. ' What do you mean, said Mr. 
Choules, ' by providence opening a merciful safety 
valve ?' Why, said the gentleman, I will tell 
you ; the slave traders come from the cotton and 
sugar plantations of the South and are willing to 
buy up more slaves than we can part with. We 
must keep a stock for the purpose of rearing 
slaves, but we part with the most valuable, and 
at the same time, the most dangerous, and the 
demand is 'very constant and likely to be so, for 
when they go to these southern states, the average 
existence is only five years ! " 

Monsieur C. C. Robin, a highly intelligent 
French gentleman, who resided in Louisiana 
from 1802 to 1806, and published a volume of 
travels, gives the following testimony to the over- 
working of the slaves there : 

" I have been a witness, that after the fatigue 
of the day, their labors have been prolonged se- 
veral hours by the light of the moon ; and then, 
before they could think of rest, they must pound 
and cook their corn ; and yet, iong before day, 
an implacable scold, whip in hand, would arouse 
them from their slumbers. Thus, of more than 

of the horses employed in the mills on the plantations for gin- 
ning cotton, he says, they " are much whipped and jaded ;" 
and adds, " In fact, this service is so severe on horses, as to 
shorten their lives in many instances, if not actually kill 
them in gear." 

Those who work one kind of their " live slock" so as to 
" shorten their lives," or " kill them in gear," would not 
stick at doing the same thing to another kind. 



40 



Privations of the Slaves — Cl6thing. 



twenty negroes, who in twenty years should have 
doubled, the number was reduced to four or Jive." 
In conclusion we add, that slaveholders have 
in the most public and emphatic manner declared 
themselves guilty of barbarous inhumanity toward 
their slaves in exacting from them such long 
continued daily labor. The Legislatures of 
Maryland, Virginia and Georgia, have passed 
laws providing that convicts in their state prisons 
and penitentiaries, " shall be employed in work 
each day in the year except Sundays, not ex- 
ceeding eight hours, in the months of November, 
December, and January; nine hours, in the 
months of February and October, and ten hours 
in the rest of the year." Now contrast this legal 
exaction of labor from convicts with the exaction 
from plaves as established by the preceding tes- 
timony. The reader perceives that the amount 
of time, in which by the preceding laws of Mary- 



land, Virginia, and Georgia, the convicts in their 
prisons are required to labor, is on an average 
during the year but little more than nine hours 
daily. Whereas, the laws of South Carolina 
permit the master to compel his slaves to work 
FIFTEEN HOURS in tlic twcuty-four, in summer, 
and FOURTEEN in the winter — which would be in 
winter, from daybreak in the morning until four 
hours after sunset ! — See 2 Brevard's Digest, 243. 

The other slave states, except Louisiana, have 
no laws respecting the labor of slaves, conse- 
quently if the master should work his slaves day 
and night without sleep till they drop dead, he 
violates no law .' 

The law of Louisiana provides for the slaves 
but TWO AND A HALF HOURS in the twenty-four for 
" rest !" See law of Louisiana, act of July 7. 
1806, Martin's Digest 6. 10—12. 



in. CLOTHING. 



We propose to show under thip head, that the clothing of the slaves by day, and their covering by 
night, are inadequate, either for comfort or decency. 



WITNESSES. 

Hon. T. T. Bouldiii, a slave-holder, 
and member of Coneress from Virginia, 
in a gpeecli in Congress, Feb. IG, 1835. 



George Buchanan, M. D., of Balti- 
more, member of the American Philo- 
sopliical Society, in an oration at Balti- 
more, July 4, 1791. 

Wm. Savery of Philadelphia an 
eminent Minister of tlie Society of 
Friends, who went through the South- 
ern states in 1791, on a religious visit ; 
after leaving Savannah, Ga., we find 
the following entry in his journal, 6th, 
month, 28, 1791. 



Rev. John Rankin, of Ripley, Ohio, a 
native of Tennessee. 



John Parrish, late of Philadelphia, a 
highly esteemed minister in the Society 
of Friends, who travelled through the 
South in 1804. 



Rev. Phineas Smith, Centreville, Alle- 
gany, Co., N. Y. Mr. S. has just re- 
turned from a residence of several 
years at the south, chiefly in Virginia, 
Louisiana, and among the American 
settlers in Texas. 



Wm. Ladd, Esq., of Minot, Maine, 
recently a slaveholder in Florida. 



TESTIMONY. 

Mr. Bouldin said " he knew that many negroes had died from 
exposure to weather," and added, " they are clad in di flimsy 
fabric, that will turn neither wind nor water J'^ 

" The slaves, naked and starved, often fall victims to the 
inclemencies of the weather." 



" We rode through many rice swamps, where the blacks were 
very numerous, great droves of these poor slaves, working up to 
the middle in water, men and women nearly naked." 



" In every slave-holding state, many slaves suffer extremely, 
both while they labor and while they sleep, for want of clothing 
to keep them warm." 

" It is shocking to the feelings of humanity, in travelling 
through some of those states, to see those poor objects, [slaves,] 
especially in the inclement season, in rags^ and trembling with 
the cold." .... 

" They suffer them, both male and female, to go without cloth- 
ing at the age of ten and twelve years." 

*' The apparel of the slaves, is of the coarsest sort and exceed- 
ingly deficient in quantity. I have been on many plantations, 
where children of eight and ten years old, were in a state of 
perfect nudity. Slaves are in general wretchedly clad." 

" They were allowed two suits of clothes a year, viz. one pair 
of trowsers with a shirt or frock of osnaburgh for summer ; 
and for winter, one pair of trowsers, and a jacket of negro cloth, 
with a baize shirt and a pair of shoes. Some allowed hats, and 
some did not ; and they were generally, I believe, allowed one 
blanket in two years. Garments of similar materials were allow- 
ed the women." 



A Kentucky physician, writing in 
the Western Medical Reformer, in 1836, 
on the diseaaeB peculiar to slaves, rws, 



They are imperfectly clcthed both summer and winter." 



Privations of the Slaves — Clothing. 



41 



Mr. Stephen E. Mallby, Inspector of 
provisions, Skeneateles, N. Y., who re- 
sided sometime in Alabama. 



Reuben G. Macy, Hudson, N. Y. 
member of tlie Society of Friends, who 
resided in South Carolina, in 1818 and 
19. 



Mr. Lemuel Sapington, of Lancaster, 
Pa., a native of Maryland, and former- 
ly a slaveiiolder 



Philemon Bliss, Esq., a lawyer in 
Elyria, Ohio, who lived in Florida in 
18.34 and 35. 



Richard Macy, a member of llie 
Society of Friends, Hudson, N. Y., who 
has lived in Georgia. 



W. C. Gildersleeve, Esq., Wilkesbarre, 
Pa., a native of Georgia. 



" I was at Huntsville, Alabama, in 1818-19, I frequently saw 
slaves on and around the public square, with hardly a rag of 
clothing on them, and in a great many instances with but a single 
garment both in summer and in winter ; generally the only bed- 
ding of the slaves was a blanket." 

" Their clothing consisted of a pair of trowsers and jacket, 
made of ' negro cloth.' The women a petticoat, a very short 
' short-gown,' and nothing else, the same kind of cloth ; some of 
the women had an old pair of shoes, but they generally went 
barefoot ^^ 

" Their clothing is often made by themselves after night, 
though sometimes assisted by the old women, who are no longer 
able to do out-door work ; consequently it is harsh and uncom- 
fortable. And I have very frequently seen those who had not 
attained the age of twelve years go naked." 

" It is very common to see the younger class of slaves up to 
eight or ten without any clothing, and most generally the labor- 
ing men wear no shirts in the warm season. The perfect nudi- 
ty of the younger slaves is so familiar to the whites of both 
sexes, that they seem to witness it with perfect indifference. 
I may add that the aged and feeble often suffer from cold." 

" For bedding each slave was allowed one blanket, in whicii 
they rolled themselves up. I examined their houses, but could 
not find any thing like a bed." 

" It is an every day sight to see women as well as men, with 
no other CO veering than a few filthy rags fastened abooe the hips, 
reaching midway to the ankles. Inetier knew any kind of cover- 
ing for the head given. Children of both sexes, from infancy to 
ten years are seen in companies on the plantations, in a state of 
perfect nudity. This was so common that the most refined 
and delicate beheld them unmoved." 



Mr. William Leftwich, a native of 
Virginia, now a member of the Presby- 
terian Church, in Delhi, Ohio. 

Advertisements like the following from the 
'' New Orleans Bee," May 31, 1837, are com- 
mon in the southern papers. 

" 10 DOLLARS REWARD.— Ranaway, the 
slave Solomon, about 28 years of age ; badly 
CLOTHED. The above reward will be paid on 
application to Fernandez & Whiting, No. 20, St. 
Louis St. 

RANAWAY from the subscriber the negress 
Fanny, always badly dressed, she is about 25 or 
26 vears sfold. John Macoin, 117 S. Ann st. 

The Darien (Ga.), Telegraph, of Jan. 24, 1837, 
in an editorial article, hitting off the aristocracy 
of the planters, incidentally lets out some secrets, 
about the usual clothing of the slaves. The editor 
says, — " The planter looks down, with the most 
sovereign contempt, on the merchant and the 
storekeeper. He deems himself a lord, because 
he gets his two or three ragged servants, 1o row 
him to his plantation every day, that he may in- 
spect the labor of hia hands." 

The following is an extract from a letter lately 
received from Rev. C. S. Renshaw, of Quincy, 
Illinois. 

" I am sorry to be obliged to give more testi- 
mony without the name. An individual in whom 
I have great confidence, gave me the following 
facts. That I am not alone in placing confi- 
dence in him, I subjoin a testimonial from Dr. 
Richard Eells, Deacon of the Congregational 
Church, of Quincy, and Rev. Mr. Fisher, Baptist 
Minister of Quincy. 



" The only bedding of the slaves generally consists of Ztoo old 
blankets." 



" We have been acquainted with the brother 
who has communicated to you some facts that 
fell under his observation, whilst in his native 
state ; he is a professed follower of our Lord, 
and we have great confidence in him as a man 
of integrity, discretion, and strict Christian prin- 
ciple. Richard Eells. 

Ezit.V I'lSHER. 

Quincy, Jan. 9th, 1839. 

Testimony. — " I lived for thirty years in Vir- 
ginia, and have travelled extensively througli 
Fauquier, Culpepper, Jefferson, Stafford, Albe- 
marle and Charlotte Counties ; my remarks apply 
to these Counties. 

" The negro houses are miserably poor, general- 
!}'• they are a shelter from neither the wind, the 
rain, nor the snow, and the earth is the floor. 
There are exceptions to this rule, but they are 
only exceptions ; you may sometimes see pun- 
cheon floor, but never, or almost never a plank 
floor. The slaves are generally without beds or 
bedsteads ; some few have cribs that they fasten 
up for themselves in the corner of the hut. Their 
bed-clothes are a nest of rags thrown upon a crib, 
or in the corner ; sometimes there are three or 
four families in one small cabin. Where the 
slaveholders have more than one family, they put 
them in the same quarter till it is filled, then 
build another, I have seen exceptions to this, 
when only one family would occupy a hut, and 
where were tolerably comfortable bed-clothes. 

" Most of the slaves in these counties are mise- 



42 



Privations of the Slaves — Clothing, 



rably clad. I have known slaves who went witli- 
out shoes all winter, perfectly barefoot. The 
feet of many of them are frozen. As a general 
fact the planters do not serve out to their slaves, 
drawers, or any under clothing, or vests, or over- 
coats. Slaves sometimes, by working at night 
and on Sundays, get better things than their mas- 
ters serve to them. 

" Whilst these things are true oi Jield.hands, it 
ig also true that many slaveholders clothe their 
waiters and coachmen like gentlemen. I do not 
think there is any difference between the slaves 
of professing Christians and others ; at all events, 
it is so small as to be scarcely noticeable. 

" I have seen men and women at work in the 
field more than half naked : and more than once 
in passing, when the overseer was not near, they 
would stop and draw round them a tattered coat 
or some ribbons of a skirt to hide their nakedness 
and shame from the stranger's eye." 

Mr. George W. Westgate, a member of the 
Congregational Church in Quincy, Illinois, who 
has spent the larger part of twelve years navigat- 
ing the rivers of the south-western slave states 
with keel boats, as a trader, gives the following 
testimony as to the clothing and lodging of the 
slaves. 

" In Lower Tennessee, Mississippi and Louisi- 
ana, the clothing of the slaves is wretchedly 
poor ; and grows worse as you go south, in 
the order of the states I have named. The only 
material is cotton bagging, i. e. bagging in which 
cotton is baled, not bagging made of cotton. In 
Louisiana, especially in the lower country, I 
have frequently seen them with nothing but a 
tattered coat, not sufficient to hide their naked- 
ness. In winter their clothing seldom serves the 
purpose of comfort, and frequently not even of 
decent covering. In Louisiana the planters never 
think of serving out shoes to slaves. In Missis- 
sippi they give one pair a year generally. I never 
saw or heard of an instance of masters allowing 
them stockings. A small poor blanket is gener- 
ally the only bed-clothing, and this they frequently 
wear in the field when they have not sufficient 
clothing to hide their nakedness or to keep them 
warm. Their manner of sleeping varies with 
the season. In hot weather they stretch them- 
selves anywhere and sleep. As it becomes cool 
they roll themselves in their blankets, and lay 
scattered about the cabin. In cold weather they 
nestle together with their feet towards the fire, 
promiscuously. As a general fact the earth is 
their only floor and bed — not one in ten have 
anything like a bedstead, and then it is a mere 
bunk put up by themselves." 

Mr. George A. Avery, an elder in the fourth 
Congregational Church, Rochester, N. Y., who 
spent four years in Virginia, says, " The slave 
children, very commonly of both sexes, up to 
the ages of eight and ten years, and I think in 
some instances beyond this age, go in a state of 
disgusting nudity. I have often seen them with 
their tow shirt (their only article of summer 
clothing) which, to all human appearance, had 
not been taken off from the time it was first put 
on, worn off from the bottom upwards, shred by 
shred, until nothing remained but the straps 



which passed over their shoulders, and the less 
exposed portions extending a very little way be- 
low the arms, leaving the principal part of the 
chest, as well as the limbs, entirely uncovered." 

Samuel Ellison, a member of the Society of 
Friends, formerly of Southampton Co., Virginia, 
now of Marlborough, Stark Co., Ohio, says, " I 
knew a Methodist who was the owner of a num- 
ber of slaves. The children of both sexes, be- 
longing to him, under twelve years of age, were 
entirely destitute of clothing. I have seen an 
old man compelled to labor in the fields, not hav- 
ing rags enough to cover his nakedness." 

Rev. H. Lyman, late pastor of the Free Pres- 
byterian Church, in Buffalo, N. Y., in describing 
a tour down and up the Mississippi river in the 
winter of 1832-3, says, "At the wood yards 
where the boats stop, it is not uncommon to see 
female slaves employed in carrjnng wood. Their 
dress which was quite uniform was provided with- 
out any reference to comfort. They had no cov- 
ering for their heads ; the stuff" which constituted 
the outer garment was sackcloth, similar to that 
in which brown domestic goods are done up. It 
was then December, and I thought that in such 
a dress, and being as they were, without stock- 
ings, they must suffer from the cold." 

Mr. Benjamin Anderson, Colerain, Lancaster 
Co., Pa., a member of the Society of Friends, in 
a recent letter describing a short tour through 
the northern part of Maryland in the winter of 
1836, thus speaks of a place a few miles from 
Chestertown. ''About this place Ihere were a 
number of slaves ; very few, if any, had either 
stockings or shoes; the weather was intensely 
cold, and the ground covered with snow." 

The late Major Stoddard of the United States' 
artillery, who took possession of Louisiana for the 
U. S. government, under the cession of 1804, 
published a book entitled " Sketches of Louisi- 
ana," in which, speaking of the planters of Lower 
Louisiana, he says, " Few of them allow any 
clothing to their slaves." 

The following is an extract from the Will of 
the late celebrated John Randolph of Virginia. 

" To my old and faithful servants, Essex and 
his wife Hetty, I give and bequeath a pair of 
strong shoes, a suit of clothes and a blanket each, 
to be paid them annually ; also an annual hat to 
Essex." 

No Virginia slaveholder has ever had a better 
name as a "kind master," and "good provider" 
for his slaves, than John Randolph. Essex and 
Hetty were favorite servants, and the memory of 
the long uncompensated services of those " old 
and faithful servants," seems to have touched 
their master's heart. Now as this master was 
John Randolph, and as those servants were 
" faithful," and favorite servants, advanced in 
years, and worn out in his service, and as their 
allowance was, in their master's eyes, of sufficient 
moment to constitute a paragraph in his last will 
and testament^ it is fair to infer that it would be 
very liberal, far better than the ordinary allow- 
ance for slaves. 

Now we leave the reader to judge what must 



Privations of the Slaves — Dwellings. 



43 



be the usual allowance of clothing to common 
field slaves in the hands of common masters, 
when Essex and Hetty, the "old" and "faith- 
ful" slaves of John Randolph, were provided, in his 
last will and testament, with but one suit of clothes 



annually, with but one blanket each for bedding, 
with no stockings, nor socks, nor cloaks, nor over- 
coats, nor handkerchiefs, nor towels, and with no 
change either of under or outside garments ! 



IV. DWELLINGS. 



THE SLAVES ARE WRETCHEDLY SHELTERED AND LODGED. 

Mr. Stephen E. Maltby, Inspector of » The huts where the slaves slept, generally contained but 
iTed tSabafnr ' «^^ apartment, and that without fioorP 



Mr. George A. Avery, elder of the 
4th Presbyterian Church, Rochester, 
N. Y. who lived four years in Virginia. 



William Ladd, Esq., Mhiot, Maine. 
President of the American Peace Socie- 
ty, formerly a slaveholder in Florida. 



Rev. Joseph M. Sadd, Pastor Pree. 
Church, Castile, Greene Co., N. Y., 
who lived iu 3Iissouri five years previ- 
ous to 1837. 



Mr. George W. Westgate, member of 
the Congregational Church in duincy, 
Illinois, who has spent a number of 
years in slave states. 



Mr. Cornelius Johnson, a member of 
a Christian Church in Farmington, 
Ohio. Mr. J. lived in Mississippi in 
1837-8. 



The Western Medical Reformer, in 
an article on the Cachexia Africana by a 
Kentucky physician, thus speaks of the 
huts of the slaves. 



" Amongst all the negro cabins which I saw in Va., / can. 
not call to mind one in which there was any other floor than the 
earth; any thing that a northern laborer, or mechanic, white or 
colored, would call a bed, nor a solitary partition, to separate the 

sexes." 

" The dwellings of the slaves were palmetto huts, built by 
themselves of stakes and poles, thatched with the palmetto leaf. 
The door, when they had any, was generally of the same materials, 
sometimes boards found on the beach. They had no floors, no 
separate apartments, except the guinea negroes had sometimes a 
small inclosure for their ' god-house.' These huts the slaves 
built themselves after task and on Sundays." 

" The slaves live generally in miserable huts, which are with- 
out floors, and have a single apartment only, where both sexes are 
herded promiscuously together." 

" On old plantations, the negro quarters are of frame and 
clapboards, seldom affording a comfortable shelter from wind or 
rain ; their size varies from 8 by 10, to 10 by 12, feet, and six or 
eight feet high ; so^netimes there is a hole cut for a window, but 
I never saw a sash, or glass in any. In fhe new country, and in 
the woods, the quarters are generally built of logs, of similar 
dimensions." 

" Their houses were commonly built of logs, sometimes they 
were framed, often they had no floor, some of them have two 
apartments, commonly but one ; each of those apartments con- 
tained a family. Sometimes these families consisted of a man 
and his wife and children, while in other instances persons of 
both sexes, were thrown together without any regard to family re. 
lationship." 

" They are crowded together in a small hut, and sometimes 
having an imperfect, and sometimes no floor, and seldom raised 
from the ground, ill ventilated, and surrounded with filth." 



Mr. William Leftwich, a native of 
Virginia, but has resided most of hia 
life in Madison, Co. Alabama. 



Reuben L. Macy of Hudson, N. Y. a 
member of the Religious Society of 
Friends. He lived in South Carolina 
in 1818-19. 



" The dwellings of the slaves are log huts, from 10 to 12 feet 
square, often without windows, doors, or floors, they have 
neither chairs, table, or bedstead." 

" The houses for the field slaves were about 14 feet square, 
built in the coarsest manner, with one room, witTiout any chim. 
ney or flooring, with a hole in the roof to let the smoke out." 



Mr. Lemuel Sapington of Lancaster, 
Pa. a native of Maryland, formerly 
u slaveholder. 



Rev. John Rankin, a native of Ten- 
nessee. 



Philemon Bliss, Esq. Elyria, Ohio., 
who lived iu Forida, in 1835, 



" The descriptions generally given of negro quarters, are 
correct; the quarters Kve without floors, and not suflicient to keep 
ofl" the inclemency of the weather ; they are uncomfortable both 
in summer and winter." 

" When they return to their miserable huts at night, they 
find not there the means of comfortable rest ; but on the cold 
ground they must lie without covering, and shiver while they 
slumber. 

'* The dwellings of the slaves are usually small open log huts, 
with but one apartment, and very generally without floors." 



44 



Privations of the Slaves — Treatment of the Sick, 



Mr. W. C. Gildersleeve, Wilkes- " Their huts were generally put up without a nail, frequently 

barre, Pa, a native of Georgia. without floors, and with a single apartment." 



Hon. R. J. Turnbuil, of South Carol! 
na, a slaveholder. 



♦' The slaves live in clay cabins." 
V. TREATMENT OF THE SICK. 



THE SLAVES SUFFER PJROM INHUMAN NEGLECT 
WHEN SICK. 

In proof of this we subjoin the following testi- 
mony : 

Rev. Dr. Channing of Boston, who once re- 
sided in Virginia, relates the following fact in his 
work on slavery, page 163, 1st edition. 

" I cannot forget my feelings on visiting a 
hospital belonging to the plantation of a gentle- 
man highly esteemed jor his virtues, and whose 
manners and conversation expressed much bene- 
volence and conscientiousness. When I entered 
with him the hospital, the first object on which 
my eye fell was a young woman, very ill, proba- 
bly approaching death. She was stretched on 
the floor. Her head rested on something like a 
pillow ; but her body and limbs were extended on 
the hard boards. The owner, I doubt not, had 
at least as much kindness as myself; but he was 
so used to see the slaves living without common 
comforts, that the idea of vmkindness in the pre- 
sent instance did not enter his mind." 

This dying young woman " was stretched on 
the floor '^ — "her body and limbs extended upon 
the hard boards,"— and yet her master " was 
highly esteemed for his virtues," and his general 
demeanor produced upon Dr. Channing the im- 
pression of '• benevolence and conscientiousness." 
If the sick and dying female slaves of such a mas- 
ter, suffer such barbarous neglect, whose heart 
does not fail him, at the thought of that inhu- 
manity, exercised by the majority of slaveholders, 
towards their aged, sick, and dying victims. 

The following testimony is furnished by Sarah 
M. Grimke, a sister of the late Hon. Thomas S. 
Grimke, of Charleston, South Carolina. 

"When the Ladies' Benevolent Society in 
Charleston, S. C, of which I was a visiting com- 
missioner, first went into operation, we were ap- 
plied to for the rehef of several sick and aged co- 
lored persons ; one case I particularly remember, 
of an ao-ed woman who was dreadfully burnt from 
having*' fallen hito the fire ; she was living with 
some free blacks who had taken her in out of 
compassion. On inquiry, we found that nearly 
all the colored persons who had solicited aid, 
were slaves, who being no longer able to work 
for their " owners," were thus inhumanly cast 
out in their sickness and old age, and must have 
perished, but for the kindness of their friends. 

" I was once visiting a sick slave in whose spi- 
ritual welfare peculiar circumstances had led me 
to be deeply interested. I knew that she had 
been early seduced from the path of virtue, as 
nearly all the female slaves are. I knew also 
that her mistress, though a professor of religiori, 
had never taught her a single precept of Christi- 
anity, yet that she had had her severely punished 
for this departure from them, and that the poor 



girl was then ill of an incurable disease, occa- 
sioned partly by her own misconduct, and partly 
by the cruel treatment she had received, in a situ- 
ation that called for tenderness and care. Her 
heart seemed truly touched with repentance for 
her sins, and she was inquiring, " What shall I 
do to be saved ?" I was sitting by her as she lay 
on the floor upon a blanket, and was trying to 
establish her trembling spirit in the fulness of 
Jesus, when I heard the voice of her mistress in 
loud and angry tones, as she approached the door. 
I read in the countenance of the prostrate suffer- 
er, the terror which she felt at the prospect of 
seeing her mistress. I knew my presence would 
be very unwelcome, but staid, hoping that it 
might restrain, in some measure, the passions 
of the mistress. In this, however, I was mista- 
ken ; she passed me without apparently observ- 
ing that I was there, and seated herself on the 
other side of the sick slave. She made no inquiry 
how she was, but in a tone of anger commenced 
a tirade of abuse, violently reproaching her with 
her past misconduct, and telling her in the most 
unfeeling manner, that eternal destruction await- 
ed her. No word of kindness escaped her. 
What had then roused her temper I do not know. 
She continued in this strain several minutes, 
when I attempted to soften her by remarking, 

that was very ill, and she ought not thus 

to torment her, and that I believed Jesus had 
granted her forgiveness. But I might as well 
have tried to stop the tempest in its career, as to 
calm the infuriated passions nurtiu'ed by the ex- 
ercise of arbitrary power. She looked at me 
with ineffable scorn, and continued to pour forth 
a torrent of abuse and reproach. Her helpless 
victim listened in terrified silence, until nature 
could endure no more, when she uttered a wild 
shriek, and casting on her tormentor a look of 
unutterable agony, exclaimed, ' Oh, mistress, 
I am dying !' This appeal arrested her attention, 
and she soon left the room, but in the same spirit 
with which she entered it. The girl survived but a 
few days, and, I believe, saw her mistress no more.** 
Mr. George A. Avery, an elder of a Presbyte- 
rian church in Rochester, N. Y., who lived some 
years in Virginia, gives the following : 

" The manner of treating the sick slaves, and es. 
pecially in chronic cases, was to my mind peculiar- 
ly revolting. My opportunities for observation in 
this department were better than in, perhaps, any 
other, as the friend under whose direction I com- 
menced my medical studies, enjoyed a high re- 
putation as a surgeon. I rode considerably with 
him in his practice, and assisted in the surgical 
operations and dressings from time to time. In 
confirmed cases of disease, it was common for the 
master to place the subject under the care of a 
physician or surgeon, at whose expense the pa- 
tient should be kept, and if death ensued to the 
patient, or the disease was not cured, no com- 
pensation was to be made, but if cured a bonus of 



Personal Narrafives — Rev. William T. Allan. 



45 



one, two, or three hundred dollars was to be 
given. No provision was made against the bar- 
barity or neglect of the physician, &c. I have 
seen fiftee?i or twenty of these helpless sufferers 
crowded together in the true spirit of slaveholding 
inhumanity, hke the " brutes that perish," and 
driven from time to time like brutes into a com- 
mon yard, where they had to suffer any and 
every operation and experiment, which interest, 
caprice, or professional curiosity might prompt, 
— unrestrained by law, public sentiment, or the 
claims of common humanity." 

Rev. William T. Allan, son of Rev. Dr. Allan, 
a slaveholder, of Huntsville, Alabama, says in a 
letter now before us : 

" Colonel Robert H. Watkins, of Laurence 
county, Alabama, who owned about three hun- 
dred slaves, after employing a physician among 
them for some time, ceased to do so, alleging 
as tlie reason, that it was cheaper to lose a few 
negroes every year than to pay a physician. 
This Colonel Watkins was a Presidential elector 
in 1836." 

A. A. Guthrie, Esq., elder in the Presbyterian 
church at Putnam, Muskingum county, Ohio, 
furnishes the testimony whicii follows, 

"A near female friend of mine in company 
with another young lady, in attempting to visit a 
sick woman on Washington's Bottom, Wood 
county, Virginia, missed the way, and stopping 
to ask directions of a group of colored children 
on the outskirts of the plantation of Francis 
Keen, Sen., they were told to ask ' aunty, in the 
house.' On entering the hut, says my inform- 
ant, I beheld such a sight as I hope never to see 
again ; its sole occupant was a female slave of 
the said Keen — her whole wearing apparel con- 
sisted of a frock, made of the coarsest tow clotli, 
and so scanty, that it could not have been made 
more tight around her person. In the hut there 
was neitlier table, chair, nor chest — a stool and a 
rude fixture in one corner, were all its furniture. 
On this last were a little straw and a few old rem- 
nants of what had been bedding — all exceedingly 



" The woman thus situated had been for more 
than a day in travail, without any assistance, 
any nurse, or any kind of proper provision — 
during the night she said some fellow slave wo- 
man would stay with her, and the aforesaid 
children through the day. From a woman, who 
was a slave of Keen's at the same time, my in- 
formant learned, tiiat this poor woman suffered for 
three days, and then died — when too late to save 
her life her master sent assistance. It was un- 
derstood to be a rule of his, to neglect his women 
entirely in such times of trial, unless they previ- 
ously came and informed him, and asked for aid." 

Rev. Phineas Smith, of Centreville, N. Y., 
who has resided four years at the south, says : 
" Often when the slaves are sick, their accus- 
tomed toil is exacted from them. Physicians are 
rarely called for their benefit." 

Rev. Horace Moulton, a minister of the Me- 
thodist Episcopal church in Marlborough, Mass., 
who resided a number of years in Georgia, says : 

" Another dark side of slavery is the neglect 
of the aged and sick. Many when sick, are 
suspected by their masters of feigning sickness, 
and arc therefore whipped out to work after dis- 
ease has got fast hold of them ; when the mas- 
ters learji, that they are really sick, they are in 
many instances left alone in their cabins during 
work hours ; not a few of the slaves are left to 
die without having one friend to wipe off the 
sweat of death. When the slaves are sick, the 
masters do not, as a general thing, employ physi- 
cians, but " doctor " them themselves, and their 
mode of practice in almost all cases is to bleed 
and give salts. When women are confined they 
have no physician, but are committed to the care 
of slave niidwives. Slaves complain very little 
when sick, when they die they are frequently bu- 
ried at night without much ceremony, and in 
many instances without any ; their coffins are 
made by nailing together rough boards, JVequent- 
ly with their feet sticking out at the end, and 
sometimes they are put into the ground without a 
I coffin or box of any kind. 



PERSONAL NARRATIVES-PART II. 

TESTIMONY OF THE REV. WILLIAM T. ALLAN, LATE OF ALABAMA. 



Mr. Allan is a son of the Rev. Dr. Allan, a 
slaveholder and pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
at Huntsville, Alabama. He has recently become 
the pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Chat- 
ham, Illinois. 

" I was born and have lived most of my life in 
the slave states,mainly in the village of Huntsville, 
Alabama, where my parents still reside. I seldom 
went to a plantation, and as my visits were con- 
fined almost exclusively to the families of pro- 
fessing Christians, my personal knowledge of 
slavery, was consequently a knowledge of its 
fairest side, (if fairest may be predicated of foul.) 

" There was one plantation just opposite my 



father's house in the suburbs of Huntsville, be- 
longing to Judge Smith, formerly a Senator in 
Congress from South Carolina, now of Hunts- 
ville. The name of his overseer was Tune. I 
have often seen him flogging the slaves in the 
field, and have often heard their cries. Sometimes, 
too, I iiave met them with the tears streaming 
down their faces, and the marks of the whip, 
(' whelks,') on their bare necks and shoulders. 
Tune was so severe in his treatment, that his 
employer dismissed him after two or three years, 
lest, it was said, he should kill off all the slaves. 
But he was immediately employed by another 
planter in the neighborhood. I'he following fact 
was stated to me by my brother, James M. Allan, 



46 



FersonaJ Narratives — Rev. William T. Allan. 



now residing at Richmond, Henry county, Illi- 
nois, and clerk of the circuit and county courts. 
Tune became displeased with one of the women 
who was pregnant, he made her lay down over a 
log, with her face towards the ground, and beat 
her so unmercifully, that she was soon after de- 
livered of a dead child. 

*' My brother also stated to me the following, 
which occurred near my father's house, and with- 
in sight and hearing of the academy and public 
garden. Charles, a fine active negro, who be- 
longed to a bricklayer in Huntsville, exchanged 
the burning sun of the brickyard to enjoy for a 
season the pleasant shade of an adjacent moun- 
tain. When his master got him back, he tied 
him by his hands so that his feet could just touch 
the ground — stripped off his clothes, took a pad- 
dle, bored full of holes, and paddled him leisurely 
all day long. It was two weeks before they could 
tell whether he would live or die. Neither of 
these cases attracted any particular notice in 
Huntsville. 

" While I lived in Huntsville a slave was killed 
in the mountain near by. The circumstances 
were these. A white man (James Helton) hunt- 
ing in the woods, suddenly came upon a black 
man, and commanded him to stop, the slave kept 
on running, Helton fired his rifle and the negro 
was killed.* 

" Mrs. Barr, wife of Rev.H. Barr of Carrollton, 
Illinois, formerly from Courtland, Alabama, told 
me last spring, that she has very often stopped 
her ears that she might not hear the screams of 
slaves who were under the lash, and that some- 
times she has left her house, and retired to a place 
more distant, in order to get away from their 
agonizing cries. 

" I have often seen groups of slaves on the pub- 
lic squares in Huntsville, who were to be sold at 
auction, and I have often seen their tears gush 
forth and their countenances distorted with an- 
guish. A considerable number were generally 
sold publicly every month. 

" The following facts I have just taken down 
from the lips of Mr. L. Turner, a regular and 
respectable member of the Second Presbyterian 
Church in Springfield, our county town. He was 
born and brought up in Caroline county, Vir- 
ginia. He says that the slaves are neither con- 
sidered nor treated as human beings. One of his 
neighbors whose name was Barr, he says, on one 
occasion stripped a slave and lacerated his back 
with a handcard (for cotton or wool) and then 
washed it with salt and water, with pepper in it. 
Mr. Turner saw this. He further remarked that 
he believed there were many slaves there in ad- 
vanced life whose backs had never been well 
since they began to work. 

* This murder was committed about twelve years since. 
At that time, James G. Bimey, Esq., now Corresponding Se- 
cretary of the American Anti-Slavery Society was the So- 
licitor (prosecuting attorney) for that judicial district. 
His views arid feelings upon the subject of slavery were, 
even at that period, in advance of the mass of slaveholders, 
and he determined if possible to bring the murderer to justice. 
He accordingly drew up an indictment and procured the 
finding of a true bill against Helton. Helton, meanwhile, 
moved over the line into the state of Tennessee, and such 
was the apathy of the community, individual eftbrt proved 
unavailing ; and though the murderer had gone no further 
than to an adjoining county (where perhaps he still resides) 
he was never brought to trial.— Ed. 



" He stated that one of his uncles had killed a 
woman — broke her skull with an ax helve : she 
had insulted her mistress! No notice was taken 
of the affair. Mr. T. said, further, that slaves 
were frequently murdered. 

" He mentioned the case of one slaveholder, 
whom he had seen lay his slaves on a large log, 
which he kept for the purpose, strip them, tie 
them with the face downward, then have a ket- 
tle of hot water brought — take the paddle, made 
of hard wood, and perforated with holes, dip it 
into the hot water and strike — before every blow 
dipping it into the water — every hole at every 
blow would raise a ' whelk.' This was the usual 
punishment for running away. 

" Another slaveholder had a slave who had often 
run away, and often been severely whipped. 
After one of his floggings he burnt his master's 
barn : this so enraged the man, that when he 
caught him he took a pair of pincers and pulled 
his toe nails out. The negro then murdered two 
of his master's children. He was taken after 
a desperate pursuit, (having been shot through 
the shoulder) and hung. 

" One of Mr. Turner's cousins, was employed as 
overseer on a large plantation in Mississippi. On 
a certain morning he called the slaves together, 
to give some orders. While doing it, a slave 
came running out of his cabin, having a knife 
in his hand and eating his breakfast. The over- 
seer seeing him coming with the knife, was some- 
what alarmed, and instantly raised his gun and 
shot him dead. He said afterwards, that he be- 
lieved the slave was perfectly innocent of any 
evil intentions, he came out hastily to hear the 
orders whilst eating. No notice was taken of the 
killing. 

" Mr. T. related the whipping habits of one of 
his uncles in Virginia. He was a wealthy man, 
had a splendid house and grounds. A tree in 
his front yard, was used as a whipping post. 
When a slave was to be punished, he would fre- 
quently invite some of his friends, have a table, 
cards and wine set out under the shade ; he 
would then flog his slave a little while, and then 
play cards and drink with his friends, occasion- 
ally taunting the slave, giving him the privilege 
of confessing such and such things, al his lei- 
sure, after a while flog him again, thus keeping 
it up for hours or half the day, and sometimes 
all day. This was his habit. 

^^ February Ath. — Since writing the preceding, I 
have been to Carrollton, on a visit to my uncle, 
Rev. Hugh Barr, who was originally from Ten. 
nessee, lived 12 or 14 years in Courtland, Law- 
rence county, Alabama, and moved to Illinois in 
1835. In conversation with the family, around 
the fireside, they stated a multitude of horrid 
facts, that were perfectly notorious in the neigh, 
borhood of Courtland, 

" William P. Barr, an intelligent young man, 
and member of his father's church in Carroll- 
ton, stated the following. Visiting at a Mr. 
Mosely's, near Courtland, William Mosely came 
in with a bloody knife in his hand, having just 
stabbed a negro man. The negro was sitting 
quietly in a house in the village, keeping a woman 
company who had been left in charge of the 
house, — when Mosely, passing along, went in 
and demanded his business there. Probablv hia 



Personal J\arratives — Rev. William T. Allan. 



47 



answer was not as civil as slaveholding requires, 
and Mosely rushod upon him and stabbed him. 
Tho wound laid him up for a season. Mosely 
was called to no account for it. When he came 
in with the bloody knife, he said he wished he 
had kilJed him. 

"John Brown, a slaveholder, and a member of 
the Presbyterian church in Courtland, Alabama, 
stated the following a few weeks since, in Car- 
rollton. A man near Courtland, of the name of 
Thompson, recently shot a negro woman through 
the head ; and put the pistol so close that her 
hair was singed. He did it in consequence of 
some difficulty in his dealings with her as a con- 
cubine. He buried her in a log heap ; she v/as 
discovered by the buzzards gathering around it. 

" William P. Barr stated the following, as facts 
well known in the neighborhood of Courtland, 
but not witnessed by himself. Two men, by the 
name of Wilson, found a fine looking negro man 
at ' Dandridge's Quarter,' without a pass ; and 
flogged him so that he died in a short time. 
They were not punished. 

"Col. Blocker's overseer attempted to flog a 
negro — he refused to be flogged ; whereupon the 
overseer seized an axe, and cleft his skull. The 
Colonel justified it. 

" One Jones whipped a woman to death for 
'grabbling' a potato hill. He owned 80 or 100 
negroes. His own children could not live with 
him. 

"A man in the neighborhood of Courtland, Ala- 
bama, by the name of Puryear, was so proverbi- 
ally cruel that among the negroes he was usually 
called ' the Devil.' Mrs. Barr, wife of Rev. H. 
Barr, was at Puryear's house, and saw a negro 
girl about 13 years old, waiting around the table, 
with a single garment — and that in cold weather ; 
arms and feet bare — feet wretchedly swollen — 
arms burnt, and full of sores from exposure. All 
the negroes under his care made a wretched ap- 
pearance. 

"Col. Robert H. Watkins had a runaway slave, 
who was called Jim Dragon. Before he was 
caught the last time,' he had been out a year, 
within a few miles of his master's plantation. He 
never stole from any one but his master, except 
when necessity compelled him. He said he 
had a right to take from his master ; and when 
taken, that he had, whilst out, seen his master a 
hundred times. Having been whipped, clogged 
with irons, and yoked, he was set at work in the 
field. Col. Watkins worked about 300 hands — 
generally had one negro out hunting runaways. 
After employing a physician for some time 
among his negroes, he ceased to do so, alleging 
as the reason, that it was cheaper to lose a few 
negroes every year than to pay a physician. He 
was a Presidential elector in 1836. 

"Col. Ben Sherrod, another large planter in that 
neighborhood, is remarkable for his kindness to 
his slaves. He said to Rev. Mr. Barr, that he 
had no doubt he should be rewarded in heaven 
for his kindness to his slaves ; and yet his over- 
seer. Walker, had to sleep with loaded pistols, 
for fear of assassination. Three of the slaves at- 



tempted to kill him once, because of hip treat- 
ment of their wives. 

" Old Major Billy Watkins was noted for his se- 
verity. I well remember, when he lived in Mad- 
ison county, to have often heard him yell at his 
negroes with the most savage fury. He would 
stand at his house, and watch the slaves picking 
cotton ; and if any of them straitened their backs 
for a moment, his savage yell would ring, ' bend 
your backs.' 

" Mrs. Barr stated, that Mrs. H , of Court- 

land, a member of the Presbyterian church, sent 
a little negro girl to jail, suspecting that she had 
attempted to put poison into the water pail. The 
fact was, that the child had found a vial, and 
was playing in the water. This same woman 
(in high standing too,) told the Rev. Mr. McMil- 
lan, tliat she could ' cut Arthur Tappan's throat 
from ear to ear.' 

" The clothing of slaves is in many cases com- 
fortable, and in many it is far from being so. I 
have very often seen slaves, whose tattered rags 
were neither comfortable nor decent. 

" Their huts are sometimes comfortable, but 
generally they are miserable hovels, where male 
and female are herded promiscuously together. 

" As to the usual allowance of food on the plan- 
tations in North Alabama, I cannot speak confi- 
dently, from personal knowledge. There was a 
slave named Hadley, who was in the habit of vis- 
iting my father's slaves occasionally. He had 
run away several times. His reason was, as he 
stated, that they would not give him any meat — 
said he could not work without meat. The last 
time I saw him, he had quite a heavy iron yoke 
on his neck, the two prongs twelve or fifteen 
inches long, extending out over his shoulders and 
bending upwards. 

' 'Legal marriage is unknown among the slaves, 
they sometimes have a marriage form — generally, 
however, none at all. The pastor of the Presby- 
terian church in Huntsville, had two families of 
slaves when I left there. One couple were mar- 
ried by a negro preacher — the man was robbed 
of his wife a number of months afterwards, by 
her ^ owner.'' The other couple just 'took up 
together,' without any form of marriage. They 
are both members of churches — the man a Bap- 
tist deacon, sober and correct in his deportment. 
They have a large frmily of children — all child- 
ren of concubinage — living in a minister's family. 

"If these statements are deemed of any value by 
you, in forwarding your glorious enterprize, you 
are at liberty to use them as you please. The 
great wrong is enslaving a man ; all other wrongs 
are pigmies, compared with that. Facts might 
be gathered abundantly, to show that it is slavery 
itself, and not cruelties merely, that make slaves 
unhappy. Even those that are most kindly treat- 
ed, are generally far from being happy. The 
slaves in my father's family are almost as kindly 
treated as slaves can be, yet they pant for liberty. 

" May the Lord guide you in this great move- 
ment. In behalf of the perishing. 

Your friend and brother, 
William T. Allan." 



48 



Personal Narratives — William Leftwich. 



NARRATIVE OF MR. WILLIAM LEFTWICH, A NATIVE OF VIRGINIA. 



Mr. Leftwich is a grandson of Gen. Jabez 
Leftwich, who was for some years a member of 
Congress from Virginia. Though born in Vir- 
ginia, he has resided most of his hfe in Alabama. 
He now hves in Delhi, Hamilton county, Ohio, 
near Cincinnati. 

As an introduction to his letter, the reader is 
furnished with the following testimonial to his 
character, from the Rev. Horace Bushnell, pastor 
of the Presbyterian church in Delhi. JMr. B. 
says : 

" Mr. Leftwich is a worthy member of this 
church, and is a young man of sterling integrity 
and veracity. H. Bushnell." 

The following is the letter of Mr. Leftwich, 
dated Dec. 26, 1838. 

" Dear Brother — Though I am not ranked 
among the abolitionists, yet I cannot, as a friend 
of humanity, withhold from the public such facts 
in relation to the condition of the slaves, as have 
fallen under my own observation. That I am 
somewhat acquainted with slavery will be seen, 
as I narrate some incidents of my own life. My 
parents were slaveholders, and moved from Vir- 
ginia to Madison county, Alabama, during my in- 
fancy. My mother soon fell a victim to the cli- 
mate. Being the youngest of the children, I was 
left in the care of my aged grandfather, who 
never held a slave, though his sons owned from 
90 to 100 during the time I resided with him. 
As soon a,s I could carry a hoe, my uncle, by the 
name of Neely, persuaded my grandfather that 
I should be placed in his hands, and brought up 
in habits of industry. I was accordingly placed 
under his tuition. I left the domestic circle, little 
dreaming of the horrors that awaited me. My 
mother's own brother took me to the cotton field, 
there to learn habits of industry, and to be bene- 
fited by his counsels. But the sequel proved, that 
1 was there to feel in my own person, and witness 
by experience many of the horrors of slavery. 
Instead of kind admonition, I was to endure the 
frowns of one, whose sympathies could neither 
be reached by the prayers and cries of his slaves, 
nor by the entreaties and sufferings of a sister's 
son. Let those who call slaveholders kind, hos- 
pitable and humane, mark the course the 
slaveholder pursues with one born free, whose 
ancestors fought and bled for liberty ; and then 
say, if they can without a blush of shame, that 
he who robs the helpless of every right, can be 
truly kind and hospitable. 

" In a short time after I was put upon the plan- 
tation, there was but little difference between me 
and the slaves, except being white, I ate at the 
master's table. The slaves were my compan- 
ions in misery, and I well learned their condition, 
both in the house and field. Their dwellings are 
log huts, from ten to twelve feet square ; often 
without windows, doors or floors. They have 
neither chairs, tables or bedsteads. These huts 
are occupied by eight, ten or twelve persons 



each. Their bedding generally consists of two 
old blankets. Many of them sleep night after 
night sitting upon their blocks or stools ; others 
sleep in the open air. Our task was appointed, 
and from dawn till dark all must bend to their 
work. Their meals were taken without knife or 
plate, dish or spoon. Their food was corn pone, 
prepared in the coarsest manner, with a small 
allowance of meat. Their meals in the field 
were taken from the hands of the carrier, wher- 
ever he found them, with no more ceremony than 
in the feeding of swine. My uncle was his own 
overseer. For punishing in the field, he preferred 

large hickory stick ; and wo to him whose 
' .J \ was not done to please him, for the hicko- 
rv i.v~is used upon our heads as remorselessly as 
if We had been mad dogs. I was often the object 
of his fury, and shall bear the marks of it on my 
body till I die. Such was my suffering and de- 
gradation, that at the end of five years, I hardly 
dared to say I was/?"ee. When thinning cotton, 
we went mostly on our knees. One day, while 
thus engaged, my uncle found my row behind ; 
and, by way of admonition, gave me a few blows 
with his hickory, the marks of which I carried 
for weeks. Often I followed the example of the 
fugitive slaves, and betook myself to the moun- 
tains ; but hunger and fear drove me back, to 
share with the wretched slave his toil and stripes. 
But I have talked enough about my own bond- 
age ; I will now relate a few facts, showing the 
condition of the slaves generally. 

'' My uncle wishing to purchase what is called 
a good ' house wench,' a trader in human flesh 
soon produced a woman, recommending her as 
highly as ever a jockey did a horse. She was 
purchased, but on trial was found wanting in the 
requisite qualifications. She then fell a victim 
to the disappointed rage of my uncle ; innocent 
or guilty, she suffered greatly from his fury. He 
used to tie her to a peach tree in the yard, and 
whip her till there was no sound place to lay another 
stroke, and repeat it so often that her back was 
kept continually sore. Whipping the females 
around the legs, was a favorite mode of punish- 
ment with him. They must stand and hold up 
their clothes, while he plied his hickory. He did 
not, like some of his neighbors, keep a pack of 
hounds for hunting runaway negroes, but he kept 
one -^ ^ r that purpose, and when he came up 
wit.i a runaway, it would have been death to 
attempt to fly, and it was nearly so to stand. 
Sometimes, when my uncle attempted to whip 
the slaves, the dog would rush upon them and 
relieve them of their rags, if not of their flesh. 
One object of my uncle's special hate was "Jer- 
ry," a slave of a proud spirit. He defied all the 
curses, rage and str.ipes of his tyrant. Though 
he was often overpowered — for my uncle would 
frequently wear out his stick upon his head — yet 
he would never sabmit. As he was not expert 
in picking cotton, he would sometimes run away 
in the fall, to escape abuse. At one time, after 
an absence of some months, he was arrested 
and brought back. As is cuBtomary, he was 



Personal Narratives — SLimuel Sapiiigtoii. 



49 



stripped, tied to a log, and the cow-skin applied 
to his naked body till his master was exhausted. 
Then a large log chain was fastened around one 
ankle, passed up his back, over his shoulders, then 
across his breast, and fastened under his arm. In 
this condition he was forced to perform his daily 
task. Add to this he was chained each niglit, 
and compelled to chop wood every Sabbath, to 
make up lost time. After being thus manacled 
for some months, he was released — but his spirit 
v/as unsubdued. Soon after, his master, in a pa- 
roxysm of rage, fell upon him, v/ore out his staff 
upon his head, loaded him again with chains, and 
alter a month, sold him farther south. Another 
slave, by the name of Mince, who was a man of 
great strength, purloined some bacon on a Christ, 
mas eve. It was missed in the morning, and he 
being absent, was of course suspected. On re- 
turning home, my uncle commanded him to 
come to him, but he refused. The master strc 
in vain to lay hands on him ; in vain he orde»e< 
his slaves to seize him — they dared not. Ao 
length the master hurled a stone at his head 
sufficient to have felled a bullock — but he did not 
heed it. At that instant my aunt sprang for- 
ward, and presenting the gun to my uncle, ex- 
claimed, ' Shoot him ! shoot him I' He made 
the attempt, but the gun missed lire, and Mince 



fled. He was taken eight or ten months after 
that, v/hilc crossing the Ohio. When brought 
back, the master, and an overseer on another 
plantation, took him to the mounlam and pun- 
ished him to their satisfaction in secret; after 
which he was loaded with chains and set to his 
task. 

" I have spent nearly all my life in the midst of 
slavery." From being the son of a slaveholder, I 
descended to the condition of a slave, and from 
that condition I rose (if you please to call it so,) 
to the station of a ' driver.'' I have lived in 
Alabama, Tennessee, and Kentucky ; and I 
know the condition of the slaves to be that of 
unmixed wretchedness and degradation. And 
on the part of slaveholders, there is cruelty untold. 
The labor of the slave is constant toil, wrung out 
V fear. Their food is scanty, and taken without 
jmfort. Their clothes answer the purposes nei- 
ther of comfort nor decency. They are not allow- 
ell to read or write. Whether they may worship God 
or not, depends on the will of the master. The 
young children, until they can work, often go 
naked during the warm weather. I could spend 
months in detailing the sufferings, degradation 
and cruelty inflicted upon slaves. But my soul 
sickens at the remembrance of these thinffs." 



TESTIMONY OF MR. LEMUEL SAPINGTON, A NATIVE OF MARYLAND. 



Mr. Sapington, is a repentant " soul driver" or 
slave trader, now a citizen of" Lancaster, Pa. 
He gives the following testimony in a letter 
dated, Jan. 21, 1839. 

" I was born in Maryland, afterwards moved to 
Virginia, where I commenced the business 
of farming and traflicking in slaves. In my 
neighborhood the slaves were ' quartered.' The 
description generally given of negro quarters is 
corroei. The quarters are without floors, and 
not sufficient to keep off the inclemency of the 
weather, they are uncomfortable both in summer 
and winter. The food there consists of potatoes, 
pork, and corn, which were given to them daily, 
by weight and measure. The sexes were hud- 
dled together promiscuously. Their clothing is 
made by themselves after night, though some- 
times assisted by the old women who are no 
longer able to do out door work, consequently it 
is harsh and uncomfortable. I have freqi:^n,^|j{, 
seen those of both sexes who have not attained A 
the age of twelve years go naked. Their pun- 
ishments are invariably cruel. For the slightest 
oifence, such as taking a hen's egg, I have seen 
them stripped and suspended by their hands, 
their feet tied together, a fence rail of ordinary 
size placed between their ankles, and then most 
cruelly whipped, until, from head to foot, they 
v/ere completely lacerated, a pickle made for the 
purpose of salt and water, would then be appli- 
ed by 3 fellow-slave, for the purpose of healing 
the wounds as well as giving pain. Then taken 
down rod without the least respite sent to work 
witli their hoe. 

Pursuing my assumed right of driving souls, I 

6 



went to the Southern part of Virginia for the 
purpose of trafficking in slaves. In that part of 
the state, the cruelties practised upon the slaves, 
arc far greater than where I lived. The pun- 
ishments there often resulted in death to the 
slave. There was no law for the negro, but 
that of the overseer's whip. In that part of 
the country, the slaves receive nothing for food, 
but corn in the ear, which has to be prepared 
for baking after working hours, by grinding it 
with a hand-mill. This they take to the fields 
with them, and prepare it for eating, by holding 
it on their hoes, over a fire made by a stump. 
Among the gangs, are often young women, who 
bring their children to the fields, and lay them in 
a fence corner, while they are at work, only being 
permitted to nurse them at the option of the 
overseer. When a child is three weeks old, a 
woman is considered in working order. I have 
seen a woman, with her joung child strapped to 
her back, laboring the whole day, beside a man, 
perhaps the father of the child, and he not being 
permitted to give her any assistance, himself being 
under the whip. The uncommon humanity of 
the driver allowing her the comfort of doing so. 
I was then selling a drove of slaves, which I had 
brought by water from Baltimore, my conscience 
not allowing me to drive, as was generally the 
case uniting the slaves by collars and chains, 
and thus driving them under the whip. About 
that time an unaccountable something, which I 
now know was an interposition of Providence, 
prevented me from prosecuting any farther 
this unholy traffic ; but though I had quitted it, I 
still continued to live in a slave state, witnessing 
every day its evil effects upon my fellow beings. 



iO 



Fcrsotial Narrativea — William C Giiderslecve. 



Amonj^ which was a heart-rending scone tliat 
took place in my father's house, which led me 
to leave a slave state, as well as all the imagina- 
ry comforts arising from slavery. On preparing 
for my removal to the state of Pennsylvania, it 
became necessary for me to go to Louisville, in 
Kentucky, where, if possible, I became more 
horrified with the impositions practiced upon the 
negro than before. There a slave was sold to 
go farther south, and was hand-cufFed for the 



purpose of keeping him tccurc. But choosimr 
death rather than slavery, he jumped overboard 
and was drowned. When I returned four week?; 
afterwards his body, that had floated three miles 
below, w^as yetunburied. One fact; it is im- 
possible for a person to pass tlirougli a slave 
state, if he has eyes open, without beholding every 
day cruelties repugnant to humanit}'. 
Respectfully Yours, 

Lemuel Sapingto.v. 



TESTIMONY OF MRS. NANCY LOWRY, A NATIVE OF KENTUCKY. 



Mrs. Lowry, is a member of the non-conform- 
ist church in Osnaburg, Stark County, Ohio,, 
she is a native of Kentucky. Wc have received 
from her the following testimony. 

"I resided m the family of Reuben Long, the 
principal part of the time, from seven to twenty- 
two years of age. Mr. Long had 16 slaves, 
among whom were three who were treated 
with severity, although Mr. Long was thought 
to be a very humane master. These three, namely 
John, Ned, and James, had wives ; John and 
Ned had theirs at some distance, but James had 
his with him. All three died a premature death, 
and it was generally believed by his neighbors, 
that extreme whipping was the cause. I believe 
so too. Ned died about the age of 25 and John 
34 or 35. The cause of their flogging was com- 
monly staying a little over the time, with their 
wives. Mr. Long would tie them up by the 
wrist, so high that their toes would just touch 
the ground, and then with a coVi^-hide lay the lash 
upon the naked back, until he was exhausted, 
when he would sit down and rest. As soon as 
he had rested sufficiently, he would ply the cow- 
hide again, thus he would continue until the 
whole back of the poor victim was lacerated 
into one uniform coat </f blood. Yet he was a 
strict professor of the Christian religion, in the 
southern church. I frequently washed the 
wounds of John, with salt water, to prevent 
putrefaction. This was the usual course pursu- 
ed after a severe flogging ; their backs would be 
full of gashes, so deep that I could almost lay my 
finger in them. They were generally laid up after 



the flogging for several days. The last flogging 
Ned got, he was confined to the bed, which he 
never left till he was carried to his grave.. 
During John's confinement in his last sickness 
on one occasion while attending on him, he ex- 
claimed, ' Oh, Nancy, Miss Nancy, I haven't 
much longer in this world, I feel as if my whole 
body inside and all my bones were beaten into a 
jelly.' Soon after he died. John and Ned were 
both professors of religion. 

" John Ruffner, a slaveholder, had one slave 
named Piney, whom he as well as Mrs. Rufiiier 
would often flog very severel3\ I frequently 
saw Mrs. Ruffner flog her with the broom, shovel^ 
or any thing she could seize in her rage. She 
would knock her down and then kick and stamp 
her most unmercifully, until she would he ap- 
parently so lifeless, that I more than once thought 
she would never recover. Often Piney would 
try to shelter herself from the blows of her mis- 
tress, by creeping under the bed, from w^iich 
Tvlrs. Ruffner would draw her by the feet, and 
then stamp and leap on her body, till her breath 
would be gone. Often Piney, would cry, ' Oh 
Missee, don't kill me !" " Oh Lord, don't kill 
me I' ' For God's sake don't kill me !' But 
Mrs. Ruffner would beat and stamp away, with 
all the venom of a demon. The cause of Piney's 
flogging was, not working enough, or making- 
some mistake in baking, &c. &c. Many a 
night Piney had to lie on the bare floor, by the 
side of the cradle, rocking the baby of her mis- 
tress, and if she would fall asleep, and suffer the 
child to cry, so as to waken Mrs. Ruffner, she 
would be sure to receive a flogging." 



TESTIMONY OF MR. WM. C. GILDERSLEEVE, A NATIVE OF GEORGIA. 



Mr. W. C. GiLDERSLEEVE, a native of Georgia, is 
an elder of the Presbyterian Church at Wilkes- 
barre, Pa. 

" Acts of cruelty, without number , fell under my 
observation while I lived in Georgia. I will 
mention but one. A slave of a Mr. Pinkney, on 
his way with a wagon to Savannah, ' camped' 
for the night by the road side. That night, the 
nearest hen-roost was robbed. On his return, 
the hen-roost was again visited, and the fowl 
counted one less in the morning. The oldest son, 
with some attendants made search, and came 
Upon the poor fellow, in the act of dressing his 
spoil. He was too nimble for them, and made 
nis retreat good into a dense swamp. When 



much effort to start him fi'om his hiding place 
had proved unsuccessful, it was resolved to lay 
an ambush for him, some distance ahead. The 
wagon, meantime, was in charge of a lad, who 
accompanied the teamster as an assistant, The 
httle boy lay still till nearly night, (in the hope 
probably that the teamster would return,) when 
he started with his wagon. After travelling 
some distance, the lost one made his appearance, 
when the ambush sprang upon him. The poor 
fellow was conducted back to the plantation. 
He expected little mercy. He begged for him- 
self, in the most suplicating manner, ' pray 
massa give me 100 lashes and let me go.* He 
was then tied by the hands, to a limb of a large 
mulberry tree, which grew in the yard, so that his 



Personal Narratives — Hijaui White — J. M. Nelson. 



51 



feet were raised a few inches from the ground, 
while a sharpened stick was driven underneatli, 
that he might rest his weight on it, or swing 
by his hands. In this condition 100 lashes 
were laid on his bare body. I stood by and 



witnessed the whole, without as I recollect, 
feeling the least compassion. So hardening is 
the influence of slaveiy, that it very much de- 
stroys feeling for the slave." 



TESTIMONY OF MR. HIRAM WHITE— A NATIVE OF NORTH CAROLINA. 



Mr. White resided thirty-two years in Chat, 
ham county. North Carolina, and is now a mem- 
ber ofthe Baptist Church, at Otter Creek Prairie, 
Illinois. 

About the 20th December, 1830, a report was 
raised that the slaves in Chatham county, North 
Carolina, were going to rise on Christmas day," 
in consequence of which a considerable commo- 
tion ensued among the inhabitants ; orders were 
given by the Governor to the militia captains, to 
appoint patrolling captains in each district, and 
orders were given for every man subject to mili- 
tary duty to patrol as their captains should di- 
rect. I went two nights in succession, and after 
that refused to patrol at all. The reason why I re- 
fused was this , orders were given to search every 
negro house for books or prints of any kind, and 
Bibles and Hymn books were particularly men- 
tioned. And should we find any, our orders were 
to inflict punishment by whipping the slave until 
he informed who gave them to him, or how they 
came by them. 

As regards the comforts of the slaves in the 
vicinity of my residence, I can say they had no- 
thing that v/ould bear that name. It is true, the 
slaves in general, of a good crop year, were 
tolerably well fed, but of a bad crop year, they 
were, as a general thing, cut short of their allow- 
ance. Their houses were pole cabins, without 
loft or floor. Their beds were made of what is 
there called " broom-straw." The men more 
commonly sleep on benches. Their clothing would 
compare v/ell with their lodging. Whipping was 
common. It was hardly possible for a man with 
a c^rnmoa pair of ears, if he was out of his house 
but a short time on Monday mornings, to miss of 
hearing the sound of the lash, and the cries of 



the suflTerers pleading with their masters to desist. 
These scenes were more common throughout the 
time of my residence there, from 1799 to 1831. 

Mr. Hedding of Chatham county, held a slave 
woman. I traveled past Heddings as often as 
once in two weeks during the winter of 1828, 
and always saw her clad in a single cotton dress, 
sleeves came half way to the elbow, and in order 
to prevent her running away, a child, supposed to 
be about seven years of age, was connected with 
her by a long chain fastened round her neck, and 
in this situation she was compelled all the day to 
grub up the roots of shrubs and sapplings to pre- 
pare ground for the plough. It is not uncommon 
for slaves to make up on Sundays what they are 
not able to perform through the week of their 
tasks. 

At the time of the rumored insurrection above 
named, Chatham jail was filled with slaves who 
were said to have been concerned in the plot. 
Without the least evidence of it, they were punish- 
ed in divers ways ; some were whipped, some had 
their thumbs screiocd in a vice to make them con- 
fess, but no proof satisfactory was ever obtained 
that the negroes had ever thought of an insur- 
rection, nor did any so far as I could learn, ac- 
knowledge that an insurrection had ever been 
projected. From this time forth, the slaves were 
prohibited from assembling together for the wor- 
ship of God, and many of those who had previ. 
ously been authorized to preach the gospel were 
prohibited. 

Amalgamation was common. There was 
scarce a family of slaves that had females of 
mature age where there were not some mulatto 
children. 

Hiram White. 
Otter Creek Prairie, Jan. 22, 1839. 



TESTIMONY OF MR. JOHN M. NELSON—A NATIVE OF VIRGINIA. 



Extract of a letter, dated January 3, 1839, from 
JohnM. Nelson, Esq., of Hillsborough. Mr. Nel- 
son removed from Virginia to Highland county, 
Ohio, many years since, where he is extensively 
known and respected. 

I was born and raised in Augusta county, 
Virginia ; my father w^as an elder in the Presby- 
terian Church, and was " owner" of about twen- 
ty slaves ; he was what was generally termed a 
" good master." His slaves were generally toler. 
ably well fed and clothed, and not over worked, 
they were sometimes permitted to attend church, 
and called in to family worship ; few of them, 
hov/evcr, availed themselves of these privileges. 
On some occasions I have seen him whip them 
severely, particularly for the crime of trying to 
obtain their liberty, or for what was called, '' run- 



ning away." For this they were scourged more 
severely than for any thing else. After they have 
been retaken, I have seen them stripped naked 
and suspended by the hands, sometimes to a 
tree, sometimes to a post, until their toes 
barely touched the ground, and whipped with 
a cowhide until the blood dripped from their 
backs. A boy named Jack, particularly, I have 
seen served in this way more than once. 
When Iwas quite a child, I recollect it grieved me 
very much to see one tied up to be whipped, and I 
used to intercede with tears in their behalf and 
mingle my cries with theirs, and feel almost wil- 
ling to take part of the punishment ; I have 
been severely rebuked by my father for this kind 
of sympathy. Yet, such is the hardening nature 
of such scenes, that from this kind of commisse- 
ration for the suffering slave, I became so blunt- 



52 



Ftrsonol Narratives — ADguliiiu Griinke Wckl, 



cd that I could not only witness their stripes with 
composure, but myself inflict them, and that 
without remorse. One case I have often looked 
back to with sorrow and contrition, particularly 
since I have been convinced that " negroes are 
men." When I was perhaps fourteen or fifteen 
years of age, I undertook to correct a young fel- 
low named Ned, for some supposed ofFence ; I 
think it was leaving a bridle out of its proper 
place ; he being larger and stronger than myself 
took hold of my arms and held me, in order to 
prevent my striking him ; this I considered the 
height of insolence, and cried for help, when 
my father and mother both came running to my 
rescue. My father stripped and tied him, and 
took him into the orchard, where switches were 
plenty, and directed me to whip him ; when one 
switch wore out he supplied me with others. After 
I had whipped hhn a while, he fell on his knees 
to implore forgiveuoss, and I kicked him in the 
face; my father said, =' don't kick him, but v/hip 
him ;" this I did until his back was literally cov- 
ered with welts. I know 1 have repented, and 
trust I have obtained pardon for these things. 

My father owned a woman, (we used to call 
aunt Grace,) she was purchased in Old Virginia. 
She has told me that her old master, in his will, 
gave her her freedom, but at his death, his sons 
had sold her to my father : when he bought her 
she manifested some unwillingness to go with 
him, when she was put in irons and taken by 
force. This was before I was born ; but I remem- 
ber to have seen the irons, and was told that was 
what they had been used for. Aunt Grace is 
still living, and must be between seventy and 
eighty years of age ; she has, for the las^ forty 
years, been an exemplary Christian. When I v/as 
a youth I took some pains to learn her to read ; 
this is now a great consolation to her. Since age 
and infirmity have rendered her of little value to 



her " owners," she is permitted to read as much 
as she pleases ; this she can do, with the aid of 
glasses, in the old family Bible, which is almost 
the only book she has ever looked into. This with 
some little mending for the black children, is all 
she does ; she is still held as a slave. I well re- 
member what a heart-rending scene there was in 
the family when my father sold her husband ; this 
was, I suppose, thirty-five years ago. And yet my 
father was considered one of the best of masters.- 
I know of few who were better, but of many 
who were worse. 

The last time I saw my father, which was in 
the fall of 1832, he promised me that he would 
free all his slaves at his death. He died however 
without doing it ; and I have understood since, 
that he omitted it, through the influence of Rev. 
Dr. Specce, a Presbyterian minister, who lived in 
the family, and was a a warm friend of the Co. 
Ionization Society. 

About the year 1809 or 10, I became a student 
of Rev. George Bourne ; he was the first aboli- 
tionist I had ever ssen, and the first I had ever 
heard pray or plead for the oppressed, which 
gave me the first misgivings about the innocence 
of slaveholding, I received impressions from Mr. 
Bourne which I could not get rid of,*^ and deter- 
mined in my ovs'^n mind that when I settled in 
life, it should be in a free state ; this determina- 
tion I carried into effect in 1813, when I removed 
to this place, which 1 supposed at that time, to 
be all the opposition to slavery that was neces- 
sary, but the moment I became convinced that 
all slaveholding was in itself sinful, I became an 
abolitionist, which was about four years ago. 

* Mr. Bourne resided seven year's in Virginia, " in perils 
among false brethren," fiercely persecuted for his faithful 
testimony against slavery. More than twenty years since 
he published a work entitled " The Book and Slavery irre- 
concileable." 



TESTIMONY OF ANGELINA GRIMKE WELD. 



Mrs. Weld is the youngest daughter of the 
late Judge Grimke, of the Supreme Court of 
South Carolina, and a sister of the late Hon. 
Thomas S. Grimke, of Charleston. 

Fort Lee, Bergen Co., New Jersey, 
Fourth month 6th, 1839 

I sit down to comply with thy request, prefer- 
red in the name of the Executive Committee of 
the American Anti-Slavery Society. The re- 
sponsibility laid upon me by such a request, leaves 
me no option. While I live, and slavery lives, I 
mtist testify against it. If I should hold my 
peace, " the stone would cry out of the wall, and 
the beam out of the timber would answer it." 
But though I feel a necessity upon me, and " a 
woe unto me," if I withhold my testimony, I 
give it with a heavy heart. My flesh crieth out, 
" if it be possible, let this cup pass from me ;" 
but, " Father, thy will be done," is, I trust, the 
breathing of my spirit. Oh, the slain of the 
daughter of my people ! they lie in all the ways ; 
their tears fall as the rain, and are their meat 
day and night ; their blood runneth down like 
water ; their plundered hearths are desolate ; 



they weep for their husbands and children, be- 
cause they are not ; and the proud waves do con- 
tinually go over them, while no eye pitieth, and 
no man careth for their souls. 

But it is not alone for the sake of my poor 
brothers and sisters in bonds, or for the cause of 
truth, and righteousness, and humanity, that I 
testify ; the deep yearnings of affection for the 
mother that bore me, who is still a slaveholder, 
both in fact and in heart; for my brothers and 
sisters, (a large family circle,) and for my nu- 
merous other slaveholding kindred in South Ca- 
rolina, constrain me to speak : for even were 
slavery no curse to its victims, the exercise of 
arbitrary power works such fearful ruin upon the 
hearts of slaveholders, that I should feel impelled 
to labor and pray for its overthrow with my last 
energies and latest breath. 

I think it important to premise, that I have 
seen almost nothing of slavery on plantations. 
My testimony will have respect exclusively to 
the treatment of ^^house-servants," and chiefly 
those belonging to the first families in the city of 
Charleston, both in the religious and in the fash- 
• ionable world. And here let mc say, that the 



jL^ersonal Narratives — Angelina Grimke Weld. 



53 



trcalmcnt, of plantation slaves cannot be fully 
known, except by the poor sufferers themselves, 
and their drivers and overseers. In a multitude 
of instances, even the master can know very lit- 
tle of the actual condition of his own field-slaves, 
and his wife and daughters far less. A few facts 
concerning my own family v/ill show this. Our 
permanent residence was in Charleston ; our 
country-seat (Bellemont,) was 200 miles distant, 
in the north-western part of the state ; where, for 
some years, our family spent a few months annu- 
ally. Our plantation was three miles from this 
family mansion. There, all the field-slaves lived 
and worked. Occasionally, once a month, per- 
liaps, some of the family would ride over to the 
plantation, but I never Yi&iicdiihe fields wltere the 
slaves were at work, and knew almost nothing of 
their condition; but this I do know, that the 
overseers who had charge of them, were gene- 
rally unprincipled and intemperate men. But I 
rejoice to know, that the general treatment of 
slaves in that region of country, was far milder 
than on the plantations in the lower country. 

Throughout all the eastern and middle por- 
tions of the state, the planters very rarely reside 
permanently on their plantations. They have 
almost invariably two residences, and spend less 
than half the year on their estates. Even while 
spending a few months on them, politics, field- 
sports, races, speculations, journeys, visits, com- 
pany, literary pursuits, &c., absorb so much of 
their time, that they must, to a considerable ex- 
tent, take the condition of their slaves on trust, 
from the reports of their overseers, I make this 
statement, because these slaveholders (the wealth- 
ier class,) are, I believe, almost the only ones who 
visit the north with their families ; — and northern 
opinions of slavery are based chiefly on their tes- 
timony. 

But not to dwell on preliminaries, I wish to 
record my testimony to the faithfulness and ac- 
curacy with which my beloved sister, Sarah M. 
Grimke, has, in her ' narrative and testimony,' on 
a preceding page, described the condition of the 
slaves, and the effect upon the hearts of slave- 
holders, (even the best,) caused by the exercise 
of unlimited power over moral agents. Of the 
particular acts which she has stated, I have no 
personal knowledge, as they occurred before my 
remembrance ; but of the spirit that prompted 
them, and that constantly displays itself in scenes 
of similar horror, the recollections of my child- 
hood, and the effaceless imprint upon my riper 
years, with the breaking of my heart-strings, 
when, finding that I was powerless to shield the 
victims, I tore myself from my home and friends, 
and became an exile among strangers — all these 
throng around me as v/itnesses, and their testi. 
monj'^ is graven on my memory with a pen of 
fire. 

Why I did not become totally hardened, under 
the daily operation of this system, God only 
knows ; in deep solemnity and gratitude, I say, 
it was the Lord^s doing, and marvellous in mine 
eyes. Even before my heart was touched with 
the love of Christ, I used to say, " Oh that I had 
the wings of a dove, that I might flee away and 
be at rest ;' for I felt that there could be no rest for 
me in the midst of such outrages and pollutions. 
And yet I saw nothing of slavery in its most 



vulgar and repulsive forms. I saw it in the city, 
among the fashionable and the honorable, where 
it was garnished by refinement, and decked out 
for show. A few fads will unfold the state of 
society in the circle with which I was familiar, 
far better than any general assertions I can make. 
I will first introduce the reader to a woman 
of the highest respectability — one who was fore- 
most in every benevolent enterprise, and stood 
for many years, I may say, at the head of the 
fashionable elite of the city of Charleston, and 
afterwards at the head of the moral and religious 
female society there. Ii was after she had made 
a profession of religion, and retired from the 
fashionable world, that I knew her ; therefore 1 
will present her in her religious character. This 
lady used to keep cowhides, or small paddles, 
(called * pancake sticks,') in four different apart- 
ments in her house ; so that when she wished to 
punish, or to have punished, any of her slaves, she 
might not have the trouble of sending for an in- 
strument of torture. For many years, one or 
other, and often more of her slaves, were flogged 
eveiy day; particularly the young slaves about 
the house, whose faces were slapped, or their 
hands beat with the 'pancake stick,' for every 
trifling offence — and often for no fault at all. 
But the floggings were not all; the scoldings 
and abuse daily heaped upon them all, were 
worse: 'fools' and ' liars,' ' sluts' and ' husseys,' 
' hypocrites' and ' good-for-nothing creatures,* 
were the common epithets wiih which her mouth 
was filled, when addressing her slaves, adults as 
v/ell as children. Very often she would take a 
position at her window, in an upper story, and 
scold at her slaves while working in the garden, 
at some distance from the house, (a large j^ard 
intervening,) and occasionally order a flogging. 
I have known her thus on the watch, scolding 
for more than an hour at a time, in so loud a 
voice that the whole neighborhood could hear 
her ; and this without the least apparent feeling 
of shame. Indeed, it was no disgrace among 
slaveholders, and did not in the least injure her 
standing, either as a lady or a Christian, in the 
aristocratic circle in Avhich she moved. After 
the ' revival' in Charleston, in 1825, she opened 
her house to social prayer-meetings. The room 
in which they were held in the evening, and 
where the voice of prayer was heard around the 
family altar, and where she herself retired for 
private devotion thrice each day, was the very 
place in which, when her slaves were to be whip- 
ped with the cowhide, they were taken to receive 
tlie infliction ; and the wail of the sufferer would 
be heard, where, perhaps only a few hours pre- 
vious, rose the voices ofprayer and praise. This 
mistress would occasionally send her slaves, male 
and female, to the C!harleston work-house to be 
punished. One p^or girl, whom she sent there 
to be flogged, a;jd who was accordingly stripped 
naked and whipped, showed me the deep gashes 
on her back— I might have laid my whole finger 
in them — large pieces of flesh had actually been 
cut out by the torturing lash. She sent another 
female slave there, to be imprisoned and worked 
on the tread-mill. This girl was confined several 
days, and forced to work the mill while in a state 
of suffering from another cause. For ten days 
or two weeks after her return, she was lame, from 



54 



Personal Narratives — Angelina Grimke Weld. 



the violent exertion necessary to enable her to 
keep tlie step on the machine. She spoke tome 
with intense feeling of this outrage upon her, as 
a iDoman. Her men servants were sometimes 
flogged there ; and so exceedingly offensive has 
been the putrid flesh of their lacerated backs, for 
days after the infliction, that they would be kept 
out of the house — the smell arising from their 
wounds being too horrible to be endured. They 
were always stiff and sore for some days, and not 
in a condition to be seen by visitors. 

This professedly Christian woman was a most 
awful illustration of the ruinous influence of 
arbitrary power upon the temper — her bursts 
of passion upon the heads of her victims were 
dreaded even by her own children, and very 
often, all the pleasure of social intercourse around 
the domestic board, was destroyed by her order- 
ing the cook into her presence, and storming at 
him, when the dinner or breakfast was not pre- 
pared to her taste, and in the presence of all her 
children, commanding the waiter to slap his face. 
Fault-finding, was with her the constant accom- 
paniment of every meal, and banished that peace 
which should hover around the social board, and 
smile on every face. It was common for her to 
order brothers to whip their own sisters, and sis. 
ters their own brothers, and yet no woman visited 
among the poor more than she did, or gave more 
liberally to relieve their wants. This may seem 
perfectly unaccountable to a northerner, but these 
seeni'ng contradictions vanish when we con- 
sider that over ihe.m she possessed no arbitrary 
power, they were always presented to her niind 
as unfortunate sufferers, towards whom her sym- 
pathies most freely flowed ; she was ever ready 
to wipe the tears from their eyes, and open wide 
her purse for their relief, but the others w^ere her 
vassals, thrust dov^^n by public opinion beneath 
her feet, to be at her beck and call, ever ready to 
serve in all humility, her, whom God in his pro- 
vidence had set over them — it was their duty to 
abide in abject submission, and hers to compel 
them to do so — it urns thus that she reasoned. 
Except at family prayers, none v/ere permitted 
to sit in her presence, but the seamstresses and 
waiting maids, and they, however delicate might 
be their circumstances, were forced to sit upon 
low stools, without backs, that they might be 
constantly reminded of their inferiority. A slave 
who waited in the house, was guilty on a particu. 
lar occasion of going to visit his wife, and kept 
dinner waiting a little, (his wife was the slave 
of a lady who lived at a little distance.) When 
the family sat down to the table, the mistress 
began to scold the waiter for the offence — he at- 
tempted to excuse himself — she ordered him to 
hold his tongue — he venturtd another apology ; 
her son then rose from the table in a rage, and 
beat the face and ears of the waiter so dreadfully 
that the blood gushed from his mcuth, and nose, 
and ears. This mistress was a pinfessor of re- 
ligion ; her daughter who related t\\e circum- 
stance, was a fellow member of the Presbyterian 
church with the poor outraged slave — instead of 
feeling indignation at this outrageous abuse of 
her brother in ihe church, she justified the deed, 
^nd said "he got just what he deserved." I 
solemnly believe thig to be a true picture of 
slaveholding religioriy 



' The following is another illustration of it : 

A mistress in Charleston sent a grey headed 
female slave to the workhouse, and had her se- 
verely flogged. The poor old woman went to an 
acquaintance of mine and begged her to buy her, 
and told her how cruelly she had been whipped. 
My friend examined her lacerated hack, and out 
of compassion did purchase her. The circum- 
stance was mentioned to one of the former own- 
er's relatives, who asked her if it were true. 
The mistress told her it was, and said that she 
had made the severe whipping of this aged wo- 
man a subject of prayer, and that she believed she 
had done right to have it inflicted upon her. 
The last 'owner' of the poor old slave, said she, 
had no fault to find with her as a servant. 

I remember very well that when I was a child, 
our next door neighbor whipped a young woman 
so brutally, that in order to escape his blows she 
rushed through the drawing-room window in the 
second story, and fell upon the street pavement 
below and broke her hip. This circumstance 
produced no excitement or inquiry. 

The following circumstance occurred in 
Charleston, in 1828 : 

A slaveholder, after flogging a little girl 
about thirteen years old, set her on a table with 
her feet fastened in a pair of stocks. He then 
locked the door and took out the key. When the 
door was opened she was found dead, having 
fallen from the table. AVhen I asked a prominent 
lawyer, who belonged to one of the first families 
in the State, whether the murderer of this help- 
less child could not be indicted, he coolly replied, 

that the slave was Mr 's property, and if 

he chose to suffer the loss, no one else had any 
thing to do with it. The loss of human life, the 
distress of the parents and other relatives of the 
little girl, seemed utterly out of his thoughts : 
it was the loss of property only that presented 
itself to his mind. 

I knew a gentleman of great benevolence and 
generosity of character, so essentially to injure 
the eye of a little boy, about ten years old, as to 
destroy its sight, by the blov/ of a cowhide, in- 
flicted whilst he was whipping him.* I have 
heard the same individual speak of " breaking 
down the spirit of a slave under the lash " as per- 
fectly right. 

I also know that an aged slave of his, (by 
marriage,) was allowed to get a scanty aad pre- 
carious subsistence, by begging in the streets of 
Charleston — he was too old to work, and there- 
fore his allowance was stopped, and he was 
turned out to make his hving by begging;. 

When I was about thirteen years old, I attend- 
ed a seminary, in Charleston, which was super- 
intended by a man and his wife of superior edu- 
cation. They had under their instruction the 
daughters of nearly all the aristocracy. Their 
cruelty to their slaves, both male and female, I 
can never forget. I remember one day there was 
called into the school room to open a window, a 

* The Jewish law would have set this servant free, for 
his eye's sake, but he was held in slavery and sold from 
hand to hand, although, besides this title to his liberty ac- 
cording to Jewish law, he was a mulafto, and therefore free 
under the Constitution of the United States, in whose pre- 
amble our fathers declare that they established it expressly 
to " secure the hlessmgs of liberty to themselves and their 
posterity." — Ed. 



Personal Narratives — Angelina Grimke Wold. 



55 



boy whose head liad been shaved in order to dis- 
grace him, and he had been so dreadfully whip- 
ped that he could hardly walk. So liorrible was 
the impression produced upon my mind by his 
heart-broken countenance and crippled person 
that I fainted away. The sad and ghastly coun- 
tenance of one of their female mulatto slaves who 
used to sit on a low stool at her sewing in the 
piazza, is now fresh before me. She often told 
me, secretly, how cruelly she was whipped when 
they sent her to the work house. I had known so 
much of the terrible scourgings inflicted in that 
house of blood, that when I was once obliged to 
pass it, the very sight smote me with such horror 
that my limbs could hardly sustain me. I felt as if 
I was passing the precincts of hell. A friend of mine 
who lived in the neighborhood, told me she often 
heard the screams of the slaves under their 
torture. 

I once heard a physician of a high family, and 
of great respectability in his profession, say, that 
when he sent his slaves to the work-house to be 
flogged, he always went to see it done, that he 
might be sure they were properly, i. e. severely 
whipped. He also related the following circum- 
stance in my presence. He had sent a youth of 
about eighteen to this horrible place to be whip- 
ped and afterwards to be worked upon the tread- 
mill. From not keeping the step, which probably 
he COULD NOT do, in consequence of the lacerated 
state of his body ; his arm got terribly torn, from 
the shoulder to the wrist. This physcian said, 
he went every day to attend to it himself, in order 
that he might use those restoratives, which would 
inflict the greatest possible pain. This poor boy, 
after being imprisoned there for some weeks, was 
then brought home, and compelled to wear iron 
clogs on his ankles for one or two months. I 
saw him with those irons on one day when I was 
at the house. This man was, when young, re- 
markable in the fashionable world for his elegant 
and fascinating manners, but the exercise of the 
slaveholder's power has thrown the fierce air of 
tyranny even over these. 

I heard another man of equally high standing 
say, that he believed he suffered far more than his 
waiter did, whenever he flogged him, for he felt 
the exertion for days afterward, but he could not 
let his servant go on in the neglect of his business, 
it was his duty to chastise him. "His duty" to 
flog this boy of seventeen so severely that he felt 
the exertion for days after ! and yet he never felt 
it to be his duty to instruct him, or have him in- 
structed, even in the common principles of mo- 
rality. I heard the mother of this man say, it 
would be no surprise to her, if he killed a slave 
some day, for, that, when transported with pas- 
sion he did not seem to care what he did. He 
once broke a large stick over t'iie back of a slave, 
and at another time the ivory butt-end of a long 
coach v/hip over the head of another. This last 
was attacked with epileptic fits some months 
after, and has ever since been subject to them, 
and occasionally to violent fits of insanity. 

Southern mistresses sometimes flog their slaves 
themselves, though generally one slave is com- 
pelled to flog another. Whilst staying at a friend's 
house some years ago, I one day saw the mistress 
with a cow-hide in her hand, and heard her scold- 
ing in an under tone, her waiting man, who was 



about twenty-five years old. Whether she actu- 
ally inflicted the blows I do not know, for I hast, 
encd out of sight and hearing. It was not the 
first time I had seen a mistress thus engaged. I 
knew she was a cruel mistress, and had heard her 
daughters disputing, whether their mother did 
right or wrong, to send the slave children, (whom 
she sent out to sweep chimneys) to the work 
house to be whipped if they did not bring in their 
wages regularly. This woman moved in the most 
fashionable circle in Charleston. The income of 
this family was derived mostly from the hire of 
their slaves, about one hundred in number. Their 
luxuries were blood-bought luxuries indeed. And 
yet what stranger would ever have inferred their 
cruelties from the courteous reception and bland 
manners of the parlor. Every thing cruel and 
revolting is carefully concealed from strangers, 
especially those from the north. Take an in- 
stance. I have known the master and mistress 
of a family send to their friends to borrow ser- 
vants to w^ait on company, because their own 
slaves had been so cruelly flogged in the work 
house, that they could not w^alk without limping at 
every step,and their putrified flesh emitted such an 
intolerable smell that they were not fit to be in 
the presence of company. How can northerners 
know these things when they are hospitably re- 
ceived at southern tables and firesides ? I repeat 
it, no one who has not been an integral part of a 
slaveholding community, can have any idea of its 
abominations. It is a whited sepulchre full of 
dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Blessed 
be God, the Angel of Truth has descended and 
rolled away the stone from the mouth of the se- 
pulchre, and sits upon it. The abominations so 
long hidden are now brought forth before all Israel 
and the sun. Yes, the Angel of Truth sits upon 
this stone, and it can never be rolled back again. 

The utter disregard of the comfort of the 
slaves, in little things, can scarcely be conceived 
by those who have not been a component part of 
slaveholding communities. Take a few particu- 
lars out of hundreds that might be named. In 
South Carolina musketoes swarm in myriads, 
more than half the year — they are so excessively 
annoying at night, that no family thinks of sleep- 
ing without nets or " musketoe-bars" hung over 
their bedsteads, yet slaves are never provided with 
them, unless it be the favorite old domestics who 
get the cast-ofl" pavilions ; and yet these very mas- 
ters and mistresses will be so kind to their horses 
as to provide them with fly nets. Bedsteads 
and bedding too, are rarely provided for any of 
the slaves — if the waiters and coachmen, wait- 
ing maids, cooks, washers, &c., have beds at 
all, they must generally get them for them- 
selves. Commonly they lie down at night on 
the bare floor, with a small blanket wrapped 
round them in winter, and in summer a coarse 
osnaburg sheet, or nothing. Old slaves generally 
have beds, but it is because when younger they 
have provided them for themselves. 

Only two meals a day are allowed the house 
slaves — the first at twelve o'clock. If they eat 
before this time, it is by stealth, and I am sure 
there must be a good deal of suffering among 
them from hunger^ and particularly by children. 
Besides this, they are often kept from their meals 
by way of punishment. No table is provided for 



56 



Personal Narratives — Ano-olina Grimke Weld. 



them to eat from. They know notliin;^ of tlio 
comfort 8.nd pleasure of g-athering round the so- 
cial board — each takes his plate or tin pan and 
iron spoon and holds it in the hand or on the 
lap. I never saw slaves seated round a table to 
partake of any meal. 

As the general rule, no lights of any kind, no 
firewood — no towels, basins, or soap, no tables, 
chairs, or other furniture, are provided. Wood for 
cooking and washing /or the famikj is found, but 
when the master's work is done, the slave must 
find wood for himself if he has a fire. I have 
repeatedly known slave children kept the whole 
winter's evening, sitting on the stair-case in a 
cold entry, just to bo at hand to snufF candles or 
hand a tumbler of water from the side-board, or go 
on errands from one room to another. It may be 
asked why they were not permitted to stay in the 
parlor, when they would be still more at hand. I 
answer, because waiters are not allowed to sit in 
the presence of their owners, and as children 
who were kept running all day, would of course 
get very tired of standing for two or three hours, 
they were allowed to go into the entry and sit on 
the staircase until rung for. Another reason is, 
that even slaveholders at times find the presence 
of slaves very annoying ; they cannot exercise 
entire freedom of speech before them on all sub- 
jects. 

I have also known instances where seamstress- 
es were kept in cold entries to work by the stair 
case lamps for one or two hours, every evening 
in winter — they could not see without standing 
up all the time, though the work was often too 
large and heavy for them to sew upon it in that 
position without great inconvenience, and yet 
they were expected to do their work as well with 
their cold fingers, and standing up, as if they had 
been sitting by a comfortable fire and provided 
with the necessary light. House slaves suffer a, 
great deal also from not being allowed to leave 
the house without permission. If they wish to 
go even for a draught of water, they must ask 
leave, and if they stay longer than the mistress 
thinks necessary, they are liable to be punished, 
and often are scolded or slapped, or kept from 
going down to the next meal. 

It frequently happens that relatives, among 
slaves, are separated for weeks or months, by the 
husband or brother being taken by the master on 
a journey, to attend on his horses and himself, — 
When they return, the white husband seeks the 
wife of his love ; but the black husband must wait 
to see his wife, until mistress pleases to let her 
chambermaid leave her room. Yes, such is the 
despotism of slavery, that wives and sisters dare 
not run to meet their husbands and brothers after 
iuch separations, and hours sometimes elapse be- 
fore they are allowed to meet ; and, at times, a 
fiendish pleasure is taken in keeping thera asun- 
der — this furnishes an opportunity to vent feelings 
of spite for any little neglect of " duty." 

The sufferings to which slaves are subjected by 
separations of various kinds, cannot be imagined 
by those unacquainted with the working out of 
the system behind the curtain. Take the folio v/- 
ing instances. 

Chambermaids and seamstresses oifcen sleep in 
their mistresses' apartments, but with no bedding 



1 at all. I knov/ an instance of a woman who has 
been married eleven yeai's, and yet has never been 
allowed to sleep out of her mistress's chamber. — 
This is a great hardship to slaves. When we con. 
sider that house slaves are rarely allowed social 
intercourse during the day, as their work gener- 
ally separates them ; the barbarity of such an ar- 
rangement is obvious. It is peculiarly a hardship 
in the above case, as the husband of the woman 
does not "belong" to her " owner;" and because 
he is subject to dreadful attacks of illness, and 
can have but little attention from his wife in the 
day. And yet her mistress, who is an old lady, 
gives her the highest character as a faithful ser- 
vant, and told a friend of mine, that she was " en- 
tirely dependent upon her for all her comforts ; 
she dressed and undressed her, gave her all her 
food, and was so necessary to her that she could 
not do without her." I may add, that this couple 
are tenderly attached to each other. 

I also know an instance in which the husband 
was a slave and the wife was free : during the ill- 
ness of the former, the latter was allowed to come 
and nurse him ; she wasobhged to leave the work 
by which she had made a living, and come to stay 
with her husband, and thus lost weeks of her 
time, or he would have suffered for want of pro- 
per attention ; and yet his " owner " made her no 
compensation for her services. He had long been 
a faithful and a favorite slave, and his owner wag 
a woman very benevolent to the poor whites. — 
She went a great deal among these, as a visiting 
commissioner of the Ladies' Benevolent Society, 
and was in the constant habit oi paying the rela- 
tives of the poor whites for nursing their hus 
bands, fathers, and other relations ; because she 
thought it very hard, when their time was taken 
up, so that they could not earn their daily bread, 
that they should be left to suffer, Now, such is 
the stupifying influence of the " chattel principle" 
on the minds of slaveholders, that I do not sup- 
pose it ever occurred to her that this poor colored 
wife ought to be paid for her services, and parti- 
cularly as she was spending her time and strength 
in taking care oi her '■^ property .''^ She no doubt 
only thought how kind she was, to allow her to 
come and stay so long in her yard ; for, let it be 
kept in mind, that slaveholders have unlimited 
power to separate husbands and wives, parents 
and children, however and whenever they please ; 
and if this mistress had chosen to do it, she could 
have debarred this woman from.all intercourse with 
her husband, by forbidding her to enter her pre- 
mises. 

Persons who own plantations and yet live in 
cities, often take children from their parents as 
soon as they are weaned, and send them into the 
country ; because they do not want the time of 
the mother taken up by attendance upon her own 
children, it being too valuable to the mistress. As 
a favor, she is, in some cases, permitted to go to 
see them once a year. So, on the other hand, if 
field slaves happen to have children of an age suit- 
able to the convenience of the master, they are 
taken from their parents and brought to the city. 
Parents are almost never consulted as to the dis- 
position to be made of their children ; the}'^ have as 
little control over them, as have domestic animals 
over the disposal of their young. Every natural 



General Testimony — Cruelties. 



57 



and social feeling and affection are violated with 
indifference ; slaves are treated as though they 
did not possess them. 

Another way in which the feelings of slaves are 
trifled with and often deeply wounded, is by chang- 
ing their names ; if, at the time they are brought 
into a family, there is another slave of the same 
name ; or if the owner happens, for some other 
reason, not to like the name of the nev/ comer. 
I have known slaves very much grieved at having 
the names of their children thus changed, when 
they had been called after a dear relation. In- 
deed it would be utterly impossible to recount the 
multitude of ways in which the heart of the slave 
is continually lacerated by the total disregard of 
his feelings as a social being and a human crea- 
ture. 

The slave suffers also greatly from being con- 
tinually watched. The system of espionage which 
is constantly kept up over slaves is the most wor- 
rying and intolerable tliat can be imagined. Many 
mistresses are, in fact, during the absence of their 
husbands, really their drivers ; and the pleasure 
of returning to their families often, on the part of 
the husband, is entirely destroyed by the complaints 
preferred against the slaves when he comes home 
to his meals. 

A mistress of my acquaintance asked her ser- 
vant boy, one day, what was the reason she could 
not get him to do his work whilst his master was 
away, and said to him, '' Your master works a 
great deal harder than you do ; he is at his office 
all day, and often has to study his law cases at 
night." " Master," said the boy, *' is working for 
himself, and for you, ma'am, but I am working 
for him." The mistress turned and remarked to 
a friend, that she was so struck with the truth of 
the remark, that she could not say a word to him. 



But I forbear — the sufferings of the slaves arc 
not only innumerable, but they are indescribable. 
I may paint the agony of kindred torn from each 
other's arms, to meet no more in time ; I may de- 
pict the inflictions of the blood-stained lash, but I 
cannot describe the daily, hourly, ceaseless torture, 
endured by the heart that is constantly trampled 
under the foot of despotic power. T'lis is a part 
of the horrors of slavery which, I believe, no one 
has ever attempted to delineate ; I wonder not at 
it, it mocks all power of language. Who can de- 
scribe the anguish of that mind which feels itself 
impaled upon the iron of arbitrary power — its liv- 
ing, writhing, helpless victim ! every human sus- 
ceptibility tortured, its sympathies torn, and stung, 
and bleeding — alway:- fcehng the death-weapon 
in its heart, and yet not so deep as to kill that 
humanity which is made the curse of its exist- 
enr-e. 

In the course of my testimony I have entered 
somewhat into the minuticc of slavery, because 
this is a part of the subject often overlooked, and 
cannot be appreciated by any but those who have 
been witnesses, and entered into sympathy with 
the slaves as human beings. Slaveholders think 
nothing of them, because they regard their slaves 
as property, the mere instruments of their conve- 
nience and pleasure. One who is a slaveholder 
at heart never recognises a human being in a slave. 

As thou hast asked me to testify respecting the 
physical condition of the slaves merely, I say no- 
thing of the awful neglect of their minds and souls 
and the systematic effort to imbrute them. A 
wrong and an impiety, in comparison with which 
all the other unutterable wrongs of slavery are 
but as the dust of the balance. 

Angelina G. Weld. 



GENERAL TESTIMONY 

TO THE CRUELTIES INFLICTED UPON SLAVES. 



Before presenting to the reader particular de- 
tails of the cruelties inflicted upon American 
slaves, we will present in brief the well-weigh- 
ed declarations of slaveholders and other resi- 
dents of slave states, testifying that the slaves 
are treated with barbarous inhumanity. All de- 
tails and particulars will be drawn out under 
their appropriate heads. We propose in this 
place to present testimony of a general character 
— the solemn declarations of slaveholders and 
others, that the slaves are treated with great 
cruelty. 

To discredit the testimony of witnesses who 
msist upon convicting themselves, would be an 
anomalous scepticism. 

To show that American slavery has always 
had one uniform character of diabolical cruelty, we 
will go back one hundred years, and prove it by 
unimpeachable witnesses, who have given their 
deliberate testimony to its horrid barbarity, from 
1739 to 1839. 

8 



TESTIMONY OF REV. GEORGE WHITEFIELD, 

In a letter written by him in Georgia, and ad- 
dressed to the slaveholders of Maryland, Vir- 
ginia. North and South Carolina and Georgia, in 
1739. — See Benezet's "Caution to Great Britain 
and her Colonies." 

" As I lately passed through your provinces 
on my way hither, I was sensibly touched with a 
fellow-feeling of the miseries of the poor negroes. 

" Sure I am, it is sinful to use them as bad, 
nay worse than if they were brutes ; and what- 
ever particular exceptions there may be, (as I 
would charitably hope there are some,) I fear the 
generality of you that own negroes, are liable to 
such a charge. Not to mention what numbers have 
been given up to the inhuman usage of cruel tasJc 
masters, who by their unrelenting scourges, have 
ploughed their backs and made long furrows, and 
at length brought them to the grave ! * * * 

" The blood of them, spilt for these many years, 
in your respective provinces, will ascend up to 
heaven against you .'" 

The following is the testimony of the cele- 
brated John Woolman, an eminent minister of 



58 



General Testimony — Cruelties. 



the Society of Friends, who traveled extensively 
in the slave states. We copy it from a "Me- 
moir of John Woolman, chiefly extracted from a 
Journal of his Life and Travels." It was pub- 
lished in Philadelphia, by the ''Society of 
Friends." 

" The following reflections, were written in 
1757, while he was traveling on a religious ac- 
count among slaveholders." 

" Many of the white people in these provinces, 
take little or no care of negro marriages ; and 
when negroes marry, after their own way, some 
make so little account of those marriages, that, 
with views of outward interest, they often part 
men from their wives, by selling them far asun- 
der ; which is common when estates are sold by 
executors at vendue. 

" Many whose labor is heavy, being followed 
at their business in the field by a man with a 
whip, hired for that purpose, — have, in common, 
little else allowed them but one peck of Indian 
corn and some salt for one week, with a fcv/ po- 
tatoes. (The potatoes they commonly raise by 
their labor on the first day of the week.) The 
correction ensuing on their disobedience to over- 
seers, or slothfulness in business, is often very 
severe^ and sometimes desperate. Men and wo- 
men have many times scarce clothes enough to 
hide their nakedness — and boys and girls, ten 
and twelve years old, are often quite naked 
among their masters' children. Some use en- 
deavors to instruct those (negro children) they 
have in reading ; but in common, this is not only 
neglected, but disapproved." — p. 12. 

TESTIMONY OP THE ' MARYLAND JOURNAL AND BAL- 
TIMORE ADVERTISER,' OF MAY 30, 1788. 

" In the ordinary course of the business of the 
country, the punishment of relations frequently 
happens on the same farm, and in view of each 
other : the father often sees his beloved son — the 
son his venerable sire — the mother her much 
loved daughter — the daughter her affectionate 
parent — the husband sees the wife of his bosom, 
and she the husband of her afTection, cruelly 
hound up without delicacy or mercy, and without 
daring to interpose in each other's behalf, and 
punished with all the extremity of incensed rage, 
and all the rigor of unrelenting severity. Let us 
reverse the case, and suppose it ours : all is si- 
lent HORROR !" 



"if' 



testimony of the HON. WILLIAM PINiTkNEY, OF 
MARYLAND. 

In a speech before the Maryland House of 
Delegates, in 1789, Mr. P. calls slavery in that 
state, " a speaking picture of abominable oppres- 
sion ;" and adds : "It will not do thus to 

act like unrelenting tyrants, perpetually sermon- 
izing it v/ith liberty as our text, and actual op- 
pression for our commentary. Is she [Maryland] 
not .... the foster mother of petty despots, — the 
patron of wanton oppression ?" 

Extract from a speech of Mr. Rice, in the 
Convention for forming the Constitution of Ken- 
tucky, in 1790 : 

" The master may, and often does, inflict upon 



him all the severity of punishment the human body 
is capable of bearing.''^ 

President Edwards, the "Younger, in a sermon 
before the Connecticut Abolition Society, 1791, 
says: 

" From these drivers, for every imagined, as 
well as real neglect or want of exertion, they re- 
ceive the lash — the smack of which is all day 
long in the ears of those who are on the planta- 
tion or in the vicinity ; and it is used with such 
dexterity and severity, as not only to lacerate the 
skin, but to tear out small portions of the flesh at 
almost every stroke. 

" This is the general treatment of the slaves. 
But many individuals suffer still more severely. 
Many, many are knocked down ; some have their 
eyes beaten out : some have an arm or a leg brok. 
en, or chopped off ; and many, for a very small, 
or for no crime at all, have been beaten to death, 
merely to gratify the fury of an enraged master 
or overseer." 

Extract from an oration, delivered at Balti- 
more, July 4, 1791, by George Buchanan, M. D., 
member of the American Philosophical Society. 

Their situation (the slaves') is insupportable ; 
misery inhabits their cabins, and pursues them in 
the field. Inhumanly beaten, they often fall sa- 
crifices to tlie turbulent tempers of their masters ! 
Who is there, unless inured to savage cruelties, 
that can hear of the inhuman punishments daily 
inflicted upon the unfortunate blacks, without 
feeling for them ? Can a man who calls himself 
a Christian, coolly and deliberately tie up, thumb, 
screw, torture with pincers, and beat unmerci- 
fully a poor slave, for perhaps a trifling neglect 
of duty 'I — p. 14. 

testimony of HON. JOHN RANDOLPH, OF ROANOKE 

A SLAVEHOLDER. 

In one of his Congressional speeches, Mr. R. 
says : " Avarice alone can drive, as it does drive, 
this infernal traffic, and the wretched victims of 
it, like so many post-horses whipped to death in a 
mail coach. Ambition has its cover-sluts in the 
pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war ; 
but where are the trophies of avarice ? The 
hand-cuff, the manacle, the blood-stained cow- 
hide .'" 

Major Stoddard, of the United States' army, 
who took possession of Louisiana in behalf of the 
United States, under the cession of 1804, in his 
Sketches of Louisiana, page 332, says : 

" The feelings of humanity are outraged — the 
most odious tyranny exercised in a land of free- 
dom, and hunger and nakedness prevail amidst 
plenty. * * * Cruel, and even unusual pun- 
ishments are daily inflicted on these wretched 
creatures, enfeebled with hunger, labor and the 
lash. The scenes of misery and distress con, 
stantly witnessed along the coast of the Delta, 
[of the Mississippi,] the wounds and lacerations 
occasioned by demoralized masters and over, 
seers, torture the feelings of the passing stranger, 
and wring blood from the heart." 

Though only the third of the following series 
of resolutions is directly relevant to the subject 
now under consideration, we insert the other 



General Testiv.Kniy — C i-uellie.s. 



59 



resolutions, both because they arc explanatory of 
the third, and also serve to reveal the public sen- 
timent of Indiana, at the date of the resolutions. 
A3 a large majority of the citizens of Indiana 
at that time, were natives of slave states, they well 
knew the actual condition of the slaves. 

1. "Resolved UxXANimously, by the Legislative 
Council and House of Representatives of In- 
diana Territory, that a suspension of the sixth 
article of compact between the United States 
and the territories and states north west of the 
river Ohio, passed the 13th day of January, 1783, 
for the term of ten years, would be highly ad- 
vantageous to the territory, and meet the ap- 
probation of at least nine-tenths of the good citi- 
zens of the same. 

2. " Resolved UNANIMOUSLY, that the abstract 
question of liberty and slavery, is not considered 
as involved in a suspension of the said article, 
inasmuch as the number of slaves in the United 
States would not be augmented by the measure. 

3. " Resolved unanimously, that the suspen- 
sion of the said article would be equally advanta- 
geous to the territory, to the states from whence 
the negroes would be brought, and to the negroes 
themselves. The states ^\^iich are overburthened 
with negroes, would be benefited by disposing of 
the negroes which they cannot comfortably sup- 
port ; * * and the negro himself would ex. 

CHANGE A SCANTY PITTANCE OF THE COARSEST FOOD, 

for a plentiful and nourishing diet ; and a situa- 
tion which admits not the most distant prospect 
of emancipation, for one which presents no con- 
siderable obstacle to his wishes. 

4. " Resolved unanimously, that a copy of 
these resolutions be delivered to the delegate to 
Congress from this territory, and that he be, and 
he hereby is, instructed to use his best endeavors 
to obtain a suspension of the said article. 

J. B. Thomas, 
Speaker of the House of Representatives. 
Pierre Minard, 
President pro tern, of the Legislative Council. 
Vincennes, Dec. 20, 1806. 

"Forwarded to the Speaker of the United States' 
Senate, by William Henry Harrison, Gover- 
nor." — American State Papers, vol. 1, p. 467. 

Monsieur C. C. Robin, who resided in Lou- 
isiana from 1802 to 1806, and published a volume 
containing the results of his observations there, 
thus speaks of the condition of the slaves : 

" While they are at labor, the manager, tlie 
master, or the driver has commonly the whip in 
hand to strike the idle. But those of the ne- 
groes who are judged guilty of serious faults, are 
punished twenty, twenty-five, forty, fifty, or one 
hundred lashes. The manner of this cruel exe- 
cution is as follows : four stakes are driven down, 
making a long square ; the culprit is extended 
naked between these stakes, face downwards ; 
his hands and his feet are bound separately, with 
strong cords, to each of the stakes, so far apart 
that his arms and legs, stretched in the form of 
St. Andrew's cross, give the the poor wretch no 
chance of stirring. Then the executioner, who 
is ordinarily a negro, armed with the long whip 
of a coachman, strikes upon the reins and thighs. 



The crack of his whip resounds afar, like that of 
an angry cartman beating his horses. The blood - 
flows, the long wounds cross each other, strips of 
skin are raised without softening either the hand 
of the executioner or the heart of the master, 
who cries ' sting him harder.' 

" The reader is moved ; so am I : my agitated 
hand refuses to trace the bloody p^'fture, to re- 
count how many times the piercing cry of pain 
has interrupted my silent occupations ; how many 
times I have shuddered at the faces of those bar- 
barous masters, where I saw inscribed the num- 
ber of victims sacrificed to their ferocity. 

" The women are subjected to these punish- 
ments as rigorously as the men — not even preg. 
nancy exempts them ; in that case, before bind- 
ing them to the stakes, a hole is made in the 
ground to accommodate the enlarged form of the 
victim. 

" It is remarkable that the white Creole wo- 
men are ordinarily more inexorable than the men. 
Their slow and languid gait, and the trifling servi- 
ces which they impose, betoken only apathetic in- 
dolence ; but should the slave not promptly obey, 
should he even fail to divine the meaning of 
their gestures, or looks, in an instant they are 
armed with a formidable whip ; it is no longer 
the arm which cannot sustain the weight of a 
shawl or a reticule — it is no longer the form 
which but feebly sustains itself. They them- 
selves order the punishment of one of these poor 
creatures, and with a dry eye see their victim 
bound to four stakes ; they count the blows, and 
raise a voice of menace, if the arm that strikes 
relaxes, or if the blood does not flow in sufiicient 
abundance. Their sensibility changed to fury 
must needs feed itself for a while on the hideous 
spectacle ; they must, as if to revive themselves, 
hear the piercing shrieks, and see the flow of 
fresh blood ; there are some of them who, in their 
frantic rage, pinch and bite their victims. 

" It is by no means wonderful that the laws 
designed to protect the slave, should be little re- 
spected by the generality of such masters. I 
have seen some masters pay those unfortunato 
people the miserable overcoat which is their due ; 
but others give them nothing at all, and do not 
even leave them the hours and Sundaj'^s granted 
to them by law. I have seen some of those bar- 
barous masters leave them, during the winter, in 
a state of revolting nudity, even contrary to their 
own true interests, for they thus weaken and 
shorten the lives upon which repose the whole of 
their own fortunes. I have seen some of tliose 
negroes obliged to conceal their nakedness with 
the long moss of the country. The sad melan- 
choly of these wretches, depicted upon their coun- 
tenances, the flight of some, and the death of 
others, do not reclaim their masters ; they wreak 
upon those who remain, the vengeance which 
they can no longer exercise upon the others." 

Whitman Mead, Esq. of New York, in his 
journal, published nearly a quarter of a century 
ago, under date of 

" Savannah, January 28, 1817. 
" To one not accustomed to such srcncs as 
slavery presents, the condition of the slaves is 
impressively shocking. In the course of my 



60 



General Testimony — Cruelties. 



walks, I was every where witness to their wretch- 
edness. Like the brute creatures of the north, 
they are driven about at the pleasure of all who 
meet them : half naked and half starved, they 
drag out a pitiful existence, apparently almost 
unconscious of what they suffer. A threat ac- 
companies every command, and a bastinado is 
the usual reward of disobedience." 

TESTIMONY OF REV. JOHN RANKIN, 

Anative of Tennessee, educated there, and for a 
number of years a preacher in slave states — now 
pastor of a chnrch in Ripley, Ohio. 
" Many poor slaves are stripped naked, stretch- 
ed and tied across barrels, or large bags, and tor- 
tured with the lash during hours, and even whole 
days, until their flesh is mangled to the very 
hones. Others are stripped and hung up by tlie 
arms, their feet are tied together, and the end of 
a heavy piece of timber is put between their legs 
in order to stretch their bodies, and so prepare 
them for the torturing lash — and in this situation 
they are often whipped until their bodies are 
covered loith blood and mangled flesh — and in 
order to add the greatest keenness to their suffer- 
ings, their wounds are washed with liquid salt ! 
And some of the miserable creatures are permit- 
ted to hang in that position until they actually 
expire; some die under the lash, others linger 
about for a time, and at length die of their 
wounds, and many survive, and endure again 
similar torture. These bloody scenes are con- 
stantly exhibiting in every slaveholding country 
— thousands of whips are every day stained in 
African blood ! Even the poor females are not 
permitted to escape these shocking cruelties." — 
Rankings Letters, pages 57, 58. 

These letters were published fifteen years 
ago. — They were addressed to a brother in Vir- 
ginia, who was a slaveholder. 

TESTIMONY OF THE AMERICAN COLONIZATION SO- 
CIETY. 

"We have heard of slavery as it exists in 
Asia, and Africa, and Turkey — we have heard of 
the feudal slavery under which the peasantry of 
Europe have groaned from the days of Alaric 
until now, but excepting only the horrible system 
of the West India Islands, we have never heard 
of slavery in an}'^ country, ancient or modern. 
Pagan, Mohammedan, or Christian ! so terrible in 
its character, as the slavery which exists in these 
United States." — Seventh Report American Colo- 
nization Society, 1824. 

TESTIMONY OF THE GRADUAL EMANCIPATION SOCIE- 
TY OF NORTH CAROLINA. 

Signed by Moses Swain, President, and William 
Swain, Secretary. 
" In the eastern part of the state, the slaves 
considerably outnumber the free population. 
Their situation is there wretched beyond de- 
scription. Impoverished by the mismanagement 
which we have already attempted to describe, 
the master, unable to support his own grandeur 
and maintain his slaves, puts the unfortunate 
wretches upon short allowances, scarcely suffi- 
cient for their sustenance, so that a great part 
of them go half naked and half starved much of 
the time. Generally, throughout the state, the 



African is an abused, a monstrously outraged 
creature.''^ — See Minutes of the American Cormen. 
tion, convened in Baltimore, Oct. 25, 1826. 

FROM NILES' BALTIMORE REGISTER FOR 1829, VOL. 

35, p. 4. 
" Dealing in slaves has become a large busi- 
ness. Establishments arc made at several places 
in Maryland and Virginia, at which they are sold 
like cattle. These places of deposit are strongly 
built, and well supplied with iron thumbscrews 
and gags, and ornamented with coicskins and 
other whips — often times bloody.^' 

Judge Ruffin, of the Supreme Court of North 
Carolina, in one of his judicial decisions, says — 

"The slave, to remain a slave, must feel that 
there is no appeal from his master. No man 
can anticipate the provocations which the slave 
would give, nor the consequent wrath of the 
master, prompting him to BLOODY VEN- 
GEANCE on the turbulent traitor, a vengeance 
generally practiced with impunity, by reason of 
its PRIVACY." — See V/heeler^s Law of Slavery p. 
247. 

Mr. Moore, of Virginia, in his speech before 
the Legislature of that state, Jan. 15, 1832, says: 

" It must be confessed, that although the 
treatment of our slaves is in the general, as mild 
and humane as it can be, that it must always 
happen, that there will be found hundreds of in- 
dividuals, who, owing cither to the natural fe- 
rocity of their dispositions, or to the effects of 
intemperance, will be guilty of cruelty and bar- 
barity towards their slaves, which is almost in. 
tolerable, and at which humanity revolts." 

testimony of B. swain, esq.., of north CAROLINA. 

" Let any man of spirit and feeling, for a mo- 
ment cast his thoughts over this land of slavery — 
think of the nakedness of some, the hungry yearn- 
ings of others, the flowing tears and heaving 
sighs of parting relations, the wailings and. wo, 
the bloody cut of the keen lash, and the frightful 
scream that rends the very skies — and all this to 
gratify ambition, lust, pride, avarice, vanity, and 
other depraved feelings of the human heart. . . . 
THE WORST IS NOT GENERALLY 
KNOWN. V»^ere all the miseries, the horrors of 
slavery, to burst at once into view, a peal of 
seven-fold thunder could scarce strike greater 
alarm." — >S'ee " Swain's Address,^' 1830. 

testimony of dr. JAMES C. FINLEY, 

Son of Dr. Finley, one of the founders of the Col- 
onization Society, and brother of R. S. Finley, 
agent of the American Colonization Society. 
Dr. J. C. Finley was formerly one of the edi- 
tors of the Western Medical Journal, at Cincin- 
nati, and is well known in the west as utterly 
hostile to immediate abolition. 

" In almost the last conversation I had v/ith 
you before I left Cincinnati, I promised to give 
you some account of some scenes of atrocious 
cruelty towards slaves, which I witnessed v/hile 
I lived at the south. I almost regret having 
made the promise, for not only are they so atro- 
cious that you will with difficulty believe them, 
but I also fear that they will have the effect of 



General Tcsiimomj — Cruelties. 



61 



driving you into that aholUionism, upon the bor- 1 
tiers of which you have been so long hesitating. 
The people of the north are ignorant of the hor- 
vers of slavery — of the atrocities which it com- 
mits upon the unprotected slave. * * * 

" I do not know that any thing could be gain- 
ed by particularizing the scenes of horrible bar- 
bariti/, which fell under my observation during 
mysho7-t residence in one of the wealthiest, most 
intelligent, and most moral parts of Georgia. 
Their number and atrocity are such, that I am 
confident they would gain credit with none but 
abolitionists. Every thing will be conveyed in 
the remark, that in a state of society calculated 
to foster the worst passions of our nature, the 
ylave derives no protection either from law or 
public opinion, and that all the cruelties which 
the Russians are reported to have acted towards 
the Poles, after their late subjugation, are 
SCENES OF EVEUY-DAY OCCURRENCE in the southcm 
states. This statement, incredible as it may 
seem, falls short, very far short of the truth." 

The foregoing is extracted from a letter writ- 
ten by Dr. Finley to Rev. Asa Mahan, his former 
pastor, then of Cincinnati, now President of 
Oberlin Seminary. 

TESTIMONY OF REV. WILLL\M ALLAN, OF ILLINOIS, 

Son of a Slaveholder, Rev. Dr. Allan of Hunts- 
ville, Ala. 
*' At our house it is so common to hear their 
(the slaves') screams, that wc think nothing of 
it : and lest any one should think that in general 
the slaves arc well treated, let me be distinctly 
understood : — cruelty is the rule, and kindness 
the exception." 

Extract of a letter dated July 2d, 1834, from 
Mr. Nathan Cole, of St. Louis, Missouri, to 
Arthur Tappan, Esq. of this city : 

" I am not an advocate of the immediate and 
unconditional emancipation of the slaves of our 
country, yet no man has ever yet depicted the 
wretchedness of the situation of the slaves in co- 
lors too dark for the truth. ... I know that many 
good people are not aware of the treatment to 
which slaves are usually subjected, nor have they 
any just idea of the extent of the evil." 

testimony of rev. JAMES A. THOME, 

A native of Kentucky — Son of Arthur Thome 
Esq., fill recently a Slaveholder. 

" Slavery is the parent of more suffering than 
has flowed from any one source since the date of 
its existence. Such sufferings too I Suffer. 
ings inconceivable and innumerable — umningled 
icretchedness from the ties of nature rudely 
broken and destroyed, the acutest bodily tortures, 
groans, tears and blood — lying for ever in weari- 
ness and painfulncss, in watchings, in hunger 
and in thirst, in cold and nakedness. 

" Brethren of tlie North, be not deceived. 
These sufferings still exist, and despite the ef. 
forts of their cruel authors to hush them down, 
and confine them within the precincts of their 
own plantations, they will ever and anon, strug- 
gle up and reach the ear of humanity." — Mr. 
Thome's Speech at New York, May, 1834. 



testimony of the MARYVILLE (TENNESSEE) 
INTELLIGENCER, OF OCT. 4, 1835. 

The Editor, in speaking of the sufferings of 
the slaves which arc taken by the internal trade 
to the South West, says : 

" Place yourself in imagination, for a mo- 
ment, in their condition. With heavy galling 
chains, riveted upon your person ; half-naked, 
half-starved; your back lacerated with the 
' knotted Whip ;' traveling to a region where 
your condition through time will be second only 
to the wretched creatures in Hell. 

" This depicting is not visionary. Would to 
God that it was." 

TESTIMONY OF THE PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD OF 
KENTUCKY ; 

A large majority of whom are slaveholders. 

" This system licenses and produces great 
cruelty. 

" Mangling, imprisonment, starvation, every 
species of torture, may be inflicted upon him, 
(the slave,) and he has no redress. 

" There are now in our whole land two mil- 
lions of human beings, exposed, defenceless, to 
every insult, and every injury short of maiming 
or death, which their fellow-men may choose to 
inflict. They suffer all that can be inflicted by 
wanton caprice, by grasping avarice, by brutal 
lust, by malignant spite, and by insane 
anger. Their happiness is the sport of every 
whim, and the prey of every passion that may, 
occasionally, or habitually, infest the master's 
bosom. If wc could calculate the amount of 
wo endured by ill-trco.ted slaves, it would over- 
whelm every compassionate heart — it would 
move even the obdurate to sympathy. There is 
also a vast sum of suffering inflicted upon the 
slave by humane masters, as a punishment for 
that idleness and misconduct which slavery na- 
turally produces. * * * 

" Brutal stripes and all the varied kinds of 
personal indignities, are not the only species of 
cruelty which slavery licenses." * * 

Testimony OF THE Rev. N. H. Harding, Pastor 
of the Presbyterian Church, in Oxford, North 
Carolina, a slaveholder. 

*' T am greatly surprised that you should in any 
form have been the apologist of a system so full 
of deadly poison to all holiness and benevolence 
as slavery, the concocted essence of fraud, sel- 
fishness, and cold hearted tyranny, and the fruit- 
ful parent of unnumbered evils, both to the op- 
pressor and the oppressed, the one thousandth 

PART OF WHICH has NEVER BEEN BROUGHT TO 
LIGHT." 

Mr. Asa A. Stone, a theological student, v/ho 
lived near Natchez, (Mi.,) in 1834 and 5, sent the 
following with other testimony, to be published 
under his own name, in the N. Y. Evangelist, 
while he was still residing there. 

" Hoggings for all offences, including defi- 
ciencies in work, are frightfully common, and 
rnost terribly severe. 

" Rubbing with salt and red pepper is very com- 
mon after a severe whipping.''* 



62 



Funishmenis — Floggings. 



Testimony of Rev. Phineas Smith, of Carlisle, 
Genesee, Co., N. Y. who lived four years at the 
south. 

'' They are badly clothed, badly fed, vi^retch- 
edly lodged, unmercifully vi'hipped, from month 
to month, from year to year, from childhood to 
old age." 

Rev. JosErH M. Sadd, Castile, Genessee Co. 
N. Y. who was till recently a preacher in Mis- 
souri, says, 

" It is true that barbarous cruelties are inflict- 
ed upon them, such as terrible lacerations with 
the whip, and excruciating tortures are sometimes 
experienced from the thumb screw." 

Extract of a letter from Sarah M. Grimke, 
dated 4th Month, 2nd, 1839- 

" If the following extracts from letters which 
I have received from South Carolina, will be of 
any use thou art at liberty to publish them. I 
need not say, that the names of the writers are 
withheld of necessity, because such sentiments if 
uttered at the south would peril their lives. 

EXTRACTS. 

' South Carohna, 4th Month, 5th, 1835. 

' With regard to slavery I must confess, 



though we had heard a great deal on the Bub- 
ject, we found on coming South the half, the 
worst half too, had not beentold us ; not that we 
have ourselves seen much oppression, though 
truly we have felt its deadening influence, but 
the accounts we have received from every tongue 
that nobly dares to speak upon the subject, 
are indeed deplorable. To quote the language 
of a lady, who with true Southern hospitality, 
received us at her mansion. " The northern 
people don't know anything of slavery at all, 
they think it is perpetual bondage merely, but of 
the depth of degradation that that word involves, 
they have no conception ; if they had any just 
idea of it, they vi'ould I am sure use every effort 
until an end was put to such a shocking system.' 
" Another friend writing from South Carolina, 
and who sustains herself the legal relation of 
slaveholder, in a letter dated April 4th, 1838, 
says — ' 1 have some time since, given you my 
views on the subject of slavery, which so murh 
engrosses your attention. I would most wilhiig- 
ly forget what I have seen and heard in my own 
family, with regard to the slaves. 1 ahudder 
when I think of it, and increasingly feel that 
slavery is a curse since it leads to such cruelty.^ " 



PUNISHMENTS 



I. FLOGGINGS. 



The slaves are terribly lacerated with whips, 
paddles, &c. ; red pepper and salt are rubbed 
into their mangled flesh ; hot brine and turpen. 
tine are poured into their gashes ; and innumer- 
able other tortures inflicted upon them. 

We will in the first place, prove by a cloud of 
witnesses, that the slaves are whipped with such 
inhuman severity, as to lacerate and mangle 
tJieir flesh in the most shocking manner, leaving 
permanent scars and ridges; after establishing 
this, we will present a mass of testimony, con- 
cerning a great variety of other tortures. The 
testimony, for the most part, will be that of the 
slave-holders tJierr^Qlvcf^ and in their own chosen 
%VOTds. A large portion of it will be taken from 
the advertisements, which they have published 
in their ovv'n newspapers, describing by the 



scars on their bodies made by the whip, their 
own runaway slaves. To copy these advertise- 
ments entire would require a great amount of 
space, and flood the reader with a vast mass of 
matter irrelevant to the poird before us ; v/e 
shall therefore insert only so much of each, as 
will intelligibly set forth the precise point under 
consideration. In the column under the v/ord 
" witnesses," will be found the name of the indi- 
vidual, who signs the advertisement, or for whom it 
is signed,with his or her place of residence, and the 
name and date of the paper, in Vv^hich it appear- 
ed, and generally the name of the place where it 
is published. Opposite the name of each witness, 
will be an extract, from the advertisement, con- 
taining his or her testimony. 



WITNESSES. 



Mr. D. Judd, jailor, Davidson Co., 
Tennessee, in the " Nashville Banner," 
Dec. 10th, 1838. 



Mr. Robert Nicoll, Dauphin st. be- 
tween Emmanuel and Conception st's, 
Mobile, Alabama, in the " Mobile Com- 
mercial Advertiser." 

Mr. Bryant Johnson, Fort ValleJ^ 
Houston Co., Georgia, in the " Standard 
of Union," Milledgeville Ga. Oct. 2, 
1838. 

Mr. James T. De Jamett, Vernon, 
Autauga Co., Alabama, in the " Pensa- 
cola Gazette," July, 14, 183?. 



TESTIMONY. 

" Committed to jail as a runaway, a negro woman named 
Martha, 17 or 18 years of age, has numerous scars of the 
whip on her back." 

"Ten dollars reward for my woman Siby, very much scarred 
about the neck and ears by whipping.''^ 

*' Ranaway, a negro woman, named Maria, some scars o?t her 
hack occasioned by the whip" 

" Stolen a negro woman, named Celia. On examining her 
back vou will find 7narks caused by the whip^ 



Fumah/jienis—Flog'^'m^H. 



G3 



WITNESSES. 



TESTIMONV. 



Maurice Y. Garcia, Sherift' of the " Lodo-ed in jail, a mulatto boy, having large marks of the. 
County of Jefforson, La , in the " New ; • "j^j^ shoulders and Other parts of his body." 
Orleans Bee," August, 14, 183b. ^ ♦ i j 

R. J.Bland, Sheriff of Claiborne Co, '• Was committed a negro boy, named Tom, is much marked 
Miss in the 'I Charleston rS.C.) Cou- ^■^J^ ^; ; ■ „ 
rier, August, 'id, IcJa. i^ 

Mr. James Noe, Red River Landing, 
La., in the "Sentinel," Vicksburg, 
Miss., August 22, 1837. 

William Craze, jailor, Alexandria, La. 
in the "Planter's Intelligencer," Sept. 
26, 1838. 

John A. Rowland, jailor, Lumbertoo, 
North Carolina, in the " Fayetteville 
(N. C.) Observer," June 20, 1838. 

J. K. Roberts, sheriff, Blount county, 
Ala., in the Huntsvillc Democrat," 
Dec. 9, 1838. 

Mr. TL Variliat, No. 23 Girod street, 
New Orleans— in the " Commercial 
Bulletin," August 27, 1838. 

Mr. Cornelius D.Tolin, Augusta, Ga., 
in the " Chronicle and Sentinel," Oct. 
18, 1838. 



W. H. Brasscale, sheriff, Blount coun- 
ty, Ala., in the " Huntsville Democrat." 
June 9, 1838. 



" Ranaway, a negro fellow named Dick — has many scars on his 
back from being lohippedy 

"Committed to jail, a negro slave — his back is very badly 
scarred." 

"Committed, a mulatto fellow — his back shows lasting im. 
pressions of the lohip, and leaves no doubt of his being a slave." 

" Committed to jail, a negro man — his back much marked by 
the whip." 

" Ranaway, the negro slave named Jupiter — has a fresh mark 
of a cowskiii on one of his cheeks." 

" Ranaway, a negro man named Johnson — he has a great 
many marks of the lohip on his back." 

" Committed to jail, a negro slave named James — much scarred 
with a whip on his back." 



Mr. Robert Beasley, Macon, Ga., in " Ranaway, my man Fountain — he is marked on the hack with 
the " Georgia Jlessenger," July 27, 1837. ^y^g whip." 

" Ranaway, Bill — has several large scars on his back from a 
severe whipping in early life." 

" Committed to jail, a negro boy wlio calls himself Joe — said 
negro bears marks of the whip" 

Ranaway, negro fellow John — from being whipped, has scars 



Mr. John Wotton, Rockville, Mont- 
g(micry county, Maryland, in the " Bal- 
timore Republican," Jan. 13, 1833. 

D. S. Bennett, sheriff, Natchitoches, 
La., in the " Herald," July 21, 1S3S. 

Messrs. C. C. Wliitehcad, and R. A. 
Evans, Maiion, Georgia, in the Mil- 

ledgeviUe (Ga.) "Standard of Union," on his hack, arms, and ihiffhs." 
June 26, 1838. 



Mr. Samuel Si^cwarr, Greensboro', 
Ala., in the " Suuthcni Advocate," 
Muntsville, Jan. G, 1838. 

Mr. John Walker, No. 6, Banks' Ar- 



" Ranaway, a boy named Jim — with the marks of the whip on 
the small of the back, reaching round to the flank." 

Ranaway, the mulatto boy Quash — considerably marked on 



cade, New Orleans, in the "Bulletin," . --""'^7' .C "7^-^"-^" ""-^ ^ T\ 
August 11 1838. the back and other places witli the lash. 



Mr. Jesse Beene, Cahawba, Ala., in 
the "State Intelligencer," Tuskaloosa, 
Dec. 25, 1837. 

Mr. John Turner, Thomaston, Upson 
county, Georgia—in the " Standard of 
Union," Milledgeville, June 28. 1838. 

James Dcrrali, deputy sheriff, Clai- 
borne county, Mi., in the "Port Gibson 
Correspondent," April 15, 1837. 

S. B. Murphy, sheriff, Wilkinson 
county, Georgia— in the Milledgeville 
" Journal," May 15, 183S. 



" Ranaway, my negro man Billy — he has the marks of the 
whip." 

" Left, my negro man named George — has marks of the whip 
very plain on his thighs." 

"Committed to jail, negro man Toy — he has been badly 
ichipped." 

" Brought to jail, a negro man named George— he has a great 
many scars from the lash." 

" One hundred dollars reward, for my negro Glasgow, and 

Mr. L. E. Cooner, Branchville Orange- K;ate, liis wife, Glasgow is 24 years old — has marks of the whip 

Kon"^' Meinge"^' Sayt'lS?. ''' on his back. Kate is 26_has a scar on her cheek, and several 

marks of a whip." 

, „ ^ . ., . , ^,,^ . " Committed to iail, a negro boy named John, about 17 years 

FeS'a;S!;Vtt^§t'"F^^^^^^ old-his back badly marked ^v\ih the whip, his upper lip and 

Journal," July 6, 1S37. chin severely bruised." 

The preceding are extracts from advertise, i dredg of similar ones published during the same 
ments published in southern papers, mostly in the period, with which, as the preceding are quite 
year 1838. They are the mere saniplcs of hun- | sufficient to show the commonness of inhuman 



64 



Punishments — Floggings. 



floggings in the slave states, we need not burden 
the reader. 

The foregoing testimony is, as the reader per- 
ceives, that of the slaveholders themselves, volun- 
tarily certifying to the outrages which their own 
hands have committed upon defenceless and in- 
nocent men and women, over whom they have 
assumed authority. We have given to their testi- 
mony precedence over that of all other witnesses, 
for the reason that when men testify against 
themselves they are under no temptation to ex- 
aggerate. 

We we will now present the testimony of a 
large number of individuals, with their names and 
residences, of persons who witnessed the inflictions 
to which they testify. Many of them have been 
slaveholders, and all residents for longer or short- 
er periods in slave states. 

Rev. John H. Curtiss, a native of Keep Creek, 
Norfolk county, Virginia, now a local preacher of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church in Portage co„ 
Ohio, testifies as follows : — 

" In 1829 or 30, one of my father's slaves was 
accused of taking. the key to the office and steal, 
ing four or five dollars : he denied it. A consta- 
ble by the name of Hull was called ; he took the 
negro, very deliberately tied his hands, and whipped 
him till the blood ran freely down his legs. By 
this time Hull appeared tired, and stopped ; he 
then took a rope, put a slip noose around his neck, 
and told the negro he was going to Jdll hira, at 
the same time drew the rope and began whipping : 
the negro fell ; his cheeks looked as though they 
would burst with strangulation. Hull v^^hipped 
and kicked him, till I really thought he was go- 
ing to kill him ; when he ceased, the negro was in 
a complete gcre of blood from head to foot." 

Mr. David Hanley, a class-leader in the Me- 
thodist Church, at St. Alban's, Licking county, 
Ohio, who moved from Kentucky to Ohio in 1831, 
testifies as follows : — 

" In the year 1821 or 2, I saw a slave hung for 
killing his master. The master had wliipped the 
slave's m-other to death, and, locking him in a 
room, threatened him with the same fate ; and, 
cov.-'hide in hand, had begun the work, when the 
slave joined battle and slew the master." 

Samuel Ellison, a member of the Society of 
Friends, formerly of Southampton county, Vir- 
ginia, now of Marlborough, Stark county, Ohio, 
gives the following testimony : — 

" While a resident of Southampton county, Vir- 
ginia, I knew two men, after having been severe- 
ly treated, endeavor to make their escape. In 
this they failed — were taken, tied to trees, and 
whipped to death by their overseer. I lived a 
mile from the negro quarters, and, at that distance, 
could frequently hear the screams of the poor 
creatures when beaten, and could also hear the 
blows given by the overseer with some heavy in- 
strument." 

Major Horace Nye, of Putnam, Ohio, gives 



the following testimony of Mr. Wm. Armstrong, 
of that place, a captain and supercargo of boats 
descending the Mississippi river : — 

" At Ba3'0u Sarah, I saw a slave staled out, 
with his face to the ground, and whipped with a 
large whip, which laid open the flesh for about 
two and a half inches every stroke. 1 stayed 
about five minutes, but could stand it no longer, 
and left them whipping." 

Mr. Stephen E. Maltby, inspector of provisions, 
Skeneateles, New York, who has resided in Ala- 
bama, speaking of the condition of the slaves, 
says : — 

" I have seen them cruelly whipped. I will 
relate one instance. One Sabbath morning, be- 
fore I got out of my bed, I heard an outcry, and 
got up and went to the v^'indow, vrhen I saw 
some six or eight boys, from eight to twelve years 
of age, near a rack (made for tying horses) on the 
public square. A man on horseback rode up. ^ot 
off his horse, took a cord from his pocket, tied one 
of the hoys by the thumbs to the rack, and with 
his horsewhip lashed him most severely. He 
then untied him and rode off without saying a 
word. 

" It was a general practice, while I was at 
Huntsville, Alabama, to have a patrol every night ; 
and, to my knov.'ledge, this patrol was in the habit 
of traversing the streets with cov/-skins, and, if 
they found any slaves out after eight o'clock with- 
out a pass, to whip them until they were out of 
reach, or to confine them until morning." 

Mr. J. G. Baldwin, of Middletown, Connecti- 
cut, a member of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
gives the following testimony : — 

" I traveled at the south in 1827 : when near 
Charlotte, N. C. a free colored man fell into the 
I'oad just ahead of me, and went on peaceably. — 
When passing a public-house, the landlord ran out 
with a large cudgel, and applied it to the head 
and shoulders of the man with such force as to 
shatter it in pieces. When the reason of his con- 
duct was asked, he replied, that he owned slaves, 
and he would not permit free blacks to come into 
his neighborhood. 

"Not long after, I stopped at a public-house 
near Halifax, N. C, between nine and ten o'clock 
P. M., to stay over night. A slave sat upon a 
bench in the bar-room asleep. The master came 
in, seized a large horsewhip, and, without any 
warning or apparent provocation, laid it over the 
face and eyes of the slave. The master cursed, 
swore, and swung his lash — the slave cowered and 
trembled, but said not a word. Upon inquiry the 
next morning, I ascertained that the only offence 
was falling asleep, and this too in consequence of 
having been up nearly all the previous night, in 
attendance upon company." 

Rev. Joseph M. Sadd, of Castile, N. Y., who has 
lately left Missouri, where he was pastor of a 
church for some years, says : — 

" In one case, near where we lived, a runaway 
slave, when brought back, was most cruelly beat- 
en — bathed in the usual liquid — laid in the sun, 
and a physician employed to heal his wounds : — 
then the same process of punishment and hcahng 



Punishments — Floggings . 



65 



was repeated, and repeated again, and then the 
poor creature was sold for the New Orleans mar- 
ket. This account we had from the physician 
hi?nself" 

Mr. Abraham Bell, of Poughkeepsie, New 
York, a member of the Scotch Presbyterian 
Church, was employed, in 1837 and 38, in level- 
ling and grading for a rail-road in the state of 
Georgia : he had under his direction, during the 
whole time, thirty slaves, Mr. B. gives the fol- 
lowing testimony : — 

" All the slaves had their backs scarred, from 
the oft-repeated whippings they had received." 

Mr. Alonzo Barnard, of Farmington, Ohio, 
who was in Mississippi in 1837 and 8, says : — 

" The slaves were often severely whipped. I 
saw one woman very severely whipped for acci 
dentally cutting up a stalk of cotton.* When 
they were whipped they were commonly held 
down by four men : if these could not confine them, 
they were fastened by stakes driven firmly into 
the ground, and then lashed often so as to draw 
blood at each blow, I saw one woman who had 
lately been delivered of a child in consequence of 
cruel treatment." 

Rev. H. Lyman, late pastor of the Free Presby- 
terian Church at BufFalo, N. Y. says : — 

'* There was a steam cotton press, in the vicinity 
of my boarding-house at New Orleans, which was 
driven night and day, without intermission. My 
curiosity led me to look at the interior of the estab- 
lishment. There I saw several slaves engaged 
in rolling cotton bags, fastening ropes, lading 
carts, &c. 

" The presiding genius of the place was a driver, 
who held a rope four feet long in his hand, which 
he wielded with cruel dexterity. He used it in 
single blows, just as the men were lifting to tight- 
en the bale cords. It seemed to me that he was 
desirous to edify me with a specimen of his autho- 
rity ; at any rate the cruelty was horrible." 

Mr. John Vance, a member of the Baptist 
Church, in St. Albans, Licking county, Ohio, who 
moved from Culpepper county, Va,, his native 
state, in 1814, testifies as follows : — 

" In 1826, I saw a woman by the name of 
Mallix, flog her female slave with a horse-whip so 
horribly that she was washed in salt and water 
several days, to keep her bruises from mortifying. 

" In 1811, I was returning from mill, in She- 
nandoah county, when I heard the cry of murder, 
in the field of a man named Painter. I rode to 
the place to see what was going on. Two men 
by the names of John Morgan and Michael Sigl 
lar, had heard the cry and came running to the 
place. I saw Painter beating a negro with a tre- 
mendous club, or small handspike, swearing he 
would kill him ; but he was rescued by Morgan 
and Siglar. I learned that Painter had com- 
menced flogging the slave for not getting to work 

* Mr. Cornelius Johnson, of Farmington, Ohio, was also 
a witness to this inhuman outrage upon an unprotected wo- 
man, for the unintentional destruction of a stalk of cotton ! 
In his testimony he is more particular, and says, that the 
number of lashes inflicted upon her by the overseer was 

" ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY '. " 



soon enough. He had escaped, and taken refuge 
under a pile of rails that were on some timbers up 
a little from the ground. The master had put fire 
to one end, and stood at the other with his club, 
to kill him as he came out. The pile was still 
burning. Painter said he was a turbulent fellow 
and he would kill him. The apprehension of P. 
was TALKED ABOUT, but, as a compromise, the ne- 
gro was sold to another man." 

Extract from the published Journal of thf, 
LATE Wm. Savery, of Philadelphia, an eminent 
minister of the religious Society of Friends : — 

"6th mo. 22d, 1791. We passed on to Au- 
gusta, Georgia. They can scarcely tolerate us, 
on account of our abhorrence of slavery. On the 
28th we got to Savannah, and lodged at one 
Blount's, a hard-hearted slaveholder. One of his 
lads, aged about fourteen, was ordered to go and 
milk the cows : and falling asleep, through wea- 
riness, the master called out and ordered him a 
flogging. I asked him what he meant by a flog- 
ging. He replied, the way we serve them here 
is, we cut their backs until they are raw all over, 
and then salt them. Upon this my feelings were 
roused ; I told him that was too bad, and queried 
if it were possible ; he replied it was, with many 
curses upon the blacks. At supper this unfeeling 
wretch craved a blessing ! 

" Next morning I heard some one begging for 
mercy, and also the lash as of a whip. Not know- 
ing whence the sound came, I rose, and presently 
found the poor boy tied up to a post, his toes 
scarcely touching the ground, and a negro whip, 
per. He had already cut him in an unmerciful 
manner, and the blood ran to his heels, I step- 
ped in between them, and ordered him untied im- 
mediately, which, with some reluctance and as- 
tonishment, was done. Returning to the house I 
saw the landlord, who then showed himself in his 
true colors, the most abominably wicked man I 
ever met with, full of horrid execrations and 
threatenings upon all northern people ; but I did 
not spare him ; which occasioned a bystander to 
say, with an oath, that I should be "popped 
over." We left them, and were in full expecta- 
tion of their way-laying or coming after us, but 
the Lord restrained them. The next house we 
stopped at we found the same wicked spirit." 

Col. Elijah Ellsworth, of Richfield, Ohio, 
gives the following testimony : — 

" Eight or ten years ago I was in Putnam coun- 
ty, in the state of Georgia, at a Mr. Slaughter's, 
the father of my brother's wife. A negro, that 
belonged to Mr. Walker, (I believe,) was accused 
of stealing a pedlar's trunk. The negro denied, 
but, without ceremony, was lashed to a tree — the 
whipping commenced — six or eight men took 
turns — the poor fellow begged for mercy, but with- 
out effect, until he was literally cut to pieces, from 
his shoulders to his hips, and covered with a gore 
of blood. When he said the trunk was in a stack 
of fodder, he was unlashed. They proceeded to the 
stack, but found no trunk. They asked the poor 
fellow, what he lied about it for ; he said, " Lord, 
Massa, to keep from being whipped to death ; I 
know nothing about the trunk." They commenced 
the whipping with redoubled vigor, until I really 
supposed he would be whipped to death on the 



66 



Punishments — Floggings. 



spot ; and such shrieks and crying for mercy I — 
Again he acknowledged, and again they were de- 
feated in finding, and the same reason given as 
before. Some were for whipping again, others 
thought he would not survive another, and they 
ceased. About two months after, the trunk was 
found, and it was then ascertained who the thief 
was : and the poor fellow, after being nearly beat 
to death, and twice made to lie about it, was as 
innocent as I was." 

The following statement? are furnished by Ma- 
jor Horace Nye, of Putnam, Muskingum county, 
Ohio. 

" In the summer of 1837, Mr. John H. Moore- 
HEAD, a partner of mine, descended the Mississippi 
with several boat loads of flour. He told me that 
floating in a place in the Mississippi, where he 
could see for miles a head, he perceived a con- 
course of people on the bank, that for at least a 
mile and a half above he saw them, and heard 
the screams of some person, and for a great dis- 
tance, the crack of a whip, he run near the shore, 
and saw them whipping a black man, who was 
on the ground, and at that time nearly unable to 
scream, but the whip continued to be plied 
without intermission, as long as he was in sight, 
say from one mile and a half, to two miles be- 
low — he probably saw and heard them for one 
hour in all. He expressed the opinion that the 
man could not survive. 

" About four weeks smce I had a conversation 
with Mr. Porter, a respectable citizen of Morgan 
couiity, of this state, of about fifty years of age. 
He told me that he formerly traveled about five 
years in the southern states, and that on one oc- 
casion he stopped at a private house, to stay all 
night ; (I think it v^'as in Virginia,) while he was 
conversing with the man, his wife came in, and 
complained that the wench had broken some ar. 
tide in the kitchen, and that she must be whip- 
ped. He took the woman into the door yard, 
stripped her clothes down to her hips — tied her 
hands together, and drawing them up to a limb, 
so that she could just touch the ground, took a 
very large cowskin whip, and commenced flog- 
ging ; he said that every stroke at first raised the 
skin, and immediately the blood came through ; 
this he continued, until the blood stood in a pud- 
dle at her feet. He then turned to my informant 
and said, " Well, Yankee, what do you think of 
that ?" 

Extract of a letter from Mr. VV. Dustin, a 
member of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and, 
when the letter was written, 1835, a student of 
Marietta College, Ohio. 

" I find by looking over my journal that the 
murdering, which I spoke of yesterday, took 
place about the first of June, 1834. 

" Without commenting upon this act of cruel, 
ty, or giving vent to my own feelings, I will sim. 
ply give you a statement of the fact, as known 
from personal observation. 

" Dr. K. a man of wealth, and a practising 
physician in the county of Yazoo, state of Mis- 
sissippi, personally known to me, having lived 
in the same neighborhood more than twelve 
months, after having scourged one of his negroes 
for running away, declared with an oath, that if he 



ran away again, he would kill him. The negro, 
so soon as an opportunity offered, ran away again. 
He was caught and brought back. Again he 
was scourged, until his flesh, mangled and torn, 
and thick mingled with the clotted blood, rolled 
from his back. He became apparently insensible, 
and beneath the heaviest stroke would scarcely 
utter a groan. The master got tired, laid down 
his whip and nailed the negro's ear to a tree ; in 
this condition, nailed fast to the rugged wood, he 
remained all night ! 

" Suflttce it to say, in the conclusion, that the 
next day he was found dead ! 

•' Well, what did they do with the master ? 
The sum total of it is this : He was taken before 
a magistrate and gave bonds, for his appearance 
at the next court. Well, to be sure he had plen- 
ty of cash, so he paid up his bonds and moved 
away, and there the matter ended. 

" If the above fact will be of any service to 
you in exhibiting to the world the condition of 
the unfortunate negroes, you are at liberty to 
make use of it in any way you think best. 
Yours, fraternally, 

M. Dustin. 

Mr. Alfred Wilkinson, a member of the Bap. 
tist Church in Skeneateles, N. Y. and the as- 
sessor of that town, has furnished the following : 

" I went down the Mississippi in December, 
1808, and saw twelve or fourteen negroes punish- 
ed, on one plantation, by stretching them on a 
ladder and tying them to it ; then stripping off" their 
clothes, and whipping them on the naked flesh 
with a heavy whip, the lash seven or eight feet 
long : most of the strokes cut the skin. I under- 
stood they were whipped for not doing the tasks 
allotted to them." 

From the Philanthropist, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
Feb. 26, 1839. 

" A very intelligent lady, the widow of a high- 
ly respectable preacher of the gospel, of the Pres- 
byterian Church, formerly a resident of a free 
state, and a colonizationist, and a strong anti- 
abolitionist, who, although an enemy to slavery, 
was opposed to abolition on the ground that it 
was for carrying things too rapidly, and without 
regard to circumstances, and especially who be- 
lieved that abolitionists exaggerated with regard 
to the evils of slavery, and used to say that such 
men ought to go to slave states and see for them- 
selves, to be convinced that they did the slave- 
holders injustice, has gone and seen for herself. 
Hear her testimony. 

Kentucky, Dec. 25, 1835. 

" Dear Mrs. W. — I am still in the land of op- 
pression and cruelty, but hope soon to breathe 
the air of a free state. My soul is sick of slavery, 
and I rejoice that my time is nearly expired ; but 
the scenes that I have witnessed have made ar. 
impression that never can be effaced, and have 
inspired me with the determination to unite my 
feeble efforts with those who are laboring to sup- 
press this horrid system. I am now an abolition- 
ist. You will cease to be surprised at this, when 
I inform you, that I have just seen a poor slave 
who was beaten by his inhuman master until he 
could neither walk nor stand. I saw him from 
my window carried from the bam where he had 



Punishme nts — F loggings . 



67 



been whipped) to the cabin, by two negro men ; 
and he now hes there, and if he recovers, will be 
a sufferer for months, and probably for life. You 
will doubtless suppose that he committed some 
great crime ; but it was not so. He was called 
upon by a young man (the son of his master,) to 
do something, and not moving as quickly as his 
young master wished him to do, he drove him to 
the barn, knocked him down, and jumped upon 
him, stamped, and then cowhided him until he 
was almost dead. This is not the first act of 
cruelty that I have seen, though it is the worst ; 
and I am convinced that those who have des- 
cribed the cruelties of slaveholders, have not ex- 
aggerated." 

Extract of a letter from Gerrit Smith, 
Esq., of Peterboro', N. Y. 

Peterboro', December 1, 1838. 
To the Editor of the Union Herald : 

"My dear Sir : — You will be happy to hear, that 
the two fugitive slaves, to whom in the brotherly 
love of your heart, you gave the use of your 
horse, are still making undisturbed progress to- 
wards the monarchical land whither republican 
slaves escape for the enjoyment of liberty. They 
had eaten their breakfast, and were seated in my 
wagon, before day-dawn, this morning. 

" Fugitive slaves have before taken my house in 
their way, but never any, whose lips and persons 
made so forcible an appeal to my sensibilities, and 
kindled in me so much abhorrence of the hell- 
concocted system of American slavery. 

"The fugitives exhibited their bare backs to my- 
self and a number of my neighbors. Williams' 
back is comparatively scarred. But, I speak with- 
in bounds, when I say, that one-third to one-half 
of the whole surface of the back and shoulders 
of poor Scott, consists of scars and wales result, 
ing from innumerable gashes. His natural com- 
plexion being yellow and the callous places be- 
ing nearly black, his back and shoulders remind 
you of a spotted animal." 

The Louisville Reeportr (Kentucky,) Jan. 15, 
1839, contains the report of a trial for inhuman 
treatment of a female slave. The following is some 
of the testimony given in court. 

" Dr. Constant testified that he saw Mrs. Max- 
well at the kitchen door, whipping the negro se- 
verely, without being particular whether she 
struck her in the face or not. The negro was la- 
cerated by the whip, and the blood flowing. Soon 
after, on going down the steps, he saw quantities 
of blood on them, and on returning, saw them 
again. She had been thinly clad — barefooted in 
very cold weather. Sometimes she had shoes — 
sometimes not. In the beginning of the winter 
she had linsey dresses, since then, calico ones. 
During the last four months, had noticed many 
scars on her person. At one time had one of her 
eyes tied up for a week. During the last three 
months seemed declining, and had become stupi- 
fied. Mr. Winters was passing along the street, 
heard cries, looked up through the window that 
was hoisted, saw the boy whipping her, as much 
as forty or fifty licks, while he staid. The girl 
was stripped down to the hips. The whip seem- 
ed to be a cow-hide. Whenever she turned her 



face to him, he would hit her across the face either 
with the butt end or small end of the whip to 
make her turn her back round square to the lash, 
that he might get a fair blow at her. 

" Mr. Say had noticed several wounds on her 
person, chiefly bruises. 

" Captain Porter, keeper of the work-house, into 
which Milly had been received, thought the inju- 
ries on her person very bad — some of them ap- 
peared to be burns — some bruises or stripes, as of 
a cow-hide." 

Letter of Rev. John Rankin, of Ripley, 
Ohio, to the Editor of the Philanthropist. 

Ripley, Feb. 20, 1839. 
" Some time since, a member of the Presbyte- 
rian Church of Ebenezer, Brown county, Ohio, 
landed his boat at a point on the Mississippi. Hi^ 
saw some disturbance among the colored peoph" 
on the bank. He stepped up, to sec wliat was 
the matter. A black man was stretched naked 
on the ground ; his hands were tied to a stake, 
and one held each foot. He was doomed to re. 
ceive fifty lashes ; but by the time the overseer 
had given him twenty-five with his great whip, 
the blood was standing round the wretched vic- 
tim in little puddles. It appeared just as if it had 
rained blood. — Another observer stepped up, and" 
advised to defer the other twenty-five to another 
time, lest the slave might die ; and he was releas- 
ed, to receive the balance when he should have 
so recruited as to be able to bear it and live. The 
offence was, coming one hour too late to work." 

Mr. Rankin, who is a native of Tennessee, 
in his letters on slavery, published fifteen years 
since, says : 

" A respectable gentleman, who is now a citi- 
zen of Flemingsburg, Fleming county, Kentucky, 
when in the state of South Carolina, was invited 
by a slaveholder, to walk with him and take a 
view of his farm. He comphed with the invita- 
tion thus given, and in their walk they came to 
the place where the slaves were at work, and 
found the overseer whipping one of them very 
severely for not keeping pace with his fellows — 
in vain the poor fellow alleged that he was sick, 
and could not work. The master seemed to 
think all was well enough, hence he and the gen- 
tleman passed on. In the space of an hour they 
returned by the same way, and found that the 
poor slave, who had been whipped as they first 
passed by the field of labor, was actually dead ! 
This I have from unquestionable authority." 

Extract of a letter from a Member of Congress, 
to the Editor of the New York American, dated 
Washington, Feb. 18, 1839. The name of the 
writer is with the Executive Committee of the 
American Anti- Slavery Society. 

" Three days ago, the inhabitants in the vicini- 
ty of the new Patent Building were alarmed by 
an outcry in the street, which proved to be that 
of a slave who had just been knocked down with 
a brick-bat by his pursuing master. Prostrate on 
the ground, with a large gash in his head, the 
poor slave was receiving the blows of his master 
on one side, and the kicks of his master's son on 
the other. His cries brought a few individuals to 



68 



Punisliments — Floggings. 



the spot ; but no one dared to interfere, save to 
exclaim — You will kill him — which was met by 
the response, " He is mine, and I have a right to 
do what I please with him." The heart-rending 
scene was closed from public view by dragging 
the poor bruised and wounded slave from the pub- 
lic street into his master's stable. What followed 
is not known. The outcries were heard by mem- 
bers of Congress and others at the distance of 
near a quarter of a mile from the scene. 

" And now, perhaps, you will ask, is not the 
city aroused by this flagrant cruelty and breach 
of the peace ? I answer — not at all. Every 
thing is quiet. If the occurrence is mentioned at 
all, it is spoken of in whispers." 

From the Mobile Examiner, August 1, 1837. 
"police report — mayor's office. 
Saturday morning , August 12, 1837. 

" His Honor the Mayor presiding. 

*' Mr. Miller, of the foundry, brought to the 
office this morning a small negro girl aged about 
eight or ten years, whom he had taken into his 
house some time during the previous night. She 
had crawled under the window of his bed room to 
screen herself from the night air, and to find a 
warmer shelter than the open canopy of heaven 
aiTorded. Of all objects of pity that have lately 
come to our view, this poor little girl most needs 
the protection of authority, and the sympathies 
of the charitable. From the cruelty of her mas- 
ter and mistress, she has been whipped, worked 
and starved, until she is now a breathing skelc. 
ton, hardh' able to stand upon her feet. 

"The back of the poor little sufferer, (which we 
ourselves saw,) loas actually cut into strings, and 
so perfectly was the fesh worn from her limbs, 
by the wretched treatment she had received, that 
every joint showed distinctly its crevices and pro- 
tuberances through the skin. Her little lips clung 
closely over her teeth — her cheeks were sunken 
and her head narrowed, and when her eyes were 
closed, the lids resembled film more than flesh or 
skin. 

"We would desire of our northern friends such 
as choose to publish to the world their own ver- 
sion of the case we have related, not to forget to 
add, in conclusion, that the owner of this little 
girl is a foreigner, speaks against slavery as an 
mstitution, and reads his Bible to his wife, with 
the view of finding proofs for his opinions." 

Rev. William Scales, of Lyndon, Vermont, 
gives the following testimony in a recent letter : 

" I had a class-mate at the Andover Theologi- 
cal Seminary, who spent a season at the south, 
— in Georgia, I think — who related the following 
fact in an address before the Seminary. It occa- 
sioned very deep sensation on the part of op- 
ponents. The gentleman was Mr. Julius C. An- 
thony, of Taunton, Mass. He graduated at the 
Seminary in 1835. I do not know where he is 
now settled. I have no doubt of the fact, as he 
was an eye-witness of it. The man with whom 
he resided had a very athletic slave — a valuable 
fellow — a blacksmith. On a certain day a small 
strap of leather was missing. The man's little 
son accused this slave of stealing it. He denied the 
charge, while the boy most confidently asserted it. 
The slave was brought out into the yard and 



bound — his hands below his knees, and a stick 
crossing his knees, so that he would lie upon 
either side in form of the letter S. One of the 
overseers laid on fifty lashes — he still denied the 
theft — was turned over and fifty more put on. 
Sometimes the master and sometimes the over- 
seers whipping — as they relieved each other to 
take breath. Then he was for a time left to 
himself, and in the course of the day received 
FOUR HUNDRED LASHES — Still denying the charge. 
Next morning Mr. Anthony walked out — the sun 
was just rising — he saw the man greatly enfee- 
bled, leaning against a stump. It was time to go 
to work — he attempted to rise, but fell back — 
again attempted, and again fell back — still mak- 
ing the attempt, and still falhng back, Mr. An- 
thony thought, nearly twenty times before he 
succeeded in standing — he then staggered off to 
his shop. In course of the morning Mr. A. went 
to the door and looked in. Two overseers were 
standing by. The slave was feverish and sick — 
his skin and mouth dry and parched. He was 
very thirsty. One of the overseers, while Mr. A. 
Vv^as looking at him, inquired of the other whether 
it were not best to give him a little water. * No . 
damn him, he will do well enough,' was the re- 
ply from the other overseer. This was all the 
relief gained by the poor slave. A few days after, 
the slaveholder's son confessed that he stole the 
strap himself" 

Rev. D. C. Eastman, a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal church at Bloomingburg, Fayette 
county, Ohio, has just forwarded a letter, from 
which the following is an extract : 

" George Roebuck, an old and respectable 
farmer, near Bloomingburg, Fayette county, 
Ohio, a member of the Methodist Episcopal 
church, says, that almost forty-three years ago, 
he saw in Bath county, Virginia, a slave girl 
with a sore between the shoulders of the size and 
shape of a smoothing iron . The girl was ' owned ' 
by one M'Neil. A slaveholder who boarded at 
M'Neil's stated that Mrs. M'Neil had placed the 
aforesaid iron when hot, between the girl's shoul- 
ders, and produced the sore. 

" Roebuck was once at this M'Neil's father's, 
and whilst the old man was at morning prayer, 
he heard the son plying the whip upon a slave out 
of doors. 

"Eli West, of Concord township, Fayette 
county, Ohio, formerly of North Carolina, a 
farmer and an exhorter in the Methodist Pro- 
testant church, says, that many years since he 
went to live with an uncle who owned about fifty 
negroes. Soon after his arrival, his uncle ordered 
his waiting boy, who was naked, to be tied — his 
hands to a horse rack, and his feet together, with 
a rail passed between his legs, and held down by 
a person at each end. In this position he was 
whipped, from neck to feet, till covered with 
blood ; after which he was salted. 

" His uncle's slaves received one quart of corn 
each day, and that only, and were allowed one 
hour each day to cook and eat it. They had no 
meat but once in the year. Such was the general 
usage in that country. 

" West, after this, lived one year with Esquire 
Starky and mother. They had two hundred 



X t<'/MO/t'//l'0 /6CU 



'SiD"-"©' 



slaves, who received the usual treatment of starv- 
ation, nakedness, and the cowhide. They had one 
likely negro woman who bore no children. For 
this neglect, her mistress had her back made naked 
and a severe whipping inflicted. But as she con- 
tinued barren, she was sold to the ' negro buyers.' 

" Thomas Larrimer, a deacon in the Presby- 
terian church at Bloomingburg, Fayette county, 
Ohio, and a respectable farmer, says, that in April, 
1837, as he was going down the Mississippi river, 
about fifty miles below Natchez, he saw ahead, 
on the left side of the river, a colored person tied 
to a post, and a man with a driver's whip, the 
lash about eight or ten feet long. With this the 
man commenced, with much deliberation, to whip, 
with much apparent force, and continued till he 
got out of sight. 

" When coming up the river forty or fifty 
miles below Vicksburg, a Judge Owens came on 
board the steamboat. He was owner of a cotton 
plantation below there, and on being told of the 
above whipping, he said that slaves were often 
whipped to death for great offences, such as steal- 
ing, &c. — but that when death followed, the 
overseers were generally severely reproved ! 

"About the same time, lie spent a night at Mr. 
Casey's, three miles from Columbia, South Caro- 
lina. Whilst there they heard him givijig orders 
as to what was to be done, and amongst other 
things, * That nigger must be buried.' On in- 
quiry, he learnt that a gentleman traveling with 
a servant, had a short time previous called there, 
and said his servant had just been taken ill, and 
he should be under the necessity of leaving him. 
He -did so. The slave became worse, and Casey 
called in a physician, who i)ronounced it an old 
case, and said that he must shortly die. The 
slave said, li that was the case he would now tell 
the truth. He had been attacked, a long time 
since, with a difficulty in the side — his master 
swore he would 'have his own out of him,' and 
started off to sell him, with a threat to kill him 
if he told he had been sick, more than a few 
days. They saw them making a rough plank 
box to bury liim in. 

" hi Mirch, 1833, twenty-five or thirty miles 
Kouth of Columbia, on the great road through 
Sumptcrville district, tliey saw a large company 
of female slaves carrying rails and building fence. 
Three of tliem were far advanced in pregnancy. 

" In the month of January, 1838, he put up with 
a drove of mules and horses, at one Adams', on 
the Drovers' road, near the south border of Ken- 
tucky. His son-in-law, v/ho had lived in the 
south, was there. In conversation about picking 
cotton, he said, ' some hands cannot get the 
sleight of it. I have a girl who to-day has done 
as good a day's work at grabbing as any man, 
but I could not make her a hand at cotton-pick- 
ing. I whipped her, and if I did it once I did it 
five hundred times, but I found she could not ; 
so I put her to carrying rails with the men. 
After a itw days I found her shoulders were so 
raw that every rail was bloody as she laid it down. 
I asked her if she would not rather pick cotton 
than carry rails. ' No,' said she, ' I don't get 
whipped now.' " 

William A. Ustick, an elder of the Presbyte. 
rian church at Bloomingburg, and Mr. G. S. Ful- 
lertoii, a merchant and member of the same 



church, were with Deacon Larrimer on this jour-' 
ney, and are witnesses to the preceding facts. 

Mr. Samuel Hall, a teacher in Marietta Col- 
lege, Ohio, and formerly secretary of the Coloni- 
zation society in that village, has recently 
communicated the facts which follow. We 
quote from his letter. 

" The following horrid flagellation was wit- 
nessed in part, till his soul was sick, by Mr. 
Glidden, an inhabitant of Marietta, Ohio, who 
went down the Mississippi river, with a boat 
load of produce m the autumn of 1837 ; it took 
place at what is called ' Matthews' or ♦ Ma- 
theses Bend' in December, 1837. Mr. G. is 
worthy of credit. 

" A negro was tied up, and flogged until the 
blood ran down and filled his shoes, so that when 
he raised either foot and set it down again, the 
blood would run over their tops. I could not 
look on any longer, but turned away in horror ; 
the whippmg was continued to the number of 
500 lashes, as I understood ; a quart of spirits of 
turpentine was then applied to his lacerated 
body. The same negro came down to my boat, 
to get some apples, and was so weak from his 
wounds and loss of blood, that he could not get 
up the bank, but fell to the ground. The crime 
for which the negro was whipped, was that of 
telling the other negroes, that the overseer had 
lain with his wifeP 

Mr. Hall adds :— 

" The following statement is made by a 
young man from Western Virginia. He is 
a member of the Presbyterian Church, and a 
student in Marietta College. All that prevents 
the introduction of his nu7ne, is the peril to his 
life, which would probably be the consequence, 
on his return to Virginia. His character for in- 
tegrity and veracity is above suspicion. 

' On the night of the great meteoric shower, in 
Nov. 1833. I was at Remley's tavern, 12 miles 
west of Lcwisburg, Greenbrier Co., Virginia. A 
drove of 50 or GO negroes stopped at the same 
place that night. They usually ' camp out,' 
but as it was excessively muddy, they were per- 
mitted to come into the house. So far as my 
knowledge extends, ' droves,' on their way to 
tlie south, eat but twice a day, early in the morn- 
ing and at night. Their supper was a compound 
of ' potatoes and meal,' and was, without excep- 
tion, the dirtiest, blackest looking mess I ever saw. 
I remarked at the time that the food was not as 
clean, in appearance, as that which v/as given to 
a drove of hogs^ at the same place the night 
previous. Such as it was, however, a black wo- 
man brought it on her head, in a tray or trough 
two and a half feet long, where the men and 
women were promiscuously herded. The slaves 
rushed up and seized it from the trough in hand- 
fulls, before the woman could take itofFher head. 
They jumped at it as if half-famished. 

' They slept on the floor of the room which 
they were permitted to occupy, lying in every 
form imaginable, males and females, promiscu- 
ously. They were so thick on the floor, that in 
passing through the room it was necessary to 
step over them. 

' There were three drivers, one of whom staid 



70 



funishme n is — J:' 'loj^gi ngs . 



in the room to watch the drove, and the other 
two slept m an adjoining- room. Each of the 
latter took a female from the drove to lodge with 
him, as is the common practice? of the (h-ivers 
generally. There is no douht about this particu- 
lar instance, for the7j were seen together. The 
mud was so thick on the floor where this drove 
slept, that it was necessary to take a shovel, the 
next morning, and clear it out. Six or eight in 
this drove were chained ; all were for the south. 

' In the autumn of the same year, I saw a 
drove of upwards of a hundred, between 40 and 
50 of them were fastened to one chain, the links 
being made of iron rods, as thick in diameter as a 
man's little finger. This drove was bound west- 
ward to the Ohio river, to be shipped to the 
south. I have seen many droves, and more or 
less in each, almost without exception, were 
chained. I never saw but one drove, that went 
on their way making merry. In that one they 
w^ere blowing horns, singing, &c.., and appear- 
ed as if they had been drinking whisky, 

' They generally appear extremely dejected, I 
have seen in the course of five years, on the road 
near where I reside, 12 or 15 droves at least, pas- 
sing to the south. They would average 40 in 
each drove. Near the first of January, 1834, I 
started about sunrise to go to Lewisburg. It 
was a bitter cold morning. I met a drove of 
negroes, 30 or 40 in number, remarkably ragged 
and destitute of clothing. One little boy partic- 
ularly excited my sympathy. He was some dis- 
tance behind the others, not being able to keep 
up with the rest. Although he was shivering 
with cold and crying, the driver was pushing him 
up in a trot to overtake the main gang. All of 
them looked as if they were half-frozen. There 
was one remarkable instance of tyranny, ex- 
hibited by a boy, not more than eight years old, 
that came under my observation, in a family by 
the name of D— n, six miles from Lewisburg. 
This youngster would swear at the slaves, and 
exert all the strength he possessed, to flog or 
beat them, with whatever instrument or weapon 
he could lay hands on, provided they did not 
obey him instanter. He was encouraged in this 
by his father, the master of the slaves. The 
slaves often fled from this young tyrant in terror." 

Mr. Hall adds :— 

" The following extract is from a letter, 
to a student in Marietta College, by his friend 
in Alabama. With the writer, Mr. Isaac 
Knapp, I am perfectly acquainted. He was a 
student in the above College, for the space of one 
year, before going to Alabama, was formerly a 
resident of Dummerston, Vt. He is a professor of 
religion, and as worthy of belief as any member 
of the community. Mr, K. has returned from the 
South, and is now a member of the same college. 
' In Jan. (1838) a negro of a widow Phillips, 
ranaway, was taken up, and confined in Pulaski 
jail. One Gibbs, overseer for Mrs. P., mounted 
on horseback, took him from confinement, com- 
pelled him to run back to Elkton, a distance of 
fifteen miles, whipping him all the way. When 
he reached home, the negro exhausted and worn 
out, exclaimed ' you have broke my heart,' i. e. 
you have killed me. For this, Gibbs flew into 
a violent passion, tied the negro to a stake, and, 



in the language of a witness, ' cut his hack to 
mince-meat.^ But the fiend was not satisfied with 
this. He burnt his legs to a blister, with hot em- 
bers, and then chained him naked, in the open 
air, weary with running, weak from the loss of 
blood, and smarting from his burns. It was a 
cold night — and in the mornivg the negro was 
dead. Yet this monster escaped without even 
the shadow of a trial. ' The negro,' said the 
doctor, ' died, by — he knew not what ; any how, 
Gibbs did not kill him,'* A short time since, 
(the letter is dated, April, 1838,) ' Gibbs whip, 
ped another negro unmercifully because the 
horse, with which he was ploughing, broke the 
reins and ran. He then raised his whip against 
Mr. Bowers, (son of Mrs. P.) who shot him. 
Since I came here,' (a period of about six 
months,) 'there have been eight white men 
and two negroes killed, within 30 miles of me.' 

■^ Mr. Knapp, gives me some further verbal particulars 
about this affair. He says that his informant saw the negro 
dead the next morning, that his legs were bhstereu, and 
that the negroes affirmed tliat Gibbs compelled them to 
throw embers upon him. But Gibbs denied it, and said 
the blistering was the effect of frost, as the negro was 
much exposed to it before being taken up. Mr. Bowers, a 
son of Mrs. PhiUips by a former husband, attempted to 
have Gibbs brought to justice, but his mother justified 
Gibbs, and nothing was therefore done about it. The af- 
fair took place in Upper Elkton, Tennessee, near the Ala- 
bama line. 

" The following is from Mr. Knapp's own lips, 
taken down a day or two since. 

' Mr. Buster, with whom I boarded, in Lime- 
stone Co., Ala., related to me the following inci. 
dent : ' George, a slave belonging to one of the 
estates in my neighborhood, was lurking about 
my residence without a pass. We were making 
preparations to give him a flogging, but he es- 
caped from us. Not long afterwards, meeting 
a patrol which had just taken a negro in custody 
without a pass, I inquired, Who have you there ? on 
learning that it was George, well, I rejoined, there 
is a small matter between him and myself, that 
needs adjustment, so give me the raw hide, which 
I accordingly took, and laid 60 strokes on his 
back, to the utmost of my strength.' I was 
speaking of this barbarity, afterwards, to Mr, 
Bradley, an overseer of the Rev. Mr. Donnell, 
who lives in the vicinity of Moresvillc, Ala., 
' Oh,' replied he, ' we consider that a very light 
whipping here,' Mr. Bradley is a professor of 
religion, and is esteemed in that vicinity a very 
pious, exemplary Christian,' " 

Extract of a letter from Rev. C, Stewart 
Renshaw, of Quincy, Illinois, dated Jan. 1, 1839. 

" I do not feel at liberty to disclose the name 
of the brother who has furnished the following 
facts. He is highly esteemed as a man of scru- 
pulous veracity. I w\\\ confirm my own testimo- 
ny by the certificate of Judge Snow and Mr. 
Keyes, two of the oldest and most respectable 

settlers in Quincy. 

Quincy, Dec. 29, 1838. 

" Dear Sir,— We have been long acquainted with the 
Christian brother who has named to you some facts that 
fell under his observation whilst a resident of slave states. 
He is a member of a Christian church, hi good standing ; 
and is a man of strict integrity of character. 

Henry H. Snow, 

WiLLARD KbYES. 

Rev. C. Stewart Ilcnshaw." 



Funishmenis — Floggings, 



71 



" My informant spent thirty years of his life in 
Kentucky and Missouri, Whilst in Kentucky he 
resided in Hardin co. I noted down his testimo- 
ny very nearly in his own words, which will ac- 
count for their evidence-like form. On the gen- 
eral condition of the slaves in Kentucky, through 
Hardin co., he said, their houses were very un- 
comfortable, generally without floors, other than 
the earth : many had puncheon floors, but he 
never remembers to have seen a plank floor. In 
regard to clothing they were very badly off. In 
summer they cared little for thing ; but in win- 
ter they almost froze. Their rags might hide 
their nakedness from the sua in summer, but 
would not protect them from the cold in winter. 
Their bed-clothes were tattered rags, thrown into a 
corner by day, and drawn before the fire by night. 
' The only thing,' said he, ' to which I can com- 
pare them, in winter, is stock without a shelter.'' 

" He made the following comparison between the 
condition of slaves in Kentucky and Missouri. So 
far as he was able to compare them, he said, that 
in Missouri the slaves had better quarters — but 
are not so well clad, and are more severely pun- 
ished than in Kentucky. In both states, the 
slaves are huddled together, without disthiction 
of sex, into the same quarter, till it is filled, then 
another is built ; often two or three families in a 
log hovel, twelve feet square. 

" It is proper to state, that the sphere of my in- 
formant's observation was mainly in the region 
of Hardin co., Kentucky, and the eastern part of 
Missouri, and not through those states generally. 

" Whilst at St. Louis, a number of years ago, as 
he v/as going to work with Mr. Henry Males, and 
another carpenter, they heard groans from a barn 
by the road-side : they stopped, and looking 
through the cracks of the barn, sav^r a negro 
bound hand and foot to a post, so that his toes 
just touched the ground ; and his master, Captain 
Thorpe, was inflicting punishment; he had whip- 
ped him till exhausted, — rested himself, and re- 
turned again to the punishment. The wretched 
sufl" Tcr was in a most pitiable condition, and the 
Vv'anu blood and dry dust of the barn had formed 
a mortar up to his instep. Mr. Males jumped the 
fence, and remonstrated so effectually with Capt. 
Thorpe, that he ceased the punishment. It was 
six weeks before that slave could put on his shirt ! 

"John Mackey, a rich slaveholder, lived near 
Clarksville, Pike co., Missouri, some years since. 
He whipped his slave Billy, a boy fourteen years 
old, till he was sick and stupid ; he then sent him 
home. Then, for his stupidity, whipped him 
again, and fractured his skull with an axe-helve. 
He buried him away in the woods ; dark words 
were whispered, and the body was disinterred. A 
coroner's inquest was held, and Mr. R. Anderson, 
the coroner, brought in a verdict of death from 
fractured skull, occasioned by blows from an axe- 
handle, inflicted by John Mackey. The case was 
brought into court, but Mackey was rich, and 
his murdered victim was his slave ; after ex- 
pending about $500 he walked free. 

" One Mrs. Mann, living near , in co., 

Missouri, was known to be very cruel to her 
slaves. She had a bench made purposely to whip 
them upon ; and what she called her " six pound 
paddle," an instrument of prodigious torture, 
bored through with holes ; this she would wield 



with both hands as she stood over her prostrate 
victim. 

" She thus punished a hired slave woman named 
Fanny, belonging to Mr. Charles Trabue, who 
lives near Palmyra, Marion co., Missouri; on the 
morning after the punishment Fanny was a 
corpse ; she was silently and quickly buried, but 
rumor was not so easily stopped. Mr. Trabue 
heard of it, and commenced suit for his property. 
The murdered slave was disinterred, and an in- 
quest held ; her back was a mass of jellied mus- 
cle ; and the coroner brought in a verdict of death 
by the ' six pound paddle.' Mrs. Mann fled for 
a few months, but returned again, and her friends 
found means to protract the suit. 

" This same Mrs. Mann had another hired slave 
woman living with her, called Patterson's Fanny, 
she belonged to a Mr. Patterson ; she had a 
young babe with her, just beginning to creep. 
One day, after washing, whilst a tub of rinsing 
water yet stood in the kitchen, Mrs. Mann came 
out in haste, and sent Fanny to do something out 
of doors. Fanny tried to beg off" — she was afraid 
to leave her babe, lest it should creep to the tub 
and get hurt — Mrs. M. said she would watch the 
babe, and sent her off". She went with much re- 
luctance, and heard the child struggle as she 
went out the door. Fearing lest Mrs. M. should 
leave the babe alone, she watched the room, and 
soon saw her pass out of the opposite door. Im- 
mediately Fanny hurried in, and looked around 
for her babe, she could not see it, she looked at 
the tub — there her babe was floating, a strangled 
corpse. The poor woman gave a dreadful scream ; 
and Mrs. M. rushed into the room, with her 
hands raised, and exclaimed, ' Heavens, Fanny ! 
have you drowned your child ?' It was vain 
for the poor bereaved one to attempt to vindicate 
herself : in vain she attempted to convince them 
that the babe had not been alone a moment, and 
could not have drowned itself; and that she had 
not been in the house a moment, before she scream- 
ed at discovering her drowned babe. All was 
false ! Mrs. Mann declared it was all pretence — 
that Fanny had drowned her own babe, and now 
wanted to lay the blame upon her ! and Mrs. 
Mann was a white woman — of course her word 
was more valuable than the oaths of all the slaves 
of Missouri. No evidence but that of slaves could 
be obtained, or Mr. Patterson would have prose- 
cuted for his 'loss of property.' As it was, every 
one believed Mrs. M. guilty, though the affair 
was soon hushed up," 

Extract of a letter from Col. Thomas Rogers, 
a native of Kentucky, now an elder in the Pres- 
byterian Church at Nev/ Petersburg, Highland 
CO., Ohio. 

" When a boy, in Bourbon co., Kentucky, my 
father lived near a slaveholder of the name of 
Clay, who had a large number of slaves ; I remem- 
ber being often at their quarters ; not one of their 
shanties, or hovels, had any floor but the earth. 
Their clothing was truly neither fit for covering 
nor decency. We could distinctly, of a still morn- 
ing, hear this man whipping his blacks, and hear 
their screams from my father's farm : this could 
be heard almost any still morning about the dawn 
of day. It was said to be his usual custom to re- 



72 



Punislmi'mts — Tortures. 



pair, about the break of day, to their cabin doors, 
and, as the blacks passed out, to give them as 
many strokes of his cowskin as opportunity af- 
forded ; and he would proceed in this manner 
from cabin to cabin until they were all out. Occa- 
sionally some of his slaves would abscond, and 
upon being retaken they were punished severely ; 
and some of them, it is believed, died in conse- 
quence of the cruelty of their usage. I saw one 
of this man's slaves, about seventeen years old, 
wearing a collar, with long iron horns extending 
from his shoulders far above his head. 

" In the winter of 1828-29 I traveled through 
part of the states of Maryland and Virginia to 
Baltimore. At Frost Town, on the national road, 
I put up for the night. Soon after, there came in 
a slaver with his drove of slaves ; among them 
were two young men, chained together. The bar 
room was assigned to them for their place of 
lodging — those in chains were guarded when they 
had to go out. I asked the ' owner' why he kept 
these men chained ; he replied, that they were 
stout young fellows, and should they rebel, he and 
his son would not be able to manage them. I 
then left the room, and shortly after heard a 
scream, and when the landlady inquired the cause, 
the slaver coolly told her not to trouble herself, he 
was only chastising one of his women. It appear- 
ed that three days previously her child had died 
on the road, and been thrown into a hole or cre- 
vice in the mountain, and a few stones thrown 
over it ; and the mother weeping for her child 
was chastised by her master, and told by him, 
she ' should have something to cry for.' The 
name of this man I can give if called for. 

" When engaged in this journey I spent about 
one month with my relations in Virginia. It be- 
ing shortly after new year, the time of hiring was 
over ; but I saw the pounds, and the scaffolds 
which remained of the pounds, in which the slaves 
had been penned up." 

Mr. George W. Westgate, of Quincy, Illi- 
nois, who lived in the southwestern slave states a 
number of years, has furnished the following state- 
ment. 

"The great mass of the slaves are under drivers 
and overseers. I never saw an overseer without 
a whip ; the whip usually carried is a short loaded 



stock, with a heavy lash from five to six feet lone-. 
When they whip a slave they make him pull oft 
his shirt, if he has one, then make him lie down 
on his face, and taking their stand at the length 
of the lash, they inflict the punishment. Whip- 
pings are so universal that a negro that has not 
been whipped is talked of in all the region as a 
wonder. By whipping I do not mean a few lashes 
across the shoulders, but a set flogging, and gen- 
erally lying down. 

" On sugar plantations generally, and on some 
cotton plantations, they have negro drivers, who 
are in such a degree responsible for their gang^ 
that if they are at fault, the driver is whipped. 
The result is, the gang are constantly driven by 
him to the extent of the influence of the lash ; and 
it is uniformly the case that gangs dread a negro 
driver more than a white overseer. 

" I spent a winter on widow Calvert's planta- 
tion, near Rodney, Mississippi, but was not in a 
situation to see extraordinary punishments. Bel- 
lows, the overseer, for a trifling offence, took one 
of the slaves, stripped him, and with a piece of 
burning wood applied to his posteriors, burned 
him cruelly ; while the poor wretch screamed in 
the greatest agony. The principal preparation 
for punishment that Bellows had, was single hand- 
cuffs made of iron, with chains, by which the of- 
fender could be chained to four stakes on the 
ground. These are very common in all the lower 
country. I noticed one slave on widow Calvert's 
plantation, who was whipped from twenty.five to 
fifty lashes every fortnight during the whole v/in- 
ter. The expression ' whipped to death,' as ap- 
plied to slaves, is common at the south. 

" Several years ago I was going below New-Or- 
leans, in what is called the Plaquemine country, 
and a planter sent down in my boat a runaway he 
had found in New-Orleans, to his plantation at 
Orange 5 Points. As Ave came near the Points he 
told mc, with deep feeling, that he expected to be 
whipped almost to death : pointing to a grave- 
yard, he said, ' There lie five who were whipped 
to death.' Overseers generally keep some of the 
women on the plantation ; I scarce know an ex- 
ception to this. Indeed, their intercourse with 
them is very much promiscuous, — they show them 
not much, if any favor. Masters frequently folj 
low the example of their overseers in this thing. 
" George W. Westgate," 



II. TORTURES, BY IRON COLLARS, CHAINS, FETTERS, HANDCUFFS, &c. 



The slaves are often tortured by iron collars, 
with long prongs or " horns." and sometimes bells 
attached to them — they are made to wear chains, 
handcuffs, fetters, iron clogs, bars, rings, and 
bands of iron upon their limbs, iron marks upon 
their faces, iron gags in their mouths, &c. 

In proof of this, we give the testimony of slave- 
holders themselves, under their own names ; it 
will be mostly in the form of extracts from their 
own advertisements, in southern newspapers, in 
which, describing their runaway slaves, they spe- 



cify the iron collars, handcuffs, chains, fetters, 
&c,, which they wore upon their necks, wrists, 
ankles, and other parts of their bodies. To pub. 
lish the whole of each advertisement, would need- 
lessly occupy space and tax the reader ; we shall 
consequently, as heretofore, give merely the name 
of the advertiser, the name and date of the news- 
paper containing the advertisement, with the place 
of publication, and only so much of the advertise- 
ment as will give the particular fact, proving the 
truth of the assertion contained in the general head. 



Punishments — Tortures. 73 

WITNESSES. TESTIMONY. 

William Toler, sheriff of Simpson 

county, Mississippi, in the "Southern " Was committed to jail, a yellow boy named Jim — had on a 

Sun," Jackson, Mississippi, September large lock chain around his neck." 
22, 183q. 

Mr. James R. Green, in the "Beacon," t?„v.„,„„ >„ j a • i j 7-777 

Greensborough, Alabama, August 23, -Kanaway, a negro man named Squire— had on a chain locked 

1838. v^iih a house-lock, around his neck." 

Mr.Hazlet Loflano, in the " Specta- '' Ranaway, a negro named David— with some iron hobbles 

tor," Staunton, Virginia, Sept. 27, 1838. „^^„^^ each ankle." 

Mr. T. Cruggy, New Orleans, GaUa- " Ranaway, negress Caroline— had on a collar with one pronff 

JkVslTb'-reT.ScSflST"'''"- turned do J." ^ ^ 

co":;y/Mi^,SSS,d'S:ff'SvTr: . " R^"^way, a black woman, Betsoy-had an iroa bar » her 

liser," August 29, 1838. right leg." 

LoSr, KhJ f."Sd," "iSt ;: was committed to jail, a negro named Ambrose-Iras a ring 

toches, (La.) July 20, 1837. of iron around his neck." 

Mr. Owen Cooke, " Mary street, be- 

rr(5l™Sn ?Se N.'^a '' Be?," Seb- " Ranaway, my slave Amos, had a chain attached to one of 

teraber 12, 1837. his legs." 

So^;,rbSS;i;,?,"tf'.£?''" cL';SS " Committed to jail, a negro named Patrick, about forty.five 

Mercury," September 1, 1838. years old, and is handcujfed." 

Te^.sL'!rSe^° Me\4ffi;rS: .''Committed to jail, a negro-had on his right leg an iron band 

June 17 1837. With one link oi a chain." 

Mr. Francis Durett, Lexington, Lau- a Ranaway, a negro man named Charles— had on a drawing 

vlilfoen^ocS" aIJusI 29 1*837 chain, fastened around his ankle with a house lock." 

Mr. A. Murat, Baton Rouge in the ,. Ranaway, the negro Manuel, much inarked with irons." 

New Orleans " Bee," June 20, 1837. j > & ' 

Mr. Jordan Abbott, in the " HuntsviUe " Ranaway, a negro boy named Daniel, about nineteen years 

Democrat," Nov. 17, 1838. old, and was handcuffed." 

^^O^leX'S:\^^Becr'^n^!l: , " R^V^way, the negress Fanny-had on an iron band about 

1838. "^r neck." 

Menard Brothers, parish of Ber- a Ranaway, a negro named John — having an iron around his 

I2cirQ« JLiOlllSlcintl. Ill tllG i\ • \J* Dec* . T t r I %% 

August 18, 1838. right foot." 

Messrs. J L. and W. H Bolton, Shel- a Absconded, a colored boy named Peter— had an iron round 

by county, Tennessee, m the " Memphis , . , , | f o wa v " 

Enquirer," June 7, 18.37. "^^ ^^^K. wnen ne went away. 

H. Gridly, sheriff of Adams county, . "Was committed to jail, a negro boy— had on a large neck 

Mi., in the " Memphis (Tenn.) Times," iron with a huge pair of horns and a large bar or band of iron 

September, 1S34. on his left leg." 

Mr. Lambre, in the " Natchitoches " Ranaway, the negro boy Teams — he had on his neck an iron 

CLa.) Herald," March 29, 1837. collar." 

Mr. Ferduiajid Lcmes, New Orleans, " Ranaway, the negro George — he had on his neck an iron 

in the " Bee," January 29, 1838. collar, the branches of which had been taken ofF." 

Ki^^'AT.'.vmvf If I^f « ' ^^^ll^^fi^Mo- .* Ranaway, a negro boy about twelve years old— had round 

bile, Alabama, 01 tne nrm 01 De Yam- 1 • 1 7 • 7 * 71 "^ „i -r-w -^r ^ j -^ « 

pert, King & Co., in the " Mobile Cliron- "^^ neck a chain dog-collar, with ' Dc Yampert engraved on it." 
icle," June 15, 1838. 

La .", in the*" LoSTsiana ChroS/'July '' Committed to jail, slave John— has several scars on his wrists, 

26, 1837. occasioned, as he says, by handcuffs" 

,, „, , ^ ,T ^ , . " Ranaway, the negro, Hown — has a ring of iron on his left 

Mr. Charles Curcner, New Orleanr-, in f ■ a 1 /> n i,- •/• 1 • • j i. ■ vz. 

the " Bee " July '^ 1838 looi. Also, (jrnli, his wife, having a ring and chain on the 

left leg." 

Mr. P. T. Manning, HuntsviUe, Ala- ,, t> i, jx -jl ■ j 

bama, in the " HuntsviUe Advocate " Ranaway, a negro boy named James— said boy was ironed 

Oct. 23, 18.38. wlien he left me." 

burg, Virginia',"in the '" Mouiton rAia.] " Runaway, Jim — had on when he escaped a pair of chain hand- 
Whig," Januaiy 30, 1836. cuffs." 

10 



74 



Punishme nis — Tortures , 



Mr. D. F. Guex, Secretary of the 
Steam Cotton Press Company, New Or- 
leans, in the " Commercial Bulletm," 
May 27, 1837. 

Mr. Francis Durctt, Lexington, Ala- 
bama, in the " Huntsvilie Democrat," 
March 8, 1838. 

B. W. Hodges, jailor, Pike county, 
Alabama, in the " Montgomery Adver- 
tiser," Sept. 29, 1837. 

P. Bayhi, captain of police, in the N. 
O. "Bee," June 9, 1838. 

Mr. Charles Kemin, parish of Jeffer- 
son, Louisiana, in the N. O. "Bee," 
August 11, 1837. 



" Ranaway, Edmund Colcman- 
iron shackles on his ankles^ 



-it is supposed he must have 



''Ranaway- 



— , a mulatto — had on when he left, a pair of 
handcuffs and a pair of drawing chains.^* 

" Committed to jail, a man who calls his name John — he has 
s. clog of iron on his right foot which will weigh four or five 
pounds.''^ 

" Detained at the police jail, the negro v/ench Myra — has 
several marks of lashing, and has irons on her feet." 

'' Ranaway, Betsey — when she left she had on herneck an iron 
collar." 



The foregoing advertisements are sufficient for 
our purpose, scores of similar ones may be gather, 
ed from the newspapers of the slave states every 
month. 

To the preceding testimony of slaveholders, 
published by themselves, and vouched for by their 
own signatures, we subjoin the following testi- 
mony of other witnesses to the same point. 

JoHxN M. Nelson, Esq., a native of. Virginia, 
now a highly respected citizen of Highland county, 
Ohio, and member of the Presbyterian Church in 
Hillsborough, in a recent letter states the fol- 
lowing : — 

" In Staunton, Va., at the house of Mr. Robert 
M'Dowell, a merchant of that place, I once saw a 
colored woman, of intelligent and dignified ap- 
pearance, who appeared to be attending to the 
business of the house, with an iron collar around 
her neck, with horns or prongs extending out on 
either side, and up, until they met at something 
like a foot above her head, at which point there 
was a bell attached. This yoke, as they called 
it, I understood was to prevent her from running 
away, or to punish her for having done so. I had 
frequently seen men with iron collars, but this vv^as 
the first instance that •! recollect to have seen a 
female thus degraded." 

Major Horace Nye, an elder in the Presbyte- 
rian Church at Putnam, Muskingum county, 
Ohio, in a letter, dated Dec. 5, 1838, makes the 
following statement : — 

' Mr. Wm. Armstrong, of this place, who is 
frequently employed by our citizens as captain 
and supercargo of descending boats, whose word 
maybe relied on, has just made tome the follow, 
ing statement : — 

"While laying at Alexandria, on Red River, 
Louisiana, he saw a slave brought to a black- 
smith's shop and a collar of iron fastened round 
his neck, with two pieces rivetted to the sides, 
meeting some distance above his head. At the 
top of the arch, thus formed, was attached a large 
cow-bell, the motion of which, while walking the 
streets, made it necessary for the slave to hold his 
hand to one of its sides, to steady it, 

" In New Orleans he saw several with iron col- 
lars, with horns attached to them. The first he 
saw had three prongs projecting from the collar 
ten or twelve inches, with the letter S on the end 
of each. He says iron collars are quite frequent 
there. 



To the preceding Major Nye adds : — 
" When I was about twelve years of age I lived 
at Marietta, in this state : I knew little of slaves, 
as there were few or none, at that tir.ie, in the 
part of Virginia opposite that place. But I re- 
member seeing a slave who had run away fiom 
some place beyond my knowledge at that time : 
he had an iron collar round his neck, to which 
was a strap of iron rivetted to the collar, on each 
side, passing over the top of the head ; and ano- 
ther strap, from the back side to the top of the 
first — thus inclosing the head on three sides. I 
looked on while the blacksmith severed the collar 
with a file, which, I think, took him more than 
an hour." 

Rev. John Dudley, Mount Morris, Michigan, 
resided as a teacher at the missionary station, 
among the Choctaws, in Mississippi, during the 
years 1830 and 31. In a letter just received Mr. 
Dudley says : — 

" During the time I was on missionary ground, 
which was in 1830 and 31, I was frc'quently at the 
residence of the agent, who was a slaveholder. — 
I never knew of his treating his own slaves with 
cruelty ; but the poor fellows who were escaping, 
and lodged with him when detected, found no 
clemency. I once saw there a fetter for ' the 
d — d runaways,'' the weight of Vv'hich can be 
judged by its size. It was at least three inches 
wide, half an inch thick, and something over a foot 
long. At this time I saw a poor fellow compelled 
to work in the field, at ' logging,' with such a 
galling fetter on his ankles. To prevent it from 
wearing his ankles, a string was tied to the centre, 
by which the victim suspended it when he walked, 
with one hand, and with the other carried his bur- 
den. Whenever he lifted, the fetter rested on his 
bare ankles. If he lost his balance and made a mis- 
step, which must very often occur in lifting and 
rolling logs, the torture of his fetter was severe. 
Thus he was doomed to work v.'hile wearing the 
torturing iron, day after day, and at night he was 
confined in the runaways' jail. Some time after 
this, I saw the same dejected, heart-broken crea- 
ture obliged to v/ait on the other hands, who were 
husking corn. The privilege of sitting with the 
others was too much for him to enjoy ; he was 
made to hobble from house to barn and barn to 
house, to carry food and drink for the rest. He 
passed round the end of the house where I was 
sitting with the agent : he seemed to take no no- 
tice of me, but fixed his eyes on his tormentor till 
he passed quite by us." 



Funishments — Tortures. 



75 



Mr. Alfreo Wilkinson, member of the Baptist 
Church in Skeneateles, N. Y. and an assessor 
of that town, testifies as follows : — 

" I stayed in New Orleans three weeks : during 
that time there used to pass by where I stayed a 
number of slaves, each with an iron band around 
his ankle, a chain attached to it, and an eighteen 
pound ball at the end. They were employed in 
wheeling dirt with a wheelbarroAV ; they would 
put the ball into the barrow when they moved. — 
I recollect one day, that I counted nineteen of 
them, sometimes there were not as many ; they 
were driven by a slave, with a long lash, as if they 
were beasts. These, I learned, were runaway 
slaves from the plantations above New Orleans. 

" There was also a negro woman, that used 
daily to come to the market with milk ; she had 
an ii*on band around her neck, with three rods 
projecting from it, about sixteen inches long, 
crooked at the ends." 

For the fact which follows we are indebted to 
Mr. Samuel Hall, a teacher in Marietta College, 
Ohio. We quote his letter. 

" Mr, Curtis, a journeyman cabinet-maker, of 
Marietta, relates the following, of which he was 
an eye witness. Mr. Curtis is every way worthy 
of credit. 

" In September, 1837, at ' Milligan's Bend,' in 
the Mississippi river, I saw a negro with an iron 
band around his head, locked behind with a pad- 
lock. In the front, where it passed the mouth, 
Uiere was a projection inward of an inch and a 
half, which entered the mouth. 

" The overseer told me, he was so addicted to 
running away, it did not do any good to whip him 
for it. He said he kept this gag constantly on 
him, and intended to do so as long as he was on 
the plantation : so that, if he ran away, he could 
not eat, and would starve to death. The slave 
asked for drink in my presence ; and the overseer 
made him lie down on his back, and turned wa- 
ter on his face two or three feet high, in order to 
torment him, as he could not swallow a drop. — 
The slave then asked permission to go to the ri- 
ver; which being granted, he thrust his face and 
head entirely under the water, that being the only 
way he could drink with his gag on. The gag 
was taken off when he took his food, and then re- 
placed aftervv-ards." 

Extract of a Letteii fhom Mrs. Sophia Lit- 
tle, of Newport, Rhode Island, daughter of Hon. 
Asher Robbins, senator in Congress for that state. 

" There was lately found, in the hold of a vessel 
engaged in the southern trade, by a person who 
was clearhig it out, an iron collar, with three 
horns projecting from it. It seems that a young 
female slave, on whose slender neck was rivet- 
ed this fiendish instrument of torture, ran away 
from her tyrant, and begged the captain to bring 
her off with him. This the captain refused to do ; 
but unriveted the collar from her neck, and threw 
it away in the hold of the vessel. The collar is 
now at the anti-slavery office. Providence. To 
i\\G truth of these facts Mr. William H. Reed, a 
gentleman of the highest moral character, is ready 
to vouch. 

" Mr. Reed is in possession of many facts of 
cruelty witnessed by persons of ver?."'*'* • ?:"* 



these witnesses are not willing to give their names. 
One case in particular he mentioned. Speaking 
with a certain captain, of the state of the slaves 
at the south, the captain contended that their 
punishments were often very lenient; and, as an 
instance of their excellent clemency, mentioned, 
that in one instance, not wishing to whip a slave, 
they sent him to a blacksmith, and had an iron 
band fastened around him, with three long pro- 
jections reaching above his head ; and this he 
wore some time." 

Extract of a letter from Mr. Jonathan F. 
Baldwin, of Lorain county, Ohio. Mr, B, was 
formerly a merchant in Massillon, Ohio, and an 
elder in the Presbyterian Church there. 

" Dear Brother, — In conversation with Judge 
Lyman, of Litchfield county, Connecticut, last 
June, he stated to me, that several years since he 
was in Columbia, South Carolina, and observing 
a colored man lying on the floor of a blacksmith's 
shop, as he was passing it, his curiosity led him 
in. He learned the man was a slave and rather 
unmanageable. Several men were attempting to 
detach from his ankle an iron which had been 
bent around it. 

" The iron was a piece of a flat bar of the or- 
dinary size from the forge hammer, and bent 
around the ancle, the ends meeting, and forming 
a hoop of about the diameter of the leg. There 
was one or more strings attached to the iron and 
extending up around his neck, evidently so to 
suspend it as to prevent its galling by its weight 
when at work, yet it had galled or griped till the 
leg had swollen out beyond the iron and inflamed 
and supurated, so that the leg for a considerable 
distance above and below the iron, was a mass 
of putrefaction, the most loathsome of any wound 
he had ever witnessed on any living creature. 
The slave lay on his back on the floor, with his 
leg on an anvil which sat also on the floor, one 
man had a chisel used for splitting iron, and ano- 
ther struck it with a sledge, to drive it between 
the ends of the hoop and separate it so that it 
might be taken off. Mr. Lyman said that the 
man swung the sledge over his slioulders as if 
splitting iron, and struck many blows before he 
succeeded in parting the ends of the iron at all, 
the bar was so large and stubborn — at length 
they spread it as far as they could without driv- 
ing the chisel so low as to ruin the leg. The slave, 
a man of twenty-five years, perhaps, whose coun- 
tenance was the index of a mind ill adapted to 
the degradations of slavery, never uttered a word 
or a groan in all the process, but the copious flow of 
sweat from every pore, the dreadful contractions 
and distortions of every muscle in his body, show- 
ed clearly the great amount of his sufferings; 
and all this while, such was the diseased state of 
the limb, that at every blow, the bloody, corrupt- 
ed matter gushed out in ail directions several feet, 
in sucli profusion as literally to cover a large area 
around the anvil. After various other fruitless 
attempts to spread the iron, they concluded it was 
necessary to weaken by filing before it could be 
got off, which he left them attempting to do," 

Mr. William Drown, a well known citizen of 
Rhode Island, formerly of Providence, whffl l*-- 



76 



Punishments — Tortures. 



traveled in nearly all the slave states, thus testi- 
fies in a recent letter : 

" I recollect seeing large gangs of slaves, ge. 
ncrally a considerable number in each gang, be- 
ing chained, passing westward over the moun- 
tains from Maryland, Virginia, &c, to the Ohio. 
On that river I have frequently seen flat boats 
loaded with them, and their keepers armed with 
pistols and dirks to guard them. 

" At New Orleans I recollect seeing gangs of 
slaves that were driven out every day, the Sab- 
bath not excepted, to work on the streets. These 
had heavy chains to connect two or more to- 
gether, and some had iron collars and yokes, &c. 
The noise as they walked, or worked in their 
chains, was truly dreadful," 

Rev. Thomas Savage, pastor of the Congrega- 
tional Church at Bedford, New Hampshire, who 
was for some years a resident of Mississippi and 
Louisiana, gives the following fact, in a letter dat- 
ed January 9, 1839. 

" In 1819, while employed as an instructor at 
Second Creek, near Natchez, Mississippi,! resided 
on a plantation where I witnessed the following 
circumstance. One of the slaves was in the habit 
of running away. He had been repeatedly taken, 
and repeatedly wliipped, with great severity, but 
to no purpose. He would still seize the first op- 
portunity to escape from tlie plantation. At last 
his owner declared, I'll fix him, I'll put a stop to 
his running away. He accordingly took him to a 
blacksmith, and had an iron head.frame made for 
him, which may be called lock-jaw, from the use 
that was made of it. It had a lock and key, and 
was so constructed, that when on the head and 
locked, the slave could not open his mouth to 
take food, and the design was to prevent his run- 
ning away. But the device proved unavailing. He 
was soon missing, and whether by his own despe- 
rate effort, or tlie aid of others, contrived to sus. 
tain himself Avith food ; but he wat^ at last taken, 
and if my memory serves me, his life was soon 
terminated by the cruel treatment to v/hich he 
was subjected." 

The Western Luminary, a religious paper pub- 
lished at Lexington, Kentucky, in an editorial 
article, in the sumiaer of 1833, says: 

" A few weeks since we gave an account of a 
company of men, women and children, part of 
v/hom were manacled, passing through our streets. 
Last week, a number of slaves were driven through 
the main street of our city, among whom were a 
number manacled together, two abreast, all con- 
nected by, and supporting a heavy iron chain, 
which extended the whole length of the hue." 

TESTIMONY OF A VIRGINIAN. 

The name of this witness cannot be published, 
as it would put him in peril ; but his credibility 
is vouched for by the Rev. Ezra Fisher, pastor 
of the Baptist Church, Quincy, IHinois, and Dr. 
Richard Eels, of the same place. These gen- 
tlemen say of him, " We have great confidence 
in his integrity, discretion, and strict Christian 
principle." He says — 

" About five years ago, I remember to have 
passed, in a single day, four droves of slaves for 



the south west ; the largest drove had 350 slaves 
in it, and the smallest upwards of 200. I count- 
ed 68 or 70 in a single coffle. The ' coffle chain* 
is a chain fastened at one end to the centre of 
the bar of a pair of hand cuffs, which are fasten- 
ed to the right wrist of one, and the left wrist of 
another slave, they standing abreast, and the 
chain between them. These are the head of the 
coffle. The other end is passed through a ring 
in the bolt of the next handcuffs, and the slaves 
being manacled thus, two and two together, walk 
up, and the coffle chain is passed, and they go 
up towards the head of the coffle. Of course 
they are closer or wider apart in the coffle, ac- 
cording to the number to be coffled, and to the 
length of the chain. / have seen hundreds of 
droves and chain-coffles of this description, and 
every coffle was a scene of misery and wo, of 
tears and brokenness of heart." 

Mr. Samuel Hall, a teacher in Marietia Col- 
lege, Ohio, gives, in a late letter, the following 
statement of a fellow student, from Kentucky, of 
whom he says, " he is a professor of religion, and 
worthy of entire confidence." 

" I have seen at \ez.?,t fifteen droves of 'human 
cattle,' passing by us on their way to the south ; 
and I do not recollect an exception, where there 
were not more or less of them chained together." 

Mr. George P. C. Huney, of Fayetteville, 
Frankhn county, Pennsylvania, writes thus : 

" I was born and raised in Hagerstown, Wash- 
ington county, Maryland, where slavery is per- 
haps milder than in any other part of the slave 
states ; and yet I have seen hundreds of colored 
men and women chained together, two by two, 
and driven to the south. I have seen slaves tied up 
and lashed till the blood ran down to tlicir heels." 

Mr. GiDDiNGS, member of Congress from Ohio, 
in his speech in the House of Representatives, 
Feb. 13, 1839, made the following statement : 

" On the beautiful avenue in front of the Cipi- 
tol, members of Congress, during this session, 
have been compelled to turn aside from their 
path, to permit a coffle of slaves, males and fe- 
males, chained to each other by their necks, to pass 
on their way to this national slave market.'''' 

Testimony of James K. Paulding, Esq. the pre- 
sent Secretary of the United States' Navy. 

In 1817, Mr. Paulding published a work, en- 
titled ' Letters from the South, written during 
an excursion in the summer of 1816.' In the 
first volume of that work, page 128, Mr. P. gives 
the following description : 

" The sun was shining out very hot — and in 
turning the angle of the road, we encountered the 
following group : first, a little cart drawn by one 
horse, in which five or six half naked black child- 
ren were tumbled like pigs together. The cart 
had no covering, and tliey seemed to have been 
broiled to sleep. Behind the cart marched three 
black women, with head, neck and breasts un- 
covered, and without shoes or stockings : next 
came three men, bare-headed, and chained to- 
gether with an ox-chain. Last of all, came a 
white man on horse back, carrying his pistols in 



Punishments — B randings. 



77 



his belt', and who, as we passed him, had the im- 
pudence to look us in the face without blushing. 
At a house where we stopped a little further on, 
we learjied that he had bought these miserable 
beings in Maryland, and was marching them in 
this manner to one of the more southern states. 
Shame on the State of Maryland ! and I say, 
shame on the State of Virginia ! and every state 
through which this wretched cavalcade was per- 
mitted to pass! I do say, that when they (the slave- 
holders) permit such flagrant and indecent out- 
rages upon humanity as that I have described ; 
when they sanction a villain in thus marching 
half naked women and men, loaded with chains, 
without being charged with any crime but that 
of being black, from one section of the United 
States to another, hundreds of miles in the face 



of day, they disgrace themselves, and the coun- 
try to which they belong."* 

* The fact that Mr. Paulding, in the reprint of these 
" Letters," in 1835, struck out thispassaffc with all others 
disparaging to slavery and its supporters, doe? not impair 
the force of his testimony, however much it may sinic the 
man. Nor will the next generation regard with any more 
reverence, his character as apro;?/te(,becaTiPn in the edition 
of 1835, two years after the American Anti-t-lavery Society 
was formed, and when its auxiliaries were numbered by 
hundreds, he inserted a ■prediction^ that such movements 
would bo made at the North, with most disastrous results. 
" Wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine!" 
Mr. Paulding has already been taught by Judge Jay, that 
he who aspires to the fame of an oracle, witliout its in- 
spiration, must resort to other expedients to prevent 
detection, than tlie clumpy one of anfedatm^hijrcL^ponses. 



III. BRANDINGS, MAIMINGS, GUN-SHOT WOUNDS, &c. 



The slaves are often branded with hot irons, 
pu rsued with fire arms and shot, hunted with 
dogs and torn by them, shockingly maimed with 
knives, dirks, &c. ; have their ears cut off, their 
eyes knocked out, their bones dislocated and 
broken with bludgeons, their fingers and toes cut 
off, their faces and other parts of their persons 
disfigured with scars and gashes, besides those 
made with the lash. 

We shall adopt, under this head, the same 



course as that pursued under previous ones, — first 
give the testimony of the slaveholders themselves, 
to the mutilations, &c. by copying their own 
graphic descriptions of them, in advertisements 
published under their own names, and in news- 
papers published in the slave states, and, general- 
ly, in their own immediate vicinity. We sha'l, 
as heretofore, insert only so much of each adver- 
tisement as will be necessary to make the point 
intelligible. 



WITNESSES. 

Mr. Micajah Ricks, Nash County, 
Nortli Carolina, in the Raleigh " Stand- 
ard," July 18, 1838. 



Mr. Asa B. Metcalf, Kingston, Adams 
Co. Mi. in the "Natchez Courier," 
June 15, 1832. 

Mr. William Overstreet, Benton, 
Yazoo Co. Mi. in the " Lexington 
(Kentucky) Observer," July 22, 1838. 



Mr. R. P. Carney, Clark Go. Ala., 
In the Mobile Register, Dec. 22, 1832. 



Mr. J. Guyler, Savannah Georgia, in 
the " Republican," April 12, 1837. 



J. A. Brown, jailor, Charleston, South 
Carolina, in the " Mercury," Jan. 12, 
1837. 

Mr. J Scrivener, Herring Bay, Anne 
Arundel Co. Maryland, in the Anna- 
polis Republican, April 18, 1837. 

IMadame Burvant, comer of Chartres 
and Toulouse streets, New Orleans, in 
the " Bee," Dec. 21, 1838. 

Mr. O. W. Lains, in the "Helena, 
(Ark.) Journal," June 1, 1833. 

Mr. R. W. Sizer, in the " Grand Gulf, 
fMi.] Advertiser," July 8, 1837. 



Mr. Nicholas Edmunds, in the 
" Petersburgh [Va.] Intelligncer," May 
22, 1838. 



TESTIMONY. 

" Ranaway, a negro woman and two children ; a few days be- 
fore she went oflf, / burnt her with a hot iron^ on the left side of 
her face, / tried to make the letter M." 

" Ranaway Mary, a black woman, has a scar on her back and 
right arm near the shoulder, caused by a rijlc balV^ 

" Ranaway a negro man named Henry, his left eye out, some 
scars from a dirk on and under his left arm, and much scarred 
with the whip." 

One hundred dollars reward for a negro fellow Pompcj, 49 
years old, he is branded on the left jaw. 

" Ranaway Laman, an old negro man, grey, has onhj one 
eye:' 

" Committed to jail a negfo man, has no toes on his left 
foot." 

" Ranaway negro man Elijali, has a scar on his left cheek, ! 
apparently occasioned by a shot:' 

'' Ranaway a negro woman named Rachel, has lost all her toes 
except the large one." 

" Ranaway Sam, he was shot a short time since, through the 
I hand, and has several shots in his left arm and side:* 

'' Ranaway my negro man Dennis, said negro has been shot 
I'm the left arm between the shoulders and elbow, which has 
jparalyzed the left hand." 

'' Ranaway my negro man named Simon, he has bcm shot 
badly in his back and right arm," 



78 Punishments — Brandinsrs. 

Mr. J. Bishop, Bishopville Sumpter a Ranaway a negro named Arthur, lias a considerable scar 

District, South Carolina, in the '> Cam- „„^^ u- ; v j i »"i"i, nana cuiiMut^raDit scar 

den [S. C] Journal," March 4, 1837. across his breast and each ar?n, made by a knife ; loves to talk 

much of the goodness of God." 

July 3,1837. leii arm. 

" Twenty five dollars reward for my man Isaac, he has a scar 

TVf T T> A V,- ^ A 1 r. TIT- • 1 '' ^^^^^^^ay a Hcgro girl called Mary, has a small scar over 

the''NatL''/Srt'' "rgu'^r^i'^^^^^ L'^T'/ ^'f/^^^.^V '''t^ »«^'^^^"^, the letter A. is branded on 
' ^ ' her cheek and forehead:^ 

,^ t:,, rn 1 DM r. A. • " ^^^naway uegro Bcn, has a scar on his right hand, his thumb 

Mr. Ely Townsend, Pike Co. Ala., Ill anrl f^^rr. f;^^^,. u„f», • • ji u • 7,1 x?,i , i^s^ "luin" 

the " Pensacola Gazette," Sep. 16, 1837. ^"^ ^"^^^ ™&^J ^^^^S mjured by being shot last fall, a part of the bone 

came out, he has also one or two large scars on his back and hips." 

^y^ J- 000. o * 

I. o'uSi^na^ZrS^w S^l'" Bee"' , '' 'f^'f "^"^ J' ^^ J""' '' "ff "T '"' T"""' ^' \ ''"' ."" 

March 3, 1838. ^'^^ ^^S""' c^^ek and appears to have been burned with poioder 

on the face." 

Mr. Isaac Johnson, Pulaski Co. " Ranaway a negro man named Ned, three of his fingers are 
?uneT9,\m ^^"«^S^^^"^-^«"^"^''' drawn into the palm of his hand by a cut, has a.mr on the back 

of his neck nearly half round, done by a knifed 

Mi^"i>?'^r''4Ssfurg'*'RSste^ " '' ^^^^^way a negro named Hambleton, limps on his left foot 
September 5, 1838. ' where he was shot a few weeks ago, while runaway." 

" Ranaway a negro boy named Mose, he has a wound in the 
in'^L'-'soS^rra,"'^^^^^^^^^ right shoulder near the back bono, which was occasioned by a 

1838. '>'\P'^ ^^ot." 

Mr. Moses Orme, Annapolis, Mary- '. Ranaway my negro man Bill, he has sl fresh wound in his 
land, m the "Annapolis Republican," i„„j u v.- 1. ' 

Juae 20, 1837. ^^^« ^D^'^e his ear." 

WiUiam Strickland, Jailor, Kershaw " Committed to jail a negro, says his name is CufFee, he is 
District, S. C. in the " Camden [S. C.l 1 „ • , • j il 1 ^ « ' 

Courier" July 8 1837. lame in one knee, occasioned by a shot." 

TheEditor of the " Grand Gulf Adver- <* Ranaway Joshua, his thumb is off of his left hand." 
tiser," Dec. 7, 1838. •'^ ' 

Mr. William Bateman, in the " Grand " Ranaway William, scar over his left eye, one between his 
Gull Advertiser," Dec. 7, 1838. ^^^ brows, one on his breast, and his right leg has been broken.'^ 

Mr. B. G. Simmons, iu the " Southern " Ranaway Mark, his left arm has been broken, right leg 
Argus," May 30,1837. ^i^^ » J t 

Mr. James Artop, in the " Macon " Ranaway, Caleb, 50 years old, has an awkward gait occa- 
[Ga.]Messenger, May 25, 1837. ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^ b^j^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^ic thigh." 

" Was committed to jail a negro man, says his name is 
J. L. Jolley, Sheriff of Clinton, Co. Josiah, his back very much scarred by the whip and branded 
SsSsm^^"*^^'"*''" Gazette," July ^^ ^jj ^^-^^ ^^^ ^.^^^ -^ ^^^.^^ ^^ j^^^^ ^^^^^^^ thus (J. M.) 
" ' ' the rim of his right car has been bit or cut off^ 

Mr. Thomas Ledwith, Jacksonville «' Fifty dollars reward, for my fellow Edward, he has a scar 
Courier'' Se^'t'" %^^^^'^''^^'''' t^' ^'^ on the corner of his mouth, two cuts on and under his arm, and 
^"'^ ' ' the letter E on his arm." 

Mr. Joseph James, Sen., Pleasant «' Ranaway, negro boy EUic, has a scar on one of his arms 
StSuretS'^Nov."; i°83f " "'- A"" '*'*''« "f" ^^g' 

Mr. W. Riley, Orangeburg District, « Ranaway a negro man, has a scar on the ankle produced 
South Carolina, in the ''Columbia [S.C] . ^ f^ ^^^ ^ ^^^^ gj^ j^ig ^^y^ resembling the letter S." 

Telescope," Nov. 11, 183i. •' ' " 

Mr. Samuel Mason, Warren Co, Mi., ' Ranaway, a negro man named Allen, he has a scar on hia 
in the " Vicksburg Register," July 18, ^j-east also a scar under the left eye, and has two buck shot in 
^^- his right arm." 



Punishmenls — Branding, Maiming, Scars. 



rj 



Mr 
em 



'' Ranaway from the plantation of James Surgelte, the fol- 
:r. F. L. C. Edwards, in the " South- lowing negroes, Randal, has one ear cropped ; Bob, has lost one 
Telegraph," Sept. 25, 1837 ^^^^ Kentucky Tom, has our jaw broken:' 



Mr. Stephen M. Jackson, in the " Ranaway, Anthony, one of his ears cut off, and his left 
" Vicksburg Register," March 10, 1827. ^^^^ ^^^ ^^,^^ ^^ ^^J ' 

" Was committed, a negro man, has a scar on his right side 
I'hilip Honerton, deputy sheriff of by a burn, one on his knee, and one on the calf ol' his leg bv 
Halifax Co. Virgima, /an. 1837. the bite of a dog ^ 

Stearns & Co. No. 28, Nevy Levee, 
few 
1837. 

Mr. John W. Walton, Greensboro , 
Ala. 
Dec. 13 



" Absconded, the mulatto boy Tom, his fingers scarred on 



New Orleans, in the " Bee," March 22, ,. • i . i j ' ju t.- • L* u i 

f ' his right hand, and has a scar on his right cheek. 



" Ranaway my black boy Frazier, with a scar below and 



in the "Alabama Beacon," i i • • ■{. „ 

jg3g ' one above his right ear." 

Mr. R. Furman, Charleston, S. G. in "Ranaway, Dick, about 19, has lost the small toe of one 

the "Charleston Mercury," Jan, 12, f„„t jj 

1839. ^°"''' 

Mr. John Tart, Sen. in the " Fayette- " Stolen a mulatto boy, ten years old, he has a scar over his 

ville [N. C] Observer," Dec. 26, 1838. ^^g ^^hj^j^ was made by an axe." 



Mr. Richard Overstreet, Brook Neal, 
Campbell Co. Virginia, in the " Danville 
[Va.] Reporter," Dec, 21. 1838. 



" Absconded my negro man Coleman, has a very large scar 
on one of his legs, also one on each arm, by a burn, and his heels 
have been frosted." 

" Fifty dollars reward, for the negro Jim Blake — has a piece 
cut out of each ear, and the middle finger of the left hand cut off 
to the second joint." 

" Ranaway, a negro woman named Maria — has a scar on one 
side of her cheek, by a cut — some scars on her back." 

♦' Ranaway, Gabriel — has two or three scars across his neck 
made with a knife." 

*' Ranaway, the mulatto wench Mary — has a cut on the left 
arm, a scar on the shoulder, and two upper teeth missing." 

" Ranaway, a negro boy, named Jerry — has a scar on his 
right cheek two inches long, from the cut of a knife." 

" Ranaway, my man Fountain — has holes in his ears, a scar 
on the right side of his forehead — has been shot in the hind parts 
of his legs — is marked on the back with the whip." 

'' Ranaway, a negro man named Jarrett — has a scar on the un- 
der part of one of his arms, occasioned by a wound from a knife." 

" Ranaway, a negro by the name of Joshua — he has a cut 
Virginia, in the " Norfoik ileraid,"'jurie across one of his ears, which he will conceal as much as possible 



The editor of the New Orleans "Bee," 
In that paper, August 27, 1837. 



Mr. Bryant Johnson, Fort Valley, 
Houston county, Georgia, in the Mil- 
ledgDville " Uniou," Oct. 2, 1838. 

Mr. Lemuel Miles, Steen's Creek, Ran- 
kin couiitv, Mi. in the "Southern 
Sun," Sept; 22, 1838. 

Mr. Bezou, New Orleans, in the 
" Bee," May 23, 1838. 

Mr. James Kimborough, Memphis, 
Tenn. in the " Memphis Enquu-er,"July 
13, 1838. 

Mr. Robert Beaslcy, Macon, Georgia, 
in the " Georgia Messenger," July 27, 
1S37 

.Mr. B. G. Barrer, St. Louis, Missouri, 
in the " Republican," Sept. 6, 1837. 



Mr. John D. Turner, near Norfolk, 



27, 1638. 

Mr. William Stansell, Picksville, Ala. 
ui the " Huntsville Democrat," August 
29, 1837. 

Hon. Ambrose H. Sevier, Senator in 
Congress, from Arkansas, in the " Vicks- 
burg Register," of Oct. 13. 



— one of his ankles is enlarged by an ulcer.'' 

" Ranaway, negro boy Harper — has a scar on one of his hips 
in the form of a G." 

'' Ranaway, Bob, a slave — has a scar across his breast, ano- 
ther on the right side of his head — his back is much scarred with 
the whip." 



., ^ . ^ " Two hundred and fifty dollars reward, for my negro man 

gia"in^U,e''"SneeS?''ju?y^^^ ^'"'-^/ '' '"™'' """^"^ ^',* """ I" *"= "«''' thigh,_the shot 
1837. entered on the outside, halfway between the hip and knee 

joints." 



Benjamin Russel, deputy sheriff, Bibb 
county, Ga. in the " Macon Telegraph," 
December 25, 1837. 

Hon. H. Hitchcock, Mobile, judge of 
the Supreme Court, in the " Commer- 
cial Register," Oct. 27, 1837. 



Mrs. Elizabeth L. Carter, near Grove- 
ton, Prince William county, Virginia, 
in the " National Intelligencer," Wash- his ears." 
ington, D. C. June 10, 1837. 



" Brought to jail, John — left ear crept.'" 

*' Ranaway, the slave Ellis — he has lost one of his ears" 

" Ranaway, a negro man, Moses — he has lost apart of one of 



80 



Punishments — Branding, Maiming, Scars. 



Mr. William D. Buckels, Natchez, 
Mi. in tlie " Natchez Courier," July 28, 
1838. 

Mr. Walter R. English, Monroe coun- 
ty, Ala. in the " Mobile Chronicle," 
Sept. 2, 1837. 

Mr. James Saunders, Grany Spring, 
Hawkins county, Tenn. in the " Knox- 
ville Register," June 6, 1838. 

Mr. John Jenkins, St. Joseph's, Flori- 
da, captain of the steamboat Ellen, 
"Apalachicola Gazette," June 7, 1838. 

Mr. Peter Hanson, Lafayette city, La., 
in the New Orleans "Bee," July 28, 

1838. 

Mr. Orren Ellis, Georgeville, Mi. in 
the " North Alabamian," Sept. 15, 1837. 

Mr. Zadock Sawyer, Cuthbert, Ran- 
dolph county, Georgia, in the " Milledge- 
ville Union," Oct. 9, 1838. 

Mr. Abraham Gray, Mount Morino, 
Pike county, Ga. in the " Milledgeville 
Union," Oct. 9, 1838. 

S. B. Tuston, jailer, Adams county. 
Mi. in the " Natchez Courier," June 
15, 1838. 

Mr. Joshua Antrim, Nineveh, War- 
ren county, Virginia, in the " Winches- 
ter Virginian," July 11, 1837. 

J. B. Randall, jailor. Marietta, Cobb 
county, Ga., in the " Southern Record- 
er," Nov. 6, 1838. 



" Taken up, a negro man — is very much scarred about the face 
and body, and has the left ear hit off" 

" Ranaway, my slave Lewis — he has lost a piece of one ear, 
and a part of one of his fingers, a part of one of his toes is also 
lost." 

" Ranaway, a black girl named Mary — has a scar on her cheek, 
and the end of one of her toes cut off." 

" Ranaway, the negro boy Caesar — he has but one eye.^* 

" Ranaway, the negress Martha — she has lost her right eye." 

" Ranaway, George — has had the lower part of one of his ears 

bit off." 

" Ranaway, my negro Tom — has a piece bit off the top of his 
right ear, and his little finger is stiff." 

" Ranaway, my mulatto woman Judy — she has had her right 
arm broi^e. 

" Was committed to jail, a negro man named Bill — has had 
the thumb of his left hand split." 

" Ranaway, a mulatto man named Joe — his fingers on the left 
hand are partly amputated." 

" Lodged in jail, a negro man named Jupiter — is very lame in 
his left hip, so that he can hardly walk — has lost a joint of the 
middle finger of his left hand." 

Mr. John N. Dillahunty, Woodvillei " Ranaway, Bill — has a scar over one eye, also one on his leg, 
Mi., m the " N. O. Commercial Bulle- from the bite of a rfo^— has a burn on his buttock, from a piece of 



tin," July 21, 1837. 

William K. Ratcliffe, sheriff, Frank- 
lin county, Mi. in the " Natchez Free 
Trader," August 23, 1838. 

Mr. Prfiston Halley, Barnwell, South 
Carolina, in the " Augusta [Ga.] Chro- 
nicle," July 27, 1838. 

Mr. Welcome H. Bobbins, St. Charies 
county, Mo. in the " St. Louis Republi- 
can," June 30, 1838. 

G. Gourdon & Co. druggists, comer of 
Rampart and Hospital streets, New Or- 
leans, in the " Commercial Bulletin," 
Sept. 13, 1838. 

Mr. William Brown, in the " Grand 
Gulf Advertiser," August 29, 1838. 

Mr. Jam^s McDonnell, Talbot county, 
Georgia, in the "Columbus Enquirer," 
Jan. 18, 1838. 

Mr. John W Cherry, Marengo coun- u YiHy dollars reward, for my negro man John— he has a con- 
'/sl^Ss.'''^ ^ ^^ ' siderable scar on his ^Arofl^ done wk a ifcm/e." 

Mr. Thos. Brown, Roane co. Tenn. in " Twenty^ve dollars reward, for my man John-the tip of his 
the " Knoxville Register," Sept. 12, 1838. nose is bit off." 

Messrs. Taylor, Lawton & Co., 
Charleston, South Carolina, in the 
" Mercury," Nov. 1838. 

Mr. Louis Schmidt, Taubourg, Si- 
vaudais. La. in the New Orieans "Bee," 
Sept. 5, 1837. 

W. M. Whitehead, Natchez, in the 
" New Orleans Bulletin," Jiily 21 , 1837. 

Mr. Conrad Salvo, Charleston, South 
Carolina, in the " Mercury, August 10, 
1837. 



hot iron in shape of a T." 

" Committed to jail, a negro named Mike — his left ear off" 

" Ranaway, my negro man Levi — his left hand has been burnt, 
and I think the end of his forefinger is off." 

" Ranaway, a negro named Washington — has lost a part of his 
middle finger and the end of his little finger." 

" Ranaway, a negro named David Drier — ^has two toes cut.'** 

'' Ranaway, Edmund — has a scar on his right temple, and 
under his right eye, and holes in both ears.^* 

" Runaway, a negro boy twelve or thirteen years old — ^has a 
scar on his left cheek from the bite of a dog." 



'* Ranaway, a negro fellow called Hover — has a cut above the 
right eye." 

" Ranaway, the negro man Hardy — has a scar on the upper 
lip, and another made with a knife on his neck." 

"Ranaway, Henry — has half of one ear bit off.^ 

" Ranaway, my negro man Jacob — he has but one eye.** 



Pumshments— Branding, Maiming, Scars. 81 

William Baker, jailer, Shelby county, . .., t» i • i r i in- y n ' • t 

Ala., in the " Montgomery (Ala.) Ad- " Committed to jail, Ben — ^his left thumb off Bit the first joint. * 
vertiser," Oct. 5, 1838. 

Mr. S. N. Kite, Camp street, New Or- "Twenty-five dollars reward for the negro slave Sally— walks 

leans, in the " Bee,'' Feb. 19, 1338, as though crippled m the back." 

bu"/,MSf iy^XS^a^mS , " Rt-r^y- '^ "^g'-o "'=«' n=^'»«d Dick-ha. a tittle finger off 

" Huntsville Democrat," Sept. 8, 1838. the right hand." 

La'^h.! ''S&rie?n.°L!>5ef ^^^^^^ , " Ranaway, the negro Patrick-has hislittle finger of the right 

1838. hand cut close to the hand." 

Mr. Needham Whitefield, Aberdeen, t ■¥-. • i 

Mi. in the "Memphis (Tenn.) Enqui- " Ranawav, Joe Dennis — has a small notch in one of his ears." 
rcr," June 15, 183S. 

Col. M. J. Sheith, Charleston, South 

Carolina, in tiw " Mercury," Nov. 27, " Ranaway, Dick — has lost the little toe of one of his feet." 
1837. 

Mr R. Lancette, Haywood, North u Escaped, my negro man Eaton— his little finger of the right 

Carolma, m the "Raleigh Register,' i i i, u r / » 

Apvil 30, 1838. hand has been broke.'' 

Mr. G c. Richardson, Owen Station, « Ranaway, my neg ,0 man named Top—has had one of his legs 

Mo., in the St. Louis "Republican," May })Yohcn''' J' J *= r a 
5, 1838. 

ty,^T.fn; hui;e''SS!athf'''K^^^^ " ^^r^^^^Y^ negro boy Jack-has a small crop out of his left 

23, 1837. ear." 

D. Herring, warden of Baltimore city " ^^^ committed to jail, a negro man— has two scars on his 

jail, in the " Marylander," Oct. 6, 1837. forehead, and the top of his left ear cut off J' 

Mr. James Marks, near Natchitoches, ., c<4. ^ j -iit- 4. i, ^ i. a i r 

La. in the "Natchitoches Herald," July Stolen, a negro man named Winter— has a notch cut out of 

21, 1838. the left ear, and the mark oifour or five buck shot on his legs." 

Mr. James Barr, Ameha Court House, « Ranaway, a negro man — scar back of his left eye, as if from 

Virginia, m the " Norfolk Herald," ^v « ^,.# ^^ „ ^.^;c^ » ././:/» 

Sept. 12, 1838. the cut of a knife." 

. " Ranaway, negro man Buck — has a very plain mark under 

Ge^gia,'hi^lfe " Ail^s^^^^^ his ear on his jaw, about the size of a dollar, having been infiicted 

Sept. 21, 1837. hy a knife." 

Suburb ' Washington, third munici- " Detained at the jail, the negro boy Hermon — has a scar below 

pality. New Orleans, in the "Bee," his left ear, from the w)om«c(! of a knife." 

Oct. 13, 1837. -^ 

"Ranaway, a negro man by the name of John — he has a 

countyyi^""in^h™^^^^^^^ ^'Z ^'?''}^ "^''^' ^^^ """ °" ^' "^^' ^^"'' ^PP^^'^^^^^ ^^^^ 

Dec. 5, 1837. With a knife." 

counV^XStr •."£? "5iu"„S" " I^"*^»y> Miam-l'^/ a ,car upon the breast and upon the 

Advocate," Dec. 23, 1837. under lip, from the bite of a dog." 

in'the''"ColUu?tGaf E^^^^^^^^ " Runaway, a negro man-has a scar on his hip and on his 

July 5, 1838. breast, and two front teeth out." 

C. W.Willdns, sheriff Baldwin Co, "Committed to jail, a negro man, he is crippled in the 

Ala. in the " Mobile Advertiser," Sept. -^u* i » J ' & cr 

22,1837. right leg." 

Mr. James H. Taylor, Charleston « Absconded, a colored boy, named Peter, lame in the right 

South Carolina, m the " Courier," Au- i .„ » 

gust 7, 1837. ^^S- 

N. M. C. Robinson, jailer, Columbus, « Brought to iail, a negro man, his left ankle has been broke." 

Georgia, in the " Columbus (Ga.) En- & J ' & 
quirer," August 2, 1838, 

Mr. Littlejohn Rynes, Hinds Co. « Ranaway, a negro man named Jerry, has a small piece cut 

n '1838.*'^ " ^''^''^^'' ^°""'''" '^"^'''^' out of the top of each ear." 

The Heirs of J. A. Alston, near 

Georgetown, South Carolina, in the „ Absconded a negro named Cuffee, has lost one finger ; has 

" Georgetown [S. C.I Union," June 17, 7.7,.° 

1837. e "- -" ' an enlarged leg.' 

A. S. Ballinger, Sheriff, Johnston Co, " Committed to jail, a negro man ; has a eery sore leg."" 
North CaroUna, in the " Raleigh Stand- 
ard," Oct. 18, 1838. 

Mr. Thomas Crutchfield, Atkins, Ten. *' Ranaway, my mulatto boy Cy, has but one hand, all the 

1838'^" ^^^^^^^^ Journal," Oct. 17, f^^^^^^ of hig right hand were burnt off when young." 

11 



82 



Punishments — Branding, Maiming, Scars. 



J. A. Brown, jaiIer,Orangeburg, South 
Carolina, in the " Charleston Mercury," 
July 18, 1838. 

S. B. Turton, jailer, Adams Co. Miss, 
in the " Natchez Courier," Sept. 28, 
1828. 

" Mr. John H. King, High street, 
Georgetown, in the " National Intelli- 
gencer," August 1, 1837. 

Mr. John B. Fox, Vicksburg, Miss, 
in tlie " Register," March 29, 1837. 



Messrs. Fernandez and Whiting, auc- 
tioneers. New Orleans, in the " Bee," 
April 8. 1837. 

Mr. Marshall Jett, Farrowsville, Fau- 
quier Co. Virginia, in the " National 
InteUigencer," May 30, 1837. 

S. B. Turton, jailer Adams Co. Miss, 
in the " Natches Courier," Oct. 12, 1838. 



" Was committed to jail, a negro named Bob, appears to be 
crippled in the right leg." 

" Was committed to jail, a negro man, has liis left thigh 
broke. ^* 

" Ranaway, my negro man, he has the end of one of his 
fingers broken." 

" Ranaway, a yellowish negro boy named Tom, has a notch 
in the back of one of his ears." 

'' Will be sold Martha, aged nineteen, has one eye out:' 

" Ranaway, negro manEphraim, has a mark over one of his 
eyes, occasioned by a blow.^' 

" Was committed a negro, calls himself Jacob, has been 

crippled in his right leg." 



John Ford, sheriff of Mobile County, «' Committed to jail, a negro man Cary, a large scar on his 
in the " Mississippian," Jackson Mi. j-n^^hon/l ^^ 
Dec. 28, 1838. joreneaa. 



E. W. IMorris, sheriff of Warren 
County, in the " Vicksburg [Mi.] Regis- 
ter," March 28, 1838. 

Mr. John P. Holcombe, in the Charles- 
ton Mercury," April 17, 1828. 



Mr. Willis Patterson, in the " Charles- 
ton Mercury," December 11, 1837. 



Wm. Magee, sheriff. Mobile Co. in the 
" Mobile Register," Dec. 27, 1837. 



" Committed as a runaway, a negro man Jack, he has several 
scars on his face." 

" Absented himself, his negro man Ben, has scars on his 
throat, occasioned by the cut of a knife.''^ 

" Ranaway, a negro man, John, a scar across his cheek, and 
one on his right arm, apparently done with a knife.'' 

*' Committed to jail, a runaway slave, Alexander, a scar on 
his left cheek." 



Mr. Henry M. McGregor, Prince " Ranaway, negro Phil, scar tnrough the right eye brow, part 
George County. Maryland, m the "Alex- ^r+u^^-jj? 1 xi, ■ U4. f 4. * /rn »!'«■*<' 

andria [D. C] Gazette," Feb. 6, 1838. ^f the middle toe on the right foot cut off." 

Green B Jourdan, Baldwin County 
Ga. in the " Georgia Journal," April 18, 
1837. 



Messrs* Daniel and Goodman, New 
Orleans, in the " N. 0. Bee," Feb. 2. 
J 838. 



" Ranaway, John, has a scar on one of his hands extending 
from the wrist joint to the little finger, also a scar on one of his 
legs." 

" Absconded, mulatto slave Alick, has a large scar over one 
of his cheeks." 



Jeremiah Woodward, Gk)ochland, Co 
'^a. in the " 
Jan. .30, 1838. 



« 200 DOLLARS REWARD for Nelson, has a scar on his 
iL .^o.^flss. ^'"'^"'""^ ^^- ^^'^'" forehead occasioned by a burn, and one on his lower lip and one 

about the knee." 



" Ranaway, a negro man and his wife, named Nat and 
♦^ Samuel Rawlins, Gwinet Co. Ga. in PngciHa, he has a small scar on his left cheek, two stiff fingers 



1838. 



Columbus Sentinel," Nov. 29, 



on his right hand with a running sore on them ; his wife has a 
scar on her left arm, and one upper tooth out." 



The reader perceives that we have under this 
head, as under previous ones, given tq the testi- 
mony of the slaveholders themselves, under their 
own names, a precedence over that of all other 
witnesses. We now ask the reader's attention 
to the testimonies which follow. They are en- 
dorsed by responsible names — men who ' speak 
what they know, and testify what they have 
seen' — testimonies which show, that the slave- 
holders who wrote the preceding advertise- 
ments, describing the work of their own hands, 
in branding with hot irons, maiming, mutilating, 
cropping, shooting, knocking out the teeth and 
eyes of their slaves, breaking their bones, &c., 



have manifested, as far as they have gone in the 
description, a commendable fidelity to truth. 

It is probable that some of the scars and maim- 
ings in the preceding advertisements were the 
result of accidents ; and some may be the result 
of violence inflicted by the slaves upon each 
other. Without arguing that point, we say, these 
are the facts ; whoever reads and ponders them, 
will need no argument to convince him, that the 
proposition which they have been employed to 
sustain, cannot be shaken. That any considera- 
ble portion of them were accidental, is totally im- 
probable, from the nature of the case ; and is in 
most instances disproved by the advertisements 



Punishmentu — Mutilation of Teeth. 



63 



themselves. That they have not been produced 
by assaults of the slaves upon each other, is man- 
ifest from the fact, that injuries of that character 
inflicted by the slaves upon each other, are, as all 
who are familiar with the habits and condition 
of slaves well know, exceedingly rare ; and of 
necessity must be so, from the constant action 
upon them of the strongest dissuasives from such 
acts that can operate on human nature. 

Advertisements similar to the preceding may 
at any time be gathered by scores from the daily 
and weekly newspapers of the slave states. Be- 
fore presenting the reader with further testimony 
in proof of the proposition at the head of this 
part of our subject, we remark, that some of the 
tortures enumerated under this and the preceding 
heads, are not in all cases inflicted by slavehold- 
ers as punishments, but sometimes merely as pre- 
ventives of escape, for the greater security of 
their ' property.' Iron collars, chains, &lc. are 
put upon slaves when they are driven or trans- 
ported from one part of the country to another, in 
order to keep them from running away. Similar 
measures are aften resorted to upon plantations. 
When the master or owner suspects a slave of 
plotting an escape, an iron collar with long 'horns,' 
or a bar of iron, or a ball and chain, are often 
fastened upon him, for the double purpose of re- 
tarding his flight, should he attempt it, and of 
serving as an easy means of detection. 

Another inhuman method of marking slaves, 
so that they may be easily described and detected 
when they escape, is called cropping. In the 
preceding advertisements, the reader will per. 



; ceive a number of cases, in which the runaway 
is described as * cropt,^ or a ' notch cut in the 
car, or a part or the whole of the ear cut ojf,' &-c. 

Two years and a half since, the writer of this 
saw a letter, then just received by Mr. Lewis 
Tappan, of New York, containing a negro's ear 
cut off close to the head. The writer of the let. 
ter, who signed himself Thomas Aylethorpe, 
Montgomery, Alabama, sent it to Mr. Tappan as 
' a specimen of a negro's ears,' and desired him to 
add it to his ' collection.' 

Another method of marking slaves, is by draw, 
ing out or breaking off one or two front teeth — 
commonly the upper ones, as the mark would in 
that case be the more obvious. An instance of 
this kind the reader will recall in the testimony 
of Sarah M. Grimke, page 30, and of which she 
had personal knowledge ; being well acquainted 
both with the inhuman master, (a distinguished 
citizen of South Carolina,) by whose order the 
brutal deed was done, and with the poor young 
girl whose mouth was thus barbarously mutilated, 
to furnish a convenient mark by which to de- 
scribe her in case of her elopement, as she had 
frequently run away. 

The case stated by Miss G. serves to unravel 
what, to one unmitiated, seems quite a mystery : 
i. e. the frequency with which, in the advertise- 
ments of runaway slaves published in southern 
papers, they are described as having one or two 
front teeth out. Scores of such advertisements 
are in southern papers now on our table. We 
will furnish the reader with a do^en or two. 



WITNESSES. 

Jesse Debruhl, sheriff, Richland Dis- 
trict, "Columbia (S. C.) Telescope," 
Feb. 24, 1838. 

Mr. John Hunt, Black Water Bay, 
" Pensacola (Ga.) Gazette," October 14, 
1837. 

Mr. John Frederick, Branchville, 
Orangeburgh District, S. C. " Charleston 
[S. C] Courier," June 12, 1837. 

Mr. Egbert A. Raworth, eight miles 
west of Nashville on the Charlotte road, 
*' Daily Republican Banner," Nashville, 
Tennessee, April 30, 1838. 

Benjamin Russel, Deputy sheriff, 
Bibb Co. Ga; " Macon (Ga.) Telegraph," 
Dec. 25, 1837. 

F. Wisner, Master of the Work 
House, " Charleston (S. C.) Courier." 
Oct. 17, 1837. 

Mr. S. Neyle, " Savannah (Ga.) Re- 
publican," July 3, 1837. 

Mr. John McMurrain, near Columbus, 
" Georgia Messenger," Aug. 2, 1838. 

Mr. John Kennedy, Stewart Co. La. 
" New Orleans Bee," April 7, 1837. 

Mr. A. J. Hutchings, near Florence, 
Ala. " North Alabamian," August 25, 
1838. 



TESTIMONY. 

" Committed to jail, Ned, about 25 years of age, has lost his 
two upper front teeth." 

" 100 DOLLARS REWARP, for Perry, one under front 
tooth missing, aged 23 years." 

10 DOLLARS REWARD, for Mary, one or two upper teeth 
outj about 25 years old." 

" Ranaway, Myal, 23 years old, one of his fore teeth out.''^ 



" Brought to jail John, 23 years old, one fore tooth out.^* 

'' Committed to the Charleston Work House Tom, two of his 
upper front teeth out, about 30 years of age." 

" Ranaway Peter, has lost two front teeth in the upper jaw." 
" Ranaway, a boy named Moses, some of his front teeth out. 

" Ranaway, Sally, her foreteeth out.^^ 

" Ranaway, George Winston, two of his upper fore teeth out 
immediately in front." 



84 



Pwiisliments — Mutilation of Teeth. 



Mr. James Purdan, 33 Common street, 
N. O. " New Orleans Bee," Feb. 13, 

1838. 

Mr. Robert Calvert, in tlie " Arkan- 
sas State Gazetto," August 22, 1838. 

Mr. A. G. A. Beazlev, in the Mfni- 
pliis Gazette," March 18, 1338. 



" Ranaway, Jackson, has lost one of his front teeth:* 

" Ranaway, Jack, 25 years old, has lost one of his fore teeth:* 

" Ranaway, Abraham, 20 or 22 years of age, his front teeth 
out:* 



Mr. Samuel Townscnd, in the " Ilunts- 
ville [A la. J Democrat," May 24, 1837. 



" Ranaway, Dick, 18 or 20 years of age, has one front tooth 
out:* 



Mr. Philip A. Dew, in the 
Herald," olMay 24, 1837. 



Virsinia 



" Ranaway, Washington, about 25 years of age, has an upper 
front tooth out:* 



Mr. John Frederick, in the " Charles- " 50 DOLLARS REWARD, for Mary, 25 or 26 years old. 
ton Mercury, ' August 10, 1837. ^^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^J^ ^^f,, ^ 

Jesse Debruhl, sheriff of Richland «» Committed to jail, Ned, 25 or 26 years old, has lost his two 
District, in the "Columbia [S. C] unner frnnt tppfh » 
" Telegraph," Sept. 2, 1837. upper jroni leetn. 

M. E. w. Gilbert, in the " Columbua « 50 DOLLARS REWARD, for Prince, 25 or 26 years old, 
LGa.] Enquirer," Oct. 5. 1837. ^^g ^^ ^^p ^^g^;^ ^^^ j^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^Yie upper jaw." 

Publisher of the " Charleston Mer- " Ranaway, Seller Saunders, one fore tooth out, about 22 years 
cury,' Aug. 31,1838. of affe." 

r^^^m r*^ ^: .p;:^^*^' '"the "Maoon " Ranaway, Warren, about 25 or 26 years old, has lost some 
[Ga.] Telegraph, 'Oct. 16, 1838. of his front teeth:* 

1 J^'' ?,^°r'^^ w- ^'"■'l^f'i? ^^^^.'\'^'l' " Ranaway, Henry, about 23 years old, has one of his upper 
IcdgevilleCGa.] Journal," May 22, 1837, front teeth out:* ^* ^ * i'^ 

" Committed to jail Elizabeth Steward, 17 or 18 years old, has 
one of her front teeth out:* 

" Ranaway Liley, 26 years of age, one fore tooth gone:* 

" 50 DOLLARS REWARD, for Adolphe, 28 years old, two 
of his front teeth are missing." 



D. Herring, Warden of Baltimore 
Jail, in i' Baltimore Chronicle," Oct. 6, 
1837. 

Mr. J. L. Colbom, ui the " Hantsville 
[Ala.] Democrat," July 4, 1837. 



Samuel Harman Jr. in the 
Orleans Bee," Oct. K, 1838. 



New 



Were it necessary, we might easily add to the 
preceding list, hundredth. The reader will remark 
that all the slaves, whose ages are given, are 
young — not one has arrived at middle age ; con- 
sequently it can hardly be supposed that they have 
lost their teeth either from age or decay. The 
probability that their teeth were uken out by 
force, is increased by the fact of their oeing/row< 
tfieth in almost every case, and from the la ct that 
the loss of no other is mentioned in the advertise- 
nients. It is well known that the front teeth are 
not generally the first to fail. Further, it is noto- 
rious that the teeth of the slaves are remarkably 
sound and serviceable, that they decay far less, and 
at a much later period of life than the teeth of the 
whites : owing partly, no doubt, to original con- 
stitution ; but more probably to their diet, habits, 
and mode of life. 

As an illustration of the horrible mutilations 
sometimes suffered by them in the breaking and 
tearing out of their teeth, we insert the following, 
from the New-Orleans Bee of May 31, 1837. 

f 10 REWARD.— Ranaway, Friday, May 12, 
Julia, a negress, eighteen or twenty years old. 



She has lost her upper teeth, and the under 
ones are all broken. Said reward will be paid 
to whoever will bring her to her master, No. 172 
Barracks-street, or lodge her in the jail. 

The following is contained in the same paper. 
Ranaway, Nelson, 27 years old, — "All his 

TEETH are missing." 

This advertisement is signed by " Selfer," 
Faubourg Marigny, 

We now call the attention of the reader to a 
mass of testimony in support of our general pro- 
position. 

George B. Ripley, Esq. of Norwich, Connec- 
ticut, has furnished the following statement, in a 
letter dated Dec. 12, 1838. 

" GuRDON Chapman, Esq., a respectable mer- 
chant of our city, one of our county commission- 
ers, — last spring a member of our state legisla- 
ture, — and whose character for veracity is alsove 
suspicion, about a year since visited the county of 
Nansemond, Virginia, for the purpose of buying 
a cargo of corn. He purchased a large quantity 

of Mr. , with whose family he spent a 

week or ten days ; after he returned, he related to 
me and several other citizens the following facts. 



Punishments — Cruelties. 



85 



In order to prepare the corn for market by the 
time agreed upon, the slaves were worked as hard 
as they would bear, from daybreak until 9 or 10 
o'clock at night. They were called directly from 
their bunks in the morning to their work, without 
a morsel of food until noon, when they took their 
breakfast and (pinner, consisting of bacon and corn 
bread. The quantity of meat was not one tenth 
of what the same number of northern laborers 
usually Jiave at a meal. They were allowed but 
fifteen minutes to take this meal, at the expiration 
of this time the horn was blown. The rigor with 
which they enforce punctuality to its call, may be 
imagined from the fact, that a little boy only nine 
years old was whipped so severely by the driver, 
that in many places the whip cut through his 
clothes (which were of cotton,) for tardiness of 
not over three minutes. They then worked with- 
out intermission until 9 or 10 at night; after 
which they prepared and ate their second meal, 
as scanty as the first. An aged slave, who was 
remarkable for his industry and fidelity, was work- 
ing with all his might on the threshing floor; 
amidst the clatter of the shelling and winnowing 
machines the master spoke to him, but he did not 
hear ; he presently gave him several severe cuts 
with the raw hide, saying, at the same time, 
*damn you, if you cannot hear I'll see if you can 
feel.' One morning the master rose from break- 
fast and whipped most cruelly, with a raw hide, a 
nice girl who was waiting on the table, for not 
opening a west window when he had told her to 
open an east one. The number of slaves was only 
forty, and yet the lash was in constant use. The 
bodies of all of them were literally covered with 
old scars. 

" Not one of the slaves attended church on the 
Sabbath. The social relations were scarcely re- 
cognised among them, and they Uved in a stale 
of promiscuous concubinage. The master said 
he took pains to breed from his best stock— the 
whiter the progeny the higher they would sell for 
house servants. When asked by Mr. C. if he did 
not fear his slaves would run away if he whipped 
them so much, he replied, they know too well 
what they must suffer if they are taken— and then 
said, ' I'll tell you how I treat my runaway nig- 
gers. I had a big nigger that ran away the second 
time ; as soon as I got track of him I took three 
good fellows and went in pursuit, and found him 
m the night, some miles distant, in a corn-house • 
we took him and ironed him hand and foot, and 
carted him home. The next morning we tied him 
to a tree, and whipped him until there was not a 
sound place on his back. I then tied his ankles 
and hoisted him up to a Zm6— feet up and head 
down— we then whipped him, until the damned 
nigger smoked so that I thought he would take 
hre and burn up. We then took him down ; and 
to make sure that he should not run away the 
third time, I run my knife in back of the ankles 
and cut off the large cojy/s,— and then I ought to 
have put some lead into the wounds, but I for 
got it.' 

"The truth of the above is from unquestionable 
authority ; and you may publish or suppress it, as 
shall best subserve the cause of God and hu- 
manity." 



Esq., Winthrop, Maine, dated Jan. 12th, 1839. 
Mr. S. is a member of the Congregational church 
in Winthrop, and late agent of the Winthrop 
Manufacturing company. 

" Being somewhat acquainted with slavery, by a 
residence of about five years in Alabama, and 
having witnessed many acts of slaveholding cru- 
elty, I will mention one or tv/o that came under 
my eye ; and one of excessive cruelty mentioned 
to me at the time, by the gentleman (now dead,) 
that interfered in behalf of the slave. 

" I was witness to such cruelties by an over- 
seer to a slave, that he twice attempted to drown 
himself, to get out of his power : this was on a 
raft of staves, in the Mobile river. I saw an owner 
take his runaway slave, tie a rope round him, then 
get on his horse, give the slave and horse a cut 
with the whip, and run the poor creature barefoot- 
ed, very fast, over rough ground, where small black 
jack oaks had been cut up, leaving the sharp 
stumps, on which the slave would frequently fall ; 
then the master would drag him as long "as he 
could himself hold out ; then stop, and whip him 
up on his feet again — then proceed as before. 
This continued until he got out of my sight, 
which was about half a mile. But what further 
cruelties this wretched man, (whose passion was 
so excited that he could scarcely utter a word 
when he took the slave into his own power,) in- 
flicted upon his poor victim, the day of judo-ment 
will unfold. ^ 

" I have seen slaves severely whipped on planta- 
tions, but this is an every day occurrence, and 
comes under the head of general treatment. 

" I have known the case of a husband com- 
pelled to whip his wife. This I did not witness, 
though not two rods from the cabin at the time. 
" I will now mention the case of cruelty before 
referred to. In 1820 or 21, while the public works 
were going forward on Dauphin Island, Mobile 
Bay, a contractor, engaged on the works, beat 
one of his slaves so severely that the poor crea- 
ture had no longer power to writhe under his suf- 
fering : he then took out his knife, and began to 
cut his flesh in strips, from his hips down. At 
this moment, the gentleman referred to, who was 
also a contractor, shocked at such inhumanity, 
stepped forward, between the wretch and his vic- 
tim, and exclaimed, 'If you touch that slave 
again you do it at the peril of your life." The 
slaveholder raved at him for interfering between 
him and his slave ; but he was obliged to drop his 
victim, fearing the arm of my friend— whose sta- 
ture and physical powers were extraordinary." 



Extract of a letter from Stephen Sewall, 



Extract of a letter from Mrs. Mary Cowles, 
a member of the Protestant Church at Geneva, 
Ashtabula county, Ohio, dated 12th, mo. 18th,' 
1838. Mrs. Cowles is a daughter of Mr. James 
Colwell of Brook county, Virginia, near West 
Liberty. 

" In the year 1809, I think, when I was twenty, 
one years old, a man in the vicinity where I resid- 
ed, in Brooke co. Va. near West Liberty, by the 
name of Morgan, had a little slave girl about six 
years old, who had a habit or rather a natural infir- 
mity common to children of that age. On this ac, 
count her master and mistress would pinch her ears 



86 



Punishments — Cruelties. 



with hot tongs, and throw hot embers on her legs. 
Not being able to accomplish their object by these 
means, they at last resorted to a method too in- 
delicate, and too horrible to describe in detail. 
Suifice it to say, it soon put an end to her life in 
the most excruciating manner. If further testi- 
mony to authenticate what I have stated is ne- 
cessar}^, I refer you to Dr. Robert Mitchel who 
then resided in the vicinity, but now lives at In- 
diana, Pennsylvania, above Pittsburgh." 

Mary Cowles. 

Testimony of William Ladd, Esq., now of 
Minot, Maine, formerly a slaveholder in Florida. 
Mr. Ladd is now the President of the American 
Peace Society. In a letter dated November 
29, 1838, Mr. Ladd says : 

" While I lived in Florida I knew a slaveholder 
whose name was Hutchinson, he had been a 
preacher and a member of the Senate of Georgia. 
He told me that he dared not keep a gun in 
his house, because he was so passionate ; and that 
lie had been the death of three or four men. I un- 
derstood him to mean slaves. One of his slaves, a 
girl, once came to my house. She had run away 
from him at Indian river. The cords of one of 
her hands were so much contracted that her hand 
was useless. It was said that he had thrust her 
hand into the fire while he was in a fit of passion, 
and held it there, and this was the effect. My 
wife had hid the girl, when Hutchinson came for 
her. Out of compassion for the poor slave, I of- 
fered him more than she was worth, which he re- 
fused. We afterward let the girl escape, and I do 
not know what became of her, but I believe he 
never got her again. It was currently reported 
of Hutchinson, that he once knocked down a 
new negro (one recently from Africa) who was 
clearing up land, and who complained of the cold, 
as it was mid-winter. The slave was stunned 
with the blow. Hutchinson, supposing he had 
the ' sulks,' applied fire to the side of the slave 
until it was so roasted that he said the slave was 
not worlh curing, and ordered the other slaves to 
]>ile on brush, and he was consumed. 

" A murder occurred at the settlement, (Mus- 
quito) while I lived there. An overseer from Geor- 
gia, who was employed by a Mr. Cormick, in a 
iit of jealousy shot a slave of Samuel Williams, 
the owner of the next plantation. He was ap- 
prehended, but afterward suffered to escape. 
This man told me that he had rather whip a ne- 
gro than sit down to the best dinner. This man 
had, near his house, a contrivance like that which 
is used in armies where soldiers are punished 
with the picket ; by this the slave was drawn up 
from the earth, by a cord passing round his wrists, 
so that his feet could just touch the ground. It 
somewhat resembled a New England well sweep, 
and was used when the slaves were flogged. 

" The treatment of slaves at Musquito I consi- 
<ler much milder than that which I have witness- 
ed in the United States, Florida was under the 
Spanish government while I lived there. There 
were about fifteen or twenty plantations at Mus- 
quito. I have an indistinct recollection of four or 
five slaves dying of the cold in Amelia Island. 
They belonged to Mr. Runer of Musquito. The 
compensation of the overseers was a certain por- 
tion of the crop." 



Gerrit Smith, Esq. of Peterboro, in a letteri 
dated Dec. 1,5, 1838, says : 

" I have just been conversing with an inhabi- 
tant of this town, on the subject of the cruelties 
of slavery. My neighbors inform me that he is 
a man of veracity. The candid manner of his 
communication utterly forbade the suspicion that 
he was attempting to deceive me. 

" My informant says that he resided in Louis- 
iana and Alabama during a great jxirt of the 
years 1819 and 1820 : — that he frequently saw 
slaves whipped, never saw any killed ; but often 
heard of their being killed : — that in several in- 
stances he had seen a slave receive, in the space 
of two hours, five hundred lashes — each stroke 
drawing blood. He adds that this severe whip- 
ping was always followed by the application of 
strong brine to the lacerated parts- 

" My informant further says, that in the spring 
of 1819, he steered a boat from Louisville to New 
Orleans. Whilst stopping at a plantation on the 
east bank of the Mississippi, between Natchez and 
New Orleans, for the purpose of making sale of 
some of the articles Vv^'ith which the boat was 
freighted, he and his fellow boatmen saw a shock- 
ingly cruel punishment inflicted on a couple of 
slaves for the repeated offence of running away. 
Straw was spread over the whole of their backs, 
and, after being fastened by a band of the same 
material, was ignited, and left to burn, until en- 
tirely consumed. The agonies and screams of 
the sufferers he can never forget." 

Dr. David Nelson, late president of Marion 
College, Missouri, a native of Tennessee, and till 
forty years old a slaveholder, said in an Anti- 
Slavery address at Northampton, Mass. Jan. 
1839— 

" I have not attempted to harrow your feelings 
with stories of cruelty. I will, however, mention 
one or two among the many incidents that came 
under my observation as family physician. I was 
one day dressing a blister, and the mistress of the 
house sent a little black girl into tlie kitchen to 
bring me some warm water. She probably mis- 
took her message ; for she returned with a bowl 
full of boiling water ; which her mistress no 
sooner perceived, than she thrust her hand into 
it, and held it there till it was half cooked." 

Mr. Henry H. Loomis, a member of the PresL 
byterian Theological Seminary in the city of 
New York, says, in a recent letter — 

" The Rev. Mr. Hart, recently my pastor, in 
Otsego county. New York, and who has spent 
some time at the south as a teacher, stated to 
me that in the neighborhood in which he resided 
a slave was set to watch a turnip patch near an 
academy, in order to keep off the boys who occa- 
sionally trespassed on it. Attempting to repeat the 
trespass in presence of the slave, they were told 
that his 'master forbad it.' At this the boys 
were enraged, and hurled brickbats at the slave 
until his face and other parts were much injured 
and wounded — but nothing w^as said or done 
about it as an injury to the slave. 

•' He also said, that a slave from the same neigh- 
borhood was found out in the woods, with his 
arms and legs burned almost to a cinder, up as 



Punishments — Cruelties. 



87 



far as tho elbow and knee joints ; and there ap- 
peared to be but little more said or thought about 
it than if he had been a brute. It was supposed 
that his master was the cause of it — making him 
an example of punishment to the rest of the 
gang !" 

The following is an extract of a letter dated 
March 5, 1839, from Mr. John Clarke, a highly 
respected citizen of Scriba, Oswego county, New 
York, and a member of the Presbyterian church. 

The ' Mrs. Turner' spoken of in Mr. C.'s let- 
ter, is the wife of Hon. Fielding S. Turner, who 
in 1803 resided at Lexington, Kentucky, and 
was the attorney for the Commonwealth. Soon 
after that, he removed to New Orleans, and was 
for many years Judge of the Criminal Court of 
that city. Having amassed an immense fortune, 
he returned to Lexington a few years since, and 
still resides there. Mr. C. the writer, spent the 
winter of 1836-7 in Lexington. He says, 

«' Yours of the 27th ult. is received, and I has- 
ten to state the facts which came to my know- 
ledge while in Lexington, respecting the occur- 
rences about which you inquire. Mrs. Turner 
was originally a Boston lady. She is from 35 to 
40 years of age, and the wife of Judge Turner, 
formerly of New Orleans, and worth a large 
fortune in slaves and plantations. I repeatedly 
heard, while in Lexington, Kentucky, during the 
winter of 1836-7, of the wanton cruelty prac- 
tised by this woman upon her slaves, and that 
she had caused several to be whipped to death; 
but I never heard that she was suspected of 
being deranged, otherwise than by the indulgence 
of an ungoverned temper, until I heard that her 
husband was attempting to incarcerate her in 
the Lunatic Asylum. The citizens of Lexing- 
ton, believing the charge to be a false one, rose 
and prevented the accomplishment for a time, 
until, lulled by the fair promises of his friends, they 
left his domicil, and in the dead of night she was 
taken by force, and conveyed to the asylum. 
This proceeding being judged illegal by her 
friends, a suit was instituted to liberate her. I 
heard the testimony on the trial, which related 
only to proceedings had in order to getting her 
admitted into the asylum ; and no facts came out 
relative to her treatment of hex slaves, other than 
of a general character. 

" Some days after the above trial, (which by 
the way did not come to an ultimate decision, 
as I believe) I was present in my brother's 
office, when Judge Turner, in a long conversa- 
tion with my brother on the subject of his trials 
with his wife, said, ' That woman has been the 
immediate cause of the death of six of my ser- 
vants, by her severities.^ 

" I was repeatedly told, while I was there, that 
she drove a colored boy from the second story 
window, a distance of 15 to 18 feet, on to the 
pavement, which made him a cripple for a time. 

" I heard the trial of a man for the murder of his 
slave, by whipping, where the evidence was to 
my m.ind perfectly conclusive of his guilt ; but 
the jury were two of them for convicting him of 
manslaughter, and the rest for acquitting him ; 



and as they could not agree were discharged — and 
on a subsequent trial, as I learned by the papers, 
the culprit was acquitted." 

Rev. Thomas Savage, of Bedford, New Hamp- 
shire, in a recent letter, states the following fact : 

" The following circumstance was related to 
me last summer, by my brother, now residing as 
a physician, at Rodney, Mississippi ; and who, 
though a pro-slavery man, spoke of it in terms of 
reprobation, as an act of capricious, wanton cru- 
elty. The planter who was the actor in it I my- 
self knew ; and the whole transaction is so cha- 
racteristic of the man, that, independent of the 
strong authority I have, I should entertain but 
little doubt of its authenticity. He is a wealthy 
planter, residing near Natchez, eccentric, capri- 
cious and intemperate. On one occasion he in- 
vited a number of guests to an elegant enter- 
tainment, prepared in the true style of southern 
luxury. From some cause, none of the guests 
appeared. In a moody humor, and under the 
influence, probably, of mortified pride, he ordered 
the overseer to call the people (a term by whicli 
the field hands are generally designated,) on to 
the piazza. The order was obeyed, and the 
people came. ' Now,' said he, ' have them seat- 
ed at the table. Accordingly they were seated at 
the well-furnished, glittering table, while he and 
his overseer waited on them, and helped them to 
the various dainties of the feast. ♦ Now,' said he, 
after a while, raising his voice, ' take these ras- 
cals, and give them twenty lashes a piece. I'll 
show them how to eat at my table.' The over- 
seer, in relating it, said he had to comply, though 
reluctantly, with this brutal command." 

Mr. Henry P. Thompson, a native and still a 
resident of Nicholasville, Kentucky, made the 
following statement at a public meeting in Lane 
Seminary, Ohio, in 1833. He was at that time 
a slaveholder. 

" Cruelties, said he, are so common^ I hardly 
know what to relate. But one fact occurs to me 
just at this time, that happened in the village 
where I live. The circumstances are these. A 
colored man, a slave, ran away. As he was 
crossing Kentucky river, a white man, who sus- 
pected him, attempted to stop him. The negro 
resisted. The white man procured help, and 
finally succeeded in securing him. He then 
wreaked his vengeance on him for resisting — 
flogging him till he was not able to walk. They 
then put him on a horse, and came on with him 
ten miles to Nicholasville. When they entered 
the village, it was noticed that he sat upon his 
horse like a drunken man. It was a very hot 
day ; and whilst they were taking some refresh- 
ment, the negro sat down upon the ground, under 
the shade. When they ordered him to go, he 
made several efforts before he could get up ; and 
when he attempted to mount the horse, his 
strength was entirely insufficient. One of the 
men struck him, and with an oath ordered him to 
get on the horse without any more fuss. The 
negro staggered back a few steps, fell down, and 
died. I do not know that any notice was ever 
taken of it." 

Rev. Coleman S. Hodges, a native and still 



88 



Punishments — Cruelties. 



a resident of Western Virginia, gave the follow- 
ing testimony at the same meeting. 

" I have frequently seen the mistress of a fam- 
ily in Virginia, with whom I was well acquaint- 
ed, beat the woman who performed the kitchen 
work, with a stick two feet and a half long, and 
nearly as thick as my wrist ; striking her over 
the head, and across the small of the back, as 
she was bent over at her work, with as much 
spite as you would a snake, and for what I should 
consider no offence at all. There lived in this 
same family a young man, a slave, who was in 
the habit of running away. He returned one 
time after a week's absence. The master took 
him into the barn, stripped him entirely naked, 
tied him up by his hands so high that he could 
not reach the floor, tied his feet together, and put 
a small rail between his legs, so that he could not 
avoid the blows, and commenced whipping him. 
He told me that he gave him five hundred lashes. 
At any rate, he was covered with wounds from 
head to foot. Not a place as big as my hand but 
what was cut. Such things as these are per- 
fectly common all over Virginia ; at least so far 
as I am acquainted. Generally, planters avoid 
punishing their slaves before strangers." 

Mr. Calvin H. Tate, of Missouri, whose father 
and brother were slaveholders, related the fol- 
lowing at the same meeting. The plantation on 
which it occurred, was in the immediate neigh- 
borhood of his father's. 

" A young woman, who was generally very 
badly treated, after receiving a more severe whip^ 
ping than usual, ran away. In a few days she 
came back, and was sent into the field to work. 
At this time the garment next her skin was stiff 
like a scab, from the running of the sores made 
by the whipping. Towards night, she told her 
master that she was sick, and wished to go to 
the house. She v/ent, and as soon as she reach- 
ed it, laid down on the floor exhausted. The 
mistress asked her what the matter was ? She 
made no reply. She asked again ; but received 
no answer. 'I'll see,' said she, 'if I can't make 
you speak.' So taking the tongs, she heated 
them red hot, and put them upon the bottoms of 
her feet ; then upon her legs and body ; and, 
finally, in a rage, took hold of her throat. This 
had the desired effect. The poor girl faintly 
■whispered, ' Oh, misse, don't — I am most gone ;' 
and expired." 

Extract of a letter from Rev. C. S. Renshav/, 
pastor of the Congregational Church, Quincy, 
Illinois. 

" Judge Menzies of Boone county, Kentucky, 
an elder in the Presbyterian Church, and a slave- 
holder, told me that he knew some overseers in 
the tobacco growing region of Virginia, who, to 
make their slaves careful in picking the tobacco, 
that is taking the worms off, (you know what a 
loathsome thing the tobacco worm is) would 
make them eat some of the worms, and others 
who made them eat every worm they missed in 
picking." 

" Mrs. Nancy Judd, a member of the Non- 
Conformist Church in Osnaburg, Stark county, 



Ohio, and formerly a resident of Kentucky, testi- 
fies that she knew a slaveholder, 

" Mr. Brubecker, who had a number of slaves, 
among whom was one who would frequently 
avoid labor by hiding himself; for which he 
would get severe floggings without the desired ef- 
fect, and that at last Mr. B. would tie large cats 
on his naked body and whip them to make them 
tear his back, in order to break him of his habit of 
hiding." 

Rev. Horace Moulton, a minister of the Me- 
thodist Episcopal Church in Marlborough, Mas 
sachasetts, says : 

" Some, when other modes of punishment will 
not subdue them, cat-haul them ; that is, take a cat 
by the nap of the neck and tail, or by its hind 
legs, and drag the claws across the back until 
satisfied ; this kind of punishment, as 1 have un- 
derstood, poisons the flesh much worse than the 
whip, and is more dreaded by the slave." 

Rev. Abel Brown, Jr. late pastor of the first 
Baptist Church, Beaver, Pennsylvania, in a com- 
munication to Rev. C. p. Grosvenor, Editor of 
the Christian Reflector, says : 

" I almost daily see the poor heart-broken slave 
making his way to a land of freedom. A short 
time since, I saw a noble, pious, distressed, spirit- 
crushed slave, a member of the Baptist church, 
escaping from a (professed Christian) blood- 
hound, to a land where he could enjoy that of 
which he had been robbed during forty years. 
His prayers would have made us all feel. I saw 
a Baptist sister of about the same age, her chil- 
dren had been torn from her, her head was cover- 
ed with fresh w^ounds, while her upper lip had 
scarcely ceased to bleed, in consequence of a blow 
with the poker, which knocked out her teeth ; 
she too, was going to a land of freedom. Only a 
very few days since, I saw a girl of about eigh- 
teen, with a child as white as myself, aged ten 
months ; a Christian master was raising her child 
(as well his own perhaps) to sell to a southern 
market. She had heard of the intention, and at 
midnight took her only treasure and traveled 
twenty miles on foot through a land of strangers — 
she found friends." 

Rev. Henry T. Hopkins, pastor of the Primi- 
tive Methodist Church in New York City, who 
resided in Virginia from 1821 to lvS26, relates the 
following fact : 

''An old colored man, the slave of Mr. Emer- 
son, of Portsmouth, Virginia, being under deep 
conviction for sin, went into the back part of his 
master' s garden to pour out his soul in prayer to 
God. For this offence he was whipped thirty- 
nine lashes." 

Extract of a letter from Doctor F. Julius Le 
MoYNE, of Washington, Pennsylvania, dated 
Jan. 9, 1839. 

" Lest you should not have seen the state- 
ment to which I am going to allude, I subjoin a 
brief outline of the facts of a transaction which 
occurred in Western Virginia, adjacent to this 
county, a number of years ago — a full account 



Punishments — Wanton Cruelties. 



80 



of which was pubhshed in the " Witness" about 
two years since by Dr. Mitchell, who now resides 
in Indiana county, Pennsylvania. A slave boy 
ran away in cold weather, and during his con- 
cealment had his legs frozen ; he returned, or was 
retaken. After some time the flesh decayed and 
sloughed — of course was offensive — he was car- 
ried out to a field and left there without bed, or 
shelter, deserted 1o die. His only companions 
were the house dogs which he called to him. Af- 
ter several days and nights spent in suffering and 
exposure, he was visited by Drs. McKitchen and 
Mitchell in the field, of their own accord, having 
heard by report of his lamentable condition ; they 
remonstrated with the master ; brought the boy 
to the house, amputated both legs, and he finally 
recovered." 

Hon. James K. Paulding, the Secretary of the 
Navy of the U. States, in his " Letters from the 
South" published in 1817, relates the following : 

" At one of the taverns along the road we 
were set down in the same room with an elderly 
man and a youth who seemed to be well acquaint- 
ed with him, for they conversed familiarly and 
with true republican independence — for they did 
not mind who heard them. From the tenor of 
his conversation I was induced to look particu- 
larly at the elder. He was telling the youth 
something like the following detested tale. He 
was going, it seems, to Richmond, to inquire about 
a draft for seven thousand dollars, which he had 
sent by mail, but which, not having been ac- 
knowledged by his correspondent, he was afraid 
had been stolen, and the money received by 
the thief. * I should not like to lose it,' said he, 
* for I worked hard for it, and sold many a poor 

d 1 of a black to Carolina and Georgia, to 

scrape it together.' He then went on to tell 
many a perfidious tale. All along the road it 
seems he made it his business to inquire where 
lived a man who might be tempted to become a 
party in this accursed traffic, and when he had 
got some half dozen of these poor creatures, he 
tied their hands behind their backs, and drove 
them three or four hundred miles or more, bare- 
headed and half naked through the burning 
southern sun. Fearful that even southern huma- 
nitrj would revolt at such an exhibition of human 
misery and human barbarity, he gave out that 
they were runaway slaves he was carrying home 
to their masters. On one occasion a poor black 
woman exposed this fallacy, and told the story of 
her being kidnapped, and when he got her 
into a wood out of hearing, he beat her, to use 
Jiis own expression, ' till her back was white.' 
It seems he married all the men and v/omen he 
bought, himself, because they would sell better for 
being man and wife ! But, said the youth, were 
you not afraid, in traveling through the wild 
country and sleeping in lone houses, these slaves 
would rise and kill you ? ' To be sure I was,' 
said the other, ' but I always fastened my door, 
put a chair on a table before it, so that it might 
wake me in falling, and slept with a loaded pistol 
in each hand. It was a bad life, and I left it off 
as soon as I could live without it ; for many is the 
time I have separated wives from husbands, and 
husbands from wives, and parents from children, 
but then I made them amends by marrying them 

12 



again as soon as I had a chance, that is to say, I 
made them call each other man and wife, and 
sleep together, which is quite enough for negroes. 
I made one bad purchase though,' continued he. 
' I bought a young mulatto girl, a lively creature, 
a great bargain. She had been the favorite of 
her master, who had lately married. Tlie dif- 
ficulty was to get her to go, for the poor creature 
loved her master. However, I swore most bit- 
terly I was only going to take her to her mother's 

at and she went with me, though she seem.ed 

to doubt me very much. But when she discovered, 
at last, that we were out of the state, I thought 
she would go mad, and in fact, the next night she 
drowned herself in the river close by. I lost a 
good five hundred dollars by this foolish trick.' " 
Vol. I. p. 121. 

Mr. Spillman, a native, and till recently, 

a resident of Virginia, now a member of the Pres- 
byterian church in Delhi, Hamilton co., Ohio, has 
furnished the two following facts, of which he had 
personal knowledge. 

" David Stallard, of Shenandoah Co., Virginia, 
had a slave, who run away ; he was taken up and 
lodged in Woodstock jail. Stallard went with an- 
other man and took him out of the jail — tied him 
to their horses — and started for home. The day 
was excessively hot, and they rode so fast, drag, 
ging the man by the rope behind them, that he 
became perfectly exhausted — fainted — dropped 
down, and died. 

" Henry Jones, of Culpepper co., Virginia, 
owned a slave, who ran away. Jones caught 
him, tied him up, and for two days, at intervals, 
continued to flog him, and rub salt into his man- 
gled flesh, until his back was literally cut up. The 
slave sunk under the torture ; and for some days 
it was supposed he must die. He, however, slow- 
ly recovered ; though it was some weeks before he 
could walk." 

Mr. Nathan Cole, of St. Louis, Missouri, in a 
letter to Mr. Arthur Tappan, of New-York, dated 
July 2, 1834, says, — 

"You will find inclosed an account of the pro- 
ceedings of an inquest lately held in this city upon 
the body of a slave, the details of which, if pub- 
lished, not one in ten could be induced to believe 
true.* It appears that the master or mistress, or 
both, suspected the unfortunate wretch of hiding 
a bunch of keys which were missing ; and to ex. 
tort some explanation, which, it is more than pro- 
bable, the slave was as unable to do as her mis- 
tress, or any other person, her master, Major Har- 
ney, an officer of our army, had whipped her for 
three successive days, and it is supposed by some, 
that she was kept tied during the time, until her 
flesh was so lacerated and torn that it Vv^as impos. 
sible for the jifry to say whether it had been done 
with a whip or hot iron ; some think both — but she 
was tortured to death. It appears also that the 
husband of the said slave had become suspected 
of telling some neighbor of what was going on, for 

* Tlie following is the newspaper notice referred to : — 
An inquest was held at the dwelling house of Major Har- 
ney, in this city, on tlie 27th inst. by the coroner, on tiie 
body of Hannah, a slave. The jury, on their oaths, and 
after hearing the testimony of physicians and several otiior 
witnesses, found, that said slave "came to her death by 
wounds i?iflicted by William S. Harney." 



90 



Punishments — W anton Cruelties. 



which Major Harney commenced torturing him, 
until the man broke from him, and ran into the 
Mississippi and drowned himself. The man was 
a pious and very industrious slave, perhaps not 
surpassed by any in this place. The woman has 
been in the family of John Shackford, Esq., the 
present doorkeeper of the Senate of the United 
States, for many years ; was considered an excel- 
lent servant — was the mother of a number of 
children — and I believe was sold into the family 
where she met her fate, as matter of conscience, 
to keep her from being sent below." 

Mr. EzEKiEL BiRDSEYE, a highly respected citi- 
zen of Cornwall, Litchfield co., Connecticut, who 
resided for many years at the south, furnished to 
the Rev. E, R. Tyler, editor of the Connecticut 
Observer, the following personal testimony. 

" While I lived in Limestone co., Alabama, in 
1826-7, a tavern-keeper of the village of Mores- 
ville discovered a negro carrying away a piece of 
old carpet. It was during the Christmas holidays, 
when the slaves are allowed to visit their friends. 
The negro stated that one of the servants of the 
tavern owed him some twelve and a half or 
twenty-five cents, and that he had taken the car- 
pet in payment. This the servant denied. The 
innkeeper took the negro to a field near by, 
and whipped him cruelly. He then struck him 
with a stake, and punched him in the face and 
mouth, knocking out some of his teeth. After 
this, he took him back to the house, and com- 
mitted him to the care of his son, who had 
just then come home with another young man. 
This was at evening. They whipped him by 
turns, with heavy cowskins, and made the dogs 
shake him. A Mr. Phillips, who lodged at the 
house, heard the cruelty during the night. On 
getting up he found the negro in the bar-room, 
terribly mangled with the whip, and his flesh so 
torn by the dogs, that the cords were bare. He 
remarked to the landlord that he was dangerously 
hurt, and needed care. The landlord replied that 
he deserved none. Mr. Phillips went to a neigh- 
boring magistrate, who took the slave home with 
him, where he soon died. The father and son were 
both tried, and acquitted ! ! A suit was brought, 
however, for damages in behalf of the owner of 
the slave, a young lady by the name of Agnes 
Jones. / loas on the jury when these facts were 
stated, on oath. Two men testified, one that he 
would have given ^lOOO for him, the other $900 
or $950. The jury found the latter sum. 

" At Union Court House, S. C, a tavern-keep- 
er, by the name of Samuel Davis, procured the 
conviction and execution of his ov/n slave, for 
stealing a cake of gingerbread from a grog shop. 
The slave raised the latch of the back door, and 
took the cake, doing no other injury. The shop 
keeper, whose name v/as Charles Gordon, was 
willing to forgive him, but his master procured his 
conviction and execution by hanging. The slave 
liad but one arm ; and an order on the state trea- 
sury b}?^ the court that tried him, which also as- 
sessed his value, brought him more money than 
he could have obtained for the slave in market." 



Mr. , an elder of the Presbyterian Church 

in one of the slave states, lately wrote a letter to 



an agent of the Anti-Slavery Society, in which he 
states the following fact. The name of the writer 
is with the Executive Committee of the American 
Anti-Slavery Society. 

" I was passing through a piece of timbered land, 
and on a sudden I heard a sound as of murder ; 
I rode in that direction, and at some distance dis- 
covered a naked black man, hung to the limb of 
a tree by his hands, his feet chained together, and 
a pine rail laid with one end on the chain between 
his legs, and the other upon the ground, to steady 
him ; and in this condition the overseer gave him 
four hundred lashes. The miserably lacerated 
slave was then taken down, and put to the care 
of a physician. And what do you suppose was 
the offence for which all this was done ? Simply 
this : his owner, observing that he laid off corn 
rows too crooked, he replied, ' Massa, much corn 
grow on crooked row as on straight one.' This 
was it — this was enough. His overseer, boasting of 
his skill in managing a nigger, he was submitted 
to him, and treated as above." 

David L. Child, Esq., of Northampton, Massa- 
chusetts, Secretary of the United States minister 
at the Court of Lisbon during the administration of 
President Monroe, stated the following fact in an 
oration delivered by him in Boston, in 1834. (See 
Child's " Despotism of Freedom," p. 30. 

" An honorable friend, who stands high in the 
state and in the nation,* was present at the burial 
of a female slave in Mississippi, who had been 
whipped to death at the stake by her master, be- 
cause she was gone longer of an errand to the 
neighboring town than her master thought neces- 
sary. Under the lash she protested that she was 
ill, and was obliged to rest in the fields. To com- 
plete the climax of horror, she was delivered of a 
dead infant while undergoing the punishment." 

The same fact is stated by Mrs. Child in her 
" Appeal." In answer to a recent letter, inquir- 
ing of Mr. and Mrs. Child if they were now at 
liberty to disclose the name of their informant, 
Mr. C. says, — 

'' The witness who stated to us the fact was 
John James Appleton, Esq., of Cambridge, Mass. 
He is now in Europe, and it is not without some 
hesitation that I give his name. He, however, 
has openly embraced our cause, and taken a con. 
spicuous part in some anti-slavery public meet- 
ings since the time that I felt a scruple at publish, 
ing his name. Mr. Appleton is a gentleman of 
high talents and accomplishments. He has been 
Secretary of Legation at Rio Janeiro, Madrid, 
and the Hague ; Commissioner at Naples, and 
Charge d' Affaires at Stockholm." 

The two following facts are stated upon the 
authority of the Rev. Joseph G. Wilson, pastor of 
the Presbyterian Church in Salem, Washington 
CO., Indiana. 

" In Bath co., Kentucky, Mr. L., in the year 
'32 or '33, while intoxicated, in a fit of rage whip- 
ped a female slave until she fainted and fell on 
the floor. Then he whipped her to get up ; then 

* " The narrator of this fact is now absent from the United 
States, and I do not feel at liberty to mention his name." 



Punishme nts — Cruelties . 



91 



with red liot tongs he burned off her ears, and 
whipped her again ! but all in vain. He then or- 
dered his negro men to carry her to the cabin. 
There she was found dead next morning. 

" One Wall, in Chester district, S. C, owned a 
slave, whom he hired to his brother-in-law, Wm. 
Beckman, for whom the slave worked eighteen 
months, and worked well. Two weeks after re- 
turning to his master he ran away on account of 
bad treatment. To induce him to return, the 
master sold him nominally to his neighbor, to 
whom the slave gave himself up, and by whom 
he was returned to his master : — Punishment, 
stripes. To prevent escape a bar of iron was fast- 
ened with three bands, at the waist, knee, and 
ankle. That night he broke the bands and bar, 
and escaped. Next day he was taken and 
whipped to death, by three men, the master. 
Thorn, and the overseer. First, he was whipped 
and driven towards home ; on the way he attempt- 
ed to escape, and was shot at by the master, — 
caught, and knocked down with the butt of the gun 
by Thorn. In attempting to cross a ditch iie fell, 
with his feet down, and face on the bank ; they 
whipped in vain to get him up — he died. His 
soul ascended to God, to be a swift witness against 
his oppressors. This took place at 12 o'clock. 
Next evening an inquest was held. Of thirteen 
jurors, summoned by the coroner, nine said it 
was murder ; two said it was manslaughter, and 
two said it was justifiable ! He was bound over 
to court, tried, and acquitted — not even fined !" 

The following fact is stated on the authority of 
Mr. Wm. Willis, of Green Plains, Clark co. Ohio ; 
formerly of Caroline co. on the eastern shore of 
Maryland. 

" Mr. W. knew a slave called Peter White, v/ho 
was sold to be taken to Georgia ; he escaped, and 
lived a long time in the woods — was finally taken. 
When he found himself surrounded, he surren- 
dered himself quietly. When his pursuers had 
him in their possession, they shot him in the leg, 
and broke it, out of mere wantonness. Tlie next 
day a Methodist minister set his leg, and bound it 
up with splints. The man who took him, then 
went into his place of confinement, wantonly 
jumped upon his leg and crushed it. His name 
was William Sparks." 

Most of our readers are familiar with the hor- 
rible atrocities perpetrated in New Orleans, in 
1834, by a certain Madame La Laurie, upon her 
slaves. They were published extensively in north- 
ern newspapers at the time. The following are ex- 
tracts from the accounts as published in the New 
Orleans papers immediately after the occurrence. 
The New Orleans Bee says : — 

*' Upon entering one of the apartments, the most 
appalling spectacle met their eyes. Seven slaves, 
more or less horribly mutilated, were seen sus. 
pended by the neck, with their limbs apparently 
stretched and torn, from one extremity to the 
other. They had been confined for several months 
in the situation from which they had thus provi- 
dentially been rescued ; and had been merely kept 
in existence to prolong their sufferings, and to 
make them taste all that a most refined cruelty 
could inflict." 



The New Orleans Mercantile Advertiser says : 
" A negro woman was found chained, covered 
with bruises and wounds from severe flogging. — 
All the apartments were then forced open. In a 
room on the ground floor, two more were found 
chained, and in a deplorable condition. Up stairs 
and in the garret, four more were found chained ; 
some so weak as to be unable to walk, and all co- 
vered with wounds and sores. One mulatto boy 
declares himself to have been chained for five 
months, being fed daily with only a handful of 
meal, and receiving every morning the most cruel 
treatment." 

The New Orleans Courier says : — 
" We saw one of these miserable beings. — He 
had a large hole in his head — his body, from head 
to foot, was covered with scars and filled with 
worms," 

The New Orleans Mercantile Advertiser says : 
" Seven poor unfortunate slaves were found — 
some chained to the floor, others with chains 
around their necks, fastened to the ceiling ; and 
one poor old man, upwards of sixty years of age, 
chained hand and foot, and made fast to the floor, 
in a kneeling position. His head bore the appear- 
ance of having been beaten until it was broken, 
and the worms were actually to bo seen making 
a feast of his brains ! ! A woman had her back 
literally cooked (if the expression may be used) 
with the lash ; the very hones might be seen pro- 
jecting through the skin .'" 

The New York Sun, of Feb. 21, 1837, contains 
the following : — 

" Two negroes, runaways from Virginia, were 
overtaken a few days since near Johnstown, Co- 
lumbia' CO. N. Y. when the persons in pui'suit called 
out for them to stop or they would shoot them. — 
One of the negroes turned around and said, he 
would die before he would be taken, and at the 
moment received a rifle ball through his knee : 
the other started to run, but was brought to the 
ground by a ball being shot in his back. After 
receiving the above wounds they made battle with 
their pursuers, but were captured and brought in- 
to Johnstown. It is said that the young men 
who shot them had orders to take them dead or 
alive." 

Mr. M. M. Shafter, of Townsend, Vermont, 
recently a graduate of the Wesleyan University at 
Middletown, Connecticut, makes the following 
statement : 

" Some of the events of the Southampton, Va. 
insurrection were narrated to me by Mr. Benja- 
min W. Britt, from Riddicksville," N. C. Mr. 
Britt claimed the honor of having shot a black on 
that occasion, for the crime of disobeying Mr. 
Britt's imperative 'Stop!' And Mr. Ashurst, of 
Edenton, Georgia, told me that a neighbor of his 
' fired at a likely negro boy of his mother,' because 
the said boy encroached upon his premises." 

Mr. David Hawley, a class leader in the Me- 
thodist Episcopal Church at St. Albans, Licking 
county, Ohio, who moved from Kentucky to Ohio 
in 1831, certifies as follows:— 

" About the year 1825, a slave had escaped for 



92 



Punishments — Cruelties, 



Canada, but was arrested in Hardin county. On 
his return, I saw him in Hart county — his wrists 
tied together before, his arms tied close to his body, 
the rope then passing behind his body, thence to 
the neck of a horse on which rode the master, 
with a club about three feet long, and of the size 
of a hoe handle ; which, by the appearance of the 
slave, had been used on his head, so as to wear off 
the hair and skin in several places, and the blood 
was running freely from his mouth and nose ; his 
heels very much bruised by the horse's feet, as his 
master had rode on him because he would not go 
fast enough. Such was the slave's appearance 
when passing through where I resided. Such 
cases were not unfrequent." 

The following is furnished by Mr. F. A. Hart, 
of Middletown, Connecticut, a manufacturer, and 
an influential member of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church. It occun*ed in 1824, about twenty-five 
miles this side of Baltimore, Maryland. — 

" I had spent the night with a Methodist bro- 
ther ; and while at breakfast, a person came in 
and called for help. We went out and found a 
crowd collected around a carriage. Upon ap. 
proaching we discovered that a slave-trader was 
endeavoring to force a woman into his carriage. 
He had already put in three children, the young- 
est apparently about eight years of age. The wo- 
man was strong, and whenever he brought her to 
the side of the carriage, she resisted so effectually 
with her feet that he could not get her in. The 
woman becoming exhausted, at length, by her 
frantic efforts, he thrust her in with great violence, 
stamped her down upon the bottom with his feet ! 
shouted to the driver to go on ; and away they 
rolled, the miserable captives moaning and shriek- 
ing, until their voices were lost in the distance." 

Mr, Samuel Hall, a teacher in Marietta Col- 
lege, Ohio, writes as follows : — 

" Mr. Isaac C Fuller is a member of the Me- 
thodist Episcopal Church in Marietta. He was a 
fellow student of mine while in college, and now 
resides in this place. He says : — In 1832, as I 
was descending the Ohio with a flat boat, near 
the ' French Islands,' so called, below Cincinnati, 
I saw two negroes on horseback. The horses ap- 
parently took fright at something and ran. Both 
jumped over a rail fence ; and one of the horses, 
in so doing, broke one of his fore-legs, falling at 
the same time and throwing the negro who was 
upon his back. A white man came out of a house 
not over two hundred yards distant, and came to 
the spot. Seizing a stake from the fence, he 
knocked the negro down five or six times in suc- 
cession. 

" In the same year I worked for a Mr. Now- 
land, eleven miles above Baton Rouge, La. at a 
place called ' Thomas' Bend.' He had an over- 
seer who was accustomed to flog more or less of 
the slaves every morning. I heard the blows and 
screams as regularly as we used to hear the col- 
lege bell that summoned us to any duty when we 
went to school. This overseer was a nephew of 
Nowland, and there were about fifty slaves on 
his plantation. Nowland himself related the 
following to me. One of his slaves ran away, 
and came to the Homo Chitto river, where he 



found no means of crossing. Here he fell in with 
a white man who knew his master, being on a 
journey from that vicinity. He induced the slave 
to return to Baton Rouge, under the promise of 
giving him a pass, by which he might escape, but, 
in reality, to betray him to his master. This he did, 
instead of fulfilling his promise. Nowland said 
that he took the slave and inflicted five hundred 
lashes upon him, cutting his back all to pieces, 
and then threw on hot embers. The slave was 
on the plantation at the time, and told me the 
same story. He also rolled up his sleeves, and 
showed me the scars on his arms, which, in con. 
sequence, appeared in places to be callous to the 
bone. I was with Nowland betv/een five and six 
months." 

Rev. John Rankin, formerly of Tennessee, now 
pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Ripley, Ohio, 
has furnished the following statement : — 

" The Rev. Ludwell G. Gaines, now pastor 
of the Presbyterian Church of Goshen, Clermont 
county, Ohio, stated to me, that while a resident 
of a slave state, he was summoned to assist in 
taking a man who had made his black woman 
work naked several days, and afterwards mur- 
dered her. The murderer armed himself, and 
threatened to shoot the officer who went to take 
him ; and although there was ample assistance at 
hand, the officer declined further interference." 

Mr. Rankin adds the following : — 

" A Presbyterian preacher, now resident in a 
slave state, and therefore it is not expedient to 
give his name, stated, that he saw on board of a 
steamboat at Louisville, Kentucky, a woman who 
had been forced on board, to be carried off from 
all she counted dear on earth. She ran across 
the boat and threw herself into the river, in order 
to end a life of intolerable sorrows. She was 
drawn back to the boat and taken up. The bru- 
tal driver beat her severely, and she immediately 
threw herself again into the river. She was hook- 
ed up again, chained, and carried off." 

Testimony of Mr, William Hansborough, of 
Culpepper county, Virginia, the '' owner" of sixty 
slaves. 

*' I saw a slave taken out of prison by his mas. 
ter, on a hot summer's day, and driven, by said 
master, on the road before him, till he dropped 
down dead." 

The above statement was made by Mr. Hans- 
borough to Lindley Coates, of Lancaster county, 
Pa, a distinguished member of the Society of 
Friends, and a member of the late Convention in 
Pa. for altering the State Constitution. The let- 
ter from Mr. C containing this testimony of Mr. 
H. is now before us. 

Mr. Tobias Boudinot, a member of the Method, 
ist Church in St. Albans, Licking county, Ohio, 
says : 

"In Nicholas ville, Ky. in the year 1823, he 
saw a slave fleeing before the patrol, but he was 
overtaken near where he stood, and a man v/ith 
a knotted cane, as large as his wrist, struck the 
slave a number of times on his head, until the 



Punishments — Brandings. 



93 



club was broken and he made tame ; the blood 
was thrown in every direction by the violence of 
the blows." 

The Rev. William Dickey, of Bloomingburg, 
Fayette county, Ohio, wrote a letter to the Rev. 
John Rankin, of Ripley, Ohio, thirteen years 
since, containing a description of the cutting up 
of a slave with a broad axe ; beginning at the feet 
and gradually cutting the legs, arms, and body 
into pieces ! This diabolical atrocity was com- 
mitted in the state of Kentucky, in the year 1807. 
The perpetrators of the deed were two brothers, 
Lilburn and Isham Lewis, nephews of President 
Jefferson. The writer of this having been in- 
formed by Mr. Dickey, that some of the facts con- 
nected with this murder were not contained in 
his letter published by Mr. Rankin, requested him 
to write the account anew, and furnish the addi- 
tional facts. This he did, and the letter contain, 
ing it was published in the " Human Rights" for 
August, 1837. We insert it here, slightly abridg- 
ed, with the introductory remarks which appeared 
m that paper. 

" Mr. Dickey's first letter has been scattered all 
over the country, south and north ; and though 
multitudes have affected to disbelieve its state- 
ments, Kentuckians know the truth of them quite 
too well to call them in question. The story is 
fiction or fact — ii fiction, why has it not been nail- 
ed to the wall ? Hundreds of people around the 
mouth of Cumberland River are personally know- 
ing to these facts. There are the records of the 
court that tried the wretches. — There their ac- 
quaintances and kindred still live. All over that 
region of country, the brutal butchery of George 
is a matter of public notoriety. It is quite need- 
less, perhaps, to add, that the Rev. Wm. Dickey 
is a Presbyterian clergyman, one of the oldest 
members of the Chilicothe Presbytery, and greatly 
respected and beloved by the churches in South- 
ern Ohio. He was born in South Carolina, and 
was for many years pastor of a church in Ken- 
tucky. 

REV. WM. dickey's LETTER. 

" In the county of Livingston, Ky. near the 
mouth of Cumberland River, lived Lilburn Lewis, 
a sister's son of the celebrated Jefferson. He was 
the wealthy owner of a considerable gang of ne- 
groes, whom he drove constantly, fed sparingly, 
and lashed severely. The consequence was, that 
they would run away. Among the rest was an 
ill-thrived boy of about seventeen, who, having 
just returned from a skulking spell, was sent to 
the spring for water, and in returning let fall an 
elegant pitcher : it was dashed to shivers upon 
the rocks. This was made the occasion for reck- 
oning with him. It was night, and the slaves 
were all at home. The master had them all col- 
lected in the most roomy negro-house, and a rous- 
ing fire put on. When the door was secured, that 
none might escape, either through fear of him or 
sympathy with George, he opened to them the de- 
sign of the interview, namely, that they might be 
effectually advised to stay at home and obey his 
orders. All things now in train, he called up 



George, who approached his master with unre- 
served submission. He bound him with cords ; 
and by the assistance of Isham Lewis, his young- 
est brother, laid him on a broad bench, the meat- 
block. He then proceeded to hack off George at 
the ankles ! It was with the broad axe ! In vain 
did the unhappy victim scream and roar ! for he 
was completely in his master's power ; not a hand 
among so many durst interfere : casting the feet 
into the fire, he lectured them at some length. — 
He next chopped hi7nof£ below the knees! George 
roaring out and praying his master to begin at the 
other end ! He admonished them again, throw- 
ing the legs into the fire — then, above the knees, 
tossing the joints into the fire — the next stroke 
severed the thighs from the body ; these were also 
committed to the flames — and so it may be said 
of the arms, head, and trunk, until all was in the 
fire ! He threatened any of them with similar 
punishment who should in future disobey, run 
away, or disclose the proceedings of that evening. 
Nothing now remained but to consume the flesh 
and bones ; and for this purpose the fire was 
brightly stirred until two hours after midnight ; 
when a coarse and heavy back-wall, composed of 
rock and clay, covered the fire and the remains 
of George. It was the Sabbath — this put an end 
to the amusements of the evening. The negroes 
were now permitted to disperse, with charges to 
keep this matter among themselves, and never to 
whisper it in the neighborhood, under the penalty 
of a like punishment. 

'' When he returned home and retired, his wife 
exclaimed, 'Why, Mr. Lewis, where have you 
been, and what were you doing ?' She had heard 
a strange pounding and dreadful screams, and had 
smelled something like fresh meat burning. The 
answer he returned was, that he had never enjoy- 
ed himself at a ball so well as he had enjoyed him- 
self that night. 

" Next morning he ordered the hands to rebuild 
the back-wall, and he himself superintended the 
work, throwing the pieces of flesh that still re- 
mained, with the bones, behind, as it went up — 
thus hoping to conceal the matter. But it could 
not be hid — much as the negroes seemed to haz- 
ard, they did whisper the horrid deed. The neigh- 
bors came, and in his presence tore down the wall ; 
and finding the remains of the boy, they appre- 
hended Lewis and his brother, and testified against 
them. They were committed to jail, that they 
might answer at the coming court for this shock- 
ing outrage ; but finding security for their appear- 
ance at court, THEY WERE ADMITTED TO BAIL ! 

" In the interim, other articles of evidence leak- 
ed out. That of Mrs. Lewis hearing a pounding, 
and screaming, and her smelling fresh meat burn- 
ing, for not till now had this come out. He was 
offended with her for disclosing these things, al- 
leging that they might have some weight against 
him at the pending trial, 

" In connection with this is another item, full 
of horror. Mrs. Lewis, or her girl, in making her 
bed one morning after this, found, under her bol- 
ster, a keen butcher knife ! The appalling disco- 
very forced from her the confession that she con- 
sidered her life in jeopardy. Messrs. Rice and 
Philips, whose wives were her sisters, went to see 
her and to bring her away if she wished it. Mr. 
Lewis received them with all the expressions of 



94 



Personal Naraatives — Rev. Francis Hawley. 



Virginia hospitality. As soon as they were seat- 
ed they said, ' Well, Letitia, we supposed that you 
might be unhappy here, and afraid for your life ; 
and we have come to-day to take you to your fa- 
ther's, if you desire it.' She said, ' Thank you, 
kind brothers, I am indeed afraid for ray life.' — 
We need not interrupt the story to tell how much 
surprised he affected to be with this strange 
procedure of his brothers-in-law, and with this 
declaration of his wife. But all his professions 
of fondness for her, to the contrary notwith- 
standing, they rode off with her before his eyes. — 
He followed and overtook, and went with them 
to her father's ; but she was locked up from him, 
with her own consent, and he returned home. 

" Now he saw that his character was gone, his 
respectable friends believed that he had massacred 
George ; but, worst of all, he saw that they con- 
sidered the life of the harmless Letitia was in dan- 
ger from his perfidious hands. It was too much 
for his chivalry to sustain. The proud Virginian 
sunk under the accumulated load of public odium. 
He proposed to his brother Isham, who had been 
his accomplice in the George affair, that they 
should finish the play of life with a still deeper 
tragedy. The plan was, that they should shoot 
one another. Having made the hot-brained bar- 
gain, they repaired with their guns to the grave- 
yard, which was on an eminence in the midst of 
his plantation. It was inclosed with a railing, 
say thirty feet square. One was to stand at one 
railing, and the other over against him at the 
other. They were to make ready, take aim, and 
count deliberately 1, 2, 3, and then fire. Lilburn's 
will was written, and thrown down open beside 
him. They cocked their guns and raised them to 
their faces ; but the peradventure occurring that 
one of the guns might miss fire, Isham was sent 
for a rod, and when it was brought, Lilburn cut 
it off at about the length of two feet, and was 
showing his brother how the survivor might do, 



provided one of the guns should fail ; (for they 
were determined upon going together ;) but for- 
getting, perhaps, in the perturbation of the mo- 
ment that the gun was cocked, when he touched 
the trigger with the rod the gun fired, and he fell, 
and died in a few minutes — and was with George 
in the eternal world, where the slave is free from 
his master. But poor Isham was so terrified with 
this unexpected occurrence, and so confounded 
by the awful contortions of his brother's face, that 
he had not nerve enough to follow up the play, 
and finish the plan as was intended, but suffered 
Lilburn to go alone. The negroes came running 
to see what it meant that a gun should be fired hi 
the grave-yard. There lay their master, dead I 
They ran for the neighbors. Isham still remain- 
ed on the spot. The neighbors at the first charged 
him with the murder of his brother. But he, 
though as if he had lost more than half his mind, 
told the whole story ; and the course or range of 
the ball in the dead man's body agreeing with his 
statement, Isham was not farther charged with 
Lilburn's death. 

" The Court sat — Isham was judged to be guilty 
of a capital crime in the affair of George He was 
to be hanged at Salem. The day was set. My 
good old father visited him in the prison — two or 
three times talked and prayed with him ; I visited 
him once myself. We fondly hoped that he was 
a sincere penitent. Before the day of execution 
came, by some means, I never knew what, Isham 
was missing. About two years after, we learned 
that he had gone down to Natchez, and had mar- 
ried a lady of some refinement and piety. I saw 
her letters to his sisters, who were worthy mem- 
bers of the church of which I was pastor. The 
last letter told of his death. He v/as in Jackson's 
army, and fell in the famous battle of New Or- 
leans. " I am, sir, your friend, 

"Wm. Dickey." 



PERSONAL NARRATIVES-PART III. 

NARRATIVE AND TESTIMONY OF REV. FRANCIS HAWLEY. 



Mr. Hawley is the pastor of the Baptist Church 
in Colebrook, Litchfield county, Connecticut. 
He has resided fourteen years in the slave states. 
North and South Carolina. His character and 
standing with his own denomination at the 
south, may be inferred from the fact, that the 
Baptist State Convention of North Carolina ap- 
pointed him, a few years since, their genera] 
agent to visit the Baptist churches within their 
bounds, and to secure their co-operation in the ob- 
jects of the Convention. Mr. H. accepted the 
appointment, and for some time traveled in that 
capacity. 

" I rejoice that the Executive Committee of 
the American Anti-Slavery Society have resolved 
to publish a volume of facts and testimony rela- 
tive to the character and workings of American 
slavery. Having resided fourteen years at the 
south, I cheerfully comply with your request, to 
give the result of my observation and experience. 



And I would here remark, that one may reside 
at the south for years, and not witness extreme 
cruelties ; a northern man, and one who is not a 
slaveholder, would be the last to have an oppor- 
tunity of witnessing the infiiciion of cruel pun- 
ishments. 

PLANTATIONS. 

"A majority of the large plantations are 
on the banks of rivers, far from the pubhc 
eye. A great deal of low marshy ground lies 
in the vicinity of most of the rivers at the south ; 
consequently the main roads are several miles 
from the rivers, and generally no public road 
passes the plantations. A stranger traveling on 
the ridge, would think himself in a miserably 
poor country ; but every two or three miles he 
will see a road turning off, and leading into the 
swamp ; taking one of those roads, and travehng 
from two to six miles, he will come to a large 
gate ; passing which, he will find himself in a 
clearing of several hundred acres of the first 
quality of land ; passing on, he will see 30, or 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Francis Hawley. 



95 



40, or more slaves — men, women, boys and girls, 
at their task, every one with a hoe ; or, if in cot- 
ton picking season, with their baskets. The 
overseer, with his whip, either riding or standing 
about among them ; or if the weather is hot, sit. 
ting under a shade. At a distance, on a little 
rising ground, if such there be, he will see a clus- 
ter of huts, with a tolerable house in the midst, 
for the overseer. Those huts are from ten to 
fifteen feet square, built of logs, and covered, 
not with shingles, but with boards, about four 
feet long, split out of pine timber with a ^frow.'' 
The floors are very commonly made in this way. 
Clay is first worked until it is soft ; it is then 
spread upon the ground, about four or five inches 
thick ; when it dries, it becomes nearly as hard 
as a brick. The crevices between the logs are 
sometimes filled with the same. These huts 
generally cost the master nothing — they are com- 
monly built by the negroes at night, and on Sun- 
days. When a slave of a neighboring plantation 
takes a wife, or to use the phrise common at the 
south, ♦ takes up' with one of the women, he 
builds a hut, and it is called l\er house. Upon 
entering these huts, (not as comfortable in many 
instances as the horse stable,] generally, you 
will find no chairs, but benches and stools ; no 
table, no bedstead, and no bed, except a blanket 
or two, and a few rags or mops ; in some in- 
stances a knife or two, but veiy rarely a fork. 
You may also find a pot or skillet, and generally 
a number of gourds, which serve them instead of 
bowls and plates. The cruelties practiced on 
those secluded plantations, the judgment day 
alone can reveal. Oh, brother, could I summon 
ten slaves from ten plantations that I could name, 
and have them give but one year's history of 
their bondage, it would thrill the land with hor- 
ror. Those overseers who follow tlie business of 
overseeing for a livelihood, are generally the 
most unprincipled and abandoned oi men. Their 
wages are regulated according to their skill in 
extorting labor. The one who can make the 
most bags of cotton, with a given number of 
hands, is the one generally sought after; and 
there is a competition among them to see who 
shall make the largest crop, accorditig to the 
hands he works. I ask, what must be the con- 
dition of the poor slaves, under the inlimited 
power of such men, in whom, by the bng-con. 
tinned practice of the most heart-rendirg cruel- 
ties, every feeling of humanity has been oWiterat- 
ed ? But it may be asked, cannot the slaves 
have redress by appealing to their masters? In 
many instances it is impossible, as their masters 
live hundreds of miles off". There are perhaps 
thousands in the northern slave states, [and laany 
in the free states,] who own plantations in the 
southern slave states, and many more spend taeir 
summers at the north, or at the various watering 
places. But what would the slaves gain, if they 
should appeal to the master ? He has placed the 
overseer over them, with the understanding that he 
will make as large a crop as possible, and that he is 
to have entire control, and manage them accord, 
ing to his own judgment. Now, suppose that in the 
midst of the season, the slaves make complaint 
of cruel treatment. The master cannot get 
along without an overseer — it is perhaps very 
sickly on the plantation — he dare not risk his 



own life there. Overseers are all engaged at that 
season, and if he takes part with his slaves against 
the overseer, he would destroy his authority, and 
very likely provoke him to leave his service — 
which would of course be a very great injury to 
him. Thus, in nineteen cases out of twent}^ 
self-interest would prevent the master from pay- 
ing any attention to the complaints of his slaves. 
And, if any should complain, it would of course 
come to the ears of the overseer, and the com- 
plainant would be inhumanly punished for it. 

CLOTHING. 

"The rule, where slaves are hired out, is 
two suits of clothes per year, one pair of shoes, 
and one blanket ; but as it relates to the great 
body of the slaves, this cannot be called a general 
rule. On many plantations, the children under 
ten or twelve years old, go entirely naked — or, if 
clothed at all, they have nothing more than a 
shirt. The cloth is of the coarsest kind, far from 
being durable or warm ; and their shoes fre- 
quently come to pieces in a few weeks. I have 
never known any provision made, or time allow- 
ed for the washing of clothes. If they wish to 
wash, as they have generally but one suit, they 
go after their day's toil to some stream, build a 
fire, pull off their clothes and wash them in the 
stream, and dry them by the fire ; and in some 
instances they wear their clothes until they are 
worn off", without washing. I have never known 
an instance of a slaveholder putting himself to 
any expense, that his slaves might have decent 
clothes for the Sabbath. If, by making baskets, 
brooms, mats, &c. at night or on Sundays, the 
slaves can get money enough to buy a Sunday 
suit, very well. I have never known an instance 
of a slaveholder furnishing his slaves with stock- 
ings or mittens. I know that the slaves suffer 
much, and no doubt many die in consequence of 
not being well clothed. 

FOOD. 

" In the grain-growing part of the south, the 
slaves, as it relates to food, fare tolerably 
well ; but in the cotton, and rice-growing, and 
sugar-making portion, some of them fare badly. 
I have been on plantations where, from the ap- 
pearance of the slaves, I should judge they were 
half-starved. They receive their allowance very 
commonly on Sunday morning. They are left 
to cook it as they please^, and when they please. 
Many slaveholders rarely give their slaves meat, 
and very few give them more food than will 
keep them in a working condition. They rarely 
ever have a change of food. I have never known 
an instance of slaves on plantations being fur- 
nished either with sugar, butter, cheese, or milk. 

WORK. 

" If the slaves on plantations were well fed 
and clothed, and had the stimulus of wages, 
they could perhaps in general perform their tasks 
without injury. The horn is blown soon after 
the dawn of day, when all the hands destined for 
the field must be ' on the march.' If the field is 
far from their huts, they take their breakfast with 
them. They toil till about ten o'clock, when 
they eat it. They then continue their toil till 
the sun is set. 

*' A neighbor of mine, who has been an over- 
seer in Alabama, informs me, that there they as- 
certain how much labor a slave can perform in a 



96 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Francis Hawley. 



day, in the following manner. "When they com- 
mence a new cotton field, the overseer takes his 
watch, and marks how long it takes them to hoe 
one row, and then lays off the task accordingly. 
My neighbor also informs me, that the slaves in 
Alabama are worked very hard ; that the lash is 
almost universally applied at the close of the day, 
if they fail to perform their task in the cotton- 
picking season. You will see them, with their 
baskets of cotton, slowly bending their way to 
the cotton house, where each one's basket is 
weighed. They have no means of knowing ac- 
curately, in the course of the day, how they make 
progress ; so that they are in suspense, until their 
basket is weighed. Here comes the mother, with 
her children ; she does not know whether her- 
self, or children, or all of them, must take the 
lash ; they cannot weigh the cotton themselves — 
the whole must be trusted to the overseer. While 
the weighing goes on, all is still. So many pounds 
short, cries the overseer, and takes up his whip, 
exclaiming, ' Step this way, you d — n lazy scoun- 
drel,' or ' bitch.' The poor slave begs, and pro- 
mises, but to no purpose. The lash is applied until 
the overseer is satisfied: Sometimes the whip, 
ping is deferred until the weighing is all over. 
I have said that all must be trusted to the over, 
seer. If he owes any one a grudge, or wishes to 
enjoy the fiendish pleasure of whipping a little, 
(for some overseers really delight in it,) they have 
only to tell a falsehood relative to the weight of 
their basket ; they can then have a pretext to 
gratify their diabolical disposition ; and from 
the character of overseers, I have no doubt that 
it is frequently done. On all plantations, the 
male and female slaves fare pretty much alike ; 
those who are with child are driven to their task 
till within a few days of the time of their deliv- 
ery ; and when the child is a few weeks old, the 
mother must again go to the field. If it is far 
from her hut, she must take her babe with her, 
and leave it in the care of some of the children — 
perhaps of one not more than four or five years 
old. If the child cries, she cannot go to its re- 
lief; the eye of the overseer is upon her; and if, 
when she goes to nurse it, she stays a little longer 
than the overseer thinks necessary, he commands 
her back to her task, and perhaps a husband and 
father must hear and witness it all. Brother, 
you cannot begin to know what the poor slave 
mothers suffer, on thousands of plantations at 
the south. 

" I will now give a few facts, showing the 
workings of the system. Some years since, a 
Presbyterian minister moved from North Caro- 
lina to Georgia. He had a negro man of an 
uncommon mind. For some cause, I know not 
what, this minister whipped him most unmerci- 
fully. He next nearly drowned him ; he then put 
him in the fence ; this is done by lifting up the 
corner of a ' worm' fence, and then putting the 
feet through ; the rails serve as stocks. He kept 
him there some time, how long I was not inform, 
ed, but the poor slave died in a few days ; and, 
if I was rightly informed, nothing was done 
about it, either in church or state. After some 
time, he moved back to North Carolina, and is 

now a member of Presbytery. I have heard 

him preach, and have been in the pulpit with him. 
May God forgive me ! 



" At Laurel Hill, Richmond county. North 
Carolina, it was reported that a runaway slave 
was in the neighborhood. A number of young 
men took their guns, and went in pursuit. Some 
of them took their station near the stage road, 
and kept on the look-out. It was early in the 
evening — the poor slave came along, when the 
ambush rushed upon him, and ordered him to 
surrender. He refused, and kept them off with 
his club. They still pressed upon him with their 
guns presented to his breast. Without seeming 
to be daunted, he caught hold of the muzzle of 
one of the guns, and came near getting possession 
of it. At length, retreating to a fence on one 
side of the road, he sprang over into a corn-field, 
and started to run in one of the rows. One of 
the young men stepped to the fence, fired, and 
lodged the whole cliarge between his shoulders ; 
he fell, and died in a short time. He died with- 
out telling who his master was, or whether he had 
any, or what his own name was, or where he was 
from. A hole was dug by the side of the road, 
his body tumbled into it, and thus ended the 
whole matter. 

" The Rev. Mr. 0. a Methodist minister, held as 
his slave a negro man, who was a member of 
his own church. The slave was considered a 
very pious man, lad the confidence of his mas. 
ter, and all who kiew him, and if I recollect right, 
he sometimes attempted to preach. Just before 
the Nat Turner insurrection, in Southampton 
county, Virginia, by which the whole south was? 
thrown into a panic, this worthy slave obtained 
permission to visit his relatives, who resided either 
in Southampton, or the county adjoining. 
This was the only instance that ever came to 
my knowledge, of a slave being permitted to go 
so far to visit his relatives. He went and return- 
ed according to agreement. A few weeks after 
his return, the insurrection took place, and the 
whole countrT was deeply agitated. Suspicion 
soon fixed oi this slave. Nat Turner was a 
Baptist minster, and the south became exceed- 
ingly jealous of all negro preachers. It seemed 
as if the whole community were impressed with 
the belief tlat he knew all about it ; that he and 
Nat Turner had concerted an extensive insurrec- 
rection ; aid so confident were they in this be- 
lief, that <hey took the poor slave, tried him, and 
hung him. It was all done in a few days. He 
protested his innocence to the last. After the 
excitement was over, many were ready to ac- 
knowlecge that they believed him innocent. He 
was hujig upon suspicion I 

" In R county. North Carolina, lived a 

Mr. B. who had the name of being a cruel mas- 
ter. Three or four winters since, his slaves were 
engaged in clearing a piece of new land. He 
had a negro girl, about 14 years old, whom he 
had severely whipped a few days before, for not 
performing her task. She again failed. The 
hands left the field for home ; she went with them 
a part of the way, and fell behind ; but the ne- 
groes thought she would soon be along ; the 
evening passed away, and she did not come. 
They finally concluded that she had gone back 
to the new ground, to lie by the log heaps that 
were on fire. But they were mistaken : she had 
sat down by the foot of a large pine. She was 
thinly clad — the night was cold and rainy. In 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Francis Hawley. 



97 



the morning the poor girl was found, but she was 
speechless and died in a short time. 

•' One of my neighbors sold to a speculator a 
negro boy, about 14 years old. It was more 
than his poor mother could bear. Her reason 
fled, and she became a perfect maniac, and had 
to be kept in close confinement. She would oc- 
casionally get out and run off to the neighbors. 
On one of these occasions she came to my house. 
She was indeed a pitiable object. With tears 
rolling down her cheeks, and her frame shaking 
with agony, she would cry out, ' don't you hear 
him — they are whipping him now, and he is call- 
ing for me !^ This neighbor of mine, who tore 
the boy away from his poor mother, and thus 
broke her heart, was a member of the Preshyteri- 
an church. 

" Mr. S , of Marion District, South Caro- 
lina, informed me that a boy was killed by the 

overseer on Mr. P 's plantation. The boy 

was engaged in driving the horses in a cotton 
gin. The driver generally sits on the end of the 
sweep. Not driving to suit the overseer, he 
knocked him olF with the butt of his whip. His 
skull was fractured. He died in a short time. 

" A man of my acquaintance in South Caro- 
lina, and of considerable wealth, had an only son, 
whom he educated for the bar ; but not succeed- 
ing in his profession, he soon returned home. 
His father having a small plantation three or 
four miles off, placed his son on it as an overseer. 
Following the example of his father, as I have 
good reason to believe, he took the wife of one of 
the negro men. The poor slave felt himself 
greatly injured, and expostulated with him. The 
wretch took his gun, and deliberately shot him. 
Providentially he only wounded him badly. 
When the father came, and undertook to remon- 
strate with his son about his conduct, he threat- 
ened to shoot him also ! and finally, took the 
negro woman, and went to Alabama, where he 
still resided when I left the south. 

" An elder in the Presbyterian church related 
to me the following. — ' A speculator with his 
drove of negroes was passing my house, and I 
bought a little girl, nine or ten years old. After 
a few months, I concluded that I would rather 
have a plough-boy. Another speculator was 
passing, and 1 sold the girl. She was much dis- 
tressed, and was very unwilling to leave.' — She 
had been with him long enough to become at- 
tached to his own and his negro children, and he 
concluded by saying, that in view of the little 
girl's tears and cries, he had determined never to 
do the like again. I would not trust him, for I 
know him to be a very avaricious man. 

" While traveling in Anson county, North Ca- 
rolina, I put up for a night at a private house. 
The man of the house was not at home when I 
stopped, but came in the course of the evening, 
and was noisy and profane, and nearly drunk. I 
retired to rest, but not to sleep ; his cursing and 
swearing were enough to keep a regiment awake. 
About midnight he went to his kitchen, and 
called out his two slaves, a man and woman. 
His object, he said, was to whip them. They 
both begged and promised, but to no purpose. 
The whipping began, arid continued for some 
time. Their cries might have been heard at a 
distance. 

13 



" I was acquainted with a very wealthy planter, 
on the Pedee river, in South Carolina, who has 
since died in consequence of intemperance. It 
was said that he had occasioned the death of 
twelve of his slaves, by compelling rhem to work 
in water, opening a ditch in the midst of wmter. 
The disease with which they died was a pleurisy. 
" In crossing Pedee river, at Cashway Ferry, 1 
observed that the ferryman had no hair on either 
side of his head. I asked him the cause. He 
informed me that it was caused by his master's 
cane. I said, you have a very bad master. 'Yes, 
a very bad master.' I understood that he was 
once a member of Congress from South Carolina. 
" While travehng as agent for the North Caro- 
lina Baptist State Convention, I attended a three 
days' meeting in Gates county. Friday, the first 
day, passed off. Saturday morning came, and 
the pastor of the church, who lived a few miles 
off, did not make his appearance. The day pass- 
ed off, and no news from the pastor. On Sab- 
bath morning, he came hobbling along, having 
but little use of one foot. He soon explained : 
said he had a hired negro man, who, on Satur- 
day morning, gave him a ' little slack jaw. ^ Not 
having a stick at hand, he fell upon him with his 
fist and foot, and in kicking him, he injured his 
foot so seriously, that he could not attend meet- 
ing on Saturday. 

" Some of the slaveholding ministers at the 
south, put their slaves under overseers, or hire 
them out, and then take the pastoral care of 

churches. The Rev. Mr. B , formerly of 

Pennsylvania, had a plantation in Marlborough 
District, South Carolina, and was the pastor of 
a church in Darhngton District. The Rev. Mr. 

T , of Johnson county. North Carolina, has a 

plantation in Alabama. 

" I was present, and saw the Rev. J 

W , of Mecklenburg county. North Carolina, 

hire out four slaves to work in the gold mines in 

Burke county. The Rev. H M , of Orange 

county, sold for $900, a negro man to a specula- 
tor, on a Md^day of a camp meeting. 

" Runaway slaves are frequently hunted with 
guns and dogs. / was once out on such an excur. 
sion, with my rifle and two dogs. I trust the 
Lord has forgiven me this heinous wickedness ! 
We did not take the runaways. 

" Slaves are sometimes most unmercifully pun- 
ished for trifling offences, or mere mistakes. 

"As it relates to amalgamation, I can say, 
that I have been in respectable families, (so call, 
ed,) where I could distinguish the family resem- 
blance in the slaves who waited upon the table. 
I once hired a slave who belonged to his own 
uncle. It is so common for the female slaves to 
have white children, that little or nothing is ever 
said about it. Very few inquiries are made as to 
who the father is. 

" Thus, brother , I have given you very 

briefly, the result, in part, of my observations and 
experience relative to slavery. You can make 
what disposition of it you please. I am willing 
that my name should go to the world with what 
I have now written. 

*' Yours affectionately, for the oppressed, 

•' Francis Hawlev." 
Colebrook, Connecticut, March 18, 1839. 



98 



Personal Narratives — Reuben G. Macy and Richard Macy. 



TESTIMONY OF REUBEN G. MACY AND RICHARD MACY. 



The following is an extract of a letter recently 
received from Charles Marriott of Hudson, 
New York. Mr. Marriott is an elder in the Re- 
ligious Society of Friends, and is extensively 
known and respected. 

" The two following brief statements, are fur- 
nished by Richard Macy and Reuben G. Macy, 
brothers, both of Hudson, New York. They are 
head carpenters by trade, and have been well 
known to me for more than thirty years, as esteem- 
ed members of the Rehgious Society of Friends. 
They inform mc that during their stay in South 
Carolina, a number more similar cases to those 
here related, came under their notice, which to 
avoid repetition they omit. 

C. Marriott. 

TESTIMONY OF REUBEN G. MACY. 

" During the winter of 1818 and 19, I resided 
on an island near the mouth of the Savannah 
river, on the South Carolina side. Most of the 
slaves that came under my particular notice, be- 
longed to a widow and her daughter, in whose fa- 
mily I lived. No white man belonged to the 
plantation. Her slaves were under the care of 
an overseer who came once a week to give orders, 
and settled the score laid up against such as their 
mistress thought deserved punishment, which was 
from twenty-five to thirty lashes on their naked 
backs, with a whip which the overseer generally 
brought with him. This whip had a stout handle 
about two feet long, and a lash about four and a half 
feet. From two to four received the above, I be- 
lieve nearly every week during the winter, some- 
times in my presence, and always in my hearing. 
I examined the backs and shoulders of a number 
of the men, which were mostly naked while they 
were about their labor, and found them covered 
with hard ridges in every direction. One day, 
while busy in the cotton house, hearing a noise, I 
ran to the door and saw a colored woman plead- 
ing with the overseer, who paid no attention to 
her cries, but tied her hands together, and passed 
the rope over a beam, over head, where was a 
platform for spreading cotton, he then drew the 
rope as tight as he could, so as to let her toes 
touch the ground ; then stripped her body naked to 
the waist, and went deliberately to work with his 
whip, and put on twenty-five or thirty lashes, she 
pleading in vain all the time. I inquired, the 
cause of such treatment, and was informed it was 
for answering her mistress rather ' sliort.^ " 

" A woman from a neighboring plantation came 
where I was, on a visit ; she came in a boat row- 
ed by six slaves, who, according to the common 
practice, were left to take care of themselves, and 
having laid them down in the boat and fallen 
asleep, the tide fell, and the water filling the stern 
of the boat, wet their mistresses trunk of clothes. 
When she discovered it, she called them up near 
where I was, and compelled them to whip each 
other, till they all had received a severe flogging. 
She standing by with a whip in her hand to see 
that they did not spare each other. Their usual 
allowance of food was one peck of corn per week, 



which was dealt out to them every first day of 
the week, and such as were not there to receive 
their portion at the appointed time, had to live as 
they could during the coming week. Each one 
had the privilege of planting a small piece of 
ground, and raising poultry lor their own use 
which they generally sold, that is, such as did 
improve the privilege which were but few. They 
had nothing allowed them besides the corn, ex- 
cept one quarter of beef at Christmas which a 
slave brought three miles on his head. They 
were allowed three days rest at Christmas. Their 
clothing consisted of a pair of trowsers and jacket, 
made of whitish woollen cloth called negro cloth. 
The women had nothing but a petticoat, and a very 
short short-gown, made of the same kind 'of cloth. 
Some of the women had an old pair of shoes, 
but they generally went barefoot. The houses 
for the field slaves were about fourteen feet square, 
built in the coarsest manner, having but one 
room, without any chimney, or flooring, with a 
hole at the roof at one end to let the smoke out. 

" Each one was allowed one blanket in which 
they rolled themselves up. I examined their 
houses but could not discover an}' thing like a 
bed. I was informed that when they had a suf- 
ficiency of potatoes the slaves were allowed some ; 
but the season that I was there they did not raise 
more than were wanted for seed. All their corn 
was ground in one hand-mill, every night just as 
much as was necessary for the family, then each 
one his daily portion, which took considerable 
time in the night. I often awoke and heard the 
sound of the mill. Grinding the corn in the 
night, and in the dark, after their day's labor, and 
the want of other food, were great hardships. 

" The traveling in those parts, among the is- 
lands, was altogether with boats, rowed by from 
four to ten slaves, which often stopped at our plan- 
tation, and staid through the night, when the 
slaves, after rowing through the day, were left to 
shift for themselves ; and when they went to Sa- 
vannah with a load of cotton they were obliged to 
sleep in the open boats, as the law did not allow 
a colored person to be out after eight o'clock in 
the evening, without a pass from his master." 

•TESTIMONY OF RICHARD MACY. 

" The above account is from my brother. I 
was at work on Hilton Head about twenty miles 
north of my brother, during the same winter. 
The same allowance of one peck of corn for a 
week, the same kind of houses to live in, and the 
same method of grinding their corn, and always 
in the night, and in the dark, was practiced there. 

" A number of instances of severe whipping 
came under my notice. The first was this : — two 
men were sent out to saw some blocks out of 
large live oak timber on which to raise my build- 
ing. Their saw was in poor order, and they 
sawed them badly, for which their master strip- 
ped them naked and flogged them. 

" The next instance was a boy about sixteen 
years of age. He had crept into the coach to sleep; 
after two or three nights he was caught by the 
coach driver, a northern man, and stripped entire- 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Eleazar Powell. 



99 



ly naked, and whipped without mercy, his master 
looking on. 

" Another instance. The overseer, a young 
white man, had ordered several negroes, a boat's 
crew, to be on the spot at a given time. One man 
did not appear until the boat had gone. The over- 
seer was very angry and told him to strip and be 
flogged ; he being slow, was told if he did not in- 
stantly strip off his jacket, he, the overseer, w-ould 
whip it ofF, which he did in shreds, whipping him 
cruelly. 

'■' The man ran into the barrens and it was about 
a month before they caught him. He was nearly 
starved, and at last stole a turkey ; then another, 
and was caught. 

" Having occasion to pass a plantation very early 
one foggy morning, in a boat, we heard the 
sound of the whip, before we could see, but as 
we drew up in front of the plantation, we could 
see the negroes at work in the field. The over- 



seer was going from one to the other causing 
them to lay down their hoe, strip oft" their gar- 
ment, hold up their hands and receive their num- 
ber of lashes. Thus he went on from one to the 
other until we were out of sight. In the course 
of the winter a family came where I was, on a 
visit from a neighboring island ; of course, in a 
boat with negroes to row them — one of these a 
barber, told me that he ran away about two year? 
before, and joined a company of negroes who had 
fled to the swamps. He said they suffered a great 
deal — were at last discovered by a party of hun- 
ters, who fired among them, and caused them to 
scatter. Himself and one more fled to the coast, 
took a boat and put off" to sea, a storm came on 
and swamped or upset them, and his partner was 
drowned, he was taken up by a passing vessel 
and returned to his master. 

Richard Macy. 
Hudson, 12 mo. 29th, 1838. 



TESTIMONY OF MR. ELEAZAR POWELL. 



Extract of a letter from Mr. "William Scott, 
a highly respectable citizen of Beaver co. Pennsyl- 
vania, dated Jan. 7, 1839. 

Chippewa Township, Beaver co. Pa. 
Jan. 7, 1839. 

" I send you the statement of Mr. Eleazar Pow- 
ell, who was bo.rn, and has mostly resided in this 
township from his birth. His character for so- 
briety and truth stands above impeachment. 
With sentiments of esteem, 

I am your friend, 

William Scott. 

"In the month of December, 1836, I went to 
the State of Mississippi to work at my trade, 
(masonry and bricklaying,) and continued to 
work in the counties of Adams and Jefferson, be- 
tween four and five months. In following my 
business I had an opportunity of seeing the treat- 
ment of slaves in several places. 

" In Adams county I built a chimney for a man 
named Joseph Gwatney ; he had forty-five field 
hands of both sexes. The field in which they 
worked at that time, lay about two miles from 
the house ; the hands had to cook and eat their 
breakfast, prepare their dinner, and be in the field 
at daylight, and continue there till dark. In the 
evening the cotton they had picked was weighed, 
and if they fell short of their task they were 
whipped. One night I attended the weighing — 
two women fell short of their task, and the mas. 
ter ordered the black driver to take them to the 
quarters and flog them ; one of them was to re- 
ceive twenty-five lashes and pick a peck of cot- 
ton seed. I have been with the overseer several 
times through the negro quarters. The huts are 
generally built of split timber, some larger than 
rails, twelve and a half feet wide and fourteen 
feet long — some with and some without chimneys, 
and generally without floors ; they were generally 
without daubing, and mostly had split clapboards 
nailed on the cracks on the outside, though some 
were without even that : in some there was a kind 
of rough bedstead, made from rails, polished with 
the axe, and put together in a very rough man- 



ner, the bottom covered with clapboards, and 
over that a bundle of worn out clothes. In some 
huts there was no bedstead at all. The above 
description applies to the places generally with 
which I was acquainted, and they were mostly 
old settlements. 

" In the east part of Jefferson county I built a 

chimney for a man named M'Coy ; he had 

forty-seven laboring hands. Near where I was at 
work, M'Coy had ordered one of his slaves to set 
a post for a gate. When he came to look at it, he 
said the slave had not set it in the right place ; 
and ordered him to strip, and lie down on his 
face ; telling him that if he struggled, or attempt- 
ed to get up, two men, who had been calkd to 
the spot, should seize and hold him fast. The 
slave agreed to be quiet, and M'Coy commenced 
flogging him on the bare back, with the wagon 
whip. After some time the suflferer attempted 
to get up ; one of the slaves standing by, seized 
him by the feet and held him fast ; upon which 
he yielded, and M'Coy continued to flog him ten 
or fifteen minutes. When he was up, and had 
put on his trowsers, the blood came through them. 

" About half a mile from M'Coy's was a planta- 
tion owned by his step-daughter. The overseer's 
name was James Farr, of whom it appears Mrs. 
M'Coy's waiting woman was enamoured. One 
night, while I lived there, M'Coy came from 
Natchez, about 10 o'clock at night. He said that 
Dinah was gone, and wished his overseer to go 
with him to Farr's lodgings. They went accord- 
ingly, one to each door, and caught Dinah as she 
ran out, she was partly dressed in her mistress's 
clothes ; M'Coy whipped her unmerciftilly, and 
she afterwards made her escape. On the next 
day, (Sabbath), M'Coy came to the overseer's, 
where I lodged, and requested him and me to look 
for her, as he was afraid that she had hanged her- 
self. He then gave me the particulars of the 
flogging. He stated that near Farr's he had 
made her strip and lie down, and had flogged her 
until he was tired ; that before he reached home 
he had a second time made her strip, and again 
flogged her until he was tired ; that when he 



100 



Personal Narratives — Rev. William Scales. 



reached home he had tied her to a peach-tree, and 
after getting a drink had flogged her until he was 
thirsty again ; and while he went to get a drink 
the woman made her escape. He stated that he 
knew, from the whipping he had given her, there 
must be in her back cuts an inch deep. He 
showed the place where she had been tied to the 
tree ; there appeared to be as much blood as if a 
hog had been stuck there. The woman was 
found on Sabbath evening, near the spring, and 
had to be carried into the house. 

" While Hived there I heard M'Coy say, if the 
slaves did not raise him three hundred bales of 
cotton the ensuing season, he would kill every ne- 
gro he had. 

" Another case of flogging came under my no- 
tice : — Philip O.Hughes, sheriff of Jefferson coun- 
ty, had hired a slave to a man, whose name I do 
not recollect. On a Sabbath day the slave had 
drank somewhat freely ; he was ordered by the 
tavern keeper, (where his present master had left 
his horse and the negro,) to stay in the kitchen ; 
the negro wished to be out. In persisting to go 
out he was knocked down three times ; and after- 
wards flogged until another young man and my- 
self ran about half a mile, having been drawn by 
the cries of the negro and the sound of the whip. 
When we came up, a number of men that had 
been about the tavern, were whipping him, and 
at intervals would ask him if he would take off 
his clothes. At seeing them drive down the 
stakes for a regular flogging he yielded, and took 
them off". They then flogged him until satisfied. 
On the next morning I saw hira, and his panta- 
loons were all in a gore of blood. 

" During my stay in Jefferson county, Philip O. 
Hughes was out one day with his gun — he saw a 
negro at some distance, with a club in one hand 
and an ear of corn in the other — Hughes stepped 
behind a tree, and waited his approach ; he sup- 
posed the negro to be a runaway, who had es- 
caped about nine months before from his master, 
living not very far distant. The negro discovered 
Hughs before he came up, and started to run ; he 
refusing to stop, Hughes fired, and shot him 



through the arm. Through loss of blood the ne- 
gro was soon taken and put in jail. I saw his 
wound twice dressed, and heard Hughes make the 
above statement. 

"When in Jefferson county I boarded six 
weeks in Fayette, the county town, with a tavern 
keeper named James Truly. He had a slave 
named Lucy, who occupied the station of chamber- 
maid and table waiter. One day, just after dinner, 
Mrs. Truly took Lucy and bound her arms round 
a pine sapling behind the house, and commenced 
flogging her with a riding-whip ; and when tired 
would take her chair and rest. She continued thus, 
alternately flogging and resting, for at least an hour 
and a half. I afterwards learned from the bar-keep, 
er, and others, that the woman's offence was that 
she had bought two candles to set on the table the 
evening before, not knowing there were yet some 
in the box. I did not see the act of flogging 
above related ; but it was commenced before I 
left the house after dinner ; and my work not be- 
ing more than twenty rods from the house, I dis- 
tinctly heard the cries of the woman all the time, 
and the manner of tying I had from those who 
did see it. 

" While I boarded at Truly's, an overseer shot 
a negro about two miles northwest of Fayette, be. 
longing to a man named Hinds Stuart. I heard 
Stuart himself state the particulars. It appeared 
that the negro's wife fell under the overseer's dis. 
pleasure, and he went to whip her. The negro said 
she should not be whipped. The overseer then 
let her go, and ordered him to be seized. The negro, 
having been a driver, rolled the lash of his whip 
round his hand, and said he would not be whipped 
at that time. The overseer repeated his orders. 
The negro took up a hoe, and none dared to take 
hold of him. The overseer then went to his coat, 
tjiat he had laid off to whip the negro's wife, and 
took out his pistol and shot him dead. His mas- 
ter ordered him to be buried in a hole without a 
coffin. Stuart stated that he would not have 
taken two thousand dollars for him. No punish- 
ment was inflicted on the overseer. 

Eleazar Powell, Jr." 



TESTIMONY ON THE AUTHORITY OF REV. WM. SCALES, LYNDON, VT. 



The following is an extract of a letter from two 
professional gentlemen and their wives, who have 
lived for some years in a small village in one of 
the slave states. They are all persons of the high- 
est respectability, and are well known in at least 
one of the New England states. Their names 
are with the Executive Committee of the Ameri- 
can Anti-Slavery Society ; but as the individuals 
would doubtless be murdered by the slaveholders, 
if they were published, the Committee feel sacredly 
bound to withhold them. The letter was ad- 
dressed to a respected clergyman in New England. 
The writers say : 

" A man near us owned a valuable slave — ^his 
best — most faithful servant. In a gust of passion, 
he struck him dead with a lever, or stick of wood. 

" During the years '36 and '37, the following 
transpired. A slave in our neighborhood ran 



away and went to a place about thirty miles dis- 
tant. There he was found by his pursuers on horse- 
back, and compelled by the whip to run the dis- 
tance of thirty miles. It was an exceedingly hot 
day — and within a few hours after he arrived at 
the end of his journey the slave was dead. 

" Another slave ran awa,y, but concluded to re- 
turn. He had proceeded some distance on his re- 
turn, when he was met by a company of two or 
three drivers, who raced, whipped and abused 
him until he fell down and expired. This took 
place on the Sabbath." The writer after speaking 
of another murder of a slave in the neighborhood, 
without giving the circumstances, say — " There 

is a powerful New England influence at " the 

village where they reside — " We may therefore 
suppose that there would be as little of barbarian 
cruelty practiced there as any where ; — at least 
we might suppose that the average amount of 
cruelty in that vicinity would be sufficiently 
favorable to the side of slavery. — Describe a cir- 



Personal Narratives — Joseph Ide, Esq. — Rev. Phineas Smith. 



101 



cle, the centre of which shall be ,the residence 

of the writers, and the radius fifteen miles, and in 
about one year three, and I think four slaves 
have been murdered, within that circle, under 
c ire umstances of horrid cruelty. — What must have 



been the amount of murder in the whole slave 
territory ? The whole south is rife with the 
crime of separating husbands and wives, parents 
and children." 



TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH IDE, ESQ. 



Mr. Ide is a respected member of the Baptist 
Church in Sheffield, Caledonia county, Vt. ; and 
recently the Postmaster in that town. He spent a 
few months at the south in the years 1837 and 8. 
In a letter to the Rev. Wm. Scales of Lyndon, Vt. 
written a few weeks since, Mr. Ide writes as fol- 
lows. 

" In answering the proposed inquiries, I will 
say first, that although there are various other 
modes resorted to, whipping with the cowskin is 
the usual mode of inflicting punishment on the 
poor slave. I have never actually witnessed a 
whipping scene, for they are usually taken into 
some back place for that purpose ; but I have 
often heard their groans and screams while writh- 
ing under the lash ; and have seen the blood flow 
from their torn and lacerated skins after the ven- 
geance of the inhuman master or mistress had 
been glutted. You ask if the woman where I 
boarded whipped a slave to death. I can give 
you the particulars of the transaction as they 
were related to me. My informant was a gen- 
tleman — a member of the Presbyterian churcli in 
Massachusetts — who the winter before boarded 

where I did. He said that Mrs. T had a 

female slave whom she used to whip unmerciful- 
ly, and on one occasion, she whipped her as long 
as she had strength, and after the poor creature 
was suffered to go, she crawled oft' into a cellar. 
As she did not immediately return, search was 
made, and she was found dead in the cellar, and 
the horrid deed was kept a secret in the family, 
and it was reported that she died of sickness. 
This wretch at the same time was a member of a 
Presbyterian church. Towards her slaves she 
was certainly the most cruel wretch of any wo- 
man with whom I was ever acquainted — yet she 
was nothing more than a slaveholder. She would 
deplore slavery as much as I did, and often told 
me she was much of an abolitionist as I was. She 
was constant in the declaration that her kind 
treatment to her slaves was proverbial. Thought 
I, then the Lord have mercy on the rest. She 
has often told me of the cruel treatment of the 
slaves on a plantation adjoining her father's in the 
low country of South Carolina. She says she 
has often seen them driven to the necessity of 
eating frogs and lizards to sustain life. As to the 
mode of living generally, my information is rather 



limited, being with few exceptions confined to 
the different families where I have boarded. My 
stopping places at the south have mostly been in 
cities. In them the slaves are better fed and 
clothed than on plantations. The house servants 
are fed on what the famihes leave. But they are 
kept short, and I think are oftener whipped for 
stealing something to eat than any other crime. 
On plantations their food is principally hommo- 
ny, as the southerners call it. It is simply crack- 
ed corn boiled. This probably constitutes seven- 
eights of their living. The house-servants in 
cities are generally decently clothed, and some 
favorite ones are richly dressed, but those on the 
plantations, especially in their dress, if it can be 
called dress, exhibit the most haggard and squalid 
appearance. I have frequently seen those of 
both sexes more than two-thirds naked. I have 
seen from forty to sixty, male and female, at 
work in a field, many of both sexes with their 
bodies entirely naked — who did not exhibit signs 
of shame more than cattle. As I did not go 
among them much on the plantations, I have had 
but few opportunities for examining the backs of 
slaves — but have frequently passed where they 
were at work, and been occasionally present with 
them, and in almost every case there were marks 
of violence on some parts of them — every age, 
sex and condition being liable to the whip. A 
son of the gentleman with whom I boarded, a 
young man about twenty-one years of age, had 
a plantation and eight or ten slaves. He used to 
boast almost every night of whipping some of 
them. One day he related to me a case of whip- 
ping an old negro — I should judge sixty years of 
age. He said he called him up to flog him for 
some real or supposed offence, and the poor old 
man, being pious, asked the privilege of praying 
before he received his punishment. He said he 
granted him the favor, and to use his own ex- 
pression, ' The old nigger knelt down and pray- 
ed for me, and then got up and took his whip- 
ping.' In relation to negro huts, I will say that 
planters usually own large tracts of land. They 
have extensive clearings and a beautiful mansion 
house — and generally some forty or fifty rods 
from the dwelling are situated the negro cabins, 
or huts, built of logs in the rudest manner. 
Some consist of poles rolled up together and 
covered with mud or clay — many of them not as 
comfortable as northern pig-sties." 



TESTIMONY OF REV. PHINEAS SMITH. 



Mr. Smith is now pastor of the Presbyterian 
Church in Centreville, Allegany county, N. Y. 
He has recently returned from a residence in the 
slave states, and the American slave holding set- 



lements in Texas. The following is an extract 
of a letter lately received from him. 

" You inquire respecting instances of cruelty 
that have come within my knowledge. I reply. 



102 



Personal Narratives — Mr. Philemon Bliss. 



Avarice and cruelty constitute the very gist of 
the whole slave system. Many of the enormities 
committed upon the plantations will not be de- 
scribed till God brings to light the hidden things 
of darkness, then the tears and groans and blood 
of innocent men, women and children will be re. 
vealed, and the oppressor's spirit must confront 
that of his victim. 

" I will relate a case of torture which occurred 
on the Brasses while I resided a few miles distant 
upon the Chocolate Bayou. The case should be 
remembered as a true illustration of the nature 
of slavery, as it exists at the south. The facts 
are these. An overseer by the name of Alexan. 
der, notorious for his cruelty, was found dead in 
the timbered lands of the Brasses. It was sup- 
posed that he was murdered, but who perpetrated 
the act was unknown. Two black men were 
however seized, taken into the Prairie and put to 
the torture. A physician by the name of Parrott 
from Tennessee, and another from New England 
by the name of Anson Jones, were present on this 
occasion. The latter gentleman is now the 
Texan minister plenipotentiary to the United 
States, and resides at Washington. The unfor- 
tunate slaves being stripped, and all things ar- 
ranged, the torture commenced by whipping upon 
their bare backs. Six athletic men were em- 
ployed in this scene of inhumanity, the names of 
some of whom I well remember. There was one 
of the name of Brown, and one or two of the 
name of Patton. Those six executioners were 
successively employed in cutting up the bodies of 
these defenceless slaves, who persisted to the last 
in the avowal of their innocence. The bloody 
whip was however kept in motion till savage bar- 
barity itself was glutted. When this was ac- 
complished, the bleeding victims were re. convey- 
ed to the inclosure of the mansion house where 
they were deposited for a few moments. ' The 
dying groans however incommoding the ladies, 
they were taken to a back shed where one of them 
soon expired* ' The life of the other slave was 
for a time despaired of, but after hanging over 
the grave for months, he at length so far recover- 
ed as to walk about and labor at light work. 
These facts cannot be controverted. They were 
disclosed under the solemnity of an oath, at Co- 
lumbia, in a court of justice. I was present, and 
shall never forget them. The testimony of Drs. 
Parrott and Jones was most appalling. I seem 
to hear the death-groans of that murdered man. 
His cries for mercy and protestations of inno- 

* The words of Dr. Parrott, a witness on tlie trial heroaf- 
xer referred to. 



cence fell upon adamantine hearts. The facts 
above stated, and others in relation to this scene 
of cruelty came to light in the following manner. 
The master of the murdered man commenced 
legal process against the actors in this tragedy for 
the recovery of the value of the chattel, as one 
would institute a suit for a horse or an ox that 
had been unlawfully killed. It was a suit for the 
recovery of damages merely. No indictment was* 
even dreamed of. Among the witnesses brought 
upon the stand in the progress of this cause were 
the physicians, Parrott and Jones above named. 
The part which they were called to act in this 
affair was, it is said, to examine the pulse of the 
victims during the process of torture. But thev 
were mistaken as to the quantum of torture 
which a human being can undergo and not die 
under it. Can it be believed that one of these 
physicians was born and educated in the land of 
the pilgrims ? Yes, in my own native New En- 
gland. It is even so ! The stone-like apathy ma- 
nifested at the trial of the above cause, and the 
screams and the death-groans of an innocent man, 
as developed by the testimony of the witnesses, 
can never be obliterated from my memory. They 
form an era in my life, a point to which I look 
back with horror. 

" Another case of cruelty occurred on the San 
Bernard near Chance Prairie, where I resided for 
some time. The facts were these. A slave man fled 
from his master, (Mr. Sweeny) and being closely 
pursued by the overseer and a son of the owner, 
he stepped a few yards in the Bernard and placed 
himself upon a root, from which there was 
no possibility of his escape, for he could not 
swim. In this situation he was fired upon with 
a blunderbuss loaded heavily with ball and grape 
shot. The overseer who shot the gun was at a 
distance of a few feet otily. The charge entered 
the body of the negro near the groin. He was 
conveyed to the plantation, lingered in inexpres- 
sible agony a few days and expired. A physician 
was called, but medical and surgical skill was 
unavailing. No notice whatever was taken of 
this murder by the public authorities, and the 
murderer was not discharged from the service of 
his employer. 

" When slaves flee, as they not unfrequently do, 
to the timbered lands of Texas, they are hunted 
with guns and dogs. 

" The sufferings of the slave not unfrequentlj' 
drive him to despair and suicide. At a plantation 
on the San . Bernard, where there were but five 
slaves, two during the same year committed sui- 
cide by drowning." 



TESTIMONY OF PHILEMON BLISS, ESQ. 



Mr. Bliss is a highly respectable member of 
the bar, in Elyria, Lorain Co. Ohio, and member 
of the Presbyterian church, in that place. He 
resided in Florida, during the years 1834 and 5. 

The following extracts are from letters, writ- 
ten by Mr. B. in 1835, while residing on a plan- 
tation near Tallahassee, and published soon after 
in the Ohio Atlas ; also from letters written in 



1836, and published in the New York Evange- 
list. 

" In speaking of slavery as it is, I hardly know 
where to begin. The physical condition of the slave 
is far from being accurately known at the north. 
Gentlemen traveling in the south can know 
nothing of it. They must make the south their 
residence *, they must live on plantations, before 
they can have any opportunity of judging of the 



Personal Narratives — Philemon Bliss. 



103 



slave. I resided in Augustine five months, and 
had I not made particular inquiries, which most 
northern visitors very seldom or never do, I 
should have left there with the impression that 
the slaves were generally very well treated, and 
were a happy people. Such is the report of 
many northern travelers who have no more op- 
portunity of knov/ing their real condition than if 
they had remained at home. What confidence 
could we place in the reports of the traveler, 
relative to the condition of the Irish peasantry, 
who formed his opinion from the appearance of the 
waiters at a Dublin hotel, or the household ser- 
vants of a country gentleman ? And it is not 
often on plantations even, ihsii strangers can wit. 
ness the punishment of the slave I was conversing 
the other day with a neighboring planter, upon the 
brutal treatment of the slaves which I had wit- 
nessed : he remarked, that had I been with him 
I should not have seen this. " When I whip 
niggers, I take them out of sight and hearing." 
Such being the difficulties in the way of a stran- 
ger's ascertaining the treatment of the slaves, it 
is not to be wondered at that gentlemen, of un- 
doubted veracity^ should give directly false state- 
ments relative to it. But facts cannot lie, and in 
giving these I confine myself to what has come 
under my own personal observation. 

" The negroes commence labor by daylight in the 
morning, and, excepting the plowboys, who must 
feed and rest their horses, do not leave the field 
till dark in the evening. There is a good deal of 
contontion among planters, who shall make the 
most cotton to the hand, or, who shall drive their 
negroes the hardest ; and I have heard bets made 
and staked upon the issue of the crops. Col. W. 
was boasting of his large crops, and swore that 
' he made for his force, the largest crops in the 
country.' He was disputed of course. On ri- 
ding home in company with Mr. C. the conver- 
sation turned upon Col. W. My companion re- 
marked, that though Col. W. had the reputation 
of making a large crop, yet he could beat him 
himself, and did do it the last year, I remarked 
that I considered it no honor to Col. W. to drive 
his slaves to death to make a large crop. I have 
heard no more about large crops from him since. 
Drivers or overseers usually drive the slaves 
worse than masters. — Their reputation for good 
overseers depends in a great measure upon the 
crops they make, and the death of a slave is no 
loss to them. 

*' Of the extent and cruelty of the punishment of 
the slave, tlic northern public know nothing. 
From the nature of the case they can know little, 
as I have before mentioned, 

" I have seen a woman, a mother, compelled, in 
the presence of her master and mistress, to hold 
up her clothes, and endure the wliip of the driver 
on the naked body for more than twentyminutes, 
and while her cries would have rent the heart of 
anyone, who had not hardened himself to human 
suffering. Her master and mistress were con- 
versing with apparent indifference. W^hat was 
her crime ? She had a task given her of sewing 
which she must finish that day. Late at night 
she finished it ; but the stitches were too long, 
and she must be whipped. The same was repeat- 
ed three or four nights for the same offence. 
/ have seen a man tied to a tree, hands and feet, 



and receive 305 blows with the paddle* on the 
fleshy parts of the body. Two others received 
the same kind of punishment at the time, though 
I did not count the blows. One received 230 
lashes. Their crime was stealing mutton. I 
have frequently heard the shrieks of the slaves, 
male and female, accompanied by the strokes of 
the paddle or whip, when I have not gone near 
the scene of horror. I knew not their crimes, 
excepting of one woman, which was stealinjr 
four potatoes to esit with her bread I The more 
common number of lashes inflicted was fifty or 
eighty ; and this I saw not once or twice, but so 
frequently that I can not tell the number of times 
I have seen it. So frequently, that my own heart 
was becoming so hardened that I could witness 
with comparative indifference, the female writhe 
under the lash, and her shrieks and cries for 
mercy ceased to pierce my heart with that keen- 
ness, or give me that anguish which they first 
caused. It was not always that I could learn 
their crimes ; but of those I did learn, the most 
common was non-performance of tasks. I have 
seen men strip and receive from one to three 
hundred strokes of the whip and paddle. My 
studies and meditations were almost nightly in- 
terrupted by the cries of the victims of cruelty 
and avarice. Tom, a slave of Col. N. obtained 
permission of his overseer on Sunday, to visit his 
son, on a neighboring plantation, belonging in part 
to his master, but neglected to take a " pass." 
Upon its being demanded by the other overseer, 
he replied that he had permission to come, and 
that his having a mule was sufficient evidence of 
it, and if he did not consider it as such, he could 
take him up. The overseer replied he would 
take him up ; giving him at the same time a 
blow on the arm with a stick he hold in his hand, 
sufficient to lame it for some time. The negro 
collared him, and threw him ; and on the over- 
seer's commanding him to submit to be tied and 
whipped, ho said he would not be whipped by 
hi7n but would leave it to massa J. They came 
to massa J.'s. I was there. After the overseer 
had related the case as above, he was blamed 
for not shooting or stabbing him at once. — After 
diimer the negro was tied, and the whip given to 
the overseer, and he used it with a severity that 
was shocking. I know not how many lashes 
were given, but from his shoulders to his heels 
there was not a spot unridged ! and at almost 
every stroke the blood flowed. He could not 
have received less than 300, well laid on. But 
his offence was great, almost the greatest known, 
laying hands on a white man ! Had he struck 
the overseer, under any provocation, he would 
have been in some way disfigured, perhaps by 
the loss of his ears, in addition to a whipping ; 
or he might have been hung. The most com 
mon cause of punishments is, not finishing tasks. 

" But it would be tedious mentioning further 
particulars. The negro has no other inducement 
to work but the lash ; and as man never acts 
without motive, the lash must be used so long 
as all other motives are withheld. Hence cor- 
poreal punishment is a necessary part of slavery. 

" Punishments for runaways are usually severe. 

* A piece ofoak timber two and a half feet long, flat and 
wide at one end. 



104 



Personal Narratives — Philemon Bliss. 



Once whipping is not sufficient. I have known 
runaways to be whipped for six or seven nights 
in succession for one offence. I have known 
others who, with pinioned hands, and a chain 
extending from an iron collar on their neck, 
to the saddle of their master's liorse, have been 
driven at a smart trot, one or two hundred miles, 
being compelled to ford water courses, their 
drivers, according to their own confession, not 
abating a whit in the rapidity of their journey for 
the ease of the slave. One tied a kettle of sand to 
his slave to render his journey more arduous. 

" Various are the instruments of torture devised 
to keep the slave in subjection. The stocks are 
sometimes used. Sometimes blocks are filled 
with pegs and nails, and the slave compelled to 
stand upon them. 

" While stopping on the plantation of a Mr. C. 
I saw a whip with a knotted lash lying on the 
table, and inquired of my companion, who was 
also an acquaintance of Mr. C.'s, if he used that 
to whip his negroes ? " Oh," says he, " Mr. C. 
is not severe with his hands. He never whips 
very hard. The knots in the lash are so large 
that he does not usually draw blood in whip- 
ping them." 

'' It was principally from hearing the conversa- 
tion of southern men on the subject, that I judge 
of the cruelty that is generally practiced toward 
slaves. They will deny that slaves are generally 
ill treated : but ask them if they are not whipped 
for certain offences, which either a freeman 
would have no temptation to commit, or which 
would not be an offence in any but a slave, and 
for non-performance of tasks, they will answer 
promptly in the affirmative. And frequently 
have I heard them excuse their cruelty by citing 
Mr. A. or Mr, B. who is a Christian, or Mr. C. 
a preacher, or Mr. D. from the north, who 
" drives his hands tighter, and whips them hard- 
er, than we ever do." Driving negroes to the 
utmost extent of their ability, with occasionally a 
hundred lashes or more, and a few switchings in 
the field if they hang back in the driving seasons, 
viz : in the hoing and picking months, is perfect- 
ly consistent with good treatment ! 

" While traveling across the Peninsula in a 
stage, in company with a northern gentleman, 
and southern lady, of great worth and piety, a 
dispute arose respecting the general treatment 
of slaves, the gentleman contending that their 
treatment was generally good — ' O, no !' inter, 
rupted the lady, ' you can know nothing of the 
treatment they receive on the plantations. Peo- 
ple here do whip the poor negroes most cruelly, 
and many half starve them. You have neither 
of you had opportunity to know scarcely any 
thing of the cruelties that are practiced in this 
country,' and more to the same effect, I met with 
several others, besides this lady, who appeared to 
feel for the sins of the land, but they are few and 
scattered, and not usually of sufficiently stern 
mould to withstand the popular wave. 

" Masters are not forward to publish their 
" domestic regulations," and as neighbors are 
usually several miles apart, one's observation 
must be limited. Hence the few instances of 
cruelty which break out can be but a fraction of 
what is practised. A planter, a professor of re- 
ligion, in conversation upon the universality of 



whipping, remarked that a planter in G , who 

had whipped a great deal, at length got tired 
of it, and invented the following excellent 
method of punishment, which I saw practised 
while I was paying him a visit. The negro was 
placed in a sitting position, with his hands made 
fast above his head, and feet in the stocks, so 
that he could not move any part of the body. 

" The master retired, intending to leave him till 
morning, but we were awakened in the night by 
the groans of the negro, which were so doleful 
that we feared he was dying. We went to him, 
and found him covered with a cold sweat, and 
almost gone. He could not have lived an hour 

longer. Mr. found the ♦ stocks' such an 

effective punishment, that it almost superseded 
the whip." 

" How much do you give your niggers for a 

task while hoeing cotton," inquired Mr. C 

of his neighbor Mr. H . 

H. " I give my men an acre and a quarter, and 
my women an acre."* 

C. " Well, that is a fair task. Niggers do a 
heap better if they are drove pretty tight." 

H. " O yes, I have driven mine into complete 
subordination. When I first bought them they 
were discontented and wished me to sell them, 
but I soon whipped that out of them ; and they 
now work very contentedly !" 

C, " Does Mary keep up with the rest ?" 

H. " No, she does'nt often finish the task alone, 
she has to get Sam to help her out after he has 
done his, to save her a whipping. There's no 
other way but to be severe with them." 

C. " No othei', sir, if you favor a nigger you 
spoil him." 

" The whip is considered as necessary on a plan- 
tation as the plough ; and its use is almost as 
common. The negro whip is the common team- 
ster's whip with a black leather stock, and a short, 
fine, knotted lash. The paddle is also frequently 
used, sometimes with holes bored in the flattened 
end. The ladies (!) in chastising their domestic 
servants, generally use the cowiiide. I have 
known some use shovel and tongs. It is, how- 
ever, more common to commit them to the driver 
to be whipped. The manner of whipping is as 
follows : The negro is tied by his hands, and 
sometimes feet, to a post or tree, and stripped to 
the skin. The female slave is not always tied. 
The number of lashes depends upon the character 
for severity of the master or overseer. 

" Another instrument of torture is sometimes 
used, how extensively I know not. The negro, 
or, in the case which came to my knowledge, 
the negress was compelled to stand barefoot 
upon a block filled wuth sharp pegs and nails for 
two nr three hours. In case of sickness, if the 
master or overseer thinks them seriously ill, they 
are taken care of, but their complaints are usual- 
ly not much heeded. A physician told me that 
he was employed by a planter last winter to go 
to a plantation of his in the country, as many 'if 
the negroes were sick. Says he — " I found them 
in a most miserable condition. The weather 
was cold, and the negroes were barefoot, with 
hardly enough of cotton clothing to cover their 
nakedness. Those who had huts to shelter them 

* Cotton is planted in drills about three feet apart, and is 
1 hilled like corn. 



Personal Narratives — Rev. Wm. A. Chapin. 



105 



were obliged to build them nights and Sundays. 
Many were sick and some had died. I had the 
sick taken to an older plantation of their 
masters, where they could be made comfortable, 
and they recovered. I directed that they should 
not go to work till after sunrise, and should not- 
work in the rain till their health became establish- 
ed. But the overseer refusing to permit it, 1 de- 
clined attending on them farther, I was call- 
ed,' continued he, ' by the overseer of another 
plantation to see one of the men. I found him 
lying by the side of a log in great pain, I asked 
him how he did, ' O,' says he, ' I'm most dead, 
can live but little longer.' How long have you 
been sick ? * I've felt for more than six weeks 



as though I could hardly stir.* Why didn't you 
tell your master, you was sick ? ' I couldn't see 
my master, and the overseer always whips us 
when we complain, I could not stand a whip- 
ping.' I did all I could for the poor fellow, but 
his lungs were rotten. He died in three days 
from the time he left off work.' The cruelty of 
that overseer is such that the negroes almost 
tremble at his name. Yet he gets a high salary, 
for he makes the largest crop of any other man 
in the neighborhood, though none but the hard- 
iest negroes can stand it under him. " That 
man," says the Doctor, " would be hung in my 
country." He was a German. 



TESTIMONY OF REV. WILLIAM A, CHAPIN. 



Rev. William Scales, of Lyndon, Vermont, 
has furnished the following testimony, under date 
of Dec. 15, 1838. 

" I send you an extract from a letter that I 
have just received, which you may use ad libitum. 
The letter is from Rev. Wm. A, Chapin, Greens- 
borough, Vermont. To one who is acquainted 
with Mr. C. his opinion and statements must 
carry conviction even to the most obstinate and 
incredulous. iJe observes, ' I resided, as a teach- 
er, nearly two years in the family of Carroll Webb, 
Esq,, of Hampstead, New Kent co, about twenty 
miles from Richmond, Virginia. Mr. Webb had 
three or four plantations, and was considered one 
of the two wealthiest men in the county : it was 
supposed he owned about two hundred slaves. He 
was a member of the Presbyterian Church, and 
was elected an elder while I was with him. He 
was a native of Virginia, but a graduate of a New- 
England college. 

" ' The slaves were called in the morning before 
daylight, I believe at all seasons of the year, that 
they might prepare their food, and be ready to go 
to work as soon as it was light enough to see. I 
know that at the season of husking corn, October 
and November, they were usually compelled to 
work late — till 12 or 1 o'clock at night. I know 
this fact because they accompanied their work 
with a loud singing of their own sort. I usually 
retired to rest between 11 and 12 o'clock, and 
generally heard them at their work as long as I 
was awake. The slaves lived in wretched log 
cabins, of one room each, without floors or win- 
dows. I believe the slaves sometimes suffer for 
want of food. One evening, as I was sitting in 



the parlor with Mr. W. one of the most resolute 
of the slaves came to the door, and said, " Mas- 
ter, I am willing to work for you, but I want 
something to eat." The only reply was, " Clear 
yourself." I learned that the slaves had been 
without food all day, because the man who was 
sent to mill could not obtain his grinding. He 
went again the next day, and obtained his grist, 
and the slaves had no food till he returned. He 
had to go about five miles.* 

" I know the slaves were sometimes severely 
whipped. I saw the backs of several v/hich had 
numerous scars, evidently caused by long and 
deep lacerations of the whip ; and I have good 
reason to believe that the slaves were generally 
in that condition ; for I never saw the back of 
one exposed that was not thus marked, — and from 
their tattered and scanty clothing their backs 
were often exposed." 

*To this, Rev. Mr. Scales adtls, "In familiar language, 
and in more detail, as I have learned it in conversation with 
Mr. Chapin, the fact is as follows : — 

" Mr. W. kept, what he called a ' boy,' i. e. a vian, to go 
to mill. It was his custom not to give liis slaves anything to 
eat while he was gone to mill — let him have been gone long- 
er or shorter — for this reason, if he was lazy, and delayed, 
the slaves would become hungry ; hence indignant, and 
abuse him — this was his punishment. On that occasion he 
went to mill in the morning. Tlie slaves came up at noon, 
and returned to work without food. At night, after having 
worked hard all day, without food, went to bed without 
supper. About 10 o'clock the next day. they came up in a 
company, to their master's door, (that master an elder in 
the church), and deputed one more resolute than the rest to 
address him. This he did in the most respectful tones and 
terms. " We are willing to work for you, master, but we 
can't work without food ; we want scimething to eat." 
*' Clear yourself," was the answer. The slaves retired ; 
and in the morning were driven away to work without food. 
At noon, I think, or somewhat after, they were fed." 



TESTIMONY OF MESSRS. T. D. M. AND F. C. MACY. 



This testimony is communicated in a letter 
from Mr. Cyrus Pierce, a respectable and well 
known citizen of Nantucket, Mass. Of the wit- 
nesses, Messrs. T. D. M. and F. C. Macy, 
Mr. Pierce says, " They are both inhabitants of 
this island, and have resided at the south ; they 
are both worthy men, for whose integrity and 

14 



intelligence I can vouch unqualifiedly ; the foi-- 
mcr has furnished me with the following state' 
ment. 

" During the winter of 1832 — 3, I resided on 
the island of St. Simon, Glynn county, Georgia. 
There are several extensive cotton plantations on 
the island. The overseer of the plantation on 



106 



Personal Narratives — T. D. M. and F. C. Macy. 



i.hat part of the island where I resided was a 
Georgian — a man of stern character, and at 
Mmes cruelly abusive to his slaves. I have often 
been witness of the abuse of his power. In South 
Carolina and Georgia, on the low lands, the cul- 
tivation is chiefly of rice. The land where it is 
raised is often inundated, and the labor of pre- 
paring it, and raising a crop, is very arduous. 
jMen and women are in the field from earliest 
dawn to dark — often without hats, and up to 
their arm-pits in mud and water. At St. Si- 
mon's, cotton was the staple article. Ocra, the 
driver, usually waited on the overseer to receive 
orders for the succeeding day. If any slave was 
insolent, or negligent, the driver was authorized 
to punish him with the whip, with as many blows 
as the magnitude of the crime justified. He was 
frequently cautioned, upon the peril of his skin, to 
see that all the negroes were oft" to the field in 
the morning. ' Ocra,' said the overseer, one 
evening, to the driver, 'if any pretend to be 
sick, send me word — allow no lazy wench or fel- 
low to skulk in the negro house.' Next morning, 
• a few minutes after the departure of the hands to 
the field, Ocra was seen hastening to the house 
of the overseer. He was soon in his presence. 
' Well, Ocra, what now ?' Nothing, sir, only 
Rachel says she sick — can't go to de field to-day.' 
' Ah, sick, is she ? I'll see to her ; you may be 
ofi'. She shall see if I am longer to be fooled 
with in this way. Here, Christmas, mix these 
salts — bring them to me at the negro house.' 
And seizing his whip, he made oft" to the negro 
settlement. Having a strong desire to see what 
would be the result, I followed him. As I ap- 
proached the negro house, I heard high words. 
Rachel was stating her complaint — children were 
crying from fright — and the overseer threatening. 
Rachel. — ' I can't work to-day — I'm sick.' Over- 
seer. — ' But you shall work, if you die for it. 
Here, take these salts. Now move off — quick — 
let me see your face again before night, and, by 
G — d, you shall smart for it. Be off" — no beg- 
ging — not a word ;' — and he dragged her from 
the house, and followed her 20 or 30 rods, threat- 
ening. The woman did not reach the field. 
Overcome by the exertion of walking, and by 
agitation, she sunk down exhausted by the road 
side — was taken up, and carried back to the 
house, where an abortion occurred, and her life 
was greatly jeoparded. 

" It was no uncommon sight to see a whole 
family, father, mother, and from two to five 
children, collected together around their piggin 
of hommony, or pail of potatoes, watched by the 
overseer. One meal was always eaten in the 
field. No time was allowed for relaxation. 

" It was not unusual for a child of five or six 
years to perform the office of nurse — because the 
mother worked in a remote part of the field, and 
was not allowed to leave her employment to take 
care of her infant. Want of proper nutriment 
induces sickness of the worst type. 

" No matter v»?hat the nature of the service, a 
peck of corn, dealt out on Sunday, must supply 
the demands of nature for a week. 

" The Sabbath, on a southern plantation, is a 
mere nominal holiday. The slaves are liable to 
be called upon at all times, by those v/ho have 
authority over them. 



" When it rained, the slaves were allowed to 
collect under a tree until the shower had passed. 
Seldom, on a week day, were they permitted to 
go to their huts during rain ; and even had this 
privilege been granted, many of those miserable 
habitations were in so dilapidated a condition, 
that they would afford little or no protection. 
Negro huts are built of logs, covered with boards 
or thatch, having no flooring, and but one apart- 
ment, serving all the purposes of sleeping, cook- 
ing, &,c. Some are furnished with a temporary 
loft. I have seen a whole family herded together 
in a loft ten feet by twelve. In cold weather, they 
gather around the fire, spread their blankets on the 
ground, and keep as comfortable as they can. 
Their supply of clothing is scanty — each slave 
being allowed a Holland coat and pantaloons, of 
the coarsest manufacture, and one pair of cow- 
hide shoes. The women, enough of the same 
kind of cloth for one frock. They have also one 
pair of shoes. Shoes are given to the slaves in 
the winter only. In summer, their clothing is 
composed of osnaburgs. Slaves on different plan- 
tations are not allowed without a written per- 
mission, to visit their fellow bondsmen, under 
penalty of severe chastisement. I witnessed the 
chastisement of a young male slave, who was 
found lurking about the plantation, and could 
give no other account of himself, than that he 
wanted to visit some of his acquaintance. Fifty 
lashes was the penalty for this offence. I could 
not endure the dreadful shrieks of the tortured 
slave, and rushed away from the scene." 

The remainder of this testimony is furnished 
by Mr. F. C. Macy. 

" I went to Savannah in 1820. Sailing up the 
river, I had my first view of slavery. A large 
number of men and women, with a piece of 
board on their heads, carrying mud, for the pur- 
pose of dyking, near the river. After tarrying a 
while in Savannah, I went down to the sea 
islands of De Fuskee and Hilton Head, where I 
spent six months. Negro houses are small, built 
of rough materials, and no floor. Their clothing, 
(one suit,) coarse ; which they received on Christ. 
mas day. Their food was three pecks of pota- 
toes per week, in the potatoe season, and one peck 
of corn the remainder of the year. The slaves 
carried with them into the field their meal, and 
a gourd of water. They cooked their hommony in 
the field, and ate it with a Avooden paddle 
Their treatment was little better than that of 
brutes. Whipping was nearly an cvery-day 

practice. On Mr. M 's plantation, at the 

island De Fuskee, I saw an old man whipped ; 
he was about 60. He had no clothing on, except 
a shirt. The man that inflicted the blows was 
Flim, a tall and stout man. The whipping was 
very severe. I inquired into the cause. Some 
vegetables had been stolen from his master's gar. 
den, of which he could give no account. I saw 
several women whipped, some of whom were in 
very delicate circumstances. The case of one I will 
relate. She had been purchased in Charleston, and 
separated from her husband. On her passage to 
Savannah, or rather to the island, she was de 
livered of a child ; and in about three weeks alter 
this, she appeared to be deranged. She wouh'r 
leave her work, go into the woods, and smg 



Personal Narratives — A Clergyman. 



107 



Her master sent for her, and ordered the driver 
to whip her. I was near enough to hear the 
strokes. 

" I have known negro boys, partly by persua- 
sion, and partly by force, made to strip off then- 
clothing and fight for the amusement of their 
masters. They would fight until both got to 
crying. 

" One of the planters told me that his boat had 
been used without permission. A number of his 
negroes were called up, and put in a building 
tliat was lathed and shingled. The covering 
could be easily removed from the inside. He 
called one out for examination. While examin- 
ing this one, he discovered another negro, com- 



ing out of the roof He ordered him back : he 
obeyed. In a few moments he attempted it 
again. The master took deliberate aim at his 
head, but his gun missed fire. He told me he 
should probably have killed him, had liis gun 
gone off. The negro jumped and run. The 
master took aim again, and fired ; but he was so 
far distant, that he received only a few shots in 
the calf of his leg. After several days he return- 
ed, and received a severe whipping. 

" Mr. B , planter at Hilton Head, freely 

confessed, that he kept one of his slaves as a mis- 
tress. She slept in the same room with him. 
This, I think, is a very common practice." 



TESTIMONY OF A CLERGYMAN. 



The following letter was written to Mr. Ar- 
THUR Tappan, of New York, in the summer of 
1833. As the name of the wTiter cannot be pub- 
lished with safety to himself, it is withheld. 

The following testimonials, from Mr. Tappan, 
Professor Wright, and Thomas Rittkr, M. D. 
of New York, establish the trust-worthiness and 
high respectability of the writer. 

" I received the following letters from the south 
during the year 1833. They were written by a 
gentleman who had then resided some years in 
the slave states. Not being at liberty to give the 
writer's name, I cheerfully certify that he is a 
gentleman of estabhshed character, a graduate of 
Yale College, and a respected minister of the 
gospel. " Arthur Tappan." 

" My acquaintance with the writer of the fol- 
lowing letter commenced, I believe, in 1823, from 
which time we were fellow students in Yale Col- 
lege till 1826. I have occasionally seen him since. 
His character, so far as it has come within my 
knowledge, has been that of an upright and re- 
markably candid man. I place great confidence 
both in his habits of careful and unprejudiced ob- 
servation and his veracity. 

" E. Wright, jun. 

" New York, April 13, 1839." 

" I have been acquainted with the writer of 
the following letter about twelve years, and know 
him to be a gentleman of high respectability, in- 
tegrity, and piety. We were fellow students in 
Yale College, and my opportunities for judging 
of his character, both at that time and since our 
graduation, have been such, that I feel myself 
fully warranted in making the above imequivocal 
declaration. " Thomas Ritter. 

" 104, Cherry-street, New York." 

"Natchez, 1833. 
•' It has been almost four years since I came to 
the south-west ; and although I have been told, 
from month to month, that I should soon wear off 
my northern prejudices, and probably have slaves 
of my own, yet my judgment in regard to oppres- 
sion, or my prejudices, if they are pleased so to 
call them, remain with me still. I judge still from 
those principles which were fixed in my mind at 
the north ; and a residence at the south has not 



enabled me so to pervert truth, as to make injus- 
tice appear justice. 

" I have studied the state of things here, now for 
years, coblly and deliberately, with the eye of an 
uninterested looker on ; and hence I may not be 
altogether unprepared to state to you some facts, 
and to draw conclusions from them. ^ 

" Permit me then to relate what I have seen ; 
and do not imagine that these are all exceptions 
to the general treatment, but rather believe that 
thousands of cruelties are practised in this Chris, 
tian land, every year, which no eye that ever shed 
a tear of pity could look upon. 

" Soon after my arrival I made an excursion into 
the country, to the distance of some twenty miles. 
And as I was passing by a cotton field, where 
about fifty negroes were at work, I was inclined 
to stop by the road side to view a scene which 
was then new to me. While I was, in my mind, 
comparing this mode of labor with that of my 
own native place, I heard the driver, with a rough 
oath, order one that was near him, who seemed 
to be laboring to the extent of his power, to "lie 
down." In a moment he was obeyed ; and ho 
commenced whipping the offender upon his na. 
ked back, and continued, to the amoimt of about 
twenty lashes, with a heavy raw-hide whip, the 
crack of which might have been heard more than 
half a mile. Nor did the females escape ; for al- 
though I stopped scarcely fifteen minutes, no less 
than three were whipped in the same manner, and 
that so severely, I was strongly inclined to interfere. 
"You maybe assured, sir, that I remained not 
unmoved : I could no longer look on such cruel- 
ty, but turned away and rode on, while the echoes 
of the lash were reverberating in the woods around 
me. Such scenes have long since become fami- 
liar to me. But then the full effect was not lost ; 
and I shall never forget, to my latest day, the 
mingled feelings of pity, horror, and indignation 
that took possession of my mind. I involuntai'ily 
exclaimed, O God of my fathers, how dost thou 
permit such things to defile our land ! Be mer- 
ciful to us ! and visit us not in justice, for all our 
iniquities and the iniquities of our fathers ! 

" As I passed on I soon found that I had escaped 
from one horrible scene only to witness another. 
A planter with whom I was well acquanted, had 
caught a negro without a pass. . And at the mo- 
ment I was passing by, he was in the act of fas- 



108 



Personal Narratives — A Clergyman. 



tening his feet and hands to the trees, having 
previously made him take off all his clothing ex- 
cept his trowsers. When he had sufficiently se- 
cured this poor creature, he beat him for several 
minutes with a green switch more than six feet 
long ; while he was writhing with anguish, en- 
deavoring in vain to break the cords with which 
he was bound, and incessantly crying out, " Lord, 
master ! do pardon me this time ! do, master, 
have mercy !" These expressions have recurred 
to me a thousand times since ; and although they 
came from one that is not considered among the 
sons of men, yet I think they are well worthy of 
remembrance, as they might lead a wise man to 
consider whether such shall receive mercy from 
the righteous Judge, as never showed mercy to 
their fellow men. 

" At length I arrived at the dwelling of a planter 
of my acquaintance, with whom I passed the 
night. At about eight o'clock in the evening I 
heard the barking of several dugs, mingled with 
the most agonizing cries that I ever heard from 
any human being. Soon after the gentleman 
came in, and began to apologize, by saying that 
two of his runaway slaves had just been brought 
home ; and as he had previously tried every spe- 
cies of punishment upon them without effect, he 
knew not what else to add, except to set his blood 
hounds upon them. ' And,' continued he, ' one 
of them has been so badly bitten that he has been 
trying to die. I am only sorry that he did not ; 
for then I should not have been further troubled 
with him. If he lives I intend to send him to 
Natchez or to New OiicanSj to work with the ball 
and chain.' 

" From this last remark I understood that private 
.individuals have the right of thus subjecting their 
unmanageable slaves. I have since seen num- 
bers of these ' ball and chain' men, both in Nat- 
chez and New Orleans, but I do not know whe- 
ther there were any among them except the state 
convicts. 

" As the summer was drawing towards a close, 
and the yellow fever beginning to prevail in town, 
I went to reside some months in the country. 
This was the cotton picking season, during which, 
the planters say, there is a greater necessity for 
logging than at any other time. And I can as- 
sure you, that as I have sat in my window night 
after night, while the cotton was being weighed, 
I have heard the crack of the whip, without much 
intermission, for a whole hour, from no less than 
three plantations, some of which were a full mile 
distant. 

" I found that the slaves were kept in the field 
from daylight until dark ; and then, if they had 
not gathered what the master or overseer thought 
sufficient, they were subjected to the lash. 

" Many by such treatment are induced to run 
away and take up their lodging in the woods. I 
do not say that all who run away are thus closely 
pressed, but I do know that many are ; and I have 
known no less than a dozen desert at a time from 
the same plantation, in consequence' of the over- 
seer's forcing them to work to the extent of their 
power, and then whipping them for not having 
done more. 

" But suppose that they run away — what is to 
become of thehi in the forest ? If they cannot 
steal they must perish of hunger — if the nights 



are cold, their feet will be frozen ; for if they make 
a fire they may be discovered, and be shot at. 
If they attempt to leave the country, their chance 
of success is about nothing. They must return, 
be whipped — if old offenders, wear the collar, per- 
haps be branded,and fare worse than before. 

" Do you believe it, sir, not six months since, I 
saw a number of my Christian neighbors packing 
up provisions, as I supposed for a deer hunt ; but 
as I was about offering myself to the party, I 
learned that their powder and balls were destined 
to a very different purpose : it was, in short, the 
design of the party to bring home a number of 
runaway slaves, or to shoot them if they should 
not be able to get possession of them in any other 
way. 

" You will ask, Is not this murder ? Call it, sir, 
by what name you please, such are the facts : — 
many are shot every year, and that too while the 
masters say they treat their slaves well. 

"But let me turn your attention to another spe- 
cies of cruelty. About a year since I knew a cer- 
tain slave who had deserted his master, to be 
caught, and for the first time fastened to the 
stocks. In those same stocks, from which at mid- 
night I have heard cries of distress, while the 
master slept, and was di-eammg, perhaps, of drink- 
ing wine and of discussing the price of cotton. 
On the next morjiing he w^as chained in an im- 
movable posture, and branded in both cheeks with 
red hot stamps of iron. Such are the tender mer- 
cies of men who love wealth, and are determined 
to obtain it at any price. 

" Suffer me to add another to the list of enormi- 
ties, and I will not offend you with more. 

" There was, some time since, brought to trial in 
this town a planter residing about fifteen miles 
distant, for whipping his slave to death. You 
will suppose, of course, that he was punished. 
No, sir, he was acquitted, although there could 
be no doubt of the fact. I heard the tale of mur- 
der from a man who was acquainted with all the 
circumstances. ' I was,' said he , ' passing along 
the road near the burying-ground of the planta- 
tion, about nine o'clock at night, when I saw se- 
veral lights gleaming through the woods ; and as 
I approached, in order to see what was doing, I 
beheld the coroner of Natchez, with a number of 
men, standing around the body of a young female, 
which by the torches seemed almost perfectly 
white. On inquiry I learned that the master had 
so unmercifully beaten this girl that she died im- 
der the operation : and that also he had so severe- 
ly punished another of his slaves that he was but 
just alive.' " 

We here rest the case for the present, so far as 
respects the presentation of facts showing the con- 
dition of the slaves, and proceed to consider the 
main objections which are usually employed to 
weaken such testimony, or wholly to set it aside. 
But before we enter upon the examination of spe- 
cific objections, and introductory to them, we re- 
mark, — 

1. That the system of slavery must be a sys- 
tem of horrible cruelty, follows of necessity, from 
the fact that two millions seven hundred thousand 
■ human beings are held by force, and used as arti- 



Personal Narratives — Remarks 



109 



cles of property. Nothing but a heavy yoke, and 
an iron one, could possibly keep so many necks in 
the dust. That must be a constant and mighty 
pressure which holds so still such a vast army ; 
nothing could do it but the daily experience of se- 
verities, and the ceaseless dread and certainty of 
the most terrible inflictions if they should dare to 
toss in their chains. 

2. Were there nothing else to prove it a system 
of monstrous cruelty, the fact that fear is the 
only motive with which the slave is plied during 
his whole existence, would be sufficient to brand 
it with execration as the grand tormentor of man. 
The slave's susceptibility of pain is the sole ful- 
crum on which slavery works the lever that moves 
him. In this it plants all its stings ; here it sinks 
its hot irons ; cuts its deep gashes ; flings its burn- 
ing embers, and dashes its boiling brine and liquid 
fire : into this it strikes its cold flesh hooks, grap- 
gling irons, and instruments of nameless torture ; 
and by it drags him shrieking to the end of his 
pilgrimage. The fact that the master inflicts 
pain upon the slave not merely as an end to grati- 
fy passion, but constantly as a means of extorting 
labor, is enough of itself to show that the system 
of slavery is unmixed cruelty. 

3. That the slaves must suffer frequent and 
terrible inflictions, follows inevitably from the 
character of those who direct their labor. What- 
ever maybe the character of the slaveholders them- 
selves, all agree that the overseers are, as a class, 
most abandoned, brutal, and desperate men. This 
is so well known and believed that any testimony 
to prove it seems needless. The testimony of 
Mr. Wirt, late Attorney General of the United 
States, a Virginian and a slaveholder, is as fol- 
lows. In his life of Patrick Henry, p. 36, speak- 
ing of the different classes of society in Virginia, 
he says, — " Last and lowest a feculum, of beings 
called ' overseers' — the most abject, degraded, un. 
principled race^ always cap in hand to the dons 
who employ them, and furnishing materials for 
the exercise of their pride, insolence, and spirit of 
domination.''^ 

Rev. Phineas Smith, of Centreville, New-York, 
who has resided some years at the south, says of 
overseers — 

" It need hardly be added that overseers are in 
general ignorant, unprincipled and cruel, and in 
Buch low repute that they are not permitted to 



come to the tables of their employers; yet they 
have the constant control of all the human cattle 
that belong to the master. 

" These men are continually advancing from 
their low station to the higher one of masters. 
These changes bring into the possession of power 
a class of men of whose mental and moral quali- 
ties I have already spoken." 

Rev. Horace Moulton, of Marlboro', Massa- 
chusetts, who lived in Georgia several years, says 
of them, — 

" The overseers are generally loose in their mo.- 
rals'; it is the object of masters to employ those 
whom they think will get the most work out of 
their hands, — hence those who whip and tor- 
ment the slaves the most are in many instances 
called the best overseers. The masters think 
those whom the slaves fear the most are the best. 
Quite a portion of the masters employ their own 
slaves as overseers, or rather they are called 
drivers ; these are more subject to the will of 
the masters than the white overseers are ; some 
of them are as lordly as an Austrian prince, and 
sometimes more cruel even than the whites." 

That the overseers are, as a body, sensual, bru- 
tal, and violent men is proverbial. The tender 
mercies of such men must be cruel. 

4. The ownership of human beings necessarily 
presupposes an utter disregard of their happiness. 
He who assumes it monopolizes their whole capi. 
tal, leaves them no stock on which to trade, and 
out of which to make happiness. Whatever is the 
master's gain is the slave's loss, a loss wrested 
from him by the master, for the express purpose 
of making it his own gain ; this is the master's 
constant employment — forcing the slave to toil — 
violently wringing from him all he has and all he 
gets, and using it as his own ; — like the vile bird 
that never builds its nest from materials of its own 
gathering, but either drives other birds from theirs 
and takes possession of them, or tears them in 
pieces to get the means of constructing their own. 
This daily practice of forcibly robbing others, and 
habitually living on the plunder, cannot but be- 
get in the mind the habit of regarding the interests 
and happiness of those whom it robs, as of no sort 
of consequence in comparison with its own ; con- 
sequently whenever those interests and this hap- 
piness are in the way of its own gratification, they 
will be sacrificed without scruple. He who can- 
not see this would be unable to feel it, if it were 
seen. 



OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 



Objection I.— SUCH CRUELTIES ARE INCREDIBLE. 



The enormities inflicted by slaveholders upon 
their slaves will never be discredited except by 
those who overlook the simple fact, that he who 
holds human beings as his bona fide property, re- 
gards them as property, and not as persons ; this 
is his permanent state of mind toward them. He 
does not contemplate slaves as human beings, con- 
sequently does not treat them as such ; and with 
entire indifference sees them suffer privations and 
writhe under blows, which, if inflicted upon 
whites, would fill him with horror and indigna- 
tion. He regards that as good treatment of 
slaves, which would seem to him insufferable 
abuse if practiced upon others ; and would de- 
nounce that as a monstrous outrage and horrible 
cruelty, if perpretated upon white men and wo- 
men, which he sees every day meted out to black 
slaves, wnthout perhaps ever thinking it cruel. 
Accustomed all his life to regard them rather as 
domestic animals, to hear them stormed at, and to 
see them cuffed and caned ; and being himself in 
the constant habit of treating them thus, such 
practices have become to him a mere matter of 
course, and make no impression on his mind. 
True, it is incredible that men should treat as 
chattels those whom they truly regard as human 
beings ; but that they should treat as chattels and 
working animals those whom they regard as such 
is no marvel. The common treatment of dogs, 
when they are in the way, is to kick them out of 
it ; we see them every day kicked off the side- 
walks, and out of shops, and on Sabbaths out of 
churches, — yet, as they are but dogs, these do not 
strike us as outrages ; yet, if we were to see men, 
women, and children — our neighbors and friends, 
kicked out of stores by merchants, or out of 
churches by the deacons and sexton, we should 
call the perpetrators inhuman wretches. 

We have said that slaveholders regard their 
slaves not as human beings, but as mere working 
animals, or merchandise. The whole vocabulary 
of slaveholders, their laws, their usages, and their 
entire treatment of their slaves fully establish this. 
The same terms are applied to slaves that are 
given to cattle. They are called " stock." So 
when the children of slaves are spoken of pro- 
spectively, they are called their " increase ;" the 
same term that is applied to flocks and herds. So 
the female slaves that are mothers, are called 
" breeders" till past child bearing ; and often the 
same terms are applied to the different sexes that 
are applied to the males and females among cat- 
tle. Those who compel the labor of slaves and 
cattle have the same appellation, " drivers :" the ' 



names which they call them are the same and simi- 
ilar to those given to their horses and oxen. The 
laws of slave states make them property, equally 
with goats and swine ; they are levied upon for debt 
in the same way ; they are included in the same 
advertiseinents of public sales with cattle, swine, 
and asses ; when moved from one part of the 
country to another, they are herded in droves like 
cattle, and like them urged on by drivers ; their 
labor is compelled in the same way. They are 
bought and sold, and separated like cattle : when 
exposed for sale, their good qualities are described 
as jockies show off the good points of their horses ; 
their strength, activity, skill, power of endurance, 
&c. are lauded, — and those who bid upon them 
examine their persons, just as purchasers inspect 
horses and oxen ; they open their mouths to see 
if their teeth are sound ; strip their backs to see if 
they are badly scarred, and handle their limbs 
and muscles to see if they are firmly knit. Like 
horses, they are warranted to be " sound," or to be 
returned to the owner if " unsound." A father 
gives his son a horse and a slave ; by his will he 
distributes among them his race-horses, hounds, 
game-cocks, and slaves. We leave the reader to 
carry out the parallel which we have only begun. 
Its details would cover many pages. 

That slaveholders do not practically regard 
slaves as human beings is abundantly shown by 
their own voluntary testimony. In a recent work 
entitled, " The South vindicated from the Treason 
and Fanaticism of Northern Abolitionists," which 
was written, we are informed, by Colonel Dayton, 
late member of Congress from South Carolina ; 
the writer, speaking of the awe with which the 
slaves regard the whites, says. — 

" The northerner looks upon a band of negroes 
as upon so many men, but the planter or southern- 
er views themin a very different light.''^ 

Extract from the speech of Mr. Summers, of 
Virginia, in the legislature of that state, Jan. 26, 
1832. See the Richmond Whig. 

" When, in the sublime lessons of Christianity, 
he (the slaveholder) is taught to ' do unto others 
as he would have others do unto him,' he never 

DREAMS THAT THE DEGRADED NEGRO IS WITHPN THE 
PALE OF THAT HOLY CANON." 

President Jefferson, in his letter to Governor 
Coles, of Illinois, dated Aug. 25, 1814, asserts, 
that slaveholders regard their slaves as bnates, in 
the following remarkable language. 

" Nursed and educated in the daily habit of see- 
ing the degraded condition, both bodily and men- 
tal, of these unfortunate beings [the slaves], few 

minds HAVE yet DOUBTED BUT THAT THEY WERE AS 



Objections Considered — Cruellies Incredible. 



Ill 



LEGITIMATE SUBJRCTS OF PROPERTY AS THEIR HORSES 
OR CATTLE." 

Having shown that slaveholders regard their 
slaves as mere working animals and cattle, we 
now proceed to show that their actual treatment 
of them, is worse than it would be if they were 
brutes. We repeat it. Slaveholders treat their 

SLAVES worse than TUEY DO THEIR BRUTES. Who- 

cver heard of cows or sheep being deliberately 
tied up and beaten and lacerated till they died ? 
or horses coolly tortured by the hour, till covered 
with mangled flesh, or of swine having their legs 
tied and being suspended from a tree and lacerat- 
ed with thongs for hours, or of hounds stretched 
and made fast at full length, flayed with whips, 
red pepper rubbed into their bleeding gashes, and 
hot brine dashed on to aggravate the torture ? 
Yet just such forms and degrees of torture are 
daily perpetrated upon the slaves. Now no man 
that knows human nature will marvel at this. 
Though great cruelties have always been inflicted 
by men upon brutes, yet incomparably the most 
horrid ever perpetrated, have been those of men 
upon their own species. Any leaf of history turn- 
ed over at random has proof enough of this. 
Every reflecting mind perceives that when men 
hold human beings as -property, they must, from 
the nature of the case, treat them worse than 
they treat their horses and oxen. It is impossible 
for cattle to excite in men such tempests of fury 
as men excite in each other. Men are often pro- 
yoked if their horses or hounds refuse to do, or 
their pigs refuse to go where they wish to drive 
them, but the feeling is rarely intense and never 
permanent. It is vexation and impatience, rather 
than settled rage, malignity, or revenge. If horses 
and dogs were intelligent beings, and still held as 
property, their opposition to the wishes of their 
owners, would exasperate them immeasurably 
more than it would be possible for them to do, 
with the minds of brutes. None but little chil- 
dren and idiots get angry at sticks and stones that 
lie in their way or hurt them ; but put into sticks 
and stones intelUgence, and will, and power of 
feeling and motion, while they remain as now, ar- 
tides of property, and what a towering rage would 
men be in, if bushes whipped them in the face when 
they walked among them, or stones rolled over 
their txjes when they chmbed hills ! and what 
exemplary vengeance would be inflicted upon 
door-steps and hearth-stones, if they were to 
move out of their places, instead of lying still 
where they were put for their owners to tread 
upon. The greatest provocation to human nature 
is opposition to its will. If a man's will be re- 
sisted by one far below him, the provocation is 
vastly greater, than when it is resisted by an 
acknowledged superior. In the former case, it in. 
flames strong passions, which in the latter lie 



dormant. The rage of proud Hainan knew no 
bounds against the poor Jew who would not do 
as he washed, and so he built a gallows for him. 
If the person opposing the will of another, be so 
far below him as to be on a level with chattels, 
and be actually held and used as an article of 
property ; pride, scorn, lust of power, rage and 
revenge explode together upon the hapless vic- 
tim. The idea of property having a will, and 
that too in opposition to the will of its owner, 
and counteracting it, is a stimulant of terrible 
power to the most relentless human passions ; 
and from the nature of slavery, and the constitu- 
tion of the human mind, this fierce stimulant 
must, with various degrees of strength, act upon 
slaveholders almost without ceasing. The slave, 
however abject and crushed, is an intelligent be- 
ing : he has a will, and that will cannot be anni- 
hilated, it will show itself; if for a moment it is 
smothered, like pent up fires when vent is found, 
it flames the fiercer. Make intelligence ^roperfy, 
and its manager will have his match ; he is met 
at every turn by an opposing will, not in the form 
of down-right rebellion and defiance, but yet, visi. 
bly, an ever-opposing will. He sees it in the dissat- 
isfied look, and reluctant air and unwilling move- 
ment ; the constrained strokes of labor, the 
drawling tones, the slow hearing, the feigned 
stupidity, the sham pains and sickness, the short 
memory ; and he feels it every hour, in innumer- 
able forms, frustrating his designs by a ceaseless 
though perhaps invisible countermining. This 
unceasing opposition to the will of its 'owner,' 
on the part of his rational ' property,' is to the 
slaveholder as the hot iron to the nerve. He 
raves under it, and storms, and gnashes, and 
smites ; but the more he smites, the hotter it 
gets, and the more it burns him. Further, this 
opposition of the slave's will to his owner's, not 
only excites him to severity, that he may gratify 
his rage, but makes it necessary for him to use 
violence in breaking down this resistance — thus 
subjecting the slave to additional tortures. There 
is another inducement to cruel inflictions upon 
the slave, and a necessity for it, which does not 
exist in the case of brutes. Ofi^enders must be 
made an example to others, to strike them with 
terror. If a slave runs away and is caught, his 
master flogs him with terrible severity, not mere- 
ly to gratify his resentment, and to keep him from 
running away again, but as a warning to others. 
So in every case of disobedience, neglect, stub- 
bornness, unfaithfulness, indolence, insolence, 
theft, feigned sickness, when his directions are 
forgotten, or slighted, or supposed to be, or his 
wishes crossed, or his property injured, or left ex- 
posed, or his work ill-executed, the master is 
tempted to inflict cruelties, not merely to wreak 
his own vengeance upon him, and to make the 



112 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



slave more circumspect in future, but to sustain 
his authority over the other slaves, to restrain 
them from hke practices, and to preserve his 
own property. 

A multitude of facts, illustrating the position 
that slaveholders treat their slaves worse than 
they do their cattle, will occur to all who are 
familiar with slavery. When cattle break through 
their owners' inclosures and escape, if found, they 
are driven back and fastened in again ; and even 
slaveholders would execrate as a wretch, the 
man who should tie them up, and bruise and la- 
cerate them for straying away ; but when slaves 
that have escaped are caught, they are flogged 
with the most terrible severity. When herds of 
cattle are driven to market, they are suffered to 
go in the easiest way, each by himself; but when 
slaves are driven to market, they are fastened 
together with handcuffs, galled hy iron collars 
and chains, and thus forced to travel on foot 
hundreds of miles, sleeping at night in their 
chains. Sheep, and sometimes horned cattle are 
marked with their owners' initials — but this is 
generally done with paint, and of course pro- 
duces no pain. Slaves, too, are often marked 
with their owners' initials, but the letters are 
stamped into their flesh with a hot iron. Cattle 
are suffered to graze their pastures without stint ; 
but the slaves are restrained in their food to a 
fixed allowance. The slaveholders' horses are 
notoriously far better fed, more moderately work- 
ed, have fewer hours of labor, and longer inter- 
vals of rest than their slaves ; and their valuable 
horses are far more comfortably housed and 
lodged, and their stables more eff*ectually defend- 
ed from the weather, than the slaves' huts. We 
have here merely Je^ttn a comparison, which the 
reader can easily carry out at length, from the 
materials furnished in this work. 

We will, hov/ever, subjoin a few testimonies of 
slaveholders, and others who have resided in 
slave states, expressly asserting that slaves are 
treated worse than brutes. 

The late Dr. George Buchanan, of Baltimore, 
Maryland, a member of the American Philosoph- 
ical Society, in an oration delivered in Baltimore, 
July 4, 1791, page 10, says : 

*' The Africans whom you despise, whom you 
more inhumanly treat than brutes, are equally 
capable of improvement with yourselves," 

The Rev. George Whitefiei<d, in his cele- 
brated letter to the slaveholders of Maryland, 
Virginia, North and South Carolina, and Georgia, 
written one hundred years ago, (See Benezet's 
Caution to Great Britain and her Colonies, page 
13), says : 

" Sure I am, it is sinful to use them as bad, 
nay worse than if they were brutes ; and what- 
ever particular exceptions there may be, (as I 



would chariablty hope there are some) I fear the 
generality of you that own negroes, are liable to 
such a charge" 

Mr. Rice, of Kentucky in his speech in the 
Convention that formed the Constitution of that 
state, in 1790, says : 

" He [the slave] is a rational creature, reduced 
by the power of legislation to the state of a brute, 
and thereby deprived of every privilege of hu- 
manity. . . . The brute may steal or rob, to 
supply his hunger ; but the slave, though in the 
most starving condition, dare not do either^ on 
penalty of death, or some severe punishment.'''' 

Rev. Horace Moulton, a minister of the Me- 
thodist Episcopal Church, in Marlborough, 
Mass. who lived some years in Georgia, says : 

" The southern horses and dogs have enough 
to eat, and good care is taken of them ; but south- 
ern negroes — who can describe their misery and 
their wretchedness, their nakedness and their 
cruel scourgings ! None but God. Should we 
whip our horses as they whip their slaves, even 
for small offences, we should expose ourselves to 
the p enalty of the law." 

Rev. Phineas Smith, Centreville, Allegany 
county. New York, who has resided four years 
in the midst of southern slavery — 

" Avarice and cruelty are twin sisters ; and I 
do not hesitate to declare before the world, as my 
deliberate opinion, that there is less compassion 
for working slaves at the south, than for working 
oxen at the north." 

Stephen Sewall, Esq. Winthrop, Maine, a 
member of the Congregational Church, and late 
agent of the Winthrop Manfacturing Company, 
who resided five years in Alabama, says — 

" I do not think that brutes, not even horses, 
are treated with so much cruelty as American 
slaves." 

If the preceding considerations are insufficient 
to remove incredulity respecting the cruelties 
suffered by slaves, and if northern objectors stiil 
say, ' We might believe such things of savages, 
but that civilized men, and republicans, in this 
Christian country, can openly and by system per- 
petrate such enormities, is impossible ;' — to such 
we reply, that this incredulity of the people of 
the free states, is not only discreditable to their 
intelhgence, but to their consistency. 

Who is so ignorant as not to know, or so in- 
credulous as to disbelieve, that the early Baptists 
of New England were fined, imprisoned, scourg- 
ed, and finally banished by our puritan fore- 
fathers ? — and that the Quakers were confined in 
dungeons, publicly whipped at the cart-tail, had 
their ears cut off, cleft sticks put upon their 
tongues, and that five of them, four men and one 
woman, were hung on Boston Common, for pro- 
pagating the sentiments of the Society of Friends ? 
Who discredits the fact, that the civil authorities 
in Massachusetts, less than a hundred and fifty 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



113 



years ago, confined in the public jail a little girl 
of four years old, and publicly hung the Rev. Mr. 
Burroughs, and eighteen other persons, mostly 
women, and killed another, (Giles Corey,) by ex- 
tending him upon his back, and piling weights 
upon his breast till he was crushed to death* — and 
this for no other reason than that these men and 
women, and this little child, were accused by 
others of bewitching them. 

Even the children in Connecticut, know that 
the following was once a law of that state : 

" No food or lodging shall be allowed to a 
Quaker. Tf any person turns Quaker, he shall 
be banished, and not be suffered to return on pain 
of death." 

These objectors can readily believe the fact, 
that in the city of New York, less than a hundred 
years since, thirteen persons were publicly burn- 
ed to death, over a slow fire : and that the legis- 
lature of the same State took under its paternal 
care the African slave-trade, and declared that 
" all encouragement should be given to the direct 
importation of slaves; that all smuggling of 
slaves should be condemned, as an eminent dis- 
couragement to the fair trader.'''* 

They do not call in question the fact that the 
African slave-trade was carried on from the ports 
of the free states till within thirty years ; that 
even members of the Society of Friends were 
actively engaged in it, shortly before the revolu- 
tionary war ;t that as late as 1807, no less than 
fifty-nine of the vessels engaged in that trade, 
were sent out from the little state of Rhode 
Island, which had then only about seventy thou- 
sand inhabitants ; that among those most largely 
engaged in these foul crimes, are the men whom 
the people of Rhode Island delight to honor : that 
the man who dipped most deeply in that trade of 
blood (James De Wolf,) and amassed a most 
princely fortune by it, was not long since their 
senator in Congress ; and another, who was cap- 
tain of one of his vessels, was recently Lieutenant 
Governor of the state. 

They can believe, too, all the horrors of the 
middle passage, the chains, suffocation, maim- 
ings, stranghngs, starvation, drownings, and cold 
blooded murders, atrocities perpetrated on board 
these slave-ships by their own citizens, perhaps 
by their own townsmen and neighbors — possibly 
by their own fathers : but oh ! they • can't believe 
that the slaveholders can be so hard-hearted to- 
wards their slaves as to treat them with great 
cruelty.' They can believe that His Holiness the 
Pope, with his cardinals, bishops and priests, have 

* Judge Sewall, of Mass. in his diary, describing this 
horrible scene, says that when the tongue of the poor suf- 
ferer had, in the extremity of his dying agony, protruded 
from his mouth, a person in attendance took liis cane and 
thrust it back into his mouth. 

t See Life and Travels of John Woolman, page 92. 



tortured, broken on the wheel, and burned to 
death thousands of Protestants — that eighty thou- 
sand of the Anabaptists were slaughtered in Ger- 
many — that hundreds of thousands of the blame. 
less Waldenses, Huguenots and Lollards, were 
torn in pieces by the most titled dignitaries of 
church and state, and that almost every prof essed- 
ly Christian sect, has, at some period of its history, 
persecuted unto blood those who dissented from 
their creed. They can believe, also, that in Bos- 
ton, New York, Utica, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, 
Alton, and in scores of other cities and villages 
of the free states, ' gentlemen of property and 
standing,' led on by civil officers, by members 
of state legislatures, and of Congress, by judges 
and attorneys-general, by editors of newspa- 
pers, and by professed ministers of the gospel, 
have organized mobs, broken up lawful meetings 
of peaceable citizens, committed assault and bat- 
tery upon their persons, knocked them down with 
stones, led them about with ropes, dragged them 
from their beds at midnight, gagged and forced 
them into vehicles, and driven them into unfre- 
quented places, and there tormented and dis- 
figured them — that they have rifled their houses, 
made bonfires of their furniture in the streets, 
burned to the ground, or torn in pieces the halls 
or churches in which they were assembled — at- 
tacked them with deadly weapons, stabbed some, 
shot others, and killed ONE. They can believe all 
this — and further, that a majority of the citizens 
in the places where these outrages have been 
committed, connived at them ; and by refusing 
to indict the perpetrators, or, if they were in- 
dicted, by combining to secure their acquittal, 
and rejoicing in it, have publicly adopted these 
felonies as their own. All these things they can 
believe without hesitation, and that they have 
even been done by their own acquaintances, 
neighbors, relatives ; perhaps those with whom 
they interchange courtesies, those for whom they 
vote, or to whose salaries they contribute — but 
yet, oh ! they can never believe that slaveholders 
inflict cruelties upon their slaves ! 

They can give full credence to the kidnapping, 
imprisonment, and deliberate murder of William 
Morgan, and that by men of high standing in 
society ; they can believe that this deed was 
aided and abetted, and the murderers screened 
from justice, by a large number of influential per- 
sons, who were virtually accomplices, either be- 
fore or after the fact ; and that this combination 
was so effectual, as successfully to defy and tri- 
umph over the combined powers of the govern- 
ment ; — ^yet that those who constantly rob men 
of their time, liberty, and wages, and all their 
rights, should rob them of bits of flesh, and oc- 
casionally of a tooth, make their backs bleed, and 
put fetters on their legs, is too monstrous to be 



114 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



credited! Further these same persons, who 'can't 
beheve' that slaveholders are so iron-hearted as 
to ill-treat their slaves, believe that the very 
elite of these slaveholders, those most highly es- 
teemed and honored among them, are continu- 
ally daring each other to mortal conflict, and in 
the presence of mutual friends, taking deadly 
aim at each other's hearts, with settled purpose 
to kill, if possible. That among the most dis- 
tinguished governors of slave states, among their 
most celebrated judges, senators, and representa- 
tives in Congress, there is hardly one, who has 
not either killed, or tried to kill, or aided and 
abetted his friends in trying to kill, one or more 
individuals. That pistols, dirks, bowie knives, or 
other instruments of death, are generally carried 
throughout the slave states — and that deadly 
affrays with them, in the streets of their cities 
and villages, are matters of daily occurrence ; 
that the sons of slaveholders in southern colleges, 
bully, threaten, and fire upon their teachers, and 
their teachers upon them ; that during the last 
summer, in the most celebrated seat of science 
and literature in the south, the University of Vir- 
ginia, the professors were attacked by more than 
seventy armed students, and, in the words of a 
Virginia paper, were obliged ' to conceal them- 
selves from their fury ;' also that almost all the 
riots and violence that occur in northern col- 
leges, are produced by the turbulence and lawless 
passions of southern students. That such are 
the furious passions of slaveholders, no conside- 
rations of personal respect, none for the proprie- 
ties of life, none for the honor of our national 
legislature, none for the character of our country 
abroad, can restrain the slaveholding members of 
Congress from the most disgraceful personal en- 
counters on the floor of our nation's legislature — 
smiting their fists in each other's faces, throttling, 
and even kicking and trying to gouge each other 
— that even during the session of the Congress 
just closed, no less than six slaveholders, taking 
fire at words spoken in debate, have either rushed 
at each other's throats, or kicked, or struck, or 
attempted to knock each other down ; and that 
in all these instances, they would doubtless have 
killed each other, if their friends had not separat- 
ed them. Further, they know full well, these 
were not insignificant, vulgar blackguards, elect- 
ed because they were the head bullies and bottle- 
holders in a boxing ring, or because their consti- 
tuents went drunk to the ballot box ; but they 
were some of the most conspicuous members of 
the House — one of them a former speaker. 

Our newspapers are full of these and similar 
daily occurrences among slaveholders, copied 
verbatim from their own accounts of them in 
their own papers, and all this we fully credit ; 
no man is simpleton enough to cry out, ' Oh, I 



can't believe that slaveholders do such things,* 
— and yet when we turn to the treatment which 
these men mete out to their slaves, and show that 
they are in the habitual practice of striking, kick* 
ing, knocking down and shooting them as well as 
each other — the look of blank incredulity that 
comes over northern dough-faces, is a study for 
a painter : and then the sentimental outcry, with 
eyes and hands uphfted, 'Oh, indeed, I can't be- 
lieve the slaveholders are so cruel to their slaves.' 
Most amiable and touching charity ! Truly, of 
all Yankee notions and free state products, there 
is nothing like a ' dough face ' — the great north- 
em staple for the southern market — •made to 
order,' in any quantity, and always on hand. 
'Dough faces!' Thanks to a slaveholder's con- 
tempt for the name, with its immortalit}; of truth, 
infamy and scorn.* 

Though the people of the free states affect to 
disbelieve the cruelties perpetrated upon the 
slaves, yet slaveholders believe each other guilty 
of them, and speak of them with the utmost free- 
dom. If slaveholders disbelieve any statement 
of cruelty inflicted upon a slave, it is not on ac- 
count of its enormity. The traveler at the south 
will hear in Delaware, and in all parts of Mary- 
land and Virginia, from the lips of slaveholders, 
statements of the most horrible cruelties suffered by 
the slaves/ar^Aer south, in the Carolinasand Geor- 
gia ; when he finds himself in those states he will 
hear similar accounts about the treatment of the 
slaves in Florida a-nd Louisiana; and in Missou- 
ri, Kentucky, and Tennessee he will hear of the 
tragedies enacted on the plantations in Arkansas, 
Alabama and Mississippi. Since Anti-Slavery 
Societies have been in operation, and slaveholders 
have found themselves on trial before the world, 
and put upon their good behavior, northern 
slaveholders have grown cautious, and now often 
substitute denials and set defences, for the volun- 
tary testimony about cruelty in the far south, 
which, before that period, was given with entire 
freedom. Still, however, occasionally the ' truth 
will out,' as the reader will see by the following 
testimony of an East Tennessee newspaper, in 
which, speaking of the droves of slaves taken 
from the upper country to Alabama, Mississippi, 
Louisiana, &c., the editor says, they are ' travel- 
ing to a region where their condition through time 

WILL BE SECOND ONLY TO THAT OF THE WRETCHED 

CREATURES IN HELL.' Scc " Maryvillc Intelli- 
gencer," of Oct. 4, 1835. Distant cruelties and 
cruelties long past, have been till recently, favor- 
ite topics with slaveholders. They have not only 
been ready to acknowledge that their fathers 

* " Doe face," which owes its paternity to John Ran 
dolph, age has mellowed into '■'dough face" — a cog 
noraen quite as expressive and appropriate, if not as class- 
ical- 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



115 



have exercised great cruelty toward their slaves, 
but have voluntarily, in their official acts, made 
proclamation of it and entered it on their public 
records. The Legislature of North Carolina, in 
1798, branded the successive legislatures of that 
state for more than thirty years previous, with the 
infamy of treatment towards their slaves, which 
they pronounce to be ' disgraceful to humanity, 
and degrading in the highest degree to the laws 
and principles of a free. Christian, and enlightened 
country.' This treatment was the enactment and 
perpetuation of a most barbarous and cruel law. 

But enough. As the objector can and does 
believe all the preceding facts, if he still 
" can't believe ' as to the cruelties of slavehold- 
ers, it would be barbarous to tantalize his inca- 
pacity either with evidence or argument. Let 
him have the benefit of the act in such case made 
and provided. 

Having shown that the mcredulity of the ob- 
jector respecting the cruelty inflicted upon the 
slaves, is discreditable to his consistency, we 
now proceed to show that it is equally so to his 
intelligence. 

Whoever disbelieves the foregoing statements 
of cruelties, on the ground of their enormity, pro- 
claims his own ignorance of the nature and histo- 
ry of man. What ! incredulous about the atro- 
cities perpetrated by those who hold human be- 
ings as property, to be used for their pleasure, 
when history herself has done little else in record- 
ing human deeds, than to dip her blank chart in 
the blood shed by arbitrary power, and unfold to 
human gaze the great red scroll ? That cruelty is 
the natural effect of arbitrary power, has been the 
result of all experience, and tlie voice of univer- 
sal testimony since the world began. Shall hu- 
man nature's axioms, six thousand years old, go 
for nothing ? Are the combined product of hu- 
man experience, and the concurrent records of 
human character, to be set dovni as * old wives' 
fables ?' To disbelieve that arbitrary power na- 
turally and habitually perpetrates cruelties, where 
it can do it with impunity, is not only ignorance 
of man, but of things. It is to be Wind to innu- 
merable proofs which are before every man's eyes ; 
proofs that are stereotyped in the very words and 
phrases that are on every one's lips. Take for 
example the words despot and despotic. Despot, 
signifies etymologically, merely one who possesses 
arbitrary power, and at first, it was used to desig. 
nate those alone who possessed unlimited power 
over human beings, entirely irrespective of the 
way in which they exercised it, whether merciful- 
ly or cruelly. But the fact, that those who pos- 
sessed such power, made their subjects their vic- 
tims, has wrought a total change in the popular 
meaning of the word. It now signifies, in com- 
mon parlance, not one who possesses unlimited 



power over others, but one who exercises the power 
that he has, whether little or much, cruelly. So des- 
potic, instead of meaning what it once did, some- 
thing pertaining to the possession of unlimited pow- 
er, signifies something pertaining to the capricious, 
unmerciful and relentless exercise of such power. 

The word tyrant, is another example — former, 
ly it implied merely a possession of arbitrary 
power, but from the invariable abuse of such 
power by its possessors, the proper and entire 
meaning of the word is lost, and it now signifies 
merely one who exercises power to the injury of 
others. The words tyrannical and tyranny fol- 
low the same analogy. So the word arbitrary ; 
which formerly implied that which pertams to 
the will of one, independently of others; but from 
the fact that those who had no restraint upon 
their wills, were invariably capricious, unreason- 
able and oppressive, these words convey accu- 
rately the present sense of arbitrary, when ap- 
plied to a person. 

How can the objector persist in disbelieving 
that cruelty is the natural effect of arbitrary pow- 
er, when the very words of every day, rise up on 
his lips in testimony against him — words which 
once signified the mere possession of arbitrary 
power, but have lost their meaning, and now s'g- 
nify merely its cruel exercise ; because such a use 
of it has been proved by the experience of the 

world, to be inseparable from its possession 

words now frigid with horror, and never used 
even by the objector without feeling a cold chill 
run over him. 

Arbitrary power is to the mind what alcohol is 
to the body ; it intoxicates. Man loves power. 
It is perhaps the strongest human passion ; and 
the more absolute the power, the stronger the de- 
sire for it ; and the more it is desired, the more its 
exercise is enjoyed : this enjoyment is to human na - 
ture a fearful temptation, — generally an overmatch 
for it. Hence it is true, with hardly an exception, 
that arbitrary power is abused in proportion as it 
is desired. The fact that a person intensely de- 
sires power over others, without restraint, shows 
the absolute necessity of restraint. What woman 
would marry a man who made it a condition that 
he should have the power to divorce her whenever 
he pleased ? Oh ! he might never wish to exer- 
cise it, but the power he would have ! No wo- 
man, not stark mad, would trust her happiness in 
such hands. 

Would a father apprentice his son to a master, 
who insisted that his power over the lau should be 
absolute? The master might perhaps, never 
wish to comm.it a battery upon the boy, but if he 
should, he insists upon having full swing ! He 
who would leave his son in the clutches of such a 
wretch, would be bled and bhstered for a lunatic as 
soon as his friends could get their hands upon him. 



116 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



The possession of power, even when greatly re- 
strained, is such a fiery stimulant, that its lodge- 
ment in human hands is always perilous. Give 
men the handling of immense sums of money, and 
all the eyes of Argus and the hands of Briareus 
can hardly prevent embezzlement. 

The mutual and ceaseless accusations of the 
two great political parties in this country, show 
the universal belief that this tendency of human 
nature to abuse power, is so strong, that even the 
most powerful legal restraints are insufficient for 
its safe custody. From congress and state legisla- 
tures down to grog-shop caucuses and street, 
wranglings, each party keeps up an incessant din 
about abuses of power. Hardly an officer, either 
of the general or state governments, from the 
President down to the ten thousand postmasters, 
and from governors to the fifty thousand consta- 
bles, escapes the charge of ' abuse of power.* ' Op- 
pression,' ' Extortion,' ' Venality,' ' Bribery,' 
' Corruption,' ' Perjury,' ' Misrule,' ' Spoils,' ' De- 
falcation,' stand on every newspaper. Now with, 
out any estimate of the lies told in these mu- 
tual charges, there is truth enough to make each 
party ready to believe of the other, and of their 
best men too, any abuse of power, however mon- 
strous. As is the State, so is the Church. From 
General Conferences to circuit preachers; and 
from General Assemblies to church sessions, 
abuses of power spring up as weeds from the 
dunghill. 

All legal restraints are framed upon the pre- 
sumption, that men will abuse their power if not 
hemmed in by them. This lies at the bottom of 
all those checks and balances contrived for keep- 
ing governments upon their centres. If there is 
among human convictions one that is invariable 
and universal, it is, that when men possess unre- 
strained power over others, over their time, choice, 
conscience, persons, votes, or means of subsist- 
ence, they are under great temptations to abuse 
it ; and that the intensity with which such power 
is desired, generally measures the certainty and 
the degree of its abuse. 

That American slaveholders possess a power 
over their slaves which is virtually absolute, none 
will deny.* That they desire this absolute pow- 
er, is shown from the fact of their holding and 
exercising it, and making laws to confirm and en- 
large it. That the desire to possess this power, 
every tittle of it, is intense, is proved by the fact, 
that slaveholders cling to it with such obstinate 
* The following extracts from the laws of slave-states are 
proofs sufficient. 

" The slave is ENTIRELY subject to the WILL of his 
master." — Louisiana Civil Code, Art. 273. 

" Slaves shall be deemed, sold, taken, reputed, and ad- 
judged in law to be chattels personal, in the hands of their 
owners and possessors, and their executors, administrators 
and assigns, to all intents, constructions, and pur- 
poses, WHATSOEVER." — Lawc} of South Carolina, 2 Brev. 
Dig. 229 ; Prince's Digest, 446, &c. 



tenacity, as well as by all their doings and 
sayings, their threats, cursings and gnashings 
against all who denounce the exercise of such 
power as usurpation and outrage, and counsel its 
immediate abrogation. 

From the nature of the case — from the laws of 
mind, such power, so intensely desired, griped 
with such a death, clutch, and with such fierce 
spurnings of all curtailment or restraint, cannot but 
be abused. Privations and inflictions must be its 
natural, habitual products, with ever and anon, 
terror, torture, and despair let loose to do their 
worst upon the helpless victims. 

Though power over others is in every case lia- 
ble to be used to their injury, yet, in almost all 
cases, the subject individual is shielded from great 
outrages by strong safeguards. If he have talents, 
or learning, or wealth, or office, or personal re- 
spectability, or influential friends, these, with the 
protection of law and the rights of citizenship, 
stand round him as a body guard : and even if he 
lacked all these, yet, had he the same color, fea- 
tures, form, dialect, habits, and associations with 
the privileged caste of society, he would find in 
them a shield from many injuries, which would be 
invited, if in these respects he differed widely 
from the rest of the community, and was on that 
account regarded with disgust and aversion. This 
is the condition of the slave ; not only is he de- 
prived of the artificial safeguards of the law, but 
has none of those natural safeguards enume- 
rated above, which are a protection to others. But 
not only is the slave destitute of those peculiari- 
ties, habits, tastes, and acquisitions, which by as 
similating the possessor to the rest of the commu- 
nity, excite their interest in him, and thus, in a 
measure, secure for him their protection ; but he 
possesses those peculiarities of bodily organization 
which are looked upon with deep disgust, con- 
tempt, prejudice, and aversion. Besides this, con- 
stant contact with the ignorance and stupidity of 
the slaves, their filth, rags, and nakedness ; their 
cowering air, servile employments, repulsive food, 
and squalid hovels, their purchase and sale, and 
use as brutes — all these associations, constantly 
mingling and circulating in the minds of slave- 
holders, and inveterate d by the hourly irritations 
which must assail all who use human beings as 
things, produce in them a permanent state of feel- 
ing toward the slave, made up of repulsion and 
settled ill-will. When we add to this the corro- 
sions produced by the petty thefts of slaves, the 
necessity of constant watching, their reluctant 
service, and indifference to their master's interests, 
their ill-concealed aversion to him, and spurning 
of his authority ; and finally, that fact, as old as 
human nature, that men always hate those whom 
they oppress, and oppress those whom they hate, 
thus oppression and hatred mutually begetting and 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



117 



perpetuating each other — and we have a raging 
c-ompound of fiery elements and disturbing forces, 
sa stimulating and inflaming the mind of the 
slaveholder against the slave, that it cannot but 
break forth upon him with desolating fury. 

To deny that cruelty is the spontaneous and 
uniform product of arbitrary power, and that the 
natural and controlling tendency of such power is 
to make its possessor cruel, oppressive, and re- 
vengeful towards those who are subjected to his 
control, is, we repeat, to set at nought the com- 
bined experience of the human race, to invalidate 
its testimony, and to reverse its decisions from 
time immemorial. 

A volume might be filled with the testimony 
of American slaveholders alone, to the truth of 
the preceding position. We subjoin a few illus- 
trations, and first, the memorable declaration of 
President Jefferson, who lived and died a slave- 
holder. It has been published a thousand times, 
and will live forever. In his " Notes on Virginia," 
sixth Philadelphia edition, p. 251, he says, — 

" The WHOLE COMMERCE between master 
and slave, is a PERPETUAL EXERCISE of 
the most boisterous jiassions, the most unremit- 
ting DESPOTISM on the one part, and degrad- 

ing submission on the other The parent 

stor7ns, the child looks on, catches the lineaments 
of wrath, puts on the same airs in the circle of 
smaller slaves, GIVES LOOSE TO THE 
WORST OF PASSIONS ; and thus nursed, ed. 
ucated, and daily exercised in tyranny, cannot 
but be stamped by it with odious peculiarities." 

Hon. Lewis Summers, Judge of the General 
Court of Virginia, and a slaveholder, said in a 
speech before the Virginia legislature in 1832 ; 
(see Richmond Whig of Jan. 26, 1832,) 

"A slave population exercises the most perni- 
cious influence upon the manners, habits an cha- 
racter, of those among whom it exists. Lisping 
infancy learns the vocabulary of abusive epithets, 
and struts the embryo tyrant oi its little domain. 
The consciousness of superior destiny takes pos- 
session of his mind at its earliest dawning, and 
love of power and rule, ' grows with his growth, 
and strengthens with his strength.' Unless en- 
abled to rise above the operation of those powerful 
causes, he enters the world with miserable notions 
of self-importance, and under the government of 
an unbridled temper." 

The late Judge Tucker of Virginia, a slave- 
holder, and Professor of Law in the University of 
WilHam and Mary, in his " Letter to a Member 
of the Virginia Legislature," 1801, says, — 

" I say nothing of the baneful effects of slavery 
on our moral character, because I know you have 
been long sensible of this point." 

The Presbyterian Synod of South Carohna and 
Georgia, consisting of all the clergy of that de- 
nomination in those states, with a lay representa- 
tion from the churches, most, if not all of whom 



arc slaveholders, published a report on slavery in 
1834, from which the following is an extract. 

" Those only who have the management of ser- 
vants, know what the hardening effect of it is 
upon their own feelings towards them. There is 
no necessity to dwell on this point, as all owners 
and managers fully understand it. He who com- 
mences to manage them with tenderness and with 
a willingness to favor them in everyway, must be 
watchful, otherwise he will settle down in indiffer. 
ence, if not severity." 

General William H. Harrison, now of Ohio, 
son of the late Governor Harrison of Virginia, a 
slaveholder, while minister from the United States 
to the Republic of Colombia, wrote a letter to 
General Simon Bolivar, then President of that 
Republic, just as he was about assuming despotic 
power. The letter is dated Bogota, Sept. 22, 
1826. The following is an extract. 

" From a knowledge of your own disposition 
and present feelings, your excellency will not be 
wilhng to believe that you could ever be brought 
to an act of tyranny, or even to execute justice 
with unnecessary rigor. But trust me, sir, there 
is nothing more corru|!>ting, nothing more destruc 
tine of the noblest and finest feelings of our na- 
ture than the exercise of unlimited power. The 
man, who in the beginning of such a career, might 
shudder at the idea of taking away the life of a 
fellow-being, might soon have his conscience so 
seared by the repetition of crime, that the agonies 
of his murdered victims might become music to his 
soul, and the drippings of the scaffold afford blood 
to swim in. History is full of such excesses." 

William H. Fitzhugh, Esq. of Virginia, a slave- 
holder, says, — " Slavery, in its mildest form, is 
cruel and unnatural ; its injurious effects on our 
morals and habits are mutually felt." 

Hon. Samuel S. Nicholas, late Judge of the 
Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and a slaveholder, 
in a speech before the legislature of that state, 
Jan. 1837, says, — 

" The deliberate convictions of the most ma- 
tured consideration I can give the subject, ai*e, 
that the institution of slavery is a most serious in- 
jury to the habits, manners and morals of our 
white population — that it leads to sloth, indolence, 
dissipation, and vice." 

Dr. Thomas Cooper, late President of the Col- 
lege of South Carolina, in a note to his edition of 
the " Institutes of Justinian," page 413, says, — 

'* All absolute power has a direct tendency, not 
only to detract from the happiness of the persons 
who are subject to it, but to deprave the good 

qualities of those who possess it the whole 

history of human nature, in the present and every 
former age, will justify me in saying that such is 
the tendency of power on the one hand and slavery 
on the other." 

A South Carolina slaveholder, whose name is 
with the executive committee of the Am. A. S. 
Society, says, in a letter, dated April 4, 1838 : — 

" I think it (slavery) ruinous to the temper and 



118 



Ohjections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



to our spiritual life ; it is a thorn in the flesh, for 
ever and for ever goading us on to say and to do 
what the Eternal God cannot but be displeased 
with. I speak from experience, and oh ! my de- 
sire is to be delivered from it." 

Monsieur C. C. Robin, who was a resident of 
Louisiana from 1802 to 1806, published a work 
on that country ; in which, speaking of the effect 
of slaveholding on masters and their children, he 
says : — 

" The young Creoles make the negroes who 
surround them the play-things of their whims : 
they flog, for pastime, those of their own age, just 
as their fathers flog the others at their will. These 
young Creoles, arrived at the ago in which the 
passions are impetuous, do not know how to bear 
contradiction ; they will have every thing done 
wliich they command, possible or not ; and in de- 
fault of this, they avenge their offended pride by 
multiplied punishments." 

Dr. George Buchanan, of Baltimore, Maryland, 
member of the American Philosophical Society, 
in an oration at Baltimore, July 4, 1791, said : — 

" For such are the effects of subjecting man to 
slavery, that it destroys every humane principle, 
vitiates the mind, instils ideas of unlawful cruel- 
ties, and eventually subverts the springs of govern- 
ment." — Buchanan's Oration, p. 12. 

President Edwards the younger, in a sermon 
before the Connecticut Abolition Society, in 1791, 
page 8, says : — 

" Slavery has a most direct tendency to haugh- 
tiness, and a domineering spirit and conduct in 
the proprietors of the slaves, in their children, and 
in all who have the control of them. A man who 
has been bred up in domineering over negroes, 
can scarcely avoid contracting such a habit of 
haughtiness and domination as will express itself 
in his general treatment of mankind, whether in 
his private capacity, or in any office, civil or mili- 
tary, with which he may be invested." 

The celebrated Montesquieu, in his " Spirit 
of the Laws," thus describes the effect of slave- 
holding upon the master : — 

" The master contracts all sorts of bad habits ; 
and becomes haughty, passionate, obdurate, vin- 
dictive, voluptuous, and cruel." 

WiLBERFORCE, in liis specch at the anniversary 
of the London Anti-Slavery Society, in March, 
1828, said :— 

" It is utterly impossible that they who live in 
the administration of the petty despotism of a slave 
community, whose minds have been warped and 
polluted by that contamination, should not lose 
that respect for their fellow creatures over whom 
they tyrannize, which is essential in the nature 
and moral being of man, to rescue them from the 
abuse of power over their prostrate fellow crea- 
tures." 

In the great debate, in the British Parliament, 
on the African slave-trade, Mr. Whitbread said : 

" Arbitrary power would spoil the hearts of the 
best." 



But we need not multiply proofs to establish 
our position : it is sustained by the concurrent 
testimony of sages, philosophers, poets, statesmen, 
and moralists, in every period of the world ; and 
who can marvel that those in all ages who have 
wisely pondered men and things, should be unani- 
mous in such testimony, v»^hen the history of arbi- 
trary power has come down to us from the begin- 
ning of time, struggling through heaps of slain, 
and trailing her parchments in blood. 

Time would fail to begin with the first despot 
and track down the carnage step by step. All 
nations, all ages, ail climes crowd forward as wit- 
nesses, v/ith their scars, and wounds, and dying 
agonies. 

But to survey a multitude bewilders ; let us look 
at a single nation. We instance Rome ; both be- 
cause its history is more generally known, and 
because it furnishes a larger proportion of in- 
stances, in which arbitrary power was exercised 
with comparative mildness, than any other nation 
ancient or modern. And yet, her whole exist- 
ence was a tragedy, every actor was an execu- 
tioner, the curtain rose amidst shrieks and fell up- 
on corpses, and the only shifting of the scenes 
was from blood to blood. The whole world stood 
aghast, as under sentence of death, awaiting ejje- 
cution, and all nations and tongues were driven, 
with her own citizens, as sheep to the slaughter. 
Of her seven kmgs, her hundreds of consuls, tri- 
bunes, decemvirs, and dictators, and her fifty em- 
perors, there is hardly one v/hose name has come 
down to us unstained by horrible abuses of power ; 
and that too, notwithstanding we have mere 
shreds of the history of many of them, owing to 
their antiquity, or to the perturbed times in which 
they lived ; and these shreds gathered from the 
records of their own partial countrymen, who 
wrote and sung their praises. What docs this 
prove ? Not that the Romans were worse than 
other men, nor that their rulers were worse than 
other Romans, for history does not furnish nobler 
models of natural character than many of those 
same rulers, when first invested with arbitrary 
power. Neither was it mainly because the mar. 
tial enterprise of the earlier Romans and the gross 
sensuality of the later, hardened their hearts to 
human suffering. In both periods of Roman his 
tory, and in both these classes, we find men, the 
keen sympathies, generosity, and benevolence of 
whose general character embalmed their names 
in the grateful memories of multitudes. They 
were hu7nan beings, and possessed power without 
restraint — this unravels the mystery. 

Who has not heard of the Emperor Trajan, of 
his moderation, his clemency, his gushing sym- 
pathies, his forgiveness of injuries and forgetful- 
ness of self, his tearing in pieces his own robe, to 
furnish bandages for the wounded — called by the 
whole world in his day, "the best emperor of 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



119 



Rome ;" and so affectionately regarded by his sub- 
jects, that, ever afterwards, in blessing his sue- 
cessors upon their accession to power, they al- 
ways said, " May you have the virtue and good- 
ness of Trajan !" yet the deadly conflict of gladia- 
tors who are trained to kill each other, to make 
sport for the spectators, furnished his chief pas- 
time. At one time he kept up those spectacles 
for 123 days in succession. In the tortures which 
he inflicted on Christians, fire and poison, dag- 
gers and dungeons, wild beasts and serpents, and 
the rack, did their worst. He threw into the sea, 
Clemens, the venerable bishop of Rome, with an 
anchor about his neck ; and tossed to the famish- 
ing lions in the amphitheatre the aged Ignatius. 

Pliny the younger, who was proconsul under 
Trajan, may well be mentioned in connection 
with the emperor, as a striking illustration of the 
truth, that goodness and amiableness towards one 
class of men is often turned into cruelty towards 
another. History can hardly show a more gentle 
and lovely character than Pliny. While pleading 
at the bar, he always sought out the grievances 
of the poorest and most despised persons, entered 
into their wrongs with his whole soul, and never 
took a fee. Who can read his admirable letters 
without being touched by their tenderness and 
warmed by their benignity and philanthropy : and 
yet, this tender-hearted Pliny coolly plied with ex- 
cruciating torture two spotless females, who had 
served as deaconesses in the Christian church, 
hoping to extort from them matter of accusation 
against the Christians. He commanded Christians 
to abjure their faith, invoke the gods, pour out liba- 
tions to the statues of the emperor, burn incense to 
idols, and curse Christ. If they refused, he or- 
dered them to execution. 

Who has not heard of the Emperor Titus — so 
beloved for his mild virtues and compassionate 
regard for the suffering, that he was named " The 
Dehght of Mankind ;" so tender of the lives of his 
subjects that he took the office of high priest, that 
his hands might never be defiled with blood ; and 
was heard to declare, with tears, that he had ra- 
ther die than put another to death. So intent 
upon making others happy, that when once about 
to retire to sleep, and not being able to recall any 
particular act of beneficence performed during 
the day, he cried out in anguish, " Alas ! I have 
lost a day I" And, finally, whom the learned 
Kennet, in his Roman Antiquities, characterizes 
as " the only prince in the world that has the cha- 
racter of never doing an ill action." Yet, wit- 
nessing the mortal combats of the captives taken 
in war, killing each other in the amphitheatre, 
amidst the acclamations of the populace, was a 
favorite amusement with Titus. At one time he 
exhibited shows of gladiators, which lasted one 



hundred days, during which the amphitheatre 
was flooded with human blood. At another of 
his pubhc exhibitions he caused five thousand wild 
beasts to be baited in the amphitheatre. During 
the siege of Jerusalem, he set ambushes to seize 
the famishing Jews, who stole out of the city by 
night to glean food in the valleys : these he would 
first dreadfully scourge, then torment them with all 
conceivable tortures, and, at last, crucify them be- 
fore the wall of the city. According to Joseph us, not 
less than five hundred a day were thus tormented. 
And when many of the Jews, frantic with famine, 
deserted to the Romans, Titus cut off" their hands 
and drove them back. After the destruction of 
Jerusalem, he dragged to Rome one hundred 
thousand captives, sold them as slaves, and scat- 
tered them through every province of the empire. 

The kindness, condescension, and forbearance 
of Adrian were proverbial ; he was one of the 
most eloquent orators of his age ; and when 
pleading the cause of injured innocence, would 
melt and overwhelm the auditors by the pathos 
of his appeals. It was his constant maxim, that 
he was an Emperor, not for his own good, but 
for the benefit of his fellow creatures. He stoop- 
ed to relieve the wants of the meanest of his sub- 
jects, and would peril his life by visiting them 
when sick of infectious diseases ; he prohibited, 
by law, masters from killing their slaves, gave to 
slaves legal trial, and exempted them from tor- 
ture ; yet towards certain individuals and classes, 
he showed himself a monster of cruelty. He 
prided himself on his knowledge of architecture, 
and ordered to execution the most celebrated 
architect of Rome, because he had criticised one 
of the Emperor's designs. He banished all the 
Jews from their native land, and drove them 
to the ends of the earth ; and unloosed the blood- 
hounds of persecution to rend in pieces his 
Christian subjects. 

The gentleness and benignity of the Emperor 
Aurelius, have been celebrated in story and song. 
History says of him , ' Nothing could quench his 
desire of being a blessing to mankind ;' and Pope's 
eulogy of him is in the mouth of every school- 
boy — ' Like good Aurelius, let him reign ;' and yet, 
^ good Aurelius,' lifted the flood gates of the 
fourth, and one of the most terrible persecutions 
against Christians that ever raged. He sent or- 
ders into different parts of his empire, to have the 
Christians murdered who would not deny Christ. 
The blameless Polycarp, trembling under the 
weight of a hundred years, was dragged to the 
stake and burned to ashes. Pothinus, Bishop of 
Lyons, at the age of ninety, was dragged through 
the streets, beaten, stoned, trampled upon by the 
soldiers, and left to perish. Tender virgins were 
put into nets, and thrown to infuriated wild bulls ; 



120 



Objections Considered — Cruelties Incredible. 



others were fastened in red hot iron chairs; and 
venerable matrons were thrown to be devoured by 
dogs. 

Constantine the Great has been the admiration 
of Christendom for his virtues. The early Chris- 
tian writers adorn his justice, benevolence and 
piety with the most exalted eulogy. He was bap- 
tized, and admitted to the Christian church. He 
abrogated Paganism, and made Christianity the 
relijrion of his empire ; he attended the councils 
of the early fathers of the church, consulted with 
the bishops, and devoted himself with the most 
untiring zeal to the propagation of Christianity, 
and to the promotion of peace and love among 
its professors ; he convened the Council of Nice, 
to settle disputes which had long distracted the 
cluirch, appeared in the assembly with admirable 
modesty and temper, moderated the heats of the 
contending parties, implored them to exercise 
mutual forbearance, and exhorted them to love 
unfeigned, to forgive one another, as they hoped 
to be forgiven by Christ. Who would not think 
it uncharitable to accuse srach a man of barbarity 
in the ojcercise of power? — and yet he drove 
Arius and his associates into banishment, for 
opinion's sake, denounced death against all with 
whom his books should afterwards be found, and 
prohibited, on pain of death, the exercise, how- 
ever peaceably, of the functions of any other re- 
ligion than Christianity. In a fit of jealousy and 
rage, he ordered his innocent son, Crispus, to 
execution, without granting him a hearing ; and 
upon finding him innocent, killed his own wife, 
who had falsely accused him. 

To the preceding may be added Theodosius the 
Great, the last Roman emperor before the division 
of the empire. He was a member of the Christian 
church, and in his zeal against paganism, and 
what be deemed heresy, surpassed all who were 
before him. The Christian writers of his time 
speak of him as a most illustrious model of justice, 
generosity, magnanimity, benevolence, and every 
virtue. And yet Theodosius denounced capital 
punishments against those who held ' heretical' 
opinions, and commanded inter-marriage between 
cousins to be punished by burning the parties 
alive. On hearing that the people of Antioch 
had demolished the statues set up in that city, 
in honor of himself, and had threatened the gov- 
ernor, he flew into a transport of fury, ordered 
the city to be laid in ashes, and all the inhabitants 
to be slaughtered ; and upon hearing of a resist- 
ance to his authority in Thessalonica, in which 
one of his lieutenants was killed, he instantly or- 
dered a general massacre of the inhabitants ; and 
in obedience to his command, seven thousand 
men, women and children were butchered in the 
space of three hours. 

The foregoing are a few of many instances in 



the history of Rome, and of a countless multitude 
in the history of the world, illustrating the truth, 
that the lodgement of arbitrary power, in the best 
human hands, is always a fearfully perilous ex- 
periment ; that the mildest tempers, the mosthu. 
mane and benevolent dispositions, the most 
blameless and conscientious previous life, with 
the most rigorous habits of justice, are no securi- 
ty, that, in a moment of temptation, the possess, 
ors of such power will not make their subjects 
their victims; illustrating also the truth, that, 
while men may exhibit nothing but honor, hon- 
esty, mildness, justice, and generosity, in their 
intercourse with those of their own grade, or lan- 
guage, or nation, or hue, they may practice 
towards others, for whom they have contempt 
and aversion, the most revolting meanness, per- 
petrate robbery unceasingly, and inflict the se- 
verest privations, and the most barbarous cruel, 
ties. But this is not all : history is full of exam- 
ples, showing not only the effects of arbitrary 
power on its victims, but its terrible reaction on 
those who exercise it ; blunting their sympathies, 
and hardening to adamant their hearts toward 
them, at least, if not toward the human race gen- 
erally. This is shown in the fact, that almost 
every tyrant in the history of the world, has en- 
tered upon the exercise of absolute power with 
comparative moderation ; multitudes of thera 
with marked forbearance and mildness, and not 
a few with the most signal condescension, mag- 
nanimity, gentleness and compassion. Among 
these last are included those who afterwards be- 
came the bloodiest monsters that ever cursed the 
earth. Of the Roman Emperors, almost every 
one of whom perpetrated the most barbarous 
atrocities, Vitellius seems to have been the only 
one who cruelly exercised his power from the 
outset. Most of the other emperors, sprung up 
into fiends in the hot-bed of arbitrary power. If 
they had not been plied with its fiery stimulants, 
but had lived under the legal restraints of 
other men, instead of going to the grave under 
the curses of their generation, multitudes might 
have called them blessed. 

The moderation which has generally distin- 
guished absolute monarchs at the commencement 
of their reigns, was doubtless in some cases as- 
sumed from policy ; in the greater number, how- 
ever, as is manifest from their history, it has been 
the natural workings of minds held in check by 
previous associations, and not yet hardened into 
habits of cruelty, by being accustomed to the ex- 
ercise of power without restraint. But as those 
associatior>s have weakened, and the wielding of 
uncontrolled sway has become a habit, like other 
evil doers, they have, in the expressive language 
of Scripture, ' waxed worse and worse.' 

For eighteen hundred vears an involuntarv 



Objections Considered — Slaveholders' Denial. 



121 



snudder has run over the human race, at the 
mention of the name of Nero; yet, at the com- 
mencement of his reign, he burst into tears when 
called upon to sign the death-warrant of a crim- 
mal, and exclaimed, ' Oh, that I had never learn- 
ed to write 1' His mildness and magnanimity 
won the affections of his subjects ; and it was not 
till the poison of absolute power had worked with- 
m his nature for years, that it swelled him into a 
monster. 

Tiberius, Claudius, and Caligula, began the 
exercise of their power with singular forbearance, 
and eacA grew into a prodigy of cruelty. So 
averse was Caligula to bloodshed, that he refused 
to looK at a list of conspirators against his own 
life, which was handed to him ; yet afterwards, a 
more cruel wretch never wielded a sceptre. In 
his thirst for slaughter, he wished all the necks in 
Rome one, that he might cut it off at a blow. 

Domitian, at the commencement of his reign, 
carried his abhorrence of cruelty to such lengths, 
that he forbad the sacrificing of oxen, and would 
sit whole days on the judgment-seat, reversing 
the unjust decisions of corrupt judges ; yet after- 
wards, he surpassed even Nero in cruelty. The 
latter was content to torture and kill by proxy, 
and without being a spectator; but Domitian 
could not be denied the luxury of seeing his vic- 
tims writhe, and hearing them shriek ; and often 
with his own hand directed the instrument of 
torture, especially when some illustrious senator 
or patrician was to be killed by piece-meal. 
Commodus began with gentleness and conde- 
scension, but soon became a terror and a scourge, 
outstripping in his atrocities most of his prede- 
cessors. Maximin too, was just and generous when 
first invested with power, but afterwards rioted 
in slaughter with the relish of a fiend. History 
has well said of this monarch, ' the change in his 



disposition may readily serve to show how dan- 
gerous a thing is power, that could transform a 
person of such rigid virtues into such a monster.' 

Instances almost innumerable might be fur- 
nished in the history of every age, illustrating 
the blunting of sympathies, and the total trans- 
formations of character wrought in individuals by 
the exercise of arbitrary power. Not to detain 
the reader with long details, let a single instance 
suffice. 

Perhaps no man has lived in modern times, 
whose name excites such horror as J:hat of Robes- 
pierre. Yet it is notorious that he was naturally 
of a benevolent disposition, and tender sympa- 
thies. 

" Before the revolution, when as a judge in his 
native city of Arras he had to pronounce judg- 
ment on an assassin, he took no food for two 
days afterwards, but was heard frequently ex- 
claiming, ' I am sure he was guilty ; he is a vil- 
lain ; but yet, to put a human being to death ! !' 
He could not support the idea ; and that the 
same necessity might not recur, he relinquished 
his judicial office. — (See Laponneray's Life of 
Robespierre, p. 8.) Afterwards, in the Conven- 
tion of 1791, he urged strongly the abolition of 
the punishment of death ; and yet, for sixteen 
months, in 1793 and 1794, till he perished him- 
self by the same guillotine which he had so mer 
cilessly used on others, no one at Paris consigned 
and caused so many fellow-creatures to be put to 
death by it, with more ruthless insensibility." — 
Turner^s Sacred History of the Woi'ld, vol. 2. 
p. 119. 

But it is time we had done with the objection, 
*' such cruelties are incredible." If the objec- 
tor still reiterates it, he shall have the last word 
without farther molestation. 

An objection kindred to the preceding now 
claims notice. It is the profound induction that 
slaves must be well treated because slaveholders 
say they are I 



Objection. II.— SLAVEHOLDERS PROTEST THAT THEY TREAT THEIR 

SLAVES WELL. 



Self-justification is human nature; self-con- 
demnation is a sublime triumph over it, and as 
rare as sublime. What culprits would be convict, 
ed, if their own testimony were taken by juries as 
good evidence ? Slaveholders are on trial, charg- 
ed with cruel treatment to their slaves, and 
though in their own courts they can clear them- 
selves by their own oaths* they need not think 
to do it at the bar of the world. The denial of 

■'' The law of which the following ifs an oxlract, exists in 
South Carolina. "If any slave shall sufibr in life, limb or 
member, when no white person shall be present, or being 
present, shall refuse to give evidence, the owner or other 
person, who shall have the care of such slave, and in whose 
power such slave shall be, shall be deemed guilty of such of- 
fencc, ii>i/e5.y such owner or other person sliall make the 
contrary ai)pear by good and sufficient evidence, or r-hall 

IG 



crimes, by men accused of them, goes for noth- 
ing as evidence in all civilized courts ; while the 
voluntary confession of them, is the best evidence 
possible, as it is testimony against themselves, and 
in the face of the strongest motives to conceal 
the truth. On the preceding pages, are hundreds 
of just such testimonies ; the voluntary and ex. 
plicit testimony of slaveholders against them- 
selves, their families and ancestors, their constit- 
uents and their rulers ; against their characters 
and their memories ; against their justice, their 

BY HIS OWN OATH CLEAR AND EXCULPATE HIMSELF. Which 

oath every court where such offence shall be tried, is here 
by empowered to administer, and to acquit the offender, if 
clear prool" of the offence be not made by two witnesses at 
least." — 2 Brevard's Digest, '2A'i. The state of Louisiana 
has a similar law. 



122 



Ohjeciions Considered — Slaveholders' Denial. 



honesty, their honor and their henevolence. 
Now let candor decide between those two classes 
of slaveholders, which is most entitled to credit ; 
that which testifies in its own favor, just as self- 
love would dictate, or that which testifies against 
all selfish motives and in spite of them ; and 
though it has nothing to gain, but every thing to 
lose by such testimony, still utters it. 

But if there were no counter testimony, if all 
slaveholders were unanimous in the declaration 
that the treatment of the slaves is good, such a 
declaration would not be entitled to a feather's 
weight as testimony ; it is not testimony but opin- 
ion. Testimony respects matters of fact, not 
matters of opinion : it is the declaration of a 
witness as to facts, not the giving of an opinion 
as to the nature or qualities of actions, or the 
character of a course of conduct. Slaveholders 
organize themselves into a tribunal to adjudicate 
upon their own conduct, and give us in their 
decisions, their estimate of their own character ; 
informing us with characteristic modesty, that 
they have a high opinion of themselves ; that in 
their own judgment they are very mild, kind, and 
merciful gentlemen ! In these conceptions of their 
own merits, and of the eminent propriet};^ of their 
bearing towards their slaves, slaveholders remind 
us of the Spaniard, who always took off his hat 
whenever he spoke of himself, and of the Govern- 
or of Schiraz, who, from a sense of justice to his 
own character added to his other titles, those of, 
' Flower of Courtesy,' ' Nutmeg of Consola- 
tion,' and ' Rose of Delight.' 

The sincerity of those worthies, no one calls 
iu question ; their real notions of their own merits 
doubtless ascended into the sublime : but for 
aught that appears, they had not the arrogance 
to demand that their own notions of their personal 
excellence, should be taken as the proof of it. 
Not so with our slaveholders. Not content with 
offering incense at the shrine of their own virtues, 
they have the effrontery to demand, that the 
rest of the world shall offer it, because they do ; 
and shall implicitly believe the presiding divini- 
ty to be a good Spirit rather than a Devil, because 
they call him so ! In other words, since slave- 
holders profoundly appreciate their own gentle 
dispositions toward their slaves, and their kind 
treatment of them, and everywhere protest that 
they do truly show forth these rare excellencies, 
they demand that the rest of the world shall not 
only believe that they think so, but that they 
think rightly ; that these notions of themselves 
are true, that their taking off their hats to them- 
selves proves them worthy of homage, and that 
their assumption of the titles of. * Flower of 
Kindness,' and ' Nutmeg of Consolation,' is 
conclusive evidence that they deserve such ap- 
pellations I 



Was there ever a more ridiculous doctrine, 
than that a man's opinion of his own actions is 
the true standard for measuring them, and the 
certificate of their real qualities ! — that his own 
estimate of his treatment of others is to be taken 
as the true one, and such treatment be set down 
as good treatment upon the strength of his judg- 
ment. He who argues the good treatment of the 
slave, from the slaveholder's good opinion of such 
treatment, not only argues against human nature 
and all history, his own common sense, and even 
the testimony of his senses, but refutes his own 
arguments by his daily practice. Every body 
acts on the presumption that men's feelings will 
vary with their practices ; that the light in which 
they view individuals and classes, and their feelings 
towards them, will modify their opinions of the 
treatment which they receive. In any case of 
treatment that affects himself, his church, or his 
political party, no man so stultifies himself as to 
argue that such treatment must be good, because 
the author of it thinks so. 

Who would argue that the American Colonies 
were well treated by the mother country, because 
parliament thought so ? Or that Poland was well 
treated by Russia, because Nicholas thought so ? Or 
that the treatment of the Cherokees by Georgia 
is proved good by Georgia notions of it ? Or that 
of the Greeks by the Turks, by Turkish opinions 
of it ? Or that of the Jews by almost all nations, 
by the judgment of their persecutors ? Or that of 
the victims of the Inquisition, by the opinions of 
the Inquisitor general, or of the Pope and his 
cardinals ? Or that of the Quakers and Baptists, at 
the hands of the Puritans, — to be judged of by 
the opinions of the legislatures that authorized, 
and the courts that carried it into effect. All 
those classes of persons did not, in their own opin- 
ion, abuse their victims. If charged with per- 
petrating outrageous cruelty upon them, all those 
oppressors would have repelled the charge with 
indignation. 

Our slaveholders chime lustily the same song, 
and no man with human nature within him, and 
human history before him, and with sense enough 
to keep him out of the fire, will be gulled by such 
professions, unless his itch to be humbugged has 
put on the type of a downright chronic incurable. 
We repeat it — when men speak of the treatment 
of others as being either good or bad, their decla- 
rations are not generally to be taken as testimony 
to matters of fact, so much as expressions of 
their own feelings towards those persons or class- 
es who are the subjects of such treatment. If 
those persons are their fellow citizens ; if they arc 
in the same class of society with themselves ; of 
the same language, creed, and color ; similar in 
their habits, pursuits, and sympathies ; they will 



Objections Considered — Slaveholder's Denial, 



123 



keenly feel any wrong done to them, and denounce 
it as base, ouirageous treatment ; but let the 
same wrongs be done to persons of a condition in 
all respects the reverse, persons whom they habit, 
ually despise, and regard only in the light of mere 
conveniences, to be used for their pleasure, and 
the idea that such treatment is barbarous will be 
laughed at as ridiculous. When we hear slave- 
holders say that their slaves are well treated, we 
have only to remember that they are not speaking 
oipersonSy but of property ; not of men and wo- 
men, but of chattels and things ; not of friends 
and associates, but of vassals and victims; not 
of those whom they respect and honor, but of those 
whom they scorn and trample (m ; not of those with 
whom they sympathize, and co-operate, and 
interchange courtesies, but of those whom they 
regard with contempt and aversion, and dis- 
dainfully set with the dogs of their flock. 
Reader, keep this fact in your mind, and you will 
have a clue to the slaveholder's definition of "^oorf 
treatments Remember also, that a part of this 
" good treatment " of which slaveholders boast, 
is plundering the slaves of all their inalienable 
rights, of the ownership of their own bodies, of 
the use of their own limbs and muscles, of all their 
time, liberty, and earnings, of the free exercise of 
choice, of the rights of marriage and parental 
authority, of legal protection, of the right to be, 
to do, to go, to stay, to think, to feel, to work, to 
rest, to eat, to sleep, to learn, to teach, to earn 
money, and to expend it, to visit, and to be visit- 
ed, to speak, to be silent, to worship according to 
conscience, in fine, their right to be protected by 
just and equal laws, and to be amenable to such 
only. O^all these rights the slaves are plundered ; 
and this is a part of that "good treatment" of 
which their plunderers boast ! What then is the 
rest of it ? The above is enough for a sample, at 
least a specimen-brick from the kiln. Reader, 
we ask you no questions, but merely tell you what 
you know, when we say that men and women who 
can habitually do such things to human beings, 
can do any thing to them. 

The declarations of slaveholders, that they treat 
their slaves well, will put no man in a quandary, 
who keeps in mind this simple principle, that the 
state of mind tov/ards others, which leads one to 
inflict cruelties on them, blinds the injlicter to 
the real nature of his own acts. To him, they do 
not seein to be cruelties ; consequently, when speak- 
ing of such treatment toward such persons, he will 
protest that it is not cruelty ; though, if inflicted 
upon himself or his friends, he would indignantly 
stigmatize it as atrocious barbarity. The objector 
equally overlooks another every-day fact of hu- 
man nature, which is this, that cruelties invariably 
cease to see7n cruelties when the habit is formed, 
though previously the mind regarded them as 
such, and shrunk from them with hovvor. 



The following fact, related by the late lament- 
ed Thomas Pringle, whose Life and Poems have 
recently been published in England, is an appro- 
priate illustration. Mr. Pringle states it on the au- 
thority of Captain W. F. Owen, of the Royal 
Navy. 

'' When his Majesty's ships, the Leven and the 
Barracouta, employed in surveying the coast of 
Africa, were at Mozambique, in 1823, the officers 
were introduced to the family of Senor Manuel 
Pedro d'Almeydra, a native of Portugal, who 
was a considerable merchant settled on that 
coast ; and it was an opinion agreed in by all, 
that Donna Sophia d'Almeydra was the most su- 
perior woman they had seen since they left Eng- 
land. Captain Owen, the leader of the expedi- 
tion, expressing to Senor d'Almeydra his detest- 
ation of slavery, the Senor replied, 'You will not 
be long here before you change your sentiments. 
Look at my Sophia there. Before she would 
marry me, she made me promise that I should 
give up the slave trade. When we first settled 
at Mozambique, she was continually interceding 
for the slaves, and she constantly wept when I 
punished them; and now she is among the slaves 
from morning to night ; she regulates the whole 
of my slave establishment ; she inquires into eve- 
ry offence committed by them, pronounces sen- 
tence upon the offender, and stands by and sees 
them punished.'' 

" To this, Mr. Pringle, who was himself for 
six years a resident of the English settlement at 
the Cape of Good Hope, adds, ' The writer of this 
article has seen, in the course of five or six years, 
as great a change upon English ladies and gen- 
tlenien of respectability, as that described to have 
taken place in Donna Sophia d'Almeydra ; and 
one of the individuals whom he has in his eye, 
while he writes this passage, lately confessed to 
him this melancholy change, remarking at the 
same time, ' how altered I am in my feelings 
with regard to slavery. I do not appear to my- 
self the same person I was on my arrival in this 
colony, and if I would give the world for the feel- 
ings I then had, I could not recall them.'" 

Slaveholders know full well that familiarity 
with slavery produces indifference to its cruelties 
and reconciles the mind to them. The late Judge 
Tucker, a Virginia slaveholder and professor of 
law in the University of William and Mary, in 
the appendix to his edition of Blackstone's Com- 
mentaries, part 2, pp. 56, 57, commenting on 
the law of Virginia previous to 1792, which out- 
lawed fugitive slaves, says : 

" Such are the cruelties to which slavery gives 
rise, such the horrors to which the mind becomes 
reconciled by its adoption." 

The following facts from the pen of Charles 
Stuart, happily illustrate the same principle : 

" A young lady, the daughter of a Jamaica 
planter, was sent at an early age to school m 
England, and after completing her education, re- 
turned to her native country. 

" She is now settled with her husband and fami- 



124 



Objections Considered — Slaveholder's Denial. 



ly m England. I visited her near Bath, early 
last spring, (1834.) Conversing on the above sub- 
ject, the paralyzing effects of slaveholding on the 
heart, she said : 

" ' While at school in England, I often thought 
with peculiar tenderness of the kindness of a 
slave who had nursed and carried mc about. 
Upon returning to my father's, one of my first 
inquiries was about him. I was deeply afflicted 
to find that he was on the point of undergoing a 
*' law flogging for having run away." I threw 
myself at my father's feet and implored with tears, 
his pardon ; but my father steadily replied, that 
it would ruin the discipline of the plantation, and 
that the punishment must take place. I wept in 
vain, and retired so grieved and disgusted, that 
for some days after, I could scarcely bear with 
patience, the sight of my own father. But many 
months had not elapsed ere / was as ready as any 
body to seize the domestic whip, and flog my 
slaves without hesitation.^ 

" This lady is one of the most Christian and 
noble minds of my acquaintance. She and her 
husband distinguished themselves several years 
ago, in Jamaica, by immediately emancipating 
their slaves." 

" A lady, now in the West Indies, was sent in 
her infancy, to her friends, near Belfast, in Ire- 
land, for education. She remained under their 
charge from five to fifteen years of age, and grew 
up every thing which her friends could wish. 
At fifteen, she returned to the West Indies — was 
married — and after some years paid her friends 
near Belfast, a second visit. Towards white 
people, she was the same elegant, and interesting 
woman as before ; apparently full of every vir- 
tuous and tender feeling ; but towards the colored 
people she was like a tigress. If Wilberforce's 
name was mentioned, she would say, ' Oh, I 
wish we had the wretch in the West Indies, I 
would be one of the first to help to tear his heart 
out!' — and then she would tell of the manner in 
which the West Indian ladies used to treat their 
slaves. ' I have often,' she said, ' when my wo- 
men have displeased me, snatched their baby 
from their bosom, and running with it to a well, 
have tied my shawl round its shoulders and pre- 
tended to be drov/ning it : oh, it was so funny to 
hear the mother's screams ! I' — and then she 
laughed almost convulsively at the recollection." 

Mr. John M. Nelson, a native of Virginia, 
whose testimony is on a preceding page, furnishes 
a striking illustration of the principle in his own 
case. He says: 

" When I was quite a child, I recollect it griev- 
ed me very much to see one tied up to be whip- 
ped, and I used to intercede with tears in their 
behalf, and mingle my cries with theirs, and feel 
almost willing to take part of the punishment. 
Yet such is the hardening nature of such scenes, 
that from this kind of commiseration for the suf- 
fering slave, I became so blunted that I could 
not only witness their stripes with composure, but 
myself inflict them, and that without remorse. 
W' hen I was perhaps fourteen or fifteen years of 
age, I undertook to correct a young fellow named 
Ned, for some supposed offence, I think it was 



leaving a bridle out of its proper place ; he be- 
ing larger and stronger than myself took hold of 
my arms and held me, in order to prevent my 
striking him ; this I considered the height of in- 
solence, and cried for help, when my father and 
mother both came running to my rescue. My 
father stripped and tied him, and took him into 
the orchard, where switches were plenty, and di- 
rected me to whip him ; when one switch wore 
out he supplied me with others. After I had 
whipped him a while, he fell on his knees to hn- 
plore forgiveness, and I kicked him in the face ; 
my father said, ' don't kick him but whip him,' 
this I did until his back was literally covered with 
W5eZj6?." 

W. C. GiLDERSLEEVE, Esq., a native of Georgia, 
now elder of the Presbyterian church, Wilkes- 
barre, Penn. after describing the flogging of a 
slave, in which his hands were tied together, and 
the slave hoisted by a rope, so that his feet could 
not touch the ground ; in which condition one 
hundred lashes were inflicted, says : 

" I stood by and witnessed the whole without 
feeling the least compassion ; so hardening is the 
influence of slavery that it very much destroys 
feeling for the slave." 

Mrs. Child, in her admirable "Appeal," has the 
following remarks : 

'• The ladies who remove from the free States 
into the slaveholding ones almost invariably write 
that the sight of slavery was at first exceedingly 
painful ; but that they soon become habituated to 
it ; and after a while, they are very apt to vindi- 
cate the system, upon the ground that it is ex- 
tremely convenient to have such submissive ser- 
vants. This reason was actually given by a lady 
of my acquaintance, who is considered an unusu . 
ally fervent Christian. Yet Christianity express- 
ly teaches us to love our neighbor as ourselves. 
This shows how dangerous it is, for even the 
best of us, to become accustomed to what is 
wrong. 

" A judicious and benevolent friend lately tola 
me the story of one of her relatives, who married 
a slave owner, and removed to his plantation. 
The lady in question was considered very amia- 
ble, and had a serene, affectionate expression of 
countenance. After several years residence 
among her slaves, she visited New England. 
' Her history was written in her face,' said my 
friend ; ' its expression had changed into that of 
a fiend. She brought but few slaves with her ; 
and those few were of course compelled to per- 
form additional labor. One faithful negro wo- 
man nursed the twins of her mistress, and did all 
the washing, ironing, and scouring. If, after a 
sleepless night with the restless babes, (driven 
from the bosom of their mother,) she performed 
her toilsome avocations with diminished activity, 
her mistress, with her own lady-like hands, applied 
the cowskin, and the neighborhood resounded 
with the cries of her victim. The instrument of 
punishment was actually kept hanging in the 
entry, to the no small disgust of her New Eng- 
land visitors. For my part,' continued my friend, 
' I did not try to be polite to her ; for I was not 
hypocrite enough to conceal m}^ indignation.'" 



Objections Considered — Slaveholding Hospitality. 



125 



The fact that the greatest cruelties may be ex- 
ercised quite unconsciously when cruelty has be- 
come a habit, and that at the same time, the 
mind may feel great sympathy and commiseration 
towards other persons and even towards irration- 
al animals, is illustrated in the case of Tamer- 
lane the Great. In his Life, written by himself, 
he speaks with the greatest sincerity and tender- 
ness of his grief at having accidentally crushed 
an ant ; and yet he ordered melted lead to be 
poured down the throats of certain persons who 
drank wine contrary to his commands. He was 
manifestly sincere in thinking himself humane, 
and when speaking of the most atrocious cruelties 
perpetrated by himself, it does not seem to ruffle 
in the least the self-complacency with which 
he regards his own humanity and piety. In one 
place he says, " I never undertook anything but I 
commenced it placing my faith on God " — and he 
adds soon after, " the people of Shiraz took part 
with Shah IViansur, and put my governor to 
death ; I therefore ordered a general massacre of 
all the inhabitants.^'' 

It is one of the most common caprices of hu- 
man nature, for the heart to become by habit, not 
only totally insensible to certain forms of cruelty, 
which at first gave it inexpressible pain, but even 
to find its chief amusement in such cruelties, till 
utterly intoxicated by their stimulation ; while 
at the same time the mind seems to be pained as 
keenly as ever, at forms of cruelty to which it has 
not become accustomed, thus retaining apparent, 
ly the same general susceptibilities. Illustrations 
of this are to be found every where ; one happens 
to lie before us. Bourgoing, in his history of 
modern Spain, speaking of the bull fights, the bar- 
barous national amusement of the Spaniards, says : 



"Young ladies, old men, people of all ages and 
of all characters, arc present, and yet the habit 
of attending these bloody festivals does not cor- 
rect their weakness or their timidity, nor injiXre 
the sweetness of their manners. I have more- 
over known foreigners, distinguished by the gen- 
tleness of their manners, who experienced at first 
seeing a bull-fight such very violent emotions as 
made them turn pale, and they became ill ; but, 
notwithstanding, this entertainment became after- 
wards an irresistible attraction, without operat- 
ing any revolution in their characters." 

Modern State of Spain, by J. F. Bourgoing, Minister 
Plenipotentiary from France to the Court of Madrid, Vol. 
ii., page 342. 

It is the novelty of cruelty, rather than the de- 
gree, which repels most minds. Cruelty in a new 
form, however slight, will often pain a mind that 
is totally unmoved by the most horrible cruelties 
in a form to which it is accustomed. When 
Pompey was at the zenith of his popularity in 
Rome, he ordered some elephants to be tortured 
in the amphitheatre for the amusement of the 
populace ; this was the first time they had wit- 
nessed the torture of those animals, and though 
for years accustomed to witness in the same 
place, the torture of lions, tigers, leopards, and 
almost all sorts of wild beasts, as well as that of 
men of all nations, and to shout acclamations 
over their agonies, yet, this novel form, of cruelty 
so shocked the beholders, that the most popular 
man in Rome was execrated as a cruel monster, 
and came near falling a victim to the fury of 
those who just before were ready to adore 
him. 

We will now briefly notice another objection, 
somevhat akin to the preceding, and based 
mainly upon the same and similar fallacies. 



Objection III.— SLAVEHOLDERS ARE PROVERBIAL FOR THEIR KINDNESS, 
HOSPITALITY, BENEVOLENCE, AND GENEROSITY. 



Multitudes scout as fictions the cruelties in. 
flicted upon slaves, because slaveholders are famed 
for their courtesy and hospitality. They tell us 
that their generous and kind attentions to their 
guests, and their well-known sympathy for the 
suffering, sufficiently prove the charges of cruelty 
brought against them to be calumnies, of which 
their uniform character is a triumphant refutation. 

Now that slaveholders are proverbially hospitable 
to their guests, and spare neither pains nor expense 
in ministering to their accommodation and plea- 
sure, is freely admitted and easily accounted for. 
That those who make their inferiors work for 
them, without pay, should be courteous and hos- 
pitable to those of their equals and superiors whose 
good opinions they desire, is human nature in its 
every-day dress. The objection consists of a fact 
and an inference : the fact, that slaveholders have 



a special care to the accommodation of their 
guests; the inference, that therefore they must 
seek the comfort of their slaves — ^that as they are 
bland and obliging to their equals, they must be 
mild and condescending to their inferiors — that 
as the wrongs of their own grade excite their in- 
dignation, and their woes move their sympathies, 
they must be touched by those of their chattels — 
that as they are full of pains-taking toward those 
whose good opinions and good offices they seek, 
they will, of course, show special attention to 
those to whose good opinions they are indifferent, 
and whose good offices they can compel — that as 
they honor the literary and scientific, they must 
treat with high consideration those to whom they 
deny the alphabet — that as they are courteous to 
certain persons, they must be so to " property'' — 
eager to anticipate the wishes of visitors, they 



126 



Objections Considered — Slavcholding Hospitality. 



cannot but gratify those of their vassals — jealous 
for the rights of the Texans, quick to feel at the 
disfranchisement of Canadians and of Irishmen, 
alive to the f)ppressions of the Greeks and the 
Poles, they must feel keenly for their negroes ! 
Such conclusions from such premises do not call 
for serious refutation. Even a half-grown boy, 
who should argue, that because men have certain 
feelings toward certain persons in certain circum- 
stences, they must have the same feelings toward 
all persons in all circumstances, or toward per- 
sons in opposite circumstances, of totally different 
grades, habits, and personal peculiarities, might 
fairly be set down as a hopeless simpleton : and 
yet, men of sense and reflection on other subjects, 
seem bent upon stultifying themselves by just such 
shallow inferences from the fact, that slaveholders 
are hospitable and generous to certain persons in 
certain grades of society belonging to their own 
caste. On the ground of this reasoning, all the 
crimes ever committed may be disproved, by show- 
ing, that their perpetrators were hospitable and 
generous to those who sympathized and co-oper- 
ated with them. To prove that a man does not 
hate one of his neighbors, it is only necessary to 
show tliat he loves another; to make it appear 
that he does not treat contemptuously the igno- 
rant, he has only to show that he bows respect- 
fully to the learned ; to demonstrate that he does 
not disdain his inferiors, lord it over his depend- 
ents, and grind the faces of the poor, he need only 
show that he is polite to the rich, pays deference 
to titles and office, and fawns for favor upon those 
above him ! The fact that a man always smiles 
on his customers, proves that he never scowls at 
those who dun him ! and since he has always a 
melodious "good morning!" for "gentlemen of 
property and standing," it is certain that he never 
snarls at beggars. He who is quick to make room 
for a doctor of divinity, will, of course, see to it 
that he never runs against a porter ; and he who 
clears the way for a lady, will be sure never to run 
against a market-woman, or jostle an apple-seller's 
board. If accused of beating down his laundress 
to the lowest fraction, of making his boot-black 
call a dozen times for his pay, of higgling and 
screwing a fish, boy till he takes off two cents, or 
of threatening to discharge his seamstress unless 
she will work for a shilling a day ! how easy to 
brand it all as slander, by showing that he pays 
his minister in advance, is generous in Christmas 
presents, gives a splendid new-year's party, ex- 
pends hundreds on elections, and puts his name 
with a round sum on the subscription paper of the 
missionary society. 

Who can forget the hospitality of King Herod, 
that model of generosity " beyond all ancient 
fame," who offered half his kingdom to a guest, 
as a com} ensation for an hour's amusement. — 



Could such a noble spirit have murdered John 
the Baptist ? Incredible 1 Joab too ! how his soft 
heart was pierced at the exile of Absalom ! and 
how his bowels yearned to restore him to his 
home ! Of course, it is all fiction about his assas- 
sinating his nephew, Amasa, and Abner the cap- 
tain of the host ! Since David twice spared the 
life of Saul when he came to murder him, wept 
on the neck of Jonathan, threw himself upon the 
ground in anguish when his child sickened, and 
bewailed, with a broken heart, the loss of Absa- 
lom — it proves that he did not coolly plot and de- 
liberately consummate the murder of Uriah I As 
the Government of the United States generously 
gave a township of land to General La Fayette, 
it proves that they have never defrauded the In- 
dians of theirs ! So the fact, that the slaveholders 
of the present Congress are, to a man, favorable 
to recognizing the independence of Texas, with 
her fifty or sixty thousand inhabitants, before she 
has achieved it, and before it is recognized by 
any other government, proves that these same 
slaveholders do not oppose the recognition of Hay- 
ti, with her million of inhabitants, whose independ- 
ence was achieved nearly half a century ago, and 
which is recognized by the most powerful govern- 
ments on earth ! 

But, seriously, no man is so slightly versed in 
human nature as not to know that men habitually 
exercise the most opposite feelings, and indulge 
in the most opposite practices toward difl^erent 
persons or different classes of persons around 
them. No man has ever lived who was moro 
celebrated for his scrupulous observance of the 
most exact justice, and for the illustration furnish- 
ed in his life of the noblest natural virtues, than 
the Roman Cato. His strict adherence to the 
nicest rules of equity — his integrity, honor, and in- 
corruptible faith — his jealous watchfulness over 
the rights of his fellow citizens, and his generous 
devotion to their interest, procured for him the 
sublime appellation of " The Just." Towards/ree- 
7nen his life was a model of every thing just and 
noble : but to his slaves he was a monster. At 
his meals, when the dishes were not done to his 
liking, or when his slaves were careless or inat. 
tentive in serving, he would seize a thong and 
violently beat them, in presence of his guests. — 
When they grew old or diseased, and were no 
longer serviceable, however long and faithfully 
they might have served him, he either turned 
them adrift and left them to perish, or starved 
them to death in his own family. No facts in his 
history are better authenticated than these. 

No people were ever more hospitable and mu- 
nificent than the Romans, and none more touched 
with the sufferings of others. Their public thea- 
tres often rung with loud weeping, thousands sob 
bing convulsively at once over fictitious woes and 



Objections Considered — Slaveholding Hospitality. 



127 



imaginary sufferers : and yet these same multi- 
tudes would shout amidst the groans of a thou- 
sand dying gladiators, forced by their conquerors 
to kill each other in the amphitheatre for tlie 
amusement of the public* 

Alexander, the tyrant of Pheraes, sobbed like a 
child over the misfortunes of the Trojan queens, 
when the tragedy of Andromache and Hecuba 
was played before him ; yet he used to murder 
his subjects every day for no crime, and without 
even setting up the pretence of any, but merely 
to make himself sport. 

The fact that slaveholders may be full of bene- 
volence and kindness toward their equals and to- 
ward whites generally, even so much so as to at- 
tract the esteem and admiration of all, while they 
treat with the most inhuman neglect their own 
slaves, is well illustrated by a circumstance men- 
tioned by the Rev. Dr. Channing, of Boston, (who 
once lived in Virginia,) in his work on slavery, 
p. 162, 1st edition : — 

" I cannot," says the doctor, " forget my feel- 
ings on visiting a hospital belonging to the plant- 
ation of a gentleman highly esteemed for his vir- 
tues^ and whose manners and conversation ex- 
pressed much benevolence and conscientiousness. 
When I entered with him the hospital, the first 
object on which my eye fell was a young woman 
very ill, probably approaching death. She was 
stretched on the floor. Her head rested on some- 
thing like a pillow, but her body and limbs were 
extended on the hard boards. The owner, I doubt 
not, had, at least, as much kindness as myself; 
but he was so used to see the slaves living with, 
out common comforts, that the idea of unkind- 
ness in the present instance did not enter his 
mind." 

Mr. George A. Avery, an elder of a Presbyte- 
rian church in Rochester, N. Y. who resided some 
years in Virginia, says : — 

" On one occasion I was crossing the planta- 
tion and approaching the house of a friend, when 
I met him, rifle in hand, in pursuit of one of his 
negroes, declaring he would shoot him in a mo- 
ment if he got his eye upon him. It appeared 
that the slave had refused to be flogged, and ran 
off" to avoid the consequences ; and yet the gener. 
ous hospitality of this man to myself, and white 
friends generally, scarcely knew any bounds. 

* Dr. Leland, in his " Necessity of a Divine Revelation," 
thus describes the prevalence of these shows among the 
Romans :— " They were exhibited at the funerals of great 
and rich men, and on many other occasions, by the Roman 
consuls, prffitors, ffidiles, senators, knights, priests, and al- 
most all that bore great offices in the state, as well as by tlie 
emperors; and in general, by aU that had ammdtomake 
an interest with the people, who were extravagantly fond 
of those kinds of shows. Not only the men, but the women, 
ran eagerly after them ; who were, by the prevalence of 
custom, so far divested of that compassion and softness 
which is natural to the sex, that they took a pleasure in 
seeing them kill one another, and only desired that they 
should fall genteelly, and in an agreeable attitude. Such 
was the frequency of those shows, and so great the number 
of men that were killed on those occasions, that Lipsius says, 
no war caused such slaughter of mankind, as did these 
sports of pleasure, throughout the several provinces of the 
vast Roman empire."— //e/and's JVcces. of Div. Rev. vol. 
ii. p. 51. 



" There were amongst my slaveholding friends 
and acquaintances, persons who were as humane 
and conscientious as men can be, and persist in 
the impious claim of property in a fellow being. 
Still I can recollect but one instance of corporal 
punishment, whether the subject were male or 
female, in which the infliction was not on the 
bare back with the raw hide, or a similar instru- 
ment, the subject being tied during the operation 
to a post or tree. The exception was under the 
following circumstances. I had taken a walk with 
a friend on his plantation, and approaching his 
gang of slaves, 1 sat down whilst he proceeded to 
the spot where they were at work ; and address- 
ing himself somewhat earnestly to a female who 
was wielding the hoc, in a moment caught up 
what I supposed a tobacco stick, (a stick some 
three feet in length, on which the tobacco, when 
cut, is suspended to dry,) about the size of a man's 
wrist, and laid on a number of blows furiously 
over her head. The woman crouched, and seem- 
ed stunned with the blows, but presently recom- 
menced the motion of her hoe." 

Dr. David Nelson, a native of Tennessee, and 
late president of Marion College, Missouri, in a 
lecture at Northampton, Mass. in January, 1839, 
made the following statement : — 

" I remember a young lady who played well on 
the piano, and was very ready to weep over any 
fictitious tale of suffering. I was present when 
one of her slaves lay on the floor in a high fever, 
and we feared she might not recover. I saw that 
young lady stamp upon her with her feet ; and 
the only remark her mother made was, ' I am 
afraid Evelina is too much prejudiced against poor 
Mary.' " 

General William Eaton, for some years U. S. 
Consul at Tunis, and commander of the expedi- 
tion against Tripoli, in 1805, thus gives vent to 
his feelings at the sight of many hundreds of Sar- 
dinians who had been enslaved by the Tunisians : 

" Many have died of grief, and the others lin- 
ger out a life less tolerable than death. Alas I 
remorse seizes my whole soul when 1 reflect, that 
this is indeed but a copy of the very barbarity 
which my eyes have seen in my own native coun- 
try. How frequently, in the southern states of 
my own country, have I seen weeping mothers 
leading the guiltless infant to the sales with as 
deep anguish as if they led them to the slaughter ; 
and yet felt my bosom tranquil in the view of these 
aggressions on defenceless humanity. But when 
I see the same enormities practised upon beings 
whose complexions and blood claim kindred with 
my own, / curse the perpetrators, and weep over 
the wretched victims of their rapacity. Indeed, 
truth and justice demand from me the confession, 
that the Christian slaves among the barbarians of 
Africa are treated with more humanity than the 
African slaves among professing Christians of 
civilized America; and yet here [in Tunis] sensibil- 
ity bleeds at eiiery pore for the wretches whom 
fate has doomed to slavery." 

Rev. H. Lyman, late pastor of the free Presby- 
terian Church, Buffalo, N. Y. who spent the win 
ter of 1832-3 at the south, says: — 



128 



Objections Considered — Slaveholding Hospitality. 



•* In the interior of Mississippi I was invited to 
the house of a planter, where I was received with 
great cordiaUty, and entertained with marked 
hospitality. 

" There I saw a master in the midst of his 
household slaves. The evening passed most plea- 
santly, as indeed it must, where assiduous hospi- 
talities are exercised towards the guest. 

" Late in the morning, when I had gained the 
tardy consent of my host to go on my way, as a 
final act of kindness, he called a slave to show 
me across the fields by a nearer route to the main 
road. ' David,' said he, 'go and show this gen- 
tleman as far as the post-office. Do you know 
the big bay tree V ' Yes, sir.' ' Do you know 
where the cotton mill is ?' ' Yes, sir.' ' Where 
Squire Malcolm's old field is ?' ' Y-e-s, sir,' said 
David, (beginning to be bewildered). " Do you 
know where Squire Malcolm's cotton field is ?' 
' No, sir.' * No, sir,' said the enraged master, 
levelling his gun at him. ' What do you stand 
here, saying. Yes, yes, yes, for, when you don't 
know ?' All this was accompanied with threats 
and imprecations, and a manner that contrasted 
strangely with the religious conversation and gen- 
tie manners of the previous evening." 

The Rev. James H. Dickey, formerly a slave- 
holder in South Carolina, now pastor of the Pres- 
byterian Chiurch in Hennepin, 111. in his " Review 
of Nevins' Biblical Antiquities," after asserting 
that slaveholding tends to beget "a spirit of cru- 
elty and tyranny, and to destroy every generous 
and noble feeling," (page 33,) he adds the follow- 
ing as a note : — 

" It may be that this will be considered censo- 
rious, and the proverbial generosity and hospital- 
ity of the south will be appealed to as a full con- 
futation of it. The writer thinks he can appre- 
ciate southern kindness and hospitality. Having 
been born in Virginia, raised and educated in 
South Carolina and Kentucky, he is altogether 
southern in his feelings, and habits, and modes of 
familiar conversation. He can say of the south 



as Cowper said of England, * With all thy faults 
I love thee still, my country.' And nothing but 
the abominations of slavery could have induced 
him willingly to forsake a land endeared to him 
by all the associations of childhood and youth. 

" Yet it is candid to admit that it is not all gold 
that glitters. There is a fictitious kindness and 
hospitality. The famous Robin Hood was kind 
and generous — no man more hospitable — he rob- 
bed the rich to supply the necessities of the poor. 
Others rob the poor to bestow gifts and lavish 
kindness and hospitality on their rich friends and 
neighbors. It is an easy matter for a man to ap- 
pear kind and generous, when he bestows that 
which others have earned. 

" I said, there is a fictitious kindness and hos- 
pitality. I once knew a man who left his wife 
and children three days, without firewood, with- 
out bread-stuff, and without shoes, while the? 
ground was covered with snow — that he might in. 
dulge in his cups. And when I attempted to 
expostulate with him, he took the subject out of 
my hands, and expatiating on the evils of intem. 
perance more eloquently than I could, concluded 
by warning me, with tears, to avoid the snares of 
the latter. He had tender feelings, yet a hard 
heart. I once knew a young lady of polished 
manners and accompHshed education, who would 
weep with sympathy over the fictitious woes ex- 
hibited in a novel. And waking from her reverie 
of grief, while her eye was yet wet with tears, 
would call her little waiter, and if she did not 
appear at the first call, would rap her head with 
her thimble till my head ached. 

" I knew a man who was famed for kindly 
sympathies. He once took off his shirt and gave 
it to a poor white man. The same man hired a 
black man, and gave him for his dailt/ task, 
through the winter, to feed the beasts, keep fires, 
and make one hundred rails : and in case of fail- 
ure the lash was applied so freely, that, in the 
spring, his back was one continued sore, from his 
shoulders to his waist. Yet this man was a pro- 
fessor of religion, and famous for his tender sym- 
pathies to white men !" 



Objection IV.— « NORTHERN VISITORS AT THE SOUTH TESTIFY THAT THE 
SLAVES ARE NOT CRUELLY TREATED.' 



Answer : — Their knowledge on this point 
must have been derived, either from the slave- 
holders and overseers themselves, or from the 
slaves, or from their own observation. If from 
the slaveholders, their testimony has already 
been weighed and found wanting ; if they derived 
it from the slaves, they can hardly be so simple 
as to suppose that the guest, associate and friend 
of the master, would be likely to draw from his 
slaves any other testimony respecting his treat- 
ment of them, than such as would please him. 
The great shrewdness and tact exhibited by 
slaves in keeping themselves out of difficulty, when 
close questioned by strangers as to their treat- 
ment, cannot fail to strike every accurate ob- 
server. The following remarks of Chief Justice 



Henderson, a North Carolina slaveholder, in his 
decision (in 1830,) in the case of the State versus 
Charity, 2 Devcreaux's North Carolina Reports, 
543, illustrate the folly of arguing the good 
treatment of slaves from their own declarations, 
while in the power of their masters. In the case 
above cited, the Chief Justice, in refusing to per- 
mit a master to give in evidence, declarations 
made to him by his slave, says of masters and 
slaves generally — 

" The master has an almost absolute control 
over the body and mind of his slave. The mas- 
ter's will is the slave's will. All his acts, all his 
sayings, are made with a view to propitiate his 
master. His confessions are made, not from a 
love of truth, not from a sense of duty, not \o 
speak a falsehood, but to please his master — and 



Objections Considered — Nortliern Visitors. 



129 



it is in vain that his master tells him to speak the 
truth, and conceals from him how he wishes the 
question answered. The slave will ascertain, or, 
which is the same thing, think that he has ascer- 
tained the wishes of his master, and mould his 
ANSWER ACCORDINGLY. Wc therefore more often 
get the wishes of the master, or the slave's belief 
of his wishes, than the truth." 

The following extract of a letter from the Hon. 
Seth M. Gates, member elect of the next Con- 
grass, furnishes a clue by which to interpret the 
looks, actions, and protestations of slaves, when 
in the presence of their masters' guests, and the 
pains sometimes taken by slaveholders, in teach- 
ing their slaves the art of pretending that they 
are treated well, love their masters, are happy, 
&c. The letter is dated Leroy, Jan. 4, 1839. 

" I have sent- your letter to Rev. Joseph M. 
Sadd, Castile, Genesee county, who resided five 
years in a slave state, and left, disgusted with 
slavery. 1 trust he will give you some facts. I 
remember one fact, which his wife witnessed. A 
relative, where she boarded, returning to his 
plantation after a temporary absence, was not 
met by his servants with such demonstrations of 
joy as was their wont. He ordered his horse 
put out, took down his whip, ordered his servants 
to the barn, and gave them a most cruel beating, 
because they did not run out to meet him, and 
pretend great attachment to him. Mrs, Sadd 
had overheard the servants agreeing not to go 
out, before his return, as they said they did not 
love him—Sind this led her to watch his conduct 
to them. This man was a professor of religion !" 

If these northern visitors derived their informa- 
tion that the slaves are not cruelly treated from 
their own observation, it amounts to this, they did 
not see cruelties inflicted on the slaves. To 
which we reply, that the preceding pages con- 
tain testimony from hundreds of witnesses, who 
testify that they did see the cruelties whereof 
they affirm. Besides this, they contain the sol- 
emn declarations of scores of slaveholders them- 
selves, in all parts of the slave states, that the 
slaves are cruelly treated. These declarations 
are moreover fully corroborated, by the laws of 
slave states, by a multitude of advertisements in 
their newspapers, describing runav/ay slaves, by 
their scars, brands, gashes, maimings, cropped 
ears, iron collars, chains, &c. &c. 

Truly, after the foregoing array of facts and 
testimony, and after the objectors' forces have 
one after another filed off before them, now to 
march up a phalanx of northern visitors, is to 
beat a retreat. ♦ Visitors !' What insight do 
casual visitors get into the tempers and daily 
practices of those whom they visit, or of the 
treatment that their slaves receive at their hands, 
especially if these visitors are strangers, and from 
a region w^here there are no slaves, and which 
claims to be opposed to slavery ? What oppor- 
tunity has a stranger, and a temporary guest, to 

17 



learn the every-day habits and caprices of his 
host ? Oh, these northern visitors tell us they 
have visited scores of families at the south, and 
never saw a master or mistress whip their slaves. 
Indeed ! They have, doubtless, visited hundreds 
of families at the north — did they ever see, on 
such occasions, the father or mother whip their 
children ? If so, they must associate with very 
ill-bred persons. Because well-bred parents do 
not whip their children in the presence, or within 
the hearing of their guests, are we to infer that 
they never do it out of their sight and hearing ? 
But perhaps the fact that these visitors do not 
remember seeing slaveholders strike their slaves, 
merely proves, that they had so little feeling for 
them, that though they might be struck every 
day in their presence, yet as they were only slaves 
and ' niggers,' it produced no effect upon them ; 
consequently they have no impressions to recall. 
These visitors have also doubtless rode with 
scores of slaveholders. Are they quite certain 
they ever saw them whip their horses ? and can 
they recall the persons, times, places, and circum- 
stances ? But even if these visitors regarded the 
slaves with some kind feelings, when they first 
went to the south, yet being constantly with their 
oppressors, seeing them used as articles of proper- 
ty, accustomed to hear them charged with all 
kinds of misdemeanors, their ears filled with com- 
plaints of their laziness, carelessness, insolence, 
obstinacy, stupidity, thefts, elopements, &c. and 
at the same time, receiving themselves the most 
gratifying attentions and caresses from the same 
persons, who, while they make to them these 
representations of their slaves, are giving them 
airings in their coaches, making parties for them, 
taking them on excursions of pleasure, lavishing 
upon them their choicest hospitalities, and urging 
them to protract indefinitely their stay — what 
more natural than for the flattered guest to ad- 
mire such hospitable people, catch their spirit, 
and fully sympathize with their feelings toward 
their slaves, regarding with increased disgust 
and aversion those who can habitually tease and 
worry such loveliness and generosity.* After 

* Well saith the Scripture, " A gift blindeth the eyes." 
The slaves understand tliis, though the guest may not ; they 
know very well that they have no sympathy to expect from 
their master's guests; that the good cheer of the "big 
house," and the attentions shown them, will generally 
commit them in their master's favor, and against them- 
selves. Messrs. Thome and Kimball, in their late work; 
state the following fact, in illustration of this feeling among 
the negro apprentices in Jamaica. 

" The governor of one of the islands, shortly after his ar- 
rival, dined with one of the wealthiest proprietors. The 
next day one of the negroes of the estate said to another, 
"Denew gnhnerheen poison'' d." "What dat you say?" 
inquired the other in astonishment, "Degubner been poi- 
son'' d! Dah, now! — How him poisoned"?'' " ZTm eat 
viassa's turtle soup last night" said the shrewd negro. The 
otlier took his meaning at once ; and his sympathy for the 
governor was turned into concern for himself, when he 
perceived that the poison was one from whicli h$ was hkely 



139 



Objections Considered — Northern Visitors. 



the visitor had been in contact with the slave- 
holding spirit long enough to have imbibed it, 
(no very tedious process,) a cufF, or even a kick 
administered to a slave, would not be likely to 
give him such a shock that his memory would 
lonsf retain the traces of it. But lest we do these 
visitors injustice, we will suppose that they car- 
ried with them to the south humane feelings for 
the slave, and that those feelings remained un- 
blunted ; still, what opportunity could they have 
to witness the actual condition of the slaves ? 
They come in contact with the house-servants 
onl}-, and as a general thing, with none but the 
select ones of these, the j^crrZor-servants ; who 
generally differ as widely in their appearance 
and treatment from the cooks and scullions in 
the kitchen, as parlor furniture does from the 
kitchen utensils. Certain servants are assigned to 
the parlor, just as certain articles of furniture are 
selected for it, to be seen — and it is no less ridic- 
ulous to infer that the kitchen scullions are 
clothed and treated like those servants who wait 
at the table, and are in the presence of guests, 
than to infer that the kitchen is set out with so- 
fas, ottomans, piano-fortes, and full-length mir. 
rors, because the parlor is. But the house-slaves 
are only a fraction of the whole number. The 
fidd.hands constitute the great mass of the 
slaves, and these the visitors rarely get a glimpse 
at. Tliey are away at their work by day-break, 
and do not return to their huts till dark. Their 
huts are commonly at some distance from the mas- 
ter's mansion, and the fields in which they labor, 
generally much farther, and out of sight. If the 
visitor traverses the plantation, care is taken that 
he does not go alone ; if he expresses a wish to 
see it, the horses are saddled, and the master or 
his son gallops the rounds with him ; if he ex- 
presses a desire to see the slaves at work, his 
conductor will know where to take him, and 
when, and which of them to show ; the overseer, 
too, knowsk.quite too well the part he has to act on 
such occasions, to shock the uninitiated ears of 
the visitors with the shrieks of his victims. It is 
manifest that visitors can see only the least re- 
pulsive parts of slavery, inasmuch as it is wholly 
at the option of the master, what parts to show 
them ; as a matter of necessity, he can see only 
the outside — and that, like the outside of door- 
knobs and andirons, is furbished up to be looked 
ct: So long as it is human nature to wear the 
best side out, so long the northern guests of 
southern slaveholders will see next to nothing of 
the reality of slavery. Those visitors may still 
keep up their autumnal migrations to the slave 
states, and, after a hasty survey of the tinsel 
hung before the curtain of slavery, without a sin- 
to suffer more than his excellency. "—Emancipation in the 
West Indies, f. 334. 



gle glance behind it, and at the paint and varnish 
that cover up dead men's bones, and while those 
who have hoaxed them with their smooth stories, 
and white-washed specimens of slaver}', are tit. 
teringat their gullibility, they return in the spring 
on the same fool's-enand with \hc\v predecessors, 
retailing their lesson, and mouthing the praises 
of the masters, and the comforts of the slaves.. 
They now become village u'mpires in all disputes 
about the condition of the slaves, and each thence 
forward ends all controversies with his oracular, 
" I've seen^ and sure I ought to know." 

But all northern visitors at the south are not 
thus easily gulled. Many of them, as the pre- 
ceding pages show, have too much sense to be 
caught with chaff. 

We may add here, that those classes of visitors 
whose representations of the treatment of slaves 
are most influential in moulding the opinions ol 
the free states, are ministers of the gospel, agents 
of benevolent societies, 3.nd teachers who have 
traveled and temporarily resided in the slave 
states — classes of persons less likely than any 
others to witness cruelties, because slaveholders 
generally take more pains to keep such visitors 
in ignorance than others, because their vocations 
would furnish them fewer opportunities for wit- 
nessing them, and because they come in contact 
with a class of society in which fewer atrocities 
are committed than in any other, and that too, 
under circumstances which make it almost im- 
possible for them to witness those which are 
actually committed. 

Of the numerous classes of persons from the 
north who temporarily reside in the slave states, 
the mechanics who find employment on the plan, 
tations, are the only persons who are in circum 
stances to look " behind the scenes." Merchants, 
pedlars, venders of patents, drovers, speculators, 
and almost all descriptions of persons who go 
from the free states to the south to make money, 
see little of slavery, except upon the road, at pub- 
lic inns, and in villages and cities. 

Let not the reader infer from what has been 
said, that the ^arZo?--slaves, chamber-maids, &e. 
in the slave states are not treated with cruelty — 
far from it. They often experience terrible in- 
flictions ; not generally so terrible or so frequent 
as the field-hands, and very rarely in the presence 
of guests.* House-slaves are for the most part 
treated far better than plantation-slaves, and 

* Rev. Joseph M. Sadd, a Presbyterian clerfryman, in 
Castile, Genesee county, N. Y. recently from Missouri, 
where he has preached five years, in the midst of slave- 
holders, says, in a letter just received, speaking of tlie 
pains taken by slaveholders to conceal from the eyes of 
strangers and visitors, the cruelties which they inflict upon 
their slaves — 

"It is difficult to be an eye-witness of those things; the 
master and mistress almost invariably punish their slaves, 
only in the prese"hce of other slaves, or before other mera- 
ber? of their own family, and often at the dead of night." 



Objections Considered — North^n-n Visitors. 



131 



those under the immediate direction of the mas- 
ter and mistress, than those under overseers and 
drivers. It is quite worthy of remark, that of 
the thousands of northern men who have visited 
the south, and are always lauding the kindness 
of slaveholders and the comfort of the slaves, 
protesting that they have never seen cruelties 
inflicted on them, &c. each perhaps, without 
exception, has some story to tell which reveals, 
hetter perhaps than the most barbarous butchery 
could do, a public sentiment toward slaves, 
showing that the most cruel inflictions must of 
necessity be the constant portion of the slaves. 

Though facts of this kind lie thick in every 
corner, the reader will, we are sure, tolerate even 
a needless illustration, if told that it is from the 
pen of N. P. Rogers, Esq. of Concord, N. H. 
who, whatever he writes, though it be, as in this 
case, a mere hasty letter, alvv^ays finds readers to 
the end. 

" At a court session at Guilford, Stafford county, 
N. H. in August, 1837, the Hon. Daniel M. Du- 
rell, of Dover, formerly Chief Justice of the Com. 
mon Pleas for Ihat state, and a member of Con- 
gress, was charging the abolitionists, in presence 
of several gentlemen of the bar, at their boarding 
house, with exaggerations and misrepresentations 
of slave treatment at the south. ' One instance 
in particular,' he witnessed, he said, where he 
* knew they misrepresented. It was in the Con- 
gregational meeting house at Dover. He was 
passing by, and sav\^ a crowd entering and about 
the door; and on inquiry, found that abolition was 
going on in there. He stood in the entry for a 
moment, and found the Englishman, Thompson, 
was holding forth. The fellow was speaking of 
the treatment of slaves ; and he said it W3s no 
uncommon thing for masters, when exos-perated 
with the slave, to hang hira uj) by the two thumbs, 
and flog him. I knew the fellow W^^ there,' said 
the judge, ' for I had traveled thiv)Kgh the sourfi, 
from Georgia north, and I nevc'r saw a single 
instance of the kind. The feliow said it was a 
common thing.' ' Did you see any exasperated 
masters. Judges' said I, ' in your journey ?' 'No 
sir,' said he, ' not an individual instance.' 'You 
hardly arc able to con\act Mr. Thompson of 
falsehood, then. Judge,' said I, 'if I understood 
you right. He spoke, as J understood you, of 
exasperated masters — and you say you did not 
see any. Mr. Thompson did not say it was com- 
mon for masters in good humor to hang up their 
slaves.' The Judge djd not perceive the materi- 
ality of the distinction. ' Oh, they misrepresent 
and lie about this treatment of the niggers,' he 
continued. ' In going through all the states I 
visited, I do not now remember a single instance 
of cruel treatment. Indeed, I remember of see. 
ing but one nigger struck, during my whole jour- 
ney. There was one instance. We were riding 
in the stage, pretty early one morning, and we 
met a black fellow, driving a span of horses, and 
a load (I think he said) of hay. The fellow 
turned out before we got to him, clean down 
into the ditch, as far as he could get. He knew, 
you see, what to depend on, if he did not give the 



road. Our driver, as we passed the fellow, 
fetched him a smart crack with his whio across 
the chops. He did not make any noise, though 
I guess it hurt him some — he grinned. — Oh, no 1 
tliese fellows exaggerate. The niggers, as a gen- 
eral thing, are kindly treated. There may be ex- 
ceptions, but I saw nothing of it.' (By the way, 
the Judge did not know there were any abolition- 
ists present.) ' What did you do to the driver, 
Judge,' said I, ' for striking that man ?' ' Do !' 
said he, ' I did nothing to him, to be sure.' ' What 
did you say to him, sir ?' said I. ' Nothing,' he 
replied : ' I said nothing to him.' ' What did the 
other passengers do ?' said I. ' Nothing, sir,* 
said the Judge. 'The fellow turned out the 
white of his eye, but he did not make any noise.' 
' Did the driver say any thing, Judge, when he 
struck the man?' 'Nothing,' said the Judge, 
' only he dajnned him, and told him he'd learn 
him to keep out of the reach of his whip ' ' Sir,' 
said I, ' if George Thompson had told this story, 
in the warmth of an anti-slavery speech, I should 
scarcely have credited it. I have attended many 
anti-slavery meetings, and I never heard an in- 
stance of such cold-blooded, wanton, insolent, 
DIABOLICAL cruclty as this ; and, sir, if I live to 
attend another meeting, I shall relate this, and 
give Judge Durell's name as the witness of it.' 
An infliction of the most insolent character, en- 
tirely unprovoked, on a perfect stranger, who had 
showed the utmost civilitv, in giving aHthe road, 
and only could not get beyond the ?ong reach of 
the driver's whip — and he a stage driver, a class 
generous next to the sailor, ip uie sober hour of 
morning — and home in silence — and told to show 
that the colored manofth^ south was kindly treat 
ed — all evincing, to 5>'i unutterdbie extent, that 
the temper of the south to^^ard the slave is mer- 
ciless, even to diabolism — and that the north 
ren'ards hira with, j/ possible, a more fiendish in- 
difference still !" 

It scemp 6ut an act of simple justice to say, in 
conclusion, that many of the slaveholders from 
whom our northern visitors derive their informa- 
tion of the " good treatment" of the slave, may 
not design to deceive them. Such visitors are 
often, perhaps, generally brought in contact with 
the better class of slaveholders, whose slaves are 
really better fed, clothed, lodged, and housed : 
more moderately worked ; more seldom whipped, 
and with less severity, than the slaves generally. 
Those masters in speaking of the good condition 
of their slaves, and asserting that they are treated 
well, use terms that arc not absolute but compara- 
tive : and it may be, and doubtless often is true 
that their slaves are treated well as slaves, in com- 
parison with the treatment received by slaves 
generally. So the overseers of such slaves, and the 
slaves themselves, may, without lying or designing 
to mislead, honestly give the same testimony. As 
the great body of slaves within their knowledge 
fare worse, it is not strange that, when speaking 
of the treatment on their own plantation, they 
should call it good. 



132 



Objections Considered — Interest of Masters. 



Objection V.—' IT IS FOR THE INTEREST OF THE MASTERS TO TREAT THEIR 

SLAVES WELL.' 



So it is for the interest of the drunkard to quit 
his cups ; for the g^lutton to curb his appetite ; for 
the debauchee to bridle his lust ; for the sluggard 
to be up betimes ; for the spendthrift to be eco- 
nomical, and for all sinners to stop sinning. Even 
if it were for the interest of masters to treat their 
slaves well, he must be a novice who thinks that 
a proof that the slaves are well treated. The 
whole history of man is a record of real interests 
sacrificed to present gratification. If all men's 
actions were consistent with their best interests, 
folly and sin would be words without meaning. 

If the objector means that it is for the pecu- 
niary interests of masters to treat their slaves 
well, and thence infers their good treatment, we 
reply, that though the love of money is strong, yet 
appetite and lust, pride, anger and revenge, the 
love of power and honor, are each an overmatch 
for it ; and when either of them is roused by a 
sudden stimulant, the love of money is worsted in 
the grapple with it. Look at the hourly lavish 
outlays of money to procure a momentary gratifi- 
cation for those passions and appetites. As the de- 
sire for money is, in the main, merely a desire for 
the means of gratifying other desires, or rather 
for one of the means, it must be the servant not 
the sovereign of those desires, to whose gratifica. 
tion its only use is to minister. But even if the 
love of money were ihe strou2;est human passion, 
who is simple enough to believe that it is all the 
time so powerfully excited, tt.at no other passion 
or appetite can get the mastery oyer it 1 Who 
does not know that gusts of rage, revenge, jea- 
lousy and lust drive it before them as a tempest 
tosses a feather ? 

The objector has forgotten his first lessons ; they 
taught him that it is human nature to gratify the 
uppermost passion : and is prudence the Upper- 
most passion with slaveholders, and self-restraint 
their great characteristic ? The strongest feeling 
of any moment is the sovereign of that moment, 
and rules. Is a propensity to practice economy 
the predominant feehng with slaveholders ? Ri- 
diculous ! Every northerner knows that slave- 
holders are proverbial for lavish expenditm-es, 
never higgling about the price of a gratification. 
Human passions have not, like the tides, regular 
ebbs and flows, with their stationary, high and 
low water marks. They are a dominion convulsed 
with revolutions ; coronations and dethronements 
in ceaseless succession — each ruler a usurper and 
a despot. Love of money gets a snatch at the 
sceptre as well as the rest, not by hereditary right, 
but because, in the fluctuations of human feel- 
ings, a chance wave washes him up to the throne, 
and the next perhaps washes him off, without 



time to nominate his successor. Since, then, as a 
matter of fact, a host of appetites and passions do 
hourly get the better of love of money, what pro- 
tection does the slave find in his master's interest, 
against the sweep of his passions and appetites ? 
Besides, a master can inflict upon his slave hor- 
rible cruelties without perceptibly injuring his 
health, or taking time from his labor, or lessening 
his value as property. Blows with a small stick 
give more acute pain, than with a large one. A 
club bruises, and benumbs the nerves, while a 
switch, neither breaking nor bruising the flesh, in- 
stead of blunting the sense of feeling, wakes up 
and stings to torture all the susceptibilities of pain. 
By this kind of infliction, more actual cruelty can 
be perpetrated in the giving of pain at the instant, 
than by the most horrible bruisings and lacerations ; 
and that, too, with little comparative hazard to 
the slave's health, or to his value as property, and 
without loss of time from labor. Even giving to 
the objection all the force claimed for it, what 
protection is it to the slave ? It professes to 
shield the slave from such treatment alone, as 
would either lay him aside from labor, or injure 
his health, and thus lessen his value as a working 
animal, making him a damaged article in the 
market. Now, is nothing bad treatment of a hu. 
man being except that which produces these ef- 
fects ? Does the fact that a man's constitution is 
not actually shattered, and his life shortened by 
his treatment, prove that he is treated well ? Is 
no treatment cruel except what sprains muscles, 
or cuts b^news, or bursts blood vessels, or breaks 
bones, and thus lessens a man's value as a work- 
ing animal ? 

A slave may get blows and kicks every hour in 
the day, without \iaving his constitution broken, 
or without suffering sensibly in his health, or flesh, 
or appetite, or poverto labor. Therefore, beaten 
and kicked as he is, he must be treated loell, ac 
cording to the objector, since the master's inter- 
est does not suffer thereby. 

Finally, the objector virtually maintains that all 
possible privations and inflictions suffered by 
slaves, that do not actually cripple their power to 
labor, and make them ' damaged merchandize,' 
are to be set down as ' gooQ treatment,' and that 
nothing is bad treatment except what produces 
these effects. 

Thus we see that even if the slave were effect- 
ually shielded from all those inflictions, which, by 
lessening his value as property, would injure the 
interests of his master, he would still have no 
protection against numberless and terrible cruel, 
ties. But we go further, and maintain that in re- 
spect to large classes of slaves, it is for the in. 



Objections Considered — Interest of Masters. 



138 



terest of their masters to treat them with barbarous 
inhumanity. 

1. Old slaves. It would be for the interest of 
the masters to shorten their days. 

2. Worn out slaves. Multitudesof slaves by be- 
mg overworked, have their constitutions broken in 
middle life. It would be economical for masters 
to starve or flog such to death. 

3. The incurably diseased and maimed. In all 
such cases it would be cheaper for masters to buy 
poison than medicine. 

4. The blind, lunatics, and idiots. As all such 
would be a tax on him, it would be for his interest 
to shorten their days. 

5. The deaf and dumb, and persons greatly de- 
formed. Such might or might not be serviceable 

> to him ; many of them at least would be a burden, 
and few men carry burdens when they can throw 
them off. 

6. Feeble infants. As such would require much 
nursing, the time, trouble and expense necessary 
to raise them, would generally be more than they 
would be worth as working animals. How many 
such infants would be likely to be ' raised,' from 
disinterested benevolence ? To this it may be 
added that in the far south and south west, it is 
notoriously for the interest of the master not to 
* raise' slaves at all. To buy slaves when nearly 
grown, from the northern slave states, would be 
cheaper tJian to raise them. This is shown in the 
fact, that mothers with infants sell for less in those 
states than those without them. And when slave- 
traders purchase such in the upper country, it is 
notorious that they not unfrequently either sell 
their infants, or give them away. Therefore it 
would be for the interest of the masters, through- 
out that region, to have all the new-born chil- 

^ dren left to perish. It would also be for his 
mterest to make such arrangements as effectually 
to separate the sexes, or if that were not done, so 
to overwork the females as to prevent childbearing. 

7. Incorrigible slaves. On most of the large 
plantations, there are, more or less, incorrigible 
slaves, — that is, slaves who will not be profitable 
to their masters — and from whom torture can ex- 
tort little but defiance.* These are frequently 
slaves of uncommon minds, who feel so keenly 
the wrongs of slavery that their proud spirits 
spurn their chains and defy their tormentors. 

They have commonly great swaj'- over the 
other slaves, their example is contagious, and their 
influence subversive of 'plantation discipline.' 
Consequently they must be made a warning to 

* Advertisements like the following are not unfrequent in 
the southern papers. 

From the Elizabeth (JV. C) Phenix, Jan. 5, 1839. 

"The subscriber offers for sale his blacksmith Nat, 28 
years of age, and remarkably large and likely. The only 
cause of my selhng him is I cannot control him. 

Hertford, Dec. 5, 1838. J. Gordon." 



others. It is for the interest of the masters (at 
least they believe it to be) to put upon such slaves 
iron collars and chains, to brand and crop them ; 
to disfigure, lacerate, starve and torture them — in 
a word, to inflict upon them such vengeance as 
shall strike terror into the other slaves. To this 
class may be added the incorrigibly thievish and 
indolent ; it would be for the interest of the mas- 
ters to treat them with such severity as would de- 
ter others from following their example. 

7. Runaways. When a slave has once runaway 
from his master and is caught, he is thencefor- 
ward treated with severity. It is for the interest 
of the master to make an example of him, by the 
greatest privations and inflictions. 

8. Hired slaves. It is for the interest of those 
who hire slaves to get as much out of them as 
they can ; the temptation to overwork them is 
powerful. If it be said that the master could, in 
that case, recover damages, the answer is, that 
damages would not be recoverable in law unless 
actual injury — enough to impair the power of 
the slave to labor be proved. And this ordi- 
narily would be impossible, unless the slave has 
been worked so greatly beyond his strength as 
to produce some fatal derangement of the vital 
functions. Indeed, as all who are familiar with 
such cases in southern courts well know, the proof 
of actual injury to the slave, so as to lessen his 
value, is exceedingly diflScult to make out, and 
every hirer of slaves can overwork them, give 
them insufficient food, clothing, and shelter, and 
inflict upon them nameless cruelties with entire 
impunity. We repeat then that it is for the inter- 
est of the hirer to push his slaves to their utmost 
strength, provided he does not drive them to such 
an extreme, that their constitutions actually give 
way under it, while in his hands. The supreme 
court of Maryland has decided that, ' There must 
be at least a diminution of the faculty of the slave 
for bodily labor to warrant an action by the mas- 
ter.' — 1 Harris and Johnson's Reports, 4. 

9. Slaves under overseers whose wages are pro. 
portioned to the crop which they raise. This is an 
arrangement common in the slave states, and in its 
practical operation is equivalent to a bounty on 
hard driving — a virtual prem'tim offered to over- 
seers to keep the slaves wKpped up to the top of 
their strength. Even wAere the overseer has a 
fixed salary, irrespective of the value of the crop 
which he takes off, h- is strongly tempted to over- 
work the slaves, a? those overseers get the highest 
wages who can Jraw the largest income from a 
plantation with a given number of slaves ; bo that 
we may include in this last class of slaves, the 
majority of all those who are under overseers, 
whatever the terms on which those overseers are 
employed. 

Another class of slaves may be mentioned ; we 



134 



Objections Considered — Interest of Masters. 



refer to the slaves of masters who hvt upon tliuir 
crops. In the cotton and sugar region there is a 
fearful amount of this desperate gambling, in 
which, though money is the ostensible stake and 
forfeit, human life is the real one. The length 
to which this rivalry is carried at the south and 
south west, the multitude of planters who en- 
gage in it, and the recklessness of human life 
exhibited in driving the murderous game to its 
issue, cannot well be imagined by one who has 
not lived in the midst of it. Desire of gain is 
only one of the motives that stimulates them ; — 
the eclat of having made the largest crop with a 
given number of hands, is also a powerful stimu- 
lant ; the southern newspapers, at the crop sea- 
son, chronicle carefully the " cotton brag," and 
the " crack cotton picking," and " unparalleled 
driving," &c. Even the editor of professedly 
religious papers, cheer on the melee and sing 
the triumphs of the victor. Among these we 
recollect the celebrated Rev. J. N. Maffit, recent- 
ly editor of a religous paper at Natchez, Miss, in 
which he took care to assign a prominent place, 
and capitals to '' the cotton brag." The testimo- 
ny of Mr. Bhss, page 38, details some of the 
particulars of this betting upon crops. All the 
preceding classes of slaves are in circumstances 
which make it " for the i/iferesf of their masters," 
or those who have tlic management of them, to 
treat them cruelly. 

Besides the operation of the causes already 
specified, which make it for the interest of mas- 
ters and overseers to treat cruelly certain classes of 
their slaves, a variety of others exist, which 
make it for their interest to treat cruelly the 
great body of their slaves. These causes are, 
the nature of certain kinds of products, the kind 
of labor required in cultivating and preparing 
them for market, the best times for such labor, 
the state of the market, fluctuations in prices, 
facilities for transportation, the weather, seasons, 
&c. &sc. Some of the causes which operate to 
produce this are — 

1. The early market. If the planter can get 
his crop into market early, he may save thousands 
which might be lost if it arrived later. 

2. Changes in tht market. A sudden rise in 
the market with the probability that it will be 
short, or a gradual fall vith a probability that it 
will be long, is a strong tejaptation to the mas. 
ter to push his slaves to the iK^most, that he may 
in the one case make all he cah, by taking the 
tide at the flood, and in the other ^ose as little as 
may be, by taking it as early as possible in the 
ebb. \ 

3. High prices. Whenever the sUve o-rown 
staples bring a high price, as is now the 
case with cotton, every slaveholder is tempted to 
overwork his slaves. By forcing them to do 



double work for a few weeks or months, while 
the price is up, he can afford to lose a number ol 
them and to lessen the value of all by over- 
driving. A cotton planter with a hundred vigor- 
ous slaves, would have made a profitable specu 
lation, if, during the years '34, 5, and 6, when 
the average price of cotton was 17 cents a pound, 
he had so overworked his slaves that half of 
them died upon his hands in '37, when cotton had 
fallen to six and eight cents. No w^onder that 
the poor slaves pray that cotton and sugar may 
be cheap. The writer has frequently heard it 
declared by planters in the lower country, that, 
it is more profitable to drive the slaves to such 
over exertion as to use them up, in seven or eight 
years, than to give them only ordinary tasks and 
protract their lives to the ordinary period.* 

4. Untimely seasons. When the winter en 
croaches on the spring, and makes late seed time, 
the first favorable weather is a temptation to 
overwork the slaves, too strong to be resisted by 
those who hold men as mere working animals. 
So when frosts set in early, and a great amount ot 
work is to be done in a little time, or great loss 
suflfered. So also after a long storm either in 
seed or crop time, when the weather becomes 
favorable, the same temptation presses, and in 
all these cases the master w^ould save money by 
overdriving his slaves. 

5. Periodical pressure of certain kinds of labor. 
The manufacture of sugar is an illustration. 

In a work entitled " Travels in Louisiana in 
1802," translated from the French, by John 
Davis, is the following testimony under this 
head : — 

" At the rolling of sugars, an interval of from 
two to three months, they (the slaves in Louisi- 
ana,) w^ork both flight and day. Abridged of 
their sleep, they scarcely retire to rest during the 
whole period." See page 81. 

In an article on the agriculture of Louisiana, 
published in the second number of the " Western 
Review," is the following : — " The work is ad- 
mitted to be severe for the hands, (slaves) requir- 
ing, when the process of making sugar is com 
menced, to be pressed night and day." 

It would be for the interest of the sugar planter 
greatly to overwork his slaves, daring the annual 
process of sugar-making. 

The severity of this periodical pressure, in 
preparing for market other staples of the slave 
states besides sugar, may be inferred from the 
following. Mr. Hammond, of South Carolina, 
in his speech in Congress, Feb. 1. 1836, (Sec 
National Intelligencer) said, " In the heat of tho 
crop, the loss of one or two days, would inevit 
ably ruin it." 

6. Times of scarcity. Drought, long rain, 
frost, &c. are liable to cut off the com crop, upon 

* The reader is referred to a variety of facts and testimo 
ny on this point on the 39th page of this work. 



ObjacUons Coimidered — Interest oi' Masters. 



135 



whiqii tlie slaves are fed. If this happcjis when 
tile staple which they raise is at a low price, it is 
for the interest of the master to put the slave on 
short rations, thus forci)ig him to suffer from 
hunger. 

7. The raising of crops for exportation. In all 
those states where cotton and sugar are raised 
ibr exportation, it is, for the most part, more 
profitable to buy provisions for the slaves than to 
raise them. Where this is the case the slave- 
holders believe it to be for their interest to give 
their slaves less food, than their hunger craves, 
and they do generally give them insufiicient sus- 
tenancc.- 

Now let us make some estimate of the propor- 
tion which the slaves, included in the foregoing 
nine classes, sustain to the whole number, and 
then of the proportion affected by the operation 
of the se«en causes just enumerated. 

It would be nearly impossible to form an esti- 
mate of the proportion of the slaves included in a 
number of these classes, such as the old, the worn 
out, the incurably diseased, maimed and deform, 
ed, idiols, feeble infants, incorrigible slaves, «S;:c. 
More or less of this description are to be found 
on all the considerable plantations, and often, 
many on tlic same plantation ; though we have 
no accurate data for an estimate, the proportion 
cannot be less than one in twenty-five of the 

* Hear the testimony of a slaveholder, on this subject, a 
member of Cougre:js from Virginia, from 1817 to 1830, 
Hon. Alexander Sinyth. 

ill the debate oti the Missouri question in the U. S. 
Coiiiiress. 1810--20, the admission of Missouri to the Union, as 
a slave state, was urged, among other groimds, as a measure 
of humanity to the slaves of the south. Mr. Smyth, of Vir- 
ginia said, ■• The plan of our opponents seems to be to confine 
the slave population to the southern slates, to the countries 
where sugar, cotton, and tobacco are cultivated. But, sir, 
by confijiing the slaves to a part of the country where 
crops a-e raised for exportation, and the bread and meat are 
■purchased, yon doom them to scarcity and hunger. Is it 
not obvious that the way to render their situation more 
comfortable, is to allow theiu to be taken where there is 
not the same motive to force the slave to incessant toil, 
that there is in the country where cotton, sugar, and tobac- 
co, are raised for c?:portation. It is proposed to hem in the 
blacks where they arc hard wouki^d and ill fkd, that 
they maybe rendered unproductive and the race be pre- 
vented from increasing. . . . The proposed measure 
would be EXTREME CRUELTY to tlic blacks. . . . You 
would . . . doom them to scarcity and hard 
LABOR."— [Speech of Mr. Smyth, Jan. i.'8, 1830.]— See 
National Intelligencer. 

Those states where the crops are raised for exportation, 
and a large part of the provisions purchased, are, Louisia/ia, 
Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas, Western Tenrjessec, 
Georgia, Florida, and, to a considerable extent. South Caro- 
lina. That this is the case in Louisiana, is shewn by the 
following. " Corn, flour, and bread stuffs, generally are ob- 
tained from Kentuckv, Oliio," &c. See " Emigrant's Guide 
through the Valley of the Mississippi," Page ^T.'j. That it is 
the case with Alabama, apnears irom t2ie testimony of W. 
Jefferson Jones, Esq. a lavv'yer of high standing in Mobile. 
In a series of articles publislied by him in the Mobile Morn- 
ing Chronicle, he says ; (See that paper for Aug. '26, 1837.) 

" The people of Alabama export what they raise, and 
import nearly all they consume." But it seems quite un- 
necessary to prove, what all persons of much intelligence 
well know, that the states meritioned export the larger part of 
what they raise, and import the larger part of what they 
consume. Now more than one ndUwn of slaves are held 
in those states, and parts of states, where provisions are 
mainly imported, and conseciuently they are " doomed to 
scarcity aJid hunger.'* 



whole number of slaves, which would give a total 
of more than one hundred thousand. Of some of 
the remaining classes we have data for a pretty 
accurate estimate. 

1st. Lunatics. — Various estimates have been 
made, founded upon the data procured by actual 
investigation, prosecuted under the direction of 
the Legislatures of different States ; but the re- 
turns have been so imperfect and erroneous, thaowt* 
little reliance can be placed upon them. The Le- 
gislature of Nev/ Hampshire recently ordered in- 
vestigations to be made in every town in the state, 
and the nmnber of insane persons to be reported. 
A committee of the legislature, who had the sub- 
ject in charge say, in their report — " From many 
towns no returns have been received, from others 
the accounts are erroneous, there being cases 
knoion to the committee which escaped the notice 
of the ' selectmen.' The actual number of in- 
sane persons is therefore much larger than appears 
by the documents submitted to the committee." 
The Medical Society of Connecticut appointed a 
committee of their number, composed of some of 
the most eminent physicians in the state, to as- 
certain and report the whole number of insane 
persons in that state. The committee say, in 
their report, " The number of towns from which 
returns have been received is seventy, and the 
cases of insanity which have been noticed in them 
are five hundred and ten." The committee add, 
" fifty more towns remain to be heard from, and 
if insanity should be found equally prevalent in 
them, the entire number will scarcely fall short 
of owe thousand in the state." This investigation 
was made in 1821, when the population of the 
state was less than two hundred and eighty thou 
sand. If the estimate of the Medical Society be 
correct, the proportion of the insane to the whole 
population would be about one in two hundred 
and eighty. This strikes us as a large estimate, 
and yet a committee of the legislature of that 
state in 1837, reported seven hundred and seven 
insane persons in the state, v/ho were either whol- 
ly or in part supported as toivn paupers, or by 
cJidriiy. It can hardly be supposed that more 
than two-thirds of the insane in Connecticut be- 
long to families unable to support them. On this 
supposition, the whole number would be greater 
than the estimate of the Medical Society sixteen 
years previous, when the population was perhaps 
thirty thousand less. But to avoid the possibility 
of an over estimate, let us suppose the present 
number of insane persons in Connecticut to be 
only seven hundred. 

The population of the state is now probably 
about three hundred and twenty thousand ; ac 
cording to this estimate, the proportion of the in- 
sane to the whole population, would be one to 
about four hundred and hixiy. Making this the 



136 



Objections Considered — Interest of Masters. 



basis of our calculation, and estimating the slaves in 
the United States at two millions, seven hundred 
thousand, their present probable number, and we 
come to this result, that there are about six thou, 
sand insane persons among the slaves of the United 
States. We have no adequate data by which to 
judge whether the proportion of lunatics among 
slaves is greater or less than among the whites ; 
some considerations favor the supposition that it 
is. But the dreadful physical violence to which 
the slaves are subjected, and the constant sunder- 
ings of their tenderest ties, might lead us to sup- 
pose that it would be more. The only data in our 
possession is the official census of Chatham coun- 
ty, Georgia, for 1838, containing the number of 
lunatics among the whites and the slaves. — (See 
the Savannah Georgian, July 24, 1838.) Accord- 
ing to this census, the number of lunatics among 
eight thousand three hundred and seventy three 
whites in the country, is only two, whereas, the 
number among ten thousand eight hundred and 
ninety-one slaves, is fourteen. 

2d. The Deaf and Dumb. — The proportion of 
deaf and dumb persons to the other classes of the 
community, is about one in two thousand. This 
is the testimony of the directors of the ' Ameri- 
can Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb,' located at 
Hartford, Connecticut. Making this the basis 
of our estimate, there would be one thousand six 
hundred deaf and dumb persons among the slaves 
of the United States. 

3d. The Blind. — We have before us the last 
United States census, from which it appears, that 
in 1830, the number of blind persons in New 
Hampshire was one hundred and seventeen, out 
of a population of two hundred and sixty-nine 
thousand five hundred and thirty-three. Adopt- 
ing this as our basis, the number of blind slaves in 
the United States would be nearly one thousand 
three hundred. 

4th. Runaways. — Of the proportion of the 
slaves that run away, to those that do not, and 
of the proportion of the runaways that are taken 
to those that escape entirely, it would be difficult 
to make a probable estimate. Something, how- 
ever, can be done towards such an estimate. We 
have before us, in the Grand Gulf (Miss.) Ad- 
vertiser, for August 2, 1838, a list of runaways 
that were then in the jails of the two counties of 
Adams and Warren, in that State ; the names, 
ages, &c. of each one given ; and their owners 
are called upon to take them away. The num- 
ber of runaways thus taken up and committed in 
these two counties, is forty-six. The whole 
number of counties in Mississippi is fifty-six. 
Many of them, however, are thinly populated. 
Now, without making this the basis of our esti- 
mate for the whole slave population in all the 
state — which would doubtless make the num- 



ber much too large — we are sure no one who has 
any knowledge of facts as they are in the 
south, will charge upon us an over-statement, 
when we say, that of the present generation of 
slaves, probably one in thirty is of that class — i. e., 
has at some time, perhaps often, runaway and 
been retaken ; on that supposition the whole 
number would be not far from ninety thousand. 

5th. Hired Slaves. — It is impossible to esti- 
mate with accuracy the proportion which the hired 
slaves bear to the whole number. That it is very 
large all who have resided at the south, or tra- 
velled there, with their eyes open well know. 
Some of the largest slaveholders in the country, 
instead of purchasing plantations and working 
their slaves themselves, hire them out to others 
This practice is very common. 

Rev. Horace Moulton, a minister of the Me- 
thodist Episcopal church in Marlborough, Mass., 
who lived some years in Georgia, says : " A 
large proportion of the slaves are owned by mas 
ters who keep them on purpose to hire out." 

Large numbers of slaves, especially in Missis- 
sippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, Alabama, and Florida, 
are owned by non-residents ; thousands of them by 
northern capitalists, who h,ire them out. These 
capitalists in many cases own large plantations, 
which are often leased for a term of years with a 
' stock ' of slaves sufficient to work them. 

Multitudes of slaves ' belonging ' to heirs, are 
hired out by their guardians till such heirs become 
of age, or by the executors or trustees of persons 
deceased. 

That the reader may form some idea of the 
large number of slaves that are hired out, we in- 
sert below a few advertisements, as a specimen 
of hundreds in the newspapers of the slave states. 

From the " Pensacola Gazette," May 27. 
'' Notice to Slaveholders. Wanted upon my 
contract, on the Alabama, Florida and Georgia 
Rail Road, FOUR HUNDRED BLACK LA- 
BORERS, for which a liberal price will be paid. 
R. LORING, Contractor:' 

The same paper has the following, signed by 
an officer of the United States. 

" Wanted at the Navy Yard, Pensacola, sixty 
LABORERS. The OWNERS to subsist and quarter 
them beyond the limits of the yard. Persons 
having Laborers to hire, will apply to the Com- 
manding Officer. W. K, LATIMER." 

From the " Richmond (Va.) Enquirer," April 
10, 1838. 

" Laborers wanted. — The James River, and 
Kenawha Company, are in immediate want of . 
SEVERAL HUNDRED good laborers,. Gentlemen 
wishing to send negroes from the country, are 
assured that the very best care shall be taken ol 
them. RICHARD REINS, 

Agent of the James River, and Kenawha Co,'' 



Objections Considered — Interest of Masters. 



137 



From the " Vicksburg (Mis.) Register," Dec. 
27, 1838, 

" 60 Negroes, nialcs and females, for hire for 
the year 1839. Apply to H. HENDREN." 

From the '* Georgia Messenger," Dec. 27, 
1838. 

" Negroes to hire. On the first Tuesday next, 
Including CARPENTERS, BLACKSMITHS, 
SHOEMAKERS, SEAMSTRESSES, COOKS, 
&c. &,c. For information ; Apply to 

OSSIAN GREGORY." 

From the " Alexandria (D. C.) Gazette," Dec. 

30, 1H.37. 

'' THE subscriber wishes to employ by the month 
or year, one hundred able bodied men, and 
THIRTY boys. Pcrsoiis having servants, will do 
well to give him a call. PHILIP ROACH, 

near Alexandria." 

From the " Columbia (S. C.) Telescope," May 
19, 1838. 

" Wanted TO HIRE, twelve or fifteen NEGRO 
GIRLS, from ten to fourteen years of age. They 
are wanted for the terra of two or three years. 
E. H. & J. FISHER." 

"Negrous wanted. The Subscriber is desirous 
of hiring 50 or 60 first rate Negro Men. 

WILSOxV NESBITT." 

From the "Norfolk (Va.; Beacon," March 
21, 1838. 

" Laborers wanted. One hundred able bodied 
men are wanted. The hands will be required to 
be delivered in Halifax by the owners. Apply to 
SHIELD & WALKE." 

From the " Lynchburg Virginian," Dec. 13, 
1838. 

" 40 NEGRO MEN. The subscribers wish to hire 
for the next year 40 NEGRO MEN. 

LANGiiORNE, SCRUGGS «& COOK." 

'' Hiring of negroes. On Saturday, the 29th 
day of December, 1838, at Mrs, Tayloe's tavern, 
in Amherst county, there will be hired thirty or 
forty valuable Negroes. 

In addition to the above, I have for hire, 20 
men, women, boys, and girls — several of them 
excellent house servants. 

MAURICE H. GARLAND." 

From the " Savannah Georgian," Feb. 5, 1838. 
" Wanted TO hire, one hundred pi-ime negroes, 
by the year. J. V. REDDEN." 

From the " North Carolina Standard," Feb. 

31, 1838. 

" Negroes wanted.— W. «Sc A. STITH, will 
give twelve dollars per month for FIFTY strong 
Negro fellows, to commence work immediately ; 
and for FIFTY more on the first day of Febua. 
ry, and for FIFTY on the first day of March." 

From the " Lexington (Ky.) Reporter," Dec. 
26, 1838. 

" Will be hired, for one year, on the first 
day of January, 1839, on the farm of the late Mrs. 
Meredith, a number of valuable NEGROES. 
R. S. TODD, Sheriff of FaycUe Co. 
And Curator for .Tam es and 
Elizabeth Brcckenrid^-e." 
18 



" Negroes to hire. On Wednesday, the 26th 
inst. I will hire to the highest bidder, the 
NEGROES belonging to Charles and Robert 
Innes. GEO. W. WILLIAMS. 

Guardian.''^ 

The following nine advertisements were pub. 
lished in one column of the " Winchester Virgi- 
nian," Dec. 20, 1838. 

♦'NEGRO HIRINGS.' 
" Will be offered for hire, at Captain Long's 
Hotel, a number of SLAVES — men, women, 
boys and girls — belonging to the orphans of 
George Ash, deceased. 

RICHARD W. BARTON." 
Guardian. 

" Will be offered for hire, at my Hotel, a num- 
ber of SLAVES, consisting of men, women, 
boys and girls. JOSEPH LONG. 

Exr. vf Edmund Shackleford, dec^d." 

" Will be offered for hire, for the ensuing year, 
at Capt. Long's Hotel, a number of SLAVES. 
MOSES R. RICHARDS." 

*' Will be offered for hire, the slaves belonging 
to the estate of James Bowen, deceased, consist- 
ing of men, and women, boys and girls. 

GILES COOK. 
One of the Exrs. of James Bowen dec'dy 

'' The hiring at Millwood will take place on 
Friday, the 28th day of December, 1838. 

BURWELL." 

*' N. B. We are desired to say that other valua- 
ble NEGROES will also be hired at Millwood 
on the same day, besides those offered by Mr. B." 

" The SLAVES of the late John Jolliffe, about 
twenty in number, and of all ages and both 
sexes, will be offered for hire at Cain's Depot. 
DAVID W. BARTON. 
Administrator .^'' 

" I Will hire atpubhc hiring before the tavern 
door of Dr. Lacy, about 30 NEGROES, consist- 
ing of men, and women. 

JAMES R. RICHARDS." 

" Will be hired, at Carter's Tavern, on 31st of 
December, a number of NEGROES. 

JOHN J. H. GUNNELL." 

" Negroes for hire, (privately.) About twelve 
servants, consisting of men, women, boys, and 
girls, for hire privately. Apply to the subscriber 
at Col. Smith's in Battletown. 

JOHN W. OWEN." 

A volume might easily be filled with advertise- 
ments like the preceding, showing conclusively 
that hired slaves must be a large proportion of 
the whole number. The actual proportion has 
been variously estimated, at I, I, \, i, &c. if we 
adopt the last as our basis, it will make the 
number of hired slaves, in the United States, 
five hundred and forty thousand ! 

6th. Slaves under overseers whose wages are a 
part of the crop. — That this is a common usage 
appears from the following testimony. The late 



138 



Objections Considered — Interest of Masters. 



Hon. John Taylor, of Caroline Co. Virginia, one 
of the largest slaveholders iu tlie slate, President 
of the State Agricultural Society, and thi-ce 
times elected to the Senate of the United States, 
says, in his " Agricultural Essays," No, 15. P. 
57, 

" This necessary class of men, (overseers,) are 
bribed by agriculturalists, not to improve, but to 
impoverish their land, by a share of the crop for 
one year. . . . The greatest annual crop, 
and not the most judicious culture, advances his 
interest, and establishes his character ; and the 
fees of these land-doctors, are much higher for 
killing than for curing. . . . The most 
which the land can yield, and seldom or never 
improvement with a view to future profit, is a 
point of common consent, and mutual need be- 
tween the agriculturist and his overseer. . . 
Must the practice of hiring a man for one year, 
by a share of the crop, to lay out all his skill and 
industry in kilhng land, and as little as possible 
in improving it, be kept up to commemorate the 
pious leaning of man to his primitive state of ig- 
norance and barbarity ? Unless this is aholished, 
the attempt to fertilize our lands, :-s needless." 

Philemon Bliss, Esq. of Elyria, Ohio, who 
lived in Florida, in 1834-5, says, 

" It is common for owners of plantations and 
slaves, to hire overseers to take charge of them, 
while they themselves reside at a distance. 
Their wages depend principally upon the amount 
of labor ichich they can exact from the slave. 
The term " good overseer," signifies one Vi^ho 
can make the greatest amount of the staple, cot- 
ton for instance, from a given number of liands, 
besides raising sufficient provisions for their con- 
sumption. He has no interest in the life of the 
slave. Hence the fact, so notorious at the south, 
that negroes are driven harder and fare worse 
under overseers than under their owners. 

William Ladd, Esq. of ?\Iinot, Maine, formerly 
a slaveholder in Florida, speaking, in a recent 
letter of the system of labor adopted there, says ; 
'' The compensation of the overseers was a cer- 
tain portion of the crop.'''' 

Rev. Phineas Smith, of Ccntreville, Allegany 
Co. N. Y. Vv^ho has recently returned from a four 
years' residence, in the Southern slave states and 
Texas, says, 

" The mode in which many plantations are 
managed, is calculated and designed, as an in- 
ducement to the slave driver, to lay upon the 
slave the greatest possible burden, the overseer 
being entitled by contract, to a certain share of 
the crop.^' 

We leave the reader to form his own opinion, 
as to the proportion of slaves under overseers, 
whose wages are in proportion to the crop, raised 
by them. We have little doubt that we shall 



escape the charge of wishing to make out a 
" sti'ong case" when we put the proportion at one- 
eighth of the \Thole number of slaves, which 
would be three hundred and fifty thousand. 

Without drawing out upon the page, a sum in 
addition for the reader to " run up," it is easily 
seen that the slaves in the preceding classes, 
amount to more than eleven hundred thousand, 
exclusive of the deaf and dumb, and the blind, 
many of whom, especially the former, might be 
profitable to their *' owners." 

Now it is plainly for the interest of th'j *' owners" 
of these slaves, or of those who have the charge 
of them, to treat them cruelly, to overwork, 
under-feed, half.clothe, half-shelter, poison, or 
kill outright, the aged, the broken down, the 
incurably diseased, idiots, feeble infants, most of 
the blind, some deaf and dumb, &c. It is be- 
sides a part oi the slave-holder's creed, that it is 
for his interest to treat with terrible severity, all 
runaways and the incorrigibly stubborn, thievish, 
lazy, &c.; also for those who hire slaves, to over- 
work them ; also for overseers to overwork the 
slaves under them, v/hen their own wages are 
increased by it; 

We have thus shown that it would be " for the 
interest,'''' of masters and overseers to treat with 
habitual cruelty 7nore than one million of the 
slaves in the United States. But this is not all ; 
as we have said already, it is for the interest of 
overseers generally, whether their wages are 
proportioned to the crop or not, to overwork the 
slaves ; we need not repeat the reasons. 

Neither is it necessary to re-state the argu . 
raents, going to show that it is for the interest 
of slaveholders, who cultivate the great south- 
ern staples, especially cotton, and the sugar cane, 
to overwork periodically all their slaves, and 
habitually the majority of them, when the de- 
mand for those staples creates high prices, as has 
been the case with cotton for many years, with 
little exception. Instead of entering into a 
labored estimate to get at the proportion of 
the slaves, atfected by the operation of these and 
the other causes enumerated, we may say, that 
they operate directly on the " field hands," 
employed in raising the southern staples, and in- 
directly upon ail classes of the slaves. 

Finally, we conclude this head by turning the 
objector's negative proposition into an affirma- 
tive one, and state formally what has been already 
proved. 

It is for the interest of slaveholders, upon their 
own principles, and by their own showing, to 
treat cruelly the great body of their slaves 



Objeciions Comldered — Rapid IncreLise of Slaves. 



130 



Objection VI.-' THE FACT THAT THE SLAVES MULTH'LY SO RAPIDLY PROVES 

THA.T THEY ARE NOT INHUMANLY TREATED, BUT ARE IN A 

COMFORTABLE CONDITION.' 



To this wo reply in brief, 1st. It has been al- 
ready shown under a previous head, that, m con- 
siderable sections of the slave states, especially 
in the South West, the births axuon^ slaves are 
fewer than the deaths, which would exhibit a 
fearful decrease of tlic slave population in those 
sections, if the deficiency were not made up by 
the slave trade from the upper country. 

2d. The fact that all children born of slave 
mothers, whether their fathers are whites or free 
colored persons, arc included in the census with 
the slaves, and further that all children born" of 
white mothers, whose fathers are mulattos or 
blacks, are also included in the census with color- 
ed persons and almost invariably with slaves, 
shows that it is impossible to ascertain with any 
accuracy, w/wtisthc actual increase of the slaves 
alone. 

3d. The fact that thousands of slaves, gener- 
ally in the prime of life, are annually smuggled 
-into the United States from Africa, Cuba, and 
elsewhere, makes it manifest that all inferences 
drawn from the increase of the slave population, 
which do not make large deductions, for con- 
stant importations, must be fallacious. Mr. 
Middleton of South Carolina, in a speech in Con- 
gress in 1819, declared that ••' thirteen thou- 
sand AFRICANS ARE ANNUALLY SMUGGLED INTO 

THE SOUTHERN STATES." Mr. Mcrcer of Virgi- 
nia, in a speech in Congress about the same 
time declared that " Cargoes,'''' of African slaves 
were smuggled into the South to a deplorable 
extent. 

Mr. Wright, of Maryland, in a speech in Con- 
gress, estimated the number annually at fifteen 
THOUSAND. Miss Martiucau, in her recent work, 
(Society in America,) informs us that a large 
slaveholder in Louisiana, assured her in 1835, 
that the annual importation of native Africans 
was from thirteen to fifteen thousand. 

The President of the United States, in his mes- 
sage to Congress, December, 1837, says, 

" The large force under Commodore Dallas, [on 
the West India station,] has been most actively 
and efficiently employed in protecting our com- 
merce, in preventing THE importation OF SLAVES," 

&c. &c. 

Tlie New Orleans Courier of 15th February, 
1839, has these remarks : 

" It is believed that African negroes have been 
repeatedly introduced into the United States. 
The number and the proximity of the Florida 
ports to the island of Cuba, make it no difficult 
matter ; nor is our extended frontier on the Sa- 
bine and Red rivers, at all unfavorable to the 
smuggler. Human law^ have, in all countries 



and ages, been violated Vv^hencver the inducements 
to do so afforded hopes of great profit. 

" The United States' law against the importa- 
tion of Africans, could it be strictly enforced, 
might in a few years give the sug2,r and cotton 
planters of Texas advantage over those of this 
state ; as it would, we apprehend, enable the 
former, under a stable government, to furnish cot- 
ton and sugar at a lower price than wc can do. 
When giving publicity to such reflections as the 
subject seems to suggest, we protest against being 
considered advocates for any violation of the lav/s 
of our country. Every good citizen must respect 
those laws, notwithstanding we may deem them 
nicely to be evaded by men less scrupulous." 

That both the soutli and north swarm with 
men ' less scrupulous,' every one knows. 

The Norfolk (Va.) Beacon, of June 8, 1837, 
has the following : 

" Slave-Trade. — Eight African negroes have 
been taken into custody, at Apalachicola, by the 
U. S. Deputy Marshal, alleged to have been im- 
ported from Cuba, on board the schooner Empe- 
ror, Captain Cox. Indictments for piracy, under 
the acts for the suppression of the slave trade, 
have been found against Captain Cox, and other 
parties implicated. The negroes were bought in 
Cuba by a Frenchman named Malherbe, forjner- 
ly a resident of Tallahassee, who was drowned 
soon after the arrival of the schooner." 

The following testimony of Rev. Horack 
Moulton, now a minister of the Methodist Epis 
copal Church, in Marlborough, Mass. who re 
sided some years in Georgia, reveals some of the 
secrets of the slave-smugglers, and the connivance 
of the Georgia authorities at their doings. It is 
contained in a letter dated February 24, 1839. 

" The foreign slave-trade was carried on to 
some considerable extent when I was at the 
south, notwithstanding a law had been made 
some ten years previous to this, making this traffic 
piracy on the high seas. I Vv^as somewhat ac- 
quainted with the secrets of this traffic, and, I 
suppose, I might have engaged in it, had I so de- 
sired, W^cre you to visit all the plantations in 
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Missis- 
sippi, I think you would be convinced that the 
horrors of the traffic in human flesh have not yet 
ceased. I was surprised to find so many that 
could not speak English among the slaves, until 
the mystery was explained. This was done, 
when I learned that slave-cargoes were landed 
on the coast of Florida, not a thousand miles from 
St. Augustine. They could, and can still, in my 
opinion, be landed as safely on this coast as in 
any port of this continent. You can imagine for 
yourself how easy it was to carry on the traffic 
between this plaxe and the West Indies. When 
landed on the coast of Florida, it is an easy mat- 
ter to distribute them throughout the more south 
ern states. The law which makes it piracy to 
traffic in the foreign slave trade is a dead letter; 



140 



Objections Considered — Rapid Increase of Slaves. 



and I doubt not it has been so in tlie more south- 
ern states ever since it was enacted. For you 
can perceive at once, that interested men, who 
beheve the colored man is so much better ofFhere 
than he possibly can be in Africa, will not hesi- 
tate to kidnap the blacks whenever an opportu- 
nity presents itself. I will notice one fact that 
came under my own observation, which will con- 
vince you that the horrors of the foreign slave- 
trade have not yet ceased among our southern 
gentry. It is as follows. A slave ship, which I 
have reason to believe was employed by southern 
men, came near the port of Savannah with about 
FIVE HUNDRED SLAVES, from Guinca and Congo. 
It was said that the ship was driven there by con. 
trary winds ; and the crew, pretending to be 
short of provisions, run the ship into a by place, 
near the shore, between Tybee Light and Darien, 
to recruit their stores. Well, as Providence would 
have it, the revenue cutter, at tliat time taking a 
trip along the coast, fell in with this slave ship, 
took her as a prize, and brought her up into the 
port of Savannah. The cargo of human chattels 
was unloaded, and the captives were placed in 
an old barracks, in tiie fort of Savannah, under 
the protection of the city authorities, they pre- 
tending that they should return them all to their 
native country again, as soon as a convenient 
opportunity presented itself. The ship's crew of 
course were arrested, and confined in jail. Now 
for the sequel of this history. About one third 
part of the negroes died in a few weeks after they 
were landed, in seasoning, so called, or in be- 
coming acclimated — or, as I should think, a dis. 
temper broke out among them, and they died 
like the Israelites, when smitten with the plague. 
Those who did not die in seasoning, must be 
hired out a little while, to be sure, as the city au- 
thorities could not afford to keep them on expense 
doing nothing. As it happened, the man in 
whose employ I was when the cargo of human 
beings arrived, hired some twenty or thirty of 
them, and put them under my care. They con- i 
tinned with me until the sickly season drove me 
off to the north. I soon returned, but could not 
hear a word about the crew of pirates. They had | 
something like a mock trial, as I should think, | 
for no one, as I ever learned, was condemned, 
fined, or censured. But where were the poor 
captives, who were going to be returned to Afri- 
ca by the city authorities, as soon as they could 
make it convenient ? Oh, forsooth, those of 
whom I spoke, being under my care, were tug- 
ging away for the same man ; the remainder 
were scattered about among different planters. 
When I returned to the north again, the next 
year, the city authorities had not, down to that 
time, made it convenient to return these poor 
victims. The fact is, they belonged there ; and, 
in my opinion, they were designed to be landed 
near by the place where the revenue cutter seized 
them. Probably those very planters for whom 
they were originally designed received them ; and 
still there was a pretence kept up that they would 
be returned to Africa. This must have been 
done, that the consciences of those might be 
quieted, who were looking for justice to be ad- 
ministered to these poor captives. It is easy for 
a company of slaveholders, who desire to traffic 
in human flesh, to fit out a vessel, under Spanish 



colors, and then go prowling about the African 
coast for the victims of their lusts. If all the 
facts with relation to the African slave-trade, 
now secretly carried on at the south, could be 
disclosed, the people of the free states would be 
filled with amazement." 

It is plain, from the nature of this trade, and 
the circumstances under which it is carried on, 
that the number of slaves imported would be 
likely to be estimated far below the truth. There 
can be little doubt that the estimate of Mr. 
Wright, of Maryland, (fifteen thousand annu- 
ally,) is some thousands too small. But even 
according to his estimate, the African slave-trade 

adds ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND SLAVES TO 

EACH United States' census. These are in the 
prime of life, and their children would swell the 
slave population many thousands annually — thus 
making a great addition to each census. 

4. It is a notorious fact, that large nmnbers of 
free colored persons are kidnapped every year in 
the free states, taken to the south, and sold as 
slaves. 

Hon. George M. Stroud, Judge of the Crim 
inal Court of Philadelphia, in his sketch of the 
slave laws, speaking of the kidnapping of free 
colored persons in the northern states, says — 

" Remote as is the city of Philadelphia from 
those slaveholding states in which the introduc- 
tion of slaves from places within the territory of 
the United States is freely permitted, and wliere 
also the market is tempting, it has been ascertain, 
ed, that more than thirty free colored per- 
sons, MOSTLY children, HAVE BEEN KIDNAPPED 
HERE, AND CARRIED AWAY, WITHIN THE LAST TWO 

YEARS. Five of these, through the kind interpo- 
sition of several humane gentlemen, have been 
restored to their friends, though not without great 
expense and difficulty ; the others are still retain- 
ed in bondage, and if rescued at all, it must be by 
sending white witnesses a journey of more than a 
thousand miles. The costs attendant upon law- 
suits, under such circumstances, will probably 
fall but little short of the estimated value, as 
slaves, of the individuals kidnapped." 

The following is an extract from Mrs. Child's 
Appeal, pp. 64-6. 

" I know the names of four colored citizens of 
Massachusetts, who went to Georgia on board a 
vessel, were seized under the laws of that state, 
and sold as slaves. They have sent the most 
earnest exhortations to their families and friends, 
to do something for their relief; but the attendant 
expenses require more money than the friends of 
negroes are apt to have, and the poor fellows, as 
yet, remain unassisted. 

" A New York paper, of November, 1829, con 
tains the following caution. 

'■'■ Bevjare of Kidnappers! — It is well under- 
stood, that there is at present in this city, a gang 
of kidnappers, busily engaged in their vocation, 
of stealing colored children for the southern mar- 
ket. It is believed that three or four have been 



Objections Considered — Kidnapping. 



141 



stolen within as many days. There are suspi- 
cions of a foul nature connected with some who 
serve the police in subordinate capacities. It is 
hinted that there may be those in some authority, 
not altoj^ether ignorant of these diabolical prac- 
tices. Let the public be on their guard ! It is 
still fresh in the memories of all, that a cargo, or 
rather drove of negroes, was made up from this 
city and Philadelphia, about the time that the 
emancipation of all the negroes in this state took 
place, under our present constitution, and were 
taken through Virginia, the Carolinas, and Ten- 
nessee, and disposed of in the state of Mississippi, 
Some of those who were taken from Philadelphia 
were persons of intelligence ; and after they had 
been driven through the country in chains, and 
disposed of by sale on the Mississippi, v/rote back 
to their friends, and were rescued jfrom bondage. 
The persons who were guilty of this abominable 
transaction are known, and now reside in North 
Carolina. They may very probably be engaged 
in similar enter prizes at the present time — at 
least there is reason to believe, that the system of 
kidnapping free persons of color from the northern 
cities, has been carried on more extensively than 
the public are generally aware of." 

George Bradburn, Esq. of Nantucket, Mass. 
a member of the Legislature of that state, at its 
last session, made a report to that body, March 
6, 1839, ' On the deliverance of citizens liable to 
be sold as slaves.' That report contains the fol- 
lowing facts and testimony. 

" The following facts are a few out of a vast 
MULTITUDE, to which the attention of the under- 
signed has been directed. 

" On the 27th of February last, the undersigned 
had an interview with the Rev. Samuel Snowden, 
a respectable and intelligent clergyman of the 
city of Boston. This gentleman stated, and he 
is now ready to make oath, that during the last 
six years, he has himself, by the aid of various 
benevolent individuals, procured the deliverance 
from jail of six citizens of Massachusetts, who 
had been arrested and imprisoned as runaway 
slaves, and who, but for his timely interposition, 
would have been sold into perpetual bondage. 
The names and the places of imprisonment of 
those persons, as stated by Mr. S. were as follows : 

"James Hight, imprisoned at Mobile ; William 
Adams, at Norfolk ; Wilham Holmes, also at 
Norfolk ; James Oxford, at Wilmington ; James 
Smith, at Baton Rouge ; John Tidd, at New 
Orleans. 

" In 1836, Mary Smith, a native of this state, 
returning from New Orleans, whither she had 
been in the capacity of a servant, was cast upon 
the shores of North Carolina. She was there 
seized and sold as a slave. Information of the 
fact reached her friends at Boston. Those friends 
made an effort to obtain her liberation. They 
invoked the assistance of the Governor of this 
Commonwealth, A correspondence ensued be- 
tween His Excellency and the Governor of North 
Carolina : copies of which were offered for the 
inspection of your committee. Soon afterwards, 
by permission of the authorities of North Caroli- 
na, ' Mary Smith' returned to Boston. But it 
turned out, that this was not the Mary Smith, | 



whom our worthy Governor, and other excellent 
individuals of Boston, had taken so unwearied 
pains to redeem from slavery. It was another 
woman, of the same name, who was also a native 
of Massachusetts, and had been seized in North 
Carolina as a runaway slave. The Mary Smith 
has not yet been heard of. If alive, she is now, 
in all probability, wearing the chains of slavery. 
" About a year and a half since, several citizens 
of different free states were rescued from slavery, 
at New Orleans, by the direct personal efforts of 
an acquaintance of the undersigned. The be. 
nevolent individual alluded to is Jacob Barker, 
Esq. a name not unknown to the commercial 
world. Mr. Barker is a resident of New Or- 
leans. A statement of the cases in reference is 
contained in a letter addressed by him to the Hon. 
Samuel H. Jenks, of Nantucket." 

The letter of Mr. Barker, referred to in this 
report to the Legislature of Massachusetts, bears 
date August 19, 1837. The following are extracts 
from it. 

"A free man, belonging to Baltimore, by the 
name of Ephraim Larkin, who came here cook 
of the William Tell, was arrested and thrown into 
prison a few weeks since, and sent in chains to 
work on the road. I heard of it, and with diffi- 
culty found him ; and after the most diligent and 
active exertions, got him released — in effecting 
which, I traveled in the heat of the day, ther- 
mometer ranging in the shade from 94 to 100, 
more than twenty times to and from prison, the 
place of his labor, and the different courts, a dis- 
tance of near three miles from my residence ; and 
after I had established his freedom, had to pay 
for his arrest, maintenance, and the advertising 
him as a runaway slave, ^29 89, as per copy of 
bill herewith — the allowance for work not equal- 
ling the expenses, the amount augments with 
every day of confinement. 

" In pursuing the cook of the William Tell, I 
found three other free men, confined in the sama 
prison ; one belonged also to Baltimore, by the 
name of Leaven Dogerty : he was also released, 
on my paying <$28 expenses; onew^as a descend- 
ant of the Indians who once inhabited Nantucket 
— his name is Eral Lonnon. Lonnon had been six 
weeks in prison ; he was released without diffi- 
culty, on my paying ^20 38 expenses — and no 
one seemed to know why he had been confined 
or arrested, as the law does not presume persons 
of mixed blood to be slaves. But for the others, 
I had great difficulty in procuring what was con- 
sidered competent witnesses to prove them free. 
No complaint of improper conduct had been 
made against either of them. At one time, the 
Recorder said the witness must be white ; at an- 
other, that one respectable witness v/as insuffi- 
cient ; at another, that a person who had been 
(improperly) confined and released, was not a 
competent witness, &c. &c. Lonnon has been 
employed in the South Sea fishery from Nan- 
tucket and New Bedford, nearly all his life ; has 
sailed on those voyages in the ships Eagle, Mary, 
land, Gideon, Triton, and Samuel, He was 
born at Marshpee, Plymouth [Barnstable] coun- 
ty, Mass. and prefers to encounter the leviathan 
of the deep, rather than the turnkeys of New 
Orleans. 



142 



Objcclio'ns Considered — Kidnapping. 



" The other was born in St. Johns, Nova Sco- 
tia, and bears the name of Wilham Smith, a 
seaman by profession. 

" Immediately after these men were released, 
two others were arrested. Tiicy attempted to 
escape, and being pursued, ran for the river, in 
the vain hope of being able to swim across the 
Mississippi, a distance of a mile, with a current 
of four knots. One soon gave out, and made for 
a boat which had been despatched for their re- 
covery, and was saved ; the other being a better 
swimmer, continued on until much exhausted, 
then also made for the boat — it was too late ; he 
sank before the boat could reach him, and was 
drowned. They claimed to be freemen. 

"On Sunday last I was called to the prison of 
the Municipality in which I reside, to serve on 
an inquest on the body of a drowned man. There 
I saw one other free man confined, by the name 
of Henry Tier, a yellow man, born in New York, 
and formerly in my employ. He had been con- 
fined as a supposed runaway, near six months, 
without a particle of testimony ; although from his 
color, the laws of Louisiana presume him to be 
free. I applied immediately for his release, which 
was promptly granted. At first, expenses simi- 
lar to thopc exacted in the third Municipality 
were required ; but on my demonstrating to the 
recorder that the lavN^ imposed no such burthen 
on free men, he v/as released without any charge 
whatever. How free men can obtain satisfac- 
tion for having been thus wrongfully imprisoned, 
and made to work in chains on the highway, is 
not for me to decide. I apprehend no satisfac- 
tion can be had without more active friends, 
willing to espou;?e their cause, than can be found 
in this^ quarter. Therefore I repeat, that no per- 
son of color should come here without a certifi- 
cate of freedom from the governor of the state to 
which he belongs. 

" Very respectfully, your assured friend, 

''Jacob BAiiKErw" 

u N. B. — Since writing the preceding, 1 have 
procured the release of another free man from 
the prison of the third Municipality, on the pa}-- 
ment of ,f 39 65, as per bill, copy herewith. His 
name is William Lockman — he was born in New 
Jersey, of free parents, and resides at Philadel- 
phia. A greater sum was required which was re. 
duced by the allowance of his maintenance (writ- 
ten labor,) while at work on tlie road, which the 
law requires the Municipality to pay ; but it had 
not before been so expounded in the third Muni- 
cipality. I hope to get it back in the case of the 
other three. The allowance for labor, in addition 
to their maintenance, is twenty-five cents per 
day ; but they require those ilhterate men to ad- 
vance the whole before they can leave the prison, 
and then to take a certificate for their labor, and 
go for it to another department — to collect which, 
is ten times more trouble than the money when 
received is worth. While these free men, with- 
out having committed any fault, were compelled 
to work in chains, on the roads, in the burning 
sun, for 2.5 cents per day, and pay in advance 
18 3-4 cents per day for maintenance, doctor's, 
and other bills, and not able to work half their 
time, I paid others, working on ship-board, in 
eight, two dollars per day. J- ^ •" 



The preceding letter of Mr. Barker, furnishes 
grounds for the belief, that hundreds, if not thou- 
sands of free colored persons, from the different 
states of this Union, both slave and free from the 
West Indies, South America, Mexico, and the 
British possessions in North America, and from 
other parts of the world, are reduced to slavery 
every year in our slave states. If a single indi- 
vidual, in the course of a few days, accidentally 
discovered six colored free men, working in irons, 
and soon to be sold as slaves, in a single southern 
city, is it not fair to infer, that in all the slave 
states, there must be multitudes of such persons, 
now in slavery, and that this number is rapidly 
increasing, by ceaseless accessions ? 

The letter of'Mr. Backer is valuable, also, as a 
graphic delineation of the ' public opinion' of the 
south. The great difficulty with which the re- 
lease of these free men was procured, notwith- 
standing the personal efforts of Mr. Jacob 
Barker, who is a gentleman, of influence, and 
has, we believe, been an alderman of New Or- 
leans, reveals a 'public opinion,' insensible as 
adamant to the liberty of colored men. 

It would be easy to fill scores of pages with de. 
tails similar to the preceding. We have furnish- 
ed enough, however, to show, that, in all proba- 
bility, each United States' census of the slave 
population, is increased by the addition to it of 
thousands of free colored persons, kidnapped and 
sold as slaves. 

5th. To argue that the rapid multiplication of 
any class in the community, is proof that sacli 
a class is well-clothed, well-housed, abundantly 
fed, and very co?nfort.ahle, is as absurd as to argue 
that those who have few children, must, of 
course, be iil-ciothed, ill-housed, badly lodged, 
overworked, ill-fed, &c. &c. True, privations 
and inflictions may be carried to such an extent 
as to occasion a fearful diminishment of popula 
tion. That was the case generally with the 
slave population in the West Indies, and, as has 
been shown, is true of certain portions of the 
southern states. But the fact that such an eflect 
is 7iot produced, does not prove that the slaves do 
not experience great privations and severe inflic- 
tions. They may suffer much hardship, and 
great cruelties, without experiencing so great a 
derangement of the vital functions as to prevent 
child-bearing. The Israelites multiplied witii 
astonishing rapidity, under the task-masters and 
burdens of Egypt. Does this falsify the declara- 
tions of Scripture, that ' they sighed by reason of 
their bondage,' and that the Egyptians 'made 
them serve with rigor,'' and made ' their lives 
bitter with hard bondage.^ ' I have seen,' said 
God, ' tlieir afflictions. I have heard their groan 
ings,' &c. The history of the human race shows, 
that great privations and much suffering may be 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



143 



experienced, without materially checking the 
rapid increase of population. 

Besides, if wc should give to the objection all 
it claims, it would merely prove, that the female 
slaves, or rather a portion of them, are in a com- 
fortable condition ; and that, so far as the abso- 
lute necessities of life are concerned, the females 
of child-hearing age, in Delaware, Maryland, 
northern, western, and middle Virginia, the upper 



I parts of Kentucky and Missouri, and among the 

I mountains of east Tennessee and western North 

I Carolina, are in general tolerably well supplied. 

I The same remark, with some qualifications, may 

be made of the slaves generally, in those parts of 

the country where the people are slaveholders, 

mainly, that they may enjoy the privilege and 

; profit of being slave-breeders. 



Objection VIII.— ' PUBLIC OPINION IS A PROTECTION TO THE SLAVE.' 



Answer. It was public opinion that made man 
a slave. In a republican government the people 
make the laws, and those law^s are merely public 
opinion in legal forms. We repeat it, — public 
opinion made thcni slaves, and keeps them slaves ; 
in other words, it sunk them from men to chattels, 
and now, forsooth, this same public opinion will 
see to it, that these chattels are treated like men I 

By looking a little into this matter, and finding 
out how this ' public opinion' (law) protects the 
slaves in some particulars, we can judge of the 
amount of its protection in others. 1. It protects 
the slaves from robbery, by declaring that those 
who robbed their mothers may rob them and their 
children. " All negroes, mulatocs, or mestizoes 
who now are, or shall hereafter be in this province, 
and all their offspring, are hereby declared to be, 
and shall remain, forever, hereafter, absolute 
slaves, and shall follow the condition of the mo- 
?her." — Law of South Carolina, 2 Brevard's Di- 
gest, 229. Others of the slave states have similar 
laws. 

2. It protects i\\Q\r persons^ by giving their master 
a right to flog, wound, and beat them when he 
pleases. See Devereaux's North Carolina Re- 
ports, 263. — Case of the State vs. Mann, 1829 ; in 
which the Supreme Court decided, that a master 
who shot at a female slave and w^ounded her, be- 
cause she got loose from him when he v/as flog- 
ging her, and started to run from him, had violated 
■no law, AND COULD NOT BE INDICTED. It has been 
decided by the highest courts of the slave states 
generally, that assault and battery upon a slave is 
not indictable as a criminal offence. 

The following decision on this point was made 
by the Supreme Court of South Carolina in the 
case of the State vs. Cheetwood, 2 Hill's Re. 
ports, 459. 

Protection of slaves. — " The criminal offence of 
assault and battery cannot, at common law, he 
committed on the person of a slave. For, notwith- 
standing for some purposes a slave is regarded in 
law as a person, yet generally he is a mere chattel 
personal, and his right of personal protection be- 
longs to his master, who can maintain an action 
of trespass for the battery of his slave. 

'' There can be therefore no offence against the 



state for a mere beating of a slave, unaccompa- 
nied by any circumstances of cruelty, or an at, 
tempt to kill and murder. The peace of the 
state is not tliereby broken ; for a slave is not 
generally regarded as legally capable of being 
wilhin the peace of the state. He is not a 
citizen, and is not in that character entitled to 
her protection." 

This 'public opinion' protects the persons of 
the slaves by depriving them of Jury trial ;* their 
consciences, by forbidding them to assemble for 
worship, unless their oppressors are present ;t 
their characters, by branding them as liars, in de- 
nying them their oath in law ;t their modesty, by 
leaving their master to clothe, or let them go na- 
ked, as he pleases ;§ and their health, by leaving 
him to feed or starve them, to work them, wet or 
dry, with or v/ithout sleep, to lodge them, wath 
or without covering, as the whim takes him;|| 
and their liberty, marriage relations, parental au- 
thority, and filial obligations, by annihilating the 
whole. ^ This is the protection which ' public 
OPINION,' in the form of law, affords to the slaves ; 
this is the chivalrous knight, always in stirrups, 
with lance in rest, to champion the cause of the 
slaves. 

Public opinion, protection to the slave ! Brazen 
effrontery, hypocrisy, and falsehood ! We have, 
in tlie laws cited and referred to above, the for 
mal testimony of the Legislatures of the slave 
states, that, ' public opinion' does pertinaciously 
refuse to protect the slaves ; not only so, but that 
it does itself persecute and plunder them all : that 
it originally planned, and now presides over, sane 
tions, executes and perpetuates the whole system 
of robbery, torture, and outrage under which they 
groan. 

In all the slave states, this ' public opinion' has 

* Law of Soutli Carolina. James' Digest, 392-3. Law 
of Louisiana. Martin's Digest, 642. Law of Virginia. Rev, 
Code, 429. 

t Miss. Rev. Code, 390. Similar laws exist in the slave 
states generally. 

$ " A slave cannot be a witness against a white person, 
either in a civil or criminal cause." Stroud's Sketch of 
the Laws of Slavery, 65. 

§ Stroud's Sketch of the Slave Laws, 132. 

II Stroud's Sketch, 26—32. 

tr Stroud's Sketch. 22—34. 



144 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



taken away from the slave his liberty; it has 
robbed him of his right to his own body, of his 
right to improve his mind, of his right to read the 
Bible, of his right to worship God according to 
his conscience, of his right to receive and enjoy 
what he earns, of his right to live with his wife 
and children, of his right to better his condition, 
of his right to eat when he is hungry, to rest 
when he is tired, to sleep when he needs it, and 
to cover his nakedness with clothing : this ' pub- 
lic opinion' makes the slave a prisoner for life on 
the plantation, except when his jailor pleases to 
let him out with a 'pass,' or sells him, arid trans- 
fers him in irons to another jail-yard : this 'pub- 
lic opinion' traverses the country, buying up men, 
women, children — chaining them in coffles, and 
driving them forever from their nearest friends ; 
it sets them on the auction table, to be handled, 
scrutinized, knocked off to the highest bidder ; it 
proclaims that they shall not have their liberty ; 
and. if their masters give it them, ' public opinion' 
seizes and throws them back into slavery. This 
same ' public opinion' has formally attached the 
following legal penalties to the following acts of 
slaves. 

If more than seven slaves are found together 
in any road, without a white person, twenty lashes 
a piece ; for visiting a plantation without a writ- 
ten pass, ten lashes ; for letting loose a boat from 
where it is made fast, thirty-nine lashes for the 
first offence; and for the second, ^ shall have cut 
off from his head one ear ;' for keeping or carry- 
ing a club, thirty. nine lashes ; for having any ar- 
ticle for sale, without a ticket from his master, 
ten lashes ; for traveling in any other than ' the 
most usual and accustomed road,' when going 
alone to any place, forty lashes; for traveling in 
the night, without a psiss, forty lashes; for being 
found in another person's negro-quarters, forty 
lashes; for hunting with dogs in the woods, 
thirty lashes; for being on horseback without the 
written permission of his master, twenty-five lash- 
es ; for riding or going abroad in the night, or 
riding horses in the day time, without leave, a 
slave may be whipped, cropped, or branded in the 
cheek with the letter R, or otherwise punished, 
not extending to life, or so as to render him 
unfit for labor. The laws referred to may be 
found by consulting 2 Brevard's Digest, 228, 243, 
246 ; Haywood's Manual, 78, chap. 13, pp. 518, 
629 ; 1 Virginia Revised Code, 722-3 ; Prince's 
Digest, 454; 2 Missouri Laws, 741; Mississippi 
Revised Code, 371. Laws similar to these exist 
throughout the southern slave code. Extracts 
enough to fill a volume might be made from these 
laws, showing that the protection which ' public 
opinion' grants to the slaves, is hunger, naked- 
ness, terror, bereavements, robbery, imprison- 
ment, the stocks, iron collars, hunting and wor- 



rying them with dogs and guns, mutilating their 
bodies, and murdering them. 

A few specimens of the laws and the judi- 
cial decisions on them, will show what is-^he 
state of 'public opinion' among slaveholders to- 
wards their slaves. Let the following suffice. — 
' Any person may lawfully kill a slave, who has 
been outlawed for running away and lurking in 
swamps, &c.' — Law of North Carolina ; Judge 
Stroud's Sketch of the Slave Laws, 103 ; Hay. 
wood's Manual, 524. ' A slave endeavoring to 
entice another slave to runaway, if provisions, 
&c. be prepared for the purpose of aiding in such 
running away, shall be punished with death. 
And a slave who shall aid the slave so endeavoring 
to entice another slave to run away, shall also suffer 
DEATH.' — Law of South Carolina ; Stroud's Sketch 
of Slave Laws, 103-4 ; 2 Brevard's Digest, 233, 
244. Another law of South Carolina provides 
that if a slave shall, when absent from the plan- 
tation, refuse to be examined by ' any white per- 
son,' (no matter how crazy or drunk,) 'such white 
person may seize and chastise him ; and if the 
slave shall strike such white person, such slave 
may bo lawfully killed.' — 2 Brevard's Digest, 23L 

The following is a law of Georgia. ' If any 
slave shall presume to strike any white person, such 
slave shall, upon trial and conviction before the 
justice or justices, suffer such punishment for the 
first offence as they shall think fit, not extending 
to life or limb ; and for the second offence, 
DEATH.' — Prince's Digest, 450. The same' law 
exists in South Carolina, w'lih. this difference, that 
death is made the punishment for the third 
offence. In both states, the law contains this 
remarkable proviso : * Provided always, that such 
strikings be not done by the command and in the 
defence of the person or property of the owner, 
or other person having the government of such 
slave, in which case the slave shall be wholly ex- 
cused.' According to this law, if a slave, by the 
direction of his overseer, strike a white man who 
is beating said overseer's dog, ' the slave shall 
be wholly excused ;' but if the white man has 
rushed upon the slave himself, instead of the dog, 
and is furiously beating him, if the slave strike 
back but a single blow, the legal penalty is ♦ any 
punishment not extending to life or limb ;' and if 
the tortured slave has a second onset made upon 
him, and, after suffering all but death, again 
strike back in self-defence, the law kills him for 
it. So, if a female slave, in obedience to her 
mistress, and in defence of ' her property,' strike 
a white man who is kicking her mistress' pet 
kitten, she ' shall be wholly excused,' saith the 
considerate law ; but if the unprotected girl, 
when beaten and kicked herself, raise her hand 
against her brutal assailant, the law condemns 
her to ' any punishment, not extending to life or 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



145 



Ihnb ;' and if a wretch aesail her again, and at- 
tempt to violate her cliastity, and the trembhng 
girl, in her anguish and terror, instinctively raise 
her hand against him in self-defence, she shall, 
saith the law, ' suffer death.' 

Reader, this diabolical law is the ' public opin- 
ion' of Georgia and South Carolina toward the 
slr-ves. This is the vaunted ' protection' afforded 
them by their ' high-souled chivalry.' To show 
that the ' public opinion' of the slave states far 
more effectually protects the property of the mas- 
ter than the person of the slave, the reader is re- 
ferred to two laws of Louisiana, passed in 1819. 
The one attaches a penalty ' not exceeding one 
thousand dollars,' and ' imprisonment not exceed, 
ing two years,' to the crime of ' cutting or break- 
ing any iron chain or collar,' which any master 
of slaves has used to prevent their running away ; 
the other, a penalty ' not exceeding five hundred 
dollars,' to ' wilfully cutting out the tongue, put- 
ting out the eye, crvelly burning, or depriving 
any slave of any limb! Look at it — the most 
horrible dismemberment conceivable cannot be 
punished by a fine of more than five hundred 
dollars. The law expressly fixes that, as the 
utmost limit, and it may not be half that sum ; 
not a single moment's imprisonment stays the 
wretch in his career, and the next hour he may 
cut out another slave's tongue, or burn his hand 
off. But let the same man break a chain put 
apon a slave, to keep him from running away, 
and, besides paying double the penalty that could 
be exacted from him for cutting off a slave's leg, 
the law imprisons him not exceeding two years I 

This law reveals the heart of slaveholders to- 
wards their slaves, their diabolical indifference to 
the most excruciating and protracted torments 
inflicted on them by ' any person ;' it reveals, too, 
the relative protection afforded by ' public opin- 
ion' to the person of the slave, in appalling con- 
trast with the vastly surer protection which it 
affords to the master's property in the slave. The 
wretch who cuts out the tongue, tears out the 
eyes, shoots off the arms, or burns off the feet of 
a slave, over a slow fire, cannot legally be fined 
more than five hundred dollars ; but if he should 
in pity loose a chain from his galled neck, placed 
there by the master to keep him from escaping, 
and thus put his property in some jeopardy, he 
may be fined one thousand dollars, and thrust into 
a dungeon for two years ! and this, be it remem- 
bered, not for stealing the slave from the master, 
nor for enticing, or even advising him to run 
away, or giving him any information how he can 
effect his escape ; but merely, because, touched 
with sympathy for the bleeding victim, as he 
sees the rough iron chafe the torn flesh at every 
turn, he removes it ; — and, as escape without this 
incumbrance would be easier than with it, the 

19 



master's property in the slave is put at some 
risk. For having caused this slight risk, the law 
provides a punishment — fine not exceeding one 
thousand dollars, and imprisonment not exceed- 
ing two years. We say ' slight risk,' because the 
slave may not be disposed to encounter the dan- 
gers, and hunger, and other sufferings of the 
woods, and the certainty of terrible inflictions if 
caught; and if he should attempt it, the risk of 
losing him is small. An advertisement of five 
lines will set the whole community howling on 
his track ; and the trembling and famished fugi- 
tive is soon scented out in his retreat, and drag- 
ged back and delivered over to his tormentors. 

The preceding law is another illustration of 
the ' protection' afforded to the limbs and mem- 
bers of slaves, by ' public opinion' among slave- 
holders. 

Here follow two other illustrations of the bru- 
tal indifference of ' public opinion' to the torments 
of the slave, while it is full of zeal to compensate 
the master, if any one disables his slave so as to 
lessen his market value. The first is a law of 
South Carolina. It provides, that if a slave, en- 
gaged in his owner's service, be attacked by a 
person 'not having sufficient cause for so doing,' 
and if the slave shall be ' maimed or disabled' by 
him, so that the owner suffers a loss from his in- 
ability to labor, the person maiming him shall 
pay for his ' lost time,' and ' also the charges for 
the cure of the slave !' This Vandal law does 
not deign to take the least notice of the anguish 
of the ^ maimed' slave, made, perhaps, a groaning 
cripple for life ; the horrible wrong and injury 
done to him, is passed over in utter silence. It 
is thus declared to be not a criminal act. But the 
pecuniary interests of the master are not to be 
thus neglected by ' public opinion.' Oh no ! its 
tender bowels run over with sympathy at the 
master's injury in the ' lost time' of his slave, and 
it carefully provides that he shall have pay for 
the whole of it. — See 2 Brevard's Digest, 231, 2. 

A law similar to the above has been passed in 
Louisiana, which contains an additional provision 
for the benefit of the master — ordaining, that ' if 
the slave' (thus maimed and disabled,) ' be forever 
rendered unable to work,' the person maiming, 
shall pay the master the appraised value of the 
slave before the injury, and shall, in addition, 
take the slave, and maintain him during hfe,' 
Thus ' public opinion' transfers the helpless crip- 
ple from the hand of his master, who, as he has 
always had the benefit of his services, might pos- 
sibly feel some tenderness for him, and puts him 
in the sole powder of the wretch who has disabled 
him for life — ^protecting the victim from the fury 
of his tormentor, by putting him into his hands ! 
What but butchery by piecemeal can, under such 
circumstances, be expected from a man brutal 



146 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



enough at first to ' maim ' and ' disable ' him, 
and now exasperated by being obliged to pay his 
full value to the master, and to have, in addition, 
the daily care and expense of his maintenance. 
Since writing the above, we have seen the fol- 
lowing judicial decision, in the case ofJourdan, 
vs. Patton — 5 Martin's Louisiana Reports, 615. 
A slave of the plaintiff had been deprived of his 
only eye, and thus tendered useless, on which ac- 
count the court adjudged that the defendant 
should pay the plaintiff his full value. The case 
went up, by appeal, to the Supreme court. Judge 
Mathews, in his decision said, that ' when the 
defendant had paid the sum decreed, the slave 
ought to be placed in his possession,' — adding, 
that ' the judgment making full compensation to 
the owner operates a change of property.'' He 
adds, ' The principle of humanity which would 
lead us to suppose, that the mistress whom he 
had long served, would treat her miserable blind 
slave with more kindness than the defendant to 
whom the judgment ought to transfer him, can- 
not BE TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION !' The full 

compensation of the mistress for the loss of the 
services of the slave, is worthy of all ' considera- 
tion,' even to the uttermost farthing; 'public 
opinion ' is omnipotent for her protection ; but 
when the food, clothing, shelter, fire and lodging, 
medicine and nursery, comfort and entire condi- 
tion and treatment of her poor blind slave, 
throughout his dreary pilgrimage, is the question 
— ah ! that, says the mouth-piece of the law, and 
the representative of ' public opinion,' ' cannot 
BE taken into consideration,' Protection of 
slaves by ' public opinion ' among slaveholders ! ! 
The foregoing illustrations of southern ' pubhc 
opinion,' from the laws made by it and embody- 
ing it, are sufficient to show, that, so far from 
being an efficient protection to the slaves, it is 
their deadliest foe, persecutor and tormentor. 

But here we shall probably be met by the legal 
lore of some 'Justice Shallow,' instructing us that 
the life of the slave is fully protected by law, 
however unprotected he may be in other respects. 
This assertion we meet with a point blank denial. 
The law does not, in reality, protect the life of 
the slave. But even if the letter of the law 
would fully protect the life of the slave, ♦ pubhc 
opinion ' in the slave states would make it a dead 
letter. The letter of the law would have been 
all-sufficient for the protection of the lives of the 
miserable gamblers in Vicksburg, and other places 
in Mississippi, from the rage of those whose mo- 
ney they had won ; but ' gentlemen of property 
and standing ' laughed the law to scorn, rushed 
to the gamblers' house, put ropes round their 
necks, dragged them through the streets, hanged 
them in the public square, and thus saved the 
sum they had not yet paid. Thousands witness. 



ed this wholesale murder, yet of the scores of 
legal officers present not a soul raised a finger to 
prevent it, the whole city consented to it, and 
thus aided and abetted it. How many hundreds 
of them helped to commit the murders, ivitk their 
own hands, does not appear, but not one of them 
has been indicted for it, and no one made the 
least effort to bring them to trial. Thus, up to 
the present hour, the blood of those murdered 
men rests on that whole city, and it will continue 
to be a CITY of murderers, so long as its citizens 
agree together to shield those felons from punish, 
ment ; and they do thus agree together so long as 
they encourage each other in refusing to bring 
them to justice. Now, the laws of Mississippi 
were not in fault that those men Avcre murdered ; 
nor are they now in fault, that their murderers are 
not punished ; the laws demand it, but the people 
of Mississippi, the legal officers, the grand juries 
and legislature of the state, with one consent agree, 
that the law shall he a dead letter, and thus the 
whole state assumes the guilt of those murders, 
and in bravado, flourishes her reeking hands in 
the face of the world.* 

The letter of the law on the statute book is one 
thing, the practice of the community under that 
law often a totally different thing. Each of the 
slave states has laws providing that the life of no 
white man shall be taken without his having first 
been indicted by a grand jury, allowed an impar- 
tial trial by a petit jury, with the right of counsel, 
cross-examination of witnesses, &c. ; but who 
does not know that if Arthur Tappan were 
pointed out in the streets of New Orleans, Mo- 
bile, Savannah, Charleston, Natchez, or St. Louis, 
he would be torn in pieces by the citizens witli 
one accord, and that if any one should attempt to 
bring his murderers to punishment, he would be 
torn in pieces also. The editors of southern 
newspapers openly vaunt, that every abolitionist 
who sets foot in their soil, shall, if he be disco- 
vered, be hung at once, without judge or jury. 
What mockery to quote the letter of the law in 
those states, to show that abolitionists would 
have secured to them the legal protection of an 
impartial trial I 

Before the objector can make out his case, that 
the life of the slave is protected by the law, he 
must not only show that the icords of the law 

* We have just learned from Mississippi papers, that the 
citizens of Vicksburg are erecting a jjublic monument in ho- 
nor of Dr. H. S. Bodley, who was tlie ring-leader of the 
Lynchers, in their attack upon their miserable victims. 
To give to crime the cold encouragement of impunity 
alone, or such sliglit tokens of favor as a home and a sane 
tuary, is beneath the chivalry and hospitality of Mississip 
plans ; so they tender it incense, an altar, and a crown of 
glory. Let the marble rise till it be seen from afar, a bea 
con marking the spot where law lies lifeless by the hand of 
felons ; and murderers, with chaplets on their heads, dance 
and shout upon its grave, while ' all the people say, amen.* 



Gbjections Considered — Public Opinion. 



U7 



grant him such protection, but that such a state 
of pubHc sentiment exists as will carry out the 
provisions of the law in their true spirit. Any 
thing short of this will ba set down as mere prat- 
ing by every man of common sense. It has been 
already abundantly shown in the preceding pages, 
that the public sentiment of the slaveholding 
states toward the slaves is diabolical. Now, if 
there were laws in those states, the words of 
which granted to the life of the slave the same 
protection granted to that of the master, what 
would they avail ? Acts constitute protection ; 
and is that public sentiment which makes the 
slave ' property,' and perpetrates hourly robbery 
and batteries upon him, so penetrated with a 
sense of the sacredness of his right to life, that it 
will protect it at all hazards, and drag to the gal- 
lows his OWNER, if he take the life of his own 
property ? If it be asked, why the penalty for 
killing a slave is not a mero fine then, if his life is 
not really regarded as sacred by public sentiment 
— we answer, that formerly in most, if not in all 
the slave slates, the murder of a slave was pun- 
ished by a mere fine. This was the case in South 
Carolina till a few years since. Yes, as late as 
1821, in the state of South Carolina, which boasts 
of its chivalry and honor, at least as loudly as any 
state in the Union, a slaveholder might butcher 
his slave in the most deliberate manner — with the 
raost barbarous and protracted torments, and yet 
not be subjected to a single hour's imprisonment — 
pay his fine, stride out of the court and kill another 
— pay his fine again and butcher another, and so 
long as he paid to the state, cash down, its own 
assessment of damages, without putting it to the 
trouble of prosecuting for it, he might strut ' a 
gentleman.' — See 2 Brevard's Digest, 241. 

The reason assigned by the legislature for en- 
acting a law which punished the wilful murder 
of a human being by a. fine, was that * cruelty is 
HIGHLY UNBECOMLXG,' and ' ODIOUS.' It was doubt- 
less the same reason that induced the legislature 
in 1821, to make a show of giving more protec- 
tion to the life of the slave. Their fathers, when 
they gave some protection, did it because the time 
had come when, not to do it would make them 
• ODIOUS.' So the legislature of 1821 made a 
show of giving still greater protection, because, 
not to do it would make them ' odious.^ Fitly 
did they wear the mantles of their ascending 
fathers ! In giving to the life of a slave the mis- 
erable protection of a fine, their fathers did not 
even pretend to do it out of any regard to the sa- 
credness of his life as a human being, but merely 
because cruelty is ' unbecoming ' and ' odious.' 
The legislature of 1821 nomino.lly increased this 
protection ; not that they cared more for the 
slave's rights, or for the inviolabity of his life as a 
human being, but the civilized world had ad- 



vanced since the date of the first law. The 
slave-trade which was then honorable merchan. 
dise, and phed by lords, governors, judges, and 
doctors of divinity, raising them to immense 
wealth, had grown ' unbecoming,' and only raised 
its votaries by a rope to the yard arm ; besides 
this, the barbarity of the slave codes throughout 
the world was fa^t becoming ' odious ' to civilized 
nations, and slaveholders found that the only con- 
ditions on which they could prevent themselves 
from being thrust out of the pale of civilization, 
was to meliorate the iron rigor of their slave code, 
and thus seein to secure to their slaves some pro- 
tection. Further, the northern states had passed 
laws for the abolition of slavery — all the South 
American states were acting in the matter ; and 
Colombia and Chili passed acts of abolition that 
very year. In addition to all this the Missouri 
question had been for two years previous under 
discussion in Congress, in State legislatures, and 
in every village and stage coach ; and this law of 
South Carolina had been held up to execration by 
northern members of Congress, and in newspa- 
pers throughout the free states — in a word, the 
legislature of South Carolina found that they 
were becoming ' odious ;' and while in their sense 
of justice and humanity they did not surpass their 
fathers, they winced with equal sensitiveness 
under the sting of the world's scorn, and with 
equal promptitude sued for a truce by modifying 
the law. 

The legislature of South Carolina modified an- 
other law at the same session. Previously, the 
killing of a slave ' on a sudden heat or passion, or 
by undue correction,' was punished by a fine of 
three hundred and fifty pounds. In 1821 an act 
v/as passed diminishing the fine to five hundred 
dollars, but authorizing an imprisonment ' not ex- 
ceeding six months.' Just before the American 
Revolution, the Legislature of North Carolina 
passed a law making imprisonment the penalty 
for the wilful and malicious murder of a slave. 
About twenty years after the revolution, the state 
found itself becoming ' odious,' as the spirit of 
abolition was pervading the nations. The legisla- 
ture, perceiving that Christendom would before 
long rank them with barbarians if they so cheap- 
ened human life, repealed the law, candidly as- 
signing in the preamble of the new one the rea- 
son for repealing the old — that it was ' disgrace- 
ful' and 'DEGRADING.' As this preamble ex- 
pressly recognizes the slave as ' a human crea- 
ture,' and as it is couched in a phraseology which 
indicates some sense of justice, we would gladly 
give the legislature credit for sincerity, and be- 
lieve them really touched with humane movings 
towards the slave, were it not for a proviso in the 
law clearly revealing that the show of humanity 
and regard for their rights, indicated by the 



148 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



words, is nothing more than a hollow pretence — 
a hypocritical flourish to produce an impression 
favorable to their justice and magnanimity. Af- 
ter declaring that he who is ' guilty of wilfully 
and maliciously killing a slave, shall suffer the 
same punishment as if he had killed a freeman ;' 
the act concludes thus : ' Provided, always, this 
act shall not extend to the person killing a slave 
outlawed by virtue of any act of Assembly of 
this state ; or to any slave in the act of resistance 
to his lawful overseer, or master, or to any slave 
dying under their moderate correction? Reader, 
look at this proviso. 1. It gives free license to all 
persons to kill outlawed slaves. Well, what is 
an outlawed slave ? A slave who runs away, 
lurks in swamps, &c., and kills a hog or any 
other domestic animal to keep himself from starv- 
ing, is subject to a proclamation of outlawry ; 
(Haywood's Manual, 521,) and then whoever 
finds him may shoot him, tear him in pieces with 
dogs, burn him to death over a slow fire, or kill 
him by any other tortures. 2. The proviso grants 
full license to a master to kill his slave, if the 
slave resist him. The North Carolina Bench has 
decided that this law contemplates not only ac- 
tual resistance to punishment, &c., but also offer- 
ing to resist. (Stroud's Sketch, 37.) If, for ex. 
ample, a slave undergoing the process of branding 
should resist by pushing aside the burning stamp ; 
or if wrought up to frenzy by the torture of the 
lash, he should catch and hold it fast ; or if he 
break loose from his master and run, refusing to 
stop at his command ; or if he refuse to be flog, 
ged ; or struggle to keep his clothes on while his 
master is trying to strip him ; if, in all these, or 
any one of the hundred other ways he resist, or 
offer, or threaten to resist the infliction ; or, if the 
master attempt the violation of the slave's wife, 
and the husband resist his attempts without the 
least effort to injure him, but merely to shield his 
wife from his assaults, this law does not merely 
permit, but it authorizes the master to murder the 
slave on the spot. 

The brutality of these two provisos brands its 
authors as barbarians. But the third cause of ex. 
cmption could not be outdone by the legislation 
of fiends. ♦ Dying under moderate correction ." 
Moderate correction and death — cause and effect! 
• Provided always,' says the law, ' this act shall 
not extend to any slave dying under moderate 
correction ." Here is a formal proclamation of 
impunity to murder — an express pledge of acquit, 
tal to all slaveholders who wish to murder their 
slaves, a legal absolution — an indulgence granted 
before the commission of the crime ! Look at 
the phraseology. Nothing is said of maimings, 
dismemberments, skull fractures, of severe bruis- 
ings, or lacerations, or even of floggings ; but a 
word is used, the common-parlance import of 



which is, slight chastisement ; it is not even whip^ 
ping, but ' correction: And as if hypocrisy and 
malignity were on the rack to outwit each other, 
even that weak word must be still farther diluted ; 
&o ' moderate'' is added: and, to crown the cli. 
max. compounded of absurdity, hypocrisy, and 
CO Id-blooded murder, the legal definition of ' mo- 
derate correction' is covertly given ; which is, 
any punishment that kills the victim. All in- 
flictions are cither moderate or immoderate ; and 
the design of this law was manifestly to shield 
the murderer from conviction, hy carrying on its 
face the rule for its own interpretation ; thus ad- 
vertising, beforehand, courts and juries, that the 
fact of any infliction producing death, was no cvi- 
dence that it was immoderate, and that beating a 
man to death came within the legal meaning of 
' moderate correction !' The design of the-legis- 
lature of North Carolina in framing this law is 
manifest ; it was to produce the impression upon 
the world, that they had so high a sense of justice 
as voluntarily to grant adequate protection to the 
lives of their slaves. This is ostentatiously set 
forth in the preamble, and in the body of the law. 
That this was the most despicable hypocrisy, and 
that they had predetermined to grant no such pro- 
tection, notwithstanding the pains taken to get the 
credit of it, is fully revealed by the proviso, which 
was framed in such a way as to nullify the law, 
for the express accommodation of slaveholding 
gentlemen murdering their slaves. All such find 
in this proviso a convenient accomplice before the 
fact, and a packed jury, with a ready-made ver- 
diet of ' not guilty,' both gratuitously furnished 
by the government ! The preceding law and pro. 
viso are to be found in Haywood's Manual, 530 ; 
also in Laws of Tennessee, Act of October 23, 
1791 ; and in Stroud's Sketch, 37. 

Enough has been said already to show, that 
though the laws of the slave states profess to grant 
adequate protection to the life of the slave, such 
professions are mere empty pretence, no such pro- 
tection being in reality afforded by them. But 
there is still another fact, showing that all lav/s 
which profess to protect the slaves from injury by 
the whites are a mockery. It is this — that the 
testimony, neither of a slave nor of a free colored 
person, is legal testimony against a white. To 
this rule there is no exception in any of the slave 
states : and this, were there no other evidence, 
would be sufficient to stamp, as hypocritical, all 
the provisions of the codes which profess to pro- 
tect the slaves. Professing to grant protection^ 
while, at the same time, it strips them of the only 
means by which they can make that protection 
available ! Injuries must be \Qg?i\]j proved before 
they can be legally redressed : to deprive men of 
the power of proving their injuries, is itself the 
greatest of all injuries ; for it not only exposes to 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



149 



all, but invites them, by a virtual guarantee of 
impunity, and is thus the author of all injuries. 
It matters not what other laws exist, professing 
to throw safeguards round the slave — this makes 
them blank paper. How can a slave prove out- 
rages perpetrated upon him by his master or over- 
seer, when his own testimony and that of all his 
fellow-slaves, his kindred, associates, and ac- 
quaintances, are ruled out of court ? and when he 
i? entirely in the power of those who injure him, 
ana ivhen the only care necessary, on their part, 
is, to see that no white witness is looking on. Or- 
dinarily, but one white man, the overseer, is with 
the slaves while they are at labor ; indeed, on 
most plantations, to commit an outrage in the 
presence of a white witness would be more diffi- 
cult than in their absence. He who wished to 
commit an illegal act upon a slave, instead of be- 
mg obliged to take pains and watch for an oppor- 
tunity to do it unobserved by a white, would find 
it difficult to do it in the presence of a white if he 
wished to do so. The supreme court of Louisi- 
ana, in their decision, in the case of Crawford vs. 
Cherry, 15, (Martin's La. Rep. 142 ; also " Law 
of Slavery," 249,) where the defendant was sued 
for the value of a slave whom he had shot and 
killed, say, " The act charged here, is one rarely 
committed in the presence of witnesses,^' (whites). 
So in the case of the State vs. Mann, (Devereux, 
N. C. Rep. 263 ; and " Law of Slavery," 247 ;) in 
which the defendant was charged with shooting 
a slave girl ' belonging' to the plaintiff; the Su- 
preme Court of North Carolina, in their decision, 
speaking of the provocations of the master by the 
slave, and ' the consequent wrath of the master 
prompting him to bloody vengeance, add, ' a ven- 
geance generally practised loith impunity, by rea- 
son of its privacy.'' 

Laws excluding the testimony of slaves and 
free colored persons, where a white is concerned, 
do not exist in all the slave states. One or two 
of them have no legal enactment on the subject ; 
but, in those, ^public opinion' acts with the force 
of law, and the courts invariably reject it. This 
brings us back to the potency of that oft-quoted 
' public opinion,' so ready, according to our ob- 
jector, to do battle for the protection of the slave ! 
Another proof that 'public opinion,' in the 
slave states, plunders, tortures, and murders the 
slaves, instead oi protecting them, is found in the 
fact, that the laws of slave states inflict capital 
punishment on slaves for a variety of crimes, for 
which, if their masters commit them, the legal 
penalty is merely imprisonment. Judge Stroud, 
in his Sketch of the Laws of Slavery, says, that, 
by the laws of Virginia, there are ' seventy-one 
crimes for which slaves are capitally punished, 
though in none of these are whites punished in a 
manner more severe than by imprisonment in the 



penitentiary.' (P, 107, where the reader will find 
all the crimes enumerated.) It should be added, 
however, that though the penalty for each of these 
seventy-one crimes is ' death,' yet a majority of 
them are, in the words of the law, * death with- 
in clergy ;' and in Virginia, clergyable offences, 
though technically capital, are not so in fact. In 
Mississippi, slaves are punished capitally for more 
than thirty crimes, for which whites are punished 
only by fine or imprisonment, or both. Eight of 
these are not recognized as crimes, either by com- 
mon law 6r by statute, when committed by 
whites. In South Carolina slaves are punished 
capitally for nine more crimes than the whites — 
in Georgia, for six — and in Kentucky, for seven 
more than whites, &c. We surely need not de- 
tain the reader by comments on this monstrous 
inequality with which the penal codes of slave 
states treat slaves and their masters. When we 
consider that guilt is in proportion to intelligence, 
and that these masters have by law doomed their 
slaves to ignorance, and then, as they darkle and 
grope along their blind way, inflict penalties upon 
them for a variety of acts regarded as praise 
worthy in whites; killing them for crimes, 
when whites are only fined or imprisoned — to call 
such a * public opinion' inhuman, savage, mur- 
derous, diabohcal, would be to use tame words, if 
theEnglish vocabulary could supply others of more 
horrible import. 

But slaveholding brutality does not stop here. 
While punishing the slaves for crimes with vastly 
greater severity than it does their masters for the 
same crimes, and making a variety of acts crimes 
in law, which are right, and often duties, it per- 
sists in refusing to make known to the slaves that 
complicated and barbarous penal code which 
loads them with such fearful liabilities. The slave 
is left to get a knowledge of these laws as he can, 
and cases must be of constant occurrence at the 
south, in which slaves get their first knowledge 
of the existence of a law by suffering its penalt}". 
Indeed, this is probably the way in which they 
commonly learn what the laws are ; for how else 
can the slave get a knowledge of the laws ? He 
cannot read — he cannot learn to read ; if he try 
to master the alphabet, so that he may spell out 
the words of the law, and thus avoid its penalties, 
the law shakes its terrors at him ; while, at the 
same time, those who made the laws refuse to 
make them known to those for whom they are de- 
signed. The memory of Caligula will blacken 
with execration while time lasts, because he hung 
up his laws so high that people could not read 
them, and then punished them because they did 
not keep them. Our slaveholders aspire to blacker 
infamy. , Caligula was content with hanging up 
his laws where his subjects could see them ; and 
if they could not read them, they knew where 



150 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



they were, and might get at them, if, in their zeal 
to learn his will, they had used the same means 
to get up to them that those did who hung them 
there. Even Caligula, wretch as he was, would 
have shuddered at cutting their legs off, to pre- 
vent their climbing to them ; or, if they had got 
there, at boring their eyes out, to prevent their 
reading them. Our slaveholders virtually do 
both ; for they prohibit their slaves acquiring that 
knowledge of letters which would enable them to 
read the laws ; and if, by stealth, they get it in 
spite of them, they prohibit them books and pa- 
pers, and flog them if they are caught at them. 
Further — Caligula merely hung his laws so high 
that they could not be read — our slaveholders 
have hung theirs so high above the slave that 
they cannot be seen — they are utterly out of sight, 
and he finds out that they arc there only by the 
falling of the penalties on his head,* Thus the 
" public opinion" of slave states protects the de- 
fenceless slave by arming a host of legal penal. 
ties and setting them in ambush at every thicket 
along his path, to spring upon him unawares. 

Stroud, in his Sketch of the Laws of Slavery, 
page 100, thus comments on this monstrous bar- 
barit3% 

** The hardened convict moves their sympathy, 
and is to be taught the laws before he is expected 
to obey them ;t yet tlie guiltless slave is subjected 
to an extensive system of cruel enactments, of no 
part of which, probably, has he ever heard." 

Having already drawn so largely on the read- 
er's patience, in illustrating southern ' public opi- 
nion' by the slave laws, instead of additional illus- 
trations of the same point from another class of 
those laws, as was our design, we will group toge- 
ther a few particulars, which the reader can take 
in at a glance, showing that the " public opinion" 
of slaveholders towards their slaves, which exists at 

* Tilt! following extract from the Alexandria (D. C.) Ga- 
zette is an illustration. "Criminals Condkmned. — On 
Mf)nday last the Court of the borough of Norfolk, Va. sat 
on the trial of four negro boys arrnigJicd for burglary. The 
first indictment charged them with breaking into the hard- 
ware store of Mr. E. P. Tabb, upon which two of them were 
found guilty by the Court, and condemned to sufT.'r the 
penalty of the law, which, in the case of a slave, is death. 
The second Friday in April is appointed for the execution 
of their awful sentence. Their a^es do not excerA sixtern. 
The first, a fine active boy, belongs to a widow lady in Al- 
exandria; the latter, a house servant,' is owned by a gentle- 
man in the borough. The value of one v^^as fixed at $1000, 
and the other at SPOO ; which sums are to be re-imburscd 
to their respective owners out of ihe state treasury." In all 
probability these poor boys, who are to be hung for stealing, 
never dreamed that death was the legal penalty of the crime. 

Here is another, from the " New Orleans Bee" of 14, 

1837.— "The slave who struck some citizens in Canal- 
street, soiije weeks since, has been tried and found guilty, 
and is sentenced to be hung on the 24th. 

t " It shall be the duty of the keeper [of the penitentiary] 
on the receipt of each prisoner, io read to him or her such 
parts of the penal laws of this state as impose penalties for 
escape, and to make all the prisoners in the penitentiary 
acquainted with the same. It shall also be his duty, on the 
discharge of such prisoner, to read to him or her guch parts 
of the said laws as impose additional punishments for the 
repetition of offences." — Rule 12i!/i, for the internal govern- 
ment of the Penitentiary of Georgia. See 26 of the Peni- 
tenttary Act 0/I8I6.— PriTJce'.f Digest, .386. 



the south, in the form of law, tramples on all those 
fundamental principles of right, justice, and equity, 
which are recognized as sacred by all civilized na- 
tions, and receive the homage even of barbarians. 

1. One of these principles is, that the benefits 
of law to the subject should overbalance its bur- 
dens — its protection more than compensate for its 
restraints and exactions — and its blessings alto- 
gether outweigh its inconveniences and evils — 
the former being numerous, positive, and perma. 
nent, the latter few, negative, and incidental. To- 
tally the reverse of all this is true in the case of 
the slave. Law is to him all exaction and no pro. 
tection : instead of lightening his natural burdens, 
it crushes him under a multitude of artificial ones; 
instead of a friend to succor him, it is his deadliest 
foe, transfixing him at every step from the cradle 
to the grave. Law has been beautifully defined 
to be " benevolence acting by rule ;" to the Ame- 
rican slave it is malevolence torturing by system. 
It is an old truth, that responsibility increases 
with capacity ; but those same laws which make 
the slave a " chattel,''^ require of him more than 
of men. The same law which makes him a tiling 
incapable of obligation, loads him with obligations 
superhuman — while sinking him below the level of 
a brute in dispensing its benefits, he lays upon him 
burdens which would break down an angel. 

2. Innocence is entitled to the protection of law. 
Slaveholders make innocence free plunder ; this 
is their daily employment ; their laws assail it, 
make it their victim, inflict upon it all, and, in 
some respects, more than all the penalties of the 
greatest guilt. To other innocent persons, law 
is a blessing, to the slave it is a curse, only a 
curse and that continually. 

3. Deprivation of liberty is one of the highest 
punishments of crime ; and in proportion to its 
justice when inflicted on the guilty, is its injus- 
tice when inflicted on the innocent ; this terrible 
penalty is inflicted on two million seven hundred 
thousand, innocent persons in the Southern states. 

4. Self-preservation and self-defence, are uni- 
versally regarded as the most sacred of human 
rights, yet the laws of slave states punish the 
slave with death for exercising these rights in 
that way, which in others is pronounced worthy 
of the highest praise. 

5. The safe-guards of law are most needed 
where natural safe-gnards are weakest. Every 
principle of justice and equity requires, that, those 
who are totally unprotected by birth, station, 
wealth, friends, influence, and popular favor, 
and especially those who are the innocent objects 
of public contempt and prejudice, should be 
more vigilantly protected by law, than those who 
are so fortified by defence, that they have far less 
need of legal protection ; yet the poor slave who 
is fortified by none of these personal bulwarks, is 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



151 



denied the protection of law, while the master, 
surrounded by them all, is panoplied in the mail 
of legal protection, even to the hair of his head ; 
yea, his very shoe-tic and coat-button arc legal 
protegees. 

6. The grand object of law is to protect men's 
natural rights, but instead of protecting the 
natural rights of the slaves, it gives slaveholders 
license to wrest them from the weak by violence, 
protects them in holding their plunder, and kills 
the rightful owner if he attempt to recover it. 

This is the protection thrown around the rights 
of American slaves by the ' public opinion,' of 
slaveholders ; these the restraints that hold back 
their masters, overseers, and drivers, from in- 
flicting injuries upon them ! 

In a Republican government, law is the pulse 
of its heart — as the heart beats the pulse beats, ex- 
cept that it often beats weaker than the heart, 
never stronger — or to drop the figure, laws are 
never worse than those who make them, very 
often better. If human history proves any- 
thing, cruelty of practice will always go beyond 
cruelty of law. 

Law-making is a formal, deliberate act, per- 
formed by persons of mature age, embodying the 
intelligence, wisdom, justice and humanity, of 
the community ; performed, too, at leisure, after 
lull opportunity had for a comprehensive survey 
of all the relations to be affected, after careful 
investigation and protracted discussion. Conse- 
quently laws must, in the main, be a true index 
of the permanent feelings, the settled frame of 
mind, cherished by the community upon those 
subjects, and towards those persons and classes 
v/hose condition the laws are designed- to estab- 
lish. If the lavv'^s are in a high degree cruel and 
inhuman, towards any class of persons, it proves 
that the feelings habitually exercised towards 
that class of persons, by those who make and 
perpetuate those laws, are at least equally cruel 
and inhuman. We say at least equally so ; for 
if the habitual state of feeling towards that class 
be unmerciful, it must be unspeakably cruel, re- 
lentless and malignant when provoked ; if its 
ordinary action is inhuman, its contortions and 
spasms must be tragedies ; if the waves run high 
when there has been no wind, where will they 
not break when the tempest heaves them ! 

Further, when cruelty is the spirit of the law 
towards a proscribed class, when it legalizes great 
outrages upon them, it connives at, and abets 
greater outrages, and is virtually an accomplice 
of all who perpetrate them. Hence, in such 
cases, though the degree of the outrage is illegal, 
the perpetrator will rarely be convicted, and, even 
if convicted, will be almost sure to escape pun- 
ishment. This is not theory but history. Every 
judge and lawyer in the slave states knoxvs, that 



the legal conviction and punishment of masters 
and raistresscs,for illegal outrages upon their slaves, 
is an event which has rarely, if ever, occurred 
in the slave states ; they know, also, that although 
hundreds of slaves have been murdered by their 
masters and mistresses in the slave states, within 
the last twenty-five years, and though the fact of 
their having committed those murders has been 
established beyond a doubt in the minds of the 
surrounding community, yet that the murderers 
have not, in a single instance, suffered the penalty 
of the law. 
Finally, since slaveholders have deliberately legal- 
ized the perpetration of the most cold-blooded atro- 
cities upon their slaves, and do pertinaciously re. 
fuse to make these atrocities illegal, and to punish 
those w ho perpetrate them, they stand convicted 
before the world, upon their own testimony, of 
the most barbarous, brutal, and habitual inhu- 
manity. If this be slander and falsehood, their 
own lips have uttered it, their own fingers have 
written it, their own acts have proclaimed it ; 
and however it may be with their morality, they 
have too much human nature to perjure them- 
selves for the sake of publishing their own in- 
famy. 

Having dwelt at such length on the legal code 
of the slave states, that unerring index of the 
public opinion of slaveholders towards their slaves ; 
and having shown that it does not protect the 
slaves from cruelty, and that even in the few in- 
stances in which the letter of the law, if executed, 
would afford some protection, it is virtually nulli- 
fied by the connivance of courts and juries, or by 
popular clamor ; we might safely rest the case 
here, assured that every honest reader would 
spurn the absurd falsehood, that the * public 
opinion' of the slave states protects the slaves 
and restrains the master. But, as the assertion 
is made so often by slaveholders, and with so 
much confidence, notwithstanding its absurdity 
is fully revealed by their own legal code, we pro- 
pose to show its falsehood by applying other 
tests. 

We lay it down as a truth that can be made 
no plainer by reasoning, that the same ' public 
opinion,' which restrains men from committing 
outrages, will restrain them from publishing such 
outrages, if they do commit them ; — in other 
words, if a man is restrained from certain acts 
through fear of losing his character, should they 
become known, he will not voluntarily destroy 
his character by making them known, should he 
be guilty of them. Let us look at this. It is 
assumed by slaveholders, that ' public opinion' 
at the south so frowns on cruelty to the slaves, 
that fear of disgrace would restrain from the in- 
fliction of it, were there no other consideration. 
Now, that this is sheer fiction is shown by the 



152 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



fact, that the newspapers in the slaveholding 
states, teem with advertisements for runaway 
slaves, in which the masters and mistresses de- 
scribe their men and women, as having been 
' branded with a hot iron,' on their * cheeks,' 
'jaws,' 'breasts,' 'arms,' 'legs,' and 'thighs;' 
also as ' scarred,' ' very much scarred,' ' cut up,' 

* marked,' &c. ' with the whip,' also with ' iron 
collars on,' ' chains,' ' bars of iron,' ' fetters,' 
' bells,' • horns,' ' shackles,' &c. They, also, de- 
scribe them as having been wounded by ' buck- 
shot,' ' rifie-balls,' &c. fired at them by their 

♦ owners,' and others when in pursuit ; also, as 
having ' notches,' cut in their ears, the tops or 
bottoms of their ears ' cut off,' or ' slit,' or ♦ one 
ear cut off,' or ' both ears cut off,' &,c. &c. 
The masters and mistresses who thus advertise 
their runaway slaves, coolly sign their names to 
their advertisements, giving the street and num- 
ber of their residences, if in cities, their post of- 
fice address, &c. if in the country ; thus ma- 
king public proclamation as widely as possible 
that they ' brand,' ' scar,' ' gash,' ' cut up,' &c. 
the flesh of their slaves ; load them with irons, cut 
off their ears, &lc. ; they speak of these things with 
the utmost sang froid, not seeming to think it 
possible, that any one will esteem them at all the 
less because of these outrages upon their slaves ; 
further, these advertisements swarm in many of 
the largest and most widely circulated political 
and commercial papers that are published in the 
slave states. The editors of those papers con- 
stitute the main body of the literati of the slave 
states ; they move in the highest circle of socie- 
ty, are among the ' popular' men in the commu- 
nity, and as a class, are more influential than any 
other ; yet these editors publish these advertise- 
ments with iron indifference. So far from pro- 
claiming to such felons, homicides, and murder- 
ers, that they will not be their blood-hounds, to 
hunt down the innocent and mutilated victims 
who have escaped from their torture, they freely 
furnish them with every facility, become their 
accomplices and share their spoils ; and instead 
of outraging ' public opinion,' by doing it, they 
are the men after its own heart, its organs, its 
representatives, its self. 

To show that the ' public opinion' of the slave 
states, towards the slaves, is absolutely diabolical, 
we will insert a few, out of a multitude, of simi- 
lar advertisements from a variety of southern 
papers now before us. 

The North Carolina Standard, of July l8, 
1838, contains the following : — 

" TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD. Ran- 
away from the subscriber, a negro woman and 
two children ; the woman is tall and black, and 
a few days before she went off, I burnt her with 

A HOT IRON ON THE LEFT SIDE OF HER FACE ; I 
TRIED TO MAKE THE LETTER M, flwrf she kept a 



cloth over her head and face, and a fly bonnet on 
her head so as to cover the burn ; her children 
are both boys, the oldest is in his seventh year ; 
he is a mulatto and has blue eyes ; the youngest 
is black and is in his fifth year. The woman's 
name is Betty, commonly called Bet. 

MlCAJAH RiCKS, 

Nash County, July 7, 1838. 

Hear the wretch tell his story, with as much 
indifference as if he were describing the cutting 
of his initials in the bark of a tree. 

" / burnt her with a hot iron on the left side of 
her face, ^^—^^ I tried to make the letter M," and 
this he says in a newspaper, and puts his name 
to it, and the editor of the paper who is, also, its 
proprietor, publishes it for him and pockets his 
fee. Perhaps the reader will say, ' Oh, it must 
have been published in an insignificant sheet 
printed in some obscure corner of the state ; per. 
haps by a gang of ' squatters,' in the Dismal 
Swamp, universally regarded as a pest, and edit- 
ed by some scape-gallows, who is detested by the 
whole community. To this I reply that the 
" North Carolina Standard," the paper which 
contains it, is a large six columned weekly paper, 
handsomely printed and ably edited ; it is the 
leading Democratic paper in that state, and is 
published at Raleigh, the Capital of the state, 
Thomas Loring, Esq. Editor and Proprietor. 
The motto in capitals under the head of the pa- 
per is, " The constitution and the union of 

THE STATES THEY MUST BE PRESERVED." The 

same Editor and Proprietor, who exhibits such 
brutality of feeling towards the slaves, by giving 
the preceding advertisement a conspicuous place 
in his columns, and taking his pay for it, has ap. 
parently a keen sense of the proprieties of life, 
where whites are concerned, and a high regard 
for the rights, character and feelings of those 
whose skin is colored like his own. As proof of 
this, we copy from the number of the paper con- 
taining the foregoing advertisement, the following 
Editorial on the pending political canvass. 

" We cannot refrain from expressing the hope 
that the Gubernatorial canvass will be conduct- 
ed with a due regard to the character, and feeL 
ings of the distinguished individuals who are can- 
didates for that office ; and that the press of 
North Carolina will set an example in this respect, 
worthy of imitation and of praised 

What is this but chivalrous and honorable feel- 
ing ? The good name of North Carolina is dear to 
him — on the comfort, ' character and feelings,' 
of her white citizens he sets a high value ; he feels 
too, most deeply for the character of the Press of 
North Carolina, sees that it is a city set on a 
hill, and implores his brethren of the editorial 
corps to ' set an example' of courtesy and 
magnanimity worthy of imitation and praise. 
Now, reader, put all these things together and 
con them over, and then read again the preceding- 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



153 



advertisement contained m the same number of 
the paper, and you have the true *' North Carolina 
Standard," by which to measure the protection 
extended to slaves by the ' public opinion' of 
that state. 

J. P. Ashford advertises as follows in the 
" Natchez Courier," August 24, 1838. 

" Ranaway, a negro girl called Mary, has a 
small scar over her eye, a good many teeth mis- 
sing, the letter A. is branded on her cheek and 
forehead." 

A. B. Metcalf tmis advertises a woman in the 
same paper, June 15, 1838. 

" Ranaway, Mary, a black woman, has a scar 
on her back and right arm near the shoulder, 
eauscd by arifile ba^ll." 

John Hendei-son, in the " Grand Gulf Adver- 
tiser," August 29, 1838, advertises Betsey. 

" Ranaway, a black woman Betsey, has an 
iron bar on her right leg." 

Robert Nicoll, whose residence is in Mobile, in 
Dauphin street, between Emmanuel and Concep. 
tion streets, thus advertises a woman in the 
" Mobile Commercial Advertiser." 

" TEN DOLLARS REWARD will be given 
for my negro woman Liby. The said Liby is 
about 30 years old, and VERY MUCH SCAR- 
RED ABOUT THE NECK AND EARS, occa- 
sioned by whipping, had on a handkerchief tied 
round her ears, as she coaiMo.xLY wears it to hide 

THE SCARS." 

To show that slaveholding brutality now is the 
same that it was the eighth of a century ago, we 
publish the following advertisement from the 
" Charleston (S.C.) Courier," of 1825. 

" TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.— Ran- 
away from the subscriber, on the 14th instant, 
a negro girl named Molly. 

" The said girl was sold by Messrs. Wm. Payne 
& Sons, as the property of an estate of a 
Mr. Gearrall, and purchased by a Mr. Moses, 
and sold by him to a Thomas Prisley, of Edge- 
field District, of whom I bought her on the 17th 
of April, 1819. She is 16 or 17 years of age, 
slim made, lately branded on the left cheek, 

THUS, R, AND A PIECE TAKEN OFF OF HER EAR 
ON THE SAME SIDE ; THE SAME LETTER ON THE 
INSIDE OF BOTH HER LEGS. 

" Abner Ross, Fairfield District." 

But instead of filling pages with similar ad- 
vertisements, illustrating the horrible brutality of 
slaveholders towards their slaves, the reader is 
referred to the preceding pages of this work, to 
the scores of advertisements written by slave- 
holders, printed by slaveholders, published by 
slaveholders, in newspapers edited by slaveholders, 
and patronized by slaveholders ; advertisements 
describing not only men and boys, but women, 
aged and middle-aged, matrons and girls of 
tender years, their necks chafed with iron collars 
with prongs, their limbs galled with iron rings, 
and chains, and bars of iron, iron hobbles and 

20 



shackles, all parts of their persons scarred with 
the lash, and branded with hot irons, and torn 
with rifle bullets, pistol balls and buck shot, and 
gashed with knives, their eyes out, their ears cut 
off", their teeth drawn out, and their bones broken. 
He is referred also to the cool and shocking indif- 
ference with which these slaveholders, ' gentle- 
men' and ' ladies,' Reverends, and Honorables, 
and Excellencies, write and print, and publish 
and pay, and take money for, and read and cir- 
culate, and sanction, such infernal barbarit}'. 
Let the reader ponder all this, and then lay it to 
heart, that this is that ' public opinion' of the 
slaveholder, which protects their slaves from all in- 
jury, and is an effectual guarantee of personal 
security. 

However far gone a community may be in bru- 
tality, something of protection may yet be hoped 
for from its ' public opinion,' if respect for woman 
survives the general wreck ; that gone, protection 
perishes ; public opinion becomes universal rapine ; 
outrages, once occasional, become habitual ; the 
torture, which was before inflicted only by pas- 
sion, becomes the constant product of a system^ 
and, instead of being the index of sudden and 
fierce impulses, is coolly plied as the permanent 
means to an end. When women are branded 
with hot irons on their faces ; when iron collars, 
with prongs, are riveted about their necks ; when 
iron rings are fastened upon their limbs, and they 
are forced to drag after them chains and fetters ; 
when their flesh is torn with whips, and mangled 
with bullets and shot, and lacerated with knives ; 
and when those who do such things, are regarded 
in the community, and associated with as ' gen- 
tlemen' and ' ladies ;' to say that the ' public opin- 
ion' of such a community is a protection to its 
victims, is to blaspheme God, whose creatures 
they are, cast in his own sacred image, and dear 
to him as the apple of his eye. 

But we are not yet quite ready to dismiss this 
protector, ' Public Opinion.' To illustrate the 
hardened brutality with which slaveholders re- 
gard their slaves, the shameless and apparently 
unconscious indecency with which they speak of 
their female slaves, examine their persons, and 
describe them, under their own signatures, in 
newspapers, hand-bills, «fec. just as they would 
describe the marks of cattle and sv/ine, on all 
parts of their bodies ; we will make a few extracts 
from southern papers. Reader, as we proceed 
to these extracts, remember our motto — ' True 
humanity consists not in a squeamish ear.' 

Mr. p. Abdie, of New Orleans, advertises in 
the New Orleans Bee, of January 29, 1838, for 
one of his female slaves, as follows ; 

" Ranaway, the negro wench named Betsey, 
aged about 22 years, handsome-faced, and good 
countenance ; having the marks of the whip be- 
hind her neck, and several others on her rump. 



154 



Ohjeciions Considered — Public Opinion. 



The above reward, (<$10,) will be given to who- 
ever will bring that wench to P. Abdie." 

The New Orleans IJee, in which the advertise- 
ment of this Vandal appears, is the ' Official Ga- 
zette of the State — of the General Council — and 
of the first and third Municipalities of New Or- 
leans.' It is the largest, and the most influential 
paper in the south-western states, and perhaps the 
most ably edited — and has undoubtedly a larger 
circulation than any other. It is a daily paper, 
of »^12 a year, and its circulation being mainly 
among the larger merchants, planters, and pro- 
fessional men, it is a fair index of the ' public 
opinion' of Louisiana, so far as represented by 
those classes of persons. Advertisements equally 
gross, indecent, and abominable, or nearly so, 
can be found in almost every number of that pa- 
per. 

Mr. William Robinson, Georgetown, District 
of Columbia, advertised for his slave in the Na- 
tional Intelligencer, of Washington City, Oct. 2, 
1837, as follows: 

" Eloped from my residence a young negress, 
22 years old, of a chesnut, or brown color. She 
has a very singular mark — this mark, to the best 
of my RECOLLECTION, covers a part of hex breasts, 
body, and limbs; and when her neck and arms 
are uncovered, is very perceptible ; she has been 
frequently seen east and south of the Capitol 
Square, and is harbored by ill-disposed persons, of 
every complexion, for her services." 

Mr. John C. Beasley, near Huntsville, Ala- 
bama, thus advertises a young girl of eighteen, 
in the Huntsville Democrat, of August 1st, 1837. 
" Ranaway Maria, about 18 years old, very far 
advanced with child.''^ He then offers a reward 
to any one who will commit this young girl, in 
this condition, to jail. 

Mr. James T. De Jarnett, Vernon, Antauga 
CO. Alabama, thus advertises a woman in the 
Pensacola Gazette, July 14. 1838. " Celia is a 
bright copper-colored negress, fine figure andwery 
smart. On examining her back, you will find 
marks caused by the whip." He closes the advert- 
isement, by offering a reward oi five hundred doL 
tars to any person who will lodge her in jail, so 
that he can get her, 

A person who lives at 124 Chartres street. 
New Orleans, advertises in the ' Bee,' of May 
31, for " the negress Patience, about 28 years 
old, has large hips, and is how-legged:' A Mr. 
T.CuGGY, in the same paper, thus describes " the 
negress Caroline." •' She has awkward feet, 
clumsy ankles, turns out her toes greatly in walk- 
ing, and has a sore on her left shin.'^ 

In another, of June 22, Mr. P. Bahi advertises 
"Maria, with a clear white complexion, and double 
nipple on her right breast." 

Mr. Charles Craige, of Federal Point, New 
Hanover co. North Carolina, in the Wilmington 



Advertiser, August 11, 1837, offers a reward for 
his slave Jane, and saj's ''she is far advanced in 
pregnancy." 

The New Orleans Bulletin, August 18, 1838, 
advertises " the negress Mary, aged nineteen, has 
a scar on her face, walks parrot-toed, and is 
pregnant." 

Mr. J. G. MuiR, of Grand Gulf, Mississippi, 
thus advertises a woman in the Vicksburg Regis- 
ter, December 5, 1838. " Ranaway a negro 
girl — has a number of olack lumps on her breasts, 
and is in a state of pregnancy." 

Mr. Jacob Besson, Donaldsonville, Louisiana, 
advertises in the New Orleans Bee, August 7, 
1838, " the negro woman Victorine — she is ad 
vanced in pregnancy." 

Mr. J. H. Leverich & Co. No, 10, Old Levee, 
New Orleans, advertises in the ' Bulletin,' Janua. 
ry 22, 1839, as follows. 

" ^50 Reward. — Ranawa)'^ a negro girl named 
Caroline about 18 years of age, is far advanced 
in child-bearing. Tlie above reward will be paid 
for her delivery at either of the jails of the city." 

Mr. John Duggan, thus advertises a woman in 

the New Orleans Bee, of Sept, 7. 

'' Ranaway from the subscriber a mulatto wo- 
man, named Esther, about thirty years of age, 
large stomach, wvints her upper front teeth, and 
walks pigeon-toed — supposed to be about the 
lower fauxbourg. 

Mr. Francis Foster, of Troup co. Georgia, 
advertises in the Columbus (Ga.) Enquirer of 
June 22, 1837 — " My negro woman Patsey, has 
a stoop in her walking, occasioned by a severe 
burn on her abdomen." 

The above are a few specimens of the gross de- 
tails, in describing the persons of females, of all 
ages, and the marks upon all parts of their bodies ; 
proving incontestably, that slaveholders are in the 
habit not only of stripping their female slaves of 
their clothing, and inflicting punishment upon 
their ' shrinking flesh,' but of subjecting their 
naked persons to the most minute and revolting 
inspection, and then of publishing to the world 
the results of their examination, as well as the 
scars left by their own inflictions upon them, 
their length, size, and exact position on the body ; 
and all this without impairing in the least, the 
standing in the community of the shameless 
wretches who thus proclaim their own abomina- 
tions. That such things should not at all affect 
the standing of such persons in society, is cer- 
tainly no marvel : how could they affect it, when 
the same communities enact laws requiring their 
own legal officers to inspect minutely the per- 
sons and bodily marks of all slaves taken up as 
runaways, and to publish in the newspapers a 
particular description of all such marks and pe- 
culiarities of their persons, their size, appearance, 



Objections Considered — Public 0})inion. 



1^5 



position on the body, &c. Yea, verily, when the 

• pubHc opinion' of the community, in the solemn 
form of law, commands jailors, sheriffs, captains 
of police, &-C. to divest of their clothing aged ma- 
trons and young girls, minutely examine their 
naked persons, and publish the results of their 
examination — who can marvel, that the same 

* public opinion' should tolerate the slaveholders 
themselves, in doing the same things to their 
own property, which they have appointed legal 
officers to do as their proxies.* 

The zeal with which slavcholding * public 
opinion'' protects the lives of the slaves, may be 
illustrated by the following advertisements, taken 
from a multitude of similar ones in southern pa- 
pers. To show that slavcholding ' public opinion' 
is the same noio, that it was half a cewtury ago, 
we will insert, in the first place, an advertisement 
published in a North Carohna newspaper, Oct. 
29, 1785, by W. Skinner, the Clerk of the 
County of Perquimous, North Carolina. 

" Ten silver dollars reward will be paid for ap 
prehending and delivering to me my man Moses, 
who ran away this morning ; or I will give five 
times the sum to any person who will make due 
proof of his being killed, and never ask a question 
to know by whom it was done." 

W. Skinner. 

Perquimans Couniij, N. C. Oct. 29, 1785. 

The late John Parrish, of Philadelphia, an 
eminent minister of the religious society of 
Friends, who traveled through the slave states 
about thirty-five years since, on a religious mis- 
sion, published on his return a pamphlet of forty 
pages, entitled ' Remarks on the Slavery of the 
Black People.' From this work we extract the 
following illustrations of ' public opinion' in 
North and South Carolina and Virginia at that 
period. 

" When I was traveling through North Caro- 
lina, a black man, who was outlawed, being shot 
by one of his pursuers, and left wounded in the 
woods, they came to an ordinary where I had 
stopped, to feed my horse, in order to procure a 
cart to bring the poor wretched object in. An- 
other, I was credibly informed, was shot, his 
head cut off, and carried in a bag by the perpe- 
trators of the murder, who received the reward, 

* As a sample of lliese laws, we give tlie following ex- 
tract from one of the laws of Maryland, where slave- 
holding ' public opinion' exists in its mildest form. 

" It shall be the duty of the sheriffs of the several coun- 
ties of this state, upon any runaway servant or slave being 
committed to his custody, to canse the same to be adver- 
tised, &c. and to mak» particular and minute descriptions of 
the person and bodily marks n^ s\ic\\ runaway." — Lmcs of 
Maryland of 1802, Chap. 96, Sec. 1 and 2. 

That the sheriffs, jailors, &c. do not neglect this part of 
their official 'duty,' is plain from the minute description 
which they give in the advertisements of marlis upon all 
parts of the persons of females, as well as males ; and also 
from the occasional declaration, ' no scars discoverable on 
any part,' or 'no marks discoverable about her;" which 
last is taken from an advertisement in the Milledgeville 
fGoo.) Journal, June 2G, 1838, signed ' T. S. Densler, Jailor.' 



which was said to be ,^200, continental curren. 
cy, and that his head was stuck on a coal house 
at an iron works in Virginia — and this for going 
to visit his wife at a distance. Crawford gives 
an account of a man being gibbetted alive in 
South Carolina, and the buzzards came and 
picked out his eyes. Another was burnt to 
death at a stake in Charleston, surrounded by a 
multitude of spectators, some of whom were 

people of the first rank ; the poor object 

was heard to cry, as long as he could breathe, 
' not guilty — not guilty.' " 

The following is an illustration of the ' public 
opinion' of South Carolina about fifty years ago. 
It is taken from Judge Stroud's Sketch of the 
Slave Laws, page 39. 

«' I find in the case of ' the State vs. JM'Gee,' 1 
Bay's Reports, 164, it is said incidentally by 
Messrs. Pinckney and Ford, counsel for the state 
(of S. C), ' that the frequency of the offence (vnl- 
j'ul murder of a slave) was owing to the 7iature 
of the punishment,'' &.c. . . . This remark was 
made in 1791, when the above trial took place. It 
was made in a public place — a court-house — and 
by men of great personal respectability. There 
can be, therefore, no question as to its truth, and 
as little of its notoriety." 

In 1791 the Grand Jury for the district of Che- 
raw, S. C. made a presentment, from which the 
following is an extract. 

" We, the Grand Jurors of and for the district 
of Cheraw, do present the inefficacy of the pre- 
sent punishment for killing negroes, as a great de 
feet in the legal system of this state : and we do 
earnestly recommend to the attention of the le. 
gislature, that clause of the negro act, which con- 
fines the penalty for killing slaves to fine and im- 
prisonment only : in full confidence, that they 
will provide some other more effectual measures 
to prevent the freciuency of crimes of this na- 
ture." — Matthew Carey^s American Museum, for 
Feb. 1791.— Appendix, p. 10. 

The following is a specimen of the 'public opin- 
ion' of Georgia twelve years since. We give it in 
the strong words of Colonel Stone, Editor of 
the New- York Commercial Advertiser. We take 
it from that paper of June 8, 1827. 

" Hunting men avith dogs. — A negro who had 
absconded from his master, and for whom a re. 
ward of ^100 was offered, has been apprehended 
and committed to prison in Savannah. The edi- 
tor, who states the fact, adds, with as much cool- 
ness as though there were no barbarity in the mat- 
ter, that he did not surrender till he was consider 
ably maimed by the dogs that had been set on 
him — desperately fighting them — one of which he 
badly cut with a sword." 

Twelve days after the publication of the pre- 
ceding fact, the following horrible transaction took 
place in Perry county, Alabama. We extract it 
from the African Observer, a monthly periodi- 
cal, pubhshed in Philadelphia, by the societj'' of 
Friends, See No. for August, 1827. 

"Tuscaloosa, Ala. June 20, 1827. 

" Some time during the last week a Mr. M'Neil. 



156 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



ly having lost some clothing, or other property of 
no great value, the slave of a neighboring planter 
was charged with the theft. M'Neilly, in compa- 
ny w'th his brother, found the negro driving his 
master's wagon ; they seized him, and either did, 
or were about to chastise him, when the negro 
stabbed M'Neilly, so that he died in an hour after- 
wards. The negro was taken before a justice of 
the peace, who waved his authority, perhaps 
through fear, as a crowd of persons had collected 
to the number of seventy or eighty, near Mr. 
People's (the justice) house. He acted as presi. 
dent of the mob, and put the vote, when it was de- 
cided he should be immediately executed by being 
burnt to death. The sable culprit was led to a 
tree, and tied to it, and a large quantity of pine 
knots collected and placed around him, and the 
fatal torch applied to the pile, even against the re- 
monstrances of several gentlemen who were pre- 
sent ; and the miserable being was in a short time 
burned to ashes. 

" This is the SECOND negro who has been 
THUS put to death, without judge or jury, in this 
county." 

The following advertisements, testimony, &,c. 
will show that the slaveholders of to-day are the 
children of those who shot, and hunted Vv'ith 
bloodhounds, and burned over slow fires, the 
slaves of half a century ago ; the worthy inherit- 
ors of their civilization, chivalry, and tender 
mercies. 

The "Wilmington (North Carolina) Adver- 
tiser" of July 13, 1838, contains the following ad- 
vertisement. 

" ^100 will be paid to any person who may ap- 
prehend and safely confine in any jail in this state, 
a certain negro man, named Alfred. And the 
same reward will be paid, if satisfactory evidence 
is given of his having been killed. He has one 
or more scars on one of his hands, caused by his 
having been shot. 

" THE CITIZENS OF ONSLOW. 

"Richlands, Onslow co. May 16th, 1838." 

In the same column with the above and direct, 
ly under it is the following : — 

"Ranaway my negro man Richard. Are- 
ward of ^25 will be paid for his apprehension 
DEAD or ALIVE. Satisfactory proof will only 
be required of his being KILLED. He has with 
him, in all probability, his wife Eliza, who ran 
away from Col. Thompson, now a resident of Al- 
abama, about the time he commenced his journey 
to that state. durant h. Rhodes." 

In the " Macon (Georgia) Telegraph," May 28, 
is the following : — 

" About the 1st of March last the negro man 
Ransom left me without the least provocation 
whatever ; I will give a reward of twenty dollars 
for said negro, if taken dead or alive, — and if 
killed in any attempt, an advance of five dollars 
will be paid. bryant johnson. 

" Crawford co. Georgia.''* 

See the " Newbern (N. C.) Spectator," Jan. 5, 
1338, for the following : — 

*' RAN AW AY, from the subscriber, a negro 



man named SAMPSON. Fifty dollars reward 
will be given for the delivery of him to me, or 
his confinement in any jail so that I get him, 
and should he resist in being taken, so that vio- 
lence is necessary to arrest him, I will not hold 
any person liable for damages should the slave 
be KILLED. Enoch Foy, 

" Jones County, N. C." 

From the " Macon (Ga.) Messenger," June 
14, 1838. 

*' To THE OWNERS OF RUNAWAY NEGROES. A large 

mulatto Negro man, between thirty-five and 
forty years old, about six feet in height, having 
a high forehead, and hair slightly grey, was 
KILLED, near my plantation, on the 9th inst. He 
would not surrender, but assaulted Mr. Bowen, 
who killed him in self-defence. If the owner 
desires further information relative to the death 
of his negro, he can obtain it by letter, or by 
calling on the subscriber ten miles south of Perry, 
Houston county. Edm'd. Jas. McGehee." 

From the ' Charleston (S. C.) Courier,' Feb. 
20, 1836. 

" ,«$300 REWARD. Ranaway from the sub- 
scriber, in November last, his two negro men, 
named Billy and Pompey. 

" Billy is 25 years old, and is known as the 
patroon of my boat for many years ; in all pro. 
bability he may resist ; in that event 50 dollars 
will be paid for his HEAD." 

From the ' Newbern (N. C.) Spectator,' Dec. 
2, 1836. 

" ^ 200 REWARD. Ranaway from the sub- 
scriber, about three years ago, a certain negro 
man named Ben, commonly known by the name 
of Ben Fox. He had but one eye. Also, one 
other negro, by the name of Rigdon, who ran- 
away on the 8th of this month. 

" I will give the reward of one hundred dollars 
for each of the above negroes, to be delivered to 
me or confined in the jail of Lenoir or Jones 
county, or for the killing of them, so that I 
CAN see them. W. D. Cobb." 

" In the same number of the Spectator two 
Justices of the Peace advertise the same run- 
aways, and give notice that if they do not imme. 
diately return to W. D. Cobb, their master, they 
will be considered as outlaws, and any body may 
kill them. The following is an extract from the 
proclamation of the justices. 

•' And we do hereby, by virtue of an act of the 
assembly of this state, concerning servants and 
slaves, intimate and declare, if the said slaves do 
not surrender themselves and return home to 
their master immediately after the publication of 
these presents, that any person may kill and de. 
stroy said slaves by such memns as he or they 
think Jit, without accusation or impeachment of 
any crime or offence for so doing, or without in- 
curring any penalty or forfeiture thereby. 

" Given under our hands and seals, this 12th 
November, 1836. 

" B. Coleman, J. P. [Seal.] 
"Jas. Jones, J. P. [Seal.] " 

On the 28th, of April 1836, in the city of St. 
Louis, Missouri, a black man, named Mcintosh, 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



157 



who had stabbed an officer, that had arrested him, 
was seized by the multitude, fastened to a tree 
in the midst of the city, wood piled around him, 
and in open day and in the presence of an im- 
mense throng of citizens, he was burned to death. 
The Alton (111.) Telegraph, in its account of the 
scene says ; 

'' All was silent as death while the execution- 
ers were piling wood around their victim. He 
said not a word, until feeling that the flames had 
seized upon him. He then uttered an awful 
howl, attempting to sing and pray, then hung 
his head, and suffered in silence, except in 
the following instance :— After the flames had 
surrounded their prey, his eyes burnt out of his 
head, and his mouth seemingly parched to a 
cinder, some one in the crowd, more compassion- 
ate than the rest, proposed to put an end to his 
misery by shooting him, when it was replied, 'that 
would be of no use, since he was already out of 
pain.' ' No, no,' said the wretch, ' I am not, I 
am sufferin^r ris much as ever ; shoot me, shoot 
me.' ' No, no,' said one of the fiends v;ho was 
standing about the sacrifice they were roasting, 
* he shall not be shot. / would sooner slacken 
the fire, if that would increase his misenj ;' and 
the' man who said this was, as we understand, 

an OFFICER OF JUSTICE 1" 



The St. Louis correspondent of a New York 
paper adds, 

" The shrieks and groans of the victim were 
loud and piercing, and to observe one limb after 
another drop into the fire was awful indeed. He 
was about fifteen minutes in dying. I visited 
the place this morning, and saw his body, or the 
remains of it, at the place of execution. He was 
burnt to a crump. His legs and arms were gone, 
and only a part of his head and body were left." 

Lest this demonstration of ' public opinion' 
should be regarded as a sudden impulse merely, 
not an index of the settled tone of feeling in that 
community, it is important to add, that the Hon. 
Luke E. Lawless, Judge of the Circuit Court of 
Missouri, at a session of that Court in the city of 
St. Louis, some months after the burning of this 
man, decided officially that since the burning of 
Mcintosh was the act, either directly or by 
countenance of a majority of the citizens, it is ' a 
case which transcends the jurisdiction,' of the 
Grand Jury ! Thus the state of Missouri has 
proclaimed to the world, that the wretches who 
perpetrated that unspeakably diabolical murder, 
and the thousands that stood by consenting to it, 
were her representatives, and the Bench sancti- 
fies it with the solemnity of a judicial decision. 

The ' New Orleans Post,' of June 7, 1836, pub- 
lishes the following ; 

" We understand, that a negro man was 
lately condemned, by the mob, to be burned 
OVER A SLOW FIRE, wliich was put into execu- 
tion at Grand Gulf, Mississippi, for murdering a 
black woman, and her master." 

Mr. Henry Bradley, of Pennyan, N. Y., has 



furnished us with an extract of a letter written by 
a gentleman in Mississippi to his brother in that 
village, detailing the particulars of the preceding 
transaction. The letter is dated Grand Gi^lf, 
Miss. August 15, 1836. The extract is as foi 
lows : 

'' I left Vicksburg and came to Grand Gulf. 
This is a fine place immediately on the banks of the 
Mississippi, of something like fifteen hundred in- 
habitants in the winter, and at this time, I sup- 
pose, there arc not over two hundred white inhabi- 
tants, but in the town and its vicinity there are 
negroes by thousands. The day I arrived at this 

place there was a man by the name of G 

murdered by a negro man that belonged to him. 

G was born and brought up in A , state 

of New York, His father and mother now live 

south of A . He has left a property here, it 

is supposed, of forty thousand dollars, and no fa- 
mily. 

" They took the negro, mounted him on a horse, 
led the horse under a tree, put a rope around his 
neck, raised him up by throwing the rope over a 
limb ; they then got into a quarrel among them- 
selves ; some swore that he should be burnt alive ; 
the rope was cut and the negro dropped to the 
ground. He immediately jumped to his feet ; 
they then made him walk a short distance to a 
tree ; he was then tied fast and a fire kindled, 
when another quarrel took place ; the fire was 
pulled away from him when about half dead, and 
a committee of twelve appointed to say in what 
manner he should be disposed of. They brought in 
that he should then be cut down, his head cut oft*, his 
body burned, and his head stuck on a pole at the 
corner of the road in the edge of the town. That 
was done and all parties satisfied I 

" G owned the negroes wife, and was in the 

habit of sleeping with her! The negro said he 
had killed him, and he beheved he should be re- 
warded in heaven for it, 

" This is but one instance among many of a 
similar nature. S. S," 

We have received a more detailed account of 
this transaction from Mr. William Armstrong, of 
Putnam, Ohio, through Maj. Horace Nye, of that 
place. Mr. A. who has been for some years em- 
ployed as captain and supercargo of boats de- 
scending the river, was at Grand Gulf at the 
time of the tragedy, and witnessed it. It was on the 
Sabbath. From Mr. Armstrong's statement, it ap- 
pears that the slave was a man of uncommon in- 
telligence ; had the over-sight of a large business 
— superintended the purchase of supplies for his 
master, &c. — that exasperated by the intercourse 
of his master with his wife, he was upbraiding 
her one evening, when his master overhearing 
him, went out to quell him, was attacked by the 
infuriated man and killed on the spot. The name 
of the master was Green ; he was a native of Au- 
burn, New York, and had been at the south but 
a few years. 

Mr. EzEKiEL BiRDSEYE, of Comwall, Conn., a 
gentleman well known and highly respected in 



.158 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion, 



Litchfield county, who resided a number of years 
in South Carohna, gives the following testimo- 
ny :— 

"A man by the name of Waters was killed by 
his slaves, in Newberry District. Three of them 
were tried before the court, and ordered to be 
burnt, I was but a few miles distant at the time, 
and conversed with those who saw the execution. 
The slaves were tied to a stake, and pitch pine 
wood piled around them, to which the fire was 
communicated. Thousands were collected to 
witness this barbarous transaction. Other execu. 
tions of tliis kind took place in various parts of 
the state, during my residence in it, from 1818 to 
1824. About three or four years ago, a young 
negro was burnt in Abbeville District, for an at- 
tempt at rape." 

In the fall of 1837, there was a rumor of a pro- 
jected insurrection on the Red River, in Louisia- 
na. The citizens forthwith seized and hanged 

NINE SLAVES, AND THREE FREE COLORED MEN, WITH- 
OUT TRIAL. A few months previous to that trans- 
action, a slave was seized in a similar manner 
and pubHcly burned to death, in Arkansas. In 
July, 1835, the citizens of Madison county, Mis- 
sissippi, were alarmed by rumors of an insurrec- 
tion* arrested five slaves and publicly executed 
them without trial. 

The Missouri Republican, April 30, 1838, gives 
the particulars of the deliberate murder of a negro 
man named Tom, a cook on board the steamboat 
Pawnee, on her passage up from New Orleans to 
St. Louis. Some of the facts stated by the Re- 
publican are the following : 

" On Friday night, about 10 o'clock, a deaf 
and dumb German girl was found in the store- 
room with Tom. The door was locked, and at 
first Tom denied she was there. The girl's 
father came. Tom unlocked the door, and 
the girl was found secreted in the room behind a 
barrel. The next morning some four or five of 
the deck passengers spoke to the captain about it. 
This was about breakfast time. Immediately 
after he left the deck, a number of the deck pas- 
sengers rushed upon the negro, bound his arms 
behind his back and carried him forward to the 
bow of the boat. A voice cried out ' throw him 
overboard,' and was responded to from every 
quarter of the deck — and in an instant he was 
plunged into the river. The whole scene of 
tying him and throwing him overboard scarcely 
occupied ten minutes, and was so precipitate that 
the officers were unable to interfere in time to 
save him. 

" There were between two hundred and fifty 
and three hundred passengers on board." 

The whole process of seizing Tom, dragging 
him upon deck, binding his arms behind his back, 
forcing him to the bow of the boat, and throwing 
him overboard, occupied, the editor informs us, 
about TEx\ MINUTES, and of the two hundred and 
fifty or three hundred deck passengers, with perhaps 
as many cabin passengers, it does not appear that 
a single individual raised a finger to prevent this 



deliberate murder ; and the cry '♦ throw him over* 
board," was' it seems, ''responded to from every 
quarter of the deck I" 

Rev. James A. Thome, of Augusta, Ky., son of 
Arthur Thome, Esq , till recently a slaveholder, 
published five years since the following descrip- 
tion of a scene witnessed by him in New Or- 
leans : 



" In December of 1833, 
leans, in the steamer W — 
dark and rainy. The passengers were calledout 



landed at New Or- 
It was after night, 



of the cabin, from the enjoyment of a fire, which 
the cold, damp atmosphere rendered very comfort- 
able, by a sudden shout of, ' catch him — calch 
him — catch the negro.' The cry was answered 
by a hundred voices — ' Catch him — kill him,' and 
a rush from every direction toward our boat, in- 
dicated that the object of pursuit was near. The 
next moment we heard a man plunge into the 
river, a few paces above us. A crowd gathered 
upon the shore, with lamps and stones, and clubs, 
still crying, ' catch him — kill him — catch him — 
shoot him.' 

" T soon discovered the poor man. He had 
taken refuge under the prow of another boat, and 
was standing in the water up to his waist. The 
angry vociferation of his pursuers, did not intim- 
idate him. He defied them all. ' Don't you 
dare to come near me, or I will sink you in the 
river.' He was armed with despair. For a 
moment the mob was palsied by the energy 
of his threatenings. They were afraid to 
go to hira with a skiff, but a number of them 
went on to the boat and tried to seize him. They 
threw a noose rope down repeatedly, that they 
might pull him up by the neck ! but he planted 
his hand firmly against the boat and dashed the 
rope away with his arms. One of them took a 
long bar of wood, and leaning over the prow, en- 
deavored to strike him on the head. The blow 
must have shattered the skull, but it did not reacli 
low enough. The monster raised up the heavy 
club again and said, ' Come out now, you old ras- 
cal, or die.' * Strike,' said the negro ; ' strike — 
shiver my brains now ; I want to die ;' and 
down went the club again, without striking. 
This was repeated several times. The mob, see- 
ing their efforts fruitless, became more enraged 
and threatened to stone him, if he did not surren- 
der himself into their hands. He again defied 
them, and declared that he would drown himself 
in the river, before they should have him. They 
then resorted to persuasion, and promised they 
would not hurt him. ' I'll die first ;' was his only 
reply. Even the furious mob was awed, and for 
a while stood dumb. 

"After standing in the cold Avater for an hour^ 
the miserable being began to fail. We observed 
him gradually sinking — his voice grew weak and 
tremulous — yet he continued to curse I In the 
midst of his oaths he uttered broken sentences — 
' I did'nt steal the meat — I did'nt steal — my mas- 
ter lives — master — master lives up the river — (his 
voice began to gurgle in his throat, and he was so 
chilled that his teeth chattered audibly) — I did'nt 
— steal — I did'nt steal — my — my master — my— - 
I want to see my master — I didn't — no — my mas 
— you want — you want to kill me — I didn't steal 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



159 



the' — ^His last words could just be heard as he 
sunk under the water. 

" During this indescribable scene, not one of the 
hundred that stood around made any effort to save 
the man until he was apparently drowned. He 
was then dragged out and stretched on the bow 
of the boat, and soon sufficient means were used 
for his recovery. The brutal captain ordered him 
to be taken off his boat — declaring, with an oath, 
that he would throw him into the river again, if 
he was not immediately removed. I withdrew, 
sick and horrified with this appalling exhibition 
of wickedness. 

" Upon inquiry, I learned that the colored man 
lived some fifty miles up the Misssissippi ; that he 
had been charged with stealing some article from 
the wharf ; was fired upon with a pistol, and pur- 
sued by the mob. 

" In reflecting upon this unmingled cruelty — 
this insensibility to suffering and disregard of life 
— I exclaimed, 

' Is there no flesh in man's obdurate heart V 

One poor man, chased like a wolf by a hundred 
blood hounds, yelling, howling, and gnashing 
their teeth upon him — plunges into the cold river 
to seek protection I A crowd of spectators wit- 
ness the scene, with all the composure with 
which a Rornan populace would look upon a gla- 
diatorial show. Not a voice heard in the sufferer's 
behalf. At length the powers of nature give way ; 
the blood flows back to the heart — the teeth 
chatter — the voice trembles and dies, while the 
victim drops down into his grave. 

*' What an atrocious system is that which leaves 
two millions of souls, friendless and powerless — 
hunted and chased — afflicted and tortured and 
driven to death, without the means of redress. — 
Yet such is the system of slavery." 

The ' public opinion ' of slaveholders is illus. 
trated by scores of announcements in southern 
papers, like the following, from the Raleigh, (N. 
C) Register, August 20, 1838. Joseph Gales 
and Son, editors and proprietors — the father and 
brother of the editor of the National Intelligencer, 
Washington city, D. C. 

" On Saturday night, Mr. George Holmes, of 
this county, and some of his friends, were in pur- 
suit of a runaway slave (the property of Mr. 
Holmes) and fell in with him in attempting to 
make his esc-ape. Mr. H. discharged a gun at 
his legs, for the purpose of disabling him ; but un- 
fortunately, the slave stumbled, and the shot 
struck him near the small of the back, of which 
wound he died in a short time. The slave con- 
tinned to run some distance after he was shot, 
until overtaken by one of the party. We are sa 
tisfied, from all that we can learn, that Mr. H. 
had no intention of inflicting a mortal wound." 

Oh ! the gentleman, it seems, only shot at his 
legs, merely to ' disable ' — and it must be expect, 
ed that every gentleman will amuse himself in 
shooting at his own property whenever the notion 
takes him, and if he should happen to hit a little 
higher and go through the small of the back in- 
stead of the legs, why every body says it is ' un. 



fortunate,' and the whole of the editorial corps, 
instead of branding him as a barbarous wretch for 
shooting at his slave, wliatever part he aimed ai, 
join with the oldest editor in North Carolina, in 
complacently exonerating Mr. Holmes by say- 
ing, " We are satisfied that Mr. H. had no inten- 
tion of inflicting a mortal wound." And so ' pub- 
lie opinion ' wraps it up ! 

The Franklin (La.) Republican, August 19, 
1837, has the following : 

"Negroes Taken. — Four gentlemen of this 
vicinity, went out yesterday for the purpose of 
finding the camp of some noted runaways, sup- 
posed to be near this place ; the camp was disco- 
vered about 11 o'clock, the negroes ibur in num- 
ber, three men and one woman, finding they 
were discovered, tried to make their escape 
through the cane ; two of them were fired on, one 
of which made his escape ; the other one fell after 
running a short distance, his wounds are not sup- 
posed to be dangerous ; the other man was taken 
without any hurt ; the woman also made her es- 
cape." 

Thus terminated the morning's amusement of 
the ^four gentlemet},^ whose exploits are so com 
placently chronicled by the editor of the Franklin 
Republican. The three men and one woman 
were all fired upon, it seems, though only one of 
them was shot down. The half famished runa- 
ways made not the least resistance, they merely 
rushed in panic among the canes, at the sight of 
their pursuers, and the bullets whistled after them 
and brought to the ground one poor fellow, who 
was carried back by his captors as a trophy of 
the ' public opinion ' among slaveholders. 

In the Macon (Ga.) Telegraph, Nov. 27, 1838, 
we find the following account of a runaway's den, 
and of the good luck of a ' Mr. Adams,' in run- 
ning down one of them ' with his excellent dogs :' 

" A runaway's den was discovered on Sunday 
near the Washington Spring, in a little patch of 
woods, where it had been for several months, so 
artfully concealed under ground, that it was de- 
tected only by accident, though in sight of two 
or three houses, and near the road and fields 
where there has been constant daily passing. 
The entrance was concealed by a pile of pine 
straw, representing a hog bed — which being re- 
moved, discovered a trap door and steps that led 
to a room about six feet square, comfortably ceiled 
with plank, containing a small fire-place the flue 
of which was ingeniously conducted above ground 
and concealed by the straw. The inmates took 
the alarm and made their escape ; but Mr. Adams 
and his excellent dogs being put upon the trail, 
soon run down and secured one of them, which 
proved to be a negro fellow who had been out 
about a year. He stated that the other occupant 
was a woman, who had been a runaway a still lon- 
ger time. In the den was found a quantity of 
meal, bacon, corn, potatoes, &c., and various 
cooking utensils and wearing apparel." 

Yes, Mr. Adams' ' excellent dogs ' did the 
work I They were well trained, swift, fresli, 



160 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



keen-scented, ' excellent ' men-hunters, and 
though the poor fugitive in his frenzied rush for 
liberty, strained every muscle, yet they gained 
upon him, and after dashing through fens, brier, 
beds, and the tangled undergrowth till faint and 
torn, he sinks, and the blood-hounds are upon 
him. What blood-vessels the poor struggler burst 
in his desperate push for life — how much he was 
bruised and lacerated in his plunge through the 
forest, or how much the dogs tore him, the Macon 
editor has not chronicled — they are matters of no 
moment — but his heart is touched with the merits 
of Mr. Adams' * excellent dogs,' that ' soon run 
down and secMrcc? ' a guiltless and trembling hu- 
man creature ! 

The Georgia Constitutionalist, of Jan. 1837, 
contains the following letter from the coroner of 
Barnwell District, South Carolina, dated Aiken, 
S. C. Dec. 20, 1836. 

" To the Editor of the Constitutionalist : 

" I have just returned from an inquest I held 
over the bod^r of a negro man, a runaway, that 
was shot near the South Edisto, in this District, 
(Barnwell,) on Saturday last. He came to his 
death by his own recklessness. He refused to be 
taken alive — and said that other attempts to take 
him had been made, and he was determined that 
he would not be taken. He was at first, (when 
those in pursuit of him found it absolutely neces- 
sary,) shot at with small shot, with the intention 
of merely crippling him. He was shot at several 
times, and at last he was so disabled as to be 
compelled to surrender. He kept in the run of a 
creek in a very dense swamp all the time that 
the neighbors were in pursuit of him. As soon 
as the negro was taken, the best medical aid was 
procured, but he died on the same evening. One 
of the witnesses at the Inquisition, stated that the 
negro boy said he was from Mississippi, and be. 
longed to so many persons, that he did not know 
who his master was, but again he said his mas- 
ter's name was Brown, He said his name was 
Sam, and when asked by another witness, who 
his master was, he muttered something like Au- 
gusta or Augustine. The boy was apparently 
above thirty -five or forty years of age, about six 
feet high, slightly yellow in the face, very long 
beard or whiskers, and very stout built, and a 
stern countenance ; and appeared to have been a 
runaway for a long time. 

" William H. Pritchard, 
" Coroner (Ex-officio,) Barnwell Dist. S. C. 

The Norfolk (Va.) Herald, of Feb. 1837, has 
the following : 

"Three negroes in a ship's yawl, came on 
shore yesterday evening, near New Point Com- 
fort, and were soon after apprehended and lodged 
in jail. Their story is, that they belonged to a 
brig from New York bound to Havana, which 
was cast away to the southward of Cape Henry, 
some day last v/eek ; that the brig was called the 
Maria, Captain Whittemore. I have no doubt 
they are deserters from some vessel in the bay, as 
their statements are very confused and inconsist- 
ent. One of these fellows is a mulatto, and calls 



himself Isaac Turner ; the other two are quite 
black, the one passing by the name of James 
Jones and the other John Murray. They have 
all their clothing with them, and are dressed in 
sea-faring apparel. They attempted to make 
their escape, and it was not till u musket was fired 
at them, and one of them slightly wounded, that 
they surrendered. They will be kept in jail till 
something further is discovered respecting them." 

The ' St. Francisville (La.) Chronicle,' of 
Feb, 1, 1839. Gives the following account of a 
' negro hunt,' in that Parish. 

" Two or three days since a gentleman of this 
parish, in hunting runaway negroes, came upon 
a camp of them in the swamp on Cat Island, 
He succeeded in arresting two of them, but the 
third made fight ; and upon being shot in the 
shoulder, fled to a sluice, where the dogs suc- 
ceeded in drowning him before assistance could 
arrive." 

" The dogs succeeded in drowning him" I Poor 
fellow ! He tried hard for his life, plunged into 
the sluice, and, with a bullet in his shoulder, and 
the blood hounds unfleshing his bones, he bore up- 
for a moment with feeble stroke as best he might, 
but ' public opinion,' ' succeeded in drowning 
him,' and the same ' public opinion,' calls the 
man who fired and crippled him, and cheered on 
the dogs, ' a gentleman,' and the editor who cele- 
brates the exploit is a ' gentleman*^ also !" 

A large number of extracts similar to the 
above, might here be inserted from Southern 
newspapers in our possession, but the foregoing 
are more than sufficient for our purpose, and we 
bring to a close the testimony on this point, with 
the following. Extract of a letter, from the Rev. 
Samuel J. May, of South Scituate, Mass, dated 
Dec. 20, 1838, 

" You doubtless recollect the narrative given 
in the Oasis, of a slave in Georgia, who having 
ranaway from his master, (accounted a very 
hospitable and even humane gentleman,) was 
hunted by his master and his retainers with 
horses, dogs, and rifles, and having been driven 
into a tree by the hounds, was shot down by his 
more cruel pursuers. All the facts there given, 
and some others equally shocking, connected 
with the same case, were first communicated to 
me in 1833, by Mr. W. Russell, a highly respect- 
able teacher of youth in Boston, He is doubt- 
less ready to vouch for them. The same gentle- 
man informed me that he was keeping school on 
or near the plantation of the monster who per- 
petrated the above outrage upon humanity, that 
lie was even invited by him to join in the hunt, 
and when he expressed abhorrence at the thought, 
the planter holding up the rifle which he had in 
his hand said with an oath, ' damn that rascal, 
this is the third time he has runaway, and he 
shall never run again. I'd rather put a ball into 
his side, than into tlie best buck in the land.'" 

Mr, Russell, in the account given by him of 
this tragedy in the ' Oasis,' page 267, thus de- 
scribes the slaveholder who made the above ex- 
pression, and was the leader of the ' hunt,' and 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



161 



m whose family he resided at the time as an in- 
structor ; he says of him — He was " an opulent 
planter, in whose family the evils of slaveholding 
were palliated by every expedient that a humane 
and generous disposition could suggest. He 
was a man of noble and elevated character, and 
distinguished for his generosity, and kindness of 
heart." 

In a letter to Mr. May, dated Feb. 3, 1839, 
Mr. Russell, speaking of the hunting of run- 
aways with dogs and guns, says : " Occurrences 
of a nature similar to the one related in the 
' Oasis,' were not unfrequent in the interior of 
Georgia and South Carolina twenty years ago. 
Several such fell under my notice within the 
space of fifteen months. In two such ' hunts,' 
I was solicited to join." 

The following was written by a sister-in-law of 
Gerrit Smith, Esq., Peterboro. She is married to 
the son of a North Carolinian. 

" In North Carolina, some years ago, several 
slaves were arrested for committing serious 
crimes and depredations, in the neighborhood of 
Wilmington, among other things, burning houses, 
and, in one or more instances, murder. 

'• It happened that the wife of one of these slaves 
resided in one of the most respectable families in 
W. in the capacity of nurse. Mr. J. the first 
lawyer in the place, came into the room, where 
the lady of the house was sitting, with the nurse, 
who held a child in her arms, and, addressing 
the nurse, said, Hannah ! would you know your 
husband if you should see him ? — Oh, yes, sir, 
she replied — when he drew from beneath his 

CLOAK THE HEAD OF THE SLAVE, at thc sight of 

which the poor woman immediately fainted. The 
heads of the others were placed upon poles, in 
some part of the town, afterwards known as 
♦ Negro Head Point.' " 

We have just received the above testimony, en- 
closed in a letter from Mr Smith, in which he 
says, " that the fact stated by my sister-in-law, 
actually occurred, there can be no doubt." 

The following extract from the Diary of the 
Rev. Elias Cornelius, we insert here, having 
neglected to do it under a preceding head, to 
which it more appropriately belongs. 

" New Orleans, Sabbath, February 15, 1818. 
Early this morning accompanied A. H. Esq. to 
the hospital, with the view of making arrange- 
ments to preach to such of the sick as could un- 
derstand English. The first room we entered 
presented a scene of human misery, such as I 
had never before witnessed. A poor negro man 
was lying upon a couch, apparently in great dis- 
tress ; a more miserable object can hardly be 
conceived. His face was much disfigured, an 

IRON collar, two INCHES WIDE AND HALF AN 
INCH THICK, WAS CLASPED ABOUT HIS NECK, while 

one of his feet and part of the leg were in a state 
of putrefaction. We inquired the cause of his 
being in this distressing condition, and he an- 
swered us in a faltering voice, that he was will- 
ing to tell us all the truth. 

" He belonged to Mr. a Frenchman, ran- 

21 



away, was caught, and punished with one hun- 
dred lashes ! This happened about Christmas ; 
and during the cold weather at that time, he 
was confined in the Cane-house, with a scanty 
portion of clothing, and without fire. In this 
situation his foot had frozen, and mortified, and 
having been removed from place to place, he 
was yesterday brought here by order of his new 
master, who Avas an American. I had no time 
to protract my conversation with him then, but 
resolved to return in a few hours and pray with 
him. * * 

" Having returned home, I again visited the 
hospital at half past eleven o'clock, and concluded 
first of all [he was to preach at 12,] to pray with 
the poor lacerated negro. I entered the apart- 
ment in which he lay, and observed an old man 
sitting upon a couch ; but, without saying any- 
thing went up to the bed-side of the negro, who 
appeared to be asleep. I spoke to him, but he 
gave no answer. I spoke again, and moved his 
head, still he said nothing. My apprehensions 
were immediately excited, and I felt for his pulse, 
but it was gone. Said I to the old man, ' surely 
this negro is dead.' ' No,' he answered, ' he has 
fallen asleep, for he had a very restless sea- 
son last night.' I again examined and called 
the old gentleman to the bed, and alas, it was 
found true, that he was dead. Not an eye had 
witnessed his last struggle, and I was the firjt, 
as it should happen, to discover the fact. I call- 
ed several men into the room, and without cere- 
mony they wrapped him in a sheet, and carried 
him to thc dead-house zs it is called." — Edwards'* 
Life of Rev. Elias Cornelius, pp. lOl, 2, 3. 

THE PROTECTION EXTENDED BY ' PUBLIC OPINION,' 
TO THE HEALTH* OF THE SLAVES. 

This may be judged of from the fact that it is per- 
fectly notorious among slaveholders, both North 
and South, that of the tens of thousands of slaves 
sold annually in the northern slave states to be 
transported to the south, large numbers of them 
die under the severe process of acclimation, all 
suj[Fer more or less, and multitudes much, in their 
health and strength, during their first years in 
the far south and south west. That such is the 
case is sufficiently proved by the care taken by all 
who advertise for sale or hire in Louisiana, 
Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas, &c. &c. to 
inform the reader, that their slaves are ' Creoles,' 
' southern born,' country born,' &c. or if they are 
from the north, that they are ' acclimated,' and the 
importance attached to their acclimation, is shown 
in the fact, that it is generally distinguished from 
the rest of the advertisements either by italics or 
CAPITALS. Almost every newspaper published in 
the states far south contains advertisments like the 
following. 

From the " Vicksburg (Mi.) Register," Dec. 
27, 1838. 

" I OFFER my plantation for sale. Also seven- 
ty.five acclimated Negroes. O. B. Cobb." 

From the " Southerner," June 7, 1837. 

" I WILL sell my Old-River plantation near Co- 
* See pp. 37-39. 



162 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



lumbia in Arkansas ;— also ONE HUNDRED 
AND THIRTY ACCLIMATED SLAVES. 

Benj. Hughes," 
Port Gibson, Jan. 14, 1837. 

From the " Planters' (La.) Intelligencer," 
March 22. 

" Probate sale — Will be offered for sale at 
Public Auction, to the highest bidder, ONE 
HUNDRED AND THIRTY acclimated slaves." 

G. W. Keeton. 
Judge of the Parish of Concordia." 

From the " Arkansas Advocate," May 22, 
1837. 

" By virtue of a Deed of Trust, executed to me, 
I will sell at public auction at Fisher's Prairie, 
Arkansas, sixty LIKELY NEGROES, consist- 
ing of Men, Women, Boys and Girls, the most of 
whom are well acclimated. 

Ghandison D. Royston, 

Trustee.^^ 

From the " New Orleans Bee," Feb. 9, 1838. 

" VALUABLE ACCLIMATED NEGROES." 

" Will be sold on Saturday, 10th inst. at 12 
o'clock, at the city exchange, St. Louis street." 

Then follows a description of the slaves, closing 
with the same assertion, which forms the cap. 
tion of the advertisement " all acclimated." 

General Felix Houston, of Natchez, advertises 
in the " Natchez Courier," April 6, 1838, " Thir- 
ty five very fine acclimated Negroes." 

Without inserting more advertisements, suf- 
fice it to say, that when slaves are advertised for 
sale or hire, in the lower southern country, if they 
are natives, or have lived in that region long 
enough to become acclimated, it is invariably 
stated. 

But we are not left to conjecture the amount 
of suffering experienced by slaves from the north 
in undergoing the severe process of ' seasoning' 
to the climate, or ' acclimation.'' A writer in the 
New Orleans Argus, September, 1830, in an arti- 
cle on the culture of the sugar cane, says : ' The 
loss by death in bringing slaves from a northern 
climate, which our planters are under the neces- 
sity of doing, is not less than twenty-five per 
gent.' 

Nothwithstanding the immense amount of 
suffering endured in the process of acclimation, 
and the fearful waste of life, and the notori- 
ety of this fact, still the ' public opinion' of 
Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Kentucky, Mis- 
souri, &.C. annually drives to the far south, thou- 
sands of their slaves to undergo these sufferings, 
and the ' public opinion,' of the far south buys 
them, and forces the helpless victims to endure 
them. 

THE 'protection,' VOUCHSAFED BY 'PUBLIC OPIN- 
ION,' TO LIBERTY. 

This is shown by hundreds of advertisements 
in southern papers, like the following : 



From the «' Mobile Register," July 21. 1837. 

"WILL BE SOLD CHEAP FOR CASH, in 
front of the Court House of Mobile County, on 
the 22d day of July next, one mulatto man 
named HENRY HALL, who says he is free ; 
his owner or owners, if any, having failed to de- 
mand him, he is to be sold according to the 
statute in such cases made and provided, to pay 
Jail fees. Wm. Magee, Sh'ff. M. C." 

From the " Grand Gulf (Miss.) Advertiser," 
Dec. 7, 1838. 

" COMMITTED to the jail of Chickasaw Co. 
Edmund, Martha, John and Louisa ; the man 50, 
the woman 35, John 3 years old, and Lousia 14 
months. They say they are free and were de- 
coyed to this state." 

The " Southern Argus," of July 25, 1837, con- 
tains the following. 

" RAN AW AY from my plantation, a negro 
boy named William. Said boy was taken up by 
Thomas Walton, and says ke zoas free, and that 
his parents live near Shawneetown, Illinois, and 
that he was taken from that place in July 1836 ; 
says his father's name is William, and his mother's 
Sally Brown, and that they moved from Frede. 
ricksburg, Virginia. I will give twenty dollars to 
any person who will deliver said boy to me or 
Col. Byrn, Columbus. SAMUEL H. BYRN." 

The first of the following advertisements was a 
standing one, in the " Vicksburg Register," from 
Dec. 1835 till Aug. 1836. The second advertises 
the same free man for sale. 

" SHERIFF'S SALE." 

" COMMITTED, to the jail of Warren coun- 
ty, as a Runaway, on the 23d inst. a Negro man, 
who calls himself John J. Robinson ; sa7/s that he 
is free, sdLysihdit he kept a baker's shop in Co- 
lumbus, Miss, and that he peddled through the 
Chickasaw nation to Pontotoc, and came to 
Memphis, where he sold his horse, took water, 
and came to this place. The owner of said boy 
is requested to come forward, prove property, pay 
charges, and take him away, or he will be dealt 
with as the law directs. 

Wm. Everett, Jailer. 

Dec. 24, 1835." 

" NOTICE is hereby given, that the above 
described boy, who calls himself John J. Robin- 
son, having been confined in the Jail of Warren 
county as a Runaway, for six months — and hav- 
ing been regularly advertised during this period, 
I shall proceed to sell said Negro boy at public 
auction, to the highest bidder for cash, at the 
door of the Court House in Vicksburg, on Mon- 
day, 1st day of August, 1836, in pursuance of 
the statute in such cases made and provided, 

E, W. Morris, SheriflT. 

Vicksburg, July 2, 1836." 

See "Newburn (N. C.) Spectator," of Jan. 5, 
1838, for the following advertisement, 

" RANAWAY, from the subscriber a negro 
man known as Frank Pilot. He is five feet 
eight inches high, dark complexion, and about 
50 years old, has been free since 1829 — is now 
my property, as heir at law of his last owner, 
1 Samuel Ralston, dec. I will give the above re- 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



163 



ward if he is taken and confined in any jail so 
that I can get him. Samuel Ralston. 

Pactolus, Pitt County." 
From the Tuscaloosa (Ala.) " Flag of the 
Union," June 7. 

" COMMITTED to the Jail of Tuscaloosa 
"iounty, a negro man, who says his name is 
Robert Winfield, and says he is free. 

R. W. Barber, Jailer" 

That " public opinion," in the slave states af- 
fords no protection to the liberty of colored per- 
sons, even after those persons become legally free, 
by the operation of their own laws, is declared 
by Governor Comegys, of Delaware, in his re- 
cent address to the Legislature of that state, Jan. 
1839. The Governor, commentmg upon the 
law of the state which provides that persons con- 
victed of certain crimes shall be sold as servants 
for a limiLed time, says, 

'' The case is widely different with the negro (!) 
AlthougJi ordered to be disposed of as a servant 
for a term of years, perpettiai slavery in the south 
is his inevitable doom ; unless, peradventure, age 
or disease may have rendered him worthless, or 
some resident of the State, from motives of benevo. 
lence, will pay for him three or four times his 
intrinsic value. It matters not for how short a 
time he is ordered to be sold, so that he can be 
carried from the State. Once beyond its hmits, 
all chance of restored freedom is gone — for he is 
removed far from the reach of any testimony to 
aid him in an effort to be released from bondage, 
when his legal term of servitude has expired. 
Of the many colored convicts sold out of the State, 
it is believed none ever return. Of course they 
arc purchased with the express view to their trans- 
portation for life, and bring such enormous 
prices as to prevent all competition on the part of 
those of our citizens who require their services, 
and would keep them in the State P 

From the " Memphis (Ten.) Enquirer," Dec. 
28, 1838. 

'' $50 Reward. Ranaway, from the subscri- 
ber, on Thursday last, a negro man named Isaac, 
22 years old, about 5 feet 10 or 11 inches high, 
dark complexion, well made, full face, speaks 
quick, and very correctly for a negro. He was 
originally from Neiv-York, and no doubt will at- 
tempt to pass himself as free. I will give the 
above reward for his apprehension and delivery, 
or confinement, so that I obtain him, if taken 
out of the state, or $ 30 if taken within the state. 

Jno. Simpson. 
Memphis, Dec. 28." 

Mark, with what shameless hardihood this Jno. 
Simpson, tells the public that he knew Isaac 
Wright was a free man ! ' He was originally 
FROM New York,' he tells us. And yet he adds 
with brazen effrontery, ' he will attempt to pass 
himself as free!' This Isaac Wright, was ship- 
ped by a man named Lewis, of New Bedford, 
]M assachusetts, and sold as a slave in New Or- 
leans. After passing through several hands, and 
being flfjgged nearly to death, he made his escape, 



and five days ago, (March 5,) returned to his 
friends in Philadelphia. 

From the " Baltimore Sun," Dec. 23, 1838. 

" Free N egroes. — Merry Ewall, a free negro, 
from Virginia, was committed to jail, at Snow 
Hill, Md. last week, for remaining in the State 
longer than is allowed by the law of 1831. The 
fine in his case amounts to $225. Capril Purnell, 
a negro from Delaware, is now in jail in the 
same place, for a violation of the game act. 
His fine amounts to four thousand dollars, and 
he WILL BE sold in a short time." 

The following is the decision of the Supreme 
Court, of Louisiana, in the case of Gomez vs. 
Bonneval, Martin's La. Reports, 1)56, and Wheel- 
er's '* Law of Slavery," p. 380-1. 

Marginal remark of the Compiler. — " A slave 
does not become free on his being illegally im- 
ported into the stale. ^^ 

" Per Cur. Derbigny, J. The petitioner is a 
negro in actual state of slavery ; he claims his 
freedom, and is bound to prove it. In his at- 
tempt, however, to show that he was free before 
he was introduced into this country, he has failed, 
so that his claim rests entirely on the laws prohibit- 
ing the introduction of slaves in the United 
States. That the plaintiff was imported since 
that prohibition does exist is a fact sufficiently 
established by the evidence. What right he has 
acquired under the laws forbidding such importa. 
tion is the only question which we have to ex- 
amine. Formery, while the act dividing Louisiana 
into two territories was in force in this country, 
slaves introduced here in contravention to it, 
were freed by operation of law ; but that act was 
merged in the legislative provisions which were 
subsequently enacted on the subject of importa- 
tion of slaves into the United States generally. 
Under the now existing laws, the individuals thus 
imported acquire no personal right, they are 
mere passive beings, who are disposed of accord- 
ing to the will of the different state legisla- 
tures. In this country they are to remain slaves, 
and TO BE SOLD for the benefit of the state. 
The plaintiff, therefore, has nothing to claim as a 
freeman ; and as to a mere change of master, 
should such be his wish, he cannot be listened to 
in a court of justice. ^^ 

Extract from a speech of Mr. Thomson of Penn. 
in Congress, March 1, 1826, on the prisons in 
the District of Columbia. 

" I visited the prisons twice that I might my- 
self ascertain the truth. * * In one of these 
cells (but eight feet square,) were confined at 
that time, seven persons, three women and four 
children. The children were confined under a 
strange system of law in this District, by which 
a colored person who alleges he is free, and 
appeals to the tribunals of the country, to have 
the matter tried, is committed to prison, till the 
decision takes place. They were almost naked • 
one of them was sick, lying on the damp brick, 
floor, without bed, pillow, or covering. In this 
abominable cell, seven human beings were con- 
fined day by day, and night after night, without 
a bed, chair, or stool, or any other of the most 



164 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



common necessaries of life." — Gales'' Congres- 
sional Debates, v. 2, p. 1480. 

The following facts serve to show, that the pre- 
sent generation of slaveholders do but follow in 
the footsteps of their fathers, in their zeal for 
LIBER FY. 

Extract from a document submitted by the 
Committee of the yearly meeting of Friends in 
Philadelphia, to the Committee of Congress, to 
whom was referred the memorial of the people 
called Quakers, in 1797. 

'* In the latter part of the year 1776, several of 
the people called Quakers, residing in the coun- 
ties of Perquimans and Pasquotank, in the state 
of North Carolina, liberated their negroes, as it 
was then clear there was no existing law to pre- 
vent their so doing ; for the law of 1741 could not 
at that time be carried into effect ; and they were 
suffered to remain free, until a law passed, in the 
spring of 1777, under which they were taken up 
and sold, contrary to the Bill of Rights, recog- 
nized in the constitution of that state, as a part 
thereof, and to which it was annexed. 

" In the spring of 1777, when the General As- 
sembly met for the first time, a law was enacted 
to prevent slaves from being emancipated, except 
for meritorious services, &.c. to be judged of by 
the county courts or the general assembly ; and 
ordering, that if any should be manumitted in 
any other way, they be taken up, and the county 
courts within whose jurisdictions they are appre- 
hended should order them to be sold. Under this 
law the county courts of Perquimans and Pasquo- 
tank, in the year 1777, ordered a large number 

OF PERSONS TO BE SOLD, WHO WERE FREE AT THE 

TIME THE LAW WAS MADE. In thc year 1778 seve- 
ral of those cases were, by certiorari, brought be- 
fore the superior court for the district of Eden- 
torn, where the decisions of the county courts 
were reversed, the superior court declaring, that 
said county courts, in such their proceedings, 
have exceeded their jurisdiction, violated the 
rights of the subject, and acted in direct opposi- 
tion to the Bill of Rights of this state, considered 
justly as part of the constitution thereof; by giv- 
ing to a law, not intended to affect this case, a 
retrospective operation, thereby to deprive free- 
men of this state of their liberty, contrary to the 
laws of the land. In consequence of this decree 
several of the negroes were again set at liberty ; 
but the next General Assembly, early in 1779, 
passed a law, wherein they mention, that doubts 
have arisen, whether the purchasers of such slaves 
have a good and legal title thereto, and confirm 
the same ; under which they were again taken 
up by the purchasers and reduced to slavery." 

[The number of persons thus re-enslaved was 
134.] 

The followmg are the decrees of the Courts, 
ordering the sale of those freemen : — 
" Perquimans Ctfunty, July term, at Hartford, 

A. D. 1777. 

" These may certify, that it was then and there 
ordered, that the sheriff of the county, to-morrow 
morning, at ten o'clock, expose to sale, to the 
highest bidder, for ready money,at the court-house 



door, the several negroes taken up as free, and in 
his custody, agreeable to law. 

"Test. Wm. Skinner, Clerk. 

" A true copy, 25th August, 1791. 

"Test. J. Harvey, Clerk." 

" Pasquotank County, September Court, &c. &c. 
1777. 

" Present, the Worshipful Thomas Boyd, Tim- 
othy Hickson, John Paclin, Edmund Chancey, 
Joseph Reading, and Thomas Rees, Esqrs. Jus- 
tices. 

" It was then and there ordered, that Thomas 
Reading, Esq. take the free negroes taken up 
under an act to prevent domestic insurrections 
and otiier purposes, and expose the same to the 
best bidder, at public vendue, for ready money, 
and be accountable for the same, agreeable to the 
aforesaid act ; and make return to this or the next 
succeeding court of his proceedings. 

" A copy. Enoch Reese, C. C." 

THE protection OF "PUBLIC OPINION" TO 

domestics ties. 

The barbarous indifference with which slave- 
holders regard the forcible sundering of husbands 
and wives, parents and children, brothers and 
sisters, and the unfeeling brutality indicated by 
the language in which they describe the efforts 
made by the slaves, in their yearnings after those 
from whom they have been torn away, reveals a 
'public opinion' towards them as dead to thei» 
agony as if they were cattle. It is well nigh im 
possible to open a southern paper without findinj, 
evidence of this. Though the truth of this asset 
tion can hardly be called in question, we subjoin a 
few illustrations, and could easily give hundreds. 

From the " Savannah Georgian," Jan. 17, 1839. 

" ^100 reward will be given for my two fellows, 
Abram and Frank. Abram has a wife at Colonel 
Stewart's, in Liberty county, and a sister in Sa- 
vannah, at Capt. Grovenstine's. Frank has a wife 
at Mr. Le Cont's, Liberty county ; a mother at 
Thunderbolt, and a sister in Savannah. 

Wm. Rolarts. 

" Wallhourville, 5th Jan. 1839 " 

From the " Lexington (Ky.) Intelligencer.' 
July 7, 1838. 

•' $160 Reward. — Ranaway from the subscrib- 
ers, living in this city, on Saturday 16th inst. a 
negro man, named Dick, about 37 years of age. 
It is highly probable said boy will make for New 
Orleans, as he has a wife living in that city, and 
he has been heard to say frequently that he was 
determined to go to New Orleans. 

" Drake & Thompson. 

" Lexington, June 17, 1838." 

From the " Southern Argus," Oct. 31, 1837. 

" Runaway — my negro man, Frederick, about 
20 years of age. He is no doubt near the planta- 
tion of G. W. Corp re w, Esq. of Noxubbee county, 
Mississippi, as his wife belongs to that gentleman, 
and he followed her from my residence. The above 
reward will be paid to any one who will confine 
him in jail and inform me of it at Athens, Ala. 

" Athens, Alabama. Kerkman Lewis." 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



165 



From the '' Savannah Georgian," July 8, 1837. 

" Ran away from the subscriber, his man Joe. 
He visits the city occasionally, where he has been 
harbored by his mother and sister. I will give 
one hundred dollars for proof sufficient to convict 
his harbor ers. R. P. T. Mongin." 

The " Macon (Georgia) Messenger," Nov. 23, 
1837, has the following : — 

" ^25 Reward. — Ran away, a negro man, 
named Cain. He was brought from Florida, and 
has a wife near Mariana, and probably will at. 
tempt to make his way there. 

H. L. Cook." 

From the " Richmond (Va.) Whig," July 25, 
1837. 

" Absconded from the subscriber, a negro man, 
by the name of Wilson. He was born in the 
county of New Kent, and raised by a gentleman 
named RatlifFe, and by him sold to a gentleman 
named Taylor, on whose farm he had a wife and 
several children. Mr. Taylor sold him to a Mr. 
Slater, who, in consequence of removing to Ala. 
bama, Wilson left ; and when retaken was sold, 
and afterwards purchased, by his present owner, 
from T. Mc Cargo and Co. of Richmond." 

From the *' Savannah (Ga.) Republican," Sept. 
3, 1838. 

•' ^20 Reward for my negro man Jim. — Jim is 
about 50 or 55 years of age. It is probable he 
will aim for Savannah, as he said he had children 
in that vicinity. J. G. Owens. 

" Barnwell District, S. C." 

From the " Staunton (Va.) pectator," Jan. 
3, 1839. 

" Ranaway, Jesse. — He has a wife, who be- 
longs to Mr. John RufF, of Lexmgton, Rockbridge 
county, and he may probably be lurking in that 
neighborhood. Moses McCue." 

From the " Augusta (Georgia) Chronicle," July 
TO, 1837. 

" ^120 Reward for my negro Charlotte. She 
is about 20 years old. She was purchased some 
months past from Mr. Thomas J. Walton, of Au- 
gusta, by Thomas W. Oliver ; and, as her mother 
and acquaintances live in that city, it is very 
likely she is harbored by some of them. 

Martha Oliver." 

From the " Raleigh (N. C.) Register," July 18, 
1837. 

" Ranaway from the subscriber, a negro man 
named Jim, the property of Mrs. Elizabeth Whit, 
field. He has a wife at the late Hardy Jones', 
and may probably be lurking in that neighbor- 
hood. John O'Rorke." 

From the " Richmond (Va.) Compiler," Sept. 
8, 1837. 

\ " Ranaway from the subscriber, Ben. He ran 
off without any known cause, and / suppose he is 
aiming to go to his wife, who was carried from 
the neighborhood last winter. John Hunt." 

From the " Charleston (S. C.) Mercury," Aug. 
1, 1837. 



" Absconded from Mr. E. D. Bailey, on Wad- 
malaw, his negro man, named Saby. Said fellow 
was purchased in January, from Francis Dickin- 
son, of St. Paul's parish, and is probably now in 
that neighborhood, where he has a wife. 

Thomas N. Gadsden." 

From the " Portsmouth (Va.) Times," August 
3, 1838. 

" $50 dollars Reward will be given for the ap- 
prehension of my negro man Isaac. He has a 
wife at James M. Riddick's, of Gates county, N. 
C. where he may probably be lurking. 

C. Miller." 

From the " Savannah (Georgia) Republican," 
May 24, 1838. 

" $40 Reward. — Ran away from the subscriber 
in Savannah, his negro girl Patsey. She was 
purchased among the gang of negroes, known as 
the Hargreave's estate. She is no doubt lurking 
about Liberty county, at which place she has rela- 
tives. Edward Houstoun, of Florida." 

From the " Charleston (S. C.) Courier," June 
29, 1837. 

" $20 Reward will be paid for the apprehension 
and delivery, at the work-house in Charleston, of 
a mulatto woman, named Ida. It is probable she 
may have made her way into Georgia, where she 
has connections. 

Matthew Muggridge." 

From the " Norfolk (Va.) Beacon," March 
31, 1838. 

" The subscriber will give $20 for the appro- 
hension of his negro woman, Maria, who ran 
away about twelve months since. She is known 
to be lurking in or about Chuckatuch, in the 
county of Nansemond, where she has a husbandy 
and formerly belonged. 

Peter Oneill." 

From the " Macon (Georgia) Messenger," Jan. 
16, 1839. 

" Ranaway from the subscriber, two negroes, 
Davis, a man about 45 years old ; also Teggy^ 
his wife, near the same age. Said negroes will 
probably make their way to Columbia county, as 
they have children living in that county. I will 
liberally reward any person who may deliver them 
to me. Nehemiah King." 

From the " Petersburg (Va.) Constellation," 
June 27, 1837. 

" Ranaway, a negro man, named Peter. He 
has a wife at the plantation of Mr. C. Haws, near 
Suffolk, where it is supposed he is still lurking. 

John L. Dunn." 

From the "Richmond (Va.) Whig," Dec. 7, 
1739. 

" Ranaway from the subscriber, a negro man, 
named John Lewis, It is supposed that he is 
lurking about in New Kent county, where he pro- . 
fesses to have a wife. Hill Jones, 

"Agent for R. F. «fe P. Raikoad Co.'» 

From the " Red River (La.) Whig," June 2d, 
1838. 
" Ran away from the subscriber, a mulatto wo- 



166 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



man, named Maria. It is probable she may be 
found in the neighborhood of Mr. Jesse Bynum's 
plantation, where she has relations, &c. 

Thomas J. Wells." 

From the " Lexington (Ky.) Observer and Re- 
porter," Sept. 28, 1838. 

" $50 Reward. — Ran away from the subscriber, 
a negro girl, named Maria. She is of a copper 
color, between 13 and 14 years of age — bare head- 
ed and bare footed. She is small of her age — 
very sprightly and very likely. She stated she 
was going to see her mother at Maysville. 

Sanford Thomson." 

From the "Jackson (Tenn.) Telegraph," Sept. 
14, 1838. 

»' Committed to the jail of Madison county, a 
negro woman, who calls her name Fanny, and 
says she belongs to William Miller, of Mobile. 
She formerly belonged to John Givins, of this 
county, who now owns several of her children. 
David Shropshire, Jailor." 

From the " Norfolk (Va.) Beacon," July 3d, 
1838. 

" Runaway from my plantation below Eden- 
ton, my negro man. Nelson. He has a mother 
living at Mr. James Goodwin's, in Ballahack, 
Perquimans county ; and two brothers, one be- 
longing to Job Parker, and the other to Josiah 
Coffield. Wm. D. Rascoe." 

From the " Charleston (S. C.) Courier," Jan. 
12, 1838. 

"SlOO Reward. — Run away from the sub- 
scriber, his negro fellow, John. He is well known 
about the city as one of my bread carriers : has a 
wife living at Mrs. Weston's, on Hempstead. 
John formerly belonged to Mrs. Moor, near St. 
Paul's church, where his mother still lives, and 
has been harbored by her before. 

John T. Marshall. 
60, Tradd-street." 

From the " Newbern (N. C.) Sentinel," March 
17, 1837. 

" Ranaway, Moses, a black fellow, about 40 
years of age — ^ha« a wife in Washington. 

Thomas Bragg, Sen. 
Warrenton, N. C." 

From the "Richmond (Va.) Whig," June 30, 
1837. 

" Ranaway, my man Peter. — He has a sister 
and mother in New Kent, and a wife about fifteen 
or eighteen miles above Richmond, at or about 
Taylorsville. Theo. A. Lacy." 

From the "New Orleans Bulletin," Feb. 7, 
1838. 

" Ranaway, my negro Philip, aged about 40 
years. — He may have gone to St. Louis, as he has 
a wife there. 

W. G. Clark, 70 New Levee." 

From the " Georgian," Jan. 29, 1838. 
" A Reward of $5 will be paid for the appre- 
hension of his negro woman, Diana. Diana is 
from 45 to 50 age. She formerly belonged to 
Mr. Nath. Law, of Liberty county, where her hus- 



band still lives. She will endeavor to go there 
perhaps. D. O'Byrne." 

From tlie " Richmond (Va.) Enquirer," Feb. 
20, 1838. 

" $10 Reward for a negro woman, named Sal- 
ly, 40 years old. We have just reason to believe 
the said negro to be now lurking on the James 
River Canal, or in the Green Spring neighbor- 
hood, where, we are informed, her husband re- 
sides. The above reward will be given to any 
person securing her. 

Polly C. Shields. 
Mount Elba, Feb. 19, 1838." 

" $50 Reward. — Ran away from the subscriber, 
his negro man Pauladore, commonly called Paul. 
I understand Gen. R. Y. Hayne has purchased 
his wife and children from H. L. Pinckney, Esq. 
and has them now on his plantation at Goose- 
creek, where, no doubt, the fellow is frequently 
lurking. T. Davis." 

" $25 Reward. — Ran away from the subscriber, 
a negro woman, named Matilda. It is thought 
she may be somewhere up James River, as she 
was claimed as a wife by some boatman in Gooch- 
land. J. Alvis." 

" Stop the Runaway ! ! !— $25 Reward. Ran. 
away from the Eagle Tavern, a negro fellow, 
named Nat. He is no doubt attempting to follow 
his wife, who was lately sold to a speculator named 
Redmond. The above reward will be paid by 
Mrs. Lucy M. Downman, of Sussex county, Va.'' 

Multitudes of advertisements like the above ap- 
pear annually in the southern papers. Reader, 
look at the preceding list — mark the unfeeling 
barbarity with which their masters and mistresses 
describe the struggles and perils of sundered hus- 
bands and wives, parents and children, in their 
weary midnight travels through forests and rivers, 
with torn limbs and breaking hearts, seeking the 
embraces of each other's love. In one instance, 
a mother torn from all her children and taken to 
a remote part of another state, presses her way 
back through the wilderness, hundreds of miles, 
to clasp once more her children to her heart : but, 
when she has arrived within a few miles of them, 
in the same county, is discovered, seized, dragged 
to jail, and her purchaser told, through an adver- 
tisement, that she awaits his order. But we need 
not trace out the harrowing details already before 
the reader. 

Rev. C. S. Renshaw, of Quincy, Illinois, who 
resided some time in Kentucky, says ; — 

" I was told the following fact by a young lady, 
daughter of a slaveholder in Boone county, Ken- 
tucky, who lived within half a mile of Mr. Hughes* 
farm. Hughes and Neil traded in slaves down 
the river: they had bought up a part of their 
stock in the upper counties of Kentucky, and 
brought them down to Louisville, where the re- 
mainder of their drove was in jail, waiting their 
arrival. Just before the steamboat put off for the 
lower country, two negro women were offered for 
sale, each of them having a young child at the 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



107 



breast. The traders bought them, took their babes 
from their arms, and offered them to the highest 
bidder ; and they were sold for one dollar apiece, 
whilst the stricken parents were driven on board 
the boat, and in an hour were on their way to the 
New Orleans market. You are aware that a 
young babe decreases the value of a field hand in 
the lower country, whilst it increases her value 
in the ' breeding states.' " 

The following is an extract from an address, 
published by the Presbyterian Synod of Kentucky, 
to the churches under their care, in 1835 : — 

" Brothers and sisters, parents and children, 
husbands and wives, are torn asunder, and per- 
mitted to see each other no more. These 
acts are daily occurring in the midst of us. 
The shrieks and the agony, often witnessed on 
such occasions, proclaim, with a trumpet tongue, 
the iniquity of our system. There if> not a neigh, 
borhood where these heart-rending scenes are not 
displayed. There is not a village or road that 
does not behold the sad procession of manacled 
outcasts, whose mournful countenances tell that 
they are exiled by force from all that their 

HEARTS HOLD DEAR." AddrCSS, p. 12. 

Professor Andrews, late of the University of 
North Carolina, in his recent work on Slavery 
and the Slave Trade, page 147, in relating a con- 
versation with a slave-trader, whom he met near 
Washington City, says, he inquired, 

" ' Do you often buy the wife without the hus- 
band?' 'Yes, VERY often; and FREQUENT- 
LY, loo, they sell me the mother while they keep 
her children. I have often known them take away 
the infant from its mother^s breast, and keep it, 
while they sold her.^ " 

The following sale is advertised in the " Geor- 
gia Journal," Jan. 2, 1838. ^ 

" Will be sold, the following property, to wit : 

One Child, by the name of James, about 

eight months old^ levied on as the property of 
Gabriel Gunn." 

The following is a standing advertisement in 
the Charleston (S. C.) papers : — 

" 120 Negroes for Sale. — The subscriber has 
just arrived from Petersburg, Virginia, with one 
hundred and twenty likely young negroes of b«th 
sexes and every description, which he offers for 
sale on the most reasonable terms. 

" The lot now on hand consists of plough boys, 
several likely and well-qualified house servants of 
both sexes, several women with children, small 
girls suitable for nurses, and several small boys 
WITHOUT their MOTHERS. Planters and traders are 
earnestly requested te give the subscriber a call 
previously to making purchases elsewhere, as he 
is enabled and will sell as cheap, or cheaper, than 
can be sold by any other person in the trade. 

Benjamin Davis. 

Hamburg, S. C. Sept, 28, 1838." 

Extract of a letter to a member of Congress, 
from a friend in Mississippi, published in the 
"Washington Globe," June, 1837. 

" The times are truly alarming here. Many 
plantations are entirely stripped of negroes (pro- 
tection !) and horses, by the marshal or sheriff. — 



Suits are multiplying — two thousand five hundred 
in the United States Circuit Court, and three 
thousand in Hinds County Court-" 

Testimony of Mr. Silas Stone, of Hudson, 
New York. Mr. Stone is a member of the Epis- 
copal Church, has several times been elected an 
Assessor of the city of Hudson, and for three 
years has filled the office of Treasurer of the 
County. In the fall of 1807, Mr. Stone witness- 
ed a sale of slaves, in Charleston, South Caroli^ 
na, which he thus describes in a communication 
recently received from him. 

" I saw droves of the poor fellows driven to 
the slave markets kept in different parts of the 
city, one of which I visited. The arrangements 
of this place appeared something like our north- 
ern horse-markets, having sheds, or barns, in the 
rear of a public house, where alcohol was a 
handy ingredient to stimulate the spirit of jockey- 
ing. As the traders appeared, lots of negroes 
were brought from the stables into the bar room, 
and by a flourish of the whip were made to as- 
sume an active appearance. ' What will you 
give for these fellows ?' ' How old are they ? 
' Are they healthy ?' ' Are they ^uick V &c. 
at the same time the owner would give them a 
cut with a cowhide, and tell them to dance and 
jump, cursing and swearing at them if they did 
not move quick. In fact all the transactions in 
buying and selling slaves, partakes of jockey- 
ship, as much as buying and selling horses. There 
was as little regard paid to the feelings of the 
former as we witness in the latter. 

" From these scenes I turn to another, which 
took place in front of the noble ' Exchange 
Buildings,' in the heart of the city. On the left 
side of the steps, as you leave the main hall, im- 
mediately under the windows of that proud build- 
ing, was a stage built, on which a mother with 
eight children were placed, and sold at auction. 
I watched their emotions closely, and saw their 
feelings were in accordance to human nature. 
The sale began with the eldest child, who, being 
struck off to the highest bidder, was taken from 
the stage or platform by the purchaser, and led 
to his wagon and stowed away, to be carried 
into the country ; the second, and third were also 
sold, and so until seven of the children were torn 
from their mother, while her discernment told 
her they were to be separated probably forever, 
causing in that mother the most agonizing sobs 
and cries, in which the children seemed to share. 
The scene beggars description ; suffice it to say, it 
was sufficient to cause tears from one at least 
' whose skin was not colored like their own,' and 
I was not ashamed to give vent to them." 

the " protection" afforded by ' PUBLIC opinion' 
to childhood and old age. 

In the '« New Orleans Bee," May 31, 1837, Mr. 
P. Bahi, gives notice that he has committed to 
JAIL as a runaway ' a little negro aged about 
seven years.' 

In the " Mobile Advertiser," Sept, l3, 1838, 
William Magee, Sheriff, gives notice that George 
Walton, Esq. Mayor of the city has committed to 
jail as a runaway slave, Jordan, about twelve 



1G8 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



YEARS OLD, and the Sheriff proceeds to give no- 
tic tliat if no one claims him the boy will be 
sold as a slave to pay jail fees. 

In the " Memphis (Tenn.) Gazette," May 2, 

1837, W. H. Montgomery advertises that he 
will sell at auction a boy aged 14, another aged 
]2, and a girl 10, to pay the debts of their de- 
ceased master. 

" B. F. Chapman, Sheriff, Natchitoches (La.) 
advertises in the ' Herald,' of May 17, 1837, 
that he has ^^ committed to jail, as a runaway a 
negro boy between 11 and 12 years oe age." 

In the " Augusta (Ga.) Chronicle," Feb. 13, 

1838, R. H. Jones, jailor, says, " Brought tejail 
a negro woman Sarah, she is about 60 or 65 years 
old:' 

In the " Winchester Virginian," August 8, 
1837, Mr. R. H. Menifee, offers ten dollars re- 
ward to any one who will catch and lodge in jail, 
Abram and Nelly, about 60 years old, so that he 
can get them again. 

J. Snowden, Jailor, Columbia, S. C. gives 
notice in the " Telescope," Nov, l8, 1837, that he 
has committed to jail as a runaway slave, " Caro- 
line fifty years of age.'' 

Y. S. PicKARD, Jailor, Savannah, Georgia, 
gives notice in the " Georgian," June 22, 1837, 
that he has taken up for a runaway and lodged 
in jail Charles, 60 years of age. 

In the Savannah " Georgian," April 12, 1837> 
Mr. J. Cuyler, says he will give five dollars, to 
anyone who will catch and bring back to him 
Saman, an old negro man, and grey, and has only 
one eye." 

In the " Macon (Ga.) Telegraph," Jan. 15, 

1839, Messrs. T. and L. Napier, advertise for 
sale Nancy, a woman 65 years of age, and Peggy, 
a woman 65 years of age. 

The following is from the " Columbian (Ga.) 
Enquirer," March 8, 1838. 

" $25 Reward. — Ranaway, a Negro Woman 
named MATILDA, aged about 30 or 35 years. 
Also, on the same night, a Negro Fellow of small 
size, very aged, stoop-shouldered, who walks very 
decrefidly, is supposed to have gone off. His 
name is DAVE, and he has claimed Matilda for 
wife. It may be they have gone off together. 

♦' I will give twenty.five dollars for the woman, 
delivered to me in Muscogee county, or confined 
in any jail so that I can get her. 

Moses Butt." 

J. B. Randall, Jailor, Cobb (Co.) Georgia, ad- 
vertises an old negro man, in the " Milledgeville 
Recorder," Nov. 6, 1838. 

" A NEGRO MAN, has been lodged in the 
common jail of this county, who says his name is 
Jupitkr. He has lost all his front teeth above 
and below — speaks very indistinctly, is very lame, 
so that he can hardly walk." 

Rev. Charles Stewart Renshaw, of Quincy, 



Illinois, who spent some time in slave states, 
speaking of Iiis residence in Kentucky, says : — 
" One Sabbath morning, whilst riding to meet- 
ing near Burlington, Boone Co. Kentucky, in 
company with Mr. Willis, a teacher of sacred 
music and a member of the Presbyterian Church, 
I was startled at mingled shouts and screams, 
proceeding from an old log house, some distance 
from the road side. As we passed it, some five 
or six boys from 12 to 15 years of age, came out, 
some of them cracking whips, followed by two 
colored boys crying. I asked Mr. W. what the 
scene meant. ' Oh,' he replied, • those boys have 
been whipping the niggers ; that is the way we 
bring slaves into subjection in Kentucky — we 
let the children beat them.' The boys returned 
again into the house, and again their shouting 
and stamping was heard, but ever and anon a 
scream of agony that would not be drowned, rose 
above the uproar ; thus they continued till the 
sounds were lost in the distance." 

Well did Jefferson say, that the children of 
slaveholders are 'nursed, educated, and daily 

EXERCISED IN TYRANNY.' 

The ' protection' thrown around a mother's 
yearnings, and the helplessness of childhood by 
the ' public opinion' of slaveholders, is shown by 
thousands of advertisements of which the follow- 
ing are samples. 

From the " New Orleans Bulletin," June 2. 

" NEGROES FOR SALE.— A negro woman ' 
24 years of age, and has two children, one eight 
and the other three years. Said negroes will be 
sold SEPARATELY or together as desired. The 
woman is a good seamstress. She will be sold 
low for cash, or exchanged for groceries. For 
terms apply to Mayhew Bliss, & Co. 

1 Front Levee." 

From the " Georgia Journal," Nov. 7. 
" TO BE SOLD— One negro girl about 18 
months old, belonging to the estate of William 
Chambers, dec'd. Sold for the purpose of distri- 
bution ! .' Jethro Dean, 
Samuel Beall, 



Ex'ors." 



From the " Natchez Courier," April 2, 1838. 

"^NOTICE — Is hereby given that the under- 
signed pursuant to a certain Deed of Trust will 
on Thursday the 12th day of April next, expose 
to sale at the Court House, to the highest bidder 
for cash, the following Negro slaves, to wit ; 
Fanny, aged about 28 years ; Mary, aged about 7 
years ; Amanda, aged about 3 months ; Wilson, 
aged about 9 months. 

•' Said slaves, to be sold for the satisfaction of 
the debt secured in said Deed of Trust. 

W. J, Minor." 

From the "Milledgeville Journal," Dec. 26, 
1837. 

"EXECUTOR'S SALE. 

" Agreeable to an order of the court of Wil- 
kinson county, will be sold on the first Tuesday 
in April next, before the Court-house door in the 
town of Irwington, ONE NEGRO GIRL adout 
two years old, named Rachel, belonging to the 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



169 



estate of William Chambprs dcc'd. Sold for the 
benefit of the heirs and creditors of said estate. 

Samuel Bell, 

Jesse Peacock, 



From the "Alexandria (D. C.) Gazette" Dec. 
19. 

" I will give the highest cash price for likely ne- 
groes, from lO to 25 years of age. 

Geo. Kephart." 

From the " Southern Whig," March 2, 1838.— 
" WILL be sold in La Grange, Troup county, one 
negro girl, by the name of Cliarity, aged about 
10 or 12 years ; as the property of Littleton L. 
Burk, to satisfy a mortgiige fi. fa. from Troup In- 
ferior Court, in favor of Daniel S. Robertson 
vs. said Burk." 

From the " Petersburgh (Va.) Constellation," 
March 18, 1837. 

" 50 Negroes wanted immediately. — The sub- 
scriber will give a good market price for fifty like- 
ly negroes, from 10 ^o 30 years of age. 

Henry Davis." 

The following is an extract of a letter from a 
gentleman, a native and still a resident of one of 
the slave states, and still a slaveholder. He is 
an elder in the Presbyterian Church, his letter is 
now before us, and his name is with the Execu- 
tive Committee of the Am. Anti-slavery Society. 

" Permit mc to say, that around this very 
place where I reside, slaves are brought almost 
constantly, and sold to Miss, and Orleans ; that 
it is usual to part families forever by such sales 
— the parents from the children and the children 
from the parents, of every size and age. A 
mother was taken not long since, in this town, 
from a sucking child, and sold to the lower 
countr3^ Three young men I saw some time ago 
taken from this place in chains — while the mother 
of one of them, old and decrepid, followed with 
tears and prayers her son, 18 or 20 miles, and 
bid him a final farewell ! O, thou Great Eter- 
nal, is this justice ! is this equity 1 ! — Equal 
Rights ! !" 

We subjoin a few miscellaneous facts illus- 
trating the INHUMANITY of slavcholding 'public 
opinion.' 

The shocking indifference manifested at the 
death of slaves as human beings, contrasted with 
the grief at their loss as i)roperty^ is a true index 
to the public opinion of slaveholders. 

Colonel Ohver of Louisville, lost a valuable 
race-horse by the explosion of the steamer Oro- 
noko, a few months since in the Mississippi river. 
Eight human beings whom he held as slaves 
were also killed by the explosion. They were 
the-riders and grooms of his race-horses. A 
Louisville paper thus speaks of the occurrence : 

" Colonel Oliver suffered severely by the ex- 
plosion of the Oronoko. He lost eight of his rub- 
bers and riders, and his horse, Joe Kearney, 
which he had sold the night before for ^3,000." 

Mr. King, of the New York American, makes 

22 



1 



the following just comment on the barbarity of 
the above paragraph : 

" Would any one, in reading this paragraph from 
an evening paper, conjecture that these ' eight 
rubbers and riders,' that together with a horse, 
are merely mentioned as a ' loss' to their owner, 
were human beings — immortal as the writer who 
thus brutalizes them, and perhaps cherishing life 
as much ? In this view, perhaps, the ♦ eight' 
lost as much as Colonel Oliver." 

The following is from the "Charleston (S. C.) 
Patriot," Oct. 18. 

" Loss of Property I — Since I have been here, 
(Rice Hope, N. Santcc,) I have seen much mi- 
sery, and much of human suffering. The loss of 
PROPERTY has been immense, not only on South 
Santee, but also on this river. Mr. Shoolbred 
has lost, (according to the statement of the phy- 
sician,) forty-six negroes — the majority lost being 
the primest hands he had — bricklayers, cai'pen- 
ters, blacksmiths and Coopers. Mr. Wm. Ma- 
zyck has lost 35 negroes. Col. Thomas Pinkney, 
in the neighborhood of 40, and many other plant- 
ers, 10 to 20 on each plantation. Mrs. Elias Harry, 
adjoining the plantation of Mr. Lucas, has lost 
up to date, 32 negroes — the best part of her prim, 
est negroes on her plantation." 

From the " Natchez(Miss.) Daily Free Trader," 
Feb. 12, 1838. 

" Found. — A negro's head was picked up on 

THE RAIL-ROAD YESTERDAY, WHICH THE OWNER 
CAN HAVE BY CALLING AT THIS OFFICE AND PAYING 
FOR THE ADVERTISEMENT." 

The way in •which slavcholding ' public opi- 
nion' protects a poor female lunatic is illustrated 
in the following advertisement in the " Fayette • 
ville (N. C.) Observer," June 27, 1838 : 

Taken and committed to jail, a negro girl 
named Nancy, who is supposed to belong to 
Spencer P. Wright, of the State of Georgia. 
She is about 30 years of age, and is a luna- 
tic. The owner is requested to come forward, 
prove property, pay charges, and take her away, 

or SHE will BE SOLD TO PAY HER JAIL FEES. 

FRED'K HOME, Jailor." 
A late Prospectu.«! of the South Carolina Me- 
dical College, located in Charleston, contains the 
following passage : — 

" Some advantages of a peculiar character are 
connected with this Institution, which it may be 
proper to point out. No place in the United 
States offers as great opportunities for the acqui- 
sition of anatomical knowledge, subjects being 

OBTAINED FROM AMONG THE COLORED POPULATION IN 
sufficient NUMBER FOR EVERY PURPOSE, AND PRO- 
PER DISSECTIONS CARRIED ON WITHOUT OFFENDING 
ANY INDIVIDUALS IN THE COMMUNITY ! !" 

Without offending any individuals in the com 
munity ! More than half the population of 
Charleston, we believe, is * colored ;' their graves 
may be ravaged, their dead may be dug up, drag- 
ged into the dissecting room, exposed to the gaze, 
heartless gibes, and experimenting knives, of a 
crowd of inexperienced operators, who are given ta 



170 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



understand in the prospectus, that, if they do not 

acquire manual dexterity in dissection, it will be 
wholly their own fault, in neglecting to improve 
the unrivalled advantages ajfForded by the institu. 
tion — since each can have as many human bodies 
as he pleases to experiment upon — and as to the 
fathers, mothers, husbands, wives, brothers, 
and sisters, of those whom they cut to pieces 
from day to day, why, they are not ' individuals 
in the community,' but ' property,' and however 
their feelings may be tortured, the ' public opi- 
nion' of slaveholders is entirely too ' chivalrous' 
to degrade itself by caring for them ! 

The following which has been for some time a 
standing advertisement of the South Carolina 
Medical College, in the Charleston papers, is ano- 
ther index of the same ' public opinion' toward 
slaves. We give an extract : — 

'• Surgery of the Medical College of South Car. 
olina^ Queen si. — The Faculty inform their pro- 
fessional brethren, and the public, that they have 
established a Surgery, at the Old College, Queen 
street, for the treatment of negroes, which 
will continue in operation, during the session of 
the College, say from first November, to the fif- 
teenth of March ensuing. 

" The object of the Faculty, in opening this Sur- 
gery, is to collect as many interesting cases, as 
possible, for the benefit and instruction of their 
pupils — at the same time, they indulge the hope, 
that it may not only prove an accommodation, but 
also a matter of economy to the public. They 
would respectfully call the attention of planters, 
living in the vicinity of the city, to this subject ; 
particularly such as may have servants laboring 
under Surgical diseases. Such persons of color 
as may not be able to pay for Medical advice, will 
be attended to gratis, at stated hours, as often as 
may be necessary. 

" The Faculty take this opportunity of soliciting 
the co-operation of such of their professional 
brethren, as are favorable to their objects. " 

" The first thing that strikes the reader of the 
advertisement is, that this Surgery is established 
exclusively ' for the treatment of negroes,'' and if 
he knows little of the hearts of slaveholders to- 
wards their slaves, he charitably supposes, that 
they ' feel the dint of pity,' for the poor sufferers 
and have founded this institution as a special 
charity for their relief. But the delusion va- 
nishes as he reads on ; the professors take special 
care that no such derogatory inference shall be 
drawn from their advertisement. They give us 
the three reasons which have induced them to 
open this ' Surgery for the treatment of negroes.' 
The first and main one is, 'to collect as many 
interesting cases as possible for the benefit and 
instruction of their pupils' — another is, ' the hope 
that it may prove an accommodation,'' — and the 
third, that it may be ' a matter of economy to 
the public.^ Another reason, doubtless, and a con. 
trolling one, though the professors are silent about 
it, is that a large collection of ' interesting surgi- 



cal cases,' always on hand, would prove a power, 
ful attraction to students, and greatly increase 
the popularity of the institution. In brief, then, 
the motives of its founders, the professors, were 
these, the accommodation of their students — the 
accommodation of the public (which means, the 
z^At^es)— and the accommodation of slaveholders 
who have on their hands disabled slaves, that 
would make ' interesting cases,' for surgical ope- 
ration in the presence of the pupils — to these 
reasons we may add the accommodation of the 
Medical Institution and the accommodation of 
themselves ! Not a syllable about the accommoda. 
tion of the hopeless sufferers, writhing with the 
agony of those gun shot wounds, fractured sculls, 
broken limbs and ulcerated backs which constitute 
the ' interesting cases' for the professors to ' show 
off before their pupils, and, as practice makes 
perfect, for the students themselves to try their 
hands at by way of experiment. 

Why, we ask, was this surgery established ' for 
the treatment of negroes'* alone ? Why were these 
'interesting cases' selected from that class exclu- 
sively? No man who knows the feeling of slave- 
holders towards slaves will be at a loss for the 
reason. 'Public opinion' would tolerate surgical ex- 
periments, operations, processes, performed upon 
them, which it would execrate if performed upon 
their master or other whites. As the great object in 
collecting the disabled negroes is to have ' inter- 
esting cases' for the students, the professors who 
perform the operations will of course endeavor to 
make them as ' interesting' as possible. The in- 
Mruction of the student is the immediate object, 
nd if the professors can accomplish it best by 
rotracting the operation, pausing to explain the 
different processes, &c. the subject is only a negro, 
and what is his protracted agony, that it should 
restrain the professor from making the case as 
' interesting' as possible to the students by so using 
his knife as will give them the best knowledge of 
the parts, and the process, however it may pro- 
tract or augment the pain of the subject. The 
end to be accomplished is the instruction of the 
student, operations upon the negroes are the means 
to the end ; that tells the whole story — and he who 
knows the hearts of slaveholders and has com- 
mon sense, however short the allowance, can find 
the way to his conclusions without a lantern. 

By an advertisement of the same Medical In- 
stitution, dated November 12, 1838, and pubhsh- 
ed in the Charleston papers, it appears that an ' in- 
firmary has been opened in connection with the 
college.' The professors manifest a great desire 
that the masters of servants should send in their dis- 
abled slaves, and as an inducement to the furnish- 
ing of such interesting cases say, all medical and 
surgical aid will be offered without making them 
liable to any professional charges. Disinterested 



I 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



171 



bounty, pity, sympathy, philanthropy ! However 
difficult or numerous the surgical cases of slaves 
thus put into their hands by the masters, they 
charge not a cent for their professional services. 
Their yearnings over human distress arc so in- 
tense, that they beg the privilege of performing all 
operations, and furnishing all the medical atten- 
tion needed, gratis, feehng that the relief of 
misery is its own reward ! ! ! But we have put 
down our exclamation points too soon — upon read- 
ing the whole of the advertisement we find the 
professors conclude it with the following para- 
graph :— 

" The SOLE OBJECT of the faculty in the estab- 
lishment of such an institution being to promote 
the interest of Medical Education within their 
native State and City." 

In the '• Charleston (South Carolina) Mercury" 
of October 12, 1838, we find an advertisement of 
half a column, by a Dr. T. Stillman, setting forth 
the merits of another ' Medical Infirmary,' under 
his own special supervision, at No. 110 Church 
street, Charleston. The doctor, after inveighing 
loudly against ' men totally ignorant of medical 
science,' who flood the country with quack nos- 
trums backed up by ' fabricated proofs of mira- 
culous cures,' proceeds to enumerate the diseases 
to which his ' Infirmary' is open, and to which 
his practice will be mainly confined. Appreciat- 
ing the importance of ' interesting cases,' as a 
stock in trade, on which to commence his experi- 
ments, he copies the example of the medical pro- 
fessors, and advertises for them. But, either 
from a keener sense of justice, or more generosi- 
ty, or greater confidence in his skill, or for some 
other reason, he proposes to buy up an assort- 
ment of damaged negroes, given over, as incura- 
ble, by others, and to make such his ' interesting 
cases,' instead of experimenting on those who are 
the ' property' of others. 

Dr. Stillman closes his advertisement with the 
following notice : — 

" To Planters and others. — Wanted fifty nc 
groes. Any person having sick negroes, consid- 
ered incurable by their respective physicians, and 
wishing to dispose of them, Dr. S. will pay cash 
for negroes affected with scrofula or king's evil, 
confirmed hypocondriasm, apoplexy, diseases of 
the liver, kidneys, spleen, stomach and intestines, 
bladder and its appendages, diarrhea, dysentery, 
&c. The highest cash price will be paid on appli- 
cation as above." 

The absolute barbarism of a ' public opinion' 
which not only tolerates, but produces such 
advertisements as this, was outdone by nothing 
in the dark ages. If the reader has a heart 
of flesh, he can feel it without help, and if he 
has not, comment will not create it. The total 
indviierence of slaveholders to such a cold blood- 
ed proposition, their utter unconsciousness of the 



paralysis of heart, and death of sympathy, and 
every feeling of common humanity for the slave, 
which it reveals, is enough, of itself, to show that 
the tendency of the spirit of slaveholding is, to 
kill in the sou] whatever it touches. It has no 
eyes to see, nor ears to hear, nor mind to under- 
stand, nor heart to feel for its victims as human 
beings. To show that the above indication of 
the savage state is not an index of individual 
feeling, but of ' public opinion,' it is sufficient to 
say, that it appears to be a standing advertise, 
mcnt in the Charleston Mercury, the leading po 
litical paper of South Carolina, the organ of the 
Honorables John C. Calhoun, Robert Barnwell 
Rhett, Hugh S. Legare, and others regarded as 
the elite of her statesmen and literati. Besides, 
candidates for popular favor, like the doctor who 
advertises for the fifty ' incurables,' take special 
care to conciliate, rather than outrage, ' public 
opinion.' Is the doctor so ignorant of ' public 
opinion' in his own city, that he has unwittingly 
committed violence upon it in his advertisement ? 
We trow not. The same ' public opinion' which 
gave birth to the advertisement of doctor Still, 
man, and to those of the professors in both the 
medical institutions, founded the Charleston 
' Work House' — a soft name for a Moloch temple 
dedicated to torture, and reeking with blood, in 
the midst of the city ; to which masters and 
mistresses send their slaves of both sexes to be 
stripped, tied up, and cut with the lash till the 
blood and mangled flesh flow to their feet, or to 
be beaten and bruised with the terrible paddle, or 
forced to chmb the tread-mill till nature sinks, or 
to experience other nameless torments. 

The "Vicksburg (Miss.) Register," Dec. 27, 
1838, contains the following item of information : 

" Ardor in Betting. — Two gentlemen, at a 
tavern, having summoned the waiter, the poor 
fellow had scarcely entered, when he fell down 
in a fit of apoplexy. ' He's dead !' exclaimed 
one. ' He'll come to !' replied the other. ' Dead, 
for five hundred !' ' Done, !' retorted the second. 
The noise of the fall, and the confusion which 
followed, brought up the landlord, who called out 
to fetch a doctor. ' No ! no ! we must have no 
interference — there's a bet d epending !' * But, 
sir, I shall lose a valuable servant I' » Never 
mind ! you can put him down in the bill !' " 

About the time the Vicksburg paper containing 
the above came to hand, we received a letter 
from N. P. Rogers, Esq, of Concord, N. H. the 
editor of the ' Herald of Freedom,' from which 
the following is an extract : 

'* Some thirty years ago, I think it was. Col. 
Thatcher, of Maine, a lawyer, was in Virginia, 
on business, and was there invited to dine at a 
public house, with a company oi the gentry of 
the south. The place I forget — the fact was told 
me by George Kimball, Esq. now of Alton, Illi- 
nois, who had the story from Col. Thatcher him- 



172 



Directions Considered — Public Opinion. 



self. Among the servants waiting was a young 
negro man, whose beautiful person, obhging and 
assiduous temper, and his activity and grace in 
serving, made him a favorite with the company. 
The dinner lasted into the evening, and the wine 
passed freely about the table. At length, one of 
the gentlemen, who was pretty highly excited 
with wine, became unfortunately incensed, either 
at some trip of the young slave, in waiting, or at 
some other cause happening when the slave was 
within his reach. He seized the long-necked 
wine bottle, and struck the young man suddenly 
in the temple, and felled him dead upon the floor. 
The fall arrested, for a moment, the festivities of 
the table. ' Devilish unlucky,' exclaimed one. 
' The gentleman is very unfortunate,' cried an- 
other. ♦ Really a loss,' said a third, &c. &c. 
The body was dragged from the dining hall, and 
the feast went on ; and at the close, one of the 
gentlemen, and the very one, I believe, whose 
hand had done the homicide, shouted, in 
bacchanalian bravery, and southern generosity, 
amid the broken glasses and fragments of chairs, 
' Landlord ! put the nigger into the bill !' 
This was that murdered young man's requiem 
and funeral service." 

Mr. George A. Avery, a merchant in Roches- 
ter, New York, and an elder in the Fourth Pres- 
byterian Church in that city, who resided four 
years in Virginia, gives the following testimony : 

" I knew a young man who had been out hunt- 
ing, and returning with some of his friends, see- 
ing a negro man in the road, at a little distance, 
deliberately drew up his rifle, and shot him dead. 
This was done without the slightest provocation, 
or a word passing. This young man passed 
through the form of a trial, and, although it was 
not even pretended by his counsel that he was 
not guilty of the act, deliberately and wantonly 
perpetrated, he was acquitted'. It was urged by 
his counsel, that he was a young man, (about 20 
years of age,) had no malicious intention, his 
mother was a widow, &c. &c." 

Mr. Benjamin Clendenon, of Colerain, Lan- 
caster county, Pennsylvania, a member of the 
Society of Friends, gives the following testimony : 

" Three years ago the coming month, I took 
a journey of about seventy-five miles from home, 
through the eastern shore of Maryland, and a 
small part of Delaware. Calling one day, near 
noon, at Georgetown Cross-Roads, I found my- 
self surrounded in the tavern by slaveholders. 
Among other subjects of conversation, their hu- 
man cattle came in for a share. One of the com- 
pany, a middle-aged man, then living with a 
second wife, acknowledged, that after the death 
of his first wife, he lived in a state of concubinage 
with a female slave ; but when the time drew 
near for the taking of a second wife, he found it 
expedient to remove the slave from the premises. 
The same person gave an account of a female 
slave he formerly held, who had a propensity for 
some one pursuit, I think the attendance of re. 
ligious meetings. On a certain occasion, she 
presented her petition to him, asking for this in- 
dulgence ; he refused — she importuned — and he, 
with sovereign indignation, seized a chair, and 
with a blow upon the head, knocked her sense- 



less upon the floor. The same person, for some 
act of disobedience, on the part, I think, of the 
same slave, when employed in stacking straw, 
felled her to the earth with the handle of a pitch 
fork. All these transactions were related with 
the utmost coinposure, in a bar-room within thirty 
miles of the Pennsylvania line." 

The two following advertisements are illustra- 
tions of the regard paid to the marriage relations 
by slaveholding judges, governors, senators in 
Congress, and mayors of cities. 

From the " Montgomery, (Ala.) Advertiser,'* 
Sept. 29, 1837. 

" ^20 Reward. — Ranaway from the subscriber, 
a negro man named Moses. He is of common 
size, about 28 years old. He formerly belonged 
to Judge Benson, of Montgomery, and it is said, 
has a wife in that county. John Gayle." 

The John Gayle who signs this advertisement, 
is an Ex-Governor of Alabama. 

From the " Charleston Courier," Nov. 28. 
" Ranaway from the subscriber, about twelve 
months since, his negro man Paulladore. His 
complexion is dark — about 50 years old. I un- 
derstand Gen. R. Y. Hayne has purchased his 
wife and children from H. L, Pinckney, Esq. 
and has them now on his plantation, at Goose 
Creek, where, no doubt, the fellow is frequently 
lurking. Thomas Davis." 

It is hardly necessary to say, that the General 
R. Y. Hayne, and H. L. Pinckney, Esq. named 
in the advertisement, are Ex-Governor Hayne, 
formerly U. S. Senator from South Carolina, and 
Hon. Henry L, Pinckney, late member of Con- 
gress from Charleston District, and now Intendant 
(Mayor) ot that city. 

It is no difficult matter to get .at the ' public 
opinion' of a community, when ladies ' of prop- 
erty and standing' publish, under their own 
names, such advertisements as the following. 

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Carter, of Groveton, Prince 
William county, Virginia, thus advertises her ne- 
gro man Moses : 

•' Ranaway from the subscriber, a negro man 
named Moses, aged about 40 years, about six feet 
high, well made, and possessing a good address, 
and has lost a part of one of his ears." 

Mrs. B. Newman, of the same place, and in 
the same paper, advertises — 

" Penny, the wife of Moses, aged about 30 
years, brown complexion, tall and likely, no par- 
ticular marks of person recollected." 

Both of the above advertisements appear in the 
National Intelligencer, (Washington city,) June 
10, 1837. 

In the Mobile Mercantile Advertiser, of Feb. 
13, 1838, is an advertisement signed Sarah 
Walsh, of which the following is an extract : 

"Twenty-five dollars reward will be paid to any 
one who may apprehend and deliver to me, or 
confine in any jail, so that I can get him, my 
man Isaac, who ranaway sometime in September 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



173 



last. He is 26 years of age, 5 feet 10 inches 
high, has a scar on his forehead, caused by a blow, 
and one on his back, made by a shot from a pis- 
tol." 

In the '* New Orleans Bee," Dec. 21, 1838, Mrs. 
BuRVANT, whose residence is at the corner of 
Chartres and Toulouse streets, advertises a wo- 
man as follows : 

" Ranaway, a negro woman named Rachel — 
has lost all her toes except the large one" 

From the " Huntsville (Ala.) Democrat," June 
16, 1838 : 

" Ten Dollars Reward. — Ranaway from the 
subscriber, a negro woman named Sally, about 
21 years of age, taking along her two children — 
one tliree years, and the other seven months old. 
These negroes were purchased by me at the sale 
of George Mason's negroes, on the first Monday 
in May, and left a few days thereafter. Any 
person delivering them to the jailor in Hunts- 
ville, or to me, at my plantation, five miles above 
Triana, on the Tennessee river, shall receive the 
above reward. Charity Cooper." 

From the " Mississippian," May 13, 1838 : 
" Ten Dollars Reward. — Ranaway from the 
subscriber, a man named Aaron, yellow com- 
plexion, blue eyes, &c. I have no doubt he is 
lurking about Jackson and its vicinity, probably 
harbored by some of the negroes sold as the property 
of my late husband, Harry Long, deceased. Some 
of them are about Richland, in Madison co. I 
will give the above reward when brought to me, 
about six miles north-west of Jackson, or put in 
JAIL, so that I can get him. Lucy Long." 

If the reader, after perusing the preceding 
facts, testimony, and arguments, still insists that 
the » public opinion' of the slave states protects 
the slave from outrages, and alleges, as proof of 
it, that cruel masters are frowned upon and shun- 
ned by the community generally, and regarded 
as monsters, we reply by presenting the following 
facts and testimony. 

" Col. Means, of Manchester, Ohio, says, that 
when he resided in South Carolina, his neighbor, 
a physician, became enraged with his slave, and 
sentenced him to receive two hundred lashes. 
After having received one hundred and forty, he 
fainted. After inflicting the full number of 
lashes, the cords with which he was bound were 
loosed. When he revived, he staggered to the 
house, and sat down in the sun. Being faint 
and thirsty, he begged for some water to drink. 
The master went to the well, and procured some 
water — but instead of giving him to drink, he 
threw the whole bucket-full in his face. Nature 
could not stand the shock — he sunk to rise no 
more. For this crime, the physician was bound 
over to Court, and tned, and acquitted — and 
THE NEXT YEAK HE WAS ELECTED 
TO THE LEGISLAIURE !" 

Testimony of Hon. John Randolph, of Vir- 
ginia: 

" In one of his Congressional speeches, Mr. R. 
says : Avarice alone can drive, as it does drive, 
this infernal traffic, and the wretched victims of 



it, like so many post-horses, whipped to death in 
a mail coach. Ambition has its cover-sluts in 
the pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious 
war ; but where are the trophies of avarice ? 
The hand-cuff, the manacle, the blood-stained 
cowhide ! What man is worse received in so- 
ciety FOR BEING A HARD MASTER ? WhO DENIES 
THF hand of a SISTER OR DAUGHTER TO SUCH 
MONSTERS ?" 

Mr. George A. Avery, of Rochester, New 
York, who resided four years in Virginia, testi- 
fies as follows : 

" I know a local Methodist minister, a man of 
talents, and popular as a preacher, who took his 
negro girl into his barn, in order to whip her — 
and she was brought out a corpse ! His friends 
seemed to think this of so little importance to his 
ministerial standing, that although I lived near 
him about three years, I do not recollect to have 
heard them apologize for the deed, though I re- 
collect having heard one of his neighbors allege 
this fact as a reason why he did not wish to heai 
him preach." 

Notwithstanding the mass of testimony which 
has been presented establishing the fact that fn 
the ' public opinion' of the South the slaves 
find no protection, some may still claim that the 
' public opinion' exhibited by the preceding facts 
is not that of the highest class of society at 
the South, and in proof of this assertion, refer to 
the fact, that ' Negro Brokers,' Negro Specu- 
lators, Negro Auctioneers, and Negro Breeders, 
&c., are by that class universally despised and 
avoided, as are all who treat their slaves with 
cruelty. 

To this we reply, that, if all claimed by the 
objector were true, it could avail him nothing 
for ' public opinion' is neither made nor unmade 
by ' the first class of society.' That class pro- 
duces in it, at most, but slight modifications ; 
those who belong to it have generally a ' public 
opinion,' within their own circle which has rare- 
ly more, either of morality or mercy than the 
public opinion of the mass, and is, at least, equal- 
ly heartless and more intolerant. As to the esti- 
mation in which ' speculators, ' ' soul drivers,' 
&c. are held, we remark, that, they are not de- 
spised because they trade in slaves but because 
they are working men, all such are despised by 
slaveholders. White drovers who go with droves of 
swine and cattle from the free states to the slave 
states, and Yankee pedlars, who traverse the south, 
and white day-laborers are, in the main, equally 
despised, or, if negro-traders excite more contempt 
than drovers, pedlars, and daj^-laborers, it is be- 
cause, they are, as a class more ignorant and 
vulgar, men from low families and and boors in 
their manners. Ridiculous I to suppose, that a 
people, who have, by law, made men articles of 
trade equally with swine, should despise men- 
drovers and traders, more than hog-drovers and 



174 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



traders. That they arc not despised because it is 
their business to trade in human beings and bring 
them to market, is plain from the fact that when 
some ' gentleman of property and standing' and 
of a ' good family' embarks in a negro speculation, 
and employs a dozen ' soul drivers' to traverse the 
upper country, and drive to the south cofiles of 
slaves, expending hundreds of thousands in his 
\vholesale purchases, he does not lose caste. It is 
known in Alabama, that Mr. Erwin, son-in-law of 
the Hon. Henry Clay, and brother of J. P. Erwin, 
formerly postmaster, and late mayor of the city of 
Nashville, laid the foundation of a princely fortune 
in the slave-trade, carried on from the Northern 
Slave States to the Planting South ; that the Hon. 
H. Hitchcock, brother-in-law of Mr. E., and since 
one of the judges of the Supreme Court of Alaba- 
ma, was interested with him in the traffic ; and that 
a late member of the Kentucky Senate (Col. Wall) 
not only carried on the same business, a few years 
ago, but accompanied his droves in person down 
the Mississippi. Not as the driver, for that would 
be vulgar drudgery, beneath a gentleman, but as 
a nabob in state, orderirig his understrappers. 

It is also well known that President Jackson 
was a 'soul driver,' and that even so late as the 
year before the commencement of the last war, he 
bought up a coffle of slaves and drove them down 
to Louisiana for sale. 

Thomas N. Gadsden, Esq. the principal slave 
auctioneer in Charleston, S. C. is of one of the 
first families in the state, and moves in the very 
highest class of society there. He is a descendant 
of the distinguished General Gadsden of revolution- 
ary memory, the most prominent southern mem- 
ber in the Continental Congress of 1765, and after- 
wards elected lieutenant governor and then govern- 
or of the state. The Rev. Dr. Gadsden, rector of 
St. Philip's Church, Charleston, and the Rev. 
Phillip Gadsden, both prominent Episcopal cler- 
gymen in South Carolina, and Colonel James 
Gadsden of the United States army, after whom a 
county in Florida was recently named, are 
all brothers of this Thomas N. Gadsden, Esq. the 
largest slave auctioneer in the state, under whose 
hammer, men, women and children go ofFby thou- 
sands ; its stroke probably sunders daily, husbands 
and wives, parents and children, brothers and sis- 
ters, perhaps to see each other's faces no more. 
Now who supply the auction table of this Thomas 
N. Gadsden, Esq. with its loads of human mer- 
chandize ? These same detested ' soul drivers' 
forsooth ! They prowl through the country, buy, 
catch, and fetter them, and drive their chained 
coffles up to his stand, where Thomas N. Gads- 
den, Esq. knocks them off to the highest bidder, to 
Ex-Governor Butler perhaps, or to Ex-Governor 
Hayne, or to Hon. Robert Barnwell Rhett, or to 
his own reverend brother, Dr. Gadsden. Now 



this high born, wholesale soul-scller doubtless de- 
spises the retail ' soul-drivers' who give him their 
custom , and so does the wholesale grocer, the driz- 
zling tapster who sneaks up to his counter for a 
keg of whiskey to dole out under a shanty in two 
cent glasses ; and both for the same reason. 

The plea that the 'public opinion' among the 
highest classes of society at the south is mild and 
considerate towards the slaves, that they do not 
overwork, underfeed, neglect when old and sick, 
scantily clothe, badly lodge, and half shelter their 
slaves ; that they do not barbarously flog, load witn 
irons, imprison in the stocks, brand and maim 
them ; hunt them when runaways with dogs and 
guns, and sunder by force and forever the nearest 
kindred — is shown, by almost every page of this 
work, to be an assumption, not only utterly ground- 
less, but directly opposed to masses of irrefragable 
evidence. If the reader will be at the pains to 
review the testimony recorded on the foregoing 
pages he will find that a very large proportion 
of the atrocities detailed were committed, not by 
the most ignorant and lowest classes of society, 
but by persons ' of property and standing,' by 
masters and mistresses belonging to the ' upper 
classes,' by persons in the learned professions, by 
civil, judicial, and mihtary officers, by the literati, 
by the fashionable elite and persons of more than 
ordinary ' respectability' and external morality — 
large numbers of whom are professors of religion. 

It will be recollected that the testimony of Sa- 
rah M. Grimk^, and Angelina G.Weld, was con- 
fined exclusively to the details of slavery as ex- 
hibited in the highest classes of society, mainly in 
Charleston, S. C. See their testimony pp. 22 — 24 
and 52 — 57. The former has furnished us with 
the following testimony in addition to that already 
given. 

"Nathaniel Heywardof Combahee, S. C, one of 
the wealthiest planters in the state, stated, in con- 
versation with some other planters who were com- 
plaining of the idle and lazy habits of their slaves, 
and the difficulty of ascertaining whether their 
sickness was real or pretended, and the loss they 
suffered from their frequent absence on this ac- 
count from their work, said, ' I never lose a 
DAY' s WORK : it is an established rule on my plan- 
tations that the tasks of all the sick negroes shall 
be done by those who are well in addition to their 
own. By this means a vigilant supervision is kept 
up by the slaves over each other, and they take 
care that nothing but real sickness keeps any one 
out of the field.' I spent several winters in the 
neighborhood of Nathaniel Hey ward's plantations, 
and well remember his character as a severe task 
master. / was present when the above statement 
was made.^' 

The cool barbarity of such a regulation is hard- 
ly surpassed by the worst edicts of the Roman 
Caligula — especially when we consider that the 
plantations of this man were in the neighborhood 
of the Combahee river, one of the most unhealth 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



175 



districts in the low country of South Carolina ; 
further, that large numbers of his slaves worked in 
the rice marshes, or ' swamps' as they are called 
in that state — and that during six months of the 
year, so fatal to health is the malaria of the 
swamps in that region that the planters and their 
families invariably abandon their plantations, re- 
garding it as downright presumption to spend a 
single day upon them ' between the frosts' of 
the early spring and the last of November. 

The reader may infer the high standing of Mr. 
Heyward in South Carolina, from the fact that 
he was selected with four other freeholders to 
constitute a Court for the trial of the conspirators 
in the insurrection plot at Charleston, in 1822. 
Another of the individuals chosen to constitute 
that court was Colonel Henry Deas, now presi- 
dent of the Board of Trustees of Charleston Col- 
lege, and a few years since a member of the Se- 
nate of South Carolina. From a late corresp n- 
dence in the " Greenvile (S, C.) Mountaineer," 
between Rev. William M. Wightman, a professor 
in Randolph, Macon, College, and a number of the 
citizens of Lodi, South Carolina, it appears that 
the cruelty of this Colonel Deas to his slaves, is 
proverbial in South Carolina, so much that Pro- 
fessor Wightman, in the sermon which occasion- 
ed the correspondence, spoke of the Colonel's in- 
humanity to his slaves as a matter of perfect no- 
toriety. 

Another South Carolina slaveholder, Hon. 
Whitmarsh B. Seabrook, recently, we believe, 
Lieut. Governor of the state, gives the following 
testimony to his own inhumanity, and his certifi- 
cate of the ' public opinion ' among South Caro- 
lina slaveholders ' of high degree.' 

In an essay on the management of slaves, read 
before the Agricultural Society of St. Johns, S. C. 
and published by the Society, Charleston, 1834, 
Mr. S. remarks : 

*' I consider imprisonment in the stocks at night, 
with or without hard labor in the day, as a pow- 
erful auxiliary in the cause of good government. 
To the correctness of this opinion many can bear 
testimony. Experience has convinced me that 
there is no punishment to which the slave looks 
with more fiorror^ 

The advertisements of the Professors in the 
Medical Colleges of South Carohna, published 
with comments — on pp. 169, 170, are additional il- 
lustrations of the ' public opinion ' of the literati. 

That the ' public opinion ' of the highest class 
of society in South Carolina, regards slaves as 
mere cattle, is shown by the following advertise- 
ment, which we copy from the " Charleston (S.C.) 
Mercury" of May 16 : 

" Negroes for Sale. — A Girl about twenty 
years of age, (raised in Virginia,) and her two fe- 
male children, one four and the other two years 
old — is remarkably strong and healthy — never 



having had a day's sickness, with the exception 
of the small pox, in her life. The children are 
fine and healthy. She is very prolific in her 
generating qualities, and affords a rare opportu- 
nity to any person who wishes to raise a family 
of strong and healthy servants for their own use. 
" Any person wishing to purchase, will please 
leave their address at the Mercury office." 

The Charleston Mercury, in which this adver- 
tisement appears, is the leading political paper in 
South Carolina, and is well known to be the po- 
litical organ of Messrs. Calhoun, Rhett, Pickens, 
and others of the most prominent politicians in 
the state. Its editor, John Stewart, Esq., is a law- 
yer of Charleston, and of a highly respectable fa- 
mily. He is a brother-in-law of Hon. Robert 
Barnwell Rhett, the late Attorney-General, now 
a Member of Congress, and Hon. James Rhett, a 
leading member of the Senate of South Carolina ; 
his wife is a niece of the late Governor Smith, of 
North Carolina, and of the late Hon. Peter 
Smith, Intendant (Mayor) of the city of Charles- 
ton ; and a cousin of the late Hon. Thomas S. 
Grimke. 

The circulation of the ' Mercury' among the 
wealthy, the literary, and the fashionable, is pro- 
bably much larger than that of any other paper 
in the state. 

These facts in connection with the preceding 
advertisement, are a sufficient exposition of the 
' public opinion ' towards slaves, prevalent in these 
classes of society. 

The following scrap of ' public opinion' in Flo- 
rida, is instructive. We take it from the Frorida 
Herald, June 23, 1838 : 

Ranaway from my plantation, on Monday 
night, the 13th instant, a negro fellow named 
Ben ; eighteen years of age, polite when spoken 
to, and speaks very good English for a negro. 
As I have traced him out in several places in 
town, I am certain he is harbored. This notice 
is given that I am determined, that whenever he 
is taken, to punish him till he informs me who has 
given him food and protection, and / shall apply 
the law of Judge Lynch to my own satisfaction, on 
those concerned in his concealment. 

A. Wai'son. 

June 16, 1838." 

Now, who is this A. Watson, who proclaims 
through a newspaper, his determination to put to 
the torture this youth of eighteen, and to Lynch 
to his ' satisfaction ' whoever has given a cup o.f 
cold water to the panting fugitive. Is he some 
low miscreant beneath public contempt ? Nay, 
verily, he is a ' gentleman of property and stand- 
ing,' one of the wealthiest planters and largest 
slaveholders in Florida. He resides in the vicini- 
ty of St. Augustine, and married the daughter of 
the late Thomas C. Morton, Esq. one of the first 
merchants in New York. 

We may mention in this connection tlic well 



176 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



known fact, that many wealthy planters make it 
a rule never to employ a physician among their 
slaves. Hon. William Smith, Senator in Con- 
gress, from South Carolina, from 1816 to 1823, 
and afterwards from 1826 to 1831, is one of this 
number. He owns a number of large plantations 
in the south western states. One of these, bor- 
ders upon tlie village of Huntsville, Alabama. 
The people of that village can testify that it is a 
part of Judge Smith's system never to employ a 
physician even in the most extreme cases. If the 
medical skill of the overseer, or of the slaves 
themselves, can contend successfully with the 
disease , they live, if not, they die. At all events, 
a physician is not to be called. Judge Smith was 
appointed a judge of the Supreme Court of the 
United States three years since. 

The reader will recall a similar fact in the testi- 
mony of Rev. W. T. Allan, son of Rev. Dr. Al- 
lan, of Huntsville, (see p. 47,) who says that Co- 
lonel Robert H. Watkins, a wealthy planter, in 
Alabama, and a presidential elector in 1836, 
who works on his plantations three hundred 
slaves, ' After employing a physician for some 
time among his negroes, he ceased to do so, al- 
ledging as the reason, that it was cheaper to lose 
a few negroes every year than to pay a physician.^ 

It is a fact perfectly notorious, that the late Ge- 
neral Wade Hampton, of South Carolina, who was 
the laigest slaveholder in the United States, and 
probably the wealthiest man south of the Poto- 
mac, was excessively cruel in the treatment of his 
slaves. The anecdote of him related by a cler- 
gyman, on page 29, is perfectly characteristic. 

For instances of barbarous inhumanity of va- 
rious kinds, and manifested by persons belonging 

TO THE most respectable CIRCLES OF SOCIETY, the 

reader can consult the following references : — 
Teslimony of Rev. John Graham, p. 25, near the 
bittern ; of Mr. Foe, p. 26, middle ; of Rev. J. O. 
Ciioules, p. 39, middle ; of Rev. Dr. Channing, 
p. 44, top ; of Mr. George A. Avery, p. 44, bot- 
tom j of Rev. W. T. Allan, p. 47 ; of Mr. John 
M. Nelson, p. 51, bottom ; of Dr. J. C. Finley, p. 
61, top; of Mr. Dustin, p. 66, bottom; of Mr. 
John Clarke, p. 87 ; of Mr. Nathan Cole, p. 89, 
middle ; Rev. William Dickey, p. 93 ; Rev. Fran- 
cis Hawley, p. 97 ; of Mr. Powell, p. 100 middle ; 
of Rev. P. Smith p. 102. 

The preceding are but a few of a large num. 
ber of similar cases contained in the foregoing tes- 
timonies. The slaveholder mentioned by Mr. 
Ladd, p. 86, who knocked down a slave and af- 
terwards piled brush upon his body, and consum- 
ed it, held the hand of a female slave in the fire 
till it was burned so as to be useless for life, and 
confessed to Mr. Ladd, that he had killed four 
slaves, had been a member of the Senate of Geor- 
gia and a clergyman. The slaveholder who 



whipped a female slave to death in St. Louis, 
in 1837, as stated by Mr. Cole, p. 89, was a 
Major in the United States Army. One of the 
physicians who was an abettor of the tragedy on 
the Brasses, in which a slave was tortured to 
death, and another so that he barely lived, (see 
Rev. Mr. Smith's testimony, p. 102.) was Dr. An- 
son Jones, a native of Connecticut, who was 
soon after appointed minister plenipotentiary from 
Texas to this government, and now resides at 
Washington city. The slave mistress at Lexing- 
ton, Ky., who, as her husband testifies, has killed 
six of his slaves, (see testimony of Mr, Clarke, 
p. 87,) is the wife of Hon. Fielding S. Turner, 
late judge of the criminal court of New Orleans, 
and one of the wealthiest slaveholders in Ken- 
tucky. Lilburn Lewis, who deliberately chopped 
in pieces his slave George, with a broad-axe, (see 
testimony of Rev. Mr. Dickey, p. 93) was a wealthy 
slaveholder, and a nephew of President Jefferson. 
Rev. Francis Hawley, who was a general agent 
of the Baptist State Convention of North Caroli- 
na, confesses (see p. 47,) that while residing in 
that state he once went out with his hounds and 
rifle, to hunt fugitive slaves. But instead of 
making further reference to testimony already be- 
fore the reader, we will furnish additional instan- 
ces of the barbarous cruelty which is tolerated 
and sanctioned by the ' upper classes ' of society 
at the south ; we begin with clergymen, and 
other officers and members of churches. 

That the reader may judge of the degree of 
' protection' which slaves receive from ' public 
opinion,' and among the members and ministers 
of professed christian churches, we insert the 
following illustrations. 

Extract from an editorial article in the " Lowell 
(Mass.) Observer" a religious paper edited at the 
time (1833 by the Rev. Daniel S. Southmayd, 
who recen y died in Texas. 

" We ^ ve been among the slaves at the south. 
We took jains to make discoveries in respect to 
the evilf jf slavery. We formed our sentiments 
on the • .bject of the cruelties exercised towards 
the sla ; from having witnessed them. We now 
afl[irm !.hat we never saw a man, who had never 
been at the south, who thought as much of the 
cruelties practiced on the slaves, as we know to 
be a fact. 

" A slave whom I loved for his kindness and the 
amiableness of his disposition, and who belonged 
to the family where I resided, happened to stay 
ont fifteen minutes longer than he had permission 
to stay. It was a mistake — it was unintentional. 
But what was the penalty ? He was sent to the 
house of correction with the order that he should 
have thirty lashes upon his naked body loith a. 
knotted rope .' ! ! He was brought home and 
laid down in the stoop, in the back of the house, 
in the sun, upon the floor. And there he lay, with 
more the appearance of a rotten carcass than a 
living man, for four days before he could do more 
than move. And wlio was this inhuman being 



Ohjections Considered — Public Opinion. 



177 



calling God's property his own, and using it as he 
would not have dared to use a beast ? You may 
say he was a tiger — one of the more wicked sort, 
and that we must not judge others by him. He 
was a professor of that religion which will pour 
upon the willing slaveholder the retribution due to 
his sin. ^' - 

" We wish to mention another fact, which our 
own eyes saw and our own ears heard. We 
were called to evening prayers. The family as- 
sembled around the altar of their accustomed 
devotions. There was one female slave present, 
who belonged to another master, but who had 
been hired for the day and tarried to attend fami- 
ly worship. The precious Bible was opened, and 
nearly half a chapter had been rcad^ when the 
eye of the master, who was reading, observed 
that the new female servant, instead of be^^g' 
seated like his own slaves, _^cri upon the floor, was 
standing in a stooping posture upon her feet. He 
told her to sit down on the floor. She said it was 
not her custom at home. He ordered her again 
to do it. She replied that her master did not re- 
quire it. Irritated by this answer, he repeatedly 
struck her upon the head loith the very Bible he 
held in his hand. And not content with this, he 
seized his cane and caned her down stairs most 
unmercifully. He then returned to resume his 
profane work, but we need not say that all the 
family were not there. Do you ask again, who 
was this wicked man ? He was a professor of 
religion ! .'" 

Rev. Huntington Lyman, late pastor of the 
Free Church in Buffalo, New York, says : — 

'' Walking one day in New Orleans with a 
professional gentleman, who was educated in 
Connecticut, we were met by a black man ; the 
gentleman was greatly incensed with the black 
man for passing so near him, and turning upon 
him he pushed him with violence off the walk 
into the street. This man was a professor of re- 
ligion." 

[And we add, a member, and if we mistake not 
an officer of the Presbyterian Church which was 
established there by Rev. Joel Parker, and which 
was then under his teachings. — Ed.] 

Mr. EzEKiEL BiRDSEYE, a gentleman oi known 
probity, in Cornwall, Litchfield coiuity. Conn, 
gives the testimony v^^hich follows : — 

" A Baptist clergyman in Laurens District, 

S. C. WHIPPED HIS SLAVE TO DEATH, whom he SUS. 

pected of having stolen about sixty dollars. The 
slave was in the prime of life and was purchased 
a few weeks before for ^SOO of a slave trader from 
Virginia or Maryland. The coroner, Wm. Irby, 
at whose house I was then boarding, told me, that on 
reviewing the dead body, he found it beat to a jelly 
from head to foot. The master's v/ife discovered 
the money a day or two after the death of the 
slave. She had herself removed it from where 
it was placed, not knowing w^hat it was, as it was 
tied up in a thick envelope. 1 happened to be 
present when the trial of this man took place, at 
Laurens Court House. His daughter testified 
that her father untied the slave, when he appear- 
ed to be faihng, and gave him cold water to drink, 
of which he took freely. His counsel pleaded that 



his death might have been caused by drinking 
cold water in a state of excitement. The Judge 
charged the jury, that it would be tiieir duty to 
find the defendant guilty, if they believed the 
death was caused by the whipping; but if they 
were of opinion that drinking cold water caused 
the death, they would find him not guilty ! The 
jury found him — not guilty !" 

Dr. Jeremiah S. Waugh, a physician in Somer- 
ville, Butler county, Ohio, testifies as follows : — 

" In the year 1825, I boarded with the Rev. 
John Mushat, a Seceder minister, and principal 
of an academy in Iredel county, N. C. He had 
slaves, and was in the habit of restricting them 
on the Sabbath, One of his slaves, however, ven- 
tured to disobey his injunctions. The offence was, 
he went away on Sabbath evening, and did not 
Tetarn till Monday morning. About the time we 
were called to breakfast, the Rev. gentleman was 
engaged in chastising him for breaking the Sab- 
bath. He detenp.ined not to submit — attempted 
to escape by flight. 'Flio master immediately look 
down his gun and pursued Irini — levelled his in- 
strument of death, and told him. if he did not stop 
instantly he would blow him through. The poor 
slave returned to the house and submitted himself 
to the lash ; and the good master, while yet pale 
with rage, sat down to the table, and with a trenu 
bling voice asked God's blessing !" 

The following letter was sent by Capt. Jacob 
Dunham, of New York city, to a slaveholder in 
Georgetown, D. C. more than twenty years since: 
" Georgetown, June 13, 1815. 

" Dear sir — Passing your house yesterday, I 
beheld a scene of cruelty seldom witnessed ; that 
was the brutal chastisement of your negro girl, 
lashed to a, ladder a,nd beaten in an inhuman man. 
ner, too bad to d::scribe. My blood chills while I 
contemplate the subject. This has led me to in- 
vestigate your character from your neighbors; 
who inibrm me that you have caused the death of 
one negro man, whom you struck with a sledge 
for some trivial fault — that you have beaten ano- 
ther black girl with such severity that the splint- 
ers remained in her back for some weeks after 
you sold her — and many other acts of barbarity, 
too lengthy to enumerate. And to my great sur- 
prise, I find you are a professor of the Christian 
religion .' 

" You will naturally inquire, why I meddle with 
your family affairs. My answer is, the cause of 
humanity and a sense of my duty requires it. — 
With these hasty remarks I leave you to reflect 
on the subject ; but wish you to remember, that 
there is an all-seeing eye who knows all our faults 
and will reward us according to our deeds. 
I remain, sir, yours, &c. 

Jacob Dunham, 
Master of the brig Cyrus, of N. Y." 

Rev. Sylvester Cowles, pastor of the Presby- 
terian qhurch in Fredonia, N. Y. says : — 

" A young man, a member of the church in 
Conewango, went to Alabama last year, to reside 
as a clerk in an uncle's store. When he had been 
there about nine months, he wrote his father that 
he must return home. To see members of the 
same church sit at the communion table of our 



178 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



Lord one day, and the next to see one seize any 
weapon and knock the other down, as he had seen, 
he could not live there. His good father forthwith 
gave him permission to return home." 

The following is a specimen of the shameless 
hardihood with which a professed minister of the 
Gospel, and editor of a religious paper, assumes 
the right to hold God's image as a chattel. It is 
from the Southern Christian Herald : — 

" It is stated in the Georgetown Union, that a 
negro, supposed to have died ofcholera, when that 
disease prevailed in Charleston, was carried to the 
public burying ground to be interred ; but before 
interment signs of life appeared, and, by the use 
of proper means, he was restored to health. And 
now the man who first perceived the signs of life 
in the slave, and that led to his preservation, 
claims the property as his own, and is about bring- 
ing suit for its recovery. As well might a man 
who rescued his neighbor's slave, or his horse, 
from drowning, or who extinguished the flames 
that would otherwise soon have burnt down his 
neighbor's house, claim the property as his own." 

Rev. George Bourne, of New- York city, late 
Editor of the " Protestant Vindicator," who was 
a preacher seven years in Virginia, gives the fol- 
lowing testimony.* 

" Benjamin Lewis, who was an elder in the Pres- 
byterian church, engaged a carpenter to repair 
and enlarge his house. After some time had 
elapsed, Kyle, the builder, was awakened very 
early in the morning by a. most piteous moaning 
and shrieking. He arose, and following the 
sound, discovered a colored wom^n nearly naked, 
tied to a fence, while Lewis was lacerating her. 
Kyle instantly commanded the slave driver to de- 
sist. Lewis maintained his jurisdiction over his 
slaves, and threatened Kyle that Ve would punish 
him for his interference. Finally Kyle obtained 
the release of the victim. 

" A second and a third scene of the sa,mc kind 
occurred, and on the third occasion the alterca- 

* A few years since Mr. Bourne published a wovk en- 
titled, " Picture of slavery in the United States." In which 
he describes a variety of horrid atrocities perpetrated upon 
slaves ; such as brutal scourging and lacerations with the 
application of pepper, mustard, salt, vinegar, &c., to the 
bleeding gashes; also maimings, cat-haulings, burnings, 
and other tortures similar to hundreds described on the pre- 
ceding pages. These descriptions of Mr. Bourne were, at that 
time, thought by multitudes incredible, and probably, even 
by some abolitionists, who had never given much reflection 
to the subject. We are happy to furnish the reader with the 
following testimony of a Virginia slaveholder to the accu- 
racy of Mr. Bourne's delmeations. Especially as this slave- 
holder is a native of one of the counties (Culpepper) near to 
which the atrocities described by Mr. B. were committed. 

Testimony of Mr. William Hansborough, of Culpepper, 
County, Virginia, the " owner" of sixty slaves, to Mr. 
Bourne's " Picture of Slavery" as a tme deHneation. 

Lindley Coates, of Lancaster Co., Pa., a well known 
member of the Society of Friends, and a member of the 
late Pennsylvania Convention for revising the Constitution 
of the State, in a letter now before us, describing a recent 
interview between him and Mr. Hansborough, of several 
days continuance, says,—"! handed him Bourne's Pic- 
lure of slavery to read : after reading it, he said, that 
all of the sufferings of slaves therein related, were true 
delineations, and that he had seen all those modes of tor- 
turf himself." 



tion almost produced a battle between the elder 
and the carpenter. 

" Kyle immediately arranged his affairs, packed 
up his tools and prepared to depart. ' Where are 
you going ?' demanded Lewis. ' I am going 
home ;' said Kyle. ' Then I will pay you nothing 
for what you have done,' retorted the slave driver, 
' unless you complete your contract.' The car- 
penter went away with this edifying declaration, 
' I will not stay here a day longer ; for I expect 
the fire of God will come down and burn you 
up altogether, and I do not choose to go to hell 
with you.' Through hush-money and promises 
not to whip the women any more, I believe Kyle 
returned and completed his engagement. 

"James Kyle of Harrisonburg, Virginia, fre- 
quently narrated that circumstance, and his son, 
the carpenter, confirmed it with all the minute 
particulars combined with his temporary resi- 
dence on the Shenandoah river. 

''John M'Cue of Augusta county, Virginia, a 
Presbyterian preacher, frequently on the Lord's 
day morning, tied up his slaves and whipped them ; 
and left them bound, while he went to the meet- 
ing house and preached — and after his return 
home repeated his scourging. That fact, with 
others more heinous, was known to all persons in 
his congregation and around the vicinity ; and so 
far from being censured for it, he and his brethren 
justified it as essential to preserve their 'domes- 
tic institutions.' 

-' Mrs. Pence, of Rockmgham county, Virginia, 
used to boast, — ' I am the best hand to whip a 
wench in the whole county.' She used to pinion 
the girls to a post in the yard on the Lord's day 
morning, scourge them, put on the ' negro plas. 
ter,'' salt, pepper, and vinegar, leave them tied, 
and walk away to church as demure as a nun, 
and after service repeat her flaying, if she felt the 
whim. I once expostulated with her upon her 
cruelty. ' Mrs. Pence, how can you whip jour 
girls so publicly and disturb your neighbors so on 
the Lord's day morning.' Her answer was memo- 
rable. ' If I were to whip them on any other day 
1 should lose a day's work ; but by whipping them 
on Sunday, their backs get well enough by Mon- 
day morning.' That woman, if ahve, is doubtless 
a member of the church now, as then 

"Rev, Dr. Staughton, formerly of Philadelphia, 
often stated, that when he lived at Georgetown, 
S. C. he could tell the doings of one of the slave- 
holders of the Baptist church there by his prayers 
at the prayer meeting. ' If,' said he, ' that man 
was upon good terms with his slaves, his words 
were cold and heartless as frost ; if he had been 
whipping a man, he would pray with life ; but if 
he had left a woman whom he had been flogging, 
tied to a post in his cellar, v;itli a determination to 
go back and torture her again, O ! how he would 
pray !' The Rev. Cyrus P. Grosvenor of Massa- 
chusetts can confirm the above statement by Dr. 
Staughton, 

" William Wilson, a Presbyterian preacher of 
Augusta county, Virginia, had a young colored 
girl who was constitutionally unhealthy. As no 
means to amend her were availing, he sold her to 
a member of his congregation, and in the usual 
style of human flesh dealers, warranted her 
' sound,* «&c. The fraud was instantly discover- 
ed ; but he would not refund the amount. A suit 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



179 



was commenced, and was long continued, and fi- 
nally the plaintiff recovered the money out of 
which he had been swindled by slave-trading with 
his own preacher, No Presbytery censured him, 
although Judge Brown, the chancellor, severely 
condemned the imposition. 

" In the year 1811, Jehab Graham, a preacher, 
lived with Alexander Nelson a Presbyterian elder, 
near Stanton, Virginia, and he informed me that 
a man had appeared before Nelson, who was a 
magistrate, and swore falsely against his slave, — 
that the elder ordered him thirty-nine lashes. All 
that wickedness was done as an excuse for his dis- 
sipated owner to obtain money, A negro trader 
had offered him a considerable sum for the ' boy,' 
and under the pretence of saving him from the 
punishment of the law, he was trafficked away 
from his woman and children to another state. 
The magistrate was aware of the perjury, and the 
whole abomination, but all the truth uttered by 
every colored person in the southern states would 
not be of any avail against the notorious false 
swearing of the greatest white villain who ever 
cursed the world. ' How,' said Jehab Graham, 
'can I preach to-morrow?' I replied, 'Very 
well ; go and thunder the doctrine of retribution 
in their ears, Obadiah 15, till by the divine bless- 
ing you kill or cure them.' My fi-iends, John 
M. Nelson of Hillsborough, Ohio, Samuel Linn, 
and Robert Herron, and others of the same vicin- 
ity, could ' make both the ears of every one who 
lieareth them tingle' with the accounts which they 
can give of slave-driving by professors of religion 
in the Shenandoah Valley, Virginia. 

" In 1815, near Frederick, in Maryland, a most 
barbarous planter was killed in a fit of despera- 
tion, by four of his slaves in self-defevce. It was 
declared by those slaves while m prison that, be- 
sides his atrocities among their female associates, 
he had deliberately butchered a number of his 
slaves. The four men were murdered by law, to 
appease the popular clamor. I saw them execut- 
ed on the twenty-eighth day of Jan'y, 1816. The 
facts I received from the Rev. Patrick Davidson of 
Frederick, who constantly visited them during 
their imprisonment — and who became an aboli- 
tionist in consequence of the disclosures which he 
heard from those men in the jail. The name of 
the planter is not distinctly recollected, but it can 
be known by an inspection of the record of the 
trial in the clerk's office, Frederick. 

*'A minister of Virginia, still living, and whose 
name must not be mentioned for fear of Nero 
Preston and his confederate-hanging myrmidons, 
informed me of this fact in 1815, in his own house. 
' A member of my church, said he, lately whip- 
ped a colored youth to death. What shall I do ?' 
I answered, ' I hope you do not mean to continue 
him in your church.' That minister replied, 
' How can we help it !' We dare not call him to 
an account. We have no legal testimony.' Their 
communion season was then approaching. I ad- 
dressed his wife, — ' Mrs, do you mean to sit 

at the Lord's table with that murderer V — ' Not I,' 
she answered : ' I would as soon commune with 
the devil himself.' The slave killer was equally 
imnoticed by the civil and ecclesiastical au- 
thority. 

" John Baxter, a Presbyterian elder, the brother 
of that slaveholding doctor in divinity, George A. 



Baxter, held as a slave the wife of a Baptist color- 
ed preacher, familiarly called ' Uncle Jack.' In 
a late period of pregnancy he scourged her so that 
the lives of herself and her unborn child were con- 
sidered in jeopardy. Uncle Jack was advised to 
obtain the liberation of his wife. Baxter finally 
agreed, I think, to sell the woman and her chil- 
dren, three of them, I believe for six hundred 
dollars, and an additional hundred if the unborn 
child survived a certain period after its birth. Uncle 
Jack was to pay one hundred dollars per annum 
for his wife and children for seven years, andBax. 
ter held a sort of mortgage upon them for the pay- 
ment. Uncle Jack showed me his back in fur- 
rows like a ploughed field. His master used to 
whip up the flesh, then beat it downwards, and 
then apply the ' negro plaster ^^ salt, pepper, mus- 
tard, and vinegar, until all Jack's back was almost 
as hard and unimpressible as the bones. There is 
slaveholding religion ! A Presbyterian elder re- 
ceiving from a Baptist preacher seven hundred 
dollars for his wife and children. James Kyle 
and uncle Jack used to tell that story with great 
Christian sensibility ; and uncle Jack would weej> 
tears of anguish over his wife's piteous tale, and 
tears of ectasy at the same moment that he was 
free, and that soon, by the grace of God, his wife 
and children, as he said, ' would be all free to- 
gether.' " 

Rev. James Nourse, a Presbyterian clergyman 
of Miffiiii CO. Penn., whose father is, we believe, 
a slaveholder in Washington City, says, — 

" The Rev, Mr, M , now of the Hunting- 
don Presbytery, after an absence of many months, 
was about visiting his old friends on what is com- 
monly called the ' Eastern Shore.' Late in the 
afternoon, on his journey, he called at the house 
of Rev. A. C. of P town, Md. With this bro- 
ther he had been long acquainted. Just at that 
juncture Mr. C. was about proceeding to whip a 
colored female, who was his slave. She was 
firmly tied to a post in FRONT of his dwelling- 
house. The arrival of a clerical visitor at such a 
time, occasioned a temporary delay in the execu. 
tion of Mr. C's purpose. But the delay was only 
temporary; for not even the presence of such a 
guest could destroy the bloody design. The guest 
interceded with all the mildness yet earnestness 
of a brother and new visitor. But all in vain, 
' the woman had been saucy and must be punish- 
ed.' The cowhide was accordingly produced, and 
the Rev. Mr. C, a large and very stout man, af>- 
plied it ' manfully' on ' woman's' bare and ' shrink, 
ing flesh.' I say bare, because you know that the 
slave women generally have but three or four 
inches of the arm near the shoulder covered, and 
the neck is left entirely exposed. As the cow. 
hide moved back and forward, striking right and 
left, on the head, neck and arms, at every few 
strokes the sympathizing guest would exclaim, 
' O, brother C. desist.' But brother C. pursued 
his brutal work, till, after inflicting about sixty 
lashes, the woman was found to be suffused with 
blood on the hinder part of her neck, and under 
her frock between the shoulders. Yet this Rev. 
gentleman is well esteemed in the church — was, 
three or four years since, moderator of the synod 
of Philadelphia, and yet v/alks abroad, feeling 
himself unrebuked by law or gospel. Ah, sir 



180 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



docs not this narration give fearful force to the 
query — ' What has the church to do with slavery V 
Comment on the facts is unnecessary, yet allow 
me to conclude by saying, that it is my opinion 
such occurrences are not rare in the south. 

J. N." 

Rev. Charles Stewart Renshaw, of Qiiincy, 
Illinois, in a recent letter, speaking of his resi- 
dence, for a period, in Kentucky, says — 

"In a conversation with Mr. Robert Willis, he 
told me that his negro girl had run away from him 
some time previous. He was convinced that she 
was lurking round, and he watched for her. He 
soon found the place of her concealment, drew 
her from it, got a rope, and tied her hands across 
each other, then threw the rope over a beam in 
the kitchen, and hoisted her up by the wrists ; 
' and,' said he, ' I whipped her there till I made 
the lint fly, I tell you.' I asked him the mean- 
ing of making ' the lint fly,' and he replied, ' till 
the blood flew.'' I spoke of the iniquity and cru- 
elty of slavery, and of its immediate abandon- 
ment. He confessed it an evil, but said, ' I am 
a colonizationist — I believe in that scheme.' Mr. 
Willis is a teacher of sacred music, and a mem- 
ber of the Presbyterian Church in Lexington, 
Kentucky." 

Mr. R. speaking of the Presbyterian Minis- 
ter and church where he resided, says : 

" The minister and all the church members held 
slaves. Some were treated kindly, others harsh- 
ly. There was not a shade of difference between 
their slaves and those of their infidel neighbors, 
either in their physical, intellectual, or moral 
♦state : in some cases they would suffer in the com- 
parison. 

" In the kitchen of the minister of the church, 
a slave man was living in open adultery with a 
slave woman, who was a member of the church, 
with an ' assured hope' of heaven — whilst the 
man's wife was on the minister's farm in Fayette 
county. The minister had to bring a cook down 
from his farm to the place in which he was 
preaching. The choice was between the wife of 
the man and this church member. He left the 
wif-e, and brought the church member to the 
adulterer's bed. 

" A Methodist Preacher last fall took a load 
of produce down the river. Amongst other 
things he took down five slaves. He sold them 
at New Orleans — he came up to Natchez — bought 
seven there — and took them down and sold them 
also. Last March he came up to preach the 
Gospel again. A number of persons on board 
the steamboat (the Tuscarora,) who had seen 
him in the slave-shambles in Natchez and New 
Orleans, and now, for the first time, found him 
to be a preacher, had much sport at the expense 
of ' the fine old preacher who dealt in slaves.' 

" A non-professor of religion, in Campbell 
county, Ky. sold a female and two children to a 
Methodist professor, with the proviso that they 
«!hould not leave that region of country. The 
slave-drivers came, and offered ^50 more for the 
woman than he had given, and he sold her. She 
is now in the lower country, and her orphan babes 
are. in Kentucky. 

*' I was much shocked once, to see a Presbyte- 



rian elder's wife call a little slave to her to kiss 
her feet. At first the boy hesitated — but the 
command being repeated in tones not to be mis- 
understood, he approached timidly, knelt, and 
kissed her foot. 

Rev. W. T. Allan, of Chatham, Illinois, gives 
the following in a letter dated Feb. 4, 1839 : 

"Mr. Peter Vanarsdale, an elder of the Presby- 
terian church in Carrollton, formerly from Ken- 
tucky, told me, the other day, that a Mrs. Bur- 
ford, in the neighborhood of Harrodsburg, Ken- 
tucky, had separated a woman and her children 
from their husband and father, taking them into 
another state. Mrs. J3. was a member of the 
Presbyterian Church. The bereaved husband 
and father was also a professor of religion. 

" Mr. V. told me of a slave woman who had 
lost her son, separated from her by public sale. 
In the anguish of her soul, she gave vent to her 
indignation freely, and perhaps harshly. Some- 
time after, she wished to become a member of 
the church. Before they received her, she had 
to make humble confession for speaking as she 
had done. Some of the elders that received her, 
and required the confession, were engag d in sell- 
ing the son from his mother.^* 

The following communication from the Rev. 
William Bardwell, of Sandwich, Massachusetts, 
has just been published in Zion's Watchman, 

New York city : 

" Mr. Editor : — The following fact was given 
me last evening, from the pen of a shipmaster, 
who has traded in several of the principal ports 
in the south. He is a man of unblemished cha- 
racter, a member of the M. E. Church in this 
place, and familiarly known in this town. The 
facts were communicated to mc last fall in a 
letter to his wife, with a request that she would 
cause them to be published. I give them verba- 
tim, as they were written from the letler by 
brother Perry's own hand while I was in his 
house. 

" A Methodist preacher, Wm. Whitby by name, 
who married in Bucksville, S. C, and by mar 
riage came into possession of some slaves, in July, 
1838, was about moving to another station to 
preach, and wished, also, to move his family and 
slaves to Tennessee, much against the will of the 
slaves, one of which, to get clear from him, ran 
into the woods after swimming a brook. The 
parson took after him with his gun, which, how- 
ever, got wet and missed fire, when he ran to a 
neighbor for another gun, with the intention, as 
he said, of killing him : he did not, however, 
catch or kill him ; he chained another for fear of 
his running away also. The above particulars 
were related to me by William Whitby himself. 

Tpiomas C. Perry. 

March 3, 1839." 

" I find by examining the minutes of the S. C. 
Conference, that there is such a preacher in the 
Conference, and brother Perry further stated to 
me that he v/as well acquainted with him, and if 
this statement was published, and if it could be 
known where he was since the last Confer- 
ence, he wished a paper to be sent him contain- 
ing the whole affair. He also stated to me, ver 



Objections Considerd — Public Opinion. 



181 



bally, that the young man he attempted to shoot 
was about nineteen years of age, and had been 
shut up in a corn-house, and in the attempt of 
Mr. Whitby to chain him, he broke down the 
door and made his escape as above-mentioned, 
and that Mr. W. was under the necessity of 
hiring him out for one year, with the risk of his 
employer's getting him. Brother Perry conversed 
with one of the slaves, who was so old that he 
thought it not profitable to remove so far, and 
had been sold ; he informed him of all the above 
circumstances, and said, with tears, that he 
thought he had been so faithful as to be entitled 
to liberty, but instead of making him free, he had 
sold him to another master, besides parting one 
husband and wife from those ties rendered a 
thousand times dearer by an infant child which 
was to/n for ever from the husband. 

William Bardwell." 
Sandwich, Mass., March 4, 1839." 

Mr. William Poe, till recently a slaveholder 
in Virginia, now an elder in the Presbyterian 
Church at Delhi, Ohio, gives the following tes- 
timony : — 

" An elder in the Presbyterian Church in 
Lynchburg had a most faithful servant, whom he 
flogged severely and sent him to prison, and had 
him confined as a felon a number of days, for be- 
ing saucy. Another elder of the same church, an 
auctioneer, habitually sold slaves at his stand — 
very frequently parted families — would often go 
into the country to sell slaves on execution and 
otherwise ; when remonstrated with, he justified 
himself, saying, ' it was his business ;' the church 
also justified him on the same ground. 

'' A Doctor Duval, of Lynchburg, Va. got of- 
fended with a very faithful, worthy servant, and 
immediately sold him to a negro trader, to be 
taken to New Orleans ; Duval still keeping the 
wife of the man as his slave. This Duval was a 
professor of religion. ^^ 

Mr. Samuel Hall, a teacher in Marietta Col- 
lege, Ohio, says, in a recent letter : — 

"A student in Marietta College, from Missis- 
sippi, a professor of religion, and in every way 
worthy of entire confidence, made to me the fol- 
lowing statement. [If his name were published 
it would probably cost him his life.] 

" When I was in the family of the Rev. James 
Martin, of Louisville, Winston county, Mississip- 
pi, in the spring of 1838, Mrs. Martin became of- 
fended at a female slave, because she did not move 
faster. She commanded her to do so ; the girl 
quickened her pace ; again she was ordered to 
move faster, or, Mrs. M. declared, she would 
break the broomstick over her head. Again the 
slave quickened her pace ; but not coming up to 
the maximum desired by Mrs. M. the latter de- 
clared she would see whether she (the slave) could 
move or not ; and, going into another apartment, 
she brought in a raw hide, awaiting the return of 
her husband for its application. In this instance 
I know not what was the final result, but I have 
heard the sound of the raw-hide in at least two 
other instances, apphed by this same reverend 
gentleman to the back of his female servant." 

Mr. Hall adds — " The name of my mformant 



must be suppressed, as" he says, " there are those 
who would cut my throat in a moment, if the in- 
formation I give were to be coupled with my 
name." Suffice it to say that he is a professor of 
religion, a native of Virginia, and a student of 
Marietta College, whose character will bear the 
strictest scrutiny. He says : — 

" In 1838, at Charlestown, Va. I conversed with 
several members of the church under the care of 
the Rev. Mr. Brown, of the same place. Taking 
occasion to speak of slavery, and of the sin of 
slaveholding, to one of them who was a lady, she 
replied, ' I am a slaveholder, and I glory in it.' I 
had a conversation, a few days after, with the 
pastor himself, concerning the state of religion in 
his church, and who were the most exemplary 
members in it The pastor mentioned several of 
those who were of that description ; the first of 
whom, however, was the identical lady who glo. 
ried in being a slaveholder ! That church num- 
bers nearly two hundred members. 

" Another lady, who was considered as devoted 
a Christian as any in the same church, but who 
was in poor health, was accustomed to flog some 
of her female domestics with a raw-hide till she 
was exhausted, and then go and lie down till her 
strength was recruited, rising again and resuming 
the flagellation. This she considered as not at all 
derogatory to her Christian character," 

Mr. Joel S, Bingham, of Cornwall, Vermont, 
lately a student in Middlebury College, and a 
member of the Congregational Church, spent a 
few weeks in Kentucky, in the summer of 1838. 
He relates the following occurrence which took 
place ill the neighborhood where he resided, and 
was a matter of perfect notoriety in the vicinity. 

" Rev. Mr. Lewis, a Baptist minister in the vi- 
cinity of Frankfort, Ky. had a slave that ran 
away, but was retaken and brought back to his 
master, who threatened him with punishment 
for making an attempt to escape. Though terri- 
fied the slave immediately attempted to run away 
again. Mr. L. commanded him to stop, but he 
did not obey. Mr. L. then took a gun, loaded 
with small shot and fired at the slave, who fell ; 
but was not killed, and afterward recovered. Mr. 
L. did not probably intend to kill the slave, as it 
was his legs which were aimed at and received 
the contents of the gun. The master asserted 
that he was driven to this necessity to maintain 
his authority. This took place about the first of 
July, 1838." 

The following is given upon the authority of 
Rev. Orange Scott, of Lowell, Mass, for many 
years a presiding elder in the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church. 

" Rev. Joseph Hough, a Baptist minister, for- 
merly of Springfield, Mass. now of Plainfield, N. 
H, while traveling in the south, a few years ago, 
put up one night with a Methodist family, and 
spent the Sabbath with them. While there, one 
of the female slaves did something which dis- 
pleased her mistress. She took a chisel and mal- 
let, and very deliberately cut off one of her 
toes !" 



182 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



SLAVE BREEDING an index of ' public opi- 
nion' AMONG THE 'HIGHEST CLASS OF SOCIETY* 

IN Virginia and other northern slave states. 

But we shall be told, that ' slave-breeders' are 
regarded with contempt, and the business of slave 
breeding is looked upon as despicable ; and the 
hot disclaimer of Mr. Stevenson, our Minister 
Plenipotentiary at the Court of St. James, in reply 
to Mr. O'Connell, who had intimated that he might 
be a ' slave breeder,' will doubtless be quoted.* In 
reply, we need not say what every body knows, 
that if Mr. Stevenson is not a ' slave breeder,' he 
is a solitary exception among the large slave- 
holders of Virginia. What ! Virginia slavehold- 
ers not ' slave-breeders ?' the pretence is ridicu- 
lous and contemptible ; it is meanness, hypocrisy, 
and falsehood, as is abundantly proved by the tes- 
timony which follows : — 

Mr. Gholson, of Virginia, in his speech in the 
Legislature of that state, Jan. 18, 1831, (see Rich- 
mond Whig,) says : — 

" It has always (perhaps erroneously) been con- 
sidered by steady and old-fashioned people, that 
the owner of land had a reasonable right to its an- 
nual profits ; the owner of orchards, to their an- 
nual fruits ; the owner of brood mnres^ to their 
product ; and the owner oi female slaves, to their 
increase. We have not the fine-spun intelligence, 
nor legal acumen, to discover the technical dis. 
tinctions drawn by gentlemen. The legal maxim 
of ' Partus sequitur ventrem? is coeval with the 
existence cf the rights of property itself, and is 
founded in wisdom and justice. It is on the jus- 
tice and inviolability of this maxim that the mas. 
ter foregoes the service of the female slave ; has 
her nursed and attended during the period of her 
gestation, and raises the helpless and infant off- 
spring. The value of the property justifies the 
expense ; and I do not hesitate to say, that in its 
increase consists much of our wealth.''^ 

Hon. Thomas Mann Randolph, of Virginia, 
formerly Governor of that state, in his speech be- 
fore the legislature in 1832, while speaking of the 

* The following is Mr. Stevenson's disclaimer : it was 
published in the ' London Mail,' Oct. 30, 1838. 

To the Editor of the Evening Mail: 

Sir— I did not see until my return from Scotland the note 
addressed by Mr. O'Connell, to the editor of the Chronicle, 
purporting to give an explanation of the correspondence 
which has passed between us, and which I deemed it proper 
to make public. I do not intend to be drawn into any dis- 
cussion of the subject of domestic slavery as it exists in the 
United States, nor to give any explanation of the motives or 
circumstances under which I have acted. 

Disposed to regard Mr. O'Connell as a mw of honor, I 
was induced to take the course I did ; whether justifiable 
or not, the world will now decide. The tone and report of 
his last note {in which he disavows responsibility for any 
thing he may say) precludes any further notice from me, 
than to say that the charge which he has thought proper 
again to repeat, of my being a breeder of slaves for sa^e and 
traffick, is wholly destitute of truth ; and that I am wariant- 
ed in believing it has been made by him without the slight 
est authority. Such, too, I venture to say, is the cAie 
IN relation to his charge of slave-breeding in Virgi- 
nia. 

I make this declaration, not because I admit Mr. O'Con- 
nell's right to call for it, but to prevent my silence from 
being misinterpreted. 

A. Stevenson. 

23 Portland Place, Oct. 29. 



number of slaves annually sold from Virginia to 
the more southern slave states, said : — 

" The exportation has averaged eight thou- 
sand FIVE hundred for the last twenty years. 
Forty years ago, the whites exceeded tlie color- 
ed 25,000, the colored now exceed the whites 
81,000 ; and these results too during an exporta- 
tion of near 260,000 slaves since the year 1790, 
now perhaps the fruitful progenitors of half a 
million in other states. It is a practice and an in- 
creasing practice, in parts of Virginia, to rear 
slaves for market. How can an honorable mind, 
a patriot and a lover of his country, bear to see 
this ancient dominion converted into one grand 
menagerie, where men are to be reared for market. 
I'ike oxen for the shambles." 

Professor Dew, now President of the Universi- 
ty of William and Mary, Virginia, in his Review 
of the Debate in the Virginia Legislature, 1831.2, 
says, p 49. 

" From all the information we can ob- 
tain, we have no hesitation in saying that up- 
wards of six thousand [slaves] are yearly ex- 
ported [from Virginia] to other states.' Again, 
p. 61 : ' The 6000 slaves which Virginia annual, 
ly sends off to the south, are a source of wealth 
to Virginia.' — Again, p. 120 : ' A full equivalent 
being thus left in the place of the slave, this emi- 
gration becomes an advantage to the state, and 
does not check the black population as much as, 
at first view, we might imagine — because it fur- 
nishes every inducement to the master to attend 
to the negroes, to encourage breeding, and tc 
cause the greatest number possible to he raised. 
&c." 

" Virginia is, in fact, a negro-raising state foi 
other states.^' 

Extract from the speech of Mr. Faulkner, i) 
theVa. House of Delegates, 1832. [See Rich 
mond Whig.] 

" But he [Mr. Gholson,] ha"- labored to shov 
that the Abolition of Slavery, i7ere it practicable, 
would be impolitic^ because as the drift of thia 
portion of his argument ruP), your slaves coiv 
stitute the entire wealth of the state, all the 
productive capacity Virginia possesses. And, sir, 
as things are, / believe he is correct. He says, 
and in this he is sustained by the gentleman from 
Halifax, Mr. Bruce, that the slaves constitute the 
entire available wealth at present, of Eastern Virgi- 
nia. Is it true that for 200 years the only in- 
crease in the wealth and resources of Virginia, 
has been a remnant of the natural increase of 
this miserable race ? — Can it be, that on this in- 
crease, she places her sole dependence ? I had 
always understood that indolence and extrava- 
gance were the necessary concomitants of slave- 
ry ; but, until I heard these declarations, I had 
not fully conceived the horrible extent of this evil. 
These gentlemen state the fact, which the histo- 
ry and present aspect of the Commonvjealth but 
too well sustain. The gentlemen's facts and ar- 
gument in support of his plea of impolicy, to me, 
seem rather unhappy. To me, such a state of 
things would itself be conclusive at least, that 
something, even as a measure of policy, should 
be done. What, sir, have you lived for two 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



183 



hundred years, without personal effort or produc- 
tive industry, in extravagance and indolence, 
sustained alone by the return from sales of the 
increase of staves, dMA rct2iimYig merely such a 
number as your now impoverished lands can sus- 
tain, AS STOCK, depending, too, upon a most un- 
certain market ? When that market is closed, as 
in the nature of things it must be, what then 
will become of this gentleman's hundred millions 
worth of slaves, and the annual product ?" 

In the debates in the Virginia Convention, 
in 1829, Judge Upsher said — " The value of slaves 
as an article of property [and it is in that view 
only that they are legitimate subjects of taxation] 
depends much onthe state of the market abroad. 
In this view, it is the value of land abroad, and 
not of land here, which furnishes the ratio. It is 
well known to us all, that nothing is more fluc- 
tuating than the value of slaves. A late law of 
Louisiana reduced their value 25 per cent, in two 
hours after its passage was known. If it should 

BE our lot, as I trust IT WILL BE, TO ACQUIRE 
THE COUNTRY OP TeXAS, THEIR PRICE WILL RISE 
AGAIN." p. 77. 

Mr. Goode, of Virginia, in his speech before 
the Virginia Legislature, in Jan. 1832, [See 
Richmond Whig, of that date,] said : — 

" The superior usefulness of the slaves in the 
south, will constitute an effectual demand, which 
will remove them from our limits. We shall 
send them from our state, because it will be our 
interest to do so. Our planters are already be- 
coming farmers. Many who grew tobacco as 
their only staple, have already introduced, and 
commingled the wheat crop. They are al- 
ready semi-farmers ; and in the natural course 
of events, they must become more and more 
so. — As the greater quantity of rich western 
lands are appropriated to the production of the 
staple of our planters, that staple will become 
less profitable. — We shall gradually divert our 
lands from its production, until we shall become 
actual farmers. — Then will the necessity for 
slave labor diminish ; then will the effectual 
demand diminish, and then will the quantity of 
slaves diminish, until they shall be adapted to the 
effectual demand. 

" But gentlemen are alarmed lest the markets 
of other states be closed against the introduction 
of our slaves. Sir, the demand for slave labor 
MUST INCREASE through the South and West. It 
has been heretofore limited by the want of cap. 
ital ; but when emigrants shall be relieved from 
their embarrassments, contracted by the purchase 
of their lands, the annual profits of their estates, 
will constitute an accumulating capital, which 
they will seek to invest in labor. That the de- 
mand for labor must increase in proportion to 
the increase of capital, is one of the demonstra. 
tions of political economists ; and I confess, that 
for the removal of slavery from Virginia, I look 
to the efficacy of that principle ; together with 
the circumstance that our southern brethren are 
constrained to continue planters, by their position, 
soil and climate." 

The following is from Niles' Weekly Register, 
published at Baltimore, Md. vol. 35. p. 4. 

" Dealing in slaves has become a large busi- 



ness ; establishments are made in several places 
in Maryland and Virginia, at which they are sold 
like cattle ; these places of deposit are strongly 
built, and well supplied with thumb-screws and 
gags, and ornamented with cow-skins and other 
whips oftentimes bloody." 

R. S. FiNLY, Esq. late General Agent of the 
American Colonization Society, at a meeting in 
New York, 27th Feb. 1833, said : 

" In Virginia and other grain-growing slave 
states, the blacks do not support themselves, and 
the only profit their masters derive from them is, 
repulsive as the idea may justly seem, in breeding 
them, like other live stock for the more southern 
states." 

Rev. Dr. Graham, of Fayetteville, N. C. at a 
Colonization Meeting, held in that place in the 
fall of 1837 said : 

" He had resided for 15 years in one of the larg- 
est slaveholding countiesin the state, had long and 
anxiously considered the subject, and still it was 
dark. There were nearly 7000 slaves offered in 
New Orleans market last winter. From Virginia 
alone 6000 were annually sent to the south ; and 
from Virginia and N. C. there had gone, in the 
same direction, in the last twenty years, 300,000 
slaves. While not 4000 had gone to Africa. 
What it portended, he could not predict, but ho 
felt deeply, that we must awake in these states 
and consider the subject.'''' 

Hon. Philip Doddridge, of Virginia, in his 
speech in the Virginia Convention, in 1829, [De. 
bates p. 89.] said : — 

" The acquisition of Texas will greatly en- 
hance the value of the property, in question, [Vir. 
ginia slaves.]" 

Hon. C. F. Mercer, in a speech before the same 
Convention, in 1829, says : 

" The tables of the natural growth of the slave 
population demonstrate, when compared with the 
increase of its numbers in the commonwealth for 
twenty years past, that an annual revenue of not 
less than a million and a half of dollars is derived 
from the exportation of a part of this population.** 
(Debates, p. 199.) 

Hon. Henry Clay, of Ky., in his speech before 
the Colonization Society, in 1829, says : 

" It is believed that nowhere in the farming 
portion of the United States, would slave labor be 
generally employed, if the proprietor were not 
tempted to raise slaves by the high price of 

THE SOUTHERN MARKET WHICH KEEPS IT UP IN HIS 
OWN." 

The New Orleans Courier, Feb. 15, 1839, 
speaking of the prohibition of the African slave, 
trade, while the internal slave-trade is plied, says : 

" The United States Jaw may, and probably 
does, put MILLIONS into the pockets of the people 
living between the Roanoke, and Mason and 
Dixon's line ; still we think it would require some 
casuistry to show that the present slave-trade 
from that quarter is a whit better than the one 
from Africa. One thing is certain — that its re 



184 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



suits arc more menacing to the tranquillity of the 
people in this quarter, as there can be no compa- 
re .-li bttv\ , en the ability and inclination to do miS- 
cliief, possessed by the Virginia negro, and that 
of the rude and ignorant African." 

That the New Orleans Editor does not exagge- 
rate in saying that the internal slave-trade puts 
• millions ' into the pockets of the slaveholders in 
Maryland and Virginia, is very clear from the 
following statement, made by the editor of the 
Virginia Times, an influential political paper, pub. 
lished at Wheeling, Virginia. Of the exact date 
of the paper we are not quite certain, it was, how- 
ever, sometime in 1836, probably near the middle 
of tlie year — the file will show. The editor 
says : — 

" We have heard intelligent men estimate the 
number of slaves exported from Virginia within 
the last twelve months, at 120,000 — each slave 
averaging at least $600, making an aggregate at 
^72,000,000. Of the number of slaves exported, 
not more than one-third have been sold, (the 
others having been carried by their owners, who 
have removed,) which would leave in the state the 

SUM OF $24,000,000 ARISING FROM THE SALE OF 

SLAVES." 

According to this estimate about FORTY 
THOUSAND SLAVES were sold out of the 
State of Virginia in a single year, and the 
'slave-breeders' who hold them, put into their 

pockets TWENTY-FOUR MILLION OF DOLLARS, the 

price of the ' souls of men.' 

The New York Journal of Commerce of Oct. 
12, 1835, contained a letter from a Virginian, 
whom the editor calls ' a very good and sensible 
man,' asserting that twenty thouiand slaves had 
been driven to the south from Virginia during 
that year, nearly one-fourth of which was then 
remaining. 

The Maryville (Tenn,) Intelligencer, some 
time in the early part of 1836, (we have not the 
date,) says, in an article reviewing a communi- 
cation of Rev. J. W. Douglass, of Fayetteville 
North Carolina : " Sixty thousand slaves passed 
through a little western town for the southern mar- 
ket, during the year 1835." 

The Natchez (Miss.) Courier, says " that the 
states of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and 
Arkansas, imported TWO HUNDRED AND 
FIFTY THOUSAND SLAVES from the more 
northern slave states in the year 1836." 

The Baltimore American gives the following 
from a Mississippi paper, of 1837 : 

" The report made by the committee of the 
citizens of Mobile, appointed at their meeting 
held on the 1st instant, on the subject of the 
existing pecuniary pressure, states, among other 
things : that so large has been the return of slave 
labor, that purchases by Alabama of that species 
of property from other states since 1833, have 
amounted to about ten million dollars annu- 
ally." 



Further the inhumanity of a slaveholdmg 
' public opinion' toward slaves, follows legitimately 
from the downright ruffianism of the slavehold- 
ing spirit in the 'highest class of society.' 
When roused, it tramples upon all the proprie- 
ties and courtesies, and even common decencies 
of life, and is held in check by none of those con. 
siderations of time, and place, and relations of 
station, character, law, and national honor, which 
are usually sufficient, even in the absence of con- 
scientious principles, to restrain other men from 
outrages. Our National Legislature is a fit illus- 
tration of this. Slaveholders have converted the 
Congress of the United States into a very bear gar- 
den. Within the last three years some of the most 
prominent slaveholding members of the House, 
and among them the late speaker, have struck 
and kicked, and throttled, and seized each other 
by the hair, and with their fists pummelled each 
other's faces, on the floor of Congress. We need 
not publish an account of what every body knows, 
that during the session of the last Congress, Mr. 
Wise of Virginia and Mr. Bynum of North Ca- 
rolina, after having called each other " liars, vil- 
lains" and " damned rascals" sprung from theii 
seats " both sufficiently armed for any desperate 
purpose," cursing each other as they rushed to- 
gether, and would doubtless have butchered 
each other on the floor of Congress, if both had 
not been seized and held by their friends. 

The New York Gazette relates the following 
which occurred at the close of the session of 1838. 

" The House could not adjourn without ano- 
ther brutal and bloody row. It occurred on Sun- 
day morning immediately at the moment of ad- 
journment, between Messrs. Campbell and Mau- 
ry, both of Tennessee. He took offence at some 
remarks made to him by his colleague, Mr. Camp- 
bell, and the fight followed." 

The Huntsville (Ala.) Democrat of June 16, 
1838, gives the particulars which follow : 

" Mr. Maury is said to be badly hurt. He was 
near losing his life by being knocked through the 
window ; but his adversary, it is said, saved him 
by clutching the hair of his head with his left 
hand, while he struck him with his right." 

The same number of the Huntsville Democrat, 
contains the particulars of a fist-fight on the flooi 
of the House of Representatives, between Mr. 
Bell, the late Speaker, and his colleague Mr. 
Turney of Tennessee. The following is an ex- 
tract : 

" Mr. Turney concluded his remarks in reply to 
Mr. Bell, in the course of which he commented 
upon that gentleman's course at different periods 
of his political career with great severity. 

" He did not think his colleague [Mr. Turney,] 
was actuated by private malice, but was the wil- 
ling voluntary instrument of others, the fool of 
fools. 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



185 



Mr. Turney. It is false ! it is false ! 

Mr. Stanley called Mr. Tuknky to order. 

At the saiixj moment both gentlemen were 
perceived in personal conflict, and blows with the 
fist V ere aimed by each at the other. Several 
members interfered, and suppressed the per- 
sonal violence ; others called order, order, and 
some called for the interference of the Speaker. 

The Speaker hastily took the chair, and in- 
sisted upon order ; but both gentlemen continued 
struggling, and endeavoring, notwithstanding 
the constraint of their friends, to strike each other." 

The correspondent of the New York Gazette 
gives the following, wliich took place about the 
time of the preceding affrays : 

The House was much agitated last night, by 
the passage between Mr. Biddle, of Pittsburgh, 
and Mr, Downing, of Florida. Mr, D. ex- 
claimed " do you impute falsehood to me !" at 
the same time catching up ^ome missile and 
making a demonstration to advance upon Mr. 
Biddle. Mr. Biddle repeated his accusation, 
and meanwhile, Mr. Downing was arrested by 
many members," 

" The last three fights all occurred, if we mistake 
not, in the short space of one month. The fisti- 
cuffs between Messrs. Bynum and Wise occurred 
at the previous session of Congress. At the same 
session Messrs. Peyton of Tenn. and Wise of Vir- 
ginia, went armed with pistols and dirks to the 
meeting of a committee of Congress, and threat, 
ened to shoot a witness while giving his testimony. 

We begin with the first on the list. Who are 
Messrs. Wise and Bynum ? Both slaveholders. 
Who are Messrs. Campbell and Maury? Both 
slaveholders. Who are Messrs, Bell and Tur- 
ney ? Both slaveholders. Who is Mr. Downing, 
who seized a weapon and rushed upon Mr. Bid- 
dle ? A slaveholder. Who is Mr. Peyton who 
drew his pistol on a witness before a committee of 
Congress ? A slaveholder of course. All these 
bullies were slaveholders, and they magnified 
their office, and slaveholding was justified of her 
children. We might fill a volume with similar 
chronicles of slaveholding brutality. But time 
would fail us. Suffice it to say, that since the or- 
ganization of the government, a majority of the 
most distinguished men in the slaveholding states 
have gloried in strutting over the stage in the 
character of murderers. Look at the men whom 
the people delight to honor. President Jackson, 
Senator Benton, the late Gen. Coffee, — it is but a 
few years since these slaveholders shot at, and 
stabbed, and stamped upon each other in a tavern 
broil. General Jackson had previously killed Mr. 
Dickenson. Senator Clay of Kentucky has im- 
mortalized himself by shooting at a near relative 
of Chief Justice Marshall, and being wounded by 
him ; and not long after by shooting at John Ran- 
dolph of Virginia. Governor M'Duffie of South 
Carolina has signalized himself also, both by shoot- 
ing and being shot, — so has Governor Poindexter, 

24 



and Governor Rowan, and Judge M'Kinley of the 
U. S. Supreme Court, late senator in Congress 
from Alabama, — but we desist ; a full catalogue 
would fill pages. We will only add, that a few 
months since, in the city of London, Governor 
Hamilton, of South Carolina, went armed with pis- 
tols, to the lodgings of Daniel O'Connell, ' to stop 
his wind' in the bullying slang of his own publish- 
ed boast. During the last session of Congress 
Messrs. Dromgoole and Wise* of Virginia, W. 
Cost Johnson and Jenifer of Maryland, Pickens 
and Campbell of South Carolina, and we know not 
how m anymore slaveholding members of Congress? 
have been engaged, either as principals or seconds, 
in that species of murder dignified with the name 
of duelling. But enough ; we are heart-sick. What 
meaneth all this ? Are slaveholders worse than 
other men ? No ! but arbitrary power has 
wrought in them its mystery of iniquity, and poi- 
soned their better nature with its infuriating 
sorcery. 

Their savage ferocity toward each other wh en 
their passions are up, is the natural result of their 
habit of daily plundering and oppressing the slave. 

The North Carolina Standard of August 30, 
l837, contains the following illustration of this 
ferocity exhibited by two southern lawyers in set- 
tling the preliminaries of a duel. 

" The following conditions were proposed by 
Alexander K. McClung, of Raymond, in the 
State of Mississippi, to H, C. Stewart, as the 
laws to govern a duel they were to fight near 
Vicksburg : 

Article 1st. The parties shall meet opposite 
Vicksburg, in the State of Louisiana, on Thurs- 
day the 29th inst, precisely at 4 o'clock, P. M. 
Agreed to. 

2d. The weapons to be used by each shall 
weigh one pound two and a half ounces, measur- 
ing sixteen inches and a half in length, including 
the handle, and one inch and three-eighths in 
breadth. Agreed to. 

3d. Both knives shall be sharp on one edge, 
and on the back shall be sharp only one inch at 
the point. Agreed to. 

4th. Each party shall stand at the distance 
of eight feet from the other, until the word is 
given. Agreed to. 

5th. The second of each party shall throw 
up, with a silver dollar, on the ground, for the 
word, and two best out of three shall win the 
word. Agreed to. 

6th. After the wora is given, either party 
may take what advantage he can with his knife, 
but on throwing his knife at the other, shall be 
shot down by the second of his opponent. 
Agreed to. 

7th. Each party shall be stripped entirely 
naked, except one pair of linen pantaloons ; 
one pair of socks, and boots or pumps as the 
party please. Acceded to. 

8th. The wrist of the left arm of each party 

* Mr. Wise said in one of his speeches during the last 
session of Congress, that, he was obliged to go .irmed for 
the proteciioii of his life in Washingto'.i. It could not 
have been for fear of J^Torthem insn. 



186 



Ohjections Considered — Public Opinion. 



phall he tied tight to his left thigh, and a strong 
cord shall be fastened around his left arm at th e 
elbow, and then around his body. Rejected. 

9th. After the word is given, each party 
shall be allowed to advance or recede as he 
pleases, over the space of twenty acres of ground, 
until death ensues to one of the parties. Agreed 
to — the parties to be placed in the centre of the 
space. 

10th. The word shall be given by the win- 
ner of the same, in the following manner, viz : 
" Gentlemen are you ready ?" Each party 
shall then answer, " I am !" The second giv- 
ing the word shall then distinctly command — 
strike. Agreed to. 

If either party shall violate these rules, upon 
being notified by the second of either party, he 
may be liable to be shot down instantly. As 
established usage points out the duty of both 
parties, therefore notification is considered unne- 
cessary." 

The FAVORITE AMUSEMENTS of slaveholders, like 
the gladiatorial shows of Rome and the Bull 
Fights of Spain, reveal a public feeling insensible 
to suffering, and a degree of brutality in the high- 
est degree revolting to every truly noble mind. 
One of their most common amusements is cock 
fighting. Mains of cocks, with twenty, thirty, 
and fifty cocks on eachside,are fought for hundreds 
of dollars aside. The fowls are armed with steel 
spurs or '■ gafts,'' about two inches long. These 
' gafts' are fastened upon the legs by sawing off 
the natural ' spur,' leaving enough only of it to 
ansv^er the purpose of a stock for the tube of the 
"gafts," which are so sharp that at a stroke the 
fowls thrust them through each other's necks and 
heads, and tear each other's bodies till one or both 
dies, then two others are brought forward for 
the amusement of the multitude assembled, and 
this barbarous pastime is often kept up for days 
in succession, hundreds and thousands gathering 
from a distance to witness it. The following ad- 
vertisements from the Raleigh Register, June 18, 
1838, edited by Messrs. Gales and Son, the father 
and brother of Mr. Gales, editor of the National 
Intelligencer, and late Mayor of Washington 
City, reveal the public sentiment of North Caro- 
lina. 

"CHATHAM AGAINST NASH, or any 
other county in the State. I am authorized to 
take a bet of any amount that may be offered, to 
FIGHT A MAIN OF COCKS, at any place 
that may be agreed upon by the parties — to be 
fought the ensuing spring. Gideon Alston. 

Chatham county, June 7, 1838." 

Two weeks after, this challenge was answered 
as follows : 

" TO MR. GIDEON ALSTON, of Chatham 
county, N. C. 

" Sir : In looking over the North Carolina 
Standard of the 20th inst. I discover a challenge 
over your signature, headed ' Chatham against 
Na«h,' in which you state that you are 'author. 



I ized to take a bet of any amount that may be of- 
fered, to fight a main of cocks, at any place that 
may be agreed upon by the parties, to be fought 
the ensuing spring,' which challenge I accept : 
and do propose to meet you at Rolesville, in 
Wake county, N. C. on the last Wednesday in 
May next, the parties to show thirty-one cocks 
each— fight four days, and be governed by the 
rules as laid down in Turner's Cock Laws — 
vi^hich, if you think proper to accede to, you will 
signify througli this or any other medium you may 
select, and then I will name the sura for which 
we shall fight, as that privilege was surrendered 
by you in your challenge. 

I am, sir, very respectfully, &c. 
Nicholas W. Arrington,, 

near HiUiardston, Nash co. 
North Carolina. 
June 22nd, 1838." 

The following advertisement in the Richmond 
Whig, of July 12, 1837, exhibits the pubhc senti- 
ment of Virginia. 

" MAIN OF COCKS.— A large ' MAIN OF 
COCKS,' 21 a side, for $25 ' the fight,' and 
$500 'the odd,' will be fought between the 
County of Dinwiddie on one part, and the Coun- 
ties of Hanover and Henrico on the other. 

" The ' regular' fightmg will be continued 
three days, and from the large number of ' gamo 
uns' on both sides and in the adjacent country, 
will be prolonged no doubt a fourth. To prevent 
confusion and promote ' sport,' the Pit will be en- 
closed and furnished with seats ; so that those 
having a curiosity to witness a species of diver- 
sion originating in a better day (for they had no 
rag money then,) can have that very natural feel- 
ing gratified. 

" Iir The Petersburg Constellation is requested 
to copy." 

Horse-racing too, as every body knows, is a fa- 
vorite amusement of slaveholders. Every slave 
state has its race course, and in the older states 
almost every county has one on a small scale. 
There .is hardly a day in the year, the weather 
permitting, in which crowds do not assemble at 
the south to witness this barbarous sport. Hor- 
rible cruelty is absolutely inseparable from it. 
Hardly a race occurs of any celebrity in which 
some one of the coursers are not lamed, ' broken 
down,' or in some way seriously injured, often for 
life, and not unfrequently they are killed by the 
rupture of some vital part in the struggle. When 
the heats are closely contested, the blood of the 
tortured animal drips from the lash and flies at 
every leap from the stroke of the rowel. From 
the breaking of girths and other accidents, their 
riders (mostly slaves) are often thrown and maimed 
or killed. Yet these amusements are attended by 
thousands in every part of the slave states. The 
wealth and fashion, the gentlemen and ladies of 
the ' highest circles' at the south, throng the race 
course. 

That those who can fasten steel spurs upon the 
legs of dunghill fowls, and goad the poor birds to 



Ohjections Considered — Public Opinion. 



187 



worry and tear each other to death — and 
those who can crowd by thousands to 
witness such barbarity — that those who can 
ihrong the race-course and with keen relish wit. 
ness the hot pantings of the Hfe-struggle, the 
lacerations and fitful spasms of the muscles, swel- 
ling through the crimsoned foam, as the tortured 
steeds rush in blood-welterings to the goal — that 
such should look upon the suiferings of their 
slaves with indifference is certainly small wonder. 

Perhaps we shall be told that there are throng- 
ed race-courses at the North. True, there are a 
few, and they are thronged chiefly by Southerners, 
and • Northern men with Southern principles,' and 
supported mainly by the patronage of slave- 
holders who summer at the North. Cock-fight- 
ing and horse-racing are " Southern institutions." 
The idleness, contempt of labor, dissipation, sen- 
suality, brutality, cruelty, and meanness, engen- 
dered by the habit of making men and women 
work without pay, and flogging them if they de- 
mur at it, constitutes a congenial soil out of 
which cock-fighting and horse-racing are the 
spontaneous growth. 

Again, — The kind treatment of the slaves is 
often argued from the liberal education and en- 
larged views of slaveholders. The facts and rea- 
sonings of the preceding pagea have shown, that 
' liberal education,' despotic habits and ungovern. 
ed passions work together with slight friction. 
And every day's observation shows that the form, 
er is often a stimulant to the latter. 

But the notion so common at the north that 
the majority of the slaveholders are persons of 
education, is entirely erroneous. A very few 
slaveholders in each of the slave states have been 
men of ripe education, to whom our national lite- 
rature is much indebted. A larger number may 
be called well educated — these reside mostly in 
the cities and large villages, but a majority of the 
slaveholders are ignorant men, thousands of them 
notoriously so, mere boors unable to write their 
names or to read the alphabet. 

No one of the slave states has probably so much 
general education as Virginia. It is the oldest of 
them — has furnished one half of the presidents of 
the United States — has expended more upon her 
university than any state in the Union has done 
during the same time upon its colleges — sent to 
Europe nearly twenty years since for her most 
learne'd professors, and in fine, has far surpassed 
every other slave state in her efforts to disseminate 
education among her citizens, and yet, the Gov- 
ernor of Virginia in his message to the legislature 
(Jan. 7, 1839) says, that of four thousand six hun. 
dred and fourteen adult males in that state, who 
applied to the county clerks for marriage licenses 
in the year 1837, ' one thousand and forty- 
seven were unable to write their namesJ* The 



governor adds, ♦ These statements, it will be re- 
membered, are confined to one sex : the education 
of females, it is to be feared, is in a condition of 
much greater neglect.' 

The Editor of the Virginia Times, published at 
Wheeling, in his paper of Jan. 23, 1839, says, — 

" We have every reason to suppose that one- 
fourth of the people of the state cannot write 
their names, and they have not, of course, any 
other species of education." 

Kentucky is the child of Virginia ; her first set. 
tiers were some of the most distinguished citizens 
of the mother state ; in the general diffusion of in- 
telligence amongst her citizens Kentucky is pro- 
bably in advance of all the slave states except 
Virginia and South Carolina ; and yet Governor 
Clark, in his last message to the Kentucky Legis- 
lature, (Dec 5, 1838) makes the following declara- 
tion : ' From the computation of those most fa- 
miliar with the subject, it appears that at least 

ONE THIRD OF THE ADULT POPULATION OF THE STATE 
ARE UNABLE TO WRITE THEIR NAMES.' 

The following advertisement in the " Milledge- 
ville (Geo.) Journal," Dec. 26, 1837, is another 
specimen from one of the ' old thirteen.' 

" Notice. — I, Pleasant Webb, of the State of 
Georgia, Oglethorpe county, being an illiterate 
man, and not able to write my own name, and 
whereas it hath been represented to me that there 
is a certain promissory note or notes out against 
me that I know nothing of, and further that some 
man in this State holds a biU of sale for a certain 
negro woman named Ailsey and her increase, a 
part of which is now in my possession, which I 
also know nothing of. Now I do hereby certify 
and declare, that I have no knowledge whatsoev- 
er of any such papers existing in my name as 
above stated, and I hereby require all or any per- 
son or persons v/hatsoever holding or pretending 
to hold any such papers, to produce them to me 
within thirty days from the date hereof, shewing 
their authority for holding the same, or they will 
be considered fictitious and fraudulently obtained 
or raised, by some person or persons for base pur- 
poses after my death. 

" Given under my hand this 2nd day of Decem- 
ber, 1837. his 

"PLEASANT X WEBB. 
mark 
Finally, that slaves must habitually suffer 

great cruelties, follows inevitably from the 

brutal outrages which their masters inflict 

on each other. 

Slaveholders, exercising from childhood irrespon- 
sible power over human beings, and in the language 
of President Jefferson, " giving loose to the worst of 
passions" in the treatment of their slaves, become 
in a great measure unfitted for self control in their in- 
tercourse with each other. Tempers accustomed to 
riot with loose reins, spurn restraints, and passions 
inflamed by indulgence, take fire on the least friction. 
We repeat it, the state of society in the slave states, 
the duels, and daily deadly affrays of slaveholders 



188 



Ohjeciions Considered — Public Opinion. 



with each other — the fact that the most deliberate and 
cold-bloodod murders are committed at noon day, 
in the presence of thousands, and the perpetrators 
eulogized by the community as " honorable men," 
reveals such a prostration of law, as gives impunity 
to crime — a state of society, an omnipresent public 
sentiment reckless of human life, taking bloody 
vengeance on the spot for every imaginary affront, 
glorying in such assassinations as the only true honor 
and chivalry, successfully defying the civil arm, and 
laughing its impotency to scorn. 

When such things are done in the green tree, 
what will be done in the dry ? When slaveholders 
are in the habit of caning, stabbing, and shooting 
each other at every supposed insult, the unspeaka- 
ble enormities perpetrated by such men, with such 
passions, upon their defenceless slaves, must be 
beyond computation. To furnish the reader with 
an illustration of slaveholding civilization and mo- 
rahty, as exhibited in the unbridled fury, rage, ma- 
lignant hate, jealousy, diabolical revenge, and all 
those infernal passions that shoot up rank in the 
hot-bed of arbitrary power, we will insert here a 
mass of testimony, detaiUng a large number of af- 
frays, lynchings, assassinations, &c., &c., which 
have taken place in various parts of the slave states 
within a brief period — and to leave no room for 
cavil on the subject, these extracts will be made 
exclusively from newspapers published in the slave 
states, and generally in the immediate vicinity of 
the tragedies described. They will not be made 
second hand from northern papers, but from the ori- 
ginal southern papers, which now he on our table. 

Before proceeding to furnish details of certain 
classes of crimes in the slave states, we advertise 
the reader — 1st. That we shall not include in the 
hst those crimes which are ordinarily committed in 
the free, as well as in the slave states. 2d. We 
shall not include anv of the crimes perpetrated by 



whites upon slaves and free colored persons, who 
constitute a majority of the population in Missis, 
sippi and Louisiana, a large majority in South Caro- 
lina, and, on an average, two-fifths in the other 
slave states. 3d. Fist fights, canings, beatings, 
biting off noses and ears, gougings, knockings 
down, &c., unless they result in death, will not be 
included in the list, nor will ordinary murders, un- 
less connected with circumstances that serve as a 
special index of pubhc sentiment. 4th Neither 
will ordinary , formal duels be included, except in 
such cases as just specified. 5th. The only crimes 
which, as the general rule, will be specified, will be 
deadly affrays with bowie knives, dirks, pistols, 
rifles, guns, or other death weapons, and lynch, 
ings. 6th. The crimes enumerated will, for the 
most part, be only those perpetrated openly, without 
attempt at concealment. 7th. We shall not at- 
tempt to give Si full Hst of the affrays, &c., that took 
place in the respective states during the period se- 
lected, as the only files of southern papers to which 
we have access are very imperfect. 

The reader will perceive, from these prelimina- 
ries, that only a small proportion of the crimes ac- 
tually perpetrated in the respective slave states 
during the period selected, will be entered upon 
this list. He will also perceive, that the crimes 
which will be presented are of a class rarely perpe- 
trated in the free states ; and if perpetrated there 
at all, they are, with scarcely an exception, com- 
mitted either by slaveholders, temporarily resident 
in them, or by persons whose passions have been 
inflamed by the poison of a southern contact — whose 
habits and characters have become perverted by 
Hving among slaveholders, and adopting the code 
of slaveholding morality. 

We now proceed to the details, commencing 
with the new state of Arkansas. 



ARKANSAS. 



At the last session of the legislature of that state, 
Col. John Wilson, President of the Bank at Little 
Rock, the capital of the state, was elected Speaker 
of the House of Representatives. He had been 
elected to that office for a number of years succes- 
sively, and was one of the most influential citizens 
of the state. While presiding over the delibera- 
tions of the House, he took umbrage at words spo- 
ken in debate by Major Anthony, a conspicuous 
member, came down from the Speaker's chair, 
drew a large bowie knife from his bosom, and at- 
tacked Major A., who defended himself for some 
time, but was at last stabbed through the heart, 
and fell dead on the floor. Wilson deliberately 
wiped the blood from his knife, and returned to his 
seat. The following statement of the circumstances 
of the murder, and the trial of the murderer, is 
abridged from the account published in the Arkan- 



sas Gazette, a few months since — it is here taken 
from the Knoxville (Tennessee) Register, July 4, 

1838. 

" On the 14th of December last, Maj. Joseph J. 
Anthony, a member of the Legislature of Arkan- 
sas, was murdered, while performing his duty as a 
member of the House of Representatives, by John 
Wilson, Speaker of that House. 

The facts were these : A bill came from the Se- 
nate, commonly called the Wolf Bill. Among the 
amendments proposed, was one by Maj. Anthony, 
that the signature of the President of the Real Es- 
tate Bank should be attached to the certificate of 
the wolf scalp. Col. Wilson, the Speaker, asked 
Maj. Anthony whether he intended the remark as 
personal. Maj. Anthony promptly said, ^^ No, 1 
do not." And at that instant of time, a message 
was delivered from the Senate, which suspended 
the proceedings of the House for a few minutes. 
Immediately after the messenger from the Senate 



Ohjections Considered— ):^nb[ic Upinion. 



io» 



had retired, Maj. Anthony rose from his seat, and 
said he wished to explain, that he did not intend to 
insult the Speaker or the House ; when Wilson, in- 
terrupting, peremptorily ordered him to take his 
seat. Maj. Anthony said, as a member, he had a 
right to the floor, to explain himself. Wilson said, 
in an angry tone, ' Sit down, or you had better ;' 
and thrust his hand into his bosom, and drew out a 
large bowie knife, 10 or 11 inches in length, and 
descended from the Speaker's chair to the floor, 
with the knife drawn in a menacing manner. Maj. 
Anthony, seeing the danger he was placed in, by 
Wilson's advance on him with a drawn knife, rose 
from his chair, set it out of his way, stepped back 
a pace or two, and drew his knife. Wilson caught 
up a chair, and struck Anthony with it. Anthony, 
recovering from the blow, caught the chair in his 
left hand, and a fight ensued over the chair. Wil- 
son received two wounds, one on each arm, and 
Anthony lost his knife, either by throwing it at 
Wilson, or it escaped by accident. After Anthony 
had lost his knife, Wilson advanced on Anthony, 
who was then retreating, looking over his shoulder. 
Seeing Wilson pursuing him, he threw a chair. 
Wilson still pursued, and Anthony raised a,nother 
chair as high as his breast, with a view, it is sup- 
posed, of keeping Wilson off. Wilson then caught 
hold of the chair with his left hand, raised it up, 
and with his right hand dehberately thrust the knife, 
up to the hilt, into Anthony's heart, and as deliber- 
ately drev7 it out, and wiping off the blood with his 
thumb and finger, retired near to the Speaker's 
chair. 

" As the knife was withdrawn from Anthony's 
heart, he fell a hfeless corpse on the floor, without 
uttering a word, or scarcely making a struggle ; so 
true did the knife, as dehberately directed, pierce 
his heart. 

" Three days elapsed before the constituted au- 
thorities took any notice of this horrible deed ; and 
not then, until a relation of the murdered Antheny 
had demanded a warrant for the apprehension of 
Wilson. Several days then elapsed before he was 
brought before an examining court. He then, in a 
carriage and four, came to the place appointed for 
his trial. Four or five days were employed in the 
examination of witnesses, and never was a clearer 
case of murder proved than on that occasion. Not- 
withstanding, the court (Justice Brown dissenting) 
admitted Wilson to bail, and positively refused 
that the prosecuting attorney for the state should 
introduce the law, to show that it was not a bail- 
able case, or even to hear an argument from him. 

" At the time appointed for the session of the Cir- 
cuit Court, Wilson appeared agreeably to his re- 
cognizance. A motion was made by Wilson's 
counsel for change of venue, founded on the aflS- 
davits of Wilson, and two other men. The court 
thereupon removed the case to Sahne county, and 
ordered the Sheriff to take Wilson into custody, and 
deliver him over to the Sheriff of Saline county. 

"The Sheriff of Pulaski never confined Wilson 
one minute, but permitted him to go where he pleas- 
ed, without a guard, or any restraint imposed on 
him whatever. On his way to Saline, he entertain- 
ed him freely at his own house, and the next day 
delivered him over to the Sheriff of that county, 
who conducted the prisoner to the debtor's room in 
the jail, and gave him the key, so that ho and every 



body else had free egress and ingress at all times. 
Wilson invited every body to call on him, as he 
wished to see his friends, and his room was crowd- 
ed with visitors, who called to drink grog, and laugh 
and talk with him. But this theatre was not suffi- 
ciently large for his purpose. He afterwards visit- 
ed the dram-shops, where he freely treated all that 
would partake with him, and went fishing and 
hunting v^^ith others at pleasure, and entirely with 
out restraint. He also ate at the same table with 
the Judge, while on trial. 

" When the court met at Saline, Wilson was put 
on his trial. Several days were occupied in exam- 
ining the witnesses in the case. After the exam- 
ination was closed, while Col. Taylor was engaged 
in a very able, lucid, and argumentative speech, on 
the part of the prosecution, some man collected a 
parcel of the rabble, and came within a few yards 
of the court-house door, and bawled in a loud voice, 
' part them — part them !' Every body supposed 
there was an affray, and ran to the doors and win- 
dows to see ; behold, there was nothing more than 
the man, and the rabble he had collected around 
him, for the purpose of annoying Col. Taylor while 
speaking. A few minutes afterwards, this same 
person brought a horse near the court-house door, 
and commenced crying the horse, as though he was 
for sale, and continued for ten or fifteen minutes to 
ride before the court-house door, crying the horse, 
in a loud and boisterous tone of voice. The Judge 
sat as a silent listener to the indignity thus offered 
the court and counsel by this man, without inter- 
posing his authority. 

" To show the depravity of the times, and the peo- 
ple, after the verdict had been delivered by the jury, 
and the court informed Wilson that he was dis- 
charged, there was a rush toward him : some seized 
him by the hand, some by the arm, and there was 
great and loud rejoicing and exultation, directly in 
the presence of the court : and Wilson told the 
Sheriff to take the jury to a grocery, that he might 
treat them, and invited every body that chose to go. 
The house was soon filled to overflowing. The 
rejoicing was kept up till near supper time : but to 
cap the climax, soon after supper was over, a ma- 
jority of the jury, together with many others, went 
to the rooms that had been occupied several days 
by the friend and relation of the murdered Antho- 
ny, and commenced a scene of the most ridiculous 
dancing, (as it is beheved,) in triumph for Wilson, 
and as a triumph over the feelings of the relations 
of the departed Anthony. The scene did not close 
here. The party retired to a dram-shop, and con- 
tinued their rejoicing until about half after 10 
o'clock. They then collected a parcel of horns, 
trumpets, &c., and marched through the streets, 
blowing them, till near day, when one of the com- 
pany rode his horse in the porch adjoining the 
room which was occupied by the relations of the de- 
ceased." 

This case is given to the reader at length, in or- 
der fully to show, that in a community where the 
law sanctions the commission of every species of 
outrage upon one class of citizens, it fosters pas- 
sions which will paralyze its power to protect the 
other classes. Look at the facts developed in this 
case, as exhibiting the state of society among slave- 
holders. 1st. That the members of the legislature 



Kyvjtcuuna lyonaiaerea — i uoiic i opinion. 



are in the habit of wearing bowie knives. Wil- 
son's knife was 10 or 11 inches long.* 2d. The 
murderer, Wilson, was a man of wealth, president 
of the bank at the capital of the state, a high mili- 
tary officer, and had, for many years, been Speaker 
of the House of Representatives, as appears from 
a previous statement in the Arkansas Gazette. 3d. 
The murder was committed in open day, before all 
the members of the House, and many spectators, 
not one of whom seems to have made the least 
attempt to intercept Wilson, as he advanced upon 
Anthony with his knife drawn, but "made way for 
him," as is stated in another account. 4th. Though 
the murder was committed in the state-house, at 
the capital of the state, days passed before the civil 
authorities moved in the matter ; and they did not 
finally do it, until the relations of the murdered 
man demanded a warrant for the apprehension of 
the murderer. Even then, several days elapsed 
before he was brought before an examining court. 
When his trial came on, he drove to it in state, drew 
up before the door with "his coach and four," 
alighted, and strided into court like a lord among 
his vassals ; and there, though a clearer case of de- 
liberate murder never reeked in the face of the sun, 
yet he was admitted to bail, the court absolutely 
refusing to hear an argument from the prosecuting 
attorney, showing that it was not a bailable case. 
5th. The sheriff of Pulaski county, who had Wil- 
son in custody, " never confined him a moment, 
but permitted him to go at large wholly unrestrain- 
ed." When- transferred to Sahne co. for trial, the 
sheriff of that county gave Wilson the same hberty, 
and he spent his time in parties of pleasure, fish- 
ing, hunting, and at houses of entertainment. 6th. 
Finally, to demonstrate to the world, that justice 
among slaveholders is consistent with itself ; that 
authorizing man-stealing and patronising robbery, 
U. will, of course, be the patron and associate of 
murder also, the judge who sat upon the case, and 
tlic murderer who was on trial for his life before 
him, were boon-companions together, eating and 
drinking at the same table throughout the trial. 
Then came the conclusion of the farce — the up- 
roar round the court-house during the trial, drown- 
ing the voice of the prosecutor while pleading, 
without the least attempt by the court to put it 
down — then the charge of the judge to the jury, 
and their unanimous verdict of acquittal — then the 
rush from all quarters around the murderer with 
congratulations — the whole crowd in the court 
room shouting and cheering — then Wilson leading 
the way to a tavern, inviting the sheriff, and jury, 
and all present to " a treat" — then the bacchanalian 
revelry kept up all night, a majority of the jurors 

* A correspondent of the " Frederick Herald," writing 
from Little Rock, says, "Anthony's knife was about 
twenty-eight inches in length. They all carry knives 
here, or pistols. There are several kinds of knives in 
use— a narrow blade, and about twelve inches long, is 
called an " Arkansas tooth-pick." 



participating — the dancing, the triumphal proces 
sion through the streets with the blowing of horns 
and trumpets, and the prancing of horses through 
the porch of the house occupied by the relations 
of the murdered Anthony, adding insult and mock- 
ery to their agony. 

A few months before this murder on the floor of 
the legislature, George Scott, Esq., formerly mar- 
shal of the state was shot in an affray at Van Bu. 
ren, Crawford co., Arkansas, by a man named 
Walker ; and Robert Garothers, in an affray in St. 
Francis co., shot William Rachel, just as Rachel 
was shooting at Garothers' father. (National Intel, 
ligencer, May 8, 1837, and Little Eock Gazette, 
August 30, 1837.) 

While Wilson's trial was in progress, Mr. Ga- 
briel Sibley was stabbed to the heart at a public 
dinner, in St. Francis co., Arkansas, by James W. 
Grant. {Arkansas Gazette, May 30, 1838.) 

Hardly a week before this, the following oc- 
curred : 

" On the 16th ult., an encounter took place at 
Little Rock, Ark., between David F. Douglass, a 
young man of 18 or 19, and Dr. Wm. C. Howell. 
A shot was exchanged between them at the dis- 
tance of 8 or 10 feet with double-barrelled guns. 
The load of Douglass entered the left hip of Dr. 
Howell, and a buckshot from the gun of the latter 
struck a negro girl, 13 or 14 years of age, just be- 
low the pit of the stomach. Douglass then fired 
a second time and hit Howell in the left groin, 
penetrating the abdomen and bladder, and causing 
his death in four hours. The negro girl, at the 
last dates, was not dead, but no hopes were enter- 
tained of her recovery. Douglass was committed 
to await his trial at the April term of the Circuit 
Court." — Louisville Journal. 

" The Little Rock Gazette of Oct. 24, says, 
" We are again called upon to record the cold 
blooded murder of a valuable citizen. On the 
10th instant, Col. John Lasater, of Franklin co., 
was murdered by John W. Whitson, who delibe. 
rately shot him with a shot gun, loaded with a 
handful of rifle balls, six of which entered his 
body. He lived twelve hours after he was shot. 

"Whitson is the son of William Whitson, who 
was unfortunately killed, about a year since, in a 
rencontre with Col. Lasater, (who was fully exone- 
rated from all blame by a jury,) and, in revenge of 
his father's death, committed this bloody deed." 

These atrocities were all perpetrated within a 
few months of the time of the deliberate assassi- 
nation, on the floor of the legislature by the 
speaker, already described, and are probably but a 
small portion of the outrages committed in that 
state during the same period. The state of Ar- 
kansas contains about forty-five thousand white 
inhabitants, which is, if we mistake not, the pre- 
sent population of Litchfield county, Connecticut. 
And we venture the assertion, that a pubHc affray, 
witii deadly weapons, has not taken place in that 
county for fifty years, if indeed ever since its settle, 
ment, a century and a half ago. 



■"J^ 



MISSOURI. 



Missouri became one of the United States in 1821. 
Its present white population is about two hundred 
and fifty thousand. The following are a few of 
the affrays that have occurred there during the 
years 1837 and '38. 

The " Salt River Journal," March 8, 1838, has 
the following. 

" Fatal Affray. — An affray took place during 
last week, in the town of New London, between 
Dr. Peake and Dr. Bosley, both of that village, 
growing out of some trivial matter at a card party. 
After some words, Bosley threw a glass at Peake, 
which was followed up by other acts of violence, 
and in the quarrel Peake stabbed Bosley, several 
times with a dirk, in consequence of which, Bos- 
ley died the following morning. The court of 
inquiry considered Peake justifiable, and dis- 
charged him from arrest." 

From the " St. Louis Republican," of September 
29, 1837. 

"We learn that a fight occurred at Bowling. 
Green, in this state, a few days since, between Dr. 
Michael Reynolds and Henry Lalor. Lalor pro- 
cured a gun, and Mr. Dickerson wrested the gun 
from him ; this produced a fight between Lalor 
and Dickerson, in which the former stabbed the 
latter in the abdomen. Mr. Dickerson died of the 
wound." 

The following was in the same paper about a 
month previous, August 21, 1837. 

" A Horse Thief Shot. — A thief was caught in 
the act of stealing a horse on Friday last, on the 
opposite side of the river, by a company of persons 
out Sporting. Mr. Kremer, who was in the com- 
pany, levelled his rifle and ordered him to stop ; 
which he refused ; he then fired and lodged the 
contents in the thief's body, of which he died soon 
afterwards. Mr. K. went before a magistrate, who 
after hearing the case, refused to hold him for 

FURTHER TRIAL !" 

On the 5th of July, 1838, Alpha P. Buckley mur- 
dered William Yaochum in an affray in Jackson 
county, Missouri. (Missouri Republican, July 24, 
1838.) 

General Atkinson of the United States Army 
was waylaid on the 4th of September, 1838, by a 
number of persons, and attacked in his carriage 
near St. Louis, on the road to Jefferson Barracks, 
but escaped after shooting one of the assailants. 
The New Orleans True American of October 29, 
'38, speaking of this says : " It will be recollected 
that a few weeks ago. Judge Dougherty, one of the 
most respectable citizens of St. Louis, was mur- 
dered upon the same road." 

The same paper contains the following letter 
from the murderer of Judge Dougherty. 

" Murder of Judge Dougherty.— The St. Louis 
Republican received the following mysterious 
letter, unsealed, regarding this brutal murder :" — 
25 



" Natchez, Miss., Sept. 24. 
" Messrs. Editors : — Revenge is sweet. On the 
night of the 11th, 12th, and 13th, I made pi'epara- 
tions, and did, on the 14th July kill a rascal, and 
only regret that I have not the privilege of telling 
the circumstance. I have so placed it that I can 
never be identified ; and further, I have no com- 
punctions of conscience for the death of Thomas 
M. Dougherty." 

But instead of presenting individual aflPrays and 
single atrocities, however numerous, (and the Mis- 
souri papers abound with them,) in order to exhibit 
the true state of society there, we refer to the fact 
now universally notorious, that for months during 
the last fall and winter, some hundreds of inoffen- 
sive Mormons, occupying a considerable tract of 
land, and a flourishing village in the interior of the 
state, have suffered every species of inhuman 
outrage from the inhabitants of the surrounding 
counties — that for weeks together, mobs consisting 
of hundreds and thousands, kept them in a state of 
constant siege, laying waste their lands, destroying 
their cattle and provisions, tearing down their 
houses, ravishing the females, seizing and dragging 
off and killing the men. Not one of the thousands 
engaged in these horrible outrages and butcherings 
has, so far as we can learn, been indicted. The 
following extract of a letter from a military officer 
of one of the brigades ordered out by the Governor 
of Missouri, to terminate the matter, is talicn from 
the North Alabamian of December 22, 1838. 

Correspondence of the Nashville Whig. 
THE MORMON WAR. 

" MiLLERSBURG, Mo. November 8. 

" Dear Sir — A lawless mob had organized 
themselves for the express purpose of driving 
the Mormons from the country, or extermina- 
ting them, for no other reason, that I can 
perceive, than that these poor deluded creatures 
owned a large and fertile body of land in 
their neighborhood, and would not let them (the 
Mobocrats) have it for their own price. I have 
just returned from the seat of difficulty, and am 
perfectly conversant with all the facts in relation to 
it. The mob meeting with resistance altogether 
unanticipated, called loudly upon' the kindred spirits 
of adjacent counties for help. The Mormons de- 
termined to die in defence of their rights, set about 
fortifying their town "Far West," with a resolution 
and energy that kept the mob (who all the time 
were extending their cries of help to all parts of 
Missouri) at bay. The Governor, from exagge- 
rated accounts of the Mormon depredations, issued 
orders for the raising of several thousand mounted 
riflemen, of which this division raised five hundred, 
and the writer of this was honored with the ap- 
pointment of to the Brigade. 

" On the first day of this month, we marched for 
the " seat of war," but General Clark, Commander- 
in-chief, having reached Far West on the day pre- 
vious with a large force, the difficulty was settled 



192 



Ubjeciions Considered — Fublic Opinion. 



when we arrived, so we escaped the infamy and 
disgrace of a bloody victory. Before General 
Clark's arrival, the mob had increased to about four 
thousand, and determined to attack the town. The 
Mormons upon the approach of the mob, sent out 
a white flag, which being fired on by the mob, Jo 
Smith and Rigdon, and a few other Mormons of 
less influence, gave themselves up to the mob, with 
a view of so far appeasing their wrath as to save 
their women and children from violence. Vain 
hope ! The prisoners being secured, the mob 
entered the town and perpetrated every conceivable 
act of brutahty and outrage — forcing fifteen or 
twenty Mormon girls to yield to their brutal pas. 
sions !!! Of these things I was assured by many 
persons while I was at Far West, in whose veracity 
I have the utmost confidence. I conversed with 
many of the prisoners, who numbered about eight 
hundred, among whom there were many young 
and interesting girls, and I assure you, a more 



distracted set of creatures I never saw. I as 
sure you, my dear sir, it was peculiarly heart- 
rending to see old gray headed fathers and mothers, 
young ladies and innocent babes, forced at this 
inclement season, with the thermometer at 8 de- 
grees below zero, to abandon their warm houses, 
and many of ihcm the luxuries and elegances of 
a high degree of civilization and intelligence, and 
take up their march for the uncultivated wilds of 
the Missouri frontier. 

" The better informed here have but one opinion 
of the result of this Mormon persecution, and that 
is, it is a most fearful extension of Judge Lynch's 
jurisdiction." 

The present white population of Missouri is 
but thirty thousand less than that of New Hamp. 
shire, and yet the insecurity of human life in the 
former state to that in the latter, is probably at least 
twenty to one. 



ALABAMA. 



This state was admitted to the Union in 1819. 
Its present white population is not far from three 
hundred thousand. The security of human life in 
Alabama, may be inferred from the facts and tes- 
timony which follow : 

The Mobile Register of Nov. 15, 1837, contains 
the annual message of Mr. McVay, the acting 
Governor of the state, at the opening of the Legis- 
lature. The message has the following on 
the frequency of homicides : 

" We hear of homicides in different parts of the 
state continually, and yet how few convictions for 
murder, and still fewer executions ? How is this 
to be accounted for ? In regard to ' assault and 
battery with intent to commit murder,' why is it 
that this offence continues so common — why do 
we hear of stabbings and shootings almost daily 
in some part or other of our state ?" 

The " Montgomery (Alabama) Advertiser" of 
April 22, 1837, has the following from the Mobile 
IvOgi=!tcr : 

'' Within a few days a man was shot in an 
affray in the upper part of the town, and has since 
died. The perpetrator of the violence is at large. 
We need hardly speak of another scene which 
occurred in Royal street, when a fray occurred be- 
tween two individuals, a third standing by with a 
cocked pistol to prevent interference. On Satur- 
day night a still more exciting scene of outrage 
took place in the theatre. 

" An altercation commenced at the porquett en- 
trance between the check-taker and a young man, 
which ended in the first being desperately wound- 
ed by a stab with a knife. The other also drew a 
pistol. If some strange manifestations of public 
opinion, do not coerce a spirit of deference to law, 
and the abandonment of the habit of carrying 
secret arms, we shall deserve every reproach we 
may receive, and have our punishment in the un- 
checked growth of a spirit of lawlessness, reckless 
deeds, and exasperated feeling, which will des- 
troy our social comfort at home, and respecta- 
bility abroad." 



From the " Huntsville Democrat," of Nov. 7, 1837. 
" A trifling dispute arose between Silas Randal 
and Pharaoh Massingale, both of Marshall county. 
They exchanged but a few words, when the former 
drew a Bowie knife and stabbed the latter in the 
abdomen fronting the left hip to the depth of 
several inches ; also inflicted several other dan- 
gerous wounds, of which Massengale died imme- 
diately. — Randal is yet at large, not having been 
apprehended." 

From the " Free Press" of August 16, 1838. 

" The streets of Gainesville, Alabama, have re- 
cently been the scene of a most tragic affair. 
Some five weeks since, at a meeting of the citi- 
zens. Col. Christopher Scott, a lawyer of good 
standing, and one of the most influential citizens 
of the place, made a violent attack on the Tom- 
beckbee Rail Road Company. A Mr. Smith, 
agent for the T. R. R. Company, took Col. C's re- 
marks as a personal insult, and demanded an ex- 
planation. A day or two after, as Mr. Smith was 
passing Colonel Scott's door, he was shot down by 
him, and after lingering a few hours expired. 

" It appears also from an Alabama paper, that 
Col. Scott's brother, L. S. Scott Esq., and L. J. 
Smith Esq., were accomphces of the Colonel in 
the murder." 

The following is from the " Natchez Free Tra- 
der," June 14, 1838. 

" An affray, attended with fatal consequences, oc- 
curred in the town of Moulton, Alabama, on the 
12th May. It appears that three young men from 
the country, of the name of J. Walton, Geo. 
BowUng, and Alexander BowHng, rode into Moul- 
ton on that day for the purpose of chastising the 
bar-keeper at McCord's tavern, whose name is 
Cowan, for an alleged insult offered by him to 
the father of young Walton. They made a furi- 
ous attack on Cowan, and drove him into the bar 
room of the tavern. Some time after, a second 
attack was made upon Cowan in the street by one 
of the Bowlings and Walton, when pistols were 
resorted to by both parties. Three rounds were 
fired, and the third shot, which was said to have 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



193 



been discharged by Walton, struck a young nian 
by the name of Neil, who happened to be passing 
in the street at the time, and killed him instantly. 
The combatants were taken into custody, and 
after an examination before two magistrates, were 
bailed." 

The following exploits of the " Alabama Volun. 
teers," are recorded in the Florida Herald, Jan. 1, 
1838. 

" Save us from our Friends. — On Monday 
last, a large body of men, calhng themselves 
Alabama Volunteers, arrived in the vicinity of this 
city. It is reported that their conduct during their 
march from Tallahassee to this city has been a 
series of excesses of every description. They 
have committed almost every crime except murder, 
and have even threatened Hfe. 

" Large numbers of them paraded our streets, 
grossly insulted our females, and were otherwise 
extremely riotous in their conduct. One of the 
squads, forty or fifty in number, on reaching the 
bridge, where there was a small guard of three or 
four men stationed, assaulted the guard, overturn- 
ed the sentry-box into the river, and bodily seized 
two of the guard, and threw them into the river, 
where the water was deep, and they were forced 
to swim for their lives. At one of the men while 
in the water, they pointed a musket, threatening 
to kill him ; and pelted with every missile which 
came to hand." 

The following Alabama tragedy is published by 
the " Columbia (S. C.) Telescope," Sept. 16, 1837, 
from the Wetumpka Sentinel. 

" Our highly respectable townsman, Mr. Hugh 
Ware, a merchant of Wetumpka, was standing in 
the door of his counting-room, between the hours 
of 8 and 9 o'clock at night, in company with a 
friend, when an assassin lurked within a few pa- 
ces of his position, and discharged his musket, 
loaded with ten or fifteen buckshot. Mr. Ware 
instantly fell, and expired without a struggle or a 
groan. A coroner's inquest decided that the de- 
ceased came to his death by violence, and that 
Abner J. Cody, and his servant .Tohn, were the 
perpetrators. John frankly confessed, that his 
master, Cody, compelled him to assist, threatening 
his hfe if he dared to disobey ; that he carried the 
musket to the place at which it was discharged ; 
that his master then received it from him, rested it 
on the fence, fired and killed Mr. Ware." 

From the " Southern (Miss.) Mechanic," April 
17, 1838. 

" Horrid Butchery. — A desperate fight oc- 
curred in Montgomery, Alabama, on the 28th 
ult. We learn from the Advocate of that city, 
that the persons engaged were Wm. S, Mooney 
and Kenyon Mooney, his son, Edward Bell, and 
Bushrod Bell, Jr. The first received a wound in 
the abdomen, made by that fatal instrument, the 
Bowie knife, which caused his death in about 
fifteen hours. The second was shot in the side, 
and would doubtless have been killed, had not the 
ball partly lost its force by first striking his arm. 
The third received a shot in the neck, and now 
lies without hope of recovery. The fourth escaped 
unhurt, and, we understand has fled. This is a 



brief statement of one of the bloodiest fights that 
we ever heard of." 

From the " Virginia Statesman," May 6, 1837. 
" Several affrays, wherein pistols, dirks and 
knives were used, lately occurred at Mobile. One 
took place on the 8th inst., at the theatre, in which 
a Mr. Bellum was so badly stabbed that his life is 
despaired of. On the Wednesday preceding, a 
man named Johnson shot another named Snow 
dead. No notice was taken of the affair." 

From the "Huntsville Advocate," June 20, 1837. 
"Desperate Affray. — On Sunday the 11th 
inst., an affray of desperate and fatal character 
occurred near Chater's Landing, Marshall county, 
Alabama. The dispute which led to it arose out 
of a contested right to possession of a piece of 
land. A Mr. Steele was the occupant, and Mr. 
James McFarlane and some others, claimants. 
Mr. F. and his friends went to Mr. Steele's house 
with a view to take possession, whether peaceably 
or by violence, we do not certainly know. As 
they entered the house a quarrel ensued between 
two of the opposite parties, and some blows per- 
haps followed ; in a short time, several guns were 
discharged from the house at Mr. McFarlane and 
friends. Mr. M. was killed, a Mr. Freamster 
dangerously wounded, and it is thought will not 
recover ; two others were also wounded, though 
not so as to endanger life. Mr. Steele's brother 
was wounded by the discharge of a pistol from 
one of Mr. M's. friends. We have heard some 
other particulars about the affray, but we abstain 
from giving them, as incidental versions are often 
erroneous, and as the whole matter will be sub- 
mitted to legal investigation. Four of Steele's 
party, his brother, and three whose names are 
Lemen, CoHins and Wills, have been arrested, 
and are now confined in the goal in this place." 

From the " Norfolk Beacon," July 14, 1838. 

" A few days since at ClaysviUe, Marshal co., 
Alabama, Messrs. Nathaniel and Graves W. 
Steele, while riding in a carriage, were shot dead, 
and Alex. Steele and Wm. Collins, also in the 
carriage, were severely wounded, (the former sup- 
posed mortally,) by Messrs. Jesse Allen, Alexan- 
der and Arthur McFarlane, and Daniel Dicker- 
son. The Steeles, it appears, last year killed 
James McFarlane and another person in a simi- 
lar manner, which led to this dreadful retaUation." 

From the " Montgomery (Ala.) Advocate — 
Washington, Autauga Co., Dec. 28, 1838. 

" Fatal Rencontre. — On Friday last, the 28th 
ult., a fatal rencontre took place in the town of 
Washington, Autauga county, between John 
Tittle and Thomas J. Tarleton, which resulted in 
the death of the former. After a patient investi- 
gation of the matter, Mr. Tarleton was released 
by the investigating tribunal, on the ground that the 
homicide was clearly justifiable." 

The " Columbus (Ga.) Sentinel," July 6, 1837, 
quotes the following from the Mobile (Ala.) Ex- 
aminer. 

" A man by the name of Peter Church was 
killed on one of the wharves night before last. 
The person by whom it was done delivered him- 
self to the proper authorities yesterday morning 



194 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



The deceased and his destroyer were friends, and 
the act occurred in consequence of an immaterial 
quarrel." 

The " Milledgeville Federal Union" of July 11, 
1837, has the following: 

" In Selma, Alabama, resided lately messrs. 
Phihps and Dickerson, physicians. Mr. P. is 
brother to the wife of W. Bleevin Esq., a rich 
cotton planter in that neighborhood ; the latter has 
a very lovely daughter, to whom Dr. D. paid his 
addresses. A short time since a gentleman 
from Mobile married her. Soon after this, a 
schoolmaster in Selma set a story afloat to the 
effect, that he had heard Dr. D. say things about 
the lady's conduct before marriage which ought 
not to be said about any lady. Dr. D. denied 
having said such things, and the other denied 
having spread the story ; but neither denials suffi. 
ced to pacify the enraged parent. He met Dr. D. 
fired at him two pistols, and wounded him. Dr. 
D. was unarmed, and advanced to Mr. Bleevin, 
holding up his hands imploringly, when Mr. B. 
drew a Bowie knife, and stabbed him to the heart. 
The doctor dropped dead on the spot : and Mr. 
Bleevin has been held to bail." 

The following is taken from the " Alabama In- 
telhgencer," Sept. 17, 1838. 

" On the 5th instant, a deadly rencounter took 
place in the streets of Russelville, (our county 
town,) between John A. Chambers, Esq., of the 
city of mobile, and Thomas L. Jones, of this 
county. In the rencounter, Jones was wounded 
by several balls which took effect in his chin, 
mouth, neck, arm, and shoulder, beheved to be 
mortal ; he did not fire his gun. 

" Mr. Chambers forthwith surrendered himself to 
the Sheriff of the county, and was on the 6th, 
tried and fully acquitted, by a court of inquiry." 

The " Maysville (Ky.) Advocate" of August 
14, 1838, gives the following affray, which took 
place in Girard, Alabama, July 10th. 

" Two brothers named Thomas and Hal Lucas, 
who had been much in the habit of quarreUing, 
came together under strong excitement, and Tom, 
as was his frequent custom, being about to flog 
Hal with a stick of some sort, the latter drew a 
pistol and shot the former, his own brother, 
through the heart, who almost instantly expired !" 

The " New Orleans Bee" of Oct. 5, 1838, re- 



lates an affray in Mobile, Alabama, between Ben- 
jamin Alexander, an aged man of ninety, with 
Thomas Hamilton, his grandson, on the 24th of 
September, in which the former killed the latter 
with a dirk. 

The " Red River Whig" of July 7, 1838, gives the 
particulars of a tragedy in Western Alabama, in 
which a planter near Lakeville, left home for some 
days, but suspecting his wife's fidelity, returned 
home late at night, and finding his suspicions veri- 
fied, set fire to his house and waited with his rifle 
before the door, till his wife and her paramour at- 
tempted to rush out, when he shot them both dead. 

From the " Morgan (Ala.) Observer," Dec. 1838. 

" We are informed from private sources, that 
on last Saturday, a poor man who was moving 
westward with his wife and three httle children, 
and driving a small drove of sheep, and perhaps a 
cow or two, which was driven by his family, on 
arriving in Florence, and while passing through, 
met with a citizen of that place, who rode into his 
flock and caused him some trouble to keep it to- 
gether, when the mover informed the individual 
that he must not do so again or he would throw a 
rock at him, upon which some words ensued, and 
the individual again disturbed the flock, when the 
mover, as near as we can learn, threw at him 
upon this the troublesome man got off his horse, 
went into a grocery, got a gun, and came out and 
dehberately shot the poor stranger in the presence 
of his wife and little children. The wounded man 
then made an effort to get into some house, when 
his murderous assailant overtook and stabbed him 
to the heart with a Bowie knife. This revolting 
scene, we are informed, occurred in the presence 
of many citizens, who, report says, never even 
hfted their voices in defence of the murdered 
man." 

A late number of the "Flag of the Union," pub- 
lished at Tuscaloosa, the seat of the government 
of Alabama, states, that since the commencement 
of the late session of the legislature of that state, 
" no less than thirteen fights had been had 
within sight of the capitol." Pistols and Bowie 
knives were used in every oase. 

The present white population of Alabama is 
about the same with that of New Jersey, yet for 
the last twenty years there have not been so many 
public deadly affrays, and of such a horrible 
character, in New Jersey, as have taken place in 
Alabama within the last eight months. 



MISSISSIPPI. 



Mississippi became one of the United States in 
1817. Its present white population is about one 
hundred and sixty thousand. 

The following extracts will serve to show that 
those who combine together to beat, rob, and mana- 
cje innocent men, women and children, will stick 
at nothing when their passions are up. 

The following murderous affray at Canton, Mis- 
sissippi, is from the " Alabama Beacon," Sept, 13, 
1838. 

" A terrible tragedy recently occurred at Canton, 



Miss., growing out of the late duel between Messrs. 
Dickins and Drane of that place. A Kentuckian 
happening to be in Canton, spoke of the duel, and 
charged Mr. Mitchell Calhoun, the second of Drane, 
with cowardice and unfairness. Mr. Calhoun call- 
ed on the Kentuckian for an explanation, and the 
offensiA'e charge was repeated. A challenge and. 
fight with Bowie knives, toe to toe, were the con- 
sequences. Both parties were dreadfully and dan- 
gerously wounded, though neither was dead at the 
last advices. Mr. Calhoun is a brother to the Hon 
John Calhoun, member of Congress.". 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



195 



Here follows the account of the duel referred to 
above, between Messrs. Dickins and Drane. 

" Intelhgence has been received in this town of 
a fatal duel that took place in Canton, Miss., on the 
28th ult., between Rufus K. Dickins, and a Mr. 
Westley Drane. They fought with double barrel- 
led guns, loaded with buckshot — both were mor- 
tally wounded." 

The " Louisville Journal" publishes the follow- 
ing, Nov. 23. 

♦' On the 7th instant, a fatal affray took place at 
Gallatin, Mississippi. The principal parties con- 
cerned were, Messrs. John W. Scott, James G. 
Scott, and Edmund B. Hatch. The latter was shot 
down and then stabbed twice through the body, by 
J..G. Scott." 

The " Alabama Beacon" of Sept. 13, 1838, says : 
" An attempt was made in Vicksburg lately, by 
a gang of Lynchers, to inflict summary punishment 
on three men of the name of Fleckenstein. The 
assault was made upon the house, about 11 o'clock 
at night. Meeting with some resistance from the 
three Fleckensteins, a leader of the gang, by the 
name of Helt, discharged his pistol, and wounded 
one of the brothers severely in the neck and jaws. 
A volley of four or five shots was almost instantly 
returned, when Helt fell dead, a piece of the top 
of the skull being torn off", and almost the whole of 
his brains dashed out. His comrades seeing him 
fall, suddenly took to their heels. There were, it 
is supposed, some ten or fifteen concerned in the 
transaction." 

The " Manchester (Miss.) Gazette," August 11, 
1838, says : 

" It appears that Mr. Asa Hazeltine, who kept a 
pubhc or boarding house in Jackson, during ihe 
past winter, and Mr. Benjamin Tanner, came here 
about five or six weeks since, with the intencion o( 
opening a public house. Foiled in the design, in 
the settlement of their affairs some diffipulty arose 
as to a question of veracity between the parties. 
Mr. Tanner deeply excited, procured a pistol and 
loaded it v/ith the charge of death, soaght and found 
the object of his hatred in the afternoon, in the 
yard of Messrs. Kezer & Maynard, and in the 
presence of several persons, after repeated and in. 
effectual attempts on the part of Capt. Jackson to 
baffle his fell spirit, shot the unfortunate victim, of 
which wound Mr. Hazeltine died in a short time. 

[Hir " We understand that Mr. Hazeltine was a 
native of Boston." 

The "Columbia (S. G.) Telescope," Sept. 16, 
1837, gives the details below : 

" By a letter from Mississippi, we have an ac- 
count of a rencontre which took place in Rodney, 
on the 27th July, between Messrs. Thos. J. John- 
ston and G. H. Wilcox, both formerly of this city. 
In consequence of certain publications made by 
these gentlemen against each other, Johnston chal- 
lenged Wilcox. The latter declining to accept the 
challenge, Johnston informed his friends at Rod- 
ney, that he would be there at the term of the court 
then not distant, when he would make an attack 
upon him. He repaired thither on the 26th, and 
on the next morning the following communication 



was read aloud in the presence of Wilcox and a 
large crowd : 

''Rodney, July 27, 1837. 

" Mr. Johnston informs Mr. Wilcox, that at or 
about 1 o'clock of this day, he will be on the 
common, opposite the Presbyterian Church of this 
town, waiting and expecting Mr. Wilcox to meet 
him there. 

" I pledge my honor that Mr. Johnston will not 
fire at Mr. Wilcox, until he arrives at a distance of 
one hundred yards from him, and I desire Mr. Wil- 
cox or any of his friends, to see that distance ac- 
curately measured. 

" Mr. Johnston will wait there thirty minutes. 
"J. M. DUFFIELD. 

" Mr. Wilcox declined being a party to any such 
arrangement, and Mr. D. told him to be prepared 
for an attack. Accordingly, about an hour after 
this, Johnston proceeded towards Wilcox's office, 
armed with a double-barrelled gun, (one of the bar- 
rels riffed,) and three pistols in his belt. He halted 
about fifty yards from W's door and leveled his 
gun. W. withdrew before Johnston could fire, and 
seized a musket, returned to the door and flashed. 
Johnston fired both barrels without effect. Wilcox 
then seized a double barrel gun, and Johnston a 
musket, and both again fired. Wilcox sent twen- 
ty-three buck shot over Johnston's head, one of 
them passing through his hat, and Wilcox was 
slightly wounded on both hands, his thigh and ]eg.'» 

From the "Alabama Beacon," May 27, 1838. 

" An affray of the most barbarous nature was 
expected to take place in Arkansas opposite Prince- 
ton, on Thursday last. The two original parties 
have been endeavoring for several weeks, to settle 
their differences at Natchez. One of the individu- 
als concerned stood pledged, our informant states, 
to fight three different antagonists in one day. The 
fights, we understand, were to be with pistols ; but 
a variety of other weapons were taken along — 
among others, the deadly Bowie knife. These lat- 
ter instruments, we are told, were whetted and 
dressed up at Grand Gulf, as the parties passed up, 
avowedly with the intention of being used in the 
field." 
From the " Southern (Miss) Argus," Nov. 21, 1837. 

" We learn that, at a wood yard above Natchez, 
on Sunday evening last, a difficulty arose between 
Captain Crosly, of the steamboat Galenian, and 
one of his deck passengers. Capt. C. drew a 
Bowie knife, and made a pass at the throat of the 
passenger, which failed to do any harm, and the 
captain then ordered him to leave his boat. The 
man went on board to get his baggage, and the 
captain immediately sought the cabin for a pistol. 
As the passenger was about leaving the boat, the 
captain presented a pistol to his breast, which 
snapped. Instantly the enraged and wronged in- 
dividual seized Capt. Crosly by the throat, and 
brought him to the ground, when he drew a dirk 
and stabbed him eight or nine times in the breast, 
each blow driving the weapon into his body up to 
the hilt. The passenger was arrested, carried to 
Natchez, tried and acquitted." 

The "Planter's Intelligencer" publishes the follow, 
ing from the Vicksburg Sentmel of June 19, 1838. 

" About 1 o'clock, we observed two men ' pum- 
meUng" one another in the street, to the infinite 



196 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



amusement of a crowd. Presently a third hero j 
made his appearance in the arena, with Bowie 
knife in hand, and he cried out, ' Let me come at 
him !' Upon hearing this threat, one of the pugi- 
lists ♦ took himself off,' our hero following at full 
speed. Finding his pursuit was vain, our hero re- 
turned, when an attack was commenced upon an. 
other individual. He was most cruelly beat, and 
cut through the skull with a knife ; it is feared the 
wounds will prove mortal. The sufferer, we learn, 
is an inoffensive German." 

From the " Mississippian," Nov. 9, 1838. 

" On Tuesday evening last, 23d, an affray oc- 
curred at the town of Tallahasse, in this county, 
between Hugh Roark and Captain Flack, which 
resulted in the death of Roark. Roark went to 
bed, and Flack, who was in the bar.room below, 
observed to some persons there, that he believed 
they had set up Roark to whip him ; Roark, upon 
hearing his name mentioned, got out of bed and 
came down stairs. Flack met and stabbed him in 
the lower part of his abdomen with a knife, letting 
out his bowels. Roark ran to the door, and re- 
ceived another stab in ihe back. He lived until 
Thursday night, when he expired in great agony. 
Flack was tried before a justice of the peace, and 
we understand was only held to bail to appear at 
court in the event Roark should die." 

From the " Grand Gulf Advertiser," Nov. 7, 1838. 
" Attempt at Riot at Natchez. — The Courier 
says, that in consequence of the discharge of cer- 
tain individuals who had been arraigned for the 
murder of a man named Medill, a mob of about 
200 persons assembled on the night of the 1st in- 
stant, with the avowed purpose of lynching them. 
But fortunately, the objects of their vengeance had 
escaped from town. Foiled in their purpose, the 
rioters repaired to the shantee where the murder 
was committed, and precipitated it over the bluff. 
The military of the city were ordered out to keep 
order." 

From the " Natchez Free Trader." 

" A violent attack was lately made on Captain 
Barrett, of the steamboat Southerner, by three per- 
sons from Wilkinson co.. Miss., whose names are 
Carey, and one of the name of .T. S. Towles. The 
only reason for the outrage was, that Captain B. 
had the assurance to require of the gentlemen, who 
were quarrehng on board his boat, to keep order 
for the peace and comfort of the other passengers. 
Towles drew a Bowie knife upon the Captain, 
which the latter wrested from him. A pistol, drawn 
by one of the Careys was also taken, and the as- 
sailant was knocked overboard. Fortunately for 
him he was rescued from drowning. The brave 
band then landed. On her return up the river, the 
Southerner stopped at Fort Adams, and on her 
leaving that place, an armed party, among whom 
were the Careys and Towles, fired into the boat, 
but happily the shot missed a crowd of passengers 
on the hurricane deck." 

From the " Mississippian," Dec. 18, 1838. 

" Greer Spikes, a citizen of this county, was kill- 
ed a few days ago, between this place and Ray- 
mond, by a man named Fegram. It seems that 
Pegram and Spikes had been carrying weapons for 
each other for some time past. Pegram had threat- 



ened to take Spikes' hfe on first sight, for the base 
treatment he had received at his hands. 

" We have heard something of the particulars, 
but not enough to give them at this lime. Pegram 
had not been seen since." 

The " Lynchburg Virginian," July 23, 1838, says : 
" A fatal affray occurred a few days ago in Clin- 
ton, Mississippi. The actors in it were a Mr. Par- 
ham, Mr. Shackleford, and a Mr. Henry. Shac- 
kleford was killed on the spot, and Henry was 
shghtly wounded by a shot gun with which Par- 
ham was armed." 

From the " Columbus (Ga.) Sentinel," Nov. 22, 
1838. 

" Butchery. — A Bowie knife slaughter took 
place a few days since in Honesville, Miss. A 
Mr. Hobbs was the victim ; Strother the butcher." 

The " Vicksburg Sentinel," Sept. 28, 1837, says : 
"It is only a few weeks since humanity was 
shocked by a most atrocious outrage, inflicted by 
the Lynchers, on the person of a Mr. Saunderson 
of Madison co. in this state. They dragged this 
respectable planter from the bosom of his family, 
and mutilated him in the most brutal manner — 
maiming him most inhumanly, besides cutting off 
his nose and ears and scarifying his body to the 
very ribs ! We believe the subject of this foul out- 
rage still drags out a miserable existence — an ob- 
ject of horror and of pity. Last week a club of 
Lynchers, amounting to four or five individuals, as 
we have been credibly informed, broke into the 
house of Mr. Scott of Wilkinson co., a respecta- 
ble member of the bar, forced him out, and hung 
him dead on the next tree. We have heard of nu- 
merous minor outrages committed against the peace 
of society, and the welfare and happiness of the 
country; but we mention these as the most enor- 
mous that we have heard for some months. 

" Iinow becomes our painful duty, to notice a 
most disgraceful outrage committed by the Lynch- 
ers of Vitksburg, on last Sunday. The victim was 
a Mr. Grace, formerly of the neighborhood of War- 
renton, Va., but for two years a resident of this ci- 
ty. He was detected in giving free passes to slaves 
and brought to trial before Squire Maxcy. Unfor- 
tunately for the wretch, either through the want of 
law or evidence, he could not be punished, and he 
was set at hberty by the magistrate. The city mar- 
shal seeing that a few in the crowd were disposed 
to lay violent hands on the prisoner in the event of 
his escaping punishment by law, resolved to accom- 
pany him to his house. The Lynch mob still fol- 
lowed, and the marshal finding the prisoner could 
only be protected by hurrying him to jail, endeavor- 
ed to effect that object. The Lynchers, however, 
pursued the officer of the law, dragged him from 
his horse, bruised him, and conveyed the prisoner 
to the most convenient point of the city for carry- 
ing their blood-thirsty designs into execution. We 
blush while we record the atrocious deed ; in this 
city, containing nearly 5,000 souls, in the broad 
fight of day, this aged wretch was stripped and 
flogged, we believe within hearing of the lamenta- 
tions and the shrieks of his afflicted wife and chil- 
dren." 

In an affray at Montgomery, Mississippi, July 
1, 1838, Mr. A. L. Herbert was killed by Dr. J 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



197 



B. Harrington. See Grand Gulf Advertiser, Au- 
gust 1, 1838. 

The " Maryland Republican" of January 30, 
1838, has the following : 

" A street rencounter lately took place in Jack- 
son, Miss., between Mr. Robert McDonald and 
Mr. W. H. Lockhart, in which McDonald was shot 
with a pistol and immediately expired. Lockhart 
was committed to prison." 

The '• Nashville Banner," June 22, 1838, has the 
following : 

" On the 8th inst. Col. James M. Hulet was shot 
with a rifle without any apparent provocation in 
Gallatin, Miss., by one Richard M. Jones." 

From the " Huntsville Democrat," Dec. 8, 1838. 

" The Aberdeen (Miss.) Advocate, of Saturday 
last, states that on the morning of the day previous, 
(the 9th) a dispute arose between Mr. Robert 
Smith and Mr. Alexander Eanes, both of Aber- 
deen, which resulted in the death of Mr. Smith, 
who kept a boarding-house, and was an amiable 
man and a good citizen. In the course of the con- 
tradictory words of the disputants, the lie was given 
by Eanes, upon which Smith gathered up a piece 
of iron and threw it at Eanes, but which missed 
him and lodged in the walls of the house. At this, 
Eanes drew a large dirk knife, and stabbed Smith in 
the abdomen, the knife penetrating the vitals, and 
thus causing immediate death. Smith breathed 
only a few seconds after the fatal thrust. 

" Eanes immediately mounted his horse and rode 
off", but was pursued by Mr. Hanes, who arrested 
and took him back, when he was put under guard 
to await a trial before the proper authorities." 

From the " Vicksburg Register," Nov. 17, 1838. 

" On the 2d inst. an affray occurred between 
one Stephen Scarbrough and A. W. Higbee of 
Grand Gulf, in which Scarbrough was stabbed with 
a knife, which occasioned his death in a few hours. 
Higbee has been arrested and committed for trial." 

From the "Huntsville (Ala.) Democrat," Nov. 
10, 1838. 

" Life in the Southwest. — A friend in Louisiana 
writes, under date of the 31st ult., that a fight took 
place a few days ago in Madison parish, 60 miles 
below Lake Providence, between a Mr. Nevils and 
a Mr. Harper, which terminated fatally. The po. 
lice jury had ordered a road on the right bank of 
the Mississippi, and the neighboring planters were 
out with their forces to open it. For some offence, 
Nevils, the superintendent of the operations, flogged 
two of Harper's negroes. The next day the par- 
ties met on horseback, when Harper dismounted, 
and proceeded to cowskin Nevils for the chastise- 
ment inflicted on the negroes. Nevils immediate- 
ly drew a pistol and shot his assailant dead on the 
spot. Both were gentlemen of the highest respec- 
tabihty. 

" An affray also came off recently, as the same 
correspondent writes us, in Raymond, Hinds co.. 
Miss., which for a serious one, was rather amusing. 
The sheriff had a process to serve on a man of the 
name of Bright, and, in consequence of some dif- 
ficulty and intemperate language, thought proper 
to commence the service by the appHcation of his 



cowskin to the defendant. Bright thereupon 
floored his adversary, and, wresting his cowhide 
from him, applied it to its owner to the extent of at 
least five hundred lashes, meanwhile threatening 
to shoot the first bystander who attempted to inter- 
fere. The sheriff was carried home in a state of 
insensibility, and his Hfe has been despaired of. 
The mayor of the place, however, issued his war- 
rant, and started three of the sheriff's deputies in 
pursuit of the delinquent, but the latter, after keep- 
ing them at bay till they found it impossible to 
arrest him, surrendered himself to the magistrate, 
by whom he was bound over to the next Circuit 
Court. From the mayor's office, his honor and the 
parties litigant proceeded to the tavern to take a 
drink by way of ending hostihties. But the civil 
functionary refused to sign articles of peace by 
touching glasses with Bright, whereupon the latter 
made a furious assault upon him, and then turned 
and flogged ' mine host' within an inch of his 
life because he interfered. Satisfied with his 
day's work. Bright retired. Can we show any 
such specimens of chivalry and refinement in 
Kentucky !" 

From the " Grand Gulf (Miss.) Advertiser," 
June 27, 1837. 

" Death by Violence. — The moral atmosphere 
in our state appears to be in a deleterious and 
sanguinary condition. Almost every exchange 
paper which reaches us contains some inhuman 
and revolting case of murder or death by vio- 
lence. Not less than fifteen deaths by violence 
have occurred, to our certain knowledge, within 
the past three months. Such a state of things, in 
a country professing to be moral and christian, is 
a disgrace to human nature, and is well calculated 
to induce those abroad unacquainted with our 
general habits and feehngs, to regard the morals 
of our people in no very enviable light ; and does 
more to injure and weaken our pohtical institu- 
tions than years of pecuniary distress. The fre- 
quency of such events is a burning disgrace to the 
morality, civi/ization, and refinement of feeling to 
which we lay claim, and so often boast, in com- 
parison with the older states. And unless we sot 
about and put an immediate and effectual ter- 
mination to such revolting scenes, we shall be 
compelled to part with what all genuine southern., 
ers have ever regarded as their richest inheritance, 
the proud appellation of the ' brave, high-minded 
and chivalrous sons of the south.'' 

" This done, we should soon discover a change for 
the better — peace and good order would prevail, 
and the ends of justice be effectually and speedily 
attained, and then the people of this wealthy state 
would be in a condition to bid defiance to the dis- 
graceful reproaches which are now daily heaped 
upon them by the religious and moral of other 
states." 

" The present white population of Mississippi is 
but httle more than half as great as that of Ver- 
mont, and yet more horrible crimes are perpetra. 
ted by them every month, than have ever been 
perpetrated in Vermont since it has been a state, 
now about half a century. Whoever doubts it, let 
him get data and make his estimate, and he will 
find that this is no random guess» 



198 



Ohjections Considered — Public Opinion. 



LOUISIANA. 



Louisiana became one of the United States in 
1811. Its present white population is about one 
hundred and fifteen thousand. 

The extracts which follow furnish another illus- 
tration of the horrors produced by passions blown 
up to fury in the furnace of arbitrary power. We 
have just been looking over a broken file of Louis- 
iana papers, including the last six months of 1837, 
and the whole of 1838, and find ourselves obliged 
to abandon our design of publishing even an ab- 
stract of the scores and hundreds of affrays, mur- 
ders, assassinations, duels, lynchings, assaults, &c. 
which took place in that state during that period. 
Those which have taken place in New Orleans 
alone, during the last eighteen months, would, in 
detail, fill a volume. Instead of inserting the de- 
tails of the principal atrocities in Louisiana, as in 
the states already noticed, we will furnish the read- 
er with the testimony of various editors of newspa- 
pers, and others, residents of the state, which will 
perhaps as truly set forth the actual state of society 
there, as could be done by a publication of the out- 
rages themselves. 

From the "New Orleans Bee," of May 23, 

1838. 

" Contempt of human life. — In view of the 
crimes which are daily committed, we are led to 
inquire whether it is owing to the inefficiency of 
our laws, or to the manner in which those laws are 
administered, that this frightful deluge of human 
blood flows through our streets and our places of 
public resort. 

" Whither will such contempt for the life of man 
lead us ? The unhealthiness of ibe climate mows 
down annually a part of our population ; the mur- 
derous steel despatches its proportion ; and if crime 
increases as it has, the latter will soon become the 
most powerful agent in destroying life. 

" We cannot but doubt the perfection of our 
criminal code, when we see that almost every cri- 
minal eludes the law, either by boldly avowing the 
crime, or by the tardiness with which legal prose- 
cutions are carried on, or, lastly, by the convenient 
application of bail in criminal cases." 

The " New Orleans Picayune" of July 30, 1837, 
says : 

" It is with the most painful feehngs that we 
daily hear of some fatal duel. Yesterday we 
were told of the unhappy end of one of our most 
influential and highly respectable merchants, who 
fell yesterday morning at sunrise in a duel. As 
usual, the circumstances which led to the meeting 
were trivial." 

The New Orleans correspondent of the New 
York Express, in his letter dated Ne^y Orleans, 
July 30, 1837, says : 

" Thirteen duels have been fought in and near 



the city during the week ; five more were to take 
place this morning." 

The "New Orleans Merchant" of March 20, 
1838, says : 

" Murder has been rife within the two or three 
weeks last past ; and what is worse, the authorities 
of those places where they occur are perfectly re- 
gardless of the fact?'' 

The " New Orleans Bee" of September 8, 1838, 
says : 

" Not two months since, the miserable Barba 
became a victim to one of the most cold-blooded 
schemes of assassination that ever disgraced a 
civihzed community. Last Sunday evening an 
individual, Gonzales by name, was seen in perfect 
health, in conversation with his friends. On Mon- 
day morning his dead body was withdrawn from 
the Mississippi, near the ferry of the first munici- 
paUty, in a state of terrible mutilation. To cap the 
climax of horror, on Friday morning, about half 
past six o'clock, the coroner was called to hold an 
inquest over the body of an individual, between 
Magazine and Tchoupitoulas streets. The head 
was entirely severed from the body ; the lower ex- 
tremities had likewise suffered amputation ; the 
right foot was completely dismembered from the 
leg, and the left knee nearly severed from the 
thigh. Several stabs, wounds and bruises, were 
discovered on various parts of the body, which of 
themselves were sufficient to produce death." 

The " Georgetown (South Carolina) Union" of 
May 20, 1837, has the following extract from a 
New Orleans paper. 

" A short time since, two men shot one another 
down in one of our bar rooms, one of whom died 
instantly. A day or two after, one or two infants 
were found murdered, there was every reason to 
believe, by their own mothers. Last week we had 
to chronicle a brutal and bloody murder, committed 
in the heart of our city : the very next day a mur- 
der-trial was commenced in our criminal court : 
the day ensuing this, we published the particulars 
of Hart's murder. The day after that, Tibbetts 
was hung for attempting to commit a murder ; the 
next day again we had to publish a murder com- 
mitted by two Spaniards at the Lake — this was on 
Friday last. On Sunday we published the account 
of another murder committed by the Italian, Gre- 
gorio. On Monday, another murder was commit- 
ted, and the murderer lodged in jail. On Tuesday 
morning another man was stabbed and robbed, 
and is not likely to recover, but the assassin es- 
caped. The same day Reynolds, who killed Bar- 
re, shot himself in prison. On Wednesday, another 
person, Mr. Nicolet, blew out his brains. Yester- 
day, the unfortunate George Clement destroyed 
himself in his cell ; and in addition to this dreadful 
catalogue we have to add that of the death of two 
brothers, who destroyed themselves through grief 
at the death of their mother ; and truly may we 
say that ' we know not what to-morrow will bring 
forth.' " 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



199 



The " Louisiana Advertiser," as quoted by the 
Salt River (Mo.) Journal of May 25, 1837, says : 

" Within the last ten or twelve days, three sui- 
cides, four murders, and two executions, have oc- 
curred in the city ! " 

The " New Orleans Bee" of October 25, 1837, 
says: 

" We remark with regret the frightful list of ho- 
micides that are daily committed in New Orleans." 

The " Planter's Banner" of September 30, 1838, 
pubHshed at Franklin, Louisiana, after giving an 
account of an affray between a number of planters, 
in which three were killed and a fourth mortally 
wounded, says that " Davis (one of the murderers) 
was arrested by the by-standers, but a justice of 
the peace came up and told them, he did not think 
It right to keep a man ' tied in that manner,' and 
'thought it best to turn him loose.' It was ac- 
cordingly so done." 

This occurred in the parish of Harrisonburg. 
The Banner closes the account by saying : 

" Our informant states that five white men and 
one negro have been murdered in the parish of 
Madison, during the months of July and August." 

This justice of the peace, who bade the by- 
standers unloose the murderer, mentioned above, 
has plenty of birds of his own feather among the 
law officers of Louisiana. Two of the leading 
officers in the New Orleans police took two wit- 
nesses, while undergoing legal examination at 
Lexington, near New Orleans, " carried them to a 
bye-place, and lynched them, during which inqui- 
sitorial operations, they divulged every thing to the 
officers, Messrs. Foyle and Grossman." The pre- 
ceding fact is published in the Maryland Republi- 
can of August 22, 1837. 

Judge Lansuge of New Orleans, in his address 
at the opening of the criminal court, Nov. 4, 1837, 
published in the "Bee" of Nov. 8, in remarking 
upon the prevalence of out-breaking crimes, says : 

" Is it possible in a civilized country such crying 
abuses are constantly encountered ? How many 
individuals have given themselves up to such cul- 
pable habits ! Yet we find magistrates and juries 
hesitating to expose crimes of the blackest dye to 
eternal contempt and infamy, to the vengeance of 
the law. 

" As a Louisianian parent, I reflect with terror 
that our beloved children, reared to become one 
day honorable and useful citizens, may be the vic- 
tims of these votaries of vice and licentiousness. 
Without some powerful and certain remedy, our 
streets will become butcheries overflowing with 
the blood of our citizens" 

The Editor of the " New Orleans Bee," in his pa- 
per of Oct. 21, 1837, has a long editorial article, in 
which he argues for the virtual legalizing of Lynch 
Law, as follows : 

" We think then that in the circumstances in 
which we are placed, the Legislature ought to sanc- 
tion such measures as the situation of the country 
render necessary, by giving to justice a convenient 
latitude There are occasions when the delays 
inseparable from the administration of justice would 
26 



be inimical to the public safety, and where the 
most fatal consequences would be the result. 

" It appears to us, that there is an urgent neces- 
sity to provide against the inconveniences which 
result from popular judgment, and to check the 
disposition for the speedy execution of justice, re- 
sulting from the unconstitutional principle of a 
pretended Lynch law, by authorizing the parish 
court to take cognizance without delay, against 
every free man who shall be convicted of a crime, 
from the accusations arising from the mere provo- 
cations to the insurrection of the working classes. 

" All judicial sentences ought to be based upon 
law, and the terrible privilege which the populace 
now have of punishing with death certain crimes, 
ought to be consecrated by law, powerful interests 
would not suffice in our view to excuse the inter- 
ruption of social order, if the public safety was not 
with us the supreme law. 

" This is the reason that whilst we deplore the 
imperious necessity which exists, we entreat the 
legislative power to give the sanction of principle to 
what already exists in fact." 

The Editor of the " New Orleans Bee," in his pa- 
per, Oct. 25, 1837, says: 

" We remark with regret the frightful list of 
homicides, whether justifiable or not, that are daily 
committed in New Orleans. It is not through any 
inherent vice of legal provision that such outrages 
are perpetrated with impunity : it is rather in the 
neglect of the application of the law which exists 
on this subject. 

" We will confine our observation to the danger- 
ous facilities afforded by this code for the escape of 
the homicide. We are well aware that the laws in 
question are intended for the distribution of equal 
justice, yet we have too often witnessed the ac- 
quittal of delinquents whom we can denominate 
by no other title than that of homicides, while the 
simple affirmation of others has been admitted 
(in default of testimony) who are themselves the 
authors of the deed, for which they stand in judg- 
ment. The indiscriminate system of accepting 
bail is a blot on our criminal legislation, and is one 
great reason why so many violators of the law 
avoid its penalties. To this doubtless must be as- 
cribed the non-interference of the Attorney General. 
The law of habeas corpus being subjected to the 
interpretation of every magistrate, whether versed 
or not in criminal cases, a degree of arbitrary and 
incorrect explanation necessarily results. How 
frequently does it happen that the Mayor or Re- 
corder decides upon the gravest case without put- 
ting himself to the smallest trouble to inform the 
Attorney General, who sometimes only hears of 
the affair when investigation is no longer possible, 
or when the criminal has wisely commuted his 
punishment into temporary or perpetual exile. 

That morality suffers by such practices, is be- 
yond a doubt ; yet moderation and mercy are so 
beautiful in themselves, that we would scarcely 
protest against indulgence, were it not well known 
that the acceptance of bail is the safeguard of 
every dehnquent who, through wealth or connec- 
tions, possesses influence enough to obtain it. 
Here arbitrary construction glides amidst the con- 
fusion of testimony ; there it presumes upon the 
want of evidence, and from one cause or another it is 
extremely rare, that a refusal to bail has delivered 



JOO 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



the accused into the hands of justice. In crimi- 
nal cases, the Court and Jury are the proper tribu- 
nals to decide upon the reahty of the crime, and 
the palhating circumstances ; yet it is not unfre- 
quent for the pubhc voice to condemn as an odious 
assassin, the very individual who by the acquittal 
of the judge, walks at large and scoffs at justice. 

" It is time to restrict within its proper Hmits this 
pretended right of personal protection ; it is time 
to teach our population to abstain from mutual 
murder upon slight provocation. — Duelling, Hea- 
ven knows, is dreadful enough, and quite a suffi- 
cient means of gratifying private aversion, and 
avenging insult. Frequent and serious brawls in 
our cafes, streets and houses, every where attest 
the insufficiency or misapplication of our legal code, 
or the want of energy in its organs. To say that 
unbounded Ucense is the result of Hberty is folly. 
Liberty is the consequence of well regulated laws — 
without these. Freedom can exist only in name, 
and the law which favors the escape of the opu- 
lent and aristocratic from the penalties of retribu- 
tion, but consigns the poor and friendless to the 
chain-gang or the gallows, is in fact the very es- 
sence of slavery ! ! 

The editor of the same paper says (Nov. 4, 1837.) 
" Perhaps by an equitable, but strict application 
of that law, (the law which forbids the wearing of 
deadly weapons concealed,) the effusion of human 
blood might be stopt which now defiles our streets 
and our coffee-houses as if they were shambles ! 
Reckless disregard of the life of man is rapidly 
gaining ground among us, and the habit of seeing 
a man whom it is taken for granted was armed, 
murdered merely for a gesture, may influence the 
opinion of a jury composed of citizens, whom, 

LONG IMPUNITY TO HOMICIDES OF EVERY KIND haS 

persuaded, that the right of self-defence extends 
even to the taking of hfe for gestures, more or less 
threatening. So many daily instances of out- 
breaking passion which have thrown whole fami- 
hes into the deepest affliction, teach us a terrible 
lesson." 

From the *' Columbus (Ga.) Sentinel," July 6, 
1837. 

" Wholesale Murders. — No less than three 



murders were committed in New Orleans on 
Monday evening last. The first was that of a 
man in Poydras, near the corner of Tehapitoulas. 
The murdered individual had been suspected of a 
liason with another man's wife in the neighbour- 
hood, was caught in the act, followed to the above 
corner and shot. 

" The second was that of a man in Perdido street. 
Circumstances not known. 

" The third was that of a watchman, on the cor- 
ner of Custom House and Burgundy street, who 
was found dead yesterday morning, shot through 
the heart. The deed was evidently committed on 
the opposite side from where he was found, as the 
unfortunate man was tracked by his blood across 
the street. In addition to being shot through the 
heart, two wounds in his breast, supposed to 
have been done with a Bowie knife, were discov- 
ered. No arrests have been made to our know- 
ledge." 

The editor of the " Charleston, (S. C.) Mercury'* 
of April, 1837, makes the following remarks. 

" The energy of a Tacon is much needed to 
vivify the pohce of New Orleans. In a single pa- 
per we find an account of the execution of one 
man for robbery and intent to kill, of the arrest of 
another for stabbing a man to death with a carving 
knife ; and of a third found murdered on the 
Levee on the previous Sunday morning. In the 
last case, although the murderer was known, no 
steps had been taken for his arrest ; and to crown 
the whole, it is actually stated in so many words, 
that the City guards are not permitted, according 
to their instructions, to patrol the Levee after night, 
for fear of attacks from persons employed in 
steamboats I" 

The present white population of Louisiana is 
but Httle more than that of Rhode Island, yet more 
appaUing crime is committed in Louisiana every 
day, than in Rhode Island during a year, notwith- 
standing the tone of pubhc morals probably is lower 
in the latter than in any other New England 
state. 



TENNESSEE. 



Tennessee became one of the United States in 
1796. Its present white population is about seven 
hundred thousand. 

The details which follow, go to confirm the old 
truth, that the exercise of arbitrary power tends to 
make men monsters. The following, from the 
" Memphis (Tennessee) Enquirer," was published 
in the Virginia Advocate, Jan. 26, 1838. 

" Below will be found a detailed account of one 
of the most unnatural and aggravated murders ever 
recorded. Col. Ward, the deceased, was a man 
of high standing in the state, and very much es- 
teemed by his neighbors, and by all who knew him. 
The brothers concerned in this ' murder, most foul 
and unnatural,' were Lafayette, Chamberlayne, 
Caesar, and Achilles Jones, (the nephews of Col. 
Ward.) 



" The four brothers, all armed, went to the resi- 
dence of Mr. A. G. Ward, in Shelby co., on the 
evening of 22d instant. They were conducted into 
the room in which Col. Ward was sitting, together 
with some two or three ladies, his intended wife 
amongst the number. Upon their entering the 
room, Col. Ward rose, and extended his hand to 
Lafayette. He refused, saying he would shake 
hands with no such d d rascal. The rest an- 
swered in the same tone. Col. Ward remarked 
that they were not in a proper place for a difficulty, 
if they sought one. Col. Ward went from the 
room to the passage, and was followed by the broth- 
ers. He said he was unarmed, but if they would 
lay down their arms, he could whip the whole of 
them ; or if they would place him on an equal foot- 
ing, he could whip the whole of them one by one 
Caesar told Chamberlayne to give the Col. one of his 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



201 



pistols, which he did, and both went out into the 
yard, the other brothers following. While stand- 
ing a few paces from each other, Lafayette came 
up, and remarked to the Col., ' If you spill my 
brother's blood, I will spill yours,' about which time 
Chamberlayne's pistol fired, and immediately La- 
fayette bursted a cap at him. The Colonel turned 
to Lafayette, and said, ' Lafayette, you intend to 
kill,' and discharged his pistol at him. The ball 
struck the pistol of Lafayette, and glanced into his 
arm. By this time Albert Ward, being close by, 
and hearing the fuss, came up to the assistance of 
the Colonel, when a scuffle amongst all hands en- 
sued. The Colonel stumbled and fell down — he 
received several wounds from a large bowie knife ; 
and, after being stabbed, Chamberlayne jumped 
upon him, and stamped him several times. After 
the scuffle, Caesar Jones was seen to put up a large 
bowie knife. Colonel Ward said he was a dead 
man. By the assistance of Albert Ward, he reached 
the house, distance about 15 or 20 yards, and in a 
few minutes expired. On examination by the Cor- 
oner, it appeared that he had received several 
wounds from pistols and knives. Albert Ward 
was also badly bruised, not dangerously." 

The " New Orleans Bee," Sept. 22, 1838, pub- 
lished the following from the " Nashville (Tennes- 
see) Whig." 

"The Nashville Whig, of the 11th ult., says : 
Pleasant Watson, of De Kalb county, and a Mr. 
Carmichael, of Alabama, were the principals in an 
affray at Livingston, Overton county, last week, 
which terminated in the death of the former. Wat- 
son made the assault with a dirk, and Carmichael 
defended himself with a pistol, shooting his antag- 
onist through the body, a few inches below the 
heart. Watson was living at the last account. The 
dispute grew out of a horse race." 

The New Orleans Courier, April 7, 1837, has 
the following extract from the " McMinersville 
(Tennessee) Gazette." 

" On Saturday, the 8th instant. Colonel David L. 
Mitchell, the worthy sheriff of White county, was 
most barbarously murdered by a man named Jo- 
seph Little. Colonel Mitchell had a civil process 
against Little. He went to Little's house for the 
purpose of arresting him. He found Little armed 
with a rifle, pistols, &c. He commenced a con- 
versation with Little upon the impropriety of his 
resisting, and stated his determination to take him, 
at the same time slowly advancing upon Little, who 
discharged his rifle at him without effect. Mitchell 
then attempted to jump in, to take hold of him, 
when Litde struck him over the head with the bar- 
rel of his rifle, and literally mashed his skull to 
pieces ; and, as he lay prostrate on the earth, Lit- 
tle deliberately pulled a large pistol from his belt, 
and placing the muzzle close to Mitchell's head, he 
shot the ball through it. Little has made his es- 
cape. There were three men near by when the 
murder was committed, who made no attempt to 
arrest the murderer." 

The following affray at Athens, Tennessee, is 
from the Mississippian, August 10, 1838. 

" An unpleasant occurrence transpired at Athens 
on Monday. Captain James Byrnes was stabbed 
four times, twice in the arm, and twice in the side, 



by A. R. Livingston. The wounds are said to be 
very severe, and fears are entertained of their prov- 
ing mortal. The affair underwent an examination 
before Sylvester Nichols, Esq., by whom Living- 
ston was let to bail." 

The •' West Tennessean," Aug. 4, 1837, says — 
" A duel was fought at Calhoun, Tenn., between 
G. W. Carter and J. C. Sherley. They used yau- 
gers at the distance of 20 yards. The former was 
slightly wounded, and the latter quite danger- 
ously." 

June 23d, 1838, Benjamin Shipley, of Hamilton 
CO., Tennessee, shot Archibald McCallie. (Nash- 
ville Banner, July 16, 1838.) 

•Tune 23d, 1838, Levi Stunston, of Weakly co., 
Tennessee, killed William Price, of said county, 
in an affray. (Nashville Banner, July 6, 1838.) 

October 8, 1838, in an affray at Wolf's Ferry, 
Tennessee, Martin Farley, Senior, was killed by 
John and Solomon Step. (Georgia Telegraph, 
Nov. 6, 1838.) 

Feb. 14, 1838, John Manie was killed by Wil- 
Ham Doss at Decatur, Tennessee. (Memphis Ga- 
zette, May 15, 1838.) 

" From the Nashville Whig." 

^^ Fatal Affray in Columbia, Tenn. — A fatal 
street encounter occurred at that place, on the 3d 
inst., between Richard H. Hays, attorney at law, 
and Wm. Polk, brother to the Hon. Jas. K. Polk. 
The parties met, armed with pistols, and exchanged 
shots simultaneously. A buck-shot pierced the 
brain of Hays, and he died early the next morn- 
ing. The quarrel grew out of a sportive remark 
of Hays', at dinner, at the Columbia Inn, for which 
he offered an apology, not accepted, it seems, as 
Polk went to Hays' office, the same evening, and 
chastised him with a whip. This occurred on Fri- 
day, the fatal result took place on Monday." 

In a fight near Memphis, Tennessee, May 15, 
1837, Mr. Jackson, of that place, sh6t through the 
heart Mr. W. F. Gholson, son of the late Mr. 
Gholson, of Virginia. (Raleigh Register, June 
13, 1837.) 

The following horrible outrage, committed in 
West Tennessee, not far from Randolph, was pub- 
lished by the Georgetown (S. C.) Union, May 26, 
1837, from the Louisville Journal. 

" A feeble bodied man settled a few years ago 
on the Mississippi, a short distance below Ran- 
dolph, on the Tennessee side. He succeeded in 
amassing property to the value of about ^14,000, 
and, Hke most of the settlers, made a business of 
selling wood to the boats. This he sold at $2 50 
a cord, while his neighbors asked ^3. One of them 
came to remonstrate against his underselling, and 
had a fight with his brother-in-law Clark, in which 
he was beaten. He then went and obtained legal 
process against Clark, and returned with a deputy 
sheriff, attended by a posse of desperate villains. 
When they arrived at Clark's house, he was seated 
among his children — they put two or three balls 
through his body. Clark ran, was overtaken and 
knocked down ; in the midst of his cries for mer- 
cy, one of the villains fired a pistol in his mouth 



202 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



Killing him instantly. They then required the set. , 
tier to sell his property to them, and leave the 
country. He, fearing that they would otherwise 
take his life, sold them his valuable property for 
$300, and departed with his family. The sheriff 
was one of the purchasers.^* 

The Baltimore American, Feb. 8, 1838, publish- 
es the following from the Nashville (Tennessee) 
Banner : 

" A most atrocious murder was committed a few 
days ago at Lagrange, in this state, on the body of 
Mr. John T. Foster, a respectable merchant of that 
town. The perpetrators of this bloody act are E. 
Moody, Thomas Moody, J. E. Douglass, W. R. 
Harris, and W. C. Harris. The circumstances at- 
tending this horrible affair, are the following : — On 
the night previous to the murder, a gang of villains, 
under pretence of wishing to purchase goods, en- 
tered Mr. Foster's store, took him by force, and 
rode him through the streets on a rail. The next 
morning, Mr. F. met one of the party, and gave 
him a caning. For this just retaUation for the out- 
rage which had been committed on his person, he 
was pursued by the persons above named, while 
taking a walk with a friend, and murdered in the 
open face of day." 

The following presentment of a Tennessee Grand 
Jury, sufficiently explains and comments on itself: 

The Grand Jurors empanelled to inquire for the 
county of Shelby, would separate without having 
discharged their duties, if they were to omit to no- 
tice public evils which they have found their pow- 
ers inadequate to put in train for punishment. The 
evils referred to exist more particularly in the town 
of Memphis. 

The audacity and frequency with which outrages 
are committed, forbid us, in justice to our con- 
sciences, to omit to use the powers we possess, to 



bring them to the severe action of the law ; ana 
when we find our powers inadequate, to draw upon 
them public attention, and the rebuke of the good. 

An infamous female pubHcly and grossly assaults 
a lady ; therefore a public meeting is called, the 
mayor of the town is placed in the chair, resolutions 
are adopted, providing for the summary and law- 
less punishment of the wretched woman. In the 
progress of the affair, hundreds of citizens assem- 
ble at her house, and raze it to the ground. The 
unfortunate creature, together with two or three 
men of like character, are committed, in an open 
canoe or boat, without oar or paddle, to the middle 
of the Mississippi river. 

Such is a concise outline of the leading incidents 
of a recent transaction in Memphis. It might be 
filled up by the detail of individual exploits, which 
would give vivacity to the description ; but we for- 
bear to mention them. We leave it to others to 
admire the manliness of the transaction, and the 
courage displayed by a mob of hundreds, in the 
various outrages upon the persons and property of 
three or four individuals who fell under its ven- 
geance. 

The present white population of Tennessee is 
about the same with that of Massachusetts, and yet 
more outbreaking crimes are committed in Ten- 
nessee in a single month, than in Massachusetts 
during a whole year ; and this, too, notwithstand- 
ing the largest town in Tennessee has but six thou- 
sand inhabitants ; whereas, in Massachusetts, be- 
sides one of eighty thousand, and two others of 
nearly twenty thousand each, there are at least a 
dozen larger than the chief town in Tennessee, 
which gives to the latter state an important advan- 
tage on the score of morality, the country being so 
much more favorable to it than large towns. 



KENTUCKY. 



Kentucky has been one of the United States since 
1792. Its present white population is but six 
hundred thousand. 

The details which follow show still further that 
those who unite to plunder of their rights one 
class of human beings, regard as sacred the rights 
of no class. 

The following affair at Maysville, Kentucky, is 
extracted from the Maryland Republican, January 
30, 1838. 

" A fight came off at Maysville, Ky. on the 29th 
ultimo, in which a Mr. Coulster was stabbed in the 
side and is dead ; a Mr. Gibson was well hacked 
with a knife ; a Mr. Farris was dangerously 
wounded in the head, and another of the same 
name in the hip ; a Mr. Shoemaker was .severely 
beaten, and several others seriously hurt in various 
ways." 

The following is extracted from the N. C. Stan- 
dard. 

"A most bloody and shocking transaction took 
place in the little town of Clinton, Hickman co. Ken. 
The circumstances are briefly as follows : A 



special canvass for a representative from the 
county of Hickman, had for some time been in 
progress. A gentleman by the name of Binford 
was a candidate. The State Senator from the 
district. Judge James, took some exceptions to the 
reputation of Binford, and intimated that if B. 
should be elected, he (James) would resign rather 
than serve with such a colleague. Hearing this, 
Binford went to the house of James to demand an 
explanation. Mrs. James remarked, in a jest as 
Binford thought, that if she was in the place of her 
husband she would resign her seat in the Senate, 
and not serve with such a character. B. told her 
that she was a woman, and could say what she 
pleased. She repUed that she was not in earnest. 
James then looked B. in the face and said that, if 
his wife said so, it was the fact — ' he was an in- 
famous scoundrel and d — d rascal.' He asked B. 
if he was armed, and on being answered in the 
affirmative, he stepped into an adjoining room to 
arm himself. He was prevented by the family from 
returning, and Binford walked out. J. then told 
him from his piazza, that he would meet him next 
day in Clinton. 

True to their appointment, the enraged parties 
met on the streets the following day. James shot 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



203 



first, his ball passing through his antagonist's Hver, 
whose pistol fired immediately afterwards, and 
missing J., the ball pierced the head of a stranger 
by the name of Collins, who instantly fell and 
expired. After being shot, Binford sprang upon J. 
with the fury of a wounded tiger, and would have 
taken his hfe but for a second shot received through 
the back from Bartin James, the brother of 
Thomas. Even after he received the last fatal 
wound he struggled with his antagonist until death 
relaxed his grasp, and he fell with the horrid ex- 
clamation, ' / am a dead man ." 

" Judge James gave himself up to the authorities ; 
and when the informant of the editor left Clinton, 
Binford, and the unfortunate stranger lay shrouded 
corpses together," 

The "N. O. Bee" thus gives the conclusion of the 
matter : 

"Judge James was tried and acquitted, the 
death of Binford being regarded as an act of justi- 
fiable homicide." 

From the "Flemingsburg Kentuckian," June 2 J, '38. 
Affray. — Thomas Binford, of Hickman coun- 
ty, Kentucky, recently attacked a Mr. Gardner of 
Dresden, with a drawn knife, and cut his face 
pretty badly. Gardner picked up a piece of iron 
and gave him a side- wipe above the ear that brought 
him to terms. The skull was fractured about two 
inches. Binford's brother was killed at Clinton, 
Kentucky, last fall by Judge James. 

The " Red River Whig" of September 15, 1838, 
says : — " A ruflian of the name of Charles Gibson, 
attempted to murder a girl named Mary Green, of 
Louisville, Ky. on the 23d ult. He cut her in six 
different places with a Bowie knife. His object, as 
stated in a subsequent investigation before the 
Police Court, was to cut her throat, which she 
prevented by throwing up her arms." 

From the " Louisville Advertiser," Dec. 17th, 
1838 : — " A startling tragedy occurred in this city 
on Saturday evening last, in which A. H. Meeks 
was instantly killed, John Rothwell mortally 
wounded, WiUiam Holmes severely wounded, and 
Henry Oldham slightly, by the use of Bowie 
knives, by Judge E. C. Wilkinson, and his brother, 
B. R. Wilkinson, of Natchez, and J. Murdough, 
of Holly Springs, Mississippi. It seems that Judge 
Wilkinson had ordered a coat at the shop of Messrs. 
Varnum & Redding. The coat was made ; the 
Judge, accompanied by his brother and Mr. Mur- 
dough, went to the shop of Varnum & Redding, 
tried on the coat, and was irritated because, as he 
beheved, it did not fit him. Mr. Redding under, 
took to convince him that he was in error, and 
ventured to assure the Judge that the coat was well 
made. The Judge instantly seized an iron poker, 
and commenced an attack on Redding. The 
blow with the poker was partially warded off — 
Redding grappled his assailant, when a companion 
of the Judge drew a Bowie knife, and, but for the 
interposition and interference of the unfortunate 
Meeks, a journeyman tailor, and a gentleman pas- 
sing by at the moment, Redding might have been 
assassinated in his own shop. Shortly afterwards. 
Redding, Meeks, Rothwell, and Holmes went to 
the Gait House. They sent up stairs for Judge 
Wilkinson, and he came down into the bar room. 



when angry words were passed. The Judge went 
up stairs again, and in a short time returned with his 
companions, all armed with knives. Harsh lan- 
guage was again used. Meeks, felt called on to 
state what he had seen of the conflict, and did so, 
and Murdough gave him the d — d he, for which 
Meeks struck him. On receiving the blow with the 
whip, Murdough instantly plunged his Bowie knife 
into the abdomen of Meeks, and killed him on the 
spot. 

" At the same instant B. R. Wilkinson attempted 
to get at Redding, and Holmes and Rothwell inter- 
fered, or joined in the affray. Holmes was 
wounded, probably by B. R. Wilkinson ; and the 
Judge, having left the room for an instant, returned, 
and finding Rothwell contending with his brother, 
or bending over him, he (the Judge) stabbed 
Rothwell in the back, and inflicted a mortal 
wound." 

Judge Wilkinson, his brother, and J. Murdough, 
have been recently tried and acquitted. 
From the " New Orleans Bee," Sept. 27, 1838. 

" It appears from the statement of the Lex- 
ington Intelligencer, that there has been for some 
time past, an enmity between the drivers of 
the old and opposition fines of stages running from 
that city. On the evening of the 13th an encoun- 
ter took place at the Circus between two of them, 
Powell and Cameron, and the latter was so much 
injured that his hfe was in imminent danger. 
About 12 o'clock the same night, several drivers ot 
the old fine rushed into Keizer's Hotel, where 
Powell and other drivers of the opposition.line 
boarded, and a general melee took place, in the 
course of which several pistols were discharged, 
the ball of one of them passing through the head 
of Crabster, an old line driver, and killing him on 
the spot. Crabster, before he was shot, had dis- 
charged his own pistol which had burst into frag, 
ments. Two or three drivers of the opposition 
were wounded with buck shot, but not dan- 
gerously." 

The " Mobile Advertiser" of September 15, 1838, 
copies the following from the Louisville (Ky.) 
Journal. 

"A Mr. Campbell was killed in Henderson 
county on the 31st ult. by a Mr. Harrison. It ap- 
pears, that there was an affray between the parties 
some months ago, and that Harrison subsequently 
left home and returned on the 31st in a trading 
boat. Campbell met him at the boat with a loaded 
rifle and declared his determination to kill him, at 
the same time asking him whether he had a rifle 
and expressing a desire to give him a fair chance. 
Harrison affected to laugh at the whole matter and 
invited Campbell into his boat to take a drink with 
him. Campbell accepted the invitation, but, while 
he was in the act of drinking, Harrison seized his 
rifle, fired it off", and laid Campbell dead by striking 
him with the barrel of it." 

The " Missouri RepubHcan" of July 29, 1837, 
pubHshed the details which follow from the Louis- 
ville Journal. 

Mount Sterling, Ky. July 20, 1837. 

" Gentlemen : — A most unfortunate and fata! 
occurrence transpired in our town last evening, 
about 6 o'clock. Some of the most prominent 



20 i 



Ohjections Considered — Public Opinion. 



friends of Judge French had a meeting yesterday 
at Col. Young's, near this place, and warm words 
ensued between Mr. Albert Thomas and Belvard 
Peters, Esq., and a few blows were exchanged, 
and several of the friends of each collected at the 
spot. Whilst the parties were thus engaged, Mr. 
Wm. White, who was a friend of Mr. Peters, 
struck Mr. Thomas, whereupon B. F. Thomas 
Esq. engaged in the combat on the side of his 
brother and Mr. W. Roberts on the part of Peters 
— Mr. G. W. Thomas taking part with his brothers. 
Albert Thomas had Peters down and was taken 
off by a gentleman present, and whilst held by 
that gentleman, he was struck by White ; and B. 
F. Thomas having made some remark White 
struck him. B. F. Thomas returned the blow, and 
having a large knife, stabbed White, who never- 
theless continued the contest, and, it is said, broke 
Thomas's arm with a rock of a chair. Thomas 
then inflicted some other stabs, of which White 
died in a few minutes. Roberts was knocked 
down twice by Albert Thomas, and, I believe, is 
much hurt. G. W. Thomas was somewhat hurt 
also. White and B. F. Thomas had always been 
on friendly terms. You are acquainted with the 
Messrs. Thomas. Mr. White was a much larger 
man than either of them, weighing nearly 200 
pounds, and in the prime of life. As you may 
very naturally suppose, great excitement prevails 
here, and Mr. B. F. Thomas regrets the fatal ca- 
tastrophe as much as any one else, but believes 
from all the circumstances that he was justifiable 
in what he did, although he would be as far from 
doing such an act when cool and deUberate as any 
man whatever. 

The " New Orleans Bulletin" of Aug. 24, 1838, 
extracts the following from the Louisville Journal. 

"News has just reached us, that Thomas P. 
Moore, attacked the Senior Editor of this paper in 
the yard of the Harrodsburg Springs. Mr. Moore 
advanced upon Mr. Prentice with a drawn pistol 
and fired at him ; Mr. Prentice then fired, neither 
shot taking effect. Mr. Prentice drew a second 
pistol, when Mr. Moore quailed and said he had 
no other arms ; whereupon Mr. Prentice from su- 
perabundant magnanimity spared the miscreant's 
Hfe." 

From " The Floridian" of June 10, 1837. 
Murder. Mr. Gillespie, a respectable citizen 
aged 50, was murdered a few days since by a Mr. 
Arnett, near Mumfordsville, Ky., which latter shot 
his victim twice with a rifle. 

The "Augusta (Ga.) Sentinel," May 11, 1838, 
has the following account of murders in Kentucky : 

" At Mill's Point, Kentucky, Dr. Thomas Rivers 
was shot one day last week, from out of a window, 
by Lawyer Ferguson, both citizens of that place, 
and both parties are represented to have stood high 
in the estimation of the community in which they 
lived. The difficulty we understand to have grown 
out of a law suit at issue between them. 

Just as our paper was going to press, we learn 
that the brother of Dr. Rivers, who had been sent 
for, had arrived, and immediately shot Lawyer 
Ferguson. He at first shot him with a shot gun, 
upon his retreat, which did not prove fatal ; he then 



approached him immediately with a pistol, and kill- 

ed him on the spot." 

The Right Rev. B. B. Smith, Bishop of the Epis- 
copal diocese of Kentucky, published about two 
years since an article in the Lexington (Ky.) In- 
telligencer, entitled " Theughts on the frequency 
of homicides in the state of Kentucky." We con- 
clude this head with a brief extract from the testi- 
mony of the Bishop, contained in that article. 

" The writer has never conversed with a traveled 
and enlightened European or eastern man, who has 
not expressed the most undisguised horror at the 
frequency of homicide and murder within our 
bounds, and at the ease with which the homicide 
escapes from punishment. 

" As to the frequency of these shocking occur- 
rences, the writer has some opportunity of being 
correctly impressed, by means of a yearly tour 
through many counties of the State. He has also 
been particular in making inquiries of our most dis- 
tinguished legal and pohtical characters, and from 
some has derived conjectural estimates which were 
truly alarming. A few have been of the opinion, 
that on an average one murder a year may be 
charged to the account of every county in the state, 
making the frightful aggregate of 850 human Hves 
sacrificed to revenge, or the victims of momentary 
passion, in the course of every ten years. 

" Others have placed the estimate much lower, 
and have thought that thirty for the whole state, 
every year, would be found much nearer the truth. 
An attempt has been made lately to obtain data 
more satisfactory than conjecture, and circulars 
have been addressed to the clerks of most of the 
counties, in order to arrive at as correct an estimate 
as possible of the actual number of homicides du- 
ring the three years last past. It will be seen, how- 
ever, that statistics thus obtained, even from every 
county in the state, would necessarily be imper- 
fect, inasmuch as the records of the courts by no 
means show all the cases which occur, some esca- 
ping without any of the forms of a legal examina- 
tion, and there being 7nany affrays which end only 
in wounds, or where the parties are separated. 

" From these returns, it appears that in 27 coun- 
ties there have been, within the last three years, of 
homicides of every grade, 35, but only 8 convic- 
tions in the same period, leaving 27 cases which 
have passed wholly unpunished. During the same 
period there have been from eighty-five counties, 
only eleven commitments to the state prison, nine 
for manslaughter, and two for shooting with intent 
to kill, and not an instance of capital punishment 
in the person of any white offender. Thus an 
approximation is made to a general average, which 
probably would not vary much from one in each 
county every three years, or about 280 in ten years. 

" It is believed that such a register of crime 
amongst a people professing the protestant religion 
and speaking the English language, is not to be 
found, with regard to any three-quarters of a mil. 
hon of people, since the downfall of the feudal sys- 
tem. Compared with the records of crime in 
Scotland, or the eastern states, the results are ab- 
solutely SHOCKING ! It is believed there are more 
homicides, on an average of two years, in any of 
our more populous counties, than in the whole of 



Objectims Considered — Public Opinion. 



205 



several of our states, of equal or nearly equal 
white population with Kentucky. 

" The victims of these affrays are not always, by 
any means, the most worthless of our population. 

" It too often happens that the enlightened citizen, 
the elevated lawyer, the affectionate husband, and 
precious father, are thus instantaneously taken 
from their useful stations on earth, and hurried, all 
unprepared, to their final account ! 

" The question is again asked, what could have 
brought about, and can perpetuate, this shocking 
state of things ? " 

As an illustration of the recklessness of life in 
Kentucky, and the terrible paralysis of pubhc sen- 
timent, the bishop states the following fact. 

" A case of shocking homicide is remembered, 
where the guilty person was acquitted by a sort of 
acclamation, and the next day was seen in public, 
with two ladies hanging on his arm ! " 

Notwithstanding the frightful frequency of dead- 
ly affrays in Kentucky, as is certified by the above 
testimony of Bishop Smith, there are fewer, in pro. 
portion to the white population, than in any of the 
states which have passed under review, unless 
Tennessee may be an exception. The present 
white population of Kentucky is perhaps seventy 
thousand more than that of Maine, and yet more 
pubHc fatal affrays have taken place in the former, 
within the last six months, than in the latter during 
its entire existence as a state. 

The seven slave states which we have already 
passed under review, are just one half of the slave 
states and territories, included in the American 
Union. Before proceeding to consider the condi- 
tion of society in the other slave states, we pause 
a moment to review the ground already traversed. 

The present entire white population of the 
states already considered, is about two and a 
quarter millions ; just about equal to the present 
white population of the state of New York. If 
the amount of crime resulting in loss of life, which 
is perpetrated by the white population of those 
states upon the whites alone, be contrasted with 
the amount perpetrated in the state of New York, 
by all classes, upon all, we believe it will be 
found, that more of such crimes have been com- 
mitted in these states within the last 18 months, 
than have occurred in the state of New York for 
half a century. But perhaps we shall be told that 
in these seven states, there are scores of cities and 
large towns, and that a majority of all these deadly 
affrays, &c., take place in them ; to this we reply, 
that there are three times as many cities and large 
towns in the state of New York, as in all those 
states together, and that nearly all the capital 
crimes perpetrated in the state take place in these 
cities and large villages. In the state of New 
York, there are more than half a million of persons 
who hve in cities and villages of more than two 
thousand inhabitants, whereas in Kentucky, Ten- 



nessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkan- 
sas and Missouri, there are on the largest compu- 
tation not more than one hundred thousand per- 
sons, residing in cities and villages of more than 
two thousand inhabitants, and the while popula- 
tion of these places (which alone is included in 
the estimate of crime, and that too inflicted upon 
whites only,) is probably not more than sixty. five 
thousand. 

But it will doubtless be pleaded in mitigation, 
that the cities and large villages in those states are 
new ; that they have not had sufficient time tho- 
roughly to organize their poUce, so as to make it 
an effectual terror to evil doers ; and further, that 
the rapid growth of those places has so overloaded 
the authorities with all sorts of responsibilities, tliat 
due attention to the preservation of the public 
peace has been nearly impossible ; and besides, 
they have had no official experience to draw upon, 
as in the older cities, the offices being generally 
filled by young men, as a necessary consequence 
of the newness of the country, &c. To this we 
reply, that New Orleans is more than a century 
old, and for half that period has been the centre 
of a great trade ; that St. Louis, Natchez, Mobile, 
Nashville, Louisville and Lexington, are all half a 
century old, and each had arrived at years of dis- 
cretion, while yet the sites of Buffalo, Rochester, 
Lockport, Canandaigua, Geneva, Auburn, Ithaca, 
Oswego, Syracuse, and other large towns in Wes- 
tern New- York, were a wilderness. Further, as 
a number of these places are larger than either 
of the former, their growth must have been more 
rapid, and, consequently, they must have encoun- 
tered still greater obstacles in the organization of 
an efficient poUce than those south western cities, 
with this exception, they were not settled by 

SLAVEHOLDERS. 

The absurdity of assigning the newness of the 
country, the unrestrained habits of pioneer settlers, 
the recklessness of life engendered by wars with 
the Indians, &c., as reasons sufficient to account 
for the frightful amount of crime in the states uu- 
der review, is manifest from the fact, that Vermont 
is of the same age with Kentucky ; Ohio, ten years 
younger than Kentucky, and six years younger 
than Tennessee ; Indiana, five years younger than 
Louisiana ; Illinois, one year younger than Missis- 
sippi ; Maine, of the same age with Missouri, and 
two years younger than Alabama ; and Michigan 
of the same age with Arkansas. Now, let any 
one contrast the state of society in Maine, Vermont, 
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan with that of 
Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Missouri, Louisi. 
ana, Arkansas, and Mississippi, and candidly pon- 
der the result. It is impossible satisfactorily to ac- 
count for the immense disparity in crime, on any 
other supposition than that the latter states were 
settled and are inhabited almost exclusively by 



206 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



those who carried with them the violence, impa- 
tience of legal restraint, love of domination, fiery 
passions, idleness, and contempt of laborious indus. 
try, which are engendered by habits of despotic 
sway, acquired by residence in communities where 
such manners, habits and passions, mould society 
into their own image.* The practical workings of 
this cause are powerfully illustrated in those parts 
of the slave states where slaves abound, when con- 
trasted with those where very few are held. Who 
does not know that there are fewer deadly affrays 
in proportion to the white population — that law 
has more sway and that human Hfe is less insecure 
in East Tennessee, where there are very few slaves, 
than in West Tennessee, where there are large 
numbers. This is true also of northern and wes- 
tern Virginia, where few slaves are held, when con- 
trasted with eastern Virginia, where they abound ; 
the same remark applies to those parts of Kentucky 
and Missouri, where large numbers of slaves are 
held, when contrasted with others where there are 
comparatively few. 

We see the same cause operating to a considera- 
ble extent in those parts of Ohio, Indiana and lUi- 
nois, settled mainly by slaveholders and others, who 
were natives of slave states, in contrast with other 
parts of these states settled almost exclusively 
by persons from free states ; that affrays and 
breaches of the peace are far more frequent in the 
former than in the latter, is well known to all. 

We now proceed to the remaining slave states. 
Those that have not yet been considered, are 
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North and South 
Carolina, Georgia, and the territory of Florida. 
As Delaware has hardly two thousand five hun. 
dred slaves, arbitrary power over human beings is 
exercised by so few persons, that the turbulence 
infused thereby into the public mind is but an in- 

* Bishop Smith of Kentucky, in his testimony respect- 
ing homicides, which is quoted on a preceding page, thus 
speaks of the influence of slave-holding, as an exciting 
cause. 

" Are not some of the indirect influences of a system, the 
existence of which amongst us can never be sufficiently 
deplored, discoverable in these aflfrays ? Are not our 
young men more heady, violent and imperious in conse- 
quence of their early habits of command ? And are not 
our taverns and other public places of resort, much more 
crowded with an inflammable material, than if young men 
were brought up in the staid and frugal habits of those 
who are constrained to earn their bread by the sweat of 
their brow ? * * * Is not intemperance more so- 
cial, more inflammatory, more pugnacious where a fan- 
cied superiority of gentlemanly character is felt, in con- 
sequence of exemption from severe manual labor ? Is 
there ever stabbing where there is not idleness and strong 
drink ?" 

The Bishop also gives the following as another exciting 
cause ; it is however only the product of the preceding. 

" Has not a public sentiment which we hear charac- 
terized as singularly high-minded and honorable, and 
sensitively alive to every aflfront, whether real or ima- 
ginary, but which strangers denominate rough and fero- 
cious, much to do in provoking these assaults, and then in 
applauding instead of punishing the offender." 

The Bishop says of the young men of Kentucky, that 
they "grow up proud, impetuous, and reckless of all 
responsibility ;" and adds, that the practice of carrying 
aeadly weapons is with them " nearly universal." 



considerable element, quite insufficient to inflame 
the passions, much less to cast the character of the 
mass of the people ; consequently, the state of so- 
ciety there, and the general security of life is but 
httle less than in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, 
upon which states it borders on the north and east. 
The same causes operate in a considerable mea- 
sure, though to a much less extent, in Maryland 
and in Northern and Western Virginia. But in 
lower Virginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia 
and Florida, the general state of society as it re- 
spects the successful triumph of passion over law, 
and the consequent and universal insecurity of 
life is, in the main, very similar to that of the states 
already considered. In some portions of each of 
these states, human hfe has probably as little real 
protection as in Arkansas, Mississippi and Louisi- 
ana ; but generally throughout the former states 
and sections, the laws are not so absolutely power- 
less as in the latter three. Deadly affrays, duels, 
murders, lynchings, &c., are, in proportion to the 
white population, as frequent and as rarely pun- 
ished in lower Virginia as in Kentucky and Mis- 
souri ; in North Carohna and South CaroHna as in 
Tennessee ; and in Georgia and Florida as in 
Alabama. 

To insert the criminal statistics of the remaining 
slave states in detail, as those of the states already 
considered have been presented, would, we find, 
fill more space than can well be spared. Instead 
of this, we propose to exhibit the state of society in 
all the slaveholding region bordering on the Atlan- 
tic, by the testimony of the slaveholders themselves, 
corroborated by a few plain facts. Leaving out 
of view Florida, where law is the most, powerless, 
and Maryland where probably it is the least so, 
we propose to select as a fair illustration of the actual 
state of society in the Atlantic slaveholding regions. 
North CaroUna whose border is but 250 miles from 
the free states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, 
and Georgia which constitutes its south western 
boundary. 

We will begin with Georgia. This state was 
settled more than a century ago by a colony under 
General Oglethorpe. The colony was memorable 
for its high toned morality. One of its first regu- 
lations was an absolute prohibition of slavery in 
every form : but another generation arose, the 
prohibition was abohshed, a multitude of slaves 
were imported, the exercise of unUmited power 
over them lashed up passion to the spurning of all 
control, and now the dreadful state of society that 
exists in Georgia, is revealed by the following testi 
mony out of her own mouth. 

The editor of the Darien (Georgia) Telegraph, 
in his paper of November 6, 1838, published the 
following. 

^^Murderous Attack. — Between the hours of 
three and four o'clock, on Saturday last, the editor 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



207 



of this paper was attacked by FOURTEEN armed 
ruffians, and knocked down by repeated blows of 
bludgeons. All his assailants were armed with 
pistols, dirks, and large clubs. Many of them are 
known to us; but there is neither law nor justice 
to be had in Darien .' We arc doomed to death 
by the employers of the assassins who attacked us 
on Saturday, and no less than our blood will satisfy 
them. The cause alleged for this unmanly, base, 
cowardly outrage, is some expressions which oc- 
curred in an election squib, printed at this office, 
and extensively circulated through the county, be- 
fore the election. The names of those who sur- 
rounded us, when the attack was made, are, A. 
Lefils, jr. (son to the representative), Madison 
Thomas, Francis Harrison, Thomas Hopkins, 
Alexander Blue, George Wing, James Eilands, 
W. I. Perkins, A. J. Raymur: the others we can- 
not at present recollect. The two first, Lefils and 
Thomas struck us at the same time. Pistols were 
levelled at us in all directions. We can produce 
the most respectable testimony of the truth of this 
statement." 

The same number of the " Darien Telegraph," 
from which the preceding is taken, contains a cor- 
respondence between six individuals, settUng the 
preliminaries of duels. The correspondence fills, 
with the exception of a dozen lines. Jive columns of 
the paper. The parties were Col. W. Whig Haz- 
zard, commander of one of the Georgia regiments 
m the recent Seminole campaign, Dr. T. F. Haz- 
zard, a physician of St. Simons, and Thomas Haz- 
zard, Esq. a county magistrate, on the one side, 
and Messrs. J. A. Willey, H. W. Willey, and H. 
B. Gould, Esqs. of Darien, on the other. In their 
published correspondence the parties call each other 
"liar," "mean rascal," "puppy," "villain," &c. 

The magistrate, Thomas Hazzard, who accepts 
the challenge of J. A. Willey, says, in one of his 
letters, " Being a magistrate, under a solemn oath 
to do all in my power to keep the peace," &c., and 
yet this personification of Georgia justice super- 
scribes his letter as follows : " To the Liar, Puppy, 
Fool, and Poltroon, Mr. John A. Willey." The 
magistrate closes his letter thus : 

" Here I am ; call upon me for personal satisfac- 
tion (in propria forma) ; and in the Farm Field, 
on St. Simon's Island, (Deo juvante,) I will give 
you a full front of my body, and do all in my pow- 
er to satisfy your thirst for blood ! And more, I 
will wager you ^100, to be planked on the scratch ! 
that J. A. Willey will neither kill or defeat T. F. 
Hazzard." 

The following extract from the correspondence is 
a sufficient index of slaveholding civilization. 

" ARTICLES OF BATTLE BETWEEN JOHN A. WILLEY 
AND W. WHIG HAZZARD. 

Condition 1. The parties to fight on the same 
day, and at the same place, (St. Simon's beach, 
near the lighthouse,) where the meeting between 
T. F. Hazzard and J. A. Willey will take place. 

Condition 2. The parties to fight with broad- 
swords in the right hand, and a dirk in the left. 

Condition 3. On the word " Charge," the parties 



to advance, and attack with the broad-sword, or 
close with the dirk. 

Condition 4. The head of the vanquished to 

BE CUT off by the VICTOR, AND STUCK UPON A POLE 

ON THE Farm Field dam, the original cause of dis- 
pute. 

Condition 5. Neither party to object to each 
other's weapons ; and if a sword breaks, the con- 
test to continue with the dirk." 

This Col. W. Whig Hazzard is one of the most 
prominent citizens in the southern part of Georgia, 
and previously signalized himself, as we learn from 
one of the letters in the correspondence, by " three 
deUberate rounds in a duel." 

The Macon (Georgia) Telegraph of October 9, 
1838, contains the following notice of two affi-ays 
in that place, in each of which an individual was 
killed, one on Tuesday and the other on Saturday 
of the same week. In publishing the case, the 
Macon editor remarks : 

" We are compelled to remark on the inefficien- 
cy of our laws in bringing to the bar of pubUc jus- 
tice, persons committing capital oflTences. Under 
the present mode, a man has nothing more to do 
than to leave the state, or step over to Texas, or 
some other place not farther off, and he need en- 
tertain no fear of being apprehended. So long as 
such a state of things is permitted to exist, just so 
long will every man who has an enemy (and there 
are but few who have not) be in constant danger 
of being shot down in the streets^ 

To these remarks of the Macon editor, who is in 
the centre of the state, near the capital, the editor 
of the Darien Telegraph, two hundred miles distant, 
responds as follows, in his paper of October 30, 
1838. 

" The remarks of our contemporary are not 
without cause. They apply, with pecuhar force, 
to this community. Murderers and rioters will 
never stand in need of a sanctuary as long as 
Darien is what it is." 

It is a coincidence which carries a comment with 
it, that in less than a week after this Darien editor 
made these remarks, he was attacked in the street 
by ^* fourteen gentlemen," armed with bludgeons, 
knives, dirks, pistols, &c., and would doubtless 
have been butchered on the spot if he had not been 
rescued. 

We give the following statement at length as 
the chief perpetrator of the outrages, Col. W. N. 
Bishop, was at the time a high functionary of the 
State of Georgia, and, as we learn from the Ma- 
con Messenger, still holds two public offices in 
the State, one of them from the direct appoint- 
ment of the governor. 

From the " Georgia Messenger" of August 25, 
1837. 

" During the administration of Wilson Lump- 
kin, WILLIAM N. BISHOP received from his 
Excellency the appointment of Indian Agent, in 
the place of William Springer. During that year 
(1834,) the said governor gave the command 



208 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



of a company af men, 40 in number, to the said 
W. N. Bishop, to be selected by him, and arm- 
ed with the muskets of the State. This band was 
organized for the special purpose of keeping the 
Cherokees in subjection, and although it is a no- 
torious fact that the Cherokees in the neighbor- 
hood of Spring Place were peaceable and by no 
means refractory, the said band were kept tJbere, 
and seldom made any excursion whatever out of 
the county of Murray. It is also a notorious fact, 
that the said band, from the day of their or- 
ganization, never permitted a citizen of Murray 
county opposed to the dominant party of Geor- 
gia, to exercise the right of suffrage at any elec- 
tion whatever. From that period to the last of 
January election, the said band appeared at the 
polls with the arms of the State, rejecting every 
vote that " was not of the true stripe," as they 
called it. That they frequently seized and drag- 
ged to the polls honest citizens, and compelled 
them to vote contrary to their will. 

*' Such acts of arbitrary despotism were tolerated 
by the administration. Appeals from the citizens 
of Murray county brought them no relief — and 
incensed at such outrages, they determined on 
the first Monday in January last, to turn out and 
elect such Judges of the Inferior Court and coun- 
ty officers, as would be above the control of 
Bishop, that he might thereby be prevented from 
packing such a jury as he chose to try him for 
his brutal and unconstitutional outrages on their 
rights. Accordingly on Sunday evening previous 
to the election, about twenty citizens who lived 
a distance from the county site, came in unarm- 
ed and unprepared for battle, intending to re- 
main in town, vote in the morning and return 
home. They were met by Bishop and his State 
band, and asked by the former ' whether they 
were for peace or war.' They unanimously re- 
sponded " we are for peace." At that moment 
Bishop ordered a fire, and instantly every musket 
of his band was discharged on those citizens, 5 
of whom were wounded, and others escaped with 
butlet holes in their clothes. Not satisfied with 
the outrage, they dragged an aged man from 
his wagon and beat him nearly to death. 

" In this way the voters were driven from Spring 
Place, and before day light the next morning, the 
polls were opened by order of Bishop, and soon 
after sun rise they were closed ; Bishop having 
ascertained that the band and Schley men had 
all voted. A runner was then dispatched to Mil- 
ledgeville, and received from Governor Schley 
commissions for those self-made officers of Bish- 
op's, two of whom have since runaway, and the 
rest have been called on by the citizens of the 
county to resign, being each members of Bishop's 
band, and doubtless runaways from other States. 

" After these outrages. Bishop apprehending an 
appeal to the judiciary on the part of the injured 
citizens of Murray county, had a jury drawn to 
suit him and appointed one of his band Clerk of 
the Superior Court. For these acts,the Governor 
and officers of the Central Bank rewarded him 
with an office in the Bank of the State, since 
which his own jury found eleven true bills against 
him." 

In the Milledgeville Federal Union of May 2, 
1837, we find the following presentment of the 



Grand Jury of Union County, Georgia, which as 
it shows some relics of a moral sense, still linger- 
ing in the state we insert. 

Presentment of the Grand Jury of Union Co., 
March term, 1837. 

" We would notice, as a subject of painful in- 
terest, the appointment of Wm. N. Bishop to 
the high and responsible office of Teller, of the 
Central Bank of the State of Georgia — an insti- 
tution of such magnitude'as to merit and demand 
the most unslumbering vigilance of the freemen 
of this State ; as a portion of whom, we feel 
bound to express our indignant reprehension of 
the promotion of such a character to one of its 
most responsible posts — and do exceedingly re- 
gret the blindness or depravity of those who can 
sanction such a measure. 

" We request that our presentment be published 
in the " Miners' Recorder and Federal Union. 
John Martin, Foreman." 

On motion of Henry L. Sims, Solicitor Gene- 
neral, " Ordered by the court, that the present- 
ments of the Grand Jury, be published according 
to their request." Thomas Henry, Clerk. 

The same paper, four weeks after publishing 
the preceding facts, contained the following : we 
give it in detail as the wretch who enacted the 
tragedy was another public functionary of the 
state of Georgia and acting in an official capa- 
city. 

" Murder. — One of the most brutal and inhu- 
man murders it has ever fallen to our lot to no- 
tice, was lately committed in Cherokee county, 
by Julius Bates, the son of the principal keeper of 
the Penitentiary, upon an Indian. 

" The circumstances as detailed to us by the 
most respectable men of both parties, are these. 
At the last Superior Court of Cass county, the 
unfortunate Indian was sentenced to the Peniten- 
tiary. Bates, as one of the Penitentiary guard, 
was sent with another to carry him and others, 
from other counties to Milledgeville. He started 
from Cassville with the Indian ironed and bare- 
footed ; and walked him within a quarter of a 
mile of Canton, the C. H. in Cherokee, a distance 
of twenty-eight to thirty miles, over a very rough 
road in little more than half the day. On arriv- 
ing at a small creek near town, the Indian [who 
had walked until the soles of his feet were off and 
those of his heel turned back,] made signs to get 
water. Bates refused to let him, and ordered him 
to go on : the Indian stopped and finally set 
down, whereupon Bates dismounted and gather- 
ing a pine knot, commenced and continued beat- 
ing him and j irking him by a chain around his 
neck, until the citizens of the village were drawn 
there by the severity of the blows. The unfortu- 
nate creature was taken up to town and died in 
a few hours. 

"An inquest was held, and the jury found a 
verdict of murder by Bates. A warrant was is- 
sued, but Bates had departed that morning in 
charge of other prisoners taken from Canton, and 
the worthy officers of the county desisted from 
his pursuit. ' because they apprehended he had 
passed the limits of the county.' We understand 
that the warrant was immediatelv sent to Ujo 



Objections Considered — Public Opinion. 



209 



Governor to have him arrested. Wil' it be done ? 
We shall see." 

Having devoted so much space to a revelation 
of the state of society among the slaveholders of 
Georgia, we will tax the reader's patience with 
only a single illustration of the pubhc sentiment 

the degree of actual legal protection enjoyed in 

the state of North Carolina. 

North Carolina was settled about two centu- 
ries ago ; its present white population is about five 
hundred thousand. 

Passing by the murders, affrays, &c. with 
which the North Carolina papers abound, we in- 
sert the following as an illustration of the public 
sentiment of North Carolina among ' gentlemen 
of property and standing.' 

The ' North Carolina Literary and Commercial 
Journal,' of January 20, 1838, published at Eliza, 
beth City, devotes a column and a half to a des- 
cription of the lynching, tarring, feathering, 
ducking, riding on a rail, pumping, &c., of a Mr. 
Charles Fife, a merchant of that city, for the 
crime of ' trading with negroes.' The editor in- 
forms us that this exploit of vandalism was per- 
formed very deliberately, at mid-day, and by a 
number of the citizens, the most respectable in 
THE CITY,' &c. We proceed to give the reader 
an abridgement of the editor's statement in his 
own words, — 

" Such being the case, a number of the citi- 
zens, THE MOST RESPECTABLE IN THIS CITY, Col- 
lected, about ten days since, and after putting the 
fellow on a rail, carried him through town with a 
dack and chicken tied to him. He was taken 
• down to the water and his head tarred and fea- 
thered ; and when they returned he was put un- 
der a pump, where for a few minutes he under- 
went a little cooling. He was then told that he 
must leave town by the next Saturday — if he did 
not he would be visited again, and treated more 
in accordance with the principles of the laws of 
Judge Lynch. 

" On Saturday last, he was again visited, and 
as Fife had several of his friends to assist him, 
some little scuffle ensued, when several were 
knocked down, but nothing serious occurred. 
Fife was again mounted on a rail and brought into 
town, but as he promised if they would not 
trouble him he would leave town in a few days, 
he was set at liberty. Several of our magistrates 
took no notice of the affair, and rather seemed to 
tacitly acquiesce in the proceedings. The whole 
subject every one supposed was ended, as Fife 
was to leave in a few days, when what was our 
ASTONISHMENT to hear that Mr. Charles R. Kin- 
ney had visited Fife, advised him not to leave, 
and actually took upon himself to examine wit- 
nesses, and came before the public as the defend- 
er of Fife. The consequence was, that all the 
rioters were summoned by the Sheriff to appear 
in the Court House and give bail for their ap- 
pearance at our next court. On Monday last the 
court opened at 12 o'clock, Judge Bailey presid- 
ing. Such an excitement we never witnessed 
14 



before in our town. A great many witnesses 
were examined, which proved the character of 
Fife beyond a doubt. At one time rather serious 
consequences were apprehended — high words 
were spoken, and luckily a blow which was 
aimed at Mr. Kinney, was parried off, and we 
are happy to say the court adjourned after ample 
securities being given. The next day Fife was 
taken to jail for trading with negroes, but has 
since been released on paying t*^100. The inter- 
ference of Mr. Kinney was wholly unnecessary ; 
it was an assumption on his part which properly 
belonged to our magistrates. Fife had agreed to 
go away, and the matter would have been ami- 
cably settled but for him. We have no unfriend, 
ly feelings towards Mr. Kinney : no personal ani- 
mosities to gratify : we have always considered 
him as one of our best lawyers. But when he 
comes forth as the supporter of such a fellow as 
Fife, under the plea that the laws have been vio- 
lated — when he arraigns the acts of thirty of the 
inhabitants of this place, it is high time for him 
to reflect seriously on the consequences. The 
Penitentiary system is the result of the refinement 
of the eighteenth century. As man advances in 
the sciences, in the arts, in the intercourse of so- 
cial and civilized life, in the same proportion does 
crime and vice keep an equal pace, and always 
makes demands on the wisdom of legislators. 
Now, what is the Lynch law but the Penitentiary 
system carried out to its full extent, with a little 
more steam power ? or more properly, it is sim- 
ply thus : There are some scoundrels in society 
on whom the laws take no effect ; the most expe- 
ditious and short way is to let a majority decide 
and give them JUSTICE." 

Let the reader notice, 1st, that this outrage was 
perpetrated with great deliberation, and after it 
was over, the victim was commanded to leave 
town by the next week : when that cooling inter- 
val had passed, the outrage was again deliberate, 
ly repeated. 2d. It was perpetrated by " thirty 
persons,' " the most respectable in the city.^^ 3d. 
That at the second lynching of Fife, several of 
his neighbors who had gathered to defend him, 
(peeing that all the legal officers in the city had 
refused to do it, thus violating their oaths of of. 
fice,) were knocked down, to which the editor 
adds, with the business air of a professional 
butcher, " nothing serious occurred !" 4th. That 
not a single magistrate in the city took the least 
notice either of the barbarities inflicted upon Fife, 
or of the assaults upon his friends, knocking them 
down, &LC. , but, as the editor informs us, all 
" seemed to acquiesce in the proceedings." 5th. 
That this conduct of the magistrates was well 
pleasing to the great mass of the citizens, is plain, 
from the remark of the editor that " every one 
supposed that the whole subject was ended," and 
from his wondering exclamation, " what was 
OUR astonishment to hear that Mr. C. R. Kin. 
ney had actually took upon him to examine wit- 
nesses," &c., and also from the editor's declara- 
tion, " Such an excitement we never before wit- 



210 



Ohiectlons Considered — Public Opinion. 



nessed in our town." Excitement at what ? Noi 
because the laws had been most impiously tram- 
pled down at noon-day by a conspiracy of thirty 
persons, " the most respectable in the city ;" not 
because a citizen had been twice seized and pub- 
licly tortured for hours, without trial, and in utter 
defiance of all authority ; nay, verily ! this was all 
complacently acquiesced in ; but because in this 
slaveholding Sodom there was found a solitary 
Lot who dared to uplift his voice for law and the 
right of trial by jury ; this crime stirred up such 
an uproar in that city of " most respectable" 
lynchers as was " never witnessed before,'' and 
the noble lawyer who thus put every thing at 
stake in invoking the majesty of law, would, it 
seems, have been knocked down, even in the pre- 
sence of the Court, if the blow had not been 
" parried." 6th. Mark the murderous threat of 
the editor — " when he arraigns the «cfs," (no 
matter how murderous) " of thirty citizens of this 
place, it is high time for him to reflect seriously 
on the consequences.'" 7th. The open advocacy 
of '' Lynch law" by a set argument, boldly set- 
ting it above all codes, with which the editor 
closes his article, reveals a public sentiment in 
the community which shows, that in North Ca- 
rolina, though society may still rally under the 
flag of civilization, and insist on wrapping itself 
in its folds, barbarism is none the less so in a stolen 
livery, and savages are savages still, though 
tricked out with the gauze and tinsel of the stars 
and stripes. 

It may be stated, in conclusion, that the North 



Carolina " Literary and Commercial Journal," 
from which the article is taken, is a large six- 
columned paper, edited by F. S. Proctor, Esq., a 
graduate of a University, and of considerable 
literary note in the SoTith. 

Having drawn out this topic to so great a 
length, we waive all comments, and only say to 
the reader, in conclusion, ponder these things, 
and lay it to heart, that slaveholding " is justified 
of her children.^' Verily, they have their re- 
ward ! " With what measure ye mete withal it 
shall be measured to you again." Those who 
combine to trample on others, will trample on 
each other. The habit of trampling upon one, be. 
gets a state of mind that will trample upon all. 
Accustomed to wreak their vengeance on their 
slaves, indulgence of passion becomes with slave- 
holders a second law of nature, and, when excited 
even by their equals, their hot blood brooks nei- 
ther restraint nor delay ; gratification is ihc first 
thought — prudence generally comes too late, and 
the slaves see their masters fall a prey to each 
other, the victims of those very passions wliich 
have been engendered and infuriated by the prac- 
tice of arbitrary rule over them. Surely it need 
not be added, that those who thus tread down 
their equals, must trample as in a wine-pres?.; 
their defenceless vassals. If, when in passion, 
they seize those who are on their own level, and 
dash them under their feet, with what a crush, 
ing vengeance will they leap upon those who are 
always under their feet ? 



X . 



To facilitate the use of the Index, some of the more common topics are arranged under one general title. Thus all the 
volumes which are cited are classed under the word, Books ; and to that head reference must be made. The same plau 
has been adopted concerning Female Slave-Drivers, Laws, JSTarrativcs, Overseers, Runaways, Slaveholders, Slave- 
Murderers, Slnve-Plantations, Slaves, Female and Male, Testimony and Witnesses. Tlierefore, with a few emphatical 
exceptions only, the facts will be found, by recurring to the prominent person or subject which any circumstance in- 
cludes* All other miscellaneous articles will be discovered in alphabetical order. 



A. 
Absolute power of slaveholders 
Absurdity of slaveholding pretexts 
Abuse of power 
Accliraated slaves 
Adrian 

Adultery in a preacher's house 
Advertisement for slaves 
Advertisement for slaves to hire 
Advertisements, 62, 63, 77-82, 83 

Affray 

African slave-trade 

Aged slaves uncommon 

Alabama 

Alexander the tyrant 

Allowance of provisions 

Amalgamation I 



116 

115 

161 

119 

180 

41 

34, 136, 137 

, 152, 164, 

167, 168, 172 

201, 203 

8, 113 

38 

39, 177, 192 

127, 92 

13, 47, 98 

1, 51, 97, 107 



American Colonization Society 




60 


" Amiable and touching charity !" 




114 


Amusements of slave-drivers 


107, 


186 


Animals and slaves, usage of, contrasted 


112 


Antioch, massacre at 




120 


" Arbitrary," 




115 


Arbitrary power, cruelty of 




117 


" " pernicious 




115 


Ardor in betting 




171 


Arius 




120 


Arkansas 




188 


x\tiantic Slaveholding Region 




206 


Auctioneers of slaves 


174, 


181 


Auctions for slaves 


167, 


174 


Augustine 




103 


Aurelius 




119 



Aversion between the oppressor and the slave 116 



Index. 



211 



B. 

Babbling of slaveholders 9 

Backs of slaves carded 46 

" " putrid 54 

•' Ball and chain" men 108 

Baptist preachers 97 

Battles in Congress 184 

Beating a woman's face with shoes 26 

Bedaubing of slaves with oil and tar 27 

Begetting slaves for pay 16 

" Bend your backs" 47 

Benevolence of slaveholders l25 

Betting on crops 38, 103 

" slaves 176 

Beware of Kidnappers 140 

Bibles searched for 51 

Blind slaves 133, 136 

Blocks with sharp pegs and nails 104 

Blood-bought luxuries 55 

Bodley, H. S. 149 

Bones dislocated 77 

BOOKS. 

African Observer 155 

American Convention, minutes of 60 

" Museum 155 

" State Papers 59 

Andrews' Slavery and the Slave Trade 167 

Bay's Reports 155 
Benezet's Caution to Britain and her Colonies 

57, 112 
Blackstone's Commentaries, by Tucker 123 
Book and Slavery irreconcilable 52 
Bourgoing's Spain 125 
Bourne's Picture of Slavery 178 
Brevard's Digest of the Laws of South Caro- 
lina 35, 40, 116, 143, 144, 145, 147 
Brewster's Exposition of Slave Treatment 30 
Buchanan's Oration 58, 112, 118 
Carey's American Museum 55 
Carolina, History of 35 
Channing on Slavery 38, 127 
Charity, " amiable and touching ! " 114 
Childs' Appeal 124, 140 
Civil Code of Louisiana 116 
Clay's Address to Georgia Presbytery 30 
Colonization Society's Reports 60 
Cornehus Elias, Life of 161 
Davis's Travels in Louisiana 35, 36, 134 
Debates in Virginia Convention 183 
Devereux's North Carolina Reports 143, 149 
Dew's Review of Debates in the Virginia 

Legislature 182 
Edwards' Sermon 28, 58, 118 

Emancipation in the West Indies 129 

Emigrant's Guide through the Valley of Mis 

sissippi 
Gales' Congressional Debates 
Harris and Johnson's Reports 
Haywood's Manual 
Hill's reports 
Human Rights 
James' Digest 
Jefferson's Notes 
Josephus' History 
Justinian, Institutes of 
Kennet's Roman Antiquities 
Laponneray's Life of Robespierre 



Law of Slavery 
Laws of United States 



135 
164 
133 
29, 144, 148 
143 

93 
143 
117 
119 
117 
119 
121 
149 

32 



Lcland's necessity of Divine Revelation 127 

Letters from the South, by J. K. Paulding 76, 89 
Life of Elias Cornelius 161 

Louisiana, civil code of 116 

" sketches of 42 

Martineau's Harriet, Society in America 139 

Martin's Digest of the laws of Louisiana 40, 

143. 146. 149, 163 
Maryland laws of 155 
Mead's Journal 59 
Mississippi Revised Code 143, 144 
Missouri Laws 144 
Modern state of Spain by J F. Bourgoing 125 
Montesquieu's Spirit of Laws 118 
Necessity of Divine Revelation 127 
Niles' Baltimore Register 60 
North Carolina Reports by Devereaux,128,143,149 
Oasis 160 
Parrish's remarks on slavery 30, 155 
Paulding's letters from the South 76, 89 
Paxton's letters on slavery 144 
Presbyterian Synod, Report of 117 
Picture of slavery 178 
Prince's Digest 116, 144, 150 
Prison Dicipline Society, reports of 33, 35 
Rankin's Letters 60 
Reed and Matheson's visit to Am. churches 39 
Review of Nevins' Biblical Antiquities 128 
Rice, speech of in Kentucky convention 112 
Robespierre, Life of 121 
Robin's travels 39, 59 
Roman Antiquities 119 
Savory's Journal 30, 65 
Slavery and the Slave Trade 167 
Society in America 131 
Sewall's Diary 113 
South Carolina, Laws of 116, 121, 143, 144 
South vindicated by Drayton 110 
Spirit of Laws 118 
Swain's address 60 
Stroud's Sketch of the Slave Laws 143, 144, 

148. 149. 150, 155 
Taylor's Agricultural Essays 35, 138 
Travels in Louisiana 35, 36, 134 
Tucker's Blackstone 123 
Tucker's Judge, Letter 117 
Turner's Sacred History of the world 121 
Virginia Legislature, Review of Debates in 182 

" Revised Code 143, 144 

" Negro-raising state 182 

Visit to American churches, 39 

Western Medical Journal 60 

Western Medical Reformer 31 

Western Review 35 

Wheeler's Law of slavery 60,163 

Wirt's Life of Patrick Henry 109 

Woolman John, Life of 58, 113 

Books of slaves stolen 51 

Borrowing of slaves 55 

Bourne, George, anecdote of 52 

Boy killed 97 

Boys fight to amuse their drivers 107 

Bowie Knives 190 

Boys' retort 57 
Brandings 77, 108 

Branding with hot iron 21 

Brasses 102 

"Breeders" llO 

Breeding of slaves prevented 39 



212 



Index. 



" Breeding wenches " 


15, 


175 


" " comparative value of 


167 


Bribes for begetting slaves 




16 


Brick-yards 




18 


"Broken-winded" slaves 




38 


Brutality to slaves 


148, 


149 


Brutes and slaves treated alike 




106 


Burial of slaves 




5 


Burning of Mc Intosh 




157 


Burning slaves 26, 72, 86, 93, 


155, 


157 


Burning with hot iron 




26 


Burning with smoothing irons 




68 


Butchery 

c 

Cabins of slaves 11, 19, 41, 43, 


193, 


196 


101, 


106 


Cachexia Africana 


31 


, 43 


Caligula 


121, 


149 


Can't believe 




114 


Capital Crimes 




149 



Captain in the U. S. navy, tried for murder 26 

Carding of Slaves 46 

Cat-hauling 21, 88 

Cato the Just 8, 126 

Causes of the laws punishing cruelty to slaves 147 

Chained slave 13 

Chains 72 

Changes in the market 134 

Character of Overseers 72, 95,169 

" Romans 118 

" Slave-drivers 109 

Charleston 22, 44 

" Infirmary at 170 

Jail 23 

" Slave auctions 174 

" Surgery at 170 

" Work-house 23, 171 

Chastity punished 15 

Child-bearing prevented 57 

Child-birth of slaves 12 

Childhood unprotected 167 

Children flogged 20 

" naked 19 

Choking of slaves 23 

Chopping of slaves piecemeal 93 

Christian females tortured 119 

" mart3rr 24 

" slave-iiunting 108 

" slave-murderer 50 

Christian, slave whipped to death 50 

Christians, persecutions of 119 

" slavery among 45, 176 

" treat their slaves like others 42, 177 

Christian woman kidnapped 52 

Chronic diseases 44 

Churches, abuse of power in 115 

Church members 47 

*' Citizens sold as slaves" 41 

Civilization and morality 188 

Clarkson, Thomas 8 

Claudius 121 

Clemens Il9 

Clothing for slaves 13, 19, 40, 47, 95, 98, 105, 106 

Cock-fighting 186 

Code of Louisiana 116 

Collars of iron 72, 74 

Columbia, district of 67 

" fatal affray at 201 

Comfort of slaves disregarded 55, 56 

CommoduB 121 



Concubinage §5 

Condemned criminals 150 

Condition of slaves 108 

Confinement at night 22 

Congress of the United States II4 

'' a bear garden 184 

Connecticut, law of, against Quakers 113 

Constables, character of 20 

Constantine the Great 120 

Contempt of human life 198 

Contrasts of benevolence 126 

Conversation between C. and H 104 

Converted slave 23 

Cooking for slaves Ig 

Correction moderate ]48 

Corrupting influence of slavery 16 

Cotton-picking 9fi 

Cotton-plantations 105 

Cotton seed mixed with corn for food 29 

Council of Nice 120 

Courts, decrees of 164 

Cowhides, with shovel and tongs 104 

Crack of the whip heard afar off 107 

Crimes of slaves, capital 149 

Criminals condemned 150 

Cringing of Northern Preachers 16 
Cropping of ears 20, 83 

Crops for exportation 135 

Cruelties, common 87 
" inflicted upon slaves 57, 87 

" of Cortez in Mexico ' S 

" Ovando in Hispaniola 8 

" Pizarro in Peru 8 

" of slave-drivers incredible 110 
Cruel treatment of slaves the masters' interest 138 

Cultivation of rice 106 
Cutting of A. T.'s throat by a Presbyterian 

woman 47 

D. 

D'Almeydra, Donna Sophia 123 
Damaged negroes bought 171 
Darlington C. H., South Carolina 25 
Dauphin Island, Mobile Bay 85 
" Dead or Alive" 21, 23, 156 
Dead slave claimed 178 
Deaf slaves 133, 136 
Death at child birth 45, 90 
Death-bed, horrors of a slave driver 23 
Death by violence, 197 
Death of a slave murderer 94 
Decrees of Courts 164 
Decisions, judicial 144 
Declarations of slaveholders 28 
Deformed slaves 133 
Delivery of a dead child from whipping 46, 90 
Description of slave drivers, by John Ran- 
dolph 173 
Despair of slaves 102 
Desperate affray 193 
"Despot" 115 
" Dimensum " of Roman slaves 34 
Diseased slaves 133 
Dislocation of bones 77 
District of Columbia 67 
" " prisons in, 163 
Ditty of slaves 13 
« * Doe-faces "— -' ' Dough-faces" 114 
Dogs provided for 19 
Dogs to hunt slaves 15 



Inaex. 



213 



Domestic slavery 

Domitian 

Donnell, Rev. Mr. 

" Dough-faces" 

" Drivers " 

Driving of slaves 

Droves of '*^ human cattle " 

" " slaves 
Duelling 
Dumb slaves 
Dwellings of slaves 
Dying slaves 
Dying young women 

E. 



164 

121 

70 

114 

110 

89, 92 

76 

69, 70, 167 

185 

133, 136 

43 

45 

44 



Ear-cropping 20, 77, 83 

Early market 134 

Ear-notching 83, 84 

Ear-slitting 23 

Eating tobacco w^orms 
Effects of public opinion concerning slavery 
Emancipation society of North Carolina 
English ladies and gentlemen 
Enormities of slave drivers 
Evenings in the " Negro quarter" 
Evidence of slaves vs. white persons null 
Ewall, Merry 

Examples pleaded in justification of cruel- 
ty to slaves 
Exchange of slaves 

Exportation of slave from Virginia 182, 

Eyes struck out 20, 



144 

60 

123 

114 

20 

12, 71 

162 



104 

168 

184 
77 



F. 

Faith of objectors vifho "can'f JcZfeue" 113, 114 

Fatal rencontre 193 

" Fault-finding " 54 

Favorite amusements of slaveholders 186 

Fear, the only motive of slaves 108 

Feast for slaves 87 

Feeding insufficient 30 

Feeble infants 133 

Felonies on account of slavery 113 

" perpetrated with impunity 113 

Female hypocrite 22, 53 

Females in brick yards 18 

Female slave deranged, 97, 106 

FEMALE SLAVE DRIVERS. 

Burford, Mrs. 180— Carter, Mrs. Elizabeth L. 
79, 172— Charleston, 22, 23— Charlestown, Va. 
181— Galway, Mrs. 12— Hams, Mrs. 26— H. 
Mrs. throat cutter, 47 — Laurie Madame La, 91 — 
Mallix Mrs. 65— Mann Mrs. 71— Mabtin Mrs. 
81 — Maxwell Mrs. 1— McNeil Mrs. 68 — Morgan 
Mrs. —Newman Mrs. B. 172— Pence Mrs. 178 
— Phinps Mrs. 70 — Professor of religion, 44, 53 — 
Ruffner Mrs. 50 — South Carolina, 24 — Starky 
Mrs. 68 — Swan Mrs. 14 — Teacher at Charleston, 
54— T. Mrs. 101— Trip xMrs. 52— Truby, Mrs. 
100— Turner Mrs. 87— Walsh, Sarah, 172. 

Female slave starved to death 23 
' '* whipped to death by a 

Methodist preacher 173 

Female stripped by order of her mistress 14 

Fetters 21, 72, 74 

Field-hands 130 

Fighting of boys to amuse their drivers 107 



♦ Fine old preacher who dealt in slaves' 180 

Fingers cut off" 77 

Flogging for unfinished tasks 12 

" of children 20 

" '' pregnant women until they 

miscarry 20 

" slaves 20, 25, 26, 53, 107 

" '' young man 106 

Floggings 26, 62 

Florida 38 

Food, kinds of 28 

of slaves 18, 27, 47, 95, 101, 105, 106 

" quality of 30 

" quantity of 29, 98 

Free citizens stolen 162, 164 

Free woman 56 

'' " kidnapped 52 

Frequent murders 46 204, 208 

Friends, emorial of 164 

Front-teeth knocked out 83 

Fundamental rights destroyed 150 

G. 

Gadsden Thomas N. Slave Auctioneer 

Gagging of slaves 

Galloway flogging Jo. 

Gambling on crops 

Gambling slaveholder 

Gang of slaves 

Generosity of slaveholders 

Georgia 

Girls' backs burnt with smoothing irons 

Girls' toe cut off" 

Good treatment of slaves 

Governor of North Carolina 

" " Shiraz 
Grand Jury presentment of, 
Guiltiness of Slavery 
Gun shot wounds 

H. 

Habits of slave-drivers 53 

Hampton Wade, murderer of slaves 29 

Handcuffs 72 

" Hands tied" 16 

Hanging of nine slaves 158 

Harris Benjamin, slave murderer 26 

' Head found 169 

Head of a runaway slave on a pole 23> 

Health of slaves 161 

Heart of slaveholders 47 

Herding of slaves, 47 

Hilton James, slave murderer 46 
Hired slaves 133, l36 

Hiring of slaves 55 

" Horrible malady" 31 

' Horrid butchery' I9ar 

Horrors of a slave-driver at death 23 

" " the " middle passage" ll3 

Horse-racing l86 

Horses more cared for than slaves 19* 

Hospitality of slaveholders 123 

Hours of rest 36 

" " work 13, 14, 36, 103, 105, 108 

Hospital at New Orleans 161 

House-slaves 52 

Houses of slaves 19 

" House- wench" 48 

Hovels of slaves 47 

Huguenots, persecution of 8 



174 

75 

14 

38 

46 

76 

123 

61, 206 

68 

181 

123 

24 

122 

202 

17 

77 



202, 



214 



Index. 



" Human cattle," 76, 110 

Human rights against slavery 7 

Hunger of slaves 28 

Hunter of slaves 21 

Hunting men with dogs 155, 160 

Hunting of slaves 21, 97, 108, 155, 159, 160 

Hunt, Rev. Thomas P. 16 

Husband whipping his wife 85 

Huts of slaves 11, 19, 41, 43, 101, 106 

Hymn-books searched for 51 

Hypocrisy of vice 8 



Idiot slaves 133 

Ignatius 10 

Ignorance of northern citizens ofslavery 102 

" " slaveholders 107 

Impunity of killing slaves 21, 46, 47, 50, 54, 91, 92 



Inadequate clothing 
Income from hiring slaves 


41 
55 


Incorrigible slaves 


133 


Incredibility of evidence against slavery 
Incredulity discreditable to consistency 
" " " intelligence 
Indecency of slave-drivers 


110 
112 
115 
153 


Indiana Legislature, resolutions of 
Infant drowned 


59 
12 


Infant slaves 


133 


Infirmary at Charleston 


170 


Infliction of pain 


55 


Inspection of naked slave* 


154 


Intercession for slaves 


12 


Interest of slaveholders 


132 


Introduction 


7 


Iron collars 21, 72, 74, 75 


Iron fetters 21, 72, 74 


Iron head-front. 


76 


Israelites in Egypt, 


142 


J. 

Jewish law 


54 


Joe flogged 

Jones, Anson, Minister from Texas 


14 
102 


Judicial decisions 


144 


K. 




Kentucky 

" Sunday morning 
kicking of slaves 


66, 202 
160 

97 


lidnappers 

adnapping 140, 
indness of slaveholders 


140 

141, 164 

125 


inds of food 


28 


ind treatement of slaves. 


8 


nives, Bowie 


190 


nocking out of teeth, 13, 20, 83 

T 


■Li. 

:-bor, hours of 


36, 108 


abor of slaves 


18,35 


.adies Benevolent Society 


44 


jadies flog with cowhides 


104 


ijadies, public opinion known by 
Ladies use shovel and tongs 


172 

104 


Law concerning slavery 
Law-making 


143, 144 
151 


Laws, Georgia 


40 


" Louisiana 40, 116, 


143, 163 


" Maryland 


40, 155 



" Mississippi 
" North Carohna 
" South Carolina 
•' Spirit of 
'* Tennessee 
" United States 
" Virginia 



143 

31, 128, 143, 144 

40, 116, 143, 144, 155 

151 

148 

32 

40, 143 



Law, safeguards of taken from slaves 116 

Law suit for a murdered slave, 71 

Legal restraints 116 

Licentiousness 16 

" encouraged by preachers 180 

Licentiousness of slavedrivers 70, 97 

" Lie down" for whipping, 107 

Life in the South-west, 197 

Lives of slaves unprotected 155 

Lodging of slaves 43 

Long, his cruelty 50 

' Loss of property' 169 

Louisiana 39 198 

" law of, 40 

" sketches of, 42 

Louis XIV. of France 8 

Lovers severed, 56 

Lunatic slaves 133 

" Lynchings" in the United States 113 

Lynch Law, 199 

M. 

Maimed slaves 133 

Maimings 77 

Malady of slaves 31 

Manacling of slaves 21 

Maniac woman 97, 106 

Man sold by a Presbyterian elder 52 

Man-stealing paid for 90 

Marriage unknown among slaves 47 

Martyr for Christ 24 

Maryland Journal 29, 58 

Maryville Intelligencer 61, 114 

Massacre at Antioch 120 

" " Thessalonica 120 

" " Vicksburg 146 

Masters grant no redress to slaves 95 

Mcintosh, burning of 157 

Maximin 121 

Meals number of 31 
" of slaves 18, 19, 55 

" time of 31 

" Meat once a year" 29 

Mediation for slaves 12 

Medical attendance 55 

" college of South Carolina 169 

" Infirmary at Charleston 171 

Medicine administered to slaves 14 

Members of churches 47 

Memorial of friends 164 

Menagerie of slaves 182 

Men and women whipped 107 

Methodist colored preacher hung, 96 

Methodist girl whipped for her chastity 15 

Methodist preacher, a slave dealer 180 

" " " driver 11 

'' woman cut off" a girl's toe 181 

Method of taking meals 18, 19 

" Middle passage" 8, 113 
Miscarriage of women at the whipping post 20 

Mississippi 39, 194 

Missouri 191 

Mistresses flog slaves, 55 



Index. 



215 



Mobile 68 

'* Moderate correction" 21, 148 

Moors, repulsion of 8 

Morgan, William 113 

Mormons 191 

Mothers and babes separated 164, 165 

Mothers of slaves 96 

Mulatto children in all families 51 

Multiplying of slaves 139 

Murderers of slaves tried and acquitted 26, 90 

Murder of slaves by law 90 

" " " bad feeling 29 

" *' '' piece-meal 34 

" " every seven years 39 

" «' frequent 46, 97, 176 

" " with impunity, 21, 46, 47, 

50, 54, 91, 92, 96, 97, 100, 102, 108, 176 

Murders in Alabama, 192 

" " Arkansas, 188 

N. 

Naked children 19, 41, 95 

" " Dave" 16 

" females whipped 14, 103 

" " inspected 154 

" Men and women at work in a field lOl 

Nakedness of slaves 19, 40, 41, 95, 101 

Nantz, edict of 8 

' National slave-market' 76 

Natchez 107, 196 

Nat Turner 96 

' Negro Head Point, 161 

' Negroes for sale, 167, 175 

' Negroes taken 159 

Nero 121 

' Never lose a day's work' 174 

New England, witches of 113 

New Orleans 91 

" Hospital 161 

New York, thirteen persons burnt at 113 

Nice, council of 120 

' Nigger put in the bill' 172 

Night-confinement 22 

Night at a slaveholder's house 97 

Night in slave huts 19, 25 

Nine slaves hanged 158 

No marriage among slaves 47 

North Carolina 11, 23 

'• *' Governor of 24 

" " Legislature of 115, 164 

" " Kidnappers 164 

Northern visitors to the slave states, 128 

Nothing can disgrace slave-drivers 53 

Novel torture 104 

Nudity of slaves 40, 41, 47, 95, 

Nursing of slave-children 12 



O. 

Objections considered 

Ocra, a slave-driver. 

Oiling of a slave 

Old age uncommon among slaves 

" " unprotected 
Old dying slaves 
" Old settlement" 

" slaves 
Oppressor aversion of to hip slave 
Outlawry of slaves 



110 

106 

27 

38 

167 

12 

99 

133 

116 

156 



Outrageous Felonies on account of slavery 113 
perpetrated with impunity ll3 



Overseers, character of 72, 95, 96, 109 

" generally armed ll, 12, 72 

" no appeal from 95 

Overseers of slaves — 

Alabama, 95 — Alexander killed, 102 — Belle, 
mont, 53 — Bellows, 72 — Blocken's, 47 — Bradley, 
70 — Cormick's, 86 — Cruel to a proverb, 105 — 
Farr, James, 99 — Gallovv^ay, 11 — Gibbs, 70 

Goochland, 26 — Methodist preacher, 11 — Mil- 
ligan's Bend, 75 — Nowland's, 92 — Tune, 45- 
Turner's cousin, 46 — Walker, 47 — Overworking 
of slaves, 35, 37 — Ownership of human beings 
destroys their comfort, 109. 

P. 

" Paddle" torture 71 

Paddle whipping , 20, 46, 103 

Pain, the means of slave drivers 109 

" Pancake sticks" 53 

Parents and children separated 56 

Parlor-slaves 130 

Parricide threatened 97 

Patrol 14 

Pay for begetting mulatto slaves 16 

Periodical pressure • 134 
Persecution of Huguenots 

Persecution for religion 113, 1 8 

Personal Narratives,, 11, 17, 22, 25, 26, 44, 

45, 48, 51, 

Philanthropist 66 

Philip II. and the Moors 8 

Physicians not employed for slaves 176 

Physicians of slaves 44, 47 

Physician's statement 104 
Pig-sties more comfortable than slave-huts, 101 

Plantations 94 

Pleas for cruelty to slaves 104. 

Ploughs and whips equally common 104 

Pliny 119 

Poles, Russian clemency to 8 

Polycarp 119 

" Poor African slave" 14 

Portuguese slaves 8 

Pothinus 119 

Prayer of slaves 17 
Praying and slave-whipping in the same room 53 

Praying slaves whipped 88 

Preacher claims a dead slave 178 

Preacher hung, 96 

Preachers, cringing of 16 

Preacher's " hands tied" 16 

Preachers silenced 51 

Pregnant slaves 12, 90 

whipped 20, 90, 106 

Presbyterian Elders at Lynchburg 181 

Presbyterian minister killed his slave 96 

Presbyterian slave-trader 97 
Presbyterian woman desirious to cut A. T 's 

throat 47 
Presentment of the Grand Jury at Cheraw 155 

Pretexts for slavery absurd 7 

Prisons in the District of Columbia 163 

Prison slave 23 

Privations of the slaves — 

Clothing, 40— Dwellings, 43— Food, 27— Kinds 
of food, 28 — Labor, 25 — Number of meals, 31 — 
Quality of food, 30 — Quantity of food, 29 — Time 
of meals, 31. 



216 



Index, 



Promiscuous concubinage 
" Property" 

" ♦ loss of 


85 
110 
169 


Protection of slaves 


143 


Protestants in France 


8 


Provisions, allowance of 


13 


Public opinion destroys fundamental 
" " diabolical 


rights, 150 
152 


" '' protects the slave 
Punishment of slaves 


143, 144 

19.20 


Punishments 


62, lo;^ 


Purchasing a wife 
Puryc.r, " the devil" 
Putrid backs of slaves 


179 
47 
54 


Q. 

Quality of food 
Quantity of food 


30 
13, 29 



R. 

Race of slaves murdered every seven years 39 

Randolph John will of 42, 58 
" " description of slavedrivers 173 
"Doe faces" 114 

Rations 33 

Reariri^ of slaves 182 

Relaxation, no time for 106 

Religious persecutions 113 

Respect for woman lost 153 

Rest, hours of 36 

Restraints, legal 116 

Retort of a boy 57 

Rhode Island, kidnappers and pirates of 113 

Rice plantations 106 

Richmond Whig 110 

Rio Janeiro slavery at 8 

Riot at Natchez 196 

Riots in the United States ll3 

Robespierre 121 
Romans 118-126 

Roman slavery 8 
Runaways 21-133-136 
Runaway Slaves — 

Advertisements for 62-63 

Baptist man and woman 88 

Buried alive 15 

Chilton's 27 

Converted 23 

" Dead or alive'' 21 

Head on a pole 23 

Hung 46 

Hunting of 21-97 

Intelligent man 22 

Jim Dragon 47 

Luke 14 

Man buried 15 

" dragged by a horse 85 

" maimed 85 

" murdered 76-100 

*' severe punishments of 103 
«' shot 15, 21, 46, 91 96, 100, 102, 107 

" " by Baptist preacher 181 

♦' taken from jail 16 

" tied and driven 92 

" to his wife 23 

'' whipped to death 87 

Many, annually shot 108 

Stallard's man 89 

White Peter 91 

Young woman 34, 88 



Sabbath, a nominal holiday. 


106 


Safeguards of the law taken from slaves, 


116 


Sale of a man by a Presbyterian elder, 


52 


Sale of slaves, 


167 


Savannah, Ga., 


17 


Savannah slave-hunter, 


21 


Save us from our friends, 


193 


Scarcity, times of 


134 


Scenes of horror. 


20 


Search for Bibles and Hymn books, 


51 


Secretary of the Navy, 


76,89 


Separation of slaves, 56, 


101, 164 


Shame unknown among naked slaves, 


101 


Shoes for slaves, 


19 


Sick, treatment of 


161 


" Six pound paddle," 


71 


" Slack-jaw," 


97 


Slave-breeders, 


143 


" breeding. 


182 


Slave-drivers acknowledge their enormities, 114 


" " character of 


109 


Slaveholders — 




Adams, 


69, 159 


Baptist preachers, 


97, 177 


Barr, 


46 


Baxter, George A 


179 


Baxter, John 


179 


Bloeker, Colonel 


47 


Blount, 


65 


Britt, Benjamin W. 


91 


Burbecker, 


88 


Burvant, Mrs. 


173 


C. A., Rev. 


179 


Casey, 


69 


Chilton, Joseph 


27 


Clay, 


71 


C, Mr. 


103 


Cooper, Charity 


173 


Curtis, 


64 


Davis, Samuel 


90 


Dras, Henry 


175 


Delaware, 


172 


Female hypocrite, 


22 


Gautney, Joseph 


99 


Gayle, Governor 


172 


Governor of North Carolina, 


24 


Green, 


157 


Hampton, Wade 


29 


Harney, William S. 


89 


Harris, Benjamin James 


26 


Hayne, Governor 


166 


Hedding, 


51 


Henrico county, Va., 


26 


Heyward, Nathaniel 


174 


Hughes, Philip 0. 


100 


Hutchinson, 


86 


Hypocrite woman, 


22 


Indecency of, 


153 


Jones, 


47 


Jones, Henry 


89 


Lewis, Benjamin, 


178 


Lewis, Isham, 


93 


Lewis, Lilburn, 


93 


Lewis, Rev. Mr. 


181 


Long, Lucy 


173 


Long, Reuben 


50 


L., of Bath, Ky., 


90 



Index. 



217 



Maclay, John 71 

Martin, Rev. James 181 

Matthews' Bend, 69 

M'Coy, 99 

M'Cue, John 178 

Methodist, 42 

Methodist Preachers, 180 

M'Weilly, 155 

Moresville, 90 

Morgan, 85 

Mosely, William 46 

Murderer, 21 

Mushat, Rev. John 177 

Nansemond, Va., 84 

Natchez planter, 87 
Nelson, Alexander 51, 179 

Nichols, of Connecticut, 27 
North Carolina, 24, 161 

Owens, Judge, 69 

Painter, 65 

Physician, 55 

Pinckney, H. L. 172 

Presbyterian, 97 

Presbyterian minister, Huntsville, 47 

" " North Carolina, 96 

" preacher, 180 

Professing Christian, 23 

Puryar, " the Devil," 47 

Randolph, John 42 

Reiks, Micajah, 152 

Rodney, 87 

Ruffner, 50 

Shepherd, S. G. 29 

Sherrod, Ben 47 

Slaughter, 65 
Smith, Judge 45, 176 

Sophistry of 9 
South CaroHna, 23, 25 

Sparks, WilHam 91 

Stallard, David 89. 

Starky, 68 

Swan, John 11 

Teacher at Charleston, 54 

Thompson, 47 

Thorpe, 71 

Trabue, Charles 71 

Tripp, James 25 

Truly, James 100 

Turner, Fielding S. 87 

Turner, uncle of 46 

Virginian, 44 

Wall, 91 

Watkins, Billy 47 
Watkins, Robert H. 45, 47, 176 

Watson, A. 175 

W., Colonel 103 

Webb, CarroU 105 

" Pleasant 187 

West's uncle, 68 

Widow and daughter, Savannan river, 98 

WiUis, Robert 180 

Wilson, WiUiam 178 
Woman, 23, 24 
Woman, professor of rehgion, 22, 44, 53 

Slaveholders justify their cruelties by example, 104 

" possess absolute power, 116 

" sophistry of 9 

Slaveholding amusements, 107, 186 

" brutality, 149, 153 



" indecency, 

" murderers, 

" religion, 

Slave-mothers, 

" plantations second only to hell. 
Slavery among Christians, 

Slavery illustrated — 
Slave-auctions, 

" blocks with nails, 

" boys fight to amuse their drivers, 

" branding. 



153 

189, 190 

54 

90 

114 
45 



167 

104 

107 

21, 77, 108 

« breeding, 39, 85, 182 

" burner, 26 

" burning, 72, 155 

Slave-cabins, 11, 16, 19, 41, 43, 101, 106 

" at night, 19, 22, 25 

Slave-children nursed, 12 



" choking, 


23 


" clothing, 13, 19, 40, 47, 95, 98, 


105, 106 


« collars, 21, 72, 74, 75 


" cookery. 


18 


Slave-ditty, 


13 


" dogs. 


15,21 


" driver's death. 


23,94 


" " licentiousness of 


70 


" driving, 


85,92 


" fetters, 21, 72, 74 


" food, 18, 27, 47, 95, 101 


, 105,106 


" gagging, 


75 


" gangs. 


76 


" handcuffs, 


72 


" herding. 


19,47 


Slaveholders, civilization and morality of 


188 


" declarations of 


28 


" habits of 


53 


" heart of 


145 


" hospitality of 


125 


" interest of 


132 


" sophistry of 


9 


" " treat their slaves well," 


121 


Slaveholding professor. 


50 


" Slaveholding religion," 


54 


Slave-hovels, 


47, 106 


" hunting, 21, 97, 108, 


155, 160 


" " by Christians, 


108 


" " in Texas, 


102 


Slave imprisoned. 


23 


" in chains, 


13 


" in the stocks. 


12 


" kicking, 


97 


" killed, and put in the bill. 


172 


" kilHng with impunity, 21, 46, 47, 5C 


, 54, 91, 


92, 96, 97, 100, 102 108 




« labor, 18 35, 


103, 105 



" manacles, 21 

" martyr, 24 

" meals, 18, 19 

" mothers, 96 

" murderers, tried and acquitted, 26 

" patrol, 14 

" physicians, 44 

" punishments of 19, 20, 62 

Slave quarters, 16, 17 

Slavery, code of law respecting, 143 

" among Christians, 45, 176 

" domestic, 164 

" guilt of, 17 

" of whites, 25 

" public opinion and effects of, 143, 144 



218 



Index. 



(( 


unmixed cruelty, 


108 


Slave 


selling, 


1G7 


Slaves 


, aversion of to their oppressors, 


116 


(( 


backs of , putrid 


13 


«( 


blind. 


133 


(( 


books of searched for, 


51 


<( 


branded. 


77, 108 


u 


brutality to. 


148 


(( 


burial ot, 


48 


a 


carded, 


46 


ti 


cat-hauhng of, 


21,88 


n 


comfort of disregarded, 


55, 56 


i( 


deaf. 


133 


(( 


dead or aUve, 


21,23 


«( 


deformed. 


133 



deprived of every safeguard of the law, 116 

" described, 110 

" diseased, 133 

" dread to be sold for the South, 15 

" dumb, 133 

" dying, 45 

" evidence of against white persons null, 12, 71 

" exchanged, 168 

" reported from Virginia, 192 

" fear their only motive, 108 

♦' feasted and flogged, 87 

«' hired, 133 

«» idiots, 133 

" incorrigible, 133 

" infant, 133 

" in the stocks, 108 

" " U. S., treatment of, 9 

" lunatics, 133 

" maimed, 77, 133 

" merchandise, 110 

♦♦ multiply, 139 

" murdered by cotton-seed, 29 

« " overwork, 37 

« «« piece-meal, 34, 93 

" « starvation, 37 

♦« " every seven years, 39 

« " frequently, 46, 97, 100 
« " with impunity, 21, 46, 47, 50, 54, 

91,92,96,97, 100, 102 

" naked, 19, 40, 41, 47 

" not treated as human beings, 46 

« old, 133 

" outlawed, 156 

«' overworked, 35 

*' prayers of, 17 

" privations of, 27 

" protection of, 143 

« sale of, 167 

" stock, 110 

" surgeons of, 44 

«' taking medicine, 14 

" tantalized, oG 

" starvation of, 13, 14, 28, 29, 35, 105 

" teeth of knocked out, 13, 20, 22, 83 

" tied up all night, 20 

" toe cut off, 101 

« torments of, 145 

" travelling in droves, 69, 70 ■ 72 

" treated worse as they are farther South, 15 

" treatment of by Christians, 42 

" under overseers, 133, 137 

" wacching of, 57 

" without redress, 95 

•« " shelter, 43 



" working animals, 110 

" worn out, 133 

" worse treated than brutes, 111, 112 

" wounded by gun-shot, 77 

Slave testimony excluded, 149 

" torturing hypocrite, 22 

" trade with Africa, 8 

" trading, 49, 97 

" " honorable, 174 

" traffic, 97, 167 

Slave Murderers, 21, 26, 29, 46, 50, 54, 91, 92, 

93, 96, 97, 100, 101, 108, 157, 158, 159, 161, 173, 

177, 179, 181. 

Slave plantation, 11, 24. 25, 29, 38,41, 42, 44, 
45, 46, 53, 68, 70, 7], 72, 75, 76, 84, 85, 86, 92, 
98, 99, 102, 105, 106, 207, 114, 174. 
Slave usage contrasted with that of animals, 112 
Slave whipping, 20, 25, 26, 27, 51, 59, 98, 106 
Slave yokes, 74 

Whipped 26, 47, 50, 70, 85, 98, 100 

Whipped and burnt 26, 86, 92 

Whipped to death 26, 50, 64, 67, 70, 72, 87, 90 
Slaves, treatment of 9 

Slave trade, 139, 140, 182, 184 

Sleeping in clothes, 19 

Slitting of ears, 23 

Smoothing iron on girl's backs, 68 

Sophistry of slaveholders, 9 

South Carohna, laws of 40, 116 

" " medical college, 169 

Southern dogs and horses, 19 

Spartan slavery, 8 

Speece, Rev. Conrad, opposed to emancipation, 52 
Spirit of laws, 151 

Springfield, S. C. 25 

Starvation of a female slave, 23 

" " slaves, 105 

Statement of a physician, 104 

State, abuse of power in 115 

Stealing of freemen, 162 

Stevenson, Andrew, letter by 182 

St. Helena, S. C. 25 

Stillman's, Dr. medical infirmary at Charleston, 171 
Stocks for slaves, 11, 108, 175 

" Stock without shelter," 71 

" Subject of prayer," 54 

Sufl'ering of slaves, 57, 102, 105 

" " " by hunger, 28, 105 

" " " drives to despair and suicide, 102 
Sugar-planters, 38 

Suicide of slaves, 102 

Suit for a dead slave, 178 

" " " murdered slave, 71, 102 

Sunday morning in Kentucky, 168 

Surgeon of slaves, 44 

Surgery at Charleston, 170 

" Susceptibilitv of pain," 109 



Tanner's oil poured on a slave 27 

Tantalising of slaves 56 

Tappan Arthur 47 

Tarring of slaves 27 

Taskwork of slaves 12 

Teeth knocked out 13, 20, 83 

TjUnder regard of slaveholders for slave 7, 8 

Tennessee 200 



Index. 



219 



Testimont. — 

Allen, Rev. William T. 

Avery, George A. 

Caulkins, Neheraiah 

Channing-, Dr. 

Chapin Rev. William A. 

Chapman, Gordon 

Cler -yman, 

Cruelty to slaves 

Dickey, Rev. William 

Drayton, Colonel 

Gildersleeve, William C. 

Graham, Rev. John 

Grimke, Sarah M. 

Hawlcy, Rev. Francis 

Ide, Joseph lOl 

Jefferson, Thomas 

Macy, F. C 
" Reuben G. 
" Richard 
'♦ T. D. M. 
Moulton, Rev. Horace 
Nelson, John M. 
New Orleans 
Of slaves excluded 
Paulding, James K. 
Poe, William 
Powel, Eleazar 
Sapington, Lemuel 
Scales, Rev. William 
Secretary of the Navy 
Smith, Rev. Phineas 
Summers, Mr. 
Virginian 

Westgate, George W. 
Weld, Angelina Grimk^ 
White, Hiram 
Wist, Willam 



17 



^n 



45 

44 

10 

38,44 

105 
84 

107 
57 
93 

110 

50 

25 

22,44 

94 

101 

110 

106 
98 
98 

105 

109 
51 
35,91 

149 

76,89 

26 

99 

49 

100 
76,89 

109 

.110 
76 
30 
52 
51 

109 

102 
120 
120 
51 
121 
106 
134 
119 



Texas 

Theodosius the Great 
Thessalonica, massacre at 
Thumb-screws 
Tiberius 

Time for relaxation, not allowed 
Times of scarcity 
Titus 

Tobacco worms eaten 88 

Toes cut off 77 

Tooth knocked out 13, 20, 22 

Tortures 72 

" eulogized by a professor of religion 104 
Trading with negroes 209 

Traffic in slaves 97 

Trajan 118 

Treatment of sick slaves 44 

Treatment of slaves in the United States 9, 48 

by professing Christians 42, 97. 180 

♦' little better than that of brutes 106 

Trial of women, " white and black,^^ 25 

Trials for murdering slaves 46, 91, 94, 108, 173 
Turkish slavery 8 

Turner, Nat 96 

Twelve slaves killed by overwork 97 

Twenty-seven hundred thousands of free-born 

citizens in the United States 7 

Tying up of slaves at night 20 

" Tyrant" 115 

"Uncle Jack," Baptist preacher 179 

Under garments not allowed to slaves l3 

United States, Laws of 32 



University of Virginia ll4 

Untimely seasons i34 
Usage of slaves and brutes contrasted 111, 112 

Vapid babblings of slaveholders 9 

Vice, hypocrisy of 8 

Vicksburg, massacre of 146 

Virginia, a slave menagerie 182 

" exportation of slaves from 182 

" University of 114 

Visitors to slave states 128 

Vitellius 120 

Washing for slaves 95 

Washington slavery 67 

" the national slave market 76 

West Indian slaves 142 

Whip, cracking of heard at a distance 107 



" Whipped to death" 



72, 96, 102, 108 



Whipping — 

Children 20 

Every day 106 

Females 13, 14, 48, 53, 103, 107 

On three plantations heard at one time 108 
Pregnant women 20, 90, 1 79 

Slaves 13, 20, 22, 25, 26, 50, 51, 88, 98, 102, 

[107 

Slaves after a feast 87 

'' for praying 88 

With paddle 20, 46 

Women with prayer 54 

Whipping-posts 18, 20, 46 

Whips equally common on plantations as 

ploughs 104 

" White or black," trial of 25 

Whites in slavery 25 

White slave 48 

Wholesale murders 200 



Wife, purchase of a 179 

Will of John Randolph 42 

Wilmington, N. C. 11 

Witches of New-England 113 

WITNESSES. 

Aobot, Jordan 73 

Abdie, P. 153 

Adams, Mr. 159 

African Observer 155 

Alexandria Gazette 150 

Allan, James M., 45 
Allan, Rev. William T. 45, 61, 180 

Alston, J. A., Heirs of, 85 

Alton Telegraph 157 

Alvis, J. 164 

Anderson, Benjamin 42 

Andrews, Professor 167 

Anthony, Julius C. 68 

Antram, Joshua 80 

Appleton, John James 90 

Arkansas Advocate 162 

Armstrong, William 64, 157 

Artop, James 78 

Ashford, J. P. 78, 153 

Augusta Chronicle 165 
Avery, George A. 42, 43, 127, 172 

Aylethorpe, Thomas 83 

Bahi, P. 154, 167 

Baker, William 81 

Baldwin, J. G. 64 

Baldwin, Jonathan F. 75 

Ballinger, A. S. 81 



220 



Index, 



Baltimore Sun 


163 


Baptist Deacon 


39 


Bard well, Rev. William 


180 


Barker, Jacob 


141 


Barnard, Alonzo 


65 


Barnes, George W. 


84 


Barr, James 


81 


" Mrs. 


46 


'♦ Rev. Hugh 


46 


Barrer, B. G. 


79 


Barton, David W. 


137 


" Richard W. 


137 


Bateman, William 


78 


Baton Rouge, Agricultural Society of 38 


Bayhi, P. 


74,81 


Beall, Samuel 


168 


Beasley, A. G. A. 


84 


" John C. 


154 


Robert 


63,79 


Beene, Jesse 


63 


Bell, Abraham 


65 


" Samuel 


169 


Bennett, D. B. 


63 


Besson, Jacob 


154 


Bezon, Mr. 


79 


Bingham, Joel S. 


81 


Birdseye, Ezekiel 


90, 157, 179 


Birney, James G. 


37,47 


Bishop, J. 


78 


Blackwell, Samuel 


39 


Bland, R. J. 


63 


Bliss Mayhew and Co 


168 


" Philemon, 31, 35, 36, 


37, 41, 43, 102, 138 


Bolton, J. L. and W. H. 


73 


Boudinot, Tobias 


28,92 


Bouldin, T. T. 


40 


Bourgoing, J. F. 


125 


Bourne, George 


28,52,178 


Bradley, Henry 


157 


Bragg, Thomas 


166 


Brasseale, W. H. 


63 


Brewster, Jarvis 


30 


Brothers, Menard 


73 


Brove, A. 


81 


Brown, J, A. 


77,82 


" John 


47 


" Rev. Abel 


88 


" Thomas 


80 


" William 


80 


Emce Mr. 


182 


Buchanan, Dr. 


40, 58, 112, 118 


Buckels, William D. 


80 


Burvant, Madame 


77 


Burwell 


137 


Bush, Moses E. 


81 


Buster, Mr. 


70 


Butt, Moses 


168 


Byrn, Samuel H. 


162 


Calvert, Robert 


84 


Carney, R. P. 


77 


Carolina, History of 


35 


Carter, Mrs. Elizabeth L. 


79, 172 


Caulkins, Nehemiah 


11, 30, 31, 36 


Channing, Dr. 


38, 44, 127 


Chapin, Rev. William A» 


105 


Chapman, B. F. 


168 


" Gurdon 


84 


Charleston Courier 


153, 156, 165, 166 


" Mercury 


84, 165, 171, 175 


" Patriot 


169 



herry, John W. 


80 


Child, David L. 


90 


" Mrs. 


90, 124, 140 


Choules, Rev. John 0. 


39 


Citizens of Onslow 


156 


Clark, W. G. 


166 


Clarke, John 


87 


Clay, Henry 


37, 183 


" Thomas 


28, 29, 30 


Clenderson, Benjamin 


173 


Clergyman 


107 


Coates Lindley 


170 


Cobb, W. D. 


156 


Colborn, J. L. 


84 


Cole, Nathan 


61,89 


Coleman, H. 


156 


Colonization Society 


60 


Columbian Inquirer 


168 


Comegys, Governor 


163 


Congress, Member of 


67 


Connecticut, Medical Society of 


135 


Constant, Dr. 


67 


Cooke, Owen 


73 


Cook, Giles 


137 


" H. L. 


165 


Cooper, Thomas 


117 


Cornelius, Rev. Elias 


161 


Corner, Charles 


73 


" L. E. 


63 


Cotton planters 


38 


Cowles, Mrs. Mary 


85 


" Rev. Sylvester 


177 


Craige, Charles 


154 


Crane, William 


63 


Crutchfield, Thomas 


81 


Cuggy, T. 


73, 154 


Curtis, Mr, 


75 


" Rev. John H. 


64 


Cuyler, J. 


168 


Daniel and Goodman 


82 


Darien Telegraph 


207 


Davidson, Rev. Patrick 


179 


Davis, John 


35, 36 


Davis, Benjamin 


167 


" T. 


166 


" Thomas 


172 


Dean, Jethro 


68 


Debruhl, Jesse 


83,84 


Demming, Dr. 


39 


Densler, T. S. 


155 


Derbigny, Judge 


163 


Dew, Philip A. 


84 


'' President 


182 


Dickey, Rev. James H. 


128 


" William 


93 


Dickinson, Mr. 


39 


Dillahunty, John H. 


80 


Doddridge, Philip 


183 


Dorrah, James 


62 


Downman, Mrs. Lucy M. 


l6i. 


Douglas, Rev. J. W 


184 


Drake and Thomson 


164 


Drayton, Colonel 


110 


Drown, William 


75 


Dudley, Rev. John 


74 


Duggan, John 


154 


Dunn, John L- 


165 


Dunham, Jacob 


177 


Durell, Judge 


131 



Index. 



221 



Durett, Francis 


73,74 


Dustin, W 


fi6 


Dyer, William 


73 


Eastman, Rev. D. B. 


29,62 


Eaton, General William 


127 


Edmunds, Nicholas 


77 


Edwards, F. L. C 


79 


" President 


28,118 


" Junior " 


11, 31, 58 


Ellison. Samuel 


42, 64 


Ellis, Orren 


80 


Ellsworth, Elijah 


65 


Emancipation Society of N. C. 


28, 60 


English, Walter R. 


80 


Evans, R. A. 


63 


Everett, William 


162 


Faulkner, Mr. 


182 


Fayetteville Observer 


169 


Fernandez and Whiting 


82 


Finley, James C 


60 


" R. S. 


183 


Fishers, E. H. and I. 


137 


Fitzhugh, William H 


117 


Ford, John 


82 


Foster, Francis 


154 


Fox, John B. 


82 


Foy, Enoch 


156 


Francisville Chronicle 


160 


Franklin Republican 


159 


Frederick, John 


83,84 


Friends, Yearly Meeting of 


164 


Fuller, Isaac C. 


92 


Fullerton, G. S. 


69 


Furman, B. 


79 


Gadsden, Thomas N. 


165 


Gaines, Rev. Ludwell, G. 


92 


Gales, Joseph 


153 


Garcia, Henrico Y. 


67 


Garland, Maurice H. 


139 


Gates, Seth M. 


129 


Gayle, John 


172 


Georgetown Union 


178 


Georgia Constitutionalist 


160 


" Journal 


167 


Georgian 


166 


Gholson, Mr. 


182 


Giddings, Mr. 


76 


Gilbert, E. W. 


84 


Gildersterre, William C. 30, 35, 


36, 37, 41, 44 




50, 124 


Glidden, Mr. 


69 


Goode, Mr. 


183 


Gourde n and Co. 


80 


Grace, Byrd M. 


84 


Graham, Rev. John 


25 


Rev. Dr. 


183 


Grand Gulf Advertiser 


78, 136 


Graham, Jehab 


179 


Gray, Abraham 


80 


Greene, R. A. 


79 


Green, James R. 


73 


Gregory, Ossian 


137 


Gridley, H. 


73 


Grimke, Sarah M. 


22, 44, 62 


Grosvenor, Rev. Cyrus P 


178 


Guex, D. F. 


74 


Gunnell, John J. H. 


137 


Guthrie, A. A. 


45 


Guyler, J. 


77 



Halley, Preston 

Hall, Samuel 

Han, E 

Hand, John H. 

Hansborough, William 

Hanson, Peter 

Harding, N. H. 

Harman, Samuel 

Harrison, General W. H. 

Hart, F. A. 
" Rev. Mr. 

Harvey, J. 

Hawley, David 

" Rev. Francis 
Hayne, General R. Y. 
Henderson, John 
" Judge 

Hendren, H. 
Herring, D. 
Dr. 
Hitchcock, Judge 
Hite, S. N. 
Hodges, B. W. 

" Rev. Coleman S. 
Holcombe, John P. 
Holmes, George, 
Home, Frederick 
Honerton, Philip 
Hopkins, Rev. Henry T. 
Horsey, Outerbridge 
Hough, Rev. Joseph 
Houstoun, Edward 
Hudnall, Thomas 
Hughes, Benjamin 
Hunt, John 

" Rev. Thomas P. 
Hussey, George P. C. 
Huston, Felix 
Hutchings, A. J, 

Ide, Joseph 

Indiana, Legislature of 

Jackson, Stephen M. 

" Telegraph 
James, Joseph 
Jarnett, James T. De 
Jarvett, James T. 
Jefferson, Thomas 
Jenkins, John 
Jett, Marshall 
Johnson, Bryant 
" Cornelius 
" Isaac 
•' Josiah S. 
JoUey, J. L. 
Jones, Alexander 

" Anson 

" Hill 

" James 

" R. H. 

" W. Jefferson 
Jourdan, Green B. 
Judd, D. 

" Mrs. Nancy 

Keeton, G. W. 
Kennedy, John 
Kentucky, Synod of 
Kephart, George 
Kernin, Charles 
Keyes, Willard 



80 

69, 75, 76, 92, 181 

81 

63,73 

92, 178 

80 

61 

84 

117 
92 
86 

164 

64,91 

94 

166 
73, 153 

128 

137 
81 
84 
79 
81 
74 
87 
82 

159 

169 
79 
88 
37 

181 

165 
78 

162 

83, 164 

16 

76 

162 
83 

101 
59 

79 

166 

78 

154 

62 

110, 117 

80 

82 

62, 79 

36, 37, 43, 65 

78 

38 

78 

39 

102 

165 

156 

168 

135 

82 

62 

88 

162 

82 

61, 167 

169 
74 
70 



222 



Index. 



Kimball and Thome 

" George 
Kimborough, James 
King, Charles 

" John H. 

" Nehemiah 
Knapp, Henry E. 

" Isaac 
Kyle, Frederick 

" James 

Lacy, Theodore A. 

Ladd, William 

Lains, O. W. 

Lambeth, William L. 

Lambre, Mr. 

Lancette, R. 

Langhorne, Scruggs and Cook 

Larrimer, Thomas 

Latimer, W. K. 

Lawless, Judge 

Lawyer, Zadok 

Ledwith, Thomas 

Leftwich, William 

Lemes, Ferdinand 

Leverich and Co. 

Lewis, Kirkman 

Lexington Intelligencer 

*' Observer 

Little, Mrs. Sophia 
Loflano, Hazlet 
Long, Joseph 
Loomis, Henry H. 
Loring, R. 

" Thomas 
Louisville Reporter 
Lowry, Mrs. Nancy 
Luminais, A. 
Iiyman, Judge 
" Rev. H. 



129 
171 

79 
169 

82 
165 

36 

70 
178 
178 

166 
29, 30, 40, 43, 86, 138 

77 
73 
73 

81 



137 

69 

136 

157 

80 

78 

28, 3G, 41, 13, 48 

73 

154 

164 

164 

166 

75 

73 

137 

86 

136 

152 

67 

50 

78 

75 

42, 65, 127, 177 



Macoin, J. 73 

Macon Messenger 165 

" Telegrap 159 

Macy, F. C. 30, 105 
" Reuben G 28, 41, 43, 98 

" Richard 30, 41, 98 

" T.D M. 105 
Magee, William 82, 162, 167 

Males, Henry 71 

Maltby, Stephen E. 41, 43, 64 

Manning, P. T. 73 

Marietta College, student of 69 

Marks, James 81 

Marriott, Charles 98 

Marshall, John T. 166 

Martineau, Harriet 149 

Mar)^land .Journal 29, 58 

Maryville IntelHgencer 61, 114 

Mason, Samuel 78 

Mathieson, Rev. James 39 

May, Rev. Samuel J. 160 

Mc Cue, Moses 165 

McDonnell, James 80 

McGehee, Edward J. 156 

McGregor, Henry M. 82 

McMurrain, John 78, 83 

Mead Whitman 59 

Medical College of South Carolina 169 

Memphis Gazette 168 

*' Inquirer - ^63 



Menefee, R. H. 
Menzies, Judge 
Mercer, Mr. 
Metcalf, Asa B. 
Middleton, Mr. 
Miles, Lemuel 
Milledgevillc Journal 

" Recorder 

Miller, C. 

Minister from Texas, A. Jonee 
Minor, W. I. 
Missouri Republican 
Mitchell, Dr. Robert 
Mitchell, Isaac 
M'Neilly 
Mobile Advertiser 

" Examiner 

" Register 
Mongin, R. P. T. 
Montesquieu 
Montgomery, W. H. 
Moore, Mr. Va. 
Moorhead, John H. 
Morris, E. W. 



168 

88 

139, 183 

77, 153 

139 

79 

155 

168 

165 

102 

168 

158 

86,89 

81 

155 

167, 172 

67 

162 

166 

118 

168 

60 

66 

82, 16 



Moulton, Rev. Horace 28, 30, 3 , 45 88, 109 

11-2, 136,139 

Moyne Dr. F. Julius Le 88 

Muggridge Matthew 165 

Muir J. G. 154 

Murat A. 73 

Murphy S. B. 63, 78 

Napier T. and L. 168 

Natchez Courier 162, 1G8 

" Daily Free Trade ] 69 

National Intelligencer 154^ 172 

Nelsun Dr. David 86. I07 

" John M. 51, 74, 124 

Ncsbitt Wilson 137 

Newbern Sentinel 166 

Spectator 156, 162 

New Hampshire, legislature of 135 

Newman Mrs. B. 172 

New Orleans Argus 164 

Bee 36, 79, 84, 91, 150, 154, 162, 107 

Bulletin 154, 166 

" Courier 91, 139, 183 

" Kidnapping at 14l 

" Mercantile Advertiser 9l 

Post 157 

New York American 169 

" Sun 91 

Neyle S. 78, 83 

Nicholas Judge 117 

Nicoll Robert 62, 153 

Niles Hezekiah 60, 183 

Noe James 63 

Norfolk Beacon 139, 165, 166 

" Herald 160 

N. C. Literary and Commercial Standard 152 

" Journal 209 

Nourse Rev, James 179 

Nye Horace 64, 66, 74, 157 



O'Byrne 

O'Connell Daniel 
Oliver Colonel 
O'Neill Peter 
Onslow, Citizens of 
Orme Moses 
O'Rorke John 



166 
182 
169 
165 
156 
78 
165 



Index, 



223 



Overstreet Richard 79 

William 77 

Owen Captain N. F. 123 

" JohnW 137 

Owens J. G. 165 

Parrish John JO, 40, 155 

Parrott Dr. 102 

Patterson Willie 81, 82 

Paulding James K. 76, 89 

Peacock Jesse 169 

Perry Thomas C. 180 

Petersburg Constellation 165 

Philanthropist 66 

Pickard J. S. 168 

Pinckney H. L. 166, 172 

Pmkney William 58 

Planter's Intelligencer * 162 

Planters of South Carolina 39 

Foe William 26, 181 

Porter Mr. 66 

Portsmouth Times 165 
Powell Elcazar 28, 31, 36, 99 

Presbyterian elder, 90, 169 

President of the United States 139 

Pringle Thomas 123 

Pritchard William H. 160 

Probate sale 38 

Purdon James 84 



Ragland Samuel 
Raleigh Register 
Ralston Samuel 
Randall J. B. 
Randolph John 
Randolph Thomas Mann 
Rankm Rev. John 
Rascoe William D. 
Rawlins Samuel 
Raworth Egbert A. 
Redden J. V. 
Red River Whig 
Reed, Rev. Andrew 

" William H. 
Reese Enoch 
Reins Richard 
Reeves W. P. 
Renshaw Rev. C. S. 30, 31 

180 
Rhodes Durant H, 
Rice H. W. 

" Rev. David 
Richardson G. C 
Richards James K. 
" Moses R. 
^ " Stephen M. 
Richmond Compiler 
" Inquirer 

" Whig 

Ricks, Micajah 
Riley, W. 
Ripley, George B. 
Roach, Philip 
Robbiiis, Welcome H. 
Robarts, William 
Roberts, J. H. 
Robin, C. C. 
Robinson, N. M. C. 
Robinson, William 
Roebuck, George 
Rogers, N. P. 
Rogers, Thomas 



81 

165 

163 

80, 168 

58 

182 

28, 40, 43, 60, 67, 92 

166 

82 

83 
137 
165 

39 

75 
164 
136 

73 
, 41, 61, 88, 166, 168, 

156 

73 
58, 112 

81 
137 
137 

81 

165 

166 

165, 166, 182 

77 

78 

84 
137 

80 
164 

63 
39, 59, 118 

81 
154 

68 
131, 171 

71 



Ross, Abner 


153 


Rowland John A. 


63 


Ruffin, Judge 


60 


Russel, Benjamin 


79, 83 


Russel, W. 


160 


Rymes, Littlejohn 


81 


Sadd, Rev. Joseph M. 


43, 62, 64, 130 


Salvo, Conrad 


80 


Sapington, Lemuel 


41, 43, 49 


Saunders, James 


80 


Savage, Rev. Thomas 


76, 87 


Savannah Georgian 


156 


'' Republican 


165 


Savory, William 


30, 40, 65 


Scales, Rev. William 


68, 100, 105 


Schmidt, Louis 


80 


Scott, Rev. Orange 


181 


Scott, Wilham 


99 


Scrivener, J. 


77 


Seabrook, Whitmarsh B. 


175 


Secretary of the navy 


76, 89 


Selfer 


84 


Senator of the United Stales 


7? 


Sevier Ambrose H. 


79 


Sewall Stephen 


85, iia 


Shafter M. M. 


91 


SheithM. J. 


81 


Shield and Walker 


137 


Shields Polly C. 


166 


Shropshire David 


166 


Simmons B. C. 


78 


Simpson John 


16J 


Sizer R. W. 


77 


Skinner, W. 


155, 164 


Slaveholders 


35 


Smith, Bishop of Kentucky 


204, 206 


" Gerrit 


67, 86, 161 


" Professor 


31 


" Rev. Phineas 31, 40, 45, 62, 101, 109, 112. 




13S 


Smyth Alexander 


28, 35, 135 


Snow Henry H. 


70 


Snowden J. 


168 


" Rev. Samuel 


141 


South Carolina, legislature of 


35 


" Medical College 


of 169 


" Slaveholder of 


117 


Southern Argus 


162 


Southern Christian Herald 


178 


Southerner 


161 


Southmayd, Rev. Daniel S. 


176 


Spillman, Mr. 


89 


Stansell, William 


79 


Stanghton, Rev. Dr. 


178 


Staunton Spectator 


165 


Stearns and Co. 


79 


Stevenson, Andrew 


182 


Stewart, Samuel 


63 


Stillmani, Dr. 


171 


Stith, W. and A. 


137 


Stone, Asa A. 


28, 35, 36, 62 


" Silas 


167 


" Wilham L. 


155 


Strickland, William 


78 


Stroud, George M. 


140 


Stuart, Charles 


123 


Summers, Mr. 


110, 117 


Swain, B. 


60 


Synod of South Carolina and Georgia 117 


Tart, John 


79 


Tate, r-alvin H, 


B8 



224 



Index, 



Taylor, James H. 8l 

'• John 138 

*' Lawton, and Co. 80 

Texan minister, Auson Jones, 102 

Thatcher, Colonel 171 

Thome and Kimball, 129 
Thome, James A 61, 158 

Thompson, Henry P. 87 

Thomson, Mr. 163 

Sandlbrd 166 

Todd, R. S. 137 

Toler, William 73 

Tolin, Cornelius D. 63 

Townsend, Ely 78 

Samuel 84 
Tucker, Judge 117, 123 
Turnbull, Robert 28, 36, 44 

Turner, John 63 

" John D. 79 

" L. 46 

Turton,S. B. 82 

Tuscaloosa Flag of the Union 163 

Upsher, Judge 183 

Ustick, William A. 69 



Vance, John 
Van Buren, Martin 
Varillat, H. 
Vicksburg Register 
Virginia Minister 
Virginian 
Walker, John 
Walton, George 

" John W. 
Walsh, Sarah 
Washington Globe 
Waugh, Dr. Jeremiah S. 
Weld, Angelina Grimk6 
Wells, Thomas J. 
West, Eli 
Western Luminary 

" Medical Journal 

« " Reformer 

" Review 
Westgate, George W. 
Whitbread, Samuel 



65 

139 

63 

161, 162 

179 

76 

63 

167 

79 

78, 172 

167 

177 

52 

166 

68 

76 

60 

31, 40, 43 

35, 134 

30,36,37,42,43,72 

118 



Whitefield, Georg6 28, 57, 112 

" Needham 81 

Whitehead, C. C. 63 

" W. W. 80 

White, Hiram 51 

Wightman, Rev. William M. 175 

Wilberforce, W. 118 

Wilkins, C. W. 61 

Wilkinson, Alfred 63, 75 

Wilhams, George W. 137 

Willis, Robert 

Willis, William 

Wilmington Advertiser 

Wilson, Rev. Joseph G. 

Winchester Virginian 

Wirt, William 

Wisner, F. 

Witherspoon, Dr. 

Woodward, Jeremiah 

Woolman, John 

Wotton, John 

Wright, Mr. 

Yampert, T. J. De 

Yearly meeting of Friends 

Woman dying 

" flogged because her child died 

" maniac 

" no respect for 
Women at childbirth 

" " the same labor with men 

" " work 

" miscarry under the whip 

♦' not breeding 

" pregnant whipped 

«• severe whippers of slaves 

•' slaves 
Work-house at Charleston 
Working hours 

" of slaves 
Worn-out slaves 
"Worse and worse" 
Worship of God prohibited 
Wounds by gunshot 
Wright Isaac 

Yokes for slaves 



180 
91 

156 
90 

168 

109 
83 
29 
82 
58 
63 

139 
73 

164 

44 

16 

97, 106 

153 

12 

13 

38 

20, 90 

15 

20, 90. 106 

55, 59 

12 

23. 171 

13, 85, 103, 105, 108 

12, 85, 95 

12, 133 

120 

51 

77 

163 

74 



