Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/essayonimpolicyoOOclar 



ESSAY 



ON THE 



IMPOLICY 



OF THE 



AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE. 



IN TWO PARTS. 



THE SECOND EDITION. 



B y 



The Rev. T. C L A R K S O N, M. A. 



LONDON: 

Printed and Sold by J. Phillips, George-Yard, 
Lombard-Street. 

MDCCLXXXVIIl^* 



•<H 

7/0 



TO 

WILLIAM WILBERFORCE Efq. 

ONEOFTHE 
MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT 

FOR THE 
COUN TY OF YORX. 



S I R, 

'Tp O a Gentleman, like you, whofe publick and private 
a6tions are founded on principle, and who are con- 
tent with doing your duty without the tribute of popular 
applaufe, I fear that the perufal of this page may be 
rather diftreffing : nor am I fure that I fhall not, in fome 
degree, incur your cenfure, for having printed it without 
either your permiffion or your knowledge. You will 
confider, however, how difficult it is for me, who am ac- 
quainted with your exertions in the caufe of humanity and 
freedom, to pafs them over on fuch an occafion as this. 
I truft, therefore, that in adircffing this little book to 
you, as a zealous advocate in behalf of the opprefTed 
A 2 AfricanSj 



( iv ) 

Africans, you will excufe the liberty I have taken, under 
the circumftance now explainecj; and I muft intreat 
you to believe, that no encomium fhould ever have 
hcen paid you by me, unlefs I had believed it to have 
teen previoufly earned. 

I have the Honour to be, Sir, 

Your fmcere. 

And obedient Servant, 

THOMAS CLARKSON, 



PREFACE, 



PREFACE. 



TT may be expCiEled, that, iri ofFering Co many articles of 
-■• information to the publiek, and fuch as will materially 
affect the policy of the flave trade, fomething fiiould be 
faid of their authenticity, or the afTurance the publiek 
may have, that they are true. 

The productions of Africa are the firfi objects of con- 
fideration in this work. Whatever I have faid relative tQ 
the exiftence of thefe, has been collected from Ihing 
evidence, and of the greateft part of them I have noW 
Ipecimens in my pojjejfion. 

The cruelties, pra£lifed by the officers of fla^e veflels 
on the perfons of their unfortunate crews, (which is 
another object of confideration) has been ftated from 
various depofitions^ voluntarily made laft year. I have had 
alfo ocular demonftrai'ion^ as far as a fight of their mangled 
bodies will be admitted as a proof, that fuch cruelties 
were exercifed upon them ; and I have had the fatisfacfliorl' 
of making fome of the perpetrators acknowledge them, by 
the payment of a fine. 

The lofs of feamen, both m the flave trade and other 
trades, (which is a principal obje6l of confideration in this 
work) is fo exa£t, that, though it was neceffary to have 
an account of no lefs \k\2infsven or eight thoufand of them 
to afcertain the fa6tj yet the namfe of every individual caii 
be given. 

The lift of plantations, that have been cited as having 
fupported themfelves independently of the flave trade, has 
been made up either from letters lately received on the 
fubjefl:, or from the oral ftatement of the proprietors 
themfelves, or from thofe gentlemen who became ac- 
quainted with their fituation hy living near them. 

A 3 With 



( vi ) 

With rerpe£t to other ftatements, which I may dlftin- 
guifh by the name of mifcellaneous, they are of equal 
authority. I have always gone for them myfelf to the 
fountain head ; and, with the affiftance of my worthy 
aflbciates in the caufe, neither labour nor expenfe has 
been fpared in obtaining them from that quarter. 

Having faid a few words on the authenticity of the 
pages now to be offered to the publick, I fhall only add, 
that I {hall think myfelf fufficiently repaid for any trouble 
I have taken, if mey tend to throw any light on the 
fubjecSi ; and to convince mankind, that Providence has 
univerfally made the fcale to preponderate in favour of 
humanity ; or that the African flave trade has not that 
found policy for its bafis, which people have but too gene- 
rally imagined. 



PART L 



( 1 ) 



PART I. 

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER, 



t N a former EiTay, on the " Commerce of the Human 
-■• Species," I particularly enlarged on the Injuftice and 
Inhumanity of that, which is exhibited in the African 
trade. In the prefent, I fhall undertake to fhew (unlefs I 
deceive myfelf greatly) that it is as impolitickj as I have 
proved it to be inhuman and unjuft. 

There are many general arguments that muft occur to 
every fenfible and diimterefted man who is at all acquainted 
with the fubje£t, againft this commerce, independently of 
its iniquity or its barbarous efFecSis, 

The firft connection, which the Europeans ever had 
with the Africans, was for Slaves. This continued to be 
for many years the only trainck for which they had 
intercourfe with each other. Some BritiOi merchants, 
however, finding by the reports of their agents, who had 
vifited this coafl:, that it abounded with gurns, wax, amber- 
gris, honey, ivory, and gold, held out to the natives the 
profpewt of a new and additional trade. The Afi-icans 
Vi^ere no fooner made acquainted with, than they embraced 
the plan. They began to collect the different articles ac- 
cordingly, and have continued in the purfuit of them, though 
not without hazard to their perfons, to the prefent day. 

The commercial connedion between the Europeans and 
Africans became by thefe means more extenfive than be- 
fore, and continued on this fcale, till it was difcovered that 
the fame continent abounded with many valuable woods. 

The merchants of that day, apprized of the difcoverv, 
immediately propofed their fchemes as their predecefib'rs 

A 4 had 



S On the Impolicy of the 

had done before, but defpaired of fuccefs ; conceiving that 
the Africans, who bore the character of an indolent peo- 
ple, would never engage in fo laborious an employment as 
that of cutting wood. 

They were, however, agreeably difappointed. The 
Africans embarked in this with as much alacrity as in the 
former fcheme. They went more than two hundred 
miles into the inland country, cut down wood fimilar to 
that which had been pointed out, and in the rainy feafons 
brought it in their canoes to the fhips, enabling the fame 
merchants to gain a profit on the new article, though fold 
at an eafy price. This trade v/as diftinguiflied by the name 
of the ivoo^J trade, and is carried on more extenfively now, 
than at any former period ; though the whole of the trade 
in the natural productions of the country bears no fort of 
comparifon with that in flaves. 

This narration of facts carries with it, firft, a proof of 
the commercial fpirk of the Africans, who have no fooner 
h^d a new and additional line of intercourfe pointed out, 
than they have embraced it. 

Now, if we confider that the African foil is undoubt- 
edly more fertile than that of any other quarter of the 
globe 'y if we confider that its natives are pofTefTed of the 
commercial fpirit defcribed ; that they fpeak the European 
languages ; that they are adepts in arithmetical calcula- 
tions, and capable of condu6ling trade, it mufl furely be 
the highefl: impolicy that fuch a country, and paiTefled by 
fuch inhabitants, fhould be fcarcely known but as a mart 
for human blood. It muft, I repeat, be impolicy in the 
higheft degree in the Europeans, becaufe, under the cir- 
cumftances now defcribed, much higher advdntagcs might 
be derived in another line of trade. 

It fiiews, fecondly, that the diinculty of engaging the 
Africans in any new line of commerce would not be fo 
great, as has been generally imagined. 

It is certainly much to be feared, that, while JIaves 
continue to be the grand defideratum of our African inter- 
courfe, very little can be expefted from any additional 
trade in the natural produdtions of the country. Not but 
that more of the natives would be found to embark in It 
than there are at prefent, but that thefe would be fo few 

for 



African Slave Trade. a 

for the purpofe, whiU the chief part of our attention was 
<!ire£led to the other, that it could hardly be carried to that 
extent, which would render it of much national importance. 

But fuppofe that the flave trade were abolifhed ; fuppofe 
that we now entered into the one with as much zeal and 
alacrity, as we had done formerly in the other ; would it 
not be reafonable to prefume, that, under fuch encoura<3-e- 
ments, we fhould foon have a valuable and an extenfive 
trade ? If the Africans could go two hundred miles into 
the inland country, and engage in the laborious employ- 
ment of cutting wood, it is reafonable to think, that they 
could be brought to become the cultivators of their own 
lands, I prefqme alfo, th^t free labour could be introdu- 
ced among thek : it being no more difficult to introduce 
cultivation, or hn^ fyftem of cultivation there, than it was, 
fmce the beginning of the Have trade, to have given birth 
to the various offices of brokers upon the coaft, to have 
communicated to them the European languages, to have 
introduced the different media of exchange, and to have 
eftablifhed the whole of that regular fyftem of trade, which 
fubfifts at the prefent day. 

Thefe obfervatlons being made, I fhall lay down tv^ro 
pofitions : firft, that the Africans, by proper encourage- 
ment, -can be brought Into kahhs of labour : and fecondly, 
thatyr^^ labour can be made the medium, through which, 
the produdlons of their country may be colle£i:ed5 or 
brought to maturity and ufc. 

Thefe are the only data, which I fhall require ; and^ 
having laid them down, I Ihall proceed immediately to the 
point, making a replication to all the arguments, v/hich I 
have ever yet found to be advanced in defence of the 
policy of the trade in Haves, 



CHAP. L 



10 On THE Impolicy of rut 

CHAP. I. 
SECTION I. 

The patrons of the trade have been long accuftomed to 
advance, that it is a trade of great value to the nation. 

I confefs that I have never been able to comprehend 
their meaning. I fliall therefore, before I attempt to 
make a reply, canvafs the expreffion. 

Do they mean that the flaves taken from Africa become 
labourers in the colonies ? that thefe labourers make fugar ? 
that this fugar produces a revenue, and that the trade there- 
fore is of great national importance ? If this be their 
meaning, I reply, that it h fugar that produces the reve- 
nue, and not the flave. — That the cane can be cultivated 
hy free men^ and farther, that it can be cultivated, under 
certain regulations, without the importation of another 
African from the coaft. 

To fuppofe then that they afcribe to the inftrument 
which may be varied, vi^hat is due only to the fixed obje6l 
of cultivation, or, at any rate, to a concatenation of cir- 
cumftances, is to fuppofe them to be incapable of difcri- 
mination, and is therefore a fuppofition, which I am not 
at liberty to make. 

Do they mean again, that flaves employ fhips to tranf- 
port them ? that thefe (hips employ feamen, and that thefe 
feamen are the pillars of the ftate ? But thefe are but 
appendages of the trade. Rice, cotton, indigo, tobacco, 
and other produ6tions of the African foil, would, in this 
point of view, be equally beneficial. — I prefume then they 
muft mean that flaves, confidered of themfelves as a com- 
modity, and without any of the appendages defcribed, 
conftitute an article of commerce, that is highly benefi- 
cial to the ftate. 

This being prefumed, I fliall ftate the queftion in the 
following manner. 

Africa has two forts of commodities to offer us, — her 
natural produdions, and — her flaves. — The queflion is, 
in which of the two, confidered abflradedly by themfelves, 
it is moft politick to deal. If in confequence of fuch a 

comparifon 



African Slave: Trade, ix 

compaTlfon It fhould appear, that a traffick in the one 
would be of much more national importance than in the 
other, I prefume that the other, inafmuch as it engrofles 
the principal part of our attention, and diverts it from 
one that fhould be more beneficial, will be allowed to be 
impoUtick. 

To reply to the argument advanced, I ftiall fir ft turn 
my attention to the woods of Africa. 

•In the preceding chapter it was obferved there were two 
trades eftablifhed upon the coafl:, independent of, and 
having no connection with, the trade in flaves. The firft 
eftablifhed was that in gums, wax, ambergris^ honey, 
ivory, and gold. The fecond was that in woods. Thele 
trades are now united. The merchant, who fits out a 
veflel for wood, fits it out alfo for as many oi the other 
commodities as he can procure. However, the great 
bulk of his cargo, and obje6l of his voyage, being that of 
wood, his vefTel is termed a wood veffeL I make this 
diftindlon, not only becaufe the merchant makes it him- 
felf, but becaufe I fhall have occafion to ufe the expreffloa 
in many parts of the work. 

The firft African woods, that were known to be objects 
of commercial importance, were Camwood and Barwood, 
Thefe were imported by themfelves for fome years. In 
procefs of time, however, it was found that Ebony was a 
native of the coaft : and foon afterwards Lignum Vitce was 
difcovered. 

Thefe are the only African woods that are brought 
home as comm.ercial articles at the prefent day. But as 
we already import, or fhall import in a little time as much 
of thefe as can poffibly be confumed, no nev/ profpe6i:s are 
to be formed from thence. I fnall therefore pafs them 
over, and advert to fuch, as being nov/ in embryo, would, 
if called forth by the abolition of the trade in (laves, afford 
a fubftitute for it oi greater benefit to the nation. 

That Africa abounds with hidden treafurer, may be 
collected from thofe, which accident has already difcover- 
ed. It is certain, however, that this extenfive continent 
is as yet unexplored. The vegetable productions are but 
little known, and the folTils lefs. The barks, woods, 
roots, fruits, and leaves, have been hardly noticed by any 

naturalift \ 



1|2 On the Impolicy of the 

natural Ift ; and the ftones, earths, bitumens, and ores^ 
have not been fo much as feen by the eye of a chemical 
obferver. 

Nor IS this ignorance of the natural productions of 
Africa to excite our wonder or furprife. The Africans, 
moftly in an unimproved ftate, and at beft ignorant of the 
various mechanical arts that are pra6tifed in Europe, and 
of the various commodities that are the objects of European 
commerce, cannot be fuppofed to be capable of pointing 
out, of themfelves, fuch of their own produ£tions as would 
be valuable in trade. 

The Europeans, on the other hand, that is, nine in ten^ 
who vifit this extenfive continent, vifit it for Jlaves. This 
is the grand object of their voyage. It engroffes all their 
thoughts, and occafions them to overlook even the com- 
mon produ6lions of the place. And fo true is this obfer- 
vation, that many, who have vifited this coaft for years, 
can give no better account of it in this refpeft, than thofe 
who have never feen it at all. I muft add to, that little 
leifure, and ftill lefs opportunity would be afforded them, 
in the prefent pofture of affairs there, of gratifying their 
wifhes, even had they a turn for botanical or chemical 
purfuits. 

To thefe circumftances then, but ultimately to the 
trade in jlaves^ is to be afcribed the ignorance before 
mentioned. Under thefe di fad vantages, the reader will 
hardly expert that I fhall be able to fay much of the 
woods of Africa. Such, however, as accident has dif- 
covered within the laft three years, fhall immediately be 
pointed out. 

Within the period now afTigned it has been fully fub- 
ftantiated, that mahogany grov/s upon the coafl. About 
eighteen tons of it were colleded there, and imported inta 
this country in the year 1786. 

Not long after this, a veflel, having delivered her flaves 
in the Weit Indies, returned home. In difcharging fome 
firewood, which had been taken in upon the coafl, a fmall 
fillet was difcovered of a different appearance from the 
reft. This excited the attention of the difcoverer, wha 
fent it to be polifhed. It proved, in confequence of this 
trial, to be the tulip wood, fo called from its refemblance 

to 



AfrIcajj StAVE Trade, 13 

to that flower, the ground of it being of a firaw colour, 
and inlaid with crimfon veins. This wood w^ould be of 
the greateft importance to cabinet workers and inlayers, 
and fo valuable, that they v^ould be glad to purchafe it at 
the rate of three (hillings per pound. 

The next fpecies of wood, that excited the attention of 
the importer, was a fmall log brought home in one of the 
wood veflels before defcribed. It was of a pale {traw 
colour. The veins of it were yellow, and had a beautiful 
appearance. It was remarkably light, and yet clofe 
grained, and feemed peculiarly adapted for mafical inftru- 
ments. It would have made, however, elegant light fur- 
niture, and would have been in great requeft with the 
artifts of the former defcription. 

About the fame time, in which this log was difcovered, 
another wood velTel, belonging to the fame port, brought 
home a fpecimen of the bark of a tree, that produced a 
very valuable yellow dye, and far beyond any other ever 
in ufe in tliis country. 

The virtues of it were difcovered in the following man- 
ner. A gentleman, refident upon the coaft, ordered fome 
wood to be cut down to ereft an hut. While the people 
were felling it, he was ftanding by. During the opera- 
tion, fome juice flew from the bark of it, and ftained one 
of the ruffles of his (hirt. He thought that the itain 
would have waftied out, but on wearing it again, found 
that the yellow fpot was much more bright and beautiful 
than before, and that it gained in luftre every fubfequent 
time of wafhing. Pleafed v/ith the difcovery, which he 
knew to be of fo much importance to the manufailurers 
of Great Britain, and for which a confiderable premium 
had been offered, he fent home the bark nov/ mentioned 
as a fpecimen. He is fmce unfortunately dead ; and little 
hopes are to be entertained of falling in with this tree again, 
unlefs fimiiar accidents (hould difcover it, or a change 
(hould take place in our commercial concerns with Africa. 
I {hall now mention another valuable wood, v/hich, 
like all thofe that have been pointed out, v/as difcovered' 
by accident in the fame year. Another wood veflel, be- 
longing to the fame port, was difchargino; her cargo. 
Among the barwood a fmall billet was difcovered, the 



r^ On the Impolicy of the 

colour of which was fb fuperior to that of the reft, as to 
lead the obferver to furpe6^, that it was of a very different 
fpecies ; though it is clear that the natives, by cutting it 
of the fame fize and dimenfions, and by bringing it on 
board at the fame time, had, on account of its red colour,, 
miftaken it for the other. One half of this billet was cut 
away in experiments. It v/as found to produce a colour 
that emulated the carmine, and was deemed to be fo va- 
luable in the dying trade, that an offer was immediately 
made of fixty guineas per ton, for any quantity that could 
be procured. The other half has been fince fent back to 
the coaff, as a guide to colle6l more of the fame fort ; 
though it is a matter of doubt, whether, under the cir- 
cumftances that have been related, the fame tree can be 
afcertained again. 

I could mention here feveral other woods, which would 
perhaps be new to the reader, and which would form a 
valuable branch of trade ; but thofe which I have men- 
tioned already, are fo important of themfelves, as to^ 
preclude the neceflity of a longer lift. I {hall therefore 
confine my obfervations to thefe. 

If the flave trade were abolifhed, and the two poiitions, 
mentioned in the former fedion, realized, it is evident 
that a trade might be ftruck out in the preceding articles 
to great advantage and extent. The demand for maho- 
gany is increafing not only in this country, but in Ger- 
many, to a confiderable amount. Suppofe then that the 
new trade were eftablifhed, what advantages would refult 
from the importation of this article in particular from 
the coaft ? 

Thefe advantages, I reply, will be beft (een by compa- 
rifon. The principal part of the mahogany, v/hich we 
import, comes from the Bay of Honduras, and is cut by 
Jlaves. In Africa, according to the pofition laid down, it 
v/ould be cut h^ free men ; a circumPcance of the higheft 
importance ; as the exertions o'i free^ compared with thofe 
c^ fervile labour, are at leaft in the proportion of three 
to two. The infurance alfo from the Bay of Honduras to 
the Britifh ports is from five to ten, while that from Africa 
to the fame place is but two and a half per cent. The 
raw article, therefore, from thefe circumftances, and 

additionally 



African Slave Trade, t^ 

additionally that of lower freightage, would be brought 
into the hands of the merchant and manufacturer, cheaper 
by more than a third than it comes to them at prefent. 

I muft add too, that the voyage in the latter cafe is 
much lefs dangerous than in the former. That the infurer 
would be benefited by the change ; and that as it is a 
maxim long eftablifhed, that the cheaper the material the 
greater the demand for it, a confiderable increafe would 
be made to the exportation of this article ; a circumftance, 
in every point of view beneficial to the nation. 

With refpeCt to the other woods, thofe for cabinet work 
and dyings no advantage can refult from comparifon, be- 
caufe there is no other place upon the globe, from whence 
fuch treafures could be derived. 

The former, however, would certainly be of great 
iponfequence. We already excel all the artifts of the 
world in this particular department, and export largely.— » 
But what an additional fcope would the many and 
variegated woods of Africa afford to the tafte and 
ingenuity of our countrymen ! It is to this tafte and 
ingenuity, confpicuous in the variety of patterns, and 
beautiful and harmonious difpofition of things, that we 
are to attribute our fuperiority in this line of mechanifm, 
and that we become mechanics for the world. 

But with refpe6t to the latter, they are certainly bevond 
all valuation. It is well known, at leaft in particular 
manufaduring towns, that the African dyes are fupericur 
to thofe of any other quarter of the globe. — Our manu- 
facturers have long viewed them with a jealous eye. They 
have promifed themfelves prodigious fortunes, and their 
country a lading and extenfive benefit, could they but 
make themfelves mailers of the art and my fiery of the 
compofition of thefe invaluable dyes. It is certain, how- 
ever, that almofl all the colours, which the Africans ufe, 
except that of blue, are procured from their ov/n trees, 
either by friCtion or decodion ; and that though they have 
rnerit in the preparation of them, yet the great myflery 
would ceafe, if the flave trade was abolifhed, as fuch an 
event would give us an opportunity of making the difco- 
very, and of introducing them as articles of commerce, 

Iftiall 



j6 On the Impolicy of the 

I (hall make no further obfervatlon on this head, thart 
that if accident has difcovered fuch invaluable treafures as 
thofe defcribed, what might not be expeded, if this ex- 
tenfive continent were explored ? It at prefent affords us, 
comparatively fpeaking, fcarcely any thing elfe but flaves. 
Will any perfon affert, that the vi^oods of Africa alone,, 
without reference to any of its other produdions, would 
not be more lucrative both to the merchant, the manufac- 
turer, and the nation, than the whole trade in Jlavesf 



SECTION IL 

But the woods, though uncommonly curious and va- 
luable, are not the only articles that are to be put into the 
fcale on this occasion. Another valuable commerce would 
be opened to us in other commodities, fuch as drugs, 
peppers, and fpices. 

That Africa abounds with many valuable drugs, is not 
only evident from the teftimony of thofe who have refided 
there, but from our late and prefent importations. We 
have already derived many valuable drugs from that quar- 
ter : but thefe, like the woods, have been accidentally 
difcovered, while others flill more valuable, are yet in 
embryo. 

The firft, that were the objeds of commerce, were 
gum fenegal, fanguis draconis, almonds, and afterwards 
palm oiL 

In procefs of time the virtues of gum copal were dif- 
covered by the French, who imported it into their own 
country. We were not long unacquainted with this 
event, or with the advantages that refulted from the 
difcovery. We endeavoured to obtain a defcription of 
the tree that produced it, and having fucceeded in our 
attempts, pointed it out to the natives, and brought its 
produce home. 

The next that were brought to light, were gum rubfum 
aftringens, and gum euphorbium. Thefe continued to 
be the laft on the lift, till the year 1786, when gum 
guaiacum made its appearance from the coaft. 

All 



African Slave Trabe. t^ 

All thefe articles, or at leaft fpecimens of them, have 
been brought from thence into this country, and we have 
therefore a pofitive proof of their exiftence there. I can- 
not fay, however, that they have been regularly brought. 
In fome years not more than two or three, and in others 
little more than fpecimens of them have been colle^ited ; no 
regular plan, as in other trades, having been yet eftablifhed 
there; nor would any fuch plan be likely to be attended 
with fuccefs, whilft thejlave iradt engroffes our attention. 

Without mentioning the variety of drugs that might be 
brought from Africa, I fhall immediately point out the 
advantages of having them from thence. 

It is clear that all thofe, which we obtain from Spanilli 
America and the Brazils, are clogged with an expenfe, 
thatv/ouldbe avoided In having them from the other quar- 
ter. In the firft place there is a double freightage, and in 
the fecond, commiflion, both of which would be faved 
were we to import them immediately from the coaft. The 
importer too would procure them at a lefs rate from hence, 
than even from the Eafl Indies or Turkev, which are the 
only remaining places, from which he eolle61:s them at 
prefent. 

I come now to the peppers of Africa. The firft, that 
was difcovered or imported, was malaguetta, or grains or 
Paradife. This has now become afi article of trade, and 
is regularly brought to us, either by the wood or ilave 
veiTels, every year. 

The fecond was the long pepper. A few barrels of 
this have been occafionally imported, but in fuch fmall 
quantities, as fcarcely to deferve notice. 

The third was the black pepper. This was found to be 
bf a greater pungency, and of a finer flavour than the 
Afiatick. Two cafks of it were brought to England 
about fix years ago : and this, I believe, was the only 
fpecimen from the coafl ever exhibited in this country. 

The fourth was the cayenne. A captain of one of the 
wood vefTels procured a fmall quantity of it, and brought 
it home in the year 1787. 

I have hitherto mentioned fuch of the African peppers, 
ks being fimilar to thofe from other quarters now in ufe, 
are known by name. There was one, however, dif- 

B covered 



i8 On the I:>;policy of the 

covered about twenty years ago on the fame coaft, with 
the name of which not any perfon, to whom It was- 
ihewn, was at all acquainted. It was brought to Liver- 
pool In a (lave vefTel, and preferved; and was offuch un- 
common fragrance and flavour, as to have retained its 
qualities to the prefent day. 

This account of the preceding articles, but particularly 
that of the latter, v/ill give the reader an additional proof 
of the riches to be found in the African foil. He will fee 
the great advantages, which would refult from a trade in 
thefe alone. But he will never be able to eftimate the lofs 
which we fuftain by the trade In Jlavcs^ which hinders the 
country from being farther explored, and thofe inexhauftl- 
ble treafures from com.ing forth, which are now burled 
and concealed. 

The next article is that of fpices. 

The only fpices, that have been yet found In Africa^ 
are the caffia or wild cinnamon, which is plentiful, and 
the nutmeg, of v/hkh a few folitary plants have been dif- 
eovered. Thefe were moftly in a wild and unimproved 
ftate ; but by proper care and attention, there is no doubr», 
but that they might be brought to as great perfecllon, as- 
thofe In any other place. 

The Dutch fupply us at prefent with thefe articles^ 
They have become of late very exorbitant in their de- 
mands, and, were they ftill to Increafe their prices, we 
fliouid be obliged to fubmit, as they have a monopoly of 
this trade. 

Were our attention turned to the encouragement of 
thefe articles upon the coaft, it is clear that we might be- 
the importers of our own fpices, and break the monopoly 
of the Dutch. 

The great advantages that would arlfe from having them: 
from, this quarter, fhall rmmediately be pointed out. The 
difference in a voyage only from England to Africa and 
back, and from Holland to the Moluccas and back, Is at 
leafl: fixteen thoufand miles. The wages of feamen em- 
ployed of courfe fo much longer in this voyage than in the 
other, the greater confum.ptlon of provifions, and wear 
and tear of ihips, clearly point out, that if the Dutch 
were to lower their prefent prices to one half, thefe articles 

would 



AFRicAisr Slave Trade. I9 

Would not come into our hands at fo cheap a rate from 
thence, as thofe which would be imported from Africa, 
Now if v/e add to this the confiderations of double 
freightage, infurance, and commifEonj and that the fpices 
of Africa would be cultivated by free men, whereas in 
the Moluccas they are cultivated by ilaves, it is a matter 
capable of proof, that we fhould import them from that 
continent for one fifth of their prefent price. 

There is yet one circumfl:ance, of great importance, 
which ought never to be forgotten. We pay for the 
greateft part of thefe articles at prefent in money. Were 
the trade alluded to eftablifhed in Africa, we Ihould pay 
for them in our manufaclures. 



SECTION III. 

Among the other articles, which the African continent 
produces, are tobacco, rice, and indigo, each of which 
would form of itfeif a diltin£t and valuable branch of 
trade. 

Tobacco is to be found in almoft every divifion of this 
continent in the greateft luxuriance, and, from the pecu- 
liar rlchnefs of the foil, is fuperior m quality to that 
which America produces. 

Rice is to be found in moft parts of Africa, but gro\V^ 
fo luxuriantly on the grain coaft in particular, that a 
fupply might be drav/n from thence fufHcient for all the 
markets of Europe. It is extraordinary, that this rice 
ihould be finer in flavour, of a greater fubflance, m.ore 
wholefome and capable of prefervation, than the rice of 
any other country whatever, and that in every point of 
view, it ihould be fuperiour to the reft. 

Nor is the indigo of Africa, with which that continent 
abounds, lefs confpicuous for its pre-eminence in colour. 
The blue is fo much more beautiful and permanent than 
that which is extracted from the fame plant in other 
parts, that many have been led to doubt, whether the 
African cloths, brought into this country, were dyed with 
indigo or not. I'hey apprehended that the colour in 
thefe, which became more beautiful upon waftiing, mud: 

B 2 have 



20 Ore Ti-iE Imtolicy of I'H^ 

have prcceeded from another weed, or have been zn 
extraftion from fome of the v^oods, vi^hich are celebrated 
for dying there. The matter, however, has been clearly 
afcertalned. A gentleman procured tw^o or three of the 
balls which had been jufi: prepared by tl^e Africans for 
ufe. He brought them home, and, upon examinatron, 
found them to be the leaves of indigo rolled up, and in a 
very fimple ilate. 

The reader may imagine by my account of the produc- 
tions of Africa hitherto named, and by my ftatement of 
their fuperiority to others, that I have been rather dealing 
in li6tion, than defcribing their real flate. But it is well 
known that Afiica pofTeltes the moil fertile foil of any in 
the globe : and J. appeal to thofe who have vifited this 
coafl, and to fome of the manufa6luring towns in this 
kingdom, if my aflertions are not ftri6lly true ; if the rice 
of Africa is not bevond all others in point of flavour, fub- 
ftance, and capacity of prefervation; and if the indigo is 
not of that beautiful, permanent nature, as to have a titl-e 
to the pre-eminence afcribed. 

I fhall now cbferve, that the two firft articles are ob- 
tained at prefent from America ; the laft in part from the 
fame place, and in part from the Britifh colonies, and thofe 
of foreign nations. 

This being premifed, the advantages that would refult 
from havin^j; them from Africa, will eafily appear. 

In the firft place it is clear from the obfervations made, 
that all the three articles are at prefent produced by the 
labour of Haves. In Africa they would be produced by 
freemen, a circumftance, which v/ould bring them into 
the hands of the merchant and manufacRiurer, cheaper by 
one third. 

There are alfo additional circumftances, peculiar to tv^^o 
of them, which would have the fame tendency. 

In America rice generally grows in fwampy places, 
which are deftructive to the health of the cultivators, all 
which cultivators are to be fucceeded, if they perifh, at a 
great expenfe. There are plantations, however, which 
are fituated upon drier land ; but thefe are contiguous to 
the banks of rivers, and require to be occafionally over- 
flcswed. For this purpofe flood-gates are eonftrufted, 

andj, 



African Slave 1 rade. 21- 

and, below thefe, others of the fam* kind, that the water 
may be taken ofFat difcretion : otherwife the crops would 
be inevitably deftroyed. The condruction and repair of 
thefe mud add confiderably to the expenfe. The African 
rice, on the other hand, grows on the hilly parts, neither 
endangering the health of the cultivator, nor requiring 
any other molfture or overflowing than the ufual rain.. 

Indigo alfo is prejudicial to the health of thofe who 
manufadlurc it. This is occafioned by the offenfivenefs 
of the effluvia, which arifes from it at that time. Now 
as thefe manufa6furers are flavs^ it is impoffible that the 
proprietors of them can turniih it at fo cheap a rate, as 
thofe who would employ free men, and who, in the cafe 
of the death of their labourers, could renev/ them with- 
out expenfe. 

Another circumftance, worthy of confideration, is this, 
that a confiderabie portion of human life would be faved, 
not only bccaufe free men would have contrivances, which 
are not fo much as thought of for flaves, but becaufe the 
Africans have a method of preparing this article for ufe 
with but little detriment to their health ; fo that whether it 
were to be manufactured by fiaves, or free men, it would 
come v/ith the higheil: profpeft of gain from this quarter. 

I muft not forget to add, that where we obtain indigo 
from the colonifts of foreign nations, there is a double 
freightage, infurance, and commiffion, air which would 
be faved, were the article to be brought to us from the 
coaft. 

With thefe advantages then in particular, apxd arMi- 
tionally with thofe of free labour v/hich have been ftated, 
it is clear, that Africa would afFord the cheapeft market! 
to the merchant and manufacturer, from whence they 
could derive the three articles defcribed ; and that the 
good effects of thus changing the place of export would, 
in procefs of time, be fo confpicuous, as to give us rea- 
fon to hope, that the nation would foon be reimburfed for 
the treafures expended in the lofs of America.. 

If there is any other advantage to be apprehended from 

the change, it muft be this :-t— Our trade with America, 

fmce the late peace, has been rather a detriment than a 

gain. In confequcnce of the unprincipled conduCl of 

B 3 waiiy 



22 On the Impolicy of the 

many of the Americans, the merchant here has been 
ruined, the manufadlurer has fhared his fate, and numbers 
have felt the {hock. Under thefe difadvantages, we muft 
ftill continue to trade with them, becaufe we want their 
commodities. From Africa we might derive the fame 
articles, but in greater perfection, and with no rifk^ The 
iperchant would receive for his goods a cargo, more va- 
luable than that which he fent there, and would of courfe 
have no neceility to give credit, or to be uneafy, as in 
the prefent pofture of affairs, about remittances for his 
debts. 

SECTION IV. 

Though I have already mentioned many valuable pro- 
duftions of the coaft, others ftill remain to be fpoken of. 
Upon thefe, however, I fhall not expatiate, except upon 
cotton, an article of too much importance to this country 
to be mentioned in general terms. 

That the reader may form a notion of this importance, 
I fhall inform him that tv/enty millions of pounds were 
brought into Great Britain for the ufe of our manufa6turers 
in the year 1786. I fhall inform him alfo that two pounds 
of cotton, which cod the manufacturer fix fhillings, are 
worth, when manufactured into muflin, about five pounds 
in the grofs. What a prodigious advantage to this coun- 
try, that fo fmall a portion of this article (hould give birth 
to fo much labour and profit as is equivalent to the fum 
now fpeclned ! 

Cotton is to be found in almoft every divifion of the 
coafl: of Africa. It is moftly in a wild and uncultivated 
flate. The natives, hov^rever, colleCl it for their own ufe, 
and work it up into thofe beautiful cloths, which are in 
fuch eftimation for their foft and filky appearance. A few 
pounds of it have been occafion'y brought into England 
in the ftate defcribed. Neverthelef?, they have claim^ed 
the preference at our markets, and have fetched their 
price. 

To fhew the value of this article from the coaft, I 
fhall ftate the rank which the cotton of different countries 
holds v/ith the manufacturers of the prefent day, who have 

feen 



African Slave Trade, 



23 



Ceen fpeclmens of it from almoil every place, where It can 
be produced. 

It is a curious circumflance, but it has been eftaWifhed 
by the experience of many years, that continents produce 
the fineft cotton, and that the larger the i Hands, and of 
■courfe the nearer they approximate to continents, the finer 
is the cotton there. In the iirlt clafs is reckoned the 
Perfian and African. In the fecond that from the Brazils, 
Siam, and Surinam. In the third that from St. Domingo ; 
and in the fourth that from the BritilL Weft India 
Illands. 

From this account the advantage of having cotton 
from Africa, from whence we derive little more than fpe- 
cimens at prefent, muft appear. It is of the utmoft im- 
portance to the manufadlurers of muilin that their cotton 
fhould he fine. Their complaint is, that the vqtj iineft of 
that, which they get from the prefent market, is not 
equal to their wifhes. Could the Perfian or African be 
obtained, they would efteem them an invaluable treafure. 

But though the fine quality of the African cotton would 
render the importation of it fo defirable to our manufac- 
turers, yet the eafy rate at which it could be procured, 
would be an obje6l of great magnitude. 

As the chief part of the cotton brought to us at prefent, 
comes from the colonies of other nations, I fhall name one 
of thefe to Ihev/ the diiference of the expenfe at which it 
could be brought from thence and from the other quar.ter. 

The cotton, which we have from the Brazils, is firft 
fhipped for Portugal, where it is unloaded, and kept for 
fale. A part of it is then reihipped, on demand, and 
brought here. 

In this cafe it is clear, that double freightage, double 
•infurance, and commillion, are to be charged upon it. 

In the fecond place it pays on exportation from Portugal 
a duty of five per cent. 

In the third it is cultivated by flaves. 

Thefe circumftances are of fuch importance, that, in 
making the eftimate, it appears that the Britifli merchant 
could obtain as much cotton from Africa for fifty-feven 
pounds, as he procures at prefent for an hundred from 
the colony now mentioned. 

B 4 In 



24 On the Impolicy of the 

In making this eftimate, it is clear, that I have not 
feledled a place that would be the moft favourable to my 
defign : for the cotton that comes to us by the vi^ay of 
France, is not only chargeable v^'ith the fame kind of 
expenfes, but, inftead of fivcj pays twelve per cent, on 
exportation. 

I cannot clofe * my account of this article, without 
mentioning that cotton, crimfcn in tlie pod, is to be found 
in Africa. It grows principally in the Eyeo country, and 
is to be ken in many of the Whidah cloths. A fmall 
fpeclmen of it was brought home in the year 1786. 

The value of this cotton would be great both to the 
importer, and manufa6iurer of muflins. The former 
would immediately receive eight fliillings for a pound of 
it, and the latter would gain confiderably more by his in- 
genuity and tafte. He might work it up into the white 
cotton in delicate fpots and figures, and as both would be 
of their natural colour, no inconvenience would arife 
from wafhing. 

The difcovery of this article affords an additional proof 
of the numberlefs treafures of the African foil, and gives 
us reafon to expe61:, that, if that continent were explored, 
we fhould find fuch curious and valuable productions, as^ 
if related at prefent, would almoil be beyond our belief. 



SECTION V. 

If the reader were to be afked, what he could colle6l 
from the preceding fe6lions, (allovv^ing the different ftate- 
ments to be true) he would fay, that Africa abounded 
with many valuable commodities ; that it would be much 
more to our interefl: to deal in thefe, than in flaves ; that 
the flave trade had been hitherto an infuperable impediment 
to the introduction of a new commerce in the commodities 
defcribed 3 and that an opportunity would prefent itlelf of 

* Eefides the natural produd'ons already named, are to be reckoned 
iilver, wool; Ikins, vermillion, qi-kkliiver, mulk, iiik graff, capficum, 
the fugar cane, the doom-v/ood, (which the worm never enters) and a 
variety of other articles, upon which I have no time to expatiate. 

repaying 



African Slave Trade. 25 

repaying us for the lofs of America, were it once abolifhed. 
Thefe with other inferences he would immediately deduce. 

Though thefe conclufions are fo ftricfly to be dr^wn 
from the facets laid down, yet it would be unpardonable to 
v/ithhold the fentiments of a perfon on this occafion, from 
whom they muft receive iuch additional v/eight. 

It is remarkable, that the late Mr. Poftlethwayt, the 
celebrated author of the dictionary on trade and commerce, 
fliould, in a pamphlet which he publiilied in the year 1748, 
not only endeavour to Ihew the policy, of the fiave trade, 
but attempt its jufiificGtion ; and that the fame perfon 
having afterwards made commerce his peculiar ftudy, and 
being enabled to judge better of the nature of this trade, 
from having been a member of the African Committee, 
fhould totally alter his fentiments both v/ith refpect to the 
policy and juftice of it. 

In his diftionary, v/hich was a fubfequent publication 
to that before m^entioned, he ftates, that in Africa are to be 
procured gold, filver, copper, corn, rice, gums, ivory, 
cotton, v/ax, civet, oilrich feathers, dying woods, and 
other valuable commjodides. 

Among the queftions, v/hich he afterwards ftates, I 
felecl the following. 

" Whether it would not be inore to the Inter eji of all 
^' the European nations, concerned in the trade ta Africa, 
" rather to endea- our to cultivate a friendly, humane, and 
*' civilized commerce with thofe people into the very 
'' centre of their extended country, than to content them- 
" felves only with fkimming a trifling portion of trade on 
" the lea coafts ? " 

" Whether th>-' greateft hindrance and ohJiruSiion to the 
" Europeans cultivating an humane and Chriftian~lik^ 
^' commerce v/ith thofe populous countries has not wholly 
" proceeded from that unj-uji^ 'inhuman^ and unchrifiian-Uke 
^' traffick^ called ihQ fiave traoe^ v/hich is carried on by the 
'* Europeans ?" 

There are fcarce any produdions, he adds, " in a^ 
^' our Britifh American poffeiHons, but might be culti- 
*' vated on the continent of Africa \ and if ever we 
i'. fhould be unhappy enough to be dijpoljcjpd of them^ 



i6 On the Impolicy of the 

*' our trade in this part of the world might contribute to 
*^ make us compenfation,^^ 

Having ftated thefe circumftances, only by way of con- 
firmation, I fhall immediately recur to the queflion, as 
ilated in the early part of the prefent chapter, and decide 
upon it accordingly. 

It was faid there, that Africa had two forts of com- 
modities to offer us, — her natural productions — and her 
ilaves ; and that the queftion was in which of the two, 
confidered abftradledly by themfelves, it would be moft 
politick to deal ? 

The former have already been ftated, and it appears 
that, viewed as they have been in this abftraCled light, 
they would afford an inexhauftible mine of wealth to our 
dyers and artificers in wood ; that they would enable us 
to break the monopoly of the Dutch ; would repay us for 
the lofs of America ; be the cheapeft market for all forts 
of raw materials for our manufacturers j and abound with 
other national advantages. 

The latter are now to be balanced againft thefe, as 
articles of commerce : Will any perfon come forward and 
fay, that, confidered in the fame abftraded light, they are 
productive of 07ie national advantage ? The moft that he 
can fay, will be, that they are of benefit but to a few 
individuals^ and thofe fo infinitely few, when compared 
with thofe who would be benefited and enriched by the 
former, that he would be aftiamed of the comparifon. 

If the ftave trade then, when ftripped of its appendages, 
is attended with no emolument to die public k ; if, more- 
over, it hinders the introduction of one, to v/hich, if it 
were compared in the fame light, it would be like an 
jjland to a continent^ or a river to ?ifea^ it is furely, of all 
others, the moft i?npoUtick trade that this country can 
carry on. 



CHAP. 11. 



African Slave Tr.^de, 27 

CHAP. II. 
SECTION I. • 

Having made an Inquiry, in the preceding chapter, 
whether it would be more to the benefit of the publick to 
trade in the natural produ6lions of the country, or in 
flaves, I fhall now inquire which of the two would be of 
greater emolument to individuals ; for this argument has 
been alfo ftarted, and the policy has been inferred from the 
profits of the trade ? 

There are two or three criterions, by which a valuable 
frade may be afcertained. Thefe are little rifque, quick 
returns, and a large profit. To this R-andard then I fhall 
refer the trade in Haves. 

There v/as never, perhaps, a trade more difadvanta- 
geous, in the firfl inftance, than that which I am now 
confidering. The competition upon the coaft is at prefent 
great, and the goods v/hich a velTel takes for the purchafc 
of a certain number of flaves, may not, from this circum- 
ftance, be adequate to the purchafe oi three -fowths of the 
rated number : fo that the merchant, in the firfl: place, 
may buy them dearer than his calculations, and find an 
immediate and confiderable diminution of his profit, if 
not the certainty of a lofs. 

Another circumftance, and the mod important of all 
that renders this commerce peculiarly hazardous, is the 
mortality that may arife among the flaves, both during 
their flay upon the coaft, and the middle pafTage. If they 
are treated ever fo well, if every attention is paid to their 
convenience, or their wants, it is often impoflible to pre- 
vent it ; or to fay, when it begins, where it Is likely to 
end, or in what proportion they will be loft : and that 
fome vefiels have loPc more than two-thirds of their flaves, 
the annals of Liverpool will evince. 

A third circumftance is this, that when they arrive In 
the Weft-Indies, the markets may have been glutted, or 
fuch a number of ftiips may be there at the fame time, 
that they muft either beat about to the difterent iflands, 
and lofe more of them by fickriefs, or fell them lower 

than 



^8 On the Impolicy of the 

than the average rate, calculated at the beginning of the 
voyage. 

A fourth is the length of the date, before the bills, in 
which they are paid for, become due. — Thefe bills are 
drawn at twelve, eighteen, twenty-four, and thirty-fix 
months after fight. They give time of courfe for many 
difagreeable circumftances to intervene. Add to this, 
that they are fometimes returned for want of payment, 
even when this period has elapfed. 

This being the cafe, it is clear, that there are four 
circumftances, concomitant on this trade, that confpire 
to render it of all others the moit hazardous. Thefe have 
occafioned it to be jullly diflinguiihed by the appellation 
of a lottery. Upon this principle, moft of its promoters^ 
have embarked in it ; fome to be rich on a fudden, others, 
on their laft legs, to retrieve their affairs by one fortunate 
voyage. This is the only light, in which it is to be 
viev/ed with propriety; for they who embark in it are 
as much adventurers as thofe, who, to anfwer the fame 
end, have recourfe to the games of cha?ice. 

With refpedl to a quick return, which is the very life of 
commerce, no trade was ever fo difadvantageous, as that 
in flaves. The average time of a voyage is one year. 
At the expiration of this period, the vefTel returns. On 
infpedling the bills which are brought home, and which 
have been received for the flaves, it appears, that they are 
not payable, on an average, till tvi^o years after fight. 
The merchant, therefore, cannot enjoy the profits of his, 
voyage till three years after he has fent his veiTel to the 
ccafK 

In the interim he is called upon to pay for the good?, 
which he has (hipped. In fix months his bill for fpirits 
is brought him, though, in one of our ports, it muft be 
paid for on delivery. In fourteen he mufi: account for his 
Eaft-Indian aiTortments, and in eighteen for thofe of Man- 
chefter and Birmingham ; fo that he muft pay for the 
whole of his cargo a year and an half before he can de- 
rive any benefit from his returns. This occafions hiirv 
often to be fo diftreffed, that the manufa61:urer is put off. 
A credit of fix months longer is folicited. To hear the 

pitifu} 



African Slave Trade. 29 

pitiful tales he tells, and the wretched excufes he makes, 
on thefe occafions, is truly dirgufting* This is fuYdy not 
a trade for the manufa6lurers of Great Britain ; and that 
I have been defcribing the real fituation of things, is but 
too well known to thofe who have felt it. 

With refpecl to the real profit of the trade, I might 
appeal to thofe particular fhips, with an account of whofe 
voyages I have been favoured. Two of them, after hav- 
ing made three voyages each, which took up the fpace of 
five years, left their owners in debt, and obliged them to 
relinquifh the trade. Another cleared the fum of four 
thoufand pounds ; but the fame fhip, in her next voyage, 
loil more than fhe had gained in the preceding. Another 
gained fifty per cent, but her fuccefs was undone by a 
iecond, which went out at the fame time and in the fame 
employ, and loft in the fame proportion. Thefe inftances 
hov/ever, being few, I fhall lay no ftrefs upon them, but 
recur to general fails. 

The great African company, which was vefted with 
extraordinary powers, and which had every opportunity 
of feeling the emoluments of the trzdejfa/kdtiuke. 

From the year 1763 to the year 1772 the London mer- 
chants avoided all kind of connection with thofe of Liver- 
pool in this trade, from a convi6lion that, during that 
time:, it had not been profecuted but with lofs. 

The fame caution continued till the year 1778; for 
within that fmall fpace of time, comprizing only the term 
of fix years, the flave merchants there failed for the fum 
of feven hundred and ten thoujand potmds^ and the confe- 
quent bankruptcies were many. 

During the American war, while the price of a flave 
was as low as feven pounds on the coaft, and as high, on 
an average, as forty-five in the colonies, the adventurer, 
who efcaped the fhips of the enemy, made his fortune. 
But fince the peace, the trade has returned to its former 
ftate ; and it is confidered as a fa<?l:, at the ports where it 
is carried on, that it is a lofing trade at the prefent day : 
that is, if the difDurfements and returns of all the veffels, 
that go out in one year, were to be conlolidated on their 
arrival home, and compared, the former would be greater 

than 



30 On the Impolicy of the 

than the latter, and there would of courfe be a deficiency^ 
or balance agalnft the fum total of the adventurers in 
this trade. 

But it will be faid, if it be an unprofitable trade, why 
do people embark in it, or how does it happen, that many 
can be pointed out, who have made their fortunes there ? 

I reply, that the flave trade is a lottery^ as I ob- 
ferved before, and that upon this principle the phenome- 
non may be fatlsfadlorily explained. 

It is evident firft, that if a perfon were to become the 
proprietor of all the tickets in the wheel, the balance 
would be greatly againfl him. So alfo, were he to be 
the proprietor of all the fhips in the flave trade, he would 
experience a confiderable lofs, as his dilburfements would 
be then greater than his returns. 

It is clear alfo, that there are many valuable prizes m 
the lottery, but more blanks. So it is w^ith this trade. 
A few merchants have made their fortunes, but more have 
been lofers by it. A kw will ftill continue to make them, 
but many will be ruined. 

But how come they to engage in it? I reply, why do 
people engage in the games of chance ? In ftiort, in no 
other light can the flave trade be viewed, than in that de- 
icribsd : and, the things compared being both of the fame 
kind, any difficulty that occurs in the one, may be folved 
hy referring it to the other. 



SECTION II. 

Having taken a general view of the value of the flave 
trade, by referring it to the three chara6lerifl:icks, which 
may be called a ftandard for commercial eftimation, I 
fhall put the commerce in the produdlions of the coaft 
under the fame trial. 

It is clear, in the firfl: place, that this commerce would 
not be equally hazardous with the former ; rice, indigo, 
tobacco, fpices, and other produ6lion3 of Africa not being 
perijhable commodities, like flaves. 

In the fecond place, the merchant would receive his 
returns in five months, inflead of three years, from the 

failing 



African Slave Trade. 3t 

falling of his vefiel ; and he would be able to turn them 
into (pecie before he had advanced a fhilling to, or had 
had a demand from, the manufacPiurer whom he had em- 
ployed. Nor would the latter be lefs benefited by the 
change, as no longer credit would be neceflary, than that 
of eight months. Thus a quick circulation of money 
would take place, and the countenance, inftead of ex- 
hibiting marks of uneafinefs and diilrefs, would be cheered 
with joy. 

In the third place, the merchant in this trade would fet 
out with two advantages over the merchant in the other. 
His infurance would be confiderably lefs, and, requiring 
from the manufa6lurer a credit only of eight months, he 
would fave five per cent, on all the goods which he 
fhipped ; or in other words, on account of the difcount 
sillowed him, he would carry the fame quantity of goods 
for nmety-Jive pounds to the fame coaPc, which the ilave 
merchant cannot carry, in the prefent fituatioxi of things, 
but for an hundred. 

As to the real profit which he would have on the articles 
brought home, fome hints have been given in the preced- 
ing chapter. For bringing them to a market, where^ 
thofe of the fame kind, which come, are chargeable with 
a double freightage, commiilion, and the labour of flaves^ 
his profits muft be immenfe. 

If the comparifon is to be extended farther, I may add, 
that while the vefiel of the ilave merchant is performing one 
voyage, that of the other would perform two : fo that if 
the flave trade were highly profitable, and one voyage in 
that line were twice more advantageous than one in the 
other, they would be reduced to an equality by this cir- 
cumftance alone. 

If then it appears, by referring the two trades to the 
fame ftandard, that the trade in the natural productions of 
the country would be more valuable to individuals, (and 
its benefits more extenfively felt) than the trade in Haves, 
an additional argument prefents itfelf againfi: the policy of 
the latter, fince it is not only hazardous, flow in its re- 
turns, and in the aggregate unprofitable, but hinders the 
introdu6lion of one, which v/ould be attended with the 
oppofite effects* 

CHAP. IIL 



32 On the Impolicy of the 



C H A P. III. 

Before I proceed, I muft paufe for a little time, to takc5 
notice of an argument, wliich may have already faggefted 
itfelf to the reader, and which, if it- does not meet with a 
replication here, may be confidered as rendering the whole 
of my former obfervations of no effect. 

It is faid, and it is ftrongly infifted upon by the advo- 
cates for the trade in flaves, that it is politick^ becaufe it 
encrroiTes the attention of the Africans, and hinders them 
from cultivating fuch of the produ6lions of their own foilj 
as would interfere with thofe of our own colonies. 

Now, if this would aftually be the cafe/if the produc- 
tions of Africa, mentioned in the firft chapter, would 
clafh with thofe of our kindred ftates, it would be highly 
improper, in the eye of the politician^ to introduce the 
other trade, however valuable it might appear* I fay in 
the eye of the politician^ becaufe his argument with the 
moralift is exa&ly this : — -" I have a field fown with a 
particular grain, which yields me fome advantages. — ^ 
Another perfon has unfortunately the fame kind of grain 
in his polleffion. If /;^ fows it, his produ6lions will clafh 
with mine. I muft therefore procure him t6 be kidnap- 
ped, or I muft excite diflenfions in his family, that will 
keep him engaged, or fend him out of the way." 

However, as it is termed a good political argument, 
and as it might tend to fet afide the obfervations made in 
the preceding chapters, I feel myfelf called upon to reply 
to it in the prefent place. 

With refpecSl to the woods of Africa, it is probable that the 
article of niahogany, if im^^orted from that quarter, would 
clafli in fome meafure with' that which would be brought 
from the Bay of Honduras. When I have allowed thisj 
I may take upon me to fay, that there is no other article 
from the coaft, which would interfere with thofe produced 
in our own colonies. 

It is certain that thofe for dying, and moft of thofe 
for cabinet and other work, would not be liable to the 
objedion, becaufe theire are no woods, as yet difcovered 

on 



AFRICAN Slave Trabe. 



33 



on the face of the globe, that are of the fame properties 
or kind. 

The drugs, which we procure at prefent, are imported 
from the following places, viz* the Britifh Eaft Indies, 
Turkey, the Brazils through the medium of Portugal, 
and South America, through that of Spain. 

It is unnecefTary to make any farther ftatement than 
this, as there are three places out of four, from whence 
we derive them, that are foreign. 

The next article of the new commerce would be that 
of Spices. All thefe are at preient monopolized by the 
Dutch. 

The tobacco which we Import, is principally obtained 
from two places, Virginia and Maryland. Thefe, by the 
late revolution, are foreign ftates. A fmall quantity is, 
however, cultivated in the Britifti Weft Indian iflands, 
but this is generally for plantation ufe, and if we except a 
few hogfheads brought to us from St. Vincents, it may 
be faid that this article, if produced in Africa, would not 
at all interfere with the productions of our prefent 
colonies. 

With refpedt to rice a few words will be fufficient. It 
is brought to us from Carolina and Georgia, and in fuch 
a proportion, that ninety-nine parts in an hundred come 
to us from thofe ftates. 

The indigo, which is imported into this country, Is 
procured from the Britifh Eaft Indies, the Britifh Weft 
Indies, Carolina, and Georgia, the French Weft Indies 
by the way of France, the Brazils by the way of Portugal, 
and South America by the way of Spain. The quantity 
annually imported from them all is about 1,350,000 
pounds, of which about lOOO^Ooo or more than five- 
fevenths are the produce o^ foreign ftates. 

The cotton, which we have obtained for fome time, 
has been cultivated in the Britifli and French Weft Indies, 
the Dutch Eaft Indian fettlements, Turkey, and the 
Brazils. The whole quantity imported in the year 1 7 86, 
was 20,000,000 pounds. That from the Britilh colonies 
5,157,698. So that we are under the neceffity of pro- 
curing 14,842,302 pounds, or nearly three-fourths annu- 
ally from foreigners, 

C Thi8 



34 On the Impolicy of the 

This flatement, which is as accurate as any that cart 
be obtained, {hews to us the fallacy of the argument ; and 
that we are fo far from being likely to interfere with the 
colonifts of our own, as in fa6l to give a blow to thofe of 
our jival Hates. Indeed, the argument is of an early 
date, and firft made its appearance while America was 
our ow«. It was certain, at that period, that by keeping 
the Africans engaged in the trade in flaves, we hindered 
them from producing fuch of their own commodities, as 
would have greatly interfered with thofe of our then, colo- 
nies. The inconfiderate, however, who have not attended 
to the late revolution there, have been bold enough to 
retain it, though nothing is more certain than that (the 
Americans being now aliens, and other circumftances being 
taken into confiderationj it becomes a matter of policy to 
have them from another quarter. 

Indeed, among the various events, that feem for fome 
time to have been haftening on, and working together 
for the abolition of the flave trade, none appears to be of 
greater importance in this refpe61: than the revolution be- 
fore mentioned. As long as America was our own, there 
was no chance that a mmifter would have attended to the 
groans of the fons and daughters of Africa, however he 
might have felt for their diftrefs. From the fame fpot, 
which was thus once the means of creating an infu- 
perable impedim.ent to the relief of thefe unfortunate peo- 
ple, our afFedtion, by a wonderful concatenation of events, 
has been taken off, and a profpe6t has been prefented to our 
view, which Ihews it to he policy to remove their pain. 



CHAP. IV. 
SECTION h 

Having now provided agalnft an obftacle which might 
have been thrown into my way, I fhall proceed. 

In the firft and fecond chapters I confidered the trade 
in JIaves in an abftradted light, that I might balance it 
both nationally and individually^ againft that in the pro- 
dudions of the coaft, as well as anfwer certain arguments 

ufuallv 



AFRICAN Slave Trad£. 



3J 



iifually advanced in its defence. But as this trade has 
fome appendages^ and as thefe appendages are faid to be of 
the higheft importance to the ftate, I fhould be an unjuft 
arbiter of the cafe, if I did not take them into confidera^ 
lion. 

The advocates for the flave trade earneftly contend^ 
that it is a mirfiry for our feamem Upon no one argument 
have they declaimed vi^ith greater exultation than upon 
this ; Well kriovving that our feamen are the pillars of the 
ftate, and that every trade, v^^hich conduces to rear and 
fupport them,, it muft be highly politic to continue, and 
highly dangerous to fupprefs. 

Before I enter into the important argument advanced, 
it v^^ill be neceflary to give the reader a hiftory of the fea- 
men employed in this trade ; not only becaufe fuch an hif- 
tory ought to be prefented to his viev^, bat becaufe it will 
enable him to judge of the truth of certain pofitions, to be 
mentioned in a future chapter. 

To begin : The wages, v/hich able feamen receive in 
this trade, are from thirty to forty (hillings per month. 
They have alfo two months advance-money, and their 
em.ployers do not ftand upon chara6i:er. 

Iii other trades they receive from thirty to thifty-iive 
fhillings per month, have but one month's advance-money, 
and will feldom., like other fervants, be taken but with a 
character from their former mafters. 

The firft idea, that muft fuggeft itfelf to the reader from 
this comparative view, will be this, that it mult be a 
difficult matter to procure feamen for this trade, or fuch 
extraordinary temptations Would not be held out to them 
to embark. This is literally the fadt : for thefe are as cer- 
tain criterions of the difficulty which I intended fhould be 
furmifed, as the price of infurance is of the hazard of a 
voyage, or as any other eflabhfhed marks of difcrimination 
in any other cafe. 

The difficulty of procuring feamen for the (lave trade is 
well known at the ports w^here it is carried on, though 
the advocates for it have alTerted the contrary to thofe, 
vvhom they knew to have had no opportunity of inquiring 
into the fa6l. 

C 2. Kt 



36 On the Impolicy of the 

At one port in particular they have gone (o far as to ad- 
vance, that they have as many offers for making up the 
complements of their fhips as they can accept. But they 
conceal the time and occafion of thefe proffered fcrvices. 
When the fhips from Greenland and the Weft-Indies ar- 
rive and difcharge their crews, the former of which put 
twelve hundred feamen adrift nearly at the fame time, the 
flave veffels, then in port, find but little difficulty in pro- 
curing hands. But what inference can be drawn from 
hence ? Not furely a partiality for the trade, but that many 
are thrown out of employ, whom ncceffity compels to 
embark. 

On the other hand, when the fame (hips are refitting 
in the fpring of the year, the matter is totally rcverfed. 
The flave merchant is in the grcateff diflrefs for a crew. 
He offers even three months advance-money j but this has 
but little weight ; and few feamen would ever voluntarily 
embark with him on any terms, fo long as a Inip 
of any other defcription was fitting out, and was in want 
of hands. 

This is the true critei-ion, by which a judgment is to be 
formed in the prefent cafe, and if added to the three cir- 
cumftances before mentioned, which are eftablifhed rules 
of commercial regulation, will prove an infjperable ar- 
gument againft the affertions ufually advanced by the pa- 
trons of this trade. 

The feam.en then, now under confideration, except 
at the time fpecified, are obtained in the following 
ways : 

It has been cuflomary to allure them Into the fervice 
under the promife of making them mates. When they 
come on board, they acl: as officers of the (hip ; but foon 
after they have been at fea, they are degraded on a pre- 
tended charge of neglect. By thefe infidious means fe- 
veral foremafl men have been annually obtained for the 
voyage. 

But the great bulk of them are procured thus. There 
are certain landlords, who, allured by the high wages 
given them in this trade, the advance-money of two 
months, and the promifes of the merchant, open 
houfes for their reception. Thefe, having a general 

knowledge 



African Slave Trade, 



37 



knowledge of tl:ie fliips and feamen in the port, and being 
always on the look out, intice fuch as are more unwary 
or in greater diftrefs than the reft into their houfes. They 
entertain them with mufick and dancing, and keep them 
in an intoxicated ftate for fome time. In the interim the 
Have merchant comes, and makes his apphcation. The 
unfortunate men are fmgled out; are perhaps taken from 
a dance. Their bill is immediately brought them. They 
are faid to be more in debt, than even two months ad- 
vance-money will difcharge. They have therefore an 
offer made them, 2iJIave-ve[feI — or a goal. 

The former being accepted, the landlord, befides a gra- 
tuity, receives a promilTory note for the fum equal to their 
advance-money from the merchant, and, like flaves, 
delivers them to the velTel. 

Thus put on board, and fenfible of the mean and un- 
generous advantages that have been taken of their unwari- 
nefs and necefHty, their * diHike to the fervice is only 
heightened, and they do not fail to exhibit proofs of it in 
the following manner. 

In a certain month of the laft year, four Have vefTels f^ 
were waiting for their men. The firft, in confequence *' 
of the exertions before mentioned, had received a c^^in 
number; but they no fooner found an opportunity of 
efcaping, than all of them left her, and on the fame day. 

In the fecond were feven, that had been procured in 
the fame manner. Thefe, foon afterwards, in fpite of all 
oppofition, forced themfelves into the boat, and came on 
fhore. 

The third had fcarcely completed her complement, 
when tv/enty-five of the people had left her at once, and 
tv/enty followed them on the next day. 

By this time the firft had again completed her crew: 
but fo fearful was the merchant that thefe alfo would make 

* 1 do not mean any dlflike to the trade, becaufe they confider it to 
be iniquitous, but becaufe the cruel treatment of feamen in this trade ii 
notorious, of whicli the reader will fee fome fpecimens hereafter. I have 
known a landlord, who opened his houfe for the reception of Weftlndia 
feamen, on an application from a Have merchant for men, refufe him fole- 
ly from the motive that he ihould afl'ront. all who that lodged with hira> 
were he barely to propofe it to their confideration. 

C 3 their 



^8 On the Impolicy of thk 

their efcape, that the {hip was immediately hurried to fea, 
though the weather was much againft her. How they 
bore fo fudden and fo abrupt a departure, I cannot pofi-^ 
lively affirm; but, if the pilot is to credited, there was 
nothing but difTatisfa^tion and murmur on board, while 
he was taking them out of the channel. 

From the fourth two of the crew, feeing no other op- 
portunity of getting away, leapt overboard in the night, 
though the fhip was at that time more than a mile from 
the fhore. 

It is unneceiTary to make any comments upon thefe 
inftances. I fhall therefore only add, that, except in this 
trade, they feldom or ever happen, and that feamen offer 
their fer vices, in other trades. 



SECTION 11. 

While the crew are collecting in the manner above de- 
fcribed, the articles of agreement are prepared. Thef© 
articles ftate the nature and circumftances of the en- 
gagements of the feamen on board the veffd, and are to 
be figned by them before their departure from the native 
ihore. 

Some of thefe articles are too iniquitous to be omitted, 
X ihall therefore give the reader an extradl of one of them 
in my polTeffion. 

The firft claufe is, " That the crew fhall conform and 
*^ demean themfelves in every refpe£t according to the late 
^^ a6l of parliam.ent for the better regulation of feamen in 
« \i\^ Majeftf s kiviQ^:' This artful fubftitution of the 
word Majejiys for Merchant s^ when fubfcribed to, gives 
the officers, in their own opinion, a power of inflidling 
fevere punifhment upon their men, and of gratifying their 
lavage difpofition. 

The fecond is, " That one half of their wages is to be 
^' paid them in the Weft Indies or America, in the cur- 
^' rency or proclamation money there." This claufe is 
equally artful with the former: for though the merchant 
holds out to them the bait o^ greater wages nominally, he 
gives them intrinfically lefs than in other trades. 



African Slave Tr-ade. 



39 



In the third it is ftipulated, " that if they fhould die 
\ipon the coaftj their executors fhall receive the wages due 
to them at that time, in the current money of the place, 
at which the (hip difpofes of her ilaves.'' 

The fourth is, " That if they fhall commence any acSlion 
either at common law or at a court of admiralty, either on 
account of any thing in thefe prefents contained, or on 
account of any other matter whatfoever that may happen 
during the voyage, without firft referring it to the arbitra- 
tion of the officers or owners within twenty days after 
their arrival at the port of difcharge, they fhall forfeit fifty 
pounds." 

This, added to the lirfl claufe, arms the officers com- 
pletely, and gives them fcope, as they imagine, to praftife 
any barbarities, which they may pleafe to inflict upon 
their crew. 

Thefe articles being prepared for their fignature, they 
are called up. This is generally done when the fhip is 
weighing her anchor, or at fome time when they are about 
to be bufily employed. A neceffity for expedition is 
pleaded: and they fign without ever feeing, or being per- 
mitted to fee, the nature of the engagements which they 
are making. The articles are folded up in a curious 
manner for this purpofe ; and fome, v/ho have been more 
wary than the refl, and have perfifted in the refolution of 
feeing, before they figned them, have been known to be 
put on fbore. 

If I am to fhew the iniquity of thefe meafures in a 
ilronger light, it mufl be by comparing them with the 
pravS^ice in other trades. 

The articles, now the obje£^s of comparifon, are 
* printed. They are either read, or left open to the in- 
fpefti-on of the feamen before they fign. The crews, that 
embark to the very fame cooji for wood, know nothing of 
current money, nor of the claufes before mentioned. The 
Weft -India feamen, who meet at the fame port with thofe 
in the nave-veflels, and where currency is in force, are not 
obliged to take the half of their wages there. In fhort, 

* I muft do juftlce to fome of the merchants of Liverpool, who make 
ufc of printed articles, and omit the firft and fourth claufes, 

C 4 whether 



4-0 On the Impolicy of the 

whether we view the arts and pradices in this trade, cither 
independently of themfelves, or by comparifon, they equally 
excite our deteftation and difguft. 



SECTION III. 

The articles of agreement being figned, they procceed 
to fea. From the port of Briftol, as foon as they have 
pafTed the Ifland of Lundy, and from the port of Liver- 
pool, as foon as they have cleared the Black Rock, the 
officers generally order an inftrument to be made, called a 
cat^ which is alleged to be prepared for the punifhment 
of the flaves. The handle of it is a rope of three inches 
and a half in circumference, and it has nine tails attached 
to it of knotted cord. This inftrument cannot legally 
be ufed on board any other but one of his Majefty*s fhips, 
and in other trades, except the Eafi Indian^ is unknown. 

From this period till their arrival upon the coaft, they 
begin to ufe it upon the feamen, though at firft with mo- 
deration, or only fo as to prepare the way for the feve* 
rities that are to follow. In a certain time^ however, they 
apply it without referve. But here a tragedy commences, 
of which the reader can have no conception, but which 
however muft be fubmitted to his view. 

I am fenfible, that if I were to talk in general terms of 
the cruelties exercifed upon the feamen in this trade, I 
fhould have but little attention paid to my narration by 
the publick, nor would they have that idea of them, which 
it is the duty of every perfon, acquainted with the fadlis, 
to communicate. I fhall therefore wave all general afler- 
tions, and confine myfelf for the prefent to the occurrences 
in one fhip. 



A Muster 



African Slave Trade. 



4X 



* A Muster Roll for the Ship 



and the Weft-Indies. 



from Africa 



Men's names. 


When and where 
entered into pay. 


When and where dif- 
charged, killed, dead, 
deferted, &c* 


Time each man 
fervcd. 


I. — 











2. 











3- — 


— 








4-^ — 





...^ 


«— 


5- - 








— 


^•/ - 


— 





-»-. 


7- ~ 


"— 





— ^. 


8. - 











9-> - 


— 





— , 


lO.f - 











II. i — 











12. 1 — 








< — 


13- - 





.^ — 


— , 


14-/ — 





— 





15-7 — 





_ 


— 


i6.[ - 





, 





17. i - 











18.7 - 


»_„ 


, 


, 


19.; - 


— 


— • 





20. ") — 


.... 


_^ 


— 


21. f - 











22. 3 — 











23- — 


— 








24. — 

25,&c.&c. 


■"■"• 


' 


z 



* The three contained in the lafl: bracket, do not ftand as in the ori- 
ginal mufter roll, but are put together for the fake of elucidating the 
cafe. 

The 



4-2 On the Impolicy of the 

The captain of thir. veiTel began, as ufual, to pradife 
his barbarities a little before his arrival upon the coaft. 
He took the opportunity of beating his crew repeatedly, 
and for imaginary faults. He had alfo on board a large 
dog, which he was accuf!:omed to fet upon the men for 
his diveriion ; at the fame time fwearing, that if any of 
the crew fhould attempt to take off the dog on any fuch 
occafion, he would ihoot him for the attempt. 

The treatment, which was thus begun, was continued 
upon the coaft, and in fuch a licentious degree, as to be- 
come infupportable, and to alarm the feamen for the fafety 
■of their lives. 

The eleven contained in the firft bracket having been 
cruelly ufed, and feeing no hopes of a termination to their 
fufferings fo long as they ftaid there, came to the refolu- 
tion of deferting; chufmg rather to truft to an inhofpita- 
ble climate, and an uncivilized people upon the fhore, 
than to ftay on board their ov/n veflel. They accordingly 
cut their way through the netting In the night. They 
feized the long boat, ere61;ed an oar for a maft, and a 
hammock for a fail ; and, thus provided, they took their 
linal departure from the fliip. 

It v/as but a ihort time before they dropped down the 
jriver, v/hcre the veflel lay. They then coafted along to 
make for a certain place, but were driven beyond it before 
they could get to land. To cut their ftory fhort : Eight 
of them, after experiencing many hardfhips, died. The 
other three were taken in by a veiTel bound to the colonies 
with flaves. One of them died on the middle paflage. 
The remaining two, in procefs of time, came home, but 
in fo weak and impaired a ftate, that their recovery was 
long doubtful ; for one had additionally to ftruggle with 
"two large holes in his fhoulder, which the dog, before 
mentioned, had torn at the inftigation of his mafter. 

This was the firft effe61: of the barbarous ufage on 
board the veflel, whofe mufter roll has been cited. I fhall 
now continue my account. 

The three, inclofed in the next bracket, were a part of 
the complement of a flave veflTel, which had upfet upon 
the coaft, and who had efcaped to this fhip. They had 

bee« 



African Slave Trade. 



41, 



been but a fhort time on board, before they experienced 
the fame treatment as the reft of the crew. 

The firft of them was ufed in the following manner. 
In lowering down the awning one evening, the captain 
fwore that he had fuffered it to touch a boat, which he 
had amufed himfelf in painting the fame day ; though no 
mark was vifible, by which it could be traced that the 
av/ning had ever touched at all. For this imaginary fault 
he knocked him down, and then jumped upon his bread. 
Fie afterwards beat him in a moft inhuman manner with 
a rope three inches and a half in circumference. The 
poor man, in confequence of this treatm.ent, became ill, 
and complained to the furgeon and furgeon's mate of the 
pain which he then felt. The captain, however, hap- 
pened to overhear his complaint, when he immediately 
ordered him to go forv/ard, or he would repeat his for^ 
mer treatment, commanding the furgeon's mate, at the 
fame time, not to adminifier to liim any relief, under the 
penalty of being ferved in the fame manner. 

The furgeon, however, and his mate, privately vifited 
the fick man in the night, by m.eans of a dark lanthorn, 
and gave him every afliitance in their power. They found 
feveral contufions on his neck, back, breaft, and arms, 
which were fo bad as to occafion him to fpit blood, and 
to void the fame by ftool. This afterwards turned into a 
tlyfentery or flux, and on the feventh of the month of 
r- — — ■ the unfortunate man died. 

It may not be amifs to add, that the dying man repeat- 
edly thanked the furgeon for his tendernefs and care, and / 
that he repeatedly told him, that the captain had been the / 
occafion of his death, generally adding, at the fame time, / 
that " he could not punifh him, but that God would." / 

The other two were alfo treated in an unmerciful man-| 
ner. One of them, on his arrival in the Weft Indies,^ 
died. The other had the good fortune to get to his na- \ 
tive home. \ 

The firft of the two, contained in the third bracket, 
■was the furgeon's mate of the veflel. On a certain day, 
being on fhore with fome fick flaves, he was beaten fo 
unmercifully by the captain, as to be taken up infenfible. 
'I'he brute, not fatisfied with this, puflied the ftick of h^is 

umbrella 



44 C)n the Impolicy of the 

umbrella againfi: his belly as he was lying upon the ground, 
and with fuch force, as to caufe a moft violent pain for 
fome days : the only reafon alledged for this treatment 
was, that four flaves had died of the flux the preceding 
night. 

On the fixteenth day of the next month, he vented his 
fiiry again on the fame perfon, and with as littk caufe ; 
for coming out of his cabin, and finding a girl Have dead, 
whofe death had not been reported to him be^re dinner, 
he immediately feized him, and knocked him down. He 
then jumped upon his breaft. He afterwards beat him in 
a cruel manner with the but end of the cat, which I men- 
tioned before to be a rope of three inches and a half in 
-circumference, fo that on the next day his head was found 
to be much fwelled, and feveral contufions on his neck, 
back, and arms; 

He was alfo beaten in a barbarous manner on the four- 
teenth and eighteenth days of the fame month, and for no 
other reafon than becaufe the captain was in a paflion 
with others. 

The fecond perfon, and whofe cafe is now to be con- 
Udered, was knocked down two or three times In a day, 
without any juft caufe. At one time in particular, when 
the captain came upon deck, and found that the people, 
who were then walhing the decks, had not moved the 
hen-coops as before, he immediately feized this perfon who 
was ftanding by, and having felled him down on the floor, 
ftamped upon his body as he was lying there. Then 
feizing him, with an intention, as he fwore, of throwing 
him overboard, he dragged him to the fl:ern of the vefTel. 
The unhappy man, to fave himfelf, caught hold of the 
ftern rails, by which he held faft till he was relieved by 
two of the fhip's crew. In confequence of this treat- 
ment, he had feveral contufions on his breaft, back, and 
other parts of his body, and alfo a black eye, with a 
fwelled face, which deprived him of the fight of one of 
his eyes for about a fortnight. 

At another time, when the fhip arrived in the Weft- 
Indies, he was beaten, without the commiflion of a fault, 
in an inhuman manner. The captain ftruck him here fo 
feverely over his face, as to occafion his mouth to bleed 

for 



African Slave Trade. 45 

for fome time. He kicked him afterwards over his 
bowels, and with fuch violence, as to cccafion him to fall 
down, when he jumped upon his breaft as before, and 
otherwife cruelly treated him. The unfortunate vi6lim, 
when he went on fhore, complained to the magiftrate of 
the place, to whom the velTel being configned, he received 
no other fatisfa(£i:ion than his difcharge ; though he carried 
with him his fhirt, ftained with the blood which had then 
ifllied from his wounds. He was accompanied, on his 
application to this magiftrate, by the perfon mentioned 
before him, who preferred his complaint likewife, and 
obtained — equal redrefs. 

It v/ould be a tedious and a painful tafk to defcribe the 
treatment which every individual received on board this 
veflel. I fliall therefore fubmit to the reader but three 
more cafes for his perufal. 

The firft in the fourth bracket was a very fenfible old 
feaman, and formerly in his Majefty's fervice. He had 
had fome words on the forecaftle with an officer, on ac- 
count of complaining that he had no water to drink. 
The officer told the captain of the feaman's behaviour, 
and of his infolence in complaining. The latter inftantly 
fcized him, and beat out feveral of his teeth with his fift. 
He then ordered a pump-bolt to be put into his mouth, 
which was confined there by means of fome rope-yarn tied 
behind his head. The poor old man was almoft choaked, 
being unable to fpit out the great quantity of blood v/hich 
was then running down and collecting in his throat. 
He was then tied for two hours to the rail of the quarter 
deck, as he had previoufly declared his intention of leaping 
overboard, to avoid the farther perfecution of his opprelTor. 
When the two hours were expired, he was ordered under 
the half deck, tied to the grating companion of the 
fteerage, and kept there all night with a centinel over 
him. In about a month afterwards he was feized with a 
fever, and died. 

The fecond, a lad of about feventeen years of age, was 
repeatedly knocked and kicked about, and otherv/ife cruelly 
treated by the fame perfon for imaginary faults. The faid 
lad had received from one of the other officers a wound in 
his toe. The captain was fo far from favouring him in 

this 



^6 Ou THE Impolicy of the 

this fituation, that he endeavoured to diflrefs him tiicf 
more, and therefore compelled him to a6l as a centinei 
over the Haves ; an office, v/hich requires much viralkin^ 
about. This cruel ufage foon produced a fever ; nor did 
he ever feel for his fituation at this time, for he obliged 
him to fit on the gratings during his ilincfs, as a centinei 
over the room of the women flaves. 

Overpowered now by illnefs and fatigue, he fell aflecp 
on the gratings. The captain coming on the quarter 
deck at the fame time, and finding him in the fituation 
defcribed, began, with oaths and imprecations, to beat 
him in an unmerciful manner. The poor lad, kicked at 
length from the gratings, and terribly bruifed befides, 
crawled with much difficulty to the furgeon's mate. He 
there complained, in the anguifh of his heart, of the bitter 
treatment he had received. He then folicited a little of 
the barley water, Vv'hich is ufually kept for the flaves ; but 
while he was drinking it, he fell down at the feet of the 
furgeon's mate, and expired. 

The third, and lafl: whom I fhall mention, was a black 
feaman, who had (hipped himfelf In England a'fe cook of 
the above vefTel. The captain feems to have fingled out 
this unfortunate man, as anobje6lin which all his difFereift 
modes of perfecution u-ere to centre. He knocked hirrt 
down almoft daily. He flogged him repeatedly on his 
naked back v/Ith his own hands, for fo much pleafure did 
he receive from the exercife of cruelty and oppreffion, that 
lie became the executioner on thefe occafions. He put a 
laro-e chain about his neck, at the end of v/hich was 
faiiened a log of wood. In this chain he compelled hliri 
to do his duty as cook of the veiTel, beating him feverely 
m the interim, and kicking him about for his diverfion. 

At one time he ordered him to be tied up for no fault 
whatever, and he flogged him in fuch an unmerciful man- 
ner, that It was apprehended his arm would m.ortify, and 
nothlno; but the fiiill and affiduity of the furgeon faved it 
atlafr." 

At another time he was ordered by the captain into his 
cabin. The pretence was this, that he had not foafl:ed 
the yams properly, (which is a luncheon at twelve o'clock); 
As foon as he entered the cabin door, the inhuman vvTetch 

for 



African Slave Trade. 47 

for kis diverfion darted a knife and fork at him* The 
poor man fled in confternation from the cabin. The 
captain purfued him, and, to complete his cruelty, fet his 
dog upon him as ufual. The animal immediately obeyed, 
tore ofF his frock, and bit him in feveral places. I muft 
add, that it was almoft the daily pra6lice of tiiis barbarian 
to fend for the above black feaman into his cabin, and to 
divert himfelf with darting at him the inftruments before 
mentioned, whenever he could get, what he termed, Tifair 
mark. 

At another time he darted at him an inftrument which 
was commonly ufed for ftriking fi(h. It confifted of a 
large thick ftick, with a quantity of lead at one end of it, 
and three or four prongs or javelins at the other. This 
inftrument was thrown at him v/ith great force, and, 
unlefs he had fortunately ftooped, he muft have been 
killed, as it went juft over his head, and ftuck into the 
boards of the barricade of the veflel. The breaking of a 
plate was the grand crime that had been imputed to him 
on this occafion. 

At another time he was flogged as before, and fo fe- 
verely, that he was cut from the neck to the fmall of the 
back in a fhocking manner. When the operation was 
over, the captain called for a bucket, in which he mixed 
pepper and fait water, and then anointed his back, with a 
view to increafe his pain. In fliort, fo barbarous wis his 
conduct to this poor fellow, that he became infenuble at 
laft, and, full of fears, and unable to walk upright, he 
frequently crawled in his chain, like a dog, upon all fours ; 
the captain, by his ill ufage, having reduced him both in 
form and mind to a level with the brute creation. 

Thefe are fome of the inftances of cruelty, that were 
praftifed on the feamen of this vefl'el. I find it impoilible, 
for want of time, to infert them all. I fhall therefore 
clofe my account here, and with this obfervation, that out 
of a crew, confifting of fifty-one perfons, there were only 
three that efcaped the barbarity of this monfter in humau 
fhape. 

The reader will probably think, from the difmal hifi:ory 
now offered to his perufal, that I have at leaft finglcd out 
a ,fhip, where the treatment was more Imf ivourable than 

in 



48 On the Impolicy of the 

in any other in the fame line. But I pofitively deny any 
charge that may be brought againft me in this particular. 
I can fpecify inftances of deliberate barbarity exercifed on 
the bodies of Britifh feamen in this trade, that exceed any 
I have yet defcribed ; and I aflert further, that out of the 
captains of twenty fhips taken promifcuoufly in it, I 
cannot find, upon a minute inveftigation, more than 
three, whatever may be their appearance at home, that 
are men of common humanity on their refpedlive voyages. 
To thefe three individuals then, who, trufted with un- 
limited power, furrounded by bad example, and placed 
on the brink of vice from the very nature of the trade, 
to thefe I fay, who, in this fituation have fwerved 
from the common practice, I take this opportunity of 
paying that juft tribute, which their behaviour deferves ; 
but, I prefume, that they will derive more pleafure from 
the peace and fatisfaftion in their own breafts, than from 
any publick commendation. 

SECTION IV. 

Before I inveftigate the argument adduced in the firil: 
fe6^ion, that th.Q. Jlaue trade is a nurfery for our feameriy I 
{hall anfwer two queftions which may be flarted here. 

The firft may be delivered in the following terms. 
" Are not the fame cruelties pra6tifed in other trades?"-— 
I make the follov\ring reply. 

A certain perfon, totally unconnected with the law, had 
no lefs than fixty-three applications made to him in three 
months, to obtain redrefs for fuch feamen, as had ex- 
perienced the fury of the officers of their refpeCtive fhips. 
Upon examination of their different cafes, it appeared, 
that one of them had been cruelly treated on board a 
Weft-Indiaman, and that another had been knocked down 
and feverely bruifed on board an Irifli trader. The re- 
■amnmgfixty'oneviQXQ vidlims to the tyranny of the officers 
before defcribed. 

The firft cafe, that came to his knowledge, was that of 
an unfortunate perfon, who had been landed from a flav^e- 
veffel in a fickly ft ate but the preceding day. He had 
been repeatedly knocked down with the but- end of the 

cat. 



African Slave Trade. 4^ 

cat. His life had been rendered fo uncomfortable, that 
he had made three eiForts to l6ap overboard, and deftroy 
It. When he was taken up the lad time, he had juft 
been faved from the jaws of a fhark that had been making 
after him. The unfortunate man had been alfo repeatedly 
chained to the deck of the ftiip, and in that fituation had 
been infulted and beaten by his oppreflbr. When the 
application was made, he was in bed, and delirious. I 
Ihall obferve here, that the reft of the fame crew had been 
treated in a barbarous manner. 

In the fecond, feveral of the party prefent came to in- 
form of a murder that had been committed on the body 
of a Britifh feaman upon the coaft. 

A third feaman had had his arm broken, without any 
provocation, by the but end of a cat, an inftrument before 
defcribed. 

A fourth being ordered to catch hold of the main-top- 
fail brace, and miftaking for it the main-top-bowling, had 
been knocked down with a handfpike, and his arm broken 
ill two places. 

A fifth r-eceived fuch treatment as the reader v/ill hardly 
believe ; but I muft inform him that this, as well as moft 
bf the other tranfa61:ions, is upon oath, and that his per- 
fecutor has acknowledged it by the payment of a fine.—- 
This unfortunate man, for a fuppofed want of care in a 
moft trifling inftance, was ftripped naked, and corded 
down with his belly upon the deck. The barbarian and 
tyrant of the ftiip ftreaked his back, coolly and deliberate- 
ly, with the end of a poker that had been heated for the 
purpofe. I need not fay that the poor man was in the 
gre^teft agonies on the occafion. 

At another time, and on a like charge, while his wounds 
were yet frefti, a large lump of pitch was melted hot upon 
his back, and he was made to fiiffer the moft excruciating 
pain. 

A fixth was treated in the following manner, as col- 
lected from a dfepofitidn, made for the purpofe of corro- 
borating the fadl. 

A certain ftiip was lying in the month of , and 

in the river — — , on the coaft of Africa, for flaves. 

The captain had been on (bore, but on the evening came 

D on 



50 



On the Impolicy of the 



on board. On being informed of a circumftance, whicia 
a favourite had devifed to have happened in his abfence 
from the fhip, he called for a certain feaman. Without 
any kind of inquiry, and with that impetuofity and def- 
potifm, which mark the principal agents in this trade, he 
immediately knocked him down, tore his fhirt from his 
back with his own hands, and ordered him to be tied up 
for the purpofe of flogging him. 

When the poor innocent man was fufficiently fecured, 
the captain took up the cat, which was a rope of three 
inches and an half in circumference, with nine tails at 
one end of it, and a double walled knot of nearly eight 
inches in circumference at the other. He beat him 
alternately with each end, and frequently on the back 
part of the head with the knot defcribed. When his 
right hand was tired, he curfed it for being unable to 
perform its office compleatly, and had then recourfe to 
his left. 

Being too much wearied at length to continue the ope- 
ration to his own mind, he applied to an officer of the 
fhip, and ordered him to exert his ftrength, after the 
example given him, on the back of this innocent and un- 
offending man. The officer felt himfelf in a fituation to 
be obliged to comply with his commands, but ftruck him 
only with the tail end of the inftrument before defcribed. 

A fecond officer, being afterwards applied to for the 
fame purpofe, flogged him in the fame manner, till the 
tails of the cat were worn into fhreds, and it became no 
longer an inftrument of pain. 

By this time the captain had reflred himfelf fufficifently 
to renew the tafk. He pulled off his jacket, tucked up 
the fleeves of his fhirt, ordered another cat of the 
fame kind to be brought, and ufed it in the fame manner. 
To abbreviate this tale of woe, I fhall fay at once, that 
the punifhment, from the time of its commencement to 
the time of its difcontinuance, lafted for three hours. 

The unhappy man, unable to fuftain this accumulated 
perfecution, had fainted before the operation was over ; his 
head had hung on his fhoulder ; and, when he was taken 
down, he lay motionlefs on the deck. 

The 



Africam Slave Trad^:, ,5t 

The barbarian of the (hip, not yet fatlsfied with his 
diabolical treatrnent of the unfortunate vi6lim, ordered his 
hands and feet to be fattened together, his right hand to 
his left foot, and his left hand to his right* When this 
was done, a rope was made faft to the fhackled limbs, 
and, like a cafk, he was hoifted up from the deck. He 
was afterwards let down, by means of the fame rope, into 
a boat, which was then lying by the fide of the velTel. In 
this boat, and in this confined fituation, he was left for 
the remainder of the night. 

About five o'clock on the next morning, a feaman, 
having found his way into the boat, came up again, and 
reported that the unfortunate man was dead. In confe- 
quence of this, his body was brought up, and laid in the 
waift of the veflel. Another, who was his meflrnate, on 
coming up and feeing him there, had the curiofity to 
examine him. In feeling above his neck, three of his 
fingers found their way into a hole in the flcull, which he, 
one of the deponents, faid, had been made by the double 
walled knot of the cat before defcribed, and which had 
been applied to him there in the moPc unmerciful man- 
ner. In withdrawing them from the wound, a great 
quantity of blood ifTued out, and came profufely upon 
the deck. 

The tyrant of the fhip, when he rofe in the morning, 
and faw the body in its bleeding ftate, exprelled no emo- 
tions of pity or concern, but, in a rough and imperious 
tone, only ordered it to be buried. 

It may not be amifs to remark, that the unhappy vI6lim 
had been in full health and vigour but the preceding night. 
He had been uncommxonly cheerful, and had played on his 
flute juft before the tranfa61:ion happened, while the reft of 
the feamen danced. In the morning, however,— he was 
no more. 

Thefe are fome additional inftances of the behaviour 
of the captains of flave velTels to the unfortunate people, 
who compofe their refpe6live crews. Shocking as they 
are, they will hardly give the reader an adequate idea of 
the various cruelties exercifed upon thofe, v/ho embark in 
this trade. All on board is deliberate barbarity and op- 
D 2 pre/Tion. 



^52 Gn the Impolicy of the 

preffion. An unfortunate lailor cannot fpeak or complam, 
but it is an offence againft difcipline, and an ofl'ence, never 
to be forgiven. While a Britifh admiral, the higheft cha- 
racSler on the globe, does not think it below his dignity to 
be folicitous for the happinefs of his people, or to attend 
to their complaints j the paltry captain of a flave veffdy 
the mod defpicable charader upon earth, is the only 
human being who looks upon a Britifh feaman as an infe- 
rior animal, and worthy of opprelTion and contempt. 

The other inftances are of a fimilar nature to the firft 
four, but I fhould be as weary to communicate, as the 
reader to perufe them. If any perfon fhould confider 
thofe, that have been already mentioned, as fufficient to 
corroborate the cruel treatment fo generally infifled upon 
in this trade, I fhall neither have written nor have felt 
in vain. 

The fecond queftion, that may be flarted, is the fol- 
lowing : 

" If this be the real fituation of things, how happens 

" it that the objects of fuch tyranny and opprefHon fhould- 

^*' not obtain redrefs, and that our courts of law fhould 

" not have to decide upon more cafes of this kind, thau 

" they have at prefent ? '* 

I anfwer, becaufe thefe obje6^s are generally without 
friends and money, without which the injured will feek 
for juitice but in vain j and becaufe the peculiarity of their 
fituation is an impediment to their endeavours for redrefs. 

But to be more particular. — Where are thefe unfortu- 
nate people to appeal ? 

" In the Weft-Indies," you will fay, " where they firfl 
land." But here one of the magiftrates is perhaps the 
perfon to whom the vefTel is configned, and will not 
interfere. By another, when applied to, they are termed 
defcrters^ and unworthy either of credit or relief. 

But let us follow them home to their deftined port^ 
How are they to obtain redrefs, or to v;rhom alfo are they 
to make their application here ? 

You will fay, " to a gentleman of the law." But this 
gentleman of the law has many flave merchants for his 
clients, and refufes to be employed. 

« Let 



African Slave Trade. 53 

" Let them apply then to another." But this other 
refufes them from a different confideration. He reafons, 
thus : " It will, perhaps, be a long while, on account of 
the forms of law, before the declfion can be made. The 
witnefTes mufl: be forth-coming at an appointed time. But 
who are they ? People, whofe dependance is upon they^^ ; 
who look up to it for their fupport ; who will not be a month 
on fhore before their wages will be gone, and before they 
muil get employment again. If they get into employ, 
they cannot appear. If they ftay, who is to fupport 
them?" 

This, and other confiderations, peculiar to the fitua- 
tion and charadler of feamen, have hindered many from 
taking up their caufe ; and have depriv^ d them of that 
redrefs, v/hich the laws of every country ought to afford, 
them as ?Ke}i ; but particularly of this, which is indebted 
to their invincible perfeverance and intrepidity for its 
prefent grandeur and fupport. 

This account, though made as concife as poflible, (for 
I had a volume of fa61:s to offer on this head) will, I have 
no doubt, give the reader a yet more horrid notion of this 
execrable trade. It is begun in iniquity; it is continued 
in bafenefs : and whether we refer to the unhappy flaves, 
or the unfortunate feamen employed in it ; in fhort, 
whether we view it at home or abroad, or confider the 
modes adopted in the pra6lice of it, or its effects, it 
equally calls for the interpofition of the legiilature, being 
equally enprmous and bafe.. 



CHAP. V. 
SECTION I. 

I come now to the argument, upon which fo great a 
ftrefs has been Uid, that the Jlave trade is a nurfery for our 
feamen. 

The truth of this argument I deny in the moft explicit 
and unequivocal manner. I affert, on the other hand, 
ihat it is a grave for our feamen, and that it deftroys mor*? 

D 3 *^ 



54 On the Impolicy of the 

in one year, than all the other trades of Great Britain^ 
when put together, deftroy in two. 

To (hew this in the cleareft manner, I fhall divide the 
lofs, which the ftate experiences in her feamen by the 
profecution of the flave trade, into thre^ parts. The firft 
will contain fuch as are a6^aally on the dead lift, while on 
pay, and in the fervice of their refpedive fhips. This 
Ihall be immediately explained. The other two Ihall be 
each of them canvaffed in a diftin6l fe6tion. 

I am aware, that in attempting to afcertain the firft to the 
fatisfa6tion of the reader, I muft avoid all general afTertion, 
and produce many of thofe particular fa£fs^ which have 
induced me to fpeak with fo much confidence on the fub- 
je6l. I fhall therefore fubmit to his infpe6tion an account 
of the lofs fuftained by the laft eighty-eight vefTels in this 
trade, that had returned to Liverpool from their refpe6tive 
voyages in the September of the year 1787. I give him 
fo great a number for three reafons, firft, becaufe it in- 
cludes all veftels both great and fmall ; fecondly, becaufe 
it includes deftinations to all parts of the coaft ; and 
thirdly, becaufe it is from a number only, that any infe-? 
rence can be j uftly drawn. 

Ships Names. Number of Seamen * loji In eacb^ 

Sifters, ^ - - 3 

Hornet, - - - 15 

Molly, - - - 14 

Fair American, - - 10 

Lyon, - - 15 

Will, - - 17 

Telemachus, - - 8 

Pegg}^ - - - 9 

Pedros Va!lev, « - 3 

Doe, _ - - 3 

Matty and Betty, - 3 

Gregfon, - - - 12 

Bloom, ■= » 5 

* Under the term loft, is included thofe that died, or were killed, 
dr wer-e drowned Neither the captains, nor any of thofe feamen that 
were taken in at the Weft indies^ are included in the account. 

William^ 



. African Slave Trade. 



Si 



Ships Names, 



Number of Seamen lojl In each. 



William, 


„ 


8 


Brooks, 


- 


9 


Vulture, 


» 


5 


Enterprize, 


- 


3 


Venus, 


» 


I 


Mermaid, 


- 


6 


Chriftopher, 


- 


8 


Thomas, 


= 


2 


Africa, 


- 


2 


Little Joe, 


- 


I 


Prefident, 


^ 


8 


Mary Ann, 


» 


13 


Madam Pookata, 


- 


3 


Hinde, 


_ 


2 


Mary, 


» 


6 


Brothers, 


» 


4 


Chambers, 


„ 


7 


Vale, 


« 


I 


John, 


- 


17 


Benfon, 


- 


3 


Mary, 


- 


3 


Gafcoyne, 


- 


13 


Bud, 


- 


5 


EfTex, 


- 


8 


Elliott, 


- 


7 


King Pepple, 


- 


5 


Juba, 


« 


9 


Garland, 


- 


^3 


Mofsley Hill, 


- 


8 


Mary, 


- 


9 


Cato, 


- 


10 


Darrial, 


- 


io 


Tarleton, 


- 


5 


Africa, 


- 


19 


Quixote, 


- 


4 


Hero, 


- 


8 


Rofe, 


. 


12 


J^mes, 


- 


8 



D4 



Oronoc^a^^ 



5^ On the Impolicy of the 



Sbips Names. Number of Seamen lojl in each. 

Oronooko, - - - 5 

Kitty, . . . . \ 

Tartar, -. - - „ j 5 

Golden Age, - „ « j j 

Fancy, - « . 

Ally, . . . 

Mungo, ^ - . 

Jane, - - . . 7 

George, - . „ . ^ 

Hornet^ - - . " I "? 

Sarah, - « « - C> 

Venus, - - - - 2 

Mary, .-.:.. q 

-Mary, * - - - r 

Jemmy, « - , , 2 

Lord Stanlejf, - - . ^ 

Madam Pookata « . ^ 

Mercer, - - . „ ^ 

Hannah, - - - „ o 

Fanny, - - - - -2 

Mary Ann, - - . g 



7 

II 

2 



5 



Mofsley-Hill, ^ 

Chambers, *. - . o 

Will, - - . „ _5 

Vulture, - - - - 16 

Crefcent, - - - o 

Colonel, - - ^ „ *r 

Gregfon, - - - . 6 

Little Joe, - - . ^ 

Favourite, - » - 15 

Jffggy. - - - - 3 

Maria, - - - - 24 

Enterprize, *" " - 5 

Heart of Oak, - - - i 

Bloom, - - - - o 

Ingram, - - - - 15 

Total loft 631 
Employed '"3082 

Th.^ 



African Slave Trade. 57 

The reader will fee, by cafting his eye on the preceding 
lift, that the Jlave trade cannot pojjibly be a nv.rjery for our 
Jeamen^ for it clearly appears from thence, that it we refer 
the eftimate to the number of JhipSy every veflel, that fails 
from the port of Liverpool in this trade lofes more than 
feven of her crew, and that if we refer it to the number 
sfjeamen employed, more than a fifth perifli. 

This has been the invariable proportion for the port of 
Liverpool for m.any years ; — and I fhould have ftated it 
to the reader without the preceding lift, but that I thought 
it would be more fatisfadtory for him to fee at leaft a part 
of the foundation, on which it had been raifed. 

The other ports alfo have had, in confequence of the 
fame kind of inveftigation, their different proportions of 
iofs affigned them, which are fo accurate, that if applied 
to any number of fhips taken promifcuoufiy, and exceed- 
ing twenty, they will be found to anfwer on almoft every 
occafion» Thefe, with the former, I fhall now itate 
without referve. 

Firft : Every veflel that fails from the port of Liverpool 
to the coaft of Africa, lofes on an average more than i^v^n 
of her crew, or a fifth of the whole number employed. 

Secondly : Every vefTel from the port of Briftol lofes 
on an average nearly nine, or almoft a fourth of the whole 
crew. 

Thirdly : Every veflel from the port of London lofes 
more than eight, and between a fourth and a fifth of the 
xvhole complement of her men. 

By thefe ftatements it will appear, that if we compound 
the Iofs at the different ports of this kingdom, which are 
ufed for the profecution of the Have trade, every veflel 
may be faid to lofe more than eight of her crew ; and if 
we refer the Iofs to the number employed, between a fourth 
and a fifth may be faid to perifh. To thefe obfervations 
I ftiall only add, that in the year 1 786, eleven hundred 
end twenty -five feamen will be found upon the dead llft^ 
in confequence of this execrable trade. 



SECTION IL 



58 On the Impolicy of the 



SECTION II. 

The fecond part of the lofs, mentioned in tlie pif ceding 
fe6tionj is now to be confidered. It will be found to con- 
tain fuch, as are annually diffipated in the IVe/I-Indi.s after 
their difcharge from their refpe6live fhips ; and of whom, 
from this period, the mufter-rolls give no farther ac- 
count. 

Some of the flave vefTels, which arrive in the Weft- 
Indies, have perhaps experienced but little mortality in 
their crews. It is clear, in this cafe, that many of the 
feamen on board hecomc fupernumerary for the remainder 
of the voyage. 

Others again bring them in, in fo weak and impaired a 
Hate, that they are confidered as incapabie of navigating 
the vefTels home. 

Thefe circumftances therefore occafion many of them to 
be difcharged there. The fick are fometimes forced on fhore 
in the night previous to the departure of the vefTel home, 
and are left to fhift for them.felves, though the very acSl of 
difcharging them in the colonies, even in a reputable way, is 
contrary to law : while others are fo tired of the voyage, fo 
difgulled at the treatment which they have received, and 
fo much in want of reft and comfort, that they chufe 
rather to forfeit the whole of their wages, and defert, than 
to return home in the fame fhip. 

It appears then, that many of the feamen, for the rea- 
fons given, have left, or have been obliged to leave, their 
refpeSive vefTels, either on the arrival of thefe in the Weft- 
Indies, or before their departure home. It will be now 
proper to follow them, and to fee their fate. 

Some of thefe, as opportunity offers, make application 
to fuch fhips, either employed in this or another line, as 
are retui^ing to England, and procure a birth. But the 
demand being not equal to the employment of more than 
half Of thofe who are fet adrift, a confiderable number are 
annually left behind. Among thefe then, the refidue 
that are unemployed, is to be traced the fecond part 
of the lofs, which I mentioned to have originated in the 
profecution of the trade. 

To 



African Slave Trade. 5^ 

To attempt to afcertain it, (which I prefume will be 
no difficult tafk) I fhall confine myfelf to one particular 
year. 

In the year 1786 were employed in the 7 5000 Seamen, 
Slave trade, in round numbers j . 

Of this number came home with the vefTels 2320 

Upon the dead lift were - - 1130 

Difcharged in Africa, and not accounted 7 p 

for by other vefTels - - j ^^ 
Difcharged and deferted in the Weft- 7 

Indies .... 1 H70 



5000 



Taken ud in the place of thofe difcharo-ed 7 r 
or deferted - - M ^'° 



It will be now no difficult matter to afcertain the point 
in queftion. It has been juft ftated, ^?it fourteen hundred 
and feventy feamen were put adrift in the colonies in the 
year 1786, and that only "^fix hundred and ten were taken 
up in their ftead. It remains therefore only to inquire of 
whom this body confifted, that wtre thus taken up in the 
year 1786, as fubftitutes for thofe, who were fet adrift 
within the fame period. 

* To fhew that this trade is perfeftly fyftematick and produaive of the 
i*ame effedls, 1 fhall fubjoin the ftate of four or five lots of fhips, takcQ 
promifcuoufiy for the parpofe. 



JPifcharged or de 


■ferte. 


d in tb 


emji- 


Indies; 


^aken up in their Jleaik 


In 24 fhips in 


the 


Slave 


-trade 


334 




140 


In 14 others 




- 




211 




88 


In 24 others 




- 




209 




86 


In 24 others 
In 16 others 




" 




205 
»5S 




73 

7z 



1 1 14 459 

The reader will fee from hence, that there Is a continual difgorge- 
ment of feamen from thefe vefTels into the iflands, and not a drawback 
of one-half by the fann.e. 

Let 



Co On the Impolicy of the 

Let u^ fuppofe firft, that thefe fix hundred and ten fub- 
llitutes were all of them Guinea ftayncn. Then it is 
clear, that each of the flave vefTels, which arrived laft in 
the colonies, muft have taken up a part of thofe which 
the preceding had left behind ; that thofe, who were thus 
taken up, muft have been a part of the fame that were 
difcharged ; and that eight hundred and fixty remain to be 
accounted for in that year. 

Let us fuppofe fecondly, that they were JVefl- India 
fea?nen^ who ran from their refpective fliips, and that none 
of the fourteen hundred and feventy were taken up by the 
flave vefTels in the given time. Then it is clear, that the 
Weft-Indiamen muft have wanted an equal number of 
hands to fupply the places of thofe that had left them. 
For this fupply fet off an equal number taken from the 
fourteen hundred and feventy before mentioned. This 
will be only changing hands, and the balance will remain 
as before. 

Let us fuppofe thirdly, (which Is the real cafe) that they 
confifted of both, that is, that a part of the fubftitutes 
were taken from the Weft-Lidiamen, and the remaining 
part from the flave veffels. Then it is equally evident, 
that the refult will be the fame. So that, in whatever 
point of view we confider the cafe, it v/ill appear, that 
only fix hundred and ten feamen out of the whole number 
deferting or difcharged have yet found their way out of 
the colonies, and of courfe, that eight hundred and fixty 
yet remain to be accounted for in the expenditure of the 
year 1786. 

This being the cafe, I muft now Inquire what became 
of the latter, for they compofe a number too ferlous to be 
palfed over without a rigid inveftigation. 

It vv^ill be faid, that they came home in the Weft-India- 
men. But I reply, that the Weft-Indiamen have already 
received a fufiicient number to replace thofe of their own 
feamen, who were taken up by the flave veflTels in that 
year, and that the balance Is ftill the fame. If there- 
fore any were wanted by the former veffels. It could be 
only to fupply the places of fuch as died, or were loft on 
board them. 

Thi& 



African Slave Trade. 6i 

This lofs, on a fuppofition that fix hundred fall of 
vefTels were employed In the Weft-Indies from Great 
Britain In the year 1786, was not more than that of one 
hundred and fixty feamen, fo thaty^'L'^'^ hundred (admitting^ 
the lofs to have been fo fupplied} muft have been ftlll left 
in the colonies. 

It will be now faid, that the remainder went into the 
King's fervice. Shall I referve two hundred of them for 
this purpofe, a much greater number than were ever wanted 
annually as recruits in the time of peace ? What became of 
the reft, iox five hundred ftill remain to be accounted for. 

The truth is, that they were loft for ever to the ftate, 
and that this number will ftill continue to be annually loft, 
fo long as the trade is profecuted to its prefent extent. 

In the following pidure may be {^tn the fate of the 
unemployed remains of thofe, who are thus annually fet 
adrift in the colonies. 

Some of thefe, in an infirm and debilitated ftate of 
health, (the reafons of which will be given in a future 
chapter) and xiiXkiQ'c jhadows in their appearance than ?neri^ 
are foon carried to the hofpitals, and die there. 

Others, to forget their fufferings, and to have a little 
relaxation after the hardftiips and feverities they have 
experienced, indulge themfelves on ftiore. They drink new 
rum. Their habit of body is unable to bear it, and they 
fall vi6lims, I will not fay to their intemperance, but to 
the nature of the trade, which has brought them iirft Into 
a debilitated ftate, and has then put them adrift to efFe6t 
their own cure. Thefe are feen in the ftreets * dyino; 
daily in an ulcerated ftate, obje6^s both of commiferatiou 
and horror. Their fituation immediately points them out 
as the remains of the crew of a flave veflel : but they fall 
without pity, without friends, without a look but of con- 
tempt from the hardened multitude that pafles by. 

Others, without friends, and without money, wander 
about In the different iflands, and beg from door to door, 
till overpowered by heat, hunger, and fatigue, they fall 
equally unpitied, and fhare the fate of their former 
friends. 

* Particularly In Jamaica, 

Others, 



f>% On the Impolicy of tm£ 

Others, upon feeing all thefe calamities, are addi- 
tionally fo hurt on account of the brutal feverlties exercifed 
upon them, and the want of prote6lion and redrefs, de- 
termine to embark for America, there to fpend the re- 
mainder of their days : and fo Invincible has been the 
refolutlon of many of them in this refpcsSt, that, deflitute 
of money, they have fufFered themfelves to die vi^ith hun- 
ger, fooner than embark in any fhip that belonged to their 
own country. 

In thefe different ways are many of the brave but unfor- 
tunate feamen, who are put adrift in the colonies from the 
velTels before defcribed, lofl additionally to the ftate, and 
in fuch a proportion, that not lefs than five hundred 
annually, in the time of the * peace eftablifhment, or 
about four to every veffel, may be added, as lo/i in the 
Weji'indies^ to thofe upon the dead lift, that are martyrs 
to this inhuman trade. 



S E C t I O N III. 

I come now to the third part of the lofs, which the 
ftate experiences. This may be traced in fuch of the 
feamen as, having left the colonies either in their own or 
in other ihips, have returned home. 

Some of thefe, and not an inconfiderable number, when 
we view them as feamen, go blind in confequence of the 
voyage, and become in future for ever dead as naval fub- 
je<fts to the ftate. 

Others, worn out and landed from the fhips in a weak 
and emaciated condition, are carried to the infirmaries, 
and die there. 

Others, labouring under the fcurvy, rheumatifm, and a 
complication of diforders, contracted from the very nature 
of the voyage, become incurable. Their whole habit is 
fo broken down and relaxed, that oedematous fweliings are 
the confequence in their legs, and they are cut off from 
all chance or poffibility of purfuing a naval life. Others, 
that have been maimed or ill treated, are in the fame 

* The peace eftabliihment in this trade confifls of about one hundred 
and thirty veflels. 

fituation. 



. African Slave Trai^e. 63 

fituation. While others again, difgufted at the barbarous 
treatment exercifed upon themj and perhaps in their firft 
voyages, become difheartened, relinqui/h the fea, and be- 
take themfelves to thofe occupations which they left, or of 
which they have moft knowledge. 

Thefe are the different ways in which the third part 
of the lofs is occafioned ; and if we include thofe who 
become blind, and die in the infirmaries, and are 
rendered by ill treatment and a complication of difor- 
ders incapable of purfuing the fea, and who relinquifh it 
from difguft, it will be a very rnoderate ftatement to fay, 
(at leaft as far as my inquiries have yet reached) that three 
naval fubje(Sl:s are additionally loft to the ftate by every 
veflel, even out of thofe who return ho?ne, 

Thefe obfervations being put together, and the whole 
lofs, including thofe that were upon the dead lift, and 
thofe that were loft in the colonies, and thofe that died 
and were rendered unferviceable at home, being eftimated, 
it cannot be ftated, that lefs th^^n fifteen feamen in every 
veffel, or nineteen hundred and fifty out of the whole 
number employed, were loft to the fervice of this country 
by the profecution of the ilaye trade in the year * 1786. 



SECTION IV. 

Having now ftated the a^ual lofs, which the veflels 
experienced in this trade, I come to the comparative ; for I 
have faid that the flave trade was not only a grave for our 
feamen, but that it deftroyed more in one year than all the 
other trades of Great Britain, when put together, deftroy 
in two. 

For this purpofe, I fhall exhibit the lofs fuftained in 
feveral trades, confining myfelf to a certain number of 
veflels taken promifcuoufly in each. 

* The lofs, ftated in the year 1786, will be nearly applicable to that of 
the year 1787, or any other year of what maj be called the peace eftab- 
lifhment in this trade j for in any fu.h years, nearly the fame number 
will be found on the dead lift} th- fame number difcharged in the 
colonies ; the fame number taken up in their places j and the fame 
number dead, and rendered unferviceable at home 5-— fo fyftematick (as I 
obferved in a former note) Is this trade. 

An 



64 On the Impolicy of the 



An Account of the LOSS fuftained in Twenty-four 
Slave VefTels from the Port of Bristol. 

Ships Names. Number of Seamen loji^ 



Africa 


« 


7 


Pearl 


'» 


20 


Jupiter * 


• 


II 


Heaor 


> 


8 


Emilia 


. 


8 


Conftantine 


» 


IX 


Alfred 


. 


6 


Jupiter 


~ - 


14 


Sally 


- 


7 


Wafp 


- 


3 


Little Hornet 


- 


6 


Royal Charlotte 


- 


H 


Tryal 


- 


6 


Emilia 


- 


9 


Alexander 


- 


9 


Little Pearl 


> 


5 


Mermaid 


- 


2 


Wafp 


* 


6 


Brothers 


- 


32 


Thomas 


- 


8 


Emilia 


- 


3 


Alert 


. 


4 


Royal Charlotte 


- 


2 


Alexander 


•• 


15 



2x6 



An 



AFRICAN SlAve Trader 65 



Aii Account of the LOSS fuftalned in Twenty- fout 
East-Indiamen. 



Ships Names, Number of Seamen lofih 

Manfliip - « *j 

William Pitt « - 13 

Duke of Montrofe - 10 



Earl Cornwallis 
Phoenix 



Kent 
Stormont 



Lord North 



Sulivan 



Pitt 



4 
23 



Northumberland - 2 6 

Ranger - - ^ i 

Southampton - - S 

Chapman - - ^ 



12 



9 



Royal Charlotte - « 9 

Contra6lor - - e 

Bridgewater - - 2 

Neptune - - ^ 

Vanfittart - - 7 

Earl Talbot - - 20 

Valentine . ., g 



3 



Ganges =. - Ij 



7 



Carnatic « «• 2 



3 



jerrmgton ^^ , 19 

aoi 



An 



6^ On the Impolicy of thr 



An Account of the LOSS faftained in Twenty-four 
West-Indiamen. 

Ships Names » Number of Seamen loft* 

Good Hope « - O 

Exeter ^ - O 

Venus - - o 

Charles - - - o 

Juno - - - o 

Colin " - - o 

Albion - - - o 

Mercury - - o 

St. Thomas - - o 

Druid - , - 3 

Induftry - - o 

Apollo - - O 

Saviile - - • O 

Fanny - - o 

Jarrett ^ - o 

Lord North - - o 

Triton - - i 

Fame -_ - o 

Union liland - - o 

Mercury . - O 

GTenerous Planter - i 

Difpatch - - I 

Salter - , - o 

Pilgrim - , • O 



An 



^African Slave Traded - of 



* An Account of the LOSS fuftained in Twenty-fouf 
V^efTels In the Petersburg Trade. 

Ships Names ^ Number of Seamen loji^ 

Exeter - * b 

Nancy - - O 

Three Sifters - - - o 

Jofeph ^ _ O 

Exeter - - =. O 

Baltlck Merchant -, - o 

Three Sifters - - o 

Three Sifters - - o 

Polly - _ - - o 

Sally - - «. - o 

Three Sifters - - - o 

Polly „ -^ - o 

Three Sifters -^' - O 

Monmouth i „ o 

Baltick Merchant - O 

Monmouth - « O 

Baltick Merchant - t 

Monmouth - » O 

Sally - - - . o 

Baltick Merchant - » 1 

Sally - - - - o 

Monmouth - » - o 

Sally . . - o 

Monmouth « - o 



* The Peterfburg trade, at Briftol, where I collefted foms of my 
J>apers, being fmail, I have been obliged to take the fame fhip for three 
or four voyages. 



E 2 An 



6jf On the Impolicy of the 



An Account of the LOSS fuflained in Twenty-four 
Veflels in the Newfoundland Trade. 



Ships Names, Number of Seamen loft* 



Surprife 


3 


Somerlet 


o 


Catherine 


o 


Jenny - - i. 


o 


Little Robert - - . 


o 


Unity - , - 


o 


Nancy - - « 


I 


Briftol Packet 


o 


Friends • - - - 


o 


Ripley - , ». 


o 


Harbourgrace Packet 


o 


A(Stive - - « ^ 


o 


Ann , - - 


o 


Mermaid • - « 


e 


Surprife 


I 


Brothers 


o 


Fly 


o 


Catherine 


o 


Betfey ...» 


o 


Friendftlip 


o 


Jenny 


o 


Nancy 


o 


Sally ... - 


o 


Nancy - - • - 


o 



An 



African Sxave Tr*a6e. S9 

An Account of the LOSS fuftained in Twenty-four 

GR-EENLANDMEN. 

Ships Names, Number ef Seamen kfl^ 



tVilliam and John 

Lyon 

Betty 

Peggy 









Lyon 


2 


Philippa 
William 






Sarah 





Leviathan 





Pilgrim 





John 





Grampus 
Golden Lyon 
Brilliant 




I 


James 





Anfdell 





Whale 





Margaret 


I 


Peggy 
Argus 




© 


Betty 





Swan 





Fifher 


I 


Seacpm? 






E t fTo 



^j^ On the Impolicy of the 



To recapitulate, the account will ftand thus 

In twenty- four Slave vefTels 216 

" Eaft- Indian 201 

Wefl-Indian ^ 

r^ ?_ ■ Greenland 5 

^ ^. Peterfburg 2 

— — Newfoundland 2 



But this flatementj though it exhibits the Ioi« fuftalneci 
in an equal number of velTels in different trades, does not 
yet give us that juft comparative view, which the cafe, 
requires. Some of thefe were confiderably longer on their 
voyage, and carried a much greater number of men than 
others. Thefe two circumftances, therefore, are to be 
reduced to an equilibrium. We muft put an equal num- 
ber of hands into the different trades. Wc mull make 
them ferv? for an equal time ; and the lofs, which 
each would experience under thefe circumftances, will be 
the true comparative lofs. 

I will not trouble the reader to follow me through the 
procefs of th^fe calculations. I fhall therefore inform 
him immediately, that in raifmg the time and number in 
fome, and reducing them in others, to a juft equilibriumj, 
the account will ftand thus : 



200, 



In 910 fea men employed in the Briftol flave-veffel 
for one year, will be loft more than 

In 910 in Eaft-Indiamen 

In 910 ^ in Weft-Indiamen 

In 910 in the Peterfourg trade 10 J. dj. 

In 910 in the Nevv'foundland trade 

In 910 "^rr in the Greenland trade 



H 



avmi 



African Slave Trade.' Jl 

Having now furnifhed a comparative view of the lofs 
fuftained in fome of the trades that are carried on by the 
fubjefls of this country, 1 will venture to aflert, that if 
we except the flave trade, all the reft of them put together 
did not diffipate more than nine hundred feamen in the 
year 1786. In the fame year v/ere deftroyed by the flave 
trade nineteen hundred and fifty. So that the truth of my 
former alTertion, " that this iniquitous trade deftroys 
*' 77iQre^ in one year^ than all the other trades of Great 
<' Britain, when put together, deftroy in twoy' v/ill but 
too manifeftly appear. 

The account, Vv^hich I have now given, including many 
particular facts, will, I doubt not, have fufficient weight 
with the diiinterefted Britifh reader, to overturn the 
argument, which has never been mfifted upon but in 
general terms, that the jlave trade is a nurjcry for our 
feamen. Th^ reverfe, I apprehend, will ftrike him in a 
very forcible light ; and, if I do not anticipate too haftily, 
cannot but be productive of pain. That every fhip, fo 
occupied and employed, fhould be attended with fuch a 
lofs as has been fpecified, is a circumftance, fo melancholy 
in itfelf, and fo fatal in its confequences, that it muft fill 
him with alarm and horror, and he will wait with painful 
anxiety for the fuppreffion of a trade, which fo mamfeftly 
tends to v/ound his country in its vital parts. In vain will 
its advocates plead with him, that the chain of com-r 
merce will be broken, or that a part of the mercantile 
fabrick of the nation will be thrown down. Let them 
remember, that it has been raifed at the expenfe of the 
pillars of the ftate ; and that no emolument whatever ., which 
individuals can obtain from the trade^ can ever be thought ({ 
(i07cient compenfation for fo great and fo national a lofs,. 



CHAP. 



'Jra On the Impolicy of the 



CHAP. VL 

I muft now inquire, whether the trade in the natura^ 

produ6lions of the country would be equally detrimental 

to the ftate ; for it will immediately be alleged, that the 

veiTels, in which it is to be conduiledj muft go to the 

fame coaft. 

I fhall anfwer this objection in the moil explicit man- 
ner, by endeavouring to prove, that if the fame fhips and 
men were to go into the trade propofed, they would not 
experience an equal lofs. 

This I fhall attempt to demonflrate by recurring to the 
Caufes of the lofs defcribed, and by fhewing thefe caufes 
to be chiefly peculiar to the trade in Haves, or fuch as 
would ceafe to exift, were the trade aboliftjed. 

The jfirft will be found upon the coafl. 

On the windward coaft a confiderable part of the cargo. 
t>f flaves is procured by open boats. Thefe boats are 
continually beating about, and watching the fignals made 
upon the fhore. They proceed to the diftance of twenty 
or thirty leagues, and are often abfent for three weeks 
from the fhip. During this time, they are expofed to the 
inclemency of the weather, night and day, which becomes 
frequently the occafion of their death. Some of thefe 
boats are upfet, and the feamen loft. 

Others go up the rivers, and are abfent for an equal 
time. The days are exceffively hot, and the dews are 
exceffively cold and heavy. Thofe, who are fent upon 
this fervice, are confidered as devoted. Some never 
return with the boats. The reft come on board, and 
often die. 

This mortality is to be attributed to two caufes ; partly 
to the uncertainty of the trade, which makes the long and 
conftant life of thefe boats fo necefTary ; and partly to the 
climate. 

In the trade propofed, no fuch uncertainty would be 
found. The feafons for the different crops, (not like the 
feafons for human flefh) would be periodical and regular. 
Store-houfes would be built at convenient places. The 

natives. 



African Slave Trade. 73 

yiatives up the river would bring down their produce in 
their canoes. The ufe of open boats would in this refpect 
be precluded, and one of the caufes of the prefent lofs 
would be removed. 

With refpeft to the climate, it requires but little know- 
ledge or experience to fay, that it may be fubje6led to 
human art. Other countries, now civilized, were for^ 
merly inhofpitable to Grangers, but have become habita- 
ble by all. Such would be the cafe with the regions of 
Africa in the new intercourfe pointed out. For if the 
country, v/hich is now a foreft, were cleared ; if the 
lands were put into cultivation, if the fwamps were 
drained, and fuch other events were to take place, as 
would be the certain effects of eftabliihing the trade 
propofed, the caufe of this mortaHty to Grangers would 
gradually decreafe, the dews would be moderated, the rains 
and tornadoes become lefs frequent and violent, and the 
climate be as healthy as any other in any region of the 
globe. 

Other caufes of the lofs, which the ftate expe- 
riences in her feamen by the profecution of the trade, 
will be found both upon the coaft and on the middle 
paflage. 

The firft of thefe may be traced in infurre^tions. In 
eonfequence of v^hich feveral of them have loft their lives. 

The fecond in the communication of thofe diforders, 
with v/hich the ilaves are attacked. Among thefe is prin- 
cipally the flux, which is contagious, and which feveral 
of the feamen, v/ho are often obliged to be among them, 
cannot poilibly efcape. 

The above two caufes, it is evident, could have no 
exiftence in the trade propofed, as the commodities, which 
the veiTels would then carry, could neither rife up againft, 
nor fpread an infection among their crews. 

A third may be found in that barbarous and oppref- 
five treatment, which has been defcribeJ. This treatment 
occafions the death of fome, and renders others incapable 
of purfuing the fame line of life on their return home. 
This caufe would immediately be removed, as it is peculiar, 
i^nd wholly to be attributed to the nature of this execrable 

trade. 



74 On the Impolicy of tAe 

trade. It is a fa6l, that men have embarked In it, who 
have been confidered as men of humanity, and that the 
fame people in a little time have been totally altered, and 
diftingullhed by the appellat'on of brutes. Nor is the 
change wonderful. The unbounded power, which the 
captains of fl.ive veffels pofTefs, could be exercifed but 
by few with propriety, and is in general too much for the 
human mind to bear, without degenerating into tyranny 
and opDreilion. The fcenes too, which they muft con- 
ftantly be accuftomed to behold, harden the heart, rob it 
of its finer feelings, and at length create a ferocity that, 
accompanied with the other eiFedls, renders them rather 
monllers than men. 

The fourth is to be traced in bad living. The crews 
of thefe veffils have not only to ftruggle with the difad- 
vantages defcribed, but additionally with thofe of hunger 
and thlrfl:, which render them emaciated and weak, and 
confpire, with other caufes, to pull them down, and to 
fubdue them. They are in general half ftarved^ and are 
often reduced to the necellity of begging their vi6tuals of 
the flaves. The latter, with a generolity and commifera- 
tion, that muft ever be the fevereft cenfure on their 
enflavers, convey to them privately through the gratings 
the foiicited relief. 

Water too, in a quantity fufficient to fatisfy their thirft, 
is fcarcely to be obtained. A gun-barrel is carried to the 
topmaft headj and fufpended there , The fallor, who wants 
to drink, is obliged to fetch it down. He then puts it 
into a cafk of water, and applying his mouth to the 
muzzle, fucks the liquid up. When he has done with it, 
he carries it to its former place. Many, who are Tick and 
infirm, go without their water, or fufFer as long as they- 
can, fooner than attempt to fetch the inftrument for ob«. 
taining it in their feeble ftate. 

This prohibition of a fufficient quantity of water and 
provifions, the want of which greatly impoverifhes their 
blood, and renders them more fufceptible of impreffion 
from the various caufes of difeafe, is wholly to be afcribed 
to the nature of the trade j for the time which a vefTel 
may ftay upon the coaft, or be upon the middle pallage^ 



.African Slave Trade. 



75 



]s fo uncertain^ and the number on board to be daily fup- 
ported fo greaf^ that the officers are under the neceffity of 
^(Sllng with the parfimony defcribed. 

The fifth originates in the following manner : When 
the flaves are brought on board, the feamen, to make 
j-oom for them, are turned out of cheir apartments between 
the decks. During their ftay in the rivers, a place of 
retreat is made for them, but this, on their departure from 
the coaft, is obliged to be taken down. From this period 
they either fleep on the open deck, or in the tops of the 
verfel. In fome veflels they are permitted to fleep in the 
boat, which Is fufpended under the booms, with a tarpawJing 
over them ufually full of holes. But in general they are \e^t 
deftitute of a covering, and are expofed through the whole 
of the middle pafTage to all the inclemency of the weather. 
If it rains, they muft unavoidably be wet, and in that 
condition they muft unavoidably continue, as they have 
no place of flielter, in which they can put their heads. 
From this bad lodging, and this continual expofure to 
colds and damps, and fuddenly afterwards to a burning 
fun, fevers originate, which carry many of them off; and 
as to fome of thofe who furvive, fuch confirmed rheuma- 
tifms are the confequence, as to render them afterwards 
burthenfome to, themfelves, ^nd unferviceable to the 
^ate. 

Nor is this the only efFe(5l, which this continual vlclf- 
fitude from heat to extreme dampnefp and cold, has upon 
feme of the furviving crew. Inflammatory fevers, as I 
obferved before, neceflarily attack them. Thefe fevers 
afFecl the whole frame. The eye, from the tendernefs 
and delicacy of its texture, and its fufceptibility beyond 
that of any other organ, feels the inflammation moft. 
This inflammation terminates either in difperfion or fup- 
puration. In the firft inftance, the eyes are faved. In 
the latter, they are loft. Thus many of thofe who fur- 
vive, though they afterwards regain their health, are ren- 
dered incapable, in confequence of the lofs of their fio-ht^ 
of purfuing a naval life. This caufe, as produdive of 
^he two different efl-eds now mentioned, is to be found 
only in the trade in flaves. 

The 



^6 On the iM'POLftY OF tHE 

The fixth, and laft which I fhall mention, is the great 
length of time in which they are made to live upon fait 
provifions without any intermiiTion, indulgencies being 
feldom or ever given them, as in other trades. The 
reafon of fuch a niggardly conduct in their employers is 
this, that the (Icve trade is fo much more hazardous than 
the reft, that every pitiful faving mufl be made. Thefe 
fait provifions that are equally adminiftered to them in 
health or ficknefs, vitiate the juices. Every fear, that is 
accidentally raifed upon their fiefh, becomes an ulcer, 
Thefe ulcers are hardly ever to be cured ; and fo afFe6ted 
have been tue bones of many of them with thefe fcorbu- 
tick diforders, that a probe has been put through them 
with eafe ; and fo thin their blood, that it has difcharged 
itfelf at the ulcerated places. In this unhappy ftate, many 
of them, as I have obferved before, are difcharged in the 
Weft Indies, and die there, while fome of thofe, who are 
fo fortunate to get home, become incurable. 

It is clear, that if the trade propofed were eftabliflied, 
this caufe would be immediately removed. The whole 
length of the voyage would be only five months. Frefh 
provifions could be afforded them on the coaft : and if a 
feaman fell ficlc, he would foon be carried to fea, (not as 
in a flave vefTel, to encounter with new and fatal diforders 
on the middle pafTage) but in a wholefome fhip, foon to 
experience the efTe6ts of his native air. 

From the fcurvy then, as arifmg from hence, and from 
the flux, rheumatifm, and other complaints, as arifmg 
from the caufes affigned, fuch a complication of diforders 
is fixed upon fome of thofe that return, that it is a doubt 
whether the flave trade does not even render unferviceable 
more than it deftroys : and a perfon need only fee the 
crews of the flave vefTels land, and trace them to their 
refpedive homes, or vifit the infirmaries of the place, ta 
be convinced of the melancholy truth of this aflfertion. 

Thefe being caufes then, which are chiefly peculiar to. 
the flave trade, or fuch as would be removed by its aboli- 
tion, it is clear, that any vefl^els, going to the fame coafl 
for diiTerent commodities, could not poiTibly be liable to. 
5an equal lofs. As a proof of this, (fox in a cafe where 

fiich 



African Slave Trade. 77 

fuch oppofition may be expected, I will not even hazard a 
juft inference where a proof can be obtained) I fhall fub- 
mit to the infpe£lion of the reader the following lift of ten 
wood vefTels, taken promifcuoufly, as they returned home 
to the fame port, from the year 1781 to tlie Auguft of the 
year 1787. 



^h'tps Names. Number of Men, 


Nwmher of Men loji 


Tryal 


12 


2 


Lively 


20 


2 


Rebecca 


20 


7 


Lyon 


28 





Rebecca 


16 


2 


Cleveland 


8 


2 


African Queen 


24 


2 


St. Andrew 


8 





Cleveland 


8 





Heaor 


20 ^ 


3 




164 


20 



It is manlfeft from hence, that as feveral of the caufes 
have been taken away, fo feveral of the efFeds have been 
.removed. The lofs in the Have vefTels from the fame 
port is nearly a fourth of the whole number employed. 
The lofs in thefe is not quite an eighth. In nine hundred 
and ten feamen, employed in the former, * two hundred 
and fixteen were among the dead. In nine hundred and 
ten, if employed in the latter, only one hundred mid ten 
would have perilhed. 

But there are two or three obfervations, which I muft 
yet make. The flave vefTels were upon an average 
fcarcely feven months upon the coaft. The wood vefTels 
were from five to fifteen, or on an average nearly ten. 
The latter circumftance is of great importance, for if the 
trade alluded to were eftablifhed, no vefTel would have any 
neceflity to be longer at the mofl than three : and it furely 
makes a confiderable difference, whether men, as in the 

* This Is the number aftuallyon the dead lift, but It does not include 
the maimed, the blind, the unferviceable, or fuch as died after their dif- 
charge in the Weft-Indies or Great Britain, in confeijuence of the trade. 

prefent 



yg On* The Impolicy of- THk 

prefent cafe, are expofed to an unhealthy climate for teii 
months without intermiiKon, or whether, being employed 
in the nev/ trade, which would be regular, for the fame 
period, they would go there and back twice in the time, 
and have two different intervals of refrefhment on their 
native fhore. 

I muft obferve too, that the crews of the latter, on 
account of the prefent uncertainty of the trade in the na-" 
tural produ6lions of the country, were obliged to be up 
and down the rivers, to be much expofed, and to partake 
of one of the caufes of the lofs furtained in the form^eri 
Now, if the trade propofed were eftablifhed, it is clear^ 
that this caufe alfo would be removed ; and that the veflels 
of the merchants would be then nearly in the fame circum- 
ftances as thofe in his Majefty's fervice, which are ftationed 
from three to five months only on this coall, and have no 
necefTity for beating up and down, or expofmg their crews 
continually to the inclemency of the weather. 

The lofs which the crews of thefe experience is but- 
trifling, and only fuch as they would haye experienced, had 
they ftaid at home, as will appear by the following account. 

A LIST of fuch of His MAJESTY'S SHIPS 

As have been ftationed on the Coafl of Africa 

Since the lafl Peace, 

With the Lofs which they fuflained in their refpe(3:Ivfif 

Voyages. 

Ships Names, Number of Men. Number of Men lof^^ 

Race Horfe lOO o . 

Bull Dog 100 5 

Grampus * 300 ^ 

Grampus 300 V 3 

Grampus 300 j 

Nautilus 100 \ 

Nautilus 100 J 

1300 10 

* The Grampus has made three voyages to the C^ fince the peace, 
and the Nautilus two. 

li 



African Slave Trade* ^g 

It is clear from this account, that the lofs, which the 
crews of his Majelly's (hips have fuftained upon this coail, 
is very inconfiderable. Notwithftanding this, they kept 
their watch, went into the country for wood and water, 
cut down the former with their own hands, navigated the 
velTel, and were frequently expofed. I would now a/k 
what the crew of a merchant's vefTel, if this regular trade 
were eftablifhed, would, if we exclude the reception and 
difcharge of the cargo, have more to do ? 

In fhort, it is clear from the fads and obfervations laid 
down already, (and it will be ftill more evident, if we con- 
fider that the lands of Africa could not be cleared and 
cultivated without greatly improving the climate) that if 
a regular trade were eftablifhed in the natural productions 
of the place, and purfued with as much zeal and alacrity 
as we have embarked in that of flaves, this country would 
derive an ineftimable benefit from the change. The feamen 
employed in it, would not only be cheriihed and preferved, 
but would be returned to their native country in health 
and vigour, in cafe of an emergency, in a few weeks : — 
whereas the flave trade not only cannot fupport itfelf bv 
any naval fubjedls, which it attempts to rear, but dejiroys 
ihofe that have been reared and fupported in other trades* 
To which it muft be added, that in cafe of an emergency, 
but little benefit (comparatively fpeaking) is to be derived 
from the fervices of thofe that furvive ; and that it con- 
verts many of thofe, whom it returns, from the moft 
ufe'ful to the moll unferyjceable members of the ftate. 



CHAP. VIL 



So On the Impolicy of the 



CHAP. VII. 

The advocates for the flave trade have never ofFeredt 
but two of its appendages, as pohtical arguments for its 
continuance. The iirft of thefe, " that the Jlave trade 
" is a mtrfery for our jeamen^^ has been canvalTed in 
the preceding chapters. The fecond, therefore, upon 
which an equal ftrefs has been laid, is the only one now 
remaining for difcuffion. 

This argument ihall be given in the moft diftindt and 
advantageous manner in which I am able to convey it. 

'' There are two branches of the ilave trade. By means 
« of the firft we fuppiy the inhabitants of our own colonies 
*^ with flaves, and by means of the fecond the colonics of 
*' foreign nations. The latter generally pay for them in 
*' hard dollars. Thefe dollars are brought home, and de- 
*' pofited in our bank. Thus the nation becomes enriched, 
" and the fecond branch of the trade now mentioned is 
*' peculiarly politick,''' 

But I reply, if gold or filver be objedls of fuch national 
advantage, aboliih the (lave trade. Open a trade to Africa 
in the natural produdions of the country. The gold, 
which is now picked up in fuch fcanty fragments, might 
be then found in abundance ; and you might receive 
it in quantities, not only equivalent to the manufadtures, 
which would pay for fuch of the flaves as are carried ta 
the Spaniards or the French, but in a much greater 
proportion. 

This, I apprehend, would have been a fatisfadlory' 
anfwer to the argument advanced ; but this branch of the 
trade is really fo bad in its tendency, fo fatal in its con- 
fequences, and fo truly impoiitick, that I cannot pafs it 
over without fome farther remarks. 

It is clear, that every lot of flaves which we additionally 
import, or caufe to be imported into their colonies, enables 
them to clear an additional piece of ground ; every piece 
fo gained, fupplies .. additional produce. This produce 
employs additional feamen ; and the great number of 
naval fubjeds, which we thus additionally raife for an 

enemy^ 



African Slave Trade, 8i 

enemy, has a tendency (which is not to he put Into com-^ 
petition with the profits of the fiave trade) to diminifh our 
naval importance. 

But the evil does not flop here. The French, from a 
variety of caufes, have been able to underfell us in this 
produce at the different markets of Europe. This has 
given birth to an additional fleet of fhips employed in the 
exporting of it to other countries. Now, if we confider 
that French jQiips carry nearly double the number of fea- 
men which ours of the fame burthen do, we fhall find that 
we are enabling our reputed enemies, by this branch of the 
trade, to difpute with us the fcvereignty of the feas. 

It is well known, that both the Spaniards and the French 
depend folely upon their American poffeffions for the re- 
cruit of their marine. It is as much an eftablifhed maxim 
among them, as that the fifheries, if properly encouraged, 
would be the compleateft nurfery for our own. For this 
purpofe, the former have opened their ports duty free for 
the reception of flaves * for ten years. For this purpofe the 
latter not only offer a bounty by the ton to the proprietors 
of fuch vefTels as import them into the uncultivated parts 
^f St. Domingo, but even afterwards a bounty by the 
head on every imported flave. To this politick conduit in 
our enemies, and to this impoUtick condu6l in us, who 
have fufFered our own fubjecis to fupply them at fo pub- 
lick a difadvantage to ourfelves, is to be attributed one of 
the caufes that rendered them fo formidable at fea during 
the late war ; for the reader mufl be informed, that fmce 
the year 1760, we have been affifting them with an 
unaccountable infanity to add to the ftrength of their 
marine. 

This appendage then of the trade calls aloud for the 
immediate interference of the legiflature. It is even more 
detrimental than the former. For we not only increafe the 
naval ftrength of our enemies^ but at the fame time we 
diminifh our own. This inverfe ratio of lofs and gain, 
which in their fcale of naval importance is either way fo 
much gain, and in ours either way fo much lofs, is of die 

* Beginning in 1786, 

F moft 



82 On the Impolicy of the 



^ 



moft ferious concern, and the efFe(5i:s, which it may pro- 
duce in a courfe of years, fo alarming, that they cannot 
be anticipated but with pain. 

Though I may be thought to have faid fufficient on this 
point, yet I cannot rehnquifli it, imprefled as I am with 
a fenfe of its importance to this country, without fub- 
mitting the following elHmate to the reader. 

Let us fuppofe that we are the means of taking only 
fifteen hundred flaves from the coafl: of Africa for the ufe 
of the French and Spanifh colonies in a given time. It 
js certain, if we judge from the common rules, which are 
too accurate to be inapplicable on this occafion, thaty/^ 
hundred of them will be loft in the voyage and feafoning 
together. There will be left therefore nine hundred, effec- 
tive people for the purpofe of cultivation. Thefe will 
raife one thoufand hogfheads of fugar every year, employ 
one new fhip, and give birth to twenty -five feamen. This 
* will be the gain on nine hundred effe6live Haves. 

On the other hand we are to confider, that the average 
number of Haves taken in a Britifh fhip being three hun- 
dred and fixty, four vefTels will be employed in tranfport- 
ing fifteen, or nine hundred efi^eSiive flaves, for the ufe of 
their plantations. The number of feamen loft in thefe, 
including the dead, and the unferviceable, will hefixty. 

Thus in every importation of nine hundred effective 
flaves, there is a gain to the reputed enemies of this 
country of tzventyfive feamen, and a lofs to us ol fiixty\ 
that is, a real gain to the former of eighty five^ befides 
the additional feamen employed in tranfporting the fugar 
from the ports of France to other nations. Now, if v/e 
confider that we are the means of importing annually 
Jevcral thovfiand flaves into the French and Spanifh colo- 
nies, we fiiall more eafily fee the abfurdity, if not the 
political wickednefs, of our prefent conduct. 

To fum up the whole. If we ferioufiy confider the 
appendages of the trade, which have been falfely held 
out as political arguments for its continuance ;. if we con- 
fider that the trade propofed would have a different ten^ 

* This fubjea will be farther inveftigatcd i|i Chapter the 4th of the 
fecond part of this work.. 

dency^ 



African Slave Trade. 83 

dency, and be followed with diiFerent efFe6ls ; If we con- 
fider that it would not interfere with the prodLi61:ions of 
our prefent colonies ; that it would be attended with 
emolument to numerous individuals, and at the fame 
time with fubftantial benefits to the ftate ; and if we ad- 
ditionally confider, that it might be the means of averting 
thofe heavy judgments, which the blood of the murdered 
Africans will undoubtedly bring upon us, it will appear, 
that there is no one political argument yet adduced, why 
the Have trade fhould be continued : There are many and 
important ones why it fhould hQ fupp7'ejfed. 



End of the Firji Part, 




n 



A& 



ESSAY 



ON THE 



IMPOLICY 

OF THE 

AFRICAN SLAVE TRADEo 

IN TWO PARTS. 
PART XL 



T 



CHAP. L 

SECTION h 

iHE arguments, which the patrons of the Slave trade 
have been accuftomed to oiFer in its defence, may be 
divided into two kinds. The firft comprehends the 
pofitive advantages that refult from the profecution of this 
trade ; the fecond the fatal confequences of its abolition. 
The former have been examined already. The latter are 
to become the fubje6l of the remaining part of the worko 
It is faid firft, that if the flave trade is aboHfhed, the 
planters will be in want of cultivators for their lands, and 
that many other melancholy confequences will refult to 
them, as well as to the /laves and the ijlands^ from the 
abolition of the trade. 

F 3 I ihall 



86 On the Impolicy of the 



^ 



I fhall fhew firft, that it is in the power of the planters, 
if they pleafe, to do without frefh fupplies from the coaft : 
I fhall then ftiew, that if the importation of flaves is 
prohibited, no fuch want will be found, but on the other 
hand, that the number of cultivators will increafe : and, 
laftly, that both the planters, the Haves, and the iflands, 
will be benefited by the change. 

To fhew the truth of the firft pofition, I fhall have 
recourfe to the following fa^ls. 

In the year 1771, a gentleman, now in England, be- 
came the proprietor of an eitate, fituated near Montego 
Bay, in the parifti of Hanover, yama'ica. The number 
of flaves, at that time upon it, amounted to two hundred 
and feventy-fix^ . all of whom had been born in the fame 
ifland. In the year 1786, after fifteen years had elapfed, 
the number was found the fame : nor had any purchafe 
whatever been made within that period, nor was any at 
the end of it necelTary. 

In the year 1754, another gentleman fucceeded to an 
eftate in the fame parifh and illand. It contained, at that 
time, two hundred and thirty-three flaves. By his lafl 
account, dated in June 1786, the num.ber appeared to 
have increafed, without any fupplies from the coaft, to 
three hundred and fourteen^ th.ou^ fourteen had been fent 
to other eflates, or manumitted. 

In the fame ifland are fix other eilrates, which have 
been in a fimilar fituatlon, and for the truth of which I 
will become accountable, if required. ~ 

The firfl: of thefe has fupported itfelf, independently of 
the flave trade, for twenty years, and from no other 
caufe, than that the owner, having thought it more to 
his interefl that his flaves fhould increafe by ^/W^ than 
by purchafe^ made his arrangements accordingly. 

The fecond and third, fituated in the parlili of Claren- 
don, have had no occafion for a fingle recruit from Africa 
for many years. 

The fourth, in the parifh of St. James, found a 
refource within itfelf, and by the following means. The 
proprietor made it a rule to reieafe every woman from all 
obliaiation to labour, as foon as fhe had a certain number 

of 



African Slave Trade. 2y 

iDf children, fit to be put to work. The confequence of this 
was, that his ilaves were continually on the increafe. 

The fifth and fixth, fituated In the parifh of St. John, 
and vale of Guanaboa, on account of the humane difpo- 
fition of the overfeer, and the moderate fiiare of labour 
which he impofes upon the Haves, have no neceffi ty for 
fupplles. 

The above Is an account of fuch plantations as can be 
fpecified, and proved beyond the poffibility of refutation, 
to have fubfifted independently of the flave trade in the 
iiland of Jamaica. Many others are to be found there in 
the fame predicament. But as fituation, climate, and a 
variety of other circumftances (beyond thofe of gentle treat- 
ment) maybe fald to have contributed to bring them into fo 
defirable a ftate, it will be proper to fee i^ in other iflands 
fimilar inftances can be found. 

In the year 1773, in the parlfh of Nichola Town and 
iiland of St, Chrijiopher^ was a plantation, which contained 
at that time tivo hundred and ten ilaves. The proportion 
of females upon it was but very fmall, when compared 
v/ith that of the males. This circumftance was much 
againft it in point of the increafe of its cultivators. It 
had, however, two advantages. The manager of It was 
an eafy humane man, and his wife a difcreet and tender 
nurfe. From thefe circumxftances alone, the number had 
increafed in the year 1779 to two hundred and Hventy- eighty 
and in the year 1781, v/hen the gentleman, who under- 
takes to authenticate the fa6t, quitted the iiland, it had 
become, without any fupply from the coaft, tivo hundred 
and thirty-four. 

In the fame iiland, but in the adjoining parifh of 
Cayon, is a plantation, that has fupported itfelf in the 
fame manner. The Haves upon it have been worked 
with method, and treated tolerably well. In the year 1765 
they amounted to one hundred and fifty -eight : in the year 
1766 to an hundred and ftxty : and in the year 178^, by 
means of generation, to one hundred and feventy-two. 

In the iiland of Barbadoes is a plantation, the prefent 

proprietor of which came into poffeffion of it in the year 

1 774. At that time it contained one hundred and nineteen 

flaves. Five have been purchafed fmce. In the year 

F 4 1784 



88 On the Impolicy of the 

1784 twenty- fr J 671 were added to it, by the bequefl of a 
relation, who then died ; fo that the number, by extraor- 
dinary means, amounted to one hundred and fifty-one. By 
a furvey in February 1788, it appeared, that they had 
increafed, without purchafe, to one hundred and fexty^oney 
though three had been fold, three had been killed by the 
hurricane in the year 1780, and three more had apparently 
died in confequence of it. 

On another plantation, in the fame ifland, were reckoned 
in the December of the year 1774 one hundred and fifteen 
flaves. In the year 1777 it received an addition, by 
purchafe, of thirty-two. This raifed the number to one 
hundred and forty-fcvcn. Their prefent number, by 
means of generation, is one hundred and ftxty-three^ and it 
had been ftill greater, had not five been loft in the fame 
hurricane as the former. 

I muft not forget to obferve here, that the flaves upon 
thefe eftates were treated with great humanity, and that 
much praife is due to the proprietor of the former, who 
came forward, in the moft difmterefted manner, to fub- 
flantiate the fa6ts. 

There is a fmail eftate in the fame ifland, which has 
alfo experienced an increafe by the fame means. In the 
year 1764 it was let upon leafe vj'iih. thirty flaves upon it. 
The treatment which they have uniformly experienced 
fmce that period has been humane and mild : the confe* 
quence has been this, that no recruit has been purchafed 
for the purpofe of keeping up their ftock, and that their 
prefent number h forty -four. In the fame jfland are feve- 
ral other eftates in a fimilar fituation. 

In the parifh of Middle Ifland and Ifland of Antigua^ the 
proprietor of a confiderable eftate, in confequence of his 
humane directions, and a determination not to make any 
purchafes from the coaft, has had no fupply (if we except 
a few flaves taken from a difmantled plantation) for 
thirty years. 

In the ifland of Dominique is an eftate, on which the 
flaves have been fo much increafed by humane treatment, 
as to have rendered any fupply unneceffary. 

In the ifland of St. Dominio is a plantation, belonging 
to the refpe6table houfe of Fouachc, of Havre. Thefe 

gentlemen 



African Slave Trade* % 

gentlemen came to the laudable refolution not to opprefs 
their flaves. The quantity of work, which was accord- 
ingly given to five hundred of them to perform, was only 
fuch as three hundred and fifty would have been obliged to 
execute on other eftates at the fame time. The effe(9:s of 
this humane regulation are nov/ vifible. The flaves mtd- 
tiply-i and the plantation profpers. 

In each of the Danifh iflands of St. Thomas and St, 
Croix^ an eftate can be pointed out, which has fupported 
itfelf by natural means. That in the firft, when the 
gentleman who communicated this intelligence l^k the 
iflands, was in polTeffion of Monfieur de Mary: that 
in the fecond of Baron Shimmelman. Both thefe were 
in a Ytiy fiuperiour fl:ate of culture at that time, and had 
received no fupplies whatever for many years. 

In two of the Granadlllas are two plantations, that are 
now in the fame ftate. The proprietor of the firfi:, when 
he took poffeffion, found that feveral of the flaves upon it 
were then old. Notwithftanding this, and that thefe foon 
died, yet in confequence of the gentle dominion which he 
held over them, and his prudent management, fo many 
have been born and preferved, and the lives of the reft fb 
prolonged, that he has always had a fui^cient number for 
the cultivation of the fame land, without the purchafe of 
any recruit from the coafl:. The other alfo, by the fame 
meanSj has fupported itfelf independently of the flave 
irade. 

I have now mentioned feveral * plantationsj fltuated 

* To this lift I may add the follov/ing extra^ from a Letter to the 
Dean of Middleham.-— " According to the beft of my remembrance (fays 
«f the writer) the following eftates for about twenty years, whilft under 
" the management of hmr.a.u- and merciful men, kept up their ftock of 
*' Negroes by the natural increafe. — Sir William Fiiizherbert's eftate in 
" St, Andrews, during the life of Mr. Rolftone his manager, — three 
*' eftates of the late Colonel Newton in Chrift Church and St. fames's j 
<« — the eftates of the late Mr. Haggat in St. George's and St. Peter's ;-I 
«< the eftate of Mr Graves in St. Lucy'sj — the eftate of the Honourable 
*' William Bifhop in St. Lucy's 5 — the eftate of Colonel Maynard in St. 
<* Michael's :■— an eftate of Sir Philip Gibbes, whilft under his own di- 
<' reftion j— the eftate of Mrs. Fcrchufon in ^t. Peter'?; j— the eftates ot 

*' the late fhama-? Alleyne, Efq. during the life of xMr. Rolftone; the 

" eftate of Mrs. Street during the life of Mr. Johnftojie.— Thefe are all 
*^ ckat I can at prefent recalled." 

either 



^0 ObT THE Impolicy of Trie 

either in the Britifh, French, or Danifh Iflands, that have 
Jupported themfelves by riaturai means^ and in which, during 
the rei-gn of their refpeftive proprietors either mentioned 
or alluded to, no reverfe in the fcale of their population 
has been experienced. It is my intention next to refer to 
fuch, as in this refpe6l have experienced a change, or to 
fuch, as being contiguous to each other, but under 
oppofite fyftems of adminiftration, have fhewn vifibly 
their different eftedls. 

In the pariih of Cayon and ifland of St. Chriftopher 
was a certain plantation, w^hich viras under the manage- 
ment of a rigid and auftere man. He continually harralTed 
the flaves ; making them work with but little intermifiion 
for fix days, and on the feventh obliging them to be em- 
ployed in the cultivation of their little fpots. In confe- 
quence of this continual obligation to labour^ and zvant cf 
reft^ the number of cultivators decreafed^ and an annual 
fupply was neceflary of about one in ten to keep up the 
ftock. In the year 1763 this difciplinarian left them, to 
take upon him the management of a more confiderable 
eftate. He was fucceeded by a man of an oppofite cha- 
ra6ter, who indulged the {laves v/ith the free ufe of the 
Sabbath^ treated them well, and took care of them when 
fick. Under his mild adminiftration (notwlthftanding the 
Haves were all of them native Africans, and notwithftand- 
ing they were but fparingiy fed) the face of things was fo 
much altered on that eftate, that it had no neceilityj as 
before, for any farther fupplies from the coaft. 

In the fame parifli and ifiand is a plantation, the fitua- 
tion of which has been exadtiy the reverfe of the former. 
In the year i'"66, the proprietor, who refided upon it, was 
in the pofteiTion of an hundred and fifty ~fev en flaves, ~ He 
worked them judicioufly. He fed them well. He treated 
them with tendernefs and care. In the year 1772 he 
died ; when it was found, that he had raifed their number 
only in fix years to one hundred and eighty^ without any 
purchafes from the coaft. His fuccefTor, however, pur- 
fued a different plan. Let us mark the confequence. — 
His flaves, in the year 1781, were reduced to one hundred 
and fifty -feven^ fo that in nine years all the efforts of his 
predecefTor were undone. 



African Slave Trade. 



91 



In the inand of St. Domingo Is an ellate which has 
Experienced a fimilar change. The owner confidered 
himfelf as the father of his Haves : he never harrafTed 
them with exceffive labour. He fed and treated them 
well : and fo mild and gentle was his government, that it 
became a proverb, " as happy as a llave of Gallifet." 
Thus treated, their increafe was rapid. About fifteen 
years ago he died. The prefent proprietor has fince 
adopted a different fyftem. His Haves continually de- 
creafe, and he lofes by the change of management. 

In the ifland of Antigua is another plantation, in which 
a fimilar revolution has taken place. It was formerly ce- 
lebrated for the judicious and indulgent treatment of the 
flaves, that were then upon it. The owner refided on 
the fpot. He faw his flaves happy. Fie faw them increafe 
without purchafe, and fo rapidly, that his effate was 
confidered as overftocked. Such was the fituation of 
affairs under his gentle reign, when he was taken from 
the world. A different mode of treatment has beenfmce 
introduced. The golden age has been converted into the 
iron. The flaves, nurtured by the foftering hand of their 
former proprietor, have fallen off, and the eftate is now 
not only in want of an annual fupply, but is involved in 
debt. 

, In the fame ifland are two other plantations, which 
border upon each other. The owner of one of them long 
ago adopted the fyftem of immediate exertion. He pur- 
chafed chiefly males. He worked them hard, and with 
feverity. The proprietor of the fecond declared in favour 
of the oppofjte plan. He proportioned the fexes accord- 
ingly, and he treated them well. The effefts of the two 
different fyflemxS of adminiftration will now be k^n. The 
firft has been in want of an annual fupply. The latter 
has fupported itfelf for more than forty years^ and the 
flaves upon it have become fo numerous, that they not 
only do the whole bufinefs of the eilate, but are let out at 
tafk-work, to the great emolument of the proprietor, on 
other plantations. 

I have nov/ given a fhort hiftory of no lefs than tiventy- 
fix plantations. From thefe, and others in a fimil. r fitua- 
tion, it will appear, that where there have been any 

favourable 



^2 On the Impolicy of the 

favourable clrcumftances, fuch as the proper proportion 
of the fexes in one, gentle treatment in a fecond, any 
indulgence in point of labour in a third, and the like, 
there the flaves have uniformly increnfed : that where the 
contrary have taken place, there they have decreafed, and 
have been in luant of fuppUes, That the fame eftate, which 
under a mild adminiftration has been overftocked, has, 
under an oppofite fyftem, annually loft a part of its 
labourers : that the fame, which during a reign of rigour 
has been conftantly requiring recruits, has in that of hu- 
manity fupported itfelf for a while, and at length pre- 
cluded the neceflity of a fupply: and that in certain 
plantations contiguous to each other, fharing the fame 
climate, and fituated on the fame kind of foil, but under 
oppofite forms of government, the one has been perpetu- 
ally lofmg its labourers, the other has been overftocked : 
la fhort, that it is at the option of the planter, whether 
fiipplies are requifite or not ; certain regulations producing 
the one, and the contrary the oppofite eiFecls. 

Indeed, the very idea, that the planters cannot proceed 
without frefh fupplies from the coaft, is repugnant to 
reafon. 

For let us firft, for a moment, look upon the unfortunate 
Africans in the light of cattle. Is it not in the power of 
any farmer^ who prefers breeding to purchafing, to fupply 
binifelf with animals of labour from his own ftock? 

Let us now confider them as men. It is an invariable 
lavv', that any fociety of people, under common advan- 
tages, mud at leaft keep up their number, if not increafe ; 
ctherv/ife Providence, in calling the human fpecies into 
life, muft have cefeated his own defign. What then 
fhould hinder the Africans, peculiarly prolifick in their 
nature, carried to a climate fimilar to that which they have 
left, and treated v/ith common humanity, from continuing 
their own fpecies, and precluding the neceflity of a fupply? 
In fhort, in whatever point of view we confider it, the 
pofition is equally abfurd. 

Mr. Long, the author of the Hiftory of Jamaica, who 
more than once takes an opportunity of ridiculing the fame 
notion, has even gone fo far, as to reduce the probability 
©f the increafe of the Africans in the colonies to ftated 

rules. 



African Slave Trade. 



93 



rules. — " If (fays he) the number of hogfheads, made 
*' on a plantation, exceeds or even equals the whole 
*' aggregate of negroes employed upon it, but .^w children 
*' will be brought up on fuch an ejiate^ whatever number 
*' may be born; for the mothers will not have fulHcient 
*' time to take due care of them: and if they are put 
^* under the charge of fome elderly woman or nurfe, as 
*' the cuftom is in many places, it cannot be fuppofed that 
*' they meet with the fame tendernefs, as might be ex- 
*' pecfted from their parents. But where the proportion of 
*' annual produce is about half an hogfhead for every 
*' negroe, there they will, in all likelihood, increafe very 
*' rapidly ; and not 7nuch lefs fo^ where the ratio is of two 
" hogfheads to every three negroes, which I take to be 
*' a good mean proportion: agreeably to which, aneftate, 
" making communibus annis two hundred hogfheads, 
*' ought to mufter on its lifl (old and young) three hun- 
*' dred negroes ; and if it makes three hundred hogfheads, 
*' four hundred and fifty fuch negroes, and fo on. An 
" eftate fo handed may not only, caeteris paribus, y2?w the 
*^ expence of buying recruits^ but may every year afford 
*' fome addition to the firft number, of which I have 
" known inconteji able examples in Jamaica/'^ 

But this, I apprehend, will be found fufficient. For 
when the reader refledts on the number of eftates now 
fpecified, that have fupported themfelves, independent!/ 
of the Have trade; when he confiders the uniform increafe 
in fome, the revolutions that have happened in others^ 
and refers them to their proper caufes ; or when he con- 
fults only his own unbiafled reafon, he cannot but fee 
the inconfiftency of the argument, which but too generally 
prevails, " that the planters cannot proceed without frefh 
" fupplies from the coaft." 



SECTION II. 

Having now fhewn the truth of the firft pofition by 
means of undeniable fads, I Ihall inquire into the proba-^ 

* Long. Vol. 11. Page 437, 438. 

bility 



94 On the Impolicy of the 

bility of the firft confeqiience, which, It is faid, will be 
experienced in the iflands from the abolition of the trade 
in flaves. 

It is faid firft, that " if the importation of flaves is 
*' prohibited, the planters will be in want of cultivators 
*' for their lands." 

This firft efFecl will be beft feen by tracing the different 
caiifes of the diminution of flaves in the colonies, and the 
effed which the abolition will have upon each of thefe. 

It is well known, that many of the proprietors of poft- 
horfes in this country adopt the follov/ing plan. 'I'hey 
purchafe a horfe at a certain price, and at a certain age. 
They drive him through twice the work which he ought 
to perform in a given time. If he lafts for a determined 
period, they confider themfelves as repaid with profit. If, 
after this, he has not a leg to ftand upon, they do not 
care. 

This mode of reafoning, which is execrable even when 
applied to the brute creation, is in the colonies put into 
execution on the human fpecies. It has been often calcu- 
lated by fome of the' planters there, whether it is more to 
their intereft to work out a flave, by an uncommon impo- 
fition of labour, in five or fix years, and fupply his place by a 
new recruit from the coaft, to be worked up and fucceeded 
in the fame manner, or to breed from their prefent ftock, 
and to work them with moderation. Some have wifely 
adopted the latter plan ; but the former has been but too 
generally followed. 

It is clear, that on all thofe plantations where this 
inhuman fyftem prevails, it is impoffible for the planter to 
do without frefh fupplies. His whole plan is confefl^edly 
againft it. He has made his calculations accordingly. 
He has ftated the time, at which human nature is capable 
of fuftaining itfelf under his tafk of drudgery and his 
lafti. This diabolical determination, to employ nev/ gene- 
rations of men from the coaft of Africa, and to work 
them up in a ftated time, inftead of rearing them by 
natural means, and working them with moderation, is 
one grand fource of the neceftity for the prefent annual 
fupplies. 

The 



African Slave Trade. 95 

The firft efFe6t, which the * abolition of the flave trade 
muft have upon the unfeeling planters defcribed, v/ould 
be, that their execrable calculations would be flopped. 
No new generations of men would be then to be had, as 
before. They muft immediately change their plan. 
They muft breed. They muft find that refource within 
themfelves, which their avarice has taught them to rejedl; 
and they muft immediately turn a fj^llem of calculated 
opprefTion, and murder, into that of lenity, tendernefs, and 
prefervation. 

Such is the efFe6i: which the abolition of the flave trade 
muft have upon this caufe of the diminution of flaves in 
the colonies. There are other eftates, however, where 
thefe calculations are not made, which are yet in want of 
fupplies. 

In almioft all of them it will be found, that but little 
care is taken, or can be taken, according to the prefent 
fyftem of things in the colonies, of thofe infants that are 
born. An incredible number of thefe annually perifh, 
who, if preferved, would have been fubftantial fupplies. 

The diforder, v/hich takes many of them off, is the 
locked jaw. This arifes from various caufes, but is par- 
ticularly chargeable upon the comfortlefs fituation of the 
mother, who is deprived of necelTaries, and of the power 
of paying that proper attention to her child, in preferving 
it from cold and damps, which its infant-fituation requires ; 
for it is a remarkable facf, that this diforder palles by other 
infants in the colonies, whether black or white, of whom 
proper care has been taken. 

, It is ufual for them too, before they are weaned, to 
accompany their mothers to the field, who tie them behind 
their back?, and carry them through the labour of the 
day, or leave them in a furrow. Thus expofed to a ver- 
tical fun, and afterwards to the dews of the evening, or 
to very heavy rains, and having received hitherto but a 
flender and unwholcfome fupport from the breafts of their 
overheated mothers, many of them are taken oft'. Thofe, 
who furvive the v/eaning, are left negleded at home, or 

* I mean,;iot only the abolition of the Slave Trade by the Britifh 
nation, but a total prohibition of the importation of flaves into the 
colonies from £.ny other (quarter, 

are 



gS On the Impolicy of the 

are put under the care of an old and infirm woman, wh^ 
cannot be fuppofed to have that afFe£i:ion for them, which 
their parents have, and who is often incapable of per- 
forming her allotted tafk. By thefe, and other means, 
fome of thofe, who have efcaped for a little time, are added 
to the infant dead. 

The effect, which the abolition of the flave trade muft 
have on this fecond caufe, would be this. Every care and 
attention would be paid to the rearing of the new gene- 
ration. Convenient rooms would be built on each eftate 
for the accommodation of the women in the laft ftage of 
their pregnancy The mother would have more time to 
herfelf, and more indulgencies. In fome eftates fhe would 
have, perhaps, a releafe from all future obligation to labour, 
after Ihe had reared her third child ; in others fhe might 
receive a donation. Thefe regulations, if put into force, 
would immediately endear the proprietor to the parents ; 
would prove a conftant incitement to their emulation; and 
would be the means of preferving a great number of 
recruits, who would otherwife have annually peri(hed» 

A third caufe of the diminution of (laves in the colo- 
nies is the very fcanty allowance of provifion^ which is 
given them on m.any plantations. It is too general a 
cuftom to fpread almofl: every acre, that is plantable, with 
canes. But little land, and even that the worft, is 
allotted for provifions for the flaves. Thus the labourers, 
whofe prefervation (liould have been the firfl and greateil 
object, are left delHtute of fufficient nutriment and 
fupport. 

A fourth is the InceJJant and intolerable labour which 
they are often obliged to undergo. Perhaps their pro- 
prietor is extravagant, or involved. To fupport his 
luxuries on the one hand, or to clear his incumbrances on 
the other, he has recourfe to the fmews of his flaves. 
Uncommon exertions are deemed necefTary for the pur- 
pofe : and if his fituation fhould not be fimilar to that 
which I have fuppofed, certain it is, that too often the 
reputation of the manager, and his continuance in office, 
depend more, in the eye of his employer, on the number 
of hog/heads of fugar annually made, than on the prefer- 
vation of the flaves. 

A fifth 



African Slav^ Trad£; ^y 

A fifth caufe is cruel and fevere ufage^ fuch as the 
conftant application of the lafh, confinement, torture, 
and other barbarous treatment, whether for real or 
imaginary faults. This depends, in fome meafure, on 
the difcipiine of the colony, on the abfence of the pro-^ 
prietor from his eftate, or on the unfeeling difpofition of 
the manager, who has none but a temporary intereft, and 
who of courfe cannot be concerned in any future advan- 
tage, which might accrue to the proprietor by the prefer- 
vation of his flaves. Under fuch managers, (fays a 
fenfible writer) '' an increafe is not more to be expe61:ed^ 
" than an increafe from a flock of (heep, if a wolf were 
« to be the JJjephsrd:' 

In confequence then of the three caufes that have been 
mentioned laft, namely, a fcanty allowance of food, in- 
ceflant and intolerable labour, and cruel and fevere ufage» 
either exifting feparately or conjointly on an eflate, feveral 
of the flaves, whofe lives have become a burthen to them, 
deftroy themfelves. Others fly into the woods, where, 
expofed to the cold of the night, attacked by the pangs of 
hunger and thirft, and lacerated in their bodies by the 
prickly teeth with which every fhrub is armed in that 
country, they foon periih : while thofe, who by vigilance^ 
terror, or other means, are retained at home, are neceflarily 
worn out in their prime, and their lives (hortened. Thefe 
eircumftances therefore occafion, and muft ever occafionj 
as long as they exift, a neceffity for annual fupplies. 

The efFed:, which the abolition of the flave trade muft 
neceflarily have upon thofe who feed, work, or treat their 
flaves as above defcribed, is evident. Provifion, which 
has hitherto been the laft, muft become the iirft confidera- 
tion with the planter. A part of the land, occupied by 
canes, muft be appropriated to the fupport of his flaves, 
and a fufficient quantity of the neceflaries of life muft be 
allowed them. Regular hours of reft, and machines of 
labour muft be introduced. The lafh, that was formerly 
lifted up for imaginary faults, or for the indulgence of 
pafl^on and caprice, muft be kept down. Punifhments 
muft be more commenfurate to the oiFence. A fyftem of 
treatment more moderate and humane muft be adopted. 
It^muft immediately ftrike the proprietor, that if his flave 

G ihouM 



^8 On the Impolicy of the 

ihould fall by ill-judged feverity or neglect, it will be long 
before he can replace hirrip 

There are various other caufes of the diminution of 
Haves in the colonies, all of which muft be equally anni- 
hilated in their turn. New regulations, adapted to the 
fuppreflion of each, muft immediately take place. I fay 
*' miift take place," becaufe the planter, unlefs he adopts 
them, will have no other profpe£i, than that of inevitable 
ruin. And that he will madly throw himfelf from the 
precipice, when he can avoid it with folid advantage to 
himfelf, is a pofition too ridiculous to be admitted. 

If thefe regulations then, or fimilar to thefe, fhould 
take place, as they inevitably muft, when every profpe£!: 
of a future fuppl/ is taken away ; if population fhould be 
really encouraged ; if a lefs proportion of labour fhoi^ld 
be required, food more plentifully fupplied, and a fyftem 
of tendernefs be adopted in the place of that of calculated 
feverity and oppreftion ; if, moreover, the progeny of the 
then flaves fhould have the fame attention beftowed upon 
them, as others of the human race, it is not only felf- 
cvident, that, like other human beings, they will be able 
to continue their fpecies, but, being endued with a more 
prolifick nature than the reft, that they muft rapidly in- 
€reaff ; and that the planters will be fo far from being in 
want of cultivators for their lands, that they will foon be 
enabled to /)z^^ new land into culture without any purcbajes 
from the coaft. 



SECTION m. 



I have now confidered the abolition of the flave trade 
as far as it would have an influence on the prefent 
or future number of the flaves : I come now to the fecond 
point of inquiry, namely, to confider the immediate or 
future effect which it would have upon the planters^ the 
Jlaves themfelves, and the ijlands : for it has been faid, 
that many other melancholy confequences would arife to 
thefe by the abolition of the trade. 

The 



> African St Ave T»AbEA ^^ 

The firfl effe6tj that the planter would immediately 
'experience^ would be this. He would fave the money 
formerly expended in the purchafe of new flaves, and of 
courfe avoid the inconceivable difficulties which he has 
tiow necelTarily to encounter on this account. 

That the reader ma^ form a notion of the diftrels 
tinder which he frequently labours froni this circumftance, 
and of the advantages refulting from the change, I fhall 
give him the fentiments of Mr. Long, who was too much 
attached to the interefts of his friends in the iflands, ta 
deceive them in this particular. 

* " The purchafe of new negroes (fays he) is the moft 
*' chargeable article attending thefe eftates^ and the tru$ 
^^ fource of the diftrelfes, under which their owners 
'' fufFer : for they involve themfelves fo deeply in debt 
.'' to make thefe inconfiderate purchafes, and lofe fo many 
." by difeafe or other means in the feafoning, that they 
" become unable to make good their engagements, are 
^' plunged in law fu'its and anxiety ; while for want of fome 
'*' prudent regulation in the right hufbanding of their 
** ftock^ and promoting its increafe by natural -means^ they 
-*' intail upon themfelves a rieceflity of drawing p>erpetual 
^ recruits of unfeafoned Africans^ the expenie of which 
*' forms only a new addition to their debts and diffculties,'* 

To confirm thisj. I fhall ftate a few particular fa6ls. 
In the ifland of Jamaica four courts are annually held, 
namely, in the m,onths of February, May, Auguft, and 
November. About three thoufand new actions are 
ufually brought at each of thefe, chiefly on bonds ; and 
of thefe bonds about nine-tenths are fuch as have been 
given to the {■^^iox% for new Jlaves* 

In the fame iiland about five hundred thoufand pounds 
pafled through the hands of a certain fherifl* in three 
years. This prodigious fum had been procured by the 
fale of goods, taken chiefly on execution on fuch bonds^ 
as had been given for the farm pur p of e as the former. 

The principal part of thofe who were ccnhned in the 
goals of the fame ifland, during the fame period, confifted 
<>f people whofe perfons had been feized, after the iiluing 

* J-OJig^s Hiftory of Jamaica. Vol. It Page 437? 

G 2 out 



ICO On the Impolicy oi the 

out of executions on judgment, to make up that deficit 
ency in their ^2iyment for Jiauesj to which their goods had 
not been found adequate. 

It is eafy to fee from hence, and the foregoing quota- 
tion from Mr, Long, that I have not been flating a vifionary 
or chimerical advantage. The planter, in confequence 
of the regulations that would unavoidably follow the 
abolition of the Have trade, would protra£l the lives of 
his prefent flaves. In the interim, the rifmg generation 
would be fhooting up. To fave therefore the purchafe- 
money ufually expended in thefe, to be freed from a 
fource of continual inquietude and diftrefs, and at the 
fame time to experience no diminution in the returns of 
his eftate, is an advantage fo fubftantial and important at 
the firft fight, as to need no farther illuftration. 

There is a fecond, however, which he would alfo im- 
mediately feel. His flaves would become more valuable. 
Whatever may be his property in thefe at the prefent 
moment, certain it is, that, on the moment of the 
abolition of the flave trade, it would be confiderably 
increafed. Is the value of it but barely adequate to the 
difcharge of his debts ? — He would be able to free him- 
felf from thefe, and to have an overplus for himfelf.— In 
fliort, whatever may be his fituation in the iflands, he 
would derive in this refpe6l an immediate benefit &om 
the change. 

But his future would be infinitely greater than his 
•prefent advantages. His flaves, which would become 
immediately more valuable in confequence of the aboli- 
tion, would, in procefs of time, become more valuable 
from another confideration. Let us view them therefore 
at a diflant period. Let us fee their fituation in about 
twenty years, after this great event has taken place. 

At this period, it is to be prefumed, that all the flaves 
in the iflands would be Creoles, 

In the firft place, they would have been inured from 
their infancy, in a regular gradation of employment, to 
labour. They would of courfe be more hardy, and ca- 
pable of the plantation work, than any of their prede- 
ceflTors, who, having led, perhaps, a life of indolence in 
their own country, have been but little capable of fuftain- 



African Slav£ Trad^. %oi 

ing the fatigue which they have been fentenced to 
undergo. 

They would, fecondly, be more ready and expert. 
Born on the iflands, they would attain our language, and 
underftand us i-m mediately : whereas, their predecefTors, 
the imported Africans, have been unable, for a length of 
time, to comprehend our meaning. 
. Thefe circumftances would greatly increafe their price, 
if expofed to fale, and of courfe the property of their 
poflelTors : and as a proof of it, I appeal to the planter, 
whether he does not confider a Creole^ at this moment, 
of twice the value of an imported JIave. 

This is one of t\iQ future advantages which the planter 
would unavoidably experience in confequence of the abo- 
'lition of the trade. 1 {hall now proceed to enumerate the 
reft. ^ 

His work would he better done. This is evident from 
the habit of labour, which his Haves would have 
acquired from their infancy, and (if I may be allowed the 
expreffion) their apprenticejhip to their work. 

More of it would be done in the fame time. This may 
appear a paradox to many. But the labour of thofe flaves, 
who are ruled with a rod of iron, is inconceivably fmall. 
Will a man work with alacrity for the mafter who ilarves, 
tortures, and opprefies him ? Will he work with alacrity 
where he has no intereft in his labour ? Where, if his 
fmews are worn out with exertion, he is not fuffered to 
partake, in any degree, the fruits of his pains ? But, 
reverfe the fcene. Let him be treated with tendernefs. 
Let his wants be fupplied. This will operate as an incite- 
ment to his exertions : gratitude will demand a return ; 
and his labour will carry with it, wherever it is traced, 
diftinguifhing marks of the change.. This is not merely 
a fpeculative pofition. It is founded on experience. Ma- 
ny planters have been witnefies of the fait. 

A certain American refugee fled with his flaves, during 
the late war, to the ifland of Jamaica. It was his con- 
ftant cuftom to treat them well, to vifit them in their 
ficknefs, to attend to their complaints, to confider them 
yather as fervants for whom he had a regard, than as his 
.toyes, In confequence of this, their indulgences were 
G 3 'many^ 



104 On the lM!»(5LieV 6t THE 

many. Thefe, However^ wefe not loft up6n them* 
They brought their mafter the iirft fruits of their little 
fpots, of their poultry, of their fwine. They behaved in 
an orderly manner, and toiled for him with dacrity tLt\4 

Thefe indulgencies, however, did not fail to attract th6 
notice of the managers of the neighbouring plantations^ 
They looked upon them with a painful eye. They at 
length waited upon the difpenfer of them, and afTurecj 
him, that if he continued his mild adminiftration, he 
would ruin the difcipline of his neighbour's Haves. His 
reply was this : — " I treat my flaves with lenity. Thef 
** work/our hrurs in the day lefs than yours. Notwith- 
^' {landing thefe indulgencies they do more zvork thaii 
*' yours, who are v/hipped through it from morning t6 
^' night. The comparative advantages are fo great in my 
*' favour, from my prefent fyftem, that, if I paid no re- 
^' gard to the calls of humanity, I mull continue t<i 
^« purfue it." 

Such would be the cafe were the flave trade aboliflied ; , 
for fuch humane treatment, and fuch indulgencies woul4 
bfe the confequence of the abolition, as would prove aii 
incitement to the exertions of the flaves, more than thfe 
ilimulus of the lafh, or the goad of avarice and op- 
preffion. 

To this advantage of having a greater quantity ^f work 
performed in the fame tlmey which would increafe th^ 
annual profit or returns of the planter, another would be 
added In confequence of the abolition of the flave trade, 
he would have been under the neceflity of appropriating a 
certain portion of land to the fuHenance of his cattle, and 
his Haves We fhould fee him, therefore, at the future 
period afligned, in a co nfortable (ituatiori : not uneafy and 
agitated as before, not depending upon a precarious fub- 
fiflence from diflant parts, efpecially in the time of war, 
but having every refource on his own eftate, and in his 
own power. 

But if any futurr advantage, which he would experience 
from the abolition, is to be eftimated higher than the reft, 
it would be this, — that he would fleep in peace, and be no 
longer ynder apprehenfions from thofe jppvate cabals, and 



African Slave TraJ>e^ 103 

©pen infurredlions, which . his former condu£i had fo 
defer vedly occafioned. 

Many of the unfortunate people, who are brought into 
the colonies, have been kidnapped, have been forcibly 
torn from their connections. The remembrance of thefe 
is painful. It frequently excites the ilgh, and makes 
them diflatisfied and reftlefs. Others, if procured in a 
fairer manner, have been yet unufed to labour. The 
fevere taik, impofed upon them in the colonies, is of 
courfe only the more ferifibly felt. This, with cruel 
ufage, confinement, torture, and other circumftances, 
prevents an attachment to their mailers, makes them 
revengeful, vigilant to gratify that revenge, and indulgent 
of it, if occafion offers. 

The flav'es, on the other hand, at the period affigned, 
would be all Creoles^ and in a drfferent predicament. 
Thej would not have been violently feparated, like their 
predecefTors, from that country, and thofe conne6lions, 
which they efteemed mod in life. They would have been 
inured from their infancy to labour, and would find no 
hardfhip in their allotted tafk. They would not be fo 
keenly fenfible of the lofs of Ubertyy which is perhaps, of 
all others, the greateft incitement to an infurre£lion. A 
bird, that has been bred up in captivity, does not repine^ 
like one that has been taken from the woods, and con- 
fined within the narfbw limits of a cage. Such would be 
the fituation of the flaves at this future period ; and lo 
juflly (as the reader will fee) are thefe confequences to be 
apprehended, that it is a matter of fa6l, '^ * that the chief 
*' a£l:ors in the feditions and mutinies, which at different 
" times have broken out in the iflands, have been the 
" imported Africans \^^ whereas fome of the Creole JIaves 
have been intrufted with arms in their hands without 
abufe, 

Thefe would be the chief advantages that would refuk 
to the planter from the abolition of the trade in flaves. 
A fource of continual embarraffment and diflrefs would 
be immediately taken away. His property would be cori- 
iiderably increafed j his annual returns larger : he would 

* Long's Hiftory of Jamaica* Vol. II. p. 444. 

G 4 feel 



|04 On the Impolky of the 

feel himfelF In an independent fituation, in point of fuK-t 
fiftence, either in peace or war ; and he would have the 
vnfpeakable fatisfacSion of going to his bed fearlefs of any 
private machinations, and in full confidence that his pro- 
perty as well as his perfon would be fecure. 

Having cpnfidered what would be the immediate oy 
future fituation of the planter^ in confequence of the 
change, I come now to that of thefiave. 

If the flave trade v^ere abolifhed, it is evident that 
many mild and falutary regulations would immediately 
take place; that the Have would be better fed; that his 
hours of labour would be reduced to fewer in the day; 
^h^t his perfon would be more fecure ; X\\it he would have 
the power of appeal ; and that every fpur, that could 
promote population, would be adminiftered. Thefe 
then, or fimilar regulations, unavoidably taking place, 
we fhouid fee a material change in his fituation. We 
fhould fee him in poifeiTion of a little time to him^ 
felf, and devoting it either to his own amufement, 
or in the improvement of his little fpot, to his fu- 
ture advantage and fupport. We ihould fee him, not 
chilled with horror at the fight of his proprietor as 
before, but fmiling with gratitude and joy. We fhould 
fee him leyally engaging in the bands of connubial happi- 
jiefs ; v/hile his wife would have time to nurfe and enjoy 
her child, not regretting that fhe had brought it into the 
world to inherit a life of perpetual mifery and woe, but to 
be a witnefs of her new fituation, and to fhare the change. 
Thus experiencing, on one hand, a diminution of their 
former rigours, and raifed to pofitive advantages on the 
pther, they would both immediately be admitted to a cer-. 
tain portion of happinefs^ and their condition be confider- 
ably improved. 

This ch nge having once taken place, and great benefit 
having neceflarily arifen to the planter from the adoption 
of it, there can be no didiculty in anticipating the future 
Situation of the Have ; for it is natural to fuppofe, that if 
advantages fiiquld have been found to accrue to the plaA- 
ter in proportion to his humanity, he would ftill procjej^i; 
and when t.jat fyftem, which was t\\2 confequence of the 
abojition 01 tne Have trade, had had its due operation, he 

woul4 



African Slave Trade. joj 

would adopt a fecond ft ill more lenient and equal. Every 
new indulgence of this kind would advance the flave in thq 
fcaie of Ibcial life, and improve his condition. Every 
improvement of his condition would qualify him the more 
for the reception of C-rijhanity and freedom j and if ever 
thefe glorious events were to be brought to pafs, then 
would be the aera, in which happinefs would be the moft 
extenfively difFufed in the colonies, and the eflate of the 
planter be productive of the greateft * gain. 

I come now to the confequences which would refult to 
the ijlands by the abolition of the flave trade. — Thefe 
confequences would be truly valuable, as the iflands would 
be fafe and impregnable during the time of war. 

It is v/ell known that the planters, at this period, have 
been in general in continual alarm. The fugitive Haves 
"have never failed to make their incurfions, and to be ready 
to join the foe. Their own Haves on the plantations have 
been peculiarly ripe for a revolt, and have only waited for 
an opportunity of gratifying their revenge. In ihort, 
they have been well afTured, that if the enemy could only 
have contrived to arm them, a general maflacre would 
have taken place, and the iflands have been lofl. 

This will fhew, in a more confpicuous light, the great 
importance of the change that would take place in confe- 
quence of the abolition of the trade. In a few years all 
the {laves upon the iflands would be Creoles^ and as every 
man has naturally an attachment to his native fpot, fo 
the Creole would have a partiality for thefe. In thefe 
iflands alfo v/ould be his relatives and friends, his 
little property, his fpot of nutrition, and his home. He 
would fpeak the fame language as his mailer, contraft the 
fame habits, imbibe the fame prejudices. Thefe, and 

* Attempts have been made in a certain French colony ^ for fome tlmC: 
pnfl:, to bring the fl?ves by degrees into the enjoymcnc of liberty and 
property. And the progrefs of this eftablifnment tends lo prove, that a 
iimilar fyftem, if general, would be not only conducive to the projp^riiy 
«f the (olony^ but alfo to the pri'uate intereji of the prefent proprietors of 
flantatiom. in America many flaves have been hbera'ted. The confe- 
^uence has been, that the face of the country has been altered, the 
lands in a high-rr ftate of cultivation, and the proprietor enriched. In 
Cochin China the fugar, which is wholly made there h)' free men, can 
be afforded at one-Jeventb of the price, for which it is fold, when made 
i>y JJaveil ' ' • 

. ' Other 



io6 On the Impolicy of the 

other circumflances, would excite his alacrity, his vigi* 
lance, his courage, his exertions, and he would be found 
to the iflands a fteady and faithful protestor, and to the 
invaders a bitter and a formidable foe. 

To fiiew that this is not merely ideal, or without 
foundation, I ihall relate a fact, that happened during the 
late war. in the ifland of Barb -do ^s the greateft part of 
the Haves are Crenes, They are ufed in general with 
more humahiiy there than in the other iflands ; though their 
treatment is by no means fuch as ihey would experience, 
were the trade abolifned. Notwithftanding this, feveral 
of them were feleded, and formed into a military corps. 
They were found to be vigilant, and ready, on every 
eccafion : and no one inftance could be found on the 
whole ifland where a flave had abufed the confidence 
repofed in him, or had turned his arms to a bad purpofe. 

I have now enumerated the principal con(equences that 
would unavoidably refult to the planters^ the JIaves them- 
felves, and the tjlands^ from the abolition of the fiave 
trade. I need not obferve, that they are fuch, as are 
highly important in themfelves, truly pleafmg in the 
anticipation, and moft devoutly to be prayed for. 
Indeed, there is no profpecS^, that we are obliged to view 
at a diflance, that is fo charming and delightful. For let 
us fee the planter at a future period, not the tyrant and 
deftroyer, but the fhepherd and the guardian of his flaves., 
J^et us fee them looking upon him in return as the 
difpenfer of their blef^^ngs ; gratefully acknowledging his 
favours, endeared to him from the ties of principle and 
gratitude. Let us fee them annually improving both ia 
their temporal and religious ftate. Then fhall the chains 
©f defpotifm be broken. The Daemon torture fhal! 
throw her inftr undents into the fea; commerce extend her 
fwelling fails; embarraffments be no mpf^; fecurity and 
confidence eilablifhed-', a golden age, in {hort, reign in 
the colonial plains ; and a fpot, that was once the fcene 
fcf accumulated perfecution and murder, be the manlions 
of peace, fecurity, happinefs, and joy. 

If this defirable change then were to take place, as it 
inevitably m.uft ; if afl thefe bleiTings were to follow i 
how additionally impoUttck Is the JIave trade^ which is tho: 

ml} 



Afrxcajt SiAV^ Trade. toi 

enly impeMment to their realization ; which, by holding up 
to the planter the profpedt of an annual fupply, only 
encourages him to Wafte and dilnpate human life, and to 
be cruel; and which, by furnifhing him with people 
deprived of the natural rights of meii, fills him frequently 
with alarm, and obliges him often to adopt a fyftem of 
difcipline and oppreffion, that will for ever hinder him 
from experiencing the folid advantages defcribed. 



CHAP. 11. 
SECTION!. 

The patrons of the flave trade having founded aa 
argument, in fupport of their caufe, on the fatal confe- 
quences of its abolition to the colonies-^ derive another 
from the baneful efFedls which would refult from it to this 
kingdom, 

i'hey afTert firfl, that if fuch an event were to take 
place, jt would annihilate a confiderahle branch of the 
revenue. 

No argument, perhaps, has been deemed of greater 
importance by the opponents of the abolition, than this. 
They have been affiduous, both in their converfation and in 
their writings, to difleminate it. They have never failed to 
mention it too with their wonted confidence, and but too 
many have implicitly admitted it without an inveftigation 
of the fa6^. It will be proper therefore to examine into 
the truth of their aflertion, and to fee how far the objec- 
tion, advanced by them, is valid. 

The lofs which the revenue might fuftain In confequence 
of the abolition of the flave trade, could be efFecled only 
in three ways. It mignt be fuppofed to fuffer, firft, by 
the Iqfi of duty on fuch goods as are ufually ex^ orted tn 
Africa,, and the expo-station of which^ on fuch an event^ 
would ceafe. This point I (hall immediately confider. 
The remaining two Ihall be noticed in their proper place. 

To inveftigate this, it will be proper to enumerate the 
articles that are ufually exported from this country to the 

coali. 



io8 



On the Impolicy of the 



coaft. Thefe may be divided into three clafTes, namely,^ 
Britifh, Eaft- Indian, Eaft- Indian and Venetian con-^ 
jointly. 

In the firft clafs may be reckoned 



Gunpowder 

Shot 

Guns 

Gun-flints 

Cutlafles 

Knives 

Brafs-pan^ 

Jron-bars 

Lead-bars 

Copper-rods 



Pewter-vi^are 

Earthen-ware 

Glafs 

Brandy 

Manilloes 

Neptunes 

Cottons 

Linens 

Woollens 

Fuftrans. 



In the fecond clafs may be reekonecl 



Blue cloths 

Brawles 

Bejutapants 

Callicoes 

Cufhtaes 

Chintz 



Chelloes 
NIcamees 
Negam pants 
Romalls 
Photaes 



In the third clafs may be reckoned 



Arrangoes 
Cowries 
Amber beads 



Coral 

Great bugle- 
Small bugle 



The articles mentioned in the firft clafs, being of the 
produdtion and manufa6lure of Great Britain, pay no 
* duty on exportation, and of courfe, were they never 
more to be carried to the coaft, the revenue could fuftain 
no injury by the change. 

Thofe in the fecond confifl of fuch as are either pro- 
hibited, and neither pay duty nor receive drawback, or 
of fuch as have the whole duty returned in cafe of 
exportation to Africa. 

■* Printed cottons py cxclfc, which is^ however, drawn back oa 
«x!>ortatlon» 

Thofe 



African Slave Trade* xox^ 

Thofe in the third are all of them, fubje6l to duty, but 
the * drawback is (o great, that, after the receipt of ifc^ 
fcarcely fufficient is left to pay for the proportion of falary 
of thofe in office, under whofe cognizance they fall. 

It is evident, therefore, that the revenue could not 
fuiFer at all by any lofs of duty on the goods exported from 
hence to Africa, were the trade abolilhed. 

The fecond way, in which the revenue might be fup- 
pofed to fuftain a lofs, might be by a lofs of duty on fuck 
of the produoiions of Africa^ as are ufually imported from 
theme into this kingdom^ and the importation of which would 
ceafe, 

A few words only will be necefTary to afcertain thi* 
point. The producSiions of Africa are brought to us by 
two different means of conveyance, namely, of the wood 
and of the flave vefiels. The greater fhare of them is 
imported by the former, fo that whether the flave trade 
were abolifhed or not, this proportion would flill continue 
to be brought. If it were abolifhed, that part of them, 
which is now brought home by the latter, to the detriment 
of the fair trader upon the coafl, would fall in their pro- 
per channel. More wood vefiels would be immediately 
fitted out, nor would any diminution whatever, either 
immediately or in future, be experienced by the re- 
venue in this injiance^ from the abolition of the trade 
in ilaves. 

The third, and only remaining way in which it can be 
fuppofed that the national purfe would fufFer, muft be by 
2^ lofs of duty on rum and fugar^ both of which being pro- 
duced by the toil of flaves, might either decreafe in 
quantity, or be annihilated in the iilands, were the trade 
abolifhed. 

* This will be feen from the following ftatement. 

Dutj, Drat\;iha:\». 

Arrangoes 7 for every f loo of the f /. r n 

Cowries, S real value thereof | A 3> ^3 4 ^29i6 o 

Beads Amber, 7 n. 

Coral, f P=r lb. - o 4 5 04a 

Bugle Small, per lb. - - 027 025 

Bugle Great, per lb. - » 0x7 016 

To this ftatement I may add, that fo fir J3 the revenue from beinf 
benefited, that the bounties, paid out of it on goods exported to Africa, 
amount to ten timea more than any duties vhich it receives. 

With 



^10 On the Impolicy of thk 

With refpcd: to a diminution of the ufual quantity of 
thefe valuable articles, which would of courfe occafion a 
diminution of revenue, 1 apJDrehend there is no perfon fo 
extravagant as to fuppo/e, that it could take place when 
the rifing generation were grown up. It will be therefore 
proper to inquire firft, what would be the fituation of* 
things, from the mon-ent of the abolition of the (lave 
trade, till the Tiling generation could be brought into 
employ. 

The age at which the young Creoles are ufually put 
into the field, is that oi fifteen. This, therefore, is the 
fpace of time in which I am to inquire whether there 
would be any diminution of the articles of revenue before 
Ipecified. 

The firft queftlon that feems naturally to occur on the 
occafion is this, — Whether the number of labourers would 
be lefs in this than in any former period of an equal 
length ? 

It is very certain that there would be in the iflands, at 
the moment of the abolition, Creoles of every age, from 
one to fifteen, ready to fill up in fucceflion the places ojf 
many of thofe who would unavoidably be t ijcen off within 
this period. It will be faid, however, that thefe would 
not be numerous enough of themfelves to fupply the whole 
deficiency by death. But I reply, that in confequence of 
the regulations, both in point of labour, food, and treat- 
ment, that would neceflarily follow the abolition of the 
fiave trade, the bills of mortality would be lefs crowded, 
and that the lives of all thofe flaves, at that time upon the 
iflands, would be confiderably prolonged. By means, 
therefore, of this protraction of human life on the one 
hand, which would render perhaps only half the former 
number of recruits necefTary in a given time, and by 
means of this regular fuccefTion of Creoles on the other, 
more of whom wr<?uld live to come to maturity than in 
any former period of the fame length, there couid be but 
little xliminution of thefe articles from the diminution of 
effective labourers in the colonies. 

But let us fuppofe, for a moment, that the number of 
labourers would be lefs : ftill no diminution of thefe arti- 
cles is necefTary ; for a lefs number, under tender regula- 
tions, 



African Slave Trads. hi 

tions, would do as much work as a greater, without them, 
in the fame time. It is not on tlie number, but on the 
condition, the ability, the willingnefs of the labourer, that 
the quantity of work depends. On eftates, where the lafli 
has been inceflantly applied, the flaves have univerfally 
done much lefs in proportion, than upon thofe where 
they have met with indulgencies, and been treated 
like human beings. Such would be the cafe during this 
period, and if the number of flaves were to become lefs, 
by one-third^ than before, it is not necefTary that any 
diminution fhould take place, either in the quantity of 
fugar and rum, or in the revenue, that may be expected 
by the ftate. 

Again. Let us, fuppofe them to be reduced even to 
one-half of their former number, till the rifmg generation 
were put into employ. — Let the planters introduce ma- 
chines of hufbandry, and one-half, or one- tenth, or even 
one-thirtieth^ would do as much work in the fame time aS 
all of them together were able to do before, under their 
then fyftem of labour. 

As a proof of this, (for it is not a bare conjediiure,) I 
fhall fele£l the two following paflages from * A^r. Long. 

" It was found, fays he, that one plough, ufed on an 
^^ eftate in the parifh of Clarendon, turned up as much 
*' ground in one day, and in a much better manner than 
*' one hundred negroes could perform with their hoes in 
'' the fame time." 

" When the plant is made in the furrow, following the 
*' plough^ I think it demonftrable, that more ground can 
*' be turned up and planted in this way in one day^ thaa 
*' can be holed and planted in the ufual way in three^ and 
*^ with a tenth lefs number of able negroes." 

Such is the language of Mr. Long, and it muft be 
evident, I think, to every impartial perfon, both from 
thefe and the preceding obfervations, that the revenue 
could not f poilibly fufFer by any diminution of the ufual 

quantity 

* Long's Hlflory of Jamaica. Vol. I, Page 449, 450. 

•]• Suppofe that their lives would not be protrafted, that lefs work 
would be done in the fame time, that machines of labour would be ra- 
ther an hindrance than a gain, ftill the deficiency might be jnade up by 
fareign fugar, (till the rifing generation were grown up) and the revenue be 

improved,* 



112 On the Impolicy ot Vni 

quantity of rum and ftiga?-^ till the rifing generation wer^ 
capable of being put into employ; It has appeared before^ 
that it could not fuffer by any diminution of the exports to 
Africa, or imports from thence into this kingdom : and if 
it could fuftain no injury in either of the three ways novi^ 
mentioned, I do not fee how it is poffible that it could 
fufFer at all. 

Thus, in whatever point of view we confider the fub- 
je6t, there could neceffarily be no diminution of the re^ 
venue* But, on the other hand, when we come to con- 
fider the great prolongation of life, which muft refult 
from thofe regulations that the abolition of the ilave trade 
muft intr'^duce, the better condition of the flaves frorh 
the fame caufe, their greater zeal and alacrity, the truth 
of the maxim, that thofe, who are beft treated, univer- 
fally work the beft, and the extraordinary advantages of 
the introduftion of machines of hufbandry, by which 
one-thirtieth only of the former llrength would be requir- 
ed, it is h\^\y probable that the revenue would be increafed^ 
and it is certain that it could be made, under proper regu* 
lations, to receive a greater augmentation in this, than in 
any former period of an equal length. 

Having now inquired what would be the fituation of 
the revenue, till the rifmg generation were put int6 
employ, I fhall inquire what its fituation would probably 
be after this period : for the more remote, as well as the 
lefs diftant confequences of the abolition of the flave trade*, 
fhould be had in view. 

It is probable, that fome of the flaves, who were ifi 
bondage at the time of the abolition, would be then alive ; 
but as many of thefe would be paft their labour, and the 
reft would be going off, I (hall content myfelf with hav*- 
ing only mentioned them. The efFe£tive, or rifing 
llrength then on the illands, would confift of Creoles* 
Thefe would be found, in a regular fucceiTion, from the 
age of thirty to or.e. They would have been born too in 
the order of nature, that is, the fexes would have been 
properly proportioned by means of birth, which is not th« 
cafe in the colonies at the prefent day. 

imprcved. For thisj from its cheapnefs, would bear a heavier duty> and 
yetxome into our liands at a more reafonabU rate than that from the 
Britii^ coloniest 

Having 



African Slave Trade. 113 

Having this advantage then; having, moreover, the 
advantages of a proliiick nature, of living in a climate to 
which they have been habituated from their infancy, and of 
being treated in an humane and tender manner^ far beyond 
any of their predecefTors, they would from this period 
very rapidly increafe, and a much greater number of flaves 
would be then found in the iflands, than at any former 
time. This would evidently be the cafe. It is no fpecu* 
lative conjecture. It is founded on the invariable rule of 
nature, on the immutable decrees of the Deity, that every 
ibciety of people, among whom the fexes are properly 
proportioned, and common advantages are enjoyed, mufi 
increafe. 

Let us now confider the el?e61:s oF this increafe. The 
planter, having more hands than before, will feek for 
employment for his fupernumeraries. He will feek for it^ 
becaufe he will not fupport them in idlenefs, and becaufe 
his own intereft will be fo materially concerned. Two 
j>rofpe6ts will then prefent themfelves, namely, the improve- 
ment of the old landy and the clearing and cultivation of the 
new. 

There are few eftates in the colonies, or indeed in any 
other part of the world, in which many more hands could 
not be em.ployed to advantage, than are employed in them 
at prefent ; or which have arrived at that degree of culti- 
vation, to which they are capable of being brought. It 
is evident therefore, in the firft cafe, that the fame fpot 
that produced a certain number of hogfheads of fugar 
annually, would be made to produce niore^ and that the 
revenue would derive a proportionate benefit from the 
change. This would be the firft natural confequence of 
the increafe. 

In the fecond cafe the advantages would be fimllar and 
great. The planter would dire6t a part of his agricultural 
ftrength to the clearing of new land, and the augmenta- 
tion of his eftate. In this refpect he has been hitherto 
confined : for the expenfe of purchaiing neiv flaves has 
been fo heavy, and fo many of them have conftantlv died 
in the arduous employment, arduous not only in itfeif, but 
particularly to thcfe who have beenunufed to labour.; that his 
attempts have very rarely been made but with lofs, and have 

H often 



11^ On the Impolicy of the 

often ruined him. The cafe, however, at the period now 
in view, would be reverfed. His * Creoles^ feafoned to 
the climate, and inured from their infancy to work, would 
perform it without its former weight, and would be able 
to realize his views without any of the difadvantages 
defcribed. 

Enabled then to put his plans into execution without 
any detriment to himfelf, let us confider the fecond con- 
fequence of the increafe. 

Every new piece of land, which he would clear and put 
into cultivation, would produce an additional quantity ot 
fugar and rum. This additional quantity would pay its 
proportionate duty to the ftate ; and how far the revenue 
is capable of increafe, by thefe means, may be conceived, 
in fome meafure, from the following account. 

Acres of Land. 
In Jamaica alone are contained about 3,500,000 

There are already cleared, opened, and ap- 7 r 

plied to cultivation or pafture j ' 

The Savannahs include - - 250,000 

The rocky, unplantable parts, roads, river- 1 
\ courfes, and gullies - 3 



1,150,000 



It appears from hence, that there remain in Jamaica 
alone, capable of cultivation, about 2,350,000 acres of 
land. Here then would be an ample Held for fpeculation, 
for the employment of fupernumerary llaves, and for an 
addition to the revenue. 

In fhort, if we confider the flrfl confequence of the 
Increaje^ as vifible in the rmproveinent of the old land, and 
the fecond, as vifible in the clearing and cultivation of the 
new^ and combine them, It will appear, that a prodigious 
extenfion of revenue would unavoidably arife to this 
kingdoms and that the abolition of the flave trade would 

* Native Jfrlcam, (fays Mr. Long) unfeafoned to the cJimate, and 
/c/s able than the Creoles to bear the toil of cutting doivjt thick luoodsf and 
tlearlng frefii land, — Long's Hiftory of Jamaica. Vol. I, Page 536, 

be 



African Slave Trade, itj 

be the means, in the courfe of time, of conliderably aug-^ 
menting its prefent opulence and power. 

Such would be the lituation of things in the colonies-^ 
were the trade abolifhed. Let us now, for a moment, 
turn our eyes to Jfrica-^ and let us look at the profpe6!: there^ 

In the interval of time, from the rearing of the rifmg 
generation to the putting of them into employ, we fhould 
have been bufy in eftablifhing an honourable and civilizing 
commerce among the natives there. We fhould have 
been fuccefsful in our attempts, becaufe we fhould have 
given them encouragement, (of which they are not infen- 
fible) and have embarked in it with emulation and zeal* 
We fhould have Imported many of their variegated and 
valuable woods, their cotton, their rice, their indigo, their 
fpices, and, perhaps, articles neither known at the prefent 
^ay, nor to be credited were they known and mentioned. 
Many of the productions of Africa would bear a duty in 
a little time, and if fuch a duty were affixed to them on 
importation, they would neverthelefs come cheaper into 
our hands, than thofe of the fame kind, if duty free, from 
another quarter. This improvement, therefore, which 
the revenue would derive in time from the new trade, is to 
be added to the account. 

To fum up the whole. It Is evident, that the revenue 
could not pofliibly be diminifhed, in confequence of the 
abolition of the Have trade, till the rifing generation were 
put into employ. It is probable that it would be in- 
creafed: and it is certain that it could be made, under 
proper regulations, to receive a greater augmentation in 
this, than in any former period of an equal length. But 
when the end of this period fhould have arrived, fuch an 
additional quantity of fugar and rum would be annually 
imported from the Iflands, and fuch an additional number 
of articles from the coaft, that the revenue would arrive 
at a degree of extenfion, unknown In any former period^ 
and not to be known till the riches of Africa are explored^ 
or a fyflem of humanity and population be adopted in our 
colonies. 

I'hefe riches can never be difcovered, this fyflem never 
introduced^ but by the abolition of the trade In Haves. 

H 2 SECTION IL 



ii6 On the Impolicy of the 



SECTION II. 

I have now examined one of the fatal confequences that 
would, in the opinion of the patrons of the trade, unavoid- 
ably arife to this kingdom from its abolition. A fecond is, 
that if fuch an event v^ere to take place, it would annihi- 
late a confiderahk branch of our manufa^itires. 

It is aftonifhing to hear the exaggerated accounts that 
have been uniformly given of the exports of this country 
to the ccaft of Africa for (laves. One could fcarcely 
conceive that people, who wifhed to fupport their caufe, 
could have ventured to make afTertions, that but a little 
knowledge of the African trade muft immediately refute, 
but that their audacity is to be equalled only by their 
ignorance, and that a bad caufe univerfally wants fup- 
port. 

It has been aflerted by a perfon, who affects a confider- 
able knowledge of this trade, that goods, to the amount of 
two millions and an half are annually fliipped to Africa ; 
and it is aflerted with no lefs confidence by the fame, that 
the cargo of every fhip is worth, on an average, twelve 
ihoufand pounds. Thefe, and other abfurdities, have been 
daily obtruded into our ears. The publick prints have 
had their fhare in proclaiming them ; and the importance 
of the African trade has been founded from all quarters. 

It is very fortunate, however, that but a few points, 
well known^ will be able to check thefe exaggerated 
accounts. The average value of a flave upon the coafl:, 
the number that are annually purchafed, and the average- 
number carried in one fhip, are fufficient documents for 
the refutation of the whole. 

On a fuppofition then that goods to the amount of two 
millions and an half are annually fhipped to the coaft, and 
that one flave with another, including men, women, and 
boys, can be purchafed by manufa6lures of the value of 
twenty pounds, (which is too high an allowance) even on 
fuch a fuppofition, the Englifli mufl: annually purchafe one 
hundred and twenty-five thoufand flaves j that is, they miift 
purchafe two-thirds more than they really do, or more 

than 



African Slave Trade, 117 

Ihan all the Europeans together, including themfelves, from 
the river Senegal to the utmoft limits of Angola. 

Again, on a fuppofition that every cargo is worth 
twelve thoufand pounds, it will appear from his own data, 
that two hundred and eight veifels muft be annuaOy em- 
ployed in this trade, and that each of thefe muft tranfport 
fix himdred flaves. In other words, the Engliih muft 
carry more hy two hundred and forty in each fhip than 
were ever known to be the average number carried by any 
number of fhips in any year. 

Such are the admirable arguments, and fuch is the 
knowledge of the fupporters of this trade. If they believe 
what they write, they muft be ignorant indeed. If they 
are better informed, they muft write againft their own 
conviction, and muft be confidered as impoftors, taking 
an advantage of the ignorance of the world, to ferve an 
execrable caufe. 

The real value of the goods exported to Africa in the 
year 1786, was about eight hundred thoufand pounds, I 
fpeak from good authority; I believe, as good as can be 
obtained. The account too is confiftent with itfelf. It 
may be checked either by the number of flaves purchafed 
in that year, or by their value upon the coaft. It will 
ftand either oi thefe ordeals ; which is not the cafe with, 
any of the monftrous accounts delivered by the advocates 
for the trade. 

This being the v/hole amount of the exports, and more 
than one third of them being of Venetian and Eaft Indian 
manufacture conjointly, the real value of the Britifti ma- 
nufacl:ures ftiipped to the coaft in that year may be called 
fve hundred thoufand pounds. This is the prodigious 
branch, that would be annihilated by the abolition of the 
flave trade, being only one-fifth of the fum its advocates 
have reported, and fcattered in too many places to be felt, 
and too infignificant to ftop the abolition for a moment, 
even were it wholly loft. 

But I deny that the whc^le of it would be loft were the 
flave trade immcdiatcly2k^o\\^^A. The flave veflTels bring 
heme many of the productions of Africa annually, fuch 
as ivory, palm-oil, long and malaguetta-pepper, part of 
WhiQh is paid for out pf the amount of th^ Britifli manu- 
H ^ fa6lure5 



ji8 On the Impolicy of the 

fa6lures juft mentioned. Whatever portion, therefore, of 
the exported goods was before expended in the purchafe of 
thefe, by means of the flave vefTels now mentioned, would 
ftill be expended by means of new wood -vefTels, fitted out 
for their reception. 

I aflert farther, that if, on the abolition of the flave 
trade, we were to embark with ardour in the new inter-- 
courfe that has been pointed out, and government would 
aiTift the plan, by encouraging the infant-fettlement at 
Sierra Leon, by recalling the prefent African Gover- 
nors, by appointing others on the coaft whofe principles 
and opinions would be favourable to the defign, by dire6t- 
ing the cultivation of every little fpot in the vicinity of the 
forts, (which would fhew an example to the natives) and 
by other means, the annual exports from this country to 
Africa would foon reach their prefent height, and a foun- 
dation be laid for fuch an extenfive commerce, as would 
take them off, at a future period, in a quantity hitherto un- 
known. 

That the Africans would foon engage in fuch a line of 
connediioii, is evident for many reafons. Firil, becaufe 
they have acquired fuch a talle for our manufadlures, that 
they could not eafily relinquifh them ; and it is clear that 
they could not obtain them, at leaft for a length of time, 
to the extent of their prefent demands, by other means. 

Secondly, becaufe they have readily embarked in any 
new commercial plan that has been pointed out, and 
we have a right to argue from_ what has once been to what 
inay again be. 

Thirdly, becaufe the merchant in this line, requiring 
lefs credit than the flave merchant, buying his goods five 
per cent, cheaper, employing lefs hands in one vefFel, and, 
knowing that his vefTel would lafl * twice the time of the 
other, could afFord the exported articles at a cheaper rate : 
and the Africans, like other people, are too fenfible of 
their own intereft, not to choofe that fyflem of commerce 
which would be mofl advantageous, were it pointed out. 

This kind of intercourfe then being once eftablifhed, 

* It Is aftonlAing what an efFeft the heat and ftench, arifing from 
the flaves conrined between the decks, have upon the timbers of the 
vefiels. This effadt is fo great, that a flave vefl'el is conlidered at Liver- 
pool as limiting paly half the time of anothero 



African Slave Trade. 



119 



let us mark the confequences. The flave trade takes 
annually from Africa a prodigious number of its inhabi- 
tants. By the abolition of it, a lefs number would be 
taken away, or, which is the fame thing, a greater num- 
ber would be added, fo that from this circumilance alone, 
there would be an additional confumption of our manufaC' 
tures within the fame Jpace, 

The flave trade too has been hitherto an infuperable 
impediment to the civilization of the Africans : but the 
new commerce would have a contrary efFe6t. It would 
gradually change their laws, which are now moftly 
adapted to the former. It would gradually alter their 
opinions and habits. It would foften and polifh their 
manners, and would bring them to a ftate of refinement, 
though not immediately great in itfelf, yet great in com- 
parifon of their former ftate. This civilization would be 
produ6live of the moft beneficial effects to ourfelves : for 
in proportion as we civilize a people, we increafe their 
wants^ and we fhould create therefore, from this circum- 
ftance alone, another fource of additional confumption of 
dur mamfadures even within the fame fpace. 

This being the cafe, ineftimable would be the advan^ 
tages which the kingdom would experience from the 
abolition of the trade in flaves. But if to thefe confide- 
rations we add, that the new intercourfe, being eftabliihed 
on a principle of greater gain, would extend itfelf every 
year, would make its way into the interiour country, and 
that in the very exercife of it, nation after nation would 
be civilized, it is evident, that there would be a perpetually 
growing demand for our manufa6lures, and that the con- 
fumption of them in Africa would arrive at a degree of 
extenfion, which none but the moll comprehenfive minds 
can be capable of conceiving. 

Such, in time, would be the fituation of the demand for 
our manufactures on the coaft of Africa^ were the flave 
trade abolifhed : nor would that in the colonies be lefs 
pleafing. The great increafe of cultivators, that would 
unavoidably arlie there in confequence of the abolition, 
would of courfe occafion a great increafe of demand for 
our manufactures. Their condition too being improved, 
and their wants multiplied, they would demand them iq 

H ^, greater 



X20 Ow THB Impolicy of the 

greater abundance, and I need hardly add, that they would 
demand them of a better fort. 

Nor would neceiTary oi: ornaipental apparel, or domef- 
tick utenfils, or articles of fancy, be the only Brjtifh 
commodities for which the demand would increafe there. 
When the walle lands were put into cultivation, new' 
fcenes would be opened, and new wants created. The new 
bbourers muft have their bills, their axes, and their hoes. 
There muft be new materials for building, new ftills and 
mill-cafes, new locks and ftaples, new iron work foj: 
nvachines, ^nd m.any other articles, too numerous to bp 
particularly defcribed. All thefe muft be purchafed, kept 
in repair, and renewed : and they would afford to the 
Britiih manufacturer an additional and permanent employ. 

In fhcrt, there are few fubjecls more pleafmg in the 
contemplation than this. And fo far would the abolition 
of the fiave trade be from annihilating a confiderable branch 
of our maniiTaStures^ that it would open many additional 
purees^ both in Africa and the colonies^ for their confump- 
tion, and would procure a vent, in the courfe of time, for 
fuch a quantity, as, if compared with the prefent branch 
of them exported there, v/ould render it infignificant an4 
nieanp 



SECTION III. 

The patrons of the flave trade have confidered the 
annihilation of a branch of our revenue, and the annihi- 
lation of a branch of our manufactures, as two of the 
fatal confequences that would arife to this kingdo^m from 
its abolition. There is yet a third. It is faid, that if 
fuch an event were to take place, the different towns^ 
concerned in this trade would, from the variety of diflrefs 
that w*ould be occafioned in them^ receive a confiderable. 
fhock. 

To invefligate this point, I fhall divide the cities, 
towns, and villages, that have any connection with this 
t|-ade, into two kinds, namely, manuf Muring and com- 
mercial \ and I fhall fuppofe for a n;qmerit the abolition of 
the trade to have taken place, 
" r ' Witl^ 



African Slave Trade. 121 

With refpe6l to the manufa^urlng towns, there are 
none, where the inhabitants work folely for the African 
trade. The moft confpicuous Is Manchefter, which 
fupphes it annually with goods, almoft to as great an 
amount as ail the reft of them put together. The next 
is Birmingham, In each of thefe are dlftincSt houfes for 
this trade, and which have no connection with any other. 

That the town of Manchefter would receive a fhock 
by the abolition of the flave trade, though the value of 
the goods, annually furnifhed for it, is great, is too 
abfurd not to be ridiculed by thofe, who are acquainted 
vv^ith the nature, fituation, or extent of the •manufa£lures 
of that important place. 

It is certain, that If fome particular arts In this king- 
dom were to be fupprefled, thofe who have been brought 
up to them would be deftitute for a time. They could 
not become artifts diredly in another line, and, till they 
could turn their hands to fome other kind of employ, they 
would fufFer. But this is not the cafe with the labouring 
manufacturer of Manchefter for th^ African trade. The 
fame perfon v/ho works for this could Immediately turn 
his hand to the different branches of manufacture now 
there. At this mornent there are many infant arts to 
:}receive them, and more than fuiHcient fcope to employ 
that capital, which Is now in the African, in other foreign 
jnarkets, Nor need there be, nor is It likely that there would, 
a fmgle labouring manufacturer, who would fuffer by the 
abolition of the flave trade, fo long as he was willing to 
work. 

With refpeCt to Birmingham, the goods which are 
made there for the African trade, are unworthy of com- 
parifon in point of value with thofe which are made at 
Manchefter for the fame. They confift principally of 
guns. But the whole branch of it is fo Infignificant in 
jtfelf, and bears fo mean a proportion to the general ma- 
nufactory of the place, that the change of fafhion only in 
a button, has occalioned, and will ftill occafion, greater 
diftref- to the labouring manufacturers there, than the 
abolition of the whole trade in flaves. 

\\ the reader wiftied to have thefe affertions confirmed, 
I might ftate to him, that when the ilave trade began 

to 



122 Om the Impolicy of the 

to excite the attention of the publick, a meeting of the 
inhabitants was called by advertifement both at Manchef- 
ter and at Birmingham on this fubje6t. That thefe meet- 
ings were numeroufly attended. That they confifted of 
the moft refpedtable perfons, in point of property and 
character, in the two towns. That there was not a 
diflentient voice in either of th^m on the occafion : but 
that committees were formed, and ftill continue much to 
their honour to exift, to effe6t the abolition of the trade. 

In the reft of the maniif alluring towns the different 
branches for the African market are very fmall, and bear 
no kind of proportion to the different manufa6^ories of the 
place. The fame houfe too, which fupplies the African, 
is connected with other trades ; fo that if the flave trade 
were immediately abolifhed, no inconvenience could be 
felt in thefe, except in the lofs of fale of fuch chains or 
inftruments of torture, as are ready made : and it is only 
to be lamented, that the fabricators of thefe would fuffer 
fo little, as they would do, by the change. 

It appears then from hence, that the manufacturing 
towns of this kingdom that are concerned in the African 
trade, would not receive that confiderable fhock, which 
it is pretended would be occafioned by its abolition. On 
the other hand we are to confider, that vefTels would ftill 
go to the coaft, and would go for fuch of its produ6tions 
as the flave vefTels formerly took away ; and if to this 
confideration we add, that a new trade, fuch as I have 
defcribed in the firft part of my work, might be eftablifhed 
there, fuch an additional number of manufacturers would 
be foon employed, and fuch an extra accumulation of 
wealth arife to the different towns, as would give them a 
much greater fhare of importance, even than they pofTefs 
at the prefent day. By the people of Manchefter, how^ 
ever, the advantages would be particularly felt. Not to 
jnention a larger exportation of manufacturers than before 
to the fame coaft, the fingle circumftance of obtaining 
their cotton from Africa would be ineftimably great, 
This cotton, if we except the Perfian, to which it is equal 
in rank, is the fineft of any on the globe. It is this un- 
common finenefs that would render it fo peculiarly valua-? 
ble : and of fuch importance v^ould it be in the eye of the 

Manchefte;^ 



African Si,ave Trade. 



1^3 



Manchefter manufadurer to obtain It, that there is no 
event which he could wifh for, in point of intereft, more 
than the abolition of the trade in flaves. 

Having taken into confideration the manufa5iuring^ I 
come now to the commercial towns that are concerned in 
this trade. Thefe are only three, namely, London, Bnf- 
tol, and Liverpool. 

The great cities of London and Briftol do not poflefs 
together in this employ fo many as forty veflels. To 
fuppofe, therefore, that any kind of diftrefs could be felt 
by the total feceflion of thefe, or any kind of ilagnation 
take place, would be to expofe myfelf to derifion": for I 
might as well fuppofe, that if forty drops of water were 
to be taken from a bucket, they would be miffed. 

That the town of Liverpool would be greatly afFe61:ed 
by the blow, though it employs fo many veflels, and has 
a greater fhare in the trade than London and Briftol to- 
gether, is a polition, the abfurdity of which may be foon 
fliewn. 

It has long been a miftake, that the town of Liverpool, 
which was formerly but a fiihing village, is indebted for 
its prefent grandeur and opulence to the Have trade. No 
opinion was ever more erroneous than this. I ihall there- 
fore mention fome of the principal caufes that have con- 
tributed to bring it into its prefent ftate. 

The firft has been the free admiffion of Jir angers^ in 
confequence of a politick exemption from many of thofe 
dues, to which, as Grangers, they would have been liable 
in another place. 

This has encouraged many to fettle there. To fupply 
thefe again, in all their refpedive wants, others have ad^ 
ditionally come. Thus a conftant addition of new fami^ 
lies has been made to the original or the old. 

Nor have lefs advantages been experienced in another 
point of view, by the fame means. Each of the new 
fettlers has brought with him his diiFerent purfuits and 
fchemes ; has had his emulation ; has fupported an home 
or a foreign trade, according as his connexions lay. 

To this free admiflion then of ftrangers, which has 
induced many to fettle, unfettered, with their different 
purfuits, is to be attributed, on one haAd, an increafe of 

th9 



124 ^^ '^"^ Impolicy of the 

the population, and, on the other, of the mercantile Inttr^ 
courfe of the place, 

A fecond caufe of the rife and grandeur of Liverpool 

has been the fait trade. 

Salt, which ma)/ be confidered as its ftaple commodity, 
and which is colle6led from the neighbouring mines, is 
brought there in fuch quantities as almoft exceed belief. 
Many veflels are employed in the exportation of this 
Article. This has not failed to increafe the navigation of 
the place. 

But the increafe of the navigation and opulence of 
Liverpool is to be attributed to it in another way, which 
will be beft {een by the following account. 

Some merchants of the north, hearing a few years back, 
that this article could be purchafed cheaper at Liverpool 
than at any other place, fent two or three of their velTels 
for a fupply. The captains of thefe, on their return 
home, reported, that all thofe nations of the north, who had 
no fait- works of their own, could not only lay in the 
article in abundance and cheaper there, but could alfo lay 
in- their aflbrtments of tobacco, fiigar, and other American 
produce, as well as at the London or other markets ; and 
till this time they had, from their ignorance of the power 
of Liverpool to fupply them in this refpedl, been confined 
to thefe. 

Confidering, therefore, that it was much more to their 
advantage to go to Liverpool for one of the articles de-. 
fcribed, and that they fared as well in the reft, it was their 
fntereft upon the whole to declare in favour of the place. 
Thefe and other vefFels came afterwards pouring in for 
their fait, and laid in their foreign affortments at the fame 
time. This immediately gave rife, or rather an addition 
io two foreign trades, namely, the WeJi^Indian and Arne^ 
rican, to fupply them. 

The fait trade therefore has had an important fhare in 
the prefent grandeur of Liverpool^ It has not only in- 
creafed its navigation by the exportation of that article, 
its ftaple commodity, but alfo its navigation and opulence, 
by inducing veflels, on account of its cheapnefs, to refort 
there, which, but for this extraordinary cheapnefs, would 
h^ve gone to another place. Thefe v^iTels pay the^ 

dockage. 



African Slave Trads. 125 

dockage, are often in want of repairs, and by taking off 
a part of the foreign imports of Liverpool, contribute 
towards its opulence, and the fupport of a foreign trade. 

It may, perhaps, be not amifs to introduce a circum- 
ftance here, which may be confidered, in fome meafure, 
as confirming what has been hitherto faid on this fubje6l. 
Debating focieties were held in Liverpool, as in London, 
in the winter of the year 1786, but with this difference, 
that many more refpe6table people exercifed their oratory 
in the former, than in the latter place. At one of thefe 
the caufes of the prefent grandeur and opulence of the 
town of Liverpool were the fubje6t of difcuflion for the 
night. Many merchants, and one or two of great refpec- 
tability and commercial knowledge, joined in the debate ; 
and though the flave trade was advanced by a perfon there 
to have been the principal caufe, he was obliged to 
relinquifh his pofition, as wholly falfe ; and it was deter- 
mined, that other circumftances, but particularly xhtfree 
admijjion of Jlrayigers^ and the fait trade^ had been the 
means of the prefent grandeur and opulence of the town. 

A third caufe of the wealth and importance of Liver- 
pool has been the prodigious increafe of the population of 
Lancafhire. The great increafe of inhabitants there has 
not failed to increafe the trade of the former place, to fup~ 
plythem with fugar,* wine, and other foreign commodities. 
To fuch a degree of populoufnefs has this county already 
arrived, that it is fuppofed to contain as many inhabitants 
as Middlefex, though London is included in the compu- 
tation. Such a body as this will ever command and fup- 
port an extenfive foreign trade. 

A fourth caufe has been the very rapid and great exten- 
fion of the manufactures of Manchefter. The people 
there, inftead of procuring their cotton as formerly, v/hen 
the demand for it was fmall, by the way of London, pro- 
cure it now chiefly from Liverpool ; and inftead of fending 
their manufactures as before to London for exportation, 
export them to foreign parts through the fame medium. 

* I am credibly informed, that about fifty years ago, the whole con- 
fumption of Manchefter did not exceed noo pipes of wine annually, which 
were brought on horfes from Prefton— a quantity not equal to the individuat 
confumption of many of ite prefent opulent and hofpi table manufa^urcrs. 

7"hus 



126 On the Impolicy of the 

Thus by procuring the article when raw, and exporting It 
when manufadured, by means of Liverpool, they have 
given birth to a new merchandize, have increafed the 
foreign trade, and contributed to the riches of the place. 

A fifth is to be attributed to the various canals which 
have been lately made, and with which that part of the 
country is interfe6led. There is now a communication 
from Liverpool by water to various parts inland, and in- 
deed to the very oppofite fea. Whole counties, and dif- 
trifis of people, that were formerly fupplied with foreign 
produce from other places, are now fupplied with it from 
this. This new intercourfe, by the means now ftated, 
has contributed, perhaps of ail others the moft largely, 
to increafe the trade and opulence of the town. 

Thefe are fome of the principal caufes of that commer- 
cial importance which we fee in the town of Liver- 
pool at the prefent day ; and I have made a digreffion in 
relating them for the purpofe only of removing an opinion^ 
long prevalent, that this town, which was formerly a 
fifhing village, is indebted for her prefent rank to the 
profecution of the flave trade. 

To return. That Leverpool would receive a con- 
fiderable fhock by the abolition of the trade in flaves 
is improbable, when we confider thofe refources, that 
have been now mentioned; thofe natural refources, I 
may fay, which are infeparably connected with it, and 
which nothing but fome great and unexpected revolution 
can take away. But as there are fome who would aflert, 
that the feceffion of eighty fhips from this trade would 
occafion great embarrafTment and confufion in the place, 
that the proprietors would not know how to employ them, 
that fhipwrights, carpenters, and others, would want 
work, and experience diftrefs, I fhall make a few obfer- 
vations more on the fame fubjedt. 

When the flave fhips have difcharged their cargoes in 
the Wefl-Indies, they prepare for returning home. Some 
of them take in a fmall portion of VS'^efl -Indian produce, 
others not, according as they can get it, or have time ta 
iiay. 

From hence it is manifefl, that the produce of the 
Weft Indies comes to us by two means of conveyance : 
firfl, by means of thofe vefTels that are employed in going 

backwards 



African Slave Trade. 



127 



backwards and forwards for this purpofe only, and which 
1 may diftinguifh by the name of veffels in the yiatural 
trade : fecondly, by means of the Have vefTels. Thefe 
carry the overplus, or fuch produce as remains over and 
above that which the veffels in the natural trade take off 
in the fame time. 

This overplus is regular ; that Is, a certain number of 
{lave velTels will uniformly take away from the Weft-In- 
dies a certain quantity of their produce in a given time. 
To afcertain therefore how much this overplus Is, will be 
to afcertain the opening that would prefent itfelf, or the 
number of Liverpool flave fhips that would find immediate 
employ, were the trade abolifhed. 

The following is an account of fuch Weft-Indian pro- 
duce as v/as brought home by fifty veftels of that defcrip- 
tion, taken promifcuoufly, or as they returned after each 
other into port. 



Sugar 758 hogflaeads 
Rum 102 puncheons 
Cotton 1364. bales 
indigo 4 tierces 
Coi5-ee 18 puncheons 
Sarfaparilla 126 bundles 
Pimento 1 hogihead 
Ginger 3 puncheons 
Pepper 77 puncheons 
Tortoife-iiiell 11 barrels 
Logwood 51T tons 
Mahogany 151 logs 
Nicaragua wood 469 tons 
Fuftick 557 tons 
Lignum Vitae 50 tons 



152 tierces 
4hhds. 
1532 bags 
4 ca/Ics 
601 hhds. 

•2 tierces 



1042 planks 
3480 pieces 



8 barrels 

95 T pockets 
8 boxes 
15 tierces 

2 barrels 



8988 pounds 



2 pack; 
bar. 
36 bar 

bags 



I keg 
%o bags 



I apprehend, ^sX fifty flave veftels, the amount of whofe 
cargoes on their return from the Weft Indies has been 
fpecified as above, will be quite fuificient, in point of 
number, to ferve as a ground-work for any calculation on 
this fubjed. This being fuppofed, I fhall ftate that the 
produce above defcribed is fuificient to employ 4000 tons 
of fhipping, that the number of veftels that failed from 
Liverpool to the coaft of Africa in the year 1787 were 
about eighty, that they meafured 14,012 tons, and that it 
follows from thefe data, that there would be an immediate 
opening in the Weft India trade for twenty-three ftiips of 
the fame average burthen as the flave veftels : add to this, 

that 



liS On the Impolicv of the 

that as the productions of the coaft, annually brought to 
Liverpool by the latter, would make alfo an opening in 
the wood trade for fve more, there would be an imme- 
diate employment for twenty-eight of thofe of its veffels 
that are now employed in the flave trade. 

With refpefl to the reft, the growing refources of Li- 
verpool, and the new trades that prefent themfelves, would 
engage many, and it is probable, from the adventurous 
fpirit of the people there, that there would not be, at the 
end of twelve months from the abolition, ten veiTels out 
of employ ; a number which has often been withdrawn 
from this trade in one year, and the withdrawing of which 
has been too inlignificant to be felt. 

It is evident therefore that the town of Liverpool could 
not poffibly feel a {hock by the abolition of the flave trade. 
This abolition, on the other hand, would prepare the way 
for a new comm.ercial eftablifhment on the coaft ; and if 
fuch a trade, in all its various branches, were eftablifhed 
there, as is capable of being introduced, not only the na- 
vigation, but the opulence and importance of Liverpool 
would be carried, by many degrees, beyond their prefent 
extent; nor is it eafy to fay at what diftance a line could 
be drawn from their prefent bounds, to which they could 
not be made, from the vaft and inexhauftible refources of 
Africa, to arrive in time. 

To fum up the contents of the three laft fe£lions. — If 
we confider that the revenue could not poffibly be dimi- 
nifhed by the abolition of the flave trade, but that, in the 
courfe of time, it would be inevitably increafed ; if we 
confider that the exportation of our 7nanufa£lures to Africa 
might be diminifhed for a year or two, but only to recover 
its former height, and then to proceed to a degree of 
extenfion, almoft incredible, if compared with that at the 
prefent day ; and if again we confider that the manufac- 
turing and commercial towns of this kingdom would be fo 
far from receiving a fhock, that they would derive in fu- 
ture the moft important advantages from the change ; then 
is the flave trade, additionally imvolitick^ for as much as its 
abolition could not be immediately injurious, but would be 
attended, in a little time, in all the inftances now men- 
tioned, with the happieft effedls. 

CHAR IIL 



Africa^ Slave Trade* i^f 



CHAP. IIL 

It is hot improbable^ but that fome of the advocates 
ibr flavery may ftop here^ and raife the following obje6tion 
to fome of the principal alTertions that have been made 
in the fecond part of the work. 

" You have faid, that if the (lave trade were abolirtiedi 
the planters would breed frorn their prefent ftoclc, that thd 
revenue could not poflibly be diminifhed, and that the 
manufacturing and commercial towns wOuld feel its anni« 
hilation fo little, as to be almoft infenfible of the change. 
But this is only a matter of fpeculation. Others, who 
have thought on the fame fubje6t, have come to a different 
conclufion. It is by fa6ts alone that we ought to be guided 
in a matter that is of fo much importance as the prefent 
cafe/' 

To this I reply, that I will meet their objediori^ and 
that I will reft thefe confequences of the abolition of the 
ilave trade, as far as a reference cart be had, upon fa^§ 
alone. 

There was a time, during the late war, when the llave 
trade may be confidered as having been nearly abolifhed* 
This is the proper time for a reference of this kind ; and 
that fuch a time is to be found will be evident from thg 
following account* 

in the year 1772 failed from the different i 
ports of Great Britain for the Goaft of J- 175 veffels* 
Africa - ^ » 3 

1773 ^ ^ iji 

1774 - • « 167 

1775 - * 152 

1776 - - ibi 

1777 . - 58 

1778 - - 41 

1779 - ^ 28 

It appears from this accdimt, that iii the year iy^ii 
the year preceding the war^ one hundred and feveniy-finje 
VefTels were fitted out at the different ports of Great 

X Brifeaixl 



13^ On the Impolicy of the 

"Britain for the coaft of Africa, and that in the year 1779 
they were reduced to twenty- eight. The flave trade, 
therefore, may be confidered as having been nearly abo- 
lifhed in this period. Now, we may all of us know^ if 
we inquire, what were the efFe61:s of withdrawing. In the 
courfe of fix years, one hundred and forty^feven vefiels from 
this trade. If it lliould appear that thefe efFefts were not 
detrimental, that the planter bred from his ftock, that the 
revenue was not diminifhed, that the different towns be- 
fore mentioned were in as fiourifhing a condition in the 
year 1779, when the African trade was leaft, as In the 
year 1772, when it was at its greateft height, then it 
i^iay be concluded, that the reafoning in the preceding 
chapters is true, and that fa£isy as well as reafoning^ 
evince, that none of thofe fatal efFe6i:s, foreboded by the 
advocates for llavery, are to be apprehended by the abo- 
lition of the trade. 

To begin with thefe efFe<£^s. Nothing Is more certaiii 
than that the planters, at the beginning of the war, fore- 
feeing that their ufual fupplies would be cut off, or, in 
other words, the flave trade annihilated, changed the 
fyftem of management on their plantations, and that they 
"bred from their then flock. The efFetSls of their eondudt, 
in the encouragement of population, are vifible at the 
jprefent day ; for out of 450,000 flaves, to be reckoned on 
our iflands, 350,000 of thefe are Creoles. 

It Is clear alfo, that a branch of the revenue was not 
annihilated during that period of the war, of which I have 
before fpoken. 

For, in the year 1772, was Im-1' ^r^ ^^^ , , «rr„«.o« 
ported into England - J ^'7^6,4^2 cwt. of fugaj 

1773 - i>733>793 

$774 - 1,035578 

1775 - 1,9405059 

1776 - 1,669,071 

1777 - 3,336,037 

1778 - 1,404)995 
J779 - I544I5943 

From hence we colle61-, that in the year 1772, when 
the African trade was at its height, 1,766,422 cwt. of 

fugar 



African Slave Trade. iji ' 

fugar was imported into this country, and that 1,4415943 
cwt. was imported, when the trade was nearly loft. A 
branch therefore of the revenue ftill remained. But it 
will be faid, that the quantity of fugar imported in the 
year 1772, was certainly much greater than that in the 
year 1779* I allow it. But I reply, that in this, and 
the two preceding years, the enemy had coUedted their 
ftrength, that the difference of importation is to be afcribed 
to captures, and that lefs fugar was not made, though lefs 
was brought to market by the chance of war in the year 
1779 than in the year 1772, notwithftanding that one 
hundred and forty -f even veflels had been withdrawn from 
the African trade. 

I come now to conflder the iitaation of the manufac- 
turing and commercial towns at the two periods affigned. 

In the year 1772, the manufacturers of Manchefter 
worked for an hundred and feventy-five veflels. In the 
year 3779 they worked only for twenty -eighty Notwith- 
ftanding this, there were none of them out of employ. 
They had engaged themfelves in other branches of ma^ 
iiufa<Sture, and the trade of Manchefter was in a more 
flourifhing fituation in the latter than in the former 
period ; a fa6i:, which many of its refpeClable inhabitants 
jcan teftify. 

With refpe<gt to Liverpool, * a few obfervations will 
be fufHcjent. 

TABLE I. 



the coaft of Africa 


I ifuiii jL^ivcrpuMi I 


J 100 vefTels, 


1773 


— — 


105 


1774 


- 


V- 


^775 


- 


8i 


1776 


- 


57 


1777 • 


-• — 


31 


1778 


- 


5t6 


1779 


- 


II 


* I omit London and Bri 


iftol, as having had an 


Inconfiderable /hare In 


the trade. 








I 2 


TABLE II, 



:i3« On the Impolicy of thje 

TABLE II. 



In the year 1772 the dock-duties of 
Liverpool amounted to ▼ 


};C-4$52 


1773 


•^ 


-^ 


4725 


1774 


* 


^ 


4580 


1775 


- 


» 


5384 


1776 


- 


■* 


5064 


?777 


r 


i* 


4610 


177B 


^ 


•? 


4649 


1779 


* 


* 


4957 



From thefe tables it appears, that when Liverpool hadi 
^ne hundred veflels in the African trade, the dock-duties 
amounted to ;^. 4552, and that when thefe veflels were 
reduced to eleven^ the dock-duties rofe to ;£• 4957. Other 
fa6ts, of a fimjlar nature, might be added here, but that 
it is too well known that Liverpool was in a more 
flourifhing fituation in the year 1779, than in the year 
1772 ; that there was no want of employ; and that none 
of thofe confequences were realized, which are foreboded 
by the patrons of the trade. 

It is manifeft from the general fketch now given, that 
'We have feen, during the late war, vdiat would be the 
cfFe<Sls of abolifliing the Have trade ; for no lefs than one 
fjundred and forty -f even veflels were taken out of it during 
that period, whereas there are only one hundred and thirty-' 
feven }n employ at the prefent day ; and we have a right to 
infer, that if the revenue, and manufacturing and com-! 
tnercial towns, did not then fuffer by withdrawing fo great 
a number from the trade, they would hardly now fufi^er by 
withdrawing a lefs. The reafoning, therefore, contained 
in the three preceding chapters of the fecond part of the 
work, will ftand good, till the fadls, mentioned in this, 
fhall be difproved ; and I am too well fatisfied of their 
authenticity not to know that they cannot be contradicted. 



CHAP. IV. 



African Slave Trade. 133 



CHAP. IV. 

The confequences, that are confidered as likely to refult 
from the abolition of the flave trade, have been hitherto 
canvafled under two heads, namely, fuch as would fe- 
rioufly afFeft the colonies^ and fuch as would feriouily af- 
fect this kingdom. There is yet another to be examined, 
but of a different complexion from the former. It is 
faid, that " if the Englifh abolifh the Have trade, the 
^' French will take it up, and that the latter (politically 
*' fpeaking) will derive great advantages from the 
*^ meafure." 

That the French would take it up, if the Englifh 
abolifhed it, is, like moft of the ailertions of the advocates 
for flavery, but a bare conje61:ure ; notwithftanding that 
it is afTumed and delivered with as much confidence as if 
it were a fa61:. 

There are many circumftances that warrant me in 
aflferting, that the French would be unable to take it up^ 
were they fo inclined ^ but that they would even continue 
It is improbable. 

Firft, becaufe a fociety has been lately eftablifhed in 
France, on the fame principle as that of London, for the 
purpofe of effecting the abolition of the Have trade among 
the French ; and I affert with equal pleafure and con- 
fidence, that fome of the firft people in France have fhewn 
themfelves heartily difpofed to attend to the objeft of their 
inftitution. 

Secondly, becaufe If no fuch humane m.otives impelled 
the French, as are difcoverable among them, they would 
hardly give us the credit of aboliihing the flave trade, how- 
ever we might deferve it, upon the principle of humanity. 
They are well aware that nations are guided by motives, 
that are termed political ; that if we were to put a ftop 
to the trade, it would be probably from the confldera- 
tion of its impolicy ; and that if it were politick in us to 
abolifli it, it would be equally Jo in thepi. 

'^ That Is, to fupply themfelves with that number of flaves with 
which we fupply tjiem at prefent, an4 to become the carriers for the 
Spaniards. 

^ Thirdly, 



134 



On the Impolicy of the 



Thirdly, becaufe they would never fufFer us to pufh a 
new trade in the natural productions of Africa, without 
following our example ; and they have already purchafed a 
confiderable tra£l of Land at Cape Verd, where they are 
ready to begin, whenever we fhew them the way, if not 
to be beforehand with us in the advantages refulting from 
fuch a trade. 

Thefe are reafons that have weighed fufficiently with 
mc, to induce me to fuppofe, that the French would at 
any rate give up the Have trade, if we relinquiftied it, and 
thefe reafons are much ftronger than any that I can find on 
the other fide of the queftion. However, as this is only 
a matter of conjecture, and as any opponent has a right, 
if he is better informed, to argue the contrary^ I will fup- 
pofe, that when the Englifli relinquifh it, the French will 
not only continue it as at prefentj but take it up. 

Let us then confider the confequences ; for it is faid, 
tliat they will derive great advantages from the meafure. 

In the firft place, v^ fhall transfer to them a lofmg 
trade ; in the fecond, one that will be the grave of their 
marine. The latter is too important a confideration to be 
pafled over without fome remarks. 

The French are now paying uncommon attention, as 
it is well known, to their marine, ^nd look up to their 
American pofiTeffions for its fupport. A great part of the 
Haves that ailift in the cultivation of thefe, are furnifhed 
by. our means. Every lot of them, which we import, or 
caufe to be imported there, affifts them in the completion 
of their prefent views. But if we relinquifh the flave 
trade, and if, on the other hand, they become the im- 
porters of their own fiaves, the fcene will be totally reverfed. 
For in the importation of every lot of * nine hundred 
efreCtive flaves into the uncultivated parts of St. Domingo, 
they will make twenty -five^ but lofe \ fixty feamen ; and in 
every fuch importation into any of their old fettled planta- 
tions, they will lofe fatyy ^nd make none. Thus, by 

* See Page 79. • 

°f This is what the Engl jfli would lofe in fupplyin^ the French with 
500 effeftlve flaves j and as the latter lofe more than the formerj in 
proportion to the tonnage of their ihips, the ftatement is much within 
^und.st 

becoming 



African Slave Trade* 135 

becoming the carriers of their own flaves, they will find. 
In every cafe, a confiderable balance of lofs to their ma- 
rine; and, by becoming the carriers of flaves to the 
Spanifh fettlements, (which is included in the idea of 
taking up the trade) this lofs will be fo increased, as to 
become, in the fcale of their naval importance, of the 
moft ferious concern. 

Thefe then are fome of the advantages that the French 
would experience by taking up the flave trade; let us 
now, for a moment, advert to fome of thofe that woiild 
refult to us, who relinquifhed it. 

In the firft place we fhouid be profecuting a new and 
profitable commerce in the produ6lions of Africa: and 
to that nation, which firft made its eilabliihments there^ 
the moft advantages would accrue. 

In the fecond place we ftiould be adding to the fi:rengtb_ 
©f our marine : firfl, by faving thofe feamen, who, to the 
amount of fome hundreds, now annually perifh ; and, 
fecondly, by the lofs which the French would fuftain in 
the profecution of the trade : for whatever lofs is in this 
way incurred by thofe, whom at any future period we are 
to meet upon the feas, fuch lofs is to be carried over to 
our fide of the account, as fo much additional gain : nor 
would any lot of 7iine hundred efFe6tive flaves be delivered 
into the uncultivated parts of St. Domingo, or the old 
eftabliihed plantations among the French, but thirty-fiue 
feamen in the firft inftance, zndLjixiy in the fecond, might 
be confidered to be added to our marine. 

In the third place the flaves of the Britilh planters being 
attached to the foil by birth, being bound to their mafters 
by gratitude, and living among their relatives and friends, 
would be a firm and faithful protection to the iflands in 
the time of war. A part of ths naval and military force, 
formerly fent for their defence, could then a6i: on the 
ofFenfive : whereas the French, on the other hand, would 
not only be tied down in thefe particulars, but would have 
to defend their iflands, in conjun6lion with a people who 
had been robbed of the natural rights of men, and who 
would feize the firft opportunity that oiFered of gratifying 
their revenge. 

To 



136 On the Impolicy of rnt 

To fum up the whole. If the French, whenever W^ 
Ihould abolifh the flave trade, would co-operate with us 
in the plan, then would the caufe of humanity be eiTentially 
ferved ; for even the advocates for flavery allow, that if* 
the two nations were to coincide in this particular, the 
bufinefs would be effectually done : but if, on the other 
hand, they fhould perfevere in the continuance of it, and 
enter into it more extenfively than before, then would the 
higheft political advantages refult to us, who relinquifhed 
it ; for if we could lay our hands on our hearts, and fay 
that the flave trade was either humane or juft, there are few 
events that we could wifti for more to the intereft of this 
kingdom than that, when the Englifh relinquifhed it, the 
French would take it up. 



CHAP. V. 



I have now replied to all the arguments of any confe- 
quence that I have ever heard advanced in favour of the 
policy of the flave trade, or againft the expediency of its 
abolition. It only remains, therefore, that I fhould colleC^ 
into one point of view the fubflance of what has been 
faid throughout the whole of the prefent work. 

It has appeared, that the flave trade, confidered abilraf!:- 
edly by itfelf, is of no emolument to the nation ; that it is 
unprofitable^ on the whole, to individaals 'y and that it is 
the grave of our feamen^ deflroying more of them in one 
year, than all the other trades of Great Britain, when put 
together, dellroy in two. 

It has appeared, on the other hand, that the trade which 
might be fubftituted for it in the natural produ6tions of 
Africa, if confidered in the fame light, would, by afford- 
ing an inexhauftible mine of wealth to our dyers and 
artificers in wood, by enal)ling us to break the monopoly 
of the Dutch in fpices, by repaying us for the lofs of 
America, and by becoming the cheapefl market for all 
forts of raw materials for our manufacturers, be pf great 
national advantage. 

It 



African Slave Trade. 137 

It has appeared, fecondly, that fuch a trade would be 
highly profitable to individuals. 

Thirdly, that it would be a nurfery for our feamen^ not 
only to cherifh and preferve them, but to return them 
in health and vigour, in cafe of an emergency, in a few 
weeks. 

Fourthly, that it could hot poflibly interfere with the 
produ6lions of our prefent colonies. 

This is the firft ftatement that may be colle£led from a 
perufal of the prefent work. 

To proceed. It has appeared alfo, that, if the ftave 
trade were abolifhed, fuch an abolition could not be pro- 
du(9:ive of any immediate detriment, but would be attend- 
ed vA\!i\ future gain, 

Firft, the planter would be relieved from a continual 
fource of embarralTment and diftrefs ; his property would 
be increafed, his annual returns would be larger, he 
would feel himfelf in an independent fituation, in point 
of fubfiftence, both in peace ^nd wai-, and he would have 
the unfpeakable fatisfa6tion of going to his bed fearlefs of 
any private machinations, and in full confidence that his 
property, as well as his perfon, would be fecure. 

Secondly, his flaves, necelTarily experiencing^ on one 
hand, a diminution of their former rigours, and raifed, by 
certain regulations, to pofitive advantages on the other, 
they v/ould be admitted to a confiderable portion of hap- 
pinefs, and their condition be confiderably improved. 

Thirdly, the iilands would be fafe in the time of war. 

Fourthly, new fources would be opened for the improve- 
ment of the revenue. 

Fifthly, new fources would be opened for the confump» 
tlon of our manufa6tures. 

This is the fecond ftatement that may be collecSled from 
the prefent work ; and I think it is evident, upon a ma- 
ture confideration of both, unlefs a perfon wilfully ftiuts 
his eyes, that the Have trade is (as I undertook to fhew 
in the introductory chapter) as impolitick as it is inlnwian 
and unju/i. For when we confider that this trade, by 
deftroying our marine, is not only a political evil m itfelf, 
K but 



138 On the Impolicy, &c. 

but that it hinders the introdu^ion of one^ to which if it 
were compared in point of individual or national emolu- 
ment, it would be like an ifland to a continent, or a river 
o a fea 5 and that it prevents the exijlence of thofe im- 
portant advantages both to the colonies and this kingdorti 
that have been defcribed above ; we may fafely fay, that 
whatever arguments the morali/i is able to colle(ft fronl 
the light of reafon, or the man of humanity from his feel- 
ings, the ftatefman is able to collect others from the fource 
of policy y that call equally aloud for its ABOLITION. 



FINIS, 



ERRATUM. 

In page 83, and line 31, hx Antigua, read St. Chrijic^pher'^s* 



