Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/officialletterfrOObaha 



wial Letter 

From the Commissioners of Correspondence 

OF THE 

BAHAMA ISLANDS, 



. Ei4-C*b 



AN 



Official Letter 



FROM 



THE COMMISSIONERS OF OORRESFONDEffCE, 



BAHAMA ISLANDS 



TO 



GEORGE CHALMERS, ESQ. 



COLONIAL AGENT. 



CONCERNING 



The proposed Jlholition of Slavery 
in the TV^est Indies. 



Si&ct|iool : 

IReimnted and Published by S, H, Sanfcey, 1 2, HenshaW'Street, 
and may be had of the Booksellers. 



1823. 



OFFICIAL LETTER, 

&c. 



Office of Correspondence, 

New Providence, 29 tk July, 1823. 

Sir, 

WE learn, with extreme anxiety, 
from different quarters^ concurring accounts of an inten- 
tion to bring before Parliament without delay, some pro- 
ject for the total extinction of slavery in the British West 
Indies. The details of the intended measure have not as 
yet reached us, in any tangible shape ; only some obser- 
vations with which Mr. Wilberforce introduced a petition 
in the House of Commons, from the quakers; and a 
pamphlet, in the name of the same person, entitled, " An 
Appeal to the religion, justice, and humanity of the in- 
habitants of the British empire, in behalf of the negro 
slaves of the West Indies." But as Mr. Wilberforce has 
ever stood foremost, as the leader and principal organ of 
a political party at home, apparently of no small influence, 
which for the last thirty years and upwards, has, as is 
now admitted, pursued a studied system of gradual en- 
croachment on the long acknowledged and most important 
rights of the colonists, there can, we think, be little 
doubt, but that a powerful exertion of the energies of that 
party, is now preparing to effect, as soon as possible, the 

B 



grand consummation of all their labours. And we there- 
fore deem it equally unnecessary and unsafe to wait for 
more particular information, as to any one or more of the 
schemes that may be in contemplation; and hasten at once, 
through you, to appeal to the justice of the British govern- 
ment and nation ; solemnly protesting against all possible 
plans for the emancipation of our islaves, without our 
pwn consent. 

It is urged that the colonists originally acquired their 
property in slaves by means never before recognized as 
legitimate by the laws of nature or nations. But although 
in some instances, such may perhaps have been the case, 
we cannot be persuaded that it was so, by any means to 
the extent represented in the fables of the African insti- 
tute, or the publications and speeches of its friends. 
Those tales of other times, no doubt have frequently had 
the effect expected from them, with those who allow therrj- 
selves to feel only, where they ought to reason also. But 
at this day, surely it is almost impertinent to inquire how 
the property in question was first obtained. Even admit- 
ting that the negroes brought from Africa were not all slaves 
in their own country, prisoners of war, convicts, or other- 
wise regularly reduced to bondage, — admitting that many 
of them were knidnapped or carried off by fraud or force; — - 
the time is now receding out of view when those crimes 
are alledged to have been perpetrated. The supposed actors 
in those scenes, have either long since passed, or are 
passing fast from the stage of existence. And their- 
successors have been left in guiltless possession of the 
property in question ; — confirmed and guaranteed to them 
for ever, on the faith of their country, and by the solemn 
enactments of its most sacred laws. Whatever sins a fevv 



individuals fflay have committed a century or tvva ago, the; 
present proprietors of our slaves hold them as such, for the 
most part, by fair and lawful purchase. In the language 
of the scriptures, they are our money; -^ And to divest us 
of them against our will, however plausible the pretext 
for so doing, would, in plain language, be nothing less 
than robbery. 

In this reasoning too, whatever our opponents may affect 
to think of it, there is nothing new. It is founded on one 
of the most ancient and necessary principles of human 
jurisprudence. For if we may travel back one or two 
hundred years, to detect a flaw in title to property, why not 
five centuries, or more? And under the operation of such a 
scrutiny, where is the inheritance, even in the fairest por- 
tions of the mother country, whose origin might not be 
traced to tyranny or fraud ?-^Some supposed incidental 
right of conquest, arbitrary escheat, lawless sequestrations^ 
superstitious endowments, or some one or more of those 
multifarious outrages of military power or civil exaction, 
which crowd the annals of our country, during a long suc- 
cession of ages? Had not the law, therefore, going hand in 
hand with reason and necessity, placed some certain bar- 
riers, beyond w^hich the rights of the innocent heir should 
not be affected by the crimes of his ancestor, of how little 
avail would any earthly possessions now be? 

We have indeed heard some idle report of an intimation 
that our slave holders are to be allowed an adequate con- 
sideration for the property of which they are to be depri- 

* Exodu'9. c. xxi, V. 21. 



ved. Without questioning the right of the commumty to 
the use of private property, at a liberal or fair price, when 
the public good requires the sacrifice, we have only to 
say, that when England is prepared to add two hundred 
millions more to her present national debt, it will he quite 
time enough to discuss the details of the project. 

In Mr. Wilberforce's pamphlet, no particular scheme of 
emancipation is insisted on ; though several are alluded 
to. The one on which he descants with apparent prefer- 
ence, is that of fixing a date, beyond which the children 
of slaves are to become free at their birth ; specially ad- 
mitting that the owners of the mothers should be entitled 
to the services of the children, gratis, for some years after 
puberty, as a compensation for the expence and trouble 
of bringing them up. How kindly considerate is all this ! 
A negro is to be fed, clothed, and according to Mr. Wil- 
berforce, educated also, for, say^ twenty-one years, during 
which the master is to be indemnified with the labour of 
that negro, for about five of, by the bye, the most worths 
less years of a labourer's life'; including the chance of death, 
sickness, and other accidental causes w^hich might deprive 
the proprietor of the possibility of leceiving any compen- 
sation at all. The English mechanic has to maintain his 
apprentice only while he enjoys the benefit of his labour ; 
and if the trade be lucrative, generally receives a handsome 
ionMS on the execution of the indentures. One of the charms 
of this plan, no doubt, is its economy. If the state will 
have to pay for the emancipations, it would be quite con^ 
venient to force the article into the market, when at its 
lowest possible price. This would be about as honest in 
principle, as if the pubHc good, or the caprice of a pre- 
vailing party, should require, for instance, the abolition of 



5 



the manufacture of silk, of course at the public expenee^ 
and the silk abolitionists should carry their views jnta 
effect, by merely destroying all the silk worms' eggs, COU'^'. 
scientiously paying the manufacturer the precise specifi.Q 
value of those eggs at the time of their destruction. HeiTice, 
too, all the anxiety of the abolitionists to convince the 
world of that which they cannot possibly themselves for 
a moment believe; namely, that the abolition of slavery 
would give no interruption to the agricultural or other- 
pursuits of the West Indices. Until therefore it is proved 
by some better evidence than the hollow and treacherous 
speculations of Mr. Wilberforce, that the slaves whei? 
manumitted, would still do the work of slaves, for hire, let 
us not be told that the planter can ever be remunerated foj? 
the losses with which he is menaced, by receiving from the 
national coffers, the price of a few infant slaves, unless tlie 
value of his lands, manufactories, improvements and ?toQk, 
are to be included in the estimate. 

You take my House when you do take the prop 
That doth sustain my house. You take my life, 
"When you do take the means by which I live. 

Merchant of Venice, 

But we only weaken the force as well as sink the dig« 
nity of our cause, by descending to trifle with such frivo,ii= 
ties. Our slaves and their descendants are ours, until their 
condition is changed by the fair operation of some legitiir 
mate principle of law. 

In the question, whether we are to be pillaged of our 
property now, or ten years hence, there is not in point of 
sound reason, even the shadow of distinction. And how=- 



6 



ever the abolitionists may alfect to soften the harshness of 
their schemes, by an aflFectation of carrying them into effect 
by gradual means, if we are to be robbed at all, it only 
superadds the insult of mockery, to tell us that we are to 
be robbed only by instalments. This in the ears of an abo- 
litionist, perhaps, may sound something like mercy; but it 
is in fact just such mercy as would be shewn a condemned 
criminal, whose punishment should be commuted from 
the summary process of instant decapitation, to the pro- 
tracted torture of being broken gradually to pieces upon 
the wheel. 

But it is asked, is the negro slavery in the West Indies 
to be interminable ? While m other portions of the globe, 
the condition of the slaves has long been ameliorating, 
and in many of them, slavery itself has for a considerable 
time ceased to exist, shall the negro race of the West Indies 
alone be shut out from the hope of freedom for ever ? To 
this we answer, that reflecting on the very tardy progress 
of the peasantry from slavery to freedom, in all other coun- 
tries w^here the peasantry once were slaves, and now are 
free, we contemplate in that change rather the work of a 
gracious providence than of presumptuous man. As the 
general condition of a community improves, every class of 
that community naturally benefits by the improvement. 
And in due season, should the tide of prosperity not be 
checked by some of the many wayward visitations of cala- 
mity, to which every portion of mankind is equally ex- 
posed, all social distinctions, in point of social rights at 
least, have generally been observed to subside. But the 
immense change for which in all other places, the revo- 
lutions of ages have frequently been required, ought, in 
the opinion of Mr. Wilberforcej to have been effected by 



him for the West India negroes, in little more than the 
quarter of one century ; and laments that he has so long 
delayed the attempt. 

To await the maturity of time and of circumstance ab- 
solutely necessary to convert slavery into freedom, and by 
the only means which can effect that change, w4th safety 
to the public weal, and justice to the owners, or real be- 
nefit to the slaves, but ill suits the impatience of our abo- 
litionists, now for the first time openly avowed. And 
because no hope can reasonably be indulged, that the colo- 
nies themselves will adopt any very hasty measures on the 
subject, Parliament and the nation are vehemently called 
upon to interfere in a manner equally unconstitutional and 
unjust, and in palpable violation of the good faith of the 
country, and the repeated pledges, not only of government, 
but of the very party itself which has now at length un- 
masked its last battery upon the falling fortunes of the 
colonies. The abolitionists, indeed, affect to speak of us, 
as if the work of emancipation had never yet been begun 
in the British West Indies : when in fact, it has not only 
had a beginning, but already made a degree of progress 
in most of the colonies, as we believe, and certainly in this 
one, almost beyond those limits, within which a cautious 
policy might have fairly restrained them. It is well known 
that all the islands abound in free blacks and people of 
colour ; that is, slaves or the descendants of slaves manu- 
mitted, as a reward for peculiar fidelity, for general good 
conduct, for some signal service rendered either to the 
community or to individuals, or from some other fair motive 
of favour or natural claim on the justice or generosity of 
owners. While such alone are manumitted, there is of 
course the less to fear. Manumissions in fact under such 



8 



fsircumstanees, generally loosen one bond of attachment, 
bnly to make others, of a milder character, more binding 
between the manumiser and his slave. Slaves manumitted 
by favour, seldom divest themselves of a certain feeling 
of obligation to their benefactors and their families, 
which, by natural association, possibly, they often extend 
to the whole class of the community to which those bene- 
factors belong. By this means also, intelligent slaves 
felone are for the most part manumitted. It would indeed 
be only an adt of cruelty to manumit any others. But 
by the plans of our London abolitionists, all distinctions 
of good and evil are to be done away. The slave of tried 
fidelity, of cultivated faculties, or exemplary conduct, is 
to be at once confounded with every thing that is base, 
treacherous, untutored and vicious, in the negro charac- 
ter and race. And all are to be indiscriminately hurried 
together into one giddy vortex of impetuous enfranchise- 
ment. Mr. Wilberforce complains, but, with his usual 
caution, when treading on ground that he has good reason 
to distrust, without naming either ti7ne or plciGe, " that 
even since the mitigation of slavery was lately recommen*> 
ded from the Throne, in consequence of addresses from 
Parliament," (what recommendation and addresses are 
bere alluded to ?) " Several of the colonial Legislators," 
(how many, and which of them ?) " have for the first 
time imposed fines, and others have greatly augm&nted 
the fines to be paid into their treasuries, on the emancipa- 
tion of slaves : so that in some colonies they amount nearly 
lo an entire prohibition, (page 42.) If it be true that 
such unreasonable taxes are imposed in one or two of the 
thirteen colonies, (which, however, we confess, under all 
circumstances, we are strongly inclined to doubt) surely 
it would have been but justice to the other eleven, to 



d 



point out particularly wht-^re the blame oi\ght to fall ; and 
not involve the whole of the colonies in the odium of a mea- 
sure, which the pressure of particular circumstances may 
have for a time rendered necessary or expedient in a very 
few. But justice in any shape, to any of the colonies, is 
not one of the articles of Mr. Wilberforce's religion. In 
the Bahamas, there neither is, nor ever has in fact been, 
any tax whatsoever on manumissions. There was an old 
law to that effect, we believe of the reign of Geo. II. but 
it was never acted upon : at least not a penny ever appears 
to have been paid into the Treasury under it; though mul- 
titudes have since been manumitted. And that law, ob-* 
solete, if we may use the expression, from the very hour' 
of its enactment, has long since been, and still continues, 
repealed. 

It might have proved some trial of our temper, but that 
\ve are relieved by a strong sense of contempt, to find ouf 
opponents still urging their old false, stale, and often re- 
peated position, that were our slaves made free, they 
Would continue to labour in our fields on wages, There are, 
as we believe, upwards of a thousand free blacks and people 
of colour within these islands, and scarcely an instance is 
within our recollection of their ever having so employed 
themselves : though the wages of hired labourers have 
been from ten to twelve guineas a year, with full allow- 
ance besides, of food, clothing, and all other necessaries, 
" Since the dissolution of the late black corps," says Mr. 
Wilberforce, " many of the disbanded soldiers have 
maintained themselves by their own agricultural labours, 
and have nnanifesied a degree of industry thai ought to 
have silenced for ever, all imputations on the race. "' 
(page 67.) In this statement we venture to at-sert that 

c 



10 



there is no truth. First, because we have it only on the 
authority of Mr. Wilberforce, whose misinformation (to 
give it the mildest name) in all such matters, has already 
been notorious ; and in many instances detected and ex- 
posed. Secondly, because, as usual, we are not favoured 
with the when and where of the miracle. For the story 
is introduced not only without date, but, what is of more 
importance, without even saying in which of our islands this 
novelty is to be found. And lastly, because it is in perfect 
inconsistency with every thing that we have had occasion 
to observe among ourselves in like, cases. The disbanded 
black soldiers that have occasionally found their way to these 
islands, have uniformly been the veriest vagrants in existence, 
and the terror of all around them. Of the last two that found 
the means of living here for any length of time, one was 
hanged, about eighteen months ago, for burglary, and the 
other saved his neck only by turning King's evidence against 
his companion: — a precious specimen of those corps, the 
dissolution of which Mr. Wilberforce so deeply regrets, 
(paga 67.) We suspect indeed that this unhappy compliment 
to " the diligence " of those sooty Cincinnati, is of the ma- 
nufacture of Sierra Leone; a soil hitherto fertile only in 
fictions and fevers ; and a settlement which, under the hal- 
lowed and wholesome auspices of Mr. Wilberforce and his 
institute, has long been a notorious sink of nearly every 
disease, moral and physical, with which humanity can be 
infected. 

Again,— we have "many hundred," (Q. how many?) 
of American negroes at Trinidad,— " slaves enfranchised by 
desertion," and yet, many of them" (we again ask how 
many " have worked as hired labourers for the planters, 
with 30 much diligence and good conduct, that they are now 



11 



universally regarded as a valuable acquisition to the colony." 
— (page 68.) Here again we think ourselves authorized to 
be not a little incredulous. The locality of the tale, indeed, 
was judiciously chosen. From the absence of every thing 
resembling a tree government in Trinidad, there is of course 
the less danger of a public contradiction. Upon what autho- 
rity then does the matter rest l Not upon that of Sir Ralph 
Woodford : for though his name is introduced, ingeniously 
enough, to give some seeming colour of truth to the picture, 
he is, in point of fact, stated only to have allowed the negroes 
in question to be received into the island. The authenticity 
of all the remainder of the story, rests entirely with Mr. Wil- 
berlbrce : and from which therefore, for reasons already given, 
we consider ourselves justified in witholding all credit. If 
for mani/ hundreds of negroes in this case, we ought to read, 
say two or three hundred, and instead of the mani/ that worked 
for wages, we should insert merely the number three or four ; 
this would be quite enough to save the credit of an abolu- 
tionist. These generalities are admirable expedients to accom- 
plish all the purposes of positive falsehood, and at the same 
time keep sufficiently within the strict limits of truth, to re- 
concile matters to the conscience of Mr. Wiiberforce, or any 
of his fellow-labourers, who have favoured the world with their 
lucubrations for the last eight or ten years. 

In some of the northern states of America, different plans 
of emancipation were some time since adopted, with more or 
less ingenuity, to extinguish slavery. This is now quoted 
as a precedent for the West Indies. But between the two 
cases, there is scarcely a shade of resemblance. The slaves 
in those states were very few. They were nearly all domestic 
servants ; very little employed in agriculture. And what 
wideus still more the distinction, in this respect, between 



12 



those states and the colonies, is that those emancipatory laws 
were the acts severally of the particular states themselves, and 
not, as Mr, Wilberforce thinks it ought now to be, that of the 
general government of the Empire, Again — let us ask, has 
the emancipation of those American slaves sent any of them 
into the fields to follow agricultural pursuits? If we are cor- 
rectly informed, their taste has never been found to lie in that 
direction. As with us, that class of people pet little value 
upon freedom, but as an exemption from labour ; and are aU 
most every where to be found, only in the purlieus of towns, 
«r populous settlements, in situations not altogether calculated 
o improve their supposed habits of industry, or those moral 
and spiritual tendencies, on which it has of late been so much 
the fashion to compliment that interesting race. The slaves 
of the more southern states of North America, on the other 
hand, are employed principally in Agriculture. These states 
accordingly have never yet, and probably never will, follow 
the example of their more northern neighbours. And the 
latter, as we are informed on good authority, already acknow- 
ledge themselves as heartily sick or their new fellow citizens, 
as they can with any degree of consistency or sound policy 
perhaps at present avow. 

It is absolute trifling with the people of Great Britain, and 
worse than trifiing with the colonies, to persist thus in holding 
out the absurd idea, that negroes when emancipated, would 
continue to employ themselves in the cultivation of West 
India produce, upon wages. Does any thing in the habits of 
the country from which they originally came, justify the expec ] 
tation? Nothing; let the African institute, and all the port- 
folios of Sierra Leone pretend what they may on the subject I 
Does the experience of any one island in the West Indies 
justify itl Not one; let Mr. Wilberforce gay what h^ please^ 



13 



about his disbanded soldiers and American deserters. Or to 
come still closer to the point, does the present situation of 
St. Domingo, and the dreadful aspect of affairs in that abyss 
of anarchy, kept down only by arms, justify it? On tho 
contrary, to raise a twentieth part of what once was the 
produce of that unfortunate island, the peasantry had to be 
reduced to a state worse than military vassalage; infinitely 
more degrading-, unjust, odious, sanguinary and cruel, than 
Mr. Wilberforce, himself, even under the malignant influence 
of one of his worst West India nightmares, could possibly 
dream of finding in any portion of the western world. The 
cultivators of the soil in Hayti, we understand, are not, like 
our slaves or our soldiers and sailors, exposed to the horrors 
of the cat o'nine tails. No, they are free, — And therefore 
they are only sabred or sliot when they failed to bring the ex- 
pected quantity of produce into the quondam royal, but now 
presidential exchequer. Mr. Wilberforce's allusion indeed 
to the present state of St. Domingo, is most unfortunate for 
his cause ; particularly with respect to the religious improve- 
ment likely to be the result of suddenly manumitting any large 
body of slaves. In that ill-fated island, our missionaries, 
reasoning possibly with Mr. Wilberforce, calculated no doubt 
on a rich harvest of grace among negroes now no longer re- 
strained by the chains of bondage, from the means of religious 
instruction. Let the mission speak for itself. While in 
nearly every other part of the West Indies, the missionaries 
boast of increasing success and brightening prospects, the 
modern St. Domingo stands alone impregnable to the real 
truths of Christianity. On the 15th of January, 1821, the 
reverend Mr. Evariste, the missionary sent thither, writes 
thus: "every door is shut against us, and we are deprived in 
every possible way of lil)orty to act cither according to the 
Gospel, or our own conscience, or the light of truth." Again, 



14 



** this city is a burden to tne, on account of the fearful and 
horrible things which I see ; particularly the habitual and sin^ 
ful violation of the sabbath. Again, *' we are like sheepf 
eJEposed to the fury of the ziolves."" — Again, " for me, I am 
donsidered by them as one deprived of reason, a fool and 
(Enthusiast" And again, towards the conclusion of ^he letter, 
" the only thing that keeps me here, is our dear society, which 
languishes like a tree planted by the side of a flaming 
Furnace!" (Seethe Methodist missionary report of 1821, 
page 94) The melancholy fact is, that St. Domingo, once 
the garden, — the Queen of the West Indies, is now inhabited, 
hot exactly by savages, but by a race of beings, infinitely 
Worse ; degraded, in fa-ct, beneath what they ever where 
before* The unsophisticated denizen of the African wilds, is 
ennobled in comparison with the wretched degredation of his 
Maytian brethren ; — not merely relapsing into barbarism, but 
feinking: fast under an odious combination of the darkness, 
ferocity, vices, and superstitions of all colours and all nations ; 
Unredeemed by tlie virtues of any. To this state of terrific 
desolation it is, that Mr. Wilberforce and his friends are now 
finally labouring to reduce the^ whole of the British West 
Indies, 

The maroons of Jamaica, also alluded to by Mr. Wilber- 
force, (page 8,) furnish a notable instance of the egregious 
ialiacy of his speculations on this head. The maroons are a 
large body of negroes, who have been free since the time of 
Oliver Cromwell; forming a separate community of them- 
selves, in the interior of the island ; and for nearly a century 
acknowledged, respected and treated as free, and almost in- 
dependent, by the public authorities of the colony : nay, 
encouraged and assisted in every fair pursuit. Now, under 
ail these advantages, what progress has this favoured tribe 



lis 



made in the arts of civilized life J Little or none. They arp 
indeed uicful in their way, by their activity in taking runaway 
slaves, and bringing- them in to their owners, for suitable re^ 
Mards. And this, as we understand, is one of their principal 
occupations. By agriculture, even in that fertile soil ^n(J 
g-eniai climate, they do not raise enough to supply themselves 
with the necessaries of life; and become a -direct charge upot) 
the white inhabitants, for the deficiency. They have indee4 
more than once been the terror of the colony ; aud lay the 
general assembly, annually, under tribute, to keep them i'rom 
making incursions on the properties of the white inhabitants. 
In the memorable maroon war of 1795-G, the most serio«§ 
alarm was entertained from the well-known ferocity and craft> 
ness of those hardy mountaineers. And when the insurrectio.n 
was at length quelled, the safety of the colony required that tjj© 
prisoners should be transported to North America; a measure 
Nvliich nothing but the strongest sense of necessity could have 
justified; as it was reluctantly adopted, at the expence of ^ 
breach of faith with the prisoners themselves, who surrendered 
under an express stipulation that they were not to be sent i'wm 
the island. 

Thus at once vanishes all the idle illusions of the abolition^ 
ists; who, in obstinate despite of all reasoning and all e-'jpe* 
rience, still urge the perilous experiment of freeing our slaves^,, 
with the false and absurd assurances, that as free men, they 
would at once become more valuable servants, At some coO" 
siderable distance of time indeed, it might so happen, that 
alter the usual convulsions of a tedious transition from slavery 
to freedom, from savage to polished life, the descendants of 
the negroes now made liree, niight acquire a new character, 
and be what other nations untler similar circumstances have 
bi come before them. But unless jiouw. niiracle s)iou|d woiji ^ 



16 



change in human nature, socb as never has hern known before, 
many are the generations which must pass away before the com- 
pletion of the metamorphosis. And in the mean time, at least 
three hundred millions of British capital, engaged in agricul- 
ture and commerce, must be swept into annihilation ; some of 
our finest possessions in the western world wasted into wil- 
derness, and the once proud residences and manufactories o^ 
the colonists become only dens for wild beasts, or fastnesses 
for savages, 

Mr. Wilberforce, if he is to be believed, wishes to begin 
systematically, " by all lawful and constitutional means, to 
mitigate, and as soon as it may be safely done, to terminate, 
the negro slavery of the British colonies ; " (page J .) First, 
then, as to his system of mitigation : this is to consist of in- 
creasing the food, and lessening the labour of the slaves; 
instructing them in religion ; encouraging them to marrv ' 
abolishing all arbitrary, cruel, and indecent punishments ; 
and finally attaching the negroes to the soil. To the last of 
these alone, we can have any objection. To attach a gang 
of negroes to any one plantation in the Bahamas, would be 
to condemn them to famine in a very few years; where the 
soil is of so light a texture and of such little depth, that when 
deprived of the shade and protection of the woods, and 
brought into cultivation, the land is soon reduced to a mere 
rocky barren. As to negroes being sold, either by their 
owners, or under execution for debts, so as to separate 
famiUes, or deprive individuals of what Mr. Wilberforce is 
pleased to call their peculum, such practices are unknown 
among us; or if atten)pted, would deservedly bringdown on 
the offending party, the reprobation of the community. Eut if 
there be any colony in which the slaves are not sufficiently fed, 
or too hardly worked 5 where religious instruclion is wilhcld 



17 



from tb6m, or man-iages not encouraged; or arbitrary, cruo« 
or indecent punishments are inflicted ; we lieartily concur with 
Mr. VYilberforce in saying, let the evil be remedied, "by all 
lawfhl and constitutional means." But as to Avhat those means 
are, or ought to be, we may perhaps differ from Mr. 
Wilberforce. Most of the colonies, it is admitted, make 
excellent laws for the protection of the slaves ; but according 
to Mr. Wilberforce, none of them are executed; and until 
Parliament interferes, the slaves will never be the better for 
any law. But with due deference, let us ask, can Pariiament 
itself in its omnipotence, do any thing more than make laws? 
And if the colonial laws are evaded by the colonies themselves, 
what would there be to protect the enactments of Parliament 
from a similar fate? If the laws which we ourselves provide, 
with a close and intimate knowledge of the subject requiring 
regulation, are not carried into execution, would the difficulty 
be lessened by having the same subject regulated by gentlemen, 
able statesmen no doubt, but with very little other insight into 
our affairs, but what they acquire from official reports, docu- 
ments too often of a mere artificial character, and the writings 
and speeches of persons, all whose little greatness and influence, 
and sometimes whose comfortable incomes, or daily bread, 
in a great measure, depend upon keeping up the cry of ava- 
rice, rapacity, irreligion, and cruelty, against the whole of 
tlie West Indies, 

From this sweeping calumny, indeed, the West India 
proprietors, resident in England, are always respectfully ex- 
cepted, by the prudent Mr. Wilberforce. At page 2, he 
compliments tbem highly on their humanity and benevolence. 
And though he does not deny that the same atrocities are 
committed on their plantations as elsewhere, he excuses these 
Korthy men, on the plea ol' their total ignorance of the matter. 

D 



18 



At page 27, he ag-tiin takes occasion to say something hand- 
some of these same gentlemen, as " being sincerely desirous 
that their slaves should enjoy the benefits of Christianity " — 
"though their pious endeavours have been^of little or no avail.' 
And again at page 76, he repeats his encomiums, believing 
"many of them" to be " men of more than common kindness 
and liberality, " — " but utterly unacquainted with the system 
with which they have the misfortune to be connected ! " Now, 
in the name of every thing contradictory, what is the meaning 
of all this ? If the West India proprietors, resident in 
England, know nothing of the systepi in question, who but 
themselves can be blamed for their ignorance? At least if 
they do not know that their slaves are every day more worked, 
almost past all endurance; more than half starved throughout 
every season of the year; flogged most unmercifully and inde- 
cently for every slight oiFence, or even for none, 8cc. 5vc. &c, 
it is surely not the fault of Mr. Wilberforce, his institute or 
his friends, who have let fly at least two or three hundred 
pamphlets and pubhcations of different kinds, during tlie last 
thirty years, informing these proprietors, as well as the world 
in general, of all those important faets. The sober truth is, 
that many of those proprietors are gentlemen of fortune and 
figure in life, and whose unimpeachable characters are suffici- 
ent to silence at once ail the idle clamours of our factious 
a!>olitionisls, except among such as can be made to believe 
that those geutlemen are kept in a state of profound ignorance 
as to what most nearly concerns them, at least in this life_ 
Some of those same gentlemen also, we understand, have seats 
in parliament; and to them of course it behoves the saints, in 
their temporal capacity of politicians, to be as courteous as 
possible. This, in sad sincerity, is what, with Mr. Wilber- 
force, makes so wide a difference between the West Indian in 
England, and the Englishmen in the West Indies. How ad- 



19 

mirably does this pitiful truckling characterize the cause in 
which it is employed ? 

Mr. Wilberforce talks, but not always very intclligib]}^ of 
the want of " an executory principle" in all our laws for the 
benefit of the slaves, (page 40, et passim.) But whatever this 
executory principle may mean, we presume it might be as 
easily introduced into an act of Assembly as into an act of 
Parliament. And so far as this colony is concerned, we pledge 
ourselves that it shall be adopted as soon as we know specifi- 
cally what is required ; and it maij be adopted with safety and 
equal justice to all concerned. 

Many of the British excise and revenue laws indeed, con- 
tain in themselves, what possibly may be meant by an executory 
principle ; — such as, keeping a custom house waiter on board 
of every vessel in port; a searcher on every wharf; a guager 
posted like a sentry at every distillery, &c. On a like plan, 
every house in the West Indies v/ould have to open its doors 
at all seasons, by night or by dmy, to domiciliary visits ; and 
every plantation to entertain 'd familiar of the African institu- 
tion, in the character of a melhcdist preacher, or under some 
other like disguise, to report the frailties of his entertainer. 
What a delicious batch of jobs might be worked out of a 
little parliamentary interference in such matters 1 But per- 
haps we only trifle with a serious subject, by indnlging in these 
excursions of conjecture, to penetrate the mysteries of the 
Holy ofificc, by which onr most important rights of property 
are now at length openly sentenced to confiscation. 

Seriously, then, if by this same executory principle is 
meant that, in order to give clfect to the laws in question, 
slaves arc to be admitted as witnesses in courts of justice. 



20 



against their owners, we have only to say that by au6h a 
measure, the colonies would very soon cease to require any 
laws to reg-ulate the relations of master and servant. In less 
than twelve months, there would be no slavery to ameliorate : 
nor a single slave to enfranchise, within the range of the West 
Indies. 

If there be an innate sin in man, that of a total disregard 
of truth, appears to have been the natural portion of the whofe 
of the African race. But whether this is to be considered as 
a matter of inheritance or not, it is at least a habit of no little 
inveteracy : and therefore so long as our negro children are 
brought up among their own kindred and countrymen, we 
must naturally expect that, like an hereditary disease in 
famiUes, its cure is not to be calculated on in a hurry. Again, 
on the authority of Mr. Wiiberforce himself, it is said, that 
the greater body of the slaves are mere pagans and heathens ; 
and yet almost in the same breath, he plainly intimates, that 
these are the persons to whom we are to administer oaths, and 
receive as witnesses on questions implicating the lives and 
fortunes of thousands, nay, tens of thousands, of free British 
subjects. In England, Quakers, a society of christians of 
exemplary piety, are precluded from giving evidence iu cases 
of capital felonies ; — because they will not swear. But Mr. 
Wiiberforce and his institute, swell with indignation against 
the West Indies, because we reject the evidence of those 
who, it is true, are willing enough to take every oath that 
may be administered to them ; but without understanding the 
nature of one. So much for the casuistical consistency of our 
abolitionists. For ourselves we freely admit, that, setting 
aside all objections on the score of religion, there are motives 
of necessary policy, quite sufficient in the West Indies, to 
prevent the life or property of a white man, from being at any 



21 



lime jeopardized, at will, by the information or evidence of A 
slave. That our slaves are all pagans, as Mr. Wilberforce 
will have it, certainly is by no means true. In these islands, 
particularly, there is scarcely an adult slave without some 
knowledg-e of the christian religion. Many of them in fact, 
for persons of their condition, are tolerably well instructed in 
its duties. But there is a peculiarity in that state of society in 
which slavery forms an essential ingredient, which renders it 
impossible to put the master in any manner legitimately at the 
luercy of his servants, without shivering one main link in the 
chain of subordination, on which altogether depends the integ- 
rity of the social bond. To understand this principle tho- 
roughly, a personal acquaintance with the economy of a slave 
country, would, we confess, be of considerable assistance. It 
is absolutely provoking to hear gentlemen of high pretensions 
to talent and integrity, speaking of our negroes as they would 
of the peasantry of Yorkshire or Middlesex. And a wish 
has been often expressed en this side the Atlantic, that some 
of our modern philanthropists at home, who have so much 
wealth and time at their disposal, would only favour the West 
Indies with an occasional visit, and judge of us and our con- 
duct and affairs, from their own observation. When Mr. 
Howard, the first philanthropist of his day, undertook the refor- 
mation of abuses in the public prisons, he did not sit at his ease 
in his study, building theories, and suggesting plans, upon the 
communications of Bridewell governors, gaolers or turnkeys, 
or those of any pitiful gaol birds that might escape from their 
cage, to carry tales to his private car. He travelled every 
where to the prisons himself At the risk of health and life ; 
at the serious sacrifice of personal comfort, he entered them, 
examined them throughout, collected a valuable mass of in- 
formation on the spot, and did more than any man that ever 
lived, towards the amelioration of the coiidiliuu of those un- 



n 



happy sufferers whose imprudence or whose crimes condemn 
them to incarceration. But that sort of philanthropy is now 
getting entirely out of fashion. Our modern reformers, over- 
looking some hundreds of abuses, absolutely stinking under 
their nostrils, chuse for the theatre of their philanthropy, some 
country, as far as possible beyond the range of their own phy- 
sical observation. As prophets, inferior even to Mahomet, 
they will not go to the mountain, though the mountain cannot 
come to them. All their information they obtain, if not by 
inspiration, certainly by means equally mysterious and inscru- 
table. .And thus informed or inspired, they calmly undertake 
to legislate for countries which they never saw, but with the 
eyes of others, whom they are for the most part ashamed to 
name; and to correct abuses that exist only in the calumnies 
of those who either have a sordid interest, or take a mischievous 
delight in misrepresenting the actual state of the colonies. 

At a crisis like the present, certainly of the most awful 
character, let every colony do justice to itself. With the 
other West India Islands, Jamaica excepted, our intercourse 
is but occasional and unfrequent. For ourselves alone, there- 
fore, we undertake, on the present occasion, to speak ; as- 
sured, however, that every other colony must be equally 
sensible of the necessity of a simultaneous appeal of a similar 
nature, to the justice of the mother country: the whole form- 
ing together, as we confidently anticipate, a powerful mass of 
contradiction, from every portion of the British West Indies, 
to the unfounded slanders of Mr. Wilberforce, and his ad- 
herents. 



Heserving, for a subsequent page, the question, as to the 
constitutional right of Parliament to legislate for the internal 
concerns of the colonies, and assuming it for the sake of argu- 



i>:3 



ment, that under the pressure of some unprecedented and 
extraordinary circumstances, it might be expedient for the 
British Legislature to supercede in some particulars, the au- 
thority of the colonial Assemblies, let us examine what, in the 
present case, those very extraordinary circumstances are, as 
urged by Mr, Wilberforce, in his appeal ; and how far they 
are founded in truth or otherwise. Here be it observed, that 
though we propose, as above suggested, to speak merely of 
the Bahamas, as being the only colony, with respect to whose 
affairs we can speak from our own immediate knowledge, we 
have no scruple in believing that the charges brought by that 
writer and his party, against the whole of the West India 
body, are as destitute oi truth and justice every where else as 
they are here. 

In the lirst place, it is said, our slaves are over worked; 
and to remedy that evil, task work it recommended. Now, 
it is false that our slaves are over worked ; nor did we require 
the suggestion of Mr. Wilberforce, to introduce the system of 
task work : such having been, within the memory of the oldest 
of us, the uniform system of our planters and salt rakers, and 
others oaiploying slaves otherwise than as domeslies, sailors or 
mechanics ; which latter, by the bye, work upon an average, 
only between eight and nine hours out of the twenty-four, 
throughout the year ; which are precisely the same as the hours 
of labour with our white mechanics, who work for daily hire. 

The truly disgusting tales of the abolitionists, of the slaves 
being, like beasts of burden, flogged out in droves, to their 
work, l;cpt to it with the lash, and then driven back again to 
their stables, (appeal, page 15,) have, wc solemnly declare to 
you, not the slightest foundation in truth, within these islands. 
Working gangs of slaves, like workmen oi' the same dcscrip- 



S4 



tio» in England, are superintended each by what we, perhaps 
unluekily, call a driver. Change the terrible appellation for 
that of hailifff or some other designation more familiar to 
English ears, and we assure you that all the horrors of the em- 
ployment vanish with the name. Drivers, indeed, sometimes 
carry whips in their hands, more commonly switches, but for 
little else than as the insignia of office ; as parish beadles in 
England carry staves or rattans ; or, to travel back to more 
classical authority, the Roman lictors of old carried a bundle 
of rods, w^ith an axe in it, but seldom for any other purpose 
than the harmless one, of a little affectation of state. And as 
to the nature of the tasks generally imposed on labourers, we 
can confidently say, that we have frequently seen the days 
work performed in between four and five hours ; and that there 
are no instances within our knowledge, in which the tasks are 
not, or might not easily be completed in seven or eight hours 
at the very utmost, even in cases of the most urgent need. 

Again, — our slaves are insufficiently fed : an assertion 
easily made, and difficult to disprove : except by observation 
on the spot. But this, like the charge of over working the 
slaves, we have no hesitation in pronouncing to be a base 
calumny, as odious as it is unfounded. Slaves constitute in 
most of the colonies, a full half, and in these islands, at least 
three-fourths of our agricultural wealth. Is it to be believed 
then, that we are not only destitute of all heart to feel for 
those who are about us, but of heads also, capable of under- 
standing our own obvious interests? Famine and toil com- 
bined make quick work with the human frame. A few months, 
way, a few weeks, or even days, would be sufficient to hurry 
the emaciated victims of sueh cruelty, to the grave. Again 
then we say, let our sainted persecutors only come among us 
for onee at least ; and wc pledge ourselves that they Avill find 



25 

in our field slave grounds, as well as in our houses, as healthy^ 
sleek, and cheerful a peasantry, surrounded for the most with 
as wholesome children, as are to he found in any part of the 
British dominions. And in this way, and this alone, we pro- 
pose to confound our slanderers* Here, indeed, as in the 
other colonies, the slave allowances are regulated by law. But 
the abolitionists are determined to give us no credit for our 
enactments ; and therefore we have the more pleasure in clos- 
ing our statute book, to open that of nature and fact, and 
exhibit the slaves themselves as the best refutation of the in- 
famous calumnies in this respect, with which wo as well as all 
the other colonies are indiscriminately assailed. 

On the subject of religious instruction, among the slaves, wd 
have only to say, that whatever little progress has hithertd 
been made in that necessary work, it would appear that it, has 
of late worn a much more favorable aspect throughout the 
West Indies generally. The annual report of the Wesleyan 
connection alone, for some years past, are satisfactory on that 
head. And if the missionaries in the first instance, found 
some difficulties in acquiring the confidence of those who had 
charge of the slaves, it would seem that they have since per- 
severed, and by no means in vain, to remove that obstacle to 
the success of their mission. 

In these Islands, the slave population docs not aniount i6 
t'velve thousand souls. And wc have two clergymen of the 
church of England, a Presbyterian minister, five indefatigable' 
Wesleyan missionaries, and other licensed preachers, among 
which arc four blacks, three of whom arc Baptists, and one in 
charge of a chapel, where he performs divine service according 
to the forms of the church of England. The opportunities of 
reUgious instruction in our principal settlements, accordingh^, 



2G 



are numerous: nor are our plantations altogetlier without 
them. There are, as we have ah'eady sug-gested, few, if any, 
even of our field slaves, who do not profess Christianity. And 
although the interest which our slave holders take in the reli- 
gious improvement of their slaves, naturally varies with the 
respective opinions and habits of the former, we can confidently 
assert, that no obstacle whatsoever is at this time opposed, on 
any of our plantations, or elsewhere, to the dissemination of 
rehgious doctrines, among the latter. 

Some of our planters, indeed, at one time, evinced a con- 
siderable degree of zeal in the cause. But as zeal, unless 
tempered, as it seldom is, with discretion, too often defeats 
itself; such possibly, to a certain extent, has been its fate here. 
It may have an unwelcome sound in the ears of modern puri- 
tans, but it is nevertheless true, that there is always more or 
less danger in giving temporal encouragement to spiritual 
merit. In that class of half civilized negroes, with whom 
cunning * 

•^ — — supplies, 



And amply too, the place of being wise. 

Churchill. 

a master who should take an over deep interest in the promo- 
tion of religion, would readily find many devoted proselytes 
among his slaves. And if favours or preferences follow as the 
reward of superior sanctity, it is not so often the best men as 
the best hypocrites that stand highest on the scale of promo- 
tion. And a few detections of that kind naturally inflict more 
injury on the cause of true religion, than can be for a long 
time afterwards healed by the only sound means of instilling 
moral truth into an untutored mind; namely, judicious, patient, 



27 



and persevering- instruction. Methodists and others may boast 
of sudden calls to grace. But this, if not the creature of 
fraud or fanciful superstition, forms at least a distinguished 
exception from the ordinary dispensations of Providence ; and 
can seldom be calculated on with confidence as genuine, if in 
the affair there should happen to be some worldly temptation 
to deceive. 

One of the charges most gravely urged against the colonies, 
is, that instead of encouraging marriages among the slaves, a 
promiscuous intercourse of the sexes is even worse than tole- 
rated. And a general denunciation of lewdness is brought 
against all the drivers, all the bookkeepers — every man, black 
or white, in fact, employed upon West India Plantations. This 
is a subject upon which the venerable Mr. Wilberforce ap- 
pears to be peculiarly sensitive. It recurs nine or ten times, 
if not oftener, in his Appeal, (pp. 16, 18, and 20; and as 
respects managers and overseers, pp. 21-23 — page 28, 32, 
and 53, et passim.) To all this we have the same answer as 
before, namely, that there is no truth in the accusation, so 
far as respects these islands. It rarely happens among us, that 
adult negroes are unmarried. And without fear of contradic- 
tion, we assert, that pains are taken, and generally with suc- 
cess, throughout these islands to promote early marriages 
among the slaves. We had not to consult the oracle of the 
African Institute, to know that the marriage state affords, 
perhaps, the best security for sobriety and steadiness among 
our people. Those who marry, generally collect some little 
stock of their own about them ; and even their children, being 
the property of the same owner, contribute not a little to 
strengthen the tics of reciprocal attachment between servant 
and master. Yet, knowing and feeling all this, as clearly and 
sensibly, us any honest abolitionist could possibly desire, we ara 



28 



accused of being- so lost to all sense of propriety, as concerns 
the welfare of our slaves, and blind also to our own palpable 
interests, as to discourage marriages among then?, merely for 
the amusement of a few young men, at the expence of introduc- 
ing all manner of idle and irregular habits, and even disease, 
among our slaves. Is it possible that the Parliament of Eng- 
land can be persuaded, even upon the authority of Mr, 
TVilberforce and all his institute, that we are at the same time 
such demons and such fools. And although the marriages of 
our slaves are not always solemnized by clergymen (and for 
this plain reason, that our population is very thinly spread over 
a chain of seventeen different islands, extending upwards of 
five hundred miles in length ; and in that space there as are yet 
but two clergymen authorized to solemnize marriages) the 
slaves, to a certain extent at least, are not on a worse footing 
than the white inhabitants of our out islands : whose marriages 
are for the most part, solemnized by civil magistrates ; and have 
always been considered valid in law, when authorized by 
license of the governor. When opportunities offer, the ne- 
groes frequently obtain the sanction of the church to their 
union ; but even when they do not, the habits of slaves, being 
from necessity domestic, it is pleasing to observe, how seldom 
the matrimonial contract among them, is violated, or dissolved 
except by death. 

Mr. Wilberforce, indeed, is so immoderately shocked at 
the phamtom which he has himself conjured up, of the liber- 
tinism of all classes and colours in the West Indies, that it 
M'ouid almost seem as if the suppression of that one vice, con- 
stituted the principal motive of his urgency for his long wished 
for reform. But as a matter of speculation, we are tempted 
to ask, whether, if such were the case among our negroes 
while in slavery, would the morals of these interesting sinners 



29 



be likely to reform much, under a sudden and entire release 
from all restraint ? Or, to revert to the transatlantic philan- 
thropy of Mr. Wilberforce and his institute, let us rather 
enquire, are there not some good old English instances of 
promiscuous sexual intercourse, even within the very bills of 
mortality, which stands just as much in need of chastening, as 
the alleged amours of our negro women and their drivers? 
Why has it become necessary for London Philanthropists to 
travel across the Atlantic for objects of reform, when so much 
remains still to be done at home ( In one parish alone, (St.Mary- 
lebone) if the late Avriters'cn Metropolitan statistics are not 
much deceived, there are nearly as many females actually sub- 
sisting by prostitution, as there are slaves of both sexes aud of 
all ages and colours taken together, in the Bahama islands. 

We now come to the hateful charge of wantonly inflicting 
cruel and even indecent punishments on our slaves. Here 
again we plead not guilty, and challenge our accusers to the 
proof. Mr. \¥iroerforce cannot but admit that there are some- 
times to be found in other places, a few people, as choleric, 
unjust and cruel, as in the West Indies; — that apprentices 
have occasionally been flogged to death, even in the philan- 
thropic city of London, (page GO,) neither can it be denied 
that cUmbing bo} s have been feloniously suffocated in chimnies ; 
and that even English soldiers and sailors^are flogged sometimes 
to the very vevgQ of life, the precise limits of which, are scien- 
tifically ascertained by a professional attendant at the flagelki- 
tion. Yet, by the writings of Mr. Wilberforce and his friends, 
it would seem that injustice, cruelty, and indecency had been 
banished fr-om every other quarter of the globe, and had at 
last found an odious asylum in the West Indies alone. To 
you, Sir, and to the British nation, we solemnly declare, 
and challenge all contradiction which can bo supported by 



30 



any true semblance of evidence, that, with due allowance for 
a very few exceptions, arising out of the irremediable frailty 
of human nature, the punishments inflicted upon offending 
slaves in the Bahamas, are actually humane and mild, beyond 
all comparison, or rather we may say in contrast with the 
present criminal code of our mother country. Thefts and 
other crimes, which in England would cost the offender his 
life, are here expiated with a flogging. Desertion, for which 
the British soldier's back smarts, frequently under from two 
to five hundred or a thousand lashes, is punished here, at 
the very worst, by transportation ; thdt is, a mere removal of 
the runaway, to some foreign colony; being in most instances. 
Scarcely any punishment at all. Murders only, and felonies of 
the most atrocious character, are punished with death. But 
to read the tales of horror with which Mr, Wilberforce and his 
party, have frozen up so much British blood, one would sup- 
pose that every West India plantation was furnished with a 
complete assortment of all possible implements of human tor- 
ture. When, in sober truth, a'horsewhip or cat o'nine tails, 
for the most part, constitutes the dreadful entire of our san- 
guinary apparatus. What Mr. Wilberforce alludes to, in 
calling some of our punishments indecent, we do not exactly 
understand ; unless it be that our younger negroes are some- 
times subjected to the discipline of the rod, in the manner 
practised, as most of us well recollect, in the principal schools for 
the young gentry of Great Britain and Ireland. Elderly men 
and women are rarely punished with stripes, excepting for 
most serious offences ; and even then, they are punished as 
men and women ought to be. 

With respect to the subject of attaching negroes to the soil, 
we have, perhaps, said sufficient already. The very wish for such 
an arrangement, in fact, evinces either wantonness and treachery 



31 



<Mi the one Imnd, or on t!\e other, a decided ignorance, not 
only of the nature and capabilities of the country, but of the 
disposition and habits of our negroes. And even could such 
a plan be carried into effect, we are puzzled to understand 
how it would tejid to the mitigation of slavery, either in point 
of fact or feeling. To confine a certain number of human 
beings within a given space of ground, there, with their pos- 
terity, to vegetate and rot, like weeds ; — to convert them into 
a sort of heir-loom or mere chattel, attached to the freehold, 
in our view of the subject, is certainly one of the strangest 
expedients imaginable, either for the physical amehoration of 
the condition, or moral elevation of the slave. Mr. Wilber- 
force, indeed, rebukes us severely with considering our ne- 
groes, not as persons, " but mere chattels," (page 13) and yet 
would himself, when it suits the purposes of an argument, re- 
duce them to the condition of chattels of the meanest kind. 
The persevering anxiety of the abolitionists for this one scheme, 
in particular, has long carried with it, to our minds, what 
the abolitionists, indeed, now cease to disavow, that their 
grand object always was, as it now is, the total annihilation of 
all slave property in the West Indies. And their principal 
difficulty at this time is, how that object is to be effected, as 
expeditiously and economically as possible. Attach our ne- 
groes to the soil in the Bahamas, and both the negroes and the 
soil will soon be cheap enough for the purpose, so far at least 
as worthlessness may affect their value. 

Even therefore should Parliament conceive that it possessed 
a legitimate authority to interfere with the domestic and other 
internal concerns of these colonies, let us ask, has Mr. Wil- 
berforce made out a case suUicicnt to justily so unprecedented 
an exercise of that authority I At a time when few, if any, of 
the colonies had passed laws ibr the protection of the slaves, 



32 



or the amelioration of their condition; before scarcely an 
attempt was made to introduce Christianity among them ; and 
crimes against them might have been openly committed with 
impunity ; — even then the right of property in slaves was re- 
verenced as sacred, and manageable even by Parliament itself. 
But now, after the most important changes have taken place 
in almost every particular ; when the slaves are every where 
under the protection of wholesome laws, which, let the aboli- 
tionists assert what they please, are enforced with more or less 
rigour in every colony; when Christianity is rapidly gaining 
ground among them ; when by the abolition of the slave trade, 
the slaves in the West Indies are effectually cut off from all 
further contagion of barbarism and paganism from Africa, and 
already begin to evince considerable advances, in point of 
habits and principles, to a better condition ; when emancipa- 
tions are daily becoming more common ; and the rights of both 
free negroes and slaves are placed under a degree even of 
unnecessary protection, by the late registry laws, so strenu- 
ously recommended by the abolitionists themselves — still that 
restless party appear to be even more dissatisfied than ever ; 
and in the fretfulness of their impatience for our final ruin, 
have at length discovered that Parliament, not only has a con- 
stitutional right to divest us of our property, or otherwise deal 
with it, at discretion, but also that unless Parliament does in- 
terfere, nothing can or will ever be done for the redress of those 
enormous but imaginary wrongs with which, unfounded in 
fact as they are unsupported by proof, every colony in the 
West Indies is indiscriminately charged. 

What may be within the power of the British Parliament 
it would perhaps be as difficult to define, as it might be 
perilous to question. But power does not always constitute 
right. Our colonists being no longer represented in the 



^ 



Parliament of the mother country, were placed by the Crown 
(and the right of the Crown in this instance has never been 
questioned) under the government of PaHiaments of their 
own, the mother country reserving to herself or her ParUa- 
ment, only a sort of homage from the colonies, in matters 
relating to their maritime concerns.^ A political right once 
unconditionally conferred, never can be recalled: or the 
liberties even of England would be at this day enjoyed only by 
sufferance of the reigning monarch. What was Magna Chartd 
itself but a royal boon? — extorted indeed by intimidation; but 
perhaps on that very account, only the less binding on the be- 
stower. The same might pel'haps be said, with very little 
abatement of circumstance, to the Bill of Rights, as well as 
many other of those high securities of British freedom, which 
We have been so long in the habit of regarding with veneration* 
And yet, has it ever been pretended that Parliament could 
constitutionally revoke those concessions? 

Whatever principle, therefore, of supposed dependence 
tiiay be attached to those colonial bodies that have been incor- 
porated only by charters, which perhaps as such, may be 
liable to forfeiture ; or to those colonies, as the Canadas, the 
constitutions of which were originally created, and afterwards 
altered by the British Parliament; we conceive that the present 
constitution of the Bahamas, as well as that of Jamaica, and 
several other West India colonies, stands in this respect, upon 
the highest possible ground. We purposely avoid details, 
because they are already well known to all who interest 
themselves in West India affairs; and to those who do not, 
they would be of little use. Among the rash measures of the 
British ministry, in the early part of the revolt of the North 
American colonies. Parliament was induced to declare by 
law, that it had the right to legi.slate lor the colonics in nil 

F 



34 



cases; a declaration, by the bye, which from its bein^ deemed 
necessary at such a season, admits the existence of some 
serious doubts upon the subject. This high toned pretension 
accordingly was very shortly afterwards modified by the im- 
portant exception of the right of taxation ; and at last virtually 
abandoned in toto, by the recognition of the revolted provin- 
ces as Independent States. As therefore the General Assembly 
of these islands was lawfully constituted by the Crown, without 
any manner of Parliamentary sanction, except so far as the 
Assembly, with the King at its head, is in itself a Parliament 
for all local purposes, we sincerely hqpe that the question may 
never be seriously raised as a matter of contention with the 
mother country, whether the British Parliament can constitu- 
tionally interfere with our internal concerns. For on that 
point there can be but one opinion among the independent part 
of all the free colonies. 

It is somewhat difficult for one not initiated in the mysteries 
of the sect of which Mr. Wilberforce appears to be the tutelary 
saint and champion, and in the doctrines of which there is so 
much pretension of religion, mixed up with so much reality of 
party spirit, and personal ambition, to understand why he 
(Mr. Wilberforce^ should say, as he doesj at the very opening 
of his Appeal, that he had chosen this particular season to 
hasten the ripening of his plot, on account of " the present 
embarrassments and distress of our own countr}' — a distress in 
which the West Indies themselves have largely participated, 
&c." This certainly is, at first sight, a strange acknowledg- 
ment of motives ; and might perhaps be altogether unintelligi- 
ble, were it not that there lurks under the enigma, a hint 
sufiicientiy famihar to fanatical conceptions, that some extra- 
ordinary act of national piety is peculiarly necessary at this 
particular crisis, to propitiate the divine i'avour. And hence 



35 



a state of society in the West Indies, which has existed for 
centuries — and in other countries for series of centuries before, 
without having' given apparently any very deadly oiFence to the 
Divinity, is now denounced as "a national crime" of such 
deep malignity, that neither the mother country or her colonies, 
can ever thrive again, until it is put an end to. " What will 
hypocrisy not hereafter dare, or superstition submit to, if so 
presumptuous, so impious an attempt to impose at once upon 
the spiritual hopes and temporal fears of the weak and worldly- 
minded part of the community, should be attended with suc- 
cess ? Let these sanguinary high priests speak out, and tell 
the nation something like the truth, for once in their existence ; 
namely, that they have determined upon a sacrifice in atone- 
ment for what they are pleased to call the sins of the nation ' 
and that nothing is more to their taste than the agricultural 
and commercial interests of the West Indies, while not yet 
too much reduced to grace the altar, as the principal victims 
for present immolation. 

But notwithstanding all this rant and cant of Mr. Wil- 
berforce, upon the subject, the true reasons of the abo- 
litionists, for resuming at this particular time their hostilities 
against the West Indies, is but flirasily disguised by the work 
now before us. 

Since the trade to the East Indies has been thrown open 
to a certain extent, a new commercial interest is growing 
fast into importance at home ; namely, that of the free 
traders to those countries ; who appear to have powerful 
friends, both in and out of Parliament. And as an inferior 
sort of sugar is manufactured in the East, on terms which 
would materially affect the market for West India sugars, 
unless the latter should continue, as hitherto, to be protected 



36 



by competent duties upon the importation of the former into 
Great Britain, our old and inveterate enemies immediately 
availed themselves of this new commercial rivalry, to give the 
coup de grace, as they now seem to expect, to the grand 
vital principle of West India prosperity. A heterogeneous 
coalition has accordingly been formed between the servants of 
God, as they affect to think themselves, and those new-born 
children of mammon ; in the sanguine hope that between a 
religious abhorrence of West India slavery on the one hand, 
and a liquorish preference, equally just, for East India sugar, 
on the other, the nation may be more easily reconciled to the 
destruction of the colonies in this quarter. 

In the sugar question, we, as Bahamians, have no other 
interest than, that we should necessarily be involved in the 
general ruin of the colonies, should the abolitionists, rein- 
forced as they now appear to be, by their new allies, become 
powei'ful enough to carry into effect their present destructive 
views. But we cannot forbear some expression of the resent- 
ment and disgust which we have, more than once, had 
occasion to feel, at the insidious and unprincipled attempts 
that are now making at home, to prejudice the mass of the 
people there against West India sugars, as the manufacture 
of slaves, in favour of those of the East, as being the manufac- 
ture of freemen. We conceive ourselves sufficiently well 
informed on the subject, to declare that no such distinction 
exists, except in name ; believing as we do, from in- 
formation on which we rely, tfiat the whole of the Hindoo 
peasantry, though they are nominally free, are infinitely more 
oppressed, abject, and unhappy than nine-tenths of the slaves 
in the West Indies, Of pofitical rights the Hindoos enjoy 
nothing. And except in the few English cities, and other large 
European settlenients, tbe will qf the master is the eternal law 



37 



of the land. When crops are abundant, the peasant may 
enjoy a temporary competence of the necessaries of Ufe. 
But if the crops fail, famine becomes his inevitable portion. 
Every inch of arable land under the East India company's 
dominion, is let out at a rack-rent, throua^h Zemindars, or 
other lordly upper tenants of larg-e demesnes. And the con- 
sequence is, that to eat, the Hindoo peasant must work 
unceasingly. And in sickness or misfortune, he has ever to 
fall back upon his own poor scanty resources; which the ne- 
cessities of a few weeks, or even days, for the most part, dry up 
irretrievably. Compare this miserable state of things — by the 
bye not much unlike that of the peasantry of some other countries 
which could be named nearer home, — compare it, we say, with 
the actual advantages of our negroes; to whom it is of little 
moment whether crops succeed or fail. Let hurricanes sweep 
our fields, or earthquakes bury them, our negroes must be 
fed and clothed, and lodged. They have no care for tomorrow; 
no provision to make for sickness or old age ; no anxiety lest 
their children should want food or any necessary comfort. 
The effect naturally is, that, unless when spirited into disobe- 
dience or revolt by incendiaries, like the late Amis des Noirs, 
of Paris, or Mr. Wilberforce's present institute in London, 
our negroes are in general as contented beings as any whose 
lot for life is that of mere manuel toil; indulging with zest in 
many luxuries and amusements adapted to the coarseness of 
their taste, and the humility of their condition: and in positive 
truth, however the sainted hypocrites of St. Stephen's may 
afl'ect to groan over their supposed degradation and misery, 
constitutute for the most part, as happy, thoughtless and 
cheerful a peasantry, as we believe to exist in any country 
under heaven, where the labour of the many, is employed 
principally for the benefit of the few. On the score of religion 
too, the favorite topic of Mr. Wilbcrforcc, let us learn from 



38 



Mr. Wilberforce himself, how the Hindoo peasantry standi 
in comparison with oar ne;^roes ; among which latter, as our 
worst enemies have to admit, Christianity has made, and is 
still making, at least some little progress. In Hindostan 
" a vast population had come into our hands, in the full 
blown enormity of heathen institutions ; where the bloody 
superstitions, and unnatural cruelties and immoralities of 
paganism had estabhshed themselves in entire authority, and 
had produced their natural effects in the depravity and moral 
degradation of the species." (page 32.) To this might be 
added the legality of polygamy apd concubinage, to any 
extent commensurate with the circumstances of individuals. 
And can we wonder too much, that so immense and fertile a 
field for reform, just as much too within the British dominions 
as the West Indies, should be left so totally uncultivated by 
our saints, while all their energies are directed almost exclu- 
sively against the comparatively petty sins of these unhappy 
colonies. The sugar made by christian slaves, is surely as 
orthodox as that manufactured by pagan freemen. 

However Mr. Wilberfjrce may affect to consider the 
existence of slavery in the West Indies, a national sin, let us 
ask, is that sin likely to be ever redeemed, in the eye of 
heaven, only by the perpetration of crimes of the most 
superlatively atrocious character ? — Involving in them a pre- 
meditated certainty, to begin with, of individual robbery, 
throughout the whole of the islands ; and with nearly the 
same eventual certainty of all the tremendous consequences 
of suddenly subverting the only system which, since the 
minds of the slave population have been unsettled by the 
publications and intrigues of their false friends in France 
and England, can possibly keep the knife from the throats. 



39 



and the faggot from the roots, of all the white inhabitants of 
the West Indies 2 

There is, indeed, but too much reason to conclude, that 
the true and more immediate object of this Appeal of Mr. 
Wilberforce, though ostensibly addressed only to the people 
of England, is one of a much less limited, and fai' more 
appalling nature than has as yet been avowed by its author. 
For the plan now promulgated, appears to possess, as it 
were, within itself, a certain " executory principle " — if we 
may borrow the phrase for the occasion ; — one of a most 
fearful character, which threatens to carry its object, directljr 
into practical effect, without the aid either of Parliament or 
of the colonial Assemblies. Whether viewed alone, or as tlie 
precursor of the measures which it menaces, that inflammatory 
Appeal, published as it nov/ is to the vi^orld, is but too well 
calculated to become throughout the West Indies, a firebrand 
in the very worst of hands ; and to produce the same tragical 
effects, which similar publications and similar measures in 
France, produced in St. Domingo ; and which subsequent 
publications, and measures of tlie same tendency, in England, 
though professedly of a less alarming character, (we mean 
those on the subject of the Slave Registration) gave occasion 
to in Barbadoes ; — filling even Jamaica, for a time, with 
apprehension and dismay. And indeed, after the strains of 
triumph and rapturous applause, in which the new dynasty 
of that blood thirsty brigand, Christophe of St. Domingo, 
was hailed in London, by the humane Mr. Wilberforce, and 
his tender hearted associates, at Freemason's Tavern, and 
elsewhere, can wc conscientiously believe otherwise than those 
same London philanthropists would gladly dance, in spirit at 
least, round the smoking ruins of every thing valuable in the 



40 



West Indies, until a sufficiency of human blood wa§ spllf^ 
to quench the conflagration I 

The reflections that have been so illiberally thrown on our 
colonial Assemblies, are too contemptible to receive much 
serious notice from us. If the members of our Assemblies 
are nearly all slave owners, it will at least, we trust, be 
admitted, that it is from among- the most respectable of that 
class, that those members are generally chosen. And settincj 
aside the common feelings of our nature, who, let us ask, 
next to the slaves themselves, can ha!ve so positive and immc-' 
diate an interest in their well being-, their health and comfort, 
or in correcting abuses which might bring the system into 
disrepute, as those very owners, of their representatives? 
But what renders the animadversions of the sainted Mr. Wii- 
berforce, particularly ridiculous on this part of his subject, is, 
that according to him, the members of our Assemblies are not 
only all slave holders, but what, as he insinuates, is still 
worse, they are all bachelors, too. And in a note, (page 53,) 
the rough-shod eloquence of Mr. Brougham is brought in full 
charge against the West Indies generally on this point. " The 
want of modest female society," Mr. Brougham is made to 
say, " brutalizes the minds and manners of men, &c." Again, 
— " the witnesses of the planter's actions, are the companions 
of his debaucheries, he" and of these and some other like 
gallant doctrines, of her late Majesty's Attorney General, 
Mr. Wilberforce avails himself, to shew that the Assembhes 
cannot be safely entrusted with the regulation, even of the 
more domestic concerns of the colonies. In the Bahamas, 
however, be it known, that the present Council consists of 
about eight members, and the House of Assembly, of twenty- 
nine ; and that in the total of the thirty-seven, there are not 



41 



six bachelors. By an inversion of the usual mode of reasoning-, 
Mr. Wiiberforce begins by assuming the conclusion, that all 
members of the Assembly are brutes : and the task of proving-, 
why they must be so, then devolves upon Mr. Brougham; 
■who, to maintain an hypothesis absolutely untenable in point 
of fact, at once votes all the wives and daughters of our 
legislators out of existence. Surely this is not doing as Mr. 
Wiiberforce and Mr. Brougham would that others should do 
unto them. The Assemblies, in fact, have never so much 
betrayed their trust as in the attention which they have from 
time to time unfortunately paid to the urgent and insidious 
suggestions of that treacherous party, who now unblushingly 
avow that every measure into which they have cajoled either 
Parliament or the colonies, for the last thirty years, with 
respect to the West Indies, under various false pretexts, as 
they are now admitted to have been, have only been so many 
occult, but direct steps towards the eventual annihilation of 
all West India property. In 1806, Parliament, at the 
instance of the abolitionists, prohibited the exportation of 
slaves from our islands, or Africa, to foreign colonies. This, 
as then pretended, was merely to prevent British ships from 
being employed in a foreign slave trade. The trick suc- 
ceeded. And the planter, when he afterwards began to 
suspect that he was shortly to be plundered of his negroes, 
if he remained in a British colony, found, to his dismay, that 
he had no longer the power of removing them elsewhere* 
Our new philosophers, the very next year, accordmgly com- 
menced their course of experiments upon the birds which 
they had thus ingeniously caged for the purpose. The total 
abolition of the British slave trade took place ; every friend 
of the measure, of every party, however, giving at the same 
time, a solemn pledge, that no intention whatsoever existed, 

G 



42 



of interfering with the hitherto acknowledged rights of the propri- 
etors of slaves already in the West Indies. We forbear all details 
of the further acts that were, from time to time, passed with the 
same professed view, and with the same assurances; but, as it now 
appears, with the same falsehood and the same duplicity. At length 
came forth the memorable Registry Bill of Mr. James Stephen, 
of 1815, but still, as usual, with a treacherous disclaimer of all 
intention to disturb the rights of property in the West Indies. 
But notwithstanding the hypocritical pretences under which 
the system thus still continued to be pursued, this Bill first 
roused the colonies to a sense of their danger, and in some 
degree, opened the eyes of Parliament, to the real objects of 
the saints. And the matter ended in a sort of compromise, 
that each of the colonies should pass some such law for itself; 
thus actually lending themselves, as it now appears, to the 
predatory views upon their own property, of their most inve- 
terate enemies. The complaisance of the colonies in this 
respect, was certainly on the extreme. In order to provide 
against a supposed evil, which to their certain knowledge did 
not exist, and of which none of them entertained the slightest 
apprehension, they submitted, each of them, to the self im- 
position of a useless and intricate system of vexation, personal 
trouble, risk of property, and enormous expence, both to the 
country and individuals. And after all, we are now coolly 
informed, by the very persons whom v/e allowed to worry us, 
as it were, into the measure, that they all along bad for their 
main object, in that, of course, as well as every other instance, 
the total extinction of the system on which the existence of the 
colonies entirely depends ; at the imminent risk, not only of 
the fortunes, but of the lives also of those who, unhappily for 
themselves, have trusted too long to the good faith of that 
hypocritical faction. 



43 



Tu g-ood time, indeed, Mr. Wilberforce declares that he 
has no confidence in the colonial Assemblies ; when they can 
possibly have no longer any reliance on the truth, justice, or 
humanity, either of himself individually, or of those who are 
avowedly associated with him, in the present contemplated 
work of death and destruction throughout the colonies. 

The Assemblies, of course, are^aew no longer to be imposed 
upon as they have been. And such of them as have happily 
reserved to themselves, in any degree, the power of retracing 
their steps, will, we trust, be well disposed to avail them- 
selves of that advantage. How our Assembly may think 
proper to act, when the present registration law of these 
islands expires, we do not pretend at present to decide. 
But it has been, and ever will continue to be regarded as one 
of the most odious and exceptionable of all our laws : and 
after Mr. Wilberforce's undisguised avowal of the uses to be 
made of all colonial concessions of that nature, we should 
certainly hold our legislature fairly absolved from all ob- 
ligation of submitting longer than may be absolutely neces- 
sary, to any imposition whatsoever from that quarter. 

Although this letter will be printed here, for the use of the 
members of this Board, there can be no objection, on our 
part, to its being reprinted with you ; should such a measure 
appear to you advisable. On this point, we leave much to 
your discretion; with our authority, which we now confer 
on you, to give it that extent and manner of publication, 
which under the circumstances of the case, as they may stand 
at home, you may conceive most conducive to the general 
interest of the colonies, as well as to the defence of the cha- 
racter of the Bahamas particularly, against the unfounded 



44 



slanders that appear to be promulgated with so much industry 
and so little mercy, against us all. We have only to add one 
request, that if pubhshed at all, this Letter may be given 
entire, and as it now stands in every respect. 

We remain, 

Sir, 
Your most obedient servants, 

Lewis Kerr, 
James Du;nshee, 
John Hepburn, 
Henry M. Williams, 
Thomas R. Rigby, 
Robert Butler, 
George K. Store, 
Robert Taylor, 
James Meadows, 
Benjamin Tynes. 



George Clmlmers^ Esq,. 

S^c. (5jT. S^x, 



FINIS. 



Ljv ERTooi, :—2?eprznted and published by S. H. Sanlcey, Renshaw- street; 
and may be had of all the Booksellers, 



