res. 75 73.% no.3 



Digitized by the Internet Arcinive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofwilliambOOpres 



THE SPEECH 



OF 



WILLIAM B. FRESTON. 



(OF MONTGOiMERY,) 



IN THE 



iii<DW©^ <Dii^ 2>i2ajieci-iiisiiQ m^ ^aiBc^iLSjaii^ 



ON THE 



POLICY OF THE STATE 



IN RELATION TO 



DELIVERED JANUARY 16, 1832. 



^i,i6 



RICHMOND: 

Thomas W. White, Printer 
JS32. 



rt^ '"'-r?l.% y^o^'^ 







It is due to Mr. Preston, to state that his speech on the Abolition 
of Slavery, has been published in its present form, from the Richmond 
Enquirer, by gentlemen favorable to the views which he has advocated 
— not by himself. 



IIOrSK OF DF.LFCiATFSOr VIRGIMl. 



WEDNESDAY, Januaht II, 1832. 



Mr. Goodk of Mctklr;nbure, rose to mnvn i\n; following rctM>luiUin. 

Re!folrr<l, 'I'Imt tin; Av.Wl committer raifM-d on th<- huh'y.rl of -' • *'-'•'■ -'""■«- '•"fj the 
mflaiiclioly orciirrrnrcH ^rowini; out of ihn trag;iral inaJMuu-n: in r{.'<d 

from llic ronsidi-ralion <»f all poiiti'ins, memorial.s ami r«:.solnlion>', .^ni' n i,,i\i ji.r tm ir ol>- 
jrcf, the niaiiumissiou of jtcrsftus lirld in .srrviuicle undc-r ihc existing hiws of lhi« common- 
wraltli, and tlial it is n«»l rX|M'di«-nl to li'«:i.s|afi! on llic HuhjfTl. 

Mil. Ranpoli'ii moved the f(»ll«iwing sulwtitutr, to l>e inserted aflcr ihc word " Southamp- 
U)\\ :" 

** l»<' instnirlod to inqiiiro into the rxnedicncy of uulimiltin^ to the vole of the 

f|iia!irut| viilers in llu' srvral towns, ritics, horoui;Iis, and ronntics of lliiH rfimmonwralrh, 
tlir propriily of providini,' l»y law, that lh«; children of all f« male MlavcK, %vho may •"• l»"rii 
in tins slate, on or aflf^r tin- '1th day of July, 1810, shall become the orojicrty ot 
nionwealth, tlu! males at, the a<;e of iwenly-otu; years, anri females at tfie a:^e of «•. 
detained hy their owners within the limits of Viri-iinia, nnlil lliey shall res|>er'' 
tile, ai;;es ulnresaid, ti> he hired out until the nett sum arisini; therefrom, shall i • 
drfray the expense r)f their renif)val, l)eyon(.l the limits of tlic United Slates, and Uial tuiU 
conimittcc have leave to report by bill or otherwise." 



MONDAY, January 16„1832. 

Mr. Brodnax, from llic committee on the colored population, presented the following re- 
port : 

The select eonnnittce, to whom was referred certain memorials, praying the passage of 
some law providiiiij for the gradual abolition of slavery in tlvc commonwealth, have, accord- 
inu; to drder, had Uic same under consideration, and have come to the following resolution 
thcreujion : 

Resolved as Ike opinion of this committee, That it is inexpedient for the present legislature 
to make any.legislative enactment for tlie abolition of slavery. 

Mr. Preston moved that the resolution rej)orted from the committee, be amended, by strik- 
ing out the Avord "inexpedient," and inserting the word ** expedient." 

lAfr. PRESTON rose and said : 

Mr. Speaker, — The closing remarks of the gentleman from Albe- 
marle, has called to mind the manner in whirh one of the greatest 
parliamentary debaters of the age cominenced his most distinguished 
eflbrts. If I dare follow his example in this j:)articidar, I woiiKI ask 
that the question be now reported by the chair, that we might make 
some small caleidatioii of our "departure." [Flerc the Speaker re- 
ported the resolutic^n.] 

Mr. Speaker, I am adinonished by very many considerations, that 
on this occasion 1 ought not to obtrude myself upon this house, or 
join in the discussion of this momentous and all-absorbing queslion. 
I am admonished in the first place, by a deep anil ihoiough conviction 
of my own inability to add any new light, or to throw any new lUvTlter 
into that extensive field of debate, over which this discussion has tra- 
velled. I am farther admonished, by mv age and inexperience, that this 
is a matter demanding the most profound experience, and liie greatest 
caution and delicacy; and that therefore I have neither of ihose requi- 
sites necessary for its decision. I am still further adtnonisiied, by the 
lateness of the hour, and the great lassitude and fatigue which every 
individual of this house must feel at this time. But, Mr. Speaker, in 
disobedience to all these considera-tions, I feel liiat, as the individual 
on whose motion the proposition which is now before you was sub- 



mitted; I would not be in the discharge of that duty which I owe to 
myself, to this house, and to those whom it is my honor to represent 
on this floor, were I not to submit to them the views and opinions 
which have impelled me io action on tliis occasion. 

It has been said by the gentleman from Brunswick, that the fact that 
the Virginia legislature were now gravely discussing the question of 
an abolition of slavery, with open doors, and to a crowded gallery, 
was one of the most remarkable events in the records of her history. 
That in the better dnys of the republic, this ciuestion could not, and 
would not be tolerated; that a solemn silence would have pervaded 
this hall ; tliat our doors would have been closed, and the voice of every 
man suppressed, in a debate so startling in its results and so unusual 
in its character, in this hall. Sir, I admit, with the gentleman from 
Brunswick, the result is most astonishing and miraculous. I admit, 
that for near 200 years, the thoughts, words and actions of Virgin- 
ians have been suppressed, and that a solemn silence has closed the 
mouth and stifled all investigation on this subject. But, sir, I will not 
concur in the opinion, that those were the better days of the republic. 
But, thank God, Mr. Speaker, the spell is broken, and the scales have 
fallen from our eyes. These open doors, that attentive audience, prove 
to me that I am at liberty to speak any and every opinion, which 1 en- 
tertain on this subject. This cjuestion of slavery, Mr. Speaker, is one 
which seems in all countries and ages in which it has ever been tole- 
rated, either directly or indirectly, to have called to its aid a mystic 
kind of right, and a superstitious sort of veneration, that has deterred 
even the most intrepid mind from the investigation into the rights, and 
an exposure of the wrongs on which it has been sustained. ' Even in 
England, where it has been said that the moment a slave touches the 
English soil he is "redeemed and regenerated;" even there, Mr. Speak- 
er, within the last half century, in the great commercial town of Liver- 
pool, public opinion had driven from the stage George Coleman's 
beautiful play of Inkle and Yarico; riot that the land v^as not a free 
one, or that the laws forbid its rehearsal, but because, in that port, and 
by that people, the slave trade was carried on, and their interests had 
controlled every avenue through which that interest was to be aflected, 
or their enormities brought to view. I esteem, the exhibition 
now before our eyes, and the aspect which this hall at this mo- 
ment presents, as the grandest revolution of the age, a great moral 
revolution, in which our minds and opinions have triumphed over 
error and interest, and left our judgment free to decide, and our 
tongues free to speak the principles of justice, and the voice of 
humanity. Sir, that freedom which we all feel — and, I thank the 
country for that opinion by which I am permitted thus to speak, 
in that frankness, which I hope is a part of my nature — I will not 
withhold on this occasion, any opinion which I entertain, or princi- 
ples by which I am governed. I know full well, that man}' of the 
opinions which I entertain and intend to announce, are new, and start- 
ling to the ears of many gentlemen. They are, however, my deliberate 
opinions. They are opinions which I conceive to be founded in truth 
and in justice, and lead to results imperatively demanded by the pub- 
lic exigency. We have been told, sir, by many gentlemen in the course 



of lliis discussion, ihat it was a suljjrct in wliich tlic west were not in- 
lert'sted. Tliat wo oui^lit to surrcndr-r iliis wliolo cjueslion into the 
hands ofonr eastern brethren. Nay, sir, that wc had by tlie declara- 
tion of one ofonr western representatives, ah'carly dechired llirU it was 
a matter in wliicli wc did not intend to concern (ourselves. Mr. SjjeaUer, 
it was not necessary that we sliould he reminded on this lloor of the 
fact, that we were not and on^hl not to be heard on this question. The 
most casual observer of passiiicr events had h^nt^ since been convinced 
that llio west, if possibh', shoidd nol be heard. In the ortranizalion of 
the seh'cl committee, raised on this subject, we clearly foresaw that we 
were not considered as bein^ parlies to iliis transaction, and tliat our 
course was one of perfect sulimission to the voice and will of those 
who claimed to be more deeply interested, than they asserted we 
were. But, with all due deference to those opinion^ and indica- 
tions, wc claim to be heard. Wc will be licard. A voice has al- 
ready hern heard from the west — a voice which I shall never forget 
while memory holds her scat: the voice of the gentleman from Berke- 
ley. Nor, Mr. Speaker, do we come unbidden into the discussion : 
the c;ciulcmnn from Hanover has called on us for aid. He invites all 
portions of this commonwealth to join in this sacred cause, to relieve 
them from the impending danger. In the language of his venerable 
ancestor, he might have said, deliver us from that danger which, while 
we hold the delusive phantom of hope to our bosoms, permits our 
enemi^^s to bind us hand and foot. 

We believe that as members of this legislature; as the representa- 
tives of Virginia ; of the whole commonwealth at large, we ought to 
be heard. As the representatives of tiie western portion of the state, 
we think that there are reasons and causes operating upon us, 
which give us a most vital and absorbing interest in this question. 
It has been said, and repeatedly said, during this discussion, that 
the west was producing the excitement wliich is here showing it- 
self; that this is a sectional question; that it is a struggle between 
the east and the west, for party purposes. Let us examine this 
matter. What, sir, has been the history' of this discussion? When 
the petitions from various counties of this connuonweahh were present- 
ed, a motion for their reference, was opposed by the gentleman from 
Mecklenburg, (Mr. Goode,) on the ground that tiie object wliich they 
had in view, was one which it was improper to legislate on; that its 
reference was calculated to alarm and disturb the public mind, when 
no earthly good could result from such a course: tiiat the very refer- 
ence of the matter to a committee, endangered ilie traiKjiiillitv ami safety 
of eastern Virginia. On that occasion, sir, all that the west said or 
did was, that as the question was one of the greatest delicacy, they 
were disposed to give the east a carte blanche on the subject. But, sir, 
on that occasion the gentleman who is at the head of that committee — 
the gentleman iVom Dinwiddie, (Gen. Broadnax,) assured this house, 
that in the section of the slate he represented, "the sense of security 
was gone, and that the interest of the state empliaticallv demanded 
that something should be done:" that some elfort should, and ought 
to be made, to quiet the alarms, and remove the evil from amongst the 
people: other eastern gentlemen maintained the same opinion, and 



sustained the same course. The result was, sir, as you will remember, 
that but twenty-seven gentlemen voted against the reference of the pe- 
titions. The west has done nothing to produce this result, and can 
do nothing of herself; but assuredly she will be permitted to decide 
this question in accordance with her interest and principles; a question 
made by eastern gentlemen ; a danger felt by eastern gentlemen ; and 
a relief asked for by eastern gentlemen. 

Mr. Speal^er, two questions present themselves at the threshold, and 
upon their decision depends the success of any scheme which may be 
devised, either nQ,vv or hereafter. 

The first is, whether or not there are any constitutional restrictions 
or protections thrown around this kind of property; which will preserve 
it from any system of emancipation, which does not amply remune- 
rate the owner for his property; and, therefore, prevents the legislature 
from passing any enactment on this subject. 

The second, whether the necessity of the case is sufficiently great 
and imperative, to demand that resort should be had to the supreme 
law of necessity ; and if, on investigation, the first question shall be^ 
found to oppose no barrier, and the second to demand a decisive 
action, I myself will not hesitate in the course which my duty pre*- 
scribes to me. 

The gentlemen on the other side, all admit that slavery cannot be 
justified on principle. They say that no man will defend the princi- 
ple of slavery. But what do they mean, when they sa}^ that the con- 
stitutions, both state and federal, protect them in their right to this 
property.'* Neither the state nor federal constitution, sir, protects them 
in such right to this property as they assume. They h.ave neither of 
them thrown any such defence around those rights which are claimed 
here, as gentlemen would fondly imagine. The poetical gentleman 
from Brunswick, (Mr. Gholson.) whose brilliant' imagination and 
glowing fancy saw wealth and happiness in our worn out fields, whose 
gullies indicated that the "ploughshare of desolation had passed over 
them;" who saw in our revolutionary population, who heard in the 
melancholy winds which sighed through the tops of our old field pine 
trees, the soil, the wealth, and clear indications of a great and flou- 
rishing population, told us that the federal constitution guaranteed ihe 
right of property in slaves. He refers us to the fifth article of the 
amendments of the United States constitution, by which it is provided 
that "private property shall not be taken for public uses, without just 
compensation." I admit, Mr. Speaker, that it is true, that private 
property cannot be taken without adequate compensation, if taken 
from an individual here for the use of that government. But it is a 
provision solely applicable to those cases in which the federal govern- 
ment, in the exercise of her powers, and within the sphere of her con- 
stitutional rights, is compelled to take the property of the citizens of 
the states for her uses, it is a rule prescribed to her, by which the 
states and the people of the states are to be protected against that 
government — certainly not one by which the rights of property of indi- 
viduals are guaranteed to them, against the laws or municipal regula- 
tions of that particular state of which they may be members. It is a 
rule of action for that government, not a charter of rights to citizens 



of the states, in the mode, and manner, and tenure by which they hold 
their property in the stale. The gentleman further supposes, that the 
admission of representation upon the federal ratio goes to sustain the 
guarantee of property under that constitution. The precise contrary 
is the result, to which my mind is led by this fact. It seems to me, 
Mr. Speaker, so far from recognizing them as property, and guaran- 
teeing the right in them as such, it clearly and conclusively proves 
that they are recognized iis persons — persons entitled to a representa- 
tion for three-fifths of their numbers. It does not, i\lr. Speaker, re- 
quire that we should recognize them as persons. It only limits the 
extent to which they will recognize them as persons : beyond which we 
shall not go, but up to which we are not required to advance. That 
compact, was not one in which tfiis principle was either directly 
or indirectly settled and established ; it was, in the language of 
a gentleman once on this floor, nothing more nor less than a 
" well driven bargain," — a bargain in wlilch we of the south de- 
manded and obtained from our northern friends, a privilege for our 
slaves, which we in our own representation (until the era of our 
new constitution,) never had conferred either on them or their ow- 
ners. It does seem to me, that the aid which the gentleman from 
Brunswick invokes from the federal constitution to sustain and pro- 
tect his right to this species of property, entirely fails him. . He must, 
therefore, look to some other point for that constitutional sanctity 
which' he hopes and believes sustains him in this right of property. 
The gentleman betakes himself to his state constitution. He asserts, 
that under its phraseology, which is in the very words of the federal 
constitution, there is an insurmountable barrier to our objects and 
designs on this occasion. He says, that under the eleventh clause of the 
third article of that constitution, the legislature is prohibited from pas- 
sing '' any law whereby private property shall be taken for public uses, 
without just compensation." I deny, Mr. Speaker, tliat under this 
paragraph, slaves are protected as property— they are not made pro- 
perty by this constitution. I admit that they dire property, but they 
are property under the statutes of Virginia. The gentleman from 
Brunswick, says that the framers of the constitution were slave- 
holders and slave-owners, and that they considered them property 
under the constitution, and entitled to its protection : that a dif- 
ferent construction proves that they were either knaves or fools. I 
beg leave to difler with the gentleman, if he should arrive at either of 
these conclusions. The gentleman from Rockbridge referred this 
house to that clause in the bill of rights in which it is asserted that " all 
men, by nature, are equally free and independent." What, Mr. 
Speaker, is meant by this declaration? Unquestionably, as human 
heingSy they are embraced within the bounds of this broad, ex- 
tensive, and eternal truth — one that is laid down as the corner-stone 
of all free governments. But, says the gentleman, they were 
slave-holders, and therefore could not have meant to declare them 
men, " This was a true declaration of natural right, and not a decla- 
ration of the powers of government, or of the social obligations or 
rights of property." The bill of rights, announced the right, — the 
statute enforced the necessity under which our forefathers acted. 



8 "" 

Sir, Mr. Jefferson, whose hand drew the preamble to our bill of 
rights, has eloquently remarked that we had invoked for ourselves the 
benefit of a principle which we denied to others. He saw and felt, ' 
that slaves, as men, were embraced within this principle. And as one 
of the heaviest grievances of which we complained in our separation 
from Great Britain, in the declaration of independence he declared, 
that they had violated our rights by "prompting our negroes to rise 
in arms against us — those very negroes, whom, by an inhuman use of 
his negative, he has refused us permission to exclude by law." In the 
original draft of that instrument, in his own hand writing, he alleges 
that Great Britain had waged a cruel war against human nature itself, 
violating its most sacred rights of life and liberty, in the persons of a 
distant people, who never offended him; capturing and carrying them 
into slavery in another hemisphere; or to incur miserable death in their 
transportation thilher-=-this piratical warfare, the opprobrium ofinfidel 
powers, is the warfare of the christian king of Great Britain, deter- 
mined to keep open a market where MEN should be bought and sold." 
They were then, Mr. Speaker, considered as men under the princi- 
ple invoked, but they were property under statutes made by or- 
dinary legislatures. " The objects of dominion or property are things 
as contradistinguished from persons ;" and I conceive that that provi- 
sion in the constitution which guarantees property to the citizen, refers 
exclusively to this common law definition of property. Sir, there is no 
statute by which your horse or your ox is declared to be property. — 
They are so under this definition. They are property^er see, and the 
declaration which guarantees property to the citizen embraces them, 
as the natural legitimate objects of property. 

It was, therefore, that slaves which were not property by the com- 
mon law, were made so by statutary enactments — a statutary enact- 
ment which, by the operation of mere law, has erected, as they sup- 
pose, an insurmountable barrier to those natural and unalienable rights, 
which we cannot divest ourselves of, or of which none others can divest 
us. The slave has ?i natural right to regain his liberty — and who has as 
high a right to reduce them to slavery again f In two of the states of- 
this union, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, the declaration in the 
bill of rights, has, of itself, abolished slavery. Not that I would abo- 
lish it here, under the authority of that declaration. They were made 
property here by the statute — they are property under the statute, — 
and they must remain property until that statute is repealed : that sta- 
tute was the result of necessity, imposed upon us by the British throne; 
but it is such a statute as can be repealed by this assembly. The 
power which this legislature possessed of declaring what shall he pro- 
perty, also enables it to declare what shall not be property. All that 
1 claim on this question, is, that when the public necessity demanding 
their emancipation is greater than the public necessity for their reten- 
tion as slaves, that then it is in the power of this or any subsequent 
legislature to repeal this statute. My friend from Berkeley (Mr. 
Faulkner), might have gone farther in the principle which he advan- 
ced, than that the post nati were not such a property as the owner of 



their parenls could not be divested of. It seems to me to result iVorn the 
power iidierent in this ljc)dy, of decl'.iring what should be consid- 
ered properly, and rcjx.'alinir any laws which have heretofore de- 
clared what property i.s. Tiie genllcinan from Dinwiddle (Gen. 
Brodnax), told ns, the other day, thai il was not the value of the 
properly involved in this (juestion ihat made him tenacious of it — 
that il was the principle (or which he contended, lie adopts the lan- 
guage, " millions for defence, not n rent fiw tribute." What is the 
principle for which he contends ? Is il the right io this property, n> hich, 
he says, is higher than all consliuitional power, above all law, anle- 
rior to all civil socieiy — a right which he derives from God? He told 
us, in anolher part of his two hours' S|jeech, that something must be 
done to relieve us from this greatest of all evils. He admits that the 
salus populi is the supreme law of all governments — ;ind when v\ e at- 
tempt to show that this supreme law demands thai somcihing >h(Hjld now 
be done on this question, he answers us with ihe declaration, ''mil- 
lions for defence, not.a cent for tribiite." Sir, I concur vviih tiie gen- 
tleman in the belief that something should be done. I think, it 
should be done nov). The voice of thunder predicted the other day 
by the gentleman from Brunswick, has already been heard. We have 
already heard the sound and seen the lightning. The people demand 
that something shall be done. Does tliat gentleman suppose that the 
time will ever come when a general emancipation will take place 
within this commonwealth oti tiie plan which he proposes? Does he 
beheve that the efforts of the Colonization Society will l)e able to 
consummate this great work ? or can il be done by gratuitous contribu- 
tions? No, sir; all such views are futile. The moment the so- 
ciety has decreased the number to that point, at which safety is felt 
to the persons and lives of the people, and at which the value of 
the slave has been increasecJ, by the removal of many, — then the 
scheme will fall to the ground: — there will then be no more volun- 
tary contributions. But, the idea of the gentleman is, th:it all are 
to be restored to their much injured continent. How will he pro- 
ceed in his enterprise? Will he then resort to law and to this 
body, for the means of proceeding in the work! No, .Mr. Speaker; 
the constitution is again appealed to for protection, and its protection 
is ample. 1 repeat again, that no emancipation can take place 
either now or at any future time, without an infringement upon 
the rights of property, if they are such as are assumed on the other 
side — a right both to those now in existence and to those here- 
aO;er to be born, which is superior to all law and above all necessity, 
1 see — (by indications that I cannot be mistaken in,) — that I have 
uttered a sentiment which gratifies those who are opposed to me. 
Tliey are ready to accuse me with attacking their constitutional rights. 
I do attack them openly and boldly; and if they ask me by what right 
I do so, I answer, by the right which is given me by that great law 
of necessity — self-preservation ; which even by the gentleman from 
Dinwiddie (Gen. Brodnax), is said to be the supreme law of the land. 
The gentleman from Mecklenburg (Mr. Goode), shakes his head. I 
attack his property boldly, openly — let him defend it if he can. My old 
friend from Halifax (Mr. Bruce), told us that the Virginia slave was 
2 



10 

happy and contented— that his sUuntion was preferable to tliat of the 
laboring classes in Europe, and that no danger was to be apprehended. 
Mr. Speaker, this is io^possible : liappiness, is incompatible with slave- 
ry. The love of liberty is the ruling passion of man; it has been 
implanted in iiis bosorn by tiie voice of God, and he cannot be. happy 
if deprived of it. Thai gentleman referred us to Europe, as afford- 
ing an example of more revolt, disquietude, and danger bolh to per- 
sons and property, than had been experienced or could be appre- 
hended here. The examples are widely diliVrent. Their's are re- 
volutions which are brought about by the operation of that liberal 
principle which is diffusing itself over the whole face of the habi- 
table globe — a revolution in the moral condition of man, which 
tells them every where that they ouglit to be free. I rejoice in 
such revolutions — we all rejoice in them. We hail the knowledge 
of them with joy, with speeches and songs, snd dances, and merry 
meetings — we all feel tlsat they are revolutions, in which those who 
have rights have dared to assert them, and those who have com- 
mitted wrongs, are made to feel them. The peasant of yesterda}^ is 
the lord of to-daj^ The lower class of one day is the higher class 
of ilie next. Look, sir, to France. Though we ma}' deplore the 
scenes through which she has passed, are there any here who does 
not rejoice at her revolution.^ I rejoiced Vv'hen her oppressed peo- 
ple tore down every monument of their former kingly greatness. 
I rejoiced when all of Royal y that was venerable and ancient was 
overturned, and prostrated in the dust. I rejoiced when I saw a 
foreign prince on the throne of tlie Bourbons. And, if those who 
are slaves here, were not what they are.^ — if they were white men, 
in oppression and bondage, I woedd rejoice in a revolution here. 
It is in the line which God and nature has drawn between us in 
color, that the appalling consequences of such a result, are so 
deeply to be feared, so solemnly to be deplored, and so decisively 
to be provided against. Who, Mr. Speaker, can bear the thought 
of seeing a black speaker occup}^ that chair in which you are 
now seated.^ That result has been predicted in this hall; and tiie 
gentleman from Dinwiddie has declared that "unless something was 
done, either the whites would cut tlie throats of the blacks, or they 
would ours." Sir, that will be the result— and, to avert such a ca- 
tastrophe, what is there that ought noi to be done.? If we follow the 
example, (and it is the only one by which we are guided from the 
lights of history on this subject) of the deluded planters of St. Domingo, 
we can read a mournful lesson, to the truth of which we cannot be 
blind. If we shut our eyes against those truths, if we permit our in- 
terests to control our judgments, it must be obvious to all, that the 
day will never come when we will accomplish the work of abolition; 
while it is equally sure, from their rapidly increasing number, it will 
come when they are able, from their physical strength, to accomplish 
our destruction. And where then will you look for your security.^* 
Will it be in that love, which the gentleman from Halifax says, the 
slave bears Ins master.? Trust it not, sir. The day must and will 
come when the results in this hall will prove the correctness of the fore- 
bodings of ihe gentleman from Campbell, unless something is done. 



11 

fiomlt^mon say, tlint tlic country is tranrpiil; Uiat no flnnjror is npprc- 
henclod, even in lliocast; and that the west has felt no alarm on these 
subjects. I, sir, represent a county which, by the last census contain- 
ed about 1 2,000 persons : of that number, there arc about 2,000 slaves. 
We were in safely, amid our mountains, and so secure that but few 
felt or a(dinowli'(lgcfl the sensation of fear at that time. Bu(, sir, 
we tremble for tlic future. AVe foresee, tliat the day will come when 
we will be beset by tliosc dunqcrs which surround you, and many of 
our most valunblc citizens will flee lo lands where they and their pos- 
terity will escape the danger ff)revcr. What, I ask you, sir, will be 
the result to western Virginia, when every state which has heretofore 
aflbrded (his immense drain to your black population, amounting to 
85 thousand decenniall}', shall have closed hurtnarket; when every 
state south of us, shall stand sword in hand to guard their country 
against the importation of our slaves into their borders? When the 
great southwestern world refuse to permit the sale of our slaves there r" 
When tliis whole redundant population shall be thrown back on the 
eastern portion of our state? I ask you, what will be the fate of the 
west? Those mountains, amid which our security has been felt, will 
no longer be secure; our tall forests will fall before the stroke of the 
eastern slave; our rich soil will be tilled by the hands of slaves; and 
our free and happy country will become the home of the slave. Our 
countr}^ though less inviting to slave labor than the country of the 
Mississippi, is still, when that is forbidden, more alluring than the ex- 
hausted soils of the lowlands, and he must and will be introduced 
amongst us. The gentleman from Brunswick (Mr. Gholson,) after 
depicting in glowing colors the prosperous character of our country, 
the beauty of our daughters, the high and manly chivalry of our sons, 
concludes by telling us that the only wealth of Eastern Virginia was 
in the increase of their slaves. In the name of God, Mr. Speaker, has 
it come to this? Does the wealth and the beauty and the chivalrv of 
Virginia derive its support and owe its existence to the increase of our 
slaves? If it be so, I would gladly relieve them of so heavy a re- 
proach. 

[Mr. Gholson rose to explain. He said that the idea was origi- 
nal with another, and that he had merely adopted it.] 

I took the fact, as announced by the party and not by any indivi- 
dual. 

The gentleman from Campbell (Mr. Rives), said that the non- 
slave-holders were the most deeply interested in this question — 1 
concur in the opinion — if indeed it be true, as announced by my 
friend from Halifax, that the evil is incurable — " that no human in- 
genuity can devise a scheme for their reinoval" — that therefore they 
must content themselves and endure the evil. Then, indeed, i\Jr. 
Speaker, we are the most deeply interested, — We are at that point at 
which a remedy can be devised, they are at one at which it is hopeless. 
We are within the sphere of hope — they are in a situation of despair; 
and we are the more strongly admonished by this fact, to prevent 
their introduction amongst us. 

The gentleman from Brunswick (Mr. Gholson), said this slave 
question was not '* the bone of contention" between the east and 



12 

the west — that it was internal improvements. I have always been 
a friend to internal improvements — I have always felt that it would 
bind us together by an indissoluble chain of interest. But, deeply 
as I feel its importance, and sensible as I am of its advantage, I 
would not vote for any system of canals or rail roads — which, while 
it afforded an outlet to our produce, is to be made an inlet for the 
curse of slavery. 

Mr. Speaker, I made a motion this morning to change the aspect 
of this question, not because I feared "to see the rays of truth, play- 
ing upon the features of the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Albemarle" — not because I looked on ihat proposition, as the 
gentleman from Westmoreland (Mr. Newton,) does — not because I 
feared that "its adoption would overturn the democracy of the coun- 
try" — not because I feared that the gentleman would write the " name 
of the mover of that proposition on that wall," for the slow finger of 
scorn to be pointed at. It was for no such reason. The gentleman 
need apprehend no such dangers as he suggests from that source. It 
sprang from the same source from which that gentleman derives his 
right to be heard in this house as a representative of the people. It 
sprang from that source which secured to that gentleman the right to 
worship the God whom he adores. It was the twin thought of our 
declaration of independence. The gentleman from Dinwiddie says, 
that although that scheme originated with Mr. Jefferson, he might not 
now advocate it, if alive— time might have changed his opinions of 
its practicability. In 1814, Mr. Jefferson says, that it was a task 
which he, himself, was deterred from, only by the infirmity of his 
age, — "tliat it would have been buckling Hector's armour on the 
limbs of old Priam." He has bequeathed it as a legacy to the young 
and patriotic who are to come after him. 

One word more, Mr. Speaker. They say the west want works of 
internal improvement, and that the slave property is alone able to 
supply the means — they say now that we desire to destroy that very 
propert3\ The arguments surely destroy each other. We attack 
that property, because it is dangerous — we attack it because it is 
subversive of the well being of society — ^we attack it on principles of 
necessity and policy — we wish to remove the danger from ilie east, 
and to prevent its existence in the west. 



