Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/antidotetowestinOOIeit 



ANTIDOTE 



TO 



DRAWN 



FROM AUTHENTIC SOURCES. 



No. II. 
A SHORT ACCOUNT of the AFRICAN INSTITUTION, 

AND 
REPUTATION OF THE CALUMNIES 

OF 

€i)e Directors, 

By Sir JAMES L'EITH. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED FOR WHITMORE AND FENN, 

CHARING CROSS. 

18 1G. 



fcSOSTO.W *»•> 



PRINTED BY W. SMITH AND CO. KING STREET, SEVEN DTALS. 



ANTIDOTE 



TO 



West Indian Sketches, Sfc. 



In our last number we exposed 
the disingenuous attempt of the 
editor of the " Sketches," to vilify 
the British West Indian Communi- 
ties, by falsely applying to them 
the acts and feelings of foreign colo- 
nists ; of those foreigners too, 
whom Mr. Brougham, and Dr. 
Pinckard himself, (the very author 
quoted by the editor) represent as 
infinitely less humane and indulgent 
to their slaves, than any other nation 
of Europe. We believe Mr. Ste- 
phen's friend is not a little cha- 
grined to find, that a few broad facts 
have been adduced, to expose his 
unfounded calumnies, and to prove 
that his statements, " drawn from 
authentic sources," are garbled and 
twisted from their true sense and 
meaning. 

But we assure him, that we have 
not yet done with his " authenfic 
docunu-nts," and that we shall, ere 
long, establish in the eves of the 
world the falsities of this libellous 
editor, and his worthy employers. 

The public must no longer be de- 
ceived in regard to the conformation, 
and system of management of the 
African Institution. It was founded 
in 1807, for the express purpose 
(as declared in its" first resolutions) 
of instructing and civilizing the na- 
tives of Africa. A very aiuiable 
prince was prevailed upon to be- 
come the president of the institu- 
tion, and many noble and distin- 
guished persons are vice presidents 
and subscribers. But it must not 
be imagined that the reports and 
special reports — the resolutions and 
counter resolutions of this board, pro- 
ceed from the united judgment, and 
discretion of those, who form the 



principal body of subscribers. 
Unfortunately for the cause of hu- 
manity, they take no part in fram- 
ing them ; their only error is, that 
they allow the whole affairs of the 
institution to rest with a small num- 
ber of directors, who are by no 
means remarkable for those con- 
sistent, temperate, and enlightened 
views, which should guide an " os- 
tensible" public society. These few 
individuals avail themselves of their 
situation, to publish their own prin- 
ciples under the borrowed authority 
of the whole institution — on subjects 
too — altogether foreign to the de- 
clared objects of its establishment. 
These principles, being founded in 
error, tend to foster dangerous and 
fanatical projects, and to subvert the 
whole of our West-India establish- 
ments. Our object, therefore is, to 
shew them in their proper light — nor, 
in a question of such importance as 
the nature of our colonial system, 
shall any names, whether of Mr. 
Wilberforce, Mr.Zachary Macaulay, 
Mr. Stephen, or Mr. Babington, di- 
vert us from establishing the truth. 

After many years of great pro- 
mise and expectation, the sub- 
scribers — who had hitherto relied 
upon the truth of the reports that 
had been drawn up — began to be 
much disappointed at ; indin£>, that 
none of the great objects in Africa, 
the improvement of the natives in 
religious education, agriculture, and 
commerce — for which the institution 
was established — had been carried 
into effect. It was in vain to persist 
in deluding them by represemations 
of their progress — it was in vain 
that the secretary, Mr. Zachary Ma- 
caulay, wrote to the governor of 



Sfe!2& Leone — with a view to make 
him lend himself to the false and 
hollow system that was carrying on — 
desiring that he would make osten- 
sible communications to government, 
" who/' says he, " I have no 
doubt will be disposed to adopt 
almost any plan which we may 
propose to them, with respect to 
Africa, provided we ivill but save 
them the trouble of thinking" 
Unfortunately the truth ivould out, 
and it has been too well proved, to 
admit of doubt, that they have ef- 
fected little or nothing for the benefit 
of the colony. Nay — their own chief 
justice, who was a long while resi- 
dent there, has declared, that, " the 
colony of Sierra Leone is in a dread- 
ful state of depravity — that the poor 
African settlers are in greater po- 
verty and wretchedness, than when 
they were taken under the care of 
the institution, and that — the rising 
generation are more immoral, and 
dissolute than the inhabitants of any 
other part of Africa." 

Accordingly, many of the sub- 
scribers to the Institution, finding 
that their money has been thrown 
away, have withdrawn their names, 
and we believe the number is still 
further decreasing. 

We should have imagined that 
this would have been a lesson to 
the directors— -that finding the com- 
paratively small colony of Sierra 
Leone, beyond their talents of legis- 
lation; — seeing, from experience, 
that it. requires practical knowledge, 
rather than theory to govern man- 
kind — they would have been cau- 
tious how they interfered with the 
far more extensive, and valuable co- 
■ lonies in the West Indies. There we 
have on the spot, constitutional le- 
gislatures and governments, " who," 
as Mr. Brougham says in his Colo- 
nial Police, " are' fully competent 
to take all the steps that may be ne- 
cessary, for the improvement of the 
system, who are intimately ac- 
quainted with every minute branch 
of colonial affairs, and accustomed 
from their earliest years to meditate 
on no other subjects, who reside in 



the heart of the system for which 
their plans are to be laid ; in short, 
of whose superior ability to devise, 
and execute such measures as may 
conduce to the amelioration of the 
Colonial policy, we cannot enter- 
tain the smallest doubt." 

We should have thought, that, 
knowing all this, they would at 
least have proceeded cautiously, 
if not for the sake of humanity, 
at least for their own character. So 
far, however, from doing this, their 
misrepresentations, and calumny 
against the govern meats, of the 
West India Colonies have all along 
kept pace with their own misman- 
agement, and system of delusion in 
Africa. They have been too suc- 
cessful in eradicating from the 
minds of the negroes, those prin- 
ciples of subordination, and content- 
ment, which most contribute to 
their happiness. Their measures 
have already excited an insurrection 
in one of our islands, and shaken to 
its roots the whole structure of our 
Colonial Policy. 

Well may their writers, and such 
men as the editor of the Sketches 
acknowledge " that they look for- 
ward not only to the progress of Af- 
rican freedom, but to African 
Sovereignty in the West Indies, 
with satisfaction." 

Well may they say, as they do say, 
" lhat even now a negro empire is 
rising in the Charibbean Sea, in 
fearful strength and energy," that 
" King Christophe and President 
Petion, near neighbours to Jamaica, 
will shortly address us in a style yet 
more peremptory than our own." 
We give them credit for the sin- 
cerity of all their wishes on this 
head. But ^the good sense of 
this country, will not so readily 
sacrifice the fortunes of thousands 
of her children, the source of 
above ten millions sterling of an- 
nual revenue, and the immense com- 
mercial resources of the colonies — 
in order to second the visionary 
schemes of a few enthusiasts — who, 
under the pretence of high sound- 
ing — but hollow — humanity, would 



comrnit every species of injustice 
up<m the opulent, and industrious of 
tfceir fellow subjects. 

But Mr. Stephen says he has per- 
haps felt " too strong a disposition 
to sp«re the colonies." 

To spare them indeed ! Mr. Ste- 
phen must greatly over-rate his own 
importance ; — he must have forgot- 
ten his relative situation — and the 
patronage and hospitality he hereto- 
fore received, in one of our smaller 
islands — to talk of sparing the. West- 
India Colonies ! We tan, however, 
overlook this little pardonable va- 
nity of authorship ; — only, another 
time, Mr. Stephen will remember, 
that the colonies want no indul- 
gence — and, least of all^-such in- 
dulgence as he would give them. 
It appears also, that the worthy 
editor of the Sketches has the same 
sort of " strong disposition to spare 
the colonies" for he endeavors with 
his characteristic good will, and ami- 
ability to work upon the feelings of 
his readers, by bringing up again 
the old story of Mr. Huggius's 
cruelty, to his negroes seven years 
ago, in the small island of Nevis. 

Even admitting for a moment — 
for the sake of argument — that all he 
says upon this subject is true, which 
from other specimens of his wilful 
disregard of truth, we are much in- 
clined to doubt ; why is this solitary 
instance to be made a handle for as- 
serting, that all the West Indies fol- 
low his steps ! — Why this perver- 
sion of facts — and these unjust ac- 
cusations, against a whole people 
from the evil conduct of one? 

It is that having a dangerous sys- 
tem to recommend, emancipation to 
the slaves and rain to the white in- 
habitants ;— these would-be legisla- 
tors endeavor to inflame the pub- 
lic mind, in order to induce it to go 
hand in hand, with them in their 
schemes of liberty, and the rights 
of man, to a negro population, 
by raking together all their old 
misrepresentations, which may ir- 
ritate the unwary, and mislead the 
ignorant. This case of Mr. Hug- 
gins, has long been an offensive 



weapon against the colonies; but, 
being brought forward at this time, 
and in place of any fresh subject, 
shews the weakness, and decline of 
the cause they advocate. 

The colonies never deny that in 
their extensive population, indivi- 
duals have been found a disgrace to 
their society. They want no act 
glossed over — no evil deed extenu- 
ated ; — they only wish it to be borne 
in mind, that such things take place 
in every community. Compare the 
murders, and acts of cruelty, that 
are daily committed in England — iu 
the very streets of the metropolis — 
with the few isolated offences in our 
British Colonies; and we shall find 
that the balance will be eminently 
in their favor. Yet whilst atrocious 
crimes are taking place in this coun- 
try, and are passed over without 
any more prominent notice, than 
what the law demands, every parti- 
cular evil in the West Indies, is 
eagerly hunted out, and fondly 
dwelt upon, even when the accounts 
are uncertain, always exaggerated, 
and often false. 

But no ! say the African Institu- 
tion, this case of Mr. Huggins is 
not the only one ! there is another 
scene of iniquity, that took place in 
Antigua ; one of our oldest and 
most respectable colonies ! We 
must be allowed to relate it for the 
edification of our readers ; and we 
claim their particular attention to 
it, because it affords additional evi- 
dence of the system of TRUTH, 
which the African committee is pur- 
suing in regard to colonial affairs ; — 
and of the fitness of that august 
assembly, to legislate for the West 
Indies. It proves how intimately 
acquainted they are (although at a 
distance of three thousand miles,) 
with the internal administration of 
the islands — if not by personal obser- 
vation, and practical experience — 
which are nothing in these en- 
lightened times — at least by hearsay, 
and that grace of knowledge im- 
parted only to the elect. 

In the tenth number of their an- 
nual reports — so big with promise, 



but so meagre in fact — which set out 
to describe the fancied improve- 
ments of Africa, under their benign 
government, but for lack of intel- 
ligence on this subject, end in 
abuse of the West India Colonies — 
which still continue to give a cer- 
tain (as Mr. Macaulay would say) 
"ostensible" importance to a decay- 
ing society, and enable them to ex- 
pend the money of government, and 
the subscribers, in order to " save 
them the trouble of thinking." 

In the tenth number of these re- 
ports, published in May last, the 
subjoined statement appeared. 
" The Directors are also informed, 
*:, about a year ago, the following 
E jumstance took place in the island 
of Antigua : — 

" A gentleman who held the situ- 
ation of aid-de-camp to the gover- 
nor, Sir James Leith, having severely 
cart-whipped a negro woman of his 
own, who was pregnant, she laid her 
complaint before the governor, who 
humanely attended to her story, and 
dismissed her, with some money for 
herself, and a note to her owner. 
Instead, however, of taking his excel- 
lency's interference in good part, the 
gentleman gave the unfortunate wo- 
man an additional number of lashes, 
and dispatched a note to Sir James 
Leith, who, in consequence, ordered 
his secretary to inform the writer, that 
Sir James had no further occasion 
for his services. 

" On the receipt of this informa- 
tion, the gentleman dressed up one 
of his negro boys in bis own uniform, 
and mounting him upon an ass, dis- 
patched him with an insolent note to 
the governor. He was afterwards 
indicted for cruelty, at the express 
order of the governor, but the grand 
jury refused to find the bill." 

Observe the concluding sentence, 
" but the grand jury refused to find 
the bill." Here is not only an ac- 
cusation of cruelty against an in- 
dividual of high rank in the colony, 
but an attack also upon a large 
body of its most respectable inha- 
bitants ; for although the indictment 



was made by the express ord<»r of 
the governor, " the grand jury re- 
fused to find the bill," encouraging 
by their connivance this shocking 
act of cruelty. 

A copy of this report was trans- 
mitted to Antigua, and the follow- 
ing is an extract of a letter written 
on the occasion by one of the most 
distinguished members of the coun- 
cil of that island. 

" I have not time to write as 
fully as [ wish, and intend to do by 
some early opportunity ; but I can- 
not suffer any opportunity to escape, 
without a few observations upon the 
calumny published in the tenth re- 
port of the African Institution. I 
assure you there is not one word of 
truth in the passage, and I declare 
the whole and every part of it, to 
be absolutely false, and without the 
slightest foundation. The aides-de- , 
camp who were appointed by Sir 
James Leith on his first arrival, con- 
tinued to hold their commissions 
without a single exception, till his 
departure. He at first appointed 
seven, and after a few months added 
one more to the number, and not 
one was either dismissed by him, or 
resigned ; on the contrary, every one 
of them continued to enjoy his con- 
fidence, and kindness from first to 
last : no person of anv rank, to the 
best of my recollection, but cer- 
tainly no one who was or had been 
an aid-de-camp was indicted for 
cruelty, by order of Sir James Leith, 
nor was any bill of indictment for 
cruelty ever thrown out by the grand 
jury of this island, during Sir 
James's administration, nor at any 
other time, since the passing of the 
melioration act, to the best of my re- 
collection, .'.' 

This was almost immediately fol- 
lowed by an official communication 
to the agent for the island, convey- 
iug a letter, addressed to Sir James 
Leith by the Honorable Mr. Kerby, 
one of his excellency's aides-de- 
camp, and Sir James's answer, both 
of which we submit to the judgment 
of our readers. 



To his Excellency Sir James Lcith, fyc. 
" Antigua, Aug. 1, 1816. 

« Sir, — The annexed copy of an 
extract from the 10th Report of the 
African Institution, having excited a 
considerable sensation in the minds 
of those gentlemen whom your ex- 
cellency honored with your confi- 
dence, by appointing them colonial 
aides-de-camp on your assuming the 
government of the Leeward Islands, 
I am induced, at their earnest re- 
quest, to trouble your excellency on 
the present occasion. The calumny 
(although false) contained in the 
charge, is of so serious a nature, and 
so materially affects our characters, 
as men of principle and humanity, 
that we deem it necessary to solicit 
your excellency to enable us to re- 
fute it in the most solemn manner. 
Not being aware of any circumstance 
that occurred, during your excellen- 
cy's administration of the govern- 
ment, to awaken your displeasure at 
the conduct of your colonial aides- 
de-camp, much less to dismiss any 
individual for so flagrant an act of 
cruelty, and contempt of your excel- 
lency's humane interference, we most 
devoutly entreat your excellency to 
disavow the whole transaction in 
such a way, that the world may be 
satisfied how groundless the asper- 
sion is, and how alarmingly open to 
charges of the most serious nature 
(conceived in falsehood, and disse- 
minated with malignity,) the inhabi- 
tants of this country are, so long as 
the African Institution are permitted 
to employ secret emissaries ; who 
care not what malicious misrepre- 
sentations they circulate, from the 
conviction that their names will ne- 
ver be divulged. 

" Your excellency's high sense of 
honor, and regard for reputation, 
will, I trust, make allowance for the 
zeal which I have manifested in thus 
addressing you on this subject, in 
which I am so deeply interested in 
common with the rest of the gentle- 
men who composed your colonial 
staff in the Island of Antigua. 
" I am, Sir, &c. 

" T. N. KERBY." 



To the Hon. T. N. Kerb?/, %c. 
" Barbadoes, Aug. 11, 1816. 

" Sir, — I have received with sur- 
prise your letter of the 1st inst. with 
an extract from the 10th Report of 
the African Institution, reflecting on 
the conduct and character of one of 
the gentlemen who did me the favor 
to act as my colonial aide-de camp at 
Antigua, while I was Captain-Gene- 
ral of the Leeward Islands. I hasten 
to enable you, and my other friends 
who were my colonial aides-de-camp, 
to contradict, on my authority, a ca- 
lumny without a shadow of founda- 
tion, by which some mal. 
son, or inexcusable dupe has been 
the cause of imposing upon the 
African Institution. 

" If to the consciousness which 
you all feel of being incapable of 
such conduct as the fabrication al- 
luded to relates, it were necessary to 
add any thing of my opinion, I am 
happy in this opportunity of assur- 
ing you, that I am convinced, not 
only of your reprobation of such con- 
duct as is'falsely imputed to one of 
my colonial aides-de-camp, but that 
you would, as magistrates, have pre- 
vented the necessity of my interfe- 
rence, if such impropriety had come 
to your knowledge as having been 
committed within your jurisdictions. 
" I have the honor to be, &c. 

"James Leith." 

So that not only was no act of 
cruelty committed — not only has no 
indictment against a white inhabi- 
tant for the oppression of a negro, 
been thrown out by the grand jury 
since the Amelioration Act, (a pe~ 
riod of seven years) — but Sir James 
Leith is happy in the opportunity of 
assuring us, that he is convinced the 
magistrates of the island, would have 
taken the proper measures, for pu- 
nishing any such offence, without the 
necessity, of any reference to him. 
Yes ! Sir James Leith knows, that the 
planters are hum aneand indulgent; 
that an instance rarely occurs to the 
. contrary, and that when it does, it is 
promptly and adequately punished. 
He knows, and the whole world, will 
shortly find it out, that the African 



[nstitulion, has trifled with the very 
existence of the Colonies, that it has 
compromised its own character for 
consistency and truth. 

But how do the Directors endea- 
vor to get out of the scrape, in which 
they find themselves? 

A special meeting is called, in 
order to take into consideration this 
unexpected and untoward arrival of 
information, derived from "authentic 
sources." Assembled in awful delibe- 
ration, they come Jo- the following 
Resolutions, which are every way 
worthy of such an " ostensible" in- 
stitution. 

Resolved — " That it appears from 
the said letters of the Honorable 
Thomas Norbury Kerby, and Sir 
James Leilh, (of the authenticity of 
which the Directors see no reason 
to doubt,)that the statement referred 
to has been contradicted from the 
highest authority." 

" That the Directors have strong 
ground for believing that their in- 
formant was persuaded of the truth 
of the facts which he reported, be- 
cause they have had proof of his 
veracity, and correctness in former 
and subsequent cases." 

" That the secretary do write to 
the said correspondent by the first 
conveyance, requesting that he will 
immediately transmit the necessary 
explanations on the sisbject." 

But do the Directors imagine that 
the public can be satisfied with such 
an apology* for their credulous en- 
couragement of every low informer 
against the „,Gdvernments of the 
West Indies, to whom they hold out 
the certainty of impunity, by avow- 
ing, that they will not publish their 
names. 

We hope the Directors will shortly 
favor the public with those proofs 
they have had of their correspon- 
dent's " veracity and correctness, in 
former and subsequent cases;" for 
we should imagine the Colonies do 

* Since this was written, the Direc- 
tors have been obliged to publish a re- 
cantation of their calumny — to declare 
in the face of the world that it was an 
unfounded imputation. Are, then, our 
assertions borne out— or are they not ? 



not wish to be " spared" on the oc- 
casion ; particularly as it would give 
the Institution, and their correspon- 
dent, an opportunity of illustrating, 
by further examples, their criterion 
of " veracity and correctness." 

But can any sensible man believe 
that it is for the interest of this 
country to abandon her colonies — 
to emancipate the slaves — and raise 
a " negro empire in the Charibean 
Sea with fearful strength and ener- 
gy," in order to satisfy such men as 
the Editor of West-Indian Sketches? 

The fact is, as an eminent writer 
upon colonial subjects has truly re- 
marked : " This Institution, which 
is composed of many persons of rank 
and talents, has one great defect in 
its composition, that the time of 
most of the members is so much en- 
grossed by their various avocations, 
both public and private, that they 
have little leisure to devote to the 
objects for which the society was 
formed, and therefore are obliged to 
see with the eyes of others; another, 
that having no local knowledge of 
the West Indies, nor of the habits, 
manners, and characters of its in- 
habitants, they are ill qualified to 
judge of the proper line of conduct 
to be pursued towards them; and 
thirdly, that some of the members 
appear occasionally to infuse a greater 
portion of zeal into the character of 
. their proceedings, than is altogether 
consistent with sound discretion." 
But we seriously call upon the sub- 
scribers — and upon the public — to 
mark with reprobation this danger- 
ous system. Its effects are, alas! 
already too visible. "The young 
and violent negroes in Jamaica," 
(as the report from the legisla- 
ture ef that island has declared) 
are already prepared to fight with 
the white inhabitants for their free- 
dom ; f and the most alarming in- 
formation has been received of grow- 
ing insubordination." And let it be 
remembered, that " the dominion of 
the whites is founded on opinion. 
Unsettle those opinions, and the 
physical force is on the opposite 
side, and must soon preponderate." 



