Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lettertojohnbullOOfree 



J 



LETTER 



JOHN BULL: 



TO WHICH IS ADDED 



THE SKETCH OF A PLAN 



SAFE, SPEEDY, AND EFFECTUAL ABOLITION 



^laber^ 



BY 

A FREE-BORN ENGLISHMAN. 



*' Btware of hardness of heart tcwaid thy poor brother," — Deux. xr. 9. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR J. HATCH ARD AND SON, 

187, PICCADILLY. 

1823. 



/ 



'AH 



To WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, M. P. 

" iLet us not be weary in well doing, for in due season 
we shall reap if we faint not.""— >Gal. vi. 9. 



Printed by S. Gosnell, Little Gueen Streetj Londou. 



LETTER, 

Sfc. 



It is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing.'''' 

Gal. iv. 18. 



PATRIOTISM. 



" They tell us of an Indian tree, 

Which, howsoe'er the sun and sky 

May tempt its boughs to wander free. 

And shoot and blossom wide and high, 

Far better loves to bend its arms 

Downward again to that dear earth. 

From which, the life that fills and warms 

Its grateful being, first had birth. 

'T is thus, though woo'd by flattering friends. 

And fed with fame (if fame it be), 

This heart, my own dear " (Country),^'' bends 

With love's true instinct, back to thee."— Moork. 



" I love thee, O my native isle f 
Dear as my mother's earliest smile; 
Sweet as a father's voice to me 
Is all that here, around I see. 

I love thee, when I mark thy soil 
Flourish beneath the peasant's toil. 
a2 



I love thee, when I hear around, 

Thy looms and wheels and anvils sound, 

I love thee, when I read the lays 

Of bards of old, and present days. 

I love thee, when I contemplate 

The full-orb^d grandeur of thy state. 

I love thee, when thy sabbath dawns 

Cer woods and mountains, dales and lawns; 

When, hand in hand, thy tribes repair 

Each to their chosen house of prayer. 

I love thee, when my soul can feel 

The seraph ardours of thy zeal. 

I love thee, when I see thee stand 

The hope of every other land; 

A sea-mark in the tide of time, 

Rearing to heaven thy brow sublime^ 

I love thee, wlien I hear thy voice 

Bid the oppressed slave rejoice; 

And loud, from shore to shore proclaimj 

In every 4;ongue, Mes3iah"'s name. 

I love thee next to heaven above; 

Land of my fathers, thee I love I 

I love thee dearly, scoff who will. 

With all thy faults, I love thee still. 

Yes, thou hast faults of heinous size, 
From which I turn with weeping eyes; 
On these, let them that hate thee dwells 
Yet one I spare not, one / tell. 
O Britain, O my country, bring 
Forth from thy camp th' accursed thing ' 
Consign it to remorseless fire; 
Watch, till the latest spark expire ; 
Then cast the ashes to the wind. 
Nor leave one atom wreck behind." 

Montgomery 



TO JOHN BULL. 

pRiEND John, 

Do not suppose, John, because I thee, 
and thou, and friend thee, that therefore I am one 
of those people of humanity and peace whom thou art 
pleased, in thy professed love of justice, to designate 
Quacks and Quakers. Neither do thou suppose, be- 
cause I may express that reverence for pure Christianity 
which I trust I shall always feel, and on all proper occasions 
profess, that I am one of those whom thou, in thy boasted 
Christian charity, denominatest Saints, 'Humbugs, and 
Wilberforces. I choose to assume the language of the 
former for various reasons; it will afford me the opportunity 
of using that plainness and simplicity of speech which thou 
affirmest that thou lovest, and it will at the same time, I 
hope, preserve me from any of that asperity, warmth, or 
vulgarity of expression, from which, I am sorry to say, that 
thou, John, dost not always keep thyself free. I moreover 
love the people called Quakers, their simple manners, and 
their plain speaking. I use the language of a religious 
man, because I do sincerely hope and trust, that I am one ; 
and because I consider that pure and undefiled religion is 
every thing to man; that without it, he would be worse 
than nothing, and that with it, he possesseth all things. 

The immediate occasion of my now addressing thee, 
John, is the part which thou hast taken in opposing those 
who are seeking to procure the abolition of slavery. At- 
tachment to the constitution of thy country, both in 
Church and State, thou professest, and, I would willingly 
hope, sincerely professest to possess. If, then, it can be 
shown, which I am persuaded it may be, that die con- 
tinuance of slavery in the British dominions is disgraceful 
and injurious to both Church and State, and in direct viola- 

A S 



tion of the spirit as well as the letter of their laws, I trust, 
John, that thou wilt not only be convinced of the folly and 
wickedness of permitting it, but that thou wilt, like a man 
of honest intentions and of firm integrity, as thou profess- 
est to be, lend thy powerful aid to expose its cruel injus- 
tice, and to rid thy deservedly beloved country of this 
foul blot upon her comparatively unsullied character. 

Thou professest too, John, to love thy King. Thy 
King, John, has been from his youth up a man of honour, 
sincerity, and humanity. He is a man who would rather 
suffer than inflict misery; who would rather be the object 
than the instrument of oppression. Thy King, John, I 
am sure would rejoice that there should not exist a slave in 
his wide-extended dominions. Never, John, I will venture 
to say, was there a King who has throughout his reign 
evinced less disposition to encroach on the freedom of his 
people, or a stronger inclination to conciliate and engage 
their afi*ections. Can such a King as this, John, delight in 
the oppression of the meanest of his people.? No, John; 
the truths, the painful truths, which the recent investiga- 
tion of this disgraceful subject has brought, and is daily 
bringing to light, must have wrung his feeling heart, and 
have drawn forth many a wish that slavery may be no more. 
Slavery, John, will find no advocate, no supporter in George 
the Fourth! If, John, thou desirest to serve, to please, 
and to exalt thy Sovereign, lend thy whole strength, for 
thou art strong, and therefore be merciful; lend, I say, thy 
whole strength to remove from thy King, thy country, and 
from the world, a practice disgraceful to human nature, 
and doubly disgraceful to a Christian people. 

Thou boastest, John, that thou lovest to call things by 
their right names; I love to do so too, and therefore I 
mean, as far as I know, so to do throughout the whole of 
this address. But, John, thou shouldst be careful, that, 
under pretext of calling things by their right names, thou 



dost not make mistakes — that thou are not blinded or de- 
ceived by prejudice, so as to do the very reverse of that 
which thou professest to do. Call a spade a spade and 
welcome, but do not call white black, merely because thou, 
mayhap, being thyself in the dark, perceivest not the differ- 
ence. Now this, I am fearful, John, that thou sometimes 
doest. For instance, thou callest every man who is opposed, 
in any degree, to the representation of stage plays, ajhnatic. 
Now, John,/ this cannot be the case. Dr. Johnson tells us 
that a fanatic is a madman : Agrippa told St. Paul that he 
was a madman. Agrippa, as well as thou, John, was pre- 
judiced, and therefore he asserted the thing that was not. 
The disapproval of stage plays is no proof, John, of mad- 
ness, else were almost every serious man that ever lived 
in a Christian country a madman when he came to die. 
Thou knowest, John, that thou professest to believe the 
articles of the Christian faith, as set forth in the Creed of 
the Established Church. Thou therefore believest that 
there is a God and a future state, in which the spirits of 
men must be happy or miserableyor ever, in proportion as 
they have lived in conformity to the will of God as de- 
clared in the Scriptures, while they were in the body. 
Now, John, I believe that thou, as a true Church of 
England man, wilt admit that there is no risk of being 
condemned for not going to, or approving of, stage plays; 
therefore, that men are not necessarily madmen, as thou 
maintainest, because they do neither approve nor sanction 
them. Since then, John, thou hast thus erred in one 
instance, in attempting to call things by their right name, 
there is a possibility that thou mayest have done so like- 
wise, in some other instances. It is possible that a man 
may be a Quaker without being a quack, or an opposer 
of slavery without being a humbug. 

I am a friend to plain dealing, John, as well as thyself; 
but plain deaUng doth not necessarily include rude or abusive 

a4 



language ; nevertheless, I will admit that, with all thy errors 
tbou hast been an instrument in doing much good. Thou 
hast shown those who had been long used to traduce and 
vilify in coarse language all that was valuable, loyal, and 
sacred, that a similar mode of warfare might be used on 
the other side, and turned effectually against themselves. 
This has checked a practice as disgusting as it is mischievous. 
Do not thou then, John, become thyself an auxihary of 
those whom thou hast, in many instances, so successfully 
opposed; neither use that sword which thou professest to 
wield only in the defence of thy King and of thy country, 
against the best interests of both. 

I can make all due allowances, John, for the difficulty of 
the task which thou hast undertaken to perform. I believe 
that, in one instance at least, thou hast been visited with 
a degree of severity which the usual practice of those 
opposed to thee could scarcely justify. That very severity, 
however, John, should have been suffered to teach thee 
a lesson, which it appears to have failed of doing in the 
manner which might have been expected, and which was to 
have been wished. He that looks for mercy should at 
least be himself just. Mercy and justice, John, are not 
confined to people of any country, of any degree, or 
of any colour. The stranger, the poor, the unprotected, 
the ignorant, the copper-coloured, and the black, have all 
as strong claims to them as any others. The feelings 
of all these may be as acute as our own; and whether 
their natural faculties be, or be not, as capable of culti- 
vation as ours, their souls are as precious in the sight 
of God as those of the most enlightened of mortals. 
The difference between the wisdom of the wisest and the 
most ignorant of men, is not even a shade when compared 
with that of God. In proportion to our superior wisdom 
ought to be our superior imitation, in mercy and goodness, 
of Him who is the fountain of both, of Him from whom 



9 

we derive whatever we possess of superiority over the lowest 
aiid the weakest of our fellow-creatures. Do not then let 
us for a moment suppose, that superior knowledge or power 
can give us any right to oppress those who have been, in 
these respects, less favoured than ourselves. 

These remarks, John, as thou wilt surmise, are intended 
to apply to thy observations on slaves and slavery, as 
well as to that seemingly unaccountable opposition, which 
thou, of all men, ought to be among the last to manifest to 
the abolition of cruel bondage. He who is himself loud in 
condemning misconduct in others, ought surely to be careful 
that he is not himself guilty of the same; and much more 
so, that he do not, directly or indirectly, encourage that 
conduct which he professeth to condemn. 

Thou, John, by thine own admission, hadst been guilty, 
whether inadvertently or not, of that which was in some 
degree wrong, and therefore thou wert amenable to punish- 
ment. No matter that the offence had not in others been 
always visited by the utmost rigour — all who committed it 
were liable to the consequences — thou didst choose to run 
the risk, and thy fault was visited by unmerited severity. 
Thou wert made to feel the rod, and the people heard thy 
complaints. I know that it is said that it was not tlwu that 
wast punished, but only thy representative — a man cyf straw 
dressed up to resemble thee, and set up, like other men of 
straw, themselves harmless beings, serving only to alarm, 
while thou thyself (the great unknown) lying concealed 
behind the hedge, could shoot and murder with impunity. 
I know not how this is, nor does it in this case much 
matter ; since I can see no other, I must consider this man of 
straw as being the aggressor and the principal. I am not 
acquainted with more of the circumstances than what thou 
hast thyself been pleased to furnish us with, but I will 
admit them to have been as represented, and they were hard 
and appalling enough. 
4 



10 

Let us now then, John, contrast the injustice, the 
cruelty, the oppression, and the injury which thou hast 
received, with that which is experienced by the negro 
slaves. I think this the more necessary, because the influence 
which thou possessest, and hast exerted in this case, has^ 
in my opinion, done more temporary harm to the negro 
cause, than that of all the rest put together. In general, 
the opponents of the abolition are those who are known to 
be interested men: thou, in this case, art supposed not to 
be so. Ridicule is often a powerful weapon, though it is 
easy to wield: thou hast not spared it, because it was the 
only one which thou couldst in this instance find. Argu- 
ments were not adapted to thy purpose, or rather thou 
couldst not lay thine hand upon any, for verily thy 
opponents had got firm possession of them all. 

Thou complainest, that for a very trivial fault thou wast 
taken away from thy wife and children, from thy business 
and from thy home, and condemned to be confined during 
eight weeks in a prison, and at the end thereof to pay a 
very considerable sum of money, or else to continue in 
confinement till the same was paid. Now this, John, thou 
didst feel and complain of as a very severe punishment, and 
probably it was so. Yet, John, thou canst join and sup- 
port those who are guilty of much greater severity to much 
less offending beings. I do not say, John, that none 
of the negro slaves have been condemned by the laws of 
their country to that state, for having been guilty of crimes ; 
but I think that I may venture to say, that not one in ten, 
probably not one in a hundred, have become slaves in con- 
sequence of transgressions of that or any other nature. 
At any rate, that circumstance takes nothing away from 
the guilt of those who punish and hold in captivity 
all or any of those of their fellow-creatures who are offered 
for sale by persons who show neither right nor title to the 
possession of them. Whether the poor creatures have been 



11 

condemned to the punishment of slavery for their crimes, 
have been made prisoners in war, or have been (as is most 
general) kidnapped, or surprised and captured unarmed, 
matters not to the purchasers of them. It is an inquiry 
never made, for it would be as useless as ineifectual. Since, 
therefore, none of them are known to be guilty, we are 
justified in considering them as being all innocent. By 
white men or their agents (which is the same thing) are 
these unoffending, unresisting human beings, seized and 
condemned, unheard, to perpetual slavery and misery. Thou 
wert loud, John, in thy complaints; but thy habitation was 
not fired in the dead of the night, when thou wast sleeping 
in unsuspicious security in the arms of thy wife, with thy 
innocent children around thee. Thou wast not seized by 
the more remorseless ruffians, as thou wert flying, with 
thy shrieking family, from the remorseless flames. Thou 
wast not driven, with thy wife and little ones, captives, day 
after day, over the burning sands. Thou wast not stowed, 
separated perhaps from all that thou didst love, with others 
like thyself, as if you had all been dead carcasses, side by 
side, without space to move, between a floor and ceiling so 
low as not to leave room to sit upright. Thou wast not 
kept in such a situation for weeks together, in almost total 
darkness, ill fed, in an atmosphere unfit for respiration, amidst 
the sighs and moanings of thy fellow-sufferers, and the 
groans of the dying ; the dead body of thy companion 
perhaps fastened to thee. This, John, notwithstanding all 
thy complaints, thou happily didst not suffer. Thou didst 
not see thy children die one by one, in agonies, unaided, and 
then hear the splashing of the ocean waves, as their corpses 
were cast from the deck into the sea. Thou didst not hear 
the moans of the bUnd and incurable (thy wife among the 
rest), as they are stowed in casks, to be cast overboard if 
occasion required. Thou didst not live one of a hundred 
emaciated survivors, out of five hundred healthy beings, 



stowed together only one eventful month before. Yet, 
John, scenes and suffel'ings such as these are nothing rare. 
Is this, John, I ask thee, is this murder ? or is it some- 
thing worse ? It would have been an act of mercy to the 
captives, and a crime of a fainter die in the captors, in my 
opinion, to have cut the throats, in the first instance, of 
one half of these unhappy creatures. 

But we have not yet done. Dreadful and appalling as 
this is — -this is not all! Thou thoughtest that it was very 
hard, John, for thou hast told us so, to be shut up, even un- 
shackled, in a comparatively comfortable room, during only 
eight weeks, though thou hadst space enough to walk about, 
hadst plenty to eat, couldst occasionally see thy wife and 
children and friends, and hadst pen, and ink, and books, 
and bed, and many other comforts. But it was captivity 
(though short), and therefore it was misery. — I do not 
wonder, John, at thy complaining ; but I wonder much, 
that, having suffered thus, and having thus complained, 
thou shouldst not feel a little more for those who suffer in a 
much greater degree. What wouldst thou have said, John, 
if thou hadst been taken and compelled to toil, along with 
scores of other unoffending beings, before a large scorching 
fire, at the tread-mill^ for ten or twelve hours every day, 
Sundays only excepted, nay, sometimes night and day, with 
little intermission, having only very poor and scanty food, 
while a tyrant, big with a little brief authority, was constantly 
cracking a cart- whip behind you, and, on the least seeming 
remission of your exertions, lacerating and drawing blood 
from your backs with it ? What wouldst thou have said, 
John, had these tyrants, who had by some unlawful means 
got possession of them, compelled thy wife and children to 
the same life-wasting exertions ? What wouldst thou have 
said, John, if, for unintentionally resting your wearied 
bodies too long in the morning, thyself, thy wife, or per- 
haps thy grown-up daughter, were stretched naked, with 



IS 

face downwards, on the floor, there held by the arms and 
legs, while a brute in human shape lacerated with a whip a 
part of the body which the delicacy of English ears permits 
not to be named ? Nay, John, what wouldst thou have 
said, hadst thou seen thy merciless tyrant take thy wife, or 
thy grown-up daughter, to be the unprotected victims of 
prostitution ? John ! John ! does not thy flesh creep upon 
thy bones ? Does not thy blood run cold with horror ? or 
rather, does it not boil with indignation at a supposition 
such as this ? But these, John, are no fancied, no exag- 
gerated, no uncommon transactions. Such things are, John! 
such things have long existed ! such things have long been 
known to exist ! Was it not time then, thinkest thou, John, 
that^ some persons should exert themselves to put a stop to 
them ? 

These sufferings are not pretended to be the punishment 
of crime ; they are not to cease in a week, a month, or a 
year ; no, John, these are no eight weeks' sufferings for 
wrong doing ; they are sufferings of the innocent for life, 
and, as far as man's influence can serve to produce so dreadful 
an effect, for eternity. Now, John, I think that it may safely 
be left to thee to say, if thou thinkest that men who exert 
themselves to prevent the exercise and continuance of ty- 
ranny such as this, are, for so doing, deserving of being 
stigmatized as Quacks and Humbugs! 

Dost not thou know, John, that upwards of eigJit hun- 
dred thousand subjects of Great Britain, of that freedom- 
giving land, are daily suffering, or liable to suffer, at the 
will of despotic masters, all these, and ten times more, ap- 
palling miseries ? 

It is, I believe, now, an uncontroverted axiom, that 
whatever is morally wrong cannot be politically right: in 
other words, that whatever is offensive in the sight of God, 
cannot conduce to the good of man. Injustice, tyranny, 
and oppression, must be offensive in the sight of God; 



14 

they must, therefore, be injurious to the best interest of 
both individuals and states. Injustice, tyranny, and oppres- 
sion, certainly cannot be carried further than they are 
tliroughout the practices connected with slavery: every 
year, then, that it is suffered to continue, is highly detri- 
mental to the prosperity of these kingdoms. 

I know, John, that thou and others affirm, that the 
slaves cannot be emancipated without endangering the lives 
of the white inhabitants of the islands, and probably the 
loss of the islands themselves. I know, John, that if a 
man, by murder or robbery, hath possessed himself of the 
property of another, or if he hath inherited from his father 
property so acquired, he cannot relinquish that property at 
the demand of justice, without perhaps being ruined : still, 
John, I presume, that thou wouldst not think it right that 
the man should, on that account, be suffered to retain pos- 
session of the property of another, obtained by those un- 
lawful and iniquitous means. But, John, assertions are not 
proofs : it remains for thee, and those who with thee make 
these assertions, to prove that such an act of justice would 
ruin either the islands, or the proprietors of estates in them. 
As far as experience enables us to judge, the contrary ap- 
pears to be the case. 

I do perceive that in one of thy papers thou dost at- 
tempt to show that this would be the case, by quotations 
from a work published by a Mr. Hay, who was thirty years 
an inhabitant of the island of Grenada, in which an insur- 
rection of the negroes took place in 1795. He states, that 
he himself was taken prisoner by the insurgents in his own 
house, and carried naked away ; that, after a series of ill 
treatment, he was at length permitted to return, though 
attended by a strong guard. Now, John, though the 
cruelties, as might reasonably be expected in such a case, 
were bad enough, yet I do think that even this insurrection 
shows that the negroes are not more ferocious than other 



15 

human beings. If they had, I suspect, John, that Mr. 
Hay would not have hved to supply thee with such a rela- 
tion of facts to strengthen thy ill-founded fears. I suspect, 
John, that the most polished people in Europe furnished us, 
about the same period, with lamentable proofs, that less 
oppression could produce conduct in zohite men ten times 
more atrocious, cruel, and revolting, than any that has been 
laid to the charge of the oppressed negroes. 

Recollect, John, that this revolt of the negroes was not 
the result of emancipation. No, John ; it was the result of 
a refusal to emancipate ; it was the result of long-continued, 
unbearable, oppression. If, then, this instance proves any 
thing, it proves, that, as injustice and cruelty produced this 
retaliation, so mercy and kindness would have had a directly 
contrary effect, and have been productive of gratitude and 
due subordination. At any rate, till the experiment has 
been made, I think, John, that we are not justified in 
coming to a contrary conclusion. 

I cannot, John, be amused by any thing connected with 
a subject so awfully important in its nature and conse- 
quences ; otherwise it would be almost amusing to hear thy 
piteous lamentations over the sufferings of the West India 
planters and slave-owners, in the same breath in which thou 
art ridiculing the compassion felt and shown for the ten 
times more oppressed negroes, though the latter cannot, at 
any rate, be considered as being the original aggressors. It 
is always necessary, John, for a judge, who means to do 
justice and decide impartially, to examine, and listen to, 
both sides. 

I am afraid, John, that with all thy boasted independ- 
ence, thou art not quite independent of prejudice. A lean- 
ing, John, if there must be one, should always be towards 
the side of the weakest and the poorest. Strength and riches 
will generally be able to procure advocates, and have their 
right maintained. This is a lesson which I should have 



16 

thought thou, John, wouldst have learned long ago. This 
lesson, however, it does appear that thou hast still to ac- 
quire, otherwise thou wouldst not talk, as thou dost, of the 
" injustice of violating the sacred right of property/'''' by 
emancipating the negroes from a state of bondage into 
which they have been thrown by fraud, violence, and in- 
humanity. Gracious heavens, John I what a revolting per- 
version of solemn words ! The sacred right of a murderer 
to the carcass of his victim ! of the plunderer to the pro- 
perty which he has stolen from the unresisting stranger who 
never offended him ! John, John, this is not calling things 
by their " rigJit names ; " no, John, this is, for the basest 
of all purposes, calling black white; this is worse than 
standing over the wolf to defend him from the vengeance of 
the shepherd, while he devours the lamb which he has stolen 
from his flock. " And Nathan said unto David, Thou art 
the man : "" so say I to thee, John, and to every one who 
dares to oppose the restoration of the slave to his freedom, 
" Thou art the manT 

John, if the West India islands cannot be preserved 
but by the continuance of slavery, by the violation of the 
claims of humanity, and of the declared will ef God, then 
perish the West India islands, as far as relates to Great 
Britain. She is, in that case, better without them. But 
we are reduced to no such alarming alternative. Try the 
experiment : it may be tried immediately, effectually, by 
proper prudence and precaution, without much of either 
risk or expense. What, John I art thou become timid ? 
art thou an advocate for half-measures .? art thou de- 
terred from doing right by timidity ? John, John, look 
well, man, into thy heart ; it is not J^ear that deters 
thee, in this instance, from advocating the cause of justice. 
The heart, John, is deceitful beyond all things; yea, John, 
it is not unfrequently desperately wicked. Fear, John, 
is not of English growth. When has, Britain shown (ne- 
cessity calling for her energies) that she feared? Did 



17 

she fear, when the tyrant of the world had been en- 
abled to arm that world against her liberty, against her ex- 
istence ? No, John, she did not then fear ; she buckled on 
her armour closer ; she looked to her God for assistance • 
she relied on Him, and on the justice of her cause ; she 
rushed into the contest undismayed ; she fought, she con- 
quered ! Shall she now then fear to do that which she 
knows her Almighty Defender demands of her ? Shall she 
shrink, with affected fears, from doing right, from doing 
justice? No, John; Britain has no fear; she affects none. 
Her Rulers talk about it, but she knows it not. Witness 
the voice of her people, declared in mountains of parchment 
lying at the feet, and before the eyes, of those who seek to 
paralyze her efforts, by raising up phantoms which would, 
in an instant, vanish before the piercing ray of truth. 

We are told, that we must not dare even to talk about 
having justice done to the poor traveller who has fallen 
among thieves, who have stripped, wounded, and half kill- 
ed him. No, no ; we may look upon him, if we please, buf 
we must pass by on the other side. No pouring in of wine 
and oil, no binding up of wounds, no setting him upon our 
own beast, no taking care of him : no, John, no ; he is not 
our neighbour! he is a poor, harmless, helpless negro, 
torn, by Christian hands, from his black wife and children, 
from his distant African home. He is no neighbour of ours: 
we are rich, and great, and powerful ; his very touch, his 
very breath, would contaminate us. Besides, the man who 
has robbed and half murdered him, is indeed our neighbour: 
he is our fellow-townsman ; he is our friend ; he is of the 
same colour with ourselves ; he is a man qualified to ride on 
white asses ; he is a man of influence, a man of substance ; 
and shall not we respect the " sacred 7'ight of property " of 
such a man as this ? What ! shall we ruin 1dm, by taking 
away frqm him that property which he has stolen, and of 
which he, till then, stood so much in need ? Would not 

B 



IS 

this be cruel? would not this be unjust? Well, John, 
truly " the children of this world are in their ^ generation 
wiser than the children of light." The Saints, the Quacks, 
and the Humbugs, John, would never, I will venture to 
say, either have discovered, or duly appreciated, this sacred 
right of property of the robber, or the receiver of stolen 
property, knowing it to be stolen : they, poor ignorant 
souls, would only have thought of having the property re- 
stored to the original owner. Well, well, John, the" devil, 
after all, is often too cunning for us : but really, John, I 
do seriously think, that we free-born Britons ought to be 
indulged in the freedom of talking a little about these 
things. As to thee, John, I know, by experience as well 
as by thy assertions and common practice, that tJiou wouldst 
go further, and venture even to ivi'ite about them, if they 
were the works of the Radicals (and really they are, to my 
thinking, radically bad) ; thou wouldst, long ere this, have 
done thy best to have written them down. 

Well, John, after all, I certainly do not fear the con- 
sequence of either talking or writing about them ; on the 
contrary, I feel assured, that at length some good may 
arise from so doing, even though many of the talkers, and 
writers, should know no more about the matter than myself. 
Nobody, I believe, John, when thou first enteredst the 
pasture from the straw-yard, and didst begin to bellow till 
every ox and cow, ay, and ass too, heard thee to the 
water- side, and even on the other side of the water, — 
thought that thy bellowing would do any good, or even be 
attended to at all ; and yet (though it did for a season get 
thee into the pound), in the end it certainly produced con- 
siderable effect: it put a stop to a good deal of roaring, 
braying, and bellowing, as well as to some indecent exhibi- 
tions, which were before rather offensive to the neighbour- 
hood. So that thou, John, oughtest not to deny to others 



- 19 

a privilege which lias been, in some respects at least, useful 
to thyself. 

But, John, there is another attempt which thou statest 
in thy paper to have been made on the freedom of speech, 
where, of all others, one would least have expected any such 
restriction to have been attempted, viz. in the House of 
Commons. Surely, John, it cannot have been true, that 
the enlightened Legislator on whom it is charged, v;ould 
have objected to the claims of religion being urged in that 
place, as a motive to induce Members to support any mea- 
sures proposed. This, John, is what could not have been ex- 
pected in an?/ quarter ; least of all in the one on which it is 
charged. If the adoption of measures best calculated to pro- 
mote the real welfare of the State, be the duty of that branch 
of the Legislature, then, to exclude the enforcement of re- 
ligious motives, is to hide the light of the sun, when we 
wish to find an object too minute, or too indistinct, to be 
discovered without it. It is no reason why Legislators 
should not suffer religion to influence them, because, in 
former times. Legislators have deceived others, or been 
themselves deceived, by cant and hypocrisy. Religion is 
not cant ; and I should hope, that those who are selected 
as Senators, have wisdom enough to discern the difference 
between the reality and the counterfeit. I am no advocate, 
John, for the constant, or even very frequent, introduction, 
on common occasions, of religious terms or references: when 
religion is perpetually slipping off the tongue, it seldom re- 
tains its seat and its full power in the heart. But, if there 
be one motive which ought, more than all others, to 
influence the determination of British Senators, that motive 
is relicrion. It is reliG;ion which has exalted, and which 
sustains this country in the high station that she now occu- 
pies, above all other States. Shall we then kick from under 
us the ladder by which we have mounted, and on which we 
stand ? This would indeed be madness. If ever religion 

»2 



20 

is in its place in public, it is so in the Church and in the 
Senate. However little it may be recurred to in the speeches, 
it ought always to occupy the chief place in the hearts of 
Legislators. That pure religion which requires them to 
promote and secure the interests of the afflicted widows and 
fatherless children, should never be lost sight of; and if, 
for a moment, it appears to be so in any instance, it be- 
comes the duty of every one openly and boldly to enforce 
it. ( How many afflicted fatherless children and widows 
there may be among eight hundred thousand West India 
slaves I pretend not to know ; they must however be very 
numerous. How, or for what purpose, have they hitherto 
been visited by the Legislature.? To rivet their chains 
and to prolong their captivity ! Surely then it is time that 
the dictates of religion were urged, without dread of ri- 
dicule, to stay the arm of oppression uplifted to scourge 
or to depress. 

In the senate of a neighbouring nation we might not 
have been surprised to have heard religion denounced as 
not fit to be named among the wisest men in the state, as- 
sembled to deliberate on subjects the most awful and im- 
portant of all others to the welfare of society; but in this 
most Christian country, for such it undoubtedly is, I cannot 
believe, without hearing it, that one of its highest Legis- 
lators would endeavour to prevent the urging of religious 
motives to influence the determination of the Senate. 

I see, John, that thou, very properly, and I trust 
very sincerely, deprecatest the attempt to hold up, in the 
British House of Commons, Richard Carlile, as being 
one of the purest moral characters in the nation, and, 
therefore, of course highly deserving of imitation. Then, 
John, thou dost, it seems, think that religion stands for some- 
thing ; and though thou adducest the West India planters 
as being in some degree entitled to commendation and imi- 
tation, yet thou dost, by implication at least, admit re- 

3 



21 

ligion to be essential to the formation of a character worthy 
of being considered as perfect. I can, however, remem- 
ber the time, John, when it was boldly asserted, that re- 
ligion would cause the slaves to revolt, and prove the ruin 
of the West India islands. This was one of those un- 
founded assertions boldly made for the purpose of intimi- 
dation ; but what has the fact proved to be ? Why, by 
the admission of the planters themselves, that subordina- 
tion and good conduct has become prevalent in proportion 
as Christianity has increased among the slaves. Nay, 
John, so convinced have the planters in general become 
of this fact, that many of those who were opposed to them 
are now inviting the Christian missionaries to visit and 
settle upon their several plantations. 

It is a faci, John, of which thou canst not be unin- 
formed, that in all the partial insurrections which have 
taken place, the Christian slaves have not only remained 
peaceable, but that they were intrusted by their overseers 
with arms to defend their masters and their property from 
the insurgents. After this, John, one can scarcely be sur- 
prised at the strange assertion which is stated to have been 
made by one of His Majesty's ministers, that slavery and 
Christianity are not incompatible. This was said by way of 
reconciUng the friends of abolition to the continuance of 
slavery: but surely, John, I should think that no one 
would affirm, that slavery is any part of Christianity. That 
they can exist together in the same country is certainly 
true; so may Christianity and any other vile practice. 
The State Lottery, for instance, is sanctioned, though not 
defended, year after year, by a Christian Legislature ; and 
yet it is admitted to be contrary to the principles of Chris- 
tianity as well as to the dictates of sound policy *. 

* Since this was written I have been happy to learn that this 
national disgrace is in futuic to be discontinued. 

b3 



. 22 

It has likewise been said, John (as reported), by the 
same hberal-minded Legislator, that slavery is not for- 
bidden in the Christian Scriptures. How hardly, John, 
are the supporters of slavery put to their shifts while they 
will resort to such subterfuges ! These very persons admit 
that slavery is opposed to the very spirit of the Gospel, 
and yet they endeavour to palliate it, by affirming that the 
letter of Scripture is not against it. Do they not know that 
it is the Spirit that giveth life, while the letter killeth ? Had 
our blessed Saviour, or his Apostles, thought it right to 
interfere with particular human institutions and practices, 
they would have denounced those legal tribunals in which 
justice was almost yearly bought and sold, and by which 
they were themselves exposed uncondemned to every species 
of insult and cruelty, and delivered up to be put to death 
by an infuriated rabble. But their object was not to create 
tumults, but to purify the heart ; to establish principles, 
which, as they gained ground, would effectually eradicate 
every evil practice. 

Christianity is of too universal, too spiritual a nature to 
restrict itself to local or temporary abuses, or to war with 
carnal weapons. That Christianity is not opposed to 
slavery, the warmest of the advocates of the latter will 
not nov/ venture explicitly to affirm. Never, since the 
promulgation of those principles, was their prevalence and 
their triumph so complete as at the present moment. They 
have conquered prejudice itself. They have not extirpated 
it, but they have put it to flight ; they have driven it to 
take refuge in disguise. Self-interest is compelled to ac- 
knowledge their irresistible control. This is the conquest 
which Christianity was appointed to achieve; this, perhaps, 
is the time when her mighty power was to be more 
particularly manifested. Whatever might be felt, there 
was not a voice nor a hand found in all our legislative as- 
sembly bold enough to exert itself openly in defence of 



23 

slavery ! This, John, I apprehend, was not exactly what 
thou hadst expected. Surely, John, that which thou callest 
Tiumhuggery must be something much better and more 
powerful than thou wast thyself at all aware of! It would 
almost seem as if these Saints, Quacks, and Wilberfoixes 
had, some way or other, in spite of thy strenuous efforts, 
converted all the House of Commons. All joined in depre- 
cating the wicked practice which thou defendest. The only 
' difference in opinion among them appeared to be respecting 
the most practicable mode of banishing it for ever. I am 
not without hopes, John, but that thou thyself may, in 
the end, become a convert, and as great a humbug as the 
best of them all. 

We must however, John, proceed one step farther. I, 
like thee, am opposed to weak or half measures in a good 
cause. We have unanimously declared slavery to be op- 
posed to Christianity, to be tyrannical and unjust, and 
therefore to be offensive in the sight of God. Now, John, 
I cannot for the life of me discover what right we can have 
as Christians to deliberate how far and how long we shall 
permit ourselves and others to continue to commit this great 
and acknowledged wickedness. This is a compromise which 
I conceive Christianity does not admit of. Do not let us 
hear any more of the fears, real or affected, of doing 
right. God is always able and willing to make a way to 
escape for them that love him, and who seek to obey him. 
The fact, I believe, is, that those fears are more assumed 
than felt: they are the last strong hold of the oppressor; 
but the righteous is bold as a lion, and knows that it is 
ever better and safer to obey God than man. Let us not, 
then, be any longer deceived ; let us dare to do right, and 
if we live to repent of so doing we shall be the first that 
ever did. Timidity produced procrastination ; that pro- 
crastination has, in many instances, continued and increased 
the horrors of the slave-trade and of slavery during more 

B 4 



24 

than thirty years. The struggle has been constantly con- 
tinued, and, therefore, but httle good has been effected : 
let us then profit by past errors, and let us manfully dare to 
do that which is now on all hands declared to be right. 

I will not call the sincerity of Ministers in question. It 
would be wrong to suppose that they were not before sin- 
cere. Former assurances, however, have not been acted 
upon, and there is, therefore, danger that the present ones 
will prove equally inefficacious. Let not then the spirit of 
the nation, which has now been roused against the con- 
tinuance of slavery, be suffered to subside : let it not eva- 
porate in the expression of opinion, that it is expedieiit that 
such and such measures ought to be pursued. Let us have 
something in a tangible form : let us have it enacted, that 
at such and such times such and such regulations shall 
take place : let the measures and regulations be clearly, dis- 
tinctly, and positively defined and decreed as well as the 
time. Without this it is to be feared, that thirty years 
more may be suffered to pass, and the poor negroes may 
at the end of them be as much slaves as they are at present. 
Procrastination is ever the result of unwilling acquiescence. 
Promises cost but little: let us then, if possible, have 
a pledge which must be redeemed. If the advocates and 
the promoters of the abolition of slavery stop short of this, 
I fear that their labours and the voice of the country will 
have been exerted to little purpose: the w^ork will be to 
begin again at some distant period, when Quacks, and 
Humbugs, and Wilherforces may not be so numerous as 
they are at present. I know, John, that thou and those 
who act and think with thee require not only spirit, but 
persevering exertion, to overcome your opposition. Ye are 
in this instance the children of this world, and ye will re- 
quire more than earthly wisdom and strength to over-match 
you. 

There is one argument, John, which, though I do not 



25 

recollect that it hath been used by thee, is frequently 
brought forward by the interested advocates of slavery as 
being at least an extenuating circumstance, viz. that the 
blacks are an inferior race of beings to the whites; that they 
have not natural capacities to quahfy them for the pos- 
session and enjoyment of liberty, and that, therefore, thev 
are better oif as slaves than they would be as freemen. 
This is a salvo to which I know that some rich, some noble 
proprietors of West India estates resort, to mitigate oc- 
casional inward pains. I would not, John, advise either 
them or thee to depend upon it: its effect can only be 
of a temporary nature. Admit the fact. What then ? If 
ignorance or incapacity is to subject to oppression and bond- 
age, both thou, John, and the noble and rich proprietors, 
must be fully aware that slavery and cruelty would be very 
prevalent even in Great Britain itself. No, John ; these de- 
ficiencies call only for greater kindness and protection. But, 
John, Ave are all in a good measure the creatures of habit. 
The circumstances in which they are placed very frequently 
determine the character and apportion the abilities of in- 
dividuals. Had the wisest white man in existence been 
from his youth a West India slave, it is probable that 
he would have been as stupid and listless as the worst 
among them. This is no surmise: we have the concurrent 
testimony of many respectable witnesses to the fact, that 
white men, when they have been long depressed by severe 
treatment in slavery, have been rendered almost as senseless 
as brute beasts. We do likewise know that black men, who 
have not been in slavery, but in situations demanding and 
admitting of mental exertions, have evinced very consider- 
able energy and abilities. If, then, natural inferiority of 
intellect in them did really confer any right to enslave and 
oppress them, I suspect that there would not very often 
be found even that pica for holding them in bondage. 

I am decidedly of opinion; John, that the proprietors 



of West India estates have, of" all others, the strongest 
motives to promote the abolition of slavery. I can enter- 
tain but little doubt that their estates would, in a very few 
years, be considerably advanced in value to them by the 
measure. Instead of their being themselves the holders 
of slaves, and subject to that loss which arises, more or less, 
in all such cases from the mismanagement or dishonesty of 
overseers and agents, there would soon be a striving among 
men of property to rent the estates and reside upon them: 
the advantages to all parties, in that case, are too obvious 
to need enumerating. 

Slaves can never be resorted to but from necessity, i. e. 
where free labourers cannot be had. It is only from the 
scarcity of the latter that the former are worth having: 
if there were once to be an excess beyond the demand, 
nobody would have them. Who would have a gang of 
slaves in England to feed, and clothe, and lodge them 
through the year, for all the work which could be flogged 
out of them ? No one, I will venture to say. The work 
would, in that case, cost double the price of that of free 
labourers. The inconvenience and loss then arising from the 
abolition would only be temporary, while the advantages 
would be lasting. 

I am anxious, John, to press the foregoing truths on 
thy mind, because I know that thou hast an opportunity, 
which I will venture to say thou wouldst never regret 
improving, of being of much service to both the black 
and white population of our West India islands. If some- 
thing effectual be not soon done to banish slavery, the hour 
of retribution must eventually come, and, in all proba- 
bility, is not far off. It will be dreadful. The evil of 
emancipation has never yet been, and, I will venture to 
say, never will be felt; but the evils resulting from the 
effects of oppression and slavery have been frequent and 
lamentable. Can any thing stronger be urged against the 



27 ' " 

practice, than that a man cannot sleep in safety and con- 
fidence, surrounded by his own servants and domestics, 
when his enemies are those of his own household ? Is this a 
state of domestic society to be encouraged ? Is this the life 
of love which a Christian ought to live, which a Christian 
Legislature ought to sanction ? which a wise man, of any 
religious persuasion, would think essential to the general 
welfare of society? These questions need no answer! Short- 
sighted, indeed, must that politician be, who cannot look 
beyond any seeming difficulties that lie in the way of slave 
emancipation, to the real and permanent advantages which 
are beyond them. 

I very much doubt, John, whether the present existing 
laws in this country, will permit any one subject of His 
Majesty King George the Fourth to hold in bondage 
another of his subjects, who has not been consenting to the 
terms of servitude. If the prohibition of slavery can be 
no other way obtained, I should very much like this ques- 
tion to be brought to the test. A covenant, I conceive, 
in order to be binding, must be of two parts: without a 
covenant, I apprehend there can be no right to compel the 
services of any rational being arrived at those years of 
discretion, when the laws declare him to be entitled to act 
for himself. This trial, however, should only be resorted 
to, if all less objectionable means should fail, which, I am 
persuaded, they will not. 

The plan which I have to propose may, I conceive, 
with few modifications, be adopted with perfect safety. 
It will, perhaps, be doing as much for the present race 
of slaves as can, under all circumstances, be done for them; 
i. e. as much as would, on the whole, be for their advan- 
tage. The planters would, I am persuaded, find it so 
much their interest to promotes piece-worli, when the nature 
of the employment admitted of it, that the former slaves 
^v■ould gradually be accustomed to habits of industry, and 



28 

of acting from better motives than that of fear. The whip 
would gradually cease to be necessary, and would in the 
end be entirely discarded. The West India islands, from 
the gradual increase of native freemen, and of property 
among them, would become a market for British manufac- 
tures to an extent never yet contemplated. 

I believe, John, that thou, as well as others, hast said a 
great deal on the subject of indemnification to the pro- 
prietors and planters. They will, I trust, receive it, and 
more than receive it, in the satisfaction which will arise from 
contributing to the happiness of nearly a million of their 
fellow- creatures. Their pecuniary loss, if any, even in 
the first instance, will be trivial; in the end, I am per- 
suaded as before stated, they will be gainers. 

All property is liable to fluctuate in value from extrinsic 
circumstances : whoever has purchased West India property, 
purchased it subject to contingencies ; whoever has inherited 
it, inherited it subject to the same. There never was any 
law to establish slavery j'^Jr ever ; if there had, it would have 
been absurd. Slavery was always considered as being 
objectionable, and the Legislature had always the power 
to abolish it: the probability then was, that it would even- 
tually be prohibited. The slave-owner, then, supposing 
him to be a loser by the abolition, has no more right to 
complain than the holder of five per cent, stock had, when 
he was compelled to give it up, and accept of one of very 
inferior value in lieu of it. 

Notwithstanding, John, thy very great outcry against 
this flagrant infringement of the " sacred right of property,^'' 
I do think that the poor negro has a sacred right to his 
liberty, till he has forfeited it by some crime, of which no 
human being, no human laws, ought to deprive him. If 
he have, by any infringement of the divine laws, been 
unjustly deprived of it, it is he, I conceive, and not his 
enslaver, who is entitled to remuneration, i^ven supposing 



29 

the slave to have become such by the decree of a Court 
of Justice in his own country, what human being has a 
right to visit the offences of the transgressor on his children, 
and entail slavery upon beings yet unborn, to the remotest 
generation? We must not imagine, John, that a change in 
the state of the negro population in the West India islands, 
such as is contemplated and such as is necessary, can be 
accomplished without difficulties and temporary inconve- 
niencies. I am, however, fully persuaded, that eventually 
all parties will be benefited by it. 

The sketch of a plan which will be found at the end of 
this letter may serve, I think, as a safe foundation on which 
to erect a more perfect structure. At any rate I cannot but 
think that it will be found, slight as it is, deserving of very 
serious consideration. The object is immediately to abolish 
slavery in the islands, and that without either causing much 
loss to any party, making any violent or excessive alterations 
in any respect, or hazarding, to any great extent, either the 
peace of society or the welfare of individuals. The negroes, 
though freed, will not be thrown into any new situation, 
in which many of them might be even worse off than they 
were. At the first the principal change will be in the 
name. They will be no longer slaves, but labour and 
obedience will be equally required. By degrees, the more 
industrious and deserving will acquire property ; they will 
purchase their time out; they will become free labourers; 
and many of them, I doubt not, eventually highly respect- 
able and opulent men. The change will be exceedingly 
gradual, but it will, I am persuaded, be gradually a change 
for the better. Population will increase, labour will become 
cheaper, more land will be brought into cultivation, dif- 
ferent natural productions will be the consequence, land 
will rise in value, riches and luxury will increase, a wide 
market will be opened for British manufacture, settlers 
will become abundant, the negro race will slowly (through 



30 

intermarriage) disappear, and the West India islands may 
become, before the end of another century, as truly Chris- 
tianized as the mother island. 

In taking leave of thee, John, at this time, I would do it 
in the same Christian spirit as that with which, I trust, I have 
been actuated throughout the whole of this long epistle. I 
have been desirous of giving thee credit for as much of good 
intention and well-doing as I could ; but I cannot commend 
thy rude violence in condemning all those who differ from 
thee in opinion on subjects respecting which, the wisest and 
the best of men may, and do, entertain various sentiments: 
much less can I think thee right in speaking evil with rude- 
ness, of those whose lives throughout, give the lie to the 
calumnious reports wbich thou propagatest. 

Be as severe as good manners and Christian charity will 
admit of, against all flagrant breaches of decorum and mora- 
lity: let the openly profligate? the blasphemer, and the 
propagator of sedition, experience thy correction; maintain, 
as firmly as thou pleasest, thy own decided, unprejudiced 
opinions on political as well as on religious subjects; but grant 
to others, who are equally disinterested, the freedom which 
thou claimest for thyself. Above all, avoid acrimony in 
speaking of those who are endeavouring to serve, by means, 
perhaps, of which thou disapprovest, the cause of huma- 
nity. I detest as much as thou canst the perpetual whining 
of those pseudo-philanthropists, who, to serve political 
and selfish purposes, attempt to make the poor in general of 
this happy land dissatisfied with their country, their king, 
and their rulers. The advocates of the abolition of slavery 
cannot, however, be considered as such. They are con- 
fessedly nine tenths of the loyal, the religious, and the 
truly respectable part of the nation. A class of English- 
men such as this, is, at any rate, entitled to be treated with 
respect by every one, however they may differ from them in 
opinion either on that or any other subject. 



31 

John Bull, I had just finished this letter, when I receiv- 
ed thy paper of May 25th. Ribaldry about Cant, Hum- 
bugs, Hum-fmit and Gam-boo-gees, with aflPected whine 
about the sufferings of turtle, horses, dogs, fish, worms, snails, 
insects, and animalcula, is no vindication of the cruel in- 
justice inflicted on their fellow-creatures by human beings 
professing to be Christians. What wouldst thou, John, have 
said to any one who had thus attempted to turn thy slight 
sufferings in Newgate, into ridicule ? John ! John ! be a 
man, be a just and a merciful man ; be a Christian; and thou 
wilt then invariably do to others as thou wouldst have them 
do to thee ! Farewell. 



SKETCH OF A PLAN 

FOR THE 

Safe, speedy, and effectual Abolition of Slavery. 

Negro adults of both sexes, to have the option afforded 
them of engaging from the day of , 

as hired ^servants for life, to their present owners. A scale 
of wages to be fixed by law, say about the sum which the 
clothing, maintenance and lodging of a slave, may be 
"Supposed to cost. For these wages to work during 
hours of five days in each week. All engagements to be 
registered, as well as all refusals. Sunday to be wholly 
a day of holy rest. One other day in the week (say Thurs- 
day), being market-day, the hired negroes to have entirely 
at their own disposal. 

Hired negroes to be paid for all over hours on which 
they may be induced to work for their masters. 

All negro children of both sexes, born before the 
day of , wheri they are ten years of age, to 

be bound apprentice to their present owners, till they are 



32 

twenty-one ; then to be hired as above, or, on refusal, to 
be considered as slaves till they consent. All bindings to 
be registered. Till ten years of age> to be maintained and 
educated at the expense of their- owners. 

All negro children born in wedlock after the 
day of , to be free, and live with their 

parents, their masters allowing them 

per week for each child till it is ten years of age; to be 
then bound to said master as above. When twenty-one, to 
be free. 

Every negro child, born out of wedlock after the 
day of , to be maintained solely by its 

father till it is eight -years of age, without any allowance 
from the master. On father's neglecting to provide for said 
child, master to maintain it, father working one hour longer 
for him on each day. Child, when eight years of age, to be 
bound apprentice. .When of age, to be free. 

All children of negro mothers by white fathers, born out 
of wedlock after the day of , to 

be free, but maintained by father. Father, before birth of 
child, to pay as security and penalty. 

A scale of prices at which hired negroes may purchase 
their entire freedom, to be fixed by law. 

Government to allow , as a doWer, to all 

female negroes on their being married, with the master's 
consent, to a negro servant of the same master. 

The oath of negroes, under certain restrictions, to be 
taken as evidence. ' 

No negro to be transferred to another master without his 
own consent. Such transfer to be registered. 

All excessive whipping to be abolished, as well as all 
branding and marking. 

THE END. 



Printed by S. Gosnell, 8, Litile Queen Street, London. 



