THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



JUNE, 1833. 



[NO. VI. 



THE LATE JOHN KENRICK, ESQ. 

Our last number mentioned the death of 
John Kenrick, Esq. of Newton, President 
of the New-England Anti-Slavery Society. 
We are happy to have it in our power to lay be- 
fore our readers some few particulars respect- 
ing the life of this venerable philanthropist. 

He was born at Newton, Massachusetts, 
Nov. 6, 1755, and consequently, at the time of 
his death was in his seventy-ninth year. 

' He was,' in the words of one who was well 
acquainted with him, ' characterised through 
life, by industry, economy, punctuality, and in- 
tegrity.' By the exercise of these virtues, he ac- 
quired a handsome property, which he employ- 
ed liberally in promoting benevolent objects. 

Some years ago, he established a fund for 
assisting and relieving the unfortunate and in- 
dustrious poor of Newton. The trustees of 
this fund, at present, distribute $60 a year, 
from the income of the fund; and after 1850, 
will be able to distribute $200 a year. 

He had for many years before his death 
taken a deep interest in the abolition of sla- 
very, and published a considerable number of 
articles on the subject, in the newspapers at 
different times. He was an ardent friend of 
the Republic of Hayti, and published several 
pieces in relation to it. 

In the year 1816, he published a small vol- 
ume compiled by himself, entitled the ' Horrors 
of Slavery.' This work is in two parts, the 
first chiefly composed of extracts from the 
speeches of British statesmen; the second, 
chiefly of extracts from American writers. 
It contains also an introduction and concluding 
remarks by the compiler. He printed 3,000 cop- 
ies of the work at his own expense, which he 
distributed chiefly among the members of Con- 
gress, and of the State Legislatures, and other 
persons in the Northern and Western States. 

Mr. Kenrick sent a copy of this work to 
Boyer, the President of the Haytian Republic. 
The following is a translation of a letter from 
President Boyer acknowledging the receipt 
of the volume. 



' Republic of Hayti. 

Jean Pierre Boyer, President of Hayti. 

Port-au-Prince, June 9, 1818, 
the 15th year of Independence. 

Sir, — I have received the work which you 
were kind enough to send me, entitled the 
Horrors of Slavery, and am duly sensible of 
your civility in presenting it to me. I have 
read the volume Avith the liveliest interest, 
and cannot but applaud the motives which in- 
duced you to prepare it. I fondly cherish the 
idea that the exertions of philanthropists, 
among whom you are so honorably distinguish- 
ed, will ere long be crowned with the most 
brilliant success, and that humanity will no 
longer groan under the barbarous laws which 
still support in some countries the atrocious 
system of slavery. It will be your glory and 
consolation, Sir, and that of those who, like 
you, consecrate their talents and leisure, in 
pleading at the tribunal of reason the sacred 
cause of" the oppressed, to see the victims of a 
detestable avarice, one day restored to the 
dignity of men, and enjoying their right of re- 
turned unceasing thanks to Heaven, in grati- 
tude for what they owe you. 

Continue, Sir, to execute the honorable de- 
sign you have engaged in. Your philanthro- 
pic devotedness, your ardent zeal to promote 
the cause of justice and public morals, will 
make you deserving of the esteem and vene- 
ration of your cotemporaries and posterity. 
For myself, I feel a real satisfaction in offer- 
ing you the expression of these sentiments, 
and in assuring you that I will do every thing 
in my power to co-operate with you in the 
holy work of regenerating those of our breth- 
ren who have been robbed of their liberty. 

I have the honor to salute you, &c. &c. 

BOYER. 

Mr. Kenrick took a deep interest in the 
New-England Anti-Slavery Society, and was 
from its commencement one of its most liberal 
patrons and useful friends. He gave several 
sums to the society, at different times, amount- 
ing in the whole to six hundred dollars, be- 
sides one hundred dollars specially devoted to 
the Manual Labor School. He was chosen 
President of the Society at its last annual 
meeting, and continued to hold the office at 
the time of his death. 
11 






82 



A Roman Death. — Letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury. 



His character was held in high and deser- 
ved estimation among his neighbors. He 
served in all the first military and civil offices 
in Newton, his native place, was for many- 
years a magistrate, and from his 70th year, 
represented the town for seven years succes- 
sively, in the General Court of Massachusetts. 

In regard to religion, we again adopt the 
language of a friend, ' he believed it to con- 
sist in "imitating the God ivho is worshipped" 
— in doing justly, loving mercy, and walking 
humbly, in obedience to the commands of God 
— in visiting the fatherless and widows in their 
affliction — in avoiding the spots, the vices, 
and the vain customs of the world — in undo- 
ing heavy burdens, and letting the oppressed 
go free.' 

' He had a powerful mind in a powerful body. 
He was distinguished for energy, decision, 
independence and enterprise. His talents for 
business, whether public or private, were of 
the highest order. The most prominent fea- 
ture of his intellectual character, appears to 
have been, strong, thorough, practical good 
sense. His stature, his size, his features, his 
powerful voice, and his commanding address, 
all betokened extraordinary physical and in- 
tellectual force.' 



A ROMAN DEATH. 

Hypocrisij is the homa.ge which vice pmjs to virtue. 
Rochefoucauld. 

The following story is copied from the Rich- 
mond Compiler: 

A servant of a very respectable gentleman of this 
city had obtained forged papers for himself, wife and 
her mother, and took his passage on Sunday morning 
in the Patrick Henry, for Norfolk, intending to go on 
to New-York. In the course of the forenoon he was 
detected by Capt. Chapman ; and on meeting with the 
Potomac on her way up to Richmond, Capt. Chapman 
put the whole party on board the Potomac, to be re- 
turned to their masters. The servant was very much 
depressed in the course of the day, and stated that he 
had no cause of complaint against his master, of whom 
he spoke in affectionate terms; but that he never 
could return to him after making an attempt to escape. 
The Potomac was late in getting up, and within a very 
short distance of Rocketts, about half past 11 o'elock. 
(on Sunday night,) the servant stepped over the side 
of the steamboat, before the wheel, very close to some 
of the passengers, who did not suspect his purpose. 
Wood was immediately thrown out to him, and the 
boat lowered — but in vain. The wretched victim of 
his own passions had disappeared and sunk. 

The act of this poor slave in putting an end 
to his life, was certainly criminal when exam- 
ined by the light of Christianity. But had it 
been done among the Romans, it would have 
been celebrated as a deed of heroic virtue. 
Poets and orators would have recorded the 



name of the man who preferred death to sla- 
very, among those of their Brutuses and Catos. 
Yet the Richmond Compiler sees in the au- 
thor of this rash act nothing but the ' victim of 
his own passions. .' He might have seen, if he 
had reflected, the victim of a cruel system of 
oppression. We wonder he had not reproach- 
ed the poor slave for his fraudulent conduct 
in killing himself, and thus cheating his own- 
er out of his value. 

There are several particulars deserving no- 
tice in the paragraph we have just copied. 
They serve to show that even slave states are 
ashamed of slavery. In the first place, neith- 
er the name of the slave nor of his master are 
given. Whence does this studied conceal- 
ment arise, except from a consciousness that 
there was something wrong in a system which 
leads to such awful catastrophes ? 

Suppose an apprentice of a mechanic had 
hung himself in a northern city, how different- 
ly would the story have been told. ' We un- 
derstand that James Tompkins, an apprentice 
of John Smith, a carpenter, who boarded with 
Mrs Adams at 99 Wendell-street, hung him- 
self last night in his chamber,' &c. 

Again. The Compiler thinks it necessary 
to apologise for the owner of the slave, by 
calling him a 'very respectable gentleman,' 
and saying that the slave ' stated he had no 
cause of complaint against his master, of 
whom he spoke in affectionate terms.' 

In the next place, the Compiler is so deli- 
cate that he cannot use the word slave, but 
very affectedly always calls him a servant. The 
Virginians, it seems, are so much ashamed of 
slavery, that they think it necessary to use 
some less offensive term in its place. We re- 
joice to see this affectation. We hope it may 
prove a symptom of returning virtue, and we 
trust as they are now ashamed of the name of 
slaves, they may soon become more ashamed 
of the reality. 



LETTER TO THE ARCHBISHOP OF CAN- 
TERBURY. 

The following letter from Captain Charles 
Stuart to the Archbishop of Canterbury, will, 
we think, be read with interest by all who ac- 
knowledge the rights of slaves to freedom. 
Though written principally in reference to 
the course pursued by the Society for 
Propagating the Gospel, it applies with 
great force to slaveholders in the United 
States. 



Letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury. 



83 



LETTER. 
Mr Lord: — 

Will you permit an humble member of the 
Church of Christ, to address you with affec- 
tionate boldness, on a subject near his heart ? 
That subject is, Negro Slavery ! 
Not long ago, I heard with grief the pro- 
clamation read, which recommended the Soci- 
ety for Propagating the Gospel, to public aid. 
I heard it with grief, because that Society is a 
Slaveholder ; and because the direct occasion, 
had reference to its Slave estate. Turn not 
now away, I beseech you ; for, my Lord, ' It 
is an easy thing to wear a mitre and a cross ; 
but an awful thing to give account of a bish- 
opric, before the Judge of quick ' and dead ;' 
and I find that I cannot be at rest without thus 
addressing you, Tvhile I read the solemn words 
of God, in Lev. xix. 17 — and again in James 
ii. 10. 

The Society has had the said estate with 
Slaves, for upwards of 100 years. God, no 
doubt put it into their power, that they might 
obey Him, and let the ' oppressed go free.' — 
Col. Codrington put it into their power, that 
they might educate a certain number of white 
youths, and give religious instruction to the 
blacks. I need not tell your Lordship, how 
poorly both of these objects have been an- 
swered ; neither need I affirm which the So- 
ciety ought to have obeyed. 

But what has the Society been doing since 
1710, when the bequest was made them? 

It has been preparing to obey God, as soon 
as might be prudent or convenient, by first 
preparing the Negroes for liberty. 

Here are my poor, said God, they have been 
oppressed — I put them into your hands. ' Let 
them go, that they may serve me.' 

We will, replied the Society, as soon as we, 
have fitted them for it. 

So, thirty years rolled away, a generation 
passed into eternity, and the next generation 
was still enslaved, and still not fitted. 

' Let my people go,' said God, in 1740, ' that 
they may serve me.' 

They are not ready yet, replied the Society. 
A third generation rose in 1770, and again 
God said — 'Let my people go, that they may 
serve me.' 

We are getting them ready, replied the So- 
ciety, as fast as we can. Do pray give us two 
generations more, for to tell you the truth, we 
want them to serve ourselves a little longer, 
and to make money for us, that we may build 
a college, and educate the white youths ; and 
besides it would be running so sadly counter, 
to the generous and cultivated Barbarians ! 

Another generation passed into eternity un- 
redressed ; and then another ; and still the 
Society, instead of obeying, is only preparing 
to obey. 

My Lord, what brought down upon Algiers 
the British thunder, but a similar procedure ? 



What but a similar procedure, rny Lord, 
awakened the midnight echoes of Egypt, with 
the howl of the slaughter of the first born? 

My Lord, who is it that keeps in His bottle, 
the tears of the afflicted ; or whose ear is it, 
that is ever open to the cry of the poor, and 
who forgets not their blood ? 

Doth not He speak truly, who says, 1 Sam. 
xv. 22 — ' Behold, to obey, is better than sacri- 
fice, and to hearken, than the fat of rams,' &c. 

Now, my Lord, the question which I wish 
to place before you with affectionate boldness, 
is: — 

What is the real character of measures, 
which consist in '■preparing to let the oppress- 
ed go free,' instead of letting them go ; espe- 
cially when the experience of 120 years calls 
out shame upon the futility of such prepara- 
tions ; for your Lordship no doubt is aware, 
that the great body of Slaves on the estate in 
question, are still living in open fornication 
and adultery ? 

What, then, is the real character of such 
measures ? 

Clearly, it is not obeying the letter of God's 
Word. 

But does the spirit differ from the letter ? 

Your Lordship knows that the spirit is al- 
ways to be collected from the letter, except 
where doing so would involve a palpable ab- 
surdity. 

Now, would abiding by the letter, in the case 
before us, involve a palpable absurdity? — 
Would it be palpably absurd to believe, that 
infinite wisdom and goodness, commands the 
oppressed to be immediately delivered ? Or 
must we conclude, that infinite love, knowing 
perfectly how very little men can be safely 
trusted with despotic power, still wills that 
the oppressed should remain in the hands of 
their oppressors, until their oppressors at the 
close of many generations, shall at length per- 
haps think them fit for liberty ! 

Let us look at the divine procedure, as re- 
corded in the Bible. 

Three thousand years ago, the Jews were 
in bondage in Egypt. 

Did God sanction Pharoah's keeping them 
in bondage, until the Egyptian task masters 
had prepared them for liberty ? No ! — He 
commanded Pharoah to let His people go. 

But perhaps they were prepared for liberty ! 

Their bones scattered in the wilderness, 
where they sinned, and the golden calf, mol- 
ten and graved at the very foot of the Mount, 
fearfully reply that they were not. 

Chushan Rishathaim, the Mesopotamian, in 
the 15th Century before Christ, reduced them 
to slavery for their crimes. — Judges iii. 7, 8. 
Did God permit him to keep them in bondage, 
till he had prepared them for liberty ? No ! 
God raised up Othniel, and delivered them, 
. though He kneiv that they could soon again 
reduce themselves by their crimes, to bondage. 



84 



Letter to tha Archbishop of Canterbury. 



Eglon, the King of Moab, not long after, 
became their master, and his history supplies 
a similar evidence : God delivered them from 
slavery, most unfit as they proved themselves 
for freedom. 

We have similar evidence, in Judges iv. 6, 
8.— x. 11, &c. 

But perhaps when long afterwards the Jews 
were delivered from the Babylonish Church, 
they had learnt not to abuse their freedom? 

Who, then, crucified the Lord of Glory ! 

I venture to affirm, my Lord, without re- 
serve, that we have no instance in the Bible, 
in which God sanctions one man, in keeping 
another man, without a crime, in bondage, in 
order to prepare him for liberty. The process 
is totally unscriptural. But is it not also as 
unphilosophical and irrational, as it is unscrip- 
tural ? 

Two things would be clearly indispensible, 
in or to sanction it. 

I. A right to do so, and 

II. Right Agents — a sufficient number of 
them — and a sufficient continuance, before- 
hand secured. 

1. This of course must be a right Right; 
not merely a legal one, for legality may equal- 
ly sanction Cannibalism, Suttees, or Negro 
'Slavery. But legality cannot alter the nature 
of things, much less make that right amongst 
Christians, which is criminal even among 
heathens. 

But there is no such right in the case be- 
fore us. In the nature of God's holy Provi- 
dence, it is unalterably a crime, for any pow- 
er to subject any man to bondage, or to keep 
him in bondage, except as a righteous pun- 
ishment for his own crimes ; and until the Ne- 
groes be fairly tried and found guilty of some 
crime, which would warrant such a dreadful 
penalty, there can be no right Right to keep 
them in bondage, even for a moment. God 
has already announced the judgment of those 
who do evil, that good may come. Romans, 
Hi. 8. 

2. These are of two classes. The author- 
ities employing, and the agents employed. 

The authorities ought to be perfectly wise, 
disinterested and benevolent — they ought to 
be on the spot, superintending in person — 
they ought to be secure from the demoraliz- 
ing influences of despotic power — and they 
ought to be able to secure the uninterrupted 
continuance of the process until perfected. 

But where can such authorities be found ? 

The agents ought to be equally wise, disin- 
terested, and benevolent — they ought to be 
secure from the same dangers — they ought to 
be incapable of discouragement or fatigue, and 
they ought to have a certainty of success. 

Where shall we get such agents ? or, how 
shall we secure them life ? or if thej die pre- 
maturely, how shall we get successors worthy 
of them ? or, if we cannot, how shall we en- 
sure success ? or, if we cannot ensure success, 



how 6hall we exculpate ourselves, for having 
kept our guiltless brother in bondage, merely 
because we feared that if we obeyed God, and 
let him go free, he might have abused his lib- 
erty ? Or which side of the dilemma should 
we choose ? 1st.— To keep our guiltless bro- 
ther, with his innocent progeny, another gen- 
eration or two in bondage, because we and our 
agents have proved too wicked to prepare them 
according to our views for liberty at an earlier 
period ; and because, &c. Or, 2d. — To aban- 
don at length our rebellious wisdom, satisfied 
with the tale of their Avrongs carried against 
us to the ears of Jehovah, by the four genera- 
tions who have perished beneath our oppres- 
sion, and at length to learn, that obedience is 
the only true wisdom. 

But the Society for Propagating the Gos- 
pel, might be more safely trusted than the 
Egyptians ? 

The history of Egypt and of Barbadoes will 
not bear out the boast. 

But perhaps there is something in the So- 
ciety for Propagating the Gospel, which makes 
it an exception to all general rules ? 

Where is it? 

Can we find it in any peculiar blessings 
conferred on the Negroes by their Govern- 
ment ? 

So far from it, they have been surrounded, 
with the safety and benefits of immediate 
emancipation, under circumstances vastly less 
favorable than theirs, * and stUl their Slaves 
are Slaves untutored, adulterous Slaves, as 
unfit for immediate liberty as ever ! 

Can we find it in any peculiar or unnatural 
difficulties with which the Society has had to 
contend ? 

Not at all. But on the contrary, it has been 
singularly and largely aided by the collections 
repeatedly sanctioned for it by the highest au- 
thorities, and it has received and acknowledg- 
ed the most solemn and affectionate warnings. 

And now, amidst all these facts, what is the 
spectacle which it is exhibiting ? 

Why, that after a set of the most honorable 
and accomplished men in the world, many of 
them dignitaries and ministers of a Christian 
Church, with every means which wealth, and 
influence, and learning, and power could give 
them, during a course of 120 years, in order 
to prepare their poor unoffending Negro fel- 
low subjects for liberty, have professedly done 
all they could do for that purpose, the same 
need of preparation as formerly is still insist- 
ed upon, for continuing to keep them in bond- 
age ! 

In short, my Lord, I look in vain for a ground 



* See Cayenne from 1794 till 1802. Hayti from 
1794 until the present day. Trinidad. The Notting-- 
hams of Tortola. Sierra Leone. The re-captured 
Africans in the West. The Hottentots at the Cape of 
Good Hope. Bolivar's 800 Slaves in Columbia. The 
Crown Slaves lately freed, and the Runaways of Mar- 
tinique, in St. Lucia. 



Tha American Colonization Society. 



85 



on which to support the untenable position, 
that the right way, in which to prepare a poor 
ignorant man for liberty, is to keep him a 
Slave ; especially when his preparation is con- 
ducted in a land of slavery, and entrusted to 
distant stipendiaries. 

No, my Lord ; the position is not under the 
ban of the Divine Law. The Scriptures al- 
together repudiate it. — The whole character 
of God is hostile to it. — The name of Christ 
bleeds under it. — The Gospel is dishonored 
by it. — It degrades the character, and endan- 
gers the safety of our country. The poor 
Negro is dying unredressed at its horrible 
mandate, and our own souls wither while we 
hug the idol of our iniquity, and go on de- 
mulely preparing for obedience, instead of 
obeying; although the clamorous and indig- 
nant tongue of a hundred years, is proclaim- 
ing in facts which we do not even pretend to 
deny, the criminal and ruinous absurdity of 
our procedure. 

My Lord, your predecessors had the oppor- 
tunity — their account is with God ; and they 
are gone to render it in that judgment, where 
the Negro will be upon an equality with them. 
I would not be in their place to meet the poor 
Negroes' charge. 

My Lord, you have the opportunity now. — 
But you too are rapidly passing away, and 
soon your place will know you no more. 

My Lord, have you done all in your power 
to obey God, in this particular, instead of pre- 
paring to obey Him ! ! Have you done all you 
could, immediately to restore to your Negro 
fellow subject, his unforfeited rights ; to right 
the actual sufferers — the present generation ; 
instead of consigning them to death or slave- 
ry, and contriving how their progeny perhaps 
may hereafter be made free ? Have you, my 
Lord, done all you could to absolve your own 
soul from being found to-morroiv, amongst 
those who have wronged, or concurred in 
wronging the poor, because they are poor? — 
And permit me, I pray, in thus earnestly urg- 
ing these solemn questions, to notice, that the 
man who has any agency in Negro Slavery, is 
not only directly responsible for the few, who 
might be more immediately dependant upon 
his power, but is largely chargeable with the 
whole crime, beneath which hundreds of thou- 
sands are cruelly and iniquitously bound down ! 

Here I refrain. Should the question arise, 
but what can we do? The answer, though 
comprehensive, is easy. I will not intrude it. 
It is at your Lordship's command through a 
thousand channels ; through me, for one, should 
you be pleased to call upon me to lay it before 
you, whether personally or in writing. Mean- 
while, commending your Grace to the blessing 
of Him who gave Himself alike for black and 
white ; who has declared Himself the friend 
■of the poor, and the avenger of the oppressed; 
whose name is Love, ami who is not willing 



that any should perish, but that all should come 
to repentance, 1 am, my Lord, 
Respectfully and affectionately, 

Your Grace's obedient servant, 

C. STUART. 
London, Jan. 2, 1831. 



THE AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 

The following article is a reply to a defence 
of the Colonization Society in the Christian 
Examiner. It was intended for publication in 
that work, but the editors declining to admit 
it, we very readily give it a place in our pages. 

We, the writer of an article on this subject 
in the 53d number of the Chistian Examiner, 
find ourself called upon to notice a paper in 
reply. We would have desired no stronger 
confirmation of our own views than this paper, 
and had we alone been concerned, we should 
have suffered it to remain unanswered. Any 
man who will read the two articles, with a sole 
view to a correct result, will see, that what- 
ever the arguments in the first may be, the 
last has not met, much less answered them. 
The mass of readers, however, will not so ex- 
amine. The current of popular feeling, we 
should rather say prejudice, sets strongly 
against our views, and in favor of those of our 
opponent. He has joined the ranks of a pow- 
erful and wealthy combination, whose motives 
and operations many think it little less than 
treason to examine. We take the field single 
handed, without backers and with no other 
advantages than strict truth and a righteous 
cause. Our opponent may shelter himself be- 
hind the names and example of presidents and 
governors. We, nevertheless, venture to at- 
tack his opinions and theirs ; being fully per- 
suaded that it is possible for great, good and 
wise men to be sometimes in the wrong. It 
will not, we think, be hard to prove the fallacy 
of our writer's views, nor will the task require 
many pages. 

:* Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just.' 

We shall confine ourselves, strictly, to our 
text. In the outset the writer says, that no 
charitable institution has ever found more op- 
position than the American Colonization So- 
ciety. We think he errs. We never heard 
that the Society had met with any organized 
opposition, till within the last year, and that, 
opposition has been conducted by those whom 
one of its accredited agents, has scornfully de- 
signated as ' a hatter and a few hot-headed 
young men.' It is certainly not for an avow- 
ed advocate of the Society to complain of 
such opposition. If the Society has met with 
any other obstruction, we can truly say that 
we know not of it. We thought that it had 
ever been warmed . by the noontide glare of 
popular favor. 

The writer says that our views are those of 
a class called Abolitionists, who are pecu- 



&G 



The American Colonization Society. 



liarly intolerant and who habitually designate 
the Colonization Society as a set of ' men 
stealers.' He says that we sometimes hint at 
the expulsion of the colored population, and, 
very courteously, excuses us 'on the score of 
old habit and bad company.' We answer 
that if any class call the Colonization Society, 
men stealers, we have not done so. We nev- 
er countenanced such perversion of the En- 
glish language, and, in this matter, he has 
travelled out of his way to attack us. We 
say, too, that we keep no worse company than 
his own ; for we have been long on terms of 
familiar intimacy with him, and knowing and 
respecting him as we do, we are surely quali- 
fied to judge in this particular. 

The writer proceeds to complain that the 
views of ignorant, ardent friends of the scheme 
of African Colonization have been mistaken 
for those of the Society itself. What he be- 
lieves to be the real and sole object of the in- 
stitution may be found, he says, in its consti- 
tution, viz. ' the removal of such of our free 
blacks as are desirous to leave this country 
for a foreign one.' The society, has never, 
as he thinks, ' undertaken to drain this country 
of the slaves or of the free blacks, to suppress 
the slave trade, or to civilize the African con- 
tinent.' That is, the literal words of the con- 
stitution ought to be sufficient for us, and we 
are not to gather the views of the Society 
from their acts, their official organs, the speech 
and writ of their agents, or the expressions of 
their most influential members. Let us apply 
this logic in another connexion. 

The leading men of South Carolina, have 
ever declared their attachment to the consti- 
tution, and their love of peace and union. 
They have never said that they would commit 
treason. Above all, the constitution of the 
State says nothing about nullification. There- 
fore, to follow the argument of our friend to 
its end, the South Carolinians, have not assu- 
med an attitude of defiance, it is no proof of 
hostile intentions on their part, that they have 
organized their whole physical force. The 
constitution indicates no such design, and 
consequently, what they do is laudable. 

We suppose Henry Clay and Charles Fen- 
ton Mercer, are not among the ardent and ig- 
norant members of the Colonization Society ; 
yet they do not confine their views to the re- 
moval of such free blacks as are willing to 
emigrate. We are straightened for room, 
or we would give their very words in proof of 
what we say. We presume that those mem- 
bers whose speeches are published in connec- 
tion with the annual reports, do not misappre- 
hend the objects of the institution. Surely, 
if they did, the managers would not sanction 
their speeches with their approbation. Nine 
out of ten of these orators, avow that they 
aim at the removal of all our colored people, 
bond and free, that they contemplate the abo- 
lition of the slave trade, and in short, that they 



hold all the opinions we have attributed to the 
society. It is said, that in all free institutions, 
the opinion of the majority must rule. Any 
one who will take the pains to read the An- 
nual Reports and the African Repository, 
cannot fail to be convinced that the views 
above mentioned, are those of the very great 
majority, who have therein expressed their 
opinions. The tenor of the Reports and of 
the editorial matter in the Repository, is alone, 
sufficient proof, that the simple letter of the 
constitution, is no exposition of the views of 
the Society. There may be some few para- 
graphs in the official organ, which coincide 
with the letter of the constitution ; but in no 
instance, we believe, does it assert that the 
Society has not ulterior objects. 

The writer says that we ' confound the di- ■ 
rect object of colonization with its possible 
and probable results, and its plans of action 
with the motives of those who encourage it.' 
We deny the assertion, for as he offers no 
proof, we are justified in calling it an asser- 
tion. The Society, through its organs and 
agents, never says to the public, ' Give us your 
money and we will remove a hundred blacks 
this year, a hundred more the next and so on, 
we will exercise our very inconsiderable in- 
fluence to put a stop to the slave trade, we 
will encourage some two or three planters per 
annum to liberate their slaves, we will try to 
civilize the (exported) inhabitants of fifty 
leagues of African shore, and we will rid you 
of one black for every five hundred who shall 
be born.' If these words, which, it seems to 
us might describe the effects of the Society's 
labors thus far, were used, few and small in- 
deed would be the contributions in aid of their 
cause. They do say, if we are not deceived, 
' Give us your money and we will rid you of a 
race accursed by God and man, we will grad- 
ually destroy the system of slavery, we will 
soon terminate the slave trade, we will save 
you from the shame of negro amalgamation, 
and we will send civilization and Christianity 
to the remotest corners of benighted Africa.' 
We appeal to such of our readers as have con- 
tributed their mites to the funds of the Socie- 
ty, for the truth of this assumption. We will 
venture to say that ninety nine out of a hun- 
dred of them, have been induced to stretch 
forth their hands to the contribution box by 
such promises, direct or implied, and made by 
some agent or organ of the Colonization So- 
ciety. We could bring proofs, but need not ; 
for every man who reads the above sentences 
will find them in his own memory. It is idle 
to appeal to constitutions — we are to judge 
of the society's views by their acts, and by 
the avowals of their agents and of the majority 
of them, publicly made. If those agents do 
hold out to the public, hopes which they know^ 
can never be realized to any considerable ex- 
tent, they are guilty of a base fraud, for which 
their principal is responsible. We think bet- 



The American Colonization Society. 



87 



ter of them, but they are welcome to either 
horn of the dilemma. 

The great object of the Colonization Socie- 
ty, says our friend is ' the education of the 
free blacks themselves.' We do not believe 
this ; the manner in which the Society ope- 
rates is a strong argument against the asser- 
tion. Is there any thing in the climate of 
Africa, which renders the mind more capable 
of receiving instruction than in America? 
Should we, to improve a race, begin with the 
adults and neglect the children ? Should we 
remove either to a place where the means of 
instruction are and must be less and fewer 
than they are at home ? 

For every emigrant, transported thus far, 
upwards of $54 have been expended, on the 
Society's own showing. If the object of the 
society be, indeed, what our friend states, let 
the society give their funds to the despised 
and reviled Abolitionists, and they will make 
them go much farther. For $54, they will 
pledge themselves to give, at least four color- 
ed persons, as much instruction in the four 
first great branches of education, per annum, 
as can be had at our ordinary public schools. 
They will agree to teach them trades, by which 
they can gain a livelihood at home. (Q,uery. 
With the great object of education in view, 
how many colored persons have the Coloni- 
zation Society taught to read and write within 
the last sixteen years ? We will acknowledge 
an obligation to our friend, if he will inform us.) 

' No reader,' says our writer, ' who is famil- 
iar with the proceedings or publications of the 
Society, will suspect us of having misstated 
their design.' He brings three short, imper- 
fect quotations from the Repository, to prove 
his assumption. The longest of them contains 
but four lines and a half, and none of them 
have any bearing upon the point. They are 
the mere recitative of the society, and merit 
about as much attention, as the protestation of 
a shopkeeper's apprentice, that he sells his 
goods cheaper than any one else. If the wri- 
ter had consulted us, we could have furnished 
him with many better common place exposi- 
tions, in general terms of the benevolent in- 
tentions of the Colonization Society, as by 
them put forth. These and another longer 
quotation, afterwards made for the same pur- 
pose, amount to this and no more. 

The society wish to transfer the free blacks 
to Africa and do them good there. 

The motives of their wish are very fine, in- 
deed. 

The black man is degraded here and you 
cannot make him otherwise. 

It is otherwise in Africa. 

Africa is a very fine place. 

These sentences, we believe, comprise the 
essence of our writer's quotations ; which he 
adduces as proofs that the Colonization Socie- 
ty, aim principally at the education of the free 
blacks. Proofs, quotha ! If any one doubts 



the fidelity of our condensation, we entreat 
him to refer to the article in question, which 
will satisfy him perfectly. If any thing was 
wanting to convince us of the hollowness of 
colonization principles, the fact, that a man 
of such abilities, as we know our friend pos- 
sesses, can make out no better argument in 
their favor, would be sufficient. 

We are familiar, very familiar, with the 
publications of the Colonization Society ; as 
much so, indeed, as their usual dulness will 
permit, and we do not suspect, but positively 
assert, that the writer has misrepresented, Ave 
do not say intentionally, their design. They 
say in some places, that the free blacks are 
degraded and never can rise here, in others that 
they intend to secure the system of slavery, in 
others, that they will ultimately remove all the 
free blacks, and slaves also. Is this the way 
to educate the objects of their mistaken char- 
ity ? Does the education of nearly half a mil- 
lion of people, depend on carrying a hundred 
of them across the Atlantic per annum ? We 
do not take the trouble to prove the positive 
facts above alluded to here, because we have 
fully proved them in our former article, and 
though the writer brings abundance of words' 
to controvert our positions, they do not con- 
vey one iota of argument ; at least, if we un- 
derstand them aright. 

The writer indulges in self complacency, 
on reviewing his quotations. These, says he,, 
are the passages ivhich the Abolitionists con- 
strue into vilifying the free blacks. 'Man 
stealing ' and ' expulsion? indeed ! 

We pray him to observe, first, that we have 
never used any ' foul language ' concerning- 
the Colonization Society, and that we wish he 
would follow our example in this particular ; 
2nd, that no one but an idiot, would or could 
construe such passages as he quotes into vil- 
lification ; 3rd, that he goes out of his way to 
attack the Abolitionists, who have nothing to 
do with our article ; 4th, that the last of his. 
quotations, (and which is much longer than the 
three others put together,) is not the language 
of the American, but of a state Colonization 
Society ; 5th, that his quotations are nothing 
to the purpose ; 6th, that they are not a fair 
specimen of the tone and manner of the Af- 
rican Repository ; and lastly, that he does not 
meet the question at issue. The abuse of 
which we complained, is scattered throughout 
the Repository, and the Annual Reports, as 
any one, who will punish himself enough to 
read them, will admit. We gave examples of 
it in our former article, and as our friend evi- 
dently dislikes this subject, we will give no 
more here. 

The writer proceeds to bring more evidence, 
as he calls it, that we may have ' enough of it, 
once for all.' There is enough of it, indeed 
— we are sorry that it is no better. It 
amounts to this — Dr. Fothergill and Granville 
Sharpe thought it would be an excellent char- 



Mi: Buxton's Letter. 



ity, to 6end blacks to Africa, to be educated 
and improved. Mr. Finley, the founder of the 
Colonization Society,entertaine d similar vie ws. 
Therefore, because such was the design of 
Mr. Finley, seventeen years ago, the Coloni- 
zation Society have no other now ! We have 
heard of the logic of the schools, and suppose 
that this is an example of that of the Coloni- 
zation School. 

We said that we were 'willing to believe 
that the emigrants have, at last, overcome the 
worst difficulties ' of their situation, and this 
our writer considers an important admission. 
It seems to us, that it is no admission at all — 
certainly we did not intend it for one. We 
did not, and do not believe, that the emigrants 
have overcome the worst difficulties — we have 
evidence to the contrary — but we are willing 
to believe ourself mistaken. We profess some 
regard for the colonists in Liberia, and shall 
be willing and glad too, to be convinced that 
their situation is better than we think it is. 
We think the authorities our friend brings 
forward, are not worthy of credit. One of 
them is a fancy sketch from an English annu- 
al, Bishop Meade knew nothing about the mat- 
ter, and the deputation of colored gentlemen, 
{we are glad, at last, to see a colonizationist 
admit, that a colored man may be a gentle- 
man,) who went to Liberia for information, re- 
mained there but three weeks. They went, 
too, under the auspices of the Colonization 
Society, who, no doubt, shewed every thing 
in as favorable a light as possible. We know 
that the Liberia press is not free. The fol- 
lowing document, which was pulled down 
from a public place in Monrovia, by a respect- 
able ship-master of this state, shews this fact 
conclusively, as well as that the colonists 
have, or think they have, some grievances 
which they are not permitted to make public. 

number 3. 

Liberty is the brilliant gift of Heaven — so says the 

Herald. 

Truth ; which, like the sun, is too brilliant for any 
but the eagle eyes of free men to look upon, will ever 
be disliked and shunned by Tyrants and Slaves. Ju- 
nius would never have been driven to use these means 
to expose the oppression under which we groan had 
there here existed a free press— but as no such thing 
exists in our colony; we have no other way to expose 
our wrongs — and if the dastard fingers of the 
tools of power persist in destroying these memo- 
rials of a suffering and injured people they SHALL 
be published in America and here read in a pamphlet 
form. 

But to return to commerce — Let those who are op- 
posed to free trade look around them, and let them 
calmly ask themselves how our houses were built and 
improvements made. Were they not reared upon the 
capitals of our merchants and their correspondents ? 
Who is it here, who possesses any thing above the 
common necessaries of life, who does not owe his all 
to commercial accommodation ? Let us look back but 
a few years, (nay, we may see the time again) when 
this settlement was saved from starvation by the house 
of W ; and annihilate the commerce of the colo- 
ny to-morrow, and in six months those who now live 
in luxury, will want the common necessaries of life. 



Even now, hard treatment has driven many of ou? 
citizens to Cape Mount and other places at the Wind- 
ward where there is no restriction, and if things are 
not better managed here, that settlement will annihilate 
the trade of this, and while they are living in comfort 
we shall be delving and ditching for our Task Masters. 
In my next, nvy fellow citizens, I shall present you 
with a tariff, on which $4000 per annum maybe raised 
to pay our Vice Agent and other officers. The Colo- 
nization Society, will of course, pay their own. But 
the main thing is a Quarterly statement from the Co- 
lonial government, of the expenditure ot' our money. 
We are not so blind, or foolish, or confiding, as to trust 
altogether to others while we are capable of seeing 
for owselves. This statement is due to us — not to 
give it is an insidl and injury, and this statement we 
must and WILL have. If we pretend to the rights of 
Freemen, we must enjoy these rights. If we are 
slaves we had better have remained in that situation 
in the healthy climate of America, than to drag out a 
miserable existence in this inhospitable clime. 

JUNIUS. 
(To he concluded.) 



LETTER FROM MR. BUXTON, 
Wm. Lloyd Garrison: 

My Dear Sir — I am sorry I have so long 
delayed replying to your interesting letter. 
It has certainly not proceeded from any indif- 
ference to its contents, and it is indeed with 
the truest satisfaction that I hail the exertions 
of such a fellow laborer as yourself. I am 
much obliged to you, for the valuable parcel 
of pamphlets, other copies of which I have 
also received from other quarters. But it is 
wholly unnecessary to set me, or any of the 
true Anti-Slavery Party, in this Country, on 
our guard against the delusive professions of 
the Colonization Society or its Agent. We 
are perfectly aware how much it takes its root 
from the jealousy and dislike entertained to- 
wards the free persons of color ; and though 
Liberia may be, and no doubt is, in itself, a 
useful and interesting undertaking, yet the 
assumption of its being a means of extinguish- 
ing Slavery within any reasonable time, is 
perfectly ridiculous. We, I trust, are likely 
to go a much nearer way to work. A crisis 
seems evidently approaching, and I trust in- 
deed I may say, that our Nation and Govern- 
ment are awakened to the absolute duty and 
necessity of some immediate steps towards 
emancipation. I may be too sanguine, but I 
am ready to hope that another year will find 
our slave population in a very different state. 
The feeling on this subject, in the country, is 
become almost universal, and very strong ; 
and it will, in all probability, show itself with 
an overwhelming force in the first meeting of 
a Reformed Parliament. Besides which, our 
Governments are well disposed, and the evi- 
dence given before the Committees of both 
Houses of Parliament last year, has shown 
them emphatically the fallacy of the objections 
and oppositions which are urged against us. 

I enclose a paper which will prove that you 
need not be afraid of us with regard to Elliott 
Cresson ; and wishing you every success ia 



Patriotism and Benevolence of the Colonization Society. 



89 



your benevolent exertions to break the fetters 
of the enslaved, 

I am, Dear Sir, 

Yours, very truly, 
THO. FOWELL BUXTON. 
Northrupp's Hall, Cromer, Nov. 12, 1832. 



PATRIOTISM AND BENEVOLENCE OF THE 
COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 

One of the most serious charges against the 
Colonization Society has always been, that its 
principles and measures necessarily favored 
the expulsion of the people of color from our 
country by force. Until recently, however, we 
had not supposed that the Society, as a body, 
would distinctly and openly approve of com- 
pelling its victims to quit the country against 
their will. We cannot regret that the veil is 
nfjw raised, and the features of the monster 
are exposed in all their deformity. 

At the last meeting of the Colonization So- 
ciety, at a time when the public expressions 
of disapprobation against it, and the feuds 
which were known to exist among its mem- 
bers, probably led to caution in the expression 
of opinions, the following resolve was adopted 
on the motion of the Hon. Mr. Chambers of 
Maryland : 

' Resolved, That the Society view, with the highest 
gratification, the continued efforts of the State of Ma- 
ryland to accomplish her patriotic and benevolent sys- 
tem in regard to her colored population, and that the 
last appropriation by that State of two hundred thous- 
and dollars, in aid of African Colonization, is hailed 
by the friends of the system, as a bright example to 
other States.' 

This resolution naturally raises the ques- 
tion, what is this ' patriotic and benevolent sys- 
tem ' which affords so ' bright an example to 
other States,' and which obtains for the State 
of Maryland this sisterly embrace from the 
Society ? The uninitiated would probably 
suppose that it is a scheme of pure and angel- 
ic philanthropy. But it is in fact a system to 
compel every slave hereafter to be emancipat- 
ed in Maryland to quit the State. We speak 
with coolness when we say, that we would al- 
most as soon be concerned in highway rob- 
bery, piracy, or assassination, as aid the legis- 
lature of Maryland in effecting its atrocious 
objects. The disregard of human rights would 
not be greater in the one case than the other. 
The injury done by the attempts of a few law- 
less individuals is trifling, compared with that 
which is likely to fall upon thousands of inno- 
cent men who are to be crushed by this bar- 
barous legislation. 

VOL, I. 



The -law of Maryland, to which the resolu- 
tion we have quoted refers, was passed on 
March 14th, 1832. This law was intended to 
aid in colonizing the people of color in that 
State. By this act a board of managers for 
colonizing the blacks, is erected. The 2d. 
section of this law, whenever a slave is eman- 
cipated by deed or will, provides that it shall 
be the duty of this boardf^to notify the Amer- 
ican Colonization Society, or the Maryland 
State Colonization Society thereof, and to pro- 
pose to such society that they shall engage, 
at the expense of such society, to remove the 
said slave or slaves so manumitted to Liberia; 
and if the said society shall so engage, then it 
shall be the duty of the said board of mana- 
gers to have the said slave or slaves delivered 
to the agent of such society, at such place as 
the said society shall appoint, for receiving 
such slave or slaves for the purpose of such 
removal, at such time as the said society shall 
appoint ; and in case the said society shall re- 
fuse to receive and remove the person or per- 
sons so manumitted and offered, or in case the 
said person or persons shall refuse to be so re- 
moved, then it shall be the duty of the said 
board of managers to remove the said person 
or persons to such other place or places be- 
yond the limits of this State, as the said Board 
shall approve of, and the said person or per- 
sons shall be willing to go to, and to provide for 
their reception and support at such place or 
places as the said board may think necessary, 
until they shall be able to provide for them- 
selves out of any money that may be earned 
by their hire, or may be otherwise provided 
for that purpose, and in case the said person 
or persons shall refuse to be removed to any 
place beyond the limits of this State, and shall 
persist in remaining therein, then it shall be 
the duty of said board to inform the sheriff of 
the county wherein such person or persons 
may be, of such refusal, and it shall thereup- 
on be the duty of the said sheriff forthwith to 
arrest or cause to be arrested the said person 
or persons so refusing to emigrate from this 
State, and transport the said person or persons 
beyond the limits of this State ; and all slaves 
shall be capable of receiving manumission, for 
the purpose of removal as aforesaid, with their 
consent, of whatever age, any law to the con- 
trary notwithstanding.' 

This is a part of the patriotic and benevj 
lent system which Maryland adopts and the 
Colonization Society approves. No slave can 
12 



90 



Patriotism and Benevolence of the Colonization Society. 



be emancipated in Maryland, withouj being 
driven from the State. 

The 4th section of the same statute enacts, 
' That in case any slave or slaves so manumit- 
ted, cannot be removed without separating 
families, and the said slave or slaves unwil- 
ling on that account to be removed, shall de- 
sire to renounce the freedom so intended by 
j| the said deed or willjto be given, then it shall 
B and may be competent to such slave or slaves 
so to renounce in open court the benefit of 
said deed or will, and to continue a slave.' 

The patriotism and benevolence of this sec- 
tion surpasses, if possible, the preceding, it 
gives the slave the option, either of being 
colonized or remaining a slave. Truly ' the 
tender mercies ' of slaveholders ' are cruel.' 

One farther provision in the act may be 
considered as shewing some relenting touch. 
We therefore quote it, as we would not wish 
to misrepresent it. The 5th section provides 
' that it shall and may be competent for the 
Orphan's Court of this State, and for Baltimore 
City Court, to grant annually a permit to any 
slave or slaves so manumitted as aforesaid to 
remain as free in the said county, in cases 
where the said courts may be satisfied by re- 
spectable testimony that such slave or slaves 
so manumitted deserve such permission on ac- 
count of their extraordinary good conduct 
and character.' 

Believing as we do that every slave in 
Maryland has an equal right to reside there 
and be a freoman, as any white person in the 
State, we cannot but regard this refusal to 
permit emancipation except on condition of 
expulsion as cruel and tyrannical. We are 
not surprised that a slave State should forget 
that colored men have any rights, but we are 
surprised that Christians who are not concern- 
ed in slaveholding should approve of so nefa- 
rious a scheme. 

We consider every member of the Coloni- 
zation Society as an abettor of the compulsory 
colonization proposed by Maryland. We see 
no loop hole or cranny by which any one can 
escape from this conclusion. Compulsory 
colonization lias been approved of by an ex- 
press vote of the Society, and every man who 
remains a member of the Society must be 
considered as assenting to it. 

It may, however, be urged by some con- 
scientious colonizationists that they do not 
approve of the resolution passed by the So- 



ciety, and therefore cannot be personally re- 
sponsible for it. 

It is true that societies often pass votes 
which are not approved of by all their mem- 
bers, and that those dissenting from the votes- 
are not considered as personally to blame for 
them, however unwise they may appear. But 
we think there is a great difference between 
votes that are objectionable merely because 
they are impolitic and such as -are positively 
immoral. One may be a member of a society 
which adopts a very injudicious measure for 
effecting a particular object, yet if the mea- 
sure be not immoral, he is not to blame for 
continuing a member if he thinks the opera- 
tions of the society are on the whole useful. 

But, on the other hand, where a society 
adopts a resolution that is immoral, however 
useful any member may consider the associa- 
tion to be on the whole, it seems to us that 
he cannot conscientiously remain a member, 
for if he does, he must be morally responsible 
for the acts of the body. 

Our argument will perhaps be better un- 
derstood by examples. 

Suppose that a temperance society should 
•pass a vote to have lectures on temperance 
delivered once every week by members of the 
society; one who thought such a measure 
unnecessary and inexpedient and had voted 
against it on that ground, might still with pro- 
priety continue a member, as he would not 
thereby be making any sacrifice of moral prin- 
ciple. But suppose the society should pass a 
vote that the lecture on every fourth week 
should be against Christianity, against the in- 
stitution of marriage, or in favor of licensing 
lotteries, could a person who was opposed to 
this vote on moral grounds, conscientiously 
continue a member ? If he did, might he not 
be justly called an enemy of Christianity, and 
a friend to prostitution and lotteries ? 

We shall be much obliged to any coloniza- 
tionist Avho will answer us three questions by 
a simple negative or affirmative. 

1. Can a person conscientiously remain a 
member of a voluntary association which pass- 
es a vote expressing approbation of immoral 
conduct or principles ? 

2. Is the statute of Maryland which we have 
quoted consistent with the morality taught in- 
the gospel ? 

3. Can any one who regards that statute as 
immoral, conscientiously remain a member of. 
the Colonization Society, after the vote which 
it passed in approbation of the statute ? 



Parton's Letters cm Slavery. 



91 



PAXTON'S LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Letters on Slavery addressed to the Cumberland 
Congregation, Virginia, by J. D. Paxton, 
their former Pastor. Lexington, Ky. : pub- 
lished by Jlbraham T. Skillman, 1833, 12 
mo. pp. 207. 

The author of this little volume was, as he 
informs his readers, formerly pastor of the 
Cumberland Congregation, in Virginia. By 
marriage two families of slaves came into his 
possession. He was conscientiously opposed 
to slavery, and his wife's opinions on the sub- 
ject coincided with his own. ' We both,' to 
adopt his own language, ' felt it our duty to 
free said slaves, as soon as it could be done 
to their apparent advantage. We watched 
the progress of the colony at Liberia for sev- 
eral years; and in the meantime used means, 
to prepare our slaves for freedom. As soon 
as we were satisfied that they had better 
prospects there of doing well for themselves, 
than they could have with us, we encouraged 
them to go ; gave them such an outfit as our 
means afforded, and sent them to the colony.' 

Mr. Paxton's conduct in emancipating his 
slaves appears to have excited some animad- 
version among his people. A few months 
after he wrote an essay on Slavery, three num- 
bers of which he published in the Family 
Visitor, a religious paper. This essay, though 
written with great mildness and forbearance, 
gave so much offence that he felt it advisable 
to resign the charge of his congregation. He 
shortly after addressed to his congregation, 
the letters that compose this volume, in which 
he vindicates himself and discusses the gene- 
ral subject of slavery. 

These letters appear to have been written 
several years ago, but the author did not think 
it expedient to publish them at the time they 
were written. 

We regard these letters as particularly 
valuable. They are the testimony of one who 
has been a slaveholder, against a system which 
he had himself witnessed. They are a testi- 
mony against slavery, from one whose appa- 
rent worldly interest must have led him to 
support the institution. Besides this, they 
are obviously the work of a highly cultivated, 
intelligent, and benevolent mind ; and though 
they present the truth plainly and forcibly, 
they do it with great kindness and charity for 
the feelings and prejudices of opponents. 

The subject of the work may be judged of 
from the following table of Contents. 



Introductory-<-Narrative of Facts, &c. — Ministerial 
Prudence iu Regard to Slavery — Reasons for discus- 
sing the Subject — Origin and Nature of Slavery in the 
Uniied Stales — Inconsistent with our free Institutions, 
and the Natural Rights of Man — Its Inconsistency 
with the Moral Teaching of Scripture — The Servitudo 
tolerated by the Jewish Law not Slavery lor Life- 
Examination of Leviticus xxv. 41 — 46. — The Practice 
of the Patriarchs, &c. — Examples of God's Judg- 
ments for Slavery — The bearing of these tilings in the 
Old Testament on the Teaching of the New respect- 
ing Slavery — Various Pivils of Slavery — Some Argu- 
ments or Excuses considered — What must we do with 
our Slaves — Several Plans — Motives to immediate 
Effort from the Doctrine of Divine Recompenses. 

Appendix— The Article at which Offence was taken 
— Tables of the Five Official Censuses of the United 
States — Some Facts from Berard ' On the Effects of 
Civilization on Longevity.' 

The moral and scriptural arguments against 
slavery are presented with great ability. We 
are acquainted with no work in which the 
teachings of the Old and New. Testaments on 
the subject, are examined in so thorough and 
satisfactory a manner. Slaveholders, it is 
well known, have often sought to sanction 
their iniquity by an appeal to the Bible. Our 
author proves, we think in an unanswerable 
manner, that though a modified and temporary 
slavery was tolerated among the Jews, yet 
that the old testament shows clearly that hold- 
ing slaves was always considered sinful in the 
eye of heaven, and that it often specifies this 
as one of the iniquities which drew down di- 
vine punishment upon various nations. That 
slavery is inconsistent with the great princi- 
ples of Christianity few will dispute. The 
reason why slaveholding was not more specifi- 
cally denounced as criminal, in the new tes- 
tament, our author conceives to be, that it was 
unnecessary, as the old testament had point- 
ed out its sinfulness in many instances ; that 
the moral law of the Jewish dispensation was 
not repealed but enforced by the gospel. 

Though we do not coincide with our author 
in all his views, particularly in regard to the 
best mode of putting an end to slavery, yet 
we think the work is calculated to do great 
good in our country, and heartily recommend 
it to our readers. 

As specimens of the tone and spirit of Mr. 
Paxton's work, we offer the following extracts. 
They deserve serious attention in all parts of 
our country. 

' It is the undoubted right of those who be- 
lieve slavery wrong, and the laws and policy 
of the State inexpedient and unwise, to use 
their influence to procure the requisite change. 
Let them exert their influence to enlighten and 
give a proper direction to the public mind. 
They owe it to themselves, to the public, to 



92 



Paxton' l s Letters on Slavery. 



human nature, as well as to the best interests 
of the slave. We know that opinions govern 
the world. There are many errors of a prac- 
tical kind which long govern the multitude, 
after they have been exploded by the great 
mass of intelligent men. One reason of this 
is, those intelligent men allow themselves 
to practise with the multitude, their correct 
opinions to the contrary notwithstanding. 
Their correct opinions, therefore, go for noth- 
ing, because contradicted by their practice. 
This is most lamentably the case with respect 
to slavery. Few intelligent men among us 
justify it ; and yet the great body of them 
practise it. How are the unthinking multitude 
to find out that it is wrong, while not only the 
intelligent, but the moral and religious con- 
tinue the practice ? 

We insist, therefore, that we all owe to the 
cause of freedom, not only a correct opinion, 
but a consistent practice. 

Were professors of religion and friends of 
freedom — all who wish to remove the evil of 
slavery, to come out and act consistently and 
steadily, the good effects of it would soon be 
seen and felt. Had the church, at the com- 
mencement of African slavery in this country, 
taken the proper course, it would in all proba- 
bility have put a stop to it. Had the friends 
of religion and morals united with the friends 
of emancipation, at the close of the revolu- 
tionary war, and abandoned slavery, the sys- 
tem would before now have gone down. And 
were the friends of religion and morals and 
personal freedom now to abandon slavery, and 
keep up before the public eye its moral and 
political evils, the system could not stand long 
before them. A practical standard of morals 
and religion would be held up, which would 
condemn slavery. Slavery would soon come 
to be viewed as we now view polygamy, con- 
cubinage, the slave trade, and massacre of 
prisoners. Most persons have some sense of 
religion, and wish to get to heaven, Slavery 
would soon come to be viewed as incompati- 
ble with getting there ; and one modification 
after another would take place, until it passed 
away. 

This ought to be accompanied with a steady 
and persevering effort to so change the laws 
of the State as to put an end to the whole sys- 
tem. Until a considerable change is made in 
the laws, great difficulties will lie in the way of 
accomplishing many things that at once ought 
to be done. The shameful traffic in them 
ought at once to be stopped ; their marriages 
and family relations ought to be protected ; 
and all obstructions to educating them ought 
to be removed. Many lament these evils, and 
blame the State for permitting them, who ap- 
pear to forget that a part of the law-making 
power is in their hands. They have never 
used their influence with their representatives 
so to change the laws as to remove the evils. 
They of course stand chargeable with a part 



of the guilt. Our public men will do what 
they know the people wish to have done. If 
they refuse, the people can fill their place 
with others who will carry into effect their 
will' — pp. 1 75, 176. 

' It is a hateful feature of the present sys- 
tem of slavery, that it gives no protection to 
family connections — to the marriage relation, 
or to female purity. The slave is held as pro- 
perty, and may be sold, or given away, or dis- 
posed of by will ; and, life and limb excepted, 
be treated as other property. 

Occasionally, the husband and wife belong 
to the same person, and live together ; much 
more frequently, however, they belong to dif- 
ferent owners, and see each other more or less 
frequently, according to their distance apart, 
and the time allowed them for that purpose. 
Their marriages are not recognized or protect- 
ed by law. The reason no doubt is, that this 
might interfere with the right of property in 
the master. If the law protected the marriages, 
it might at times prevent sales and transfers 
of slave property. 

Some slaves have, indeed, a marriage cere- 
mony performed. It is, however, usually done 
by one of their own color, and of course is 
not a legal transaction. And if done by a 
person legally authorized to perform marriages, 
still it would have no authority, because the 
law does not recognize marriage among slaves, 
so as to clothe it with the rights and immuni- 
ties which it wears among citizens. The 
owner of either party might, the next day or 
hour, break up the connection in any way he 
pleased. In fact, their connections have no 
protection, and are so often broken up by 
sales and transfers and removals, that they are 
by the slaves often called ' taking up togeth- 
er.' The sense of marriage fidelity must be 
greatly weakened, if not wholly destroyed, by 
such a state of things. The effect is most 
disastrous. 

But there is another circumstance which de- 
serves our notice. What effect is likely to be 
produced on the morals of the whites, from 
having about them, and under their absolute 
authority, female slaves who are deprived of 
the strongest motives to purity, and exposed 
to peculiar temptations to opposite conduct ! 
The condition of female slaves is such, that 
promises and threatenings and management 
can hardly fail to conquer them. They are 
entirely dependent on their master. They 
have no way to make a shilling, to procure any 
article they need. Like all poor people they 
they are fond of finery, and wish to imitate 
those who are above them. What, now-, are 
not presents and kind treatment, or the reverse, 
if they are not complying, likely to effect on 
such persons ? And the fact that their chil- 
dren, should they have any through such in- 
tercourse, may expect better treatment from 
so near relations, may have its influence. 
That the vice prevails to a most shameful ex- 



Slavery in South Carolina. 



93 



tent is proved from the rapid increase of mu- 
lattoes. Oh, how many have fallen before 
this temptation : so many, that it has almost 
ceased to be a shame to fall ! Oh, how many 
parents may trace the impiety and licentious- 
ness and shame of their prodigal sons, to the 
temptations found in the female slaves of their 
own households. Irregular habits are thus 
formed, which often last through life. And 
many a lovely and excellent woman, confiding 
in vows of affection and fidelity, trusting to 
her power over her devoted lover, has, after 
uniting- her fate with his, and giving him all 
that a woman has to give, found when too late 
how incorrigible are those habits of roving de- 
sire, formed in youth, and kept alive by the 
temptations and facilities of the slave system. 
Now when we read the repeated declara- 
tions that 'fornicators and adulterers shall not 
inherit the kingdom of God ; ' and call to mind 
the teaching of our Lord, that all intercourse 
between the sexes, except what takes place 
between one man and one woman in marriage 
faith, amounts to those crimes ; how can we, 
as believers in Christianity, uphold a system 
which presents this temptation both to the 
bond and free, and yet escape a participation 
in the guilt ? '—pp. 128, 129. 



SLAVERY IN SOUTH CAROLINA. 

The following extracts are from a work called 
'Three Years in North America, by James 
Stuart, Esq.' It is spoken of as a work of 
great ability and candor. It is but seldom that 
we have anything published in this country 
in which the horrors and abominations of sla- 
very are spoken of in the terms which they 
ought to be. We trust that Mr. Stuart's work 
will be soon republished in this country. We 
have not seen the work itself, but copy from 
the Anti-Slavery Record. 

' My stopping' place was on a rice plantation, so un- 
favorably situated during- the unhealthy season of the 
year that the planter and his family always leave it. 
The slaves were numerous, and were, I had reason to 
believe from what I afterwards heard, as well treated 
as they generally are in this country ; but it did not 
seem to me that their want of education, and the want 
of ordinary comforts, place them in a situation much 
removed from the brutes. They had little clothing, 
all of one drab color, and not one of them had bed- 
clothes. I had full leisure to talk with them, but of 
course I was bound to do so with prudence. All of 
them, however, with whom I had an opportunity of 
conversing, declared themselves unhappy and miser- 
able in their situation. A certain task is allotted to 
each of them, and, if this is not done, they are subject- 
ed to one of three punishments, whipping, wearing 
irons, or putting in the stocks. I was told here, on 
authority which seemed to be quite unquestionable 
(that of a wealthy planter who lived in this neighbor- 
hood,) that a planter, whose estate is at no great dis- 
tance from the high road which I was travelling, was 
in the habit of punishing his slaves, when he thought 
that they required severe discipline, by putting them 
■in coffins, which were partly nailed down, and that this 
punishment had again and again resulted in the death 



of the slaves. The gentleman who communicated this 
information to me spoke of it with horror ; but upon 
my asking him why such conduct was not punished, 
since it was known in the neighborhood, by virtue of 
the law, which declared the killing of a slave to be 
murder, he replied that his neighbor took very good 
care of himself ; the punishment was inflicted only in 
the presence of slaves, whose evidence was inadmis- 
sible. He added, however, that the coffins had been 
seen, and that the slaves, who it was said had lost their 
lives, had disappeared, and that no doubt was enter- 
tained that their deaths had been occasioned by their 
being shut up in coffins. The same person who has 
recourse to this savage punishment works his slaves on 
Sundays, though contrary to law, taking care that no 
white man sees them.' — Vol. ii. pp. 118, 119. 

' I have seen enough to be satisfied that, generally 
speaking, the slaves are brought up in such ignorance, 
as well as in a way so repugnant to moral feeling, in 
the earlier part of their life, that it is surprising to see 
so many marks of civilization among them. Marriage 
among them is generally allowed ; but, where a young 
man has a fine family, the planter very often, with a 
view to the increase of his stock, forces him to have 
many wives : and in the same way married females 
are often obliged to receive more husbands than one, 
as the planter may order. In fact, the slaves are as 
much obliged to obey the commands of their masters 
in respect to sexual intercourse as any thing else, the 
effects of which upon their morals may be easily con- 
ceived. Such a system is no doubt discouraged by 
many of the masters whose dispositions are humane; 
but that this evil does exist to a great extent is unques- 
tionably true.' — Vol. ii. p. 120. 

The following is Mr. Stuart's account of a 

conversation which he heard between ' a very 

wealthy and well known planter' of South 

Carolina, ' not by any means a young man,' 

and a physician. 

'The planter and die doctor seemed to be on inti- 
mate terms, which rendered their conversation toler- 
ably unreserved. The doctor asked the planter what 
could have induced him to stay at such and such a 
plantation during the unhealthy season. I shall never 
forget the sang froid with which the question was an- 
swered by his friend. He said he found that half a 
dozen of the girls could not longer be trusted without 
a husband, for one of them had been already seized 
by the blacksmith at his gate, and that he thought it 
was not only for his interest, but that of the plantation 
generally, that he should be the first husband. This 
answer, of course, gave rise to a great deal of merri- 
ment among the friends ; and the doctor, who gave us 
accounts of his management of his own slaves of a 
similar kind, of course admitted the validity of the 
reason. In the course of the conversation which fol- 
lowed, it turned out that this planter was frequently 
waited upon at table by his own children, and had ac- 
tually sent some of them to the public market to be 
sold as slaves ! ' — Vol. ii. p. 127. 

Passing over several passages descriptive 

of the grievous oppression of the free people 

of color, we find Mr. Stuart again adverting 

to the treatment of the slaves in the following 

terms : — 

' I was placed in a situation at Charleston, which 
gave me too frequent opportunities to witness the ef- 
fects of slavery in its most aggravated state. Mrs. 
Street (the mistress of the hotel) treated all the ser- 
vants in the house in the most barbarous manner ; and 
this although she knew that Stuart, the hotel-keeper 
here, had lately nearly lost his life by maltreating a 
slave. He beat his cook, who was a stout fellow, until 



94 



Slavery in South Carolina. 



he could no longer support it. He rose upon his mas- 
ter, and in his turn gave him such a beating that it had 
nearty cost him his life ; the cook immediately left the 
house, ran off, and was never afterwards heard of, — it 
was supposed that he had drowned himself. Not a 
day, however, passed without my hearing of Mrs. 
Street whipping and ill using her unfortunate slaves. 
On one occasion, when one of the female slaves had 
disobliged her, she beat her until her own strength was 
exhausted, and then insisted on the bar-keeper, Mr. 
Ferguson, (a Scotchman,) proceeding to inflict the re- 
mainder of the punishment. Mrs. Street in the mean 
time took her place in the bar-room. She instructed 
him to lay on the whip severely in an adjoining room. 
His nature was repugnant to the execution of the duty 
which was imposed on him. He gave a wink to the 
girl, who understood it and bellowed lustily, while he 
made the whip crack on the walls of the room. Mrs. 
Street expressed herself to be quite satisfied with the 
way in which Ferguson had executed her instructions ; 
but, unfortunately for him, his lenity to the girl became 
known in the house, and the subject of merriment, and 
was one of the reasons for his dismissal before I left 
the house ; — but I did not know of the most atrocious 
of all the proceedings of this cruel woman until the 
very day that I quitted the house. I had put up my 
clothes in my portmanteau, when I was about to set 
out ; but, finding it was rather too full, I had difficulty 
in getting it closed to allow me to lock it ; I therefore 
told one of the boys to send me one of the stoutest of 
the men to assist me. A great robust fellow soon af- 
terwards appeared, whom I found to be the cook, with 
tears in his eyes ;• — I asked him what was the matter ? 
He told me that, just at the time when the boy called 
for him, he had got so sharp a blow on the cheek-bone 
from this devil in petticoats, as had unmanned him for 
the moment. Upon my expressing commiseration for 
him, he said he viewed this as nothing, but that he was 
leading a life of terrible suffering ; — that about two 
years had elapsed since he and his wife, with his two 
children, had been exposed in the public market at 
Charleston for sale, — that he had been purchased by 
Mr. Street, — that his wife and children had been pur- 
chased by a different person, and that, though he was 
living in the same town with them, he never was al- 
lowed to see them ; — he would be beaten within an ace 
of his life if he ventured to go to the corner of the 
street. Wherever the least symptom of rebellion or 
insubordination appears at Charleston on the part of 
a slave, the master sends the slave to the goal, where 
he is whipped or beaten as the master desires. The 
Duke of Saxe Weimar, in his travels, mentions that he 
visited this goal in December 1825 ; that the ' black 
overseers go about everywhere armed with cow hides ; 
that in the basement story there is an apparatus upon 
which the Negroes, by order of the police, or at the 
request of the masters, are flogged ; that the machine 
consists of a sort of crane, on which a cord with two 
nooses runs over pulleys ; the nooses are made fast to 
the hands of the slave and drawn up, while the feet are 
bound tight to a plank ; that the body r is stretched out 
as much as possible, — and thns the miserable creature 
receives the exact number of lashes as counted ofT. — 
The public sale of slaves in the market place at 
Charleston, occurs frequently. I was present at two 
sales where, especially at one of them, the miserable 
creatures were in tears on account of being separated 
from their relations and friends. At one of them, a 
young woman of sixteen or seventeen was separated 
fromlier father and mother, and all her relations, and 
every one she had formerly known. This not unfre- 
quently happens, although I was told and believe that 
there is a general wish to keep relations together where 
it can be done. 

' The following extract of a letter from a gentleman 
at Charleston, to a friend of his at New-York, publish- 
ed in the New-York newspapers while I was there, 
contains even a more shocking account of the public 
sale of slaves here : — ' Curiosity sometimes leads me 



to the auction sales of the Negroes. A few days since 
I attended one which exhibited the beauties of slavery 
in all their sickening deformity. The bodies of these 
wretched beings were placed upright on a table— 
their physical proportions examined — their defects and 
beauties noted. ' A prime lot, here they go !' There 
I saw the father looking with sullen conlempt-jon the 
crowd, and expressing an indignation in his counte- 
nance that he dare not speak ; and the mother, press- 
ing her infants closer to her bosom with an involuntary 
grasp, and exclaiming in wild and simple earnestness, 
while the tears chased down her cheeks in quick suc- 
cession' — ' I can't leff my children ! I won't leff my 
children !' But on the hammer went, reckless alike 
whether it united or sundered for ever. On another 
stand I saw a man apparently as white as myself ex- 
posed for sale. I turned away from the humiliating 
spectacle. 

' At another time I saw the concluding scene of this 
infernal drama. It was on the wharf. A slave ship 
for New-Orleans was lying in the stream, and the poor 
negroes handcuffed, and pinioned, were hurried off in 
boats, eight at a time. Here I witnessed the last fare- 
well — the heart-rending separation of every earthly 
tie. The mute and agonizing embrace of the husband 
and wife, and the convulsive grasp of the mother and 
child, who were alike torn asunder — for ever ! It was 
a living death — they never see or hear of each other 
more. Tears flowed fast, and mine with the rest.' 

' Charleston has long been celebrated for the sever- 
ity of its laws against the blades, and the mildness of 
its punishments towards the whites for maltreating 
them. Until the late law, there were about seventy- 
one crimes for which slaves were capitally punished, 
and for which the highest punishment for whites was 
imprisonment in the penitentiary. 

' A dreadful case of murder occurred at Charleston 
in 1806. A planter, called John Slater, made an un- 
offending, unresisting slave, be bound hand and foot, 
and compelled his companion to chop off his head with 
an axe, and to cast his body, convulsing with the ago- 
nies of death, into the water. Judge Wild, who tried 
him, on awarding a sentence of imprisonment against 
this wretch, expressed his regret that the punishment 
provided for the offence was insufficient to make the 
law respected — that the delinquent too well knew that 
the arm which he had stretched out for the destruction 
of his slave was thai to which he alone could look for 
protection, disarmed as he was of the right of self de- 
fence. But the most horrible butchery of slaves which 
has ever taken place in America was the execution of 
thirty-five of them on the lines near Charleston, in the 
month of July, 1822, on account of an alleged conspir- 
acy against their masters. The whole proceedings 
are monstrous. Sixty-seven persons were convicted 
before a court, consisting of a justice of the peace, and 
freeholders, without a jury. The evidence of slaves 
not upon oath was admitted against them, and after all, 
the proof was extremely scanty. Perrault, a slave, 
who had himself been brought from Africa, was the 
chief witness. He had been torn from his father, who 
was very wealthy, and a considerable trader in tobac- 
co and salt on the coast of Africa. He was taken pris- 
oner, and was sold, and his purchaser would not give 
him up, although three slaves were offered in his stead. 
The judge's address, on pronouncing sentence of death 
on this occasion, on persons sold to slavery and servi- 
tude, and who, if they were guilty, were only endea- 
voring to get rid of it in the only way in their power, 
seems monstrous. He told them that the servant who 
was false to his master would be false to his God — that 
the precept of St. Paul was " to obey their masters in 
all things," and of St. Peter, " to be subject to their 
masters with all fear," — and that, had they listened to 
such doctrines, they would not have been arrested by 
an ignominious death.' — Vol. ii. pp. 141 — 147. 

Note. Since the foregoing article was prepared, we 
have ascertained that Mr. Stuart's work has been re- 
published in this country. 



Anti-Slavery Societies. — National Anti-Slavery Society. — Advantages of Paid Labor. 95 



NEW ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES. 

It is with great satisfaction that M'c record 
the formation of three new Anti-Slavery So- 
cieties. They afford indisputable evidence of 
the progress of correct principles. 

An Anti-Slavery Society has been formed 

in Portland, Me. with the following officers. 

Hon. Prentiss Mellen, President ; Samuel Fessen- 
den, Rev. Gershom F. Cox, Vice Presidents ; P. H. 
Grecnleaf, Esq. Corresponding Secretary; Daniel C. 
Colesworthy, Recording Secretary; John Winslow, 
Treasurer; Bezaleel Cushman, Jonathan Dow, James 
B. Cahoon, Henry H. Boocly, Seba Smith, Nathan 
Winslow, Oliver B. Dorranee, Counsellors. 

On April 10th, an Anti-Slavery Society 
was formed at Tallmadge in Ohio, called the 
Tallmadge Anti- Slavery Society. Its princi- 
ples are the same as those of the New-Eng- 
land. Anti-Slavery Society. 

The citizens of Fayette, Ross, and High- 
land Counties, Ohio, have recently formed a 
a Society called the Abolition Society of Paint 
Valley Its officers are as follow. 

Col. Thos. Rogers, President; Hon. Hugh Smart, 
Vice-President ; Joseph T. Irwin, Recording Secreta- 
ry ; Rev. Jas. H. Dickey, Corresponding Secretary ; 
Mr Joseph Lawhead, Treasurer ; Messrs Hugh Ghorm- 
ly and Jas. McConnel, members of the executive 
committee for Fayette county, Messrs Robert Braiden 
and Geo. Brown for Ross county, and Messrs Samuel 
Smith and Samuel McConnel for Highland county. 



NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

We notice with great satisfaction some sug- 
gestions in the Friend, in reference to a Na- 
tional Anti-Slavery Society. The progress 
of opinion in regard to slavery has been so 
great during the last few years, that an insti- 
tution of this kind seems to be required, in or- 
der to give greater effect to individual efforts. 
A great anxiety to form such a Society has 
been often expressed by members of the N. 
England Anti-Slavery Society. If our friends 
at Philadelphia will call a public meeting in 
that place at any time during the present sea- 
son, for the purpose of organizing a National 
Society, we promise them the attendance of 
some delegates from this quarter. We hear- 
tily assent to the remarks of ' The Friend,' 
which follow: — 

'We proposed a question in our last num- 
ber, whether a national Anti-Slavery Society 
could not be formed in Philadelphia, for the 
purpose of calling the attention of our readers 
to the subject. There are many consider- 
ations that seem to indicate Philadelphia as 
the proper location for such a society. Its 
central position between the' east and west — 
the prevailing tone of the public mind is fitted 
to impart strength and permanence to such a 



society, to which may be added the well 
known facts that here the first abolition law 
ever passed in this country originated, and the 
first society for the express purpose of abolish- 
ing slavery was formed. 

But it may be asked, wherein would the 
proposed society differ in its principles from 
the Pennsylvania Abolition Society ? Are not 
the objects contemplated by the former em- 
braced by the latter ? In relation to the great 
question of slavery, they would be one in prin- 
ciple. The Pennsylvania society has been, 
and still is very useful in the cause of anti- 
slavery. Their funds and resources are prin- 
cipally expended in the support of schools for 
the education of colored children. I hope the 
society will long continue to direct its atten- 
tion to this important object. But it is local 
in its character. We want a national Anti- 
Slavery Society, which would embrace a lar- 
ger sphere, and enroll among its members, 
many men of talents and influence, who do 
not belong to the Pennsylvania Society, and 
who, perhaps, might not incline to become 
members. I hope the time is not distant, 
when such a society will be organized in this 
city.' 



ADVANTAGES OF PAID LABOR. 

Reason and experience both teach that paid 
labor is cheaper than compulsory. This truth 
is strikingly illustrated in the facts stated in 
the following letter addressed to the editor of 
the Genius of Universal Emancipation, which 
appeared in a recent number of that work. 

TO THE EDITOR. 
Dear Sir: — 

Some time since, I sent you an account of 
a mechanic who, by paying each^of the slaves- 
whom he had hired, one dollar per week, ob- 
tained more work from five, than he had been 
able to procure before from eleven of them. 
To-day a circumstance has come to my knowl- 
edge which ought to speak volumes to those 
who keep slaves. 

A person who has been in the habit of tra- 
ding to York River, for oysters, was in the 
practice of hiring black men from their mas- 
ters. These poor dispirited creatures work- 
ed so slow, that it generally took about three 
weeks to load his vessel. At last he hit upon 
the experiment of giving them a reward of 
fifty cents a day, (for themselves,) for each 
good day's work. The consequence is, that 
he now gets his vessel loaded in about five 
days, at a much hss expense. This shews 
that voluntary labor is much superior to 
that which is compulsory. 

Let those who employ slaves, remember 
that it would be better to hire even their own 
slaves, or pay those whom they hire from oth- 
ers, than undertake to compel them to work. 
A Subscriber. 



Mr. Garrison. — To the Hibernia. — Epitaph on John Jack. — Donations, 



MR GARRISON. 

This gentleman sailed from New- York for 
England on the first of May. He goes accom- 
panied by the good wishes and prayers of all 
the friends of abolition. The following lines 
were written by him on board the vessel after 
sailing. 

SONNET. 
Unto the winds and waves I now commit 

My body, subject to the will of Heaven ; 
Its resting place may be the watery pit — 

'Tis His alone to take who life has given. 
But, O }-e elements ! the deathless soul, 

Impalpable, outsoaring time and space, 
Submits not to your mightiest control, 

Nor meanly dwells in any earthly place. 
Ocean may bleach, earth crumble, worms devour, 

Beyond identity, its wond'rous frame ; 
Decay wilts not the spiritual flower, 

Nor age suppresses the ethereal flame : — 
Thus thy dread sting, O Death ! I dare to brave- 
Thus do I take from thee the victory, O Grave L 
On board the ship Hibernia. ) 
May 2, 1833. S 



TO THE HIBERNIA. 

' O, speed thee ! speed thee ! gallant bark, 

Across the bounding wave ; 
Thou bearest to old Britain's shores. 
The Champion of the slave. 

Propitious breezes waft thee on, 

Safe o'er Atlantic's sea ; 
For many a heart with fervor sends 

A benison to thee. 

And he who fears not to commit 

His body to thy care, 
Fears not to brave the winds and waves, 
. Knowing that God is there. 

He goes to raise the standard high, 

And freedom's flag unfurl, 
And to proclaim the rallying cry 

Of freedom to the world. 

Then swift and steady be thy flight, 

Across the briny wave ; 
And safely bear, Oh noble bark, 
The Champion of the slave. 
Philadelphia, May, 1833. 



ADA. 



EPITAPH ON JOHN JACK. 

The following epitaph on a slave buried at 
Concord, in Massachusetts, is, as we are in- 
formed in Mr Willard's Address to the Wor- 
cester Bar, ascribed to Daniel Bliss, Esq. an 
ante-revolutionary lawyer. It may be found 
in Alden's Collection of Epitaphs. 

God wills us free ; 

Man wills us slaves. 

I will, as God wills ; 

God's will be done. 

Here lies the body of John Jack, 

A native of Africa, 

Who died March 1773, 

Aged about LX years. 

Though born in a land of slavery, 

He was born free : 

Though he lived in a land of liberty, 

He lived a slave ; 

Till by his honest, though stolen labors, 

He acquired the source of slavery, 

Which gave him his freedom, 

Though not long before death, 
The grand tyrant, 



Gave him his final emancipation, 
And set him on a footing with kings. 
Though a slave to vice, ■ 
He practised those virtues, 
Without which, king's are but slaves. 



The Treasurer of the New-England Anti-Slavery 
Society acknowledges the receipt of the following do- 
nations in March, April and May, viz. 

FOR THE MISSION. 

Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society of Reading 

Gentlemen's do. do. 

John T. Hilton, being amount contributed at a 

meeting of colored persons in Boston, on 19th 

March, 
A Friend, by S. E Sewall, Esq. 
Nathan Winslow, Esq. Portland, Me. 
W. R. Jones, Baltimore, Md. 
Wm. H. Morgan do. 
E. F. B. Mundrucu 
Colored Male citizens of Albany. N. Y. by Mr 

W. P.Griffin 
Michael H. Simpson 
S. E. Sewall, 
Moses Kimball 
A Friend 
John N. Barbour 
Daniel Gregg 
John Stimson 
Ellis Gray Loring 
John E. Fuller 
Frederick Hughes 
Drury Fairbanks 

D. L. Child 

E. M. P. Wells 

Young Ladies (Colored) Albany, N. Y. 
Rev. Simeon S. Jocelyn, New-Haven, Ct. 
S. Philbrick 
Miss Deane 



10 00 


18 00 


25 00 


10 00 


20 00 


5 00 


5 00 


5 00 


6 00 


20 00 


10 00 


5 00 


20 00 


5 00 


5 00 


3 00 


5 00 


3 00 


5 00 


5 00 


3 00 


5 00 


8 00 


5 00 


3 00 


3 QJ) 



Ladies of Rev. D. T. Kimball's Society in Ips- 
wich, to constitute him a life member 

A Friend by S. E. Sewall for the Manual 
Labor School 

Annual subscription of $2,00 each, from Her- 
man Holmes, Robert Roberts, Joseph Pierce, 
James G. Barbadoes, Samuel H. Colton, J. 
Nichols, J. C. Smith, David H. Ela, Rev. 
Phineas Crandall, Edward Johnson, Nathan- 
iel Budd, Wm. Irvier, Lewis Laws and Da- 
vid Worthing 

A Friend, by Rev. Henry Jones 

Ebenezer Dole, Hallowell, Me. 

A Friend 

S. G. Shipley 



15 00" 



10 00 



28 00 

1 00 

50 00 

1 00 

2 00 



For the Mission — Received bij Mr. Garrison 
S. G. Shipley 
A Friend 

Dr Geo. Harris, Moor Town, Pa. 
C. Washington, Trenton, N. J. 
Mrs. R. Henson, do. do. 
A colored Friend in Philadelphia 
From the colored friends in Philadelphia 

through the hands of Mr Joseph Cassey 
Colored friends in Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Colored friends in New-York city 
do. Providence, R. I. 

Colored ' Mutual Relief Society ' of do. 
Colored 'Female Literary Society' of do 
Colored 'Female Tract Society' of do 



#324 00 
<f).i;0 


rison. 


2 00 


1 00 


5 00 


3 00 


2 00 


50 


ua, 

100 00 


8 00 


124 00 


30 00 


15 00 


6 00 


4 00 



%\ 



#300 50 



l r > 






$* 



