V, 



APPEAL 

TO THE ^ ^?v-w 

CHRISTIAN WOMEN 

AS c 

OF THE ^ iL^t^Z^ C> 

SOUTH. 



By ANGELINA E GRIMKE, 

OF CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 



VERBATIM REPRINT FROM THE AMERICAN EDITION. 



EDINBURGH : 
PRINTED BY WILLIAM OLIPHANT, JUN. & CO. 

23, SOUTH BRIDGE STREET. 



MDCCCXXXVII. 



f£5e ?g%&7£ ^:? 



APPEAL, &c. 



" Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not within thyself 
that thou shalt escape in the king's house more than all the Jews. For if thou 
altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and de- 
liverance arise to the Jews from another place : but thou and thy father's house 
shall be destroyed : and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom 
for such a time as this. And Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer : 
And so will I go in unto the king, which is not according to law, and if I perish, 
I perish." — Estheh, iv. 13-16. 



Respected Friends, 

It is because I feel a deep and tender interest in your present 
and eternal welfare, that I am willing thus publicly to address you. 
Some of you have loved me as a relative, and some have felt bound 
to me in Christian sympathy and Gospel fellowship ; and even 
when compelled by a strong sense of duty to break those outward 
bonds of union which bound us together as members of the same 
community, and members of the same religious denomination, you 
were generous enough to give me credit for sincerity as a Christian, 
though you believed I had been most strangely deceived. I thanked 
you then for your kindness, and I ask you now, for the sake of 
former confidence and former friendship, to read the following 
pages in the spirit of calm investigation and fervent prayer. It is 
because you have known me that I write thus unto you. 

But there are other Christian women scattered over the Southern 
States, and these, a very large number of whom have never seen 
me, and never heard my name, and who feel no interest whatever 
in me. But I feel an interest in you, as branches of the same vine, 
from whose root I daily draw the principle of spiritual vitality. 
Yes ! Sisters in Christ, I feel an interest in you, and often has the 
secret prayer arisen in your behalf, — Lord, " open thou their 
eyes, that they may see wondrous things out of thy law." It is, 
then, because I do feel and do pray for you, that I thus address you 
upon a subject about which, of all others perhaps, you would rather 
not hear anything ; but, " would to God you could bear with me 
a little in my folly, and indeed bear with me, for I am jealous over 
you with godly jealousy." Be not afraid, then, to read my Appeal ; 
it is not written in the heat of passion or prejudice, but in that 
solemn calmness which is the result of conviction and duty. It is 
true, I am going to tell you unwelcome truths, but I mean to speak 
those truths in love ; and remember, Solomon says, " faithful are 

A 



the wounds of a friend." I do not believe the time has yet come 
when Christian women '' will not endure sound doctrine,*' even on 
the subject of slavery, if it is spoken to them in tenderness and 
love : therefore I now address you. 

To all of you, then, known or unknown, relatives or strangers 
(for you are all one in Christ), I would speak. I have felt for 
you at this time, when unwelcome light is pouring in upon the 
world on the subject of slavery, — light which even Christians 
would exclude, if they eotild, from our country, or at any rate 
from the southern portion of it. saying, as its rays strike the 
rock-bound coasts of Xew England, and scatter their warmth and 
radiance over her hills and valleys, and from thence travel onward 
over the Palisades of the Hudson, and down the soft -flowing waters 
of the Delaware, and gild the waves of the Potomac, — '• Hitherto 
shalt thou come, and no farther."' I know that even professors of 
His name, who has been emphatically called the " Light of the 
world," would, if they could, build a wall of adamant around the 
Southern States, whose top might reach unto heaven, in order to 
shut out the light which is bounding from mountain to mountain, 
and from the hills to the plains and valleys beneath, through the 
vast extent of our Northern States. But believe me when I tell 
you. their attempts will be as utterly fruitless as were the efforts 
of the builders of Babel ; and why ? Because moral, like natural 
light, is so extremely subtle in its nature, as to overleap all human 
barriers, and laugh at the puny efforts of man to control it. All 
the excuses and palliations of this system must inevitably be swept 
away, just as other •• refuges of lies" have been, by the irresistible 
torrent of a rectified public opinion. K The supporters of the slave 
sys:em," says Jonathan Dymond, 'in his admirable work on the 
Principles of Morality, '■' will hereafter be regarded with the same 
public feeling as he who was an advocate for the slave trade now 
is." It will be, and that very soon, clearly perceived and fully 
acknowledged by all the virtuous and the candid, that in principle 
it is as sinful to hold a human being in bondage who has been born 
in Carolina, as one who has been born in Africa. All that sophistry 
of argument which has been employed to prove, that, although it is 
sinful to send to Africa to procure men and women as slaves, who 
have never been in slavery, that still it is not sinful to keep those 
in bondage who have come down by inheritance, — will be utterly 
overthrown. We must come back to the good old doctrine of our 
forefathers, who declared to the world this self-evident truth, 
••' that all men are created equal, and that they have certain in- 
alienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of 
happiness." It is even a greater absurdity to suppose a man can 
be legally born a slave under our free republican government, than 
under the petty despotisms of barbarian Africa. If, then, we have 
no right to enslave an African, surely we can have none to enslave 
an American. If it is a self-evident truth that all men, everywhere 
and of every colour, are born equal, and have an inalienable right 
to liberty, then it is equally true that no man can be born a slave, 
and no man can ever rightfirfly be reduced to involuntary bondage, 



and held as a slave, however fair may be the claim of his master 
or mistress, through wills and title-deeds. 

But, after all, it may be said, our fathers were certainly mistaken, 
for the Bible sanctions slavery, and that is the highest authority. 
Now the Bible is my ultimate appeal in all matters of faith and 
practice, and it is to this test I am anxious to bring the subject at 
issue between us. Let us then begin with Adam, and examine the 
charter of privileges which was given to him : " Have dominion 
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over 
every living thing that moveth upon the earth."' In the eighth 
Psalm we have a still fuller description of this charter, which, 
through Adam, was given to all mankind : " Thou madest him to 
have dominion over the works of thy hands ; thou hast put all 
things under his feet. All sheep and oxen, yea, and the bea- 
the field, the fowl of the air, the fish of the sea, and whatsoever 
passeth through the paths of the seas." And after the flood. 
this charter of human rights was renewed, we find no additional 
power vested in man : '•' And the fear of you and the dread of you 
shall be upon every beast of the earth, and every fowl of the air, 
and upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes 
of the sea; into your hand are they delivered.'' In this charter, 
although the different kinds of irrational beings are so particu- 
larly enumerated, and supreme dominion over all of them is granttd, 
yet man is never vested with this dominion over his feTlovc man ; 
he was never told that any of the human species were put under 
his feet; it was only all things. — and man, who was created in the 
image of his Maker, never can properly be termed a thing, though 
the laws of slave states do call him ••' a chattel personal-" Man, 
then, I assert, never was put under the feet of man by that first 
charter of human rights which was given by God to the Fathers 
of the Antediluvian and Postdiluvian worlds : therefore the doc- 
trine of equality is based on the Bible. 

But it may be argued, that in the very chapter of Genesis from 
which I have last quoted, will be found the curse pronounced upon 
Canaan, by which his posterity was consigned to servitude under 
his brethern Shem and Japheth. I know this prophecy was uttered, 
and was most fearfully and wonderfully fulfilled, through the im- 
mediate descendants of Canaan, i. e. the Canaanites : and I do not 
know but it has been through all the children of Ham ; but I do 
know that prophecy does not tell us what ought to be, but what 
actually does take place, ages after it has been delivered ; and that 
if we justify America for enslaving the children of Africa, we must 
also justify Egypt for reducing the children of Israel to bondage, 
for the latter was foretold as explicitly as the former. I am well 
aware that prophecy has often been urged as an excuse for slavery ; 
but be not deceived ; the fulfilment of prophecy will not cover one 
sin in the awful day of account. Hear what our Saviour says on 
this subject : " It must needs be that offences come, but icoe unto 
that man through whom they come." Witness some fulfilment of 
this declaration in the tremendous destruction of Jerusalem, occa- 
sioned by that most nefarious of all crimes, — the crucifixion of the 



Son of God. Did the fact of that event having been foretold ex- 
culpate the Jews from sin in perpetrating it ? No ; for hear what 
the Apostle Peter says to them on this subject: ,." Him being de- 
livered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye 
have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain." Other 
striking instances might be adduced, but these will suffice. 

But it has been urged that the patriarchs held slaves, and there- 
fore, slavery is right. Do you really believe that] patriarchal ser- 
vitude was like American slavery ? Can you believe it ? If so, 
read the history of these primitive Fathers of the Church, and be 
undeceived. Look at Abraham, so great a man, going to the herd 
himself, and fetching a calf from thence, and serving it up with 
his own hands, for the entertainment of his guests. Look at Sarah, 
that princess, as her name signifies, baking cakes upon the hearth. 
If the servants they had were like Southern slaves, would they 
have performed such comparatively menial offices for themselves ? 
Hear, too, the plaintive lamentation of Abraham when he feared 
he should have no son to bear his name down to posterity : " Be- 
hold thou hast given me no seed," &c, " one born in my house is 
mine heir." From this it appears that one of his servants was to 
inherit his immense estate. Is this like Southern slavery ? I leave 
it to your own good sense and candour to decide. Besides, such 
was the footing upon which Abraham was with his servants, that 
he trusted them with arms. Are slaveholders willing to put swords 
and pistols into the hands of their slaves ? He was as a father among 
his servants ; what are planters and masters generally among theirs ? 
When the institution of circumcision was established, Abraham was 
commanded thus: — " He that is eight days old shall be circum- 
cised among you, every man-child in your generations ; he that is 
born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger which is ' 
not of thy seed." And to render this command with regard to his 
servants still more impressive, it is repeated in the very next verse ; 
and herein we may perceive the great care which was taken by 
God to guard the rights of servants even under this " dark dispen- 
sation." What, too, was the testimony given to the faithfulness 
of this eminent patriarch : " For I know him that he will command 
his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the 
way of the Lord to do justice and judgment." Now, my dear 
friends, many of you believe that circumcision has been superseded 
by baptism in the Church. Are you careful to have all that are 
born in your house, or bought with money of any stranger, bap- 
tised? Are you as faithful as Abraham to command your household 
to keep the way of the Lord ? I leave it to your own consciences 
to decide. Was patriarchal servitude, then, like American slavery ? 

But I shall be told, God sanctioned slavery, yea, commanded sla- 
very, under the Jewish Dispensation. Let us examine this subject 
calmly and prayerfully. I admit that a species of servitude was per- 
mitted to the Jews ; but in studying the subject I have been struck 
with wonder and admiration at perceiving how carefully the servant 
was guarded from violence, injustice, and wrong. 1 will first in- 
form you how these servants became servants, for I think this a 



very important part of our subject. From consulting Home, Cal- 
niet, and the Bible, I find there were six different ways by which 
the Hebrews became servants legally. 

1 . If reduced to extreme poverty, a Hebrew might sell himself, 
i. e. his services, for six years, in which case he received the pur- 
chase money himself. Lev. xxv. 39- 

2. A father might sell his children as servants, i. e. his daughters ; 
in which circumstance it was understood the daughter was to be 
the wife or daughter-in-law of the man who bought her, and the 
father received the price. In other words, Jewish women were 

sold as white women were in the first settlement of Virginia, — as 
wives, not as slaves. Ex. xxi. 7. 

3. Insolvent debtors might be delivered to their creditors as 
servants. 2 Kings iv. 1. 

4. Thieves, not able to make restitution for their thefts, were sold 
for the benefit of the injured person. Ex. xxii. 3, 

5. They might be born in servitude. Ex. xxi. 4. 

6. If a Hebrew had sold himself to a rich Gentile, he might be 
redeemed by one of his brethren at any time the money was of- 
fered ; and he who redeemed him, was not to take advantage of 
the favour thus conferred, and rule over him with rigour. Lev. 
xxv. 47-55. 

Before going into an examination of the laws by which these 
servants were protected, I would just ask whether American slaves 
have become slaves in any of the ways in which the Hebrews be- 
came servants. Did they sell themselves into slavery and receive 
the purchase money into their own hands ? No ! Did they be- 
come insolvent, and by their own imprudence subject themselves 
to be sold as slaves ? No ! Did they steal the property of an- 
other, and were they sold to make restitution for their crimes ? 
No ! Did their present masters, as an act of kindness, redeem 
them from some heathen tyrant, to whom they had sold themselves 
in the dark hour of adversity ? No ! Were they born in slavery? 
No ! No ! not according to Jewish Law ; for the servants who 
were born in servitude among them, were born of parents who had 
sold themselves for six years ; Ex. xxi. 4. Were the female slaves 
of the South sold by their fathers ? How shall I answer this ques- 
tion ? Thousands and tens of thousands never were, their fathers 
never have received the poor compensation of silver or gold for 
the tears and toils, the suffering and anguish, and hopeless bondage 
of their daughters. They labour day by day, and year by year, 
side by side, in the same field, if haply their daughters are per- 
mitted to remain on the same plantation with them, instead of be- 
ing, as they often are, separated from their parents and sold into 
distant states, never again to meet on earth. But do the fathers 
of the South ever sell their daughters ? My heart beats, and my 
hand trembles, as I write the awful affirmative, Yes ! The fathers 
of this Christian land often sell their daughters, not as Jewish 
parents did, to be the wives and daughters-in-law of the man who 
buys them, but to be the abject slaves of petty tyrants and irre- 
sponsible masters. Is it not so, my friends ? I leave \t to your 



own candour to corroborate my assertion. Southern slaves, then, 
have not become slaves in any of the six different ways in which 
Hebrews became servants, and I hesitate not to say that American 
masters cannot, according to Jeioish law, substantiate their claim 
to the men, women, or children, they now hold in bondage. 

But there was one way in which a Jew might illegally be reduced 
to servitude ; it was this, he might be stolen and afterward sold 
as a slave, as was Joseph. To guard most effectually against this 
dreadful crime of manstealing, God enacted this severe law, — " He 
that stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, 
he shall surely be put to death." * As I have tried American 
Slavery by legal Hebrew servitude, and found (to your surprise, 
perhaps), that Jewish law cannot justify the slaveholder's claim, 
let us now try it by illegal Hebrew bondage. Have the Southern 
slaves then been stolen ? If they did not sell themselves into 
bondage ; if they were not sold as insolvent debtors or as thieves ; 
if they were not redeemed from a heathen master to whom they 
had sold themselves ; if they were not born in servitude according 
to Hebrew Law ; and if the females were not sold by their fathers 
as wives and daughters-in-law to those who purchased them ; then 
what shall we say of them ? what can we say of them ? but that 
according to Hebrew Law they have been stolen. 

But I shall be told that the Jews had other servants who were 
absolute slaves. Let us look a little into this also. They had 
other servants who were procured in two different ways. 

1. Captives taken in war, were reduced to bondage instead of 
being killed ; but we are not told that their children were enslaved. 
Deut. xx. 14. 

2. Bondmen and bondmaids might be bought from the heathen 
round about them ; these were left by fathers to their children 
after them, but it does not appear that the children of these ser- 
vants ever were reduced to servitude. Lev. xxv. 44. 

I will now try the right of the southern planter by the claims of 
Hebrew masters over their heathen slaves. Were the southern 
slaves taken captive in war ? No ! Were they bought from the 
heathen ? No ! for surely no one will now vindicate the slave- 
trade so far as to assert that slaves were bought from the heathen 
who were obtained by that system of piracy. The only excuse 
for holding southern slaves, is, that they were born in slavery ; but 
we have seen that they were not born in servitude as Jewish ser- 
vants were, and that the children of heathen slaves were not legally 
subjected to bondage, even under the Mosaic Law. How then 
have the slaves of the South been obtained ? 

I will next proceed to an examination of those laws which were 
enacted in order to protect the Hebrew and the Heathen servant ; 
for I wish you to understand that both are protected by Him, of 
whom it is said " his mercies are over all his works." I will first 

* And again, " If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the chil- 
dren of Israel, and maketh merchandise of him, or selleth him, then that thief 
shall die, and thou shalt put away evil from among you." Deut. xxiv. 7. 



speak of those which secured the rights of Hebrew servants. This 
code was headed thus : — 

1 . Thou shalt not rule over him with rigour, but shalt fear thy 
God. 

2. If thou buy a Hebrew servant, six years shall he serve, and 
in the seventh year he shall go out free for nothing. Ex. xx. 2.* 

3. If he come in by himself, he shall go out by himself; if he 
were married, then his wife shall go out with him. 

4. If his master have given him a wife, and she have borne him 
sons and daughters, the wife and her children shall be his master's, 
and he shall go out by himself. 

5. If the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, 
and my children, I will not go out free, then his master shall bring 
him unto the Judges, and he shall bring him to the door, or unto 
the door post, and his master shall bore his ear through with an 
awl, and he shall serve him for ever. Ex. xxi. 3-6. 

6. If a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, 
that it perish, he shall let him go free for his eye's sake. And if he 
smite out his man servant's tooth, or his maid servant's tooth, he 
shall let him go free for his tooth's sake. Ex. xxi. 26, 27. 

7. On the Sabbath, rest was secured to servants by the fourth 
commandment. Ex. xx. 10. 

8. Servants were permitted to unite with their masters three 
times in every year in celebrating the Passover, the feast of Pen- 
tecost, and the feast of Tabernacles ; every male throughout the 
land was to appear before the Lord at Jerusalem with a gift ; here 
the bond and the free stood on common ground. Deut. xvi. 

9. If a man smite his servant or his maid with a rod, and he die 
under his hand, he shall surely be punished. Notwithstanding, if 
he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his 
money. Ex. xxi. 20, 21. 

From these laws we learn that Hebrew men servants were bound 
to serve their masters only six years, unless their attachment to 
their employers, their wives and children, should induce them to 
wish to remain in servitude : in which case, in order to prevent the 
possibility of deception on the part of the master, the servant was 
first taken before the magistrate, where he openly declared his in- 
tention of continuing in his masters service (probably a public 
register was kept of such), he was then conducted to the door of 
the house (in warm climates doors are thrown open), and there his 
ear was publicly bored : and by submitting to this operation he 
testified his willingness to serve him for ever, i. e. during his life, 
for Jewish Rabbins, who must have understood Jewish slavery (as 
it is called), " affirm that servants were set free at the death of 
their masters, and did not descend to their heirs : or that he was to 
serve him until the year of Jubilee, when all servants were set at 
liberty. To protect servants from violence, it was ordained that if 

* And when thou sendest him out free from thee, thou shalt not let him go 
away empty : Thou shalt furnish him liberally out of thy flock, and out of thy 
floor, and out of thy wine-press : of that wherewith the Lord thy God hath 
blessed thee, shalt thou give unto him. Deut. xv. 13, 14. 



a master struck out the tooth or destroyed the eye of a servant, 
that servant immediately became free, for such an act of violence 
evidently showed he was unfit to possess the power' of a master, 
and therefore that power was taken from him. All servants en- 
joyed the rest of the Sabbath and partook of the privileges and 
festivities of the three great Jewish feasts ; and if a servant died 
under the infliction of chastisement, his master was surely to be 
punished. As a tooth for a tooth, and life for life, was the Jewish 
law, of course he was punished with death. I know that great 
stress has been laid upon the following verse, " Notwithstanding 
if he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his 
money." 

Slaveholders, and the apologists of slavery, have eagerly seized 
upon this little passage of Scripture, and held it up as the masters' 
Magna Charta, by which they were licensed by God himself to 
commit the greatest outrages upon the defenceless victims of their 
oppression. But, my friends, was it designed to be so ? If our 
Heavenly Father would protect by law the eye and the tooth of a 
Hebrew servant, can we for a moment believe that he would aban- 
don that same servant to the brutal rage of a master who would 
destroy even life itself. Do Ave not rather see in this, the only law 
which protected masters, and was it not right that in case of the 
death of a servant, one or two days after chastisement was inflicted, 
to which other circumstances might have contributed, that the 
master should be protected, when, in all probability, he never in- 
tended to produce so fatal a result ? But the phrase " he is his 
money," has been adduced to show that Hebrew servants were re- 
garded as mere things, " chattels personal ;" if so, why were so 
many laws made to secure their rights as men, and to ensure their 
rising into equality and freedom ? If they were mere things, why 
were they regarded as responsible beings, and one law made for 
them as well as for their masters ? But I pass on now to the con- 
sideration of how the female Jewish servants were protected by 
law. 

1 . If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to him- 
self, then shall he let her be redeemed : to sell her unto another 
nation he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully 
with her. 

2. If he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her 
after the manner of daughters. 

3. If he take him another wife, her food, her raiment, and her 
duty of marriage, shall he not diminish. 

4. If he do not these three unto her, then shall she go out free 
without money. 

On these laws I will give you Calmet's remarks ; " A father 
could not sell his daughter as a slave, according to the Rabbins, 
until she was at the age of puberty, and unless he were reduced to 
the utmost indigence. Besides, when a master bought an Israel- 
itish girl, it was always with the presumption that he would take 
her to wife. Hence Moses adds, ' If she please not her master, and 
he does not think fit to marry her, he shall set her at liberty,' or 



9 

accoi'ding to the Hebrew, ' he shall let her be redeemed.' ' To sell 
her to another nation he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt 
deceitfully with iier ;' as to the engagement implied, at least of 
taking her to wife. ' If he have betrothed her unto his son, he 
shall deal with her after the manner of daughters, i. e. he shall take 
care that his son uses her as his wife, that he does not despise or 
maltreat her. If he make his son marry another wife, he shall 
give her her dowry, her clothes and compensation for her virginity ; 
if he does none of these three, she shall go out free without money.' " 
Thus were the rights of female servants carefully secured by law 
under the Jewish Dispensation ; and now I would ask, are the 
rights of female slaves at the South thus secured ? Are they sold 
only as wives and daughters-in-law, and when not treated as such, 
are they allowed to go out free ? No ! They have all not only 
been illegally obtained as servants according to Hebrew law, but 
they are also illegally held in bondage. Masters at the South and 
West have all forfeited their claims (if they ever had any), to their 
female slaves. 

We come now to examine the case of those servants who were 
" of the heathen round about ;" Were they left entirely unprotected 
by law ? Home, in speaking of the law, " Thou shalt not rule over 
him with rigour, but shalt fear thy God," remarks, " this law, Lev. 
xxv. 43, it is true, speaks expressly of slaves who were of Hebrew 
descent ; but as alien born slaves were ingrafted into the Hebrew 
Church by circumcision, there is no doubt but that it applied to all 
slaves ;" if so, then we may reasonably suppose that the other 
protective laws extended to them also; and that the only dif- 
ference between Hebrew and Heathen servants lay in this, that 
the former served but six years unless they chose to remain longer, 
and were always freed at the death of their masters ; whereas the 
latter served until the year of Jubilee, though that might include 
a period of forty-nine years, — and were left from father to son. 

There are, however, two other laws which I have not yet noticed. 
The one effectually prevented all involuntary servitude, and the 
other completely abolished Jewish servitude every fifty years. 
They were equally operative upon the Heathen and the Hebrew. 

1. " Thou shall not deliver unto his master the servant that is 
escaped from his master unto thee. He shall dwell with thee, 
even among you, in that place which he shall choose, in one of thy 
gates where it liketh him best : thou shall not oppress him." Deut. 
xxxiii. 15, 16. 

2. " And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim Liberty 
throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof: it shall 
be a Jubilee unto you." Deut. xxv. 10. 

Here, then, we see that by this first law, the door of Freedom was 
opened wide to every servant who had any cause whatever for com- 
plaint ; if he was unhappy with his master, all he had to do was 
to leave him, and no man had a right to deliver him back to him 
again : and not only so, but the absconded servant was to choose 
where he should live, and no Jew was permitted to oppress him. 
He left his master just as our northern servants leave us ; we 

B 



10 

have no power to compel them to remain Avith us, and no man 
has any right to oppress them ; they go and dwell in that place 
where it chooseth them, and live just where they like. Is it so at 
the South ? Is the poor runaway slave protected by laiv from the 
violence of that master whose oppression and cruelty has driven him 
from his plantation or his house ? No ! no ! Even the free States of 
the North are compelled to deliver unto his master the servant that 
is escaped from his master unto them. By human law, under the 
Christian Dispensation, in the nineteenth century, toe are com- 
manded to do, what God more than three thousand years ago, un- 
der the Mosaic Dispensation, positively commanded the Jews not 
to do. In the wide domain even of our free states, there is not 
one city of refuge for the poor runaway fugitive ; not one spot 
upon which he can stand and say, I am a free man — I am protect- 
ed in my rights as a man, by the strong arm of the law ; no ! not 
one. How long the North will thus shake hands with the South 
in sin, I know not. How long she will stand by like the persecu- 
tor Saul consenting unto the death of Stephen, and keeping the 
raiment of them that slew him, I know not ; but one thing I do 
know, the guilt of the North is increasing in a tremendous ratio as 
light is pouring in upon her on the subject and the sin of slavery. 
As the sun of righteousness climbs higher and higher in the moral 
heavens, she will stand still more and more abashed as the query 
is thundered down into her ear, "Wlio hath required this at thy 
hand !" It will be found no excuse then that the Constitution of 
our country required that persons hound to service, escaping from 
their masters, should be delivered up ; no more excuse than was 
the reason which Adam assigned for eating the forbidden fruit. 
He was condemned and punished because he hearkened to the 
voice of his wife, rather than to the command of his Maker ; and 
we will assuredly be condemned and punished for obeying Man 
rather than God, if we do not speedily repent, and bring forth 
fruits meet for repentance. Yea, are we not receiving chastise- 
ment even now ? 

But by the second of these laws a still more astonishing fact is 
disclosed. If the first effectually prevented all involuntary servi- 
tude, the last absolutely forbade even voluntary servitude being 
perpetual. On the great day of atonement, every fiftieth year, the 
Jubilee trumpet was sounded throughout the land of Judea, and 
Liberty was proclaimed to all the inhabitants thereof. I will not 
say that the servants' chains fell off, and their manacles were burst, 
for there is no evidence that Jewish servants ever felt the weight 
of iron chains, and collars, and handcuffs ; but I do say, that even 
the man who had voluntarily sold himself, and the heathen who 
had been sold to a Hebrew master, were set free, the one as well 
as the other. This law was evidently designed to prevent the op- 
pression of the poor, and the possibility of such a thing as perpetual 
servitude existing among them. 

Where, then, I would ask, is the warrant, the justification, or the 
palliation of American Slavery from Hebrew servitude ? How 
many of the southern slaves would now be in bondage according 



11 

to the laws of Moses ? Not one. You may observe that I have 
carefully avoided using the term slavery when speaking of Jewish 
servitude ; and simply for this reason, that no such thing existed 
among that people ; the word translated servant does not mean slave, 
it is the same that is applied to Abraham, to Moses, to Elisha, and the 
prophets generally. Slavery, then, never existed under the Jewish 
Dispensation at all, and I cannot but regard it as an aspersion on 
the character of Him who is " glorious in holiness," for any one to 
assert that " God sanctioned, yea, commanded slavery under the 
old dispensation." I would fain lift my feeble voice to vindicate 
Jehovah's character from so foul a slander. If slaveholders are 
determined to hold slaves as long as they can, let them not dare 
to say that the God of mercy and of truth ever sanctioned such a 
system of cruelty and wrong. It is blasphemy against Him. 

We have seen that the code of laws framed by Moses with re- 
gard to servants, was designed to protect them as men and women : 
to secure to them their rights as human beings : to guard them from 
oppression, and defend them from violence of every kind. Let us 
now turn to the Slave laws of the South and West, and examine 
them too. I will give you the substance only, because I fear I 
should trespass too much on your time, were I to quote them at 
length. 

1. Slavery is hereditary and perpetual, to the last moment of the 
slave's earthly existence, and to all his descendants to the latest 
posterity. 

2. The labour of the slave is compulsory and uncompensated ; 
while the kind of labour, the amount of toil, the time allowed for 
rest, are dictated solely by the master. No bargain is made, no 
wages given. A pure despotism governs the human brute ; and 
even his covering and provender, both as to quantity and quality, 
depend entirely on the master's discretion.* 

3. The slave being considered a personal chattel, may be sold, 
or pledged, or leased, at the will of his master. He may be ex- 
changed for marketable commodities, or taken in execution for the 
debts or taxes either of a living or dead master. Sold at auction, 
either individually, or in lots to suit the purchaser, he may remain 
with his family, or be separated from them for ever. 

4. Slaves can make no contracts, and have no legal right to any 
property, real or personal. Their own honest earnings, and the 
legacies of friends, belong in point of law to their masters. 

5. Neither a slave nor a free coloured person can be a witness 
against any white, or free person, in a court of justice, however 

* There are laws in some of the slave states, limiting the labour which the 
master may require of the slave to fourteen hours daily. In some of the states 
there are laws requiring the masters to furnish a certain amount of food and 
clothing, as for instance, one quart of corn per day, or one peck per week, or one 
bushel per month, and "owe linen shirt and pantaloons for the summer, and a 
linen shirt and woollen great-coat and pantaloons for the winter," &c. But 
" still," to use the language of Judge Stroud, "the slave is entirely under the 
control of his master, — is unprovided with a protector, — and, especially as he 
cannot be a witness or make complaint in any known mode against his master, 
the appareiit object of these laws may always be defeated.". — Ed. 



12 

atrocious may have been the crimes they have seen him commit, if 
such testimony would be for the benefit of a slave ; but they may 
give testimony against a felloiv slave, or free coloured man, even 
in cases affecting life, if the master is to reap the advantage of it. 

6. The slave may be punished at his master's discretion, — with- 
out trial, — without any means of legal redress ; whether his offence 
be real or imaginary ; and the master can transfer the same des- 
potic power to any person or persons he may choose to appoint. 

7. The slave is not allowed to resist any free man under any 
circumstances : his only safety consists in the fact that his owner 
may bring suit and recover the price of his body, in case his life 
is taken, or his limbs rendered unfit for labour. 

8. Slaves cannot redeem themselves, or obtain a change of mas- 
ters, though cruel treatment may have rendered such a change ne- 
cessary for their personal safety. 

9. The slave is entirely unprotected in his domestic relations. 

10. The laws greatly obstruct the manumission of slaves, even 
where the master is willing to enfranchise them. 

11. The operation of the laws tends to deprive slaves of reli- 
gious instruction and consolation. 

12. The whole power of the laws is exerted to keep slaves in a 
state of the lowest ignorance. 

13. There is in this country a monstrous inequality of law and 
right. What is a trifling fault in the white man, is considered 
highly criminal in the slave ; the same offences which cost a white 
man a few dollars only, are punished in the negro with death. 

14. The laws operate most oppressively upon free people of 
colour.* 

Shall I ask you now, my friends, to draw the parallel between 
Jewish servitude and American slavery ? No ! For there is no 
likeness in the two systems ; I ask you rather to mark the con- 
trast. The laws of Moses protected servants in their rights as men 
and women, guarded them from oppression, and defended them 
from wrong. The Code Noir of the South robs the slave of all his 
rights as a man, reduces him to a chattel personal, and defends 
the master in the exercise of the most unnatural and unwarrantable 
power over his slave. They each bear the impress of the hand 
which formed them. The attributes of justice and mercy are 
shadowed out in the Hebrew code ; those of injustice and cruelty 
in the Code Noir of America. Truly it was wise in the slave- 
holders of the South to declare their slaves to be " chattels per- 
sonal ;" for before they could be robbed of wages, wives, children, 
and friends, it was absolutely necessary to deny they were human 
beings. It is wise in them to keep them in abject ignorance, for 
the strong man armed must be bound before we can spoil his 
house, — the powerful intellect of man must be bound down with 
the iron chains of nescience before we can rob him of his rights as 
a man ; we must reduce him to a thing before we can claim the 
right to set our feet upon his neck, because it was only all things 

* See Mrs Child's Appeal, Chap, II. 



13 

which were originally put under the feet of man by the Almighty 
and Beneficent Father of all, who has declared himself to be no 
respecter of persons, whether red, white, or black. 

But some have even said that Jesus Christ did not condemn 
slavery. To this I reply, that our holy Redeemer lived and 
preached among the Jews only. The laws which Moses enacted 
fifteen hundred years previous to his appearance among them, had 
never been annulled, and these laws protected every servant in 
Palestine. If, then, he did not condemn Jewish servitude, this 
does not prove that he would not have condemned such a mon- 
strous system as that of American slavery, if that had existed among 
them. But did not Jesus condemn slavery ? Let us examine 
some of his precepts. " Wliatsoever ye would that men should do 
to you, do ye even so to them." Let every slaveholder apply these 
queries to his own heart : — Am / willing to be a slave ? Am / 
willing to see my wife the slave of another ? Am / willing to see 
my mother a slave, or my father, my sister, or my brother ? If 
not, then in holding others as slaves, I am doing what I would 
not wish to be done to me, or any relative I have ; and thus have I 
broken this golden rule which was given me to walk by. 

But some slaveholders have said, " we were never in bondage 
to any man," and therefore the yoke of bondage would be in- 
sufferable to us, but slaves are accustomed to it, their backs are 
fitted to the burden. Well, I am willing to admit that you who 
have lived in freedom would find slavery even more oppressive 
than the poor slave does, but then you may try this question in 
another form — " Am I willing to reduce my little child to slavery ?" 
You know that if it is brought up a slave it will never know any 
contrast, between freedom and bondage ; its back will become fit- 
ted to the burden just as the negro child's does — not by nature 
— but by daily, violent pressure, in the same way that the head of 
the Indian child becomes flattened by the boards in which it is 
bound. It has been justly remarked that " God never made a 
slave:" he made man upright; his back was not made to carry 
burdens, nor his neck to wear a yoke ; and the man must be 
crushed within him, before his back can be fitted to the burden of 
perpetual slavery ; and that his back is not fitted to it, is manifest 
by the insurrections that so often disturb the peace and security 
of slaveholding countries. Who ever heard of a rebellion of the 
beasts of the field ; and why not ? simply because they were all 
placed under the feet of man, into whose hand they were deli- 
vered ; it was originally designed that they should serve him, there- 
fore their necks have been formed for the yoke, and their backs for 
the burden ; but not so with man, intellectual, immortal man ! I 
appeal to you, my friends, as mothers ; Are you willing to enslave 
your children ? You start back with horror and indignation at 
such a question. But why, if slavery is no wrong to those upon 
whom it is imposed ? why, if, as has often been said, slaves are 
happier than their masters — free from the cares and perplexities of 
providing for themselves and their families ! why not place your 
children in the way of being supported without your having the 



14 

trouble to provide for them, or they for themselves ? Do you 
not perceive that as soon as this golden rule of action is applied 
to yourselves, that you involuntarily shrink from the test ; as soon 
as your actions are weighed in this balance of the sanctuary, that 
you are found wanting ? Try yourselves by another of the Divine 
precepts, — " Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." Can we 
love a man as we love ourselves, if we do, and continue to do, unto 
him, what we would not wish any one to do to us ? Look, too, 
at Christ's example; what does he say of himself? " I came not 
to be ministered unto, but to minister." Can you for a moment 
imagine the meek, and lowly, and compassionate Saviour, a slave- 
holder ? do you not shudder at this thought as mvich as at that of 
his being a warrior ? But why, if slavery is not sinful ? 

Again, it has been said, the Apostle Paul did not condemn 
Slavery, for he sent Onesimus back to Philemon. I do not think 
it can be said he sent him back, for no coercion was made use of. 
Onesimus was not thrown into prison, and then sent back in chains 
to his master, as your runaway slaves often are. This could not 
possibly have been the case, because you know Paul, as a Jew, was 
bound to protect the runaway : he had no right to send any fugitive 
back to his master. The state of the case then seems to have been 
this. Onesimus had been an unprofitable servant to Philemon, and 
left him ; he afterward became converted under the Apostle's 
preaching, and seeing that he had been to blame in his conduct, 
and desiring by future fidelity to atone for past error, he wished 
to return, and the Apostle gave him the letter we now have as a 
recommendation to Philemon, informing him of the conversion of 
Onesimus, and entreating him, as " Paul the aged," " to receive 
him, not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, 
especially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh 
and in the Lord. If thou count me therefore as a partner, receive 
him as myself." This, then, surely, cannot be forced into a justifi- 
cation of the practice of returning runaway slaves back to their 
masters, to be punished with cruel beatings and scourgings as they 
often are. Besides the word 8ov\os, here translated servant, is the 
same that is made use of in Matt, xviii. 27. Now it appears that 
this servant owed his lord ten thousand talents ; he possessed 
property to a vast amount. Onesimus could not then have been 
a slave, for slaves do not own their wives, or children ; no, not 
even their own bodies, much less property. But again, the servi- 
tude which the apostle was accustomed to, must have been very 
different from American slavery ; for he says, " the heir (or son), 
as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he 
be lord of all, but is under tutors and governors until the time 
appointed of the father." From this it appears, that the means of 
instruction were provided for servants as well as children ; and 
indeed we know it must have been so among the Jews, because 
their servants were not permitted to remain in perpetual bondage, 
and therefore it was absolutely necessary they should be prepared 
to occupy higher stations in society than those of servants. Is it 
so at the South, my friends ? Is the daily bread of instruction 



provided for your slaves ? are their minds enlightened, and they 
gradually prepared to rise from the grade of menials into that of 
free, independent members of the state ? Let your own statute 
book, and your own daily experience, answer these questions. 

If this apostle sanctioned slavery, Avhy did he exhort masters 
thus, in his epistle to the Ephesians, " and ye, masters, do the 
same things unto them (i. e. perform your duties to your servants 
as unto Christ, not unto me), forbearing threatening ; knowing 
that your master also is in heaven, neither is there respect of per- 
sons with him" And in Colossians, " Masters give unto your 
servants that which is just and equal, knowing that ye also have a 
master in heaven." Let slaveholders only obey these injunctions 
of Paul, and I am satisfied slavery would soon be abolished. If 
he thought it sinful even to threaten servants, surely he must have 
thought it sinful to flog and to beat them with sticks and paddles ; 
indeed, when delineating the character of a bishop, he expressly 
names this as one feature of it, " no striker." Let masters give 
unto their servants that which is just and equal, and all that vast 
system of unrequited labour would crumble into ruin. Yes, and if 
they once felt they had no right to the labour of their servants 
Avithout pay, surely they could not think they had a right to the 
wives, the children, and the bodies of slaves. Again, how can it be 
said Paul sanctioned slavery, when, as though to put this matter 
beyond all doubt, in that black catalogue of sins enumerated in 
his first epistle to Timothy, he mentions " menstealers," which 
word may be translated " slavedealers." But you may say, we all 
despise slavedealers as much as any one can ; they are never ad- 
mitted into genteel or respectable society. And why not ? Is it 
not because even you shrink back from the idea of associating 
with those who make their fortunes by trading in the bodies and 
souls of men, women, and children ? whose daily work it is to 
break human hearts, by tearing wives from their husbands, and 
children from their parents ? But why hold slavedealers as des- 
picable, if their trade is lawful and virtuous ? and why despise 
them more than the gentlemen of fortune and standing who employ 
them as their agents ? Why more than the professors of religion 
who barter their fellow-professors to them for gold and silver ? 
We do not despise the land agent, or the physician, or the mer- 
chant : and why ? Simply, because their professions are virtuous 
and honourable ; and if the trade of men-jobbers was honourable, 
you would not despise them either. There is no difference in 
principle, in Christian ethics, between the despised slavedealer, and 
the Christian who buys slaves from, or sells slaves to him. In- 
deed, if slaves were not wanted by the respectable, the wealthy, 
and the religious in a community, there would be no slaves in that 
community, and of course no slavedealers. It is then the Chris- 
tians, and the honourable men and women of the South, who are 
the main pillars of this grand temple built to Mammon and to 
Moloch. It is the most enlightened in every country who are 
most to blame when any public sin is supported by public opinion : 
hence Isaiah says, " When the Lord hath performed his whole 



16 

work upon mount Zion and on Jerusalem, (then) I will punish the 
fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of his 
high looks." And was it not so ? Open the historical records of 
that age : was not Israel carried into captivity b. c. 606 ? Judah b. c. 
588 ? and the stout heart of the heathen monarchy not punished un- 
til b. c. 536, fifty-two years after Judah's, and seventy years after 
Israel's captivity, when it was overthrown by Cyrus, king of Per- 
sia? Hence, too, the apostle Peter says, "judgment must begin 
at the house of God.'' Surely this would not be the case, if the 
professors of religion were not most worth?/ of blame. 

But it may be asked, why are they most culpable ? I will tell 
you, my friends. It is because sin is imputed to us just in propor- 
tion to the spiritual light we receive. Thus the prophet Amos 
says, in the name of Jehovah, " You only have I known of all the 
families of the earth ; therefore I will punish you for all your ini- 
quities." Hear, too, the doctrine of our Lord on this important 
subject : " The servant who kneiv his Lord's will, and prepared not 
himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with 
many stripes :" And why ? " For unto whomsoever much is given, 
of him shall much be required ; and to whom men have committed 
much, of him they will ask the more." Oh ! then, that the Chris- 
tians of the south would ponder these things in their hearts, and 
awake to the vast responsibilities which rest upon them at this im- 
portant crisis. 

I have thus, I think, clearly proved to you seven propositions, 
viz. : First, that slavery is contrary to the declaration of our inde- 
pendence. Second, that it is contrary to the first charter of hu- 
man rights given to Adam, and renewed to Noah. Third, that the 
fact of slavery having been the subject of prophecy, furnishes no 
excuse whatever to slavedealers. Fourth, that no such system 
existed under the patriarchal dispensation. Fifth, that slavery 
never existed under the Jewish dispensation ; but so far otherwise, 
that every servant was placed under the protection of laiv, and 
care taken, not only to prevent all involuntary servitude, but all 
voluntary perpetual bondage. Sixth, that slavery in America re- 
duces a man to a thing, a " chattel personal," robs him of all his 
rights as a human being, fetters both his mind and body, and pro- 
tects the master in the most unnatural and unreasonable power, 
whilst it throws him out of the protection of law. Seventh, that 
slavery is contrary to the example and precepts of our holy and 
merciful Redeemer, and of his apostles. 

But, perhaps you will be ready to query, why appeal to toomen 
on this subject? We do not make the laws which perpetuate 
slavery. No legislative power is vested in us ; ive can do nothing 
to overthrow the system, even if we wished to do so. To this I 
reply, I know you do not make the laws, but I also know that you 
are the wives and mothers, the sisters and daughters, of those ivho 
do ; and if you really suppose you can do nothing to overthrow 
slavery, you are greatly mistaken. You can do much in every 
way ; four things I will name. 1st, You can read on this subject. 
2d, You can pray over this subject. 3d, You can speak on this 



IT 

subject. 4th, You can act on this subject. I have placed read- 
ing before praying, not because I regard it more important, but 
because, in order to pray aright, we must understand what we are 
praying for ; it is only then we can " pray with the understanding 
and the spirit also." 

1. Read, then, on the subject of slavery. Search the Scriptures 
daily, whether the things I have told you are true. Other books 
and papers might be a great help to you in this investigation, but 
they are not necessary, and it is hardly probable that your Com- 
mittees of Vigilance will allow you to have any other. The Bible, 
then, is the book I want you to read in the spirit of inquiry, and 
the spirit of prayer. Even the enemies of Abolitionists acknow- 
ledge that their doctrines are drawn from it. In the great mob in 
Boston, last autumn, when the books and papers of the Anti- 
Slavery Society were thrown out of the windows of their office, 
one individual laid hold of the Bible, and was about tossing it out 
to the ground, when another reminded him that it was the Bible 
he had in his hand. " O ! 'tis all one," he replied, and out went 
the sacred volume along with the rest. We thank him for the 
acknowledgment. Yes, " it is all one" for our books and papers 
are mostly commentaries on the Bible, and the Declaration. Read 
the Bible then : it contains the words of Jesus, and they are spirit 
and life. Judge for yourselves, whether he sanctioned such a sys- 
tem of oppression and crime. 

2. Pray over this subject. When you have entered into your 
closets, and shut to the doors, then pray to your father who seeth in 
secret, that he would open your eyes to see whether slavery is sin- 
ful, and if it is, that he would enable you to bear a faithful, open, 
and unshrinking testimony against it, and to do whatsoever your 
hands find to do, leaving the consequences entirely to Him, who 
still says to us, whenever we try to reason away duty from the fear 
of consequences, " What is that to thee, follow thou me" Pray 
also for that poor slave, that he may be kept patient and submis- 
sive under his hard lot, until God is pleased to open the door of 
freedom to him, without violence or bloodshed. Pray, too, for the 
master, that his heart may be softened, and he made willing to ac- 
knowledge, as Joseph's brethren did, " Verily we are guilty concern- 
ing our brother," before he will be compelled to add, in consequence 
of Divine judgment, " therefore is all this evil come upon us." 
Pray also for all your brethren and sisters who are labouring in the 
righteous cause of Emancipation in the Northern States, England, 
and the world. There is great encouragement for prayer in these 
words of our Lord, — " Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my 
name, he will give it to you." Pray then without ceasing, in the 
closet and the social circle. 

3. Speak on this subject. It is through the tongue, the pen, 
and the press, that truth is principally propagated. Speak, then, 
to your relatives, your friends, your acquaintances, on the subject 
of slavery ; be not afraid if you are conscientiously convinced it is 
sinful, to say so openly, but calmly, and to let your sentiments be 
known. If you are served by the slaves of others, try to amelio- 



18 

rate their condition as much as possible ; never aggravate their 
faults, and thus add fuel to the fire of anger already kindled in a 
master and mistress's bosom ; remember their extreme ignorance, 
and consider them as your Heavenly Father does, the less culpable 
on this account, even when they do wrong things. Discounte- 
nance all cruelty to them, all starvation, all corporal chastisement ; 
these may brutalize and break their spirits, but will never bend 
them to willing, cheerful obedience. If possible, see that they are 
comfortably and seasonably fed, whether in the house or the field ; 
it is unreasonable and cruel to expect slaves to wait for their 
breakfast until eleven o'clock, when they rise at five or six. Do 
all you can to induce their owners to clothe them well, and to al- 
low them many little indulgences which would contribute to their 
comfort. Above all, try to persuade your husband, father, bro- 
thers, and sons, that slavery is a crime against God and man, and 
that it is a great sin to keep human beings in such abject igno- 
rance ; to deny them the privilege of learning to read and write. 
The Catholics are universally condemned for denying the Bible to 
the common people, but slaveholders must not blame them, for they 
are doing the very same thing, and for the very same reason, nei- 
ther of these systems can bear the light which bursts from the 
pages of that Holy Book. And lastly, endeavour to inculcate 
submission on the part of the slaves, but whilst doing this be faith- 
ful in pleading the cause of the oppressed. 

" Will you behold unheeding, 

Life's holiest feelings crushed ; 
When woman s heart is bleeding, 
Shall woman s voice be hushed ? " 

4. Act on this subject. Some of you own slaves yourselves. 
If you believe slavery is sinful, set them at liberty, " undo the 
heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free." If they wish to 
remain with you, pay them wages ; if not, let them leave you. 
Should they remain, teach them, and have them taught the com- 
mon branches of an English education ; they have minds, and 
those minds ought to be improved. So precious a talent as intel- 
lect, never was given to be wrapped in a napkin, and buried in the 
earth. It is the duty of all, as far as thej' can, to improve their 
own mental faculties, because we are commanded to love God 
with all our minds, as well as with all our hearts, and we commit 
a great sin, if we forbid or prevent that cultivation of the mind in 
others, which would enable them to perform this duty. Teach 
your servants then to read, &c, and encourage them to believe it 
is their duty to learn, if it were only that they might read the 
Bible. 

But some of you will say, we can neither free our slaves nor 
teach them to read, for the laws of our state forbid it. Be not 
surprised when I say such wicked laws ought to be no barrier in 
the way of your duty, and I appeal to the Bible to prove this 
position. What was the conduct of Shiphrah and Puah, when the 
king of Egypt issued his cruel mandate, with regard to the He- 



19 

brew children ? " Tliey feared God, and did not as the king of 
Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive." Did 
these women do right in disobeying that monarch ? " Therefore 
(says the sacred text), God dealt roell with them, and made them 
houses," Ex. i. What was the conduct of Shadrach, Meshach, and 
Abednego, when Nebuchadnezzar set up a golden image in the 
plain of Dura, and commanded all people, nations, and languages, 
to fall down and worship it ? " Be it known unto thee (said these 
faithful Jews), O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship 
the image which thou hast set up." Did these men do right in 
disobeying the law of their sovereign ? Let their miraculous de- 
liverance from the burning fiery furnace, answer ; Dan. iii. What 
was the conduct of Daniel, when Darius made a firm decree that 
no one should ask a petition of any man or God for thirty days ? 
Did the prophet cease to pray ? No ! " When Daniel knew that 
the writing was signed, he went into his house, and his windows 
being open toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three 
times a day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as he 
did aforetime." Did Daniel do right thus to break the law of his 
king ? Let his wonderful deliverance out of the mouths of the 
lions answer ; Dan. vii. Look, too, at the Apostles Peter and 
John. When the rulers of the Jews, " commanded them not to 
speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus," what did they say ? 
" Whether it be right in the sight of God, to hearken unto you 
more than unto God, judge ye." And what did they do ? " They 
spake the word of God with boldness, and with great power gave 
the Apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus ;" al- 
though this was the very doctrine, for the preaching of which, 
they had just been cast into prison, and further threatened. Did 
these men do right ? I leave you to answer, who now enjoy the 
benefits of their labours and sufferings, in that Gospel they dared 
to preach when positively commanded not to teach any more in the 
name of Jesus. Acts iv. 

But some of you may say, if we do free our slaves they will be 
taken up and sold, therefore there will be no use in doing it. Peter 
and John might just as well have said we will not preach the Gos- 
pel, for if we do, we shall be taken up and put in prison, therefore 
there will be no use in our preaching. Consequences, my friends, 
belong no more to you, than they did to these apostles. Duty is 
ours, and events are God's. If you think slavery is sinful, all you 
have to do is to set your slaves at liberty ; do all you can to pro- 
tect them ; and in humble faith and fervent prayer, commend them 
to your common Father. He can take care of them ; but if for 
wise purposes he sees fit to allow them to be sold, this will afford 
you an opportunity of testifjang openly, wherever you go, against 
the crime of manstealing. Such an act will be clear robbery, and 
if exposed, might, under the Divine direction, do the cause of 
Emancipation more gOGd, than any thing that could happen : — for, 
" He makes even the wrath of man to praise him, and the re- 
mainder of wrath he will restrain." 

I know that this doctrine of obeying God, rather than man, will 



SO 

be considered as dangerous, and heretical by many, but I am not 
afraid openly to avow it, because it is the doctrine of the Bible ; 
but I would not be understood to advocate resistance to any law, 
however oppressive, if, in obeying it, I was not obliged to commit 
sin. If, for instance, there was a law, which imposed imprison- 
ment or a fine upon me if I manumitted a slave, I would on no ac- 
count resist that law, I would set the slave free, and then go to 
prison, or pay the fine. If a law commands me to sin, I will break 
it ; if it calls me to suffer, I will let it take its course unresistingly. 
The doctrine of blind obedience and unqualified submission to any 
human power, whether civil or ecclesiastical, is the doctrine of 
despotism, and ought to have no place among Republicans and 
Christians. 

But you will perhaps say, such a course of conduct would inevi- 
tably expose us to great suffering. Yes ! my christian friends, I 
believe it would, but this will not excuse you or any one else for 
the neglect of duty. If Prophets and Apostles, Martyrs and Re- 
formers, had not been willing to suffer for the truth's sake, where 
would the world have been now ? If they had said, we cannot 
speak the truth, we cannot do what we believe is right, because the 
laws of our country or public opinion are against us, where would 
our holy religion have been now ? The Prophets were stoned, im- 
prisoned, and killed by the Jews. And why ? Because they 
exposed and openly rebuked public sins ; they opposed public 
opinion ; had they held their peace, they all might have lived in 
ease, and died in favour with a wicked generation. Why were 
the Apostles persecuted from city to city, stoned, incarcerated, 
beaten, and crucified ? Because they dared to speak the truth ; 
to tell the Jews, boldly and fearlessty, that they were the murderers 
of the Lord of Glory, and that, however great a stumbling block 
the Cross might be to them, there was no other name given under 
heaven by which men could be saved, but the name of Jesus. Be- 
cause they declared, even at Athens, the seat of learning and 
refinement, the self-evident truth, "that they be no gods that 
are made with men's hands," and exposed to the Grecians the 
foolishness of worldly wisdom, and the impossibility of salva- 
tion but through Christ, whom they despised on account of the 
ignominious death he died. Because at Rome, the proud mis- 
tress of the world, they thundered out the terrors of the law upon 
that idolatrous, war-making, and slaveholding community. Why 
were the martyrs stretched upon the rack, gibbeted, and burnt, 
the scorn and diversion of a Nero, whilst their tarred and 
burning bodies sent up a light which illuminated the Roman 
capital ? Why were the Waldenses hunted like wild beasts 
upon the mountains of Piedmont, and slain with the sword of the 
Duke of Savoy, and the proud monarch of France ? Why were 
the Presbyterians chased like the partridge over the highlands 
of Scotland, — the Methodists pumped upon, and stoned, and pelted 
with rotten eggs, — the Quakers incarcerated in filthy prisons, 
beaten, whipped at the cart's tail, banished, and hanged ? Because 
they dared to speak the truth ; to break the unrighteous laws of 



21 

their country ; and chose rather to suffer affliction with the people 
of God, " not accepting deliverance," even under the gallows. 
Why were Luther and Calvin persecuted and excommunicated, 
and Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer burnt ? Because they fear- 
lessly proclaimed the truth, though that truth was contrary to pub- 
lic opinion, and the authority of Ecclesiastical councils and conven- 
tions. Now, all this vast amount of human suffering might have 
been saved. All these Prophets and Apostles, Martyrs and Re- 
formers, might have lived and died in peace with all men ; but 
following the example of their great pattern, " they despised the 
shame, endured the cross, and are now set down on the right hand 
of the throne of God," having received the glorious welcome of 
" well done good and faithful servants, enter ye into the joy of 
your Lord." 

But you may say we are women, how can our hearts endure perse- 
cution ? And why not ? Have not women stood up in all the dig- 
nity and strength of moral courage to be the leaders of the people, 
and to bear a faithful testimony for the truth whenever the provid- 
ence of God has called them to do so ? Are there no women in 
that noble army of martyrs who are now singing the song of Moses 
and the Lamb ? Who led out the women of Israel from the house 
of bondage, striking the timbrel, and singing the song of deliver- 
ance on the banks of that sea, whose waters stood up like walls of 
crystal, to open a passage for their escape ? It was a woman ; 
Miriam, the prophetess, the sister of Moses and Aaron. Who went 
up with Barak to Kadesh to fight against Jabin, King of Canaan, 
into whose hand Israel had been sold, because of their iniquities ? 
It was a a woman ! Deborah the wife of Lapidoth, the judge, as 
well as the prophetess of that backsliding people ; Judges iv. 9- 
Into whose hands was Sisera, the captain of Jabin's host delivered? 
Into the hand of a woman. Jael the wife of Heber ! Judges vi. 
21. Who dared to speak the truth concerning those judgments 
which were coming upon Judea, when Josiah, alarmed at finding 
that his people " had not kept the word of the Lord, to do after all 
that was written in the book of the Law," sent to inquire of the 
Lord concerning these things ? It was a woman. Huldah the 
prophetess, the wife of Shallum ; 2 Chron. xxxiv. 22. Who was 
chosen to deliver the whole Jewish nation, from that murderous 
decree of Persia's King, which wicked Haman had obtained by 
calumny and fraud ? It was a icoman ; Esther the Queen. 
Yes, weak and trembling woman was the instrument appointed by 
God, to reverse the bloody mandate of the eastern monarch, and 
save the whole visible church from destruction. What human voice 
first proclaimed to Mary that she should be the mother of our Lord ? 
It was a woman 1 Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias ; Luke i. 42, 
43. Who united with the good old Simeon in giving thanks pub- 
licly in the temple, when the child, Jesus, was presented there by 
his parents, "and spake of him to all them that looked for redemp- 
tion in Jerusalem?" It was a woman! Anna the prophetess. 
Who first proclaimed Christ as the true Messiah in the streets of 
Samaria, once the capital of the ten tribes ? It was a woman I 



2& 

Who ministered to the Son of God whilst on earth, a despised and 
persecuted Reformer, in the humble garb of a carpenter ? They 
were women ! Who followed the rejected King of Israel, as his 
fainting footsteps trod the road to Calvary ? "A great company 
of people and of women ;" and it is remarkable that to them alone, 
he turned and addressed the pathetic language, " Daughters of 
Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves and your 
children." Ah ! who sent unto the Roman Governor when he 
was set down on the judgment seat, saying unto him, "Have thou 
nothing to do with that just man, for I have suffered many things 
this day in a dream because of him ?" It was a woman ! the wife 
of Pilate. Although " he hneio that for envy the Jews had deliver- 
ed Christ," yet he consented to surrender the Son of God into the 
hands of a brutal soldiery, after having himself scourged his naked 
body. Had the wife of Pilate sat upon that judgment seat, what 
would have been the result of the trial of this "just person ?" 

And who last hung round the cross of Jesus, on the mountain of 
Golgotha ? Who first visited the sepulchre early in the morning 
on the first day of the week, canying sweet spices to embalm his 
precious body, not knowing that it was incorruptible, and could not 
be holden by the bands of death ? These were women ! To 
whom did he first appear after his resurrection ? It was to a 
woman ! Mary Magdalene ; Mark xvi. 9- Who gathered with 
the apostles to wait at Jerusalem, in prayer and supplication, for 
" the promise of the Father ;" the spiritual blessing of the Great 
High Priest of his Church, who had entered, not into the splendid 
temple of Solomon, there to offer the blood of bulls and of goats, 
and the smoking censer upon the golden altar, but into Heaven 
itself, there to present his intercessions, after having " given him- 
self for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling 
savour?" Women were among that holy company ; Acts i. 14. 
And did women wait in vain ? Did those who had ministered to 
his necessities, followed in his train, and wept at his crucifixion, 
wait in vain ? No ! No ! Did the cloven tongues of fire descend 
upon the heads of women as well as men ? Yes, my friends, " it 
sat upon each of them ;" Acts ii. 3. Women, as well as men, were 
to be living stones in the temple of grace, and therefore their heads 
were consecrated by the descent of the Holy Ghost, as well as 
those of men. Were women recognized as fellow-labourers in the 
f pel field? They were! Paul says, in his epistle to the Phil- 
;s, " help those women who laboured with me in the gospel ;" 
, iv. 3. 

But this is not all. Roman women were burnt at the stake ; 
their delicate limbs were torn joint from joint by the ferocious 
beasts of the Amphitheatre, and tossed by the wild bull in his 
fury, for the diversion of that idolatrous, warlike, and slaveholding 
people. Yes, ivomen suffered under the ten persecutions of hea- 
then Rome, with the most unshrinking constancy and fortitude ; 
not all the entreaties of friends, nor the claims of new born in- 
fanc3 r , nor the cruel threats of enemies, could make them sprinkle 
one grain of incense upon the altars of Roman idols. Come now 



28 

with me to the beautiful valleys of Piedmont. Whose blood 
stains the green sward, and decks the wild flowers with colours 
not their own, and smokes on the sword of persecuting France ? 
It is woman's, as well as man's ! Yes, women were accounted as 
sheep from the slaughter, and were cut down as the tender sap- 
lings of the wood. 

But time would fail me to tell of all those hundreds and thou- 
sands of tvomen who perished in the low countries of Holland, 
when Alva's sword of vengeance was unsheathed against the 
Protestants, when the Catholic Inquisitions of Europe became the 
merciless executioners of vindictive wrath upon those who dared 
to worship God, instead of bowing down in holy adoration before 
" my Lord God, the Pope" and when England, too, burnt her 
Ann Ascoes at the stake of martyrdom. Suffice it to say, that the 
Church, after having been driven from Judea to Rome, and from 
Rome to Piedmont, and from Piedmont to England, and from 
England to Holland, at last stretched her fainting wings over the 
dark bosom of the Atlantic ; and found, on the shores of a great 
wilderness, a refuge from tyranny and oppression, as she thought ; 
but even here (the warm blush of shame mantles my cheek as I 
write it), even here, woman was beaten and banished, imprisoned, 
and hung upon the gallows, a trophy to the Cross. 

And what, I would ask in conclusion, have tvomen done for the 
great and glorious cause of Emancipation ? Who wrote that pam- 
phlet which moved the heart of Wilberforce to pray over the 
wrongs, and his tongue to plead the cause of the oppressed Afri- 
can ? It was a woman, Elizabeth Heyrick. Who laboured assid- 
uously to keep the sufferings of the slave continually before the 
British public ? They were women. And how did they do it ? 
By their needles, paint-brushes, and pens ; by speaking the truth, 
and petitioning Parliament for the abolition of slavery. And what 
was the effect of their labours ? Read it in the Emancipation bill 
of Great Britain. Read it in the present state of her West India 
Colonies. Read it in the impulse which has been given to the 
cause of freedom in the United States of America. Have English 
women, then, done so much for the negro, and shall American 
women do nothing ? Oh no ! Already are there sixty female 
Anti-Slavery Societies in operation. These are doing just what 
the English women did : telling the story of the coloured man's 
wrongs; praying for his deliverance; and presenting his kneeling 
image constantly before the public eye on bags and needle-books, 
card-racks, pen-wipers, pin-cushions, &c. Even the children of 
the north have inscribed on their handy-work, " May the points of 
our needles prick the slaveholder's conscience." Some of the re- 
ports of these Societies exhibit not only considerable talent, but a 
deep sense of religious duty, and a determination to persevere 
through evil as well as good report, until every scourge, and every 
shackle, is buried under the feet of the manumitted slave. 

The Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society of Boston was calledlast autumn 
to a severe trial of their faith and constancy. They were mobbed 
by " the gentlemen of property and standing," in that city, at their 



24 

anniversary meeting ; and their lives were jeoparded by an infuri- 
ated crowd ; but their conduct on that occasion did credit to our 
sex, and affords a full assurance that they will never abandon the 
cause of the slave. The pamphlet, " Right and Wrong in Boston," 
issued by them, in which a particular account is given of that " mob 
of broad cloth in broad day," does equal credit to the head and the 
heart of her who wrote it. I wish vaj Southern sisters could read 
it ; they would then understand that the women of the North have 
engaged in this work from a sense of religious duty, and that no- 
thing will ever induce them to take their hands from it until it is 
fully accomplished. They feel no hostility to you, no bitterness 
or wrath ; they rather sympathize in your trials and difficulties ; 
but they well know, that the first thing to be done to help you, is 
to pour in the light of truth on your minds, to urge you to reflect 
on, and pray over the subject. This is all they can do for you, 
you must work out your own deliverance with fear and trembling ; 
and with the direction and blessing of God, you can do it. North- 
ern women may labour to produce a correct public opinion at 
the North, but if Southern women sit down in listless indifference 
and criminal idleness, public opinion cannot be rectified and puri- 
fied at the South. It is manifest to every reflecting mind, that 
slavery must be abolished ; the era in which we live, and the light 
which is overspreading the whole world on this subject, clearly 
show that the time cannot be distant when it will be done. Now, 
there are only two ways in which it can be effected, by moral 
power, or physical force, and it is for you to choose which of these 
you prefer. Slavery always has, and always will, produce insur- 
rections wherever it exists, because it is a violation of the natural 
order of things, and no human power can much longer perpetuate 
it. The opposers of abolitionists fully believe this ; one of them 
remarked to me not long since, " there is no doubt there will be a 
most terrible overturning at the South in a few years, such cruelty 
and wrong must be visited with Divine vengeance soon." Aboli- 
tionists believe, too, that this must inevitably be the case if you 
do not repent, and they are not willing to leave you to perish 
without entreating you to save yourselves from destruction ; well 
may they say with the apostle, " am I then your enemy because I 
tell you the truth," and warn you to flee from impending judgments. 
But why, my dear friends, have I thus been endeavouring to lead 
you through the history of more than three thousand years, and to 
point you to that great cloud of witnesses who have gone before, 
" from works to rewards ?" Have I been seeking to magnify the 
sufferings, and exalt the character of woman, that she " might have 
praise of men?" No! no! my object has been to arouse you, as 
the wives and mothers, the daughters and sisters of the South, to a 
sense of your duty as women, and as Christian women, on that great 
subject, which has already shaken our country, from the St Law- 
rence and the lakes to the Guff of Mexico, and from the Mississippi 
to the shores of the Atlantic ; and will continue mightily to shake 
it, until the polluted temple of slavery fall and crumble into ruin. 
I would say unto each one of you, " what meanest thou, O sleeper ! 



25 

arise and call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us 
that we perish not." Perceive you not that dark cloud of ven- 
geance which hangs over our boasting Republic ? Saw you not the 
lightnings of Heaven's wrath in the flame which leaped from the 
Indian's torch to the roof of yonder dwelling, and lighted with its 
horrid glare the darkness of midnight ? Heard you not the thun- 
ders of Divine anger, as the distant roar of the cannon came roll- 
ing onward from the Texian country, where Protestant American 
Rebels are fighting with Mexican Republicans — for what ? For the 
re-establishment of slavery ; yes ! of American slavery in the bosom 
of a Catholic Republic, where that sj-stem of robbery, violence, and 
wrong, had been legally abolished for seven years. Yes ! citizens 
of the United States, after plundering Mexico of her land, are now 
engaged in deadly conflict for the privilege of fastening chains, 
and collars, and manacles — upon whom? upon the subjects of some 
foreign prince ? No ! upon native born American Repubnean citi- 
zens, although the fathers of these very men declared to the whole 
world, while struggling to free themselves from the three-penny 
taxes of an English king, that they believed it to be a self-evident 
truth that all men were created equal, and had an unalienable right 
to liberty. 

Well may the poet exclaim in bitter sarcasm, 

" The fustian flag that proudly wave?, 
In solemn mockery o'er a land of slaves." 

Can you not, my friends, understand the signs of the times ; do 
you not see the sword of retributive justice hanging over the 
South, or are you still slumbering at your posts ? — Are there no 
Shiphrahs, no Puahs among you, who will dare in Christian firm- 
ness and Christian meekness, to refuse to obey the wicked laics 
which require woman to enslave, to degrade, and to brutalize woman? 
Are there no Miriams who would rejoice to lead out the captive 
daughters of the Southern States to liberty and light ? Are there 
no Huldahs there who will dare to speak the truth concerning the 
sins of the people, and those judgments, which it requires no pro- 
phet's eye to see, must follow, if repentance is not speedily sought ? 
Is there no Esther among you who will plead for the poor devoted 
slave ? Read the history of this Persian queen, it is full of instruc- 
tion ; she at first refused to plead for the Jews ; but hear the words 
of Mordecai, " Think not within thyself that thou shalt escape in 
the king's house more than all the Jews, for if thou altogether holdest 
thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance 
arise to the Jews from another place : but thou and thy father's 
house shall be destroyed.'' Listen, too, to her magnanimous reply 
to this powerful appeal; " I will go in unto the king, which is not 
according to law, and if I perish, I perish."' Yes ! if there were 
but one Esther at the South, she might save her country from ruin ; 
but let the Christian women there arise, as the Christian women of 
Great Britain did, in the majesty of moral power, and that salva- 
tion is certain. Let them embody themselves in societies, and send 
petitions up to their different legislatures, entreating their husbands, 



26 

fathers, brothers, and sons, to abolish the institution of slavery ; no 
longer to subject woman to the scourge and the chain, to mental 
darkness and moral degradation ; no longer to tear husbands from 
their wives, and children from their parents ; no longer to make 
men, women, and children, work without wages ; no longer to make 
their lives bitter in hard bondage ; no longer to reduce American 
citizens to the abject condition of slaves, of " chattels personal ;" 
no longer to barter the image of God in human shambles for cor- 
ruptible things such as silver and gold. 

The women of the South can overthrow this horrible system of 
oppression and cruelty, licentiousness and wrong. Such appeals to 
your legislatures would be irresistible, for there is something in the 
heart of man which ivill bend under moral suasion. There is a 
swift witness for truth in his bosom, which will respond to truth 
when it is uttered with calmness and dignity. If you could obtain 
but six signatures to such a petition in only one state, I would say, 
send up that petition, and be not in the least discouraged by the 
scoffs and jeers of the heartless, or the resolution of the house to 
lay it on the table. It will be a great thing if the subject can be 
introduced into your legislatures in any way, even by women, and 
they will be the most likely to introduce it there in the best pos- 
sible manner, as a matter of morals and religion, not of expediency 
or politics. You may petition, too, the different ecclesiastical bo- 
dies of the slave states. Slavery must be attacked with the whole 
power of truth and the sword of the spirit. You must take it up 
on Christian ground, and fight against it with Christian weapons, 
whilst your feet are shod with the preparation of the gospel of 
peace. And you are now loudly called upon by the cries of the 
widow and the orphan, to arise and gird yourselves for this great 
moral conflict, with the whole armour of righteousness upon the 
right hand and on the left. 

There is every encouragement for you to labour and pray, my 
friends, because the abolition of slavery as well as its existence has 
been the theme of prophecy. " Ethiopia (says the Psalmist) shall 
stretch forth her hands unto God." And is she not now doing so ? 
Are not the Christian negroes of the south lifting their hands in 
prayer for deliverance, just as the Israelites did when their redemp- 
tion was drawing nigh ? Are they not sighing and crying by rea- 
son of the hard bondage ? And think you that He, of whom it 
was said, " and God heard their groaning, and their cry came up 
unto him by reason of the hard bondage," think you that his ear is 
heavy that he cannot note hear the cries of his suffering children? 
Or that He who raised up a Moses, an Aaron, and a Miriam, to 
bring them up out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage, 
cannot now, with a high hand, and a stretched out arm, save the 
poor negroes out of the hands of their masters ? Surely you be- 
lieve that his arm is not shortened that he cannot save. And 
would not such a work of mercy redound to his glory? But ano- 
ther string of the harp of prophecy vibrates to the song of deliver- 
ance : " But they shall sit every man under his vine, and under his 
fig-tree, and none shall make them afraid ; for the mouth of the 



Lord of Hosts hath spoken it." The slave never can do this as 
long as he is a slave ; whilst he is a "chattel personal," he can own 
no property ; but the time is to come when every man is to sit un- 
der his oxen vine and his own fig-tree, and no domineering driver, 
or irresponsible master, or irascible mistress, shall make him afraid 
of the chain or the whip. Hear, too, the sweet tones of another 
string : " Many shall run to and fro, and hnowledge shall be in- 
creased." Slavery is an insurmountable barrier to the increase of 
knowledge in every community where it exists ; slavery, then, must 
be abolished before this prediction can be fulfilled. The last chord 
I shall touch will be this, " They shall not hurt nor destroy in all 
my holy mountain." 

Slavery, then, must be overthrown before the prophecies can be 
accomplished ; but how are they to be fulfilled ? Will the wheels 
of the millennial car be rolled onward by miraculous power ? No! 
God designs to confer this holy privilege upon man ; it is through 
his instrumentality that the great and glorious work of reforming 
the world is to be done. And see you not how the mighty engine 
of moral power is dragging in its rear the Bible and peace societies, 
anti-slavery and temperance, sabbath schools, moral reform, and 
missions ? or to adopt another figure, do not these seven philan- 
thropic associations compose the beautiful tints in that bow of pro- 
mise which spans the arch of our moral heaven ? Who does not 
believe, that if these societies were broken up, their constitutions 
burnt, and the vast machinery with which they are labouring to re- 
generate mankind was stopped, that the black clouds of vengeance 
would soon burst over our world, and every city would witness the 
fate of the devoted cities of the plain ? Each one of these societies 
is walking abroad through the earth scattering the seeds of truth 
over the wide field of our world, not with the hundred hands of a 
Briareus, but with a hundred thousand. 

Another encouragement for you to labour, my friends, is, that 
you will have the prayers and co-operation of English and North- 
ern philanthropists. You will never bend your knees in supplica- 
tion at the throne of grace for the overthrow of slavery, without 
meeting there the spirits of other Christians, who will mingle their 
voices with yours, as the morning or evening sacrifice ascends to 
God. Yes, the spirit of prayer and of supplication has been pour- 
ed out upon many, many hearts ; there are wrestling Jacobs who 
will not let go of the prophetic promises of deliverance for the cap- 
tive, and the opening of prison doors to them that are bound. 
There are Pauls who are saying, in reference to this subject, 
" Lord, what wilt thou have me to do ?" There are Marys sitting 
in the house now, who are ready to arise and go forth in this work 
as soon as the message is brought, " the master is come and call- 
eth for thee P" And there are Marthas, too, who have already gone 
out to meet Jesus, as he bends his footsteps to their brother's 
grave, and weeps, not over the lifeless body of Lazarus bound hand 
and foot in grave-clothes, but over the politically and intellectually 
lifeless slave, bound hand and foot in the iron chains of oppression 
and ignorance. Some may be ready to say, as Martha did, who 



28 

seemed to expect nothing but sympathy from Jesus, " Lord, by 
this time he stinketh, for he hath been dead- four days." She 
thought it useless to remove the stone and expose the loathsome 
body of her brother; she could not believe that so great a miracle 
could be wrought, as to raise that putrified body into life ; but 
" Jesus said, take ye away the stone ; and when they had taken 
away the stone where the dead was laid, and uncovered the body 
of Lazarus, then it was that " Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, 
Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me," &c. " And when 
he had thus spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come 
forth." Yes, some may be ready to say of the coloured race, how 
can they ever be raised politically and intellectually, they have been 
dead four hundred years ? But tee have nothing to do with how 
this is to be done ; our business is to take away the stone which 
has covered up the dead body of our brother, to expose the putrid 
carcass, to show how that body has been bound with the grave- 
clothes of heathen ignorance, and his face with the napkin of pre- 
judice, and having done all it was our duty to do, to stand by the 
negro's grave, in humble faith and holy hope, waiting to hear the 
life-giving command of " Lazarus, come forth." This is just what 
Anti-Slavery Societies are doing ; they are taking away the stone 
from the mouth of the tomb of slavery, where lies the putrid carcass 
of our brother. They want the pure light of heaven to shine into 
that dark and gloomy cave ; they want all men to see how that dead 
body has been bound, how that face has been wrapped in the nap- 
kin of prejudice ; and shall they wait beside that grave in vain ? 
Is not Jesus still the resurrection and the life ? Did He come to 
proclaim liberty to the captive, and the opening of prison doors to 
them that are bound in vain ? Did He promise to give beauty for 
ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, and the garment of praise for the 
spirit of heaviness unto them that mourn in Zion, and will He re- 
fuse to beautify the mind, anoint the head, and throw around the 
captive negro the mantle of praise for that spirit of heaviness, which 
has so long bound him down to the ground ? Or shall we not ra- 
ther say with the prophet, " the zeal of the Lord of Hosts will per- 
form this ?'' Yes, his promises are sure, and amen in Christ Jesus, 
that he will assemble her that halteth, and gather her that is driven 
out, and her that is afflicted. 

But I will now say a few words on the subject of Abolitionism. 
Doubtless you have all heard Anti-Slavery Societies denounced as 
insurrectionary and mischievous, fanatical and dangerous. It has 
been said they publish the most abominable untruths, and that they 
are endeavouring to excite rebellions at the South. Have you be- 
lieved these reports, my friends ? have you also been deceived by 
these false assertions ? Listen to me, then, whilst I endeavour to 
wipe from the fair character of Abolitionism such unfounded accu- 
sations. You know that /am a Southerner; you know that my 
dearest relatives are now in a slave state. Can you for a moment 
believe I would prove so recreant to the feelings of a daughter and 
a sister, as to join a society which was seeking to overthrow sla- 
very by falsehood, bloodshed, and murder ? I appeal to you who 



29 

have known and loved me in days that are passed, can you believe 
it? No! my friends. As a Carolinian, I was peculiarly jealous of 
any movements on this subject ; and before I would join an Anti- 
Slavery Society, I took the precaution of becoming acquainted 
with some of the leading Abolitionists, of reading their publications 
and attending their meetings, at which I heard addresses both from 
coloured and white men ; and it was not until I was fully convin- 
ced that their principles were entirely pacific, and their efforts only 
moral, that I gave my name as a member to the Female Anti-Sla- 
very Society of Philadelphia. Since that time, I have regularly 
taken the Liberator, and read many Anti-Slavery pamphlets and 
papers and books, and can assure you I never have seen a single 
insurrectionary paragraph, and never read any account of cruelty 
which I could not believe. Southerners may deny the truth of 
these accounts, but why do they not prove them to be false. Their 
violent expressions of horror at such accounts being believed, may 
deceive some, but they cannot deceive me, for I lived too long in 
the midst of slavery, not to know what slavery is. When / speak 
of this system, " I speak that I do know," and I am not at all 
afraid to assert, that Anti-Slavery publications have not overdrawn 
the monstrous features of slavery at all. And many a Southerner 
knows this as well as I do. A lady in North Carolina remarked to 
a friend of mine about eighteen months since, " Northerners know 
nothing at all about slavery ; they think it is perpetual bondage 
only ; but of the depth of degradation that word involves, they have 
no conception ; if they had, they would never cease their efforts un- 
til so horrible a system was overthrown." She did not know how 
faithfully some Northern men and Northern women had studied 
this subject ; how diligently they had searched out the cause of 
" him who had none to help him," and how fearlessly they had told 
the story of the negro's wrongs. Yes, Northerners know every 
thing about slavery now. This monster of iniquity has been un- 
veiled to the world, her frightful features unmasked, and soon, 
very soon will she be regarded with no more complacency by the 
American Republic, than is the idol of Juggernaut, rolling its bloody 
wheels over the crushed bodies of its prostrate victims. 

But you will probably ask, if Anti-Slavery societies are not in- 
surrectionary, why do Northerners tell us they are ? Why, I 
would ask you in return, did Northern senators and Northern re- 
presentatives give their votes, at the last sitting of congress, for the 
admission of Arkansas Territory as a State ? Take those men, one 
by one, and ask them in their parlours, do you approve of slavery ? 
ask them on Northern ground, where they will speak the truth, and 
I doubt not every man of them will tell you, no ! Why then, I 
ask, did they give their votes to enlarge the mouth of that grave 
which has already destroyed its tens of thousands ? All our 
enemies tell us they are as much anti-slavery as we are. Yes, my 
friends, thousands who are helping you to bind the fetters of 
slavery on the negro, despise you in their hearts for doing it ; 
they rejoice that such an institution has not been entailed upon 
them. Why then, I would ask, do they lend you their help ? 1 



30 

will tell you, " they love the praise of men more than the praise of 
God." The Abolition cause has not yet become' so popular as to 
induce them to believe, that by advocating it in congress, they 
shall sit more securely in their seats there, and like the chief rulers 
in the days of our Saviour, though many believed on him, yet they 
did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue ; 
John xii. 42, 43. Or, perhaps like Pilate, thinking they could 
prevail nothing, and fearing a tumult, they determined to release 
Barabbas and surrender the just man, the poor innocent slave to 
be stripped of his rights and scourged. In vain will such men try 
to wash their hands, and say, with the Roman governor, " I am 
innocent of the blood of this just person." Northern American 
statesmen are no more innocent of the crime of slavery, than Pilate 
was of the murder of Jesus, or Saul of that of Stephen. These 
are high charges, but I appeal to their hearts ; I appeal to public 
opinion ten years from now. Slavery then is a national sin. 

But you will say, a great many other Northerners tell us so, 
who can have no political motives. The interests of the North, 
you must know, my friends, are very closely combined with those 
of the South. The Northern merchants and manufacturers are 
making their fortunes out of the produce of slave labour ; the 
grocer is selling your rice and sugar ; how then can these men bear 
a testimony against slavery without condemning themselves ? But 
there is another reason, the North is most dreadfully afraid of 
Amalgamation. She is alarmed at the very idea of a thing so 
monstrous, as she thinks. And lest this consequence might flow 
from emancipation, she is determined to resist all efforts at eman- 
cipation without expatriation. It is not because she approves of 
slavery, or believes it to be " the corner stone of our republic," for 
she is as much anti-slavery as we are ; but amalgamation is too 
horrible to think of. Now I would ask you, is it right, is it gene- 
rous, to refuse the coloured people in this country the advantages 
of education, and the privilege, or rather the right, to follow ho- 
nest trades and callings merely because they are coloured. The 
same prejudice exists here against our coloured brethren that existed 
against the Gentiles in Judea. Great numbers cannot bear the 
idea of equality, and fearing lest, if they had the same advantages 
we enjoy, they would become as intelligent, as moral, as religious, 
and as respectable and wealthy, they are determined to keep them 
as low as they possibly can. Is this doing as they would be done 
by ? Is this loving their neighbour as themselves ? Oh ! that such 
opposers of Abolitionism would put their souls in the stead of the 
free coloured man's and obey the apostolic injunction, " remember 
them that are in bonds as bound with them." I will leave you to 
judge whether the fear of amalgamation ought to induce men to 
oppose anti-slavery efforts, when they believe slavery to be sinful. 
Prejudice against colour is the most powerful enemy we have to 
fight with at the North. 

You need not be surprised, then, at all, at what is said against 
Abolitionists by the North, for they are wielding a two-edged sword, 
which, even here, cuts through the cords of caste, on the one side, 



SI 

and the bonds of interest on the other. They are only sharing tha 
fate of other reformers, abused and reviled whilst they are in the 
minority ; but they are neither angry nor discouraged by the 
invective which has been heaped upon them by slaveholders at the 
South, and their apologists at the North. They know that when 
George Fox and William Edmundson were labouring in behalf of 
the negroes in the West Indies, in 1671, that the very same slan- 
ders were propagated against them, which are nmv circulated 
against Abolitionists. Although it was well known that Fox was 
the founder of a religious sect which repudiated all war, and all 
violence, yet even he was accused of " endeavouring to excite the 
slaves to insurrection, and of teaching the negroes to cut their 
master's throats." And these two men who had their feet shod 
with the preparation of the Gospel of Peace, were actually com- 
pelled to draw up a formal declaration, that they tvere not trying 
to raise a rebellion in Barbadoes. It is also worthy of remark, 
that these Reformers did not at this time see the necessity of 
emancipation under seven years, and their principal efforts were 
exerted to persuade the planters of the necessity of instructing 
their slaves ; but the slaveholder saw then, just what the slave- 
holder sees now, that an enlightened population never can be a 
slave population, and therefore they passed a law, that negroes 
should not even attend the meetings of Friends. Abolitionists 
know that the life of Clarkson was sought by slavetraders, and that 
even Wilberforce was denounced on the floor of Parliament as a 
fanatic and a hypocrite, by the present king of England, the very 
man who, in 1 834, set his seal to that instrument which burst the 
fetters of eight hundred thousand slaves in his West India colonies. 
They know that the first Quaker who bore a faithful testimony 
against the sin of slavery, was cut off from religious fellowship 
with that society. That Quaker was a tooman. On her deathbed 
she sent for the committee who dealt with her, — she told them the 
near approach of death had not altered her sentiments on the sub- 
ject of slavery, and, waving her hand toward a very fertile and 
beautiful portion of country which lay stretched before her win- 
dow, she said with great solemnity, " Friends, the time will come 
when there will not be friends enough in all this district to hold 
one meeting for worship, and this garden will be turned into a 
wilderness." 

The aged friend, who, with tears in his eyes, related this in- 
teresting narrative to me, remarked, that at that time there were 
seven meetings of friends in that part of Virginia, but that when 
he was there ten years ago, not a single meeting was held, and the 
country was literally a desolation. Soon after her decease, John 
Woolman began his labours in our society, and instead of disown- 
ing a member for testifying against slavery, they have for fifty- 
two years positively forbidden their members to hold slaves. 

Abolitionists understand the slaveholding spirit too well to be 
surprised at anything that has yet happened at the South or the 
North ; they know that the greater the sin is, which is exposed, 
the more violent will be the efforts to blacken the character, and 



32 

impugn the motives of those who are engaged in bringing to light 
the hidden things of darkness. They understand the work of lie- 
form too well to be driven back by the furious waves of opposi- 
tion, which are only foaming out their own shame. They have 
stood " the world's dread laugh," when only twelve men formed 
the first Anti-Slavery Society in Boston, in 1831. They have 
faced and refuted the calumnies of their enemies, and proved 
themselves to be emphatically peace men, by never resisting the 
violence of mobs, even when driven by them from the temple of 
God, and dragged by an infuriated crowd through the streets of 
the emporium of New England, or subjected by slaveholders to. 
the pain of corporal punishment. " None of these things move 
them ;" and, by the grace of God, they are determined to perse- 
vere in this work of faith, and labour of love : they mean to pray, 
and preach, and write, and print, until slavery is completely over- 
thrown, — until Babylon is taken up and cast into the sea, to " be 
found no more at all." They mean to petition Congress year af- 
ter year, until the seat of our government is cleansed from the sin- 
ful traffic in " slaves and the souls of men." Although that august 
assembly may be like the unjust judge who " feared not God, nei- 
ther regarded man," yet it must yield, just as he did, from the 
power of importunity. Like the unjust judge, Congress must 
redress the wrongs of the widow, lest by the continual coining up 
of petitions it be wearied. This will be striking the dagger into, 
the very heart of the monster, who will soon after sink to the 
earth and expire. 

Abolitionists have been accused of abusing their Southern breth- 
ren. Did the prophet Isaiah abuse the Jews when he addressed 
to them the cutting reproofs contained in the first chapter of his 
prophecies, and ended by telling them they would be ashamed of 
the oaks they had desired, and confounded for the garden they 
had chosen ? Did John the Baptist abuse the Jews when he 
called them " a generation of vipers" and warned them " to bring 
forth fruits meet for repentance ? " Did Peter abuse the Jews 
when he told them they were the murderers of the Lord of Glory ? 
Did Paul abuse the Roman Governor when he reasoned before 
him of righteousness, temperance, and judgment, so as to send 
conviction home to his guilty heart, and cause him to tremble in 
view of the crimes he was living in ? Surely not. No man will 
now accuse the prophets and apostles of abuse, but what have 
Abolitionists done more than they ? No doubt the Jews thought 
the prophets and apostles in their day just as harsh and unchari- 
table as slaveholders now think Abolitionists ; if they did not, 
why did they beat, and stone, and kill them ? 

Great fault has been found with the prints which have been em- 
ployed to expose slavery at the North, but, my friends, how could 
this be done so effectually in any other way ? Until the pictures 
of the slave's sufferings were drawn and held up to public gaze, no 
Northerner had any idea of the cruelty of the system ; it never en- 
tered their minds that such abominations could exist in Christian, 
Republican America ; they never suspected that many of the gen- 



S3 

tlemen and ladies who came from the South to spend the summer 
months in travelling among them, were petty tyrants at home. 
And those who had lived at the South, and came to reside at the 
North, were too ashamed of slavery even to speak of it ; the lan- 
guage of their hearts was, " tell it not in Gath, publish it not in 
the streets of Askelon ;" they saw no use in uncovering the loath- 
some body to popular sight, and, in hopeless despair, wept in secret 
places over the sins of oppression. To such hidden mourners the 
formation of Anti-Slavery Societies was as life from the dead : the 
first beams of hope which gleamed through the dark clouds of de- 
spondency and grief. Prints were made use of to effect the aboli- 
tion of the Inquisition in Spain ; and Clarkson employed them when 
he was labouring to break up the Slave trade ; and English Aboli- 
tionists used them just as we are now doing. They are powerful 
appeals, and have invariably done the work they were designed 
to do, and we cannot consent to abandon the use of them until the 
realities no longer exist. 

With regard to those white men, who, it was said, sought to 
raise an insurrection in Mississippi a year ago, and who were stated 
to be Abolitionists, none of them were proved to be members of 
Anti-Slavery Societies, and it must remain a matter of great doubt 
whether, even they, were guilty of the crimes alleged against them ; 
because, when any community is thrown into such a panic as to 
inflict Lynch law upon accused persons, they cannot be supposed 
to be capable of judging with calmness and impartiality. We know 
that the papers of which the Charleston mail was robbed, were not 
insurrectionary, and that they were not sent to the coloured people 
as was reported. We know that Amos Dresser was no insurrec- 
tionist, though he was accused of being so, and on this false ac- 
cusation, was publicly whipped in Nashville (Tennessee) in the 
midst of a crowd of infuriated slaveholders. Was that young man 
disgraced by this infliction of corporal punishment ? No more 
than was the great apostle of the Gentiles who five times received 
forty stripes, save one. Like him, he might have said, " hence- 
forth I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus," for it was 
for the truth's sake he suffered, as much as did the Apostle Paul. 
Are Nelson, and Garrett, and Williams, and other Abolitionists, 
who have recently been banished from Missouri, insurrectionists ? 
We know they are not, whatever slaveholders may choose to call 
them. The spirit which now asperses the character of the Aboli- 
tionists, is the very same which dressed up the Christians of Spain 
in the skins of wild beasts and pictures of devils, when they were 
led to execution as heretics. Before we condemn individuals, it is 
necessary, even in a wicked community, to accuse them of some 
crime ; hence, when Jezebel wished to compass the death of Na- 
both, men of Belial were suborned to bear false witness against 
him : and so it was with Stephen, and so it ever has been, and ever 
will be, as long as there is any virtue to suffer on the rack, or the 
gallows. False witnesses must appear against Abolitionists before 
they can be condemned. 

I will now say a few words on George Thompson's mission to 

E 



84 

this country. This philanthropist was accused of being a foreign 
emissary. Were La Fayette, and Steuben, and De Kalb, foreign 
emissaries when they came over to America fo fight against the 
tories, Avho preferred submitting to what was termed, " the yoke 
of servitude," rather than bursting the fetters which bound them to 
the mother county ? TJiey came with carnal weapons to engage 
in bloody conflict against American citizens, and yet, where do their 
names stand on the page of History. - Among the honourable, or 
the low ? Thompson came here to war against the giant sin of 
slavery, not with the sword and the pistol, but with the smooth 
stones of oratory taken from the pure waters of the river of Truth. 
His splendid talents and commanding eloquence rendered him a 
powerful coadjutor in the Anti-Slavery cause, and in order to 
neutralize the effects of these upon his auditors, and rob the poor 
slave of the benefits of his labours, his character was defamed, his life 
was sought, and he at last driven from our Republic, as a fugitive. 
But was Thompson disgraced by all this mean and contemptible 
and wicked chicanery and malice ? No more than was Paul, when 
in consequence of a vision he had seen at Troas, he went over to 
Macedonia to help the Christians there, and was beaten and im- 
prisoned, because he cast out a spirit of divination from a young 
damsel, which had brought much gain to her masters. Paul was as 
much a foreign emissary in the Roman colony of Philippi, as 
George Thompson was in America, and it was because he was a 
Jew, and taught customs it was not lawful for them to receive or 
observe, being Romans, that the Apostle was thus treated. 

What have the foes of freedom in this land gained by the ex- 
pulsion of George Thompson from these shores ? Look at him 
now pouring the thundering strains of his eloquence upon crowded 
audiences in Great Britain, and see in this a triumphant vindica- 
tion of his character. The slaveholder, and his obsequious apolo- 
gist, have gained nothing by all their violence and falsehood. No ! 
the stone which struck Goliath of Gath, had already been thrown 
from the sling. The giant of slavery who had so proudly defied 
the armies of the living God, had received his death-blow before 
he left our shores. But what is George Thompson doing there ? 
Is he not now labouring as effectually to abolish American slavery 
as though he trod our own soil, and lectured to New York or Bos- 
ton assemblies ? What is he doing, but constructing a stupendous 
dam, which will turn the overwhelming tide of public opinion over 
the wheels of that machinery which Abolitionists are working here. 
He is now lecturing to Britons on American Slavery, to the sub- 
jects of a King, on the abject condition of the slaves of a Republic. 
He is telling them of that mighty confederacy of petty tyrants, 
which extends over thirteen States of our Union. He is telling 
them of the munificent rewards offered by slaveholders, for the 
heads of the most distinguished advocates for freedom in this 
country. He is moving the British Churches to send out to the 
churches of America the most solemn appeals, reproving, rebuking, 
and exhorting them with all long-suffering and patience, to abandon 
the sin of slavery immediately. Where then, I ask, will the name 



35 

of George Thompson stand on the page of History? Among the 
honourable or the base ? 

What can I say more, my friends, to induce you to set your 
hands, and heads, and hearts to this great work of justice and 
mercy. Perhaps you have feared the consequences of immediate 
Emancipation, and been frightened by all those dreadful prophecies 
of rebellion, bloodshed, and murder, which have been uttered. 
" Let no man deceive you;" they are the predictions of that same 
" lying spirit" which spoke through the four thousand prophets of 
old, to Ahab king of Israel, urging him on to destruction. Slavery 
may produce these horrible scenes if it is continued five years 
longer, but Emancipation never will. 

I can prove the safety of immediate Emancipation by history. In 
St Domingo, in 1793, six hundred thousand slaves were set free in a 
white population of forty-two thousand. That island " marched as 
by enchantment towards its ancient splendour, cultivation prosper- 
ed, every day produced perceptible proofs of its progress, and the 
negroes all continued quietly to work on the different plantations, 
until in 1802, France determined to reduce these liberated slaves 
again to bondage. It was at this time that all those dreadful scenes 
of cruelty occurred, which we so often unjustly hear spoken of, as 
the effects of Abolition. They were occasioned not by Emancipa- 
tion, but by the base attempt to fasten the chains of slavery on the 
limbs of liberated slaves. 

In Gaudaloupe, eighty-five thousand slaves were freed in a White 
population of thirteen thousand. The same prosperous effects fol- 
lowed manumission here, that had attended it in Hayti, every thing 
was quiet until Bonaparte sent out a fleet to reduce these negroes 
again to slavery, and in 1 802, this institution was re-established in 
that island. In 1834, when Great Britain determined to liberate the 
slaves in her West India colonies, and proposed the apprenticeship 
system, the planters of Bermuda and Antigua, after having joined 
the other planters in their representations of the bloody conse- 
quences of Emancipation, in order, if possible, to hold back the 
hand which was offering the boon of freedom to the poor negro ; 
as soon as they found such falsehoods were utterly disregarded, and 
Abolition must take place, came forward voluntarily, and asked for 
the compensation which was due to them, saying, they preferred 
immediate emancipation, and were not afraid of any insurrection. 
And how is it with these islands now ? They are decidedly more 
prosperous than any of those in which the apprenticeship system 
was adopted, and England is now trying to abolish that system, so 
fully convinced is she that immediate Emancipation is the safest 
and the best plan. 

And why not try it in the Southern States, if it never has occa- 
sioned rebellion ; if not a drop of blood has ever been shed in con- 
sequence of it, though it has been so often tried, why should we 
suppose it would produce such disastrous consequences now ? " Be 
not deceived then, God is not mocked," by such false excuses for 
not doing justly and loving mercy. There is nothing to fear from 
immediate Emancipation, but every thing from the continuance of 
slavery. 



36 

Sisters in Christ, I have done. As a Southerner, I have felt it 
was my duty to address you. I have endeavoured to set before 
you the exceeding sinfulness of slavery, and "to point you to the 
example of those noble women who have been raised up in the 
church to effect great revolutions, and to suffer for the truth's sake. 
I have appealed to your sympathies as women, to your sense of 
duty as Christian women. I have attempted to vindicate the Abo- 
litionists, to prove the entire safety of immediate Emancipation, 
and to plead the cause of the poor and oppressed. I have done — 
I have sowed the seeds of truth, but I well know, that even if an 
Apollos were to follow in my steps to water them, " God only can 
give the increase." To Him, then, who is able to prosper the work 
of his servant's hand, I commend this appeal in fervent prayer, 
that as he " hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound 
the things which are mighty," so He may cause His blessing to de- 
scend and carry conviction to the hearts of many Lydias through 
these speaking pages. Farewell — count me not your " enemy be- 
cause I have told you the truth," but believe me in unfeigned af- 
fection, 

Your sympathizing Friend, 

ANGELINA E. GRIMKE. 



EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY W. OtII>HANT, JUN. AND CO. 23. SOUTH BRIDGE. 



