Extracts from letters from W. L. G. to "InquirsBS after Trutn," at 
Derry.N.H. ,and to Miss Harrist Minot of Haverhill, Mass. ,1833. 



Boston, March 4,1833. 



* . * 



My soul trembles in view of the magnitude of the cause in which 
I have embarked. I stand, as it were, on an eiiiinence^ coffimanding a sight of 
Africa,— the Niobe of nations, — and watch the flames of a thousand burn- 
ing villages fearfully reddening the wide heavens, and hear the shrieks and 
groans of her enslaved and dying children — and a voice froiTi Heaven cries, 
— " Plead for the oppressed I" The troublous ocean throws aside its blue 
curtain, and reveals to riiy vision an African golgotha, — the bodies of the 
dead, men, woffien and baoes, tracking the paths of the slave ships, and nuifisrous 
as the y/aves that chant their requiem. A sickly sensation passes over siy 
frame, as if their blood was drenching frsy garments; and again 1 near that 
voice from Heaven, saying,— " Plead for the oppressed !" The cries of the 
suffocating victims in the holds of the ships, who, stolen to glut European 
and Aiiierican avarice, are destined either to be the prey of snarks,or,what 
is far worse, to be sold and used for life like cattle, are borne to my ears 
by every breeze from the ocean; and still I hear that voice frooi Heaven, say- 
ing,— " Plead for the oppressed f" Around me throng the tsvo millions of 
slaves m this guilty land,— debased, weary, faiiiishing, bleeding and bound,— 
and they wound my ears vrith their sighs and shrieks, and melt my heart by 
their agonizing appeals; and they point to the graves of the millions of their 



kindred who have perished in thsir chains; and I see anborn generations of 
vicliims stalking like apparitions before me; and once more I hear that voice 
from Heaven, saying, in a tone awful and load, and with increasing earnestness, 
— " Plead for the oppressed ! " 

And shall I disobey that voice? If so, will my advisers give me 
acquital in the day of Judgment? If I put out my eyes and stop my ears, and 
pptrify ffiy heart, and become insensible as a ffiarble statue, to please the coai- 
iriunity,will the codiffiunity rescue nie froai the charge of inhunianity. selfishness 
and cruelty toward my suffering fellow creatures, which will be preferred against 
tiie at the t^r of God? I am anxious to please the people; but if, in order to 
do so, I must violate tne plainest precepts of the gospel, and disregard the 
ffiost solem obligations, will the people see that my name is written in the 
Book of Life, and that ray sins are blotted out of the Book of Heiiiembrance? If 
they cannot, I must obey the voice from Heaven, whetner men will hear or wheth- 
er they will forbear. 

This, then, is the extent of my fanaticism. I mean to perform my 
duty to God and my fellow trisn — to love riiffi supreiEely.and them as myself. 

There does not breathe a hufiian being whom I would injure for 
worlds. All ray enemies I freely pardon, and under the strongest provocations 
to resentinent which they can give me, can use the language of the expiring 
Son of God — " Father, forgive them: they know not what they do ." As I have 
saj)d elsewhere: ray iiiemory can no more retain the impression of anger, hatred 
or revenge, than the ocean the track of its monsters. To the slave-holder I 
address mtyself in the language of the apostle: "Am 1 therefore your enemy be- 
cause I tell you the truth?" Ee is a robber — a great robber — a robber 

II 
of God and man — and he should be m^ade to see and feel his guilt, if he be 

not given over to hardness of heart and blindness of mind. I will not plas- 



ter over iiis conscisnce with anything like this: "You are very unfortunate ! 
You cannot do otherwise, at present I The evil of slavery was entailed upon 
you ! It would be dangerous and cruel to liberate your slaves now ! How 
much better they are off than free persons of color ! Do not emancipate un- 
til you can send them to Liberia !" 5c. ,(Sc. Unfortunate thieves 1 "merciful 
oppressors [ — Sober drunkards I Religious atheists I leiieving infidels I 

You ask: "How much is it expedient for fflenibers of society, uninflu- 
ential as ourselves, to think of the subject of slavery?" 

Perhaps no truer criterion can be given than this: the golden rule 
of our Savior. It is my constant endeavor to place myself, in imagination, 
in the situation of the slaves; and tnus 1 never fail to plead earnestly. S^'e 
must meditate much, to feel and act properly. The danger is not, I think, that 
we shall suffer our thoughts to dwell too much upon the crualslave-systeffi, 
but that our ardor may expire with the novelty of the subject. 

" (Jninfluential as ourselves"! ft'hose influence is so potent as 
Woman's? Who has a forQi,an eye, a voice like hers? Whose sceptre is so 
imperial as her own? Whose benevolent heroism, or moral excellence, or ten- 
der sensibility, or deep devotion, is comparable to hers? "Uninf luential"! 
You have infused new hope and courage into one hearL,.at least — into my 
own; and if I exert any influence upon public sentiment, a portion of the mer- 
it will hereafter belong to you. Your letters reveal a talent, a spirit, a 
sympathy, which, if actively exerted, are sufficient to save our country. You 
may set an example which shall not be powerless beyond the limits of your 
village: it shall go forth like a universal blessing. The destiny of the 
slaves is in the hands of the American women, and complete emancipation can 
never take place without their co-operation. See what the females of Great 



Britain have accomplished by uniting together in this labor of love. Many 

years ago, a distinguished lady in liingland was so deeply affected in reading 
ftamsey's View of Slavery m the British Colonies, that she resolved to devote 
her tiffie^and wealthy and talents^ to the abolition of slavery. She soon sue-' 
ceeded in forming among her acquaintance' an Anti-Slavery Society; and from 
that little association has proceeded an influence which has regenerated pub- 
lic sentiment, and to which, undoubtedly, in a great measure, ive shall owe the 
speedy emancipation of eight hundred thousand British slaves. —The ladies 
of this country may do as much as those of Great Britain have done^ in this 
good cause. Fully coffiorehending the horrible situation of the female slaves, 
how can they rest quietly upon their beds at night, or feel indifferent to the 
deliverance of those in bonds? Oh, if the shrieks could reach our ears whicn 
are' constantly rising to heaven froRi the bosom of some bleeding wife or ruin- 
ed daughter at the South, we should shudder and turn pale, and make new resolu- 
tions to seek their deliverance. Women of New England -^ mothers and daugh- 
ters ! if I fail to awake your sympathies^ and secure your aid, I [say well de- 
spair of gaining the hearts and support of rrien. If my heart bleeds over the 
degraded and insufferable condition of a large portion of your sex, how ought 
you, whose sensibility is more susceptible than the wind-harp, to weep, and speak, 
and act, in their behalf? 

"Shall we behold, unheeding. 

Life's holiest feelings crushed? 
When woman's heart is bleeding. 
Shall woman's voice be hushed? 

Oh, '■■; by every blessing. 

That Heaven to thee may lend. 



Forget not th.eir oppress ion — 
RernetTiber, sister, friend I" 

No — no f you will not.raust not, cannot forget. But then you 
fear lest this cause may exclude other good objects from your attention. It 
may^ ij3;deed,to soffie extent, but not culpably so. My interest m the cause 
of Temperance, Peace, Missions, :Sc. ,&c. .suffers no abateiiient from my devotion 
to the cause of emancipation: on the contrary^ it rises daily in all the moral 
enterprises of the age. It is true^ I cannot give them all the same atten- 
tion and assistance — nor does duty require such a division of tr.y time and 
energy — but I can do something for them all. Besides, all of them, except 
the anti-slavery cause, are supported by a powerful host: hence we may jDe per- 
mitted to labor chiefly for the promotion of that one cause. Am I right? 
In reference to the absorbing interest which you feel in this cause, you say, 
"Tell us, then, how we may prevent the supremacy of these feelings." No, in- 
deed-, ladies,! would not on any account^ put down that supremacy. 
************* 

You excite my curiosity and interest still more; by informing me 
that my dearly oe loved IVhittier is a friend and townsman of yours. Can we 
not induce him to devote his brilliant genius more to the advancement of our 
cause, and kindred enterprises, and less to the creations of romance and fancy, 
and the disturbing incidents of political strife? 

************* 

The worthy pastor who says that distributing the Liberator in the 
southern states is like tnrowins fire-brands into a magazine of powder, should 
remember that truth is revolutionary in its tendency. Does he never inflamie 
the minds of sinners by his faithful admonitions? What incendiaries were 



the apostles I So cut to the heart were the guilty Jews by the preaching 
of Stephen, that "they cried oat with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, 
and ran upon him. with one accord and cast hiiB out of the city, and stoned 
him." It is my object to blow the slave systeiri into fragments, that upon 
its ruins niay be erected a splendid edifice of Freedom. 







Boston, March 18,1333. 



You think oiy influence will prevail with my dear Whittier more 
than yours. I think otherwise. If he has not already blotted my nacfie 
from the tablet of his iiiemory it is because his niagnaniffiity is superior to 
neglect. We nave had no correspondence whatever^ for more than a year, with 
each other I Does this look like friendship between us? And yet I take 
the blanie all to iiiyself. He is not a debtor to me — I owe him rnany let- 
ters. My only excuse is, an almost unconquerable aversion to pen, ink and 
paper, ( as wall he knows,) and the numerous ooligations which rest upon me, 
growing out of my connection with the cause of emancipation. Pray secure 
his forgiveness and tell hia-i that ray love to him is as strong as was that 
of David to Jonathan. Soon I hope to send him a contrite epistle; and I 
know, he will return a generous pardon. 
(To Miss Harriet PlumfDer, 

Haverhill, Mass. ) 
To "Inquirers after Truth. " 



Boston, Marcii 19,1833. 

In tne course of a feiv wsaks^ I expect to leave ;iiy native land 
on an important ffiission to England, in oehalf of the great and glorious cause 
of African emancipation. This ffiission will occupy six nionths^^ perhaps a year. 
Ifnat fliy reception will be in that country,— should I be wafted safely across 
the deep,— I cannot doubt. There^ I shall breathe freely— there my senti- 
fflsnts and language on the subject of slavery, will receive the acclafnations 
of the people —there ^(Tiy spirit will be elevated and strengthened in the pres- 
ence of Clarkson,and Wilberforce,and Broughafii.and Buxton, and 0'Gonnell,and 
their noble coadjutors— there, I can tell the story of the black man's wrongs, 
in this land of liberty and light, to hearts that will melt with pity, and de- 
vise liberally for his rescue — there^ I shall doubtless be permitted to ad- 
dress those of your own sex who are animated with a zeal for the overthrov/ 

ol slavery ivhich many waters cannot quench. Delightful anticipation F 
*********** 

A thought has just occurred to me. Suppose I should visit Haver- 
hill previous to ay departure for England: is it probable that I could obtain 
a meeting-house^ in which to address the innabitants on the subject of slav- 
ery?-^ probably I should deein it expedient to say nothing derogatory to the 
Colonization Society.) If I can be sure of a house I will try to come Sab- 
bath after next. I will consult my friend Whittier and see what can be done. 



fo 



Miss Harriet Minot, 

Haverhill, Mass. 



^di 



Boston, March 26,1833. 

JfC ^^ *p 3^ j^ 5fi ^T* ^1^ ^r 'v* ''IC 

I have written to ivhittier respecting ffiy visit to Haverhill, but 
have heard nothing froUi him. Nevertheless,! snail visit your beautiful vil- 
lage on Saturday next, even should no arrangements be made for the delivery of 
an address. 
[ To the same.! 



Boston, April 3,1833. 

Although it is Qiidnight.and in a few nours I expect to bid adieu 
to Boston, yet i cannot consent to woo "Tired Nature's sweet restorer, balffiy 
sleep," until I express to you — very imperfectly, indeed — the pleasure 
which I received froffi oy recent visit to Haverhill. Beautiful village ! it 
has almost stolen my heart. Already do I sigh at the separation, like a faith 

I ful lover absent from the mistress of his affections. Must lEonths elapse ere 

I again behold it? The thought is grievous. 

I • During my brief sojourn in H. ,friy spirit was as elastic as the 

breeze, and, like the lark, soared steadily upward to the gate of heaven, carol- 

j ling its notes of joy. How invigorating was the ataiosphere ! how bright the 

i 

i sun ! how cheerful each field and hill ! how magnificent the landscape ! What 

I have 1 not lost by a residence in this "populous solitude,"— this city of 

bustle, dust and bricks I 

But, pleasant as it is to behold the face of Nature, it has no 

beauty like tne countenance of a beloved fsiend. Sweet is the song of birds, 

but sweeter the voices of those we love. To see my dear 'A'hittisr^ once niore. 



m 



ammmmmm 



full of health and manly beauty, was pleasurable indeed. Other friends I 
saw whom I esteeiTi and adnire. Could I, then, but enjoy my visit? 

/To iMiss Harriet Mi not, 

Haverhiil.Mass. i 



Hartford, April 9,1833. 

^L^ ^i^ ^ll' ^^ ^ >t^ ^inf ^V ^it *4c Z^ 

Since I left Haverhill an ocean of conflicting emotions has been 
dashing upon the shore of my affections — emotions of gratitude and regret. 
On Tuesday evening last^I bade farewell to my colored friends of Boston^ in a 
pulDlic address, and on Friday evening to the people of color in Providence. 
On both occasions the highest interest and most intense feeling '«sre felt and 
exhibited by the audience. They wept freely-they clustered around me in 
throngs, each one eager to receive the pressure of my hand and H^ irnplore 
Heaven's choicest blessings upon my head. You cannot imagine the scene, and 
my pen is wholly inadequate to describe it. As I stood before them, and re- 
flected it might be the last time I should behold tnein together on earth, — 
the last time L should be permitted to aduiinister advice and consolation to 
their minds, — the last time I should nave an opportunity to pour out my 
gratitude before them for the nunierous manifestations of their confidence in 
Eny integrity, and appreciation of my humble services in their cause, — I could 
not but feel a strong depression of mind. The separation of friends,- — es- 
pecially if it is to be a long and hazardous one, — Is a painful event indeed. 
****** But a separation like that, was to me, and I believe to the people of 
color themselves, one of no ordinary occurrence. Their condition has long 



10 



attracted my attention, secured my efforts,and awakened in my bosoiri a flame 
of syuipathy, winch neither the winds nor waves of opposition can ever extin- 
guish. It is the lowness of their estate^ in the estidiation of the world, 
which exalts therr, in rcy eyes. It is tne distance which separates them froffi 
the blessings and privileges of society, whi en brings therfl so closely to ir,y 
affections. It is the unmerited scorn, reproach and persecution of their 
persons, by those whose complexion is colored like my own, that coDuSiand for 
theoi my sympathy and respect. It is the fewness of their friends and the 
great nunibsr of their enemies, that induce me to stand forth in their defence, 
and enables me,! trust, to exhibit to the world the purity of my ffiotives. 

On their part, do I not know how deep and intense is their affection 
for me? Have they not fiiultiplied.as individuals and as societies, their ex- 
oressions and tokens of regard, until my obligations assume a mountainous 
height.^ ] Have I more steadfast and grateful friends^ in this hostile world, 
than themselves? Not that I deserve so much at their hancs-not that the 
value of my labors bears any proportion to the rich recompense of their un- 
bounded confidence and love— not that I am qualified in all things to instruct 
them;— yet they have shown, in a thousand wajiis, that the course I have pursued 
has secured their entire approbation — tnat the language I have uttered has 
been the language of their own hearts.— that the advice I have given has been 
treas-ured up in their hearts, like good seed sown in good ground, and is now 
producing fruit, ten, thirty, sixty, and even a "hundred fold. 

'/^hy should my parting from them be an occasion of sadness? 1. go, 
not to escape from toil, but to labor more abundantly in their cause. If I 
ffiay do something for their good at home,! hope to do more abread. Is not 
the heaven- over their heads, which has so long been clothed m sackcloth, begin- 
ning to disclose its starry principalities, and illumine their pathway? Is 



11 

not the storiri.whicQ has been so long pouring its rage upon their heads, break- 
ing away, and a bow of promise, as glorious as that which succeeded the ancient 
deluge, spanning the sky,— a token that, to the end of time, the billows of preju- 
dice and oppression shall no more cover the earth. to the destruction of their 
race? Is not their cause ripening like the spring? Theirs has been a long 
and rigorous winter. The chili of indifference and contempt, the frost of ad- 
versity, the blast of persecution, the storm of oppression,— all have been theirs 
There was no sustenance to be found-no prospect to delight the ejie^or inspire 
the drooping heart- no golden ray to dissipate the gloom. But now — thanks 
be to God ! that dreary winter is rapidly hastening to a close. The sun of 
humanity is going steadily up, froffi the horizon to its zenith, growing larger 
and brighter, and melting the frozen earth beneath its powerful rays. The gen- 
ial showers of repentance are softly falling upon the barren plainr-the wil- 
derness begins to bud and blossom like the rose— the voice of joy succeeds the 
notes of woe; and hope, like the lark, is soaring upwards, and warbling hymns at 
the gate of Heaven. And this is only the out-bursting of spring. '^ihat shall 
be the summer and autumn? This is but the twilight, "the dim dawn" of day; 
K^at shall be the brightness of the day itself? These are out a few drops of 
mercyr^iat shall be the full shower — the rolling tide? These are but 
crumbs of comfort, to prevent the needy wholly from perishing.'^lfJfiat shall be 
the bountiful table? 

On Sabbath evening,! delivered an address to a large and attentive 
audience of white people in Brooklyn, where 1 have long been regarded as a ter- 
rible monster. 1 am happy to learn that the effects of the address are most 
salutary. 

V This evening I bid farewell to the colored inhabitants of Hartford, 
in their miee ting-house. 



12 



To-ffiorrow, I start for New Haven, in which place I shall stay two 
or three days, in order to have cny portrait taken and engraved apon steel. This 
I do, reluctantly; but my friends are imperious, and I cnust gratify them. This 
sticking up one's face in print-shops, to be the"observed of all observers;'is 
hardly consistent with genuine niodesty.but I can in no other way get rid of 
the importunities of those who would pluck out their ayes to give me. 
********* 

(To Miss Harriet Minot, 

Haverhill, Mass. ) 



Philadelphia, April 2S,i833. 

On Friday afternoon I arrived in ^lew York from this city, and had 
the pleasure of receiving your favor of the 9th inst. I was imnriediately told 
that the enemies of the abolition cause had foroied a conspiracy to seize my 
body by legal writs on sonie false pretences, with the sole intention to convey 
m :South^and deliver m up to the authorities of Georgia^— or, in other words, 
to abduct and destroy m. The agent, wno was to carry this murderous design 
into operation, had been in New York several days, waiting my appearance. As 
a packet was to sail the next day for Liverpool from Philadelphia, iiiy friends 
advised me to start early the next morning for this city^in the steam-boat, hop- 
ing I might arrive in season to take passage therein, and thus baffle the vig- 
ilance of the enemy - but the ship sailed in the morning, and I. did not get 
here till the afternoon,— consequently^ I failed to accomplish m.y purpose. My 
only alternative, therefore, is to return again to New York to-morrow evening, 
and stealthily get away, if possible, in the Liverpool packet that sails the next 



13 



iBorning. Probably I shall not start in the ship, but go down the river in 
a pilot boat, and overtake her. 

My friends are fall of apprehension and disquietude, but I cannot 
know. fear. I feel that it is impossible for danger to owe me. I tremble 
at nothing but my own delinquencies, as one who is bound to be perfect, even 
as tcy heavenly Father is perfect. 



* * 



To Miss Harriet Minot, 
Derry.N.H. ,— forwarded 
to Haverhill, Mass. ) 



BelQ'fi the Harbor of New York, 
May 1,1833. 

I am now fairly eriibarked for Liverpool, on board the ship Hibernia, 
Capt. Maxwell. We lie about ten miles below the city, at anchor, and here we 
must remain twenty-four hours. * * * * 

Since the trans!i;ission of my last letter I have been journeying 
froiii place to place, rather for the purpose of defeating the designs of my 
eneiTiies than from choice. I expected to have saiied in the packet of the 
X*«6•fi^ult. .but applied too late, as every berth had been previously engaged. 
I do not now regret the detention, as it enabled the artist at New Haven to 
coRiplete my portrait; and I think he has succeeded in making a very tolera- 
ble likeness. To be sure, those who iiriagine that I ar:; a monster, on seeing 
it will doubt or deny its accuracy, seeing no horns aoout tne head; but my 
friends,! think, v/ill recognize it easily. 



14 

This, then. is May Day I How happy I should be were I in the woods, 
singing like the birds C as most assuredly I should Ds singing, were I there_^) 
and roaming free as the air of heaven. M= * * * * * How can one help sing- 
ing? I do not mean by this that ail must be familiar with the science of 
ffiusic— but how natural it is to sing ! My friend Whittier must not see 
this little rhapsody-re Ise he will be very severe upon me. But then I can 
retort upon hlc A strange creature is he who really prefers the quack of 
a duck, or the screau: of a goose, to the song of a robin ! 

Last evening I had a large audience of colored persons in the 
Methodist African Church in New York, who came to hear my farewell address. 
Alas ! that the value of ray labors in their behalf bears so small a propor- 
tion to their unbounded gratitude and love. Mr. Finley, the General Agent of 
the Colonization Society, was present and witnessed a tremendous assault upon 
his darling schenie. 
'0 Miss Harriet Minot, 
Haverhill, Mass. 



