re^.,S5^;5^5^V/#^^a 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lettertolordbrouOObair 



A LETTER 



LORD BROUGHAM, 



ON THE SUBJECT OF 



AMERICAN SLAVERY. 



BY AN AMERICAN, 



LONDON : 
JAMES DINNIS, 62, PATERNOSTER ROW, 

1836. 



r?j. 6'5^7r.r¥ ^?o./^i 



WILLIAM TYLER, 

PRINTER, 
BOLT-CGURT, FLEET-STREET. 



A LETTER, 



My Lord, 

Nothing but duties of an imperative character 
could have prevented the writing of this letter at an 
earlier period. I make no apology for addressing- 
it to your Lordship, feeling well convinced that 
the interest you take in the subject to which 
it relates, is such, as to render that wholly unne- 
cessary. 

It is not, my Lord, in defence of Slavery that I 
undertake to address your Lordship. I bless God 
that this is an evil with which I have had nothing 
to do, except to endeavour, by humble means, to 
mitigate its pressure, and to hasten its peaceful ter- 
mination. But it is with the view of defending my 
country, against some of the misrepresentations 
which have been recently heaped upon it ; as well 
as giving to the British public some information on 
this subject which, I apprehend, they have not 
possessed. 

It happened to me, my Lord, to be called by duty 
to visit London during the late season of the Anni- 
versaries of those Religious and Benevolent Societies, 
which are both the ornament and shield of Great 
Britain. None of these meetings excited in my 
mind a more intense interest than that of the Anti- 

a2 



slavery Society, at which your Lordship presided. 
With the greater part of what was said and done 
on that occasion, I could not feel otherwise than 
gratified. But in regard to some of the statements 
made, and the language employed in reference to 
the United States of America, I confess that I felt 
deeply pained ; not so much, I assure your Lord- 
ship, from any sense of wounded pride, as from the 
deep conviction which I felt, and do still feel, that, 
so far as relates to those statements, and that lan- 
guage, the most effectual course was pursued to 
injure and retard the cause of the emancipation of 
the slaves in that country. 

As I shall have occasion, in another part of my 
letter, to revert to this subject, I shall not dwell 
upon it here, but only say that I must wholly ex- 
onerate your Lordship from even the suspicion of 
having participated in those statements, or of having 
employed that language. The admirable speech 
which your Lordship made upon taking the chair 
on that occasion, as well as on leaving it, gave me 
unmingled pleasure. 

It is true, indeed, that your Lordship, when allud- 
ing to the state of things in the United States of 
America, (which was done in a manner character- 
ized by an accurate judgment, and an excellent 
sense of propriety,) fell into an error, which, although 
considerable, was wholly unintentional. It con- 
sisted in expressing the opinion, that there is reason 
to fear that the Americans are settled down in con- 
tentedness, with the existence of slavery amongst 
them. I do not quote your Lordship's language ; 
but I think that I give the idea which was thrown 
out on that occasion. It is but justice to say, 
however, that you expressed not only a hope, 
but a firm belief, that the people of that country 
would soon awake to a decided action in con- 



formity with the noble principles of their political 
organization. 

It is my purpose, my Lord, to endeavour to de- 
monstrate that the people of the United States are 
neither now, nor ever have been, contented with 
the existence of Slavery amongst them ; and that 
there is good reason to believe that the benevolent 
anticipations of your Lordship will be realized. 

The entire history of the United States, both as 
Colonies, and as Independent States, I affirm, 
proves that they have never been indifferent to the 
evils and the wickedness of Slavery. To support 
this assertion, let us review their history, commenc- 
ing with that which is Colonial. 

I ask, my Lord, who it was that introduced 
slavery into the then colonies of Great Britain, and 
imposed and rivetted the chains of slavery upon 
them ? No one knows better than your Lordship 
does, that it was the British government.* It was, 
from first to last, a measure of that government, in 
order to promote its commerce, and, above all, its 
navigation interests. This is a statement which 
needs no proof from me ; for it is known to every 
one who knows any thing of the history of Great 
Britain and those colonies. Yes, my Lord, the 
slave trade was then maintained by England, and 
hundreds of thousands of slaves were imported from 
Africa, into the colonies, upon the same principle, 
and with about as little remorse, as the Newfound- 
land Fisheries, or any other branch of trade, was 
kept up — to extend and cherish her navigatioii in- 
terests ! Was it not so, my Lord ? The colonies 
had little, or, rather, no Foreign commerce, carried 



* It is no valid contradiction of this statement to say, — which was really 
the fact, that the first slaves introduced into these Colonies, were imported 
into Virginia in 1G20, by a Butch ship. The British Government allowed 
it to be done ; and then took up, itself, and perpetuated the horrible work. 



6 

on in their own shipping, for a long period after 
their settlement. It was not considered to be for 
the advantage of the mother country that they 
should have. Every thing which could be done by 
legislation on the part of Great Britain, to prevent 
it, was done. And it was British, and not Colonial 
ships, which monopolized this infamovis traffick, so 
far as it was connected with that portion of the 
American continent which is now called the United 
States. 

And what was the course pursued by the colo- 
nies ? Thei/ opposed the introduction of slaves 
amongst them. This was done so generally that it 
may with propriety be said that this opposition was 
universal. But still the horrid work went on. 
Some persons were found in the colonies who were 
willing to buy slaves, for cupidity is to be found in 
all countries, and in every age of the world. By 
degrees slavery gained a lodgement in every colony, 
though the greatest accumulation of it was in the 
southern colonies, which were less free in their 
forms of government, and more under the control 
of the British Crown, than those of the north. 
Other causes also co-operated to create that accu- 
mulation. 

To the evils of slavery, as well as to those of any 
other sort, people may become gradually accus- 
tomed, and even to too great an extent reconciled. 
It was so, in some measure, with the colonies. 
Stern necessity shut them up to this alternative. 
But were they entirely contented ? No ; they pe- 
titioned the government of Great Britain again and 
again not to allow slavery to be perpetuated amongst 
them. Virginia did so ; Pennsylvania did so ; 
Massachusetts did so ; others did so. And all would 
have done so, if they had not been discouraged by 
the unsuccessful attempts of their sister colonies. 



The power which turned a deaf ear to the cries of 
these infant colonies^ entreating that slavery might 
not be forced upon them at its commencement, still 
refused to hear when they besought that it might 
not be rendered perpetual. 

The case of the colony of Georgia was, if possible, 
more remarkable and afflictive than that of any of 
the others. That colony was not founded in the 
darkness of the seventeenth century, but almost in 
the middle of the eighteenth. It was the last, in the 
order of time, of the whole thirteen British colonies, 
which afterwards formed the United States. The 
worthy and beloved General Oglethorpe was its 
founder, and first governor. As usual, no sooner 
was the colony established, or rather commenced, 
than slaves began to be forced upon it. The go- 
vernor and council besought the British govern- 
ment not to allow slaves to be brought for market, 
to that colony. This they did at a time when the 
parent country might easily have prevented the evil. 
The colony itself had no such power. None of the 
colonies had such power. It was the claimed preroga- 
tive of the British government to regulate the com- 
merce of the colonies, to prescribe what articles of 
trade should be admitted into them, and under 
what, if any, restrictions ; whilst there was, on the 
part of the colonies, no power to prevent the en- 
trance of such articles of commerce as were allowed 
by the government of the mother country. Con- 
sequently, so long as there were any persons to be 
found in any colony who were willing to buy slaves, 
they were sure to be imported. Such being the 
case, all that Georgia could do was to petition, and 
to remonstrate. This was done nine or ten times, as 
can be proved by the records of that colony, until 
the British government, wearied by the importunity 
of the venerable Oglethorpe, and his council, dis- 



8 

missed him from his office ! These, my Lord, are 
matters of fact, and if they are not known to the 
world, it is time that they should be. 

But still the colonies did not cease from their 
efforts to induce the government of Great Britain to 
relieve them from the evils of slavery, or at least 
not to allow more slaves to be imported into them. 
Their efforts, however, were of no avail ; and when 
their resistance to oppression assumed an open and 
general character, one of the numerous grievances 
of which they complained, and which stood promi- 
nently on the long catalogue, was that the parent 
country had not only forced slavery upon them at 
first, but had also continued to introduce slaves 
among them even after they had repeatedly remon- 
strated against it. They even took some measures 
themselves, the year before the commencement of 
the war of the revolution, to put a stop to the slave 
trade. For the Continental Congress, as it was 
called, which met at Philadelphia in 1774, recom- 
mended, by a resolution, to the colonies not to im- 
port, or purchase any slave imported, after the first 
day of December in that year ; and wholly to dis- 
continue the trade. The Convention of Delegates 
of the people of Virginia had anticipated this mea- 
sure, for in August preceding they resolved to dis- 
continue the importation of slaves. And, my Lord, 
I need not inform you that when the distinguished 
committee, appointed by the American Congress, in 
1776, to prepare the Declaration of Independence, 
composed of Jefferson, Adams, R. R. Livingston, 
Sherman, and Franklin, brought in that celebrated 
document, it contained the following passage in 
relation to slavery, which was, with some other pas- 
sages, struck out by Congress, not because it was 
not approved by almost every member, but because 
it met with the opposition of a few from the southern 



9 

colonies, and entire unanimity was considered to be 
of paramount importance : — 

" He (the King of Great Britain) has waged cruel 
war against human nature itself, violating its most 
sacred rights of life and liberty in the persons of a 
distant people who never offended him, captivating 
and carrying them into slavery in another hemis- 
phere, or to incur miserable death in their transport- 
ation thither. This piratical warfare, the oppro- 
brium of infidel powers, is the warfare of the 
Christian King of Great Britain. Determined to 
keep open a market where men should be bought 
and sold, he has prostituted his negative for suppress- 
ing every legislative attempt to prohibit or to restrain 
this execrable commerce. And that this assem- 
blage of horrors might want no fact of distinguished 
die, he is now exciting those very people to rise in 
arms amongst us, and to purchase that liberty of 
which he has deprived them, by murdering the 
people on whom he also obtruded them ; thus paying 
off former crimes, committed against the liberties 
of one people, with crimes which he urges them to 
commit against the lives of another." 

With regard to this, as well as every other spe- 
cies of oppression enumerated in that declaration, 
it is added, " In every stage of these oppressions we 
have petitioned for redress in the most humble 
terms ; our repeated petitions have been answered 
only by repeated injuries." 

During the war of our revolution, the attention 
of our fellow-citizens was absorbed in the pro- 
tracted conflict with a powerful enemy. As the 
slaves were not then so numerous as to excite 
apprehension of danger from them, and were, more- 
over, almost universally attached to their masters, 
the war, by employing the white population to a 
very great degree, and leaving the support of their 
families almost wholly to the industry of the slaves. 



10 

incredible as it may at first sight appear^, operated 
rather to make the people, especially in the southern 
states, less repugnant to slavery. At its termi- 
nation, the thirteen colonies were left free and 
independent states, but with nothing which pro- 
perly deserved the name of a general or united 
government. Articles of confederation had, in- 
deed, been adopted, and a congress composed of 
delegates chosen by the legislature of the several 
states, annually assembled. But their legislation 
was limited to a few general subjects, of which 
slavery was not one. This state of things lasted 
five or six years, until the present constitution was 
formed, in 1787, ratified by almost all the States 
during the next year, and went into operation in 
1789. 

It has often been a matter of surprise, that the 
framers of the constitution did not, by that noble 
instrument, secure either the immediate or the gra- 
dual abolition of slavery ; or, at any rate, bring the 
subject under the legislative control of the general 
government, which was created by that instrument. 
I confess, my Lord, that I have a thousand times 
wished that they had done so. Perhaps they might 
have done it. If so, a noble opportunity was then 
lost for accomplishing this desirable object. But, 
on the other hand, your Lordship, I presume, is 
fully aware of the difficulties by which they were 
surrounded. The majority of the States then held 
slaves ; for none but two or three of the New Eng- 
land States had abolished slavery in the interval 
which had elapsed between the declaration of inde- 
pendence, and the meeting of the Convention to 
form the constitution. The political power was, 
therefore, in the hands of the slave-holding states. 
And so great was the difificulty of forming a united 
and efficient government, owing to the fact that 
each state had its own organization, and had long 



11 

exercised the prerogatives of state sovereignty, that 
it required great wisdom and prudence, and an un- 
common spirit of conciliation on every point not 
absolutely essential. For it was rightly deemed an 
object of primary importance to have but one ge- 
neral republic, instead of what would otherwise 
have been the case, several, if not thirteen. It was 
this consideration alone which led those distin- 
guished men — those philanthropists I will call them 
— to concede the whole subject of slavery to the 
legislative control of the individual States. They 
were compelled to do so, or to forego the advantageb 
of a union, and encounter all the risks or rather 
inevitable evils which the want of it would have oc- 
casioned. This was undoubtedly the position in 
which the question stood. The journal of that 
Convention fully proves this. And what is more, 
such men as Franklin, and Washington, and Wil- 
son, and Elsworth, and other distinguished mem- 
bers of that Convention, as sincerely desired the 
abolition of slavery as any abolitionist of modern 
times, and were quite as good judges of what was 
then practicable. 

This Convention has been censured for not doing 
more ; and yet it was greatly in the advance of any 
similar body then to be found in the world. For to 
it belongs the honour of having taken the first effec- 
tive measure for abolishing the infamous slave trade. 
Yes, my Lord, it is even so. And although that 
measure was prospective, and was not to go into 
actual operation until a period of twenty years had 
elapsed, that is until 1808 ; yet it was a step greatly 
in advance of what had been done by any other 
nation. At that period, and for years afterwards, the 
British government did nothing. And even after 
Mr. Wilberforce had begun to call the attention of 
Parliament to this subject, it was not until March, 



12 

1807, that the slave trade was effectually con- 
demned by statute m Great Britain. So that it was 
literally twenty years after our convention had 
condemned that execrable trade, and less than one 
year before it actually ceased by the constitution 
formed by that Convention, that England could be 
brought to abolish it also. In my opinion, we 
fairly led the way, and did what was truly remark- 
able for that epoch. But if one should still say 
that they ought to have done more ; I answer, that 
it is easy to say so now, with all the light which has 
been shed upon this subject ; but I consider it 
truly wonderful that they did as much as they did. 
They commenced the demolition of the monstrous 
superstructure of slavery ; they attempted all that 
was then practicable, and they showed their wisdom 
in doing so, whatever mere theorists may think, or 
say to the contrary. 

What has been done in the United States, in re- 
lation to the subject of slavery, since the adoption of 
the Constitution, I will now briefly state. 

I. Slavery has been abohshed in the states of 
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and New 
York ; states which embrace nearly a fourth part of 
the entire population of the whole union. The 
number of slaves in those states was not, however, 
great. But yet it required much argument, and 
many years, in the case of the last named three 
states, to induce them to come into this measure. 
This work of justice and mercy was achieved mainly 
by the efforts of the Anti-slavery Society of Penn- 
sylvania, which was formed about the year 1787, by 
Franklin, and other excellent men of that day, and 
of the Manumission Society of New York, which 
was founded about the same time by the exertions 
of the late distinguished John Jay, the first Chief 
Justice of the United States, and others of a similar 



13 

spirit. The abolition of slavery in these states has 
been, by a wise provision of the law, gradual, so 
that at this time there are but few^ slaves (and they 
are chiefly aged and infirm persons, for whose com- 
fortable maintenance the laws oblige their former 
masters to be responsible) to be found in them. 

And here, perhaps, it may not be amiss to pre- 
sent to your Lordship's view the actual state of this 
question, by a brief statistical account. It is this : 
The six north-eastern states, commonly called the 
New England States, viz., Maine, New Hampshire, 
Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Con- 
necticut, at present containing more than two mil- 
lions of inhabitants, became freed from slavery soon 
after the revolutionary war. The four middle 
states, which I have just spoken of, viz.. New York, 
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware, contain- 
ing a population at present of little short of four 
millions, have become freed from slavery since 1790. 
The last of them that adopted this measure was 
New York, about ten or twelve years since. The 
four north-western states, (including the territory of 
Michigan, which is about to enter the union as a 
state, and will be the twenty-fifth,) viz., Ohio, In- 
diana, Illinois, and Michigan, which do not at this 
time contain a population of less than two millions, 
are free states. These four new states have been 
chiefly colonized from the other ten non-slave hold- 
ing states. The result is, that there are now four- 
teen states, in which it may be said that slavery does 
not exist, and which have all either been delivered 
from slavery, or have been colonies from those 
states which have experienced that happy deli- 
verance. These fourteen states now embrace a 
population exceeding eight millions of souls, and 
still increasing at a rate which is absolutely without 
a parallel in the history of the world. 

The slaveholding states are Maryland, Virginia, 



14 



North Carolina, South Carohna, Georgia, Alabama, 
Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, Missouri, and 
Louisiana, in all eleven. To this number we may 
add the two territories of Arkansas and Florida, which 
will soon become states, having now, it is supposed, 
the requisite number of inhabitants. This makes 
the entire number of the slaveholding states and 
territories thirteen. In this statement I include the 
little district of Columbia, in the states of Virginia 
and Maryland, of which it formerly made a part, and 
which can never become an independent state. The 
entire population of these thirteen slave states, and 
territories, does not much exceed, at this time, six 
millions, of whom 2,002,177 were, in 1830, slaves; 
and 166,215 free persons of colour. 

For your Lordship's satisfaction I submit the fol- 
lowing tabular view of the states and territories, 
with their population in 1830, as derived from the 
census taken by order of the general government. 
This census was made, however, five years ago. In 
the general statement which I have just given, I 
have estimated, on undoubted data, the iwesent po- 
pulation of the several grand divisions spoken of. 

FREE STATES, WITH THEIR POPULATION IN 1830. 

White Persons. Free Coloured Persons- Slaves. Total Population. 

Maine 398,263 ... 1,192 ... none ... 399,955 

New Hampshire 268,721 ... 607 ... none ... 269,328 

Vermont 279,771 ... 681 ... none ... 280,652 

Massachusetts.. 603,359 ... 7,048 ... none ... 610,408 

Rhode Island... 93,621 ... 3,578 ... none ... 97,199 

Connecticut ... 289,603 ... 8,072 ... none ... 297,675 

New York .1,868,061 ... 44,870 ... 75 ...1,918,608 

New Jersey ... 300,266 ... 18,303 ... 2,254 ... 320,823 

Pennsylvania ...1,309,900 ... 37,930 ... 403 ...1,348,233 

Delaware ...... 57,601 ... 15,855 ... 3,292 ... 76,748 

Ohio 928,329 ... 9,574 ... none ... 937,903 

Indiana 339,399 ... 3,632 ... none ... 343,031 

Illinois 155,061 ... 2,384 ... none ... 157,445 

Michigan 31,346 ... 293 ... none ... 31,639 

Total. ..6,923,301 154,020 6,024 7,187,647 



15 



SLAVEHOLDING STATES, WITH THEIR POPULATION IN 1830, 

Wliite Persons. Free Coloured Persons. Slaves. Total Population. 

Maryland 291,108 ... 32,938 ... 102,994 ... 447,040 

Virginia 694,300 ... 47,348 ... 469,557 ... 1,211,403 

North Carolina 472,843 ... 19,343 ... 243,601 ... 737,987 

South Carolina 237,863 ... 7,921 ... 313,401 ... 381,185 

Georgia 296,806 ... 2,486 ... 217,331 ... 516,823 

Alabama 190,406 ... 1,572 ... 117,549 ... 309,527 

Mississippi ... 70,443 ... 519 ... 65,659 ... 136,821 

Louisiana .... 89,231 ... 16,710 ... 109,588 ... 215,739 

Tennessee ... 535,746 ... 4,555 ... 141,603 ... 681,904 

Kentucky .... 517,787 ... 4,917 ... 165,213 ... 687,917 

Missouri 114,795 ... 369 ... 23,091 ... 140,435 

Arkansas 25,671 ... 141 ... 4,570 ... 30,388 

Florida 18,385 ... 844 ... 15,501 ... 34,730 

Dis. of Columbia 27,563 ... 6,152 ... 6,119 ... 39,834 

Total ... 3,602,947 166,215 2,002,177* 5,781,555 



These statements, my Lord, show that the pre- 
ponderance is greatly on the side of the non-slave- 
holding states. But another circumstance is to be 
added, which renders the prospect still brighter. It 
is, that the States of Maryland and Kentucky, con- 
taining a population of more than one million one 
hundred thousand souls, of whom nearly two hun- 
dred and seventy thousand are slaves, will soon join 
the ranks of the non-slaveholding states. Of this 
I do not entertain a doubt. A few years will witness 
this transition. And further, I have as little doubt 
that Virginia, Tennessee, and Missouri will, before 
many years pass away, adopt the same measure. 
Upon the occurrence of the abolition of slavery in 
Kentucky and Maryland, the number of the non- 
slaveholding states will be sixteen, whilst that of the 
slaveholding will be reduced to eleven, including 
Arkansas and Florida. And when Virginia, Ten- 
nessee, and Missouri become freed from slavery, or 

* The above statement of the number of slaves differs from that given in 
the census, which is 2,009,049, and includes the slaves in ten free states, as 
they are called, and also some persons in Connecticut, &c. who are not slaves. 



16 

have commenced this blessed work, the number 
will stand nineteen to eight. 

Your Lordship will perceive that I take it for 
granted that no new territories will hereafter be 
created, in which slavery will be allowed to enter. 
This is my decided opinion. There is indeed a vast 
extent of country, claimed by the United States 
government, and lying westward and northward of 
the remotest western states and territories ; but by 
an act adopted by our Congress, when Missouri had 
permission to form her constitution, preparatory to 
becoming a member of the union, slavery cannot ex- 
tend northward beyond the degree of latitude which 
forms the northern boundary of that state. Of 
course it is excluded from the immense regions 
of the Upper Mississippi. The country immedi- 
ately westward of Arkansas territory has been as- 
signed to the Indian tribes, which were formerly 
within the limits of the states and territories. There 
they are collecting, and it is believed that there they 
may become civiHzed, and eventually form a con- 
stituent portion, as a territory of the United States. 
There, at any rate, the experiment may be made, 
and under circumstances widely different from those 
which existed when they hved within the bounds of 
organized states, and where their oppressions were 
occasioned in almost every instance by the charters 
granted originally by the British Crown. They 
will now be assembled on a sufficiently extensive 
country, beyond the claims of any state, and it is 
hoped that they will not be disturbed. This leaves* 
but little room for new territories to be formed west- 
ward of the present states, into which slavery can 
enter, unless the government should buy Texas 
from Mexico, an event not unlikely. But even if 
that purchase should be made, I am very confident 
that there is a feeling existing at present in the 



n 

United States which will prevent it or any other 
district of country from being organized as a terri- 
tory with slavery existing in it. Indeed it is possible 
that the territories of Arkansas and Florida may 
not be received into the union as states, until they 
abolish slavery. But this I do not expect. It 
is too late for the government to take that stand, 
after having allowed these territories to be organized, 
as such, with the existence of slavery in them. The 
proper course for the general government to pur- 
sue is, to prevent the introduction of slavery into 
every territory when it is organized as such, and 
long before it is sufficiently populous to become a 
state. This the general government has power to 
do ; and of this course none, or at any rate but 
few, could have a right to complain. Those who 
choose to emigrate to such a territory would know 
what to expect, and could not afterwards com- 
plain that the government had taken advantage of 
them. 

You will learn, my Lord, from the preceding 
statements, that it cannot be said that the people of 
the United States have been indifferent to the evils 
of slavery. When we entered into the struggle for 
our independence, slavery pervaded the land; now 
fourteen states are free from it, and the prospect is 
encouraging in regard to several others. Let it be 
remembered too, that for more than thirty years 
after our independence, the attention of our people 
was absorbed by internal difficulties, — Indian wars, 
embargoes, and finally by a war with Great Britain. 
I am far, however, from saying that we have done 
all that we should have done. That there has been 
an increasing interest felt on this subject, of late 
years, may be inferred from the formation of the 
American Colonization Society. This society has 
been in existence some sixteen or eighteen years; 

c 



18 

and although it has been denounced, in the most 
violent manner, I am persuaded that the object of 
its founders was benevolent, and that the plan, if 
properly carried out, is calculated to promote the 
abolition of slavery to a considerable extent. I have 
always been an advocate of the colonization scheme 
for three reasons. 

1. It gives those slave-holders who are desirous 
of setting their slaves free, but who are prevented 
by the laws of the states in which they reside from 
doing it, (unless they send them out of those states,) 
the opportunity of sending them to colonies in 
which there is a prospect of their doing well. 

2. It leads incidentally to a discussion of the evils 
of slavery among the slave-holding states^, and so 
does good. 

3. It promises to be of incalculable benefit to 
Africa by planting colonies, from which I am per- 
suaded that the lights of Christianity and civiHzation 
will shine forth to bless large portions of that 
benighted continent. For I firmly believe that 
although many difiiculties have been encountered, 
from perhaps not selecting the best sites for these 
colonies, &c., yet they may all be overcome, and 
those colonies so organized as to do great good to 
Africa, and to the world. I am free to confess, 
however, that much as I love the colonization cause, 
I think that it has not been well managed. The 
society has been far from acting with that vigour 
and wisdom which ought to have animated it, and 
which so great and good a cause demanded. I fear, 
too, that it has been too frequently held up, by in- 
discreet advocates, as the grand means of delivering 
the country from the existence and evils of slavery, 
and that it has, by such advocacy, ministered to the 
erroneous but wide-spread opinion that the slaves 
cannot become free and remain in the United States. 



19 

This position I deem wrong and injurious, and 
wholly unnecessary to the cause. Colonization 
can be defended on other and better grounds. That 
the society has done much good I do firmly believe ; 
but it is due to candour to state that it is possible 
that many good men in the slave-holding states 
have, for some years, been depending too much 
upon it, and whilst doing so have not looked at more 
efficient and direct ways of getting rid of slavery. 

Still further. — Many who began to think that 
the colonization scheme was inefficient, and who 
were stimulated by the success of the efforts of your 
Anti-slavery Societies in England, have, within a 
few years, determined to form similar associations 
in the United States. This has led to the formation 
of the American Anti-slavery Society, with the 
avowed and direct purpose of attacking slavery and 
urging its immediate abolition. This society has 
formed many affihated associations throughout the 
free states, and by discourses, by public debates, 
and by a large number of periodical and other pub- 
lications, it has commenced a violent assault upon 
the object of its attack ; — the discussion has be- 
come animated and bold, and truly exciting ; it is 
now agitating the whole country, and has assumed 
an aspect somewhat portentous. Great opposition 
is made to this society, not only by the southern 
states, but by vast numbers in the non-slave-holding 
states ; — it would, indeed, seem that the integrity 
of the union is seriously endangered. 

I am disposed to think, my Lord, that my fellow 
citizens who formed the American Anti-slavery 
Society, and all who sustain its proceedings, have 
not sufficiently considered the widely different cir- 
cumstances of Great Britain and the United States. 
Certainly the cases of the two countries cannot be 

c2 



20 

deemed analogous. Parliament and the Crown have 
with you entire and undisputed control over slavery, 
whether existing in your island or in any other por- 
tion of the British dominions. All that is requisite, 
in order to effect its abolition, with you, is, by dis- 
cussion^ so to enlighten the people that they shall, 
by a decided majority, demand of parliament that 
slavery shall end. With us the case is wholly dif- 
ferent. By our constitution the subject of slavery 
is reserved to the individual states in which it exists ; 
they alone can legislate over it, — each state for 
itself. They alone have a right to say when slavery 
shall cease within their respective limits. Our con- 
gress has no manner of control over it. The four- 
teen states which are free from it, although they 
have a large majority of the entire population, can 
do nothing on this subject except prevent, through 
congress, its spread into new territories, and abolish 
it (by their majority of votes in congress) m the 
district of Columbia. Now this being the case, your 
Lordship must see that Anti-slavery Societies formed 
in the free states can do nothing directly to secure 
the abolition of slavery in the southern states. They 
may, possibly, if rightly conducted, do something 
indirectly. But it is manifest that it is only the 
people of the slave-holding states themselves who 
can do any thing effectual in this work, — to them 
it undoubtedly belongs. The formation of Anti- 
slavery Societies in the free states, for any purpose 
beyond that of inducing congress to do what alone 
belongs to it — the prevention of the extension of 
slavery into new territories and its abolition in the 
district of Columbia — is not likely to have a very 
good effect. It alarms and irritates those who have 
exclusive power over the subject. 

I have not a doubt, my Lord, that the gentlemen 



t3 



21 

who are the leading members of the American 
Anti-slavery Society are actuated by the purest 
motives. They have, indeed, been denounced, I 
am sorry to say, as the worst of men, — as fanatics, 
as aiming at the ruin of the country, &c. Almost 
every opprobrious epithet has been heaped upon 
them. But it would require much more than I 
have yet seen or heard, to cause me for a moment 
to distrust the integrity and benevolence of purpose 
of Mr. Arthur Tappan and many others who are 
engaged in that society. They feel deeply for the 
condition of the slave, and for the honour of the 
country; and they sincerely desire to do their duty. 
They are not infallible, nor do they claim to be so; 
yet I have no doubt that they have aimed at 
doing what cannot be done by the people of the 
free states. All the excitement which they can 
create on this subject in the free states cannot reach 
the case. It belongs to the people in the slave- 
holding states to do any thing effectual. Nor have 
I a doubt that some of the coadjutors of these good 
men have done irreparable injury to the cause which 
they have advocated^ by their dreadful violence. 
Surely it does no good, but much injury, to call 
men by such names as have often been applied to 
the slave-holders. Nor is it just. As I have not 
seen any of the late publications of the Anti-slavery 
Society, nor of those who labour independently of 
it, in the same cause, I do not know what is the 
ground for the charge which has been brought 
against them of aiming at exciting insurrection 
among the slaves ; I firmly believe that this charge 
is not true. Yet T can also easily believe that there 
has not been a proper degree of prudence on this 
point. Much as we may desire the abolition of 
slavery in the United States, and no one can desire 



22 

it more sincerely than 1 do, yet it will not do for a 
moment to think of effecting it through violence. 
No, my Lord, that must be opposed at the very 
threshold : and I am sure it will be by every good 
man in the United States. That course is too hor- 
rible to be spoken of, and the man deserves ever- 
lasting infamy who dares to suggest it. 

I have said, my Lord, that our congress — in other 
words, our general government — has no control 
over slavery as it exists in the organized states. 
And I have also said that it is not likely that they 
will exert the power which they have over it in the 
two territories of Florida and Arkansas — which, 
however, can never, for physical reasons, have a 
large population. But you will ask, " May not 
your constitution be so altered as to allow congress 
that power ? " I answer that it might be so changed ; 
but it is not likely that this will be done. There 
are two ways by which our constitution may be 
amended according to its expressed provisions, as 
your Lordship will perceive from the following 
extract from it. " The congress, whenever two- 
thirds of both houses shall deem it necessary, shall 
propose amendments to this constitution ; or, on the 
application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the 
several states, shall call a convention for proposing 
amendments, which, in either case, shall be valid to 
all intents and purposes, as part of this consti- 
tution, when ratified by the legislatures of three- 
fourths of the several states, or by conventions in 
three-fourths thereof, as the one or the other mode 
of ratification may be proposed by congress.^^ You 
will see from this statement that it is wholly impro- 
bable that an attempt to amend our constitution, on 
this subject, could be successful. Nor is it likely 
that such an attempt will be made. 



23 

I have said, my Lord^ that there is at this time 
very great excitement throughout the United States, 
occasioned by the proceedings of the Anti-slavery 
Society ; the newspapers are full of it ; — to judge 
from their tone, one would be almost disposed 
to think that the country is on the eve of a grand 
revolution. Much deplorable violence has been 
displayed. Such being the case, your Lordship, 
and many others in England and throughout Europe, 
are most solicitous to know what will be the issue 
of these things. My Lord, I make no pretensions 
to the prophetic power, but I have no hesitation in 
answering, as one who has had good opportunities 
of knowing every portion of the United States 
within the last few years, and has seen much of the 
very best men, of all parties, in that country, that 
there will be no such revolution. Nor will there 
be, I believe, a separation of our happy union. 
There will be much discussion of the right of the 
free states to interfere on the subject of slavery. 
And this discussion will do good. It will settle 
principles. Such discussions have always done us 
good. We cannot do without them. And the 
result of this discussion will be that the people of 
the free states — in an overwhelming majority — will 
say to their brethren of the slave-holding states, 
" We deplore the existence of slavery among you ; 
we abhor its injustice ; but we respect your rights ; 
we deeply sympathize with you ; we will do nothing 
to interfere with the right of controlling the subject 
of slavery which the constitution has vested in you, 
nor will we do any thing to endanger your safety ; 
we stand ready to aid you, if our aid can be of any 
avail ; we leave to your wisdom to devise and your 
hands to execute some safe and practicable plan for 
the extinction of slavery, in which you shall have 



24 

our co-operation, if you should need it ; but we do 
hope, (and you will allow us to say it,) that some 
such plan may be speedily devised." This, my 
Lord, is the language of the overwhelming majority 
of the people of the north. What then will be 
the result ? It will be that after some legislation 
has been adopted by the southern states to prevent 
the circulation of dangerous publications, (or such 
as they may deem to be so,) and perhaps some 
action of the general government, the country will 
settle down into a state of quietude — not, however, 
of indifference to the evils of slavery. Meanwhile 
the southern states themselves will think more 
intensely on the subject, and some of them will act 
too, before many years will pass away. Time will 
of course be required, and time will work wonders 
on this as well as on every other subject. 

Another means of promoting emancipation — gra- 
dual, but sure and safe in its influence — is the reli- 
gious instruction which is generally given from the 
pulpit, in almost all parts of the slave-holding states. 
For it must be said to the honour of my country, 
that no legislature of any state has ever attempted 
to place any hinderance in the way of preaching the 
gospel to the slaves ; for I do not view in that light 
the laws which have been adopted in two or three 
states, to guard against dangerous or incompetent 
persons who attempt to preach. That the influ- 
ence of the gospel, when faithfully preached, is not 
only calculated to make masters treat their slaves 
with greater kindness, but also to think of giving 
them their liberty, and to prepare both the slave 
and the master for that state of things when slavery 
shall cease, cannot for a moment be doubted. In 
four of the slave-holding states there is no law for- 
bidding the instruction of the slaves in reading and 



■ 25 

writing, and in those states there are many who 
attend the Sunday-schools, and some few are taught 
in other schools. I am far from saying that all is 
doing which ought to be done for their instruction, 
even in those states. In one or two others, the 
consent of the master is required before the law 
allows the slave to attend even a Sunday-school. 
Whilst in five states, and two territories, I am sorry 
to say laws have been made forbidding the instruc- 
tion of slaves in reading and writing. And even 
two or three have gone so far as to forbid, as in 
Louisiana and North Carolina, the instruction, in 
schools, of even the free people of colour. I con- 
demn these enactments as much as any man. They 
are condemned by many of the best men in those 
states ; and they will, I am persuaded, soon be 
repealed and become obsolete, if the present excite- 
ment should disappear. They were passed a few 
years ago, upon the appearance of a pamphlet, 
published at Boston, by an infamous wretch who 
attempted, by it, to excite the slaves to rise against 
their masters. I know that such laws expose us to 
severe animadversions abroad, where nothing is 
known scarcely of the peculiar forms of our govern- 
ment. But, however just such censures may be 
when directed against those states to which they are 
applicable, they are wholly unjust when applied to 
the entire people of the United States, who in their 
national capacity have no control over the subject. 
Other causes are also in operation, which (in con- 
junction with those of a moral character which I 
have just mentioned) will expedite the destruction 
of slavery. Such, for instance, as the fact that the 
south-western states are rapidly becoming settled and 
cultivated. The result will be that the new states will 
be densely populated, and all the cotton and sugar 



26 

lands will be soon reduced to a state of cultivation. 
When this shall have been the case, the immense 
market which exists in those states for slaves, and 
which causes the iniquitous internal slave trade, by 
which slaves from Maryland and Virgiria are car- 
ried to Alabama, and Mississippi, and Louisiana, and 
sold at enormous prices, will be supplied and over- 
stocked. The consequence of this will be a reduc- 
tion of the price of them, until those who own them, 
and who now feel such an interest in this species of 
property, (I am sorry to apply this word to such a 
use,) will find it unprofitable, and of course become 
more reconciled to giving it up. I only mention 
this fact to show that there are physical causes at 
work which combine with those of a moral sort to 
overthrow slavery. And the influence of the cause 
just mentioned is not so distant as some suppose. 

The fact, too, of the great numbers of the slaves 
in some portions of the slave-holding states, and their 
rapid increase, will not be without an influence upon 
prudent men, who will not be insensible to its pro- 
bable future consequences. 

To all other influences must be added, my Lord, 
that of the experiment which the British nation is 
now making in their West India Islands. If that 
experiment should succeed, it will have a great 
influence upon the question in the United States. 
We wait for the complete developement of that 
experiment with great interest. If it should appear 
that the slaves when set free in masses do well, are 
industrious, quiet, fond of knowledge, and capable 
of discharging the duties of citizens so far as to be- 
come, with safety, a constituent part of the free 
population, that fact will have a great effect in re- 
concihng our southern people to the idea of giving 
liberty to their slaves. 



27 

But, as I have already stated, this is a work 
which will require many years. Prejudices, nume- 
rous and long cherished, must be overcome. Those 
who have never owned slaves, and who have not 
grown up in the midst of them, can have no correct 
idea of either the nature or the strength of these 
prejudices. That those who have held slaves and 
governed them all their lives, and who have been 
influenced by prejudices, which have descended 
from generation to generation, should at once be- 
come reconciled to the idea of not only setting their 
slaves frecj and thus losing what they consider their 
property — perhaps their all — but also of seeing 
these same slaves become entitled to every privi- 
lege of freedom which they themselves enjoy, how- 
ever desirable, is yet the most improbable of all 
moral or political changes. My Lord, this great 
work must be gradually done. Precipitate mea- 
sures will not advance it ; they will retard it. I 
know, indeed, that this view of the subject will not 
suit the jiat-justitia men. They must attempt to 
act out the most plausible but yet the most specious 
and dangerous opinion (for it is not worthy of being 
called a iwinc'i'ple) that ever was advanced, — that 
whatever ought to be done can be done. Such men 
are too apt to disregard the manner of doing good, 
and to attempt it per fas aut nefas. But no great 
and good changes of a political or social character 
have yet taken place in our world which did not re- 
quire much time. Even those grand religious and 
moral ameliorations which, more than any other 
changes, have been effected by the direct interpo- 
sition of a Divine agency, have been brought about 
gradually. Why is this ? Because God does not 
choose to deal with men as blocks of stone, but as 
rational beings, and therefore employs a system of 
influences which will overcome their prejudices. 



28 

enlighten their understandings, and rightly move 
their affections and wills. And I am the more 
reconciled — not to slavery itself — but to a gradual 
destruction of it, by the firm belief which I have, 
that the condition of the slaves is steadily becoming 
ameliorated. Without doubt there are cases of in- 
famous cruelty and oppression. But as a general 
thing, I believe that slavery is becoming every year 
mitigated in its rigours. Vast numbers of the 
slaves are members of our churches, especially of 
the Methodist and Baptist churches, which greatly 
predominate in the slave states over the other de- 
nominations, and are exerting a salutary influence. 
The African negroes, who are generally much more 
ignorant than the natives, are of course disappear- 
ing, as there are no more importations, and the 
whole slave population is gradually and perceptibly 
rising in intelligence and fitness for freedom. Is 
there not something here that is hopeful ? I am 
bound to say here, however, that whatever may be 
the ameliorations of the condition of the slaves, I 
am far from agreeing with those who, without know- 
ledge, assert that their condition is better than that 
of the free negroes in the free states. With the 
exception of some worthless coloured people about 
our large cities, I believe that their condition in our 
free states is greatly preferable to that of the slaves 
generally. That the condition of the slaves is more 
comfortable than that of the free coloured people 
in the slave states I can readily believe, and for 
reasons which are too obvious to need to be stated 
here. 

Much has been said in Europe, my Lord, by way 
of ridicule, respecting the apparent inconsistency 
between the grand political principles which we 
profess to hold and the existence of slavery among 
us. I firmly believe, my Lord, and it is the boast 



29 

of Americans, that the great principles of human 
right were more thoroughly discussed and esta- 
blished, and more luminously exhibited to the world 
by our fathers of the revolution, — that is to say, in 
the quarter of a century which elapsed from 1765 
to 1790^ — than they ever had been in all preceding 
time. And I believe that the true principles of 
human government were then more fully discovered 
and developed than in all preceding ages. We, as 
Americans, believe these principles to be true. 
We do believe that " all men are born free, and 
equal." Does the existence of slavery among us 
prove that we do not ? Not at all.* It only proves 
that we have not yet carried our principles fully 
into effect. We have, indeed, done so as it regards 
foreign political dominion. But by reason of many 
difficulties we have not carried these principles fully 
into operation in relation to slavery. Still I hesi- 
tate not to affirm that there is not an intelligent and 
virtuous man among us who does not firmly believe 
the great principle, cited above, to be a correct one. 
There is not one such man among us who does not 
believe slavery to be wrong; and there is not 
one intelligent and virtuous man among us who 
either desires or expects that slavery will be per- 
petual. But then the carrying of these principles 
into effect, in regard to our slaves, will demand 
time. For my part I rejoice that our principles are 
what they are. They are indeed in advance of our 

♦ It is, in reality, the belief of the principle referred to that creates the 
greatest obstacle to the emancipation of the slaves amongst us. We cannot 
emancipate them without soon admitting them to all the rights of citizens. 
For this they are not prepared ; and to this the prejudices of the slave- 
holder are greatly opposed. We cannot do as the British government does 
with the slaves of the West India Islands — set them free, but give them 
after all but few of the dearest privileges of freemen. Our republican prin- 
ciples forbid this. With us every freeman, whether rich or poor, white or 
black, must enjoy all the advantages of citizenship, including the right to 
vote, and eligibility to office. 



30 

practice ; but they will yet bring up our practice 
into a delightful conformity. 

Such I am persuaded are the opinions of our 
slaveholders themselves. But what I have long 
deeply deplored, in regard to them, is that they do 
not themselves attempt to bring forward some mea- 
sure for getting rid of slavery, instead of sitting 
down in despondency, and saying that nothing can 
be done.* I believe very differently. I believe that if 
gradual abolition were commenced in each southern 
state, (as was done in Pennsylvania,) in the course of 
time the evil would be removed. Let the coloured 
people, as they become free, be hired ; let them 
have the opportunity of acquiring property ; let 
them, under proper restrictions, become entitled to 
all the privileges of citizens, as is the case in almost 
all the free states. The result would be, in time, 
that they would form a large part of the constituent 
free population, and in the parts where their num^ 
bers are very great, become owners of the soil, — the 
whites selling out to them, and retiring to the other 
portions of those states, or to other states. That 
this course is practicable, I have not a doubt ; nor 
have I a doubt that it will eventually be adopted. 
Certainly no better presents itself, unless it is to 
transport them in mass, which I always have be- 
lieved to be impracticable, on account of many ob- 
stacles — the least of which is the want of money. 
I know that this plan will not be received with ap- 
probation, at present. Much time will be required 

* It is proper to remark, that it is the opinion of many excellent men in 
the southern states that the time has not yet arrived for attempting this 
work. They say, and with much reason, that the causes which are now in 
operation will, in time, prepare the minds of the slaveholders for this happy 
change ; aad that until they are more fully influenced by those causes, and 
prepared to act, it is useless, or rather injurious to urge the subject upon 
them. This, rather than despondency or apathy, is the true cause why 
southern philanthropists have not come forward with some plan for abolish- 
ing slavery amongst them. 



31 

to overcome prejudice. I need hardly add, how- 
ever, that this plan has nothing to do with the 
ridiculous doctrine of amalgamation. That doctrine 
has no necessary connexion with this plan, and 
forms no part of my theory. 

But, my Lord, we do not despair. This is a great 
work — the greatest work, I will say, of the kind 
which the world has ever witnessed. It was a small 
affair for you to abolish slavery in your distant colo- 
nies, in which but few, comparatively, of your 
citizens were personally or directly interested, and 
many of them residing in those colonies, and, of 
course, having neither a vote nor a direct influence 
in your elections. It would have been another sort 
of thing if slavery had existed amongst you in 
Great Britain and Ireland ; if, for instance, nearly 
one half of your citizens had held slaves, and which 
constituted the greater portion of their wealth ; and 
if, above all, your form of government were such 
that none but the slaveholding portion of the popu- 
lation had any right, by your charter, to legislate 
over the subject, or even to touch it. Had this 
been the case, you would not have been half-way 
towards the abolition of slavery. Indeed I wonder 
that you were so long in doing what you have done, 
or rather commenced. It is well that you have 
done what you have. But you do not deserve a 
great deal of praise for it. We have done more. 
Although our general government has no direct 
control over the subject ; yet, since our independ- 
ence, eight of the original thirteen states have be- 
come free from slavery, and now fourteen in all are 
in the same condition, and the prospect is good with 
regard to several others. 

Had our general government direct control over 
the subject of slavery, I am very confident that this 
greatest of evils would soon come to an end. But 



32 

by our constitution all interference in this subject is 
forbidden to the general government, and its control 
is placed in the hands of the individual states. And 
we cannot think of breaking down our constitution 
in order to get rid of slavery. We shall, my Lord, 
pursue a better course. We shall adhere to the 
constitution, — -and when the time comes that we 
can change our constitution, in a. cojistitutmialman-^ 
ner, to effect this great work, then such a change 
will be made, if necessary, v/ith perfect safety. And 
here I would remark that it is not a valid argument 
against what I have just said, to urge the existence 
of slavery in the district of Columbia ; for many 
reasons (growing out of the continuance of slavery 
in Maryland and Virginia, which states surround 
the district) have led the congress to delay any ac- 
tion on that subject until those states, which would 
be so m.uch affected by that step themselves, begin 
to move towards the abolition of slavery within their 
limits. I do not say that these reasons have been 
sufficient, but I mention the fact to show, that there 
a7^e special reasons which have influenced that body 
to pursue the course which it has done. Perhaps 
it will be seen in the end that this course has not 
been so unwise as some have supposed. As to the 
internal slave trade, as it is called, and which 
has been so often denounced, I believe that it is a 
subject over which congress has no control. My 
Lord, no man knows better than your Lordship the 
force of inveterate prejudice. It will require time 
for the Americans to overcome it, in regard to sla- 
very. But I will venture to assure your Lordship 
that it will not require more time to do away the re- 
mainder of slavery in the United States than it has 
done to enable the advocates of reform in Great 
Britain to make even the small degree of progress 
which they have made. How long, my Lord, have 



33 

your Lordship and others been engaged in endea- 
vouring to effect a reform in the penal code of your 
country ? And yet after the lapse of more than 
half a century — I might say, of a whole century — 
since noble attempts began to be made to amend 
that code, there remain in it until this day, and are 
likely to remain in it for many a year to come, not 
a few statutes against crimes so wholly dispropor- 
tionate to the offences which they are intended to 
punish, that they ought to be a disgrace to any 
civilized nation under the heavens ! 1 know that 
your Lordship has so viewed them, and that you 
have made the most unremitting efforts to have 
them repealed or modified. Others did the same 
before your Lordship's day ; but how slow the pro- 
gress which has been made ! The reason for this 
progress being so slow is to be found in the fact 
that the abuses to be reformed existed among you in 
Great Britain — they were not in distant colonies. 
And as to the prejudice of our white people against 
the blacks, I doubt whether it is much greater than 
is that of the highest and wealthiest classes in Eng- 
land against the poor. I have seen hundreds of 
coloured children and adults in our Sunday-schools 
occupying as good a part of the room as the white 
scholars. I have seen thousands of them in our 
churches, occupying the galleries, or a part of the 
church below. And I have been present in our 
churches when the coloured members took their 
turns in coming to the communion table, or were 
commingled with the other members. Is there any 
greater equality than this between the higher and 
lower classes in England ? I believe that there is 
not. I am not finding fault, however ; I am only 
stating facts. I am no advocate for amalgamation 
of the rich and the poor, or the white and the 

D 



34 

black. Nor do I suppose that entire equality of in- 
tercourse between them is possible^ or conducive to 
their mutual happiness. The good sense of people, 
all the world over, when left to itself, will seek 
equahty in marriage as well as in all the intercourse 
of life. 

In the foregoing part of this letter I have given 
you, my Lord, a brief but true account, as I believe, 
of what has been done in my country to abolish sla- 
very, and of the prospects of the final achievement 
of this noble object. Give us your sympathy, your 
encouragement, your commendation when we de- 
serve it, — and even your censure, in the gentle- 
manly and proper way in which I know that your 
Lordship will always give it, if you give it at all. 
Correspond, if you think proper, with our leading 
men. They will receive it well. But above all, 
conduct well the example which you are setting us 
in your West India experiment. Do not give us 
your money, nor offer to do it. We do not need it 
for any purpose. I should blush to ask a shilling 
from an Englishman to promote any object in the 
United States ; and I am always ashamed when I 
hear of any one else doing so. I have strong hopes 
that our general government will take up the sub- 
ject of buying out the slavery which still exists 
amongst us. Free from debt, it is fully able to 
do it. 

My Lord, the subject of slavery as it exists among 
us in the United States, is a domestic one, and can 
be best managed by our own citizens. This remark 
coincides fully with what was uttered by your Lord- 
ship at the Anti-slavery meeting, to which I referred 
at the commencement of this letter. It will cer- 
tainly be far from profitable for you to send men to 
lecture us on this subject. I consider it a real 



35 

calamity to the cause that any thing of this kind 
has been done. I do not doubt the good intention 
of the measure, but its wisdom. 

Non tali auxilio, nee defensoribus istis 
Tempus eget. 

No man has a right to come to us on any such 
errand. No foreigner has a right, as I understand 
the matter, to go into another land and interfere 
with the political arrangements which exist there. 
He may do so, but he has no right to do so. A 
minister of the gospel has the right, by divine com- 
mand, to go into any part of the world, to proclaim 
salvation to men, to call men to repentance towards 
God, and faith towards the Lord Jesus Christ. And 
so long as he confines himself to the great object of 
his mission, no government on earth has a right to 
hinder him. His great object is to reconcile men 
to God, and prepare them for heaven, though the 
indirect influence of his preaching will undoubtedly 
undermine many of the poHtical and social evils 
which may exist. Yet his great object is to preach 
the gospel, and so long as he imitates his blessed 
Master and the apostles, in this respect, he keeps 
within the divine warrant. But when he travels 
out of it to attack political arrangements, he ceases 
to stand on the ground upon which his divine com- 
mission places him. If fifty or one hundred minis- 
ters of the gospel in England choose to go to the 
United States to preach the gospel, they have a 
right to do so, and if good men, they will be well 
received. But if they go to preach a crusade 
against slavery, they cannot go upon their divine 
commission as ministers of the gospel, and cannot 
claim any special right to do so. Such aid we do 
not need. There is talent enough, energy enough, 
money enough, and I trust, with God's blessing. 



3G 

wisdoDi eiioiign in the United States, to do all that 
man can do to accomplish this great work. 

if, my Lord^ we were to send agents from the 
United States, where I have not found one man, 
within the last ten years, (and where I believe there 
are very few such men,) advocating a union of 
church and state, or who does not think that such 
a union is exceedingly injurious to the interests of 
religion, and that by making a deviation from the 
faith of the state in some sort a political offence, it 
has been the real cause of all the religious persecu- 
tion in the world — to deliver lectures all over Eng- 
land against the union of church and state which 
exists among you, and to take part with those who 
are labouring to destroy your established church, 
— what would your Lordship think of such a pro- 
cedure ? They might be ministers of the gospel, 
and claim that they had a right to do so, and that 
they were preaching within the divine warrant of 
their office when they preached against the oppres- 
sions of the established church. Would your Lord- 
ship believe that they had any such right ? Did 
their Master or his apostles set them such an ex- 
ample ? What would you think of such a course ? 
You would pronounce it to be an impertinent inter- 
ference. 

I claim for my country, my Lord, the honour of 
iuiving passed the first law to abolish the slave 
trade. It was also the first to denounce the punish- 
ment of death against any of its citizens who might 
be found engaged in that trade, and placed that 
crime upon the same footing with that of piracy. 
I regret, however, that the government of the 
United States has not yet become willing to yield 
to the request of the British government, and enter 
into an arrangement by which suspected vessels of 
either nation mio'ht^ under certain circumstances,. 



37 

be searched, in order to break up more effectuall)''' 
the existing slave trade. I am not without hope 
that this point may yet be yielded by the American 
government. The right of search is, however, a 
point on which the Americans are more sensitive 
than any other. They will be reluctant to concede 
it for any purpose. That they will never submit to 
its enforcement by any other nation, I am entirely 
confident. That day, my Lord, has gone by for 
ever ! 

My Lord, it is possible that my country may be 
called to pass through many and severe trials, as a 
punishment for our sins as a people. We certainly 
merit them from a holy and just God. But my 
hope is that He who conducted our fathers to that 
wilderness, and has thus far watched over us and 
granted us great prosperity, will still deign to guide 
us by his wisdom and holy providence. A foreigner 
who reads our party newspapers would often be 
ready to expect the speedy dissolution of our union. 
But let him go amongst us ; let him witness the cheer- 
ful and prompt submission of our people to the results 
of the ballot-box ; let him contemplate our admira- 
ble system of public schools, continually spreading 
into new states, — our hundreds of academies,^ — our 
seventy or eighty colleges, — our numerous theolo- 
gical, medical, and law schools, — our twelve hundred 
newspapers, — eight or ten thousand temperance 
societies, with a million and a half of members, — ■ 
our 15,000 or 20,000 Sunday-schools, with their 
libraries, and a million of scholars, and taught by 
120,000 of the best men and women among us, — 
an evangelical ministry of not less than eleven thou- 
sand preachers of the gospel, — the Bible placed in 
almost every family, — and all our other benevolent 
opertitions, — and he will then see much to encou- 
rage him. Still our reliance must be on God and 



38 

his blessing, and I think that this is the steady and 
growing conviction of Christians amongst us. 

The greatest source of danger to our union is un- 
questionably the existence of slavery amongst us. 
Another is the rapid increase of our population, 
which is now fifteen milHons, and which in twenty- 
five years more will probably be thirty millions ! 
What gigantic efforts must be made by the friends 
of religion and education to increase the means of 
religious and literary instruction as rapidly as the 
increase of population. But I believe that it will 
be done. A third source of danger to us is the im- 
mense emigration to our shores from Europe, which 
is pouring into our country annually thousands of 
ignorant, and poor corrupt foreigners. The greater 
portion of our paupers, drunkards, and criminals, 
are from foreign lands. But we hope, with God's 
blessing, to stem the dreadful torrent. 

And here, my Lord, I will say a word respecting 
the instances of riot and disorder which have re- 
cently occurred in the United States. It is this — 
whilst I am ready to admit that a spirit of insub- 
ordination, which by a sort of sympathy has spread 
over the country, does certainly exist, yet I must 
assert that the accounts of it have been grossly ex- 
aggerated. The special courts which have been 
held for punishing those who were engaged in the 
insurrections of the slaves, in one or two states, are 
according to the laws of those states. The proceed- 
ings against the gamblers, in a few instances, have 
been violent and illegal, as have been the summary 
punishments inflicted on those who were engaged 
in disseminating seditious publications, as they have 
been called. These proceedings are deplorable. 
But they have been far less extensive and serious 
than many have supposed from reading the accounts 
in the newspapers. And I am satisfied, from ex- 



39 

tensive knowledge of my country, that these excite- 
ments and petty tumults will soon pass away. The 
good sense of the people will every where frown 
down all these things speedily. Indeed, whilst 
writing this letter, I have received information that 
these things are fast disappearing. Amongst a peo- 
ple who are not governed by soldiers and bayonets, 
such things may be expected occasionally. But 
they will be only temporary, and the laws will soon 
recover their proper sway. 

A better acquaintance with the peculiar but sim- 
ple structure of the general government of the 
United States, as well as the powers of the state 
governments ; of the subjects over which the for- 
mer may legislate, and of those which are re- 
served to the legislation of the latter, would enable 
foreigners to understand why it is that the American 
nation, as such, ought not to be blamed for the ex- 
istence of slavery in some of the states. I was 
astonished, my Lord, upon my first visiting Eng- 
land, at the great ignorance, even among very well- 
informed people, of American affairs, which I found 
to exist. Almost nothing seems to be understood — 
neither geography, history, manners, laws, nor 
structure of government. I have often been asked 
what language is spoken there ! And this question 
has not been asked with regard to the aborigines, 
but to the present inhabitants of that land. But I 
suppose that I ought not to have been astonished. 
Much, indeed, has been written by Englishmen re- 
specting America, and a good deal by visitants from 
the continent of Europe. But with the solitary 
exception of the " Democratic en Amerique" by 
M. Tocqueville, nothing, absolutely, has been writ- 
ten by a foreigner which approaches to an accurate 
delineation of our political organization. Many of 
these writers have very confidently thought that 



40 

they understood it perfectly. But they were mis- 
taken. They have all said much that is true of 
manners, &c., so far as they saw them in the circles 
in which they revolved, and much that is erroneous 
when employed for general description. This is 
the character of what has been written by Messrs. 
Fearon, De Roos, Stuart, Fidler, M'Gregor, Ouse- 
ley. Hall, Hamilton, &c. &c., and by such ladies as 
Frances Wright, Mrs. Butler, and Mrs. Trollope. 
Some of these works are written with considerable 
talent, and some in a good spirit ; but they all so 
abound in errors that they wrongly inform about as 
much and as often as they inform correctly. Col. 
Hamilton's is by far the best as it regards our poli- 
tical institutions. The recent work of Drs. Reed 
and Matheson, though not free from mistakes, is by 
far the best work that has appeared in Europe, in 
regard to the religious, moral, and literary state and 
prospects of that country. It neither gives, nor 
professes to give, any information deserving of men- 
tion respecting the physical resources of the coun- 
try, or its political organization. 

My Lord, could Mr. O'Connell have understood 
our political organization when he denounced, as 
he did at the Anti-slavery meeting, and as he has 
done on some subsequent occasions, the Americans 
en masse, as " liars, hypocrites, traitors to honour ? 
&c. &;c. I was astonished, my Lord, to hear such 
language from Mr. O'Connell, whose talents I have 
always greatly respected, and who I little thought 
could descend to the use of such ungentlemanly 
epithets, to say the least of them. I confess, in- 
deed, that I was too much amused with the per- 
fectly ridiculous rant and violence of the learned 
gentleman to be ajigry at his denunciations. Be- 
sides, I thought them too little worthy of regard to 
be viewed with any other feehng than that of regret 



41 

at the injury which they would do to the cause of 
abohtion in the United States. But I understand 
that Mr. O'Connell is only an eleventh-hour man in 
the Anti-slavery cause, and I suppose that he feels 
that it is incumbent on him to establish his sincerity 
and zeal by an uncommon amount of violence. As 
to the proclamation which he seemed to issue to 
his Irish subjects in America, to renounce slavery 
instantly and join the Anti-slavery Society upon the 
pain of his great displeasure, it is to be hoped that 
they will pay reverent heed to it, and render prompt 
obedience. With regard to his pronouncing the 
Americans unworthy of being received into equal 
society in Europe, and especially his expression of 
a determination not to admit them to his house ex- 
cept they are non-slave-holders, and members of the 
Anti-slavery Society, I do not know what to say. 
It surely must be considered by them all a sad cala- 
mity to be thus put beyond the pale of good society, 
and especially to be debarred from his hospitality. 
And how they will be able to survive it, I will not 
undertake to predict. 

But seriously, my Lord, what good can Mr. 
O'Connell expect to accomplish by such unjust 
speeches ? They cannot be defended but upon the 
infernal principle that the "end justifies the means," 
— a principle not unknown to St. Ignatius Loyola, 
but which was invented by another personage, long 
before his day. Mr. O'Connell, I understand, has 
complained that his speech was not correctly re- 
ported. But I have seen no report of it which was 
at. all equal in scurrility to what he actually said. 
But I must take leave of the learned member for 
Dublin, and in doing so, cannot forbear suggesting 
to him that a little more accurate knowledge of the 
political organization of the United States might 
enable him to speak more correctly about that 

E 



42 

country ; and that if he has not leisure to read any 
large tomes on the subject, T hope he will allow me 
to recommend to his perusal a little work of great 
celebrity among our children — Peter Parley's Geo- 
graphy of the United States — from which he will 
be able to learn at least the number and the names 
of our states. 

My Lord, I am deeply pained at the language of 
taunt with reference to slavery in my country, which 
I have noticed in some of the public meetings, as 
well as in some of the publications in England. 
" Let America follow our good example as she has 
followed our bad," is flippantly said. I hope that 
we shall do it. But if I were disposed to indulge 
in retort, I might say, that reproach and abuse for 
the existence of slavery amongst us do not come 
with good grace from Englishmen, who were the 
authors of it. I might say that it is quite too soon 
for England to abuse other nations for the existence 
of slavery whilst she has yet scarcely washed from 
her forehead the deep and bloody stain of her own 
oppressions of the African race. I would say that 
my own country will one day, I am confident, be 
able to reply to England, " The serpent which you 
placed in our cradle, and, heedless of our infant 
cries, taught to twine itself around our limbs, and 
strike its poison into our veins, has at length been 
strangled, and the young Hercules who has thus 
triumphed over your wicked device, rejoicing in 
victory, will ever henceforth take the lead of you, 
and the world, in every path of great and glorious 
achievement." I would ask also the author of 
" Spiritual Despotism," who tauntingly speaks of 
our political institutions as the Republicanism which 
" endures slavery," how long it is since monarchy 
ceased to endure it ? I would tell him that slavery 
was banished from fourteen republict\n states in my 



43 

own country, and from eight other republics on the 
American continent, before a single monarchy on 
the whole earth could be induced to raise the stand- 
ard of freedom. I would tell him that mankind 
have had to see the spectacle of the republics of the 
New World rising up to free themselves from the 
slavery with which the monarchies of the Old World 
cursed them, before a single monarchy could be 
persuaded to take a step in this humane enterprise. 

But no, my Lord, I will not indulge in rancorous 
feelings. I cannot do it. And if I could, England 
would be the last country on the earth against 
which I would say a word, unless it were unavoid- 
able in the defence of my own. No: I honour 
England, and I bless God for what he has done for 
England : the land of my fathers : the land of the 
great and the good : the land of Bibles, and of a 
pure religion, and of associations to diffuse them 
through the wide world. I cannot speak lightly of 
England — long the sole depository of civil and re- 
ligious liberty in the world. In arts and science 
and religion the benefactor of mankind, as she has 
often been the defender of their rights. I cannot 
abuse England. Sooner " let my right hand forget 
its cunning, and my tongue cleave to the roof of my 
mouth.*' 

With regard to my own country, I say from the 
bottom of my heart, " With all thy faults I love 
thee still;" and with my last, parting breath, I 
hope to pray, Esto perpetiia! My Lord, why should 
not England and America cherish the kindest feel- 
ings towards each other, and, leaving the domestic 
affairs of each to its own management, seek to do 
each other good, and not injury ? Let there be no 
other rivalry than that of each striving to do the 
most good. The two nations are but one people, 
speaking the same language, possessing the same 



44 

religion, having governments similar in fundamental 
principles, and are only separated by an ocean. 
Whilst you exert your influence throughout the 
Eastern World, we are spreading your language and 
whatever good we have derived from you over the 
half of the New. Both are raised up by Providence 
to stand together as a barrier against infidelity and 
superstition in the religious world, and despotism in 
the political. Let every tongue and every hand 
be employed to render our continued influence, 
great, good, glorious ! 

I am, my Lord, 

Your Lordship's humble Servant, 

AN AMERICAN. 



W. Tyler, Printer, Bolt Court, Fleet Street. 



I 



