Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/objectionstoabol1788rams 



oK'.' > "tJ.b 



M^ 



^$n 







sr 



't_. 







^^r^^'^^y-'^-^^^^ 






^ 




^. ^-^ ^- 4-- 








jh. 2- 



- *-^ ^ 



aam 



OBJECTIONS 



TO THE. 



Abolition of the Slave Trade. 



WITH 



ANSWER S. 



2-4. // 



OBJECTIONS 

TO THE 

Abolition of the Slave Trade^ 

WITH 

ANSWERS. 

TO WHICH ARE PREFIXED, 

Striftures on a late Publication, intitled, 
*' Coniiderations on the Emancipation of 
** Negroes, and the Abolition of the Slave 
'' Trade, by a Well India Planter." 

By the Rev. JAM-EjS KSMSEY, A.M. 

THE SECO.l<ID ^DirfoV, W'jf T H' Ad'd ITIOh's.* 



LONDON: 



Printed and sold by J. phillij»s, GiiORCE Yard, 
Lombard-street. 



MDCCLXXXVIH. 



AH 
.710 

.Rl4 (Jh 



Advertifement to the Second Editions 



THIS is an attempt to give a connefted view 
of the queftlorl refpeding the abolition of 
the flave trade j a queftion which nearly concerns 
the whole community^ If, as the advocates for 
flavery affirm^ the very being of the flate be 
bound up with the continuation of it; or if, as 
the friends of abolition maintain^ it be impolitick 
and unprofitable ; if it wounds every human feel- 
ing, and fteels the heart againft every benevolent 
afFe6tion 5 if it encourages every corrupt principle 
among the people, and threatens the nation with 
vengeance from above j then mud it be delibe- 
rately examined, and difpafTionately difcufledi 
Thofe efpecially whofe voices mufl decide, will 
carefully inquire, and cautioufly fearch into, the 
merits of the caufe. The friends of abolition 
folicit only for a full and fair hearing, to gain the 
object of their wifhes. For the good fenfe of 
Parliament will not find the genuine feelings of 
humanity, and the found didates of prudence at 
variance. 

I fhall only remark one difadvantage undeJf 
\vhich the caufe of humanity labours. The advo- 
cates for flavery being interefled in the ifTue, are 
induftrious in making good their caufe. They 
are numerous, united, and powerful. They can 
refer to calculations, command returns, bring 
forward evidence of any fort, or rank, in any num- 
ber. Thofe who Hand forth to adt as the friends 
of the flaves, are a few private individuals, them- 
felves volunteers in the bufinefs, who muft fifh 
A 3 out 



( 6 ) 

out proofs of the things which they want to 
eflablifh, from dark hints, from cafual informa- 
tion, from timid relu6lant witnefTes. Even very 
important information muft continue fupprefled, 
becaufe they are unwilling to expofe individuals 
to the powerful refentment of their adverfaries. 
Thefe circumftances throw a luflre on thofe who, 
difregarding perfonal confiderations, have come 
boldly forward, and expofed the foul deeds of 
avarice and tyranny. And though proofs ought 
not to be expedled, where proofs cannot be had, 
unlefs they could be forced out of thofe who 
think it their interefl to withhold them, yet pro- 
videntially every fa6l neceflary for the Legiflature 
to found an opinion on, has been eftablilhed by 
unexceptionable eye-witnefles, to a furprizing 
degree of accuracy, in a wonderful and unexpect- 
ed manner. But were our proofs found lefs full 
and convincing, I trull thofe who ferioufly perufe 
the following pages, will fee enough in this col- 
ledlion of contradictory objedtions, on which to 
form a very decifive conclufion. for example, it 
is faid, that negroes are miferable in Africa; yet 
Africa is fo prolific, as to require emigration to 
make room for its inhabitants. Again, flaves are 
happy in the fugar colonies ; yet require annual 
fupplies to keep up their numbers. Can all this 
be reconciled to common fenfe ? Can it be the 
caufe of truth, which requires fuch contradictory 
affertions to eftablifh it ? 



INTRODUCTION. 



Introduction. 



THE following Objeftions to the Abolition 
of the Slave Trade, with AnfwerSj were in- 
tended to give a fummary view of that fubjedt. 
Thefe objeSions being colleded from various per- 
fons and writings, there will be found in them no 
fmall degree of contradiction, for which the collec- 
tor is not anfwerable. But whatever they may be, 
they have all been advanced by different people, 
in converfation and writings, with a view to pro- 
duce an efFecl on perfons who have not fludied 
the fubjedt ; and they are therefore necefTarily 
brought together here, to be feparately examined 
and weighed. If every anfwer be not found 
equally conclufive, the candid reader will remem- 
ber that it is a fingle perfon who endeavours to 
give him a view of a very extenfive fubjedl, which 
takes in a variety of confiderations. 

Since this plan was refolved on, a publication 
has appeared in favour of the (lave trade, which, 
coming at once fairly to the queftion, claims a 
particular attention. It is entitled, Confiderations 
on the Emancipation of the Negroes, and on the 
Abolition of the Slave Trade, by a Weil Indian 
Planter; and is affirmed by the Monthly Review- 
ers to be invincible, on political grounds. * 

• This they have lince candidly retradled, 

A 4 I fliall 



( 8 ) 

1 fhall firft obferve, that where this author treats 
of a general or partial emancipation of flaves, he 
combats a fliadow; becaufe the prefent plan aims 
only at the abolition of the African (lave trade. 
It meddles not with flaves already in the colonies; 
if it' did, that fympathy, which firft incited me to 
plead their claim to better treatment, v/ould force 
me to range myfelf on the author's fide, and pro- 
teft againft the indifcreet meafure. All our flaves 
are not yet generally in a ftate, wherein full liber- 
ty would be a bleffing. Like children, they muft 
be reftrained by authority, and led on to their own 
good. But it would be infidious not to declare, 
that humanity looks forward to full emancipa- 
tion, whenever they fhall be found capable of 
making a proper ufe of it. But this may be left 
to the mafler's difcretion, and the effecft of future 
arrangements, which even the planter acknow- 
ledges to be neceffary. He who can procure a 
freeman to work for him, will never employ a 
Have : for the firft does twice the work of the 
other; and when he dies, his place is fupplied 
in the natural courfe of generation, not at an en- 
ormous expenfe from the flave-markct. See my 
EfTay, p. ii8, &c. In Pennfylvania, where flaves 
are farther advanced in civilization, the Quakers 
have tried this experiment with the moft com- 
plete fuccefs. Among many others, one man has 
freed lOO flaves, and finds his work better done, 
and his profits greater, for having diverted him- 
felf of this unnatural property. Indeed, what 
doth a peafant reap from his labour, which a flave 
ought not to receive ? food, raiment, and neceffa- 
ries, to enable him to raife up labourers for his 
cmployerSo But there is a confidence, a charm in 

liberty^ 



( 9 ) 

liberty, that doubles his exertion, and foftens its 
toil. While increafing his employer's wealth, he 
iprovides for his fannily, and when his talk is finifh- 
ed, his time is his own i no capricious tyrant in- 
ternneddles with his joy. Farther, the Britifh 
legiflature fhould be cautious how it meddles with 
the ftate of (laves in the colonies, left, while at- 
tempting to regulate their treatment, it confirm 
the bonds of flavery. If regulations be neceflary, 
the ifland afTemblies fhould enforce them. While 
Britain gives them a monopoly of her fugar mar-- 
ket, fhe will always preferve a check over them. 
But if emancipation be not intended^ the claim to 
the compenfation of ^^60,000,000 connefted page 
5. with it, is cut off. Vv^e have only to confider 
how far the abolition of the (lave trade will affed: 
the planter's property, in fuch a manner as fhall 
Intitle him to compenfation. But the argument 
refts on a foundation, that I truft will not be al- 
io v/ed : he fays, page 3, ^^ That the planter pof- 
*^ fefles a political right to his flave, whatever 
*^ may be his moral right, and muft be paid ac- 
*^ cording to the flave's value, before his right can 
^^ be extinguiflied by reftoring the flave to his 
*' natural freedom.'' This plea is not good* A 
horfe has been fairly bought in an open market, 
eftablifbed by authority : but he had been ftolen, 
and the right owner difcovers and claims him, 
and the thief is gone off. Muft the right owner 
repay the fair purchafer his price ; or will this laft 
be allowed to keep him ? Still a horfe is an objed 
of property ; but when the queftion is fairly agi- 
tated, I deny that a man can ever be an objedl of 
property, except in the cafe of an atrocious crime, 
which applies not to one flave in a thoufand, and 

excludes 



( lo ) 

excludes all children *. The a61: that deduces' ^ 
man to flavery, is illegal and unjuft; for it is im- 
poffible for a flave to receive a compenfation foir 
his liberty. 

A band of robbers may agrec^ in flealing h'orfes, 
for each man to keep thofe feized by him. This 
is binding on them, but not on the right owner, 
whenever he can aflert his claim. In like manner, 
one flave-holder may prefcribe againft another 
ilave-holder, for the ufe of a flave ; but he can 
make out no right when humanity lays in her 
claim ; nor can he demand compenfation. Still, 
whatever be the claims of humanity here they are 
not enforced. In whatever manner the planter 
has acquired his flaves,no perfon intends to diflurb 
him in the quiet pofleflion. We only aim to pre- 
vent his dealing in them, as far as it encourages 
robbers and murderers to carry on an inhuman 
trafEck in the bodies of our fellow-creatures, 
which, as we fhall plainly fiiew, will ultimately 
only ruin himfelf, if he perfeveres in it. And can 
he come in fuch a cafe to government for relief, 
and fay, Hitherto I have been allowed to buy, 
from man-itealers, wretched flaves to toil without 
recompence, without food, without clothing, 
for my profit 3 if you take this privilege from 

• Even in this cafe, a flave muft be confldered and be kept 
as a flave to the publick. No private perfon can acquire a 
right over him- For if flavery be adjudged as a punilhment, 
to be juft, it mufl neither be lefs nor more than the crime de- 
ferves. If lefs, the fociety, which is offended, is injured, if 
more the culprit : for no authority can effeftually interpofe 
between a malter and his flave. And this reafoning holds fl:ill 
Uronger againll the cuftom of felling culprits to foreigners, 
over whom the authority that condemned them cannot be ex- 
ercifed, either to inforce or relax the punifliment, that ihould 
or may be inflicted, 

me. 



( II ) 

me, on which I have depended, on which I hzvt 
hazarded my fortune, you muft make good all my 
loiTes as I ihall itate them, even to the amount ot 
£ 60,000,000 ? 

The cafe is fairly ftated, murder and robbery 
are not on this fubje6l exaggerated terms. The 
nature thereof cannot be explained without them. 
And can " a political right" be oppofed to this 
rcafoning ? Can the planter's property be preferv- 
ed to him, only by means that the feeling heart 
fhrinks from the difcuffion of? Perilli for me fuch 
confiderations ! As a moral agent, as a member 
of a Chriftian community, I am not afhamed to 
maintain, and I truft I am not fingular in my 
opinion, that no political right ought to be fuf- 
tained, which is not founded on morality and 
juftice. 

The flave has a natural right to freedom. 
Could we replace him where flavery found him, 
he ought to be returned to that fituation. But we 
cannot reftore his cottage, his family, his relations, 
his country. If born a flave, we cannot often 
make him worthy of being a freeman. The only 
recompence we can make, is to treat him with 
confideration, and receive in return fuch fervice 
from him, as leaves him the reafonable enjoyment 
of himfelf. But becaufe we have already depriv- 
ed his country of millions, which have been facri- 
ficed to our avarice, are we, for any argument that 
avarice or politicks can adduce, to go on to murder 
and to deftroy ? Is moral reafoning, is equal juf- 
tice, of fo little confequence among us, as on this 
ungenerous ground to be fet wholly afide ? My 
candid adverfary will blufh, when he views this 
truly horrid bufinefs in this light; and even if 
the traffick were as valuable as he eltimates it, 

would 



( 12 ) 

would fpurn from him wealth, that muft be ac* 
quired and kept by luch methods. To do as we 
wifn to be done by, is the di6late of natural juf- 
tice, as well as of Chriftianity. We cannot lay in 
a claim to the attributes of humanity, if we deny 
its influence* 

But, p. II, This point of political right is 
given up : for he fays, " if the abolition were ge- 
*^ neral, nothing could be more falutary, becaufe 
" every nation would be left in its relative fitua- 
*^ tion." But if it be a right general meafure, it 
is a right meafure in refpect of us. We are not 
accountable for, we are not concerned in, the con- 
du6l of others ; if there be any connexion, it may 
be fafely left to the management of adminiftration. 
Some nation muft begin, and there are very ftrong 
reafons, why we fhould fet the example. Our 
planters cannot be interefted in it, while they enjoy 
the monopoly of the Britifh market, where the 
price is higher than in any other place, and the 
demand increafes fafter than they can increafe 
their produce. And fo mAich perfuaded am I (as 
I fhall make appear) of their being able to keep 
upj or even increafe the prefent produce of fugar 
from the number of flaves now in the colonies, 
without any new importation, that did they prove 
unable to fupply the market, I Ihould be induced 
to charge it to their mifmanagement, rather than 
allow a compenfation ; and fhould propofe ports 
to be opened in the Weft-Indies, for the intro- 
dudlion of as much foreign fugar, as would make 
good the deficiency. Thus fugar would be kept 
at a moderate price to the confumer ; our fhipping 
would continue to be employed, and our revenue 
need fufFer no injury. We do this in a fcarcity of 
grain, why not alfo in a fcarcity of fugar ? But 

this 



( 13 ) 

this remedy will only be necelTary, flioiild the 
planter wear his flaves out (as the author, p. j^ 
fuppofes) by ill treatment and feverity. 

Farther, p. ^^. he fays, " If planters were al- 
^* lowed time to prepare for the event, by ftocki- 
^' ing their eftates to the full extent of their de- 
*^ mands, the flave trade might be abolilhed.'''^ 
Now while the Have market is open, inconfiderate 
planters, from their eagernefs to pulli on the cul- 
ture of their efcates farther than it will profitably 
go, will continue to have demands on it. I fo- 
Icmnly affirm, that as often as I have heard the 
queilion concerning the buying or breeding of 
flaves difcuiTed among planters, the preference 
has always been given to buying. The reader 
will determine what encouragement to popula- 
tion may be expe6led where this opinion prevails. 
And the fad in my time was, that nothing raifed 
a manager's refentm.ent fooner than to be inform- 
ed that a negrefs v/as with child. I include not 
every manager^ many are worthy humane men 5 
I give it only as the prevailing opinion in this 
cafe. But a pofitive abolition of the flave trade 
will bring the planter to a fenfe of his interefl. 
Ufelefs domefticks will be turned into the field. 
One third of the number of hired fervants will 
fully fupply their place. The fmall number of 
thefe laft will allow them to be well fed on a part 
cf the prefent expenfe of domeftick flaves, and 
their wages will be a fmali proportion of the fum 
which goes annually to purchafe new flaves. 

But, p. 16. It is allowed, that " where the 
'^ planter is unencumbered, or has fufficicnt 
*' ftrength, there the ftock may be kept up from 
^^ the births." The number in this fltuation muft 
be conflderable. Every Well-Indian family re- 

fiding 



( H ) 

fidlng in Britain muft be reckoned in it. For 
only the overplus revenue, after providing for 
the plantation, can be fpent here. Therefore a 
great part of the ^^60,000,000, claimed for ruined 
planters, will be faved in this clafs. Of involved 
planters, J affirm, that not one will be recovered 
from ruin by any purchafe of new flaves at their 
prefent advanced price. When Long, near twenty 
years ago, wrote his Hiflory of Jamaica, vol. 2. 
p. 437. fuch purchafes only involved him farther 
in debt.* Slaves are now almoft one third dearer; 
the expenfe of fupporting them is increafed. 
Without taking into account the frequent acci-^ 
dents of hurricanes and bad crops, new flaves do 
not repay their firft cod, intereft, expenfe, ancj 
redudlion of number in feafoning. 

Again, p. 26. It is faid, that " generally fpeak- 
" ing, every Weft-Indian planter will affirm fla- 
*' very to be an evil -, it is juft to prevent negroes 
<^ from being enflaved." Then let us do what i§ 
juft, and leave the iffue to a watchful Providence. 
If flavery be an evil, if it be unjuft to enflave ne- 
groes^ he is in a dangerous fituation, who by his 
demand of them encourages this injuftice, and 
promotes this evil. That politician, who, p. 27, 
is faid to be ^^ unable to fquare his condu6l by 
*' moral redlitude," will affuredly come fhort of 
his purpofe. Suppofe in this enlightened age, it 
were propofed to fit out a fquadron to go up the 
Baltic, to land parties to murder thofe who refift, 
to feize on the helplefs, to bribe the natives to 
kidnap each other, to be brought over tied neck 

* Sixty years ago, Robertfon, writing in favour of the 
planter, complains of the unprofitablenels of African flaves, 
though they coll then only from £ zz to £2^, See his 

Trafts. 

and 



( 15 ) 

^d heels to work in our coal mines 5 there is 
^ot a pretence for the prefent flave trade, for carry- 
ing on the manufadure of fugar, that may not be 
lafed here. It employs fhipping, it faves our own 
people fropn a defl:ru6tive employment -, and if the 
Germans be warlike and oppofe us^ it will exer- 
cife us in arms. But if we fpurn at this new 
fcheme, becaufe iniquitous and violent, why is the 
flave trade efleemed lefs violent and iniquitous, 
for having been the practice of two centuries ? 
Do we ufe the woman's argument for llcinning eel$ 
alive, that the Africans are accuftomed to it ? 
Whatever may be the cafe of their country or 
race, individuals are not accuftomed to it. To 
each unhappy wretch, it is a new, a fatal ftroke, 
that carries him away for ever from his native fpot, 
and determines and fixes his mifery. Plabit can- 
not contribute to make it tolerable. They fink 
under the anguilh, and are loft for ever to fociety 
and themfelves. 

Nor can the good confequences of this horrid 
trade be pleaded in extenuation of its cruelties. 
From comparing the numbers imported into the 
colonies, with the number of Creoles left, it is 
plain not one African in ten leaves pofterity be- 
hind him. But the value of a Creole flave, which 
is the onlylafting good from importation, will be 
dearly purchafed at the expenfe of ten new flaves. 
And if a new flave will neither repay his expenfe 
by his labour, nor leave a profitable pofterity be- 
hind him, why is he purchafed? Why adds the 
planter this unprodudive bargain to his former 
incumbrances ? Why is he concerned in a cruel 
trafHck that cannot profit him 5 that muft undo 
|)im? 

I am 



( i6 ) 

I am forry to obferve, p. 13, the following 
fentimtnt in this candid writer : " Negroes are 
bought, not for population, but for work j which^ 
if not done, mud ruin their owners." The con- 
clufion is, that as the owner will not willingly 
ruin himfelf, the negroes muft be worked at all 
hazards, and as " their condition expofes them 
to accidents conducing to depopulation, their 
numbers muft decreafe.*' The meaning is, fu- 
gar muft be made, at the expenfe of the flave's 
life. Suppofing this for a moment of thofe al- 
ready flaves, is Britain to be charged v;ith the 
expenfe of ^60,000^000, becaufe it forbids its 
own citizens any longer to commit robbery and 
murder, to fupply flaves, who are profeffedly to 
be worked down unprofitably in the making of 
fugar ? But why muft the culture of the cane be 
Condu6ted in a v/ay, that admits not of an atten-. 
tion to the feelings of thofe employed in it? Are 
the claims of nature,^ and the cravings of civili- 
zation fo irreconciieable as to deftroy one ano- 
ther ? It is acknowledged, p. 7. that '« flaves, 
where not worked beyond their ftrength, are 
hearty, happy, and breed fafter." P. 11. 24. 
that " the abolition of the flave trade, if gene- 
ral, would lelfen the evils of flavery, and make 
the breeding and prefervation of flaves more an 
objed of attention.'' If thefe be the genuine 
efFeds of fuch a plan, what claim can he have on 
government, who, from a fhort-fighted love of 
gain, puilies his flaves beyond their ftrength, and 
deftroys his property and profpe6ls together ? Let 
him meet with execration from, every feeling hearty 
and fail unpitied 1 

But from various examples in the different 
iflandsj it is evident that exceftive exertions have 

noc 



( 17 ) 

ynay employ 12,000 feamen. The lofs here is 3 
in 200. Suppofe annually 200, in ten years 2000. 
The whole number of men employed in the Welt 
India trade in ten years, is 14,000. But in this 
time 20,000 arc loft in the flave trade. If both 
were annihilated, in ten years we fhould fave 
6000 men. 

I truft I have removed efFedually the fear of 
a demand to be made on the treafury for 60 
millions Weft-India property to be annihilated 
by the abolition of the flave trade. I have on 
the contrary proved, that the planter will not be 
injured, but relieved ; or if injured, that he m.uft 
blame his own feverity and avaricew I have 
proved, and fhall farther prove, that commerce 
will not be hurt, that the revenue or fliipping 
need not be leftened. In fliort, that the mea- 
iure is agreeable to the demands of humanity 
and juftice, and alfo to the fuggeftions of pru- 
dence and political wifdom. One may biufli 
to think thefe ftjould ever be placed in oppofi- 
tion. The author of nature never intended to 
feparate them. They will never be found in op- 
pofition, when every confequence is taken into 
account. Whatever is juft or honourable leads 
to profit and advantage, as well public as private. 
Muft a great nation be obliged to fend out rob- 
bers to deftroy and enflave an innocent people in 
a different quarter of the globe s or fet thefe on 
to deftroy and enflave each other for the increafe 
of its revenue? Can any advantages fo procured 
turn out well at the laft? This trafiick fteels the 
heart againft every human feeling; it corrupts 
the mind, and, if continued, will prove a canker 
to eat into our profperity and importance. 

In combating the Weft-India planter's reafon- 

^i^g> I preferve the utmoft refjped for hi§ candour. 

B I trufl 



( ts ) 

I truft I rtiall have pleafcd him in fhewing that 
that juftice and humanity, which he generoufly 
acknowledges to be on the fide of the abolition 
contended for, are not at variance with political 
rights or worldly prudence. He himfelf favours 
the plan, if the planter's intereft could be fecured. 
The whole depends on the circumftance of new 
flaves being a profitable or lofing purchafe. Long 
agrees with me in their having been found a lof- 
ing bargain near twenty years ago. Since that 
they have advanced near one third in value, and 
every expenfe about them is increafed. What is 
the fair conclufion which he makes ? that the pur- 
chafe much haften the ruin of every involved 
planter. 

In flating the following objetflions, I have col- 
leded from every quarter whatever I" have found 
urged on the fubjed, and have given the molt 
dire6l anfwers, each in its refpe6live place. To 
preferve brevity, 1 have been as careful as pofli- 
ble to give no more on each head, than is necef- 
fary to obviate the objedion in its mod direct 
fenfe. 

I fhall here rem.ark, that till it can be fairly 
proved by the planter, in oppofition to the reafon- 
ing here ufed, and the authority of Long, that 
African flaves are, generally fpeaking, a profitable 
purchafe; no argument for the continuance of the 
flave trade, as far as it may affect our colonies, 
can have any weight on political confiderations'. 
And though this fhould be indifputably proved, 
and no anfwer here given ihould be fuftained as 
valid, yet ought the flave trade to be abolifhed, 
as long as its advocates allow, " that it is 
unjuft to enflave negroes," that people, in refped 
of us, innocent, are dragged from their homes 
and families, are murdered by a thoufand deaths, 

by 



( 19 ) 

by chains, confinement, fufFocating air, cruel 
treatment ; that they are fgrcibly tranfported to 
diflant iflands, where not one in ten takes root, 
and there made to drawl out a wretched exiftence 
in inceflant labour without food, without clothes, 
without re{l> under the capricious treatment of 
any fort of mafter, or any unfeeling boy that may 
be fet with a whip over them. 

If we allow that power may confer right, may 
flifle a brother's groans, and trample on every 
Unalienable privilege of human nature, let uS' 
boldly declare it, and fend out fleets and armies, 
wherever refiftance is not expeded, wherever 
flaves may be feized, and plunder or revenue 
may be acquired. It is now only that this objed 
has caught the public attention. Hitherto we 
have fuffered ourfelves to be perfuaded, by inte- 
refled men, Without inquiry, of the advantage 
and propriety of this inhuman traffic. But after 
this open difcuffion, we cannot poffibly go back. 
We will not, furely, pefmit certain murder to be 
carried on ; and we cannot pretend to regulate a 
traffic, which is founded on murder, and cannot 
be feparated from it. Should we permit this 
traffic to be continued, we declare ourfelves to be 
the general enemies of mankind 5 we are to be 
confidered as a nation of robbers^ arid deferve to 
be fufpe6ted and held in abhorrence, and guarded 
againft by every furrounding and diftant ftate, 

J. R. 



B 2 O B J E C- 



( 21 ) 



OBJECTIONS 

T O T H E 

Abolition of the Slave Trade, 

WITH 

ANSWERS. 



Objedion i. CJ^H E planter will jhtw his refent^ 
ment of the meafure^ hy treating 
his Jljaves more cruelly than before, 

Anfwer i. The fudden diminution of his pro- 
perty, in confequence of fuch treatment^ will dif- 
cover to him the prudence of accommodating 
bimfelf to his new fituation, and the neceffity of 
creating his flaves with humanity. 

Objedt. a. The fugar colonies will throw them'- 
JJelves into the arms of France, 
(*■ 
Jnfw. 2. Then will Britain be freed of the 
expenfe of their prote6tion, and be able to procure 
plenty of fugar at two thirds of the prefent price. 
Planters complain that they» can hardly cultivate 
their plantations, while enjoying the monopoly of 

B 3 the 



( 22 ) 

the Britifli marker. How will they bear the rcr 
du6lion of one third of its value in the markets of 
their new mafters, for that is the ordinary propor- 
tion of the price of French fugars ? 

Obje6t. 3. Planters in debt will carry their Jlaves 
to the S;panijh colonies. 

Anfw. 3. This rnay be l^ft to the vigilance of 
their creditors. 

Obje6l. 4. Sugar cannot h procured from fafeign^ 
ers, 

Jnfw, 4. While fugar is made, Britilh money 
will command it. Foreign fugars, near one third 
cheaper than Britifh, have long found their way 
into our colonies. The importation may be ex- 
tended, but it will not be neceffary. Indeed fu- 
gar might be brought from the Eaft-Indies, made 
by free men, much cheaper than flaves can pofli- 
bly produce it in the Well-Indies. Good clayed 
fugar is fold inBatavia by the cwt. for about 13s. 
Arrack made fiom it is worth only 8d. per gallon. 
Thefe prices Would allow of the expenfe of freight 
to Eiurpe, and the fugar to be fold at 3d. per 
pound in England. In Cochin China it is madq 
even at half this price. 

Objedl. 5. "The planter will prove the alfurctity 
of the meajurcy hy increafmg the feverity of his manner 
of treating his flaves. ^ 

Jnfw. 5. When he finds his property hurt by 
fuch a ftep, he m\\ defift from his unfeeling con" 
dua. -^ 

Objea. 6, 



( 23 ) 

Obje6l, 6. Involved planters will wqfte their 
Jlaves by exceffive exertions, 

Anjw. 6. ExcefTive exertions have conilantly 
proved ruinous. Nor can the neceffity of nnaking 
fuch exertions be avoided by the introdudion of 
new flaves j becaufe they cannot poffibly be made 
(fee introdu6lion) to repay their firft cofl^expenfe 
and lofs in feafoning. Still the involved planter 
ihuts his eyes, and goes on, though every exam- 
ple around him foiicits him to abandon the vain 
attempt. 

Obje6l. 7. ^he neutral ijlands were Jet tied ^^ and 
their lands bought in a confidence^ that government 
^ould continue to permit the importation of flaves, 

Anjw. 7. The fale of thefe lands has been 
clofed near twenty years. If any of them be un- 
fettled, they never can henceforth be profitably 
fettled by African flaves ; for they never repay 
their own coll, and therefore cannot contribute to 
clear lands and eredl buildings. The truth is, 
that the lands now remaining uncultivated, have 
jiot generally been paid for, or have been aban- 
doned as unprofitable. 

Objeifb., 8. Parliament has given its Jan^ion to 
the trade by regulating it. 

Anfw, 8. If the countenance given by parlia- 
ment to this horrid trade, has conftantly been pro- 
cured by the rcprefentations of interefled people, 
muft government be charged with the confequen- 
ces ariflng from the impofition. Becaufe we had 
laws that once fixed a commutation for. murder, 
were we thereby precluded from ever improving 
B 4 our 



( 24 ) 

our police ? But this fhews how cautious we (hould 
be, by any regulation, to give a fandtion to op- 
prefTion and murder. 

Obje6t. 9. A religious fociety is fojfejfed af a 
plantation in Rarbadoes^ and employs Jlaves, 

Anfw. 9. It holds the Codrington eftate for 
particular purpofes, on condition of keeping up a 
certain number of (laves. Like other abfent pro- 
prietors, it has fufFered by the mifmanagement of 
fervants. It is now in a train to anfwer both the 
intentions of the donor^ and the wilhes of huma-? 
nity, 

Obje6t. 10. ^he treatment of horfes Jhould he 
regulated at home^ before we look to Africa, 

Anfw, 10. When we have vindicated the 
rights of our fellows, it is to be hoped horfes will 
be confidered ; for doubtlefs they are an objeft of 
police. But doth not this Ihew, that a flave is 
cftcemed a mere bead of burden. 

Obje6b. II. ^0 imprifon debtors y and imprefs 
men to ferve in war^ are violations of moral laWy 
ei^ually uith dcmejiic Jlavery. Confideration, p. 28. 

Anfw, Ti. He who runs in debt knows the 
confequences ; but all is a force upon the poor 
negroe. Many men enter into the fea or land fer- 
vice willingly ; and thofe who are impreffed arc 
treated as volunteers are. But we never heard of 
an African offering himfelf to be received into a 
(lave (hip ; nor when he was forced on board, of 
having been put on a footing with the Ihip's crew. 
iBut the impreiled failor^ he is among his country-^ 

men^ 



( 25 ) 

men, and ferves his country. What comnnon tie 
fubfills between an African, living 1200 miles 
from the fea coaft, and a Weil-Indian planter, to 
induce him to fubmit to be tied neck and heel, to 
die a thoufand fuffocating deaths on fhip board ; 
to go and be beaten, half ftarved, and abufed, in 
the cultivation of a plant, from which he reaps no 
profit ? 

Obje61:. 12. 'The agitation of this quejiion will 
raije a rebellion among thejlaves, 

Jnfw, 12. Helplefs wretches. Their fpirits 
are too much broken down to think of rebellion. 
But if it be fufpe^led, let the planters, inilead of 
moving heaven and earth to prevent their relief, 
come nobly forward, and propofe a plan for their 
protection. They will biefs and cheerfully ferve 
them. 

Objed. 13. Slaves cannot he trufted with arms. 

Anjw. 13. They have formed a part of the 
militia in Barbadoes, and have been found faith- 
ful. This would univerfally be the cafe, were 
they advanced in fociety. They acquire the emu- 
lation of Britons, and would exert themfelves in 
their caufe, had they privileges or property ta 
contend for. 

Objedt. 14. Negroes are an infer iour race of 
beings. 

Anfw. 14. Every man of candour acquainted 
with them will deny this. But fuppofe It, will 
thofe who plead for laws in favour of horfi^s, main- 
tain that negroes are to be trepanned, murdered 

by 



( 26 ) 

by thonfands, and enflaved for the indulgence of 
our avarice ? 

Object. 15. Leo Africanus defcrihes the negroes 
of his ime, Anno 1500, as hrutijh^ and then fold for 
flaves^ before the commencement of the frefent traffick, 

Anfw, 15. He fays the Ihephcrds and moun- 
taineers, of all the different African nations, as 
well as negroes, were brutifh ; but that the people 
of the plains and cities were poHlhed, having arts, 
fciences, and laws among them. He vifited only 
the fettlements along the Senegal branch of the 
Niger, and fays the countries louthward were pof- 
feifed by rich induflrious people, great lovers of 
juftice and equity. He mentions the kings of 
Tombuto and Burno, two negroe ftates, as going 
to war to take flaves to be fold to merchants, trad- 
ing to iEgyptand the Mediterranean cities. But 
do we argue for flavery, becaufe at all times the 
ftrong have enthralled the weak ? Becaufe Jofeph 
was fold by his brethren, was Pharoah vindicated 
for enilaving the whole Hebrew nation ? Or are 
we to continue for ever to encourage negroes to 
kidnap each other to- be fold to us, becaufe 30Q 
.years ago the king of Tombuto kidnapped and 
fold his neighbours ? 

Objed. 16. Supplies from Africa are neceffary t^ 
keep up the ftcCk, 

Anfw, 16. Becaufe planters prefer the hopes 
(I deny they ever poiTefs the fubftance) of prefenc 
profit to future advantage -, and commit their af- 
fairs to managers, who, being not concerned in 
v/hat may happen thirty years hence, prefer the 
buying to the breeding of (laves. Hence we may 

judge 



( 27 ) 

fudge how far to believe them, when they fay 
they favour population. But flop the trade, and 
their opinion and pra6tice will both be changed, 
That increafe of (laves from the births, which ac- 
companies humane treatment on every plantation, 
in every iQand where now pradtifed, will then be 
general . But wherefore fhouid we go to Africa 
for (laves ? Why not to France, Spain, or Italy ? 
It would be equally lawful, and the little oppofi- 
tion we might meet with, would encourage a mi- 
litary fpirit among us, without the expenfe of 
fiects or armies. 

Objed. 17. S77iall plantations in debt will be 
ahandoned^ or united to others, 

Anfiv. 17. It is the bed thing that can happen 
both to debtor and creditor -, for fuch never pay 
inccreil: money ; nor indeed do they fupport them- 
felves, except where the planter is out of debt, 
and lives v^^ith his (laves, planting provifions for 
himfelf and them, and being contented to fend to 
market as much fugar as an attention to thefe ob- 
iedls permit, to purchafe what his plantation af- 
fords not, 

Objecl:. 1 8 . Large plantations will Jend lejs fu- 
gar to market, . - 

Anjw. 18. In every plantation much land is 
put in canes that pays not for the culture* Per- 
haps one fourth part of St. Kitts is in this fitua- 
tion, and a much greater proportion in fome other 
colonies. Turn this into provifions for the llaves, 
and grafs for the cattle ; fewer (laves will do the 
work, and the reduced quantity of land referved 
for the canes, getting more manure, will (land 
' \ the 



( 28 ) 

the weather better, and produce more certain and 
better crops. 

Objeft. 19. "The importation ofjugar^ and its re- 
venue^ will he affected, 

Anjw. 19. The importation of fugar will 
never be profitably increafed (fee introdu6lion) 
by the purchafe of African flaves ; and we have 
proved that the revenue depends not on the quan- 
tity of fugar made in our own colonies; for we 
may raife the fame, or higher duties, on foreign 
fugars. (See introdudion, and objed. 4.) 

Obje6l. 20. ^he confumption of Britijh commodi" 
ties in the ijlands will be lejfened, 

Anjw^ h.o. The confumption of the fugar colonies 
is hardly half the confumption of half a million of 
people in a diftant quarter of the globe. But the 
abolition will greatly increafe it. For the flaves 
muft be better fupplied than hitherto with necef- 
faries ; and as they advance in fociety they will 
increafe in their demands. 

Objefl:. 21. 'Hhe cultivation of the cane will b^ 
diminifhed, 

Anfw, 2F. So it may, and yet the quantity of 
fugar, and the profit from it, be increafed, if only 
what pays for the culture (Obje6t. 18.) beufed; 
lands producing lefs than an hogfhead per acre, 
hardly pays for the culture. Our iflands contain 
about four millions of acres. A crop is taken 
from the fame land every fecond year \ from fome 
frefti lands every year; 120,000 acres of good 
land felefted for each crop, might give from 

1 8 0,000 



( 29 ) 

i8o,ooo to 200,000 hogfheads, which exceeds a 
medium crop at prefent. According to Long^s 
eflimate, 200,000 hogfheads may be made by 
300,000 flaves, without lefTening their numbers. 
A much lefs number properly fed, worked and 
affifted with cattle, would be fufficient. 

Obje6l. 22. ^he new ijlands require new JlaveSf 
and plantations underhanded may be improved by 
them, 

Anjw. 22. Hardly has one plantation in the 
new iflands given the lowed ufual intereit on its 
coft and expenfes. But the price of African flaves 
is now advanced fo high (Objed, 19) that hence- 
forth no purchafe of them can poflibly turn out 
profitable. The value of a negroe's labour, argu- 
ing from Long*s eflimate, vol. 2. p. 437, 438, of 
three flaves to two hhds. can be reckoned only at 
^8. But the ufual rent and infurance of a flave, is 
from j^ 10 to £12, and there is nothing left for the 
returns of the lands, &c. occupied by them. If 
ever, from this time, new lands be brought into 
culture, fome other method, than this of v/orking 
them by African flaves, mufl be tried. Let the 
planter twift the calculation as he pleafes, he will 
never prove a new flave profitable. 

Objed. 23. T!he planter can bear no interruption 
in the annualjupply ofjlaves. 

Anfw. 23. In the late war he bore the inter- 
ruption for about fix years, without any fenfible 
injury. Since that time he has made but fmall 
life of the trade, but though in his own power, has 
turned it over to the French and Spaniards. 
There is an accommodating diipofition in man, 

that 



( 20 ) 

that adapts itfelf to necefnty. This meafure in- 
deed will only keep the planter, even in the opi- 
nion of Long, from running in debt. 

Obje6l. 24. 'Tbe planter ivill be ruined, 

Anjw, 24, Not one will be injured (Ob;e6l. 6* 
22, 23.) whofe ruin is not already fealed. He who 
is not in debt, will accommodate himfelf to his 
fituation. He will throw out, or fallov/ his poor 
grounds. He will manure better v/hat remains. 
He will allot lands for provifions and grafs. He 
will ufe the afliftance of cattle. He will work 
flaves not as hitherto againft time, but a certain 
tafk of work. He will allow them food, reft, and 
glothing. He will hire white people, or free ne- 
groes and mulattoes (of whom there are great 
numbers in the colonies, without employment) 
for domeftics, and turn his flaves into the field* 
He will buy up around him for the culture of the 
cane, thofe flaves that are nov/ employed in lefs 
produ6tive labour, or that belong to poor free 
people, who are kept poor and idle, depending on 
their flaves induftry. This plan is alfo the beft 
that the involved planter can purfue, unlefs he 
can fell his flaves and other property to a more 
wealthy neighbour. Thus by being prevented 
from purchafing new flaves, many may be forced 
to methods of humanity, and faved from otherwife 
inevitable ruin. 

Objecl. 25. A Jugar plantation is a profit able 
manufa5lory, 

Anfw. 25. It is an expenfive lofing one. It 
will in no cafe fucceed, but on a large fcale, where 
it can have within itfelf provifions, recruits of 

(laves 



( 3' ) 

flaves and cattle* Even few of the nnofi: profit- 
able could bear to be brought to calculation, if 
their expenfes were carried on from the Jirfl pur- 
chafe. 

Objeft. 26. White men cannot work in a JVeJi- 
Indian climate. 

Anfw. 26. Nor white nor black can fupport 
unremitting labour, without food or reft. But 
white men kept from new rum, may, in the morn- 
ing and evening, perform double the prefent tafk 
of flaves, without fuffering from the climate. 
Barbadoes, St. Kitts, and Nevis, were originally- 
fettled by white men. It was only on the intro- 
dudion of negroes, that they began to decreafe in 
numbers. But the mortality could not poffibly 
have been greater among them than has been 
lately in the new iflands, and in clearing frelh 
lands in Jamaica. 

Objefb. 27. Nor will they work with Jlofoes. 

Anfw, 27. Poor white men do work alono* 
with their (laVes. The beft fortunes that have 
been eftablifhed in the Weft-Indies, have been by 
thofe, who firft worked to buy,, and then fliared 
labour with a flave. Tiiere is, L believe, a baro- 
net now alive, whom his mother tied on her back, 
while ftie fed the mill with canes. The author 
got acquainted with a Frenchman in St. Vin- 
cent's, who began with his two hands, and fettled 
and ftocked in fucceflion, five coffee plantations. 

Objeft. 28. Free negroes^ or mulaitoes will not 
work withjlaves in the field, 

Anfw, 28, 



( 3^ ) 

'^rj/w» 28. Then hire them as domeftlcs, and 
turn domeftic flaves into the field. The colonics 
at prefcnt contain twice as many (laves as are ne- 
ccfiary, if properly afTifted, treated and worked, to 
fend the prefent produce to market; and any fup- 
ply of labourers, if really wanted, is preferable to 
the African flave trade. Nor can an obje6lion to 
theturningof domeftics and others into the field, 
be m.ade by him, who propofes to go to Africa to 
kidnap, or encourage others to kidnap, and force 
happy free people from their native country, to 
die athoufand deaths in their pafiage to the Wefb- 
Indies, that perhaps one in ten may work in his 
^eld a half lUrved flave. 

ObjecSl. 29. Slaves are jtccejpiry as dajnejlics^ and 
handy craftjmen. 

An[w, 29. A flave handy-craftfman, performs 
not one thu'd of the ordinary tafl<: of a freeman. 
But white handy-craftfmen may be increafed as 
wanted. Families entertnin from 20 to 60 flaves, 
who do not the work of 5 or 6 hired fcrvants. 
The whole number of tradefmen, domeflics and 
others, not employed about fugar in the colonies, 
maybe eftimated at 150,000. Thefe being ef- 
fedive people, and worked in the field, well fed, 
properly taflced and aflifted by cattle, might of 
themfelves fend more than the prefcnt quantity of 
fugar to market. This exchange from the houfe 
to the field, often takes place from caprice, as a 
punilhment; and handy-craft flaves are occafion- 
ally fent in there. In any cafe, the exchange can- 
not encroach fo much on the rights of humanity, 
as th€ flave trade to Africa. 

Objed. 30. 



( 33 ) 

intentions of the donor, and the willies of huma- 
nity. 

Obje6t. II. Dr, Burton y Secretary to this fociety^ 
wrote a letter to Mr, Benezet, under the direction of 
an eminent prelate^ which acknowledged the lawfuU 
nefs of Jlavery^ as mentioned in the bible, 

Anfw, II. That letter appears plainly to have 
been written under the impreffion of an alarm 
for the confequences of agitating then the quef- 
tion of liberty, for which the flaves were not pre- 
pared, nor the times fit. But even in thefe cir- 
cumftances, the fociety demanded for the Haves 
all that we contend for in the prefent advanced 
ftate of the queftion : " That flaves Ihould be 
treated with the utmoft care and kindnefs, both 
with regard to temporals and fpirituals j chat their 
labour ihould be made eafy to them in all re- 
Ipe6ts5 that they fhould be provided with conve- 
niencies and accommodations to render their fitu- 
ation comfortable ; and efpecially that they lliould 
be regularly inftru6led in the principles of the 
Chriftian religion.'' 

The abftract queftion, " is flavery lawful ?*' is 
not now agitated. We may allow its lawfulnefs 
in any cafe, where it can be proved, that injuftice, 
murder, oppreflion, and avarice, has not been 
exercifed. The prefent queftion is, *' may Lever- 
pool merchants fit out lliips with arms, chains, 
baubles, and brandy, to bribe the Africans to 
rife againft their countrymen, to murder fome, to 
enflave others ; to be delivered up to them to be 
chained, fuffocated, ftarved \ to be tranfported 
to the fugar colonies to work for planters without 
food, reft, or raiment; to be ill treated without 

C celTation, 



( u ) 

cefTation, without remedy. The Doftor, writing 
on the firft queflion, leaves it as he found the 
practice to be in the times of the apoftles. The 
JLeverpool flave trade was not before him ; and 
even could the higheft human fanclion be pro- 
duced in its favour, nature would revolt and re- 
fufe her afTent to the decifion. We are not indeed 
concerned in the defence of Dr. Burton, Thefub- 
jed; had not then been canvafTed, and was not un- 
derftood. Dr. Burton's affirming flavery to be 
lawful, when he offers only vague or inconclufive 
reafoning in favour of his opinion, ought not to 
preclude us at this time from difcufTing the fub- 
je6t, or forming a more juft eftimate of its merits. 

Obje6b. 12. ^he treatment of horfes Jhould be 
regulated at home^ before we look to Africa, 

Anfw, 12. When we have vindicated the 
rights of our fellows, it is to be hoped horfes will 
be confidered ; for doubtlefs they are an obje6t of 
police. But doth not this fliew, that a flave is 
cfteemed a mere beaft of burden. 

Objed. 13, ^0 imprifon debtors, and imprefs 
vnen to Jerve in war, are violations of moral law^ 
equally with dom^ejiic flavery. Confiderations, p. 28. 

Anfw. 13. He who runs in debt knows the 
confequences ; but all is a force upon the poor 
negroe. Many men enter into the fea and land fer- 
vice willingly ; and thofe who are imprefled are 
treated as volunteers are. But we never heard of 
an African offering himfelf to be received into a 
flave fhip ', nor when he was forced on board, of 
having been put on a footing with the fhip's crew. 
But the imprefled failor is among his country- 
men. 



( 35 ) 

men, and ferves hrs country* What common tie 
fubfifls between an African^ living i2GO miles 

from the fea-coaft^ and a Wefl-Indian planter, to 
induce him to fubmit to be tied neck and heel, to 

die a thoufand fufFocating deaths on fhip board ; 

to go and be beaten^ half llarved, and abufed, in 

the cultivation of a plants from which he reaps 

iio profit ? 

Obje6t. 14. 'The agitation of this qiiejlion will 
faije a rebellion among the jlaves. 

Anjw, 14* Helplefs wretches ! Their fpirits are 
too much broken down to think of rebellion. But 
if it be fufpedled, let the planters^ inftead of mov- 
ing heaven and earth to prevent their relief, come 
nobly forward, and propofe a plan for their protec- 
tion. They will blefs and cheerfully ferve them. 

It feems the Affembly of Jamaica have difcreet- 
ly taken this precaution ; and in the preamble to 
the bill have fully eftablilhed againft the advo- 
cates for (lavery^ all the oppreffion and mifery 
with which this helplefs ftate has been charged in 
our colonies* 

Objed. 15* Slaves cannot he trufted with arms, 

AnJw, 15. They have formed a part of the 
militia in Barbadoes^ and have been found faith- 
ful. This would univerfally be the cafe, were 
they advanced in fociety. They acquire the emu- 
lation of Britons, and would exert themfelves in 
their caufe, had they privileges or property to 
contend for. 

Obje6l* 16. Africa is unable to fupport her in^ 
hahitantSy without allowing of emigration. 

C a AnfWn 



( 36 ) 

Anjw. i6. Let then our flave traders waitj 
till they are invited to carry away the overplus 
inhabitants. But does this agree with the ac- 
count of the wild or defolated ftate in which every 
part of Africa appears, whence the wretched in- 
habitants have been carried away. If Africa over- 
flowed, it would not be neceflary to tie the emi- 
grants two and two with yokes, to prevent their 
efcape. They would iflue in the fhape of armies, 
and muft be oppofed not with cart whips, but 
with arms. 

Obje6t. 17. Negroes are an inferior race of 
beings, 

Anjw, 17. This is boldly affirmed by Mr. 
Eflwick ; but every man of candour acquainted 
with them will deny it. But fuppofe it, v;ill 
thofe who plead for laws in favour of horfes, 
maintain that negroes are to be trepanned, mur- 
dered by thoufands, and enflaved for the indul- 
gence of our avarice ? 

Obje6t. 18. Slaves of negro e grandees are as much 
iheir fiock as a farmer s implements are his, 

Anfw. 18. What is this to a Leverpool trader ? 
Has he a charter for making a profit of all the 
villany and injufcice that prevails in the world ? 
Suppofe the wretched flaves originally the pro- 
perty of tyrants. Is he at liberty to add to their 
fuffering, and make their lot ftill more mifera- 
ble ? If their tyrants were not bribed to part with 
them, they would have flrong inducements to 
keep and make them profitable for themfelves. 
But when we offer fpirits, and every other allur- 
ing bribe in exchange for them, every trifling 

temporary 



( 37 ) 

temporary difguft in the mailer, feals the fate of 
the (lave to new hardfhips, to undefcribable fuf- 
ferings. 

Obje6l. 19. Leo Afrkanus dejcrihes the negroes 
of his time, anno 1500, as hrutijh^ and then fold for 
flaves^ before the commencement of the prefent traffick, 

Anfw, 19. He fays the fhepherds and moun- 
taineers, of all the different African nations, as 
well as negroes, were brutifh ; but that the people 
of the plains and cities were polifhed, having arts, 
fciences, and laws among them. He vifited only 
the fettlements along the Senegal branch of the 
Niger, and fays the countries fouthward were pof- 
feffed by rich indufbrious people, > great lovers of 
juftice and equity. He mentions the kings of 
Tombuto and Burno, two negroe flates, as going 
to war to take flaves to be fold to merchants, trad- 
ing to -^gypt and the Mediterranean cities. But 
do we argue for flavery, becaufe at all times the 
ftrong have enthralled the weak ? Becaufe Jofeph 
was fold by his brethren, was Pharoah vindicated 
for enflaving the whole Hebrew nation ? Or are 
we to continue for ever to encourage negroes to 
kidnap each other to be fold to us, becaufe 300 
years ago the king of Tombuto kidnapped and 
fold his neighbours ? 

Objedl. 20. No negroe nation makes a figure in 
agriculturey or ufeful arts, 

Anfw, 20. We are apt, like the old Greeks, 
to term every thing barbarous, that differs from 
our own artificial manners. But let any man read 
Mr. Mathews's Account of Guinea, profeffedly 
publilhed to vindicate the flave trade, and fay 
C 3 whether. 



( 38 ) 

whether they have not laws and cuflonns worthy 
of the imitation of the mofh enlightened nations, 
and poflefs not a knowledge of agriculture and 
arts, that wants only an extenfion of obfervation 
to be beforehand with feveral nations in Europe. 

Objedt. 21. Supplies from Africa are yieceffary tQ 
keep up the flock. 

Anjw, 21. Becaufe planters prefer the hopes (I 
deny they ever pofiefs the fubftance, fee Introd.) 
of prefent profit to future advantage ; and com- 
mit their affairs to managers, who, being not con* 
cerned in what may happen thirty years hence, pre- 
fer the buying to the breeding of flaves. Hence we 
may judge how far to believe them, Vv'hen they fay 
they favour population. Or how can population 
be favoured where there is a want of food, clothes^ 
and every conveniency necefiary for its encou^ 
ragement ? where, perhaps, the plantation is left 
to a raw lad, who knows nothing of government 
but the whip, who has no care but to hurry on 
the work ; who, pinched himfelf in every necef- 
fary, has nothing to divide with the nurfe, or 
the fick, the faint or hungry flave. But flop the 
trade, and their opinion and pra6tice will both be 
changed. That increafe of flaves from the births, 
which accompanies humane treatment on every 
plantation, in every ifland where now pradlifed, 
will then be general. But wherefore Ihould we 
go to Africa for flaves ? Why not to France, 
Spain, or Italy ? It would be equally lawful, and 
the little oppofition we might meet with, would 
encourage a military fpirit among us, without 
the expenfe of fleets or armies. 

Objed, 2 2, 



i 39 ) 

Object. 22. Small plantations in dehi^ will he 
chandoned, or united to others. 

Anfw. 22. It Is the befl thing that can happen 
both to debtor and creditor; for fuch never pay 
intereft money \ nor indeed do they fupport them- 
lelves, except where the planter is out of d^ebt, 
and lives with his flaves, planting provifions for 
himfelf and them, and being contented to fend to 
market as much fugar as an attention to thefe ob- 
je6ts will permit, to purchafe what his plantation 
affords not. 

Objefl. 23. Large plantations will [end lefs 
fugar to market. 

Anfw. 23. In every plantation much land is 
put in canes that pays not for the culture. Per- 
haps one fourth part of St. Kitts is in this fitua- 
tion, and a much greater proportion in fome other 
colonies. Turn this into provifions for the flaves, 
and grafs for the cattle ; fewer flaves will do the 
work, and the reduced quantity of land referved 
for the canes, getting more manure, will fland 
the weather better, and produce more certain and 
better crops. 

Objed. 24, The importation of fugar y and its 

revenue^ will be affected., 

Anfw. 24. The importation of fugar will 
never be profitably increafed (fee introdudlion) 
by the purchafe of African (laves ♦, and we have 
proved that the revenue depends not on the quan- 
tity of fugar made in our own colonies i for we 

C 4 ma^ 



( 40 ) 

may raife the fame, or higher duties, on foreign 
fugars. (See Introdu6i:ion, and Objed. 5.) 

Objed. 25. The confumption of Britijh commo- 
dities in the tjlands will be lejfened. 

Anfw,i^, Theconfiimptionofthefugar colonies 
is hardly half the confumption of half a million of 
people in a diftant quarter of the globe. But the 
abolition will greatly increafe it. For the flaves 
mull be better fupplied than hitherto with necef- 
fariesj and as they advance in fociety they will 
increafe in their demands. 

Objedl. 26. ne cultivation of the cane will 
le diminijhed. 

Anfiv, 26. So it may, and yet the quantity of 
fugar, and the profit from it, be increafed, if only 
-what pays for the culture (Obje6l. 23.) be ufed ; 
lands producing lefs than an hogfhead per acre, 
hardly pay for the culture. Our iflands contain 
about four millions of acres. A crop is taken 
from the fame land every fecond year ; from fome 
frefli lands every year; 120^000 acres of good 
land feledled for each crop, might give from 
180,000 to 200,000 hogfheads, which exceeds a 
medium crop at prefenc. According to Long's 
eftimate, 200,000 hogfheads may be made by 
300,000 llaves, without lefTcning their numbers, 
A much lefs number properly fed and worked, 
and afTuled with cattle, would be fufficient. 

Objeft. 27. 'J'he new iflands req^uire new flaves^ 
and 'plantations underhanded may be improved by 
them. 

Anfw, 270 



( 41 ) 

jdnfw, 27. Hardly has one plantation in the 
new iflands given the loweft ufual intereft on its 
Goft and expenfes. But the price of African flaves 
is now advanced fo high (Objed. 24) that hence- 
forth no purchafe of them can pofTibly turn out 
profitable. The value of a negroe's labour, argu- 
ing from Long's ellimate, vol. 2. p. 437, 438, of 
three flaves to two hhds. can be reckoned only at 
j^8. But the ufual rent and infurance of aflave, is 
from £10 to £11, and there is nothing left for the 
returns of the lands, &c. occupied by them. If 
ever, from this time, new lands be brought into 
culture, fome other method, than this of working 
them by African flaves, muft be tried. Let the 
planter twifl: the calculation as he pleafes, he will 
never prove a new flave profitable.* 

Obje6l. 28. 'The planter can hear no interruption 
in the annual Jupply of flaves, 

Anfw, 28. In the late war he bore the inter- 
ruption for about fix years, without any fenfible 
injury. Since that time he has made but fmall 
ufe of the trade j but though in his own power, 
has turned it over to the French and Spaniards. 
There is an accommodating difpofition in man, 
that adapts itfelf to necefiity. This meafure in- 
deed will only keep the planter, even in the opi- 
nion of Long, from running in debt. 

* Robertfon indeed fuppofes a flave to produce a hhd. of 
fugar ; but whatever it might be ann. 17^.0, when he wrote, 
it is double of what is now produced. Even fuppofing par- 
ticular inilances of plantations where this proportion takes 
place, the profit will be found exceeding fmall, when every 
expenfe is deduced. 

Objed. 29, 



( 42 ) 

Objedc. 29. ^he planter will be ruined, 

Anfw, 29. Not one will be injured (Objed. 7. 
07, 28.) whofe ruin is not already fealed. He who 
is not in debt, will accommodate himfelf to his 
fituation. He will throw out, or fallow his poor 
grounds. He will manure better what remains. 
He will allot lands for provifions and grafs. He 
will ufe the afliftance of cattle. He will work 
flaves not as hitherto againil time, but a certain 
talk of work. He will allow them food, reft, and 
clothing. He will hire white people, or free ne- 
groes and mulattoes (of whom there are great 
numbers in the colonies, without employ^iCnt) 
for domefticks, and turn his Qaves into the field. 
He will buy up around him for the culture of the 
cane, thofe (laves that are now employed in lefs 
produdive labour, or that belong to poor free 
people, who are kept poor and idle, depending on 
their (laves induftry. This plan is alfo the beft 
that the involved planter can purfue, unlefs he 
can fell his flaves and other property to a more 
wealthy neighbour. Thus by being prevented 
from purchafing new flaves, many may be forced 
to methods of humanity, andfaved from otherwife 
inevitable ruin. 

Objeft. 30. A fugar plantation is a projitahk 

fnanufa5icr^, 

Anfw, 30. It is, even in the opinion of Ro- 
bertfon and Long, an expenfive iofing one. It 
will in no cafe fucceed, but on a large fcale, where 
it can have within itfelf proviflons, recruits of 
flaves and cattle. Even few of the moft profit- 
able could bear to be brought to calculation, if 

their 



( 43 ) 

their expenfcs were carried on from the fird pur- 
chafe. 

Objed. 31. White men cannot work in a Wejl- 
Jndia7i climate, 

Anfw, 31. Nor white nor black can fupport 
unremitting labour, without food or reft. But 
white men kept from new rum, may, lathe morn- 
ing and evening, perform double the prefent tafk 
of flaves, without fufFering from the climate. 
Barbadoes, St. Kitts, and Nevis, were originally 
fettled by white men. It was only on the intro- 
duvflion of negroes, that they began to decreafe in 
numbers.* But the mortality could not poUlbly 
have been greater among them than has been 
lately in the new illands, and in clearing frelh 
lands in Jamaica, 

Objedl. 32. Nor will they work withjlayes, 

Anfw, 32. Poor white men work along with 
their flaves. The beft fortunes that have been 
cilablifhed in the Weft -Indies, have been made by 
thole, who firft worked to buy, and then fhared 
labour with a Have. There is, I believe, a baro- 
net now alive, whom his mother tied on her back, 

* Robertfon, p. 45, obferves, tbat even after the rellora- 
tion, the whites exceeded the blacks in number; that the 
(lave trade was not extended till after that time. He fays. 
Inquiry, p. 10, for the firft 30 years, Barbadoes was culti- 
vated by white fervants, and might advantageouHy have been 
continued, p. :;2. He fays, planters would not ufe Haves 
(Africans) if they could avoid it, p. 54. They deem it a 
niisfortune that England refufed to continue to fupply them 
with white fervantS;, p. 15. that the Have trade deftroys mil- 
lions of lives, 

while 



( 44 ) 

while flie fed the mill with canes. The author 
became acquainted with a Frenchman in St. Vin- 
cent's, who began with his two hands, and fettled 
and flocked in iucceffion, five coffee plantations* 

Obje6l. 33. Free negroes or mulattoes will not 
work with flaves in the field, 

Anfw^ 23' Then hire them as domeflics, and 
turn domeftic flaves into the field. The colonies 
at prefent contain twice as many flaves as are ne- 
ceifary, if properly alTifled, treated, and worked, to 
fend the prefent produce to market ; and any fup- 
ply of labourers, if really wanted, is preferable to 
the African Qave trade. Nor can an obje6lion to 
the turning of domeflics and others into the field, 
1)6 made by himi, who propofes to go to Africa to 
"kidnap, or encourage others to kidnap, and force 
happy free people from their native country, to 
endure a fucceffion of miferies in their pafTage to 
the Wefl-Indies, that perhaps one in ten may 
work in his field a half ilarved flave. 

Object. g4. Slaves are capites Javed from the 
Jwordy under a tacit agreement of Jerving the con- 
queror^ or him to whom he may allot their fervicesy 
under pain^ if at any time dijobedient^ of being put ta 
thefword. 

Anfw, 34. A man contending with a man in 
a flate of nature, may put his adverfary to death, 
to place his own life out of danger. But when 
his fafety is effe6led, he lofes all power over his 
adverfary's life. Nor can he recover that power 
by any circumflance, or any fidlion, till he and 
his adverfary, (in this cafe his flave) he placed in 

the 



(45 ) 

the fituation, In which the relation of mafter and 
flave commenced. Suppofe this tacit compadi 
on the part of the flave, it was made under the 
impreflion of bodily fear, and cannot therefore be 
equally binding with a free compa6t. The cir-^ 
cumilance that brought him within his adverfa- 
ry's power, might, in his opinion, be treachery, 
or violence. He will therefore fubmit to the 
confequences only till he can help himfelf. But 
fuppofe this compact binding in any moral degree, 
a breach of it in the Have muft be judged by the 
laws of the community, of which he is become a 
member. By being admitted into the family or 
fervice of his conqueror, he is, or iliould be, con- 
fidered as belonging to the community. The 
mafter lofes his abfolute power over him, the 
moment he ilieaths his fword •, and tht condu6l: 
of each to the other mull be judged by the laws 
which obtain in the ftate. This appears even in 
the bloody law of Barbadoes ; for in fixing a fcan- 
dalous fine on the mafter who murders his flave, 
it declares that the power of life and death is not 
in him, but the publick. 

This interpretation is agreeable to the mild 
dodrine of the fcripiures, which the advocates for 
flavery are conftantly wrefting to the moft horrid 
purpofes. When Elifha led the Affyrians blind- 
fold to Samaria, the king of Ifraei fays, *' Shall 
I fmite them.'' The prophet forbids him (not in 
the name of the Lord), but refers him to an ac- 
knowledged principle of equity, *^ Wouldeft thoii 
fmite thofe whom thou haft taken captive with 
thy fword, and with thy bow.'' (2 Kings vi. 22.) 
This plainly admits that thevicStor lofes all power 
of life and death, by taking h^s adverfary prifoner. . 
Therefore the African tyrant conveys no- fecli 

povver^ 



( 46 ) 

power, by transferring his captives over to Lever- 
pool traders ; nor can they be purchafed from him, 
under the perfuafion of his having any fuch 
right. 

Objedl. 35. Slaves are necejfary as domejiics^ and 
handy* craft/men. 

Anjw, 35, A flave handy-craftfmanj performs 
not one third of the ordinary tall< of a freeman. 
But white handy-craftfmen may be increafed as 
wanted. Families entertain from 20 to 60 flaves, 
who do not the work of 5 or 6 hired fervants* 
The whole number of tradefmen, domeflics and 
Others, not employed about fugar in the colonies, 
may be eftimated at 1 50,000. Thefe being ef- 
fedive people, and worked in the field, well fed, 
properly tafked, and afiifted by cattle, might of 
themfelves fend more than the prefent quantity of 
fugar to market. This exchange from the houfe 
to the field, often takes place from caprice, as a 
punilhment ; and handy-craft flaves are occafion- 
ally fent in there. In arry cafe, the exchange can- 
not encroach fo much on the rights of humanity, 
as the flave trade to Africa. 

Obje6l. 36. No Jwp-ply can he found if the trade 
he aboUJhed, 

AnJw. 36. This is anfwered (Obje61:. 27, 28, 
29.) Perhaps not more than one half of the ef^ 
fcilive flaves in our colonies is a61:ually employed 
;n the culture of the cane. There is then in the 
colonies a fufficient fupply of field flaves, till the 
encouragement of population fliall have taken 
eiFea. 

Objea, 



( 47 ) 

Objetfl. 37. Africa will gain nothing hy our 
abandoning the trade. 

Anjw, 37. Suppofe this true; may we notufe 
the fame argument for going to rob and murder 
travellers on the high-way; becaufe, were we to 
flay at home, they might probably be robbed and 
murdered by others ? Are we to pay no regard to 
equity and juftice, becaufe thefe rules may pofTibly 
be infringed by others equally in a particular cafe, 
whether we meddle or meddle not ? Is it not an 
infult to the national charafter, to attempt to im- 
pofe fuch reafoning on the publick ? Is it not de- 
claring to all Europe, that profit is the idol to 
which we bow ? 

But while the advocates of llavery are forced 
to acknowledge, that this trade renders the flate 
of Africans in their own country infecure and 
wretched, they mufl allow that a change is a 
thing to be defired. But fome one muft firfl: be- 
gin ; and who more proper than that flate, which 
has carried on the horrid traffic with peculiar cir- 
cumftances of fyftematic cruelty, farther than any 
other nation. Suppofe Africa not relieved ; yec 
by our abolition of the flave trade, we fiiali re- 
trieve our reputation, we fhall fave the lives of 
our feamen, we (ball prevent the mixing of inno- 
cent blood with our riches, with our revenues, to 
be a canker to eat into our private happinefs and 
publick profperity. But aiTuredly the benefit 
will be extended to Africa, will improve her man- 
ners, will civilize her tribes, and gradually exalt 
her flate among the nations. 

Objedl. i"^. Slaves ars happier than Englijh 
peafants, 

Anfiv. 



( 48 J 

Anjw, 38. Have peafants their eyes beat ont, 
their bones broken, their flefh furrowed by the 
whip, their wives expofed to a bailiff's luft ? Are 
they, without remedy, confined to any, the mofl 
unreafonable oppreflive mafter ? Are their wives 
and children taken from them, and fold to diftant 
parts ? Are they obliged to cultivate barren fpots 
of ground on Sundays for food ? Is their daily al- 
lowance fix ounces of flour ? Have they no warm 
clothing; no linen to wrap their new-born babe 
in ? But it is endiefs to mark the difference. The 
affertion infults common fenfe. 

Obje(5l. 39. Negroes are happier in the colonies 
than in Africa, 

Anjw, 39. Pofitively denied. Do they ever 
offer themfelves to be received into our flave 
fhjps, to efcape from their wretched country ? Is 
there not a charm in the place of nativity, that 
makes, to the natives, Greenland more defirable 
than the polifhe'd parts of Europe ? Do they not 
feize every opportunity of rifing againft, or ef- 
caping from their oppreffors ? Do they not in- 
creafe in their own country, and decreafe in our 
more defirable colonies ? For one moment fup- 
pofe this true. For one that lives to fettle in the 
Weft-Indies, ten are killed, fuffocated, or loft to 
Africa. To make one man happy, muft ten be 
deftroyed ? But how can wretched Africa bear 
an annual lofs of 200,000 people in the prime of 
life, at which the flave trade and its confequences 
may be fairly eftimated, while happy Weft-In- 
dianb (by the report of the African merchant, a 
writer on the planter's fide) require an annual fup- 
ply of 40^000, or nearly one tenth of the whole ? 

This 



( 4$ ) 

This objeftioti is advanced for a particular purpofei 
and is exaggerated. But we know certainly that little 
and very eafy labour fupplies them with food and 
clothing in Africa; unceaifing labour ftarves them 
in the Weft- Indies. Indeed, how can they be faid 
to be happy in a country^ who, in fevefal iflands^ 
have not a fcrap of land allotted for their main^ 
tenance^ that can be turned to any other cul^ 
ture ? 

Objedl. 46. Creole negfbes degenerate ^ therefor^ 
the breed muft be kept up by African Jlaves, 

Anjw. 40. Suppofe the faft ti*uej \ venture tt) 
affirm, that few inhabitants of the fugar colonies 
have ever placed themfelves in circumftances to 
make the obfervation. It is rather furprifing that it 
was never brought forward till the lifibnth of May, 
1788. But I in the flrongeft manner deny the 
fadt from my own obfervation. In every cafe 
within my knowledge, the farther back the negroe 
could trace his Creolifm, the more he valued him^ 
felf, the more he was valued. Families degene* 
rate^ which, like Egyptian kings, confine their 
marriages to brothers and fifters* But there is no 
reafon why a progeny drawn from the cafual inter- 
courfe of individuals of a hundred nations, differ- 
ing in feature, language> and cufloms, fliould de- 
generate, except from hard and opprefTive ufage, 
which flifles nature in its origin; and this can de- 
rive fmall honour on the planter, who adduces this 
argument in favour of his harfh treatment of his 
(laves, 

Objeci. 41. T!he labour ofjlaves is cheaper than 
that of free men* 

D Anfw, 41. 



( 50 ) 

'Jnjw.^i. Moftpofitively denied*. The plant- 
er affirms, that it requires fix flaves to do the 
work of one peafant.-j- The moil pinching allow- 
ance that can be given to a (lave, and the lowed 
eflimate his rent and infurance can be laid at, m.uft 
amount to a much larger fum, than the price 
of the bare handy labour of any peafant, with- 
out cattle and inftruments of hufbandry. But 
it has been proved (fee introdu6tion) that, the 
labour of a flave pays not for his coft and expenfe 
in feafoning. A mafter muft fupply the death of 
a flave at an enormous expenfe from the flave- 
market. For a little better food and clothing, 
in return for a double taflc of work, the peafant, 
without coft, breeds labourers in fuccefTion for his 
employers. But when it is acknowledged that 
flaves do lefs work than peafants, (if they do it 
cheaper, then they earn lefs in the fame time, and 
have therefore lefs means to buy the comforts of 
life) how then can they be happier than Englifli 
peafants, for example, (Objed:. 38.) who earn fo 
much more by their labour, and therefore have 
inore the means of indulgence ? 



how 



Objedl, 42. Suppoje a plague among JlavcSy 
is the lojs to he repaired i 

Anfw. 42. Suppofe a plague in London, muft: 
the citizens form themfelves into bands, to go 

• Wherever this affertion is ufed, the obje£lion has either 
been already obviated, or the reafon follows on which this 
anfwer is founded. The Reader, I trull, will find no fimple 
aflertion of this kind; except where the Author's experience 
entitles him to oppofe to unfounded affirmation, what he him- 
felf has been an eye-witnefs of; and where attempts have 
been made to impofe on men, who have never been in cir- 
cumftances to examine the fails alleged. 

t See S;, Kitt's Libel. 

and 



( 5» ) 

and furround aftd let fire to the neighbourihg 
towns, and murder, rob, and carry off the inha- 
bitants, to make good the lofs ? Or, will they, 
for this purpofe, fit out Ihips, and commit de- 
predations on the coaft of France ? Would they 
not rather endeavour to purify their town, encou- 
rage matrimony, and grant privileges to fuch 
tifeful people, as could be perfuaded to fettle 
among them, and wait patiently for the refult ? 

Object. 43. Emancipation ofjlaves will ruin the 
mafier, 

Anjw, 43. It Is not even fuggeftedj (See in- 
trodudiort) till their improvement fhall have made 
it the mafter*s intereft freely to beftow it. The 
fimple abolition of the trade, operating as a kind 
neceffity on the intereft and difcretion of the 
planter, and taking away this delufive lure from 
fhort-fighted avarice, will do every thing at pre- 
fent for the llave, that humanity requires. If any 
abufes remain, they may be regulated as difcover- 
ed, without injury to the mafter's property, or his 
juft authority over it* 

Objed. 44. If freed they will not work^ 

Anfw. 44. This conclufion is drawn from the 
indolence of favages. But it is not propofed to free 
them, till they (hall have been civilized, and pre- 
pared for the government of law, and have their 
mailer's confent. To fuppofe that in fuch circum- 
fiances they will not exert themfelves to procure 
the conveniences and comforts of life, in the fame 
manner as other civilized people, is to deny them 
-the attributes of human nature; But there are many 
D % particular 



( 5^ ) 

inftanccs in the colonies to contradict the fa<ft; and 
in Northx^merica manyplanters have emancipated 
their flaves, and afterwards hired them to work 
by the day or piece, and found their advantage in 
it. The colliers in Scotland have been lately 
freed, to the mutual benefit of mafter and fer- 
vant. But indeed the objection is a mere con- 
jedture, for very few have ever been freed in the 
Weft Indies, on which the obfervation could be 
properly made. 

Objed. 45. Free negroes are miferahle, 

Anfw, 45. Hitherto free negroes have had no 
proper rank in fociety, nor any fixed employment; 
Thofe who are freed are generally concubines or 
favourites, who are not always the fitteft perfons 
to be made free ; and they generally are opprefled 
and ill treated, for want of a patron or protedor. 
Therefore, no dedudion can be drawn from any 
obfervation made on them at prefent. But there 
are accidental inftances of fome, who, having been 
freed, have done themfelves and their country- 
credit. Nor can this aflertion be maintained, but 
by thofe who deny them the participation of one 
common nature, which in every nation, in the 
fame circumftances, leads to the fame condud. 

Objedt. 46. ^heft is lightly f unified in the co- 
lonies, 

Anfw, 46. Not always. I have myfelf ktn 
fuch inftances of punifhment on bare fufpicion, as 
would make humanity fhudder. But what muft 
be the heart of that man, who can punilh with fe- 
yerity a wretch, breaking a cane, or ftealing to, 

fatisfy 



■( 53. ) 

fatlsfy that hunger, which his parfimony has occa- 
fioned. Indeed the breaking of canes, in my 
time, was a kind of high treafon> to be punifhed 
with particular feverity. 

Objedl. 47. Planters are mifreprefented i there- 
fore probably Guinea captains are fa likewife, 

Anjw. 47. If the planter's own confcience con- 
demns him not, we bring not his character into 
the queftion. Without quoting names, cruel 
fa6ls are alleged as connedled with flavery. But 
the reputations of planters and Guinea captains, 
are not touched on. There are good men m both 
lines. It is the oppreffion and murder of friend- 
lefs Africans, for which the publick attention is 
claimed. 

Object. 48. A profit is drawn from the flaves fold 
to foreigners. The French at Martinico have paid as 
high as £60 for a new flave, 

Jnfw. 48. Here the interefts of the {lave mer- 
chant and of the planter difagree, French., 
planters particularly, not having much intereffe- 
money to pay, and managing their own planta- 
tions, can allot more of their produce to the 
increafe of their flock, and give higher prices 
than our planters are willing to fpare from their 
own perfonal expenfes. The French planter does 
not, any more than the Englifh, make an ordinary 
intereil of his money by the purchafe of new 
flaves ; but he prefers this method of appropriat- 
ing his income to that of fpending it on his own. 
perfonal indulgencies. The high prices at Mar- 
tinico may be accounted for from the encourage- 

D 3 meat 



( 54 ) 

ment given to thofe, who carry flaves to Hlfpa* 
niola, which draws the principal trade thither. 
But it can only take place in particular cafes, 
for no new Qave can ever be worth fo high a pricCj, 
for the cultivation of the fugar cane, and that 
iQand needs but few fupplies. 

Obje61:. 49. If ^profitable for the French to huy^ 
why not for us? 

Anfw, 49. The French iflands being more 
fertile than ours, can bear a more expenfive culti-« 
vation ; and their flaves being better fed and 
clothed, though unprodu6live, are not fo much fo 
as our flaves. Of Soo^ooo flaves imported into 
St. Domingo in 96 years preceding 1774, there 
remained 140^000 Creoles, or one Creole from 
fix Africans. Our whole number of Creoles would 
not be perhaps in the proportion of one from \% 
Africans imported into our colonies. 

Obje6b. 50. 'the French having no longer a com^ 
petition with uSy will buy their Jl.aves cheap if we 
abandon the trade^ 

Anfw, 50, In all fettled trades the profit foon 
becomes to be nearly equally difl:ributed among 
all thofe who are concerned in it. Every work- 
man and broker, through whofc hands any article 
pafles, will each man have a fliare of the advan- 
tage, and proportion his expenfes and rate of liv- 
ing accordingly. Hence, when an article has been 
once fettled at a certain price, it can hardly ever 
be reduced back to its original cofl, even when 
that circumltance is removed, which firft occa- 
fioned the rife. The ta^; on glafs is faid to have 

been 



( 55 ) 

been doubled on the confumer. Repeal the tax, 
the price would not be diminifhed in proportion, 
the workman will not give up his extra day at the 
ale-houfe, nor the merchant his country feat. 
Slaves, befides the expenfes of the fhip, which 
are £ 8 more, now cod in goods, on the coaft 
of Africa, at a medium about £i^. PafTmg 
through a variety of hands from the inland coun- 
tries, in each of which a profit mufl be left, any 
redu6lion of price on the coaft muft make flaves 
a lofing bargain, therefore the redudion of the 
price will counterbalance the want of competition. 
A manufadlurer, who lofes part of his cuftomers, 
produces goods only fufficient to fupply his lefTen- 
ed demand, and muft try to lay a higher price on 
them, to make up for the lofs of his former trade. 
But if we can ftiew that the flave trade is atbeft 
precarious, and often a lofing trade, ftiould the 
demand for flaves only change hands from us to 
the French, then will the French only extend a 
lofing traffick. If the demand be lefiiened, then 
will the flave-brokers quantum of profit be leflen- 
ed, which the prefent ftate of the trade will not 
bear. This leaves us to conclude, that the French 
cannot draw great advantages from our abandon- 
ing the trade to them, 

Obferv. 51. If we give up the trade ^ the French 
will extend their pare of it, 

Anfw, 51. Suppofe that others fuccefsfully rob 
■and murder on the highway, muft we join the 
lawlefs band. At prefent, the French buy many 
flaves on the coaft from our brokers. Our goods 
pay for them, our fadories accommodate them. 
Stop thefe. channels, and the French cannot an 
D 4 once 



( 56 ) 

once eafily fupply the goods, or procure the (laves. 
To us it is (by the acknowledgment of men well 
acquainted with the trade, when they have not a 
particular point to carry) a precarious, and on the 
whole, a lofing trade. , Did one company carry It 
on, that company mufl become bankrupt. But 
their prefent Ihare has fo few allurements for their 
own merchants, that their government offers a 
bounty to Englifh fliips to be employed in it under 
French papers for the fettlement of new lands in St. 
Domingo. Our merchants are now engaged 
under falfe papers to carry it on. Still the 
French planter complains of the hardfhip im- 
pofed on him by the advanced price of (laves. 
Therefore, if the French extend their trade, 
they will extend their lofs, efpecially of feamen, 
which extraordinary as ours (fee introd.) is, greatly 
exceeds our proportion.* In the mean time, it is 
a fubjedt of difcufTion for government, to deter- 
mine how far an eagernefs for lucre may be 
indulged in our traders, when dire6led to the 
improvement of a rival colony, with a view to 
the eftabiifhment of a marine, though at the 
expenfe of the individual planters who pufh it 
on. In another point of view, if the fubjed be 
properly propofed, may we not fuppofe the French 
as capable as we are of being influenced by fen- 
timentg of humanity and juitice ? 

Objed. 52. France has opened a trade for Jlaves 
from Mozambique^ inftead of giving up the Guinea 
trade^ we ftoould follow them thither » and come in for 
our Jh are, 

♦ May we not fuppofe that thefe dl«rements are thrown 
out to our traders, in order to fave their own men and fhi|>s 
from the deftrudion caufed by this horrid tr^de. 

Jnfw. 5 s, 



( 57 ) 

Anjw. 52. Can no villany be connmittcd on 
the face of the globe, but we muft long to be a 
party ? Such is the lofs of lives in this trade, from 
the change of climates, and the length of the 
voyage, that though the (laves be purchafed for a 
mere trifle, they find little encouragement to con- 
tinue in it. But before we engage, it will be wife 
in us to provide ourfelvcs with fublimate, as is 
the pradice among the French, quietly to poifon 
the unhappy wretches, ^hen from the length of 
the voyage water or provifions begin to fail. This 
the French avow as a lefs fhocking method of 
committing neceffary murder, than throwing them 
overboard alive, as our CoUingwood did in the 
voyage to Jamaica. 

Obje61:. 53. ^his aholitlon will raife dij^utes on 
the coaji of Africa with the French. 

Anfw, 53, The limits of our fiidories are 
eftablifhed. Where the French hitherto have 
not been permitted to buy flaves, they cannot 
exped to be indulged to the hindrance of our 
traffic in wood, gums, ivory, gold, &c. From 
their want of fadories, they cannot extend their 
flave-trade. If the minds of the natives be once 
pre-occupied in favour of the barter trade, they 
will not allow flave-^brokers to pafs, but at an 
expenfe, which the trade cannot bear. Perhaps 
the Dutch, Danes, and Portuguefe, may be in- 
duced to follow our example. Then the flave 
trade could not be carried on to any great extent. 

Objedl. 54. Slavis will beJmuggUd in from other 
ifiands to ours, 

Anfw, 54. 



( 58 ) 

^Anjw, 54. Not at prefent, bccaiife our plan- 
ters living in England cannot effbrd to give as 
high prices as foreigners give. Our planters now 
do not, or cannot, buy what they think the ne- 
cefTary fupplies at the prefent advanced price ; 
and if they did buy them, according to Long, 
they would find them an unprofitable purchafe. 
Smuggled negroes cannot cofl lefs than to per 
cent, above the prefent rate; how will our plan- 
ters be able to afford this ? But when fmuggling 
is difcovered, it may eafily be prevented \ it is 
not now neceffary to fuppofe it. It cannot take 
place in the prefent relative circumilances of our 
and foreign colonies. 

Objedb. 55. ^'he trade is an extenfive market for 
€ur manufactures. 

Anfw, 5^. We fhould blufh to think; that In 
order to make it profitable, we are obliged to 
cheat the poor Africans with damaged goods, and 
falfe meafurej (fee Newton's Thoughts on the 
Slave-trade). Every man who argues for fuch a 
trade, argues for the bafeft treachery and fraud that 
ever were perpetrated. If this trade were (topped, 
our prefent fair trade in the ftaple commodities of 
Africa, might be indefinitely extended. The 
whole export is eftimated within £ 800,000 col- 
le6led from a number of adventurers, often as the 
laft pulh, in hopes of a lucky hit, like a ticket 
in the lottery, to fave them from bankruptcy. 
Of this a confiderable part is bartered for ftaple 
articles, as wood, ivory, &c. and full one-third 
is faid to beEaft-India and Venetian goods. This 
eftimate is checked by the number of Haves pur- 
chafed by our traders on the coaft. That number 

annually 



( 59 

annually is about 40^000, which, at j^i8 per head, 
is only ^^ 720,000. The expenfes of the voyage 
are £8 more, which are charged on thofe fold to 
the planter. 

Objefl. 56. Guinea captains, furgeons, and officer Sy 
alone gain annually £50,000 in this trade, and one 
particular dealer in Guinea pips made an immenfs 
fortune, 

Anfw. 56. Thefe are alnnoil all the people 
who make money in the trade. The captain and 
officers by their privilege (laves, who never die, 
and their commiftion on the cargo, mufl always 
make money. The dealer in fhips alluded to, 
had a great number in the trade, and flood his 
own infurer in a lucky period.* 

Obje6l. §y. Slaves once brought down from the 
inland parts of Africa muft be exported to prevent 
them from being murdered, 

Anfw, c^y. Could the trade be (lopped in a 
moment, the abolition Ihould at once take place. 
But as numbers for many months mull continue 
to be brought down to the coail, it will require 
fome managemiCnt to confine their falc to our 



* A fhip, on board which Mr. F- ferved, brought oft' 420 
flaves from the coaft. They loft about fifty, and the refufe 
Haves amounted to about thirty more. They fold fome for 
48/. the lots for 43 /. The whole average was 37/. Here 
then is apparently a profperous voyage; the number of deaths 
moderate, aaci the average high- Yet, when expenfes and 
lofs of time were brought to an account, it was found to have 
turned out a lofmg voyage. What may be expefted where 
perhaps a third of the Hayes die in the paiTage ? 

own 



( 6o ) 

own iflands, fhould our planters be fo much 
pcrfuaded of their utility, as to put themfeives to 
fonne inconveniences in order to purchafe them, 
that they may not be pafTed to foreigners. 

Obje6V. 58. Our planters have not credit to pur^ 
chafe Jlaves, 

Anjw, 58. This mufl not be urged by any 
planter reiiding in England ; for if he thinks the 
purchafe profitable, why allots he not his European 
expenfes to this purpcfe ? 

Objecl. 59. ^he trade is a ntirfery for fe amen. 

AnJw, 5^. It is the very grave of feamen, de- 
ftroying more than all our foreign trade befides, 
often lofing by deaths, incurable difeafes, &c. 
two-thirds of thofe employed in it; and in the 
proportion of about eight to one of thofe loft in 
the barter or wood trade on the fame coaft. See 
Ciarkfon's Impolicy of the Slave Trade, and 
Stanfield's Letters. 

Object. 60. "The Weft' Indian trade is moft profitable 
to this country^ 

Anfw, do. Then why is every fugar fadlor 
trying all he can to fhake oflf his connexions 
with the fugar planters, or to confine them 
intirely to the fale of his fugars, and the fhipping 
of his ftores ? Can any planter now borrow money 
on his Weft-Indian property, either to improve it, 
or pay off prefling demands ? Has there not been 
more bankruptcies among capital houfes con- 
ne6ted with the fugar colonies, than in any other 
branch of trade ? Nay, it will be found, that 

the 



( 6, ) 

the (lave-trader himfelf complains of the tardiftefs 
of the planter's payments. The connexion is 
drawn fo clofe between Great Britain and her fu- 
gar colonies, that a change in their relative filia- 
tion muft be left to the latter, when they fliall , 
chufe to put their threats in execution of fubmit- 
ting to the Americans or French. But their trade 
will never be generally profitable to Britain while 
they have a monopoly of her market, and are al- 
lowed a drawback * for a fiditious exportation of 
fugar to be fmuggled back into the country. The 
whole ordinary produce of our fugar colonies is 
not equal to the confumption of Great Britain and 
Ireland at a moderate price. This may be confi- 
dered as proved] for though laft year was an or- 
dinary crop, yet is there now hardly any fugar on 

• Anno 1787, though the crop was only about 160,000 
hhds, and the demand has been fo great, that in the month of 
April laft there was no fugar left on hand ; yet the drawback 
on fugar is ftated in the cuftom-houfe returns at 122,957!. 
Now, as I believe hardly any fugar is originally purchafed 
with a view to exportation, the planter has very little advan- 
tage from this drawback, while it enhances the price to the 
confumer, already raifed too high by the monopoly granted 
of our market. It is confined perhaps entirely to thofe who 
enter the fugar for exportation : and that thefe entries are not 
"always fair, I can only judge from this circumftance, that re- 
fined fugar has been bought near the coall better, and 2d in 
the pound cheaper, than in London. This furely calls for 
■examination, pur planters, as a valuable part of the com- 
munity, deferve every pofiible conflderation, and no change 
is to be attempted that pays not every reafonable attention to 
their intereft ; but it muft injure their caufe to mix it witii 
that of fmugglers, as in this of the drawback, or with that of 
tad citizens, as when they threaten to throw themfelves into 
the arms of America or France. They Ihould indeed vindi- 
cate themfelves openly from having encouraged this threat, 
which their aifedled friends have induftrioufly infinuated, and 
which muft operate to their difadvantage with every think- 
ing man. 

handi 



( 62 ) 

hand ; and we are now paying a war price for that 
article. 

Objedt. 6i. Slaves mujl carry out dung in baj^ 
kets^ and bring canes home in bundles^ 

Anfw» 6i. Allot lands for grafs, and one horfc 
and cart will do the work of forty Haves. 

Objedl. 62. In crop timey the whole gang y what* 
ever be its number^ muJl be employed in making of 
the Jugar. 

Anjw, 62, Gangs of 220 flaves; others, not 
amounting to 100, are kept to the fame work, 
with little difference in the quantity of fugar 
made, that may not be explained from other circujn- 
fiances, as the Situation of the mill for receivinrg the 
wind, &c. Here furely muft be a wafte of labour 
in the more numerous gang ; becaufe the other 
plantation work might alfo be carried on fo as to 
make fewer flaves necelTary at other times. The 
fadl is, 140 or 160 flaves often cultivate as much 
land, and fend as much fugar to market as 220 
flaves.. Thefe lafl: mufl therefore be ill managed^ 

Obje6l. 63. Slaves muft be kept at workj or under 
CQmmandy from dawn till late at night, 

Anfw, 63. "What purpofe this drawling method 
anfwers^but the indulgenceof the caprice of avarice 
ill underftood, cannot be difcovered. Give theni 
a tafl<:. They may reft in the heat of the day, and 
do twice their prefent work. But they muft be 
better fed, and not be fent in the hour of reft two 
miles from home to pick grafs for cattle. 

Obje£t, 64^ 



( % ) 

Obje6t. 64. Slaves cannot he affifted hy cattle. 

Anjw, 64. The plough might be iifed in a 
great proportion of cane land. But cattle may 
at leaft aflift always in carrying out dung and 
bringing home canes, as is now done on particu- 
lar plantations. But fuch is the avarice for fugar, 
that no grafs lands are allotted for the fupport of 
cattle. Hence often at the beginning of a crop, 
the whole flock of cattle muft be renewed at 
any price. 

Objedt. 65. 'The fiat e of Jlaves will not he im- 
'proved by the planting of provifions. 

Anfw, (it^* The culture of provifions is eafier 
than that of canes. Plant them where canes pay 
not for the culture. Expenfe is favedj the Haves 
are more plentifully fed, and the remaining cane 
land is better drefled, and becomes more pro- 
dudlive. 

Objedl:. (iG, Slaves are fuch as have been con- 
demned for witchcraft. 

Anfw. 66, This is a moft unlucky objedlion 
to be produced. This cuftom, as far as we know, 
prevails only among the nations near the fea coaft. 
So ftridl is the police, and fo fenfible are the people 
of their rights, that no Have can be fold by his 
mafter, nor any free man be enflaved, except to 
expiate fome crime real or pretended. When 
therefore a mafter, or head man of a village, longs 
for powder or brandy, he feigns himfelf bewitch- 
ed, and points out a particular flave, or fome ob- 
noxious free man as the witch. The accufatioa 

ftands 



( 64 ) 

ftands for proof. The poor wretch is doomed to 
be fold to fome Leverpool harpy, who ftands 
ready, with the price of iniquity in his hand, to 
feize him. But thefe make a very fmall propor- 
tion of the whole, and include not thofe forcibly 
enflaved and fold by the feveral kings and ty** 
rants. 

Objed. 67. Negroes are fold for adultery, 

Anfw, 67. This is another very unlucky ob-* 
jedlion. A tyrant becomes difgufted with one 
of his wives, or prefers brandy, or fome Eu- 
ropean commodity to her. She has her option ta 
drink the red water, which is made rank poifon, 
or confent to be fold. The fear of death gives 
the latter the preference. Sometimes a grandee 
gives his wives liberty to folicic thoughtlefs 
young m.en. In this cafe the gallant is fold. 
Thus the flave-trade becomes anfwerable for all 
the miferies that follow on the coaft of Guinea 
on imputed crimes. Our traders firft tempt them 
to accufe, and then take advantage of the accu- 
fation. 

Objedl. (^%. Proviftons mujl he brought from 
Europe and America to feed the flaves. 

Anfw, 68. This Unnatural ftate anfwers neifhef 
the purpofe of profit or humanity. Slaves will 
never be well fed by gr^in brought from diftant 
parts. In bad years, when the planter h leaft 
able to purchafe it, it will be moft wanted. In 
the beft years, luxury will grudge the coft. In 
facl, flaves will never be well fed with fuch pur-- 
chafed grain ; nor will they ever incfeafe, till thd 
lands they cultivate be made to fopport th^m* 

Obje(^, 69, 



( 65 ) 

Objedt. 69. Slaves have fuffici'ent frovifion 
ground. 

Anjw, 6g, And, except in Janiaica, only Sun- 
day to work it. But it is not generally true, either 
that they have fufEcient ground, or that it is 
generally ufeful. A few prime flaves appropriate 
the bed parts^ and weakly flaves are thruft out> 
or have their provifions ftolen. Hardly ever can 
they fpare them to ripen. Provifion ground will 
be ufeful only, when made, equally with cane land, 
the work of the whole gang under the overfeen 
Yet this moft neceffary part of plantation eco- 
nomy is almoft wholly neglefted, the manager 
thinking much once or twice in a feafon to 
examine into the ftate of it, 

Objecl. yOi Moft excellent orders are feni cut h^ 
ahfent planters k 

Anfw, 70. Whatever be their tenour^ they are 
always interpreted by the cuftom of the colonies, 
which is for feverity and plnchingi They are 
alv/ays fuppofed to mean. Send home as much 
fugar, and draw as few bills on them as poflible* 
A gentleman for fourteen years had defired the 
happincfs of his flaves, not revenue^ to be con- 
fidered. But aflcing his manager why his flaves 
did not increafe under fuch orders, he received 
for anfwer, " they had been too hard worked, 
t' and too ill fed r* 

Objedti 71. // is the planter's inter eft to treaj 
hisftaves welL 

Anfw, 71. Then his pra(5lice contradids his 

opinion. Can it be his intereft to allow his flave 

E n^either 



( 66 ) 

<iieither food nor reft ? Are fix ounces of flour, or 
five hours reft, fufficient refrelhment for twenty- 
four hours ? Can it be his intereft to wear them 
out by inconfiderate fatigue, and in a few years 
be obliged repeatedly to renew his gang from the 
flave-market, rather than by difcreet management 
to enable them to carry on his work, and raife 
up, without expenfe, fucceflive generations of 
labourers for his profit. Indeed nothing is found 
more falfe in fad than fuch reafoning. It is the 
preffure of the moment that dire(5ts arbitrary 
power, not diftant confequences. 

Objedt. 72. "The treatment of Jlaves Jhould be 
regulated. 

Anfw. 72. Except in a very few points it is 
almoft impoftible for law to come between a 
mafter and his flave. A cruel or capricious man 
can teafe and wafte his Have in a thoufand ways 
that law cannot check, nor authority reach. The 
Danes, indeed, have an effedlual method in their 
iflands, which has been enforced in feveral parti- 
cular inftances. The governor divefts a cruel 
mafter of the management of his property, and 
fets humane people over it! — a cuftom truly 
worthy of imitation -, and the only efFedtual me- 
thod to fecure proper treatment to the flaves. 

Obje6b. 73.. Plantations cannot he f applied from 
the births, 

Anfw. 73. Nor will they while the flave-mar- 

ket is confidered as a better mode of recruiting 

them than that of population. But at prefent 

in^ny increafe from the births in all the rice, 

- ' tobacco^ 



( ^7 ) 

tobacco, and fugar coloniesi from the c^fudty of 
a humane mailer, an eafy manager, a careful 
manager*s wife, an attentive furgeon. This 
proves the ftrong biafs in nature to increafe where 
not checked by oppreffion; and it would univer- 
fally be the cajfe if humane and proper treatment 
were univerfal. Garlifle's plantation in Antigua 
has been long overftocked from the births -, and 
after doing the matter's own work, the flaves are 
employed in doing talk- work for the neighbour- 
ing plantations. 

Objed. 74. Population is checked hy aH ovet 
proportion of males, 

Anfw, 74. More ftrefs is laid on this objeftion 
than it can well bean The decreafe of flaves is 
not caufed by the want of women, but the want of 
encouragement. This over proportion Cakes place 
only among African flaves^ who are not prolific 
in the colonies, not from natural caufes, but from 
chagrin, the want of nccefiaries, and eacourage- 
ment. But their proportion cannot at prefent be 
very confiderable, (fee introdudl.) The natural 
proportion of the fexes takes place among the 
Creoles, who are in fufficient numbers, if properly 
indulged and afllfted, to overftock all our iflands 
in a few years, without diminifliing the prefent 
produce of fugar, 

Objed. 75. Slaves are not kidnapped hy cur 
traders i but culprits or prijoners of war, 

Anfw. 75. We do not fay that any great pro- 
portion of them are now kidnapped by our 
traders i becaufe as far as they can reach with 

E 2 their 



( 68 ) 

fheir boats the country is either defolatcd by 
former depredations, or is under fuch police as 
makes it rather dangerous ; though it fometimes 
happens that we hear of a captain making what 
he calls a ftroke, fweeping away as many freemen 
as he can overpower with his crew. But we fay 
that the natives kidnap each other, and that 
criminals make but a very fmall proportion of 
the whole. That they are kidnapped is almoft 
the univerfal anfwer from thofe brought into our 
colonies V nor can the numbers brought down to 
the coaft be accounted for in any other manner. 
Evidence has been delivered in on the prefent 
queftion of kidnapping having been pradlifed 
even in his fight who gave the teftimony. But 
fuppofe them culprits or prifoners of war, are 
we then the executioners for African tyrants, or 
African judges ? Are we to punilh unfortunate 
wretches by the various deaths endured in our 
flave (hips ? Offer a Guinea captain, condemned 
for murdering his crew or his llaves, his life, on 
condition of being fettered and treated as a (lave 
in the pa(rage to the Weft-Indies, he would run 
for refuge to the gallows. Moore mentions a free 
negroe offered to him for fale for ftealing a to- 
bacco pipe. If prifoners of war may be enflaved, 
why fend we not our flave-traders to attend the 
Turkifh and Ruffian armies, and provide our- 
felves there? It will be as juft and proper, as to 
ftir up wars in Africa for the purpofe of making 
(laves. 

Objedl. 76. Britain produces annually aooo 
culprits, "the negroe countries are forty times as 
large, ^hey therefore may fupply annually 80,000 
culprits. : 



( % ) 

Anfw, 76. This fuppofes Africa equally civi- 
lized with Britain; for crimes are the offspring of 
civilization. Crimes exift not among favages. 
There muft be laws and police to which they arc 
to be referred. This, therefore, if true, cuts off 
another affertion, that the Africans are brutifb. 
For among favages there can be no culprits. So- 
ciety mufl be well advanced before a man can be 
confidered as a criminal, and an obje6t of juftice. 
But how docs our method of collecting flaves on 
the coaft agree with this notion ? Our traders 
fhould demand a certificate of the Have's fentence, 
left he take away an innocent perfon. The fa(5b 
is, among imported flaves there exifts no appear- 
ance of culprits: fome are young girls not grown 
up; many boys under 14 years: they generally 
affirm themfelves to have been kidnapped. If 
criminals, fome of their old pra6lices would now 
and then break out ; but they are quiet, inoffenfive 
people, guilty only of brooding over their un- 
happy ftate, or of ftealing from a niggardly mafter 
to keep themfelves from dying of hunger. 

ObjedV. 77. They are the children of womm kept 
for breeding fiaves, 

Anfw, 77. Then they would be fold when 
children ; but the flave cargoes confift of all ages 
of both fexes, which have been kidnapped or en- 
flaved in wars made on purpofe to accommodate 
the dealers in this horrid traffick,. 

Object. 78.- ^he king of Dahomy murders his peo- 
ple for his amufement^ therefore we may trajffick im 
Jlaves^ 

E ^ X. Anfw^ 



( 7° ) 

Anfw, 78. This monfter, from fuperftkion, fa- 
crifices his own people, and from avarice, enflaves 
and fells others. But the one pafllon intermeddles 
not with the exertion of the other. Their opera- 
tions are diftindl. His avarice is encouraged by our 
traders, and renders numbers of his people wretch^ 
ed, in addition to thofe lefs unhappy people, who 
are the vi6lims of his cruelty. By checking this 
inhuman trade, we fhould annihilate one half of 
the evil 5 by profecuting it we are guilty of all 
the ills produced by it, and encourage his favage 
difpofition. 

Obje61:. 79. The Jlaves are bought in open market^ 
and the brokers will not dijclofe any particulars rejpe^- 
ing their captivity. 

Anjw, 79. Do not our traders wink with their 
eyes, and avoid any clofe inquiry? But if they be 
ignorant how they are originally procured in the 
inland parts, how come they fo well acquainted 
"with the circumftances of their being the chiU 
dren of ilave- breeders, prifoners of war, and cul- 
prits ? 

Objedl. 8q. Slaves are well cared for on board 
theJlaveJhipSy and loje not above jive in an hundred^ 
in the pajfage from Africa t9 the IVeJl- Indies^ which 
lajis for ftii weeks. 

Anfw. 80, Five in an hundred for fix weeks is 
at the rate of forty-two in an hundred, or more 
than a twQ-rfifths in twelve months. But fuppofe 
the paffage lengthened out to feven, eight, ten, 
twelve weeks i (there has been an inftance of ^ 
paffage being fifteen weeks) will not the mortality 

increale 



( 71 ) 

increaie m a much more rapid proportion than 
that of two-fifths in twelve months ? And is not 
this adually the cafe, fo that a tenth, a fifth, a 
fourth, nay, a third part, and fometimes half, is 
loft during the voyage ? But allow in ordinary 
cafes only five in an hundred to die on the pal^ 
fag; the llaves are all Ihipped in good health; 
when they come to market, from a tenth part to 
a third, or perhaps a half, are found to be difeafed, . 
and are fold as refufe, of which not more than 
one in three ftand the feafoning. The voyage is 
therefore accountable not only for thofe that die^ 
on board fbip, but for two-thirds of the refufe 
Daves which die in the Weft-Indies within the 
period of feafoning; therefore the lofs of one- 
fourth part, or perhaps a third of the whole, may 
be charged to the voyage. 

But v/here five men are ftowed in the place o£ 
one, v/hich is the difference between a (lave fliip 
and a tranfport for carrying troops, it is impolTi- 
ble that the wretches can be well cared for. 
This is proved even to demonftration in the ac- 
counts given of their horrid ftate by Mr. Falcon- 
bridge, Mr. Newton, and Mr. Stanfield. If fo few 
be loft, how comes it that a flave trader cannot 
get infurance in London on his (laves at any 
rate ; or, that thofe, who in one or two inftances 
underwrote (laves at 25 per cent, premium, re- 
fufed to continue the advantageous bargain. 

But this extraordinary lofs, which often happens 
in the voyage, is charged not to the infernal 
ftowage of the (laves, but to other caufes, as a. 
long continuance on the coaft, improper provi- 
fions, &c. Allow all this 5 it muft firft be proved 
that the Africans forced them felves on board their 
ihips, and put themfelves willingly into fuch a. 
E 4 Iituation> 



( 7* ) 

fituation, as was ncceffarily followed by this de-. 
flrudtion. But if the trader forced them into this 
fituation of hunger, thirft, difeafe, and death, he 
is as anfwerable for the fatal confequences, as if 
he had at once cut their throats. No man is 
allowed to plead one crime in excufe of another. 
The deltrudtive confequences of enflaving them, 
is but a part of the original guilt conneded with 
the commerce. 

Objed. 8 1, ney are encouraged to rear children^ 
md will not* 

Anjw, 8 1. Can they rear them for him, who 
demands bricks without draw, that they may be 
opprefTed at his caprice? How few are put in the 
flate, have food, clothes, or neceflaries, to en- 
courage them, or are indulged when pregnant, 
or when nurfes ? Can a young fmgle lad, or a 
batchelor manager, as is now the growing cuf- 
tom to employ on plantations, have that fellow- 
feeling and fympathy with a child-bearing wo- 
man, that may be expected in a tender-hearted 
matron ? I can recoUedl but one cafe, where flaves 
have increafed under a bachelor. There fome 
peculiarly . favourable circumftances take place. 
Thofe acquainted with the ufual treatment of 
flaves, may wonder how fo many children are 
reared, rather than fo few. Indeed, the ordinary 
caufes of the increafe of (laves on particular plan- 
tations, Ihew how eafily population may be pro- 
moted. 

Object. 82. Many Jlaves die in confequence of 
their following the Juperflitious rites of the Obiab 
^r John Crow men^ 

Jnfw. 82,, 



( 73 ) 

Anfw. 82. This fuperftition is confined to a 
few, and may be eafily fuppreffed. Perhaps among 
aooo or 3000 flaves, one may be heard of who has 
injured his health, by drolling fix or eight miles m 
the night time to attend one of their dances, But 
it would be juft as reafonable to fend and bring off 
fome of the natives of France to be made fiaves, 
becaufe a farmer may now and then get drunk at a 
fair, and break his neck, as it is to drag away 
Africans from their country, becaufe their mafters 
have refolved to keep thofe whom they have already 
enRaved in utter ignorance and brutality. 

Objefb. 83. Negroe women are profligate^ and de- 
fir oy their fruit. 

Anjw. 83. This takes place among none but 
perhaps a few, that are fuffered to work, or hire 
themfelves out among feamen ; nor are any effe6ts 
produced by it that deferve to be noticed as a 
general obfervation. NegrefTes have the mater- 
nal charader as ftrongly impreffed on tliem as any 
other women; nor does ic fail to a-fl, except 
where the weight of opprefiion has made them 
callous to every natural feeling. 

Obje61:. 84. ^he number of Creoles^ where the 
fexes only are in due proportion^ is not eqiial to the 
fufport of the prefent ftock, 

Anfw. 84. Denied, fee Introdudion. Our 
Creoles exceed two-thirds of our prefent number 
of (laves; but not more than two-thirds of the 
whole are employed in the culture of fugar, and 
that in a proportion, which Long fays, they may 
continue to increafe from the birt;hs, Every other 

department 



( 74 ) 

department may eafily be fupplied by white men 
or free negroes^ and mulatcoes. It muft not be 
lofl- fight of, that lew African women breed, and 
that no new flaves repay their coft, expenfe, and 
lofs in feafoning. We cannot, therefore, fuppofe 
any future progeny of thefe capable of repaying 
the expenfe of fuch a purchafe ; and can exped 
a profitable recruit only from Creoles But there 
are inftances in every colony of humane treatment 
adtually producing an increafe. This will uni- 
verfally be the cafe, when the pradtice is uni- 
verfal. 

Objed. 85. Unhealthy fitnations require Jupplies. 

Jnfw, 85. Can this be urged by any man pre- 
tending to humanity or difcretion ? Abandon 
the cultivation of the cane, rather than fport with 
a brother's life. The unhealthinefs of mines, &c., 
cannot be pleaded here, becaufe worked by vo- 
lunteers. But no plantation that requires fupplies 
can repay the expenfe. We may flill afk. Has 
every proper meafure been adapted for the parti- 
cular fituation ? Are the huts fixed in a dry 
airy fpot ? Are the flaves plentifully fed, dif. 
erectly worked, well defended with clothes againft 
damps, or wet weather. Few fituations are to 
be found that may not be correded, fo as that 
the human conftitution Ihali adapt itfelf to it. 
But their manner of livmg muft be that of proper 
inhabitants, drawing their fuftenance from the 
lands they occupy, not artificial, as in a garri- 
fon, or ufed as beads of burden, and pretended 
to be fed with grain brought from other quar- 
ters of the globe, 

Objeft. 86, 



( 75 ) 

Objeft. 86. Slavery is not unlawful i the Mlk 
allows of it^ 

Anfw. 86. The ufe of money is not unlawful. 
But it is unlawful to rob on the highv/ay to procure 
it. We meddle not with flavery in the abftrad, buc 
with the ordinary means of procuring (laves* We 
fay men ought not to go to the coaft of Africa to 
kidnap the natives, or to encourage them to kid- 
nap each other; or to bribe them with baubles 
to go to war, to fight with and enllave eacb 
other i to turn every trefpafs into a caufe for en- 
(laving; to fubjecfl the unfortunate wretches to 
the miferies of a Weft-Indian voyage; to fell 
them to be half-ftarved, hard worked, and ill 
treated. Shew us flavery without thefe attendants, 
and we fhall have little to objed againft it. 

Chriftianity obliges us to inftrud and inform 
the mind. Social liberty is the genuine confe- 
quence of improvement. Therefore we may fay, 
that the Chriftian privilege favours liberty ; and, 
while it avoids making any fudden change in 
eftablifhed cuftoms, it naturally tends towards it. 
See my Examination of Harris's Scriptural Re- 
fearches. 

Objeft. 87. 'Hhe Jews mere permitted to hold 
Jlaves, 

Anfw, 87. They might keep the children of 
the heathen, and their pofterity (laves. But 
they were enjoined to treat them well, inftrudt 
them in their religion, and make them partakers 
of their religion and laws. The (laves were fup- 
plied with food and clothing from their fix days 
iabogr, without being forced to work for this on 

Sabbatht 



( 76 ) 

Sabbath. If the maftcr ftruck out but a toothj^ 
the (lave was to be free. If he took a mald-fer- 
vant to his bed, or gave her to his fon, flie had 
the privilege of a wife, and could not be fold. 
We muft imitate the example of the Jews, if we 
claim their pcrmiflion of holding flaves. But by 
the coming of our Saviour, all men are become 
brethren. A Jew could hold a Jew in fervice 
only for fix years, and only fuch as were too poor 
to maintain themfelves. Here we are to look for 
the fpirit of the Jewifh laws refpedting flavery; 
not in their permiffion to make flaves of the 
Heathen around them. This indulgence was pro- 
bably allowed, as divorces were, for the hardnefs 
of their hearts; but was to be reclaimed, as it 
has been in fadb, by the introdudlion of a more 
perfe6l law. We make the Africans poor by en- 
flaving them. But we fliould keep them flaves 
only for fix years, and then difmifs them well 
fupplied with neceflfaries. Farther, the Jews 
themfelves were numerous in a fmall country. 
Their flaves mufl:, therefore, have been few. 
Among thofe who returned from their captivity, 
there was but one flave to fix Jews 5 perhaps one 
fervant to each family. 

Objedl. 88. Slavery renders apprejfion necejfary. 
See Niger in Publick Advertijer of March 12. 

Anjw, 88. But what except avarice renders 
flavery neceflfary 5 and can opprefllon, if it be the 
neceflTary confequence of a vice, be in any degree 
or fliape vindicated ? Murder is often the necef- 
fary confequence of paflion. Is murder therefore 
to be excufed ? What an opening is here for 
crimes and villany of every fort. The exiftence 

of 



( 77 ) 

of this oppreflion is candidly acknowledged by a 
Jamaica planter in his obfervations on the flave 
trade. _ 

Objeft. 89. Free negroes and mulattoes do not 
increafe from the births. 

Anjw, 89. It is not true : many inflances to 
the contrary might be produced. But it is alfo 
true, that no race or rank of men will continue 
to increafe, except where the means of living are 
in abundance. Thofe here defcribed, are exceed- 
ingly fettered between white men on the one 
fide, and flaves on the other, for the means of 
fubfiftence. Therefore they cannot expand them- 
felves. It is fo with the native white people in 
St. Kitt'sj their marriages are prolific, but from 
the want of fubfiflence, the old families have in- 
fenfibly vaniflied, and every year takes from the 
population of the colony. 

Objed. 90. A compenfation muft he made to 
Planters for 60 millions of property ^ which the aho* 
lition of the flave trade will annihilate. 

Anfw, 90. It will be time enough to think of 
compenfation when the lofs has been fuftained. 
Even then 1 ihould proteft againfl the claims of 
fuch "Weft-India appraifements, as I have been 
acquainted with. Yet no planter, not already 
ruined, will fuffer by the abolition. 

Compenfation would defeat every purpofe 
aimed at, for procuring good treatment to the 
flaves. Many planters find their affairs irreco- 
verable. If they hurry not on their fate, from the 
hopes of compenfation^ at leaft they will be care- 

lefs 



( 73 ) 

lefs of the ifTue. Their former inconfiderate con- 
dud will continue, perhaps will be iharpened, to 
enhance their demand. 

If there be a planter, who has fed his flaves 
well, and worked them confiderately, has in- 
dulged them with proper reft, has clothed them 
properly, has furnifhed ncceffaries for the encou- 
ragement of population, has lived with them, has 
treated them as fellow-creatures, has made the 
fupport of his plantation his prime obje6b, and 
been contented with that revenue which this at- 
tention would admit of; in the name of juftice 
let him be liberally compenfated. But fuch a 
charafter fo circumftanced, fo unfuccefsful, is not 
to be found. The need of compenfation is a fure 
proof he deferves it not. Again, let it be ob- 
ferved, that he claims this compenfation becaufe 
he is prevented from buying African flaves j 
which, even in Long's opinion, would only more 
involve him. 

But if a man has feparated himfelf from his 
property, has drawn a revenue to fupport at a 
diftance an expenfive eftablifhment, from a pro^ 
perty not equal to fuch demands, or which per- 
haps itfelf wanted fuppliesj if, to force out this 
revenue, his half-ftarved flaves have been incef- 
fantly worked ; if neceflaries for the encourage- 
ment of population have been withheld, and the 
afliftance of cattle has been refufed ; let not this 
man come to government to make up a lofs arif- 
ing from the cravings of luxury, or the inconfi- 
dcrate ufe of power. In this clafs will be found 
every planter who has ruined himfelf by fpecu- 
lating in fugar plantations. Mere adventurers 
cannot claim compenfation, for they are where 

the/ 



( 79 I 

they fet out. Their creditors have no claim ; for 
they took the chance of their fuccefs. 

Objed. 91. "ithe trade Jhould be regulated^ not 
aholijhed^ 

Anjw. 91. Regulate murder as you pleafe, it 
flill remains murder. Suppofe a regulation. It 
muft check the mode of loading the flave-ftiips. 
But at prefentj with every contrivance in the 
fhipmafter's power, it is on the whole a lofing- 
trade ; it depending on circumftances, whether a 
particular (hip makes a faving voyage. Regula- 
tions, which ihall make it more cxpenfive, will 
make that lofs certain, which is now contingent. 
Therefore, while holding out indulgence, they 
will occafion a greater lofs, than the abrupt abo- 
lition of it. Regulations fuppofe the trade honeft 
and proper, and only abufed in the management 
of it. But we affirm the very principle to be 
wrong, and every attempt in it iniquitous and 
unjuft. To propofe a law for regulating fmug- 
gling, would not be fo abfurd. We can explain 
the unreafonablencfs of the proportion, only by 
fuppofing parliament to enad a rule by which 
highwaymen Ihould be guided, in robbing and 
murdering in the way of their profefTion. 

But what regulations can be enafted in Britain, 
that fhalltake effedt i'200 miles inland in Africa, 
thatfliall flop the murderer's hand, or fave the de- 
voted village ; that Ihall in the thirfly defart offer 
the refrelhing draught to the fainting captive, or 
fave him from the hungry tyger, when abandoned 
to death in the inhofpitable foreft ? Every pofTible 
regulation will be a mere mockery of the woe we 

affea: 



( 8o ) 

afFe6l to commlferate. The friend of humanity 
muft fpurn the propofition from him, which 
would only rivet more firmly on Africa this galling 
chain, while it gave the fandtion of law to a com- 
merce that humanity muft deplore, that policy 
cannot defend. 

But the regulations will be accepted with a 
defign to evade them. In this cafe, the Legifla- 
ture becomes anfwerable for the oppreflTion and 
murder conneded with this trade. 



CONCLUSION. 

IF the fubjedl be difcufTed, the trade will be 
found fo iniquitous, that it cannot be left on it5 
prefent footing, or be poflibly regulated. Let the 
abolition then take place on the broad bafis of 
humanity, juftice, and found policy. All parti- 
cular circumftances will eafily accommodate them- 
felves to the new fituation of things. 



POST- 



( 8i ) 

POSTSCRIPT. 

I SHOULD be ungrateful to pafs over the 
candour of the author of the Coniiderations on 
Emancipation, &c. to myfelf. He has laid me 
under very great obligations^ by flepping forward 
to vindicate my reputation from the many horrid 
charges brought againft me by my former adver- 
faries ; efpecially, for clearing me of the crime of 
cruelty to my (laves, which has been circulated 
in every company where (lavery has been agitated, 
and mentioned with as much abhorrence, as if no 
man befides me had been unfeeling in his treat- 
ment. He will allow me to obferve, that that 
irritation, which he makes the alloy of my tem- 
per, cannot be intolerable, if it permits me to 
be affe<5lionate in my family, eafy to my flaves, 
and charitable to the poor ; for to thefe the natu- 
ral temper is leaft under difguife. He indeed 
takes out the fling, by charging my difputes to 
the pique and prejudice of my enemies. I may 
add, among thofe praifed in my Eifay, are fome, 
who were then my inveterate foes. He will alfo 
indulge me in corre(5ling his miftake concerning 
the M. Reviewers. Far from cenfuring injurious 
epithets in my writings, they blamed their want 
of warmth. From their late condufl 1 have only 
learned, that to utter falfe criminal libels againil 
Mr. R. in low vulgar language, is decent mode- 
rate condud in his adverfaries ^ but it is abufe 
for him to ufe the moil cautious terms in his 
own vindication.* 

* Thefe praifes have encouraged Mr. Tobln in purfuit of 
what he calls ** folid pudding," to raife at prefeut a third 

F fine 



( 82 ) 

But p. 36. I am charged with mifreprefentation. 
If he will perufe my Eflay, he will fee I prevent 
the conclufion of indifcriminate ill-treatment of 
(laves, by obferving, that arbitrary power in the 
mafler has not all thofe ill confequences with 
which fenfibility is apt to charge it. And if this, 
and many pafTages of like import, be not fufficient 
to excufe me, 1 cheerfully embrace this opportu- 
nity of declaring, that the nature of flavery, not 
the difpofition of the mafler, is chargeable with 
the enormities connected with this debafing flate. 
Planters are as capable of, and as often exert the 
benevolent affedti.ms as any other fet of men. But 
during the period which I fpent among them, 
a (lave was not confidered as an obje6t of fympa- 
thy, or intitled to the regards of humanity. His 
fervices were accepted with the fame indifference 
that we exprefs towards a clock that keeps time ; 
his faults were punifhed with the rigour that is 
exerted towards a dangerous rival, whom chance 

fine on the publick from the abufe of an infignificant Indivi- 
dual. And as no new crime could be eafily framed for me, 
he fets himfelf to feign what I am to think. He and his 
party are welcome to all the advantage they can draw from 
this condudl. I have no right to complain. I gave him li- 
berty, if he would not confound the claims of the Africans, 
my clients, with my character, to cut and mangle it at his- 
pleafure. This he has moil religiv^aily obierved ; for not 
one argument in the planters favour interrupts the torrent of 
his perfonal abufe. I take this opportunity to thank him 
for his truly excellent advice ; and I pray that it may be 
recommended by his example. 

In return, I propofe that h^ cherifli in his own condu6l a 
rule of morality a little more comprehenfive than he pre- 
fcribes for me, when he fuppofes, that after calling me 
traitor, oppreflbr, an enemy to man, a hypocrite towards 
God, implacable, revengeful, (fee his feveral libels) he does 
not ch.'^rge me with the '' flighteft criminality," or any thi.ig 
deiAJgatmg from '* a moral or religious charadler." 

has 



( 83 ) 

has brought within our power, who may pofTibly 
efcape, and if we let flip the prefent oecafion, 
effecSl our ruin. But he allows that there is occa- 
iion forcenfure, and that my book contains many 
ti'uths, which he wllhes, for the honour of human 
nature, he could deny. Where then is the necef- 
lity or ufe of mifreprefentation ? Indeed, if it were 
not an invidious taik, every circumftance in it 
might be referred to individuals, probably well 
known to this gentleman. I hope this is the laft 
time I ihall have occafion to mention myfelf, on a 
fubje6t, that ought not to be blended with the 
reputation of its advocates. But as I am tired of 
being obliged to carrv about with me proofs of 
the innocency of my charadler, to vindicate it 
from the calumny call upon it by men of rank 
and confideration, in every company, where my 
private interefl can be hurt, or the caufe in which 
I am engaged, injured ; and as this work may 
come into hands, which thefe conliderations may 
not reach, I truft I Ihall ftand excufed with the 
publick for inferting from them here my own 
eulogium, mixed as it is with irritation of temper^ 
and mifreprefentation of fads. 



F 2 EXTRACT 



( H ) 

EXTRACT from CONSIDERATIONS on 

the Emancipation of Negroes, and on the Abo- 
lition of the Slave Trade, by a Well-India 
Planter, page 34, &:c. 

*' HAVING introduced the name of this 

^^ writer, (Mr. Ramfay) without whofe labours 

'^ the fubjedt of flavery would not probably have 

^f been fo much agitated at this day, I cannot dif- 

^^ mifs him without farther mention, as well as to 

'' refcue his charader from unmerited reproach, as 

^^ to caution his readers againft the exaggerations 

^^ of his pen. As a hufband and father he was 

^^ affe6tionate and provident. As a paftor, de- 

*' cent, pious, temperate, and exemplary. As a 

^^ mafter of flaves, fo far was he from indulging 

*^ in the exercife of cruelty, that he was remark- 

*^ ably abllemious in the ufe of difcipline, even on 

*' neceffary occasions. He was charitable to the 

" poor, and punftual in his pecuniary tranfa6lions. 

^^ His good qualities were many •, but at the fame 

*^ time, his temper was prone to irritation •, and if 

*« not abfolutely vindidtive, he was at lead ex- 

*^ tremely liberal in the ufe of injurious epithets, 

*' as appears from his writings, which have drawn 

^^ on him the corre6lion of the learned Journalifl, 

*^ under whofe review they have palled, though 

^^ otherwife fufficiently difpofed to favour his 

*^ caufe. 

" Unfortunately his book was written during 
^^ a ftate of warfare with his parifhioners ; a con- 
,j tell unprovoked, it muft be allowed by any a6l 
'' on his part, inconfiftent with the character of a 
" good man, but fuggefled by pique, and profe- 
" cuted by party, on the other fide. However, he 
" has combined his own injuries with the inju- 

" ries 



( 8s ) 

*« ries of the flaves, and given fcope to his refent- 
*' ment, while he appears an advocate in the caufe 
*' of humanity. This his book contains a great 
*^ many truths, I wilh, for the honour of human 
*^ nature, I could deny. Where authority exiils, 
«^ it is too apt to be abufed. Slavery therefore 
*^^ neceffarily fuppofes fuch a flate of oppreffioii 
^^ and confequent abafement, as is unpra<5tifed 
'f among the free orders of fociety, and for a good 
*' reafon, becaufe it is un tolerated. But to fup- 
^^ pofe thofe oppreffions either fo frequent, or fe- 
" vere as they are charged to be, would certainly 
*'. be to give too great a degree of credit to his 
*' mifreprefentations.'* 



N. B. Page 40, he allows with me that Frenck 
Oaves are better clothed and better fed than Eng- 
lifh flaves •, a truth, which has been difputed witli 
me. 



FINIS, 



BOOKS lately Publiflied by James Phillips^ 
George- Yard, Lombard-Street. 

EXAMINATION of the Rev. Mr. Harris's 
Scriptural Refearches on the Licitnefs of the 
Slave Trade. By the Rev. J. Ramsey, Vicar of 
Teflon in Kent. 6d. 

ESSAY on the Treatment and Converfiofi of 
African Slaves in the Britifh Sugar Colonies. 
By J. Ramsay. 4s. Boards. 

An INQUIRY into the EfFeds of putting a Stop 
to the African Slave Trade, and of granting Li- 
berty to the Slaves in the Britifh Sugar Colonies. 
By J. Ramsay. 6d. 

A REPLY to the Perfonal Invectives and Ob- 
jections contained in Two Anfwers, publifhed by 
certain anonymous Perfons, to an EiTay on the 
Treatment and Converfion of African Slaves, in 
the Britifh Colonies. By James Ramsay. 2s. 

A LETTER from Capt. J. S. Smith, to the 
Rev. Mr. Hill, on the State of the Negroe Slaves. 
To which are added an Introduction, and Remarks 
on Free Negroes. By the Editor. 6d. 

A CAUTION to Great Britain and her Colonies, 
in a fhort Reprefentation of the calamitous State 
of the enflaved Negroes in the Britifli Dominions. 
By Anthony Benezet. 6d. 

The CASE of our Fellow-Creatures, the Op- 
prefTed Africans, refpeCtfully recommended to the 
ferious Confideration of the Legiilature of Great 
Britain, by the People called Quakers. 2d. 

A Summary View of the SLAVE TRADE, and 
of the probable Confequences of its Abolition, zd. 

An ESSAY on the Slavery and Commerce of 
the Human Species, particularly the African, 
trandated from a Latin DilTertation, which was 

honoured 



honoured with the Firll Prize of the Univerfity of 
Cambridge, for the Year 1785. Second Edition, 
with Additions, by T. Clarkson. 3s. Boards, 

An ESSAY on the Impolicy of the African 
Slave Trade. In Two Parts. By the Rev. T. 
Clarkson. M. A. 2s. 6d, 

A LETTER to the Treafurer of the Society 
inftituted for the Purpofe of effeaing the Aboli- 
tion of the Slave Trade. From the Rev. Robert 
Boucher Nicholls, Dean of Middieham, A 
new Edition enlarged. 4d. 

An ACCOUNT of the 51ave Trade on the 
Coaft of Africa, by Alexander Falconbridge, 
late Surgeon in the African Trade. A new Edi- 
tion. 9d. 

OBSERVATIONS on a Guinea Voyage i in 
a Series of Letters, addrelTed to the Rev. T. 

Clarkson, by James Field Sjanfield, late a 
Mariner in the African Slave Trade. 4d. 

REMARKS on the Slave Trade, and the Sla- 
very of the Negroes, in a Series of Letters, by 
Africanus. 2S. 6d. 

WEST INDIAN ECLOGUES, dedicated to 
the late Lord Bifhop of Chefter, by a Perfon who 
refided feveral Years in the Weft-Indies, is. 

THOUGHTS on the Slavery of the Ne- 
grpes. 4d. 

A SERIOUS ADDRESS to the Rulers of 
America, on the Inconfiftency of their Condud 
refpeding Slavery. 3d. 



