THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. L] 



SEPTEMBER, 1833, 



[NO. IX. 



MRS. CHILD'S APPEAL. 

An Appeal in favor of that Class of Ameri- 
cans called Africans. By Mrs. Child. Bos- 
ton : Allen fy Ticknor. 1833. 12 mo. pp. 
232. 

We heard a few months since with great 
satisfaction that Mrs. Child was engaged in 
preparing a work on slavery. We felt sure 
that any thing which she should write on the 
subject, would exert a beneficial and power- 
ful moral influence on the public mind. It is 
but justice to say, that the high anticipations 
which we had formed of the merits of Mrs. 
Child's book, have been more than realized by 
its perusal. That it will do great good, we 
feel entire confidence. The great difficulty 
with which abolitionists in this country, have 
hitherto had to contend, has been that very 
few have been willing to give them a fair hear- 
ing. The cultivated and refined at the north, 
having taken for granted the comfortable doc- 
trine that slavery was an evil with which they 
had nothing to do, have listened to the argu- 
ments of its opposers, with the same feelings of 
impatience and disgust with which theyread the 
soiled andthumbworn petitions and certificates 
of strolling beggars. But the work of an au- 
thor of established reputation, one whose writ- 
ings they have been accustomed to admire, 
cannot be condemned without examination. 
She must be heard. 

The nature of this volume may be judged 
of by the following table of the contents of 
the chapters. That we may not seem so un- 
critical as to see no fault in the volume, we 
venture to suggest that such a table ought to 
have preceded the body of the work. 

Chapter I. Brief history of Slavery. — Its 
inevitable effect upon all concerned in it. 

Chap. II. Comparative view of Slavery in 
different ages and nations. 

Chap. III. Free Labor and Slave Labor. — 
Possibility of safe Emancipation. 

Chap. IV. Influence of Slavery on the Pol- 
itics of the United States. 

VOL. I. 



Chap. V. Colonization Society and Anti- 
Slavery Society. 

Chap. VI. Intellect of Negroes. 

Chap. VII. Moral Character of JYegroes. 

Chap. VIII. Prejudices against People of 
Color, and our Duties in relation to this sub- 
ject. 

On every one of these subjects, Mrs. Child 
has collected useful and interesting informa- 
tion, much of which will be new to most of her 
readers. It is not, however, only, or chiefly, as 
a valuable collection of facts that this volume 
should be recommended. The conclusion to 
be drawn from these facts are presented with 
force and directness. The book too is writ- 
ten with great terseness and spirit, and warm- 
ed throughout by a glow of benevolent feel- 
ing. Yet with all this, upon a subject so ex- 
citing as slavery, the author though she ex- 
presses her sentiments fearlessly and distinctly, 
never indulges in mere abuse and railing, and 
while she makes no sacrifice of principle, or 
concealment of truth, to conciliate slavehold- 
ers and their advocates, she never says any 
thing merely for the sake of producing irrita- 
tion. The work throughout is distinguished 
by kindness and courtesy towards those whose 
opinions and practices she is compelled to 
condemn. 

It is not very easy to make selections from 
a volume that contains so much which we 
should be glad to have placed before all our 
readers. The following passage, however, 
shows the ability with which the author rea- 
sons, and also exhibits the sound sense and 
strong moral feeling which pervade the vol- 
ume. After having related some instances of 
atrocious cruelties inflicted on slaves, she con- 
tinues : 

' 1 shall be told that such examples as these 
are of rare occurrence ; and I have no doubt 
that instances of excessive severity are far 
from being common. I believe that a large 
proportion of masters are as kind to their 
slaves as they can be, consistently with keep- 
ing them in bondage ; but it must be allowed 
that this, to make the best of it, is very stinted 
17 






130 



Mrs. Child's Appeal. 



kindness. And let it never be forgotten that 
the negro's fate depends entirely on the char- 
acter of his master ; and it is a mere matter 
of chance whether he fall into merciful or un- 
merciful hands ; his happiness, nay, his very 
life, depends on chance. 

The slave owners are always telling us, that 
the accounts of slave misery are abominably 
exaggerated ; and their plea is supported by 
many individuals, who seem to think that char- 
ity was made to cover sins, not to cure them. 
But without listening to the zealous opposers 
of slavery, we shall find in the judicial reports 
of the Southern States, and in the ordinary 
details of their newspapers, more than enough 
to startle us ; besides, we must not forget that 
where one instance of cruelty comes to our 
knowledge, hundreds are kept secret; and the 
more public attention is awakend to the sub- 
ject, the more caution will be used in this re- 
spect. 

Why should we be deceived by the sophis- 
try of those whose interest it is to gloss over 
iniquity, and who from long habit have learn- 
ed to believe that it is no iniquity ? It is a 
very simple process to judge rightly in this 
matter. Just ask yourself the question, where 
you could find a set of men, in whose power 
you would be willing to place yourself, if the 
laws allowed them to sin against you with im- 
punity ? 

But it is urged that it is the interest of plan- 
ters to treat their slaves well. This argument 
no doubt has some force ; and it is the poor 
negro's only security. But it is likewise the 
interest of men to treat their cattle kindly ; 
yet we see that passion and short-sighted av- 
arice do overcome the strongest motives of in- 
terest. Cattle are beat unmercifully, some- 
times unto death ; they are ruined by being 
over-worked ; weakened by want of sufficient 
food ; and so forth. Besides, it is sometimes 
directly for the interest of the planterto work 
his slaves beyond their strength. When there 
is a sudden rise in the prices of sugar, a cer- 
tain amount of labor in a given time is of more 
consequence to the owner of a plantation, than 
the price of several slaves ; he can well afford 
to waste a few lives. This is no idle hypoth- 
esis — such calculations are gravely and open- 
ly made by planters. Hence, it is the slave's 
prayer that sugars may be cheap. When the 
negro is old, or feeble from incurable disease, 
is it his master's interest to feed him well, and 
clothe him comfortably ? Certainly not : it 
then becomes desirable to get rid of the hu- 
man brute as soon as convenient. It is a 
common renmrk, that it is not quite safe, in 
most cases, for even parents to be entirely de- 
pendent on the generosity of their children; 
and if human nature be such, what has the 
slave to expect, when he becomes a mere bill 
of expense ? 

It is a common retort to say that New-Eng- 
landers, who go to the South, soon learn to 



patronise the system they have considered so 
abominable, and often become proverbial for 
their severity. I have not the least doubt of 
the fact ; for slavery contaminates all that 
comes within its influence. It would be very 
absurd to imagine that the inhabitants of one 
State are worse than the inhabitants of anoth- 
er, unless some peculiar circumstances, of 
universal influence, tend to make them so. 
Human nature is every where the same ; but 
developed differently, by different excitements 
and temptations. It is the business of wise 
legislation to discover what influences are 
most productive of good, and the least condu- 
cive to evil. If we were educated at the 
South, we should no doubt vindicate slavery, 
and inherit as a birthright all the evils it en- 
grafts upon the character. If they lived on 
our rocky soil, and under our inclement skies, 
their shrewdness would sometimes border 
upon knavery, and their frugality sometimes 
degenerate into parsimony. We both have 
our virtues and our faults, induced by the in- 
fluences under which we live, and, of course, 
totally different in their character. Our de- 
fects are bad enough ; but they cannot, like sla- 
very, affect the destiny and rights of millions. 

All this mutual recrimination about horse- 
jockeys, gamblers, tin-pedlars, and venders of 
wooden nutmegs, is quite unworthy of a great 
nation. Instead of calmly examining this im- 
portant subject on the plain grounds of jus- 
tice and humanity, we allow it to degenerate 
into a mere question of sectional pride and 
vanity. [Pardon the Americanism, would we 
had less use for the word !] It is the system, 
not the men, on which we ought to bestow the 
full measure of abhorrence. If we were wil- 
ling to forget ourselves, and could, like true 
republicans, prefer the common good to all 
other considerations, there would not be a 
slave in the United States, at the end of half 
a century. 

The arguments in support of slavery are all 
hollow and deceptive, though frequently very 
specious. No one thinks of finding a founda- 
tion for the system in the principles of truth 
and justice ; and the unavoidable result is, that 
even in policy it is unsound. The monstrous 
fabric rests on the mere appearance of present 
expediency ; while, in fact, all its tendencies 
individual and national, present and remote, 
are highly injurious to the true interests of 
the country. The slave owner will not be- 
lieve this. The stronger the evidence against 
his favorite theories, the more strenuously he 
defends them, it has been wisely said, ' Hon- 
esty is the best policy ; but policy without 
honesty never finds that out.' 

I hope none will be so literal as to suppose 
I intend to say that no planter can be honest, 
in the common acceptation of that term. I 
simply mean that all who ground their argu- 
ments in policy, and not in duty and plain 
truth, are really blind to the highest and best 
interests of man.' 



Dialogue between a Colonizationist and an .Abolitionist. 



131 



[For the Abolitionist.] 

DIALOGUE 

SETWEEN C, A COLONIZATIONIST, AND A, AN 
ABOLITIONIST, ON THE SUBJECT OF THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

(Concluded.) 

C. You undertook to convince me that the 
Northern people can act practically in the 
matter of negro slavery. I presume you hardly 
venture to say that Congress has power to 
decree emancipation ; if you do, I refer you 
to the letter of Daniel Webster, lately pub- 
lished, on the subject. 

A. I agree perfectly with Mr. Webster. 
There can be no doubt that our Legislatures, 
can make no law whatever to compel a slave- 
holder, in another State, to emancipate, or 
even to abstain from murdering, his slaves, 
and that Congress is equally powerless in 
this respect. But yet Congress can do much ; 
and so can the Legislatures, and so can the 
people. I call it a strictly practical object, to 
prepare an engine by means of which great 
effects are to be produced. Now, public sen- 
timent is all powerful ; and if it can be so ex- 
cited as to bear with its immense weight upon 
this question, the effect must be great and 
practical. The publications which prepared 
the minds of the colonists for the revolutionary 
struggle, were not less practical than the ac- 
tual military effects that were prompted by 
them. The force of truth and moral suasion, 
over an intelligent people, can hardly be over- 
rated, and should never be disdained. 

C. But if the suasion is to be addressed 
only to the Southern people, it ought at least, 
to be more gentle, if it is to be effectual. 

A. It is not addressed only, or chiefly, to 
the Southern people. We have no objection 
to their hearing us, and no wish to exasperate 
them — but we care not for their anger. To 
say less than the truth, would be unworthy of 
us as freemen ; and if the truth plainly spoken 
gives offence, the fault must be in the hearers, 
not in the speakers. I am ashamed of my 
country and amazed at its degeneracy when 
I hear it said that truths, undeniable truths, 
ought to be suppressed or only whispered with 
closed doors, for fear of giving offence ! Such 
was not the principle on which our fathers 
acted, or the revolution could never have oc- 
curred. 

C. But is it wise to irritate and alienate 
the Southern people by needless repetition of 
reproaches ? 



A. It is wise always to assert our rights, 
by words and practice. The right9 of speech 
and of the press are infinitely more valuable 
than the fame to be gained or preserved, by 
yielding them up to arrogance and pride. It 
would reduce us to the condition of slaves, to 
be prohibited from speaking the truth, when, 
where, and how we please. When Napoleon 
complained to the British government, of the 
abusiveness of the London newspapers, the 
answer he received was that the press was 
free, but if he was libelled, the courts were 
open to him for redress. Are we less free 
than the British ? And are not our courts open 
to any slaveholder who is injured ? We shrink 
from no responsibility ; seek no concealment. 
The northern people owe it to their own dig- 
nity and independence, to treat with scorn all 
anger which is produced by the exercise of 
our just rights. 

C. But does the irritation that you occa- 
sion help forward the object at all ? Does it 
not obviously cause the blacks to be more 
rigorously treated than ever? 

A. The irritation neither helps nor hin- 
ders, or if it does hinder that is no reason for 
giving up our consciences. The Temperance 
Society gave offence to many, but that was 
unavoidable, and has not hindered the immense 
benefits of its operations. When, a few years 
since, some of the Middle States passed reso- 
lutions offering to concur in giving up the 
whole of the public lands for the purpose of 
purchasing the slaves from their bondage, 
was not the proposition generous and kind, 
and entitled to the thanks of the North ? 

C. It was silly perhaps, but certainly gen- 
erous ; and has been revived, in part, by the 
land-bill which the President lately vetoed. 

A. Well, what was the conduct of the 
Southern States ? They treated the project 
as an impertinence — an offensive intermed- 
dling in their affairs. Now it is plain that 
irritability so morbid deserves no considera- 
tion. There will be scolding ; but are we to 
be frightened because they make faces at us ? 
No reformation of conduct, or sentiment, ever 
was, or will be effected, without offence being 
given. The truth will, nevertheless, reach 
some hearts and produce its legitimate effect. 
The fact is that, already, some slaveholders 
have been convinced, and have been induced 
to emancipate their slaves. Emancipation by 
last wills, is also more frequent. In the pros- 
pect of death conscience has great power. To 



J32 



Dialogue helween a Colonizationist and an Abolition-lit. 



bring truth home to the conscience is, there- 
fore, an important and a practical object. 

C. These are, then, the modes in which 
the northern people can act practically in these 
matters. 

A. This is not all. The whole subject 
branches out into various considerations. But 
in discussing any and all of them, it is requi- 
site to get rid of the bug-bear of southern ir- 
ritation, and also to shake off the delusions of 
that timidity which dreads to look at the plain 
truth and to speak it. 

C. Suppose, then, I grant that the anger of 
the South ought not to be regarded, and that 
truth is at all times to be spoken, (notwith- 
standing the proverb,) then what fellows? 

A. Then as freemen, and Americans, and 
Christians, it is incumbent on us to look at our 
actual condition, and see in what degree we 
are accessaries to the crime of holding our 
fellow men in chains, and subjecting them to 
a cruel oppression. It is our duty to inquire 
what we can do lawfully, and not inconsis- 
tently with our political or moral obligations, to 
right this grievous wrong, or to mitigate its 
barbarity. It is our duty to see whether we 
are not doing more to aid an iniquitous op- 
pression, than our political relations require of 
us. These inquiries involve many questions 
of expediency in local as well as national leg- 
islation, which, if we are not ourselves in 
bondage, we have the same right to discuss, 
to suggest, or to present to the minds of oth- 
ers, as we have to discuss the tariff, the bank, 
or the charter of a rail-road company. 

C. I must say that these views are strange 
to me. Is not our condition merely that of a 
bystander ; and does not the Constitution for- 
bid our active interference ? 

A. By no means. When the Constitution 
was formed, a spirit of compromise prevailed, 
but whether it was carried too far I need not 
say. Let it stand, but if the bond gives to the 
slaveholders unreasonable advantages, (in 
the slave representation and other matters) let 
them make the best of their bargain, but not 
seek to exceed its terms. We have a right 
to say that Shylock shall have his pound of 
flesh, ' but not a drop of blood.' The northern 
people yielded much and enough to the ne- 
cessity of the crisis ; but they could not be in- 
duced to admit the word, slave or slavery into 
the Constitution. They agreed however that 
' persons held to labor or service ' escaping 
into another State should be 'delivered up on 



claim of the person to whom the service or 
labor may be due.' Well, this is the Consti- 
tution — but the southern people are said to de- 
sire much more than the bond, and shocking 
abuses, never contemplated as consequences 
of the concession, are told of, as practiced un- 
der this provision. Have we not a right to 
see whether it be really so ? In many of the 
States legislative enactments have been add- 
ed to facilitate the restoration of slaves to 
their chains. The claim, as a preliminary, is 
dispensed with. But these statutes were fair 
subjects of discussion; and being all liable to 
repeal or amendment, they are still perfectly 
legitimate subjects of our consideration. Now 
if the whole matter is exclusively of southern 
cognizance, we have no right to discuss the 
enactment or repeal of one of our own stat- 
utes ; and our legislature has only, like the 
old Parliament of France, to register the edicts 
of a master. 

C. I admit the propriety of discussing our 
own statutes. Indeed no one can doubt it. 

A. But our friends, the slaveholders, are 
afraid, if we discuss any thing that has the word 
slave or the word freedom in it. However, 
this is one only, of several such matters equal- 
ly within our proper cognizance. The Con- 
stitution also permitted Congress to prohibit 
the slave trade after 1808, or in terms, ' the 
migration or importation of such persons as 
the states shall think proper to admit.' Con- 
gress did accordingly prohibit the external 
slave trade, and the bill was surely a fair sub- 
ject of remark both during its pendency and 
after its passage, in all parts of the country. 
But the prohibition of the internal trade or 
' migration ' is equally before the whole nation 
as a question of expediency, — and any man 
or any Society has a perfect right to propose 
and recommend it. Shall it be said that we 
of the north have not the same right with 
those of the south, to discuss a question of na- 
tional expediency and constitutional law ? 
Why certainly our southern fellow citizens 
are bewildered when they say it. And our 
own neighbors are strangely misled when 
they give their assent to the adoption. 

C. That would, at all events, be a matter 
for Congress, and may as well be left there. 

A. But Congress represents the people of 
the north as well as the south, and the con- 
stituents have a certain right to discuss the 
conduct of their representatives, both as to 
what they have done, and what they have 



Dialogue between a Colonizationist and an .Abolitionist. 



133 



omitted to do. There is, therefore, perfect 
propriety in our discussing the subject of sla- 
very in all its aspects. But further : the Con- 
stitution also guarantees each state ' against 
domestic violence.' Now let us consider what 
was the undertaking at the time. Surely it 
is fair to argue that it was the tacit agreement 
that the slaveholding states should do all that 
humanity dictates, consistent with slave prop- 
erty, to ameliorate the condition of the ' persons 
held to labor : ' at least, that they should be 
treated as persons not as brutes. Well, but 
if it be true, that the slaves are far worse treat- 
ed than they were ; — that marriage is not al- 
lowed, — [the institution that so much distin- 
guishes man from beasts] — that instruction in 
religion is withheld — no protection to life af- 
forded — no restraint on cruelty provided ; — if, 
in short, the slaveholders do not perform their 
part of the contract, may we not question 
whether we are bound to comply with ours ? 
At all events, these circumstances or any oth- 
ers may fairly be urged as reasons for amend- 
ing the Constitution, by striking out those 
words which now bind us to support the slave- 
holder, in a more cruel treatment of his slaves 
than is permitted to slaveholders under the 
British, French^ Spanish or Portuguese gov- 
ernments. 

C. It will be difficult to prove the fact. I 
do not believe it. 

A. The question is, whether we have a 
right to inquire into the fact ; the slavehold- 
ers say we have no right to meddle with the 
subject, but I contend that our Constitution 
guarantees our right to amend it, of course to 
propose and discuss amendments, and there- 
fore to examine the facts that supply a motive 
for an amendment. 

C. An amendment of the Constitution is 
out of the question, against the will of the 
slaveholding states. 

A. Not entirely out of the question ; we 
ought not to suppose it. The presumption 
should be in their favor, that they would not 
all be opposed to it. But there is another con- 
sideration. Congress have the sole and abso- 
lute regulation of the District of Columbia. 
Our members have repeatedly had occasion to 
vote on resolutions introduced there, having 
in view the breaking up of the slave market, 
now kept open under the very shadow of the 
Capitol. In all questions upon which repre- 
sentatives vote, we, the constituents, have a 
right to enlighten and inform them. We have 



also a right to make our wishes known. Wc 
have therefore a full right to discuss the sub- 
ject of slavery as it exists at the seat of our 
national government. It is no question of ex- 
clusively southern cognizance. It is of na- 
tional cognizance ; and we are just as respon- 
sible for the continuance of slavery at the seat 
of government, and for the abuses and cruelties 
that attend it, (which are shocking,) as the 
southern people are. In what one point 
of view, therefore, can the subject of slavery 
and its evils be said to belong exclusively 
to the south ? 

C. In respect to immediate emancipation. 
You grant that we cannot effect it by persua- 
sion. And also in regard to the treatment of 
the slaves. 

A. But in pursuing the object by persua- 
sion, we have a right to say that if they will 
not shew any intention to emancipate or to 
improve the condition of the slaves, we will do 
our best to eradicate slavery from the District 
of Columbia — and from Florida — which may 
be done without persuasion ; and that we will 
not facilitate the restoration of fugitives be- 
yond the letter of the Constitution ; — and that 
we will not hold ourselves bound to assist in 
quelling domestic violence which they have 
provoked by needless severity. And we may 
and we ought to continue the cry of 'shame — 
shame ' upon them, until they render their 
slave-code at least equal injustice and mercy 
to that of despotic Portugal or Spain. But 
there is still another matter that is, beyond all 
doubt, within our own domestic notice. The 
influence of slavery is such that our own peo- 
ple are infected, and there is danger of our 
returning to the slave trade again. In Illinois 
the project has been very seriously entertain- 
ed of introducing slavery. In Connecticut the 
legislature has prohibited, under penalties, the 
giving instruction to colored persons. Whence 
comes the impetus for this retrograde move- 
ment ? How is it that Connecticut has been 
disgraced by a statute making the communi- 
cation of knowledge a penal offence ? How 
must public sentiment be vitiated when it can 
bear such an outrage on humanity ! It is a 
crime in Cpnnecticut to cultivate human intel- 
lect, and pour moral instruction into an im- 
mortal soul ! There is no difficulty in saying 
how this comes. The notion has been broad- 
ly asserted in the south and has been imbibed 
here, that colored men are not ' persons held 
to labor,' but brute animals, creatures below 



134 



The Pica of Justice. 



humanity. The quietists of our land — those 
who exclaim against our Society, and cry 
'peace, peace, when there is no peace ' — con- 
nive at this monstrous doctrine and encourage 
it by their passiveness. It is time for these 
Christians, patriots and friends of humanity to 

wake up and 

C. Ah! you are making an oration now ; 
— I '11 hear no more. [And he went off with- 
out giving A. a chance to finish his sentence.] 



THE PLEA OF JUSTICE. 

[Concluded from our last.] 

From the absolute right of the slaves to 
their liberty, the absolute obligation of mas- 
ters individually to liberate them has been 
inferred, and equally absolute is the obliga- 
tion upon slave-holding states, to render equal 
justice to all, to restore those rights which 
have been invaded, and to protect blacks as 
well as whites in the free exercise of every 
right. Nor can any view of the interests or 
supposed rights of the masters be a just cause 
for continuing to violate the rights of the 
slaves. Perhaps those governments which 
have sanctioned slavery may be thought to 
owe some compensation, when in rendering 
justice to one class of persons, it takes from 
another class what its own laws have regard- 
ed as their property ; but there can be no 
pretence of justice in satisfying the masters 
at the expense of the slaves. The claim of 
the masters agair.st the government, if they 
have any claim, is such as one partner in a 
robbery would have against another who, re- 
covering his sense of honesty, should insist 
«pon restoring their booty. Whatever en- 
gagements they may have entered into with 
each other, the whole transaction being found- 
ed in iniquity, it might be a difficult matter for 
equity to decide in what way these en- 
gagements should be fulfilled, or the compen- 
sation which the repentant partner would owe 
to the other ; but leaving that question to be set- 
tled between themselves, his obligation not to 
keep the purloined property from the right own- 
er, is in the mean time indisputable, and no way 
connected with the decision of the other point. 

But the grand objection to restoring the 
slaves at once to the exercise of their rights, 
and certainly the most plausible, is the sup- 
posed danger of such a measure. It would 
be madness, it is said, to let loose upon soci- 
ety such a multitude of ignorant and irriated 
beings who would be intoxicated by the lib- 
erty to which they are unaccustomed, and 
would be withheld by no principle from any 
outrage to which their passions or necessities 
might incite them. To retain them in their 
present condition is wickedness and madness 
both. Is there not danger now ? What is it 
that is the chief source of danger to the 
whites, but the hostile feeling naturally ex- 



cited by oppression ? Were they to cease 
from this oppression, and ' let the oppressed 
go free,' would not the disposition to commit 
violence and injury be from that moment di- 
minished in a far greater degree than the 
power to do it would b" increased ? Could 
the danger from the freed blacks be greater, 
than the danger which actually exists, from 
the oppressed and enslaved blacks? Could 
any evils resulting from the most uncondition- 
al emancipation, made without a single pre- 
caution, be far greater than the actual evils of 
the present most lamentable state ot things, 
most lamentable considered in relation to the 
whites alone, including as it does, constant 
suspicion, constant fear of insurrection, inju- 
ry to their own moral and intellectual charac- 
ter, and the gradual debasement of their mor- 
al sense — and in prospect, the growth and in- 
crease of all these evils, until interrupted by 
some tremendous revolution. Must not a 
slaveholder tremble at the very sound of the 
words freedom, right, or justice, lest they fall 
upon the ear, and kindle a flame in the mind 
of some one of those who are debarred from 
freedom, whose rights are violated, and whom 
justice does not protect ? What evils are 
likely to result from emancipation greater 
than these? Though no longer slaves, would 
not the blacks still continue in the condition 
of laborers ? What else could they do ? 
They have no lands, no possessions, and 
must procure subsistence in some mode. Ig- 
norant as they may be, they are not ignorant 
that there are laws for the protection of prop- 
erty, and against robbery and other crimes, 
and that there is power to enforce these laws. 
Nor would the laws have lost their power, 
nor could there be any hinderance to making 
new laws, and taking every measure of vigi- 
lance and precaution adapted to the emergen- 
cy when this great act of justice was about 
to be accomplished. 

But suppose that the danger from emanci- 
pation is all that it has been represented to 
be. Yet the enslaved persons have a right to 
their freedom. What is to be done ? Does 
the fear of possible consequences to ourselves 
render it lawful for us to inflict, certain and 
enormous injuries on others ? Does our fear 
or our danger destroy their rights ? or absolve 
us from guilt if we violate those rights ? Be- 
cause a man has inflicted one outrage upon 
his neighbor, does he acquire a right to re- 
peat it, that he may deprive him of the power 
of expressing his resentment? It is only 
wrong doing that can bring men into such 
perplexity, that no course of conduct seems 
open to them which is not fraught with dan- 
ger. A continuance in crime will only in- 
volve them deeper, but will never bring them 
out of it. No, when they awake to a sense 
of their situation, let them manfully resolve 
to act right, whatever may be the consequen- 
ces. The simple rule of right will guide 



The Plea of Justice. 



135 



them out of the labyrinth, but no calculation 
of consequences ever will. 

A gradual emancipation is thought by some 
persons to be the just and happy medium, the 
measure which provides at once for the safe- 
ty of the community, the rights of the slaves, 
the interests of the masters, and the final cure 
of the dreadful evil of slavery. If we might 
admit for a moment the rectitude of thus de- 
laying justice, the rectitude of thus making 
reparation for grievous wrong gradually, yet 
at least the duty is absolute and undeniable, 
if not of emancipating immediately, yet of do- 
ing something immediately, of taking some 
measures now which shall lead to emancipa- 
tion. Every moment's needless delay is ad- 
ding to the amount of crime. But may we 
adieit the rectitude of this principle ? To 
provide for the emancipation of all born after 
a certain time is making no reparation to the 
present generation for their wrongs. To re- 
store him to his natural rights at some future 
time will be no compensation to any individ- 
ual for the time during which he has been 
debarred their exercise. It would be infinite- 
ly better than doing nothing, but it would not 
be all which justice requires. ' Personal free- 
dom,' it was said by Charles Fox, 'was the 
first right of every human being. It was a 
right of which he who deprived a fellow crea- 
ture, was absolutely criminal in so depriving 
him, and which he who withheld was no less 
criminal in withholding'.' If there is danger, 
use precaution, but why is it that the only 
measure of safety thought of is the continu- 
ance of injustice, continuing to withhold this 
most sacred right from our fellow creatures. 
Let every one be vigilant for his own safety, 
but no "longer violate the rights of others 
through the cowardly fear that by ceasing to 
do so, he should give them power to injure 
him. 

But the present generation of slaves, it is 
said, doubtless too truly, are ignorant and de- 
graded, utterly unfit for freedom, and many 
of them incapable of taking care of them- 
selves. It is the danger to themselves as 
well as to their masters, that would make the 
emancipation of these poor creatures wrong. 
With respect to themselves, it is said, that it 
would be like leaving so many children to 
their own discretion and guidance. It would 
be neither just nor humane, it is said, sudden- 
ly to withdraw protection and support from 
those who have been too long dependant on 
it to be able to do without it. All this is ad- 
mitted. But whence arises this degradation 
and imbecility ? From the condition of sla- 
very, in which their lives have been passed. 
It is this very circumstance which imposes an, 
obligation of justice as well as of benevolence 
to take care of them, since it is the wrongs 
they have received which have incapacitated 
them from taking care of themselves. They 
who have done the wrong, or in any way par- 



ticipated in doing it, are bound to do what 
they can to repair it. Simply to restore their 
freedom does not repair it. Surely it would 
be a very strange conclusion from this, that 
therefore even freedom may be withheld, and 
these injured people retained in the very con- 
dition which has reduced them to such deplor- 
able imbecility. A more reasonable conclu- 
sion is, that something more not less than free- 
dom is their due. What this more is, may 
briefly be stated to be, whatever will tend to 
elevate their moral and intellectual char- 
acter, and render them soonest capable of 
providing for their own maintenance and com- 
fort, and, in the mean time, maintenance and 
comfort provided for the old and helpless, 
such guidance and assistance to the rest as 
will not by continuing their habits of depend- 
ance be injurious rather than beneficial — 
whatever, in short, will tend soonest and most 
effectually to counteract the ill effects of their 
past condition, and repair the injury which 
has been done them. This includes, of course, 
and most especially, education for all who are 
young enough to be capable of it. 

The principle, that, freedom alone is not all 
which is owing to the slaves, has been admit- 
ted and acted upon by some individuals. — 
Among the Quakers, who were among the 
first in regard to slavery, as on other points, 
to adopt Christian principles, some persons 
not only liberated their slaves, although pen- 
alties were annexed to manumission, but cal- 
culated and paid them a sum of money as due 
for wages during the time of their slavery. - 

The rights of the slaves form the main 
ground and argument for emancipating them. 
And let it never be forgotten what rights those 
are, not mere abstract rights to some trifling 
privileges, scarcely missed, if lost, though 
even such would be sacred — but the dearest 
and most valuable which belong to our com- 
mon nature, rights to the most precious bless- 
ings of which one human being can deprive 
another. Can we conceive of any infringe- 
ment of our rights which would excite in us 
greater indignation than to have some power- 
ful tyrant assume to control us in every ac- 
tion, to say what we shall do, and where we 
shall go, and compel us to submit in all things 
to his will and pleasure ? Would not the in- 
jury be immeasurably greater, and our indig- 
nation greater than if fraud or violence de- 
prived us of our property ? Such a wrong as 
this includes all wrongs. What property is 
more a man's own than the produce of his 
own labor? But the slave is compelled to 
labor, and then the profits of his toil enrich an- 
other and not himself. There are more pre- 
cious things than property ? His children are 
not under his control or protection — another 
may inflict on them the most unreasonable 
punishment, and the parent must look on in 
silence — at the will of another, they may be 
sent from him, where he will neither see nor 



136 



The Plea of Justice. 



hear from them more. If he does not always 
feel these things with the keenness which 
more favored parents would suppose they 
must necessarily produce, is it not because 
his enslaved condition has precluded or de- 
stroyed the affections naturally belonging- to 
the relation of parent and child, and is not this 
as great a wrong as any ? From all moral 
and intellectual improvement, from all the 
highest moral and intellectual pleasures he is 
debarred. We are sometimes told of the hap- 
piness of slaves, but what kind of happiness is 
it? 'Nothing,' says Edmund Burke, 'can 
make a happy slave, but a degraded man.' It 
is his degradation which is the greatest wrong 
of all. What, indeed, is left to the slave, but 
barely the right to breathe and exist ? If 
more is granted to him, it is granted as a fa- 
vor, not acknowledged as a right. 

The bare assumption of such an unrighteous 
dominion over human beings, however lenient- 
ly exercised, should excite our indignation, 
as it would do were the case our own. Jus- 
tice would make it the imperative duty of mas- 
ters to restore freedom to their slaves, though 
the loss of freedom were a slight evil. But 
spme consideration of the degree and nature 
of the wrong, of the misery and degradation 
produced, may be necessary to excite in oth- 
ers any sympathy for the wronged, and any 
apprehension that they have duties in relation 
to them. One man may injure another to 
some trifling extent, and his neighbor not feel 
very loudly called upon to exert himself for 
his assistance. But when the injury is great- 
er, when the sufferer is in danger of losing 
his all, when his happiness begins to be deep- 
ly affected, then the neighbor is called upon 
by every principle of humanity to come for- 
ward in his behalf, to do all he can to obtain 
him redress. Nor will the kind and sympa- 
thizing neighbor be hasty in deciding that 
nothing can be done. If he can do nothing 
by direct interference, if there is no opening 
for an appeal to the laws, at least he will raise 
his voice against injustice, at least he will try 
all that persuasion, or argument, or influence 
can do to restrain the injurious party. Can 
any man see a fellow creature oppressed, and 
innocently withhold the assistance that he has 
it in his power to give ? Nor ought the fear 
of irritating the oppressor to prevent, while at 
the same time all unnecessary irritation should 
be most studiously avoided, not from policy, but 
from a spirit of candor and benevolence, es- 
pecially if there is reason to believe that he 
is not aware of the wrong he is doing. Can- 
dor requires us to remember that they who 
hold their fellow creatures in slavery may 
perhaps honestly believe that they have a right 
to do so. The deed itself is most iniquitous, 
the only justification for its perpetrators is 
their unconsciousness of its criminality. If 
unavoidable prejudice blinds them, they are 
guiltless. Not so with those who perceive in 



all its horrors the enormity of the injustice, 
the magnitude of the evil, and yet make no 
effort to free their fellow creatures from op- 
pression, their country from guilt, and them- 
selves from a passive participation in it ; no 
effort to arouse the slumbering consciences, 
and remove the film from the blinded under- 
standings of the oppressors. 

The consolatory supposition that the great 
body of the holders of slaves, or at least very 
many of them, are not aware of the wrong 
they are doing, is a ground of encouragement 
for those who believe slaveholding to be es- 
sentially criminal to hope for some good by 
setting forth their own views clearly and for- 
cibly. Good men, who keep slaves because 
they have never doubted the innocence of 
so doing, will cease to do so if they can be 
convinced that it is criminal, and they will 
not shut their minds against conviction. Of 
course, argument and remonstrance are of 
little use when addressed to those who with 
their eyes open give a preference to what 
they esteem to be their worldly interest over 
all considerations of virtue and justice. It 
has been asserted that no masters are so cruel 
and oppressive towards their slaves as those 
persons who remove from places where slav- 
ery is not allowed, and become slaveholders. 
If true, the reason for this is obvious, that no 
person brought up in the belief that to hold 
men in slavery is contrary to justice could be- 
come a slaveholder himself, unless he were 
very little under restraint from moral princi- 
ple of any kind. Such as these are not the 
persons, on whom the opposers of slavery can 
hope to make any impression by urging the 
claims of justice and humanity. But among 
slaveholders of an opposite character they 
may hope to find, or soon to make, willing co- 
operators. 

It is a somewhat remarkable fact that among 
the people of the United States when slavery 
is spoken of, even by those who consider it as 
an evil, it is the situation of the masters, not 
of the slaves, which most frequently calls forth 
the tone of commiseration. It is indeed true, 
that sin is a greater evil than suffering, and 
yet in most cases it is the oppressed and not 
the oppressor who receives sympathy. Slav- 
ery may be a greater evil to the masters than 
to the slaves, but it is to be feared that they 
who express this opinion, do not always do it 
exactly in the spirit in which Cowper said, 

' I would much rather be myself the slave, 
And wear the chains, than fasten them on him.' 

Perhaps'the best account of this matter is, that 
all the states are influenced by a similar feel- 
ing to that which prompts the different mem- 
bers of a family to pity and excuse the faults 
of one, and to feel as if their own honor were 
in some measure indentified with his. Per- 
haps also there is the feeling that they are in 
some degree sharers in the guilt. 



Three Months in Jamaica. 



137 



In seeking excuses for the slaveholder, let 
us beware of obscuring the truth to our own 
minds, let us not dwell upon the arguments by 
which he justifies slavery, till we suffer them 
to influence us. and begin to imagine that they 
are of some real weight. Let us not look at 
the subject from the position from which he 
looks at it, so habitually as to forget that this 
is not the only position, nor the one most fa- 
vorable for a correct view. And, again, let 
us beware that we do not so express ourselves 
in speaking of the extenuations which there 
certainly are for his conduct, as to convey 
the impression that we consider the conduct 
itself to be almost, if not quite, justifiable. 
There are but two excuses for wrong doing, 
into which all others must resolve themselves, 
namely ignorance and the strength of temp- 
tation. The charitable excuser may set these 
forth in such a manner as to become to all in- 
tents and purposes the advocate of crime, as 
if either of these circumstances altered the 
intrinsic nature of right and wrong. If we 
cannot do any positive good in this great cause, 
let us at least take care to do no harm, let us 
not lend the weight of our influence, be it 
much, or be it little, to strengthen those erro- 
neous views by which slavery is upheld. Let 
us not, even by a casual expression, assist in 
lowering the standard of morality which is 
applied to this subject. Finally, let us beware 
lest there mingle with a desire to be candid to 
the slaveholders a willingness to excuse our 
own apathy and inaction, our own want of 
moral courage to adopt the obnoxious part of 
opposition to a long established abuse which 
is upheld by the prejudices and the interests 
of numbers. C. J. T. 



THREE MONTHS IN JAMAICA. 

We add some further extracts from this 
tract, which we had not room for in our last 
number. 

'On reaching the estate, [called New 
Ground,] I was received in the most friendly 
manner by the overseer, and entertained with 
West Indian hospitality. This gentleman, 
after some inquiries as to the state of things 
in England, began to enlarge on the comfort- 
able condition of the slaves ; and, pointing- to 
some negro coopers who were working in the 
yard, asked if I could perceive any difference 
between the condition of these slaves and that 
of English laborers. I owned I could not: 
they seemed to work with great regularity and 
apparent good humor. 

Immediately afterwards the overseer called 
out, in a very authoritative tone, ' Blow shell.' 
A large conch shell was then blown by one 
of the domestic slaves, and in a few minutes 
four negro drivers made their appearance in 
front of the house, accompanied by six com- 
mon negroes. The drivers had each a long 
staff in his hand, and a large cart-whip eoiled 

VOL. I. 



round his shoulders. They appeared to be 
very stout athletic men. They stood before 
the hall door, and the overseer put on his hat 
and went out to them, while I sat at the open 
window and observed the scene which follow- 
ed, — having been informed that the other six 
negroes were to be punished. 

When the overseer went out, the four dri- 
vers gave him an account, on notched tallies, 
of their half day's work, and received fresh 
orders. The overseer then asked a few ques- 
tions of the drivers respecting the offences of 
the six slaves brought up for punishment. No 
question was asked of the culprits themselves, 
nor was any explanation waited for. Sentence 
was instantly pronounced, and instantly car- 
ried into execution. 

The first was a man of about thirty-five 
years of age. He was what is called a pen- 
keeper, or cattle herd ; and his offence was 
having suffered a mule to go astray. At the 
command of the overseer he proceeded to strip 
off part of his clothes, and laid himself flat on 
his belly, his back and buttocks being uncov- 
ered. One of the drivers then commenced 
flogging him with the cart-whip. This whip 
is about ten feet long, with a short stout han- 
dle, and is an instrument of terrible power. It 
is whirled by the operator round his head, and 
then brought down with a rapid motion of the 
arm upon the recumbent victim, causing the 
blood to spring at every stroke. When I saw 
this spectacle, now for the first time exhibited 
before my eyes, with all its revolting accom- 
paniments, and saw the degraded and mangled 
victim writhing and groaning under the inflic- 
tion, I felt horror-struck. I trembled, and 
turned sick : but being determined to see the 
whole to an end, I kept my station at the win- 
dow. The sufferer, writhing like a wounded 
worm, every time the lash cut across his body, 
cried out, ' Lord ! Lord ! Lord ! ' When he 
had received about twenty lashes, the driver 
stopped to pull up the poor man's shirt (or 
rather smock frock,) which had worked down 
upon his galled posteriors. The sufferer then 
cried, ' Think me no man ? think me no man ? ' 
By that exclamation I understood him to say 
' Think you I have not the feelings of a man ? ' 
The flogging was instantly recommenced and 
continued ; the negro continuing to cry ' Lord ! 
Lord ! Lord ! ' till thirty-nine lashes had been 
inflicted. When the man rose up from the 
ground, I perceived the blood oozing out from 
the lacerated and tumefied parts where he 
had been flogged ; and he appeared greatly 
exhausted. But he was instantly ordered off 
to his usual occupation. 

The next was a young man apparently about 
eighteen or nineteen years of age. He was 
forced to uncover himself and lie down in the 
same mode as the former, and was held down 
by the hands and feet by four slaves, one of 
whom was a young man who was himself to 
be flogged next. This latter was a mulatto. 
18 



138 



Three Months in Jamaica. 



— the offspring, as I understood, of some Eu- 
ropean formerly on the estate by a negro 
woman, and consequently born to slavery. 
These two youths were flogged exactly in the 
mode already described, and writhed and 
groaned under the lash, as if enduring great 
agony. The mulatto bled most, and appeared 
to suffer most acutely. They received each 
thirty-nine lashes. Their offence was some 
deficiency in the performance of the task pre- 
scribed to them. They were both ordered to 
join their gang as usual in the afternoon at 
cane-cutt;ng. 

Two young women of about the same age 
were, one after the other, then laid down and 
held by four men, their back parts most inde- 
cently uncovered, and thirty-nine lashes of 
the blood-stained whip inflicted upon each 
poor creature's posteriors. Their exclamation 
likewise was 'Lord! Lord! Lord!' They 
seemed also to suffer acutely, and were ap- 
parently a good deal lacerated. Another 
woman (the sixth offender) was also laid down 
and uncovered for the lash ; but at the inter- 
cession of one of the drivers she was repriev- 
ed. The offence of these three women was 
similar to that of the two young men — some 
defalcation in the amount of labor. 

The overseer stood by and witnessed the 
whole of this cruel operation, with as much 
seeming indifference as if he had been paying 
them their wages. I was meanwhile perfect- 
ly unmanned by mingled horror and pity. Yet 
I have no reason to believe that the natural 
feelings of this young man (whose age did not 
exceed twenty-four years) were less humane 
or sensitive than my own. But such is the 
callousness which constant familiarity with 
scenes of cruelty engenders. He had been a 
book-keeper, for four years previously, on 
another estate belonging to the same proprie- 
tors, and had been appointed overseer on this 
estate only a few months before. His recep- 
tion of me when I arrived was so kind, frank, 
and cordial, that I could not have believed 
him, had I not seen it with my own eyes, to 
be capable of inflicting such cruelty on a fel- 
low-creature. 

As soon as this scene was over, the over- 
seer came into the hall, and asked me to drink 
some rum and water with him. I told him I 
was sick, and could taste nothing : that I was 
in fact overwhelmed with horror at the scene 
I had just witnessed. He said it was not a 
pleasant duty certainly, but it was an indis- 
pensable one ; and that I would soon get used, 
as others did, to such spectacles. I asked if 
he found it necessary to inflict such punish- 
ments frequently. He replied it was uncer- 
tain ; ' 1 may not,' he said, ' have to do it again 
this month, or I may have to do it to-morrow.' 

'In week-days the negroes always went to 
their work before daylight in the morning ; on 
an average about five o'clock or a quarter 
past five. They left off after dusk, or from a 



quarter to half past six in the evening. They 
had half an hour for breakfast, and sometimes 
an hour for dinner, but generally not a full 
hour. During crop, which was proceeding 
while I was there, they worked in spells the 
whole of every alternate night; that is to say, 
the spell that commenced on Monday morning 
got no sleep till Tuesday night, working all 
day in the field and all night in the boiling- 
house. 

The sufferings of the slaves from this hard 
and continuous labor, and from the continual 
floggings of the drivers to exact it, are severe 
beyond description. When they are digging 
cane holes, they generally work all in a row ; 
and it frequently happens that the strong ne- 
groes outstrip the weaker ones. Then it is 
that the drivers ( who stand in front of the 
gang in holeing, but behind in cane-cutting,) 
march up to those who have fallen back in 
their work, and flog them on to further exer- 
tion ; the drivers being themselves liable to be 
flogged, if the prescribed work is not duly ex- 
ecuted by their gang. I have seen the drivers 
put down slaves in the field and inflict at their 
own discretion, from six to twelve lashes with 
the cart-whip. I have seen them order fe- 
males to stand at a convenient distance, and 
flog them as long as they saw fit. I have fre- 
quently seen the boatswain (as the driver at 
the boiling house is called) flog old and young, 
male and female, in this manner. One night 
I saw this driver flog a female slave very se- 
verely, and one blow which struck her in the 
face caused her to scream out violently. 
Upon enquiry I found that this woman had 
a child in the hot-house (or hospital), and she 
had ventured to leave her work a little earlier 
than usual to see her child. For this she re- 
ceived the punishment. On another occasion,. 
I saw this boatswain put down a very hand- 
some brown girl, and give her ten lashes. 
The overseer was with me at the time, and 
looked on, without making any remark. Anoth- 
er time I saw the head driver, a very powerful 
man, give a tremendous cut with the cart- 
whip to a female about fifty years of age, who 
was cuttting canes with the great gang. The 
overseer and one of the book-keepers were 
standing by with me, but neither took the 
least notice. In fact these floggings were ta- 
king place incessantly upon the working ne- 
groes ; insomuch that I came to this conclu- 
sion, after some observation, — that the slaves 
suffered more in the aggregate from the dri- 
ving in the field than from the severer regular 
punishments inflicted by order of the overseer 
and book-keepers. The drivers invariably 
flog negroes severely who happen to be too 
late in coming out in the morning ; and it fre- 
quently happens, that when they oversleep 
their time, the negroes, for fear of punishment, 
run away for days or weeks from the estate. 
When they do return, as they generally do 
after a short space, it is with the certainty of 



Slavei-y in the District of Columbia. 



139 



encountering a tremendous flogging from the 
overseer and being condemned to sleep every 
night in the stocks for weeks running. I have 
frequently seen six or seven of these runa- 
ways turned out of the stocks in a morning, ta- 
ken to the field to cut canes, and then brought 
hack at night to be again locked in the stocks. 
The fear of punishment, I was was told, was 
the ordinary cause of their becoming runa- 
ways.' 

' On conversing with Mr. M'Lean, (as I fre- 
quently did when I first went to New Ground) 
respecting the extreme severity of the system 
pursued on that estate, he assured me that he 
was far from being a harder task-master than 
other overseers on sugar plantations ; and to 
convince me of this he told me of 'severities' 
(or rather atrocities) exercised on other es- 
tates in the same parish, far beyond any which 
I witnessed on New Ground. I also heard of 
extraordinary instances of cruelty from oth- 
ers ; and I was told, by a resident in St. An- 
drew's parish, that the floggings there were 
more severe than in St. Ann's ; switches of 
the prickly ebony being frequently used after 
the cart-whip. But I shall not attempt to de- 
tail what I learned only by hearsay, although 
on the evidence of persons implicated in sup- 
porting the system. I can only vouch, of 
course, for what I myself witnessed ; and that 
most assuredly I have rather softened than 
exaggerated. 

The open and avowed licentiousness of the 
plantation whites disgusted me almost as 
much as the cruelty of the system. At New 
Ground, the overseer, book-keepers, and head 
carpenter, all lived in the habitual practice of 
gross and unblushing profligacy. The tre- 
mendous moral tyranny that may be, "and un- 
questionably often is, exercised in the uncon- 
trolled indulgence of this brutalizing vice, is 
as obvious as it is appalling. One of the 
book-keepers voluntarily mentioned to me, 
that he had had twelve 'negro wives ' within 
six months. I saw another of the whites on 
this estate give his ' housekeeper' (concubine,) 
a cruel beating with a supplejack while she 
was in a state of pregnancy, and for a very 
trifling fault. For refusing to degrade myself 
by complying with ' the custom of the coun- 
try,' as it was lightly termed, in this point, I 
was looked upon, as I soon perceived, with 
mingled contempt and suspicion by the plan- 
tation whites generally.' 



SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

The abolition of the slave-trade and slavery 
in this District ought to be constantly kept in 
mind by all the friends of the colored race. 
In this object thousands will unite who are 
opposed to Anti-Slavery Societies. Few men, 
we believe can be found at the north, who do 
not regard the toleration of slavery at the seat 



of our national government as disgraceful to 
the country ; and, even at the South, many 
persons who are not prepared to exert them- 
selves to put down this system in their own 
States, will readily admit that no just cause 
exists for perpetuating it in the District of 
Columbia. Nothing, we are confident, is ne- 
cessary, in order to abolish the national sin 
and shame, but resolution and activity in the 
friends of the measure. If all who really have 
this cause at heart would but put their names 
to petitions to Congress in favor of the object, 
they would be astonished at their own num- 
bers, and Congress would not dare refuse to 
perform a great work of justice and humanity, 
which was demanded by the great mass of the 
people. 

The following is a petition which is now 
circulating in this vicinity. It has already 
received numerous and respectable signa- 
tures. 

To the Honorable Senate and House of Rep- 
resentatives of the United States of America 
in Congress assembled, the petition of the 
undersigned, citizens of the United States, 
respectfully represents — 

That your petitioners are deeply impressed 
with the evils arising from the existence of 
Slavery in the District of Columbia. The 
Constitution of the United States provides that 
Congress shall have power, ' to exercise ex- 
clusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, 
over such district, (not exceeding ten miles 
square,) as may, by the cession of particular 
States, and the acceptance of Congress, be- 
come the seat of government of the United 
States.' In pursuance of this provision, the 
States of Maryland and Virginia respectively 
ceded portions of their territories, which being 
accepted by Congress, now compose the Dis- 
trict of Columbia. By the plain words of the 
constitution Congress has the power to abolish 
slavery in this District, and no other body can 
legislate on the subject. 

While our Declaration of Independence 
boldly proclaims as self-evident truths, 'that 
all men are created equal, that they are en- 
dowed by their Creator with certain inalien- 
able rights, that among these are life, liberty, 
and the pursuit of happiness ; ' at the very 
seat of government human beings are born 
almost daily, whom the laws pronounce to be 
from their birth not equal to other men, and 
who are for life, deprived of liberty and the 
free pursuit of happiness. 

In addition to the other evils flowing from 
slavery, both moral and political, which it is 
needless to specify, circumstances have ren- 
dered this District a great market for traders 
in human flesh. The unhappy victims of this 



140 



The Black Laic of Connecticut. 



traffic, are brought into this District in chains, 
and then lodged in private jails and other 
places of confinement, from whence they are 
carried to the markets of the south and west. 

The toleration of slavery and the slave 
trade at the seat of Government, not only pro- 
duces the most cruel sufferings to those who 
are legally slaves, but also frequently leads to 
the enslaving of free people of color, citizens 
of the United States, some of whom are kid- 
napped by violence, and others of whom are 
reduced to hopeless bondage under the forms 
of law. 

From the small number of slaves in the 
District of Columbia, and the moderate pro- 
portion which they bear to the free population 
there, the difficulties which in most of the 
slaveholding States, oppose the restoration of 
this degraded class of men to their natural 
rights, do not exist in this place. Your pe- 
titioners, therefore, pray that Congress will, 
without delay, enact laws for the abolition of 
slavery in the District of Columbia, and for 
preventing the bringing of slaves into that 
District for the purpose of traffic, in such mode 
as may be thought advisable, and, whatever 
measures may be adopted, will also make 
suitable provision for the education of all 
free black and colored children in the District, 
thus to preserve them from continuing even 
as free men, an unenlightened and degraded 
caste.' 

We earnestly entreat all persons who wish 
slavery in the District to be abolished, to ex- 
ert themselves in preparing petitions for this 
object to be presented at the next session of 
Congress. Even if the measure should then 
fail, they will have the satisfaction of having 
done their duty, and having assisted, in some 
degree, to effect a great moral reform which 
must sooner or later be accomplished. 



THE BLACK LAW OF CONNECTICUT. 

We neglected in our last to mention that 
Miss Crandall for a violation of this nefarious 
statute, in continuing to instruct colored chil- 
dren, had been arrested, and carried before a 
justice of the peace, by whom she was com- 
mitted to jail to take her trial at the ensuing 
court. We are informed that she was confined 
in the same room which was occupied by the 
murderer Watkins during the last days of his 
life. In this 'opprobrious den of shame,' how- 
ever, she only remained one day, her friends 
finding bail for her on the day after she was 
committed. 

We are glad to perceive that the persecu- 
tion of this high minded and devoted philan- 
thropist, has excited a burst of indignation 
from many of the northern editors. And we 



acknowledge with pleasure, that even some 
thorough colonizationists have exhibited the 
manly and honorable feeling which the brutal 
persecution of this benevolent lady was well 
calculated to rouse. 

Deeply as we regret the indignities to which 
Miss Crandall has been exposed, we doubt not 
that they will advance the great cause of hu- 
man rights. If we are not mistaken, the 
violent measures of her unchristian persecu- 
tors will open the eyes of many men to then- 
own prejudices against people of color ; — make 
them ashamed of their past injustice, — and 
anxious to make amends for it by kindness to 
the victims of their former dislike. 

Since the above was written Miss Crandall 
has been tried, for the offence of instructing 
colored children, inhabitants of places out of 
Connecticut. Miss Crandall was defended 
by Messrs. Ellsworth and Strong, distinguish- 
ed members of the Connecticut Bar. 

The ground of defence was that the color- 
ed children in Miss Crandall's school were 
citizens of other States, and were, therefore, 
entitled to the protection of the provision of 
the Constitution of the United States, which 
provides that 'the citizens of each State shall 
be entitled to all the privileges and immuni- 
ties of citizens in the several States ;' — that 
in order to their protection it was necessary 
that the law should be considered unconstitu- 
tional in its application to Miss Crandall, as 
long as she instructed none but citizens of the 
United States. These positions were sup- 
ported in speeches of great ability. On be- 
half of the government Messrs. Judson (the 
Canterbury agitator) and Welsh argued that 
colored persons were not citizens within 
the meaning of the Constitution. 

The counsel for the defendant informed the 
jury that they were judges of the law as well 
as of the facts in the case, and were not bound 
by the instructions of the court in regard to 
the law. This position was not disputed on 
the other side, but the danger of juries setting 
up their own views of law in opposition to 
those of the judges was strongly urged. 

The court instructed the jury that the law 
was constitutional. 

The jury could not agree in a verdict, and, 
after having been twice sent out, without 
agreeing, were discharged. 

It was understood that five of the jury were 
for acquitting, and seven for convicting, the 
defendant 



Gunpowder. — A bid for a Freeman of Massachusetts. 



141 



The trial produced an intense interest in 
Brooklyn where it was tried and the vicinity. 
The arguments of the defendant's counsel pro- 
duced a deep and powerful impression. It 
cannot be doubted that this trial will do much 
in promoting 1 a correct state of public senti- 
ment. We have reason to believe that a full 
and correct report of the trial will speedily be 
published. 

The firmness of the five jurymen who dared 
to oppose an unconstitutional law, though 
supported by the weight of the bench, is high- 
ly honorable to them. It shows that there is 
a large proportion of the people in Connecti- 
cut who still retain a respect for the rights of 
the colored people, and have courage to op- 
pose arbitrary power. 



GUNPOWDER. 

In the town of Europolis lived a gentleman 
of the name Orgilus. He was in many respects 
a good citizen. But he caused great alarm 
and anxiety to his fellow townsmen by keep- 
ing a dozen barrels of gunpowder very care- 
lessly stowed in his cellar. His neighbors of- 
ten expostulated with him upon the folly and 
criminality of endangering his and their lives 
by leaving so explosive an article, in such an 
exposed situation. Their remonstrances ev- 
ery day increased in loudness and frequency. 
At first he had listened to them with patient 
civility. But at last, he usually grew sulky 
and indignant, if any remarks were made in 
his hearing upon the delicate subject of his 
powder. The following is a conversation that 
took place between him and the occupant of a 
house adjoining his, when he was in one of 
his most sullen fits. 

Eumenes. Friend Orgilus, why will you 
persist in keeping such a quantity of gunpow- 
der in your cellar. You cannot imagine how 
much uneasiness it causes in my family. 

Org. Your family forsooth. It is no busi- 
ness to you or your family. Have I not a right 
to do what I please in my own house. Sup- 
pose the powder should blow up, my house be 
destroyed, and I killed, whose business is it ? 
Whosesoever it may be, it is none of yours. 

Eum. But, my friend, if your poAvder 
should take fire, I and my wife, and children, 
and others of your neighbors might be kill- 
ed or maimed. The peril to which your 
negligence exposes us, gives us a right to ex- 
postulate. 



Org. I cannot prevent your talking, but 
you surely ought to consider that I am fully 
aware of my danger, — and that the powder is 
a constant source of uneasiness to me. I am 
living every day over a mine, and yet you 
choose to increase the horrors of my situation 
by descanting upon them. - 

Eu. You do not mean surely to say that 
your real danger is increased by my mention- 
ing it. My object in speaking is not to give 
you pain, but, by calling your attention to your 
danger, to induce you to provide a remedy. 

Org. These are fine words. But I wish 
you to understand that henceforth I shall con- 
sider no man my friend, who vexes me with 
advice. Were not my father, my grandfather, 
and my great grandfather all in the habit of 
keeping powder in their cellars, and they all 
died in their beds. Have not I a right to ex- 
pect the same end. 

Eu. I do not think it necessary to reply to 
your exquisite logic. But you surely have not 
forgotten that several terrible explosions have 
taken place in your house, in which some of 
your relations have perished. 

Org. What would you have me do ? I 
want powder to shoot with. I use it in blow- 
ing rocks, and at trainings of the militia. You 
surely cannot reflect how much more it would 
cost me, if I did not keep my powder on hand. 

Eu. Is a little saving of expense to be 
compared with constant danger of human life. 

Otg. Let me tell you, Eumenes, I never 
wish to hear another word from you on this 
subject. You shall not interfere with my pri- 
vate affairs. And if ever you darken my door 
again, I'll blow your brains out. 

Exeunt. 

According to the fashion of fables, ours re- 
quires a moral. But we prefer to leave it to 
our readers' ingenuity to discover the appli- 
cation of the tale. 



A BID FOR A FREEMAN OF MASSACHU- 
SETTS. 
The following spirited article is from the 
Liberator, of August 3. It is well worthy the 
attention of all persons who wish to under- 
stand the disposition which slavery creates in 
its supporters. 

The copy of the following resolutions pass- 
ed by the State of Georgia, was sent to us for 
one of the series of notes of Mr. Child's speech. 
But as the act has never appeared entire in 
the Liberator, and as many persons in this 



142 



A bid for a Freeman of Massachusetts. 



quarter of the country are known to be scep- 
tical as to its having an existence, and as oth- 
ers are known to suppose that it was merely 
offered and rejected, or at worst was adopted 
by one branch only of the Legislature of 
Georgia, — we have thought proper to give 
the piece a more conspicuous type and place, 
than it could have had among a mass of notes. 
In Senate, November 30, 1831. 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Repre- 
sentatives of the State of Georgia, in General 
Assembly met, That the sum of FIVE THOU- 
SAND DOLLARS, be, and the same is here- 
by appropriated, to be paid to any person or 
persons who shall arrest, bring to trial, and 
prosecute to conviction under the laws of this 
State ; the editor or publisher of a certain pa- 
per called the Liberator, published in the town 
of Boston, and State of Massachusetts ; or 
who shall arrest, bring to trial and prosecute 
to conviction under the laws of this State, any 
other person or persons, who shall utter, pub- 
lish or circulate within the limits of this State, 
said paper, called the Liberator, or any other 
paper, circular, pamphlet, letter or address of 
a seditious character. 

And that his Excellency the Governor' is 
hereby authorized and requested, to issue his 
warrant, upon the Treasurer, for said sum of 
five thousand dollars, in favor of any person or 
persons who shall have arrested and brought 
to trial and prosecuted to conviction, under 
the laws of this State, the editor or publisher 
of the Liberator, or who shall have arrested 
and brought to trial or prosecute to conviction, 
under the laws of this State ; any other per- 
son or persons, who shall utter, publish or cir- 
culate within the limits of this State, said pa- 
per called the Liberator, or any other paper, 
circular, pamphlet, letter, or address of a se- 
ditious character. 

And that these resolutions be inserted in 
the appropriation act. 

And resolved further, That his Excellency 
the Governor cause the foregoing resolutions, 
to be published in the public journals of this 
State, and such other papers as he may think 
proper, and pay for the publication thereof, 
out of the contingent fund. 

Read and agreed to. 

THOMAS STOCKS, President. 
Attest, I. L. Harris, Secretary. 

In the House of Representatives. 
Concurred in, Dec. 24, 1831. 
ASBURY HULL, Speaker. 
Attest, W. C. Dawson, Clerk, 

Approved, Dec. 26, 1831. 

WILSON LUMPKIN, Governor. 

For the murderers of Joseph White, the 
Governor of Massachusetts offered a reward 
of $1000. Upon the head of Mr. Garrison, 
or of us his substitute, or of any editor or 
printer of this little paper, the great State of 
Georgia, has set five times as much ! What 
is the design of this extraordinary offer ? 



It cannot be to procure directly the punish- 
ment of the editors and mechanics connected 
with this press, because either of us beino - 
within the jurisdiction of Georgia, the pre- 
viously existing laws of that State might and 
doubtless would be applied without any ne- 
cessity for this subsidiary act. But there is 
no probability, that any person connected inti- 
mately with this paper, would ever go to the 
State of Georgia, and 'the collective wisdom' 
of that State did not, in our opinion, take into 
view such a contingency. 

The act then was intended to operate out 
of tho State of Georgia ; in other words, it 
was designed to procure the abduction of one 
or more of the persons therein described. 

Now it matters not that it would be contra- 
ry to well settled and known principles of 
law, to try and punish a man in Georgia, for 
publishing his sentiments in Massachusetts ; 
it matters not that those principles are in force 
in Georgia itself, (as far as any principles 
which clash with their convenience, ar.d their 
passions can be in force there,) because when 
a legislature has offered in such a manner, 
such a sum to accomplish the preliminary ob- 
ject of getting the persons described into 
their power, there can be no doubt that they 
have resolved to accomplish the ulterior ob- 
ject ! And to that end, it is more than prob- 
able, that they would ride over all legal 
obstructions, which even their own laws and 
usages might oppose thereto. 

The offer then of the sum of $5000, is to 
procure the abduction and judicial murder of 
any person or persons employed, now or here- 
tofore, (even before the passage of the law, 
thus making it clearly ex post facto,) in the 
editing or printing of this paper! The last 
resolution makes the intent of this act manifest 
without the help of much reasoning. The 
Legislature of Georgia were not content 
with providing for the promulgation of this 
act in their own newspapers in the usual 
way ; but they also provide for disseminat- 
ing it through the whole country, and the 
world. This shows that it was intended as a 
notice to kidnappers. This shows that the 
design was abduction and murder, and noth- 
ing else. 

What think you, citizens of Massachusetts ? 
Have we committed any offence ? Have we 
violated any law which it was our duty to 
obey ? Have we not a right to your protec- 
tion? Is it no part of the duty of society to 
protect its members ? 

If the 'Georgia Guard' were to march into 
Massachusetts, for the purpose of arresting: a 
citizen of this State, it would be a violation of 
the laws of nations, and of the federal com- 
pact, which in respect to these States, super- 
adds to the obligations of the laws of nat ; nns. 
But such a measure would not be half as dan- 
gerous to an individual, nor more insulting to 
this State, than is the above act of legislation, 



Boston Young Men's Anti-Slavery Association. — Boston Mutual Lyceum. 



143 



The Georgia Guard, or a Georgia army, so far 
as they survived, would soon be in the custody 
of constables and executioners. But against 
lurking kidnappers, against those who may 
abuse our own laws, and the process of our 
own courts, to get possession of their victim, 
who can guard ? 

Lord Chancellor Brougham, or Mr. Buxton, 
has done and is doing more for the emancipa- 
tion of the Georgia slaves, than forty newspa- 
pers can effect. Suppose Georgia, graduat- 
ing her price according to the size of her vic- 
tim, should offer two hundred thousand dollars 
for the kidnapping and bringing within her 
jurisdiction, either of those writers and mem- 
bers of the London .Anti-Slavery Society'} 
What would England do ? Would she blink 
it ? She might possibly do so from contempt. 
Can our government, who owe us protection, 
allege as honorable a motive for silence and 
inaction ? 

Ten years ago, the Greeks were slaves, but 
not near as much slaves, not half as unhappy 
or numerous as the people whose rights we 
advocate. At that time Daniel Webster and 
Henry Clay denounced Turkish tyranny in 
terms as severe and indignant as any that we 
have used in respect to American tyranny, 
which is much more inexcusable than Turk- 
ish. Did any body blame them ? Every body 
applauded them except Mahmoud and his Pa- 
chas. Suppose then out of the boundless and 
brilliant treasures of the seraglio, the Sultan 
had offered a million of gold ducats to any 
person or association of persons, who would 
kidnap and drag before the court of the grand 
Mufti Daniel Webster or Henry Clay. Would 
this State have been quiet under it? Would 
this nation have been quiet ? Every one will 
answer, that if they had been, they would de- 
serve every one of them to be brought ac- 
quainted with the famous bowstring by sen- 
tence of that same Mufti. Suppose again 
that a price were set by South Carolina upon 
the head of Gov. Lincoln for his free remarks 
upon nullification, which is merely another 
name for slavery, the perpetuation of slavery, 
and the continued and confirmed dominion of 
slave owners and traders ; — would this gov- 
ernment, would this people have set down 
quietly under such a felonious and bloodly 
act, and left open a door for it to be consum- 
mated? Certainly not. Where is the differ- 
ence between such a case and our own ? — 
We will tell you our opinion, and we hope 
that if it be true, you will not be offended at 
it. It is that we are poor and powerless, un- 
able by money or force to protect ourselves ! 
if we were courted and surrounded by troops 
of politicians, whose hopes of loaves and fish- 
es were wrapped up in our personal safety, if 
we or the printer were so conspicuous that a 
ruffian hand could not violate us without send- 
ing an electrie shock through the community ; 
in short, if we had that which is worshipped 



here, under the names of power and wealth ; 
then we should not remain exposed as we are; 
then we should not have to complain of a total 
disregard for our lives and welfare on the 
part of that government which is supported for 
the very purpose of protecting individuals ;then 
would adequate protection have been provided 
for us long ago, and without asking it! 

But time will set all these things right. If 
the offering up of many lives can accelerate 
the great work which cannot now be stopped, 
nor the gates of hell prevail against it, these 
lives will be cheerfully given. 

The human mind rises as it resists oppress- 
ion. The persecution of southerners and the 
servile acquiescence, thus far, of northerners, 
do but confirm us the more in our course. We 
say, in the language of an illustrious English- 
man, 'neither friends nor foes, nor life nor 
death, nor thunder nor lightning shall make 
us give way the breadth of one hair.' 

' Cry wo, destruction, ruin, loss, dismay ; 

Tlie worst is death, and death icill have his day. ' 

Before closing these remarks, we take the 
liberty to recommend the above act of Geor- 
gia to the attention of the legislature of Con- 
necticut. Good precedents are a great matter 
in the law. 



BOSTON YOUNG MEN'S ANTI-SLAVERY 
ASSOCIATION. 
A society called the Boston Young Men's 
Anti-Slavery Association for the Diffusion oj 
Truth, has been recently formed. It will, we 
trust, afford valuable aid to the great cause of 
justice and humanity. It is delightful to find 
young men engaging with zeal, in the pros- 
ecution of such objects. It is honorable to 
themselves, and must be useful to their coun- 
try. The officers of the society are — 
Rev. AMOS A. PHELPS, President. 
JOHN N. BARBOUR, Vice President. 
JOHN STIMPSON, Cor. Secretary. 
ALFRED NORTON, Rec. Secretary. 
JOHN FORD, Treasurer. 
George Loring, ") 
J. H. Tenney, \ 

John Cutts Smith, i 
N. Southard. J 



Trustees. 



BOSTON MUTUAL LYCEUM. 

A society with this name has been recent- 
ly formed in Boston, by the colored people^ 
They have been assisted in establishing this 
institution by Mr. Josiah Holbrook and other- 
friends. The following are the names of the- 
officers. 

DUDLEY TIDD, President. 
JOEL W. LEWIS, 1st Vice President. 
SARAH H. ANNIBLE, 2nd Vice Presidents 
GEORGE GALL, Recording Secrelarxj. 
NATH. CUTLER, Cor. Seeretary. 
THOMAS DALTON, Treasurer. 
Joseph H. Gover, "] 
John B. Cutler, 
Henry Carroll, )■ Managers, 
Lucy V. Lew, 
Mary Williams, j 



144 



Ardi- Slavery Society at New-Haven. — Death of Mr. Wilberforce. — Poetry. 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY AT NEW-HAVEN. 
A Society was formed in New-Haven, on 
on the 4th of June last, of great respectability 
and influence, called the New-Haven Anti- 
Slavery Society. The Constitution recognises 
the same principles as those held by the New- 
England Anti-Slavery Society. 

ELI IVES, M. D. President. 
TIMOTHY DWIGHT, 1st Vice President. 
NATH. JOCELYN ,2nd Vice President. 
ROBERT B. HALL, Secretary. 
AMOS TOWNSEND, Jr. Treasurer. 

S. S. JoCELYN, 

e. a. townsend, 
Sidhey Hall, 
Henry A. Homes 

We mentioned in a former number the for- 
mation of this Society, but had not received 
the names of the officers at that time. 



Executive Committee. 



[From the London Times of July 29.] 
DEATH OF WM. WILBERFORCE, ESQ. 
It is this day our melancholy duty to an- 
nounce the death of William Wilberforce, a 
name with which there is probably associated 
more of love and veneration than ever fell to 
the lot of any single individual throughout 
the civilized globe. 

At one period the sad event would have 
been felt as a grievous national calamity, and 
even now the tidings of his departure will be 
beard with the deepest sorrow through every 
part of the empire. But he worked while it 
was called day, remembering that the night 
was coming wherein no man may work. 
And he was not permitted to leave the scene 
of his labors till he beheld the great cause to 
which he had dedicated all the energies of his 
soul triumphant, and the fetters of the negro 
about to be struck off for ever. 



[From the Weekly Recorder.] 

THE COLORED MOTHER OF NEW-ENG- 
ENGLAND TO HER INFANT. 

Smile on, my babe, thy infant mirth 

Beguiles my heart awhile ; 
Thou hast not learned enough of earth 

To know thou should not smile. 

Thy sparkling eye is full of light, 

Thy heart beats high with joy, 
And wo or care, from morn till night, 

Disturbs not thee, my bo}'. 

Smile now— for, o'er thy coming years, 

A cloud of misery bends ; 
Disgrace and shame, regret and tears, 

Till earthly being ends. 

Yes, yes 1 — my child — that soul of thine, 

Pure from its Maker's hand, 
Destined, they tell us, yet to shine 

In heaven, its native land ; 

That soul, by God's all-wise decree, 

Is shrined within a form 
Of human shape and symmetry, 

With life-blood read and warm ; 

Whose skin reflects a darker hue 
Than that the white man wears, 



And for this cause, thy early dew 
Of joy must change for tears ! 

For thee from childhood's gleesome hour, 

Through all thy onward track, 
Are hard and bitter things in store, 

Because thy skin is black .' 

Oh ! I have borne this shame about, 

In bitterness and grief, 
And till sweet peace a Saviour brought, 

I never found relief. 

A little girl, to school I went, 

With heart as light as air, 
And as my steps I thither bent, 

I breathed my morning prayer. 

Into a corner, all alone, 

My place was there assigned, 
My lessons, books, were an my own, 

A mate I could not find. 

At play, upon my lonely state, 

No ra}' of kindness came ; 
They spurned me as a thing to hate, 

And negro was my name. 

At night I reached my mother's cot, 

With heart oppressed with wo, 
And from my mother's lips I sought 

The cause of all to know. 

She said 't was cruel prejudice, 
That dwelt their breasts within, 

Which caused the treatment such as this, 
Of those of colored skin. 

My hopes were crushed, my heart appalled, 

With this most foul disgrace ; 
And then my teacher, stupid called 

Ail creatures of my race ! 

Whene'er upon the Sabbath morn, 
I 've sought the house of prayer, 

My soul has sunk beneath the scorn 
The white man carries there. 

Must thou, my child — my only one- 
Must thou, too, feel the smart 

Of this unjust and cruel scorn, 
That withers all the heart ? 

For cause beyond thy weak control, 

Has God for thee designed 
This degradation of the soul, 

This slavery of the mind ? 

No : scriptures say, that of one blood, 

Has God created all 
The nations He has spread abroad, 

Upon this earthly ball. 

'T is man, proud man, makes this decree' 

Of him of colored skin ; 
Who says ' he must a negro be,' 

And cries, ' unclean, unclean !' 

Great Father ! who created all, 

The colored and the fair ; 
Oh ! listen to a mother's call, 

Hear Thou, the negro's prayer. 

Yet once again, thy people teach 

With lessons from above, 
That they may practice what they preach). 

And all their neighbors love. 

Again, the gospel precepts give, 

Teach them this rule to know, 
Such treatment as ye would receive, 

Be willing to bestow. 

That this, my child, my only one- 
May never feel the smart 

Of this unjust and cruel scorn, 
That withers all the heart. 



