
G-ivEN By 



d'^^x^^ y^ta2t^U-.Uya^^^<L 



^^^.^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lettersonamericaOOrank 



LETTERS 



AMERICAN SLAVERY, 



ADDRESSED TO 



MR. THOMAS RANKIN, 



KS:i>CljiJS1- AT MI.^DLEBROCF-. / TTGUSTA. CO., VA. 



BY JOHN RANKiN, 

PASTOR OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCHES OF RIPLEY 
AND STRAIT-CREEK, BROWN COUNTY, OHIO, 



BOSTON: 
PUBLISHED BY GARRISON & KNAPP, 

NO, 11; merchant's HALL. 

1833. 



PREFACE. 



The following Letters were originally de- 
signed for the benefit of the Brother to whom 
they were addressed. For his convenience 
they were inserted in the Castigator, and by 
that means were first brought to pubHc view. 

The solicitations of a few friends, in connec- 
tion witl^the desire of aiding and encouraging 
every effort for the liberation of the enslaved and 
degraded Africans, were the means of bringing 
them before the public a second time, and in 
another form. 

They have received several alterations and 
additions. And some efforts have been made 
to render the work more complete than it was 
in its original form ; but still, it is far from pos- 
sessing that excellence of composition which 
the importance of its subject requires. There- 
fore, it is desired that its imperfections may be 
attributed to the weakness of its author, and 
not to that of the cause it is intended to support. 

But httle can reasonably be hoped in relation 



IV. 



to the success of this work, when It is consid- 
ered that, in addition to the difficulties arising 
from its own imperfections, it must bear the 
charge of fanaticism, and contend with preju- 
dices that have been rapidly increasing for ages. 
In opposition to it, more than ten thousand en- 
venomed tongues, and pens dipt in the gall of 
unrelenting avarice, may be expected to plead 
the cause of injustice. 

These difficulties, however, should be con- 
sidered as so many arguments in favor of the 
work. If but a little good can be done, it is 
the more necessary that that httle should be 
done. That involuntary slavery is a very dan- 
gerous evil, and that our nation is involved in 
it, none can, with truth, deny. And that the 
safety of our government, and the happiness of 
its subjects depend upon the extermination of 
this evil, must be obvious to every enlightened 
mind. Nor is it less evident, that It is the duty 
of every citizen, according to his station, talents 
and opportunity, to use suitable exertions for the 
abolition of an evil which is pregnant with the 
growing principles of ruin. Surely, no station 
should be unimproved, no talent, however small, 
should be buried ; nor should any opportunity 
of doing good be lost when the safety of a vast 
nation, and the happiness of millions of the hu- 
man family, demand prompt and powerful exer- 
tions. Every thing that can be done, either by 
fair discussion, or by any other lawful means. 



V. 



ought to be done, and done speedily, in order to 
avert the hastening ruin that must otherwise 
soon overtake us ! 

Let all the friends of justice and suffering hu- 
manity, do what little they can, in their several 
circles, and according to their various stations, 
capacities and opportunities ; and all their little 
stteams of exertion will, in process of time, flow 
together, and constitute a mighty river that shall 
sweep away the yoke of oppression, and purge 
our nation from the abominations of slavery. 



To THE Reader : 

The present edition of the Rev. Mr. Ran- 
kin's valuable letters, which is now reprinted at 
the request of the Providence Anti- Slavery So- 
ciety, owes its publication to the following cir- 
cumstance. During the last summer a clergy- 
man of Masssachusetts who had been travel- 
ling in the Western States, disclosed to me 
some most appalling facts concerning the treat- 
ment to which our colored brethren are fre- 
quently subjected, and to which they are always 
exposed, in the Slaveholding States, and that 
a detail of some of these enormities might be 
found in a little book, which he had seen at 
Maysville. I accordingly directed a letter to 
the Rev. Dyer Burgess of Cincinnati, request- 
A2 



VI. 

ing liira to procure, if possible, a copy of the 
work. In a few weeks a copy was received 
from him, for which, I beg leave, though late,, 
thus publicly to return my most grateful ac- 
knowledgements, not only to the donor, but to 
the author, of the book, who I have understood 
from good authority, has cheerfully consented 
to its repubhcation. It is now most affection- 
ately commended to the attentive perusal of all 
persons into whose hands it may fall. Let such 
recollect that slavery all over the world and 
sspecially in the United States is, in the indig- 
nant language of Wilberforce, " the full meas- 
ure of pure, unsophisticated wickedness ; and 
scorning all competition or comparison, it stands 
without a rival in the secure, undisputed pos- 
session of its detestable pre-eminence." In 
the language of O'Conneli, " of all men living 
an American slaveholder is the most despicable; 
he is a political hypocrite of the very worst de- 
scription." Finally let all who doubt this, re- 
member the emphatic language of the Rev. 
Samuel J. Mills : ^^ Facts will always produce 
an effect, at least on pious- minds. You can 
easily possess yourself offacts^ the bare recital 
of which will make the heart bleed. These 
facts must be proclaimed in the ears of the peo- 
ple, that they may be induced to send the hope 
of the gospel to the expiring and despairing 
slave, as well as to the debased and miserable 
free black." JOSHUA COFFIN. 



LETTERS ON SLAVERYe 



LETTER L 

My Dear Brother^ 

I received yours of the 2d December, with mingled 
sensations of pleasure and pain ; it gave me pleasure 
to hear of your health, and jjain to hear of your pur- 
chasing slaves. I consider involuntary slavery, a never 
failing fountain of the grossest immorality, and one of 
the deepest sources of human misery ; it hangs like the 
mantle of night over our republic, and shrouds its rising 
glories. I sincerely pity the man who tinges his hand 
in the unhallowed thing that is fraught with the tears, 
and sweat, and groans, and blood of hapless millions of 
innocent, unoffending people, 

A mistaken brother, who has manifested to me a 
kind and generous heart, claims my strongest sym^pa- 
thies. When I see him involved in what is both sinful 
and dangerous, shall I not strive to liberate him? 
Does he wander from the paths of rectitude, and shall 
not fraternal affection pursue, and call him from the 
verge of ruin, and the unperceived precipice of wo, to 



8 LETTERS Olf SLAVERY. 

the fair and pleasant walks of piety and peace ? Shall 
I suffer sin upon my brother ? No, his kindness to me 
forbids it, fraternal love forbids it, and what is still 
more to be regarded, the law of God forbids it. Though 
he has wandered for the moment, may I not hope to 
show him his error, and restrain his wanderings ? 

Under such views and feelings, I have resolved to 
address you in a series of letters, on the injustice of 
enslaving the Africans. This I hope you will receive 
as an expression of fraternal affection, as well as of 
gratitude to you for former favors. I entreat you to 
give me that candid attention which the fondness of a 
brother solicits, and the importance of the subject de- 
mands. In the commencement I think it proper to ap- 
prize you that several things, connected with the pres- 
ent condition of the Africans, tend to bias the mind 
against them, and consequently incapacitate it for an 
impartial decision with respect to their rights. 

I. Their color is very different from our own. This 
leads many to conclude that Heaven has expressly 
marked them out for servitude ; and when the mind 
once settles upon such a conclusion, it is completely 
fortified against the strongest arguments that reason 
can suggest, or the mind of man invent In order to 
save you from a conclusion, so false and unreasonable, 
let me invite your attention to the book of inspirarion ; 
there you will find that the blackness of the African is 
not the horrible mark of Cain, nor the direful effects of 
Noah's curse, but the mark of a scorching sun. ' Look 
not upon me because I am black, because the sun hath 
looked upon me : my mother'^s children were angry ivith 
me ; they made im the keeper of the vineyards.^ Canti- 
cles i. 6. In this passage the Church of Christ evident- 



LETTER 1. V 

ly speaks of herself under the figure of an Ethiopian, 
on whom the sun had looked with such intensity as 
changed his color, and so rendered him the object of 
hatred to the rest of mankind, who with himself origi- 
nally sprang from the same mother, and were in reality 
his brethren. The text may be thus paraphrased. 
Look not upon me (with indignation) because I am 
black ; because the sun hath looked upon me (so as to 
make me black) my mothers children were angry with 
me. This conveys evidently the true meaning of the 
passage, and shows that the Divine Spirit by whom it 
was dictated, .assumed it as a correct principle, that the 
blackness of the Ethiopian's skin is caused by the sun. 
The word Ethiopian, which is frequently found in 
Scripture, denotes, according to its derivation, a person 
whose visage is changed to blackness by burning. The 
same truth is evident from the face of the world, which 
exhibits various shades of human color, according to all 
its variegated climate's. 

' To prove that color is the effect of climate it is only 
necessary to attend to certain facts which are notorious 
to the slightest observation. 

'Geographers have divided our earth into five Zones 
— the Torrid, two temperate and two Frigid Zones. 
The torrid zone extending 23 1-2 degrees on each side 
of the equator forms a belt of 47 degrees, running from 
east to west quite round the globe ; to every part of 
which the sun is vertical at least once in the year. 
The ancients supposed that this region was not habit- 
able, in consequence of the intense heat of a vertical 
sun. In this they were mistaken. It is found support- 
ing, in general, as dense a population as either of the 
temperate zones, which lie between it and the polar 



10 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

circles ; with however this remarkable difference — its 
inhabitants are black or approaching to black. As 
this zone in its whole breadth sweeps over the conti- 
nent of Africa, it embraces most of its inhabitants, who 
are consequently black or nearly so. As we recede 
from the equator toward the poles, the complexion of 
the inhabitants becomes gradually lighter, until in the 
extremities of the temperate and in the frigid zoneS; 
which lie around the poles, they are white.- 

* Such is the fact. And this fact alone, were we 
unable in the slightest degree to account for it, ought 
to be sufficient to satisfy the honest inquirer after truth, 
that color is the effect of climate. But the fact may 
be, we apprehend, in some degree at least, accounted 
for. Various anatomical experiments prove, beyond 
all contradiction, that the human skin consists of two 
lamina or coats, which are in all cases white ; and that 
the color depends on a coagulated substance, which 
lies between those coats. The' eixterior coat being 
transparent and exceedingly porous permits the sun's 
rays to act upon the coagulated substance freely ; which, 
in every instance, if the action be sufficiently protract- 
ed, gives a tinge or coloring proportioned to the inten- 
sity of the sun's heat. 

' To this it may be objected, that the color of the in- 
habitants of the several countries of our globe is not 
invariably the same in both parallels. This is admit- 
ted ; but the objection when examined, goes to estab- 
lish our position. It is well known that the intensity 
of the sun's heat depends much on the nature of the 
earth's surface. From a smooth, level surface the 
power of reflection is much greater, than it is on a 
broken and irregular surface ; and it has long been re- 



LETTER I. 11 

markea, tliac the inhabitants of the level sandy countries 
■Cf Africa are much blacker, than those of the hilly and 
mountainous parts. 

* And nojnatter what the original complexion of the- 
emigrants to any country may have been, it is always 
found to accommodate itself to the hue peculiar to that 
country or climate. Hence the Jews, who were doubt- 
less originally all of the same complexion, and who never 
intermarry with the nations among whom they sojourn, 
are found to be white in Germany and Poland, swarthy 
in Spain and Portugal, olive in the Barbary States and 
in Egypt, and black in Hindoostan. And hence a 
colony of Ethiopians, who settled at Colchis, on the 
Black Sea two thousand years ago, have now become 
wliite, and the Portuguese who settled two hundred 
years since on the coast of Africa, black. 

' But still we are asked, " if color be the effect of 
climate, why the negroes born in the United States are 
not white ? " We answer, various reasons may be 
given. Though we are in a great measure ignorant of 
the economy of nature, yet we see that the complexion 
as well as the form of the body is propagated from 
father to son, and that any change which takes place 
in either form or complexion must be effected by the 
tardy, but certain operation of natural causes. We 
know also that it is an established law of nature that 
it is much easier to communicate a stain, than to purge 
it away. Hence we frequently see a swarthy hue con- 
tracted by boatsmen and sailors in a few months, which 
it requires years to remove. 

' It should moreover be recollected, that ours is not 
the country of white men naturally — and that as has 
already been remarked, the color natural to our climate 



12 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

will be swarthy, probably very nearly that of the Span- 
iards who live in the same parallels. Are we then tC 
be surprised that the African, who, under a tropical 
sun bears the accumulated stain of a thousmid genera- 
tions, is not, in our climate, bleached white in two or 
three ? ' 

Thus you see that reason and observation unite in 
confirming the truth of revelation with regard to the 
color of the Africans. Hence we conclude, with safe- 
ty, that a black skin is no peculiar mark of heaven's 
displeasure,' nor any evidence -that he, who wears it, is 
doomed by the Creator to endless servitude. The 
Africans are the children of our common mother : let 
us not be angry with them because the sun hath look- 
ed upon them ; the change of complexion ought never 
to break the ties of humanity. God — ' hath made of 
one blood all nations of men.' Whenever we find a 
man, let us treat him as a brother without regard to 
his color ; let our kindness sooth his sorrows and cheer 
his heart. 

II. The Africans are deeply degraded. The hand 
of oppression has pressed them down from the rank of 
men to that of beasts, they are bought and sold, and 
driven from place to place like mere animal herds — 
This fetters the mind, and prevents that expansion of 
soul which dignifies man, and ornaments civilized life. 
They seldom have any opportunities of improvements, 
any encouragement for the efforts of genius, or any 
inducements to enter the field of science — Hence, in 
many instances, the strongest powers of mind remain 
unfolded, over them oppression draws her sable man- 
tle, on them she lays her cruel hand, and forbids them 
ever to rise. Under such circumstances they sink into 



LETTER I. 13 

the grossest ignorance, and appear to be very destitute 
of energetic powers of mind. This leads many to con- 
clude that they are naturally inferior to the rest of 
mankind in respect to strength of mind, and that the 
Creator has thus marked them out for servitude. But 
how false, how ungenerous, how unreasonable is such 
a conclusion ! What people, in similar circumstances, 
have ever given stronger marks of genius than are ex- 
hibited by the enslaved Africans in the United States ? 
A better exhibition of mental capacity than they give, 
ought not to be expected from a people long enslaved, 
and sorely oppressed. Under such oppression, powers, 
of mind, merely ordinary, cannot unfold ; the gloomy 
prospect of perpetual bondage hovers continually 
around, and cuts off every enterprise which might elicit 
the native energies of the soul, or give occasion for 
the vigorous efforts of genius — Hence talents, that, 
under other circumstances, would appear to very good 
advantage, are totally obscured. And, even after a 
people, that have been long enslaved, are emancipated, 
it will require them to pass through several generations 
in order to regain their original strength of mind, and 
.give the world a fair exhibition of the powers they 
really possess. Under this view of our subject, it is 
easy to account for the apparent want of talent in our 
Africans ; it is owing, totally owing to the cruel hand 
of oppression. There is but one other source from 
which we suppose it will be pretended it has origina- 
ted ; which is that of a different organization from the 
rest of mankind. But such organization would be uni- 
versal in its effects, and thus prohibit a single instance 
of prodigious genius ; for if it admit of one, it may on 
the same principles admit of a thousand. Among the 
B 



14 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Africans there are many who possess the strongest 
powers of mind ; this I apprehend none that are well 
informed will deny. 

In a neighboring State lives an African boy, who, 
while he was a slave, and before he arrived to twenty 
years of age, by his own exertions, without the benefit 
of a school, save for the space of two weeks, acquired 
the science of Reading, Writing, Arithmetic and Ge- 
ography, and made some advances in Astronomy. 
Would Sir Isaac Newton have done more, had he been 
a slave ? While other slaves spent in idleness the few 
leisure moments allowed them, this youth was engaged 
in acquiring useful knowledge, and he had what is 
generally called a humane master, who, perhaps, gave 
him some instruction. Would not this youth, under 
other circumstances, have dazzled the eyes of the civ- 
ilized world by the brilliant display of powerful intel- 
lect ? Not the mountain weight of oppression could 
wholly suppress his gigantic power — in vain slavery 
with her sable mantle attempts to shroud his luminous 
mind — it breaks through the darkest shades — its noble 
energies rise beneath the ponderous mass, scan the 
power of numbers, grasp the circumference of the 
earth, and stretch a line to the stars. Such an instance 
of remarkable genius among the Africans, shows that 
the organization of their mental powers is equal to that 
of the rest of mankind. And how can it be otherwise, 
seeing all mankind originally sprang from one common 
parent, and consequently possess precisely the same 
nature ? 

III. In connexion with the bias of mind which may 
arise against the Africans in consequence of their color 
and degradation, I wish to mention another which is 



LETTER I. 15 

mote powerful in its nature, and more injurious in its 
effects ; it is that which arises from love of gain, and 
has a most blinding influence upon the mind — with 
thousands it is heavier than sand, while the strongest 
arguments are lighter than feathers. The love of gain 
is the polluted fountain whence issue all the dreadful 
evils that pervade our world — it gives energy to the 
tyrant's sword, it drenches the earth with blood, and 
binds whole nations in chains — from it every argument 
is drawn in favor of cruel injustice, it is the nauseous 
source of every hateful crime. The love of gain first 
introduced slavery into the world, and has been its con- 
stant support in every age. It was the love of gain 
that first enslaved the African race, and it now invents 
every possible argument against their emancipation. 
This is equally manifested in the social circle, and on 
the legislative floor — individuals and states will argue 
in favor of slavery in proportion as they view their in- 
terest at stake. And no doubt they often argue ac- 
cording to what . they suppose to be right ; though 
naturally honest as other men, they are pressed to the 
side of injustice by the weight of interest. And thus 
we oflen see the love of gain weighing down the finest 
feelings of the soul, blunting the most acute powers 
of perception, crushing the strongest faculty of judg- 
ment, breaking the most powerful ties of humanity, 
falling upon the unhappy African, and binding him in 
chains of perpetual bondage ! When once it takes 
full possession of the heart, the strongest faculties yield 
to its influence — it triumphs alike over the polished 
statesman, the courageous general, the accomplished 
gentleman, and the humble peasant — Its principle 
power lies in concealment ; it operates under a thousand 



16 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

different masks : unperceived, it obtrudes itself upon 
every order, it pervades the bar, finds its way to the 
hearts of judge and jury, it even enters the sanctuary 
and climbs the altar. The best of men are liable to . 
yield too far to the love of gain, especially when large 
sacrifices must attend a right decision. And you, my 
dear brother, have considerable at stake ; you must 
wade through much loss, if you would come to a right 
conclusion, and obey the imperious voice of justice — 
But remember, that loss will be temporal, and from it 
may spring eternal gain. Therefore it is better to lose 
for the sake of doing justice, than to gain by oppres- 
sion. Hence I intreat you let temporal interest have 
no influence upon your mind, divest yourself of every 
prejudice, throw open all the faculties of the soul for 
a fair and full investigation of the subject under con- 
sideration, and let an ardent desire to know the very 
truth be the governing principle, and you shall not 
wander long in the maze of error, nor stray far from 
the path of truth. Give me, I pray you, a candid ear 
while I plead with you for a poor, dejected, and despis- 
ed people, who dare not plead for themselves, and for 
whom, alas ! too few will either lift the tongue or move 
a pen. Let not their color, their degradation, nor the 
predominating principle of self-interest bias your mind 
against them. Let their miseries excite your pity, and 
incline you to justice. 

In my next I will endeavor to prove from the nature 
of the Africans that they were not created for slavery, 
T^-^-r vniTR Brother. 



17 



LETTER II. 

Loving Brother : 

I hops, by this time, your mind is divested of every 
prejudice against the Africans, and that you have open- 
ed a candid ear to their plea for liberty. Inspired by 
this hope I now proceed, according to promise made 
in my last, to prove from the nature of the Africans, 
that they were not created for slavery. 

The Creator is infinitely wise, and consequently must 
have created every being in his universe for occupying 
some particular station in the scale of created existence 
< — To suppose him to create without design, is to sup- 
pose him unwise. Again, if he has created every being 
to occupy a particular station in the scale of existence, 
he must have adapted the nature of every being to the 
station for which it was intended. To create for a par- 
ticular purpose, and not adapt the thing created to that 
purpose, would argue the greatest want of wisdom. 
Hence we conclude that if the creator formed the Af- 
ricans for slavery, he has suited their nature to the de- 
sign of their creation, and that they are incapacitated 
for freedom. This would be according to the whole 
analogy of creation, in which every creature has a 
nature suited to the station for which it was intended. 
But we find that the Africans are rational creatures, are 
of the human species, possess all the. original properties 
of human nature, and consequently are capacitated for 
freedom ; and such capacity shows the design of their 
creation. It is most absurd to imagine that beings cre- 
ated with capacity for liberty were designed for bondage. 
B2 



18 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Did the capacity for freedom stand alone, it might itself 
be considered an argument sufficient to establish our 
point ; but it stands not alone ; it combines with it all 
the original properties of human nature— with it all 
these unite as so many heralds, sent by the Almighty 
to declare that man never was formed for involuntary 
slavery. Every man, who possesses all the original 
properties of humanity, desires to obtain knowledge, 
wealth, reputation, liberty, and a vast variety of other 
objects which are necessary to complete his happiness. 
Now who does not see how inconsistent slavery is with 
the acquirement and enjoyment of all these objects of 
desire, and how directly it is opposed to the happiness 
of man ? It obstructs the natural channels in which all 
his passions were designed to flow, contracts the whole 
sphere of mental operation, and offers violence to the 
strongest propensities of his nature. Does he desire 
to enter the delightful paths of science, and store his 
mind with such knowledge as is calculated to expand 
the noble powers of the soul, and raise man to the dig- 
nified station for which he was designed ? This is for- 
bidden, an indignant master frowns • upon him, and 
drives him back into the shades of ignorance and hope- 
less toil. Does he wish to acquire such property as 
may be necessary to render him comfortable in his pas- 
sage through life ? Even this is denied him, he is 
doomed to kbor all his days in heaping up treasure for 
another ; and to death, fraught with terrors as it is, he 
must look for deliverance, and to the gloomy grave he 
must go as his only asylum from his sufferings and 
toils. Does he incline to move in the honorable and 
useful spheres of civil society ? It is considered a 
crime for him to aspire above the rank of the grovel- 



LETTER 11. 19 

ling beast : he must content himself with being bought, 
and sold, and driven in chains from state to state, as a 
capricious avarice may dictate. Does he desire to en- 
ter the conjugal state, and partake of hymenial enjoy- 
ment ? The pleasure of any unfeeling master may 
forbid the object of his choice, and cause him to lan- 
guish beneath the ravages of disappointed affection. 
Or is he a tender hearted husband ? He must see the 
object of his warmest affection bleeding beneath the 
torturing lash— her cries and her tears penetrate the 
inmost recesses of his heart, and seem ready to burst 
the tender fibres that twine around the seat of life ; 
floods of tenderness roll from his eyes, but his sympa- 
thies connot stay the cruel hand of the vengeful tyrant, 
nor heal the wounds inflicted by his malice. He dare 
not even attempt to console her grief by the language 
of tenderness, nor to wipe away her tears with the soft 
hand of compassion, I cannot conceive how flesh and 
blood can bear so much ! You, brother, once sustained 
the relation of husband, and doubtless possessed all the 
tenderness of that endearing relation, and though the 
object of your warmest embraces now lies cold and 
silent in the grave, yet her very dust is dear to you, and 
her memory awakes the liveliest emotions in your 
heart ; and how dreadful was the hour of final separa- 
tion, when cruel death closed her youthful eyes that 
beamed upon you with such innocence and love as ban- 
ished the sorrows and cares of life ! And how cruel 
was that shroud which enclosed from your sight the 
beauteous form that so often enraptured your heart! 
Tell me, dear brother, how could you have endured to 
see her tender frame bleed beneath the lacerating whip? 
Could you have witnessed her innocent tears and cries, 



^0 LETTERS ON SLAVJEflY. 

without being overwhelmed with the mingled floods of 
compassion, resentment and grief? Little less near to 
you is the dear little daughter, and only child whom 
you cherish with almost unequealled tenderness! How 
could you bear to see her tender skin cruelly torn by 
the torturing lash of a wicked master, whose heart by 
cruel indulgence has become totally estranged from the 
feelings of compassion ? Would not such a scene 
shock the whole current of your nature, and. turn all 
the streams of tenderness into the channel of direful 
revenge, which even the fear of a most terrible death 
could scarcely restrain ? Slavery is often clothed with 
such scenes of cruelty and blood, and often sports with 
every thing that is dear to man ! — it breaks the most 
tender relations of life. Tell me not that the Africans 
are destitute of the fine feelings of tenderness towards 
their wives and children, which are manifested by the' 
rest of mankind. The flood of grief that rolls over 
the sable and wo-worn cheek, when a wife or a child is 
snatched from the embraces of the fond husband or 
parent, speaks the passions of the soul in a language 
too strong to be resisted by any thing less than impla- 
cable prejudice ! Slavery interferes with all the social 
and relative duties, and what is still a more serious evil, 
it interferes With the divine "prerogative over man, and 
robs the Almighty of the service which is due to him 
from the creatures of his power. 

Finally, every man desires to be free, and this desire 
the Creator himself has implanted in the bosoms of all 
our race, and is certainly a conclusive proof that all 
were designed for freedom ; else man was created for 
disappointment and misery. All the feelings of hu- 
manity are strongly opposed to being enslaved, and 



LETTER II. 21 

nothing but the strong arm of power can make man 
submit to the yoke of bondage. What, my brother, 
would be more distressing to you, than to have the yokie 
of slavery put upon your neck and that of your little 
daughter, that you might, with her, wear out your life 
in laboring for the wealth and ease of one who perhaps 
would not regard a single tender feeling of your na- 
ture ? And though you think your slaves are in very 
comfortable circumstauces, and I have no doubt but 
you treat them as kindly as is compatible with their 
present station, yet were you and your little daughter 
in the very same circumstances in which they are now 
placed, I think I would cheerfully part with all I pos- 
sess to purchase youi- freedom, if nothing less would 
procure it ; and if I should not, I apprehend you would 
think me an ungenerous and cruel brother. How then 
can you withhold from others what is so dear to your- 
self? The Africans possess all the original properties 
of humanity, and were, as we have fairly proven from 
their nature, created for freedom, and therefore to en- 
slave them is both unjust and cruel. 

In my next I intend to point out more fully than I 
have done in this, some of the evils that attend slavery 

I AM YOURS IN FRATERNAL AFFECTION, 



(22 



LETTER III. 

My Dear, Brother : 

As involuntary slavery is opposed to all the original 
properties of human nature, it may be expected to in- 
volve its subjects in a vast variety of the most serious 
evils. And some of these, according to an intimation 
given in wy last, I am now to point out more fully than 
the limits of the preceding letter would permit me to 
do. And this I do in order to illustrate, and enforce 
those arguments against slavery, which arise from the 
nature of man. 

The first evil I shall mention as resulting from a 
state of mancipation .is that of gross ignorance. It 
must be obvious, to every one capable of reflection, 
that a variety of circumstances combine to deprive 
slaves of the means of mental improvement. They 
are chained down to a life of laborious servitude, with- 
out the hope of release, and the gloomy prospect of 
such a life sinks every rising hope, cuts off every in^ 
ducement to literary enterprise, and totally indisposes 
the mind to the labor of acquiring useful knowledge. 
And of such indisposition, gross ignorance is the cer^ 
tain result. Hence, were the means of instruction af- 
forded them, they would in many cases prove entirely 
unsuccessful. But we often find on the part of the 
master still less inclination to afibrd such means, than 
there is in the slave to improve them when afforded, 
The education of slaves must be attended with much 
loss of labor as well as considerable expense, and this 
is very inconsistent with the main object of their man^ 



LETTER III. 23 

cipation. The design of slavoholdingis to make gain, 
and therefore few masters are willing to undergo the 
expense, and loss of time from labor that must neces- 
sarily attend the education of their slaves. And this 
is no matter of wonder when many parents are too 
avaricious to bear the expense of educating their own 
children. Now when parental affection is often insuf- 
ficient to break the fetters of avarice, and induce pa- 
rents to afford their own offspring the ample means of 
mental improvement, what can break loose the ice- 
bound heart of the man, who is urged by the impetu- 
ous torrent of avaricious feeling to bind with the chains 
of mancipation a number of his fellow creatures, and 
cause them, hungry, and naked, to toil throughout life 
in heaping up treasure to satisfy his inordinate, and 
rapidly increasing thirst for gain? I say, what can 
break loose the heart of such a man, inspire him with 
the feelings of tenderness towards the victims of his 
avarice, and induce him to sacrifice his gain in giving 
them that knowledge which is unnecessary to fit them 
for the laborious task ? To this nothing can induce 
hira while the love of gain is the predominating prin- 
ciple, and such, doubtless will be the case while slav- 
ery exists in the world ; for the very moment the prin- 
ciples of justice ga^ns the ascendency over that of 
avarice, must slavery cease to exist. Avarice tends to 
enslave, but justice requires emancipation. And noth- 
ing can be more evident than that the very principle, 
in which slavery originates, withliolds from the enslav- 
ed the means of acquiring knowledge, and consequently 
ignorance must be the necessary result. And to this 
we may add, that when the slave population becomes 
extensive, a carnal policy dictates the necessity of sup- 



24 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

pressing the means of information, lest the oppressed 
should come to know their rights, and endanger the 
State. This kind of policy prevails to such a degree in 
every slaveholding state, that there are very few places 
in which there is not strong opposition made to every 
benevolent attempt to teach the poor slaves to read 
even the words of eternal life ! I know from experi- 
ence, that this is the case, even where slavery exists 
under its best, and mildest form. Thus I believe it 
does exist in the State of Kentucky. If there be any 
place in the United States where it wears a tolerable 
aspect, I am persuaded it is in that State ; and though, 
us you know, I am no Kentuckian, yet I must say, that 
if any slaveholding people can be generous, the Ken- 
tuckians are such. But the mildest form of slavery, is 
like the ' Tender mercies of the wicked,' very crueL 
Though there is no law in Kentucky designed to pro- 
hibit the teaching of slaves, yet such is the opposition 
made against it by the populace that but few Sabbath 
Schools for the instruction of the Africans are permit- 
ted to exist in the State. It often happens that the be- 
nevolent teachers of Sabbath Schools find themselves 
and their poor, unoffending scholars, on the sacred 
morning, surrounded by men armed with whips, clubs^ 
and guns for the violent dispersion of the unhappy and 
innocent victims of their rage ! Thus Sabbath Schools 
are broken up in Kentucky, with a violence and cruelty 
that ought to shame the most unfeeling band of Alge- 
rines ! Nor is such violent opposition to teaching slaves 
confined to the more ignorant parts of the State, it is 
equally manifested in the most enlightened places. A 
few years since in the neighborhood of Lexington, and 
in one of the oldest and best settlements in the State, 



LETTER III, 25 

a Sabbath School was instituted, and taught by some 
very respectable gentlemen, and the prospect of doing- 
good y/as exceedingly fair, but alas ! all the rising hopes 
of benevolence were soon blasted ! One sacred morn- 
ing the poor slaves assembled at the school room with 
the pleasing expectation of learning to read the word 
of eternal life ; but to their sad surprise about sixty 
men soon appeared for, their dispersion, armed with 
clubs and guns, and thus the school was dispersed 
never to meet again ! It is painful to record such in- 
stances of cruel outrage on oppressed innocence and 
humane feeling ; and I do it not by way of reproach, 
but because it is necessary to show the real state of 
things even where slavery assumes her mildest aspect ; 
for I still believe that slaves fare upon the whole, better 
in Kentucky, than they do in other slaveholding States. 
But the spirit which, in Kentucky, is so strongly mani- 
ifested by the populace, has it seems in Virginia found 
its way into the Legislature.* And as I am informed, 



* Extract of a letter to the Editor of the Emancipator, from a 
correspondent in Norfolk. ( Va.) dated 

August 27il), 1820. 

'There is now a law in this State which took place the 1st da}' 
of January last, which prohibits schools being kept for teaching 
colored people;, under the penalty of three dollars for every of- 
fence, if free, or 20 lashes on the bare back ; or if slaves, 20 
lashes. It subjects white persons to the same penalty ; and en- 
joins on all magistrates and sheriffs, under the penalty of 8 dol- 
lars for refusing to execute the law. The informer is to have the 
whole of the fine. 

My wife, who had a Sabbath School for colored children, which 
she taught gratis for 3 or 4 years past, has been compelled to 
give it up 5 although none were admitted but those who were free, 
and those who had written permits from their owners. She had 
more than one hundred scholars at a time 3 and although the 
school was supported by some of the best men in town, and sev- 
eral of the magistrates, yet I was presented before the grand ju- 
ry, and nothing saved me but the presentment being made before 
O 



26 LETTERS ON SLAVERY, 

a law has, sometime since, actually passed, prohibiting 
all, and every person from teaching a school for the 
benefit of slaves under the penalty of twenty lashes ! 
And thus the last hope of the poor, oppressed African 
is cut off — the clouds of ignorance, like the shades of 
eternal night must ever settle around him ! And thus 
the innocent and good citizen whose feeling stoops to 
the most opj)ressed and degraded of our race, in order 
to grasp them from interminable ruin, must be subject- 
ed to the painful, and shameful penalty of twenty lashes 
as the reward of most disinterested acts of kindness, 
and that in a land far famed for the equity and mild- 
ness of its government ! Oh ! Tell it not in Europe, 
publish it not in the courts of despotism, lest the Euro- 
pean despots rejoice ! Thus has Virginia disgraced 
her nation, she has shrouded the rising glories of the 
American government, and she now hangs, as a pon- 
derous mass, upon the wing of the American Eagle, 
and prevents her from soaring to the sublime heights 
of pure republican liberty ! Instead of removing every 
vestige of oppression she is strengthening the yoke, 
and tightening the chains of cruel bondage ! This 
violent opposition to the instruction of slaves, whether 
it arises from a mistaken policy, or from avaricious 
motives, will increase in proportion as the slave popula- 
tion becomes more extensive. And here 1 must remark 
upon one main objection to the emancipation of slaves, 

the law became in force. Before I consented for the school to 
be broke up, I consulted with the State's Attorney, who was much 
in favor of the school, and a pious man, who said that it was so 
pointedly ag-ainst the law, that .he himself as the prosecutor, 
would be obliged to take notice of it. 

I am so disgxisted with my native State, that if I could dispose 
of my property without too great sacrifice, old as I am, I would 
remove to a land of liberty ! ! !' 



LETTER III. 



27 



it is that they are in consequence of the want of in- 
formation incapacitated for freedom, and that it is 
necessary to detain them in bondage until they may be 
better prepared for liberation ; but from the preceding- 
remarks it is abundantly evident that they are now 
better prepared with respect to information, for eman- 
cipation than they will be at any future period, and that 
less inconvenience and danger would attend their lib- 
eration at the present, than at any future time. It must 
be obvious to every one, capable of discernment, that 
the inconvenience, and danger of emancipation will 
increase in proportion as slaves become more numer- 
ous. Indeed all the difficulties that attend emancipa- 
tion are rapidly increasing ; and they must certainly be 
endured at some period, sooner, or later ; for it is most 
absurd to imagine that such an immense body of peo- 
ple, most rapidly increasing, can always be retained in 
bondage ; and therefore it is much better to endure 
those difficulties now than it will be when they shall 
have grown to the most enormous size. But perhaps 
you may hope that the benign influence of the gospel 
will remove the obstacles that now lie in the way of 
teaching slaves, and consequently will lessen the diffi- 
culties that now attend their liberation ; and that such 
would be the tendency of the gospel, were its influence 
generally, and truly felt, I readily admit ; but this can" 
not be reasonably expected when we consider that a 
vast variety of obstacles combine to prevent the preva- 
lence of evangelical feeling in slaveholding States. 
The whole system of slavery is unfavorable in its con- 
sequences as well as its nature, to the extension of 
gospel influence. I readily acknowledge that there 
are, in all the slaveholding States, some who possess 



28 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

SO high a degree of moral feeling as induces them, 
amidst sneering opposition, to pay some conscientious 
regard to the religious education of their slaves ; but 
such are very rarely found, even among those who pro- 
fess Christianity, and much less must be expected from 
the unbelieving world. It is matter of deep regret, 
that a large number of those, who profess to be chris- 
tians, have not religion enough to induce them to give 
proper attention to the education of their own offspring, 
and certainly, such will pay much less attention to the 
education of slaves. It is undeniable, that many of 
the slaveholding clergy and ruling elders do not teach 
their slaves to read the sacred scriptures, nor even 
cause them to attend upon their family devotion! I 
have seen the Preacher and Elder bow their knees 
around the family altar, while their poor slaves remain- 
ed without, as if like mere animal herds, they had no 
interest in the morning and evening sacrifices ! Now 
when men who profess to believe and teach the mild 
and benevolent principles of the gospel, can be so des- 
titute of evangelical feeling, as totally to neglect the 
instruction of their slaves, what must be expected from 
those who scorn the sacred volume, and regard none 
of its heavenly precepts ? Hence I must still conclude 
that gross ignorauce in the enslaved must be the cer- 
tain result of involuntary slavery, even where it assumes 
its mildest form. 

My letter is perhaps already too long, and therefore 
I must desist for the present — you may expect me to 
pursue tke subject in my next. 

Farewell my Brother. 



(99) 



LETTER IV, 

Loving Brother : 

The slave population in every country where slavery 
exists, is in a state of gross ignorance, and this con- 
firms the arguments adduced, in the preceding letter, 
to show that such ignorance must be the certain result 
of involuntary slavery, even where it wears the mildest 
aspect. And that this is a very serious evil will appear 
if we duly consider its tendency. And to this design, 
at present, I invite your attention. 

I have already shown, in a preceding letter, that 
many of the Africans possess the finest powers of 
mind, and that, in this respect, they are naturally equal 
to the rest of mankind. Now take a view of the slave 
population in the United States, and you will see that 
a vast quantity of the very best talent is entirely sup- 
pressed by want of suitable means of improvement — it 
lies buried deeply in the wreck of liberty, and the cruel 
hand of oppression draws around it the dark shades of 
endless night. Thus brilliant talents, immortal pow- 
ers, designed to enrich, illuminate and aggrandize the 
world, lie dormant and useless beneath the grossest 
covering of unavoidable ignorance ! and all that is no- 
ble and grand, in our nature, wastes in the drudgery of 
a servile life ! Were all the talent that is now sup- 
pressed by slavery, in all our slaveholding States, prop- 
erly improved, liberated and brought into action, how 
vastly would it add to the strength, wealth, and intelli- 
gence of our nation ! There are at present, in differ- 
ent parts of our country, a considerable number of 
C2 



30 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

amiable and wealthy inhabitants, who were once in & 
state of bondag-e* 

The Rev. John Gloucester, lately Pastor of an Afri-* 
can church in the city of Philadelphia, but now no more 
in time, past a considerable part of his life in slavery, 
yet after his liberation he bscame an able and useful 
minister of the gospel. His piety and talents recom- 
mended him to the benevolence of Union Presbytery, 
East Tennessee, by whose generous exertions, he, with 
his wife and children, were liberated from bondage ; and 
he educated, and afterwards set apart to the gospel 
ministry. And though he spent, in servitude, the part 
of life, in which the powers of the mind are most sus- 
ceptible of improvement, yet the strength of his mind 
was such as enabled him soon to acquire so consider-' 
able a fund of , knowledge as rendered him an useful 
a&d acceptabl)^ preacher, both to the white and black 
inhabitants of Philadelphia. He possessed, as we be- 
lieve, the confidence and esteem of his brethren in the 
ministry, some of whom are among the most eminent^ 
in our nation, for piety, talents and literature. Had it 
not been for the benevolence of Union Presbytery, this 
man, amiable as he was, in the possession of the stron- 
gest powers of mind, and all the fine sensibilities of 
our nature, ornamented and improved by the renova- 
ting influence of divine grace, must have worn through- 
out life the iron yoke of cruel and unjust bondage! 
He is now released from all his labors and sufferings ; 
and though here he was covered with a sable skin, and 
was once a poor, dejected and despised slave, we have 
reason to believe he will shine forever as a bright star 
in the firmament of eternal glory ! . Who Iwould not 
execrate the chains that bound such a man ! And such 



LEfTER IV. M 

the chains of slavery did bind, and thousands such they 
do still bind, and cause, to wear out their lives in degra- 
dation and misery ! Thus the finest powers of soul, 
which the Benevolent Creator has bestowed on man, 
and designed for the noblest exercise, and the noblest 
ends, are defaced ; and deprived of the means of use- 
ful operation, and consequently are entirely lost to the 
world ! Such suppression of useful talent is certainly 
a sore eviL 

Union Presbytery has been the means of liberating 
and educating another man of color, who is now preach- 
ing the gospel. And though he was far advanced in 
life before his liberation, yet he, in preaching excels 
many white men who, in early life, have had all the 
advantages of a liberal education ! I have myself 
heard him deliver some discourses that would be no 
discredit to the best of talents in a state of the best 
improvement ! Thus Union Presbytery has given the 
world to see what vast improvement poor African slaves 
are capable of making, even after spending the prime 
of life in oppressive servitude ! 

It is with pleasure I speak of the benevolence of 
that Presbytery, because they have opposed slavery, 
not in word only, but Tilso in deed. They have done 
much to wipe away the reproach of the hapless and 
degraded Africans, and have shown, by actual experi- 
ment, that they are capable of the highest degree of 
mental improvement, and of filling the most useful sta- 
tions in the civilized world. How much good might 
other Presbyteries, Conferences and Associations do, 
by copying their example ? 

Again, the ignorance which results from slavery is a 
fruitful source of immorality, and conse-quently a very 
serious evil. 



32 LETTERS ON SLAVERY, 

Such is the corrupt tendency of human nature that 
nothing short of a high degree of moral sensation is 
sufficient to restrain man from vicious indulgence. 
And to such sensation knowledge is indispensibly ne- 
cessary. The cannibal kills and eats a man with as 
little consciousness of guilt as a Christian feels when 
he slaughters and eats his animal herds, and yet ra- 
tional pov/ers are alike common to both ; but the one 
is involved in the grossest ignorance, while the other 
possesses a knowledge of the purest standard of moral 
rectitude. Hence the. one is estranged from moral 
feeling while the other possesses it to a high degree, 
and consequently is shocked at the very idea of killing 
and eating his fellow man! The poor African slaves 
are generally raised without moral instruction, and 
therefore, are but little acquainted with the character 
of God, the purity of his law, their obligations to obey 
it, and the happiness that springs from piety, or the 
miseries that arise from vice; and consequently they 
possess a very low degree of moral feeling ; and this 
renders them an easy prey to the corrupt propensities 
of their nature. And in addition to this, they are de- 
prived of such motives to virtuous conduct as arise 
from reputation and honor. Thus every thing that is 
calculated to stem the impetuous torrent of vicious 
feeling, and inspire them with the love of virtue, is 
taken from them. Hence regardless of all consequen- 
ces, they rush into the deepest abyss of the most de- 
structive and degrading immorality ! Their being 
slaves to men becomes the principle means of making 
them slaves to vice. And this evil assumes a still more 
dreadful aspect when it is viewed in connection with 
eternity. It is not only a deep source of misery in 



LETTER IV. S3 

time, but it is also a never failing fountain of suffering 
in the world to come — it incapacitates the soul for ce- 
lestial enjoyment, and prepares it for the doleful abodes 
of endless wo. Oh ! hapless immortals ! Their suffer- 
ings here are but the beginnings of endless sorrows ! 
They are too deeply sunk in pollution to enter, as they 
are, into the pure abodes of bliss, and cruel oppression 
forbids them to bathe in the fountain of life, to wash 
away their guilt, and fit them for the heavenly state ! 
The key of knowledge is taken away, the path of life 
is closed up, and the immortal mind is sealed in ever- 
lasting night! 'Where there is no vision the people 
perish.' And alas ! millions of poor, disconsolate slaves 
have no vision — the lamp of life is not permitted to 
illuminate their dreary huts, or cheer their wo-worn 
hearts with the soul-enlivening beams of heavenly 
light! Thick moral darkness, without interruption 
dwells in all their abodes, and the shades of endless 
despair settle around them — they have nothing in time 
but the prospect of misery and toil, and nothing beyond, 
but the prospect of interminable wo ! Thus slavery 
chains men down to a life of labor and sufferings in 
this world, and by depriving them of the means of sal- 
vation, chains them down to everlasting misery in the 
world to come ! And thousands of the most worthless 
of our race are not only rioting on the wreck of liber- 
ty, but actually rioting on the wreck of the immortal 
mind — the very bread they eat is dyed in the blood of 
souls ! 'O my soul, come not thou into their secret; 
unto their assembly, mine honor, be not thou united ;' 
for their tyranny is more terrible than death, and their 
avarice more cruel than the grave ! 

You tell me that many of the poor Africans will be 



34 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

thankful that they were brought from the dark regions 
of Africa, and made slaves in a land of gospel light, 
where they have become the subjects of salvation ! 
And on this ground many justify themselves in holding 
slaves, and on the same principle the Jews might have 
justified themselves in crucifying the Saviour ; for by 
it redemption was brought to a ruined world ; but we 
ought to remember that it is the province of the 
Almighty to bring good out of evil, and that it is not 
the province of man to ' Do evil that good may come.' 
We have no right to promote the curse of slavery be- 
cause a benevolent Providence sometimes turns it into 
a blessing. The question with us is not whether the 
Africans are now in a better or worse condition than 
they would have been in their own country ; but this 
is the question ; is it just for us to enslave them? and 
by it render them miserable in life, and deprive them 
of the means of happiness beyond the grave? It is 
undeniable that their being slaves to men involves 
them in ignorance, and makes them slaves of vice, and 
so becomes a source of endless misery. 

Let me now in the close of this letter invite you to 
call up all the tender sensibilities of your nature, and 
drop a tear of compassion over the vast multitudes of 
hapless Africans who are marching on to eternity fast- 
bound in the fetters of ignorance and vice — pursue 
them to the grave, pursue them beyond it, and see what 
dreadful misery slavery entails on our fellow-immortals ! 
And while your sympathies are aroused, remember 
that you have practically sanctioned slavery, which is 
the source of their terrible sufferings, and that it is not 
all your kindness to your slaves can atone for such a 
crime! Remember, you must 'Do justly, love mercy 
— break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free,' 



f 35 



: LETTER V. 

Dear Brother : 

The longer I reflect upon involuntary slavery, the 
more I abhor it, as being a combination of the most 
flagrant injustice and cruelty. It makes an innocent 
man the property of another, who may, if he please, 
deprive him of all the comforts of life, and subject him 
to a thousand suflcrings. This appears to me as most 
unjust and cruel, when I consider that the very best of 
men are fallen creatures, and, as such, naturally dispos- 
ed to tyranize over the subjects of their power. The 
history of the world is but one general display of tyr- 
annical oppression — every nation has been made to ag- 
onize beneath the weight of cruel despotism — every 
sect or party, that has in any age been vested with ab- 
solute power, whether civil or ecclesiastical, has man- 
ifested a strong tendency towards tyranny. Indeed, 
such corrupt tendency marks the whole character of a 
fallen man, and is often displayed where the God of 
nature, seems to have placed the strongest guard 
against it — parents, frequently break over the strong 
barrier of natural affection, and oppress their own off*- 
spring. It is true, that some men are more humane 
than others, yet even such are liable to tyranize, in 
some instances, over the subjects of their power. 
Hence David, though one of the most humane princes 
of antiquity, exercised most horrible tyranny in the 
case of Uriah: and, the personal attendants of the Sa- 
vior, though they had heard from his sacred lips the 
most tender lessons of compassion, were anxious to 



36 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

command fire down from heaven, in order to consume 
at once a whole city ! Thus we see how the corrup- 
tions of the very best of men, occasionally triumph 
over them, and, with dreadful impetuosity, hurry them 
into scenes of most shocking cruelty ! Hence, we 
conclude that the very best of men are disqualified for 
the proper exercise of such absolute power as invol- 
untary slavery confers on the proprietor of slaves. And 
how much less the worst of men are qualified for the 
suitable exercise of such power, will appear more evi- 
dently, while we consider the immense degree to which 
it extends. 

I. The law of involuntary slavery makes the slave the 
property of his master, who is no more bound to supply 
his natural wants, than he is to supply those of his beasts. 
But notwithstanding the slave is shoved down to the 
rank of the beast, he is still a man, and needs comfort- 
able clothing to shield him from the chilling blasts of 
winter, as well as for the sake of decent appearance. 
And this the master is not bound to give him, but may 
either clothe him in rags, or turn him naked, as an in- 
ordinate love of gain may dictate. Hence in some 
parts of Alabama, you may see slaves in the cotton 
fields without so much as even a single rag upon them, 
shivering before the chilling blasts of mid- winter. In 
some sections of Old Virginia, they have been seen 
naked as in the hour of their birth, attending on their 
master's table. And doubtless the like may be seen in 
South Carolina, Georgia and Mississippi — Indeed in 
every slaveholding stater; many slaves suffer extremely, 
both while they labor and while they sleep, for want of 
clothing to keep them warm. Often they are driven 
through frost and snow without either stocking or shoe 



LETTER V. 37 

until the path they tread is dyed with the blood that is- 
sues from their frost- worn limbs! And when they 
return to their miserable huts at night they find not 
there the means of comfortable rest ; but on the cold 
ground they must lie without covering, and shiver, while 
they slumber. 

In connexion with their extreme sufferings occasion- 
ed by want of clothing I shall notice those which arise 
from the want of food. As the making of grain is the 
main object of their mancipation, masters will sacrifice 
as little as possible in giving them food. It often hap- 
pens that what will barely keep them alive, is all that 
a cruel ava,rice will allow them. Hence, in some in- 
stances, their allowance has been reduced to a single 
pint of corn each during the day and night. And some 
have no better allowance than a small portion of cotton 
seed ! ! And in some places the best allowance is a 
peck of corn each during the week, while perhaps they 
are not permitted to taste meat so much as once in the 
course of seven years, exc.ept what little they may be 
able to steal ! Thousands of them are pressed with 
the gnawings of cruel hunger during their whole lives 
— an insatiable avarice will not grant them, a single 
comfortable meal to satisfy the cravings of nature ! 
Such cruelty far exceeds the powers of description !* 

* Alas poor, hapless slaves are doom'd to toiJ^ 
With naked limbs, beneatlvthe direful i'age 
Of fiercely burning suns, and chilling blasts 
That beat upon them with alternate strokes 5 
While long years of fierce starvation onward 
Roll, with lingering pace, and the grating wheels 
Of time, that measure out the dreary span 
Of -hard, servile life, scarcely seem to move, 
And the toil-worn and weatherbeaten flesh 
Longs for the peaceful, lasting sleep of deaths 
And seeks a shelter, in the silent grave, 
From hunger^ toil and raging elements. 

D 



38 LETTERS ON SJjAVERY. 

You tell me that ' If the poor negroes were set free^ 
they would either starve or turn to highway robbing.' 
But certainly their situation could not be worse than it 
now is with regard to starvation and robbing. Thou- 
sands of them are really starving in a. state of slavery^ 
and are under the direful necessity of stealing what- 
ever they can find, that will satisfy the cravings of hun- 
ger ; and I have little doubt but many actually starve 
to death. Should they starve when free the fault 
would, in some measure, be their own, and should they 
steal they could be punished for it, in the same manner 
that white thieves are punished for their thefts. 

II. The slaveholder has it in his power, to violate the 
chastity of his slaves. And not a few are beastly 
enough to exercise such power. Hence it happens 
that, in some families, it is difficult to distinguish the 
free children from the slaves. It is sometimes the case, 
that the largest part of the master's own children are 
born, not of his wife, but of the wives and daughters 
of his slaves, whom he has basely prostituted as well 
as enslaved. His poor slaves are his property and 
therefore must yield to his lusts as well as to his ava- 
rice ! He may perpetrate upon them the most horrid 
crimes, and they have no redress! The wretched slave 
must, without a murmuring -word, give up his wife, or 
daughter, for prostitution, should his master be vile 
enough to demand her of him ! It must be a horrid 
crime for any State to give one man such power over 
another, and such crime has every slaveholding State 
committed. I am far from Avishing to intimate that this 
power is generally so grossly exercised as it might be. 
Some slaveholders are, doubtless, as chaste as any other 
people, and conscientiously endeavor to preserve the 



LETTER V. jy 

chastity of their slaves ; but I wish to show the extent 
of the power with which they are vested, and tke 
shocking manner in which it is sometimes exercised. 

In addition to this, we may remark, that the proprie- 
tors of slaves have it in their power to crowd the males 
and females together, in such a manner as is calculated 
to induce criminal intercourse, and to the great disgrace 
of human nature, this is sometimes done for the base 
purpose of breeding slaves for market, as though they 
were mere animals and not human beings ! 

In this place I will further remark, that slavery not 
merely puts the chastity of the slave in the power of 
the master, but also exposes it to attacks frOm every 
lecherous class of men. Slaves cannot bear testimony 
against people that are white and free — hence a wide 
-door is opened for the practice, both of violence and se- 
duction without detection ; and the consequences of 
this are exceedingly manifested in every slaveholding 
country— every town and its vicinity soon become 
crowded with mulattoes. In this respect slavery is the 
very sink of filthiness, and the source of every hateful 
abomination. It seems to me astonishing that any 
government, much more that of the United States, 
should sanc-tion such a source of monstrous crime as 
slavery evidently is ! And I am still more astonished 
that you, my Brother, should countenance it in the least 
degree, either in theory or practice ! It is fraught with 
such horrible abominations as ought to shock you, and 
cause you to shrink from its first approaches. I would 
rather beg my bread from door to door, long as I live, 
than enslave, even the meanest of my fellow creatures. 
My soul abhors the crime. 

I intend to dwell more upon the horrors of slavery 
in my next fabewell brother. 



(40) 



LETTER VI. 

Affectionate Brother : 

In the preceding letter T commenced pointing out 
the extent of the slaveholder's power over his slaves, 
and therefore, in the present, I intend to continue the 
course thus begun. 

I have already shown that the proprietors of slaves 
may deprive them of food and raiment, and even violate 
their chastity as well as place them in such circum- 
stances as are unfavorable to purity. 

And did their power extend no further than these 
particulars, it would in other respects be well for poor 
slaves ; but alas, these are merely the beginnings of 
their miseries ! And therefore in connection with the 
remarks made in the preceding letter, I further observe 
that the slaveholder's power extends over the married 
relation among his slaves. He may prohibit them from 
forming that relation, and may also violate it after it is 
formed, and the exercise of such power often becomes 
a source of great misery. 

One of the most imperious laws of human nature is 
that a man shall leave his father and his mother, and 
cleave unto his wife. ' And the two shall be one flesh.' 
Mutual affection between the parties is the foundation 
upon which the raafried relation oug&t to be formed, 
and it is also the principal source of happiness after its 
formation. Hence the voices of nature and revelation 
unite in declaring that every man who has come to 
mature age, ought to have liberty to possess the person 
-af his choice when it is reciprocated by the person 



lETTER Vi. 41 

ciiosen. But a domineering master may prohibit his 
slave from enjoying the object of his choice, and doom 
him either to choose perpetual celibacy, or to enter 
into the nuptial relation with a person on whom he 
cannot place his affections ; and such alternative must 
be attended with most injurious effects. Perpetual 
celibacy, though not in every instance to be considered 
criminal, is evidently opposed to one of the strongest 
currents of nature, and one which, sometimes, by un- 
natural obstruction inundates the whole man, and in- 
volves him in dreadful ruin. And to marry a person 
for whom there is no affection, is to enter on a life of 
unabating misery — it opens a door to such domestic 
broils as nothing but final separation can terminate — 
it often becomes the means of the basest lewdness, and 
tlms produces incalculable evil. We may reasonably 
conclude that much of the want of chastity which man- 
ifestly exists among slaves, has originated in the unjust 
control of their affections. 

Again, the proprietors of slaves have power not 
merely to prohibit them from marrying the persons of 
their choice, but may even separate them from such 
after the nuptial relation is formed. Indeed slavery 
seems to be almost entirely incompatible with the mar- 
ried state. Slaves, like other property, are liable to be 
taken by execution and sold for debt, and so must fail 
into the hands' of the highest bidders, who may drive 
them to some distant section of the country and sepa- 
rate them from those to whom they are bound by the 
endearing relation of marriage. And they are liable 
to similar separation by falling into the hands of heirs 
who may scatter them abroad into far distant places. 
And we may further remark, that many wilfully sell 
d2 



42 . LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

their married slaves to men, who follow the horrible 
practice of driving them to distant markets, without 
paying the least regard to any of the tender relations 
of life ! Hence it often happens that the poor s-lave, 
while laboring in the field, is suddenly seized by the 
cruel slave-driver, bound fast with iron fetters, and 
hurried off to a far distant market, without being per* 
mitted to return to his hapless hut, and there pour out 
his bursting floods of sorrow in taking his final leave of 
his disconsolate wife and children ! ! Had he ten thou- 
sand worlds, he would gladly give them all for the warm 
embraces of his affectionate wife and fondling babes ! 
Oh ! what would he not give for the privilege of bathing 
the objects of his affection in his parting tears ! The 
inmost recesses of his nature ardently crave the min- 
gled floods of final separation ! ! But Alas ! he must 
see the objects of his love no more ! no more enjoy the 
warm embrace ! And no more must he clasp to his 
tender heart his prattling babes ! ! Hopeless man ! 
witness the anguish of his heart! see what torrents 
gush from his eyes ! Behold his downcast and sorrow- 
ful aspect ! Listen to his plaintive sighs ! Hear his 
piteous cries and agonizing groans! His trembling 
nature, racked in every part, by the rising billows of 
sudden and overAvhelming grief calls for pity in accents 
melting as the doleful tones of expiring life ! But all 
is in vain ! The cruel slave-driver, long accustomed 
to such scenes of sorrow, remains unmoved by the ago- 
nizing groans of suffering humanity ! He is so far 
estranged from every tender feeling, that he even sports 
himself with the sufferings of his fellow creatures ! the 
groans of the poor slave seem to be as music to his 
ears, and the blood elicited by his torturing lash ap- 



LETTER VI. 43 

pears to be delightful to his eyes ! ! In vain the be- 
reaved husband, with languishing eye looks for pity— . 
the cruel whip urges him on to a far distant land — 
away he must move, loaded with weighty fetters, which 
which are but faint emblems of his still more weighty 
sorrows — his affections linger far behind — his mind 
wanders far back, and hovers round the now disconso- 
late hut, where once the kind attentions of an affection- 
ate wife, and the innocent prattling of his sportive 
babes dispelled the gloom, and sweetened the toils of 
a servile life, O could he now awake and find that all 
has been a frightful dream, how would his sorrowful 
heart rejoice ! but alas ! all is dreadful reality. The 
last hope is gone ! All that could cheer the heart and 
bear up the desponding mind, amidst the sufferings and 
toils of unjust and cruel bondage, is gone ! forever 
gone ! Horrible tyrants have robbed him of the last 
drop of consolation ! His wife and children uncon- 
Bcious of what has happened, long and anxiously wait 
his return ! But ah ! he is never to return ! Never 
again to cheer the dreary hut with his presence, or 
gladden the hearts of his wife and children by his visits 
of love ! His innocent hands are bound with cruel 
fetters, and wicked monsters are dragging him to a far 
distant land where he must throughout life endure 
still harder bondage, and even that embittered by the 
loss of all that is dear to an affectionate father and 
tender husband. At length the sad news arrives at 
the miserable hut that the father and husband is gone ! 
gone in chains ! gone to a distant land ! gone to re- 
turn no more ! gone ! not down to the peaceful cham- 
bers of death, no more to weep ! no more to sigh ! 
but gone to a land where slavery sits upon her ebon 



44 LETTEkS ON SLAVERY. 

throne) and thence dispenses all her blackest horrors ! 
A land, where starvation reigns in all its meagre 
forms! And where cruelty deals out long years of 
death ! Hapless mother ! Hapless children ! By re- 
lentless tyranny bereaved of every hope, of all that is 
dear on earth, and doomed to linger out a servile life 
in hopeless grief! The little hut is filled with throbs, 
and sighs, and agonizing groans ! It is now more like 
the abodes of ruined spirits, in which doleful despair 
in midnight horror reigns, than like the abodes of man ! 

In the public papers of slaveholding States you may 
see fathers, and mothers, and husbands, and wives, and 
children advertised for public sale, and that in con- 
nexion with a variety of beasts ! And in those States, 
while droves of slaves are collecting for a distant mar- 
ket, the public prisons are frequently crowded with 
parents and children, and husbands and wives, who 
are thus imprisoned for no other crime than that of 
loving their corresponding relatives ! And as soon as 
the drove is completed, they are loaded with chains, 
and driven like beasts to a distant market ! Thus in 
the boasted land of freedom you may hear the clank- 
ing chains of the most horrible oppression ! Yes, in 
America, the far famed America ! you may hear the 
clankings of the chains that bind innocent husbands, 
and wives, and parents, and children, in order that they 
may be forever separated from the objects of their af- 
fections, and all that is dear to them in life ! ! ! Could 
the tyrannical Pharoah be more cruel than are the 
slaveholding States ? 

These horrible things happen not merely where 
slavery assumes its worst form; but very frequently 
take place where it wears its mildest aspect— they often 



LETTER VI* 



45 



happen, even in Kentucky— and some years since a 
respectable petition praying for the prohibition of slave 
driving and its attendant cruelties, was forwarded to 
the Legislature, by a considerable number of the most 
humane citizens of that State, but was rejected ! And 
thus Kentucky has by the voice of her Legislature, 
said that she will not prohibit one of the most shocking 
cruelties ever inflicted on man ! She has said she will 
not regard the tears, and groans, and dreadful suffer- 
ings of the poor and despised Africans. She has 
sanctioned all the horrors of slave-driving, and she as 
a State must answer for violating the most sacred rights 
of man. 

Since the rejection of this humane petition one of 
the grossest insults has, in that State, been offered to 
the general government of the United States, as well 
as to the most tender feelings of humanity, by the 
slave-driving Stone and Kinningham, of Bourbon Co. 
Kentucky. These unfeeling wretches purchased a 
considerable drove of slaves, how many of them were 
separated from husbands and wives, I will not pretend 
to say, and having chained a number of them together, 
hoisted over them the flag of American liberty, and 
with the music of two violins marched the wo- worn, 
heart-broken and sobbing creatures through the town 
town of Paris ! * Thus in horrible contempt of the 

* In relation to this matter I will give you the statements of 
the Rev. James H. Dickey; who met the drove to which I allude 
before it entered Paris. 

' In the summer of 1822, as I returned with my family from a 
visit to tho Barrens of Kentucky, I witnessed a scene such as I 
never witnessed before, and such as I hope never to witness 
again. Having passed through Paris in Bourbon county, Ky. 
the sound of music (beyond a little rising ground) attracted my 
attention, I looked forward, and saw the flag of my country wa- 
ving. Supposing that I was about to meet a military parade^ I 



46 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

American government innocent men are led in chains 
beneath its flag ! And the eyes of the sublimely soar- 
ing Eagle of American liberty are highly insulted while 
she is made to hover over the detestable chains of cruel 
bondage! And the feelings of humanity are shocked 
at seeing the most oppressive sorrows of suffering in- 
nocence mocked with all the lightness of sportive 
music ! And who can help feeling indignant at seeing 
the American flag becoming the derision of tyrants ? 

O that every tender heart could be made acquainted 
with the sorrows of the poor enslaved Africans ! O 
that every sympathetic ear could hear their agonizing 
groans. Then would the energies of our nation arise 
and demand their relief. But their sufferings are un- 

drove hastily to the side of the road j and having' gained the top 
of the ascent, I discovered (I suppose) about forty black men all 
chained together after the following manner ; each of them was 
handcuffed, and the3^ were arranged in rank and file. -A chain 
perhaps 40 feet long, the size of a fifth-horse-chain, was stretched 
between the two ranks, to which short chains were joined, which 
connected with the handcuffs. Behind them were, I suppose, 
about thirtj'^ women, in double rank, the couples tied hand to 
hand. A solemn sadness sat on every countenance, and the 
dismal silence of this march of despair was interrupted only by 
the sound of two violins ; yes, as if to add insult to injury, the 
foremost couple were furnished with a violin apiece 3 the second 
couple were ornamented with cockades, while near- the centre 
waved the Republican flag carried by a hand literally in chains. 
I perhaps have mistaken some punctilios of the arrangement, for 
' my soul was sick,' my feelings were mingled and pungent. As 
a man, I sympathised with suffering humanity, as a Christian I 
mourned over the transgressions of God's holy law, and as a re- 
publican I felt indignant, to see the flag of my beloved country, 
thus insulted. I could not forbear exclaiming to the lordly driver 
who rode at his ease along side. ' Heaven will curse that man 
who engages in such traffic, and the government that protects 
him in it.' I pursued my journey till evening, and put up for the 
night 5 when I mentioned the scene I had witnessed, ' Ah ! ' 
(cried my land-lady) ' That is my brother.' From her I learned 
that his name is Stone, of Bourbon county, Kentucky, in partner- 
ship with one Kinningham of Paris j and that a few days before 



liETTER VI. . 47 

known! They far transcend the highest description 

that can be given by the pens of mortals ! 

Eternal sovereign of the sky^ 

Wilt thou not hear the negro's sigh ? 

Wilt thou not break his galling chains^ 

And ease him from his dreadful pains ? 

Yes, mancipators all must feel 

Thy vengeance like a racking wheel, 

That on them shall forever turn, 

Long as thy ceaseless wrath shall burn ! 

Beware, brother, lest this vengeance may light on 
you ! 

Perhaps you are tired hearing of the horrors of slave- 
ry, but I feel disposed to dwell longer upon them. 

Adieu for the present. 



he had purchased a Negro woman from a man in Nicholas coun- 
ty 3 she refused to go with him ; he attempted to compel her, but 
she defended herself. Without farther ceremony, he stepped 
back, and by a blow on the side of her head with the butt of his 
whip brought her to the ground 5 he tied her, and drove her off. 
I learned farther, that besides the drove I had seen, there were 
about thirty shut up in the Paris prison for safe keepings to be 
added to the company, and that they were designed for the Or- 
leans market. And to this they are doomed for no other crime, 
than that of a black skin and curled locks. 

Ah me what wish can prosper or what praj^er, 
For merchants rich in cargoes of despair ? 
Who drive a. loathsome traffic, gauge and span, 
And buy the muscles, and the bones of man. 

COWPER. 

Shall I not visit for these things, saith the Lord ? shall not my 
soul be avenged on such a nation as this ? 
But I forbear and subscribe myself yours, 

JAMES H. DICKEY. 
Sept. 30, 1824,' 



48 ) 



LETTER VIL 

Affectionate Brother : 

I must still continue to unfold the extent of the slave- 
holder's power over his slaves. 

In addition to what we have already said upon this 
subject, we remark that slaves are moral agents, and 
therefore are accountable creatures, and bound to wor- 
ship God according to the dictates of his word ; but a 
wicked master may actually prohibit them from obey- 
ing the ordinances of God, deprive them of hearing 
the gospel, and even compel them to do what is abso- 
lutely forbidden by the divine law, and what is entirely 
contrary to the dictates of their own consciences. And 
thus he is permitted to tyrannize over the consciences of 
men, which is the worst of all tyranny. The rights of 
conscience have, by all good men in every age of the 
world, been deemed most sacred. For them thousands 
of our ancestors beyond the great water shed the last 
drop of their blood, and for them thousands more fled 
to the savage wilderness of America, and have here 
erected the standard of religious liberty. 'They have 
made the solitary places glad, and the wilderness to 
blossom as the rose,' But in this now highly favored 
land, thousands of innocent men are enslaved, and de- 
prived of the rights of conscience. They are, in many 
instances, prohibited from attending either to the con- 
cerns of their own souls, or those of their children. 
And nothing but some extraordinary exercise of divine 
sovereignty can prevent the wicked slaveholder from 
fixing the eternal destiny of his slaves ! To give fal- 



LETTER VII. 49 

len men such absolute control over the eternal destinies 
of the immortal mind is cruel beyond all description ! 
You perhaps may reply, that parents exercise a similar' 
control over the destinies of their children ; and that 
expressly by divine permission. To this I answer that 
the absolute power of parents over their children is 
sweetly tempered with parental affection ; and is thus 
strongly guarded against injurious effects, and it ex- 
tends no further than minor age, and they are solemnly 
commanded to use it with lenity, and to bring up their 
' Children in the nurture -and admonition of the Lord.' 
Hence it is evident that the power of slaveholders over 
their slaves, and that of parents over their children are 
essentially different — the one, is mild, natural and ne- 
cessary, and the other is unnatural, unnecessary and 
cruel. 

Again, the proprietors of slaves may exact from them 
excessive labor, and thus lay upon them an intolerable 
burden during life. It is well known that many mas- 
ters are so avaricious that they cannot be satisfied with 
a reasonable quantity of labor. The manner in which 
-these unfeeling monsters exact labor from their poor 
slaves may be illustrated by a single fact, the knowl- 
edge of v/hicli came to me from a respectable source, 
and though it appears most shocking to every humane 
feeling, yet I believe it can be fully attested. 

A wealthy citizen of Georgia, purchased, on ship- 
board, six African girls, who probably were directly 
from Africa, and having brought them home, he put 
them into the hands of his overseer, and ordered him 
to assign them a certain portion of labor during each 
day of the week, and in case they should fail to perform 
it, he was commanded to give them a considerable nura- 
E 



50 X,ETTERS ON SLAVERY 

ber of lashes each, and to add the remainder of the 
task to the next day's labor, and in case they should 
fail to perform the whole he was ordered to add to the 
nmiiber of lashes in proportion to the failure, and still 
to add the deficiency to the next day's labor, and thus 
he was daily to increase both the labor and stripes in 
case of failure. The overseer, hard hearted as he was, 
expostulated with him, and assured him that the labor 
was more than the girls were able to perform, but he 
swore with a tremendous oath that they should do it or 
die. The poor creatures commenced the dreadful task, 
but being unaccustomed to such labor, their hands were 
soon worn to the quick, this they endured with patience, 
and did all they could to perform what was assigned 
them, but they were totally unable to accomplish it ; they 
failed on the first day, and received the cruel lashes ! 
The next day morning with sore backs and bleeding 
hands they attempted the enlarged task — their hoehan- 
dles were soon made* red with their innocent blood — 
they labored with great assiduity, but they could not 
perform the unreasonable task, and consequently re- 
ceived the enlarged number of lashes ! On the third 
morning they commenced again, but the task was so 
much enlarged that all hope of performing it was en- 
tirely precluded, and the enormously increased number 
of lashes became certain — the unhappy creatures, de- 
spaired of life, and concluded that they must inevitably 
die under the torturing lash, unless they could despatch 
themselves in some other method. This appeared to 
be the only means of escaping the most terrible cruel- 
ty. Hence they formed and executed the dreadful de- 
sign of hanging themselves ! The horn blew for din- 
ner, all started to their huts, but these unfortunate girls 



LETTER VII. 51 

lingered behind, and unobserved by the rest of the 
company turned aside into a thicket, and there all six 
hanged themselves ! They were soon missed, and 
search was quickly made for them — they were immedi- 
ately found, and the cruel master enraged by his disap- 
pointment and loss, made every possible exertion to 
bring them back to life, that they might again fall under 
the weight of his vengeance ! but all his attempts were 
in vain — their souls were gone into awful eternity, and 
had their eternal destiny unalterably fixed ! And be- 
ing exceedingly exasperated on finding that they had 
escaped from his hand, he ordered a hole to be dug for 
them, and caused them to be tumbled into it like mere 
animal carcasses, while he vented the most awful im- 
precations upon them! And the overseer was ordered 
to exact from the rest of his slaves, what labor he in- 
tended them to perform. 

Thus we see that a single tyrant has driven six poor, 
helpless females out of life by exacting from them ex- 
cessive labor. And who can estimate the sum of sim- 
ilar cruelties, that are practised upon the poor Afri- 
cans, by the many thousand tyrants, who, from the 
slaveholding States, have literally received license for 
tyrannical exercise ? To permit men to hold slaves is 
in reality the same thing as to give them license to 
commit cruelties, and those even of the most shocking 
kind. By such license the poor African girls we have 
just mentioned perished, and by it thousands are daily 
dropping into eternity from under the grevious burdens 
of excessive toil. That men will work their slaves to 
excess, must be expected when the inordinate love of 
gain is the predominating principle in . the whole sys- 
tem of involuntary slavery. This principle induces 



52 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

many slaveholders to employ ^such overseers as are 
destitute of humane feeling-, and naturally prepense 
to cruelty, and thus well prepared to drive poor slaves 
to the highest degree of excessive labor. And in some 
instances they are given such an interest in the pend- 
ing crops as stimulates them to the greatest severity in 
driving the miserable creatures whom they oversee. 
Thus the principles of avarice and cruelty in heaping 
most oppressive burdens of labor upon slaves, and that, 
under such circumstances, their situation is most de- 
plorable, must be obvious to every one capable of re- 
i!ection» 

The same principle which induces some to place 
'their slaves under the most merciless overseers, prompts 
others to take theirs to public places and let them for 
hire, to the highest bidders. In this way slaves often 
fall into the hands of the most cruel tyrants the world 
can produce, and consequently are most grievously op- 
pressed by excessive labor — they must undergo what- 
ever an insatiable avarice is pleased to lay upon them, 
and, like the ever yawning grave, it never says it is 
enough — it never compassionates the weary limbs of 
the poor enslaved Africans, nor proposes rest to those 
whom it chains down to servile life. It even drives 
them to the laborious task while they are sinking under 
the influence of mortal disease ! 

Those, who are unacquainted with the depravity of 
the human heart, may be disposed to believe it impos- 
sible that any should be so cruel as to drive their slaves 
to work while they are laboring under mortal disease ; 
but it can be established by the best of testimony that 
slaves have been thus driven, and that almost to the 
moment of expiration ! 



LETTER VII. 53 

A respectable gentleman, who is now a citizen of 
Flemingsburg, Fleming county, Kentucky, was, when 
in the State of South Carolina, invited by a slaveholder, 
to walk with him and take a view of his farm. He com- 
plied with the invitation thus given, and in their walk 
they came to the place where the slaves were at \york, 
and found the overseer whipping one of them very se- 
verely for not keeping pace with his fellows — in vain 
the poor fellow alleged that he was sick, and could not 
work. The master seemed to think all was well enough, 
hencfi he and the gentleman passed on. In the space 
of an hour they returned by the same way, and found 
that the poor slave, who had been whipped as they first 
passed by the field of labor, was actually dead ! This 
I have from unquestionable authority. 

Thus we see that a merciless overseer will push his 
liapless slave for his labor, to the last moment, and fol- 
low him with the torturing lash into the very gates of 
eternity ! 

Similar cruelty has happened in Kentucky. In that 
State an unfeeling woman compelled a female slave to 
labor during the space of four days after she had re- 
ceived the mortal attack ! Thus are the poor creatures 
driven while their mortal frames are able to move. And 
the manner in which they are often treated after they 
are so reduced by disease as to be no longer able to 
move is equally cruel. 

A respectable physician of my acquaintance and now 
residing in the State of Alabama, did in that State at- 
tend upon twenty slaves, who were confined by severe 
fevers, and that in an open pen without roof, and thus 
were exposed to every shower of rain that fell during 
the time of their sickness. 
e2 



54 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

This seems to be almost incredible ; but the source, 
from which I have it, is so unquestionable as to remove 
from my mind every doubt of its truth. 

You may soon expect to hear from me again. 

I AM TOURS, &C. 



(55 



LETTER VIII. 

Dear Brother: 

I design, in the present letter, to remark upon the 
extent of the slaveholder's power in relation to the in- 
fliction of corporeal punishments. 

It is undeniable that the proprietors of slaves may- 
punish them in any manner which a cruel spirit of re- 
venge may dictate, provided they do not break limbs 
or take life. Hence they may torture them extremely 
during many years, and cause them to endure more 
than a thousand ordinary deaths, and yet neither take 
life nor even break a limb. Jlence, I apprehend, there 
never has been, among men, a law productive of more 
misery than the one whieh permits men not merely to 
enslave, but even torture their fellow-creatures ac- 
cording to the dictates of every vengeful passion. I 
cannot express the indignation which I feel, when con- 
templating the injustice and cruelty of this detestable 
law — I abhor it more than I do the most loathsome 
carcass, and I detest all who, either in theory or prac- 
tive, give it their sanction — but I am too passionate, 
let me recall this harsh expression, which has been 
dictated by the tumultuous passions of ray soul, aroused 
to the highest pitch of indignant feeling, by the horri- 
ble scenes of cruelty that were presented to my mind! 
My flighty imagination added much to the tumult of 
passion by persuading me, for the moment, that I my- 
self was a slave, and with my wife and children placed 
under the reign of terror — I began in reality to feel for 
myself, my wife, and my children — the thoughts of 



56 LETTERS ON SLAVEEY. 

being whipped, at the pleasure of a morose and capri- 
cious master, aroused the strongest feelings of resent- 
ment; but when I fancied that the cruel lash was 
approaching my wife and children, and my imagination 
depicted in lively colors, their tears, their shrieks, and 
bloody stripes, every indignant principle of my nature 
was excited to the highest degree, and I could not well 
avoid execrating the law that permitted such injustice 
and cruelty, and. my soul detested all who either in 
theory or practice, gave it their sanction. But my mind 
has now returned fi-om its reverie, and I find that these 
dreadful sufferings are not so near home as I had 
imagined — the enslaved Africans have to endure them, 
and not I and my family, and therefore my boisterous 
feelings are sinking into a calm, and I begin to relent 
my harshness — -And you, my brother, will readily for- 
give it, if you will but bring the subject home to 
yourself by imagining that you are a slave and as such 
subjected to the unrelenting lash of a cruel master,, 
who delights- to show his authority, and to treat you 
with the utmost indignity. And unless you will do 
this, i am afraid you will be often offended with my 
warmth and severity. We are naturally too callous to 
the sufferings of others, and consequently prone to look 
upon them with cold indifference until, in imagination, 
we identify ourselves- with the sufferers, and make 
their sufferings our own. And the moment we do this, 
our whole nature teems with sympathy, our feelings 
become impetuous, and the wings of passion bear us 
away to the abodes of suffering humanity, there to ad- 
minister relief. When I look upon slavery as a distant 
thing, and inflicted upon an indifferent race of beings, 
it seems to wear a tolerable aspect, but when I bring 



LETTER Vlir. 57 

it near, inspect it closely, and find that it is inflicted 
on men and women, who possess the same nature and 
feelings with myself, my sensibility is immediately 
aroused — but when I, who sustain the relations of hus- 
band and father, see a husband and father whipped 
severely in the presence of his wife and children, and 
• that perhaps merely to gratify the caprice of an illna- 
tured master, my feelings become indignant — and when 
I see the mother most cruelly scourged in the presence 
of her husband and children, my feelings grow intoler- 
able — my soul sickens at the sight, and my indignation 
almost prompts me to unlawful deeds of vengeance. 
But how. can I quell my tumultuous passions, when in 
addition to all this, I see the poor little children whip- 
ped in the presence of their parents, until their little 
backs are literally covered with blood ? Had you my 
brother, to endure all these cruelties, would you not 
abhor the law that permitted them to be inflicted upon 
you ? And would you not detest all the people, who, 
either in theory or practice, give it their sanction ? 
Indeed such a law must appear most detestable to eve- 
ry one that views it in its real nature and tendency — 
it sanctions the most tragical scenes of cruelty ever 
witnessed among men — it permits the slaveholder to 
bind his fellow man, strip him naked, and whip him on 
the bare skin, with the keenest whips that art can in- 
vent, and that just so long as the most vengeful passion 
may dictate, provided the life is spared ! Hence many 
poor slaves are stript naked, stretched and tied across 
barrels, or large logs, and tortured with the keenest 
lashes, during hours and even whole days, until their 
flesh is mangled to the very bones. Others are stript 
and hung up by the arms, their feet are tied together, 



58 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

and the end of a heavy piece of timber is put between 
their legs in order to stretch their bodies, and so pre- 
pare them for the torturing lash~and in this situation 
they are often whipt until their bodies are covered 
with blood and mangled flesh, and in order to add the 
greatest keenness to their sufferings, their wounds are 
washed with liquid salt ! And some of the miserable 
creatures are permitted to hang in that position until 
they actually expire ; some die under the lash, others 
linger about for sometime, and at length die of their 
wounds, and many survive, and endure again similar 
torture. These bloody scenes are constantly exhibit- 
ed in every slaveholding country — thousands of whips 
are every day stained in African blood ! Even the 
poor females are not permitted to escape these shock- 
ing cruelties. Of this I will give you an instance. 

A certain citizen of Kentucky, purchased a piece of 
furniture, and after he brought it home, his wife un- 
fortunately broke some small part of it, and that in the 
presence of a neighboring gentleman ; she neverthe- 
less charged it upon a black girl of about seventeen 
years of age. The girl honestly declared hef inno- 
coFiCe, but the mistress persisted in her charge against 
her. At length the brutish master seized the poor un- 
fortunate girl, drew her clothes up over her head, 
hanged her by them to the limb of a tree, and in that 
shameful position whipt her several times very severe- 
ly. By the extremity of torture she was sometimes 
forced to say that she did break the furniture, but in 
the moment of respite, she would honestly deny it 
again — and this subjected her to more torture. Fortu- 
nately for the poor girl the gentleman who was present 
when the mistress broke the furniture, happened to be 



LETTER VIII. 59 

passing by — he paused in amazement at the shocking- 
scene' — he soon discovered the cause of the cruelty — 
indignation overcame him — he approached the brutish 
master and told him that his own wife had broken the 
furniture in his presence, and declared that if he did 
not cease from torturing the poor girl he would give 
him as much as he had given her — with this the shame- 
less monster thought it necessary to comply, and for 
that time the poor girl was released from his torturing 
hand. The gentleman who rescued the girl and stated 
this fact, is now a resident of the State of Ohio, and is 
known to be a man of truth. 

It is painful to my feelings to record such a shame- 
ful outrage upon decency and humanity; but it is 
necessary to do it in order to show the horrible extent 
of the slaveholder's power over his slaves. Every 
slaveholder has power to strip his female slaves, and 
treat them in the same disgraceful manner, and thou- 
sands of them are base enough to put such power into 
exercise. It really grieves me to think that any gov- 
ernment, and much more that our own, does sanction 
such an abomination. 

Finally, our system of slavery puts it completely in 
the power of the slaveholders to dismember their slaves, 
or even murder them at pleasure ! It is true that 
slaveholding States have enacted laws to prohibit the 
proprietors of slaves from breaking their limbs or taking 
their lives ; but what avail such laws while slaves are 
made the property of their masters ? May not men 
order their property to any place to which they may 
wish it to go ? Hence, may not the vengeful master 
order his slave inter his kitchen, or some other secret 
place, and there break all his limbs, tear out his eyes, 



60 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

and even murder him with the. most savage cruelty ? 
Or may he not do all this, even in the open field, in the 
presence of a thousand other slaves, and yet escape 
the sentence of the law ? Not one of all this thousand 
could be a witness against him, and perhaps not one of 
them would even so much as dare to mention the 
crime. Hence, the poor slave has no security, either 
for his limbs, or his life, further than Avhat is in the 
will of his master. And, alas! there is often but little 
there ! Could you secretly attend the fields, the kitch- 
en and the huts, in which slaves labor and live, you 
would see limbs broken, sculls fractured, and even eyes 
torn out. And what is if possible still worse, you woiild 
see many most cruelly murdered. 

A respectable young lady, of my acquaintance, re- 
ceived a most painful shock by unexpectedly discovering 
one of the terrible things which are sometimes done in 
the kitchen. She visited the house of a certain Ken- 
tuckian, who was considered reputable. There she 
seemed at first to enjoy a pleasant hour in the social 
circle. In the parlor evejy thing appeared comfortable 
and decent — every countenance was so cheerful that 
one might have imagined that good nature and happi- 
ness resided in the bosom of each member of the 
family. But, alas ! she unfortunately stepped into the 
kitchen. And ah ! how changed was the scene ! The 
most doleful aspect saluted her delicate eyes ! There 
sat a poor old black woman, with one of her eyeballs 
hanging on her cheek ! It had been torn from the 
socket by the hand of her mistress ! How painful was 
the sight, and how doleful was the tale of wo ! And 
how little did the young visitant expect to witness such 
a scene ! She could not conceal her feelings — she 



LETTER VIII. 61 

wept, and she retired with emotions of horror ! This 
shocking cruelty was committed with impunity — no law 
could possibly reach the case. The tale of the poor 
sable sufferer Avould not be heard in court, and such 
crimes are seldom perpetrated in the presence of such 
as would be heard, and when they are, but few, if any, 
are willing to be at the expense and trouble of com- 
mencing,, and supporting a prosecution on the behalf 
of slaves. The truth is, when once a man is made the 
property of another, and thus put completely under his 
control, it is impossible to enact laws that will protect 
either his life or his limbs. And every attempt to 
punish the master for abusing the slave will but insti- 
gate him to greater cruelty ! The love of gain affords 
all the protection the poor slaves can have, and it is 
well known that this has but little influence on the vio- 
lent passions of men — to the vicious heart, revenge is 
gain. 

In spite of all law, slaveholders have the power of 
life and death over their slaves. And some of them do 
exercise such power with perfect impunity. It is un- 
deniable that some drive .their slaves nearly naked 
through frost and snow until they perish, with cold, — 
some gradually starve them to death, and some cause 
them to expire beneath the burden of excessive toil — 
others whip them to death in a manner that more than 
equals the cruelty of the most barbarous savages, and 
not a few murder them with clubs, axes and guns, or 
such like fatal Aveapons ! It is undeniable, that in these 
several ways many slaves are mirrdered with the utmost 
impunity! . It is seldom that even so much as a prose- 
cution is incurred by murdering them ; and I do not 
recollect of ever hearing of a single individual being 
F 



62 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

executed for taking the life of his slave. I am per- 
suaded there is as much humane feeling in Fleming 
county, Kentucky, as can be found in any slaveholding 
section of country, of the same extent, and I think this 
will be readily admitted by all who are acquainted with 
the people of that county, and yet there is a certain in- 
dividual, in consequence of an unjust suspicion, fell 
upon his poor old slave, beat him in the face, and mash- 
ed it in such a manner as soon terminated his life, yet 
by it, he incurred not even so much as a prosecution ! 
I mention this case, not because it is either singular or 
novel, but because it happened in one of the most hu- 
mane sections of one of the mildest slaveholding coun- 
tries, and therefore, is well calculated to show what is 
the real state of things, even where slavery wears its 
mildest aspect. It shows clearly that the system of 
slavery in its best form is fraught with the most horrid 
murders. 

I will close this part of my subject, by giving you an 
account of one of the most terrible displays of slave- 
holding power, one that ought to make every slave- 
holding nation tremble, and one that must fill every 
humane bosom with horror ! I will give it just as I 
received it from the pen of the Rev. William Dickey, 
who is well acquainted with the circumstances which 
he describes, and who is a man of undoubted veracity. 

'In the county of Livingston, Ky. near the mouth of 
Cumberland, lived Lilburn Lewis, a sister's son of the 
venerable Jefferson. He, ' who suckled at fair Free- 
dom's breast' was the wealthy owner of a considerable 
number of slaves, whom he drove constantly, fed spar- 
ingly, and lashed severely. The consequence was, 
they would run away. This must have given, to a man 



LETTER VIII. 63 

of Spirit and a man of business great anxieties until lie 
found them, or until they had starved out, and return- 
ed. Among the rest was an ill grown boy about sev- 
enteen, who having just returned from a skulking 
spell, was sent to the spring for water, and in return- 
ing let fall an elegant pitcher. It was dashed to shivers 
upon the rocks. This was the occasion. It was night, 
and the slaves all at home. The master had them col- 
lected into the most roomy negrohouse, and a rousing 
fire made. When the door was secured, that none 
might escape, either through fear of him or sympathy 
with George, he opened the design of the interview, 
namely, that they might be effectually taught to stay 
at home and obey his orders. All things being now 
in train, he called up George, who approached his mas- 
ter with the most unreserved submission. He bound 
him with cords, and by the assistance of his young- 
er brother, laid him on a broad bench, or meat 
block. He now proceeded to whang off George by 
the ancles ! ! ! It was with the broad axe ! — In vain did 
the unhappy victim scream and roar! He was com- 
pletely in his master's power. Not a hand amongst so 
many durst interfere. Casting the feet into the fire, he 
lectured them at some length. He whacked him off 
below the knees ! George roaring out, and praying 
his master to begin at the other end ! He admon- 
ished them again, throwing the legs into the fire ! Then 
above the knees, tossing the joints into the fire ! He 
again lectured them at leisure. The next stroke sev- 
ered the thighs from the body. These were also com- 
mitted to the flames. And so off the arms, head and 
trunk, until all was in the fire ! Still protracting the 
intervals with lectures, and threatenings of like punish- 



64 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

ment, in case of disobedience, and running away, or 
disclosure of this tragedy. Nothing, now remained, 
but to consume the flesh and bones ; and for this pur- 
pose the fire was briskly stirred, until ^wo hours after 
midnight. When, as though the earth would cover 
out of sight, the nefarious scene, and as though the 
great master in Heaven would put a mark of his dis- 
pleasure upon such monstrous cruelty, a sudden and 
surprising shock of Earthquake overturned the coarse 
and heavy backwall, composed of rock and clay, which 
completely covered the fire, and the remains of George. 
This put an end to the amusements of the evening. 
The negroes were now permitted to disperse, with 
charges to keep this matter among themselves, and 
never to whisper it in the neighborhood, under the pen- 
alty of a like punishment. When he retired, the lady 
exclaimed, ' O! Mr. Lewis, where have you been and 
wh^ have you done ! ' She had heard a strange pound- 
ing, and dreadful screams, and had smelled something 
like fresh meat burning ! He said that he had never 
enjoyed himself at a ball so well as he had enjoyed 
himself that evening. Next morning he ordered the 
negroes to rebuild the backwall, and he himself super- 
intended the work, throwing the pieces of flesh that 
still remained with the bones, behind as it went up, 
thus hoping to conceal the matter. But it could not be 
hid — much as the negroes seemed to hazard, they whis- 
pered the horrid deed to- the neighbors, who came, and 
before his eyes tore down the wall, and finding the re- 
mains of the boy, they testified against him. But be- 
fore the court sat, to which he was bound over, he was, 
by &n act of suicide, with George, in the eternal world, 



LETTER VIII- 65 

Sure there are bolts, red with no common wrath, to 
l)last the man. WILLIAM DICKEY, 

Bloomingshurg, Oct. 8, 1824.' 
- ' N. B. This happened in 1811, if I be correct, the 
i6th of December. It was the Sabbath ! ' 'i 

This awful scene of cruelty exhibits what tremen- 
dous things the slaveholder may do ! And though the 
dreadful wretch was taken up on suspicion, and bound 
over to court, yet, I apprehend, there was little proba- 
bility of fiis actually falling under the sentence of the 
law.* He might have eventually, so managed the 
matter as to make the sentence fall upon the heads of 
his slaves. But be that as it might, it is certain, that 
the State, by making men his property, gave him the 
opportunity of perpetrating the horrid deed and there- 
fore it stands first in the list of crimes ! 

From your affectionate brother. 



* This apprehension is rendered very probable by the fact that 
the pepulace actually let him out of prison in order to screen him 
from justice. 



fS 



{66 



LETTER IX. 

Kind Brother; 

In the preceding letters, I believe it is clearly shown, 
that involuntary slavery is opposed to the strongest 
principles and feelings of human nature, and if so, it 
forms a relation, for which the God of nature, in the 
organization of the human system, has made no pro- 
vision ; and it appears to me self-evident, that a rela- 
tion so unnatural must be a constant source of misery 
to the several parties it unites. I invited your attention 
to its dreadful effects upon the party enslaved, while I 
was pointing out the extent of the slaveholder's pow- 
er, and I shall now proceed to notice its tendency in 
respect to the enslaving party. 

I. It is opposed to domestic peace. Slaves, as we 
have before shown, are generally raised without moral 
instruction, and consequently possess a low degree of 
moral feeling, and therefore they are not very consci- 
entious in regard to the preservation of domestic peace. 
And a variety of families and individuals of different 
habits and feelings are crowded together in such a 
manner as is calculated to produce fierce contention — 
This disturbs the peace of the master's own family, and 
so becomes a source of perpetual vexation. 

Again, slaves generally consider that they are labor- 
ing for others and not for themselves, and therefore 
they will avoid performing the labor assigned them as 
much as they can with safety to their backs, and even 
what they do, is seldom done in a suitable manner. 
These things are a constant source of provocation to 



LETTER IX. 67 

masters and overseers, and often instigate them to the 
greatest outrage and cruelty. 

And we may further remark that slaves are general- 
ly but little influenced by the principles either of honor 
or piety, and consequently they often give themselves 
up to the practice of intemperance, falsehood, treach- 
ery, dishonesty and lewdness ; and all these vices are 
frequently made to bear upon the master's family in 
such a manner as entirely banishes domestic peace. 
Thus a variety of circumstances conspire to deprive 
slaveholding families of that peace which is most es- 
sential to happiness, and the more they enslave and 
oppress their fellow creatures, the more they increase 
their own disquietude and misery. 

II. Idleness is generally one result of slavery. Ne- 
cessity is the parent of industry — few are willing to 
labor when necessity does not impel them. And slave- 
holding families seldom feel the influence of this im- 
pelling principle. Consequently, where slaveholding 
parents feel disposed to raise their children to habits of 
industry, they generally find it exceedingly difficult, 
and in many instances totally impracticable. Children, 
in slaveholding countries, early imbibe the sentiment 
that work is the business of slaves, and that for free 
people to labor, is of course disgraceful. This- perni- 
cious sentiment soon finds its way through the whole 
slaveholding community. Hence parents cannot brook 
the idea of shoving their children down to the rank of 
slaves, by making them labor. And the consequence 
of this is soon strongly manifested by the conduct of 
the rising family. The young masters cannot deign to 
pollute their hands with domestic concerns — and when 
they wish to ride abroad, their horses must be equipped 



68 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

and brought to the door, and the stirrups held by the 
humble slave, while the young gallants mount. And 
should the delicate young Misses sweep the house, or 
carry a bucket of water they would scarcely be able to 
survive the disgrace ! 

These gentry despise and treat with contempt the 
laboring class of the free community — They consider 
them to be no better than slaves, and therefore will not 
admit them to the privileges of equals — And in conse- 
quence of this many become ashamed to labor — Hence 
some who are scarcely able to procure bread, hire slaves 
to do the very labor which they might, and ought, but 
are ashamed to do themselves. I know by actual ob- 
servation that this is true. And I presume that none 
who are acquainted with the slaveholding States will 
deny that slavery tends to idleness. 

III. Slavery promotes vice among the free inhabitants 
of slaveholding States. By producing idleness it af- 
fords the opportunity of practising immorality. Those, 
who are closely engaged in useful occupations, have 
little time for the practice of vice, but those, who are 
idle, have ample time for obeying the calls of every 
vicious appetite and passion, and consequently soon be- 
come a prey to their corrupt inclinations. Hence we 
may always expect to find the most confirmed habits of 
vice where idleness prevails. 

Again, slaves, in consequence of the manner in Avhich 
they are raised, are generally prone to vicious indul- 
gence, and many of them are exceedingly profligate ; 
their master's children often mingle with them, and not 
only witness their vicious practices, but also listen to 
lascivious conversation, and thus from infancy they be- 
come familiar with almost every thing wicked and ob- 



LETTER IXo 69 

scene. And this in connection with easy access, be- 
comes a strong temptation to lewdness. Hence it of- 
ten happens that the master's children pra-ctice the 
same vices which prevail among his slaves : and even 
the master himself is liable to be overwhelmed by the 
floods of temptation. And in some instances, the father 
and his sons are involved in one common ruin, nor do 
the daughters always escape this impetuous fountain of 
pollution. Were it necessary, I could refer you to 
several instances of slaves actually seducing the daugh- 
ters of their masters ! Such seductions sometimes 
happen even in the most respectable slaveliolding fam- 
ilies ! 

Further, slaves, that are closely driven can earn much 
more than the coarse food and raiment which they eat 
and wear, and therefore, by becoming a source of gain, 
they afford the means of vicious indulgence. Hence 
jjaming and intemperance are often the products of 
slavery. It is well known that a vast number derive 
such profit from the labor of their slaves, as enables 
them to devote their time to gaming, lewdness and in- 
temperance. This class often give their whole atten- 
tion to the practice and propagation of vice, and thus 
spread their baneful influence over the whole face of 
society. Hence it appears to me that if a State were 
to design the propagation of immorality, it could scarce- 
ly devise a better plan for the accomplishment of such 
design than is that of our present system of slavery. 
It implants the principles of vice in children as'soon as 
their minds are capable of rational exercise ; it culti- 
vates them in the season of youth, and affords them the 
means of luxuriant growth in mature age- 

ZV. Slavery debilitates the constitution of slave- 



70 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

holding people. Man was formed for action, and there- 
fore exercise is as necessary to his health as food is to 
his life— when he becomes inactive the powers of his 
nature languish, and debility pervades his whole con- 
stitution. Hence in order to call man forth to action 
the benificent Creator formed the earth for culture, and 
beneath its surface dee|)ly buried the richest treasures. 
But slavery violates the plan of infinite wisdom by 
dooming some to excessive toil, while it releases others 
from the healthful field of exercise, and thus gives them 
over to debility, sickness and death. And in connec- 
tion with this, we may further observe, that so far as 
slavery promotes lewdness, luxury and intemperance, 
it must have a most debilitating effect upon the con- 
stitution. And under the operation of such effects ev- 
ery slavehol ding people must ultimately become sickly 
and short lived. 

V. Slavery must eventually tend to poverty. Slave- 
holders will engross large quantities of land, and this, 
in a great measure, will prevent the poorer class of 
people from acquiring real estates, or even a comfort- 
able subsistence. Hence extreme proverty, in many 
instances must be inevitable. And even the richest 
slaveholders are not beyond the danger of poverty. 
Although great profit is often derived from the labor of 
slaves, yet that very profit frequently becomes the 
means of confirming such habits of gaming, intemper- 
ance and extravagance as eventually reduce the most 
wealthy to the most extreme indigence. To this we 
may add, that the children of the most wealthy slave- 
holders are generally raised to such idleness and ex- 
travagance as completely prepare them for squandering 
the estates left them by their parents, and consequent- 



LETTER IX. 71 

ly it often happens, that in a short time after they be- 
come masters of great estates, they are involved in the 
deepest poverty ; and finally become the most worthless 
vagabonds the Avorld can produce. 

We may further observe that in proportion as slaves 
increase, slaveholders v/ill engross larger bodies of land, 
and of course there will be less room for free inhabi-' 
tants ; therefore a diminution of the free population 
must be the certain result of the increase of slaves. 
And persons who are enslaved, have not the same mo- 
tives to industry which influence those who are free, 
when they labor for themselves, and consequently, they 
are not equal, in the performance of labor, to an equal 
number of free men. Hence, not only the poverty of 
individuals, but also that of the State must be the cer- 
tain result of slavery. And when slaves become so 
numerous, that there is not land enough for them to 
cultivate, extreme indigence must soon be the conse- 
quence, both to the State, and individuals. 

VI. Ignorance is another result of slavery. It is 
seldom that persons, who are brought up in idleness 
and ease, will endure the labor necessary to a liberal 
education. They often drone out many long years at 
College, and return home mere quacks in learning. 
They cannot be induced to make that application which 
is necessary in the pursuit of science. They have 
generally a much stronger propensity for pleasure and 
amusement, than for the acquirement of useful knowl- 
edge. And in addition to this, they have too high an 
opinion of their own dignity to submit to the govern- 
ment of well regulated Seminaries. They often take 
offence at the very best regulations, and consequently 
desert the means of a good education. And in some 



72 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

cases it is necessary to expel them from institutions of 
learning, in consequence of their vicions habits, and 
ungovernable tempers. Thus a propensity for idleness, 
the love of pleasure, vicious habits and untractable dis- 
positions all conspire to prevent the slaveholding com- 
munity from making progress in the paths of science. 
And though some noble minds may occasionally stem 
these difficulties, and climb to the highest eminence in 
learning, yet the great mass of the people will be more 
liable to retrograde than to advance in literature. 

VII. Slavery weakens every State in which it exists. 
Slaveholders, as we before stated, will engross large 
bodies of land, and this of course leaves less room for 
free citizens, who have to labor for the sustenance of 
themselves and their families, are despised, and shoved 
down to a rank little above that of slaves — this becomes 
to them a strong inducement to move into free States, 
where they can be admitted to an equal rank with their 
fellow citizens. We may further add, that many of 
the very best citizens of slaveholding States, are con- 
scientiously opposed to slavery, and fully apprized of its 
pernicious tendency upon society in general ; and par- 
ticularly upon the rising generation ; and, therefore, in 
order to save their offspring from temptation and im- 
pending ruin, they move into the free States where 
they may more easily train up their children to indus- 
try and m.omlity. And besides all this, slavery is the 
means of promoting lewdness, intemperence and lux- 
ury, by which thousands of the free inhabitants perish. 
Under the operation of these several causes every 
slaveholding State must grow weaker in proportion as 
the slave population increases.' Slaves know they 
ought to be free, and therefore may be expected to 



LETTER IX. 73 

embrace the first opportunity of breaking the yoke of 
bondage. This is fully established by the many insur- 
rections that take place in various slaveholding coun- 
tries. Hence almost every slave is to be considered an 
internal enemy. And in some States the slave popu- 
lation is already more extensive than the free, and is 
still rapidly increasing ; and must therefore soon be- 
come able without foreign assistance to overpower their 
oppressors. And it is obvious that persons raised in 
idleness, luxury, and ease are but little calculated for 
making powerful resistance, and therefore must become 
an easy prey to their enemies. From all these circum- 
stances we may safely conclude that all the slavehold- 
ing States will eventually become dependent on the 
free States for protection, both from their slaves and 
foreign invasion. Slaveholding States never can be 
powerful in war. Those who are unaccustomed to 
labor cannot endure the fatigue of a campaign, and be- 
ing habituated to commanding they are seldom willing 
to be commanded, and therefore, are likely to become 
a prey to their own rashness. This doubtless occasion- 
ed some of the misfortunes of the Kentuckians during 
the last war. They were brave, but ungovernable — 
hence they fell into the hand of the enemy. 

VIII. Slavery cultivates a spirit of cruelty. Slaves 
consider themselves unjustly enslaved, and consequent- 
ly they often neglect and slight the service assigned 
them — this instigates the master to cruelty. And in- 
deed many of the poor creatures, in consequence of the 
want of moral instruction, are so vicious as to elicit 
cruel treatment even from the most humane. Thus 
the children of slaveholders, from infancy, have the 
opportunity of becoming familiar with scenes of cruel- 
G 



74:'' LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

ty. This has a tendency to blunt the tender sensibili- 
ties of their nature, to make them think lightly of hu- 
man misery, and fully prepare them for cruel indul- 
gence when they arrive at mature age. Therefore it 
is obvious that a disposition to cruelty must, in som.e 
measure pervade every slaveholding community. 

IX. Slavery tends to tyranny.* It is directly oppos- 
ed to the fundamental principles of republicanism, 
maintained in that part of the Declaration of Indepen- 
dence, which declares — 'That all men are created 
equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with 
certain inalienable rights ; that among these are life, 
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' These princi- 
ples are absolutely denied by the slaveholding States. 
They practically declare that all men are not created 
equal, that liberty is not an unalienable right, and that 
a certain class of people have not a right to pursue 
their own happiness. They do in their constitutions 
create distinctions among men — some they forever 
consign to the service of others. They tell us, ' That 
no freeman ought to be taken, or imprisoned, or depriv- 
ed of his freehold, liberties or privileges, or outlawed, 
or exiled, or in any manner destroyed, or deprived of 
his life, liberty, or property, but by the judgment of his 
peers, or by the law of the land.' See the constitutions 
of Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina and Ten- 
nessee. This plainly implies that the slave ought to 
be taken, imprisoned, and destroyed v.dthout either 
judgment or law. The constitution of Kentucky tells 
us, ' That all freemen, when they form a social com- 

* The children of slaveholders are, in many instances, habitu- 
ated to tyranizing over slaves. This cultivates in them the spirit 
of tj'ranny. In this respect slavery has a most direct tendency 
to make tyrants. 



LETTER IX. 



75 



pact, are equal.'— See the constitution of Kentucky, 
Art. X. Sec. I. Kentucky cannot admit ' That all men 
are created equal,' nor that even freemen are equal un- 
til they become so by social compact. Thus she plain- 
ly denies a fundamental principle of the Declaration of 
Independence. And how widely does she differ from 
the free States, which declare in their constitutions — 
* That all men are born equally free and independent.' 
There is no State, in the Union, that makes stronger 
pretensions to republicanism than does Kentuck}^, and 
yet she both theoretically and practically denies the 
fundamental principle upon which the whole republican 
system rests. The truth is, all the slaveholding States 
do practically maintain the fundamental principles of 
absolute monarchy — which are, that all men are not 
equal, and that all men are not born equally free and 
independent. Every slaveholder is an absolute mon- 
arch to his slaves, and they are bound to approach him 
with all the sensibilities of inferiority which absolute 
monarchy can require. And many slaveholders do 
manifest by their conduct, that they feel the same su- 
periority over their poor slaves, that absolute monarchs 
do over their miserable and abject subjects. 

It is well known that the slaveholding States have, 
ever since the declaration of independence, manifested 
a propensity for the unjust acquisition of power. They 
have ever had an unequitable representation in Con- 
gress. They consider slaves to be mere property, and 
yet for every seventy thousand of them, they claim the 
right of sending one representative to Congress. This 
is decidedly a representation of property. The slave 
representation is as unjust and unreasonable as a cattle 
represeiTtation would be. Did they permit the poor 



76 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

slaves to choose for themselves a representation which 
might contend for their rights in the National Legisla- 
ture, none would have reason to reproach them for in- 
justice with respect to such representation. But, alas ! 
the slave representation is for a far different purpose. 
It is to strengthen the yoke and tighten the chains of 
cruel oppression. But the slave representation appears 
to me still more unjust, when I consider that the States 
which hold the greatest number of slaves, and of course 
have the greatest slave representation, must be of the 
least service for the defence of the nation in time of 
war. They have many voices, and of course, are im- 
mensely powerful in the National Legislature, but are 
perfect weakness in the field of battle — perhaps it re- 
quires all their strength to keep their slaves in subjection. 

The tenacity with which the slaveholding States re- 
tain this unjust principle manifests a strong propensity 
for the usurpation of power. And this circumstance 
shows that they have in them the spirit of tyranny. 

Now brother, I think it must be evident to you that 
slavery, in the several particulars to which I have in- 
vited your attention, has a pernicious tendency upon 
the free inhabitants of the slaveholding States ; and 
hence you have another conclusive proof that slavery 
is opposed to the natural principles and feelings of our 
nature, and that of course, as we said before, it forms 
a relation for which the Creator, in the organization of 
the human system, has made no provision. From the 
plain principles of nature as well as from its dreadful 
tendency, it evidently appears that involuntary slavery 
is both unnatural and unjust. 

In my next, I intend to investigate the title by whic^ 
slaves are held in servitude. Adieu. 



(77 



LETTER X. 

Affectionate Brother: 

According to promise, I am now to enter upon the 
investigation of the title by which slaves are held in 
servitude. 

It must be admitted that the Africans and the rest 
of mankind have all sprung from one common father ; 
and consequently all, originally, were alike free. It 
will also be admitted that the Africans were not en- 
slaved for crime — hence we conclude with the utmost 
certainty that they were unjustly enslaved. They must 
have been taken either by theft or open violence, and 
sold into slavery ; therefore, it inevitably follows that 
the title to them was originally derived from those 
who, either stole them or took them by unjust violence, 
and sold them into bondage, consequently, it must be 
most unjust ; nor neither time, nor custom, nor govern- 
ment can change its nature — it stands in eternal oppo- 
sition to right. Property, that is stolen or taken by 
unjust violence, though.it pass through a thousand 
hands by honest purchase, still belongs to the original 
owner ; and to him, according to the plainest principles 
of justice, it must revert. The right to freedom be- 
longs to the Africans, and therefore it is as unjust to 
hold it from them as it is to hold stolen property from 
its right owner. Suppose that your little daughter 
were to be stolen in her infantile state, and sold for a 
slave, would she not, according to the plainest princi- 
ples of justice, be as much entitled to freedom as she 
now is ! Again, suppose that an unjust and arbitrary 
g2 



78 



LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 



power should detain her posterity in slavery to a thou- 
sand generations, would not the last generation be as 
much entitled to freedom as the mother originally was ? 
Do you believe that any one would be just in depriving 
them of their right to freedom, merely because he had 
purchased them from those who had no right to sell 
them ? No, you certainly believe that it would be most 
unjust. Now this is precisely the situation of the Af- 
ricans you hold in servitude. Their ancestors were 
originally free ; but were unjustly taken and sold into 
bondage, and by an unjust and arbitrary power their 
offspring are still enslaved — you suppose that you have 
a right to them by honest purchase, but they are the 
same as stolen property. The title to them was orig- 
inally derived from the hand of the thief. Hence the 
man from whom you purchased them had no just title 
to them, of course had no right to sell them — you had 
no right to buy them ; and consequently can have no 
right to detain them in servitude. The right to free- 
dom is original in all the human race. ' That all men 
are created equal ' is a truth that no true hearted re- 
publican will deny. Hence, while you hold slaves, 
you hold the right of freedom from its real owners. 
And is not freedom more precious than property ? And 
therefore, is it not more criminal to hold it from your 
fellow creatures than it is to deprive them of their 
property ? How then can you persist in holding them 
as slaves, merely because you purchased them from 
such as had no right to sell them ? Should you pur- 
chase a stolen horse, woilld you pretend to keep him 
from his real owner, merely because you had purchas- 
ed him from the thief who had stolen him ? No, you 
would certainly give him up to the real proprietor as 



LETTER X. 79 

soon as he should exhibit sufficient evidence of the 
justness of his claim. Then why not deliver up to 
your slaves their liberty, seeing they are undoubtedly 
entitled to freedom ! We, as a nation, in our declara- 
tion of independence, have declared that the right to 
liberty is unalienable. I know the laws of your State 
permit you to enslave a certain class of your fellow- 
creatures, but the permission of a State cannot change 
moral principle. Should this State permit you to en- 
slave my children, would it be honest in you to take 
advantage by such permission to make them slaves ? 
Certainly you must admit that to take such advantage, 
would be both unjust and cruel. And is it not equally 
unjust and cruel to enslave the poor Africans,- merely 
because the State gives permission for such oppression ? 
The man who will be just no farther than the State 
compels him, is a rogue in heart. And the man who 
will take away the liberty of another whenever the 
State permists him, would also take the property of 
another if similar permission was granted him. I do 
not say that all slaveholders are rogues in heart. I 
hope many of them have acted more from mistake than 
from real dishonesty. But I do not hesitate in saying 
that they all unjustly take away the liberty of their 
fellow creatures, who, according to the principles ad- 
mitted by our nation 'Were born equally free and in- 
dependent.' 

I shall next attempt, by the scriptures, to prove the 
injustice of involuntary slavery. Farewell, 



(80 



LETTER XL 

Loving Brother: 

According to an intimation given in my last, I am to 
show that the modern system of slavery is prohibited 
by the book of inspiration. And as many of the abet- 
tors of this system pretend to support it by the sacred 
scriptures, I deem it necessary to examine the princi- 
pal arguments which they have drawn from this source. 

I. I shall first consider the one which is founded upon 
Noah's curse. It is argued that this curse consigns all 
the posterity of Ham to perpetual slavery, that the Af- 
ricans descended from him, and therefore it is right to 
enslave them. 

I consider that this argument is, in several respects, 
ill founded. 

First, it is not true that the curse consigns all the 
posterity of Ham to perpetual servitude. Let us hear 
what it says. Gen. ix. 25. Cursed be" Canaan ; a 
servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren. Thus 
we see that but one of Ham's sons was included in the 
curse. Canaan doubtless was deeply concerned with 
his father in the guilt which gave rise to this denunci- 
ation against him, else, why was he so signally marked 
as the subject of the curse ? The rest of Ham's sons, 
it seems, were innocent, and consequently were not in- 
cluded in it. The history of the world shows that many 
of the nations which descended from them have been 
respectable, and subjected to no calamities, but such 
as are common to the rest of mankind. Hence, it is as 



LETTER XI. 



81 



plain, as stubborn fact can make it, that the curse did 
not include all of Ham's posterity. It was denounced 
agamst Canaan, and history shows that it fell upon his 
posterity. Our Africans did not descend from him, and 
therefore were not with him consigned to servitude. 

2d. The doom was not perpetual. Sacred history 
shows that the descendants of Canaan became power- 
ful and wealthy nations before the curse was inflicted 
upon them. It was first inflicted by the Israelites, who 
descended from Shem, and who had been servants to 
some of Ham's posterity in Egypt. They destroyed 
vast numbers of the Canaanites, and eventually reduc- 
ed the rest of them to very abject circumstances, and 
made them tributary. And thus they became the trib- 
utary servants of those who had been servants. 
Hence, the following predictions of Noah were liter- 
ally fulfilled. ' Cursed be Canaan ; a servant of ser- 
vants shall he be unto his brethren.' ' Blessed be the 
Lord God of Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant.' 

Again, it is said, Japhet ' shall dwell in the tents of 
Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant.' This was 
doubtless accomplished when the Greeks and Romans 
who were descendants of Japhet, by conquest, took 
possession of the tents of Shem. At this period, the 
remnant of the Canaanites became tributary to the oflT- 
spring of Japhet, and thus Canaan became the servant 
of Japhet. Hence the prediction so far as it related to 
servitude has long since had its accomplishment. The 
Canaanites have mingled with other nations, and so do 
not now exist as a distinct people, and consequently 
the term of their servitude must be terminated. And 
when we consider the manner in which these ancient 
predictions were fulfilled, we believe that they related 



8^ LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

not so much to the slavery of individuals as to nation* 
al subjugation. There were so few of Canaan's pos- 
terity reduced to individual slavery that we cannot rea- 
sonably conclude that to be the kind of servitude pre- 
dicted. It appears from sacred history that fewer of 
the descendants of Canaan, than those of Shem, were 
reduced to individual slavery. People who are subju- 
gated and made tributary, must labor in order to pay 
their tribute, and therefore are the servants of their 
conquerors. This kind of servitude the Canaanites en- 
dured to great extremes. The Israelites conquered 
them, and took possession of their cities, their houses 
and their lands, and thus enjoyed the fruits of their la- 
bor, and those of them that escaped the sword were 
eventually made tributary. This evidently appears to 
be the kind of servitude predicted in Noah's curse, and 
if so, our kind of slavery is not even so much as found 
in this ancient prediction. The Israelites were not 
commanded to enslave but to exterminate the nations 
of Canaan. 

Finally; if the prediction had included all Ham's 
posterity, and had consigned them to perpetual servi- 
tude, still it could not justify our system of slavery. 
Predictions are not given in scripture as rules of moral 
action. It was predicted, and even decreed that Jesus 
Christ should be crucified, and yet his crucifiers were 
full as guilty as they would have been, if no such pre- 
diction and decree had ever existed. The Israelites 
did not proceed against the Canaanites on the ground 
of prediction, but on that of divine command, and that 
command was not founded upon prediction, but upon 
the full cup of their iniquities. The Lord gave the 
Canaanites a dispensation of grace under the ministra- 



LETTER XI. 83 

tions of Melchisedec, and suspended the infliction of 
the curse- until they had long abused his mercy, and 
filled full the cup of their iniquities. Hence, their 
enormous wickedness was the real cause of their ca- 
lamities, and the means of bringing the curse upon 
them. But even on the supposition that this predic- 
tion were a rule of moral action, still it could not jus- 
tify our system of slavery, because we have not suffi- 
cient proof that our Africans descended from Ham. 
We suppose they are of his posterity, but this suppo- 
sition cannot be supported by satisfactory evidence. 
The revolutions of nations and time have put the mat- 
ter beyond the possibility of certain proof. Therefore 
the whole argument for slavery, drawn from Noah's 
curse is without the least foundation. It rests wholly 
upon bold assertion, and mere conjecture, and it cer- 
tainly must be the product of avaricious derangement. 

n. I shall consider the argument which the friends 
of involuntary slavery have adduced from the example 
of Abraham. It is alleged that Abraham the Father 
of the faithful held slaves, and, therefore, involuntary 
slavery must be right. 

This argument, like the one before considered, ap- 
pearg to me to be inconclusive in several respects. 

First; It is not evident that Abraham's servants 
were held to involuntary servitude. It is true that he 
had servants born in his house, and servants bought 
with his money ; but these circumstances do not ab- 
solutely prove that their servitude v/as involuntary. 
Abraham was a Prince ; — the children of Heth ad- 
dressed him as such. Gen. xxiii. 6. ' Thou art a mighty 
Prince among us.' On one occasion he armed three 
hundred and eighteen trained servants that were born 



84 LETTERS ON SLAVERY, 

in his house, and with them gained a signal victory- 
over several of the most powerful kings of the age. 
Gen. xiv. 1 — 16. Hence it appears that the servants 
born in his house were merely his subjects. Abraham 
had no fixed residence, and therefore he and his sub- 
jects dwelt in tents. ' By faith he sojourned in the 
land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in 
tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob.' Heb. xi. 9, Thus 
we see that Abraham's house was but a tabernacle or 
tont ; and it was made large enough to shelter him and 
all his subjects ; and this shows how it happened that 
the three hundred and eighteen, before mentioned, ser- 
vants were born in his house. These were all fit to 
bear arms ; and therefore, according to the nature of 
human increase, we must conclude that Abraham had 
many others likewise born in his house, who were too 
young for military service, and there must have been 
nearly an equal number of females — and to all these we 
may add all those bought with his money. From these 
circumstances it is reasonable to conclude that Abra- 
ham's servants, at least amounted to more than one 
thousand. Hence it is most absurd to suppose that a 
single individual while passing from place to place in 
a strange country, could compel so large a number of 
persons to involuntary servitude. And would any man 
in his senses under such circumstances, arm three hun- 
dred and eighteen involuntary slaves, and march them 
out against his enemies ? Would such a number of 
armed slaves submit to a single man, cheerfully fight 
his battles, and thus risk their lives in his defence ? 
Abraham was a wandering stranger, unprotected by 
civil government ; and therefore his servants were not 
restrained by fear of punishment in case of rebellion ; 



LETTER IX. 85 

consequently we may safely conclude that the service 
which they rendered him was of the voluntary kind. 
But the question still recurs, were not those, whom he 
bought with his money, slaves ? To this I answer that 
' Abraham was very rich in cattle, in silver and in gold ; ' 
and was as benevolent as he was rich; of course, he would 
have many strong inducements to redeem miserable 
captives taken in war ; and these from a sense of grat- 
itude as well as for the sake of protectioji would become 
his subjects ; and such being redeemed by their own 
consent would be under the most solemn obligations 
to render him faithful service. Perhaps Hagar the 
Egyptian was bound to his service from some such 
consideration ; and therefore was called a bond-woman. 
Indeed Abraham manifested so much benevolence in 
several instances, as might lead us to the conclusion 
that he was wholly indisposed to the practice of invol- 
untary slavery. And his whole conduct towards his 
servants shows that he considered them to be merely 
subjects, and not slaves. Hence we find him bringing 
his eldest servant under solemn oath not to take a wife 
to Isaac of the daughters of the Canaanites. Gen. xxiv. 
% 3. This we might expect a Prince to require of a 
subject, but not a master to require of a slave. This 
same servant had all his master's property in his hand ; 
-and even had authority over Isaac. Does this look 
like modern slavery ? Thus a variety of circumstances 
■make it evident to me that Abraham did not hold in- 
voluntary slaves. But, again, if Abraham did practise 
involuntary slavery, still the argument adduced from 
his example must be inconclusive. He was an imper- 
fect man, and therefore, his example cannot be a stand- 
ard of moral rectitude. He had two wives atone time ; 
H 



Ob LETTERS OJV SLAVERY 

but who will argue from his example that polygamy is 
right. And it must be equally absurd, to argue from 
his example that slavery is right. Such an argument 
evidences a bad cause. 

III. I shall examine the argument, whidi the de- 
fenders of our slaveholding system, have adduced from 
the Mosaic institutions. 

This argument, they consider as fully supported by 
Lev. XXV. 44, 45, 46. ' Both thy bond-men, and thy 
bond-maids, which thou shalt have, shall be of the 
heathen that are round about you ; of them shall ye 
buy bond-men and bond-maids. Moreover of the chil- 
dren of strangers that do sojourn among you, of them 
shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, 
which they begat in your land : and they shall be your 
possession: and ye shall take them as an inheritance 
— for your children after you, to inherit them for a pos- 
session ; and they shall be your bondmen forever;* 
but over your brethren the children of Israel, ye shall 
not rule one over another with rigor.' 

As this sacred passage, is considered to be one of 
the strongest pillars upon which the modern system of 
slavery rests, it will be necessary to give it a careful 
and candid examination. Hence, we remark. 

First ; That it gives to the children of Israel by 
special grant some of the heathen for slaves. This, it- 
is thought, fully justifies our system of slavery ; but I 
apprehend that the opposite is true. This special grant 
implies that the children of Israel without it had no 
right to enslave even the heathen. These were the 



* This may mean that the Hebrews might keep up a succes- 
sion of servants by successive purchase, and not that any indi- 
viduals would be held in servitude forever. 



LETTER XI, H/ 

property of the Creator ; therefore none could have a 
right to possess them but by the special grant from 
him. The Israelites held slaves by special license from 
their Creator and and real proprietor, and such special 
license amounts to a real prohibition of similar privi- 
lege to all, to whom it is not given. When I, for in- 
stance, make grant of a certain piece of property, my 
conduct in that case plainly declares that I consider 
myself the real proprietor of that property, and that 
none has a right to it but by special title from me. And 
thus the special grant v/hich God made of the heathen 
to the Israelites, shows plainly, that he considered him- 
self the real proprietor, and that none had a right to 
hold them as a possession, but by special grant from 
him. No such grant has ever been made to any peo- 
ple, and therefore, the very text on which slaveholder^ 
rely for support, amounts to a real prohibition of slave- 
ry in all cases, except the one which it specifies. 
Hence, do not modern slaveholders rob the Almighty 
while they hold his property for a possession ? And 
■'Shall a man rob God and prosper? ' 

2d. The text specifies the character sustained by 
the persons consigned to servitude. They must not 
be servants of the true God, for of these, tke Lord says, 
* They are my servants. — They shall not be sold as 
bond-men ;' but they must be heathen, that is, they 
must be idolaters. Hence it is evident, that they were 
enslaved for the crime of idolatry. And when they 
ceased to be heathen, embraced the true religion, and 
thus become the servants of Jehovah, they were en- 
titled to the benefits of jubilee. The covenant made 
with Abraham required them to be circumcised, and 
of course to be taught the principles of true religion. 



88 LETTERS OlS SLAVERY. 

Gen. xvii. 18. 'He that is born in thy house, and he 
that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcis- 
ed.' The same is required in Exodus xii. 44, 45. ' But 
every man's servant that is bought for money, when 
thou hast circumcised him, then shall he eat thereof. 
A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof.' 
And when servants, after being circumcised as mem- 
bers of a believer's household, made a full profession 
of their faith by eating the passover, they were to be 
considered the servants of God, and therefore were 
entitled to the privileges of Israelites, who accord- 
ing to law, could not be enslaved, 'But over your 
brethren the children of Israel, ye shall not rule one 
over another with rigor.' And why ? Because ' they 
are my servants ;' and this reason was equally applica- 
ble to all professors of true religion. ' One law shall 
be to him that is home-born, and unto the stranger that 
sojourneth among you.' — ' And he shall be as one born 
in the land.' But to this, it may be, you will reply, that 
the law expressly says, ' They shall be your bond-men 
forever,' and therefore their servitude was perpetual. 

I readily admit that the words ' for ever ' do, accord- 
ing to their primary signification express endless dura- 
tion, and that they are always to be thus understood 
when used in relation to eternal things ; but when used 
in relation to temporal things they are limited by the 
nature and circumstances of the subjects to which they 
relate. It is said in Exodus xxi. 6. that a Hebrew ser- 
vant, under the circumstances there mentioned, should 
serve his master ' for ever,' but according to another 
law he could not be made to serve longer than to the 
year of jubilee. And hence it is evident that the words 
are used in a figurative sense, and not in their original 



LETTER XI. 89 

sense, and merely intended to express the duration of 
forty-nine years, the time between the years of jubilee : 
so, I apprehend, they are limited in respect to other 
servants, by the same law. ' And ye shall hallow the 
fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throug-hout all the 
land unto all the inhabitants thereof.' Levit. xxv. 10. 
According to this law, none could be enslaved longer 
than from the time they were purchased to the year of 
jubilee. Then liberty must be proclaimed to the cap- 
tives, Isaiah Ixi. 1. Hence, the slavery permitted by 
the Mosaic institutions was not similar to that which 
exists among us. It was for the punishment of idola- 
try ; it was by divine permission, and it was not per- 
petual. The poor slave expected a year of universal 
liberation, a glorious emblem of the gospel day. But 
the slavery among us is not for crime ; is not by divine 
permission, and is perpetual — no joyful year of jubilee 
is now expected by the miserable slave ! And even 
many of the servants of Jehovah are enslaved. Con- 
sequently the attempt to support our system of slavery 
by the Mosaic institutions, is most absurd. 

Adieu. 



(90) 



LETTER XII. 

Bear Brother ; 

I shall in^the present letter give you a few remarks 
upon the arguments which the Rev. Archibald Came- 
ron, of Kentucky, has presented to the public in the 
first number of the Monitor, printed at Lexington, A. 
D. 1806. The Reverend gentleman possesses both the 
talents and literature necessary to making the best of 
the cause he attempts to defend. .And could we' sup- 
pose him actuated by the unhallowed motives of self- 
interest, we would say he had from that source, sufficient 
inducement to the greatest industry in the management 
of his subject; for, as we understand, he had, and per- 
haps, still has considerable property in human flesh, and 
blood, and souls ! ! ! And it became him, as a public 
teacher to show, if possible, that his practice was in ac- 
cordance with the gospel. In short, we believe that if 
Mr. Cameron had been unsuccessful in adducing argu- 
ments to justify the practice of slavery, it was entirely 
owing to a bad cause, and not to the want of talents, 
literature or industr}^ 

His arguments are principally drawn from several 
passages in the New Testament in which servants are 
mentioned. . He lays his strong foundation in the sig- 
nification of the word doulos, which is translated into 
the word servant. He says, ' It it well known to those 
who are in the habit of reading the writings of the an- 
cients, that DOULOS in Greek, the word used above, and 
servus in Latin, are used to signify that kind of servi- 
tude which is perpetual or for life, which we .call slave- 



LETTER XII. 91 

ry. Elutheros the Greek word for free, is set in 
opposition to doulos, servant, \^hich shows that the 
Apostle meant a bond-man, or a slave, when he used 
the term.' 

This argument is plausible, but not solid. Paul 
says, 'Though I be (Elretheros) free from all men, yet 
(edoulosa) I have made myself servant unto all.' 1 
Cor. ix. 19. And he commands the Gallatians (dou- 
leuete) to serve one another by love. Gall. v. 13. 
Edoulosa signifies I have made myself (doulos) a ser- 
vant ; and ' is set in opposition to ' (Eltitheros) free ; 
but who would argue from this that Paul was an invol- 
untary slave for life ? Yet such an argument would be 
just as conclusive as the one which Mr. Cameron has 
advanced in the passage we have quoted fi-om the 
Monitor. I readily admit, that the Apostle had refer- 
ence to some kind of servitude, when he said, 'Art 
thou called, being (doulos) a servant, care not for it; 
but if thou mayest be made (Elutheros) free,- use it 
rather.' 1 Cor. vii. 21. But there is no evidence, from 
the language of the text, what kind of servitude was 
meant. The Greek word doulos, like the English 
word servant, specifies no particular kind of servitude. 
Hence, the translators have not in a single instance in 
all the New Testament translated the word doulos 
into the word slave. The word slave is specific in its 
meaning, and always, except when used figuratively, 
denotes one bound to involuntary and perpetual servi- 
tude ; and in all its more general applications, it still 
refers to one particular kind of bondage. Every slave 
is a servant, but every servant is not a slave. All ap- 
prentices are servants, and actually bond-men during 
their apprenticeship, and are, in many instances, sub- 



92 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

jected to stripes ; but they are not called slaves. Hire- 
lings are servants, and in soDfie parts of the world even 
these have endured stripes ; yet no accurate writer 
would call them slaves. The translators thought it 
proper to use the word slave in but a single instance, 
in all the New Testament. Rev. xviii. 13. 'Slaves 
and souls of men ' are mentioned as the unhallowed 
merchandize of Spiritual Babylon. And here the Greek 
word is not doulos ; but somaton the Genitive plural 
of SOMA. The truth is, the word doulos has such an 
extensive and various application in the sacred scrip- 
tures, that it would be very injudicious to translate it 
into a word so limited and determinate, in its significar 
tion, as is the word slave, which properly denotes a 
person bound to involuntary and perpetual servitude. 
Doulos has no such definitive meaning, but answers 
to the English word servant, which is as applicable to 
the subject of a Prince, to the common hireling, or even 
to the apprentice, as it is to the slave. In many in^^ 
stances it would be most ridiculous to translate doulos 
into slave, as a single specification will show. ' Paul 
(doulos) a slave of Jesus Christ.' How ridiculous is 
such a translation ! Christ is ' The Prince of the Kings 
of the earth.' Paul is his servant ; but not his invol- 
untary slave. Doulos is used in relation to the sub- 
jects of Kings or Nobles. Luke xix. 17. ' Well, thou 
good (doule) servant — have thou authority over ten 
cities.' Certainly the subject of a prince, and not a 
slave, must have been intended by doule in this pas- 
sage. Who would imagine that authority over ten cit- 
ies would be given to a slave? Doulos is likewise 
used in relation to hired servants. The penitent prod- 
igal said, ' How many (misthioi, hirelings,) or hired ser- 



LETTER XTI. 93 

vants of my father's have bread enough.' And again, 
when expressing his willingness to accept of the low- 
est station in his father's house, he said, 'I am no more 
worthy to be called thy son : make me as one of thy 
hired servants :' But the father said to his (doulous) ser- 
vants, bring forth the best robe, and put it on him. 
Luke XV. 11, 32. The prodigal said that the hirelings 
were his father's, and had bread enough and to spare. 
This would be quite unnatural, if there were still a low- 
er order of servants in his father's house, and indeed 
would imply that such servants had not bread enough. 
Again, he says, make me as one of thy hirelings. This, 
on the supposition that there were still a lower order than 
these in his father's family, was as good as saying, I am 
not yet unworthy enough to take the lowest place in thy 
family. And would destroy both the beauty and the fitness 
of the parable ; which was intended to illustrate the na- 
ture of true repentance, and the willingness of our heav- 
enly Father to receive the humble penitent. The truly 
penitent sinner is willing to take the lowest station in his 
father's house. But Mr. Cameron, contrary to the na- 
ture of the parable, supposes that the father of the 
prodigal held slaves ; but upon such supposition the 
prodigal was very unlike the penitent sinner whom he 
was intended to represent. Hence, it is evident that 
the Father's (douloi) servants were his hirelings. ' 

Once more. Doulos is used in relation to such as 
dedicate themselves to the service of others. So Paul 
as we have already shown, made himself (doulos) ser- 
vant unto all. And so those who have dedicated them- 
selves to the service of God are called his servants. 
Rev. xxii. 3. 'And his (douloi) servants shall serve 
him,' The elder brother of the prodigal is represent- 



94 



LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 



ed as saying to his father, ' Lo, these many years (dou- 
leuo) do I serve thee ?' And our Lord says, ' whosoev- 
er committeth sin, is the (doulos) servant of sin.' John 
viii. 34. Paul also says, ' To whom ye yield yourselves 
(douloi) servants to obey, his (douloi) servants ye are.' 
Rom. vi. 16. 

Consequently, Mr. Cameron must be mistaken when 
he says, ' That doulos in Greek— (is) used to signify 
that kind of servitude which is perpetual or for life, 
which we call slavery.' It has no such definite signifi- 
cation. No differenpe whether a man serves volunta- 
rily, or involuntarily, whether he serves an hour or dur- 
ing life, he is doulos a servant during the time he 
serves. It is a general term which is equally applica- 
ble to all kinds of servants, without regard either to the 
nature or duration of their servitude. Hence, it affords 
no proof either for or against our present system of 
slavery. Thus far we think Mr. Cameron has failed in 
Ms arguments. 

Again, Mr. Cameron, on pages 9th and 10th quotes 
1 Tim. vi. 1, 2. ' Let as many servants as are under 
the yoke, count their own masters worthy of all honor ; 
that the name of God and his doctrine be not blas- 
phemed. And they that have believing masters, let 
them not despise them because they are brethren ; but 
rather do them service because they are faithful and 
beloved partakers of the benefit.' He appears to be 
confident ' that this has a reference to slavery, or per- 
petual servitude.' And in connexion with it, he tells 
us of an ancient custom of making captives pass under 
the yoke as a token of their subjection to slavery, that 
such ' Were sold and bought like other property,' and 
that of this description of persons the Apostle Paul 



LETTER XII. 95 

says, 'Let as many servants as are (upo zugon) under 
the yoke, count their own masters worthy of all honor.' 
But I see not the least evidence that the Apostle had 
any reference to such custom. The Apostle does not 
say, let as many servants as have passed under the yoke ; 
but he says, ' Let as many servants as are under the 
yoke, count their own masters worthy of all honor.' 
The yoke which he mentions was not one under which 
they had passed ; but one that was still upon them. And 
according* to Mr. Cameron's own description of the in- 
strument, under which captives were made to pass, itis 
evident that the Apostle had no reference to it as an 
emblem ef perpetual slavery. In a note on the word 
yoke he says,' ' Jugum, a yoke, a contrivance with forks 
and spears, like a gallows, under which enemies van- 
quished were forced to go. Hence it is used to signify 
bondage or slavery.' But zugon, the Avord which the 
Apostle uses, signifies no such kind of yoke as Mr. 
Cameron here describes — it is derived from the Greek 
verb ZEUGNUG, (I join together,) and consequently sig- 
nifies an instrument of conjugation, such as the yoke 
which unites or couples oxen together ; and because it 
thus couples them, it is called zugon, (a yoke) — There- 
fore, it is not the kind of instrument under which Mr. 
Cameron says captives were made to pass as an emblem 
■of their being subjected to slavery. In allusion to the 
yoke, which binds the ox to his fellow, bondage of va- 
rious kinds is in the scriptures termed a yoke. Sub- 
jects are bound to obey their Prince, and thus are under 
the yoke. 1 Kings, xii. 4. ' Thy father (King Solomon) 
made our yoke grievous.' Christ is a King, and they 
that will be his subjects must take his yoke upon them 
—'Take my yoke upon you — For my yoke is easy.' 
Mat. xi. 29, 30. 



96 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Again, the husband is bound to the wife, and the 
wife to the husband, and though they be thus bound by 
voluntary engagement, and though their union be a 
source of their greatest happiness, yet they are under 
the yoke. Hence, Paul says, 2 Cor. vi. 14. ' Be ye not 
unequally yoked together with unbelievers.' And even 
two voluntary associates, in a parti(?ular calling, are 
considered as yoked together. Phil. iv. 3. ' I entreat 
thee also true yoke fellow.' This was a eertain person 
who had voluntarily associated himself with Paul in 
propagating the Gospel among the heathen. 

These instances are sufficient to show that the word 
yoke is figuratively used as a general term,, which is 
equally applicable to every kind of bondage. Mr. Cam- 
eron himself, on page 27th, admits that every ' Obliga- 
tion to virtue' is a yoke. He there argues that ' If the 
phrase every yoke, be not qualified and restricted — it 
will be proper to break asunder the yoke of Christiani- 
ty, the yoke of the civil law, the yoke of marriage, and 
every other obligation to virtue.' Thus while he pleads 
for a limitation of the * Phrase every yoke,' he admits 
the universal application of the term yoke in respect to 
every ' Obligation to virtue,' It is strange that he 
makes such admission after limiting the term to perpet- 
ual and involuntary slavery. But what is still more 
strange, he first argues that the term yoke is applicable 
to slavery alone, when used by the. Apostle in relation 
to servants ; but when he is commanded to ' Break ev- 
ery yoke,' Isa. Iviii. he argues that the ' Phrase every 
yoke' must be so ' Qualified and restricted' as not to 
include slavery, else, he says, ' It will be proper to 
break asunder the yoke of Christianity, the yoke of 
civil law, the yoke of marriage, and every other obli- 



LETTER XII. 



97 



gation to virtue.' If the ' Phrase every yoke' does not 
include slavery, I do not see how the phrase ' Under 
the yoke' can signify slavery. That the Apostle had 
reference to some kind of bondage when he used the 
phrase 'Under the yoke' I readily admit, but 1 see no 
evidence that he had reference to involuntary and per- 
petual slavery. Hired servants were in that age very 
numerous. The father of the prodigal is represented 
as having many of them in his service. The prodigal 
says, 'How many hired servants of my father's have 
bread enough !' And the Apostle James in his epistle, 
severely reproves the rich for defrauding the laborers 
that had reaped their fields. James v. 4. ' Behold, the 
hire of the laborers, who have reaped down your fields, 
which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth, and the 
cries of them which have reaped, are entered into the 
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth.' This shows that the 
fields of the rich were generally reaped by hired ser- 
vants, and not by slaves. Now, had slaves been so ex- 
ceedingly numerous as Mr. Cameron, on page 11th, 
attempts, by profane history, to prove tliem to have 
been, the rich would have no need to hire reapers. If 
slaves were held, they were held by the rich ; but 
James in a general epistle intended for the use of all 
the churches, represents the rich as hiring their reap- 
ers — This does not evidence that slaves were numer- 
ous. But had the rich generally held slaves, and treat- 
ed them with so shocking cruelty as Mr. Cameron says 
they did, can we suppose that the agonizing cries of 
the poor slaves would not have ' Entered into the ears 
of the Lord of .Sabaoth,' as well as the cries of de- 
frauded hirelings ? Has the Almighty no compassion 
for the hapless slave ? Surely the sovereign of the 
I 



98 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

universe is no respecter of persons — his compassion 
descends to the meanest of his creatures — The angel 
and the worm are alike the subjects of his care. Hence, 
it is most reasonable to conclude that, had there been 
suffering slaves in the hands of the rich, their cries 
must have been heard in heaven, and also regarded in 
the denunciations delivered by the inspired Apostle. 

Persons who were in a state of abject poverty were 
under the necessity of devoting themselves to the ser- 
vice of the rich for wages, and that in many instances, 
during the space of several years together ; and when 
they entered into a contract of such duration, they were 
bound to fulfil the term of service it required ; and thus 
they were under the yoke — and when they bound them- 
selves to the service of ill-disposed masters, it became 
a grievous yoke ; but nevertheless they were generally 
obliged to bear it until their term of service was com- 
pleted according to agreement. Some in consequence 
of being in debt sold themselves for a limited time in 
order to make payment; other insolvent debtors might 
be sold by their creditors ; and we may suppose some 
sold for crime — in addition to these, we may also sup- 
pose that many were bound as apprentices. All these 
several classes were under the yoke during the time 
for which they were bound to service ; and therefore 
might be properly addressed in the language of Paul. 
' Let as many servants as are under the yoke, count 
their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name 
of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed. And they 
that have believing masters, let them not despise them.' 
That the Apostle addressed servants, and not slaves, 
appears evident, when we consider that God, long be- 
fore, positively prohibited the enslaving of his people, 



LETTER XII. "99 

and with the prohibition he assigned the reason on 
which it was founded ; ' They are my servants.' This 
reason mast stand alike good in every age, and ever 
prohibit Christians from enslaving their brethren. ' But 
over your brethren — ye shall not rule — with rigor.' — 
'For they are my servants.' Levit. xxv. 42, 46. lean- 
not believe that the Apostle under the inspiration of the 
Holy Spirit did, in opposition to this positive command, 
permit Christians to hold their brethren as slaves for 
life, and also to have the power of selling both them 
and their offspring as mere property ! But it would be 
proper for the several classes of servants we have men- 
tioned to fulfil their terms, and render the service due 
to their own masters, whether christian or heathen. 
And to the heathen, they ought to be both faithful and 
respectful, lest they should cause them to say, that 
Christianity made their servants dishonest, or unwilling 
to render them such service and regard as were justly 
due. And love to their christian masters, who were 
faithful and beloved brethren, ought to induce them to 
render thera still more willingly the service and honor 
which were justly due ; and thus while fulfilling their 
just obligations, they would be doing good to their 
brethren, and so would enable them to extend their lib- 
erality to those who were propagating the Gospel. 
And I do not see why all the addresses made to ser- 
vants in the Apostolic epistles might not be applicable 
to persons bound to servitude for a limited time. Such 
as were bound to intolerate heathen might endure great 
evils ; in such cases it would be desirable to be libera- 
ted by satisfying the master in some lawful way, for 
the service due him. And, perhaps, it was on this 
account that Paul said, ' Art thou called being a ser- 



100 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

vant, care not for it ; but if thou mayst be free, use it 
rather.' But when this could not be obtained in an 
equitable manner, it would be their duty to serve, even 
the froward as well as the gentle — it was such service 
as justice required — Hence, it was 'proper to enjoin 
obedience upon them. 'Servants, obey in all things 
your masters according to the flesh ; not with eye-ser- 
vice, as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fear- 
ing God.' — Col. iii. 22. This plainly implies that the 
service was justly due ; and that, therefore, it should 
be rendered in the fear of God, who would punish them 
in case they should defraud their masters. And these 
same masters were commanded to give unto their ser- 
vants whatever wages were due for their services. 
' Masters, give unto your servants that which is just 
and equal.'— Col. iv. 1. But in some instances, refer- 
ence is made to the stripes which servants endured. 
And from this, Mr. Cameron concludes such servants 
were slaves for life ; but many who were servants for 
a limited time, have endured stripes.— Hence, endur- 
ing stripes is no certain proof of the existence of per- 
petual slavery. Again, Mr. Cameron attempts, on page 
21st, to prove by the Greek phrase, o pais mou, that 
the Centurion's servant whom our Lord healed, was a 
slave born in his family ; but the word Pais is some- 
times used as DOULos, a servant. Luke i. 54. — 'He 
hath holpen his servant Israel.' And xv. 20. — ' And he 
called one of the servants.' Pais is used in both those 
passages to signify servant. Hence the phrase o pais 
MOU signifies 'My servant,' just as it is expressed in 
our translation. Luke vii. 7. Therefore it has no re- 
ference to the servant's being born in the Centurion's 
family, nor does it afford any evidence that he was a 
slave for life. 



LETTER XII. 



101 



I have now considered the principal arguments 
which Mr. Cameron has adduced to prove that the 
Apostles did permit the primitive christians to hold 
slaves, and though I readily grant that they are the 
best his cause will admit, yet I do not think them suf- 
ficient to establish his point, or to justify his practice 
of holding as property his fellow men, I am fully per- 
suaded that a point so unreasonable, and a practice so 
unjust, can never find support from the sacred volume. 

I have now completed my examination of the princi- 
pal arguments which the abettors of slavery have drawn 
from the scriptures in order to support our modern sys- 
tem of cruel oppression. 

You may expect me "in my next to show that the 
scriptures do condemn the practice of slavery. 

Adieu. 



I 2 



( 102 



LETTER XIIL 

Dear Brother : 

I shall now present to your consideration several 
passages of the sacred Scriptures which I believe ,to be 
decidedly opposed to the kind of slavery which exists 
in our slaveholding States. 

The first I shall invite you to consider is a prediction 
found in Gen. xv. 14. ' That nation whom they shall 
serve, will I judge, and afterward shall they come out 
with great substance.' This prediction relates to the 
slavery which the Egyptians inflicted upon the descen- 
dants of Abraham. And for such infliction God said he 
would judge them ; but if it be not unjust to enslave our 
fellow men, why did the Almighty denounce sentence 
of judgment against the Egyptians for enslaving the na- 
tion of Israel ? And why did he execute that sentence 
by inflicting upon them ten most desolating plagues ? 
What were the disgusting plagues of bloody fountains, 
croaking frogs, loathsome and devouring insects, and 
horrible diseases, but so many different emblems of the 
Divine abhorrence of the crime of inflicting slavery 
upon an innocent nation ? What were the plagues of 
massy hail-stones, terrific fire, and tremendous thun- 
der, of horrible darkness, and of the destroying Angel, 
the messenger of sudden death to all the first born of 
Egypt, but the emblems of Divine indignation against 
the injustice of slavery ? Surely the vai*ious punish- 
ments inflicted upon the Egyptians for enslaving the 
Israelites are so many demonstrations that the prac- 
tice of slavery is a crime of the greatest magnitude, 



LETTER XIlI. lOy 

and as such highly offensive to Jehovah. The great 
substance which the prediction awarded to the nation 
of Israel is likewise a striking demonstration of the 
injustice of enslaving the human species. The Egyp- 
tians did not escape with merely suffering severe in- 
flictions of punishment ; but they were ma^e to re- 
munerate the Israelites for the service which they had 
unjustly exacted from them. — Hence, according to the 
prediction, the nation of Israel came out of Egypt 
' with great substance.' Let it not be said that the Is- 
raelites were the chosen people of God, and that, 
therefore, to enslave them was peculiarly criminal. 
There could be no more natural injustice in enslaving 
them than there is in enslaving any other innocent peo- 
ple. And let it be remembered that God has given to 
his Son 'the heathen for his inheritance, and the ut- 
termost parts of the earth for his possession.' Psalm ii. 
8. Then all nations are now the property of the 
Son of God, and consequently to enslave any of them 
must be as criminal as it was to enslave the nations of 
Israel. Permit me here to remark that the crime of 
the Egyptians in enslaving the Israelites was in sever- 
al respects less aggravated than is that of the Ameri- 
cans in enslaving the Africans. The Egyptian slavery 
was much less rigorous than is that which exists in our 
slaveholding states. The Israelites were not made the 
property of individuals, as are the Africans in Amer- 
ica — consequently they were not liable to be taken 
from their families and sold in the markets like beasts, 
nor does it appear that the females were at all enslav- 
ed; but that merely the males were made to labor, 
under task masters, in the service of the king. — They 
were permitted to live in a body together, and to hold 



104 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

property — they had Elders or Rulers among them 
whom they could convene together when necessary, 
and according to their own testimony, they were plen- 
tifully fed. These statements are fully verified by the 
book of Exodus ; and they show that the slavery to 
which the Egyptians subjected the Israelites was much 
more tolerable than is that to which the Africans are 
now subjected by the Americans — Hence in this re- 
spect the crime of the Egyptians was less heinous than 
is that of the American slaveholders, who alike enslave 
male andfenaale, make them private property, separate 
them from their dearest relatives, and without regard 
to age or sex, buy and sell them in the markets as 
though they were beasts. And in many instances, 
they are made to endure nakedness and hunger. It is 
true that Pharaoh devised a cruel method of preventing 
the increase of the Israelites ; but it does not appear 
to have been executed to any considerable extent, and 
even that device, dreadful as it was, fell far short of the 
cruelty of subjecting men to a whole life of the se- 
vere torture, excessive toil and starvation, to which 
thousands of the Africans are subjected in various 
parts of the United States. Better far, for many of the 
hapless Africans to have entered the world under the 
bloody decree of Pharaoh, to have died by it, in an in- 
~ fantile state, than to endure a whole life of death un- 
der American bondage. It is undeniable, that, in every 
slaveholding State, many slaves endure sufferings im- 
mensely more dreadful than were those inflicted upon 
the new-born infants of Israel by the bloody command 
of Pharaoh. Hence, when the slavery of Egypt is 
viewed, even in its worst forms, it does not appear to 
equal in cruelty that which exists among us, Conse- 



LETTER XIII. 105 

quently, it appears to me that the cnminality of mod- 
ern slavery does far exceed that of the slavery of 
Egypt. 

I think it is proper to remark further, that at the time 
in which the Israelites were enslaved by the Egyp- 
tians, the knowledge of the natural rights of man was 
very limited, and of course, despotism generally per- 
vaded the world. The Egyptians were, doubtless, very 
ignorant in respect to the injustice of enslaving the 
Israelites, and although this did not free them from 
crime, yet it tended to the mitigation of their guilt ; 
but there has been no period in which the natural 
rights of man have been better understood than they 
are in this ago, nor are they generally so well under- 
stood, in the present time, by any other nation, as they 
are by the United States of North America, in which 
experience has proved the truth of theory in relation 
to both civil and religious liberty. Hence, we conclude 
that slavery never was in any other age, attended with 
so high a degree of criminality as it is in the present, 
nor is the crime of it, in any other nation, attended with 
so many aggravations as it is in our own. Conse- 
quently, if the crime of slavery in Egypt was great, it 
is immensely greater in America I 

The second passage of Scripture, I shall present to 
your consideration, is found in Exodus xxi. 16. 'He 
that stealeth a man and selleth him ; or if he be found 
in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.' This law 
is recognized and re-sanctioned by the Apostle Paul, 1 
Tim. i. 9, 10. ' The law is not made for the righteous 
man, but — for men-stealers.' It is evident that there is 
no method of introducing innocent men into a state of 
slavery, that is more just than that of stealing them. 



106 



LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 



The criminality of stealing does not consist in the se- 
cret manner in which it is effected ; but in the unjust 
violation of another's right. Hence, it is evident that 
the law against man-stealing forbids alike every other 
method of enslaving the innocent. I admit that a man 
by crime may forfeit his own right to liberty, but such 
forfeiture cannot justly take away the liberty of his 
offspring. Consequently, hereditary and involuntary 
slavery cannot possibly exist but by the violation of 
natural and unforfeited rights, and of course by the vio^ 
lation of the law which prohibits nqian-stealing. The 
very design of giving such a law was undeniably that 
of securing to innocent persons the natural right of 
freedom, l presume you will not imagine that the 
man who raises another has a right to his services dur- 
ing his life. Thousands of hapless orphans, without 
the means of support, are providentially cast upon so- 
ciety ; but who will pretend that they, Avho raise them, 
are entitled to their services during their lives, and 
therefore may justly enslavethem ? ^ The service of a 
person, until he arrives at the age of twenty-one years, 
is considered by the laws of our nation the price of his 
raising. Such service parents are allowed to receive 
for raising their children. And certainly slaveholders, 
.'ho raise Africans cannot be justly entitled to longer 
service. Indeed most, if not all of them, according to 
the plainest principles of justice, are not entitled to a 
moment's service from the Africans they raise. They 
generally bring them up in a very coarse manner, have 
not the trouble of nursing them, give them no educa- 
tion, and at the same time receive such labor from their 
parents as more than compensates for the little expense 
incurred by supporting them during their minority. 



LETTER XIII. 107 

Hence there are very few, if any cases at all, in which 
slaveholders are justly entitled to the services of Af- 
rican children until they become twenty-one years of 
age, and surely much less are they entitled to the ser- 
vices of any of them during life. Consequently, from 
well established principles it is evident that the man 
who enslaves another merely because he has raised 
him, violates his rights as much as the man stealer 
does those of the man he steals and enslaves. But 
perhaps you may even suppose that they who purchase 
slaves have a just title to their offspring, and of course 
may enslave them without the violation of natural 
rights. But it ought to be recollected that the slaves 
who are thus purchased were themselves unjustly en- 
slaved — they were either stolen, or they descended 
from those who were stolen, and therefore none can 
have any just right to buy or sell them. But were the 
parents justly bound to service during life, even that 
could not give the right of enslaving the offspring. It 
is admitted by all enlighted nations, that parents have 
no right to the service of their own children beyond a 
limited time, and therefore they are neither permitted 
to hold them in perpetual bondage themselves, nor to 
sell them for slaves during life. And certainly, if pa- 
rents who generate, bear and nurse children have no 
right to hold slaves during life — no others can have 
such right. It cannot be even pretended that slave- 
holders have as much right to the service of children 
whom they have neither generated, borne, nor nursed, 
as parents have to those of their own offspring. If 
generating, bearing and nursing a man cannot give 
the right of perpetual property in him, nothing else 
short of xreating him can. Hence we conclude, with 



108 LETTERS ON SJjAVERY. 

the utmost certainty, that the practice of our kind of 
slavery, which originated in violence and theft, and is 
perpetuated by means equally unjust as those by which 
it had its origin, is a flagrant violation of the divine 
law against man stealing. And it is worthy of remark, 
that the original word which the Apostle uses, 1 Tim. i. 
10, and is translated into the word men-stealers, com- 
prehends not merely those who steal men, but also all 
who are concerned either in enslaving any of the hu- 
man species, or retaining them^n slavery.* Indeed, it 
might be rendered slave dealers with as much proprie- 
ty as it is rendered men-stealers. And, in reality, there 
is no essential difference between these two classes of 
men — both alike deprive innocent persons of their lib- 
erties — the one commits the theft, and the other con- 
sents to it, and receives and vends what is stolen. 
Now all slaveholders are in some degree concerned, 
both in men stealing and slave dealing, and, therefore, 
the law is made for slaveholders as well as for men- 
stealers and slave dealers. That they are all alike 

* To this purpose is the following- note, which was privately 
inserted in the Con. of Faith, revised A. D. 1805, by the General 
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church. [' I Tim. i. 10. (The 
law is made) for whoremongers, for them that defile themseh'-es 
with mankind, for men-stealers. This crime among the Jews 
exposed the perpetrators of it to capital punishment. Exodus xxi. 
16. And the Apostle here classes them with sinners of the first 
rank. The word he uses in its original import, comprehends all 
who are concerned in bringing .any of the human race into sla- 
very, or detaining them in it. Hominum fures, qui servos vel 
liberos abducant, retinent, vendunt vel emunt. Stealers of men 
are all those who bring off slaves or freemen, and keep, sell or 
buy them. To steal a freeman, says Grotius, is the highest kind 
of theft. In other instances we only steal human propertj^, but 
when we steal or retain men in slavery, we seize those who, in 
common with ourselves, are constituted by the original grant, 
lords of the earth. Gen. i. 28. Vid. Poll synopsin in loc.'] 



LETTER XIII, 109 

guilty fco the same degree, I will not pretend to assert ; 
but that the most innocent and unsuspecting among 
them are ' partakers of other men's sins,' seems to me 
undeniable. And though ' they escape the judgment 
of men, yet they shall not escape the righteous judg- 
ment of God.' The sentence which God has annexed 
to the law against man stealing shows how much he 
abhors slavery. Death! certain death! is the pen- 
alty which the Almighty has attached to the crime 
of depriving an innocent person of his liberty. — ' He 
that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found 
in his hand, he shall SURELY BE PUT TO DEATH.' 
And it ought to be remembered that this awful penalty 
was annnexed to the crime of enslaving the innocent, 
at a period of the world when the ignorance of the 
rights of man tended much to mitigate the guilt of sla- 
very. The criminality of slavery continually increases 
with the progress of knowledge. 

The third passage I shall invite you to consider, is 
found in Deut, xxiii. 15, 16. 'Thou shalt not deliver un- 
to his master the iservant which is escaped from his mas- 
ter unto thee. He shall dwell with thee, even among 
you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thy 
gates, where it liketh him, best : thou shalt not oppress 
him.' 

In this passage we have the judgment of God against 
one kind of servitude; the justice of the command 
necessarily supposes the injustice of the servitude to 
which it refers. And be that kind of servitude what 
it might, I am sure it could not be worse than that 
which is involuntary and perpetual : therefore the di- 
vine decision against it must be equally against that 
which exists in modern times. This divine decision 
K 



110 LETTERS ON SI/AV1ERT. 

originated in the principles of justice and mercy, andj 
of course, must be as immutable as are the principles 
in which it had its origin. Justice and mercy can nev- 
er cease to require the protection of those who fly to 
us from oppression. Hence, we conclude that the pas- 
sage under consideration does fully condemn the mod- 
ern practice of slavery. 

The fourth passage I shall present to your consider- 
ation you will find in Isa. Iviii. 6. * Is not this the fast 
that I have chosen ? To loose the bands of wicked- 
ness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppress- 
ed go free, and that ye break every yoke.' That the 
Israelites did attempt the practice of involuntary and 
perpetual slavery is evident from Jer. xxxiv. 8, 17. In 
this they transcended the limits of divine permission in 
relation to servitude. Hence, they were commanded 
' to let the oppressed go free, and — break every yoke.' 
And if it was criminal in them to extend servitude be- 
yond the limits of divine permission, it must be equally 
so in us. There is no divine permission for enslaving 
the Africans, and therefore the command is as obliga- 
tory upon their enslavers as it was upon the mancipat- 
ing Israelites. Hence, every slaveholder is command- 
ed to break the yoke of bondage, and ' to let the op- 
pressed go free.' 

The fifth and last passage I shall present to your 
consideration contains the substance of the law and 
the prophets. It is found in Math. vii. 12. ' Therefore 
all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to 
you, do ye even so to them : for this is the law and the 
prophets.' 

Every man who is acquainted with the attendant and 
consequent evils of slavery would, if a slave, desire to 



LETTER XIII. Ill 

be liberated. And certainly such desire would be con- 
sistent with the divine law. Hence, no man can hold 
an innocent person to involuntary servitude without vi- 
olating the Savior's law of love. For, in doing this, 
he does to another what he would not wish another to 
do to him. No earthly consideration could induce the 
slaveholder to take the place of his slaves. Therefore 
it is abundantly evident that he does not do to them as 
he would have them do to him. He does hold them to 
service, to which he would not wish himself to be held. 
There is no way of evading the force of these conclu- 
sions, but by first limiting the Savior's injunction to 
lawful desires, and then asserting that it is unlawful for 
a slave to desire to be free — consequently we find 
many adding ' like circumstances' to the text, in order 
to make it tally with their own conduct. I readily ad- 
mit that the injunction necessarily supposes that we 
are bound to desire of others nothing but what is in ac- 
cordance with the divine law ; but nothing, except a 
mind under the infatuating influence of an insatiable 
avarice, can imagine that it is unlawful for a slave to 
desire freedom. All men were alike 'created free;' 
and for a man to desire what is his natural and unfor- 
feited right, never can be discordant with the law of 
God. Hence Paul, when addressing servants, says, ' If 
thou mayst be free, use it rather.' Now this, whether 
it has reference to mere servants or involuntary slaves, 
proves that the desire for freedom is lawful, and that it 
is even a duty to obtain liberty when it is attainable. 
But perhaps you may ask, is it lawful for a slave to de- 
sire the master, who has purchased him, to liberate him 
with the loss of the purchase money ? I say it is law- 
ful. None has a right to sell a man, who has never 



112 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

forfeited his liberty, and of course none can have a 
right to purchase him ; and if a man has no right to 
purchase another, he has no right to hold him when pur- 
chased. And it is easier for a man to endure the loss 
of a few hundred dollars, than it is for one to endure a 
whole life of bondage. Hence, we say, when one man 
holds another in bondage during life, merely because 
he has given a few hundred dollars for him, he gives 
the most decisive evidence that he does not love him 
as he does himself. The slaveholder would give a mil- 
lion of dollars, if he had them, rather than be a slave 
during life ; yet for the sake of a few hundred, he will 
hold another in slavery during life, and at the same 
time profess to love him as he does himself! But how 
absurd is such a profession ! Could the most malig- 
nant hatred do worse than hold a man in abject sla- 
very for life ? Thus it is most evident that the slave- 
holder does violate the law and the prophets. And the 
New Testament is but a developement of the princi- 
ples contained in the law and the prophets. Hence, 
the whole Bible is opposed to slavery. The sacred 
volume is one grand scheme of benevolence — beams 
of love and mercy emanate from every page, while the 
voice of justice denounces the oppressor, and speaks 
his awful doom ! 

Finally-, I shall consider some of the excuses which 
have been offered for the practice of slavery. 

I. It is said ' the government has enslaved the Af- 
ricans, and therefore slavery is the sin of the nation, 
and not of individuals.' Nothing can be more falla- 
cious than this excuse. The government never made, 
nor held a single slave, nor did it ever compel a single 
individual to become a slaveholder. Individuals first 



LETTER XIII. 113 

made, and still continue to hold slaves, and for these 
purposes they sought, and obtained permission and pro- 
tection from government. Hence they involved both 
themselves and the government in the guilt of slavery. 
Therefore it is as unjust as it is vain for slaveholders 
to charge their sin upon the government. Every one 
of them shall bear his own sin. 

II. It is said ' the laws of the slaveholding States 
prohibit the liberation of the slaves, and therefore 
the crime of slavery falls upon the States, and not 
upon individuals.' To this I reply, that those States 
did not compel any to become slaveholders — and there- 
fore individuals stand first in the list of crimes. And 
besides this, slaveholders made the very laws which 
prohibit emancipation, and they are the very men who 
prevent the repeal of those laws. Hence, they are the 
sole cause of the evil. It is vain for us to charge our 
sins upon the government which we made ourselves, 
and may alter when we please. And we may further 
add, that they who wish to liberate their slaves may 
give them a pass, and send them into other States whose 
laws will free them. 

III. It is said, 'Alas ! poor creatures, freedom would 
ruin them — they are not capable of doing for them- 
selves — they would all either starve or steal.' 

Immaculate tenderness ! Astonishing sympathy ! 
But what is to be dreaded more than such tenderness 
and sympathy ? Who would wish to have them exer- 
cised upon himself? The assertion that 'they are not 
capable of doing for themselves' is false, as may be 
shown by a thousand instances. Were not the Hayti- 
ens once in a state of the most abject slavery ? Did 
they not liberate themselves ? And have they not hon- 
k2 



114 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

orabiy maintained their independence, in spite of the 
powerful efforts of the French nation to subdue them? 
Have they not formed a i-espectable republican govern- 
ment? Have they not made wise regulations for the 
promotion of science among them ? And have they 
not the prospect of becoming an enlightened and hap- 
py nation ? And have not many of those who have 
been emancipated in America, become wealthy and 
good citizens ? And where shall we find any instances 
of starvation among them? Have not the poorest 
economists among them been able to provide something 
better than the few pints of corn per week, in many 
places, allowed to slaves ? How many of them have 
gone entirely naked? And where have they commit- 
ted worse thefts than have been committed by the 
whites ? And. is it not well known that many of the 
crimes charged upon the Africans have, been perpetra- 
ted by white men ? It appears to me undeniable, that 
freedom with its worst consequences, is better than 
slavery with its best consequenceso The most miser- 
able of those who are free, are not so miserable in ev- 
ery respect as are some in slavery. Hence, we say 
that the tenderness which induces men to hold others 
in abject slavery, in order to save them from the ruin- 
ous effects of freedom, is but a mere palliative for a 
guilty conscience, and must be the offspring of blind 
avarice. 

IV. It is said, 'that some slaves have very cruel 
masters, and therefore it is an act of benevolence, in 
the humane, to buy and hold them in bondage, in order 
to better their condition.' 

This is a very plausible excuse for the practice of 
slavery, and has no doubt had a powerful influence upon 



1.ETTER XIII, 115 

many well meaning people ; but it is as false as it is 
plausible. Every man readily supposes himself to be 
humane ; hence, every man, upon the same principle, 
would think himself authorized to purchase and hold 
slaves, and thus the widest door would be opened to the 
practice of what we admit to be in itself unjust. If 
all the humane would refuse to hold slaves, the evil of 
slavery would soon be banished from the world. The 
example of the humane encourages the cruel, by giv- 
ing countenance to their oppressions ; and their kind- 
ness to their slaves keeps out of view many of the 
worst evils of slavery, and causes it to assume a mild 
and tolerable aspect ; thus their partial benevolence 
becomes universal "cruelty. If slavery is unjust, it must 
be criminal to sanction it by our example. 

Again, suppose you were to purchase from the Alge- 
rines an unfortunate captive whom they were deter- 
mined to enslave during life, do you suppose that their 
determination to deprive him of liberty would justify 
you in subjecting him to similar bondage with some 
mitigations of suffering ? Certainly, you would never 
so much as think of subjecting such a person to slavery 
for life unless his skin were black. But the color of the 
skin does not in the least alter the nature of the case— - 
the law of love knows no distinction in colors — it binds 
us alike to regard the natural rights of all men — what- 
ever is naturally due from us to a white man, is equally 
so to one that is black. 

V. It is said, ' that the Africans are in slavery, and 
will certainly be continued in it, and therefore one may 
as well hold them as another ; and he who holds them 
does not take away their liberty, for this they never 
possessed.' 



116 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

Suppose a man were to happen with a band of rob- 
bers, and they should invite him to join them in robbing 
a travelling gentleman of his money. He, at first, ex- 
postulates with them a^jout the cruelty and injustice of 
robbery — they tell him he may have his choice as to 
the matter in question, but they are determined to have 
the traveller's money. He at length says — Alas, poor 
man, they will certainly take his money, and my refus- 
ing to take part with them will not alter the case, nor 
better the condition of the unfortunate stranger ; there- 
fore I may as well join, and get a share of the spoils — 
I may as well have it as another. Away he goes with 
the rest, and takes his share of the money. Is he the 
less guilty, because the others would certainly have 
committed the robbery without him? Then surely a 
man is not the less guilty in holding an innocent person 
in bondage, because he would certainly be held in it 
by another. An innocent man has ever a right to free- 
dom, and therefore whoever holds him in bondage does 
take away his liberty. 

VI. Finally, it is said, ' It will not do to free them 
among us. If they must be among us, let them be 
slaves.' 

We are commanded to ' do justly and love mercy,' 
and this we ought to do without delay, and leave the 
consequences attending it to the control of Him v/ho 
.gave the command. We ought also to remember that 
no excuse for disobedience will avail us any thing when 
he shall call us to judgment. If we refuse to do the 
Africans justice, v/e may expect the supreme Governor 
of the world to avenge their wrongs, and cause their 
own arm to make them free ! Hence, our own safety 
demands their liberation. Hold them in bondage, and 



LETTER XIII. 117 

you will itmre them to hardship, and prepare them for 
the day of battle. You will also keep them together, 
increase their numbers, and enable them to overpower 
-the nation. Their enormous increase, beyond that of 
the white population, is truly alarming. But liberate 
them, and their increase will become proportionate to 
the rest of the nation. They will scatter over this 
Union — many of them will emigrate to Hayti and Af- 
rica. Prepare them for citizenship, and give them the 
privileges of free men, and they will have no induce- 
ments to do us harm ; but persist in oppressing them, 
and ruin will eventually burst upon our nation. The 
storm is gathering fast — dismal clouds already begin 
to darken our horizon ! A few more years, and the 
work of death will commence ! 

Now, my dear brother, I think I have clearly shown 
that both reason and revelation do condemn the prac- 
tice of slavery. I therefore entreat you to liberate the 
poor Africans you have purchased, and provide for them 
some comfortable way of living. To have done this, 
will give you no painful sensations upon a dying bed. 

I must now close my series of letters — I hope you 
will receive them as so many tokens of sincere affec- 
tion for you. My heart fills as I approach the closing 
moment. It ^eems as if I am about to bid you a long 
and uncertain farewell ! All the tender scenes of our 
youthful days seem at once to rise to view, to awaken 
the softest sensibilities of nature, and excite the strong- 
est solicitude for your happiness ; while the appalling 
thought presses upon me that you will refuse to hear a 
brother's voice, the voice of reason, and what is infin- 
itely more, the voice of God. A brother pleads with 
you ; nature by all her tenderest sensibilities, and the 



118 LETTERS ON SLAVERY. 

God of nature, by all those heavenly sympathies that 
issued from a Savior's bleeding heart, plead with you, 
to 'do justly, to love mercy,' ' and to let the oppressed 
go free !' And can you refuse ? And if you do, I am 
your brother — I will not speak your doom ! ! ! 

FAREWELL 1! ! 



THE END. 



