res. 5 5* 75". 51 »o.fc 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dissuasiontogreaOOswan 



DISSUASION 

FROM THE 

Slave Trade. 






■ ■ 

■ i 






no,? 



DISSUASION 

T O 

GREAT-BRITAIN 



AND THE 

COLONIES, 

FROM THE 

Slave Trade to Africa. 

SHEWING, 

The Contradiftion this Trade bears, both to Laws di- 
vine and provincial ; the Difad vantages arifing from 
it, and Advantages from abolishing it, both to 
Europe and Africa, particularly to Britain 
and the Plantations. 

also shewing, 

How to put this Trade to Africa on a juft and 
lawful Footing. 

By James Swan, 

A Native -of Great-Britain, and Friend to the 
Welfare of this Continent. 

BOSTON:NE. 
Printed by E. Russell, near the New Intelligence- 
Office and Auction-room, and next the Cornfield, 
Union-itreet. 



THE 



DEDICATION. 



To all Friends to LI BE RT Y. 

Fellow Subjects, 

IT is to you I dedicate thisTrea- 
tife, and beg your protection 
of the fame, hoping it will meet 
with a kind reception • 

The approbation men of cha- 
racter and fenfe have given the 
following Work, has made me 
venture it into your hands : And 
I hope in the perufal you will 
keep in view the Author, I am cer- 
tain you cannot then fail of making 
great allowances, I am a North-* 

Briton ! 



vi DEDICATION. 

Briton ! And when you know 
that, it alone may be judged by 
fome, fufficient to brand me with 
the hateful name of Tory* and 
thereby condemn this Diffuafion. 
But let me inform you (for there is 
no general rule without an excepti- 
on) that I am a moft fincere well- 
wifher to the common caufe of 
Liberty \ both p erj "anal and conjli- 
tutional ; then you will, give me 
a place in the lift of your. Haunch 
Friends, and accept of this At- 
tempt, as intended, to be a mean 
of abolifhing .one great part of 
Slavery here. 

If there is any merit in endea- 
vouring to fet free from Bondage 
our fellow creatures, and in trying 
to promote the good and welfare 
of any nation, province, country, 

or 



vii DEDICATION. 

or individual, furely I may claim 
it ; for my fincere endeavour is 
tothefe purpofes: And if I fhould 
happen to mifs my aim, I fliall 
fit down fatisfied with the merit 
of a good intent. 

Readers, I have but one favour 
to aik of you, which is,to perufe this 
Performance with an open unbiaf- 
fed mind ; overlooking any de- 
fers you may obferve in thefe 
fheets, knowing they are the hafty 
and undigested thoughts of the 
Author, put together with more 
good intent than ability ; after this 
you may either rejedl or pra£tife,ac- 
cording to your own confciences, 
and the light of thisTreatife 5 if there 
is any to be found in it. Enflav- 
ing your fellow men,and ufingand 
maffacring them as they do in the 



viii DEDICATION. 

Zfef- Indies and Southern Provin- 
ces, is a matter of too great impor- 
tance to be only flightly thought of. 
And as I hope you have thshumani- 
tyo£ Britons, and that love of Liber ^ 
ty y with which every true Englifh*- 
man is, or ought to be poflefled 
of, you will not countenance it, 
but declare yourfelves as I do, 
well-wijliers of the Britijh Empire ', 
and confequently e?iemiesto Slavery. 
Accept then, Friends and Bre- 
thren in one common caufe, this 
fmall .token of that love and vene- 
ration which I bear to freedom, 
(for no country can be called free 
where there is one Slave) and 
give me leave to fubfcribe myfelf, 

! Your Friend and 

humble Servant, 

James Swan. 



T H E 



PREFAC E, 



I HAD not well arrived in 
America.^ when cafting my 
eyes on {o many Black Slaves, I 
immediately found a warm incli- 
nation arife in my bread, to do 
my endeavours for relieving them 
by publifhing to the world my 
fentiments upon their Irate* 

S Scarce 



x PREFAC E. 

Scarce had I time to draw a 
breath of this air, before I imme- 
diately applied myfelf to enquire 
into the ftate of this Slavery y and 
the conftitution upon which it is 
founded, and having met with 
proper preliminaries by way of 
foundation for a fmall Treatife,. I 
fet myfelf to work in forming ,and 
in fhort finifhed this Pamphlet. 



From the consideration of the 
fmallnefs of this production, and 
my inability to treat the fubjecfl 
properly, I was nigh refolding not 
to prefix my name hereto : But 
thinking again, fome oppofite par- 
ty might take hold of that, I 
thought it moft proper to fhew 
my common Signature, knowing 

the 



PREFACE. 1st 

the caufe I defend is good and 
well founded. 

Some will no doubt be furprifed 
that I have wrote this Diffuafion 
after the form of a Sermon : It is 
eafily accounted for. A Sermon 
beings difcourfe of injlru&ion pro- 
nounced by a Divine for the edifica- 
tion of the people. I am no Divine 
nor ever expert to be ; but I hope 
that is no reafon why thefe fheets 
fhould not be of publick benefit, 
as my defign was for that end ; 
I chofe to write it in this form, as 
being the trueft way to difplay 
with perfpicuity and plainnefs the 
unlawfulnefsj $fc. of the Slave 
Trade, for which purpofe I have 
attempted it in different heads 
and branches, in feme of which 

are 



ml PREFACE. 

are contained many pertinent re- 
marks or obfervations on this in- 
human Commerce ; and I thought 
further, it was the eafieft method 
for myfelf, and plained for my 
Readers ; it being intended for thq 
weakeft and higheft capacities. 

It may be objected by fome, that 
the writings oh this fubje£t are too 
numerous already. I anfwer, that 
however many there may be ex- 
tant, (although I could find but very 
few) yet there are none fo full as 
not to admit of amendments or 
improvements ; If fo, and that 
thefe may not altogether be 
of inconiiderable ufe to man- 
kind, why may not I make them ? 
and "why may they not be trans- 
mitted to mankind ? 



A 



PRE F A C E. xiii 

A Treatise of this kind may 
not be unneceffary, notwitbftand- 
ing many Books, Pamphlets, 
and Letters have been published 
on the fubject. 

But however ineffectual this 
Treatife may prove hereafter a- 
mong men, this I comfort myfelf 

with, it is as full, considering the 
largenefs, as any upon the fub- 
jeft which I have feen ; and there 
are few arguments that poflibly 
could be advanced, or citations 
drawn from Scripture concerning 
man-ielling,^.thathaveefcaped, 
in trying to wean mtn from this 
bale and inhuman trade. And in 
fine, if this Work meets with encou- 
ragement equal to the Author's 
care and endeavours to make it 

the 



xiv PREFACE 

the - moffc ufeful of the kind, by 
having the defired effeft he fhall 
efteein himfclf fufficiently re- 
warded. 

With regard to theDifiuafion, 
I leave the Reader to judge, after 
having read it over cooly and im- 
partially, whether it ought to be 
approved or difapproved ; if the 
former, it will no doubt meet with 
his protection in publick. But 
I have fomething to afk, which I 
beg may not be refufed, and that 
is, if you have not a fund of pa- 
tience laid up in (tore, before you 
begin to perufe it, you are requeft- 
ed to lay it afide, until you have. 

There is one fmall part of it 
taken from Pojilethwayfs Dictio- 
nary 



PREF.AC E sv 

nary of Commerce. Another 
part from A. Bmezett\ Caution 
to Great-BritainixA her Colonies, 
both which Authors I am very- 
glad were born before me, they 
having affifted me fo far. And 
with regard to the remaining part, 
I can tell where it came from. 

As it is necefiary in order to 
bring about a change in any, par- 
ticularly a publick affair, to touch 
the minds of the people with a 
juft and true fenfe of the unlaw- 
fulnefs of the thing wanted to be 
removed, that to the end they 
may be unanimous in the abo- 
lifhment thereof ; this DiiTua- 
fion I am convinced you will find 
upon perufal, is calculated for 
that purpofe, and am very fenfi- 



xvi PRE FA C E. 

ble, that it alone never can ftrike 
the great blow without the legif- 
lative force added to it. 



I will detain you no longer ; 
indeed I have almoft run into an 
Introduction amidft this Preface : 
But it could not well be other - 
wile, the connexion between 
them was fo great, and had I fe- 
parated them,. I fhonld have in- 
curred your difpleafure, by in- 
creafing the Prdlegomenas to a 
degree larger than the Diffuafion 
itfelf 



DISSU A SI ON, &a 



THE fubjedt of which thefe few 
meets treat, would have Been one 
of the laft I mould have ventured upon; 
had not the delation of the men who are 
concerned in en Having the people called 
Negroes appeared fo glaring,and the con- 
tradiction that the Slave Trade Bears to 
Christianity,- prompted me to it*. 

I Shall be as cool and impartial m 
treating of this-- /matter, as any BritiQi 
fubjecl: or Chriftian can : But why dq 
I fay cool ?. It is impoffible I mould 
fpeak cooly of fuch bafe, u'nch'riftan, and 
inhuman practices,- in a land of Liberty 
and Ch rift ran ity r However, in cafe any 
thing mould be mentioned in the fequel 
that may give unintended offence to any 
perfon, I hope the tender feelings for 
thefe diftrelTed Captives, with which I 
ampofleffed, and the warmth that is in 
my breaft, to have this Trade abolished, 
will be fufficient cxcufe". 

I pkopcse dividing the follGwiffeTrea- 
ilih into thefe different head*,- 1/ 



[ at j 

I. Shew, that this cuftom of making 
Slave9 of our fellow-men, is expreffly 
againft the revealed laws of God, 

II. That it is likewife againft the law 
of nature,, and the Gharter of this 
Province. 

HI.. The disadvantages arifing from; 
this bafe Trade. 

IV. The advantages ariiing from 
abolifhing it. And r 

V. Conclude with a Qiort admoni- 
tion to thofe concerned, and a method 
to put the Trade to Afrka on a juft. 
and lawful footing. 

The firft head was, That the cuftom 
of making Slaves of our fellow creatures, 
is expreftly againft the revealed laws of 
God. And in treating of this part, I 
fhall divide it into the following branch- 
es, i ft. By the laws of God > He that fteal- 
eth dndfelkth a man, fhall be put to death. 
2d. He in whofe hands he fhall be found*, 
fhall be put to death* by the fame laws. 
-}d. He that buyeth a Servant andferveth 
him fix years, fhall fet him free the je- 
venth, and furnifh him liberally with what 
he hath. And- 4th. If thy Brother, 
that is, your fellow-creature, be fold 

unto 



unto thee, thoujhall not compel ¥im. tofervt 
qs a Bond-man ; but as an hired Servant* 

The firft branch under this head is> 
He that Jlealeth and felleth a man, Jhall 
be put to death. This is one of the 
mcli exprefs laws of Mqfes, as you may- 
fee in Exod. xxL 16, two firft, and laft 
claufes of the verfe, there mentioned in. 
the moft peremptory words ; And he 
that Jlealeth a man, and felleth him, JJoail 
furely be put to death. It certainly can 
be looked upon in no other light in the 
Merchants and Ship-mafters who are ifi 
this Trade to Africa, than flealing of 
men, being aoceffary to, and aiding in 
inciting them to war one with another, 
and for this purpofe, fupplying them 
with prodigious -quantities of arms and 
am munition^ whereby they arehurried in- 
to confunoix, bloodfhed, and all the ex- 
tremities of temporal mifery, which 
muft confequently beget in their minds 
fuch a general deteftation and fcorn of 
the Chriftian mame,as may deeply a ffecl:^ 
if hot wholly preclude, their belief of 
the great truths of our holy religion. 
Thus an infatiable deflre of gain prevails 
with their Kings, who, inftead of being 
protectorsoftheirpeople, for this alluring 

bait 



C 20 ] 

bait laid before them, by the European 
and American Factors, or Ship-maflers, 
invade the Liberties of thefe unhappy 
people, and occafion their opreffion. 
Thefe Kings, whenever they want goods 
fend to the Ship-mailers, acquainting 
them they h^ve Negroes, and fometimes 
the Factors and Ship-maflers fend to ac- 
quaint them, that they have a quanti- 
ty of g.oods, and want Slaves for the 
fame. Thefe Chiefs, whether they have 
Slaves then or not, agree, and immedir- 
ately go to war with their neighbours, 
and in procuring three or four hundred 
prifoners, burn five or fix towns, as 
appears by the following extract from a 
Surgeon^ Journal in a Liverpool veffeL 

Seftro 9 December 29, 1724. 
*< N O trade to-day, though many 
4i Traders came on board ; they inform 
*' us, that the people are gone to war 
& within land, and will bring pri- 
** foners enough in two or three days | 
& in hopes of which we flay, 

** 30th. No trade yet ; but ourTraders 
i c came on board to-day and informed us 
%c the people had burnt four towns, fo 
tf that to-morrow we expect Slaves oft. 

i\ 31ft, Fair weath"er,but notradeyetj 

• we 



■I * ] 

* 4 we fee each night towns burning $ but 
4C wehear theSe/lro men are many of them 
? e killed by the inland Negroes, fo that 
** we fear this war will be unfuccefsfuL 

" The 2d of January. Laft night 
* ( we faw a prodigious fire break out 
".about eleven o'clock, and this morn- 
" ing faw th^ town of Sejlro burnt down 
" to tfas ground, (it cpntained fome 
" hundred houfes) fo that we find their 
■" enemies are too hard for them at pre- 
€C fent; confequently pur trade fpoiled 
fi here, fo that about feyen o'clock we 
*< weighed anchor, as did alfo the three 
& other veffels, to proceed lower down/* 

Here follows another relation taken 
from an original Journal of a Surgeon 
who faiUd out of New-Tori, " Being 
H on the Coaft of Guinea at a place 
" called Bafalla, the Commander of the 
£? veffel, according to cuftom, fent a 
". perfon on fhore, with aprefent to the 
*f King, acquainting him with his 
ft arrival, and informing him they 
'*' wanted a cargo of Slaves. The 
- King promifed to furnifh them, and 
" in order to do it, fet out to war 
f* againfl his enemies ; deiigning alfo 
& to furprife fome town, and take all 

the 



er 



I 22 3 

the people prifoners : Some time af- 
<c ter, the King fent them word, he had 
** not yet met with the defired fuccefs, 
"having been twice repulfed in . at- 
" tempting to break up two towns j 
€t but that he ftill hoped. to procure a 
€< number of Slaves for them, and in 
4C this defign perfifted, until he met his 
€e enemies in the field,where a battle was 
" fought, which lafted three days, dur- 
4< ing which time, the engagement was 
4< fo bloody that four thoufand five hun- 
4€ dred men were flain on the fpot. Think 
44 (fays he) what a pitiful fight it was 
■" to fee the Widows weeping over? their 
** loft Hufbands, Orphans deploring the 
u lots of theirFathers,©^." Oh ! (hock- 
ing fpeftacles I to fee four or five towns 
burnt, and four thoufand five hundred 
people killed, for the fake of taking three 
or four hundred, and you!. you 1 Mer- 
chantSjShip-maftersandFaclorsthecaufe 
of it all ! Think you ever to get the crime 
of fpilling fo much blood repented of ? 

It is a known cuftom among theFac- 
tors who refide in Africa, and the Ship- 
mafters who trade there, to corrupt 
many Negroes on the fea : coaft, who 
flop at no aft of .cruelty for gain. They 

make 



[ *3 ] 

make it a practice, to (leal abundance of 
little Blacks of both (exes, when: founds 
on the roads, or in- the fields, where 
their Parents keep them all day to watfcfr 
the eorn : ; &c. Can it be denied that the 
Africans zrejlolen after fo many proofs of 
it, and if it is not direct ftealthin theShip- 
mafters, &c. yet it is the fame in effect $ 
for if they did not go there and en- 
tice the Chiefs with money or goods^ 
there would be no wars, as is the cafe at 
prefent f and there would be none ftolera 
if the flealers were not bribed by theFac- 
tors or Ship-mafters ; and not only thofe 
that are madeSlaves of, there would ftili 
be ten thoufand others who are killed im 
thebroils,that would be faved, were they 
to diicontinue this bafe Trade. 

Thus far I have fhewn that they arc 
ftolen. They may fay they pay for them, 
I anfwer, they give money or goods by 
way of price to fome of the Princes and 
Negroes, who ? for the fake of lucre* 
take them prifcners by war or ftealth, fa 
that what money they give tbefe fcoun- 
drels, (forgive me the expreffion ; for, 
what name can a man expect who would 
take hisFather or Brother and fell the^i 
for gain ?) who take them in thefe ways 

cannot 



t u i 

carrrrot be looked upon as a price paid in 
Jieu, for the Negroes themfelves never 
eondefcend to be mancipated* as they 
get none of the money that is pretend- 
edly given for them. Tl^ at length 
arrive at the port, the Ship-mafter fell 
them at a moll exorbitant profit, and in 
a feW voyages he makes what he calls 
his fortune 5 this is all he aimed at and 
wifhed for ; and what follows, fecures 
his eternal deftruelion, u-nlefs timely re- 
pented of: For the truth of this, I could 
mention very ftriktng inftances of men, < 
who I fee aknoft every day , but I da 
no! chufe mentioning names, for fear of 
feeing them contemned and defpifed by 
every well thinking perfon. 

I need add no more on this branch, it* 
Being clear that they are flolen in every 
fenfe it can be taken ; they, the Ship- 
mafters, &c. being the fole caufe of the! 
many wars and broils that are amongft 
the Negro Princes cfnd Chiefs, confe- 
quently the caufe of thefe poor creatures 
being taken and madd Slaves of f and of 
themany thoufands that are kifodin the 
wars : Befides, it is nor, nor can ber 
denied that they fell them, (6 that they 
who-'pradtifc this branch of Man~&eaki 



C 25 1 

ing and felling can expect nothing but 
the penalties of God's laws, which he, 
in his own time, will inflicT, fince man ! 
indolent man ! will not punifh them with 
death, as warranted fufficiently by the 
above cited paflage in holy writ. 

Before I leave this branch it may 
not be improper to give my Readers a 
fiiort fketch of the barbarous ufage thefe 
unhappy people meet with from 'the 
Ship-matters in their paffage from Af- 
rica. After they have got them on board 
mackled two and two together, they keep 
them confined below all the paffage, ne» 
ver permitting more than two on deck at 
a time to take one breath of f rem air, 
the mofl common bleffing we enjoy, 
confcious that they are doing wrong to 
thefe people, and not certain but God 
might raife them againft theShip-maften 
and. his crew, if they had the lead op- 
portunity to ftir up an infurreclion in the 
fhip, to retrieve their Liberty which 
they had in their own country,and which 
they ought to enjoy by the laws of God, 
of Britain, and the Plantations. 

For the Reader's true fatisfadion as to 

this inhuman and unchriftian ufage, 

which could be expected of no other 

D than 



[ 26 ] 

than Barbarians, Ifhall here narrate fome 
accounts which have been given by men 
concerned ni the Slave Trade, 

First* the following cafe is menti- 
oned in Ajlleys Collection of Voyages, by 
John At kins 9 Surgeon on board Admiral 
Ogle's fquadron, Of one Harding yMat- 
" ter of a veffel, in which feveral of the 
u Men-flaves and a Woman-Have had 
*? attempted to rife in order to recover 
" their Liberty ; fome of whom the 
" Mafter of his own authority fentenced 
" to cruel deaths, making them firfteat 
" the hearts and liver of one of thofehe 
" killed. The woman he hoifted by 
*' the thumbs, whiped, and flaflied with 
" knives before other Slaves, until (he 
€t died/' Oh unparralelled cruelty ! 

Next is an account given by a Ship-, 
mafter who brought a Cargo of Slaves 
to BarbadoeSy upon an enquiry what had 
been the fuccefs of the voyage, he a-n- 
fwered, (S That he had found it a difficult 
*< matter to fet theNegroes a fighting 
*■' with each other in order to procure 
" the number he wanted.'* This (hews, 
Reader, what methods they pradtife- to 
obtain thefe Slaves,^ 'Jetting them \- a fight- 
ing wtih each other.- " But when he had 

" obtained 



C ^7 ] 

" obtained his end, having filled his 
" veffe-1 withSlaves, a new difficulty arofe 
" from their refufal to take food : Thofe 
f* defperate creatures chufing rather to 
*' die with hunger than to he carried from 
k< their native country." Upon a further 
enquiry how he got them to forego this 
defperate refolution, he anfwered, "That 
" he obliged all theNegroes to come on 
" deck, where they perfifting in their 
*' refolution of not taking food, he cau- 
<c fedhis failors tolayhold on one of the 
" moftobftinate, who chopped the poor 
" creature into fmall pieces, forcing- feme 
" of the others to eat a part of the man- 
<c gled body ; fw earing to- the furvivors,' 
cc that he would ufe them all one after 
Ki the other in the fame manner if thev 
" did not confent to eat." This horrid 
execution he applauded as a good aft, 
it having had the defined effect in cau~ 
fing them to take food. 

" As deteftable and mocking as thefe 
ufages to the poorNegroes may appear to 
jfucJH whofe hearts* are not yet hardened 
by the pradlifeof that cruelty which the 
love of wealth by degrees introduced! in- 
to the human mind, it will not be ftrange 
to thofe who have been concerned or em- 
ployed in the Trade." The 



[ 28 ] 

The fecond branch was, If he he found 
in bis bands, be furely fhatt be put to 
death. This is the third and fourth 
claufe of the before cited verfe in Exod. 
If he be found in his hands. This is to be 
underftood in two fenfes, either found 
in the Ship-mail r/s hands who flole 
him ? or bought, do he fays, or in the per- 
ibn's hands who purchafes him. As to 
the firft of thefe fenfes in which this 
paiiage may be taken, if the laws of 
God, yea, even of man, were to be put 
Into execution, he, the ftealer, or even 
the buyer, would be punifhed with 
death,foritisclear astoMan-fteaHnq\that 
it defer ves death, bv the above paiiu^e 
of Scripture, and it is no lefs with regaid 
to buying : But why do I fay buying ? 
For no money can be equal to the -worth 
of a man : Buying, I admit that word 
becaufe_Ship-mafters and others in this 
Trade, fay, for their juftificatioir that 
they purchafed the Negroes, but as there 
tire no laws, either of God or man, for 
the buying and fiealing of Africans, I. 
am inclined to think it cannot be fuppo- 
fed,butthey juftly defend "death. And in 
the fecond ienfe, the man who buys the 
Africans or Negroes is full as culpable 
as' the ftealer, and liable to the fme 

punim- 



[ * 9 ] 

punifhment, for Scripture does not point 
out particularly either of them, but only 
juft, If he be found in his hands, that is, 
in any man's hands fo that it can be 
proved he ftoleor bought him, he furely 
Jhall be put to death. > 

The third part was, He that buyeth a 
Servant and ferveth him fix years, Jhall fet 
him free the /event h, and furnifh him libe- 
rally with what he hath* The fir ft part of" 
this branch- is proved in three different 
texts,^/:s, Exod. xxi. 2. Dent. xv. 12. and 
Jer. xxxiv. 14. In all which parts it 
is expreffly mentioned, That if an He- 
brew Servant be fold unto thee, or if you 
buy him he Jhall ferve thee fix years, and 
the feventh, thou Jhall let him go fee ff-om 
jhee, that is, he mail pay nothing for 
his Liberty. 

Some perfons for argument fake may 
object to this, faying, thefe people are, 
not Hebrews, as mentioned in thefe texts: 
of Scripture, hutHeathens.- This maybe 
difficult enough to determine. How-, 
ever, admit they are Heathens, (although 
it is well known they are not) it mud be 
owned by thofe who know them, that 
the natives of Africa have exalted notions 
of a Deity. It is an odd method thefe 

Traders 



[ 3° ] 

Traders take to civilize and teach them 
the Chriftian religion, by importing one 
hundred thoufand of them yearly into 
Virginia and other Southern Provinces, to- 
gether with ihefFe/l- India illands, where 
they are kept in greater darknefs than 
before, as they are not allowed to wor- 
ship God on the Sabbath ; but are em- 
ployed in worldly bufmefs on that day, 
which is a fcandal to the Rulers of the 
Britifh Colonies and Iflands where fuch 
things are praclifed. It is fubverfiVe of 
the Chriftian religion not to allow thofe 
ignorant people the benefit of it, who 
make up more than two thirds of the 
inhabitants of the beforementioned pla- 
ces. It is expreflly againft the laws of 
God; for he gave Paul and other Apoftles 
commiffion to go and preach the gofpei 
to every nation, kindred, and tongue ; 
but inftead of that, where the gofpei is 
preached throughout theSW/^Colonies, 
and where thefe people might expect to 
receive the light of it ; I fay, inflead of 
that, they are kept from divine worfliip 
on Sundays, and never once in their 
lifetime admitted to church, but obliged 
to cultivate their frnall piece of ground 
allowed them by their Maft'ers. 

The laft part of the verfe runs thus, 

And 



[ m 3 

And Jliallfurmflj him liberally with what hi 
hath. That is, when the Servant hath 
ferved thee fix years, as expreffed in 
Exod. xxi. 2, and Dent. xv. 12. Then 
in the /event h year you ftjall let him go free 
from you ; and in ver. *$* Thou fhall not 
let him go away empty \ Ver. 14, TboufoalL 
fumiftj him liberally out of thy flocks and 
out of thy floor 9 and out of thy wine pre js\ 
of that wherewith the Lord thy God 
hath blefjed thee ', thou JIj alt give him. This 
is in token that thou doft acknozvledge the 
benefit that thou haft received by his labours* 
Marg. Bible. 

It is ftill further required to fet your 
Servants or Bond-men free at the above 
appointed time, by the 15th i^erfc of the 
fame chap. And thou ftoalt remember that 
thou waft a Bond-man in the land of Egygt, 
and the Lord thy God redeemed thee $ 
therefore I command thee this thing to day. 
I command, thee. You are ordered, yea, 
c o m m a n de d to do this thing . Wh a t th i ng ? . 
To fet free your Bond-fervants after iix 
years fervice. You are commanded to 
do it to day, viz. At the expiration of 
fix years, for, faysGoD,by the voice ofhis 
Servant, I command thee this thing to day. 

There is a bleiiing promifed to thofe 
who do this thing in ver. 18 of the above 

chap. 



C 32 ] 

dbap. After enjoining that it may not 
feem hard unto you in fending away this 
Servant, as he hath been worth a double 
hired one, in ferving thee fix years, 
he fays, and the LorX> thy God Jhall blefs 
thee in all that thou doejt, Sweet encou- 
ragement for poor finful fouls ! To be 
bleffed in every thing that they do. What 
man will forfeit this great bleffing for the 
fake of the fervice of one, two, or more 
Servants for life ? Will he allow himfelf 
to be curfed byGoD in every thing that 
he doeth for the fmall gain he can make 
by their fervices ? This charming pro- 
mife of a bleffing in all that thou doeft, 
and the dreadful events that may take 
place in contradicting the command of 
God, I hope will make fach impreffions 
upon the minds of men, that they will not 
bind Servant to ferve above fix years ; 
but will fet him at liberty in the feventh 
year, and give him liberally of what the 
Lord hath blefTed them with, as requir- 
ed in the above cited text. If you think 
you have not enough of this,pafs along to 

The fourth and laft fedtion on this 
head, If thy Brother be fold urit % thee \ thou 
jhall not compel him to' ferve as aBond-man ; 
but as an hired Servant. This i s p ro v e d by 

Lev. xxv, 39 ? 40, where it is faid,Ifthy 

. .. . Brother 



[ 33 1 

Brother that dwel/eth by thee be waxen poof » 
and be fold unto thee, thou jhalt not compel 
him to ferve as a Bond-fervant. This is 
expreffly agalnft making Slaves of any 
of our poor Brethren, or compeling them 
to ferve as Bond-fervants. If thy Bro- 
ther that dw elle th by thee be waxen poor, are 
the words of the verfe ; the poor Afrit- 
cans who fall into the hands of the Men-* 
wolves that prowl on their coafts, are obli^ 
ged to ferve their lifetime, and their chil^ 
dren after them : This is beingBond-meri 
with a witnefs, and as we have great rea- 
fon to believe they are poor enough when 
they fteal them, they are kept fo forever 
after, not having means to make a penny 
themfelves* The^/r/V^^willbeunderftood^ 
if not primarily intended, to be the people 
mentioned in this text ! It is hid, Thy Brother 
whodweilethbythee : When they are m Afri- 
ca it is certain they are at a great difrance ; 
but when they come to America or thzWefl- 
Indies they then dwell^jy us-, therefore I think, 
from the above citations, no perfon can buy 
thefe people, and oblige them and their 
children to ferve as Slaves, without incur- 
ing the difpleafure of God and his pu* 
rudiments for difobeying his juft commands. 

It may be added, as in v. 42d of the fame 

chap. For they are my fervants, which I brought 

, E forth 



[ 34 ] 

forth out of Eygpt ; they flail not be fold as 
Bond-men. The laft part of this verfe is ex- 
preffly againft felling them as Bond-men. 
Should it be obje&ed, that the Africans 
were notbrozeght forth out ofthelandofEgypt, 
it would not affeS the controverfy. I would 
iincerely advife every man who is in this 
abominable Trade not to perfift in it,, 
feeing the many threats and commands 
againft him in God's laws, and the blef- 
firigs that are promifed if he does not. 

The lid General Head propofed, is* 
That this practice of making Slaves of our 
Brethren is fikewife againft the, law of 
nature, and the Charter of this Province. 
The firft part of this head, may be ea- 
iily proved by the following texts of Scrip- 
ture ; Matt. vii. 12.- 'Therefore all things 
whatfoever ye would that men fhould do to 
you, do ye even fo to them, Luke vi. 31. 
■Jind as you would that men fhould do to you, 
io ye fo to them likewife* Who is that proud 
one that will not receive thefe inftrudtions ? 
And who is that man that will do unto any 
perfon, either white or black, Chriftian or 
Savage, contrary to what he would that he 
fhould do to him ?This would be a&ing 
.contrary to reafon and common fen fe* Would 
any perfon confent to have himfelf torn 
from his friends and native country /and be 

made 



C 35 ] 

made a Slave for life, and to have his dear, 
dear little children continue in the fame 
condition from one generation to another ? 
No ; furely no perfon would agree to thaf. 
Well then, it certainly muft be contrary to 
the laws of nature, chriftianity, and fub- 
verfive of the texts juft quoted, which were 
wrote for our direction and guidance in this 
world. It is likewife certain, that thofe 
who carry on this Trade, do not unto 
men as they would men mould do to 
them ; forifthefe poor people which they* 
the Ship-mailers take from theirownCoun- 
try and then fell for Slaves, were doing 
to them as they are done to,they would (were 
it in their power, which feldom is the cafe, 
the owners being confcious of the wrong 
they are doing,and dreading what naturally 
would follow) revenge the injury they re- 
ceive in being made Slaves, and refume that 
Liberty again, which was wrongful- 
ly taken from them ; I fay, they would 
often revenge the injury offered them by 
killing theCaptain of the fhip who had taken 
them to be mancipated for life, and would 
ferve in the fame manner theOwners of the 
veffel if they could get them, who are 
no better than theMafters,m putting them 
into fuch employ. Who could find fault 
with them I No perfon, They were only 

retrieving 



[ 3* ] 

retrieving the moll common bleffing we 
enjoy, Liberty, and initead of being 
puniihed, the law would protect them in 
ib noble an action. But, 

Readers, before I leave this, let me 
beg you to " bring the matter home to your- 
felves, and think whether any condition 
in life can be more completely miferable 
than that of thofe diftrefied Captives. On 
reflecting, thateach of them had fome ten- 
der attachments which were broke by the 
cruel feparation ! Some Parent orWife who 
liad not an opportunity of mingling tears 
in a parting embrace ! Perhaps fome In- 
fant or aged Parent whom his labour was 
to feed, and vigilance protect ! and him- 
felf under the dreadful apprehenfions of 
perpetual Slavery.'' 

To inforce this part of the head, allow 
me, Reader, to intrude a little upon your 
time, by giving you a fhort account of the 
barbarous ufage thefe poor Negroes meet 
with from their Mailers in the Weft-Indies 
and Southern Provinces of North- America ; 
on reading of which, you will not be long 
In concluding, that they do not in this cafe 
obferve the golden rule. 

The crimes attending: the Slave Trade are 



greatly 

€9 S 



C 37 ] 

greatly aggravated by the extreme cruel 
ufage the Negroes meet with in the Plan- 
tations^ well with regard to food and cloa- 
thing as the hard and unreafonable 
labour that is exacted from them, and what 
cannot be forgot, the fevere chaftifemen ts 
they frequently fuffer, which is bounded 
by the wrath and pleafure of their hard 
tafk- matters, i ft. As to their food. In Bar- 
badoes,&c. * " three quarts of corn and three 
hearings are a weeks allowance for a work- 
ing Slave ; and it is mentioned in theSyftem 
of Geography, that in Jamaica the Owners 
of theNegroSlaves fet afide for each,a piece 
of ground, and allow themSundays to cul- 
tivate it, the produce of which with a few 
fait herrings or other fait fifh is all that is 
allowed for their fupport. But need I 

g° 

* Tt is fuppofed eighty thoufand Negroes, are upon the 
Ifland of Barbadoes* and yet through the hard labour they 
exacl of thefe poor creatures, and what of them are killed 
through their barbarous chaftifements,a decreafe is made of 
five thoufand Slaves yearly, which they arerefupplied with 
from Africa ; and it may be reafonably expected, that 
the children eighty thoufand Negroes would have, were 
they worked in the fame manner v*/ith the white people,and 
did not fo many of them die through hard labour, and 
from the treatment they fuffer : I fay, it may be ex- 
pected, there would be2n increafe of ren thoufand at a mo- 
derate computation yearly, iniiead of five thoufand decrea- 
sing. One may form an id«a. from this, of what an additi- 
onal fupply rotil of the Weji-lndia Iflands and Southern 
Provinces need, for there is rot one of them but wh?.t 
import o co fiderable number of Slaves annually, to 
kcepup their coalition flock. 



C 38 ] 

go fo far as Jatnaka to prove this ? No. In 
Virginia they do the fame. 2d. As to their 
cloathing. In thelflaiids,the allowance for 
a Slave's cloathing is feldom more than fix 
yards of oznabrigs a year, and in the 
Southern Colonies, where the piercing 
wefterly winds are long and fenfibly felt, 
thefe poor Africans fuffer much for the 
want of fufficient cloathing; indeed, mock- 
ing to relate ! fome of them are obliged to 
work moil: of the night in boiling-houfes, 
notwithstanding the hard days work they 
have performed. TheirOwners mske great 
gain by their Slave's labour. They lay 
heavy burdens on them, and yet feed and 
cloath them very fparingly, and fome fcarce- 
ly at all 5 fo that it cannot be wondered that 
thefe poor creatures are obliged to mift for 
their living as they do,which occafions ma- 
f)y of them being killed in ftealing potatoes 
or other food to fatisfy hunger. If they are 
detected in taking any thing from the plan- 
tation they belong to, which they have fo 
hardly laboured for, they are cruely whip- 
ed." Laftly. With refpect to the beating 
which thefe poor people meet with in the 
Weft-Indies. For the leaft fault they whip 
them moft unmercifully, viz. for not be- 
ing at work in half an hour after the ufual 
notice ; fpeaking a word which the Over- 

feer 



\ £ 39 5 

fecf may think fancy ; not fhewing refpedl 
enough to him ; not doing with agility 
fome hard piece of work ordered them i 
and anything which the Overfeer may take 
exception at. They beat them with thick 
clubs, and you may fee their bodies all wha- 
led in a terrible manner. 

Mr. George Wbitefield writes in a letter to 
the Planters in Firginia,Carolina,&c. " The 
" talk-mailers, by their inhuman ufage and 
\f unrelenting fcourges have ploughed their 
" backs and madeIongfurrows,and atlength 
ff brought them even to death." This is the 
fate which great numbers in the iflands and 
Southern Provinces meet with . When fpeak- 
ing of their cloathing and food, he adds, 
" When paffing along, I have viewed your 
66 plantations cleared and cultivated, many 
" fpacious houfes built, and the Owners 
" of them faring fumptuoufly every day„ 
" My blood has frequently run cold witn- 
sc in me to confider how many of yourSlaves 
" had neither convenient food to eat or 
" proper raiment to put on, notwithftand- 
" ing many of the comforts you enjoy were 
" folely owing to their indefatigable la- 
" hours.*' In Virginia, &c. in cafe a Ne- 
gro gives the flighieft affront to a white 
perfon, he goes to the Negroe's Mafter 

and 



[ 40 | 

and demands fatisfaction, the Mafler deli- 
vers him to the white perfon to take what 
fatisfa&ion he pleafes ; who whips him, 
ftrikes him with clubs, and, as is often done, 
cuts off his ears, and mark him by cuting 
his face,or other parts of his body. What 
more could be done to a brute heart, who 
was brought up and defigned for the yoke ? 
Oh ! how long will you continue in this 
deluiion and horrid abufe of the prin- 
cipal workmanfliip of God. It is afto- 
niming how a people who (o much 
value themfelvesupon their Freedom can 
continue in the practice of fo much oppreffi- 
on. Will not the groans of this afflicted and 
miferable people reach Heaven ! And when 
the cup of inequity is filled, the unavoid- 
able tendency muft be the pouring forth of 
God's judgments upon their oppreflbrs. 
But alas ! is it not too plain that this cru- 
elty has already been the object of divine 
anger ? For what greater judgment can 
befal any perfon than to become a prey 
to that obduracy of heart, that neglectful- 
nefs of God, and a calloufnefs to every re- 
ligious impreflion ? 

I could fay a great deal more concern- 
ing the unparralleled cruelty that thefe 
Negroes meet with : But I apprehend more 
has been faid already than will be believed, 

although 



c : 41 i 

although it is far from coming up to the 
real truth ; for it is impoffible my pen can 
reprefent in proper colours the hard ufage 
.they meet with. The fympathizingReader 
muft feel the reft, for I can affift him no 
farther. I believe there are but few that 
have not heard or read of the cruel treat- 
ment of thofe unhappy mortals. Indeed it 
is almoft incredible that fuch cruelty fliould 
be praetifed in any of the Brit ijh dominions. 

I could have quoted a dozen Au- 
thors, fetting forth the inhuman punifh- 
ments inflicted upon the Africans ; but that 
would have fwclled my page. I hope this 
fhort, but true narrative, for great part of 
which I am much obliged to Mr. Benezet, 
will anfwer the fame end of raifing in eve- 
ry breaft an utter deteftation and abhor- 
rence of the horrid cuftoms and favage 
ufage in the Iflands andColoniesabovemen- 
tioned, and I make no doubt but every one 
will clearly fee, they do not to thefe Negroes 
as they would that they Jhould do to them. 

I think itis time to leave this part and 
go ;to the laft, viz. That this bafe cuftora 
is likewife againft the Charter of this Pro- 
vince j as is clearly and moil iimply demon- 
ftrated by a claufe in faid Charter, granted 
by King William and Queen Mary, dated 

F at 



[ 42 ] 

at Wefl?nitifler, the 7th of Otlober, in the 
third year of their reign, wherein, inter alia, 
it is eftablifhed and ordained, That all and 
every of ' the Subjects of Us, our Heirs, and Suc- 
ceffors, which jhall go to and inhabit wit hinOur 
/aid Province and territory, and every of their 
Children which foall happen to be born there, or 
on the feas in going thither, or ret umi?ig from 
thence, Jhall have and enjoy all Liberties and 
- immunities of free and naturalSubjecls with- 
in the dommians of Us, Our Heirs, and Suc- 
ceffors, to all intents, conjlrutfions, aud pur- 
pofes. whatfoever,as if they and every of them 
wtreborn within our realm of England. I 
need izy but little as to this branch of the 
head further than to obferve, that the claufe 
of the Charter juft cited, proves clearly, and 
which cannot be further difputed, that all 
and every of -the Subjects, the Inhabitants of 
New-England, which ./hall come to and in- 
habit within the Province and territory of the 
fame, and every of their Children which fhall 
happen to be born there, fhall have and enjoy 
all the Liberties, &c. of 'free and naturalSub- 
jecls of the realm of EngUnd. Indeed I am 
lorry to mention that thisCharter mould have 
been fo long fubverted and remained un- 
obferved by the Publick in fo interefting a 
point, when by timely obfervance it might 
have faved many thoufands from Sla- 
very 



[ 43 .] 

very that are now dead and mouldered 
into dull. I hope this eafy found light will 
not be too late difcovered to direel: and fave 
the prefent Slaves from their Bondage., 
which many! too many ! groan under : So 
that I expect the inhabitants of the Ameri- 
can Provinces will not give any perfon an 
opportunity of charging them with that in- 
famous character of making or keeping any 
man or woman Slaves, when they are com- 
plaining daily that theirLiberties are wreft- 
«d from them, and little think how they 
deprive thefe poorBlack People of theirFree- 
dom, when there is as little reafon for 
it as there is for making Slaves of Britijb 
Subje&s. The above cited claufe in the 
Charter, fays, Thofe born in or fiall come to 
and dwell within theProvince tf/V&MafTachu- 
fetts-Bay are free ; from which I am led 
to think, and which every perfon muft fee, 
will extend to Black as well as White. 
But, Reader, excufe me, whoever you are, 
that may take offence at my conftruing this 
claufe of the Charter in the manner Ihave 
done,itis only my opinion, andevery one is at 
liberty to enjoy hisown fentiments upon it'as 
well as I ; therefore I flatter myfelf of hear- 
ing foon, that means will be taken by the 
Legiflatureof moft, if not all the Provinces 
of North- AmHca, and the/T^Z/^/tf Iflands, 

totally 



[44 1 

totally prohibiting the importation of Ne- 
groes into theBriti/h Plantations ; and fetting 
at Liberty with univerfal confentjevery Ne- 
gro throughout the whole,at leaft \nNorth~ 
America, which will be an honour to hu^ 
man nature, to fay that this great and 
this only remaining hinderance to the ab- 
solute freedom as well as legality of the£/r- 
glijh trade is now happily andglorioufly abo- 
lished; and thenwemay all crywithmouts 
of joy ! which few more countries in the 
four quarters of the globe can, That complete 
freedom both in people and trade is allowed 
throughout AfeBritim I/lands and Plantations 
-In America and the Weft-Indies ! 

The Hid General Head propofed was, 
To {hew the difadvantages arifing from 
this bale Trade. This head I propofe to 
confider feparately,and mall ift. Shew the 
disadvantages to Jfrica in taking fo many 
of its natives away yearly. 2d. Treat of the 
hurt and prejudice of this Trade with Eu- 
rope. 3d. Shew the difadvantages to the 
Britift Plantations in America, particularly 
to the Weft-Indies* in carrying Black Peo- 
ple thither. 

The firft part of this head is, To {hew the 
disadvantages to Africa in taking ic many 
of its .natives yearly. Before I enter upon 
this branch it may not be improper to mi ri- 

tton 



C 45 ] 

tion a few obfervstions ."which" Mr; Vof- 
tlethwayt makes upon the great qualities 
which this country abound with. " Its 
lituation for commerce is certainly be- 
yond any of the other quarters of the 
world, for it flands in the center be- 
tween the other three, and has thereby a 
much nearer communication with Europe, 
AJia, and America , than any other quarter 
has with the reft. It is wonderfully accom- 
modated for commerce by the interpofi- 
on of iflands, and more particularly by the 
affiftance of the trade winds, which render 
the navigation fafe, eafy, and conftant. 
It is iurniihed with the greater! and moft 
convenient navigable rivers, and perhaps 
with as many of them as any other of the 
chief parts of the world: Such are the 
Nile, Nubia, Niger, Natal, which are ri- 
vers of the firft magnitude ; befides thefe 
there are'innumerable others, though not 
equal to the former, are yet very excellent 
flreams, fituated for navigation and com- 
meroe, and which by their noble courfes 
penetrate far inland ; if the Europeans, 
&c. would cultivate ahurnan and Chrif- 
tian like commerce with the Africans, they 
might through thefe rivers become the 
medium of an endlefs beneficial commerce. 
The country is populous beyond credibi- 
lity 



[ 46 ] 

lity, the foil fruitful, the feafon for the 
greateft part mild and clement, and the air 
falubrious." I mu ft flop in the midft of 
this agreeable defcription, being afraid of 
leading myfelf into an undue length in this 
narrative of the beautibus perfection of that 
rich and fruitful part of the world. 

I shall nowconfider the difad vantages 
to Africa in taking fo many of its natives 
away yearly. But it is needlefs tofpeak much 
on this head, as moft of my Readers will 
perceive the prejudices to Africain thusdrain- 
ing it of the inhabitants yearly in the man- 
ner Britain and the Plantations do. I fhall 
mention a few of them. ift. There can be 
no lofs to any country (particularly to one 
like Africa that is yet moftly to cultivate) 
equal to that of depopulating it. 2d, It 
prevents the inland country, where the in- 
ceflant broils are carried on, from defend- 
ing themfelves againfl the attacks and en- 
croachments made on their properties by 
the Kings and Chiefs, whereby many thou- 
fands of their fubjedls being taken prifon- 
ers, are fold to the Coafters, they being 
nourished and carefied by the Europeans* 
particularly by Britain and the Colonies, in 
doing fo, for the fake of the Slave Trade 
to America, and the Weft x -Indies ; and 
further, in cenfecpence of this depriving 

them 



r 47 ] 

them of defending themfelves againft.t'hefe 
bafe aflfaults,it prevents them entirely from 
cultivating and manuring that fruitful 
and rich country, to the degree it is capable 
of. 3d. It ever obftrudts the civilizing of 
thofe people, and coniequently.of propaga- 
ting amongftthem the Christian religiop, 
and extending the Trade into the bowels 
oi Africa, which by contrary means might 
be eafily practicable. 4th. That whilft 
the flaving Trade of thofe people,contin»e 
to be the great objecVof the powers that 
trade there it is to be feared it will ever, as 
it does at prefent fpirit up wars and hofti- 
lities amongifithe Negro Princes and Chiefs, 
for the fake of making captives of each 
other forfale. And 5th. The greateft dif- 
advantage to Africa, by thus draining it of 
the inhabitants is, that it prevents them 
from cultivating and peopling that 1 great 
fertile country, of introducing European 
arts and fciences amongft them, and of car- 
rying on a friendly,civil, and chriftian Com- 
merce with them into the heart of thek 
region. 

The fecond branch alluding to the 
third head was, to treat of the prejudice 
to Africa, and its trade with Europe. It 
is an abfolute fad, that thefe people are 
inceflently at war with their neighbouring 

Princes 



£ 4» ] 

Princes Co that they cannot get their bufi- 
nefs looked into or followed, and conse- 
quently a great hinderance to the manu- 
facturing fuch quantities of their country's 
produce of every kind, to fend to Europe and 
America, &c. as they might do, were this 
Slave Trade abolifhed, and the Rulers in 
amity, friendship, and concord, one with 
another. 

It is further a hurt to the African -trade 
with Europe, for the Slave Trade has fo 
gained upon the minds of thofe men that 
traffick to Africa, that they never once 
think of the other commodities, at leaftin 
fuch quantities as Europe might con fume 
.were the attention neceffary paid to it by 
making this the only object: of the tra- 
cers notice, I believe it would turn out 
much more profitable to keep wholly 
to the produce of this country, viz. 
gums, ivory, gold and filver duft, &c. and 
to refign that bafe unchristian Trade of 
-Man-felling. 

Laftly, on this head, To fhew the disad- 
vantages to- the Briti/b Plantations in Ame- 
rica, &c. in bringing Black people into 
them. This will be made very ealily ap- 
pear when you confider, that thefe nume- 
rous Black People, which are yearly brought 

into 



[ 49 ] 

into the fcuthern-moft .parts of North Ame* 
rica and the Weft- Indies were very poor at 
that time,not having a penny to command, 
and never fo much as once in their lifetime 
had it in their power to make one half 
thatfumfor themfe!ves,fo that the different 
Provinces in the. Continent, and the.Iflands 
in \keWell-Indies are filled with thefe nece!- 
fitousBlack People,andmuft beputupon the 
townfhips to which they belong, in cafe 
this , enilaving them be ever abolifhed, 
.which I flatter inyfelf,and I hope not vainly, 
will be done in time, and that with effect. 
Further, why do they fill their Plantations 
with Black People, fo unnatural to the 
Whites, the Proprietors of the different 
Colonies, when it feems no way difficult to 
obtain White People to ferve free in their 
ftead ? Europe in general affords" numbers 
of poor and diRreffed objects for that pur- 
ppfe, and if thefe were not overworked, as 
the Negroes generally are, they would 
make as good' Servants for the Ame*>- 
rican -and Well-India Plantations : as the 
Blacks do. And if the Europeans were op- 
en n level with regard to the price of labour, 
in their Colonies, I cannot but think they 
would rean preat advantage in laying aiide 
trie Slave Trade* an J eiiMx&te n friendly 
and civilised C rW§it^t #ftti \hs Africans.' 
G V 



. [ .5« 3 . 

Until this is done it does not feetn poffible 
that the inland trade of that country fhould 
ever be extended to the degree it is capable 
of ; for while the fpirit of Butchery and 
making Slaves of each other, is promoted 
by the Europeans, Americans, &c. amongft- 
thofe people, they will never be able 'to 
travel with fafety into the heart of the coun- 
try, or to cement fuch commercial friend- 
ship and alliance with them, as will actually 
introduce our arts and manufactures. 

The IVth General Head was, To fhew 
the advantages arifing from abolifhing this 
bale cuftom. This Head I propofe divi- 
ding into two parts, lft. The advantages 
to Africa, and 2d. The advantages to 
F-iUropr particularly to Britain and the Plan- 
tations in America and the Weft -Indies. 

First to Africa. The advantages that 
would arife to it,, in abolifhing this bafe 
and unchriftian-like Commerce are nume- 
rous, feme of which may be compre- 
hended under the following. ift. The 
abolifhing this Trade may be a means of 
peopling this country, and of cultivating 
it in the fame manner with any other coun- 
try inEurope oxAJia,{.o as to render it capa- 
ble of bearing in as great abundance as the 
liaft- Indies, (pices of equal quality to thofe 

of 



[ « ] 

of Banda, ¥ernate, KK&Amboynd ; I fay, the 
like fpices might be produced on the rich 
and fruitful mores of Melinda on the eaft 
fide, or of the flave cdaft on the weft fide 
of Africa, and that as eafy and to as great 
advantage, as where they are now raifed, 
the latitude being the fame, and foil not 
unlike ; and, in fhort, cinnamon and all 
others,the production of Eaft and Wejl-In- 
diesjoy proper management might be raifed 
here as well as in thofe parts. 2d. It would 
introduce the Chriftian religion among 
them, which is a fhame to thefe nations 
who pretend to hold fail the principles 
of Chriftianity, to keep fo long hid, and 
of confequence, be a means of bringing 
among them the more civilized arts and 
fciences. 3d. It will recommend the Eu- 
ropean drefs, and introduce their cuftoms 
among the natives, and of courfe civilize 
them like other Chriftian nations. Laftly. 
It will be a means of bringing this 
country to as great perfection in trade, 
riches, and grandeur, as any in Europe, it 
being a much more fertile and plentious 
foil for many valuable productions. 

Much more could I fay upon the nu- 
merous advantages arifing to this excel- 
lent country : But let what has been faid 
fuffice, I leave the reft to the Pleader's own 

feeling 



[ 52 ]. 

feeling, if he has any for this poor diftref- 
fed Africa which groans under a heavy load 
of oppreiTion. 

Thje next thing in courfe is, the advan- 
tages that would arife to Europe in thus 
carrying onaChriflian-likeCominerce with 
Alfrica. This trade even in its prefent ftate, 
excluding that of the Slaves, is as advan- 
tageous as any that is now followed j 
and what will it be when a friendly traf- 
fick is carried on ? It is as it were all 
profit, the firft coft being feme things of 
European, particularly of Britifo manufac- 
tures, and others generally purchafed with 
them ; for which there is in return, gold, 
elephant's-teetb, wax, gums, cotton-wool, 
divers dying- woods, and Slaves : But this 
laft piece of Commerce, viz. Man- Having, 
I am far from making a part of the Britijh 
trade, and I dare fay every humane per-- 
ion will be likeminded. Thefe are articles 
which the country abound in, and would 
be flill cheaper to an immenfe degree, were 
the inland parts fettled with their own peo- 
ple ; but inftead of that, a hundred thou- 
fand "re yearly carried away. Britain pays 
but little for the commodities it exports 
to Africa, being moftly, as obferved before, 
its own produce, fuch as worfled and- con- 
ton cloths of all kinds, brafs, iron, and cop- 
per 



C • 53 1 

per work of every fort, particularly large 
quantities of all kinds of defenfive arms, 
with powder and mot in proportion ; Eaft- 
India goods, every kind of Britijh manufac- 
tures, and a good deal of American and 
Weft -India rum, &c. It is not eafy to fay 
what vaft quantities of the above Britijh 
and American productions would be ex- 
haufted yearly among fo great a people, 
and in fo very exteniive a country, were the 
Slave Trade flopped. It is the interelt of 
every Merchant inB/*7tazVand thePlantations 
who are now concerned in trafrickto Africa, 
to cultivate the inland commerce in its 
utmofl extent, as having no manner of con- 
cern with the Slave Trade, there being the 
greateft reafon to believe, that where they 
now export twenty millings worth of com- 
modities thither, they would then export 
an hundred pound ; and I am inclined to 
think when the trade comes to be extend- 
ed to the degree it will admit of, notwith- 
standing thofe goods that are imported from 
Africa,there will ftill be difcovered an infi- 
nite variety of trafficable articles, with which 
the prefent Traders are totally unacquaint- 
ed, and this Trade become the moil benefi- 
cial to Britain, America, and the Weft- 
Indies, of any that is at prefent on foot, as 
it is common to every individual, and of 

which 



[ 54 ] 

which the government has taken mtich 
notice, by granting ah annual fum of ten 
thoufand pounds fterling for the main- 
taining and upholding the fort9 and caftles 
in the Britift Settlements in Afrifa y fo that 
they are entirely defended againft the at- 
tacks of any enemy, and their Trade and 
Colonies fecured by irrefiftible ftrength of 
forts and caftles. 

A great deal more could be mentioned 
on the thoufands of advantages that may 
arife to the intereft of Britain and thePlan- 
tations inabolifhing this wicked Trade : 
However, 1 fhall detain my Readers no 
longer on this head, but as propofed, 

Conclude the whole with fome fhort 
admonitions to thofe concerned, and a me- 
thod to put this Trade to Africa upon a 
juft and lawful footing. I advife every 
Merchant and Shipmafter who is in this 
Trade x)f Man-flaving to renounce and 
give it up. What arguments or reafon, 
pray, can be advanced for his j unification, 
when he fees fueh threats and curies againft 
him, particularly mentioned in the firft 
head ? Why mould any perfon incur the 
penalties of God's Law fo daringly for the 
fake of gain ? Should they think them- 
felves on a death-bed, what agonies and 
troubles of mind muii they undergo ia the 

thoughts 



I 55 ] 

thoughts of enflaving fo many miserable 
creatures, of murdering fo many thoufancFs 
of innocent people in the wars they occa^ 
fion, trcacheroufly taking them out of their 
own country, ufing them barbaroufly,maffw 
cring numbers of them in all the cruel ways 
imaginable on the paffage, felling them 
for life, and depriving them even of a com- 
fortable living, notwithftanding they fe :ve 
for nothing elfe ; furely the judgment of 
God muft come upon fuch men who will 
thus ufe their own Brethren who were 
born to inherit the fame falvation with \xi, 
and if his judgment does not come upoa 
them,it will purfue their children unto the 
third and fourth generation 5 until the rich- 
es that have been thus fcandaloufly amafled 
be fquandered away, and they become as 
poor as thefe Negroes themfelves, by fel- 
ling of whom fuch unjuft gain was made. 
But this is only one way out of thoufands 
that God chufes to afflict his enemies ia 
this world. And, 

Still purfuing, that God will be re- 
venged on thofe that punifh wrongfully 
fuch poor Negroes, I (hall infert what 
the above mentioned Mr. George White- 
field fays in a letter' to the inhabitants 
of Virginia, &c. " We have/' fays he* 
" a remarkable inflance of God's taking 

cognizaacQ 



C 56 ] 

" coghizanceof, and avenging the quarrel of 
" poor Slaves, 2 Sam. xxi. 1. There was a 
" famine in the days of David, three years* 
"year after year, and David enquired of 
" the Lord, and the Lord anfwered, it 
" is for Saul, and his bloody houfe, becaufe 
" he flew the Gibeonkes. Two things are 
*' here very remarkable, ift. Thefe Gibe- 
€c onites we/e only hewers of wood and 
"drawers of- water; or in other words, 
u Slaves like yours. 2d. That this plague 
" was fent by God many years after the in- 
"jury (the caufe of the plague) was com? 
" mitted. And for what end were this and 
" fuch like examples recorded in holy 
*? Scripture ? Without doubt, for our learn* 
** ing. For God is the fame to-day as he 
H was yeflerday, and will continue the lame 
" for ever. He does not reject the prayer 
*-f of the poor and deftitute, nor difregard 
*' the cry of the mean eft Negro." When 
fpeaking of the oppreffion and unchriftian 
ufage thefe poorNegroes meet with from the 
Shipmafters in their paffage-, and from the 
Matters they are fold to in the fo.uth parts 
of America and the Weft- Indies , he .adds, 
.*' The blood of the Negroes fpilt for thefe 
" many years in your refpedtive Provinces 
!' will rife up to Heaven agamft you," toge- 
ther with that loft in^/r/^occafioned by the 

Traders 



[ 57 " 3 

Traders that go thither. It may not 
be improper to obferve here, that this 
plague was fent by God on Saul and 
his bloody houfe many years after the 
Jlaughter of the Gibeonites ; fo may thefe 
men reafonably expect, that have occafion- 
ed and ftill continue to be the caufe of fpil- 
ling fo much innocent blood in Africa and 
the different Provinces, to have a plague or 
curfe come upon them, many years after the 
p erpet rating thefe wicked deeds. ' 

I will infert a few queftions,for which 
I am indebted to Mr. Pq/llethwayt, by way 
of argument or perfuaiion to give up this 
cnflaving of Men to thofe people who will 
be ready to defend this fcandalous Trade to 
Africa, and of keeping thefe people in ig- 
norance, who are brought into a country 
where the gofpel is preached on all fides of 
them. 

ift. "Whether the people of this country 
notwithftanding their colour, are not capa- 
ble of being civilized and brought into the 
Chriftian religion, as well as great numbers 
of the Indians of America and Afta have 
been j and whether the primitive inhabi- 
tants of all countries fo far as we have been 
able to trace them were not once as fa- 
ll va g e 



C 58 3 

vage and inhuman as the people in Africa, 
and whether the ancient Britons themfelves 
of our country were not once upon a level 
with the Africans ? 

ad. " Whether therefore, there is not 
a probability that thofe people might in 
time, by proper management in the Euro- 
peans, become as wife, as induftrious, as 
humane, and as good Chriftians, as the 
people of any other country ? 

3d, "Whether their rational faculties 
are not in general equal to thofe of any 
other of the human fpccies ; and whether 
they are not, from experience, as capable 
for mechanical and manufa&ural arts and 
trades, as even the Bulk of the Europeans ? 

4th. " Whether it would not bemore 
to the intereft of all the European Nations 
concerned in the Trade to Africa* rather 
to endeavour to cultivate a friendly and 
humane Commerce with the fe people, into 
the very centure of their extended country, 
than to content themfelves only with Hum- 
ming a trifling portion of Trade upon the 
Ccaft of Africa I 

5th. " Whether thegreatefthindera-nce 
£nd obftrudtion to the European s cultiva-^ 



ting 



C 59. 3 

ting a Chriftian-like and humane Com- 
merce with thofe populous countries has 
not wholly proceeded from that unjuft 
Traffick called the Slave Trade, which is 
carried on by the Europeans Americans, 

6th. " Whether thisTrade and this only 
was not the primary caufe, and ftill conti^ 
nues to be the chief caufe of thefe eternal 
and InceiTant broils, quarrels,and animofi- 
ties which fubfift between the Negro 
Princes and Chiefs ; and confequently- of 
thofe endlefs wars which abide among 
them, and which they are induced to carry- 
on in order to make prifoners of one ano- 
ther for the fake of the Slave Trade ? 

7th. " Whether, if trade was carried on 
with them for a feries of years, as it has been 
with moft other favage countries, and the 
Europeans gave no incouragement whatever 
to the Slave Trade, thofe cruel wars among 
the Blacks would not ceafe, and a fair and 
honourable Commerce m time take place 
throughout the whole country ? 

8th. <i Whether the example of the 
Dutch in. the Eqft-Indies, who have civiliz-* 
ed innumerable of the natives, and brought 
them to the European way of cioathing, &c. 

does 



[ 60 ] 

does not give reafonable hopes that thefe 
fuggeflions are not vifionary, but founded 
on experience as well as on humane and 
Chriftian principles ? 

9th. (c Whether Commerce in general 
has not proved the great means of civiliz- 
ing all nations, even the moft favage and 
brutal ; and why not the Africans f 

10th. " Whether the territory of the 
European nations who are interefted in the 
Colonies and Plantations in America, are not 
populous enough, or may be rendered fo, 
by proper encouragement given to matri- 
mony and the breed of foundling infants, to 
fupply their refpeftive Colonies with la- 
bourers in the place of Negro Slaves ? And 

Laftly. " Whether xhtBrkifi dominions 
in general have not an extent of territory, 
iufficient to increafe and multiply their in- 
habitants ; and whether it is not their own 
faults that they -do not increafe them fuffi- 
ciently to fupply their Colonies and Plan- 
tations, with Whites inftead of Blacks ?" 

I make no doubt/ but fome perfons 
whp are concerned in the Slave Trade to 
Africa, will attempt making aniVcr to 
fome of thefe questions: But I prelum e 

there 



[ 6r ] 

there are others of them they will not ven- 
ture upon, knowing they are founded upon 
reafon and truth, and I hope will have great 
influence on thofe this Treatife concern. 

I would add one neceftary query more, 
to thofe who hold the fword of juftice, and 
who muft account to God for the ufe they 
make of it. Since the Englifh Law is fo 
truly valuable for its juftice, how can they 
overlook the barbarous deaths and wrong- 
ful Slavery of the unhappy Sljricans, with- 
out trial or proof of being guilty of 
crimes adequate to their punifhments ? 
Why are thofe M afters of veiiels (who 
are not the mod confederate of men) fuf- 
fered to be fovereign arbiters of the lives 
of thefe miferable Negroes in their paffage, 
and allowed with impunity to deftroy, 
may I not fay murder their fellow crea- 
tures in a manner fo cruel as can never be 
related but with fhams and horror ? Anfwer 
me this,ye pretended judges and Governors 
in the different Colonies where fuch prac- 
tices are ufed, and not be (hacked at the 
negligence you have fleeped in. Since you 
are put in remembrance of it now, I hope 
and fmcerely wifh, I, or any other perfon 
may not have occafion to remind you of the 
fame again, but that you will puaifti with 

equity 



[ 62 ] 

equity all thofe who import Negroes ; 
there being hundreds of poor Europeans 
that would be glad to come and ferve in 
any of thcBritijh Plantations$and thofe that 
could not pay a paffage doubtlefs would fell 
part of their time for it ; and this I make 
no doubt, confidering they have not the 
charge of their funeral and death- bed ex- 
pences and fundry other things to pay^ 
will come nigh if not full as cheap as 
buying and keeping Negroes ; and it will 
be attended with this advantage, thatthefe 
White people when they have ferved fome 
years in the loweft capacities turn out up- 
on the wade land, marry, and in- a few 
years we fee a town well fettled, and in lefs 
than fifty years there will be an increafe of 
fourfold ; by this means the country will 
fill up and we become refpectable and {& 
cure from an enemy, and furnifhed with 
every conveniency of life. And you Go- 
vernors, &c. who have the legislative po- 
wer in your hands will ft ill further make 
Laws and put them in execution, flopping 
any further importation of Slaves into the* 
Provinces or Iflands where you are theKe- 
prefentative head, fo that in that time they 
may fur ni ill themfeiveswith fufficient num- 
ber s,3nd by proper ufage keep up that quan- 
tity which fo much decreafs by improper 

ma- 



C 6 3 ] 

management. Now give me leave to pro- 
ceed 

In a method to put this Trade to .Af- 
rica on a j uft and lawful footing. Firft* in 
order to this, it is my humble opinion, if I 
maybe allowed, to give it, that there be 
a number of men who may chufeto venture 
in this Trade, both in Britain and theColo- 
nies,that fhall be incorporated into feparatei 
bodies by the name of Englijh, or Britijh ; 
American ,0: 'New Engiand African companies* 
or by the denomination of other Provinces 
in America, or Plantations in the Weft-In- 
dies ; and thefe companies fhall equip and 
rig out as many vefTels as they think pro- 
per,loading them with Britifo America, Eajf 
and Weft-India goods, and bring back in. 
return, the rich and plentiful produce 'of Af- 
rica. But before I go any further into this' 
point it muft beobferved, there is one real 
liinderance in the way which muft be re- 
moved, or elTe no. man or company need 
ever think of penetrating into the heart 
of this country, but juft content them-* 
felveii with taking the fkim of this Trade* 
Ming the body ftand, and that is, ths 
Slave, Trade; this mull: be entirely renoun- 
ced and given up by the Europeans, par- 
ticularly by Britain and the Colonies 5 

theu 



[ 64 ] 

then we may with a good face and confer- 
ence travel into the heart of Africa, 
and meet with a friendly and hearty re- 
ception from the natives, who will trade 
with us, and give in exchange their valua- 
ble productions for our goods which are 
generally exported thither.. 

When that great, that only chief obfta- 
cle, the Slave Trade is removed, then Bri- 
tain and the Colonies will flouriih by fo 
■* great and profitable a Commerce. Think 
what a great addition it will make to their 
traffick, the furnifliing a hundred thoufand 
people annually, more than are at prefent 
with cloathing, powder, (hot, and warlike 
arms, and many more things needlefs here 
to enumerate out of England ; rum, and 
fundry other articles out of America and the 
Wef -Indies. It is fuppofed that the above ex- 
traordinary number of Blacks are taken out 
of Africa yearly, and either murdered or 
made Slaves of, by the fhips that go there 
ontofBofon, &c. and what advantages may 
arifcto the inhabitants in peopling, andcon- 
fequently of cultivatingand manuring their 
ground, and of bringing their rich trade to 
the perfection it is capable of, with Britain, 
&c. is hard to fay, when the innermost parts 
©f that great and fruitful country is fettled, 

and 



[ ft ] 

and a free and happy trade carried into the 
heart of it : But thus far I will venture 
to fay, as I have done already, that where 
twenty (hillings worth of commodities is 
at prefent exported an hundred pound will 
be, when a friendly Commerce is carried 
on with the natives. 

These companies may fay, that if once 
this trade is fet on foot, other European pow- 
ers, who have Settlements in ^Africa will 
invade them whenever they begin to thrive 
by not having fufficient funds for the keep- 
ing in good defence the forts, &c. on 
the Settlements. As to this I anfwer, that 
thofe companies have a fum of ten thou- 
sand pounds flerling annually, from the 
Crown of Britain, for maintaining and up- 
holding the forts and ca files that are built 
upon the Britijh Colonies, which with 
the duties arifing from the Trade will be 
'fufficient to maintain, uphold, and defend 
them with ftrength fuperior to the firong- 
eft enemy. 

Thus far I hope I have removed your 
fears of inability in fupporting and conti- 
nuing this Trade, and likewife have mov- 
ed ways and means to put the fame on a 
jnft and lawful footing. Now let me, 

J patient 



v* 



C 66 ] 

patient Header, conclude with a fhort Ex- 
hortation to the Ship-mafters and Mer- 
chants concerned in this Trade, in part 
of which I have had recourfe again to 
my good old Friend Mr. Benezet. 

I beg you all would fly from the 
oppreflion and Bondage to which the poor 
Bfritdns are fubjected, loofe the bonds 
from off their necks, and thereby extri- 
cate yourfelves from a cuftom which is per- 
nicious to your welfare here and hereafter ; 
and as you are fenfible mo ft men have ob- 
jections to this bafe, unlawful Trade, you 
ought to vindicate yourfelves to the world, 
upon principles of reafon, honefty, and hu^ 
manity, and then you will not attack the 
perfons,. or invade the rights of thefe people, 
3 believe thofe who are concerned in this 
Trade will be at a lofs to make thisjuftifi- 
cation but upon motives fo weak and un- 
reafonable, that I do not think any of 
them- which have been advanced for their 
defence worthy of notice; and if they are un- 
deleting of that, they certainly are below 
regard ; therefore I think you Jhould 'forever 
lay it afide. This is the beft and fhorteft 
way y for there JJjou/d be no trade carried 
on, it being^a national and provincial con- 
cern, tut fnch as is jujlijiabk both to God 

and 



[ 6 7 ] 

and man i and this is indired oppofitlon t® 
both. But laying man's refentment afide, 
which is of little moment in compan- 
ion with that of the Almighty's^ I counfel 
you once more to think of a future reck- 
oning, confider what reafons you will he 
able to produce at the great and laftday. 
You now accumulate riches and live in 
pleafure.; but what will you do in the 
«nd, and that will be but fhort ? What 
if you mould be called hence and hurried 
out of this world under the vaft load of 
blood guiltinefs that is now lying; on your 
fouls ? How many thomfands have you 
been the iftruments to, and primary caufe 
of being killed in the wars and broils with 
the African Chiefs, wanting to obtain your 
number to enilave ; and how many have 
you killed in the paffage, .when thcfe poor 
Creatures were trying to retrieve their Li- 
berty which tliey had in their own coun- 
try, and which you ^njuftly take from 
them, or rather chufmg to die than take 
food to nounila and preferve themlelves for 
being mancipated with their children after 
•them ? 

' It is declared in the moil exprefs terms in 
Scripture, that thieves and murderers thall 

fiot inherit the kingdom of God. You 



[ 68 ] 

who are in this Trade take warning by 
that, and if you have any thoughts or 
Chriftian feeling you mud certainly re- 
nounce it ; for that you are thieves and 
nui rderers(I hope after what has been fiid) 
will not be difputed ; and you mould think 
that at the fame time and by the fame 
means you are treafuring up worldly riches, 
you are treafuring up fountains of wrath 
againft the day of anger and vengeance that 
iliall come upon the workers of iniquity, 
unlefs timely repented of. 

What iriiitftice is greater ? What of- 

fence more heinous ? v Is there any carries 
in }i more confummate guilt than that in 
which you now live ? How can you lift 
your culpable eyes to Heaven ? How 
can you pray for mercy, or hope for favour 
from him that made and foi;med you, while 
you go on thus boldly and publickly dif- 
honouring him,, in degrading and deftroy- 
inrr the noble (1: workmanship of his hands 
in this fuhl unary world ? Can you think 
that God will hear your prayers* receive 
your (applications, or grant your dfcfires, 
while you act_ jhus groilly and openly 
a^ainft his divine revealed will and plea- 
fure ? And do you fuppofe that he who is 
the Parent of all nations, the Proredtor of 



ft|] 



[ *9 ] 

all people, and the Father of all men, will 
not revenge the male-treatment of his • off- 
spring whom he oace fo loved as to give 
his only begotten Son, that whofoever ^be- 
lieved in him jhould not perifh, but have ever- 
lofting life ? This love of God -to '.man, 
which is difclofed in Scripture, adds double 
provocation to your crimes -, for if Gob 
regards us .with fo much, affection, we 
ought alio to eftecm one another. 

Permit yourfelves for a moment to re- 
flect equitably and deliberately upon the 
nature of this horrid, deteftable, vile, and 
abominable Man Trade, and your hearts 
muft certainly relent, if you have not loft 
all fenfe of benevolence, all fympathy and 
ccrnpaflion towards thofe of your Brethren 
who have the fame capacities, underftand- 
ings i and fouls, and who were born to in- 
herit the fame falvation with you ; I fay, 
if you are not callous to every Chriftian,hu- 
mme, and manly fenfibiliry, you certainly 
mufl feel co-mpaffion for thofe extremely 
oporeffed people, when you think what 
miferies, what devaluations and maffacres 
among them you have been the author of, 
and all for filthy lucre's fake. The 
thoughts of this accurfed Trade touches 
my very heart,and finding if I continue any 

-longer 



C 70 ] 

longer I (hall get out of the bounds of de- 
cency, muft therefore conclude. And if all 
you have read (hould have no weight upon 
your hardned hearts, this remains for my 
confolation that I have done my duty 3 and 
I pray 1 Fervently pray 1 That God would 
have mercy on your finful fouls ; and that 
he of his infinite goodnefs would grant that 
you maybe madefenfible of your guilt and 
repent of thefe your execrable and really 
deteftable deeds. 

FINIS. 



O^r* The Jiuthor makes no doubt but the 
Publick, after reading this Paniphlet y will 
readily agree with him 9 that the words in the 
Dedication are verified, i4 That it war put 
*f together with more good intent than abili- 
'< ty" which he is v.ery fenjible of : But at 
the fame time thinks all criticifm and fcruti- 
nizing foould be laid afde y when they refcl, 
that the will to do good is next in order 
to the action ilfelf, 



