THE 



EEVIEWER REVIEWED. 



' [tS'lS^^bH /'?c.'^ 



Printed by J. Darling, 31, Leadenhall-Street. 



THE 

REVIEWER REVIEWED; 

on 
SOME CURSORY OBSERVATIONS 

UPON 

^.V ARTICLE IN THE CHRISTIAN OBSERVER 

FOR JANUARY I8I6, 
nESPECTING 



A LETTER TO A MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT, 



THOMAS VENABLES. 



What compensatioa can be found for the absence of impartiality and 
candour? Christian Observer, Jan. 1810, p. 57. 



PRINTED FOR J. M. RTCIIAUDSON, COIINHILI,, OPPOSITE THE 
ROYAI. EXCHANGE, AIJJD J. RIDGEWAY, PICCADILLY. 

1816. 



Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive 

in 2011 witli funding from 

Associates of tlie Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reviewerreviewedOOvena 



THE 



REVIEWER REVIEWED. 

•' In all discussions which rehite to the condition of our slave colonies, this 
" inconvenience is very sensibly felt ; men reason respecting them upon 
*' analogies which have no foundation in truth, and therefore give an 

** easy credit to assertion* tli^ most fallacious." Chriiiiun Observer, 

Jan. 181G, p. 3g. 

My DEAR SIR, 

IN the conversations we haye had 
together on the subject of the Slave Registry 
Bill, I have ventured to assert, that the advo- 
cates for the bill have created a monster of the 
imagination, and have di-essed it in every shape 
of horror, that they may the more easily recon- 
cile the public and the legislature to measures 
which they recommend as necessary for the de- 
struction of this chimera, but v/hich have in 

tmth 



6 

truth other ultimate objects, the nature and 
extent of which they do not expressly develope i 
a contraband slave trade, prevailing in our colo- 
nies under the circumstances which their in- 
vention has painted, would be, as they truly 
tell us, an evil of greater magnitude than that 
regulated trade which vv^e have abolished. Anx- 
ious as they are to find a firm ground for the 
first step in their projected career, and failing 
lamentably in matter of fact, they resort to al-* 
legations and inferences, the ftillacious and illi- 
beral nature of which is somewhat disguised by 
the garb of humanity with which they are 
clothed, and by the close connexion tliey affect 
with popular feelings. " If we cannot prove 
"^ the existence of illicit importation of slaves 
''' into the colonies,'' say these casuists, " yet 
" that practice is at least possible ; while pos- 
•'* sihle, it will he contemplated hy the colonists ; 
'- and so long as it is contemplated, the planters 
•' will maltreat and destroy their slavesT And 
this, they contend, although facts may fail 
them, is ground sufficient for their biU. In 
various productions of the press have tliese 

propositions 



7 

propositions been maintained, but in none 
with more boldness and virulence tlian in an 
article in the Christian Observer for January, 
which, amidst a long succession of observations, 
unfounded and most illiberal, has stumbled upon 
one or two just remar!:s, which I have selected 
and prefixed to this letter. 

The article in question professes to review a 
pamphlet, which common fame attributes to 
Mr. Stephen, entitled, " Reasons for establish- 
" ing a Registry of Slaves in the British Co- 
" lonies, &e. &c. 1815;" and although the Re- 
viewer is not sparing of eulogy to the author 
whom he pretends to analyse, yet (to prove 
himself a zealous disciple of the school to which 
he belongs) he does not content himself with 
mere approbation, but with the bitter animosity 
of one that has been sorely wounded in the con- 
test, he adds his own large contribution of in- 
jurious misrepresentation, and in casuistry and 
in calumny leaves even his master at a distance 
behind him. 

■ Both these w]'iters appear to be av/are that a 
penal law, so important in all its bearings as 

that 



that which they recommend, can hardly be jiiS* 
tified to Parhamcnt, except by the certified 
existence of some prevailing evil, against which 
it may provide a wholesome remedy; they pre-^ 
tend, therefore, that they possess a body of evi- 
dence of facts, of wliich, however, they equally 
betray their diffidence, by the superior import- 
ance which they endeavour to annex to what 
they call their presinnptive evidence. 

The ihaster, in the arrangement of his forces, 
decently gives the precedence to that little 
strength of direct testimony which he boasts of 
possessing, and he brings up his presumptions 
and inferences in the second line ; but the dis- 
ciple, aware of the poverty of this display, re- 
verses the order of battle, and places in the front 
his specious array of presumptive evidence. He 
asks his readers " on which side does the pre- 
sumption of truth lie? Is it, or is it not, rea^ 
sonable to believe? Is it at all improbable? 
and subsequently (for " vires acquirit eundoj') 
Does it require much evidence to prove ? He 
winds up tliis part of his argument by an inti- 
xnation, that from all these premises, he is en- 
titled 



9 

titled to infer, that in order to justify the for-* 
midable measure he Teeommends, it is not ne^ 
cessary to establish the fact of illicit importa- 
tion*, ' 

Now, my dear Sir, I positively object to thiij 
manoeuvre of the Reviewer, as contrary to all 
the estabUshed laws of logic, equity, and fair 
dealing. If the fact of colonial participation, 
and under circumstances warranting a presump- 
tion of general reliance upon illicit trade, " as a, 
potential resource,'' cannot be established, all 
this presumptive evidence of the pamphleteer, 
and of his Reviewer, so far from tending to 
prove the guilty furnishes strong indications of 
the innocence of the accused colonists. We 
shall be compelled to acknowledge, that while 
the planters have remained faithfully obedient 
to the law of aboHtion, and subjected to its in- 
evitable effects, they have had the merit of re- 
sisting the temptation, and opportunity for 
doing otherwise. 

And this consequence will implicitly be ad- 
mitted 

* Christian Observer, p. 40 and preceding. 



10 

Hiitted in eases where we are able not merely to 
repel the charge, but to establish, by direct evi- 
dence, tiie contrary fact. If Jamaica, for in- 
stance, can shev/ to our satisfaction, that it has 
jaot, in a single instance duiing the last eight 
years, been contaminated hj the alleged guilt, 
having, mean time, had its temptations and fa^ 
cilities in common v/ith all the other islands, we 
must fairly acknowledge, that to one-half our 
colonial territory the calumnious imputations of 
the Keviewer and of his author do not in the 
smallest degree attach. 

What, think you, v/ould be the general feel- 
ing, if an individual were put upon his trial, by 
a course of proceeding like that of the Reviev/er? 
This " man is charged v/ith fs^lonious practices; 
" we cannot prove the fact, but we can shew 
*' you that he is poo?' ; . that he uses, and some- 
" times wants, the articles v/hieh he is accus- 
" ed of stealing; that such articles have been 
" lying conveniently in his w^ay ; and that the 
" chances of detection were in his favour." Such 
a process, you are well aware, could not be 
heard before any English tribunal. 

Nor 



11 

Kor indeed (to do the accusing party justice) 
<lo they rest their presumptive evidence here* 
for they endeavour to persuade us that the ac- 
cused is, in this case, destitute of every prin- 
ciple which could controul his criminal propen- 
sities; the terror of the law, or the compunc- 
tions of conscience, are by him equally unfelt. 
And these injurious inferences are supported 
upon the grounds, that planting in the West 
Indies is an uncertain speculative adventure; 
that before the abolition of the slave trade, the 
planters purchased, and that they do yet possess 
slaves ; and that, during the period when the 
African slave trade was pronounced by the law 
of Great Britain to be " necessary" for the cul- 
tivation of their properties, they opposed, on 
various pleas, its abolition. 

Agriculture, it seems, in Britain, affords a 
Steady, unvarying profit ; but in the colonies it 
is a lottery. The West India planter is a game- 
ster, a character reprobated by every code, how- 
ever lax, of morals. But the West Indian is 
not merely a gamester ; he is, generally speak- 
ing, an insolvent gamester; and there is no- 
thin sr 



1^ 

1 M 

tiling uncharitable in imputing, to s'u&h a cllatw 
racter, a selfish pursuit of his own ends, by 
means of oppression and cruelty *, 

Will the British farmer, think you, acquiesce 
in the justice of this contrast? I apprehend 
not. Agricultural pursuits, in every climate, are 
subjected, like other human concerns, to a vari- 
able success ; and more especially so during re- 
volutionary periods like those which the po- 
litical world has experienced for a quarter of a 
century past. That the colonies, during a part 
of that period, have laboured under an accu- 
midation of difficulties, and that plantations 
in the West Indies are occasionally visited by 
calamities of a peculiar nature, it were useless 
to deny ; but under a pressure so long and so 
great as that which they have recently expe- 
rienced, did the marks of general insolvency ap- 
pear? Or is it true, that rarefy has a large 
body of men, either agricultural or commercial^ 
sustained so firmly the continued attack of com- 
plicated adversity ? 

It 

* Christian Observer, p. 34 and 35. 



13 

It would be quite imfdr to give the Ke- 
viewer s further presumptive evidence, resting 
upon the character of the planters, in any lan- 
Uuaffe but his own. 

" That the terror of punishment and infamy 
" will often restrain those who know no other 
^* fear, is unquestionably true ; if it were not 
" so, human legislation would be an idle 
" mockery. Yet the efficacy of penal laws, 
** upon the conduct of those who acknowledge 
*' no higher and more generous obhgation, is by 
*' no means certain. Now, with respect to the 
" crime of slave trading, one thing is quite 
" clear, that not only the great mass of society 
" in the West Indies, but ^ large number of 
" persons in this country, consider it as no 
" crime at all. Nine years have not elapsed 
*"' since they proclaimed this opinion loudly and 
** earnestly. In the Parliament of Great Bri- 
** tain this doctrine was supported by advocates 
*' of high rank and great public consideration. 
^* In the colonial assemblies, not a solitary voice 
'* was raised to oppose it. In addresses, in 
" speeches, in votes, aiid resolutions, the slave 

" trade 



14 

**' trade was there justified, nay, applauded, as 
" an excellent scheme for mitigating the horrors 
" of African bondage. The same things are 
" not said now, it is true ; no man who should 
" adopt, and promulgate as his own, the opi- 
" nions of the Jate council and assembly of Ja- 
" maica on this subject, would find admittance 
" into decent society. But why suppose this 
" silence the result of conviction? For what 
" reason are those, who, under the constrain- 
" ing power of an act of parhament, and no 
" less-constraining force of public opinion, de- 
" part from the profession of faith of the West 
*' Indian legislatures, entitled to unreserved 
" credit? Has any argument been advanced 
" since the year 1806, which had not been 
** reiterated before ? Have any new facts been 
" discovered — -or has any new fight broken in 
" on them since that time ? If we give these 
" men credit for the sincerity of their past pro- 
" fessions, what motive, except the dread of 
" punishment, can now prevent their conti- 
" nuance of the practice they so lately defended 
*' and extoUed? How far, then, is this fear 

" fikely 



15 

" likely to operate ? Just so far as the law cau 
" be enforced with vigilance and rigcur. Like 
" any other felon, the slave trader will calculate 
^* the means of detection and his chance of 
" escape, and vnW act accordingly." 

And a Uttle further, " In this situation, is the 
" chance of detection, of accusation, or of con- 
" viction, very formidable? Is it sufficiently 
" so to restrain men, who, by their OAvn re- 
" peated avowal, acknowledge on this subject 
" no restraint of conscience?" 

Now I ask you whether the utmost stretch of 
Christian charity will admit of a belief that this 
writer is unaware of the gross delusion which 
he is here practising upon his readers, many of 
whom he must presume to have no retrospect 
to the changes which time has produced both in 
laws and opinions ? and I must be permitted to 
doubt the sincerity of that wish with which he 
commences his criticism, " that some person 
" competent to the task would write a full and 
*' impartial history of the abolition of the slave 
" trade*," since such a history could not be writ- 
ten 
* Christian Observer, p. 28. 



16 
ten without a fair display of the sanction which 
that trade, not many years ago, received both 
in the opinions of wise and good men, and in 
the positive enactments of the British legisla- 
ture. 

Let not the purport of this observation be 
mistaken, nor what is here said be cited in jus- 
tification of the calumnious assertion, that the 
opposers of the Registry Bill are advocates for a 
renewal of the slave trade ; parliament and the 
nation, after a long and patient hearing, have 
pronounced its sentence ; and I do not know 
the soHtary individual existing who does not 
wish that, by the general concurrence of all 
the European powers, Africa may be seen 
exerting her native energies, after having been 
freed from any contact of that trade : but if the 
colonists who opposed the abolition of the slave 
trade can therefore fairly now be said to acknow- 
ledge " no higher and more generous obligation 
" than that of penal laws — no restraint of con- 
" science;" and that we may presume them 
guilty whenever they are tempted to be so, 
there is no contumacy, agamst present law or 

universal 



37 

universal justice, in maintaining that under tlie 
same sentence must be included all those states- 
men and legislators, from tlie time of Queen 
Anne downwards, who after deliberately consi- 
dering the " nature of the trade," not only pro- 
vided for it express encouragement in our sta- 
tute book, as " advantageous to Great Britain, 
** and necessary for supplying her plantations 
" and colonies with a sufficient number of ne- 
*' groes at reasonable rates*," but who, in ano- 
ther instance, even considered, as an advantage- 
ous article of a treaty with his Catholic Majesty, 
the concession of the Assiento contract, as it 
was called, by which we contracted for a supply, 
by British trade, of 144,000 slaves to the Spa- 
nish colonies. Every nobleman and gentleman 
who, during twenty years, in either house of 
parliament, spoke or voted against the abolition, 
are comprised also under this sweeping moral 
condemnation. 

To readers of " The Christian Observer," it 
were needless to remark, that neither in the Old 

B or 

* 23 Geo. II. cap. 31. Preamble. 



18 

or uS^ew Testament can any precept be found 
which forbids the purchase and possession of 
slaves, or the use of their labour in their bond- 
age; the authority, indeed, leans the other way** 
and our holy religion seems to discourage all at- 
tempts at officious interference respecting the 
civil and political relations of men. 

In morality a man can seldom go wrong while 
he is strictly obeying that which is directed by 
the laws of his country ; and you will recollect 
that Horace gives this rule indefinite latitude — • 

Vir bonus est qtiis ? 
Qui consulta patrum, qui leges, juraqiie sertat. 

The colonist who ten or twelve years ago en- 
deavoured to add advantage to Great Britain 
hy purchasing slaves for the purpose of increas-^ 
ing the produce of his estate, was, under this 
fule of action, doing his duty; and in 1807 he 
was, by the same authority, enjoined to aban- 
don all reliance upon a further supply of slaves 
from Afi*ica, and to manage his property as ad- 
vantageously as he could with his present stock. 

I confess myself utterly unable to guess upon 

what 



19 
v;hat authority the Reviewer advances the fol- 
lowing assertion : — » 

" The case is shortly this. In the colonies. 
** and in this country, there is a large body of 
" persons, planters, merchants, ship-owners, and 
** mariners, wli6 conceive they have a deep and 
** permanent interest in the continuance of this 
" traffic ; who, by their own avowal, are withheld 
** by no scruples of conscience from embarking 
*' in it; who can be restrained from such spe- 
** culations by nothing but the fear of detection; 
" and who, by artifices that are obvious and 
" easy of execution, may evade that danger*." 

To his round affirmation I can only oppose as 
tound a denial. I have, as you are well aware, 
an extensive acquaintance with the colonies, and 
the various classes connected with them, and I 
know of no such persons, planters, meixliants, 
ship-oivners, or mariners, as those here alluded 
to, or whose conduct is regulated by such " spe- 
** culations" 

Why, it may be fairly a?.ked, did the colonists 
B 2! . so 

* Chrisllati Observer, p. 35. 



20 

so long and so pertinaciously oppose the abo- 
lition ? was it not under a conviction that the 
law, when passed, must bind them ? When 
IMr. Ei-ougham, in 1810, introduced his bill, 
making all participation in the trade felomous*^ 
was he not supported by the colonial party in 
the House of Commons ? one of whomf, (wha 
Voted in the small minority of 1807 against the 
abolition) is reported to have said, " that if he had 
*• at another time objected, on the ground of its 
" inexpediency and impracticability, to a mea- 
" sure which was not then the law of the coun^ 
" try, he knew what was now his duty, in defe- 
" rence to what is the law of the country." It 
must be left to the Keviewer, and to those who 
adopt his uncandid judgments, to pronounce that 
these ought not to be taken as the sentiments of 
the colonists generally, until facts shall be 
brought to warrant a contrary conclusion. 

And facts, the Reviewer too teUs us boldly, 
he will produce. Parturiunt monies! lo! we 
have a doubtful, case, of one poor negro boy in 

St. 

* 51 Geo. III. cap. 23. 
+ Mr. G. Hibbert. See Cobbett's Debates. 



21 

St, Kitts : a newspaper advertisement in Santa 
Cruz, offering rewards J^r the detection of illicit 
trade : and again appears the case of the census 
in Trinidad, although his fellow-labourers, the 
Edinburgh Reviewers, have told him that it 
will not stand the test of examination ; but, no 
matter ! the pious readers of the Christian Ob- 
(server may shun the heterodox pages of the 
northern journal, and the story tells well ; as it 
charges a good roimd amount of illicit trade, 
which may compensate for the puny exhibition 
of Charles, the negro boy of St. Kitts, 

If this ^yill not do, there is still the resource 
of promising facts, vv^hich for certain reasons 
cannot yet be revealed. These the African In- 
stitution will produce in its own good time. The 
little island of Nevis is threatened to be impli- 
cated for its full share in the discovery. The 
Reviewer has seen the documents, and he 

r 

pledges his veracity to his readers that they af- 
ford the most ample, precise, and convincing 
proof, that within the last four years, and espe- 
cially in the year 1814, the practice of smug- 
gling 



22 

gling negroes has been carried on to a considerr 
able extent in several islands. 

From what cause offences committed in 1814, 
and which admit of such proof, have not abeady 
been detected and punished, we are yet tp learn; 
and the accused planters have to lament, that at 
least the cases, if they be not among those which 
are already reported to Parliament, have not 
long ago been stated, as an opportunity would 
have thus been afforded for investigating the 
facts and the circumstances. You, my dear Sir, 
may rest assured that the instances of illicit 
trade, which are to be so amply, pr^isely, and 
convincingly proved, are totally unknown to all 
the principal proprietors of West India property 
in and about London. 

It is the colonial mind — it is the general con- 
templation of these practices " as a potential re- 
" source," and the influence w^hich that con- 
templation must have on the managemeni of 
islaves, that are presented to us as evils impe- 
riously demanding this strong legislative remedy ; 
and against such arguments the single fact that 

Jamaica 



23 
Jamaica is not implicated, is in itself a host. 
Santa Cruz is no longer ours ; Trinidad is al- 
ready subjected to a registry ; and if it should 
be true that felony has been committed in Nevis 
or in St. Kitts, let us see whether the guilty 
cannot be punished, without the mighty move- 
ment by which we are now invited to convulse 
all our old colonies. 

I pass over all the details by which the Re- 
viewer and his author have, in a spirit of gross 
iiliberality, endeavoured to misrepresent the ge- 
neral condition of the slaves, and the laws of 
manumission ; not because the fallacious charac- 
ter of their remarks does not deserve animad- 
version and admit of refutation, but because 
these subjects are but remotely, if at all, con- 
nected with the Registry Bill. If the abolition 
be generally an effective law, and so considered, 
(which I contend to be the fact), its influence is 
operating, and this formidable innovation is not 
requisite for its support. 

I leave too entirely out of consideration the 
question which this Reviewer has largely dis- 
cussed of constitutional right; let him enjoy 

without 



24 

without molestation his triumph in the power 
by which that right, if asserted, can be repressed ! 
The British Legislature will doubtless consult 
its dignity rather than its power, and its de- 
cision will probably rest upon the questions of 
necessity and of expediency ; other evidence 
than that of this Reviewer, or of the author he 
eulogises, will be received as to the.facts of ilhcit 
trade and of oppressive practices ; as to the com- 
petency of the local legislatures for all the pur- 
poses of internal government; and as to the 
progress already made in ameliorating the con- 
dition of the coloured population, whether slave 
or free. 

The spirit which animates the Reviewer cg,nT 
not be better exposed than by his own sugges- 
tion of the means of furnishing the legislature 
and the public with new information upon these 
subjects, and I will give it to you in his oivn 
words : — - 

" One suggestion, however, connected with 
•*' this topic, we beg leave to submit to the 
*' African Institution. Hitherto aR the evidence 
« given to the public on the interior condition 

« of 



S5 

^^ of the slave colonies has been derived from 
" the white population — from those against 
" whom the charge of oppression is advanced. 
" But there will be found in the islands a large 
" number of persons of colour, whose liberal 
" education and extensive acquaintance with 
" the state of West-Indian society, eminently 
" fit them to assist in forming an accurate de- 
" lineation of it. If a fund were raised for 
" bringing over to England a few witnesses of 
" this class from each of our slave colonies, a 
" body of testimony might be collected of in- 
" calculable value. There are at present in this 
" country more persons than one of this num- 
" ber, from whom we have received communi- 
" cations as to the recent proceedings of the 
" white colonists, to which it is impossible to 
** listen without horror and indignation*." 

What, let me ask you, can be the character 
of evidence thus obtained? A free person of 
polour who came over on these terms must be 

aware 

* Christian Observer, p. b7. 



2G 
aware of the nature of those opinions which 
would be acceptable to his employers ; and he 
would be one too who, bankrupt in property, 
and hopeless of resources in the colonies, made 
no sacrifice in abandoning that residence for 
ever. Irritated, perhaps, by personal resent- 
ments and by disappointed speculations, he 
would earnestly look up to his purchasers and 
employers for an establishment ; the best means 
of obtaining which he would not unreasonably 
conjecture to be abuse of the government and 
of the society which he had relinquished. 

Can such a suggestion be dictated by a can- 
did and impartial mind? is this the spirit of 
fair investigation ? or is it the precept of an in- 
quisitor who has already condemned and wants 
a colour for injustice ? 

Other indications are not wanting of the dis-^ 
ingenuous mind with which the original author 
and his Reviewer have advocated their cause; 
their coarse, indiscriminate abuse of all the co- 
lonial legislatures (that of Jamaica included), 
and their utter silence as to what has been re- 
cently 



27 

teritly done in this our greatest colony in favour 
of the free people of colour, are at variance with 
all candid' discussion in the pursuit of truth. 

The Reviewer has passed lightly over the ac- 
cusation vv^hich his author, with triumphant in- 
dignation, l;)rought against the colonies — tliat 
of not attaching the slaves to the soil. We 
were assured by the author of " Keasons, ^c. &c." 
that, setting aside all other instances of a spirit 
directly opposite to the spirit of abolition, it 
would be singly enough to say, that this mea- 
sure had ''not yet been adopted in any of the 
islands. — " It is," he tells us, " a sufficient in- 
" dication of .^Jicfact he wishes to establish, that 
" plantation slaves are not yet annexed to the 
*' estate they cultivate, so as no longer to be 
" severed from it by execution at law*." Has 
the Reviewer been av/are that this choice of a 
test of the colonial mind was unfortunate, as the 
<3^ircumstance selected will be shewn to have 
been strictly consistent both with prudence and 
humanity? But ^yhiie the Ke viewer forbears 

to 

* Reasons, &c. &c. p. 48. 



28 

to give that peculiar importance which his au- 
thor had given to this accusation, he might 
have offered some apology for the positive and 
opprobrious terms in which it was charged 
against the colonies. 

Neither the Reviewer nor his author can be 
ignorant of the amelioration of opinions, man- 
ners, and laws, which in the last twenty-five 
years has taken place in our colonies, and which 
is still in progression ; they cannot believe that 
the condition of our West-Indian slaves is the 
" most extreme and abject slavery that ever de- 
graded and cursed mankind * ;" that " they are 
" subjected, by solemn legislative enactments, 
" to punishments most severe and humiliating 
" for the slightest offences ;" that *' over these 
" wretched captives a few Europeans, like Hug- 
" gins and Hodge (or like those who live in 
" courteous association with such characters), 
" exercise an unlimited authority, legislative and 
" domestic;" that "hfe presents to them no 
" better hope than a refuge to that last sanc- 

" tuary 

* Reasons, &c. &c. p. 4. 



59 
** tuary where the wicked cease from troubling 
" and the weary are at rest*." These things 
they assert, but they cannot believe them ; for 
where they have raked for their calumnies, 
truth must have stared them in the face, and 
they cannot be ignorant that, generally speak- 
ing, the slaves in om- colonies are contented in 
then- situation ; that their labour is lighter far 
than miUions of men in Europe gladly undergo 
for their daily bread; that their food, their 
clothing, their punishments, are subjected to 
legal regulations, and that both in the laws by 
which they are governed, and the humane spirit 
by which those laws are administered (and which 
pervades too the exercise of the masters' discre- 
tionary power), their condition has been during 
many years past in progressive amelioration. 

Neither can Y»^e admit that these gentlemen 
are ignorant that the abuses against which they 
professedly direct their Slave Registry Bill are 
either creatures of their imagination, or, so far 
as they can possibly be proved to exist, are in 

nature 

* Christian Observerj p. 44. 



30 

^latnre and degree insufficient to justify a pro-- 
ceeding so rash and violent. But those who 
consult the author of " The Heasons, &;c." and 
his Reveiwer, will be at no loss to discover that 
the measure of a general registry is a matter 
of indifference, except as it is one step (and a 
bold one too) in the disfranchisement of our co- 
lonial legislatures, who, however prudently at- 
tentive to extend protection and privileges to 
the different classes of the population under 
their jurisdiction, might and would probably, 
stop short of any direct measures of general 
emancipation. 

That our Reviewer has reconciled his mind, 
to the accomplishment of that purpose, and at 
no great distance of time, you will discover by 
his triumphant allusion to the glorious state of 
St. Domingo, and by the decent terms in which 
he points it out to the legislators of Jamaica, at 
the very mxOment when he had reason to expect 
the result of their anxious investigation of eveiy 
matter connected with the professed objects of 
this bill. " Even now a negro empire is rising 
" in 'the Caribean Seas, in fearful strength and 

'' energy. 



31 

*^ energy. The slave-diivers of Jamaica may 
^* yet stnit thek hour as legislators, and publish 
" their childisli boasts of independence; but 
" they have, in King Christophe and President 
" Petion, near neighbours, who may ere long, 
" if they heed not the calls of mercy and jus- 
" tice, address these blusterers in a style yet 
" more peremptory than their own*." 

That the Reviewer heartily wishes to see all 
the negroes of Jamaica as free and happy as the 
subjects of King Christophe now are, and the 
white population disposed of by means like 
those which extinguished that class in St. Do- 
mingo, and all the public and private wealth 
which Jamaica now produces sacrificed, as that 
of St. Domingo has been, I will not positively 
affirm, but I will venture to assure him that a 
speedier way of accomplishing those purposes 
cannot possibly be adopted than by the dis- 
franchisement of those " blustering legislators," 
of whom he speaks with so much unbecoming 
levity, and whose hour (as he is pleased to call 

it) 

* Christian Obserrer, p. 58. 



32 

it) is certainly come, whenever the British Par- 
liament is induced to pass the Registry Bill. 
I am, kc. &c. 

THOMAS VENABLES. 

P. S. I have just learnt that the legislature 
of Jamaica has sent home a Report and a body 
of evidence, which is printing, and which, so 
far as relates to that great colony, will afford a 
complete refutation of those calumnies which 
the Reviewer has so industriously endeavoured 
to propagate and to justify. 



FINIS. 



Printed by J. Darling, 31, Leaclenliall Street, London. 



