5-/ 




should be inflicted, the man was released, lie 



n to remit the who 
fhich may have 
-commissioned offii 
ntence of a regimei 
power is vested i 
;?tion (and I presi 
tliorized represen 
iculion of any sen 
[iiartiah' 

he culprit may si 
his punishrn 
irt of the surgec 
eceive the j 
Id he expire 
f the sentence 
lifeless and i 
[ending the 

reg 

a court-i 
ced to ri 
and at 6 
er mtgh 
receivi 
he was 
riinder of his 
first few lashes tore open the 
skin so much that liis back beca 



mi 



THE HERALD OF FREEDOM. 



VOL. 11. NO. 503. 



CONCORD, NEW-HAMPSHIRE, FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, 1845. 



NEW SERIES, VOL. 1, NO. 23. 



PUBLISHED WEEKLY 



HY ITS 



fi. P. ROGERS, Editor. 



;a- 
e- 
of 
ed, 
in 
ol- 
m- 
-ty 
an 
of 
he 
in 
in 
)u- 
nd 

srs5 

ra- 
ing 
urn 



.ng 
•ue 
ice 
pa- 
ler 
;u- 
nat 
vill 
,ib- 
a 
en- 
es, 
er, 
;ry 
hat 
nly 
OS- 
hat 



friends: 

JOHN R. FRENCH, Publishins Agent. 

TER^IS — One dollar and fifty cents a year. 
Postage ought to be paid in all cases. 

Srltctfons. 



receive to the extent of two-thirds orihe sentence 
awarded were seldom 'brought out' to receive 
the remainder. The sentence was, however,not 
always remitted; it was allowed to hang over 
them so that the commanding officer might inflict 
the balance due when it pleased him to do so. 
'Let us suppose,' says Dr. Hamilton, 'that a man 
is taken down aMlie end of 250 or 300 Inshes, 
and that his sentence was 1000, all of which lie 
must receive, whetlier at two, three, or more 
times, before he is released from confinement 
I,et us suppose he is conveyed either to the 
guard-house or hospital, is daily dressed till tiie 
wounds are healed, and a new cuticle formed, 
which jiiay he in a monlU-.Qr^fivc weeks. He is 



- t/T»'-T>i««^_i*tri Cigtht'S, y.;:t pr.^TTnp^~P^^^^rr^-■ 
^_ult to oblain fuTrprnd ade- Ty'able to sufler the weight and friction of his 



quale information of war in all its revolting reali- 
ties. We see its glittering mask, but rarely its 
grim and horrid visage. We gaze upon its gilded 
and dazzling exterior, but know little of the abom- 
inations within. We observe its general results, 
but have little or no acquaintance with its details; 
and what we do learn of its bad principles or bad 
deeds, is extorted, very like the confessions of a 
criminal, or the reluctant testimony of his ac- 
complices, from the admirers or apologists of this 
custom^ 

Such are the following remarks on military 
punishments from the pen of a British officer. 
** Henry Marshall, Deputy Inspector General of 
Army Hospitals." He isgiving " hints to young 
medical officers," and either relates what his.- 
own eyes saw, or quotes either from other eye- 
witnesses, or from writers of eminence on the 
subjects here discussed. We have room for only 
a part of his article. 

* A private soldier,' says Dr. Bell, in his work 
on the diseases of soldiers, * had been repeatedly 
sentenced by a court-martial to be punished for 
theft; but the punishment of flogging hud always 
been changed for that of confinement, as, on 
the instant he was brought to the halberts, he 
was attacked with convulsions, and the medical 
gentleman who attended, thinking it not proper 
that in those circumstances the punishment 
should be inflicted, the man was released. He 
was again convicted of stealing, and sentenced 
to be flogged.' At this time ' these convulsive 
fits,' says Dr. Bell, Hvere either feigned or real; 
but in either case it was deemed proper that the 
punishment should go on. If they weie feigned 
the pain of flogging would soon put an end to 
every exeruon of artifice; and, if they were 
real. It appeared probable that severe pain, to 
vvjiich ]ie had not been 



__not been accustomed, and the ^- ^ 

~r .po :. tL.w.. ' r? r !.'1 V . ': " 'ff ff 'l i is .'H !f iM ' r; e^ Ml l! hib TtiG i itn Qtt^dia te oly e^Lyf Jl^yg^ung^l^^ disposed 

fit was approrrching, might prevent the attack, ' —i -.t-"" i 

and, by breaking the habit, might prove a use- 
ful remedy. I never had seen him in any of 
these fits; but I was informed that he was fre- 
quently attacked by them when guilty of any ir- 
regularity, and consequently was sent to the "hos- 
pital instead of the guard-house. On the morn- 
ing of his punishment, I informed him, in pres- 
ence of the sergeant of the hospital, and ofanolh- 
er person, that the commanding officer was de- 
tcmined to inflict 'every lash, although death 
should be the consequence, and that I would on 
no account interfere in having him taken down. 
He was told, that if he dared to fall into fits, the 
sergeant and my servant had orders to burn him 
to the bone with red-hot irons, which they kept 
ready heated for the purpose in the mess-kitch- 
en, at the door of which he was punished. While 
the drummers were tying him to the halberts, 1 
placed myself directly opposite him, and his eyes 
were steadily fixed on mine. His countenance 
was marked with the strongest symptoms of ter- 
ror, which was not lessened by turning Iiis head 
towards the door of the kitchen, where he saw 
a person prepared, as he thought, for the purpose 
of which he had been informed. He firmly be- 
lieved that what had been threatened, would be 
executed. The plunisbment went on, — the pain 
it occasioned was almost forgot in his apprehen- 
sion of that which he more dreaded. He receiv- 
ed .300 lashes; and while I remained in the regi- 
ment, I never heard of his being attacked wilh 
any convulsive disorder, nor of his being tried by 
a court-martial for his old crime.' 

* Pain, but especially pain which is inflicted or 
imposed as a chastisement, frequently excites 
fainting or ddiqumm animi ; and when this 
takes place, it becomes highly expedient to ar- 
rest the infliction of punishment. When syncope 
or fainting, occurs during a surgical operation, I 
believe it is the ordinary use ofsurgeons to cease 
operating until the patient is restored. But a 
man under punishment is liable to a partial 
dcliquium animi, or fainting, during which it 
has been reconunended, — and it is, I suppose, 
usual, — to jsSrniit the punishment to go on dnr- 

"Hig'^uwc oeCOTi'd^ uT^iT7:fijhri~9T»H9ttftt^f^^r 'In the 
slighter cases, therefore, of deJiguium, the pun- 
ishment need not be interrupted; indeed, the 
stimulus of flagellation frequently restores the 
sufferer to himself. If, on the other hand, the . 
dcliquium continues, and a man cannot be roused 
in a few seconds, if he perspires much, and if 
the pulse at the temporal artery becomes weak, 
or scarcely susceptible, he should forthwith be 
taken down. 

* Should a man recover instantly, the medical 
officer is sometimes supposed to have been un- 
necessarily cautious, — imposed upon, in fact. 
This conclusion he may occasionally expect, but 
not often; for to witness the flogging of a man, 
is, I believe, in general, very painful both to 
pfficer? and men, — the infliction of bodily pain 
as punishment, under whatever name the opera- 
tion may be executed, having very nnich the ap- 
pearance of torture, — consequently, officers in 
general are pleased to see the infliction brought 
to a conclusion. Some officers, who in the exer- 
cise of their duty arc obliged to attend punish- 
ment parades, frequently turn Iheir eyes from 
the snfTercr, and obviously show, by their looks 
and gestures, that they are disgusted with the 
exhibition. In complete fainting the delinquent 
becomes unable to stand erect, the muscles of 
his limbs lose their power, and he hangs by the 
hands from the tops of the triangles. 

"So long £is it was cnatomary to inflict second 
punishments, medical officers were, from motives 
of humanity, much disposed to allow a man to 
reciiive'the whole of the punishment which the 
court-martial had adjuged, at once, or at any rate 
as much as he was able to bear, m the hope thai 
the remainder would be remitted. Soldiers who 



cross-belts, or the pressure of his haversack, — 
the parts are as yet red and lender; notwithstand- 
ing he is ordered a second time to the halberts, 
and at the end of 200 or 300 more is a second 
time taken down, cured as before, a third tinie 
brought there, and so on till the whole judgnieni 
be inflicted.' 

' 'Every commanding officer, * says Major 
James, author of a military Dictionary and several 
other military works, has a discretionary power 
vested in hinj to remit the whole or part of the 
punishment which may have been awarded 
again'st a non-commissioned officer or private sol- 
dier by the sentence of a regimental court-martial. 
But no such power is vested in him when the 
king's appiobation (and I presume I may add 
that of his autliorized representative) has sanc- 
tioned the execution of any sentence given by a 
general court-n:artial.' 

* 'However the culprit rrtay suffer on such an 
occasion, or have his punishment discontinued 
through the report of the surgeon, he must again 
be brought out to receive the remainder of the 
lashes; and, should he expire before ihe bona 
fide complement of the sentence, it must be con- 
summated upon his lifeless and mutilated carcass. 
'I remember attending the punishment of a 

man belonging to the regiment, in 1808, 

who had been tried by a court-martial, and con- 
victed. He was sentenced to receive 1000 lash- 
es in the usual manner, and at swc\\Hme or times 
as the commanding officer might direct. He was 
taken down upon liaving received about 250 lash- 
es. After being cured , he was again brought out 
to receive the remainder of his sentence. T!ie 
first few lashes tore open the newly cicatrized 
skin so much that his hack becanie instantly cov- 
ered with blood, which flowed downward under 
his clothes. He was taken ^lovvn before he re- 
ceived forty lashes. The second punishnient 
was a most painful one to all who witnessed it; 
and I believe the disgusting exhibition was not in 
his case repeated. 

'The infliction of pain, without long disabling 
a man for duty, or endangering his life, being the 

t^diaXe.o^jecLof.flo££djijJ) ^— f^'". ^'^PQ^gl 
whether that iiueniion wotud isoL' ' ne si(rr,1Tv" 
attained by employing a cat with oiic tail instead 
of one with nine tails. The pain inflicted by one 
cord would be severe enough, perhaps nearly as 
severe at the moment, as with nine cords, while 
the ultimate injury and danger would be much 
less. 

*Dr. Hamilton gives the following account of a 
case of second punishment; — 'Hall,' says ho 
'was sentenced to receive 500 lashes for house- 
breaking; he got 400 of them before he was ta- 
ken down; and in the space of sis weeks was 
judged able to sustain the remainder of his pun- 
ishment, as his back was entirely skinned over. 
The first 25 lashes of the second punishment lore 
the young flesh more than the former 400, the 
hlood pouring at ihe same time in streams. By 
the lime he got T5 his back was ten times more 
cut by the cals than with his former 400, — so 
that it was thought prudent to remit the remain- 
ing 25, and lake him down. Hall declared that 
his first punishment was trifling to W'hat he suf- 
fered by the second. Other examples might be 
added,' says Dr. Hamilton'; 'but to multiply 
cases of this kind is disagreeable.' 

'Some men sufler more than others from cor- 
poreal punishnienT, more especially persons of 
sanguine temperament, with red or fair hair, and 
a tall slender frame of body. 'Edwards, in the 
end of 1781, 'says Dr. Hamilton, 'was sentenced 
to receive fifty lashes. He bad got drunk, and 
otherwise misbehaved. In the army this number 
IS accounted next to nothing. So much however, 
did this small punishment affect him, that not- 
withstanding every degree of attention to his 
case, it was upwards of three months before he 
could wear his cross-belts, or even move his 
arms to work. Perhaps fifty more would have 
placed his life in most imminent danger. He 
was of a thin, tall, genteel shape, — his hair black 
but soft, woolly, and thin on his head, with a 
skin remarkably white and smooth.' 

'The efiects of flogging are so different in in- 
dividuals, that, although every attention is paid 
to the probable strength and constitution of sol- 
diers by medical officers, untoward symptoms 
will sometmics follow. 'Henley, for desertion^ 
jLc -ivrrl '^00 ln=ifinq nn'yt^arnte iuflamatinn tbi- | 
lowed, and the back slouglied. vviien lUu 



slaves. Bv th^rollowiiAg extract, it would 
seem that his services were not held iti the 
highest esiimaiion by those whom he sought 
to make couten^rd in iheir condition, 
"Allow me tg relate a fact which occur- 
red ihe spring this year, illuslralive of 
ibe character aijti knowledge of ibe negroes 
at ibis time. Iwas preaching lo a large 
congregation the Epistle of Philemon ; 
and vviien I insihed upon fidelity and obe- 
dience as Christian virtues in servants, and 
upon the aulhqj^ty of Paul, condemned the 
practice of rwjawo' away., one half of my 
audience delibj^teiy rose up and walked 
cri¥-M^h !herF.-^^^ei>«r)d_>ho-^G that cemaitXr 
ed looked any thing but satisfied, either 
with the preacher or his doctrine. After 
dismission, there was no small stir among 
them : some solemnly declared ' there was 
no such episile in the Bible ;' others, ' that 
it was not the gosjtel ;' others, 'that I preach- 
ed 10 please the masters ,' others, ' that they 
did not care if they never heard me preach 
again." 

Tliis is ijideed a very extraordinary disclo- 
sure. See the efllect even o( a Mule instruc- 
tion I Nature taught those noble-souled 
men lo despise the pitiful Jesuit, who 
would prostitute his sacred office and 
his pious pretensions to make ihem belie 
their own manhood. They knew he was 
dishonoring their maker in attempting to 
befool them. They- knew he was s!9.nder- 
ing the Saviour, who came to preach, not 
the hunting of runaway slaves, but ihe de- 
liverance of the oppressed. They express- 
ed a proper sense of indignation, and set a 
worthy example to hundreds of white- 
Christians here at the North, who are not 
ashamed to sit in iheir cushioned pews and 
hear learned doctors of divinity babble the 
same foul libels upon the Christian religion 
in expo^indiug the same portion of holy 
writ, in order to keep the judge.s, and mag- 
istrates, and statesnr.en of the North in due 
fealty lo the overseers of the South. — 



humanity, that is, consenting at iheir re- 
quest to give seven men a passage from 
republican America where they were slaves 
10 monarchical England where they might 
he freemen ! And this is the forty-fifth year 
of the ninetenth century, and this is a land 
of civil and religious liberty, and we should 
be grateful that 

"We are not taught as thousands are 
'I o W(>rsl)ip Slocks and slonesl" 

The Pioneer. 

From the Green Mountain Freeman. 
LETTER FROM J. C- ASPExWALL. 



Messrs Editors: — Kriv 
lour of two months in Canada 



wounds were cleaned, and the sloughed integu- 
ments removed, the bnck*-bone and part of the 
shoulder-bone were laid bare. I had never so 
njueh of the muscular parts destroyed in any case 
from punishment before. * *****_ 
(t was upwarila of seven months before he was 
so far recovered as to be able to do duty.' In 
1806, 1 recollect having two similar cases of 
sloughing from punishment to dress; they having 
occurred in the regiment to which 1 belong. One 
man died, the whole of the muscles of the back 
having sloughed , and the other was never fit for 
duty, and required to be put on the list of inva- 
lids. 

' Hamilton mentions the case of a man, who 
died at the halberts. 'Lately, in England, not 
far from the metropolis,' says the authority ho 
quotes, 'a soldier received 400 lashes; he scorn- 
ed to flincli for some time, till by a reception of 
stripes he groaned and died.' Fever, and slouch- 
ing of the back, are the consequences of flogging 
most to be dreaded. Junius, in a note to his 
celebrated letter to the king (15th Nov., 1769,) 
shows the partiality which is exercised in favor 
of the Guards, in strong terms, and then observes 
as follows: — 'The private men have four-pence 
a day to subsist on, and 500 lashes if they desert. 
Under this punishment they frequently expire. 

Ingratitdde. The Christian Index, 
printed in Georgia, contains the report cf a 
Rev. Mr. Jones, who, it appears, has been 
laboring as a son of missionary among the 



JONATHAN WALKER, S. S. 

I should like to give the reader who has 
not seen Jonaihan Walker some idea of his 
personal appearance; for he is one of the 
finest looliing men leversaw. hereniinds 
one iiiimeilialely olDaniel Webster— having 
the same large, majestic frame, the same 
dark complexion, and the same huge head, 
deep set eyes, and ponderous brow. He 
lacks the fierce look, and the overpowering 
intellectual expression, which characterize 
"rtir— pr^'** »l"jle«inan.-=a?i^ hi><=i -ijisieiid, 
what ] shall call a mild, peaceful eye, while 
his large and prominent features are radi- 
ant with the very spirit of benignity and 
love. He carries more reverence in his 
look than belongs to Webster, and has not 
quile so full an abdomen, — but still liis 
mien is full a.i manly, and as quickly com- 
mands your attention and respect. Nnure 
has written out her unerring diploma upon 
his form in li- ing characters, — so that the 
poor unlettered and degraded slave could 
read it at a glance. His voice is deep, mu- 
sical and of great power, — though on the 
present occa-sion the awkwardness of his 
situation as "ihe observed ot all observers." 
tendered it weak and tremulous. Many of 
us thought that he bore a striking resem- 
blance to George W. Benson of Northamp- 
ton. His manners are b'and and pleasant, 
— and a warm smile of kindness and good- 
humor plays about his face which wi;is you 
to liis side, and secures for him your good 
will, instantly. He has been a hard working 
man all his life time, as his weather beaten 
countenance and "huge paw" give evidence 
—and the downright frankness of his man- 
ner shows you at once that he has neither 
been corrupted by a false religion, nor re- 
fined out of his native good sense by a false 
educatton. ]n one word he "gives the 
world assurance of a man" — nothing less, 
nothing more— not a divine, not a poliiician, 
not an odd fellow, not a statesman, not a 
rechabile, not a " scholar, " not a gentle- 
man, — but a man, simply and sell-evidently 
a man. 

And yet, as will he seen by the caption of 
this article, he has a tilh,~anA will proba- 
bly carry it witli him to the grave. It is a 
title wliich he can "read clear," and which 
will en-litle him to 'mansions in the skies,' 
—and, — which, now that slavery has rob- 
bed him o f all jiis^projipriy, is of more im- 
portance— mansions on fhe earth. Ho re- 
«»iv«d-ttii«-mie in i'ensacotii; from theUnit- 
ed Slates Government, and it was branded 
on his hand with a hoi iron, by a nalive of 
the State of Maine, whom the Government 
employed as a suitable tool. (His name 
was Eljenaer Dorr, and he is a good Whig.) 
The initial letters of his title are 

ss 

which are plainly legible on the palm of his 
right hand, and which are intended tosigoily 
SLAVE STEALER. 
But 10 every man who has a human heart 
in his bosom ihey will signify 

SLAVE SAVIOUR.., 
And this is a title worth having, tmd will 
soon sound much more noble than "t),D " 
"I. 0. 0. F.," "L. L. D.," "F. R. S "M. 
C," ' M. n.," "Esq."— or any other of the 
fancy and fashionable titles, wherewith vain 
men have been accustomed to dub each 
other. 

I have no time lo give all the particulars 
respecting Walker's imprisonment or liber- 
ation, nor is it necessary, — as most of my 
readers are familiar with them. It is suf- 
ficient to say, that he was put in the pillory, 



hand, imprisoned eleven months and a half, 
and subjected to about seven hundred dollars 
expense,— all for doing an act of common 



, which was 

taken for the express purpose of examining 
the situation of the self-emancipated slaves 
in that province, perhaps you will indulge 
me wiih a lew general remarks upon their 
circumstances. 

I cannot ot course state their number with 
itiuch definiteness; but those who have tak- 
en great pains to ascertain this point make 
out about fifteen thousand, besides several 
thousand who were never in slavery. They 
are much scattered in their situation, but a 
majoray of them are in the different villa- 
ges, of Irom two to eight hundred in each. 
Il is supposed they have increased for some 
time more than a thousand per year. 
' There is rather a greater variety in their 
circumstances ihan is generally supposed. 
Some, in every place I visited, are in very 
independahi circumstances; a few might be 
named who are worth from four to ten thou- 
sand dollars each, perhaps more; but a ma- 
jority of them are poor. This is of course 
the case with all the new comers, and many 
who have been iheie long enough to acquire 
some property, not having been brought up 
to provide for themselves, consume all they 
can earn as they go along; and like every 
other people, there are some among them 
both vicious and idle. They sympalhize 
much with each other in times of distress, 
and some who otherwise would have be- 
come wealthy have expended nearly their 
all in as^isling the needy, when they first 
arrive. The wealthy ones, like olher 
wealthy people, senerally look out for them- 
selves and pay little attention to the wants 
of others. 

Much assistance has been afTorded the 
needy by means of clothing, sent from dif- 
ferent parts of ihe tree Stales; though there 
has been considerable draw back upon this 
article, by heavy duties. But ihis impedi- 
nieal is no,w»rpmoved. Bj' an nct^ -paritrd 
at the last session of the Provincial Parlia- 
ment, clothing intended for the benefit of 
'he colored people is now admitted duty 
free. The teachers have however come to 
ihe conclusion, and I doubt not a just con- 
clusion, that they are most benefitted by i 
supplying those that, arrive from slavery 
with clothjng lo last them until they are 
able to earn and procure a supply for tliem- 
selvcs, and that beyond this, except in cases 
of misfortune, donations are most profitably 
applied for educational purposes. They 
have been led lo this conlusion from the ex- 
treme difficulty of distribuling lo others sat- 
isfactorily; and t::ore especially Irom a de- 
sire to promote a spirit of industry and am- 
bilion among them lo provide for them- 
selves. And there is no great difficulty in 
applying clothing lo this purpose, and in a 
way loo. that will assist ihem directly in 
obtaining an education, and at ihe same 
lime promote ibeir pecuniary interests. 

Probably not one in hundreds who arrive 
diiecily from slavery, know anylhing about 
reading or writing. Still they are exceed- 
ingly anxious lo learn enough at least to 
read the Bible. But it is no small task lor 
grown people, especially those who are 
passed middle life to learn to lead. It 
seems about as hard for them to learn the 
names and sounds of the letters, and how to 
form them inlo syllables and words, as for 
us 10 learn a foreign language. But a large 
proportion ol them are young people, and 
there are multitudes of children who are as 
active, well behaved and easily learned as 
any class of children I have ever known. 

I have had occasion to speak of the ter- 
rible prevailence of intemperance io Canada 
before, but T happy to say that the colored 
people are the most temperate class I found 
there. A few are addicted to drunkiness, 
but the great proportion of than'jrij^^hOTi 
iemperancc men. On this point thelT pros'- 
pecls are very flattering. 

That part of the people who are from the 
old countries, generally treat the colored in- 
habitants just about as they do others; thai 
is according to iheir conduct, without much 
regard to the color of their skin. But there 
are places, especially in the Western Dis- 
trict, where ihe people are mostly from the 
States, that treat them wiih the greatest 
canlempt. These are many ot them Yan- 
kees, "who left their country lor their coun- 
try's good." and the safely of their own 
necks. They are the real offscourings of 
all that ever disgraced this name. 1 am 
sorry to say that some professing christians 
chime in with these reprobates, in their 
sneers at "the darkies," as they generally 
call them. In most places the people and 
teachers are opposed to having the colored 
people attend the public schools, and they 
are little disposed to force their claims in 
opposition to, those prejudices. But the 
better part of ihe inhabitants and especially 
the government are disposed to treat them 
well. 

By far the greatest part are professors o( 
religion and perhaps a majority of the Whole 
are Methodists. When they give 



They have an abundance of Preachers, 
such as they are, but many are hardly 
able to read their text, and of course their 
improvements are destitute of instruction. 
They appear remarkably devotional in their 
worship, and I have no doubt but many of 
them are deeply pious. But what they need 
more than any thing else, is good, sound 
common sense instruction. Their wants 
are but very imperfectly met by what teach- 
ers are now there, though they are abun- 
dantly qualified for their work, and deepljt 
devoted toil. The following arc the prife- 
cipal laborers there: At Oro, Rev. Mr. Ray- 
mond and wife; at Qiteenhush, ReT. E. E, 
KlrkHnd a 1^ 4 wife Mr , F,. PrescW and 
Miss Fidelia Uoburn; anSawn^ev^liramr 



Wilson and wife, Mrs. Lorana Parker and 
Miss Mary Shepard. Mr. Willson has had 
a general oyer sight of the different parts of 
the province, but has of late been principal- 
ly confined to the institution. AtAmherst- 
burgh, Rev. J. J. Rice and wife. There 
are several teachers whose names I do not 
recollect, and many setllemenls where there 
are none. But these teachers are not sup- 
poried as they should be. They mainly 
provide food and clothing by the labor of 
their own hands, and administer more or 
less to the pressing wants of those around 
them; and spend what time they can iu 
teaching. They have mostly been there 
several years, have secured the confidence 
of the colored people, and can accomplish 
much more than strangers. When among 
them, I felt greatly disposed lo devote my 
life to theii interests, though the trials and 
sacrifices of a missionary here are ten times 
greater than is generally supposed ; but it 
seemed to me, that it is better to support 
the teachers already there, than to intro- 
duce any more, at least, at the present. At 
any rate, I will not divert from them any 
means of support which they now enjoy. 

J. C. ASPENWALL, 

Chester, July 8, 1845. 



ANOTHER VICTIM. 

Lewis W. Paine, formerly ol Fall River, 
in this Stale, during four years past a teacher 
in Georgia, is now a prisoner in Thomaslon, 
Georgia. He is accused of having aided a 
fellow man in escaping from bondage. 

When arrested, he was assailed by twelve 
of the chivalric sons of Geoigia, ail armed 
10 the teeth, with bowie knives, pistols, 
dirks, rifles, and other such like implements 
ot Christian freemen. A pistol ball was 
fired through his arn:, and arope made fast 
around his neck. 

He was put under 15000 bonds, which 
failing lo procure, he was imprisoned, antf 
is lohave his trial on the 1.3ih of Aug. — 
His wile was advised to leave the Stale,aod 
is now in Massachusetts. We have these 
facts ffom a brother of Mr. Paine, who is a 
resident in our village. 

How many more Northern freemen must 
he incarcerated, before the doors ol that in- 
iquitous Bastile will be thrown open? 

Worcester Gazette. 

Omnipotence of Love. The power of 
kindness, in school-teaching, is beautifully 
illustrated in the followLig anecdote, which 
we extract from the answer of Hon. Horace 
Mann lo the Rejoinder of the Masters. ' In 
a town not thirty miles from Boston, a 
young lady, who aimed at the high standard 
of governing without force, and had deter- 
mined 10 live or die by her faith, went into^' 
a school which was far below the average, 
in point of good order. Such were the 
gentleness and sweetness ol her manners, 
and intercourse with her pupils, that, for a 
few days, there was nothing but harmony. 
— Soon, however, some ol the oldei pupils 
began to fall back inlo their former habits 
of inattention and mischief. This relapse 
she met with lender and earnest remon- 
strances, and by an increased manilestation 
ol interest in them. — But it was soon whis- 
pered among the transgressors that she 
would not punish, and this added at once to 
their confidence and their numbers. The 
obedient were seduced inlo disobedience, 
and the whole school seemed rapidly re- 
solving into anarchy. Near the close of 
one forenoon, when this slate of things was 
approaching a crisis, the teacher suspended 
the regular exercjses of the school, and made 



i-giviog re- 



besineared with rotten eggs, branded in the count of their escapes from bondage many' 
hand, imnrisoned p1pvp„ n,n„.b= o l„lf of ^-hj^h are almost miraculous, they gen- 

efa'Jy close by saying, "I just put my trust 



pupils. But, 

spouse from their looks or words, she 
turned to her seat, and bowed her head and 
wept bitterly. When her paroxysm of 
grief had subsided, she dismissed the school 
for the morning. After intermission she 
returned, resolving on one more effort, but 
anticipating, should that lail, the alterna- 
tive of abandoning the school. She found 
the pupils all in their seals. Taking her 
own, she paused for a moment, to "gain 
strength for her final appeal. At this junc- 
ture of indescribable pain, several of the 
ringleaders rose from their seats and ap- 
proached her. They said to her tlial they 
appeared on account of the school, and par- 
ticularly on their own, lo ask pardon for 
what they had done, to express tbeir sorrow 
for the pain they had caused her, and lo 
promise, in behalf of all, that her wishes- 
should thereafter be cordially obeyed.— Her 
genuine sorrow had touched a spot iti thei^ 
hearts which no blows could ever reaohi,^ 
and, from that hour, ihe school weDti V 
with a degree of intellectnal iniBrow -J 
never known before ; and, )v!te U>' 
accord of music, when evert 'instnim' ^"'l*^' 
been atluned by a master' shand no • ^* 
note ever alterwards arose to mar iJ^'^r"^ 
harmony. "-^r/M. """^ perfect 



erally close by saying, "I just put my trust A man is not judged bv hi. \^ 
m the Lord and He opened the way for me.' j days, but by his onifi— ■■' ituit these 



V 



THE HERALD OF FREEDOM 



THE HERALD. 

" My BOiil U not a palace of ilie past, 

Where outworn creeds, like Rome's gray senate, quake, 

Hearing afar the Vandal'^ trumpet hoarse, 

Tliat Hli.ikKS old systems wtlh a thunder-fit. 

The lima is ripe, and rutten lipe, for change; 

Then let it come." 

CONCORD. FRIDAY, AUGUST 15. 1845. 



"HIGH ROCK." 

The name of a commanding prominence in 
rear of the town of Lynn, Mas?. It overlooks 
the town and the ocean, and a great distance up 
and down the coast, — as well as far back into 
the country. The view from it is very extensive, 
varied, aud striking. I do not remember such a 
view, from any point so easy of ascent. I went 
to the top of the Rock,thc otherday, when I was 
at Lynn, with my beloved friend, Jesse Hutch- 
inson, Jr., to see the spot he has chosen, and the 
beginning he is making, for the site of a 
Cottage. Ifc has obtained title to the summit of 
High Rock, and of the ground at the foot of it, 

epj't. The "Tc&ck ascends, nearly perpendicular- 
ly, some forty orfifty feet. At the foot of it, on 
the south east side, spreads a patch of good 
ground for a building and garden, — of, I should 
judge, a quarter or third of an acre. It then 
pitches off precipitously in front, some hundreds 
of fe»t to the Icve! of the town below. On the 
sides it is accessible by carriage road, up one side 
of which, a road is already constructed. Jesse has 
dug a well and found abundance of living water, 
on a spot pointed out to him by a clairvoyant 
friend. This encouraged him to dig, when all 
the waking and seeing people told him it would 
be in vain to hunt for water at such a bight. — 
On the right of his level pint, in front, rises a 
splendid round rock, some ten or dozen feet, on 
which to plant a littleSummer House. The Cot- 
tage is intended to be of stone, of which there 
appears to be an abundant quarry, and of beau- 
tiful quality ,on the very spot he wants to level for 
its site. Jesse is a Poet — but he can build soi^gs, 
he will find, easier than he can Stone Cottages, in 
thisjflinty, hard-money world, and among the cHfi's 
of High Rock. If he succeeds in this design, 
though, he will have a Home there, like a Song, 
It will look off, over Lynn with her 10,000 peo- 
ple.onto the main Ocean, — unobstructed on eith- 
er hand as far as eye can reach. Egg Rock lays 
in the midst of the eea-prospect, — and the rag- 
ged cliffs of Nahant. And it is within roar as 
well as sight, of the sea-beaten Beach, one of 
the finest on the Ocean's margin, — the Beach 
stretching more than a mile, level and smooth as 
a house floor, and solid as a pavement. A fine 
race-ground for horses and carriages, which 
ewarm it like flies — certain times of day, in the 
t »enSon. It would be most magnificent to sec 
a storm break upon it, from the Cottage at High 
Rock. Jesse means to cover the whole preci- 
pice of the Rock behind the Cottage, with one 
mammoth Grape Vino. It would be as sunny 
there, for the grapes, as Italy, or any of the vine- 
yard slopes of France. Off South you can see 
Bunker Hill Monument, — its great, solemn shaft 
of grey towering In the haze and smoke of Bos- 
ton, and the State House dome looming just be- 
yond it, and surmounting the city, — all in plain 
sight from the cottage window, by and bye, when 
Jesse has one. To the north east, the Ocean 
House, and Marble Head and Cape Ann, — and 
from the top of the Rock, the high mountains 
of western Massachusetts. And Jesse means in 
his heart, to pile a tower of rude stone on the 
summit of High Rock, — some five and twenty or 
thirty feet high, with an Observatory in the top, 
where he will have a telescope, and the poeti- 
cal creature indulges his fancy so far as to whis- 
per he will have a chime of Bells there! I wish 
to Heaven he had the means. He would make 
High Rock the tallest affair on New England's 
**rock-b6uiid coast." And how sweet to sit 
the cottage piazza, of a summer night, and hear 
those sweet Bells chime in answer to the moan- 
ing Sea below upon the Beach. And the whole 
enhanced and surpassed some night, by the song 
of "The Hutchinsons" themselves— his match- 
less brother-band ("with a sister in it,") there 
from their own rocks of Mhe Old Granite State.' 
Apropos, — I propose here, they give Jesse a Ben- 
efit or two, to be laid out in completing and em- 
bellishing the Cottage on High Rock, in a man- 
"1 corresnond with n»^^ho 
ioong. It would n't be 
the first time — at least in fable, — that architect- 
ure has sprung into existence at the sound of 
Music. 

I say this much of High Rock, and its contem- 
plated Cottage. The reader will indulge me in 
it, in tribute of respect to our Anti-Slavery Q.uire, 
and to their gifted brother, who has given us the 
finest songs of the Anti-Slavery Movement, as 
well as being one of the most devoted abolition- 
ists, and most eloquentadvocates of FreeSpeech. 



THE BRANDED HAND. 

We display to the reader, this week, the hon 
ored, dishonored Hand of the brave Jonathan 
Walker — the generous hearted Sailor from Cope 
Cod, who gave refuge in his boat to the fugitives 
from Slavery in Florida. The United States of 
America set the mark the reader beholds here, 
in his manly hand, in requital of the generous 
deed. Those initials' are an indelible infamy to 
this entire Nation, and an enduring honor to the 
noble hand that bears them, and the brave heart 
that prompted the. deed that incurred their im- 
print. I have seen the original hand and shaken 
it. It took both of mine to do it. The hand is 
a sample of the manly owner. The likeness is 
excellent, except that the reHl letters are lighter 



than the hand. It was engraven by my ingeuious 
youDg frisnd Harrison Eastman — a native of this 
town, and now here on a visit to his mother from 
New York City, where he has been residing the 
year past and gaining a high reputation as an Ar- 
tist I am no connoiseur in Artistical merit, but 
there seems to mo a good deal of character in 
this hand — a good deal of the sailor. My friend 
Eastman has been a sailor himself. Which may 
have enabled him to throw into his engaving so 
much of the seafaring impress. It looks as if it 
had seen service before the mast, and had many 
a fathom of cordage glide through it. Shame on 
the cowards that could put a hot iron to so man- 
ly a surface. They are "lines of life," these 
crooked letters— 

And so are the ** lines" of Whiltier accom- 
panying them— -** lines of " poetic "life" and 
inspiration. 

From the Morning Chronicle. 

THE BRANDED HAND. 

Btd|H)jr^ve give an exact .representation ijf the 
BRA*r>, whicf» was burnt with a hot iron, oy an 
olficer of the United States, into the living flesh 
of a citizen of Massachusetts. It was copied 
from a Daguerrolype picture belonging to Dr. 
Bowdilch, who kindly loaned the picture for this 
purpose. Fonder it, fellow citizens, and as you 
burn, and blush, and weep, at the disgrace of our 
country, the indignity done to a worthy neighbor 
and the misery of the poor slaves, let the fire burn 
until your soul is enkindled to the high resolve, 
that the letters on Jonathan Walker's hand shall 
be made to read — 

SALVATION TO TUE SLAVE, 




THE BRANDED HAND. 
BY JOHN" G. WHITTIER. 

Welcome home again, brave seaman ! wiih tliy thoui;Iit- 

ful brow and gray, 
And llie old heroic spirit of our earti«r, better (lay — 
With thill front ol calm endurance, on whose ste.-»dy 

nerve, in viiin, 
Ptesaf d ihe iron of the prison, Sinote the fiery shaOs of 

pain : 

Is the tyrant's brand upon thee ' Did the brutal cravens 
aim '. 

Toinake Gnii's truth thy fiiUehood, His holiest wi-rk 
thy Bh»nie ? 

When all blond-(iuenciiL'd, from the torture tlie iron was 

'.^ iilidinvfii, % 
Hnw-langtied their evil ungel the hatflcii fools to scorn 1 
7Vifj/change to wrong, the duty which God halh written 

out 

On the great heart of humanity loo legible for doubt ! 
They, the loathsome moral lepers, blotched from foot-sole 
up to crown, 

Give lu shame what God hath given unto honoi and re- 
nown 1 

Why, that br:ind is highest honor !— than its traces nev- 
er yet 

Upon old armorial hatchments was a prouder blazon set. 
And thy unliorn generations as they crowd our rocky 
strand, 

Shall tell Willi pride the story of their father's branded 
HAKD \ 

As the templar home was welcomed, bearing back from 
Syrian wars 

The scar of Arab lances, and ofPaynrm sciinetars. 
The pallor of the prison and the sttackle's crimson span. 
So we meet thee, so we greet thee, truest friend of God 
and man 

lie suffered for the ransom of the deiu Redeenier's grave; 
Thou for His living presence in the bound and bleeding 
slave ; 

He for a soil no longer by the feet of angels trod, 

Thuu for the true Shechinah, the present home of God ! 

Tor, while the jurist silting with the slave-whip o'er 
him swung, 

From the tortured truths of freedom the lie of slavery 
wrung, 

And the solemn priest to Molocli, on each Giid deserted 
shrine, 

Hroke the bondman's heart for bread, ponied the bond, 
man's blood fur wine — 

While the multitude in Ijlindness to a far off Saviour 
knelt, 

And spurned, the while, the temple where a present 

Saviour dwell; 
Thou l^eheld'st Ilini in the task-Held, in the prison 

shadows dim. 

And tity mercy to the bondman, it was mercy unto Hini! 
In Ihytione and long night watches, sky above and «nv« 



Tiiou did'st learn a higher wisdom than the babbling 

school-men know; 
God's stars and silence tiiught thee as ilis angels only can. 
That, the one, sole sacred thing beneath the cope ofheav- 

en is man ! 

That, he who treads profanely on the scrolls of law and 
creed, 

In the depth of God's great goodness may find mercy in 
his need ; 

But woe to him who crushes the SOLTL with chain and 
rod. 

And herds with loVver natures the an ful form of God ! 
Then lift that manly right hand, bold ploughman of the 
wave ! 

Us branded palm shall prophecy "Salvatiok to the 

SLiVE !" 

lJuld up its fire-wrought language, that whoso reads may 
feel 

His heart swell strong within him, his sinews change to 
steel. 

Hold it up before our sunshine, up against our northern 

air — 0 
Ho! men of Massachusetts, for the love of God look 

there 1 

rake it henceforth for ynur standard— like ih? Bruce's 
heart of yore, 

In the dark strife closing round ye, let lhat hand be seen 
before '. 

And the tyrants of the slave land shall tremble at that 
sign. 

When it points its finger southward along the Puiitan 
line: 

Woe to the state*^ gorged leediefi, and the church's 
locust band, 

When they look from slavery's rampatls on the cumiitg 
of that hand I 



GEORGE KENT 

Has written a letter to the Editor of the N. H. 
Statesman, from New York City, depicting in a 
most touching and aflcQting manner the poverty 
and desolation to which he i« reduced. A few 
years ago, George Kent was the pride and orna- 
ment of this his native town, and one of the most 
universally beloved of his native State. What 
has he done, that he should be so reduced, and 
wretched, that life is a burdeiito him, and noth- 
ing but religious principle, as lie says, prevents 
him from quitting the ills he Snows, here, and 
" flying to others lhat he knows not of?" What 
crime has he committed, thathe should be driv- 
en into exile — and wander a banished man in 
the sickly regions of the fat West ? He has 
lost his money. He is Poor. He could n't have 
committed a more unpardonable sin. He is 
moneyless. The people all know it — and men's 
eyes do scowl upon him. Moneyless. 'Tia said 
if a Bee has the misfortune to iose his sting, and 
comes home to the Hive, they forthwith detect 
it, and the whole Swarm falH^Bn him and sting 
him to death. So the Community falls upon the 
unhappy individual who has the terrible ill for- 
tune to lose his means of living. The loss of 
money is well illustrated by the loss of a Bee's 
sling. It is the only means of defence and pro- 
tection, and it is a sting to all but the possessor. 
It is employed, not so much to the gratification 
of the possessor as to the annoyance of others. 
It can wound — pierce — poison. But the owner 
can no more live on it, than a Bee on his sting. 
No man can get enough of it, to live on. The 
wealthiest, — the moat miserly is wretched for 
more, — for enough to buy him exemption from 
want. When he guts an enormous hoard, he 
takes to drinking for fear of coming to want, 
or gets up in the night and hangs himself, or 
dives into the river, or into the well. There is 
not enough of it in Potosi to give a man a living. 
And Ihe want of it is the unpardonable sin. 

George Kent was decidedly and deservedly 
the most popular man in New Hampshire, before 
he lost his property. And what was there pecu- 
liarly criminal in his losing it ? He speculated, 
and lost it. Well, suppose he had Ipeculated 
nd saved it. Would the speculation have rend- 
ered him odious then, and destroyed bis reputa- 
tion ? He bought Eastern Lands. That was not 
the crime. It was that he did n't sell them a- 
gain, for double what he gave. It was n't that 
he speculated, — but that he was unsuccessful. 
Ho lost his money. People lose by hiin. If they 
lad lost their all, their reputation would have 
gone— like his. Moneyless. Why a man might 
well be caught without his shadow, as ^^ ith- 
out n.oney. There was a story of a man's hav- 
ing sold his shadow to Satan and every body fled 
from him as if he had had the plague— to see 
him moving about in fair weallier and noshadow 
accompanying him. It was enough to scare any 
body. But to be moneyless — it is an irremediable 
misfortune, — a hopeless bereavement. 

George Kent in his days of prosperity here 
was everybody's personal friend. He did kind- 
nesses to every body — literally lo every body. 
Not merely pecuniary kindnesses — but personal 
favors, which were certainly his own to bestoW. 
He improved every opportunity to accommodate 
people. He made a business of it. He sought 
opportunities to do it and went out of his way 
for them. Who was not occasionally made the 
happier by some act of kindness from lum ? And 
he offended nobody. Would his old townsmen 
now see hini imprisoned for debt, if he should 
venture back among them ? Would they see 
him suffer, or provide him a refuge in the Poor 
House, which is worse. No. They would not. 
I don't know how they would relieve him. But 
let him come back. He has wandered among 
the fever and ague woods of the West long 
enough. Let him come back. Let him be re- 
leased from debt. He would have released any 
body, that had owed him, and had got poor. It 
would be a real pleasure to see George Kent 
again among the people of Concord — alive and 
welt and free. Let him be freed from debt. He 
can't pay.. And every creditor will feel belter 
if his debt is discharged. It will be a " bad 
debt" until it is. I know single friends of 
George — once hia intimate associates — scholars 
— gentlemen — Wits — of elegant manners and 
fine feelings. I have them in my mind's eye. 
I wish I could awaken a magnetic sympathy in 
their noble nature. They could so easily furnish 
their old and e.\lled friend — hib t-aiisom. -'With- 
out feeling it" — as folks say. Tliey would feel 
it, — and feel it, while they lived, the buoyant, 
refreshing, heart-sustaining feeling of a great 
deed done, — a deed of beauty, — a bigger deed 
than founding a city or taking one. It may be 
done anonymously. Let George's friend Ham- 
ilton Hutchins, have warrant of the creditors to 
receive a certain sum, in discharge — something, 
in order that the debts may be regarded as paid, 
— but small, so Ibey can be paid. Let the friend 
I have in mind — if he choose, anonymously 
deposit the sum, and it will cause a jubilee, in 
the brave little Capital. 

Since writing most of this, I have heard that 
one of our leading citizens has generously sent 
to Mr. Kent, a handsome — very handsome sum 
of money for his present relief — and an aff'ec- 
tionate welcome to his home so long as he shall 
choose to enjoy it. Noble — great — refreshing to 
hear of I 



POETRY FOR THE HERALD. 

Some kind friends have contributed us 
several parcels— good enough— loo good, 
for'lhe everv-day sheets, round, — but hardly 
a match for our ' Webs' and things. Al- 
most too good though not lo publish. 



TERRIBLE FIRE- 

Saturday night, occurred one of those terrible 
calamities in this villagewhich will bring desolation 
and despair with them, so long as mankind are 
at ,€/i»u7y with each other, and defend them- 
selves with money. The burning of a Home. A 
melancholy event, at any time, for it destroys an 
old, familiar abode, to which the heart of a house- 
hold is attached, and which^ can never be re- 
placed by money, even where the loser has the 
means of rebuilding the desolation. It will not 
be the old House. 

I was aroused from the first drowses of slum- 
ber,by the clamor of the Bell, vvhich,as soon as I 
got sufficiently awake, I recognized as the alarm 
bell for fire. The moon had gone down, but a 
light ahnosl equal to full-moon light, gleamed on 
the village. The hideous cry of '* Fire! "as 
now and then a man rushed from his dwelling, 
and became sensible of the fact, sounded far in 
the silent night. An unwonted, unnatural, fright- 
ful cry. I hastened to a window, towards the 
qjiiLtter-tiifc iigUfr<::Hme fro«i. nnd beheld, at the 
distance of some quarter of a niile, the red glare 
of conflagration streaming up into the midnight 
sky, and could hear its devouring roar, and 
crackle. The Bel! rung that hurried and agita- 
ted peal, that denotes anything but the self poss- 
ession that ought to characterize the people at 
such a crisis. As if the sole purpose was to alarm 
nd terrify. My first thought was that the State 
Prison was afire. And, provided the warden and 
inmates all escaped, I cared very Hltle if it had 
been, — and had burnt to the ground. My next 
hope was, that it was the Old North Meetinj 
House — both standing in the sanie direction.- 
Hurrying on my clothes, though not well enough 
to be out, I sallied forth and hastened toward the 
scene of conflagration. Groups of poor neigh 
bor women were up, and out on the hill side 
gazing and wondering what buildings it could be. 
I hastened on, over Academy Hill, down Wash 
iiigton Street towards State, where I met a man 
slowly returning home. I asked him what build- 
ing was burning— for people don'l give any infor- 
mation unasked, to strangers, in the dark.— 
Abiel Walker's house and two barns, he replied 
No saving them, asked I. None said hb, — al 
burnt. Any body perish, said I, no said he. No- 
body. The buildings cun't be saved, but then 
jt is not as if he was a poor man. 1 hurried on 
curious to see the catastrophe, though I could do 
no good. Besides some of my children had gone 
nnd I was a little solicitous for them. I met- the 
people on Stale Street, returning in streams to 
their homes. They knew me in the glare of the 
fire — iho' 1 could not discern their faces. One 
man actually spoke! I mention it as a rarity 
under such circumstances, and amid such excite- 
ment. How do you do. Mr._)logers--3-snic) hcr-^. 
How do you do — said I. No saving anythm, 
said I. No, said he. I had passed the Prison 
There was a light at every window — kept up, 
suppose, usually there, all night. Can the Prii 
oners sympathize, thouglit I to myself, in any 
calamity suffered by those without, who hav 
shut them up in their penal torment? Would n' 
they naturally feel a grim satisfaction, lo hear 
that all the world without their wall was of 
light blaze, and their prison house afire amon, 
the rest! I came at length in plain sight of the 
fire, and it was a scene of terrible novelty 
sublimity. It was not like New York confiagra 
tion, or the great fires of Pittsburgh and Quebec 
but it was great for a country village, and a new 
scene to me. A large dwelling house, and twi 
large barns, filled with harvest, and outhouses, 
were in complete poss'esston of the devouring el 
ement, which had overpowered them, in spite o: 
the exertions of the fire men, nnd was preyin; 
upon them at its leisure. The flames glared 
on the neighboring buildings, as if threateniii; 
them with a like fiite, and shone balefuliy on tl^e 
thousands of people who hovered near — some 
plying the engines in vain against the victorious 
destroyer, others looking on as spectators whi 
could do nothing — but who could not go away, 
was as light almost as day. Hundreds of women 
— young women, were out, -scarcely bonneted 
standing and gazing at the apppalling scene in 
the damp air of midnight. Two poor oxen had 
burnt to death, they told me, in one of thi 
barns. Some doves, routed from their cote, were 
wmging their astonished way, lo and fro in the 
lighted air, over our heads. One of them, I oh. 
served, tried to light in the top of one of the ma 
ju&tiu tiluis — a thing ilie dove, 1 believe, rarely 
if ever, attempts in the day time. It was glo- 
riously beautiful to see the great Elms which 
abound in the neighborhood, gleaming their giant 
green tops in the ruddy fire-light. It was no 
time to think of it, but I never saw any Ihin^ 
more beautiful. And the sable sky thaf seemed 
to darken all around the limits of the conflagra 
tion, like a curtain. The top of some great elm, 
just touched by the baleful light as with sun rise, 
— softly, but distinctly revealing its beauty of 
form and foliage. A Circus had been performing 
the day or two before, in the village, A Norwe- 
gian Dwarf, who made part of the performances, 
of hideous disproportions, mounted on a pony ag 
dwarfish as himself, strangely took the opportu- 
nity, to come forth from his uncouth repose and 
career to and fro, in sight of the spectators. The 
*' night " was "hideous *' enough before, — and 
what should put it into this poor creature's fancy 
to ride forth and add himself to the scene, I 
could hardly imagine. Perhaps to scare folks, 
and avenge himself upon human nature, for his 
deformity. Perhaps to indulge a freak of Lu- 
sus JVaturae. Perhaps sent out by his miserable 
exhibitor,, to niake the people stare. Poor, 
degraded Humanity, that wilt thus exhibit its 
own misfortunes and deformities, forpay, or who 
will pay for the gratification of seeing what ought 



to excite only its mortification and sympathie*. 
he dreadful looking creature rode on past the 
ppalled spectators, like the Genius of Ihe Con- 
flagration, and disappeared in the darkness. 
I am glad the owner of the property destroyed, 
not poor — but can bear the loss, severe and 
afflicting as it must be to him, without being left 
shelterless, or in want. Whether protected by 
insurance or not, he is said to be abundantly well 
ofl: I am glad of that. Still it is a sad and 
afflicting thing, for an aged man to be thus be- 
reft of a home and house, to which he has been 
ong accustomed. But much worse would it bCr 
were it the little ail of some laborious Poor^ 



in aipray- 



ARISTOCRACY. 

I gave it a tonch,some months ago - 
ful way. The Editor of the Liberator made a 
melancholy mistake about it. I indulged my- 
self a trifling allusion to my own high descent 
from, Presidencies of Harvard College, and 
Stakes. The Liberator took me in solemn, van- 
ity earnest. Some of his readers said, h* could- 
rhavd utealCcrTitT a'nS thill iio' wa» dishonest 
in pretending to. I guess he was honest, and 
that it was a real blonder. A pretty gross one, 
to be sure, for any body that had eyes. Th« 
Liberator has gazed at itself of late with such ex- 
treme reverence and adoration, that its eyes are 
blinded to everything else. It has made plenty 
f blunders. A bigger one than this, it made, 
hen it laid its infaiuatcd hand on the mane 
of the Herald of Freedom! 

There was a special reason why the Liberator 
hould attack that little article of mine. It felt 
that some of the aristocracy of Stephen Foster's 
Committee, " was touched by it. A dignified 
predicament, by the way,that "Committee" was 
in, — the city aristocracy following Stephen Fos- 
er's wake on a Tom Fool's, (andToni Knave's) 
errand, up into New Hampshire! They never 
thought nmch of Stephen's discretion, and noth- 
at all of his quality. I did what I could to 
maintain some consideration for him, against 
them. But that little article on " Aristocracy " 
touched some of them, — which drew upon it the 
blind exasperation of The Liberator. With its 
leave, I will touch aristocracy gently, here, again. 
And will say, if there is anything I mortally 
hate above ground, " it is this social excre- 
scence, — this mushroom — toadstool aristocracy. 
I detest it, in the name and behalf of all man- 
kind. In city and country. Anywhere — every 
here — wherever it exists, to turn up its petty 
nose, and scowl its small brow. It always makes 
a point of disparaging you — for its own indul- 
gence, and to feed its greedy vanity. It feel* 
elevation only in your depression. It wants to 
outrage somebody's rights, so that they will be 
-honored in bearing it. Then, iljceb^compla- 
centT It has no a^reclation of great niaiikind,. 

for its intrinsic majesty — its mighty capacity 
to know, to feel, — to suffer, to enjoy, — its star- 
ward aspiration — the foot it plants upon the earth 
and the head it lifts towards heaven. It has no 
appreciation — or apprehension of all these — but 
it sees, instead, its own substitute consequence, its 
satin and its broadcloth. 

It was a sad thing for our anti-slavery move- 
ment, the day this aristocracy came into it. It 
has been the cause of infinite mischief. It has 
turned the brain and seduced the simplicity and 
fidelity of Garrison, who was himself a host in 
our battle, and led astray the troop of his imph'c- 
it admirers and followers. It has made him and 
ihein, the betrayers of freedom of opinion and 
speech, in the Anti-Slavery field. It infatuated 
Garrison to lend his band, to strike down the 
Herald of Freedom. Aristocracy and accursed 
Corporation. Iwill bestow a brief article on that 
Dragon, when I get through this. I owe that a 
heavy debt. I will begin to pay it, presently. 
I have been delinquent about lhat debt, and will 
pay the heavier installment for the delay. For 
the caprice of it, and the novelty of it. Aristoc- 
racy puts on the Reformer. It gels tired of do- 
ing nothing — and joins some movement, where 
its rank gives it welcome and influence. I am 
ashamed we are socager to greet it when it con- 
descends among us. We ought to have rebuked 
its hanghtiness, with a fidelity that would have 
made the anti-slavery camp uncomfortable for it. 
But abolitionists have showed too much, the pe- 
culiar propensity of those they are laboring for, 

a proprensity to be flattered by the notice of 

their superiors. Our superiors have iMiticed us 
with s. vai 

entire anti-slavery movement. They have ab- 
sorbed the enterprise. It is now under the man- 
age of one Aristocrat, who is himself managed 
by an intrigueing woman, as ambitious as Lady 
Macbeth, — and as scrupulous of her means. J 
will particularixe more, hereafter. I hasten to 
say a word about — 

CORPORATION. 
<& 

THE BOSTON BOARD. 
The time has come, and been sometime come 
— that an Anti-Slavery Broadside should ha 
fired into that Boston Regency ,which has usurp- 
ed the reins of the grand Anti-Slavery move- 
ment, and is managing it, to its ruin. I give it 
here the first gun, from my small ordnance, 
The Herald of Freedom claims this service « 
the hands of the Anti-Slavery host — to open tie 
battle and to take whatever artillery may oe 
deigned, or dared,, in reply. 

I give that Corporation here no signal sail* — 
no alarm gun. I need not tell them I do not 
load only with powder, but with mortal content* 
and discharged in mortal earnest. I knewiiotas 
it will be seconded by a single musket. If ihe 
Anti-Slavery host — the rank and file of tje field, 
I mean, the marching troops that bear thobrunt of 



THE HERALD OF FREEDOM. 



the battle, and its " burder^aiid heat," — if thej 
will fall on, we will enter the enemy's camp, to- 
gether. If not. The Herald of Freedooj will 
storm it alone. At least — as New Hampshire 
Miller said, when he was ordered up hill, to 
carry a fort — it " will try, sir." 

That Massachusetts Corporation is the dead- 
liest enemy and tyrant the .linli-Slavcry move- 
ment has this hou r to encounter. They have 
seized the guns of the movement and are turning 
them on the Anti-Slavery host. They have cor 
ropted the Old Pioneer and have got him among 
them. I speak now of the Board. Of some of 
its individuals, I will only say, they ought not to 
be found there, and they will rue it, if they re 
main. That Board has sight, now, only of itself. 
'Wie great end of the movement in which it was 
started—it has lost sight of. I call on all abo- 
litionists to withdraw all confidence from it and 
eontribution. It misappropriates Anti-Slavery 
money : It is treacherous to Anti-Slavery 
trust .' It is the enemy and tyrant of freedom 
of speech and of the jirsss. _ It , is selfish and 

ambitious. lt^a-floari. 'Vwagei,e.c "t-^jiifmi^sron of MlMoutl as a 
and mortal conflict with it. It has undertaken to 
annihilate The Herald of Freedom. Its man- 
agers assailed a sister Society here, and strove to 
crush it for its freedom of character and action, 
and to strike down, with a lie in their right hand, 
an anti-slavery press,of whose fidelity they were 
afraid, and at whose estimation they were en- 
vious. Thej failed in their attempt. Now let 
them look to their footing, and " hold their own.' 
I will war with them after the manner of thi 
defence of Saragossa. And I give them open 
ivarniug of it. I know their weakness, and I 
know the strength of an unshackled press, 
ask no quarter ,and Corporation will look for none 
at the hands of Freedom. Thus much for the 
present. 

THE NATIONAL STANDARD- 

This great half-polilics sheet— with which 
The Herald of Freedom has no exchange bul 
exchange of shots when it fires one we can hear 
of—has an article, as I find on friend Hood's 
counter, under head of '* Wailter Meeting at 
Lynn" — on Free Meeting. It tries to throw 
dandy dust on that great question. I will extract 
It nest week and give it a notice. I have long 
wanted these great cowardly sheets, as the Lib- 
berator and this National Standard have both 
become, lo show their colors on this great ques- 
tion of Corporation and Free Meeting. They 
have never dared to. Garrison has never had 
the manliness to meet nie with a word upon it. 
But has let his anger and impatience rankle upon 
it in secret, and evaded it publicly, with the 
falsehood, that " he did n't care two chips a- 
lioiit it." I aiii driven to say these rou^h things. 
The limes demand it. They hare forced me to 
it and now they shall have what they seek. I 
will notice this " Standard," next week. 

LETTERS PROM BOSTON - NO- 10. 



Boston, August 11th, 1845. 
The dog star rages ! atul we poor city 
folk, who reside amidst piles ol brick 
and mortar, are forced Into a variety of ex- 
pedients, in order to " keep cool." Boston, 
to the eye of a resident, seems almost de- 
scried at the present time. Our population 
have scattered in every direction. The fa- 
tuous watering places, as they are fashiona- 
bly termed, are crowded ; the shores of New 
England are lined wiih heated citizens in 
search of /res7i air, — and Fabyan and the 
Crawfords, each, have large delegations from 
our city. A new clement in our social sys- 
tem has arisen from this travelling mania, 
and lis influence will be productive of great 
good 10 all wlio avail themselves ol it. The 
locomoiive engine is a great " peace 
maker ;" and so long as men keep from 
fighling, we will not fight with ihem, be- 
cause the tnollves which induce peace are 
purely selfish. It does our city exquisites 
good, to be jolted about the country, and 
have mountain fare, and pure water in abun- 
dance. This traveling system is a great 
leveler. Men, who al home would not as 
soclale together, become quite intimate 
while traveling; for ihp laws of etiquette, 
'iMve iuus . r^Jiz-.^i'p^ljre mtMie-^o(/f -stfitutes ; 
the one is abrogated by the common law, the 
other by common sense, the moment the sub- 
ject of eithei touches free soil. 1 see by a 
letter from the White Mountains, that a 
week or two since, the Rev'd Geo. W. Blag- 
den officiated at T, J. Crawford's Notch 
House, in the moining, and the Rev'd E. 
B. Chapin, in the afternoon. Truly, tliere 
is something in mountain ail, not attainable 
here in 'he city, when the (Did South" will 
unite with Universalisni in social worship. 

The Clergy of the Unitarian denomi- 
nation, are about " to define their position, " 
to the world, upon the question of Slavery. 
A Letter, drawn up by the Kev'd Caleb 
Stetson, has received a great number of 
Signers, and will soon be published. There 
has been too many milk and water letters 
written upon the subject of slavery, by the 
clergy in their associate capacity, — and I 
trust the author of the Letter now in circu- 
lation has made one worthy ol the subject, 
and a model lor future times. 

The Teue Gkandexib of Nations, is the 
title Mr. Sumner has given his Oration be- 
fore our municipal authorities. It makes a 



pamphlet of one hundred and six pages, and 
is a production destined to make a great 
stir amongst our military gentry. It is 
written with great beauty and power, and 
for elegance of diction, and felicitous illus- 
tration. It is certainly the greatest Oration 1 
ever read. I shall send Mr. Rogers a copy, 
and hope he will write a criticism for the 
Heiald; certain I am, that my pen Is not 
scholastic enough lo speak appropriately of 
the work. Our irllitary clergymen, have 
received in the oration and appendix, a 
merited rebuke, that will make them hang 
their heads lor very shame. 

The Native Amesican Party in this 
State, have nominated as their candidate for 
Governor, Henry Shaw, — the dough-face 
representative from this Stale, who was 
hurled from public office a quarter of a cen- 
tury ago, by an outraged and indignant con- 
stituency, for basely bowing his knee " to 
the dark spirit of slavery," by voting for the 
ve SlaieT— 

The whole Native movement in this State, 
was occasioned by a political blunder, made 
by a brother of the author of Me letter you 
received in September. These scions ol the 
Royal line, must mind their P's and Q's, or 
their Letters will cause them to exclaim 
with Cardinal Woolsey in the play — " This 
paper has undone me." 

The Histokt of Newbl'ry, is the title 
of an octavo volume of 400 pages, recently 
published in this city. It was written by 
Mr, Joshua Coffin, one ol the earliest aboli- 
tionists in this country. A few years since, 
Mr. Coffin obtained a situation in the Phila- 
delphia Post Office, — and discharged his 
duties with promptness and fidelity. The 
Postmaster received word from Washington 
that his own official career was endangered 
fay Mr, Coffin's retention in office, as he was 
known to have once been employed as the 
agent of some unfortunate colored men, 
illegally held as slaves. The hint was tak- 
en, and Mr. Coffin lost his office. 01 the 
ability of the bisloiian to do justice lo his 
subject, It will probably be.enough in your 
Slate to say, that your respected fellow 
cilizen, ihe late Dr. John Farmer, in ih 
preface to his Genealogical Register, makes 
honorable mention of ihe assistance he re- 
ceived from Joshua Coffin ot Newbury. A 
lown history contains usually but little of 
interest lo the general reader, — but this Is 
not the case with the book now under con-| 
sideratioii. 1 ne compiler has wisely adopt- 
ed the quaint language of the original 
record itself, and the reader is thus enabled 
lo view the men of other limes by their own 
recorded staleineot. The appendix contains 
a very minute account of Slavery in New- 
England. It appears that slaves were in- 
troduced into Massachusetts, in a very few 
years afier its setilemenl, but the number 
was very small. In the " Body of Liber- 
ties, " adopted in 1641, and the first code of 
laws established in New England, is found 
the following : "There shall never be any 
'bond slaverle, villlnage or captlvlile a- 
' mongst us unles it be lawfull captives tak- 
' en in just warres, and such strangers as 
' willingly selle themselves, or are sold to us. 
' And these shall have all the liberties and 
' christian usages, which the law of God 
'established in Israeli concerning such per- 
' sons doelh morally require. This exempts 
' none from servitude, who shall be judged 
' fliereto by authorilie." In 1646, one James 
Sriiilh, a member of the church of Boston, 
brought home two negroes, from the coast 
of Guinea. The General Court availed 
themselves of the first opportunity " to hear 
witness against the heinous and crying sin 
ol man-stealing," and passed an order "to 
send the Africans back to their native coun- 
try, and a letter with them of the indigna- 
tion of the court thereabouts." In 1680, 
Gov'r Bradstreet, in a letter lo the British 
Council, wrote that within his government 

dred and twenty negroes. The price at this 
period was about twenty pounds apiece 
Many of the slaves in Massachusetts were 
Indians, imported from the South. About 
niO, Judge Sewall wrote and published a 
tract against slavery, entitled " The Sellln, 
of Joseph." A few years after this, Ellhu 
Coleman, ol Nantucket, wrote and pub- 
lished a tract against slavery. Excepting 
these two persons, there appears to have 
been no public advocate for the slave in 
Massachusetts, till a short time prior to the 
Revolution. Then, an examination of their 
own rights induced hundreds to examine the 
subject of Slavery ; it became everywhere 
the subject of discussion, ami the public 
papers were filled with essays in lavor of 
emancipation. In 1770, a slave brought an 
action against his master for detaining him 
in bondage ; the jury decided in favor of 
liberty. la another case, tried three years 
later, the jury awarded the slave eighteen 
pounds damages, in addition to his liberty 
Slavery was abolished in Massachusetts at 
the adoption of the Constitution in 1780. 
In the records of one of the Churches m 



Newbury, there is a long account of a con- 
troversy which occurred in 1780, between 
the slaveholding pastor of the church, and 
an anti-slavery deacon ; then, as now, the 
church sustained the pastor in his crime, — 
and by altering the dates the whole corres- 
pondence between the parties would be 
"adapted to the meridian" of many a New 
England church. Two Illustrations can be 
taken from this history, which show thai 
the same conservative elements at present 
operating upon the mind of New England 
Orthodoxy, are not of very recent dale ; and 
that iu times past, as well as present, oppo- 
sition to change has been a characteristic 
feature ol the whole body ; the rule being, 
to defend the old, and attack the new princi- 
ple. Thus, iu 1714, Rev'd John Tufts pub- 
lished a book containing twenty-eight tunes 
for sacred music. Previous to this date, 
church music was sung altogether by rote, 
and not more than four or five tunes were 
known. This little sixpenny' bonk of music, 
was a daring Innovation on the old time- 
honored instiiulions of the country, and the 
attempt to teach singing by note was most 
strenuously resisted. A wriierof the period 
observes, "Truly I have a great jealousy 
that if we once begin to sing by rule, the 
next thing will be to pray by rule and preach 
by rule, and then comes popery," In 1791, 
when Sunday Schools were fiist eslablished 
in Philadelphia, by some benevolent per- 
sons, a writer, belonging to the old school, 
made this comment : "Pity their benevo- 
lence did not extend so far as to aflbrd them 
tuition on days when it is lawful to follow 
such pursuits, and not thereby lay a founda- 
tion for the prolanalion of the sabbath." - 
Will not the historian of our times, find a 
rich field for facts indicating a similar spirit 
to the above writer, should his researches 
find a file of any ol the religious {?) papers 
of our seels of the present year. Mr. Cof- 
fin's history has a few pUtes of distinguish- 
ed men, and ol public buildings. There Is 
a wood cut picture of the church In which 
are deposited the remains of the Rev'd 
George Whilefield, — including a distant 
view of the house in which he died. Be- 
tween these two noted places, stands a third 
house, which is of greater importance to my 
mind than either of the others. It is a 
view of the house in which Wm. Lloyd 
Garrison was bokn. In 1831, The Libe- 
rator was started by Messrs. Garrison & 
Knapp, both of whom were born in the ter- 
rilorial limits ol ulu iVewuury ; and in the 
next year, of the twelve founders of the 
first Anti-Slavery Society, three of the num 
ber were natives of N. Fiiend Coffin's 
work abounds in curious (acts, and one can 
get a better insight inio the every-day life, 
manners and ousiorns, of the first settlers of 
this part of the United States, from a peru 
sal of this Town History, than can be gath 
ered from most of the so-called " Histories 
of the United States," — which are publish 
cd by great scholars, with a flourisji of 
trumpeis. 

You announce that Whittier is on fire 
again ; those glorious lines addressed to 
Jonathan Walker, remind one of the po 
etry Anti-Slavery emitted during the peril 
ous times of '35. The Democratic Review 
of this month, has another of friend W.'s 
choicest gems of poetry. The piece is en 
titled " The Shoemakers," and I predict a 
great run for it, through the newspapers. 
Yours, 

PROSPERO. 
ODD FELLOWS. 

A branch of this Fraternity, which i: 
springing up numerously all over the coun 
try, held a meeting here a few days since, 
and dedicated a Hall. I like the ' Fellow- 
ship' of the institution, but cannot say I like 
the 'Odd.' I want a fellowship, that sha 
be even. Impartial, and co-extensive with 
mankind. If mankind are all human. If 
tney are not — »-«ii«y tkm^mri iiuinan and 
the rest brute, I suppose there cannot exist 
a very intimate fellowship among them. 

I like the dedication of the Hall lo fellow- 
ship, instead of to worship, which is a much 
worse ship. These Halls, dedicated to 
Worship, are temples ol Juggernaut. They 
are nominally, houses of God— they are, 
really, the circuses ol the Priesthood — where 
they circumambulate the people, as well as 
circumvent them, for power. Indulgence and 
a living. Dreadful deeds are done in the 
recesses of the PriesthooJ, of all countries, 
— their Holies of Holies, where the people 
may not enter. 

The Odd Fellows' Institution is an en- 
couraging sign, perhaps, as well as that of 
Communities, Phalanxes, and other eSbrls 
to escape the horrors ol the pecuniary So- 
cial System. The people do not feel safe, 
to live under our war and worship system. 
They want insurance. They run into these 
various Insurance companies. They have 
their fire insurances, — to relieve their own 
members when their houses are burnt over 
their heads. It is a dretdful imputatioD on 
community, this, that il a neighbor is so un- 



fortunate as 10 be burnt out, there isn't hu- 
manity enough to help him to a shelter. 
What Is civilization good for, and Chris- 
tianization, — if il wouldn't help a suffering 
family to a shelter ? Savages wouldn't sec 
a family wigwamless, or hungry, — in short, 
poor, without helping them, to as good as 
they had themselves. There are no poor 
folks, (or rich folks) in savage life. No 
paupers, or poor houses. Nor houses of 
worship. Their Spirit is too Great a one, 
to live in any wtgwam hands can build 
him. His temple is the open Sky — its floor, 
the Prairie, and its pillared arches, the pri- 
meval trees of the Woods, And in its spa- 
cious aisles, the Indian wanders and wor- 
ships. Their God is The Great Spirit. 
Civilization's gods are smaller spirits. Some 
of them, ardent spirits. 

Odd Fellowship — many of our best na- 
tured people are joining it, but I must ask 
them to be cautious of oddity. That is, be- 
ware ol corporation. The Church is an 
Odd fellowship. 'I'be t'teeMttsoua weic. 
The Parties in poliiics are. They are ex- 
clusive, partial, unjust, all of them. 'A 
man is nol a man for a' that' — among them. 
They will help a 'fellow' because he is 
odd,' — not because he is in need. The 
Church wont help him at all. Their poor 
fellows' may starve or'freeze. They will 
elp the divines—' the widows of deceased 
clergymen,' but a poor rank and file lellow, 
he may sit down to communion table with 
them and mumble their dry morsel and wet 
his pauper lip with their cabalistic alcohol, 
but to the dinner table he has no access. 
Odd Fellowship is a great advance upon the 
Church, to be sure. But hadn't the people 
belter broaden their sympathy, so as to em- 
brace every creature that has the capacity 
10 suffer and to need. ' I dont know where 
they came from,' said Judge Liverniore, of 
a fragment of a tribe ol Indian-looking peo- 
ple, that camped tor a night in his neigh- 
borhood, one cold November, — 'but I know 
this, they look cold and hungry, and I will 
help them for that.' That 's the ' odd fel- 
lowship' for me. 

SUMNER'S ORATION, 

Before the aulhorities of Boston, 4th of July 
— has been loaned me by a Iriend, It is an 
extraordinary production. The city must 
have been astounded at hearing it. Instead 
of gloilfying the Revolution, and Bunker 
Hill, or any thing else in the history of 'Old 
Massachusetts' — the orator entertained his 
heroic and haughty auditory with the ultra 
peace notions of the Comeouters. At least 
so far as National War is concerned. If 
he declined applying them lo military do- 
mestic governmenl, it was because he had 
no occasion to— or was not consistent wllh 
himself. It is a long and learned oration — 
and somewhat more scholastic and wordy 
than reformers can afford to write, but still 
very eloquent and able and abounding with 
terrible developments of the atrocity — the 
inefficacy — the devouring expenses ol war. 
Would the back-broken people of this coun- 
try believe that this Government of ours has 
expended in preparations for War, from 
1789 10 1843, over seventeen hundred mil- 
lions of dollars ! Has any body sulfered for 
want of bread, in the country, during that 
period ? What a set of mad idiots these 
great folks are ! We are governed by Cor- 
porations. Individuals would never play 
the fool, or the Devil, at such a rate ! They 
couldn't be brought to. The Corporation of 
Boston will not probably appoint, another 
such 4ih of July orator. It was a capital 
mistake. There is not a more meiclless — 
war lovlng,tyranHical Corporate Body above 
ground, probably, than the city of Boston. 

THE N. H. PATRIOT, 

I am sorry to see, in an article headed 
' The Hale Paper,' quotes approvingly the 
Dover Gazelle, which in rcma'-k-= :»t>r.i 
' Independent Democrat,' uses the phrase 
' Nigger Herald' as applied to some paper 
in this place. Whether it Is intended for 
our paper, which I do not suppose— or any 
other— or no other, lam sorry the Editors 
of the Patriot give any countenance to such 
use of that odious and barbarous name, 
'Nigger' is a word no honorable man will 
use In reference to the colored man, or his 
friends. It comes with an ill grace, from 
people who have treated the Negto as ours 
have. No American can say the word 
without deep infamy. If the Editor of the 
Dover Gazette Is named Gibbs, as I believe 
he is, he is namesake of a man who might 
be hardened enough to joke at mention of 
his victims. Though I doubt if Gibbs the 
Pirate would say ' Niggers,' in taunt of any 
people he had helped enslave and degrade, 
with a cowardice no sea-pirates ever were 
guilty ol. 

ICP" Wo learn by a notice in an anti-slavery 
paper, printed in Warren, Ohio, that Poster and 
Abby Kelley, are holding meetings this week, at 
Chagrin Falls. We are not at all surpriaed to 
find these old friends in that neighborhood .—-r. 



THE HUTCHIN80NS, 
I have this moment learned, by a hurried 
note from one of them, contemplate settiqg 
oB' for England, Saturday, in the Cambria. 
I should love to have Old London hear their 
White Mountain song,— but hardly feel 
reconciled to their going so far away, -and 
hazarding two voyages of the Atlantic. I 
don't like to have so much freight risked in 
any one bottom. But if they will go — good 
uck attend them. Let the good ship Cam- 
bria mind and keep above water, — and re. 
member she ' carries,' not ' Caesar,' bul a 
freight worth a thousand Csesars. If there 
comes a storm, let them mount the[prow of 
the Steamer, and sing, — and 'the rude 
sea"ll 'grow civil at' their 'song.' 

I am really sad al thought of their going. 
I am discontented, at the idea of nol hear- 
ing again, for so long a time, their glorious 
voices, and seeing their harmonious and 
loving faces. But if they must go, God be 
wlUi them, and my good wishes. 

^vtiic-iu i><;c(> ilicii Tc-t~«>tati!»«r higU 
fortune betide them. And their simplicity 
— though Dukes and Queens caress them. 
I charge Jesse, if Victoria invites them to 
Windsor, to make a song for Monarchy, lo 
the tune of ' Get oflF the Traeb,' and make 
Windsor Castle shake with it, to its founda- 
tions. Let them not forget the old Granite 
Stale, old Milfard— their native Souhegan, 
or- The Herald of Freedom. And come 
home again, just as quick as they can get 
through and get away. 

tO" A friend of Richard D. Webb, en- 
quires if it is true thai Webb returned our 
paper when sent b'tm, as was stated in the 
Liberator, some weeks since. We know 
nothing of any such return, save what we 
read In the Liberator— and we hardly think 
ihe statement there made can be true from 
th^ slight reason, that we never senttlLr.Vf ebb 
a copy of the new paper. For two or ihiee 
years, James Haughion, of Dublin, has been 
a subscriber to the Herald— and has had 
the same directed to R. D. Webb, Mr. W. 
has also been a subscriber, but has bad bis 
papers retained in the office until the end of 
the year, and then sent in a bundle by some 
private opportunity. We sent four or five 
of the first numbers of the new series, lo 
Mr. Haughton, directed as heretofore — 
when we learnt in Boston, that Webb had 
written to some one of the Boston Commit- 
tee, that out of regard to Mr. Rogers, he 



did not allow the Herald to pass into Haugh- 
ton's hands— and of course discontinued the 
sanre. Mr.Garrison's statement that Webb 
returned the Herald, with his reasons for 
the same, and requested their publication 
In the Herald, and Mr. Rogers did'nt dare 
10 publish them,- is all a fancy of Mr. G's. 
disordered brain. Mr. Webb did this — in 
a private letter to Mr. Rogers, he said, with 
his present opinions he felt it bis duty to 
lend his Utile help to the paper published by 
Ela, father than to ours, — which I took to 
be a gentle way of informing me that I 
need not longer retain a file for him. — F. 

flC?" Several Communications, through 
lack of room, are necessarily omitted^ 



Providence Anti- Slavery Pair. 

TO THE ABOLITIONISTS OP BHODE ISLAND. 

Dear Friends : 

1 he annual Ktfir of the Providenc6 Ladies' Anlt Slave- 
ry Society will \>t hehl Ihis city on the First Wednei- 
(l.iy [Coinmencetnelil Pay] of Septt-mlier, 1845. 

On beliiilf of this Fair, we would address nol only Ihe 
friends of Freedom in Rhode Island, but the enemies of 
Slavery every where. " Our Country is the world — our 
couiiltytnen are all mankind." We are endeavoring lo 
overcome not only our foes, hut the foes of universal free- 
dom and of all freemen. The spirit of slavery recognis- 
es no geographical limits, neither should the saving spir- 
it of freemen. The friends of slavery make common 
cause, 'rhey pour out llieir sympathy to each other in 
overwhelming currents. Why should localities throw 
the cramping cords of restraint around ihe enecgfes. and 
the Slacling influences of non co-operatioa, about Ibe 
fellowship of the truly fiee? 

The receiit startling and bloody aggression of Ihe slave 
split in threatening, imprisoning, branding sliodtrng and 
murdering those of our brethretV who dare feet, speak, 
and act, for the bondman as bound with l>ifll who dare 
tliiiik tlial mercy is not a crime, calrlor streiigt'he rled an d 

ntitl — pi i ieeiiii! Bfiu rtfteft'riTrTffly pa'rt.'^that vte may bid the 
monsterback to the hellisii place of its birth. As a na- 
tion, we are on the verge of ruin. 7'lie prisons, the 
bloody defiance of t'Ke oppressor — the cry of our mur- 
dered brother's blood, from every mountaiii and valley, 
plain nod swamp ot the booth — the shrivk of thi cap- 
tured fugitive, as he is hnrleit back to bondage by slave- 
ry's Northern " hell dogs all these, and more, proctaiiD 
to us that inaction is treason, and silence crime. 

Come and help us. Help us expel from ihe world a 
monster spirit that gluts upon the iibetlies and lives of 
God's free men. Be not penurious— " As ye would that 
others should do to you, do you even so to them." Your 
own bodies are iinpiisoned— the fetters are On your limbs ; 
the iron in your 8'oul ; inasmueb as this is yeur brolUer't 
fate- 
Give us of your substance, no matter of what rtame, 
kind or nature it may be ; every thing, an'y thing will be 
valuable. Atmost every person has something that may 
he devoted to this pur^se. Will you not hunt it up .* 
Doit for humanity's sake, for God'* sake, for your own 
sake. 

All conlributfons, or commtjnications fot infermatton 
or otherwise, may be sent to the Anli Slavery Office, cor- 
ner of Broad and Uorrance slreew, care 6f Amai3ncy 
Paine. 



S. R. Harris,^ 
Mary K. Clark, 
Ahby \ hnrher, 
Sarah B. R. Poster, 
Caroline Ashley, 
Sarah R. Sniith, 
Elisabeth H. Brown, 



Hannah B. Shove, 
Lucren'a Frahtis, 
Olive ■fabei>, 
^bby A.- L«1te, 

3bhy Burgees, 
ary Smith. 
Aniarancy Paine. 



WEEKLY LIST OF REMITTANCES. 

.\dams Foster, Canterbury, SI-80 
Benjamin Bfiare, Albany N. y., 2.00 
Enoch Haskell, Oxford, Ohio. 1.66 
John F. Brown, Concord. 3.00 
John Jackson, North Chelmsford, Mara. 2.00 
Ann King, (donation,) 1.00 



THE HERALD OF FREEDOM. 



POETE Y. 



For The IleralJ of Freedom. 
WATERS. 

Lilce the burst of a rill from a rocky bill side, 
Ie the sou I thai is born when the pure loves hnve met : 
Like the dance of the rii! ihrought the sunshine and 
Bhade, 

Is the spirit in childhood, so hftppy and free : 
Like the' flow of the stream to superior strength, 
Is the course of the soul in its progress beyond ; 
Like a lakelet in stillness that mirrors her shores, 
Is a spirit in calmnessevolving pure thoughts: 
Like the ocean proud heaving just after a storm, 
Is a spirit sublime when a great action's done : 
Like the fathomless asvell of the great ocean tide. 
Is the etToft to be in a great spirit's pulse : 
Like the waters, unresting, untired, and unchanging, 
Is the spirit whose life is a progress eteinal : 
Like the waters forever their uses dit^pensing, 
Are all great spirits living divinely their mission : 
Like the time-lasting voice of all waters resounding, 
fa the sermon eternal that living souls utter : 
And as waters are symbols of souls far above them, 
So are souU but the facts of a far higher being: 
One round in eternity's great spiral circle. 

S y D.\' E Y S O UT H X^^ ILTJ^ 

M, >-/ie<»ir-- ^ — 

A THRILLING INCIDENT, 

So long as individual Christians can be 
lounci, and even ecclesiastical assemblies, 
who doubt whether slavery is sinful, it may 
be profitable to keep before the people such 
incidenis as the following: 

" A colored man by the name of Mackin- 
tosh, employed as a boatman upon the Mis- 
sissippi, himself free, had a wife in bondage 
at St. Louis. She was cruelly treated, as 
most slaves are. On a visit to bis wife 
learning what she suffered, prompted by the 
best of motives, he ventured to go to her 
master and remonstrate with'bim on the 
treatment of liis wife. The slaveholder un 
dertook to chastise him on the spot, in true 
overseer style. Mackintosh defended him- 
self, as who would not ? The slaveholder 
called to his aid constables, who undertook 
to arrest this freeman, guilty of no crime, 
but that of incurring danger for his own 
wife. He resisted, and in the scuffle that 
ensued, one of the constables was killed. — 
Mackintosh was bound, dragged away to 
prison, and locked up in a felon's cell. At 
the dead ot night, the enraged populace, 
with iron bars, sledges and picks, repaired 
to the prison and comtnenced moving the 
walls. Stone after stone was loosened from 
its bed, while the infuriated rabble, with 
horrid oaths and imprecaiions, muttered re- 
venge; and wiih the zeal of devils incar- 
nate urged on their hellish work. When 
at length they got sight of their victim; a 
savage yell rent the air, such as would do 
honor lo the infernnl pit. Mackintosh was 
seized and dragged from out the enclosures 
of the law, and thence taken out of the 
""pJe'cincts ol thTcTty'. ' A stake Was erected, 
the victim was made last to it, a pile of fag- 
o-ots was laid around, the infuriated mob, 
eager to glut their vengeance in the blood of 
an innocent man, lorined a circle, and a 
lorcU was applied. 

Can the history of Paganism present a 
blacker scene? Those scenes of savage 
barbarity, the recital of ivhich has so often 
made our youthful blood rtin cold, are inno- 
cent recreations compared with this cold- 
blooded murder perpetrated by the hands of 
nominal Christians, in a land of liberty and 
law! While writhing in the midst of the 
flames, and struggling in the agonies of 
death, his murderers were making the wel- 
kin ring with obscene jests and blasphe- 
mous oaths ! 

Should the Missionary Herald report such 
a scene from heathen shores, what a sensa- 
tion would have been produced! How 
many hearts would swell with indignation 
against the savage perpetrators, and what 
an impulse would be given to Christian 
zeal in all the churches, to send those be- 
nighted the gospel of peace! But when 
perpetrated by our own citizens, within the 
jurisdiction of our own humane laws, in a 
Christian city, and within the hallowed pre- 
cincts of Christian churches, what effect 
does It produce? Only one editor of the 
bloody city, dared mention the fact in a tone 
of condemnation ; and he paid the forfeit of 
his penalty with his life! 

The next day, the Kev.Mr. Lovejoy, who 
was publishing a religious paper in St. 
Louis, hearing of the disgraceful scene, 
walked out K. see the spot. He there found 
among others, a large collection of boys, 
amusing themselves by throwing stones at 
the skull of the murdered Mackintosh! — 
Overwhelmed with sorrow and indignation, 
f>T— rf-. ;ifriJ^.f to his r-tudv. and T> en'>efl^^' 
cription ot ihe whult; traniactiv)n,' \vl: 



being published, kindled another flaijie that 
was quenched only by the murder of Love 
joy himself ! 

From David's Sling. 

A SERIOtS INaUIRY. 

What is the Christianity of the day? In 
what does it consist? What else than 
round of forms and ceremonies — a keeping 
of one day in the seven without perftrniin'g 
the necessary avocations of life ; in eonqec- 
tion with the legal robbery of the. ignorant 
and defenceless, on the following sit days 
An assembling together in costly ttoples, 
with extravagant dresses, for mere display 
and efforts to excel each other — a sitting un 
der the spire that points upwards, wtile the 
whole teaching has a tendency to sitk the 
race lower and lower — a looking to Ood to 
jierform the duties incumbent on man, 
and an effortJo go into the future and per- 
form those of God— a quarrel amongit sects 
aml-^arlies about a mere belief, whicl of it- 
self is of BO importance whatever— )n as- 
piring after the fashions ot spiritual guides, 
and an extolling to heaven, those who are 
deep sunk in hell — a making long prayers 
lo.be hen-rd for the much speaking— a sing- 
ing Of psalms, saying mass, drinkinj poi- 
soned slops, and making drunk witb-fanat- 

Examine and compare this mocker; with nal prosecution. Mrs. 
the precepts and examples of Jesus, li will ' exasperated; and, it is to 



not so well compare as the shado\y with the 
substance. AVhat does it at healing the sick 
— binding up the broken-hearted — letting 
the captive go free? What does it even to 
its own sects ' Does it inspire a confidence 
in each other that supercedes the use of a 
corrupt code of new made laws? Does it 
unite men even one day in seven on a level 
with their fellow men ? Does not the same 
spirit of strife and love to excel, here pre- 
vail, that prevails throughout the world ? — 
Does not the gilded coach — the finest coat — 
the most of mammon, find the highest seal 
in the synagogue, or command the lowest 
bow, or the greatest respect from them who 
pretend to be the servants of God. This 
gull has spread far and wide, from shore to 
shore, but what has it accomplished ? Has 
it done ought lo fulfil the law of force — to 
render useless the instruments of war and 
torture— to raze 10 the ground the gallows, 
or finally to accomplish any benevolent pur- 
poses? Have not the evils of civilization, 
and a corrupt state of society spread and 
rooted in our midst, notwithstanding the ex- 
tension of this mock gospel throughout the 
land ? 

*^H^J5^<^EB^r^^1'lSE'?^tT^awrap^es a'large 
space in our Canadian exchanges. The 
Montreal Gazelle ot Tuesday, contains ac- 
counts from Quebec down to Saturday night. 
The loss of life is now supposed to have 
been underrated at 100 — the remains of 
forty bodies having already been discovered. 
Eighteen schooners, one new vessel, and 
one entire ship-yard have been destroyed by 
the conflagration. St. Roch's is a mere 
wilderness of chimneys. 

The number of houses destroyed is 1,630, 
besides out-bouses, &c. In 15 of the 38 
streets, the scenes of the fire, not a single 
house remains. 

For the relief of the sufferers the sum of 
£7000 has been raised in Quebec, and 
£5,000 in Montreal. 

ArpRopEiATE Text. The first time that 
Mr. Pitt went to Cambridge, after his elec- 
tion for the University, numerous clerical 
applicants were, as might be expected, gaps 
ing for kwn shaves, and othergood thing- 
in the gift of their representative. Dr. — 
preached before the young premier, from 
the following text-: — "There is a lad here 
which bath five barley-loaves and two 
small fishes, but what are they among so 
many?" 

WESTERN ORATORY. 

Fellow citizens and Hosees. — Hurra ! — 
there's a prospect of war. Skunk Holler is 
in arms and on its feet, and the earthquake 
shout, bustin' from 26,000,000 of greased 
lungs, is reverberated over ibis tall land. — 
Mean, sneakin', toad-hopin',snake-craw!ih', 
sword-scared-on, house-settin'-on-fire, bar- 
barous, David Crockett killin' Mexico has 
dared to show her cat teeth, to the heaven- 
rous, lightnin'-ilefyin', and death-swallerin' 
Uncle Sam. (Shouts. 1 Mcilvinks, aoU 
bosses, I spy the spirits of '76, goodnesses 
of liberty! soarin' on its turkeys wings 
around you ! (Whar', says one, looking up.) 
You great boss, I'm speakin' It a figger. — 
I see them flappin' their shinin' pinions and 
pipin' the afiectin' war cry of Yankey Doo- 
dle ! (Crowd. Yankey Doodle ! Cock a- 
doodle-doo!) Bring out the long Tom of 
Bunker Hill, and that thousand pounder of 
New Orleans! Let them roar till tfiey 
crack the welken', set the clouds on fire and 
knock the poles oier. The wrath swung 
cleaver of Uncle Sam shall split the numb- 
skull of Sandy Hannah in a handy manner, 
and Skunk Holler will bung up the day- 
light of his country ! Let us dig a hole 
with pick-axe of vengeance, scream the 
Mexicans into it and sink 'em into Chany ! 
Whar is the skunk that don't echy them 
sentiments? He aint no whar, nor never 
was. (Three cheers and' a whistle.) The 
country's sale! (Shouts. 1 It's great but 
it's safe! (Shouts.) I believe I'll take a 
drink. 

Mary McHugh, 

By MRS. CHILD. 

The following extract, which we have 
been allowed to take from the records of the 
Prison Association, kept by Isaac T. Hop- 
per, at the office of that excellent institution, 
No. 13, Pine street, may be interesting to 
the readers of the Evening Mirror. We 
trust that this affecting case may at least 
operate as a caution to employers how they 
injure the character, and blight the pros- 
pects, of poor young creatures in their ser- 
vice. 

"Mary McHugh belonged to a respectable 
Irish familv in Upper Canada. There be- 



parents of a part of their burllien, by an 
effort to earn her own living. For that pur- 
pose she came to the United States, and 

entered into the service of Mr.s. . She 

discharged the duties o( her station in a sat- 
isfactory/manner, and secured the confidence 
and affectionate good will of the family. 

At the death of Mrs. ,'she engaged 

with another family in the same neighbor- 
hood. This Mrs. promised her a dollar 

a week for her services; but aft^r she had 
been there three weeks, she told her that 
she should give but sixty-two cents. Mary 
then requested the wages that were due to 
her. that she might go into the service of 
another family near by, who had offered her 

a dollar and a quarter a week. Mrs. 

declared that she should not leave till she 
had procured another servant; that she 
would not pay her a cent till another servant 
came, and that she would pay her only 
sixty-two cents a week from the beginning 
to the end ol her stay. 

This oppressive anc| altogether unjustifi- 
able conduct excited Mary's resentment. 
Partly in anger, and partly from the idea 
that her employers intended lo wrong her, 
she hid a silver can and some spoons jn the 
wood-house. There is every reason to be- 
lieve that she bad bo intenrion of stealing 
them, and she was not aware that such a 
step subjected her to the danger of a crimi- 
■ was extremely 
be hoped, more 



under the influence of thoughtless anger 
than of deliberate cruelty, she caused the 
poor girl to be arrested. The silver was 
found where she confessed she had hid it, 
she was tried, convicted and sentenced to 
Sing Sing for two years. 

A sense of the disgrace which her impru- 
dence had brought on Iverself and family, 
and especially tbe anguish il would inflict 
on her mother's heart, completely broke the 
spirit of the poor sufferer. Her sensitive 
nature could not bear up under the terrible 
struggle, and she sunk into a listless des- 
pair. She took extremely little nourish- 
ment, and obtained scarcely any sleep. It 
soon become evident'that reason was giving 
way under the influence of perpetual grief, 
and that she was in danger of melancholy 
lunacy the remainder of her life. Her fath- 
er, a venerable old soldier, who had been 
lamed in the British army, at the battle of 
Saragossa, came from Canada with an ear- 
nest petition in her behalf, backed with let- 
ters and certificates from magistrates and 
other people of iafluence and bigii respecta- 
bility, testifying to the good character and 
conduct of Mary and herfamily. The crue! 
circumstance etihe case being officially laid 
belore the Governor, in connection with 
these certificates, he granted a pardon, and 
communicated the welcome intelligence to 
the afflicted father in a letter which did him 
great honor. While I write this, my heart 
ejaculates, "May Heaven bless him!" 

A letter from Eliza W. Farnham,the ex- 
cellent matron of Sing-Sing prison, enquir- 
ed of me whether the Prison Association 
could provide for this unfortunate creature till 
such time as her father could come for her. 
I replied that a suitable place had better be 
procured in the neighboriinod of the prison, 
and the Association would pay her board 
till she could be restored to her home. As 
she was laboring under derangement of 
mind, and required some gentle restraint, it 
was difficult to procure a suitable place, 
and she was conveyed to the County House. 
Another letter Iroin E. W. Farnham in- 
formed me of this, and expressed great anx- 
iety on her account. For lout days she had 
'asted no food, nor obtained a single hour 
ol sleep. Tl c letter concluded by saying, 
"This, in addition lo her previous exhaus- 
tion, must, if continued, soon produce death. 
Slie is exceedingly rniseiable, and my heart 
is sore at the thought of leaving so sensa- 
tive and shrinking a spirit all unshielded as 
she is." 

Unwilling she should remain in the Coun- 
ty House an hour longer than was necessary 
I started for Tarrytown the very day I re- 
ceived the letter. I had seen the poor child 
of misfortune at Sing Sing, some months 
before, and mv sympathy had been greatly 
excited in her behall. She recollected me 
at once, and made no objection to reluming 
with me to New-York. She was in such 
a delicate state of health, mind and body, 
that I could noi bear to place her with 
strangers, who would feel no sympathy for 
her; and though it was inconvenient to re- 
ceiy PL her into -tpJT . larpiltt L_ llifltLglll_i t Jicsl 
under the circumstances to do so. We 
found her simple-hearted, unoffending, and 
grateful; easily guided, though somewhat 
troublesome, from the wanderings of her 
mind, and the highly excitable state of her 
nervous system. She expressed an earnest 
wisii to see Bishop Hughes. I went for 
him, and I was pleased with the prompt and 
hearty cheerlulness with which he came to 
speak to her words of encouragement and 
consolation. She soon began lo lake nour- 
ishment, and during the four weeks that 
she remained under my roof, she continued 
10 improve in health, though her mind still 
remained feeble nnd wandering. The te- 
male branch of the Prison Association hav- 
ing provided a Home for tbe women con- 
victs released from Sing Sing, it was thought 
best that Mary should go there. A few 
days alter she had left my roof her mother 
came for her. She appeareti to be a respec- 
table, worthy, bard-working women. I 
conveyed her to her daughter, and it was 
truly affecting to witness their meeting. 
They threw ihemselves into each other's 
arms, wept, looked at each other, and vvent 
again. On the eighth of this month, they 
departed together for their home in Canada, 
and il is hoped that litTie will gradually re- 
store poor Mary to her health and reason. 

I liave purposely avoided mentioning the 
name of the women whose oppressive and 
harsh treatment occasioned the wreck of 
this poor, well-meaning girl, and such great 
distress to an innocenr family. May the 
consequences of her proceedings leach her 
a lesson for tbe future. Not for the ivealth 
o( tbe Indies, would 1 do such an injury lo 
a fellow-being.'' 



From the Christian Freeman. 

Praaf hinfcjnnd Pn«<i«n 



Sambo was claimed as a slave, and took 
an active part in one of the insurrections 
made in South Carolina, about fifty years 
ago ; but was, after a desperate effort, over- 
come and seized as a prisoner. He, with 
five others, was condemned to be hung; 
but the night before bis execution he rose 
upon his keepers, despatched ihem at once, 
and escaped for life. They bent their course 
towards the noilli-western part of the Slate, 
penetrated the mountain region, and select- 
ed a beautiful vale, high up the mountain 
for their future residence. Here was wild 
game enough, and there was little prospect 
that any white man would scale the moun 
nin peaks and find them enrolled among 
the clouds. 

After clearing away tbe wood and pre- 
paring their cabins, they decided that man 
should not live atom:, and that they would go 
in quest of helpmites for themselves. Three 
resolved to make i desperate effort to find, 
recover, and take sway, the wives and chil- 
dren from whom they had been driven. 
They went; and after encountering many 
hardships, they i-iturned in safety ; two 
having recovered tkeir families; the other 
learned thai his lofed wife had been sold 
and carried off, anil he induced a colored 
girl to return with him. — The appearance 
of these females in the mountains was a 
ji>yful sight, and hailed with much delight. 
Soon after, Sambo, with his Iwo compan- 
ions, made a descent into North Carolina, 



hung about the plantations, and at length 
returned with four horses, well ladened, 
three females, and one young man, who had 
joined them. On his way, Sambo had vis- 
ited a small band of Indians, entered into a 
friendly connection with them, and they 
had agreed lo take such furs and game as 
he had lo spare, and lo carry them to market 
among the whites. The plantation being 
now so happily commenced, all agreed that 
Sambo should be king, and that the laws 
should be respected by all. His first law 
was, " One person shall not injure another ; 
but all shall love his neighbor. '2d. The lije, 
liberty , and property of colored persons are 
sacred, and no man may hold ihem as slaves. 
2d. White men, bought of the Indians, or 
seized in the low country may, they and'iheir 
children, be held as slaves.^' In a few weeks 
the horses were taken to the Indians, and 
exchanged for four whiles, who were, ac- 
cording lo law, held as slaves, and forbid- 
den to pass certain boundaries under death. 
All things now went on pleasantly in the 
colony — lands were cleared, and various 
productions raised, while tbe forest furnish- 
ed abundance. Occasionally some of the 
panv stoledown into the settlements, Ecizrtf- 
what they wanted, and brought back some 
of their own color for settlers, or white chil- 
dren for slaves. Thus their society gradu- 
ally increased, and those who had been 
slaves tasted the sweets of liberty. Sambo 
now dashed for a wife, and after a few 
weeks returned from Virginia with a young 
lady, the daughter of a planter, who was 
recognized as queen hy the colony. The 
next year an event occurred which produced 
great excitement among the Carolinians. 
A young clergyman, with his wife, was 
visiting in one of the middle counties ol the 
State, when they suddenly disappeared, and 
no trace of them could be found. Sambo 
had seized them and carried them to the 
mountains. The law was read, and he was 
required lo conform strictly lo it. This was 
a haid saying, but what could he reply? 
He had always maintained that " slavery 
was not a moral evil — that it was clearly 
sanctioned in the Bible — that good men 
might, under the sanction of law, compel 
their poor neighbors lo labor lor their bene- 
fit, and that servants are bound to obey 
their masters in all things." And so 
thoroughly was he confirmed in these senti- 
ments, that he had purchased a gang of 
slaves and carried his sentiments into prac- 
tice. Why, then, should he not be a slave 
to Sambo and quietly submit to the estab- 
lished law ? A hard que'stion. Why should 
not bible institutions be kept up among tbe 
UTOuntains as well as on the low lands? 
Why should not^ie be constrained to serve 
master Sambo, even as Sambo's brethren 
were compellei) to labor oii his plantation ? 
Revolving such questions in his mind, be 
and his wile retired to the cabin assigned 
them. How much rest they got I know not, 
but one thing is certain, they were fully 
convinced that the state of slavery is not a 
very pleasant state for the slave. The 
morning caatc, and lite slave* -w^h^ c ill cd 
up and their tasks assigned them. This 
was a new position for Mr. Fuller and bis 
wife lo occupy. He ventured to remon- 
strate ; but Sambo answered. My father was 
stolen, and you, knowing the fact, purchased 
him — my moiher and sisters are laboring 
on your plantation under the power of a 
brutal driver, exposed lo all the evils of the 
system of slavery, which you have always 
iustified, and said il was sanctioned by your 
bible. Go to you task and see that you are 
not an eye servant. Such a day Mr. Fuller 
and his wife had never seen 1 Weary and 
sad they returned to their cabin to ponder 
and weep. The next morning Sambo ad- 
dressing them, said, you have for one day 
seen what field service is ; now I appoint 
you, Mr. Fuller, chaplain and teacher of our 
settlement, and your wife I assign as house 
servant to the queen; and I expect you will 
both show all good fidelity in your respec- 
tive stations. 

Under Sambo's government there were 
no fetters, whips or tortures. All were 
comfortably fed and clothed. Improvemenls 
were extended, domestic animals intro- 
duced, and ihe.e was much harmony there ; 
but slavery was there also; — in its mildest 
form indeed — but it was slavery. After the 
lapse of years il was reported that one ol 
the slaves was missing, and all efforts to 
find him were vain. He was gone and 
would betray them to the whites.- About 
one week after the escape of the white, a 
friendly Indian informed Sambo that a body 
of whiles had assembled and meant to at- 
tack him. — The next day the whole popu- 
lation were assembled; all resolved to re- 
sist, 'and all methods of defence were adopt- 
ed. Trees and brushwood were thiown in- 
to the gorge, through which the enemy 
must approach, and masses of stone were 
rnlltirlpil un liip nrgcipice.iiy which _Uiey 
iiuiit pass. Sambo, wilh twenty faiiliful 
followers, were at their post at the dawn ol 
day. The trampling of horses was heard 
the enemy, burning wilh fury, entered the 
gorge, were soon arrested by the trees and 
brush, huddled together, and were at once 
crushed under rocks which were rolled down 
the precipice. Halt were destroved by the 
first avalanche. Ketreal or death the only 
alternative. Sambo had triumphed. F 
lyofhis enemies Were dead— but alas, be 
was ruined. He at onc^aw his true situa- 
tion, and knew that the whole country would 
rise up as a flood and overwhelm him. In 
the deepest anguish he assembled all his 
people, laid the subject fairly before them, 
gave the slaves liberty to go with him, or 
return to their own people. The next day 
he and his people were seen wending their 
way up the lofty peak that sheltered at the 
west Iheir beautiful valley. They reached 
the suminit and lodged there that night. 
The morning rose, and for the last time 
they saw their loved homes wrapt in fiaiiies. 
A dark -cloud rolled over the mountain. 
Sambo and his companions were seen no 
more. Tradition tells not whether they 
passed away in the cloud, died on the mount, 
or, passing down its western slope, migrat- 
ed lo the far west. 

\VheQ the chivalry of .the south bad glut- 
led its vengeance, they retirpd, covered with 
glory. Mr. Fuller and his wife returned to 
their plantation, broke every yoke and let 
the oppressed go free.— In the mountain ' 



they had learned what our Lord meant when 
he said, " As ye would that men should do 
to you, even so do ye unto them." And 
they were prepared lo obey him, not regard- 
ing the wrath of slaveholders. What a pity 
that all proslavery ministers should not 
study divinity under Sambo. 



The Slave trade in the Levant, it is said, 
is carried on lo an ennormous exfent, and 
wilh perfect impunity. There, have" been 
several extensive siiipments of Nubian 
slaves made in Alexandria on board of 
Greek and Turkish vessels bound for Symr^ 
na and Constantinople, and from the latter 
port there are frequent arrivals of Circas- 
sian slaves, and no objection whatever to 
this traffic is made by the European Con- 
suls. ^ 

We understand, (says the Washingtorf 
Union) that many country post masters are 
resigning their offices in consequence of the' 
the operation of the Post Office Law. We 
learn that nearly one hundred resignations 
were received by tbe Post Master GeireraP 
in the course of one_daj[^ 



It is reported that the corporation of Har- 
vard University have voled to invite the 
Hon. Edward Everett to accept of the office 
of president of that institution, and that it 
is understood he will yield to the request. 

Bustles coming down. In New York, 
the ladies wear their bustles so low 
down that when they sit they are 
obliged to sit upon them, thus making 
them serve the double purpose of a 
bustle and a cushion. One result of 
this economical arrangement is, thtit 
their wearers are sometimes taller 
when they sit down than when they 
stand up. 

We learn from the Boston Trans- 
cript, that air tight bustles have been 
invented there — a decided improve- 
ment upon the stuffed ones. If by any 
means the wind should be let off, there 
would be alarming symptoms of " de- 
cline." But for the danger of turning' 
bottom upwards, they would be useful 
as life preservers. — Nash. Tel. 

The new State of Florida has adopt- 
ed for its motto the words " LET US 
ALONF'." The origin ot the phrase 
was probably unknown to those who 
selected il as their motto. It was the 
language of " a man with an unclean 
spirit [see Mark 1, 24] who cried out 
saying "Let us alone; what have we 
to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazar- 
eth?" 

The Fires of 1845. — The present sea- 
son will be ever memorable for the fre- 
quency and all devastating character of 
the conflagrations which have occurred 
in various parts of the Union and in 
Quebec, and which have closely fol- 
lowed after each other from their com- 
mencement. The amount of property 
destroyed by fires, and the sura ol human 
suffering endured iu consequence of 
them are fearfully great. Before the 
occurrence of the last great calamity iu 
the list, the value of property lost in 
this nay in the Stales, Quebfc and Cu- 
ba, had been computed at the round 
sum total of THIRTEEN MILLIONS 
OF DOLLARS ! The awful conflagra- 
tion in New York on Saturday morning 
swells the amount to the enormous sum 
of about TWENTY AIILLIONS OF 
DOLLARS !—^/6. Cil. 



JVolhing like Discussion. Among 
the evidences that C. M. Clay's True 
American is exerting a strong influence 
in Kentucky, is the fact that other pa- 
pers opposed to his course are under 
the necessity of answering his argu- 
ments, and thus aiding to produce that 
wholesome moral agitation which will 
be sure to result in the triumph of Lib- 
erty over Slavery. If we were in a 
Slave State we should dravy great en- 
courage from this sign of* the times, 
believing with a very shrewd observer, 
that Slavery as an institution is every 
way so bad that ii matters little what 
people say about it if they, will only 
keep talking. It is only in an atmos- 
phere of silence.and stagnation that 
the friends of SlavefV VM fif^^ lo per"" 
petuate its existence". — JV*. 1. Tribune. 

Arrests of Abolilionists. The Parkers- 
burgh Gazette, (Va.) of the 12th gives 
the following: 

"Information was recently received 
that the slaves of John H. Hardwood, 
living at Washington, about twelve 
miles below his place, would attempt 
an escape on the night of Wednesday. 
Six persons of that neighborhood cross-, 
ed the river after dark, and concealed; 
themselves on the Ohio side. About 
2 o'clock on the morning of Thursday, 
six of Mv. Hardwood's negroes caote, 
across, and were received by a party 
of whites, at least seven in number ; 
and while the latter were engaged in 
assisting the former and their baggage 
from the canoe, the concealed Virgin- 
ians made a descent upon them, and 
after a severe struggle, succeeded in 
capturing and securing five of the 
blacks and three of the whites. The 
latter were brought to this place, and 
committed to prison. As the offence 
of which these men are accused is a 
felony under our laws, an examining 
court has been summoned for Fridav 
next, 18th inst. 



I 



