THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



MAY, 1833. 



[NO. V. 



QUARTERLY MEETING OP THE NEW-ENG- 
LAND ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

The quarterly meeting of the Society was 
held at the Representatives' Hall, in the State 
House, in Boston, on Monday the 26th ult. 
The Rev. E. M. P. Weils, one of the Vice 
Presidents, presided. 

The meeting was opened with a prayer by 
the Rev. Mr. Phelps of Boston. 

The following resolution was then offered 

by Mr. Oliver Johnson. 

Resolved, That the principles and measures of the 
New-England Anti-Slavery Society are consistent 
with every duty which we owe to our country, and 
that benevolence to the masters, not less than to the 
slaves, requires us to advocate the doctrine of imbie- 

DIATE ABOLITION. 

Mr. Johnson, Amasa Walker, Esq. and Mr. 
David T. Kimball, President of the Andover 
Auxiliary Anti-Slavery Society, spoke with 
great ability in support of the resolution, which 
was adopted unanimously. 

Mr. Garrison offered the following resolu- 
tion. 

Resolved, That the American Colonization Society, 
by its attempts to palliate the guilt of slaveholders, and 
by representing slavery as an evil justified by ' neces- 
sity,' hinders the progress of emancipation, and tends 
to depress the free people of color. 

The resolution was supported by Mr. Gar- 
rison in an eloquent address, and passed with- 
out opposition. 

The Rev. James D. Yates then offered the 
following resolution. 

Resolved, That the American Colonization Society 
is pledged not to oppose the system of Slavery. 

2d. It apologizes for Slavery and Slaveholders, and 
speaks peace to them in their sins. 

3d. It -regards Slaves as property. 

4th. It increases the value of Slaves as Slaves. 

5th. It is an enemy to the immediate substitution of 
righteous and equal law, for the unrighteous authority 
of the Slave-Masters. 

6th. It is nourished by fear and selfishness. 

7th. It pretends to aim at the utter expulsion of the 
colored people ; that is, of about one sixth of the whole 
population of the United States from this their native 
country. < 

8th. It disparages, traduces and persecutes the free 
people of color. 

9th. It prevents the instruction of colored people. 

10th. It deceives and misleads the nation. 

11th. It makes a disgraceful and criminal peace be- 
tween the advocates of the colored people and their 
oppressors. 

VOL. I. 



12th, and last — though not the least — It originated 
with Slaveholders ; and as like begets like, it is a le- 
gitimate child, and carries the mark of its origin on its 
forehead. 

The hour being late, Mr. Yates was able to 
make only a few but very appropriate remarks 
in support of his resolution, which was then 
adopted. 

The Rev. Philemon R. Russell of Water- 
town, offered the following resolution, which 
was passed after a few animated remarks by 
the mover. He was, like Mr. Yates, obliged 
to cut short his address in consequence of the 
the lateness of the hour. 

Resolved, That it is highly important that literary 
and religious instruction be communicated to our col- 
ored population, in this country 5 and that the conduct 
of the citizens of Canterbury, Ct. towards Miss Cran- 
dall, in threatening to ' use every means in their pow- 
er, to prevent her from establishing ' and carrying 
into successful operation, a Boarding School, in that 
place, for colored Misses, is a solecism in a civilized 
community, and merits the stern rebuke of the Chris- 
tion world. 

Mr. Horace P. Wakefield appeared as a 
delegate from the Reading Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety. 

The meeting was very crowded, and the 
addresses were received by the audience with 
a deep and apparently favorable attention. 



MISSION TO ENGLAND. 

At a meeting of the Managers of the New- 
England Anti-Slavery Society, March 16, 
1833, it was voted to send Wm. Lloyd Garri- 
son, Esq. to England, on behalf of the Society, 
for the purpose of soliciting aid for the propos- 
ed Manual Labor School for Colored Youth, 
from the philanthropists of that country, and 
to present in their true light the schemes of 
the Colonization Society. In consequence of 
the low state of the funds of the Society, it 
became necessary to call for contributions to 
aid in this object. We are happy to say that 
the friends of our cause have contributed lib- 
erally. Mr. Garrison has already left Boston, 
and will probably have sailed for England be- 
fore our pages meet the eyes of our readers. 
There can be no impropriety, since he has 
left us, in saying - , that we consider him emi- 
9 



.?<a 



66 



Anli-Slavery Publications. 



nently qualified to promote the objects for. 
which he is to visit England. His faithfulness 
to the great cause to which he has devoted 
himself, his ardent feelings, his energy, and 
his eloquence, can hardly fail to excite the 
wannest sympathy of our British friends. 



ANTI-SLAVERY PUBLICATIONS. 

We are frequently receiving Anti-Slavery 
publications from England. The activity and 
perseverance of the abolitionists in Great 
Britain is worthy of all praise. Among the 
pamphlets lately received, the following are 
particularly deserving of notice. 

The Anti-Slavery Record. — This is a small 
monthly publication intended to diffuse infor- 
mation in a cheap form. 

A Letter to Thomas Clarkson — By James 
Cropper; and Prejudice Vincible; — or the 
practicability of conquering prejudice by better 
means than by slavery and exile ; in relation to 
the American Colonization Society — By C. 
Stuart. 

The arguments against the Colonization 
Society are presented in this pamphlet in a 
very powerful and convincing manner. Mr. 
Cropper's Letter and the greater part of Capt. 
Stuart's remarks having appeared in the Lib- 
erator, we do not think it necessary to give 
any extracts from the valuable tract. 

Three Lectures on British Colonial Slavery, 
delivered in the Royal Amphitheatre, Liver- 
pool, on the evenings]of August 28th, 30th, and 
Sept. 6th, 1832.— By George Thompson. 

In the months of August and Septem- 
ber last, several public meetings were held 
at the Royal Amphitheatre, in Liverpool. 
According to 'an arrangement which had 
been previously agreed upon, Mr. Thomp- 
son delivered a lecture upon Slavery on 
Tuesday evening, August 28. The next 
evening Mr. Borthwick, a champion of the 
West India interest, delivered a lecture in 
answer to Mr. Thompson. Mr. Thompson 
replied the next evening. On Friday evening 
Mr. Borthwick rejoined, and Mr. Thompson 
delivered a third lecture in answer on Thurs- 
day, Sept. 6. The room in which these lec- 
tures were delivered, and which we believe 
will contain three thousand persons, was well 
filled on every evening. Mr. Thompson's 
lectures are very animated, and at times elo- 
quent. Mr. Borthwick, a sketch of whose lec- 
tures we have seen, appears very feeble, in 
comparison with such an antagonist. We 



extract one or two passages from Mr. Thomp- 
son's lectures. 

The following extract on the claim of the 
planters to compensation, is as applicable to 
America, as it was in great Britain : — 

' I am very friendly to compensation, Ladies and 
Gentlemen 3 I should like the negro to be compensa- 
ted. (Applause.) I should like them to show how 
much we owe the negro for his hitherto jmcompensated 
toil 5 what debt we owe to Africa, where no wind for 
ages has gone over her plains, without gathering up 
the sighs of bleeding, broken hearts ; where there is 
no sand that has not been steeped with tears or the 
blood of captured victims. I should like to see what 
compensation we owe to the negro : how much to that 
aged man, tottering on the brink of the grave, whose 
limbs are now growing feeble, after years of unrequit- 
ed toil ; how much to that poor woman torn from her 
infant, and set to labor in the field, if, indeed, a valua- 
tion can be put upon the natural feelings of a mother 
towards the offspring of her body ; and then I should 
like to strike a balance between the compensation due 
to the negro, and the compensation due to the planter. 
Eloquent speeches and arguments are made on the 
rights of the planter in the House of Commons, and 
echoed in the major and minor pro-slavery periodicals 
of the day. And at this moment, if Parliament were 
sitting, some West Indian partizan might be making 
an eloquent speech in favor of himself, and saying— 
' Take care of the planter, only think of the melancholy 
condition of the planter's wife if you reduce his income, 
by not giving him power to raise large crops and dis- 
pose of them. Give additional bounties to his sugar; 
Jay more prohibitory duties on free-grown produce. — 
Mind that you protect the planter.' Next morning, 
some lady sipping her tea, and reading the Morning 
Post, might say — ' Dear me, what an amiable speech! 
How he pities the planter ! Really, I feel inclined to 
pity the planter, too.' (Laughter.) And thus all the 
lady's s} r mpathy would be on the side of the planter, 
and she would think nothing of the slave. But per- 
haps some friend by her side might just whisper — 
' This gentleman, whom you are inclined to pity, is 
not in the West Indies, because he happens to be in 
London; he is not a planter, because he happens to be 
a member of the House of Commons; he is a mortga- 
gee, and has certain parchments deposited with Messrs. 
Diummond & Co., giving him a claim on ten or fifteen 
hundred slaves, and emancipation would be the anni- 
hilation of the greater part of his securities. This is 
the source of his eloquence, consider this, and what re- 
mains, but a piece of empty, heartless, hypocritical de- 
clamation.' {Applause.) I am no enemy to compen- 
sating the slave owners, provided we do not make it a 
matter to be quibbled about, whilst 800,000 human be- 
ings are living and dying in bondage. As Lord How- 
ick said some twelve months ago—' We ought not to 
be haggling about a question of pounds, shillings, and 
pence, while the victims of oppression are languishing 
in misery. If the rights of the negro are as sacred as 
those of the white man, we ought to set him at liberty, 
and settle scores amongst ourselves afterwards.' I 
have often heard that the moment we settle the ques- 
tion of compensation there is an end to the danger of 
emancipation; all the giants that are set up to frighten 
us, shrink into pigmies, and the phantoms evoked to 
deter us from proceeding, vanish into thin air. This 
reminds me of a gentleman who wrote a pamphlet, and 
said to a critical friend, who happened to be by—' Just 
give me your opinion of the title-page of this work V 
There happened to be one word there that the critic 
did not like — ' immediate,' for instance. Says he — ' I 
hope you will expunge that word, I don't relish it at 
all.' The author taking a guinea out of his pocket, 
placed it upon the obnoxious word, thus : said — ' How 
do you like it now V ' Oh,' said the critic, (pocketing 
the guinea,) ' I like it very well; indeed, it will do un- 



Slavery at the Cape of Good Hope. 



63 



commonly well ; nothing- can be better.' (Mr. Thomp- 
son excited repeated peals of laughter by the humor- 
ous manner in which he ' suited the action to the word ' 
whilst making this illustration.) And thus if we put 
gold upon the word ' emancipation ' all the danger van- 
ishes, and we may emancipate the slaves as soon as 
we please. " Put money in thy purse, Rodcrigo — put 
money in thy purse." ' (Laughter and cheers.) 



SLAVERY AT THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 

A small volume with the above title, was 
published in England, in 1831, by the Rev. 
Win. Wright. This work we have never seen. 
But the Anti-Slavery Record for August, 
1832, informs us that the author is ' a clergy- 
man of the Church of England, and for ten 
years in the service of the Society for the 
propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts : ' 
We copy from the Record the following- inter- 
esting account, taken from Mr Wright : 

' The first case which presents itself on this 
occasion, not so much from its peculiar atroci- 
ty as from the feeling which it created, and 
the consequences to which it seems to have 
led, is that of Coenrad Hendrik Laubscher, 
who was found guilty before the Supreme 
Court of an assault committed on Lodewyk, 
the slave of J. A. Truter, on the 3d of Janua- 
ry, 1830, under the following circumstances : ' 

Case of Laubscher and Lodewyk. 

In the year 1827 the slave Lodewyk, at that 
time the property of this same Laubscher, was 
prosecuted before the Supreme Court at the 
instance of his master, by the fiscal or attor- 
nery-general of the colony. The indictment 
was for a personal assault upon his master, 
which, by the colonial slave law, was a capi- 
tal offence. The Protector of Slaves, in his 
official report of the trial, states that the 
charge was, that 'Lodewyk had struck his 
master several blows about the face and head, 
either with his fist or some hard substance en- 
closed within his hand, by which Laubscher 
was severely cut and bruised.' 

'The prisoner, having heard the charge, 
stated that his master, having slept the whole 
night in his wagon, which was outspanned 
(unyoked, and the horses allowed to graze), at 
the Drie Fonteinen, on getting up en a Fri- 
day morning, called him to put on his shoes ; 
and that, whilst he was so doing, his master 
said that he hurt his foot, and thereupon kick- 
ed him violently on his throat, and struck him 
several blows ; and, on coming down from the 
wagon, was reaching his gun, when he (pris- 
oner) being apprehensive that his master in- 
tended to shoot him, clasped him round the 
body to prevent him, when he, Laubscher, in 
consequence of the horses moving on, fell 
against some of the iron-work of the wagon, 
by which his face was much cut and bruised. 
That he (the prisoner) seeing this, ran off to 
get out of the reach of the gun, saying, at the 



same time, that he did not intend to desert, 
but that he knew where he would go, — mean- 
ing that he would go to Cape Town to com- 
plain of his master's ill usage ; showing, at 
the same time, a wound on his head, which he 
stated to have been inflicted by his master 
with the thick end of the wagon- whip ; that 
he accordingly did come to town for that pur- 
pose, when Mr Servaas de Kock caused him 
to be apprehended; the said Laubscher hav- 
ing previously arrived in town and lodged his 
complaint at the Landdrost's office.' 

Laubscher, in his deposition, affirmed that 
Lodewyk had struck him on the head and 
face ; and alleged that he had struck Lodewyk 
with the handle of his wagon-whip in self-de- 
fence. Mentor, a slave boy (to whom Laub- 
scher had promised his freedom just before the 
trial) corroborated this statement. And upon 
this evidence — for there was no other witness 
present — the Court condemned Lodewyk to 
death ! 

From this iniquitous sentence, however, 
poor Lodewyk was saved by an appeal to the 
Lieutenant-Governor (the worthy and humane 
General Bourke) who, as Judge in the Court 
of Appeals, reversed the sentence and acquit- 
ted the prisoner. 

General Bourke, however, it appears, could 
not protect this unfortunate man from the im- 
placable vengeance of Laubscher. Mr Wright 
thus narrates the sequel of the story ; giving, 
at the same time, in his Appendix, the whole 
details cf the legal evidence on the subse- 
quent trial of Laubscher, from which his state- 
ment is abridged : — 

' But another mode of punishment was in 
reserve for the ill-fated Lodewyk, to which I 
beg the reader's particular attention. During 
the period of his imprisonment, Laubscher had 
sold Lodewyk to one Bester, his son-in-law, 
under the express stipulation that he should 
never be allowed to visit his wife and children, 
who were still slaves of Laubscher. The chil- 
dren were three in number, aged two, five, 
and seven years. Bester subsequently sold 
Lodewyk to Mr J. A. Truter, under the same 
stipulation. But, 'so strong was good feeling 
in the bosom of this faithful slave,' to use the 
words of the attorney-general, that he braved 
every personal danger to get a sight of his 
wife and children. With this hope" he often 
wandered up and down near the place of 
Laubscher, who, it appears, had some suspi- 
cion of the Unfortunate man's intention, and 
set men privily to watch and seize him. Twice 
within the three years he had succeeded in 
communing with his afflicted wife and family. 
A third time, too, he had almost succeeded, but 
this attempt was doomed by the heard-hearted 
Laubscher, to be cruelly interrupted. His wife 
was then asleep with her little ones, but be- 
fore Lodewyk had time to awaken her, he was 
discovered by Laubscher's spies. He attempt- 
ed to hide himself, but was detected. On be- 



68 



Slavery at the Cape of Good Hope. 



ing apprehended, he said that there was no 
occasion to bind him, but ' that he would go 
and throw himself at his old master's feet, 
and speak a good word to him.' One of those 
who had seized him, Weise, Laubscher's 
steward, rode forward to acquaint Laubscher 
that Lodewyk was apprehended. It appears 
that he had been meditating deep and fearful 
vengeance. He was at the front door, with 
his walking cane in his hand; it was between 
eleven and twelve o'clock on Sunday night* 
He asked if they had bound Lodewyk care- 
fully ? The steward said that there was no 
occasion, as he was coming quietly to entreat 
his pardon. But mercy had no place in this 
old man's bosom. He called for his gun, and 
then ordered the steward to take hold of his 
cane. When Lodewyk arrived, Laubscher 
first told his steward to break his legs and 
arms with the cane ; the steward refused ; 
upon which he ordered the slaves to hold him 
fast, with extended arms, and commenced the 
attempt himself. After inflicting numerous 
heavy blows upon the legs of his timid and 
unresisting victim, he then commenced break- 
ing his teeth, saying, 'You once broke my 
mouth also.' He continued at these opera- 
tions for half an hour. The cane was sworn 
to be of the thickness of a good stout walking 
stick. Wiese in the mean time put away the 
gun. Laubscher then put him in the . stocks, 
in a sitting posture, and in that position, gave 
him twenty stripes with his horse whip over 
the shoulders. He then put him in handcuffs, 
and beat him again until his whole arm was 
as blue as his jacket, and all swelled and 
bruised. Upon this Laubscher, exhausted, re- 
tired to rest, leaving the unfortunate wretch 
in torture scarcely conceivable, covered with 
wounds and contusions, and screaming with 
agony. The holes of the stocks in which his 
legs were fastened, were narrow, and raised 
about nine inches above the level of the floor, 
obliging him to sit in a very uneasy posture, 
which, added to the soreness of his knee and 
arm, caused him to scream out; but, in the 
words of his own affecting narrative, 'nobody 
came to relieve him.' After about half an hour 
Laubscher relented a little, or rather as he 
himself expressed it, recollected himself, and 
ordered the handcuffs to be taken off. ' I did 
not sleep the whole night,' continued the 
wretched slave, 'and cried for a long time, but 
nobody came.' At length the morning sun 
arose, but it was only to witness fresh deeds 
of cruelty. Lodewyk was released from his 
confinement, and, on his getting outside the 
door of his prison, his pursuer was in wait for 
him. He then ordered him to strip the upper 
part of his person, and to place himself flat 
on the ground, and in that position he scourg- 
ed him on the back with a cat-o'-nine tails. 
He thus received twenty-eight lashes. As 
soon as he was permitted to rise and put on 
Ms jacket, Laubscher again resumed the cane, 



and made Lodewyk walk several times back-' 
wards and forwards between him and the Avail, 
each time repeating his blow with that weap- 
on. Sometimes he threw the stick at him^ 
when the poor creature was ordered to bring 
it back, and then he would strike him again 
with it. During all this time, to use the words 
of the witness, Weise, who appears to have 
been a humane man, he refused nothing that 
he was ordered to do, nor did he use any ill 
language — an instance of patience and for- ■ 
bearance almost inconceivable. At length Lo- 
dewyk was unable to move, when Laubscher 
ordered Weise to mount a horse, and drive 
him on foot, handcuffed, to his master's place, 
but Weise procured a horse for him. Upon 
his arrival at his master's place, he was sick and 
stiff, and was disabled for twenty-two days; and 
it appeared that he had previously suffered so 
much, that, even if he had not been fastened 
in the stocks, he would not have been able to 
have made his escape on the previous night 
from Laubscher's. Laubscher ordered Weise, 
if he made any resistance on the way, to beat 
him with his sjamboc. In consequence of the 
state of his right arm, he was unable to work 
at his trade. He could walk a little, but slow- 
ly, and with extreme pain. The whole partic- 
ulars of this affecting trial, of which I have 
given but an outline, will be found in the Ap- 
pendix, to which I beg to refer my readers. 
Suffice it here to say that, after an eloquent 
address by the attorney-general, the prisoner's 
advocate addressed the jury on behalf of his 
client, when the chief justice delivered a most 
impressive charge, and the jury, after retiring 
for half an hour, returned a verdict of guilty, 
accompanied with a recommendation to mer- 
cy, on the ground of the prisoner's ' old age 
and former feelings.' He was sentenced to 
three months' imprisonment, and a fine of fif- 
ty pounds to the king. 

' This sentence most men would have con- 
sidered not too severe ; but those who under- 
stand the nature of colonial feelings will not 
be surprised at being informed that the whole 
case excited a strong interest — not in favor of 
the ill-fated Lodewyk, but of his cruel perse- 
cutor. An attempt to purchase the freedom 
of his wife and children by private subscrip- 
tions made by a few individuals, of whom I 
was so imprudent as to be one, together with 
an anxiety evinced to have some remunera- 
tion procured by law through the medium of 
a civil action, for the disabled Lodewyk, call- 
ed forth the vulgar calumnies of the most 
scurrilous of newspapers. This same paper 
which purports to express the sentiments of 
the slave proprietors, passes the warmest eu- 
logiums on Laubscher, describing him as 'one 
of the most respectable, peaceful, and friendly 
farmers in South Africa ' (which his treatment 
of Lodewyk no doubt evinced !) ; and again, 
' an able, and, in every respect, a venerable 
man ' ! while, at the same time, the poor suf- 



Slavery at the Cape of Good Hope. 



69 



ferer has epithets bestowed upon him as 'a 
murderous scoundrel,' ' a villain who once at- 
tempted to murder his master' (a crime of 
which even Laubscher never thought of accu- 
sing him), ' a rebellious slave, formerly his 
(Laubscher's) property, who was condemned 
to be hanged by the neck for having made 
an attempt on the life of his late master,' &c. ; 
whose cruel vengeance he softens down into 
the milder name of a 'perhaps justly excited 
feeling,' and makes himself very witty on the 
1 paradox'' of the chief justice, that 'he who 
strikes another man's slave, strikes a freeman 
with respect to him ; ' which surely is nothing 
but the language of reason and common sense. 
' The editor of this paper [Zuid Afrikaan) 
pursues the subject and endeavors to excite 
hostility against Lodewyk by giving his histo- 
ry. This article is prefaced by an open and 
undisguised attack on the writer of the pres- 
ent pamphlet, [Rev. W. Wright] whom he 
has singled out for his editorial vengeance. 
Among other inventions, he broadly states 
that I had offered my aid to Lodewyk ; and, 
after much vituperation, which I never thought 
it necessary to notice, he concludes his attack 
in these significant and unequivocal words : — 
'Such is the wrong-headedness of the 

JUNTA TO WHICH YOU BELONG, THAT THERE 
IS NO TREE HIGH ENOUGH WITHIN THE VICIN- 
ITY of Cape Town to hang your worthy 

PROTEGE AND HIS BENEVOLENT ADVOCATES.' 

< One of this editor's accusations against those 
persons, is that they had united in an attempt 
to purchase Lodeivyk , s freedom. Although I 
should have been pleased to join in such an 
act, it was his family, not himself, that it was 
intended to manumit, and this only with the 
voluntary consent of Laubscher ; from which 
object I was diverted by being informed that 
Laubscher had himself designed to make this 
atonement to his victim and the public ; but, 
if he ever intended to do so, he has not adher- 
ed to his design.' 

Our readers will perceive, from the above 
affecting statement, that the Rev. author of 
this little work, like every other man who in 
a slave colony ventures to take a decided part 
on the side of humanity and christian duty, 
has suffered from calumny and persecution. 
His book contains other valuable matter, to 
which we may probably revert on an early 
occasion.' 

It is often asked why anti-slavery writers 
are so fond of harrowing the feelings of their 
readers by accounts of atrocious cruelties per- 
petrated by slaveholders, since it cannot be 
pretended that such enormities are more fre- 
quent or of a more aggravated character than 
those which occur in places where slavery is 
not tolerated. We are not disposed to deny 
that the acts of greatest inhumanity among 
slaveholders have their parallels in the most 



enlightened countries where slavery is pro- 
hibited. But we totally deny that barbarous 
cruelty is as common in places in other re- 
spects of equal civilization where slavery is 
prohibited, as in those places where it is tol- 
erated. We publish such instances of cruel- 
ty, then, because they are more common in 
slave countries, and because they expose the 
natural tendency of arbitrary power to abuse. 
But we have another reason for calling the 
attention of our readers to cases of this kind — 
a reason which anti-slavery publications often 
advert to, but the force of which the apologists 
of slavery are very reluctant to perceive. It is 
this. The feelings with which most white 
persons in slaveholding communities regard 
such horrible outrages as those committed by 
Laubscher on Lodewyk — the want of com- 
mon humanity which they exhibit where a 
slave is the injured party — demonstrate the 
thoroughly corrupting influence of slavery. 

But the advocate of oppression still urges, 
' Why do you tell us what happened at the 
Cape of Good Hope ? What has that to do 
with the Southern States ? If southern slave- 
ry is as bad, give us the facts.' We shall give 
facts enough in due time, and those who feel 
any doubt of the enormities practised by slave- 
holders at the south, will find facts enough to 
overwhelm them already on record, in the 
Liberator, the Genius of Universal Emancipa- 
tion, and other anti- slavery publications. 
Though the extent and enormity of the op- 
pression practised by slaveholders at the 
South are studiously concealed from the peo- 
ple of the North, and can only be visible to 
the omnipotent eye, enough and more than 
enough has appeared to make every unbiass- 
ed mind look with horror on the system. So 
far from doubting whether similar atrocities 
to those which Laubscher committed, would 
have been regarded in the Southern States as 
they were at the Cape, we know that cruel- 
ties equally revolting have occurred there, 
and the offenders have escaped without even 
an attempt made to bring them to justice. 

Let us not be misunderstood. Our charge 
is not that the great body of slaveholders are 
cruel and bloodthirsty, but that many more of 
them are guilty of acts of barbarity, than of 
an equal number of citizens of the Northern 
States, and that many who do not abuse their 
own slaves, look with unconcern on acts of 
brutal inhumanity committed by their neigh- 
bors. 



70 



Extracts from Mr. Snelling^s Address. 



EXTRACTS FROM AN ADDRESS, 

DELIVERED BEFORE THE N. E. ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY, BY WM. J. SWELLING, ESQ,. 

(Concluded.) 

I would, briefly, call your attention to the 
effects of prejudice upon the people of color 
in the free states. Permit me to say that 
they are not treated as free men and our po- 
litical equals, should be treated. If they are 
not our equals in wealth and learning, if more 
of them in proportion to their number, may be 
found in our prisons than of whites, is it not 
in a very considerable degree, our own fault ? 
No white mechanic takes a colored apprentice 
— the black has not the advantage of our 
schools — he gains not a convenient seat even 
in God's temple. His opportunities being 
less, his ignorance, and consequently his vice 
is more than ours. By treating him like a 
criminal we make him one, and we also make 
ourselves responsible, in a great measure at 
the judgment seat of God, for the crimes of 
which his compelled ignorance is the occasion. 

There are many who excuse their prejudice 
by pretending that the blacks are a race in- 
tellectually inferior to ourseles. They say 
that no one has ever arisen to eminence among 
us. True, plants that are much trodden 
upon seldom thrive. I would, however, beg 
leave to refer those who hold this injurious 
opinion to the pages of Denham, Lang and 
Clapperton. I think that they will there find 
no evidence of any natural inferiority on the 
part of the black man. On the contrary they 
will find honorable mention of curly haired 
kings, sable skinned generals and thick-lipped 
poets, whose strains the proudest bard that 
ever sang in English might be proud to ac- 
knowledge. But what need to go so far for 
argument, to refute this calumny, when we 
have them almost at our doors. Look at Hayti ! 
Thirty years ago, her now free inhabitants 
were slaves, as miserable and degraded as ar) 7 
that disgrace the soil of the continent. What 
are they now ? They are not only free, but 
more accomplished and better informed, as a 
people, than many nations of Europe. Hayti 
broke the bonds of her thraldom alone ; alone 
she contended with success against the utmost 
efforts of the most powerful empire of the 
earth ; ay, she shared with England the honor 
of having effectually resisted Napoleon Bona- 
parte in the zenith of his military and political 
omnipotence. Now she has her laws, her 
schools, her orators, her statesmen. I may 
say with safety that not even our own coun- 
try has made so great advances, considering' 
the difference of advantages. If I be asked 
to shew individual examples of intellectual 
superiority, I name Boyer, Petion, Christophe, 
and last, and greatest, the great, the noble, 
the magnanimous, the unfortunate Toussaint 
L'Ouverture. Whoever has read the life of 
Toussaint will readily acknowledge, that no 



revolutionary chief who ever existed, can be 
compared with him in all that constitutes true 
greatness, save our own immortal Washing- 
ton. Ay, had Toussaint L'Ouverture been 
blessed with a white skin, hundreds would 
have gone in pilgrimage to his untimely grave, 
and watered the sod that covers it with their 
tears. 

I think, that if the people of Hayti may be 
esteemed to represent the black race, that 
race may justly assert a superiority over some 
of the fairest of the Caucasian varieties. 

Many are willing to emancipate the slaves, 
provided they can be sent home, to their own 
country ; that is, to Africa. I should be glad 
to hear it proved, that Africa is the country 
of blacks born in America. I have always 
thought that a man's allegiance is due to the 
country in which he is born, and I am yet to 
learn the contrary. Do the free blacks con- 
sider Africa as their home ? Do they joyfully 
accept the assistance of the American Colo- 
nization Society to get home ? No, they are 
almost universally opposed to the scheme. 
They have lately held many conventions, and 
passed many resolutions opposing it. This, 
they hold, is their native land. They are re- 
solved to remain in it, and to share its fortunes. 
They are right — here they were born, here 
their kindred abide, they speak its language, 
they are governed by its laws, they contribute 
their mite to its support — they know no other. 
They love the land that despises and oppress- 
es them, and would fain cast them forth as 
aliens and outcasts. All the ill treatment they 
have received, all the iniquitous laws that 
have been been passed against them, have 
not been able to alienate their love from Ame- 
rica. There may be some among them will- 
ing to emigrate, there may even be more than 
the Colonization Society can find means to 
transport, but, as a body, they are devotedly- 
attached to the soil that gave them birth. 
We may wonder at their patriotism, but we 
cannot deny its existence. The secret of it 
lies in four words — this is their country. 

If the American blacks are Africans, then 
jwe, most of us are Englishmen. All of us are, 
Europeans. It is a bad rule that will not work 
both ways. Let us suppose that the dreadful 
and dreaded cholera should fall so heavily and 
exclusively upon us whites, as to make us the 
minority of the population. Suppose that 
the majority should then insist upon sending 
us to our own country— what answer could we 
make ? It would only be reversing the case. 

Supposing- it just and practicable to expel 
our colored brethren, ought we to desire then- 
removal, as a matter of policy ? The expulsion 
of the Huguenots from France, is universally 
considered one of the most impolitic acts ever 
performed by arbitrary power. Spain drove 
out the Moors. More than three centuries have 
since elapsed, and she has not yet recovered 
from the consequence of her own suicidal act. 



Extracts from Mr. Snelling's Address. 



71 



Can wo spare two millions and a half of peo- 
ple ? Let us suppose that the labor of each 
individual is worth four-pence half-penny a 
day over and above the charges of his main- 
tenance, which is certainly a very moderate 
calculation. At this rate, their labor is worth 
a hundred and fifty-six thousand two hundred 
and fifty dollars per diem, or something ex- 
ceeding fifty-seven millions annually. Can 
we afford to lose so vast an amount ? Have 
Ave, the people of the free states, especially, 
any reason to desire the absence of the free 
blacks ? They are almost all seamen or la- 
borers. If they contribute more occupants to 
our prisons than we do, in proportion to their 
numbers, the same reproach will also apply 
to the class of poor foreigners, which the Colo- 
nization Society has not yet thought of re- 
moving. They can perform as much labor as 
so many whites. If their presence be a dis- 
advantage to us, it is daily decreasing, for they 
do not increase in the same ratio with us, and 
their moral condition is daily improving. A 
spirit of inquiry is abroad among them. They 
have discovered that knowledge is power and 
riches and honor. They can almost all write 
and read. Many of them have property, pay 
taxes and are united with their white brethren 
in church fellowship. Many are able writers, 
as a reference to the journals of their conven- 
tions will prove. Some of the reports of these 
bodies are equal to the official papers of any 
legislative body. I can produce composition 
written by blacks which the best scholar in 
the land need not be ashamed of. They are, 
to my certain knowledge, endeavoring to es- 
tablish schools, and to give their children 
trades. Why should we wish to drive such 
people into exile ? We certainly shall have 
room for them, for a hundred years to come. 
They are too few to take away the employ- 
ment of white laborers. If they continue to 
improve, their usefulness will increase, and if 
they do not we shall be none the worse than 
we are now. It seems to me that it is rather 
our duty to aid those who are willing to help 
themselves, than to drive them away from us. 
It is susceptible of mathematical demonstra- 
tion, that it is impossible to get rid of our black 
population. There are two millions and a 
half of them, and their annual increase is fifty 
six thousand. Every individual whom the 
Colonization Society has removed, has, ac- 
cording to their own account, cost them thirty 
dollars. At this rate, it will cost more than 
two millions per annum, to remove the increase 
alone, and to even diminish the evil, more than 
the increase must be exported. It would cost, 
according to the estimate of the Colonization 
Society, ninety millions of dollars and take 
thirty years to effect their entire removal. 
And this supposes that owners would give up 
their slaves without compensation. I leave 
you to judge if such liberality can be expect- 
ed from them. If it cannot, the weight of 



their flesh and bones in coined silver would 
not suffice for the purpose. This is no dream, 
no speculation, but the result of arithmetical 
computation, from the data of these misguided 

philanthropists. 

What nation was ever depopulated by grad- 
ual emigration ? Some countries of the north 
of Europe, have sent their inhabitants forth 
en masse, indeed, but we cannot send forth 
our black population so. All the shipping of 
the United States, would not suffice to do it. 
We are ten millions, a mighty branch from 
the parent trunk, but that trunk is as large and 
as vigorous as ever. Ireland does, not miss 
the thousands, I might say millions, whom 
she has given to the new world and the battle 
field. 

There is an old proverb, which, though 
coarse, is expressive and true. The proof of 
the pudding is in the eating thereof. The 
American Colonization Society have been en- 
gaged in the work of expatriation more than 
fourteen years, and have exported, in that 
time, as they say, twenty-five hundred per- 
sons, some small trifle more than the increase 
of a single fortnight. Truly this is baling a 
cask with a wine glass, while another is filling 
it with a bucket. When I believe that the 
ocean cam be emptied with a scoop, then I 
will believe that they can effect their purpose. 

I do not impeach the motives of this socie- 
ty. On the contrary, I believe them to be good. 
They hope to colonize Africa. I hope they 
will. They believe that the blacks can never 
be happy here, and propose to place them 
where they will be more happily situated. 
They hold out to the nation the prospect of 
eventually getting rid of all its blacks, and to 
the blacks they hold out a perspective para- 
dise in Africa. I believe, that while they 
imagine that they are doing good, they are 
really doing evil to both whites and blacks. 

I think, that whoever v/ill take the trouble 
to examine the subject will agree with me, 
that a gradual abolition is hopeless — impossi- 
ble. I think that nine of every ten who listen 
to their reports are content to take what they 
say on trust, being blinded, on this subject, by 
prejudice. Many a man would feel alarmed 
for his country, and bestir himself in behalf of 
the slaves, but for the fallacious hope of- a 
gradual cure of the disease, which they hold 
out to him. In this way they wrong the 
whites much — the blacks more. 

I believe, and I have good reason to be- 
lieve, that the reports respecting the condition 
of the colony of Liberia, which are monthly 
and daily promulgated by the agents of this 
society, are delusive. I believe, indeed, that 
the soil of Africa is good, but I am also firmly 
convinced that the climate is deadly, that half 
the emigrants who reach Liberia die, that the 
rest undergo a six months seasoning fever, 
that the civilization of Africa has not advanc- 



n 



Extracts from Mr. Snelling's Address. 



ed a jot for the last five years, that the colo- 
nists are subjected to an odious oligarchy, that 
there are not so many of them as the agents 
of the society have stated, and finally, that the 
majority of those actually settled there would 
return to America if they could. It is known 
to all here, that people from all civilized parts 
of the globe, seek America as aland of prom- 
ise, but I have never heard that any have 
sought Liberia as a refuge from poverty or 
oppression, beautiful as it has been represent- 
ed. But I rest my belief on more certain 
grounds — on letters received by a friend from 
a Liberian colonist, which certainly do not 
agree with the statements of the African Re- 
pository, or the reports of the Colonization 
Society. 

I believe, that the Colonization Society en- 
hances the value of slaves, and thereby en- 
courages the domestic slave trade, and induces 
owners to tighten their grasp on their bond- 
men. For, it is evident, that if a certain num- 
ber of slaves be exported from any state, 
Georgia, for example, the loss of their labor 
is felt, those who remain become more valu- 
able to their masters, and others are soon 
brought from other States to fill the vacancy. 
I know, that the Society, does in its reports, 
brand all plans for the abolition of slavery, 
with the opprobrious name of madness. I 
know, that they do describe the free blacks as 
the most wretched, degraded race that ever 
polluted the earth, and insist that their con- 
dition never can be improved here. Let him 
who doubts, axamine the African Repository 
and the Society's official reports. These 
statements and assumptions are echoed and 
approved by all the enemies of the blacks, all 
the gradual abolitionists, all the slaveholders, 
and more than half the public prints in the 
Union. They destroy the hopes of the free 
black, who aims at improvement, for can it be 
matter of wonder, that, hearing hundreds bet- 
ter informed than himself say these things, he 
should believe himself an outcast, from whom 
no good can ever proceed ? They take away 
his motives to virtuous exertion, and thus use 
indirect compulsion to induce him to emigrate. 
They encourage and foster an unholy preju- 
dice, which crushes the black to the dust, 
which they tell him that he is unworthy to 
tread. But I need not dilate farther on this 
head, since a week has scarcely elapsed, since 
I heard a prominent member of the American 
Colonization Society, publicly acknowledge, 
that the value of slaves was enhanced, and 
the degradation of all negroes, perpetuated by 
the means I have mentioned. 

It is cruel, absurd and unchristian, to tell 
the negro, that he never can be happy or re- 
spectable in the land of his birth. Give him, 
at least, an opportunity of making the experi- 
ment. If a black mechanic shall work cheap- 
er and better than his neighbors, will you not 
•employ him ? If a black merchant shall deal 



on better terms than his white competitor 
will you not buy of him ? When a black phy- 
sician, shall have proved his skill superior to 
that of others, will you not take his prescrip- 
tion ? With him who will not, prejudice is 
stronger than interest or reason, and it is no 
matter how soon disease shall bring him to 
his senses. Give the black a fair chance- 
let him have the means of instruction— let all 
trades and professions be open to him. The 
laws do not forbid him to follow any honest 
calling, and these cases are, therefore, possi- 
ble. If, two hundred years hence, there shall 
be no respectable or respected blacks in the 
country, it will then be time enough, to agree 
with the Colonization Society, that a dark skin 
is a natural, and therefore, a just cause of of- 
fence. 

I believe that I do not condemn the Colo- 
nization Society on light grounds, or without 
a trial. They have tried themselves in the 
balance, and have proved themselves wanting. 
Fourteen years are enough to give to any ex- 
periment. They have been at work that time, 
and have utterly failed to effect each and eve- 
ry one of the objects they undertook to accom- 
plish. Their labors have not even made 
themselves felt by any class but the free 
blacks, whose misery they have, slightly, in- 
creased. It is time to look for the cure of a 
great national shame and scandal by other 
means than theirs. 

If then we cannot get rid of our slaves, shall 
we do nothing ? Shall we suffer the evil to 
grow from bad to worse ? Something, the 
slaveholders themselves admit, must be done. 
The case is a crying one. Remember South- 
ampton. Shall we not endeavor to prevent 
a repetition of the horrors of that massacre ? 
The peace of the South is gone forever. — 
Bloody retaliation and restrictive laws only 
make the matter worse. The ignorance of 
the slaves is no security, for it cannot last. — 
They have at last committed to memory a 
precept which their own masters have taught 
them, on such days as this. No slaveholder 
now feels his life safe. Will not our southern 
brethren permit us to mention the abolition of 
slavery ? Then they will one day hear free- 
dom to mankind proclaimed in a voice that will 
please them less than ours. Will they not 
give their slaves instruction ? They will get 
it in spite of them. Millions cannot be kept 
in ignorance forever. Will they not give 
them the blessings of religion ? Then some 
dark Mahomet will one day give them a relig- 
ion of their own. If they do not join with us 
in some measures of abolition, their slaves will 
at least try to set themselves free. Let us try 
to discover some means to avert the bloody 
day of reckoning, which, in all human proba- 
bility, must arrive sooner or later. 

As we cannot get rid of the blacks, it be- 
hoves us to make their situation safe and tol- 
erable to ourselves and them. Here they are, 



The South Sea Islander. 



73 



Wad here they will and must remain, unless we 
exterminate them, whether we like it or not. 
It is certainly better to have them our friends 
than our enemies. If there is danger in im- 
mediate emancipation, there is yet more in the 
continuance of slavery. The massacre of 
San Domingo and the late insurrection of Po- 
land ought to be warnings to us. If we give 
them freedom, we shall have a claim on their 
gratitude ; if we do not, they will have every 
thing to hate and nothing to love us for. Had 
we not better give with a good grace, what 
we cannot safely hold a minute ? 

I do not believe that there is danger in im- 
mediate abolition, or that the interests of the 
slaveholders would materially suffer by it. — 
By abolition, I do not mean that any planter 
should give up his house and plantation to his 
slaves. The negroes are laborers now, and if 
freed would be laborers still. The relations 
between the two parties would not be much 
changed. Besides the whites would only re- 
linquish what they have no right to keep, and 
something is due to justice, as well as to in- 
terest and expediency. 

Something must be done, or we must pa- 
tiently await an evil which is inevitable. — 
Whatever we do must be brought about by 
the force of public opinion. Let me say, that 
what the slaves themselves think Avill ere long 
be no unimportant matter. They, may rebel, 
and they may be put down again. I have lit- 
tle doubt that they would. But the game will 
be repeated over and over again, for the march 
of intellect is ever onward. In the mean while 
what will be the condition of the south ? It 
will be more just, more humane, and cheaper 
to set the slaves free at once. Our southern 
brethren may be surrounded, if they will, with 
intelligent, grateful friends. If they will not, 
they must be surrounded with brutal and re- 
vengeful enemies, and we must be called on 
to protect them. A worm turns when tram- 
pled on. It is our business. Justice, interest, 
humanity and reason demand our interference. 

Many there are who decline to take any ac- 
tive interest in the important question of the 
abolition of slavery, because they say and 
think that their individual exertions and influ- 
ence can avail nothing, and that it is best to 
watch the course of events quietly. If all men 
held this- doctrine, no important measure could 
ever be taken. If our fathers had all thought 
so, the battle of Bunker's Hill would never 
have been fought, our independence would 
never have been achieved. Massachusetts 
would now be a British colony. In ours, 
as in all republics, the will, or in other 
words, the opinion of the majority must rule, 
and I doubt not that the majority will one day 
soon be of opinion that the abolition of slave- 
ry is indispensible. They would be of that 
opinion now, could they but be prevailed on to 
think on this subject. Evils seen in perspec- 
tive are little regarded, but let one draft 

VOL. I. 



be made of the able bodied men of the free 
states, and the attention of the whole commu- 
nity will be roused. 

Every man has some influence, and ought 
to exert it in all matters that concern the wel- 
fare of his fellows. The mere opinion of any 
individual, if it do but excite the attention of 
his neighbor, has some influence on the con- 
duct of that neighbor. I do not aspire on this 
occasion to convince, but I hope to induce 
some to think, and therefore to convince them- 
selves. So thoroughly am I convinced of the 
holiness of the cause in which I am at this 
moment engaged, and of the soundness of 
the sentiments I have advanced, that I have 
none, the smallest doubt, that whosoever will 
examine, will embrace them, and make con- 
verts, in his turn, in a similar manner. I do 
not believe that a word spoken on this sub- 
ject can be thrown away. I believe' that no 
two sensible men can converse on this topic 
without coming eventually to a conviction of 
the utter folly, injustice and impolicy of at- 
tempting to expatriate our black population, of 
the necessity of abolition, and of the futility 
of the reasons which induce so many to op- 
pose it. There can be no subject of more im- 
portance to us all, and I do earnestly entreat 
all who bear me, to think of it and talk of it. 
If you will do this, you will also act on it. 
The good work must and will go on, in spite 
of all opposition. Let me be called zealot, 
enthusiast, visionary, fanatic, what you will, 
still I would say, were it with my last breath, 
FORWARD ! 



[For the Abolitionist.] 

THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDER. 

(Concluded.) 

After Ellen had concluded, I inquired if 
nothing could be done by the friends of relig- 
ion and humanity for this oppressed people ? 
Philo replied that while the laws of the coun- 
try were opposed to the laws of religion and 
humanity, little could be done by individuals — 
especially while a great proportion of the peo- 
ple, from motives of self-interest, violently op- 
posed any attempt to make a change in these 
laws. All they can do, at present, is to excite 
a spirit of inquiry on the subject of slavery, 
and endeavor to open the eyes of the commu- 
nity to its true character. 

From this time we had frequent discussions 
upon this subject. One day when we were 
thus engaged, Mr. B., a gentleman I had be- 
fore seen, came in, and as we continued the 
conversation, he remarked that people now-a- 
days seemed to be slavery mad : for his part, 
he saw no great harm in it: the slaves, he 
thought, were quite as happy as others of the 
laboring classes. 

' If that is the case,' said my friend, ' how 
happens it that no person was ever found who 
was willing to exchange conditions with them ?' 
10 



74 



The South Sea Islander. 



' Why,' replied he, ' people do not always 
know when they are well off.' ' 

'Who is to be the judge, then?' said I — 
' Surely not those who are benefited by keep- 
ing them in slavery ?' 

' No,' said Philo, ' the party concerned is 
never allowed to sit as judge or jury in his 
own case. Now I aver,' continued he, ' that 
slavery is not only a great evil, but a great 
sin.' 

' That it may be an evil, I will admit,' said 
Mr. B. ; ' but I do not see that it is a sin. It 
was practised at the time our Saviour was 
upon earth, and he did not condemn it, but by 
his Apostles, gave directions to servants to be 
obedient to their masters.' 

' Yes,' said Philo, ' and the word of inspira- 
tion has also said, "remember those in bonds ; 
as bound yourselves." But what I would con- 
tend for is, that for one portion of the human 
family to keep another portion of it in a state 
slavery, is utterly opposed to the laws of God, 
as revealed in the New Testament. It is true, 
it did not appear to be the object of our Sa- 
viour, while upon earth, to make any violent 
changes in the existing state of things ; but in 
laying down the principles of his religion, lie 
furnished rules for the conduct of all his fol- 
lowers. If you can point out a single precept 
of our Saviour which does not totally oppose 
the system slavery, I will yield the point. — 
No — the whole spirit of Christianity is in per- 
fect accordance with the words of God, as de- 
lineated by the prophet Isaiah : — ' Is not this 
the part that I have chosen ? to loose the bands 
of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and 
let the oppressed go free, and that ye break 
every yoke ?' I can truly say I know of no 
greater sin than that traffic which makes one 
man the property of another. Indeed, strictly 
speaking-, this cannot be done — for man be- 
longs alone to his Maker ;— but injustice and 
oppression are great usurpers.' 

Mr. B. now thought it time to say some- 
thing ; and he observed that he could not view 
it in this light — for to him there appeared a 
perfect congruity between slavery and the 
general order of things — that there seemed to 
be a gradual descent from the first cause of 
all things to the lowest animal, and that slaves 
appeared to compose one step in this scale of 
gradation — that the Africans were evidently 
intended for this place, as they were inferior 
both in their intellectual and moral powers. — 
' And you know,' said he,with much sang froid, 
* there must be hewers of wood and drawers of 
water.' 

'Really, Mr. B.' said Philo, 'I should not 
have suspected you of such old fashioned, not 
to say unphilosophical notions. Why, you 
would scarcely find among the slaveholders 
themselves, one hardy enough to express such 
a sentiment. So you would make Africans 
the connecting link between men and brutes. 
No, depend upon it, the line between human 



beings and the inferior animals is too' distincJ 
to be thus confounded. Without, however.; 
contending for the equality of the whole hu- 
man race, I would inquire if, by the same rule., 
we might not enslave all those who discover 
any inferiority of intellect, or moral obliquity 
among ourselves ? Would it not, besides be- 
ing extremely cruel, be the ready way of per- 
petuating this inferiority, and lead to the worst 
of consequences ? No, sir, it is not the nature 
but the condition of the slave, which gives him 
this inferiority. Once place before him the 
incentives to exertion which actuate other 
men, and you will see him display the same 
powers.' 

'How happens it, then,' said Mr. B. 'that 
we find the free blacks always among the 
most degraded part of our community ?' 

'Why, that,' replied Philo, 'can very easily 
be accounted for: having but recently emerg- 
ed from slavery themselves, and marked by the 
same color as those who remain in that state, 
they have every prejudice to contend with; 
but, relieve the whole race from this deaden- 
ing influence, and see if they would long re- 
main the poor despicable wretches which they 
are now presumed to be.' 

'Perhaps,' said Mr. B. 'it would be well 
enough to try the experiment, if they could be 
gradually emancipated; but to overrun the 
country suddenly by such a savage horde ? 
would be a most dangerous project.' 

'No such thing is thought of,' said Philo, 
' by those who contend for immediate aboli- 
tion : their labor would be as much needed on 
the plantations after, as before their freedom. 
It would only be recognizing their rights as 
men, instead of viewing them as things, to be 
bought and sold at the caprice of their own- 
ers. Their very masters would, I have not a 
doubt, by the exchange, find grateful and at- 
tached and active servants, instead of slothful, 
sullen, or revengeful slaves.' 

'But,' inquired Mr. B. 'what compensation 
is the master to have for all this sacrifice of 
property.' 

' Why, after all,' said Philo, ' what great sa- 
crifice will he make ? He will have, as I ob- 
served before, attached servants instead of 
slaves. And suppose the wages he would be 
obliged give them should amount to a little 
more than the food and clothing he had before 
supplied, it would probably be more, than com- 
pensated by the zeal and fidelity with which 
he would be served. But supposing the case 
of immediate abolition, how can you prove that 
such would be the consequences ? I can 
prove it, first, upon the principle of human na- 
ture, which is always softened by kindness, 
and stimulated to exertion by the hope of re- 
ward ; and, secondly, by facts which you will 
find with a little examination, abundantly prove 
my position. I do not know of a single in- 
stance of evil consequences arising to the 
master from having liberated his slave.' 



The South Sea Islander. 



75 



Ellen now remarked that her own observa- 
tion would enable her to confirm both of the 
above assertions of her brother. . 

' Yes,' said she, ' during my absence I be- 
came well acquainted with a gentleman who, 
though he was a slaveholder, such was his love 
of justice, and Ins sense of religious obligation, 
■acting upon a naturally humane and tender 
heart, that the system of slavery appeared to 
him in all its native deformity, and he confes- 
sed to me that not a day passed that his con- 
science did not reproach him with his guilt in 
this matter. 'And you,' he would say, 'who 
are from the north, where this evil does not 
exist, I know must be continually shocked at 
witnessing it. But what can I do ? Heaven 
knows, I would gladly be rid of it. But my 
family ! — by freeing my slaves, I should leave 
them in poverty. And this I cannot resolve 
to do.' You may perceive that his moral 
sense was still somewhat obscured by the re- 
lations in which he stood, or he would not thus 
have hesitated in the performance of his duty. 
Though he was in health when these conver- 
sations passed, before I left the place he died, 
and by his will it was found that he had given 
freedom to four of his most valuable slaves. — 
And his widow, who related afterwards the 
circumstances to me, said it was truly interest- 
ing to observe the characteristic manner in 
which they severally received this inestimable 
boon, but all with expressions of the most 
heart-felt joy: they were of one family, three 
sisters and a brother — to the sisters, she was 
herself the bearer of the glad tidings. One 
danced and clapped her hands ; another burst 
into tears, and sobbed out— Oh ! my clear mas- 
ter, it was just like him ; the third received it 
with a modest dignity, as if she felt that she 
had only been put in possession of her just 
rights. They all, however, continued upon 
the plantation in the regular discharge of their 
accustomed employments, but with renewed 
alacrity ; for the iron yoke of slavery no long- 
er weighed heavily upon them. 

' Ah, Miss Ellen,' said Mr. B. ' that is a pleas- 
ing picture, I allow ; but does it not owe some- 
thing to your imagination.' 

' Nothing, sir, you may depend upon it. It 
is but a simple statement of facts, without the 
least embellishment. But I have still another 
fact to relate, which will no less prove our 
point. It is customary for the planters to allow 
their slaves small patches of ground to culti- 
vate for their own profit, either to raise vege- 
tables for their own use, or to sell if they pre- 
fer itl This small privilege, I believe, is sel- 
dom neglected, and by their zeal and industry 
is often made productive of very considerable 
gain. But the instance which I was going to 
mention will show to what an extreme this is 
sometimes carried. A gentleman, who had 
made the usual allowance to his slaves, per- 
ceived in the course of time, that a certain 
slave, who had been one of his most robust 



and active hands, discovered marks of feeble- 
ness and exhaustion which surprised him, as 
there was evidently no unwillingness to work, 
and he did not seem to be affected by any spe- 
cific disease. He determined, however, to 
watch him and discover, if he could, the cause. 
The mystery was soon unravelled : he found 
that he had long been in the habit of depriving 
himself almost wholly of sleep to work upon 
this little piece of ground — (ah ! what an effect- 
ing picture does not this present!) But the 
worst of it is not yet told: his master thought 
that in justice to himself, and kindness to his 
slave, he ought to deprive him of this engross- 
ing employment ; and accordingly took away 
from him altogether, his beloved and too much 
cherished garden. Indeed, I afterwards learnt 
that this was frequently done, when the slaves 
overworked themselves in this way, which was 
often the case.' 

As Ellen concluded this recital, my blood 
boiled in my veins ; and such was my indig- 
nation, I could scarcely help breaking out into 
some intemperate expressions. Even Mr. B. 
seemed moved, but said that all these instan- 
ces related to slaves naturally well disposed, 
good characters ; but, in case of immediate 
abolition, what, let me ask, is to be done with 
the idle and vicious ? 

'Why,' replied my friend, 'let the refracto- 
ry ones become amenable to the laws, and be 
dealt with in the same way that other crimi- 
nals are. I see no difficulty in it — it would 
certainly relieve the master from a great deal 
of trouble, to say the least.' 

' Then there are the children and the in- 
firm — what is to become of them ? The mas- 
ter, yon know, would no longer be responsi- 
ble for their maintenance.' 

' Certainly not, (though, in fact, they ought 
to support the latter class at least, who have 
spent their strength in their service,) but should 
they, as probably would be the case, become 
dependant on those to whom nature has given 
them a claim, if the laborer received his just 
recompense, he would have no difficulty in 
performing this duty. And what man is there, 
who would not rather work a little harder, sup- 
posing it were necessary, to support his child 
or helpless parent, than to see them fed by the 
miserable portion dealed out by the grudging 
hand of his oppressor ? ' 

' Why, my dear sir,' said Mr. B. laughing, 
'you seem to forget the low and degraded 
character of the slaves, when you suppose 
them capable of such honorable sentiments. 
Now I admit that what you state might be the 
case, if they should be first educated, and then 
gradually emancipated.' 

'Allow me, Mr. B. to say,' continued my 
friend, ' that you are in my opinion entirely 
mistaken. You begin at the wrong end. No 
— liberate first, and then educate ; for knowl- 
edge and slavery cannot exist together, any 
more than light and darkness — for the first ray 



76 



The South Sea islander. 



that breaks in upon their minds, will reveal 
to them their rights, and lead them to burst 
their fetters at any and every hazard. Igno- 
rance and slavery are natural allies. A slave 
is the most unteachable creature upon earth, 
and nothing can more plainly show the abomi- 
nable nature of the system, than its incom- 
patibility with education, all which can raise 
a human being above a brute.' 

Mr. B. evidently not wishing to pursue the 
argument in a direct course, from the fear of a 
defeat ; for he appeared to possess too much 
judgment not to perceive that he was on the 
wrong side, turned to Ellen and said, 

' Now, Miss Ellen, I appeal to you : did not 
most of the slaves appear to be very content- 
ed and happy ? ' 

' They, many of them certainly did,' replied 
she, ' and some of them seemed to think that 
black people were made to serve white people, 
and that it was impossible for them, to learn 
to read and write.' v 

' There,' said Mr. B. to Philo, ' what do you 
think of that?' 

'Think of it? 'said he, 'why, I think if I 
were going to depict Slavery in its most ap- 
palling colors, I should dwell with peculiar 
emphasis upon this fact ; for what can more 
completely show its stupifying and besotting 
nature, than its having - the power to make hu- 
man beings so insensible to their true inter- 
ests, and so ignorant of their just rights ?' 

'I would not,' said Ellen, ' be understood to 
say, that all are contented and happy — far 
from it ; for very many, perhaps the greater 
part, suffer from feelings too, keenly corroded 
by a sense of their wrongs ; and 1 have heard 
of instances where the desire of liberty was 
bo strong as to occasion a hopeless despon- 
dency, which death only could relieve. In- 
deed, I have found, where I have been, that 
great fear was entertained even of those who 
appeared the most faithful, should any thing 
like an insurrection occur ; and there are not 
a few who betray, either by a sullen discon- 
tent, or a disdainful indifference, their perfect 
readiness for open hostility.' 

Though I had listened with intense interest 
to this discussion, and had been successively 
agitated by various emotions, I had not open- 
ed my lips ; but I now ventured to inquire, 
what was the labor in which the slaves were 
employed ? My friend replied that the prin- 
cipal part of it consisted in the cultivation of 
sugar, cotton, coffee and rice. And are these 
articles all consumed by the planters them- 
selves ? I inquired. 

Mr. B. at this, seemed very much diverted, 
and asked, if I supposed they acquired their 
princely fortunes in that way ? 

I felt mortified, though I could not see any 
thing so very absurd in my question ; and, 
turning to my friend, I asked, how then the 
produce of their labor was disposed of? — for, 
continued I, it surely cannot be purchased 



and consumed by any but those who either 
approve, or view Slavery with indifference ', 
and I should hope the number of such was 
very small. At this, I observed Philo and his 
sister exchange glances, and for a few mo- 
ments there was a total silence. At length 
said Philo, 

' Your queries do not at all surprise me, for 
they are such as could not fail to be made by 
every person who viewed the subject in it& ' 
proper light. No, the master would have but 
little use for his slave, if it were only to fur- 
nish subsistence for himself and his family ; 
but, on the contrary, most of the products of 
their labor are consumed by these very peo- 
ple who profess to condemn the system, and 
lament over it, and ivish the evil could be re- 
moved, without even for a moment seeming to 
have the thought cross their mind, that they 
are the ones who are the upholders and sup- 
porters of it. But once let such a just spirit 
of resistance prevail as to induce each and 
every one to make the generous resolution to 
forego the use of any of these productions, 
unless furnished by free labor, and we should 
find it would possess a power to lift this dead- 
ly weight, which now broods like an incubus 
over that fair portion of our country ; for self- 
interest would soon point out to the slave- 
holder the only way in which he could make 
the products of his soil profitable, would be to 
liberate his slaves.' 

Mr. B. now changed his mirth into anger, 
and told my friend, with some warmth, that 
he should not have expected such a wild pro- 
position to proceed from him. ' Why, you do 
not seem to take into account the immense 
disorder, distress, and confusion, such a com- 
bination as this would occasion, both in com- 
merce and manufactories, to say nothing of in- 
dividual privation and inconvenience.' 

'I am perfectly aware,' said Philo, 'that, for 
a time, it might operate as you suppose ; but 
should any thing be put in competition with 
doing right ? However, I have nothing to say 
to any one, who, after having put it fairly to 
his conscience, can say he sees no harm in 
taking his portion of the labor of the slave.' 

I agreed perfectly with my friend, and de- 
termined thenceforth to use none of these ar- 
ticles, without first inquiring from what source 
they came. We now separated, and for my- 
self, at least, occupied by a new train of 
thought, my wealth now no longer .seemed 
useless to me ; for gigantic schemes for'the 
release and benefit of Slaves filled my imagi- 
nation. 

Note. It ought to be mentioned that the 
story of George and Letty in the first part of 
the South Sea Islander, and those of the 
emancipated slaves, and of the slaves over- 
working themselves on their own grounds, in 
this part, are facts. 



Letter from Arthur Tappan, Esq.— Traffic in Human Flesh. 



77 



[From the Liberator.] 
LETTER FROM ARTHUR TAPPAN, ESQ. 

Theol. Seminar;/, March 29, 1833. 
Mr. Garrison: — In the correspondence of 
the Anti-Slavery Society, in this Seminary, 
the following communication has been receiv- 
ed from a distinguished philanthropist, which, 
it is presumed, will be read with interest by 
the christian community. 

« New- York, March 26, 1833. 
Mr. Lewis F. Laine, Secretary of the Anti- 
Slavery Society, in the Theological Semi- 
nary, at Andover. 

Dear Sir — Your communication of the 8th 
inst, has remained till now unanswered, in 
consequence of a press of other cares. You 
ask my opinion of the Colonization Society, 
and suggest the inquiry, 'Whether, with its 
present principles and character, it is worthy 
of the patronage of the christian public ?' My 
engagements do not admit of my giving an 
elaborate answer to this inquiry, or explaining 
at length my views of the Colonization project. 
When this Society was organized, I was 
one of its warmest friends, and anticipatad 
great good from its influence, both in chris- 
tianizing Africa and .abolishing slavery in our 
country. At one time, I had a plan for estab- 
lishing a line of Packets, between this city 
and the colony, and for opening a trade with 
the interior of Africa. I also offered to pay 
$1,000 to the Society, if the 100 individuals, 
proposed in the plan of G. Smith, could be 
found within one year. I mention these things 
to show how heartily I entered into the 
scheme. 

The first thing that shook my confidence in 
the Society, was the fact, that ardent spirits 
were allowed to be sold at the colony, and, as 
the Agents wrote me from Liberia, in giving 
the assortment suitable to make up an invoice, 
were considered * indispensable.' I used the 
little influence I had, with the Society, to ob- 
tain a prohibition to the admission of ardent 
spirits into the colony, with what success may 
be seen in the * fact, that no less than four- 
teen hundred barrels of the liquid poison, 
have been sold there within a year. With 
my feelings somewhat cooled by the knowl- 
edge that ardent spirits, tobacco, powder and 
balls, were leading articles of trade at the 
colony, I read with some care the arguments of 
that distinguished and fearless philanthropist, 
W. L. Garrison, in the Liberator, and was 
soon led to ask myself whether this ' splendid 
scheme of benevolence' was not a device of 
Satan, to rivet still closer the fetters of the 
slaves, and to deepen the prejudice against the 
free colored people. I now believe it is, and 
that it had its origin in the single motive, to get 
rid of the free colored people, that the slaves 



may be held in greater safety. Good men have 
been drawn into it, under the delusive idea, 
that it would break the chains of slavery and 
evangelize Africa; but the day is not far dis- 
tant, I believe, when the Society will be re- 
garded in its true character, and deserted by 
every one who wishes to see a speedy end 
put to slavery, in this land of boasted freedom. 
You are at liberty, to make what use you 
please, of this expression of my sentiments. 
I rejoice to witness the effort that is every 
where making, to 'let the captive go free,' and 
that the number is daily increasing of those 
who are resolved not to cease their efforts in 
every lawful way, to secure to our colored 
fellow citizens, equal rights with others. That 
your Society may be eminently instrumental 
in dissipating prejudice, and pouring light upon 
the intellect of the millions of our countrymen 
who are held in bondage, is the earnest prayer 
of your fellow laborer, 

ARTHUR TAPPAN. 



* This statement, I am assured is made on unques- 
tionable authority, and it is not contradicted by the 
Colonization Society. 



TRAFFIC IN HUMAN FLESH. 

The traffic in 'slaves and souls of men 7 
forms the most extensive branch of American 
commer-ce ! — As specimens of the manner in 
which these unhappy, guiltless beings are of- 
fered for sale, we copy the following adver- 
tisements from southern newspapers. Well 
may abolitionists be excused, in view of this 
horrible spectacle, if they exhibit great indig- 
nation and intense ardor. Blush, republicans I 
Mourn, christians ! 

BY HENRY o'HARA. 

To-morrow, 28th inst. will be sold, at the north 
side of the Custom House, at 11 o'clock, 
CHLOE, a good Cook, Washer and Ironerv 

and her Five Children, the eldest, a Boy 14,, 

Eliza 12, Thomas 10, Anny 8, and Mick 5 

years old. 

BINAH, a good Cook, Washer and Ironer, 

and her 3 children, Cuffee, a boy 12, Hagar 9, 

and Binah 6 years old. 
P ATIENCE,a prime young Mulatto woman 

20 years old, a first rate Servant, of warranted 

character. 

BY BEE & CARTER. 

On Friday, 29th inst. will be sold, at the north 
side of the Custom House, at 11 o'clock, 
The balance of Negroes unsold, belonging 

to an assigned Estate,by order of the Assignee. 

CONSISTING OF 

Six valuable Fellows, Ship Carpenters and 
Caulkers, among* whom are some of the best 
workmen in the city. 

Conditions — Approved endorsed Notes, pay- 
able in 60 days, with interest from date, and 
mortgage of property. Purchasers to pay for 
papers. f2 Feb. 27. 

BY BEE & CARTER. 

On Tuesday, 5th March, will be sold, at the 
north side of the Custom House, at 11 



Safety of Emancipation. 



o'clock, belonging to the Estate of Wm. 

McKinsie Parker, deceased. 

A prime and orderly gang of 62 Negroes, 
accustomed to the culture of Sea Island Cot- 
ton, among whom are 29 Workers, 3 half 
Hands, and 8 Boys and Girls from 10 to 14 
years old. 

BY THOMAS N. GADSDEN. 

To-morrow, 18th inst. will be sold at the north 
of the Exchange, at 11 o'clock, 

THREE VALUABLE NEGROES. 

A prime young Wench, about 17 years old, 
a complete House Servant, and good Seams- 
tress, and a very likely Boy, between 13 and 
14 years of age. 

N. B, These Negroes are all of warranted 
characters, and can be treated for at private 
sale any time before the day of sale. 

BY S. PHILBRICK. 

A Negro Woman, about 35 years of age, a 
good plain cook and washer, accustomed to 
house-work and sewing. 

Also, a Negro Fellow and his wife and a 
child, about 2 years old — good field hands. 

BY J. B. HERBERT & CO. 

At Private Sale — A Negro Woman, 40 years 
old, a good field hand, and her daughter 9 
years old, a house servant. 

Also, a Woman, 23 years old — an able house 
servant or field hand, with her 2 children, both 
Girls, 3 and 5 years old. Aug. 14. 

BY S. PHILBRICK. 

At Private Sale — A prime Negro Wench, 
about 16 years of a^e, of good character. 

Also, a Negro Woman, about 35 years of 
age, a first rate cook, washer and ironer. 



SAFETY OF EMANCIPATION. 

We read with delight the subjoined article 
from the Liverpool Times, of February 19. 
Comment is unnecessary. It is time that the 
slanderers of Hayti and the revilers of the 
free people of color, should make themselves 
acquainted with the real character of the ob- 
jects of their abuse. 

FREE NEGROES AND SLAVES. 

We subjoin from the report of the Com- 
mons' Committee on Slavery a few extracts 
from the important evidence of the Hon. 
Charles Fleming, the Admiral on the West 
India station, who has resided in Jamaica, and 
has frequently visited Cuba, Hayti, and the 
Caraccas. These extracts prove that the ne- 
groes will soon free themselves, if they are 
not freed by the government, — that free ne- 
groes are industrious, and will work regularly, 
even in the cultivation of sugar, — that they 
are competent to fulfil the duties of governors, 
generals, and priests, — and that the free blacks 
of Cuba and Hayti are incomparably better 
fed, and happier than the slaves of Jamaica : — 



' 2499. Were you much struck with the in- 
creased knowledge of the slave population 
when you last saw them, compared with what 
you observed among them when you saw them 
on a former occasion ? — Yes very much, and 
1 was confirmed by that in my opinion that 
they are not inferior to the white people in 
intellect. 

' 2500. From what you saw and what you 
heard from persons on whose information you 
can rely, are you satisfied that reading and 
listening to works read is very prevalent among 
the slaves in Jamaica ? — Yes, I know it of my 
own knowledge, and I have been informed 
that it is very prevalent ; I have seen one man 
reading a Gazette to a gang of slaves.' 

' 2503. Are you of opinion that if the power 
of reading becomes general among them, so 
stimulated by their condition as slaves, that 
the knowledge of what passes here upon the 
subject, and the knowledge of what passes in 
the Legislature of Jamaica upon the subject, 
is consistent ivith the permanent endurance 
on their part of the state of slavery ? — No, I 
think it will put an end to slavery ; it will be 
impossible to keep enlighted people slaves, 
treated as they now are, as has been proved 
by their late insurrection.' 

The Admiral says — 

' I am of opinion that the West Indies could 
be cultivated by free labor, and I ground that 
opinion upon my experience of what I have 
seen in Hayti, in the Caraccas, particularly 
where all are free, and in the islands of Trini- 
dad and Cuba, and upon the industry of the 
free negroes in the islands of the Bahamas.' 

'2685. Was not one of the generals in the 
Caraccas a black man ? Yes, General Pey- 
anga was a perfectly black man, a complete 
negro ; he was a very well informed man, a 
very well educated person, and well read in 
Spanish literature ; he was a very extraordi- 
nary man. 

'2686. Did you happen to know whether 
English officers served under him? — Many 
were serving under him ; I knew many other 
black officers, of very considerable acquire- 
ments, in the Caraccas and in Cuba also. I 
have known a black priest, a perfect negro, 
born in the Cape de Verd Islands, a very well' 
informed person.' 

Speaking of the black republic of Hayti, 
Admiral Fleming says— 

'2725. Are you aware that there is a pro- 
hibition against all corporal punishment in 
that country ? — Yes, I know there is. 

'2726. Did they appear to you to be living 
comfortably ? — Yes ; the most happy, the rich- 
est, the best fed, and the most comfortable ne- 
groes that I saw in the West Indies were in 
Hayti, even better than' in the Carraccas. 

'2727. Were they decidedly better than the 
slaves in Jamaica ? — No comparison. 

' 2728. Do you happen to know whether the 
population of Hayti has increased within the 



The Logic of Arithmetic. — Canterbury Again. 



70 



last twenty years ? — Of my own knowledge I 
cannot know that ; neither are there any very 
correct returns ; but I have every reason to 
believe that, since the last time the French 
retired from the island in 1804, the population 
has trebled. 

'2753. What were their victuals, compared 
with the food of the slaves in Jamaica, — were 
they superior or much the same ? — They were 
fed on meat principally ; cattle is very cheap 
in Hayti. 

'2754. Is meat much cheaper in Hayti than 
in Jamaica ? — Yes ; much cheaper ; it is 2d. a 
pound, whilst the contract price in Jamaica is 
12d. ; in both places these are the highest 
prices.' 



THE LOGIC OF ARITHMETIC. 

The whites in the West Indies sometimes 
threaten to throw off their allegiance to Great 
Britain, in case of a compulsory enfranchise- 
ment of the slaves. A correspondent of the 
Jamaica Watchman, an anti-slavery paper, 
published at Kingston, (Ja.) gives the follow- 
ing statement, which in regard to that island 
is an unanswerable argument to all the bully- 
ing and vaporing of the slaveholders. 

Aggregate strength of the free black 

and brown population 75,000 

Deduct those whom it is supposed 
would be compelled to join the dis- 
affected from the nature of their 
employment 1,000 74,000 

His Majesty's regular forces with part 
of the marines 3,400 

Maroons 1,400 

Disbanded West India Re°;iment 300 



Add two thousand loyal whites 

Less white rebels 
Deduct the loyal whites 



25,000 



79,100 
2,000 

81,100 



2,000 23.000 



Then add ■ 



58,100 
[Slaves are meant of course] 350,000 



Balance in favor of the King and his govern- 
ment 408,100 
Say ye rebellious dogs whether zje can transfer your 
allegiance to any other power or much longer continue 
to oppose yourselves to the laws and the Executive. 



CANTERBURY AGAIN. 

Another act of the Canterbury farce has 
been performed, and we now hope we have 
reached the end of the play. A manifesto 
addressed to the American Colonization So- 
ciety, and signed by nine persons as the Civil 
Authority, and three of the same persons, and 
two others as the Selectmen of Canterbury, has 
appeared in the newspapers. This rather 
anomalous document,is intended as a justifica- 
tion of the proceedings of the Canterbury 
town meeting. Why it is addressed to the 



Colonization Society is not stated, but this 
course, it is evident, was adopted because that 
body was considered the sure patron of per- 
secution and prejudice. We trust that this 
motherly society will yield her protection to 
the frightened chickens who are endeavoring 
to shelter themselves under her wings. We 
do not think it necessary to examine this docu- 
ment, as it offers no good reason or even plau- 
sible apology for the conduct of the Canter- 
burians, and denies no material part of the 
charge against them. 

We think it the less necessary to "examine 
the Canterbury proclamation, because the 
whole proceedings of the town, have already 
been examined with great ability, in two let- 
ters to Andrew T. Judson, Esq. by the Rev. 
Samuel J. May, of Brooklyn, Conn, which have 
recently appeared in a pamphlet form. Though 
these letters represent the conduct of the Can- 
terburians in its true light, they are yet 
distinguished by Christian charity. This pro- 
duction we recommend to all who believe 
that the colored people, have the same right 
to be educated as the whites. We have room 
only for a single extract* 

' The question between us is not simply whether 
thirty or forty colored girls shall be well educated at a 
school to be kept in Canterbu^ ; but whether the peo- 
ple in any part of oar land will recognize and gener- 
ously protect the ' inalienable rights of man/ without 
distinction of color ? If this be not done, in Connecti- 
cut, where else in our land can we expect it will be 
done, at least in our day ? That it cannot be done 
even in this State without a struggle is now most 
shamefully obvious. A year or two since, some be- 
nevolent individuals proposed to erect an institution, at 
New-Haven, for the education of colored young men. 
The design was defeated by violent opposition. If the 
citizens had opposed merely its location in that City, 
they might have escaped condemnation, for such a 
seminary there might have been very prejudicial to 
Yale College. But it was only too apparent, that 
their hostility to the institution was peculiarly embit- 
tered by their prejudices against the color of those, 
who were to be educated at it. So too in the case at 
Canterbury; no one pretends there would have been, 
any opposition to Bliss Crandall's school, if her pupils 
were to be white. The tincture of their skin then it is 
which has called out all the men of influence in array 
ag-ainst her ; and has even procured from the free men 
of the town an expression of their ' unqualified disap- 
probation' of her plan. 

' Here then, in Connecticut, we have had two recent 
instances of outrage committed upon 'the inalienable 
rights of man.' Among these rights, to use the lan- 
guage of the Declaration of Independence 'are life, 
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' Now Education 
has from the first, been regarded in this State highly 
conducive to the private happiness, and the public 
weal. Yet have our colored brethren been twice an- 
grily denied permission to seek this blessing, to the 
extent that they have desired. Will the people of 
Connecticut generally, countenance these violations of 
our civil and religious principles? If they will, let 
them no longer claim to be a republican, much less a 
christian people ! ' 



80 



Death of J. Kenrick, Esq. — Effecting Occurrence. — A New Ballad, 



DEATH OF JOHN KENRICK, ESQ. 

At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the New- 
England Anti-Slavery Society, April 13, 1833, — the 
following preamble and resolutions were unanimously 
adopted. 

The Board of Managers of the New-England Anti- 
Slavery Society have heard with deep feelings of re- 
gret of the death of their venerable President, the late 
John Kenrick, Esq. His ardent and active philan- 
thropy, which even age could not cool, arid especially 
his strenuous and long-continued exertions in behalf of 
the slaves and free people of color in this country .com- 
menced at a time when their rights were' but little re- 
garded, — merited and obtained for him our warmest es- 
teem. His private virtues had endeared him to all 
who knew him. His loss now seems to us irreparable. 
Yet we trust that his example will not be lost upon the 
members of our Society, but animate them to renewed 
exertions in the great cause of human liberty. Deem- 
ing it proper to place upon our records and to commu- 
nicate to his family our feelings upon this occasion, 

Resolved, That we sympathize with the surviving 
relatives and friends of the late John Kenrick, Esq. 
in their feelings on the loss of a friend so much belov- 
ed and revered. 

Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing preamble 
and resolution be communicated by the Secretary to 
the family of Mr. Kenrick. 



AFFECTING OCCURRENCE. 

A few days ago, two colored men gave information 
to some members of the Anti-Slavery Society, that a 
negro slave from one of the southern States was on 
board a schooner in the harbor, that he was very desir- 
ous of escaping, and that he was watched for fear of 
his running away. The name of the vessel, as after- 
wards ascertained, was the Vienna, her master's Lo- 
renzo Dow Morgan, and the slave's Burton Spicer.— 
She is said to be bound to New- York. A writ of ha- 
beas corpus was, on the petition of one of the members 
of the Society, immediate])' obtained from the Supreme 
Court, and served upon the Captain 3 and Spicer was 
shortly after brought up to the Supreme Court Room. 

Belbre the Judges would take cognizance of the 
case, it became necessary to show that Spicer was de- 
tained against his will. He was accordingly interro- 
gated upon the subject by the counsel, and informed 
that he was free in Massachusetts, and that no doubt the 
Court would so pronounce him, if the case was permit- 
ted to proceed. The poor fellow seemed very much 
agitated, and his whole frame trembled. He said he 
should like to be free in his own country, where his re- 
lations -were. He was urged to make his election, and 
say whether he wished to be free and remain here, as 
he would be compelled to do, or to return to his rela- 
tions as a slave. He concluded, after a strong and 
visible conflict between his feelings, to go back — and 
accordingly returned to the vessel. We are informed, 
and have no doubt of the fact, that the Captain had 
threatened to put him in irons, if he attempted to es- 
cape. The feelings of the slave did him honor. He 
was not insensible of the charms of liberty, but he was 
unwilling to desert his relations, even to obtain a bless- 
ing which he so ardently desired. 

The case leads us to mention a principle of law 
which is not so generally known among us as it ought 
to be, viz : — that a slave, coming from one of the slave 
States, by the consent of his master, into a free State, 
becomes free. The only case in which the authorities 
of a free State are bound to deliver up a slave to his 
owner, is the one provided for by the Constitution of 
the United States, where the slave has run away from 
his master. In every other case, every person in the 
free States, is free. — The Liberator, of Saturday, 
April 13th. 



A NEW BALLAD .* 

' I'll tell you a story, a story so merry, 
Concerning the people of Canterbury,' t 
About their town meetiug and speechifying, 
To send all the blacks from the country flying. 

It was said that a lady had dared to invite 

Colored girls to her school, that she'd teach them to 

write, 
And, to the disgrace of the town and the nation, 
Intended to give them a good education. 

When this news reached the ears of the clerk of the 

town, 
He lengthened his visage, and cast his eyes down, 
Then swore Liy the shade of Jack Cade, no such school 
The village should darken while he had the rule. 

So the townsmen are summoned. In haste they appear 
In their hall, all aghast, and all trembling with fear. 
An orator rises, ' A vote let me read, 
To declare to the universe some of our creed. 

' Resolved, In this land to blacks souls are not given, 
That from Afric alone is the black road to heaven, 
And that we will resist teaching any such creatures, 
As rudely assailing a great law of nature's.' 

' Can any one think/ he cries, ' nature intended 
By teaching, these black souls should ever be mended, 
Be fitted to meet with us whites, in debate, 
And aid us in making the laws for our Stale 1 

Can Connecticut men e'er become such vile asses 
As submit to this mixture of milk and molasses 1 
Oh ! save us, kind Leaven, from these foul disgraces, 
And bless our descendants with unmixed white faces ! ' 

When this manly resolve this bold speech had sustained 
Long and loud were the plaudits the orator gained. 
Next springs up the clerk, but how vain is all verse, 
His wisdom, his fancy, his wit to rehearse. 

'T rise, fellow citizens, sad and dismayed, 
Our good town is ruined, our rights are betrayed ! 
If this school be established among us, what then ? 
Black females are ladies, and negroes are men. 

We must meet them at dinners, at parties, at prayers, 
Our houses and lands too would soon become theirs. 
What right have these woolly heads hither to come, 
Let them go back to Africa — there is their home. 

In vain did our forefathers cross the rough sea, 
And leave us this land as the home of the free 3 
In vain did our ancestors bleed, in vain toil, 
If we suffer these negroes to share in the soil. 

Let us swear then together we never will yield 

To the nea^ro a house, or a school, or a field 5 

But while"Q,uinebaug flows through our town, it shall 

never 
Reflect a black face from its bosom forever.' 

He ceased, and the townsmen, with eager acclaim, 
Accept the resolve, which saves them trom the shame, 
The calamity dire, the unending disgrace, 
Of treating like brethren the African race. 

Oh ! patriot sages of Quinebaug river, 

Your wisdom shall brighten the world forever, 

And humanity, weeping o'er error and crime, 

Shall be cheered by your vote to the last hour of time. 



* For a prose account of the transactions related in 
this ballad, see the Abolitionist for April, p. 61. 

t These two lines are borrowed from an old ballad 
with the alteration of a single word. 



