
RIGHT AND WRONG 




ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES. 



by the soul 

Only, the nations shall be great and free! 
Wordsworth. 



PUBLISHED AT THE A. S. OFFICE, 

25 CORNHILL. 
1840. 



W. S, Dorr, Printer. 





RESOLUTIONS 

Of the Boston Female A. S. Society. 

Resolved, That, in view of the mis-statements circulated 
by Martha V. Ball, respecting the Boston Female Anti- 
Slavery Society, a copy of the documents of the Society 
this year issued be transmitted to all its correspondents in 
England and elsewhere. 

Resolved, That we commend the cause of the slave to 
the consciences of all ; reminding them of the divine as- 
surance, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the leastof 
these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

Resolved, That we warmly appreciate the devoted ser- 
vices of our dear friend, Abby Kelley, to the cause of the 
slave. 

Resolved, That, in making this public expression, we do 
it, not for her sake, — for we know that a private expressic»n 
would be more grateful to her feelings, — but because we 
deem it a duty to be identified with all who are persecuted 
for the cause's sake. 

Resolved, That we hereby assure our members, Ann T. 
G. Phillips, Abby Southwick, and Emily Winslow, who 
were present at the London Convention, and who were re- 
fused admission to its sittings, that their course in declining 
to withdraw their claim commands our hearty approval and 
respect 

Resolved, That William Lloyd Garrison. N. P. Rogers, 
Charles Lenox Remond, and William Adams, have, in our 
judgment, most effectually aided the cause of the slave, by 
their refusal, when in London, " to lower a great principle 
in deference to a barbarous usage." 

Resolved, That we shall despair of the success of the 
cause from the moment we see its advocates shrink from 
making innovations on usages which circumscribe their 
ability to serve it. 

Resolved, That expressions of our gratitude be transmit- 
ted to our friends in England, who have cheered our past 
efforts with their sympathy and liberal aid, from our forma- 
tion as a society to the present time. 

Resolved, That copies of this resolution be sent to Eliz- 
abeth Pease, of Darlington, Anne Cropper, of Liverpool, 
Harriet Martineau, Anne Knight, of Chelmsford, Jane 
Smeal, of Glasgow, Amelia Opie, and George Thompson, 
and to the societies with which we are in correspondence. 



SEVENTH 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOSTON FEMALE 



ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



PRESENTED OCTOBER 14, 1840. 



13nuton: 

PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY, 

25 CORNHILL. 
1840. 



3 5"7 



OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY. 



President. 
THANKFUL SOUTHWICK. 

Vice-President. 
Mary Ann W. Johnson. 

Domestic Corresponding Secretary. 
Henrietta Sargent. 

Foreign Corres'ponding Secretary. 
Maria Weston Chapman. 

Recording Secretary. 
Sarah H. Southwick. 

Treasurer. 
Eliza F. Meriam. 

Counsellors. 
Mary Himes, 
Hannah Tufts, 
Sarah Mann, 
Margaret Scarlett, 
Caroline Weston, 
Mary F. Willey. 



REPORT 



Seven years have passed, since we became 
united under the name of the Boston Female 
Anti-Slavery Society, with the pledge to do 
all in our power for the extinction of slavery. 

Our first year of association was marked by no 
event of peculiar interest. The oppressive spirit 
of the nation had not then been roused by anti- 
slavery effort, to a view of its danger ; nor had we, 
as an association, attained a clear perception of 
the means whereby we might most effectually 
bring our moral power to bear against slavery. 

But the second year was marked by a clearer 
comprehension, and by decided success in break- 
ing up the stupor that surrounded us. It was the 
year 1835 ; — remembered in our annals as the 
year of blind fury and outward attack ; the year 
which showed those who had ever before de- 
clared that they were as much abolitionists as we> 
what manner of spirit they were of; making them 
feel that they were in sympathy with the oppres- 
sor, and enemies of the slave. 

The third year of our existence began to show 
that the hardness of heart of the community would, 
if it continued, endanger the social institutions 



which it weakened and corrupted by perverting 
them to the service of slavery. " What are church 
and state for," men began this year to ask 
themselves, " if not to secure, among other bles- 
sings, FREEDOM, without which no others can 
exist 1 But, if their rafters are so weakened by 
this unsuspected decay, will they not fall under 
the hammer ?" These questions were never fol- 
lowed out in anti-slavery societies ; for, to have 
discussed reform in church and state, any farther 
than their corruptions prevent the abolition of 
slavery, would have been to transcend the con- 
stitutional limitations of anti-slavery societies. — 
But these questions were none the less asked in 
the community, and the tyrants at heart, who were 
determined in their support of the system, and 
who had made church and state the pillars of its 
domination, caught here at a pretence by which 
they hoped to delay the national verdict, by ma- 
king up a false issue. They cried out that church 
and state were in danger from the attacks of abo- 
litionists. Doubtless their words were in part 
true. Church and state are in danger ; but not 
from the labors of the anti-slavery societies. If 
church and state are saved from destruction in 
the coming contest between liberty and slavery, 
it will be owing to the efforts o^f those who are 
striving to remove them from their present dan- 
gerous position, where the hosts of liberty must 
needs charge over them«. 



The most observant and educated of the pro- 
slavery party, — their clergy, — were the first to 
perceive, that a church at variance with the prin- 
ciples it professes cannot stand ; and the exer- 
tions which, as ministers of Christ, they should 
have given to purify the church from slavery, 
were expended in diverting the public mind from 
the examination of its rottenness, and directing 
public censure against the advocates of the cause. 
When made aware that the church obstinately 
sustained slavery, they should have declared her 
no church of Christ. But, in so doing, they would 
have acknowledged the guilty silence of their own 
past lives ; and this they had not the hearts to 
do, for their hearts were not repentant. They 
strove, instead, to extinguish the Spirit of free- 
dom. 

By the fourth year, 1837, this course of so in- 
fluential a body of men as the ministry partially 
produced its intended effect in the anti-slavery 
ranks. Spiritual wickedness in high places tri- 
umphed over the integrity and resolution of some 
who had undertaken the task of freeing the Ame- 
rican slave. They had not anticipated the source 
from which the most formidable opposition was 
to come, and they shrunk from the contest. The 
peltings of a mob they could bear. Such opposi- 
tion does but strengthen the merely human pow- 
ers of endurance. But the spiritual mob — the 
scourgings in the synagogues — the being deliver- 



ed up of men to their councils, — this, being unex- 
pected, was too hard to be borne. Their worldly 
reputation they had seemed more willing to lose ; 
but they clung to their Christian character, though 
its preservation depended on the good word of 
those whose approbation they ought to have felt 
as a reproach ; who had put darkness for light 
and slavery for freedom. The church, pro-slavery 
as it had shown itself, was, in fact, their world ; 
and they yielded up the interests of the slave to 
its demands. But, the reproach they avoided on 
one side, they incurred on the other ; and to ex- 
cuse themselves for finally taking their stand by 
the side of the pro-slavery friends, whose inflit- 
ence they had so long resisted, they became the 
accusers, before the world, of the faithful band 
they forsook, renounced its fellowship, and form- 
ed hostile societies for its destruction. 

During the fifth and sixth years of our associa- 
ted existence, 1838 and '39, this retrograde move- 
ment of a small portion of the abolitionists through- 
out the land went on, till its completion, by a gen- 
eral rupture, in 1840. Every step of retreat, of 
course, augmented the numbers of the retreating 
party, by bringing them back to their former con- 
nections ; and when they shall have reached the 
spot from which they started, they will, of course, 
have the whole pro-slavery world with them. 

In our own society, this backward movement 
of a part, so painful in its progress and so par- 



alyzing in its effects, was about three years in 
coming to the crisis of separation ; and the man- 
ner in which that separation was effected was 
detailed by us immediately after it took place, in 
April last, and to it we refer our absent and dis- 
tant members, for whose information it was pre- 
pared. 

A dissolution of all the original anti-slavery 
societies seems to have been contemplated by 
those who had fallen away from the original point 
of union ; but our own was the only society to 
which the proposition was actually introduced. 
The men who urged up our recreant members to 
this attempt to destroy the society of which they 
had found it impracticable to make a tool, were 
unable to furnish them with reasons for its intro- 
duction ; for none, in fact, existed. Reasons that 
seemed all-sufficient in the hostile new organiza- 
tion, could not, for very shame, be presented in an 
assembly where they would be self-confuted. It 
will be recollected, by those who were present at 
our April quarterly meeting, how earnestly and 
how vainly the movers of a dissolution were urged 
to say why such a proposition should be brought 
forward. They answered nothing. Had they 
answered truly, they would have said, " Our pas- 
tors will take no less." It will be recollected 
what numbers refused to vote on that question, 
not allowing it to be one which it is competent to 
any majority to decide ; sincCj as long as two 



8 

members remain planted on the constitution, they 
will still constitute the society, and all protesta- 
tions of others to the contrary must be as ineffect- 
ual as the wind, or as the declaration of the 
mob to the same effect in 1835. This attempt of 
professed friends of the cause to deliver it bound 
hand and foot into the hands of its enemies, while 
it is the most painful, is, in another light, the most 
instructive and the most consoling of our experi- 
ences ; for we learn from it the utter powerless- 
ness of the most subtil and pernicious influences, 
with the most unscrupulous use of evil means, to 
divide or scatter the hearts that the love of free- 
dom unites ; and our confidence in our principles 
is increased by this new manifestation of their 
power. The few members who were actively 
engaged in endeavors to destroy the society, de- 
clared that they were neutral between " old and 
new organization." But the following communi- 
cation exhibits the turpitude of one of them. 

M. V. Ball to Elizabeth Pease. 

" Boston, May 6, 1840. 
You will perceive, dear sister, by the foregoing address^ 
that the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society has been 
DISSOLVED, and another formed in its place. Our no- 
government friends, being resolved to carry their peculiar 
views along with them in the anti-slavery car, became 
so annoying in their movements, that it was found imprac- 
ticable to continue united with them ; and the consequence 
has been, in our Female Society, dissolution — and I fear it 
will be in many others. The no-government friends consid- 



9 

er hiinan government as the great Jug^rernaut to be over- 
thrown, ere ought else can be accompHshed ; consequently 
they must have their notions advanced as part and parcel 
of their abolition. 

A very large majority of the Boston Female Anti-Slave- 
ry Society thought not so, and therefore did not dare iake 
the responsibility of thus pulling away the barriers to vice 
and immorality. With this I send you the Massachusetts 
Abolitionist, containing the minutes of the last meeting of 
the Society, and another, noticing the formation of the 
Massachusetts Female Emancipation Society. We find it 
very important to keep our societies clear and distinct, lest 
they become perverted from their original objects 

It is matter of the deepest regret to our most efficient, 
laborious friends, such as Lewis and John Tappan, Scott, 
Green, Goodell, Birney, Whittier, Stanton, Phelps, Colver, 
Galusha, Gerrit Smith and others, that our no-government 
friends have taken the fearful responsibility of causing divi- 
sion in our ranks ; but we hope it may be over-ruled for 
good, knowing that it must have been permitted for some 
wise end." 

On the reception of this, Miss Pease trans- 
mitted a copy of it to America, with the follow- 
ing comments : 

" My dear Friend : — I forward the enclosed letter from 
M. V. Ball, in the hope that thou wilt be kind enough to 
explain upon what grounds our ron-resistant friends deem 
it their duty so far to enforce their doctrines as to make 
them part and parcel of their abolition. It appears to me 
that no man or set of men have the right of exercising 
such an authority over the consciences of others ; and that 
if the case really be as M. V. Ball states, a dissolution of 
the society was inevitable — inasmuch as the assent of ev- 
ry member became equally requisite to the principle of noa" 



10 



resistance, as to that of immediate emancipation ; and 
hence it must ibllow, that all who now adhere to the old 
society are united in principle on both these questions — a 
lact which I certainly was not aware of. I am anxious to 
ascertain the precise nature and grounds of the unhappy 
divisions which have arisen amongst American abolitionists, 
and to give to each their due. Any explanation, therefore, 
which thou canst afford, will be very acceptable. 

Most sincerely wishing success to the efforts of every 
friend of human freedom, I remain 

Very truly thine, 

ELIZABETH PEASE. 

In the Mass. Abolitionist of Dec. 12th, 1839, I see the 
non-resistants are charged with ' resisting the progress of 
anti-slavery opinion with all their might.' " 

In refutation of these charges against the Bos- 
ton Female Society, now for the first time brought 
to its view in a tangible shape, — for the first time 
made in its presence, over the signature or by the 
lips of any individual, — which the individual who 
brings them never dared to make in our presence 
as a society, so glaringly false are they ; — in re- 
futation of these charges, we have only to refer 
that individual to what took place on the presen- 
tation to the society, for its sanction, of a docu- 
ment written by herself. It contained a censure 
of Lovejoy's self-defence. This censure, on mo- 
tion of one of our few non-resistant members, 
was stricken out, on the ground that, though 
pledged by our affiliation and co-operation with 
other anti-slavery societies never to sanction self- 
defence in the slaves, no such understanding ex- 



11 

ists with regard to tlie self-defence of any others. 
We are an anti-slavery society— not a non-resist- 
ance society. In conformity with this view, the 
society refused to adopt the censure of Lovejoy ; 
and in conformity with this view, the non-resist- 
ant members opposed the introduction of non-re- 
sistance resolutions, when they were recommend- 
ed in private by the Grimkes. 

On the petty but necessary conflict with false- 
hood and hostility, of which this is a specimen, 
there is no need that we should dwell. It will 
be found at length in the " Liberator, Extra," pub- 
lished by the society. 

By conduct like this, which circumstances 
from time to time bring to light, " new organiza- 
tion" illustrates its nature. Its object is to sepa- 
rate itself from those whose faithfulness has made 
them odious to a pro-slavery community, without 
incurring the disgrace that cleaves to the turn- 
coat. 

Having, by means of firmness, patience and 
confidence in its principles, been freed from this 
clog of " new-organization," our society was in a 
position to afibrd efi'ectual aid to the friends of 
the cause throughout the country, who were strug- 
gling with the same untoward spirit. Wherever 
this spirit sought entrance, it assumed the name 
and shape most likely to facilitate its claim to 
confidence. In one place, it was anti-non-resist- 
ance—in another, anti-woman's rights — in ano- 



12 

tlier, anti-Garrison. In one place it made a pre- 
tence of regard for the church, and in another* 
of an independent abolition party in politics * Not 
finding the pretence of religious intolerance, with 
which it had commenced its operations, attrac- 
tive to the abolitionists, or on the whole success- 
ful in a community of which religious toleration 
is the law, it took the mask of political intoler- 
ance. To buttress its failing credit, it revived 
the political faith of a departed age — the dogma 
of " divine right." Government being ordained 
of God, it was every man's duty to vote at at the 
polls, — both parties being corrupted by slavery, 
it was every man's duty to aid in organizing a 
third, — and every man's duty to vote for the can- 
didate of its nomination. James G. Birney was 
particularly active in the enforcement of these 
new ideas. He was the nominee of the third 
political party ; and though, like Caesar on the Lu- 
percal, he at first refused the questionable honor of 
a nomination as the abolition candidate for the Pre- 
sidency, by conventions from which the abolition- 
ists mostly absented themselves to mark their 
disapproval of the measure, yet it was percepti- 
ble, that in refusing the crown, he "was very loth 
to lay his fingers off" it." He accepted the se- 



* See Letter of Elizur Wright, jr. to Mr. Stanton, on the 
occasion of the special meeting of the American Society 
in Ohio, urging the formation of a third party as the only 
measure that could save " new organization." 



J 



13 

cond proffer, the party was organized, and from 
that moment the increase of numbers to it, as a 
visible instrumentality, became, of course, its par- 
amount object. 

Its numbers were not increased by those of the 
faithful brothers in the cause, who had been made 
aware by his underhand course, of his loss of in- 
tegrity of character. Not the non-voters alone 
shunned it. Those who had been shocked by 
his duplicity as a member of the Executive Com- 
mittee of their National Association, exhibited to 
the Massachusetts quarterly meeting of 1839, 
and who had seen, on other occasions, the fatal 
facility with which he yielded to the uses of pro- 
slavery bigotry, held themselves aloof. Filled 
with grief and shame, as they were, at the descent 
manifestly contemplated in the character of the 
cause, by this change in some of its prominent 
advocates, from piety to partizanship, still farther 
pain and confusion were heaped upon them. — 
Even while they mourned Mr. Birney's first de^ 
reliction, they were surprised by the greatness of 
the succeeding ones, and the ease with which 
they seemed to be effected ; verifying the ancient 
adage, "facilis decesus AverniJ^ He yielded up 
old and faithful friends, apparently, without hesi- 
tation, and followed up the deed by showing him- 
self ready to destroy the American Anti-Slavery 
Society — that instrumentality which had been 
reared by so many years of toil and sacrifice on 
2 



14 

the part of the abolitionists, and which had been, 
till held back by his own influence, with that of 
the majority of his fellow-servants of its com- 
mittee, a powerful means of influencing the hearts 
of the people. If viewed in one light, it seems 
like fatuity, in the projectors of a third political 
party, to have named as candidate for the suf- 
frages of abolitionists a man who had failed to 
secure their confidence as one of the ofiicial ser- 
vants of their society. He had shown them the 
meaning of the scripture, " By the works of the 
law, shall no flesh living be justified ;" for he had 
freed his own slaves, and received his patrimo- 
nial inheritance also in slaves, that he might lib- 
erate them, and yet could trample on the very 
principle by which only can slavery be extin- 
tinguished — the principle of toleration and united 
exertion. It may be safely assumed, for it has 
been a thousand times demonstrated, that he ean 
do little for civil or domestic freedom, who doed 
not respect the right of opinion. Mr. Birney 
had been honest to his bondmen, but he was un- 
true to freedom at large, and to his fellow-labor- 
ers for the termination of bondage. But, then, in 
the other view of the case, this very untruth 
would free the party of a load of odium, and se- 
cure more of the indifferent, floating voters, than 
it would lose of the abolition voters. Suicidal 
policy of political parties I — ^by which a moral 
enterprise never can succeed. 



15 

Meanwhile, Mr. Birney, with the committee at 
New- York, were expending the property of the 
society in labors to change, or, failing in this, to 
destroy it ; and after using the Emancipator, its 
official organ, for this purpose, to the latest possi- 
ble moment, they transferred it to a hostile socie- 
ty. In this emergency, the indignant grief of 
the abolitionists, in behalf of their enslaved cli- 
ents, impelled them in throngs to the annual 
meeting in May last, for the purpose of super 
ceding the committee of that period by a more 
faithful one, and rescuing the anti-slavery move- 
ment front ruin, by opening a way for it through 
the obstacles with which these timid and treacher- 
ous guides had choked up the path. The Boston 
Female Anti-Slavery Society, deeply impressed 
with the importance of the moment, expressed its 
distrust of the New- York committee — its unwa- 
vering confidence in the association at large — and 
appointed ten delegates to the rescue at the an- 
nual meeting. The danger of the crisis was 
happily averted. On finding that they should 
not be able to mould the American Anti-Slavery 
Society as they had themselves been moulded, 
the committe separated from it in disgust, and 
turned their forces against it, under the name of 
the " American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Socie- 
ty." They commenced their hostilities by an 
address to the abolitionists of the world ; which 
tissue of false statements met with an instant de- 



16 

nial and disproof; but which Mr. Birney still fur- 
ther lowered his character by displaying before 
the London Convention. 

Without funds, without official means of com- 
munication with the friends scattered throughout 
the country, hemmed round by enemies, — and 
those worst of enemies, false and pretended 
friends, — the free spirit shone gloriously out, and 
proved itself equal to the emergency. The old 
head-quarters of the American Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety, which the faithless committee had stripped 
bare and deserted, previous to the annual meet- 
ing, were re-occupied. The loss occasioned by 
the dishonest transfer of the Emancipator was 
more than made good by the issue of a most able 
and free-spirited paper — The National Anti- 
Slavery Standard. Towards the support of 
these operations we were grateful for the privi- 
lege of contributing in our small measure. At 
short notice, and in addition to the obligations we 
had assumed to the Liberator, and to the ex- 
penses incurred in prolonging our existence as a 
society for the slave's sake, we raised five hun- 
dred dollars, to sustain the National Society la 
affiliation with the State Society, 

" Behold how good and how pleasant it is for 
brethren to dwell together in unity !" is our ex- 
clamation, as we witness the harmonious action 
of the several departments of the cause, since 
the new organization spirit has taken flight. 



17 



And now, let us turn our eyes from the painful 
past to the hopeful future. Or, if we dwell up- 
on the past, let it not be with too deep and indig- 
nant a sorrow over the falsehood that has de- 
ceived, and the treachery that has betrayed the 
principles of freedom, to whose maintenance in 
our day and generation we have bound ourselves. 
Let our remembrances be to us, not idle and ran- 
dom recollections, but profitable experiences, by 
whose light we may illuminate the future, but 
which shall not be a spell, hindering our progress 
by binding us to the past. 

What jurists and statesmen learn by thought 
and study and investigation, (if their passions 
permit them to learn it at all,) the providence of 
God has revealed to us ; that effectual revolutions 
in the policy and condmet of nations, such as we 
contemplate in our own, are only to be effected 
by a previous moral revolution in individual hearts. 
Selfishness is to be overcome, courage and devo- 
tedness to be implanted ; and, in fine, a work, 
analogous to that of conversion, is to be effected 
in each hostile soul of a world lying in wicked- 
ness, before it will consent to let the slave go 
free. We see the futility — the impossibility — the 
paradox of the attempt to force men to be free, 
or just, or merciful. Elections may, by political 
maneuvers and compromises, be secured; ma- 
joritities in legislative assemblies may be obtain- 
ed ; the cause of freedom may be considered 



18 

triumphant in the elevation of a nominal abolition- 
ist to the Presidency ; and still the real work re- 
main for future generations to accomplish. Let 
these considerations make us distrustful of every 
measure tending to lower the anti-slavery enter- 
prise from a holy warfare into a struggle for 
place and power. Let the example of our fath- 
ers, — those fathers who proclaimed the inaliena- 
ble rights of men, and yet left slavery as a heri- 
tage to their children, — warn us never to admit 
the smallest compromise^ — never to be deceived 
into accepting any thing for our cause as matter 
of favor, or as binding us to relinquish a hair's- 
breadth of our claim to the unreserved and ear- 
nest efforts of every professing friend of freedom, 
to obtain for the slave immediate and uncondi- 
tional emancipation. 

The anti-slavery societies have not yet done 
their work. When, in the heat of political ex- 
citement, amid which the favorers of the cause 
will a few years hence be engaged ; when, in 
the conflict of a northern and southern party, yet 
to spring out of this question, compensation— par^ 
tial emancipation — intermediate arrangements — 
delay — become the rallying words of the opposi- 
tion ; then let the slave rejoice, if the anti-slavery 
societies exist, to urge up to the mark a partially 
regenerated people, who, though the favorers of 
the cause, will not deserve to be called its friends -^ 
for they will need constant and persevering ea- 



19 



treaty, rebuke and warning, to prevent their ma- 
king shipwreck of the enterprise. Not by num- 
bers, but by laborious and energetic fidelity, will 
the work be wrought out. " Not by might, nor 
by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of 
hosts !" 

Let us prepare ourselves, beloved friends, to 
maintain our lofty and influential position to the 
last. Great is the influence granted to those who 
will use it for the good of mankind, nor seek 
themselves, or their own small interests, in any 
thing they do. Utter abnegation of self, — this is 
the armor in which we may pass unheeding 
through the shafts of malignant misrepresentation 
and opposition and treachery ; and still, at every 
emergency, may we be enabled by it to present 
ourselves as the devoted, marking, by our unher- 
alded advance, the path the hosts behind us are 
to follow. 

We shall lose our injiuence, we are told, by the 
decisive and rapid movements that repel the false- 
hearted and leave the fearful and the lukewarm 
in the rear. Influence [ is that uninfluencing 
weapon worthy the name, that rests in the scab- 
bard in fear of its brightness ! To respect every 
one's freedom of choice we are bound. If others 
are hesitating and dilatory, we have only to suffer 
it to be so. But, well is it for the cause, that w^ 
should press rapidly onward, breaking down the 
obstacles to their wavering advance. 



20 

But, we should not be too prodigal of efforts, it 
is said ; we must play the good housewife by our 
means. Our experience bids reject the counsel, 
as inapplicable to the conduct of a moral enter- 
prise. The manna of to-day will be corrupt or 
dry to-morrow. It is our privilege, and should be 
our joy, to pour out all our means to meet the 
present emergency. 

" If, in our daily course, our mind 
Be set to hallow all we find, 
New treasures still, of countless price, 
God will provide for sacrifice." 

Do not lose sight of the world by the severe 
pureness of your principles, say they who would 
make selfishness the basis of reform ; as if the 
world could choose how far it might remain be- 
hind its advanced-guard ! At whatever distance 
in our rear, its advance must needs be propor- 
tionate to our own. The way to emancipation is 
open before us, if we have the strength to walk 
and to run in it as in the way of God's command- 
ment. The world, it is true, is never with 
us — it is following at a distance, as we vanquish 
the phantoms it apprehends. But we are not 
alone. The Father of all spirits is with us ! the 
God of all patience and consolation is with us ! 
the God of freedom and love is with us ! the om- 
nipotent God of righteousness and truth is with 
us ! 

In following him, all opposing influences melt 



21 

away as we approach. Like the visionary hedge 
of thorns of Arabian story, they are found incapa- 
ble of annoyance, opposed to the invincible faith 
which strengthens us to press through them. 
Like those of old, told of in prophecy, we are in 
the midst of the fire, and are not burned. That 
we are few, and feeble, except in our faith, is no 
fault of ours, nor will it be a detriment to the 
cause we hold so dear. This is the divine phi- 
losophy, that " the weak things of the earth shall 
confound the mighty," and the things which are 
not even accounted as existing " shall put to 
shame the things that are." 

How many a time have nations been saved by 
their women, when every other hope seemed ex- 
tinct ; and so may it be with America, if we will 
have it so. There is moral power enough in 
presence here to-day, affirmatively to settle the 
question we have raised. This is a sinful nation, 
that has deeply offended ; yet that law is an un- 
varying one of God's providence, by which he will 
save each of its populous cities, " for ten's sake ;" 
and who's here so cold of soul that would not be 
enrolled with joy in so noble a registry ! 

As the counsellors of our parents and the help- 
ers of our husbands, a mighty work is to be done, 
and in general society an influence for freedom 
and humanity will ever radiate from the lover of 
freedom. But we have duties of our own to ful- 
fil towards our country and race ; and it is as thd 



22 

exemplars of our sons and daughters that our 
weightiest work is to be done. They must see 
our direct, unshrinking and unswerving personal 
labors in the way of righteousness ; and they 
must not learn from us that there is any second 
way, however indolence, or frivolity, or fear of 
blame, offer their temptations. Our efforts must 
be strenuous and open for the promulgation of 
the principles of freedom, on which rest the wel- 
fare of our country and our posterity. We are 
working for all coming time, and the though* 
cheers and strengthens us for continually renew- 
ed labors. We have had progenitors who have 
labored for us, and we must repay the debt to 
those who shall come after us. One generation 
of them left its father-land for religious freedom ; 
another gave up the summer of its years for civil 
liberty ; and grateful though we are to have been 
born of that noble strain, our heaviest labor should 
not be to build our fathers' sepulchres. It is for 
us to finish the work they left undone, so that our 
children shall rise up and call us blessed. It lies 
mainly with us to determine whether our children, 
or at farthest our children's children, shall dwell 
in the land we leave them in freedom and in 
peace, surrounded by happy and joyous influen- 
ces ; or whether their lives shall pass in convul- 
sive struggles with an injured race, awakened 
to a sense of wrong and thirst of vengeance, by a 
comparison of republican theory with republican 



23 

practice. Fearlessly and earnestly we say to 
such as forbid us to cast our whole souls, with 
all their energies, into this cause, and by whose 
unworthy opposition we might have been sore let 
and hindered, had our love for it been less, — 
gently and firmly we tell them, that their opposi- 
tion comes too late. It is necessary for the suc- 
cess of the anti-slavery enterprise, that the hands 
should be/ree that urge it onward ; and the hands 
from which the fetters have fallen, in the intensi- 
ty of their exertions for the freedom of others, 
can never again be bound. Threatenings and 
entreaties and abuse must be alike in vain, before 
a conscientious conviction of duty. The appeals 
of some professed abolitionists, to the magnanimi' 
ty of women, are the most insulting to human na. 
ture of all. We do really think that we can aid 
it more than such ; and therefore, if they or our- 
selves are to " weep in secret places," we do re- 
ally think that the cause will lose least by their 
retreat. Had it been personal rights or wrongs 
that impelled us — had it been any thing but love 
of the cause of human rights, we might had 
withdrawn from the association where we have 
so long acceptably labored, on the first intimation 
that our absence as co-laborers was desirable. — ■ 
Were it our own will we sought, 

" We would not die in that man's company 
Who fears his fellowship to die with us." 

But we dare not, even were the transfer possible, 



24 

to leave our responsibilities to the cause in despot* 
ic and intolerant hands. If we love the cause,we are 
bound to labor for it according to our own best 
judgment. The very pro-slavery community per_ 
ceives the fact, and laughs at the men whom it 
has deluded into rejecting the help of any human 
being, and suspects the sincerity of their preten* 
ded love of freedom. Of all the means of abol- 
ishing slavery, perhaps the most effectual is the 
irrepressible sympathy for the wronged and suf- 
fering, that swells high above the usages that 
would dam up its current ; that signs anti-slave- 
ry petitions to the legislature against old usages ; 
that dwells in conversation upon the hitherto in- 
terdicted subject against old usages ; that prays 
and labors for its extinction against old usages • 
that rejoices to present it for consideration to as- 
sembled multitudes against old usages ! 
. No means have ever been employed in the 
cause, which have not been forbidden by some 
defender of antiquated custom ; not an advocate 
for the slave but has been in turn proscribed by 
the defenders of despotism. The foreigner must 
not intermeddle ; the northerner must not inter- 
fere ; the young are too rash, and the old too im- 
becile ; to the minister, the subject is interdicted 
as profane and secular ; to the church member, 
as introducing strife and division ; to the citizen, 
as seditious ; to man, because it is too delicate ; 
and to woman, because it is too indelicate. But 



25 



none of these things should move the advocate for 
emancipation. None of them have moved us, 
since we overcame the reluctant pain of accost- 
ing the hostile circles in our neighbors' drawing- 
rooms with the anti-slavery petitions. Here was 
the spot where, so many years since, we met 
and detected the unsubstantial nature of the phan- 
tom arguments conjured up by the opposers of 
woman's action in the anti-slavery cause. With- 
out going into the general question, which a con- 
sideration of constitutional limitations has always 
forbidden, the same answer suffices for all objec- 
tions : — " We think our course a right one — we 
know that it has subserved the cause." 
' Let us, then, having " gifts differing," and op- 
portunities tind means differing, each continue the 
vigorous exercise of such as fall to our lot. Some 
have worldly appliances and means — some me- 
chanical skill, and a perception of the beautiful — 
some the command of their time — some health 
and strength of body — some power and vigor of 
mind — some " the fiery gift of tongues" — all the 
might of supplication ; and grief and shame will 
it be to us and to our children, if we do not yield 
them all to the service of freedom and humanity. 
From the moment that the abolitionist proscribes 
Ms neighbor for the exercise of her gifts, accord- 
ing to her own conscience, in the anti-slavery 
cause, he proves conclusively that his heart has 
ceased to glow with the devotedness to its inter- 
3 



26 

ests which inspired his early and tolerating ef- 
forts in its behalf. We do not blame him that his 
judgment differs from ours on questions of propri- 
ety. He has a right to his opinion ; but he has 
no right to be intolerant towards us personally on 
account of ours. 

Since so much has been said about loading the 
anti-slavery enterprise with " foreign topics," we, 
too, may be permitted to remind those who make 
the outcry, of the legitimate object of our anti-sla 
very societies, implied in their very name. They 
did not band themselves together for or against 
anarchy or gynarchy, monarchy or hierarchy, or 
any form of civil or religious government, but sim- 
ply against slavery. It is well for us all to keep 
in mind that the best test of our love for the cause 
is, that it is strong enough to overcome all reluc- 
tance to work with those who differ on other points 
from ourselves. We can work for the slave with 
any man, who does not reject our help and hin- 
der our efforts. 

But, this short-lived opposition to the free la- 
bors of women will not long exist. It was not an 
honest one, but had its origin in the pretences of 
detected unfaithfulness. Men so suddenly and 
so preposterously deferential to usages will soon 
be silent on this head. They have submitted in 
silence to see " women on committees" in other 
enterprises, and silently they are witnessing the 
general progress of the age. They feel no call to 



27 

proscribe the "mixed commissions" that have 
erected the Bunker-Hill monument ! No burst 
of indignation against " woman usurping authori- 
ty," follows the address of a gentleman to the pre- 
siding officer of a monument-meeting at Worces- 
ter — " Madam President !" No denunciations 
follow the appointment of ten men and ten wo- 
men as the committee of a public meeting in New- 
buryport. Classical and revered Cambridge nom- 
inates a whole committee of women on a similar oc- 
casion, and pledges its manhood to execute their 
mandates, declaring its " reliance on their strong 
arm for success," unridiculed and unrebuked. — 
Since men have proclaimed with pride how 
scarfs and handkerchiefs wave applause at whig 
and democratic gatherings, we feel no call to de- 
fend our interest in the anti-slavery cause from 
the charge of " singular and unwomanly partici- 
pation in things out of our sphere." Since a Ban- 
croft, years ago, proclaimed, what the democracy 
of the state sanctioned, that the principles of that 
party were applicable to women ; since Web- 
ster has instructed the ladies of Virginia, 
that it is their duty to rectify the principles 
and keep alive the truth and honesty of the 
community, we ^' experience no inclination" to 
contract our sphere of usefulness, on the ground 
that its present enlargement will shock the pre- 
judices of the world. 

The " woman's rights question" has been raised 



28 

by our opponents — not ourselves. Vast and im- 
portant as it is, there is not legitimate scope for 
it in societies whose point of union is, the rights 
of the southern slave. But, for the slave's sake, 
we are bound to urge on all his advocates the 
use of all their powers according to their own 
consciences ; — to proclaim, " La carriere ouverte 
aux ialens" — the tools to whosoever can use 
them. 

An expression of thanks may be permitted us 
here — the thanks due to every human being who 
strengthens our faith by heroic endurance, who 
stimulates us to diligence, or shames our negli- 
gence by unremitting exertion, and whose exam- 
ple of calm, invincible patience, and generous 
hopefulness, are to us as a personal benefit. For 
such obligations we may pause a moment to ex- 
press our gratitude to Abby Kelley — the devo- 
ted laborer for the cause in Massachusetts and 
Connecticut. While we have been sitting undis- 
turbed by our firesides, or discharging the lighter 
obligations for the cause which use has made 
easy and agreeable, she has labored through ob- 
loquy and persecution, in those almost impracti- 
cable regions which few agents have yet ventured 
to visit, at inclement seasons and amid bodily 
fatigue, unsustained by the funds or sympathy of 
any anti-slavery society, (except the testimony of 
the women of Lynn, — her residence of many 
years, — to the high-toned purity and devotedness, 



29 

of her nature ; and the confidence implied by the 
American Anti-Slavery Society at the last an- 
nual meeting.) Calling no man master, she has 
been by that freedom qualified for the perform- 
ance of those effectual services to the cause of 
the slave, which the fettered hand and the shack- 
led foot can never render. She is sure of her 
reward — the gratitude of the few — the malignant 
scorn of the many — the blessings of coming 
generations. 

We make this public acknowledgment of our 
own obligations to her, not for her sake. Such 
an expression would be omitted by us, were it 
our object to give pleasure to her personally. But 
we esteem it a duty and a privilege to identify 
ourselves with all who are persecuted for righte- 
ousness' sake. If the noble firmness with which 
she has executed her arduous mission is beyond 
our own ability to exercise, or our grace to imi- 
tate, we will not, in the spirit of new organiza" 
tion, contemn the excellence we cannot attain. — 
We will rather say, in the words of another true- 
hearted and eloquent woman in our cause, — " If 
we are not bold enough in the slave's cause our- 
selves, we honor those most who are so." 

The mention of new organization brings us to 
the consideration of the manner in which this 
foe should be met. It is a pro-slavery influence, 
and as such should be combated ; " an evil soul 
producing holy witness," and its disguises should 
3* 



30 

be stripped off ; hypocritical in its pretences, and 
as such should be denounced ; unscrupulous in 
its violations of truth in principles and veracity 
in facts, and as such should be exposed. It iSf 
as the Colonization Society was, composed of 
two classes of persons — the deceivers and the 
deceived. We must forgive the trespasses of the 
former against us, and strive with unwearied 
effort to open the eyes of the latter. We can 
descend to no petty scramble with it for funds 
and auxiliaries ; for of the enemies of the cause 
we only want repentance ; and no true friend 
will long remain unsuspicious of its design — the 
destruction of the existing anti-slavery societies 
and influences, and the substitution in their stead 
of the unoffending anti-slavery which swayed 
New-England from the pulpit ten years since, 
of which it labors to preserve the supremacy. 

Meanv/hile, to the repentant and the undeceiv- 
ed, the old platform stands where it did. None 
can be driven from it who love the cause. Men 
slide away from it through indifference, or are 
self-excluded through treachery and intolerance. 
But faithful hearts are there still — instant in la- 
bor, in warning, in entreaty and rebuke ; present- 
ing neither place to ambition, nor profit to selfish- 
ness ; and may God strengthen them to endure 
to the end. 

Our cause presents two considerations to the 
mind ; the freedom of the slave, and the elevatiaa 



31 

of the free people of color. The first is the funda- 
mental one, for while slavery exists, the people of 
color must suffer from the labors of the oppress- 
ing caste to keep them degraded. But, much may- 
be done for the nominally free, as we go on. If 
we have from our more fortunate position, any 
advantages of mental acquirement, or cultivation 
and refinement of manners, let us share them with 
those who have been deprived of our opportuni- 
ties, in the only way in which such a proffe^ 
would not be an insult — i. e. by a hearty acknow- 
ledgment of social equality. We heartily approve 
and co-operate with every effort for the elevation 
of our injured fellow-beings, wherever it is made. 
We sympathize with the self-denying labors of a 
Wilson and an Ingraham. But we need not go 
to Canada or Jamaica for a field for benevolent 
effort among the free colored people. They are 
among ourselves — a suffering remnant, in the 
grasp of a despotic people, whose hearts are 
hardened towards them. Let us stand between 
them and injury, whenever we see its ruthless 
hand upraised. Let us better know our vocation 
as abolitionists, than to consider our companions 
in the cause, in this city and elsewhere, as mere 
claimants of alms, as coveting our supercilious 
notice and acquaintance. It is not so. It is jus- 
tice, and sympathy, and right appreciation, and 
deserved respect, — it is the co-laborer's right hand 
we owe them ; and they will have a right to de- 



33 



spise us, if we confine our views for their eleva- 
tion to feeding and clothing their hungry, or sus- 
taining their charitable institutions. Our efforts 
should primarily be to raise the weight that 
crushes them. Are their schools the scenes of a 
gentle and efficient culture ? {or rather, why are 
any schools harred against them 1) Are the de- 
sirable lots in society theirs to bid off at will ? 
These are the questions we should ask ourselves; 
and the negative answer, which the facts of the 
case give, should stimulate us, among other ef- 
forts, to circulate the petition for the abrogation 
of the present anti-christian and anti-republican 
marriage law, with renewed energy. 

Let us go on as aforetime, shrinking from no 
sacrifices that freedom and humanity need. But 
why do we mention sacrifices ? Have we ever 
really made one "? Would not the true sacrifice 
have been to have renounced the life af an aboli- 
tionist, and have w^rought in the world's harness, 
for the earthly portion which satisfieth not ? In 
laboring for the freedom of others, have we not 
found an exceeding great and unlooked for re- 
ward — the additional field of usefulness to our 
age, given by the freedom of soul we have gain- 
ed ? We have, in our associated capacity, every 
encouragement to keep onward, with a single eye 
to the great national enterprise we have com- 
menced. We may go out of life before its accom- 
plishment, but we shall have made its labors 



33 

light for those who shall come after, as the labors 
of a preceding generation have made it discredit- 
able for the Englishman of to-day to do otherwise 
than oppose West Indian slavery. 

But a still more arduous enterprise now claims 
the attention of England. A hundred and fifty 
millions of people in British India, the victims of 
civil and domestic slavery, call for redress at her 
ed, will show who in England are the living 
apostles, and who the mere hereditary abolition- 
ists. In this proposed work we cannot but take 
the deepest interest, though the field of labor is in 
another empire. " Our country is the world — 
our countrymen are all mankind !" Our sympa- 
thies have not been exhausted by exercise — they 
are but more universal and abundant in their flow. 

To our dear and well-remembered friend, 
George Thompson, to whom we are so deeply 
indebted, we take this means of conveying our 
earnest sympathy in the enterprise of redeeming 
British India from oppression. No enterprise for 
freedom is foreign to us, and there is in Great 
Britain a high and pure-minded phalanx, to whom 
our sympathy will be none the less valuable be- 
cause we are women, and who will not hypo- 
critically solicit of women that aid, which, unless 
it were slavishly yielded, they would scornfully 
reject, 

A new year of labor is opening before us. If 
we are not wanting to our cause, it will be a year 



34 

of success. Freedom makes her friends clear 
and comprehensive in vision, — resolute and ready 
n execution, — self-denying and courageous in 
conduct, — faithful and true to each other ; and 
these are the elements of success — the assurance 
that our prayers for the extinction of slavery will 
be heard. 



APPENDIX. 



LETTERS. 

Among the extracts from letters read at the annual meet- 
ing of the Boston Female Society, are the following, from 
Harriet Martineau and Anne Knight. The cheerful- 
ness of one, and the deep feeling of the other, express so 
well the anti-slavery mind, according as its mood is grave or 
gay, that the society asked their publication. 

" Tynemouth, Northumberland. 

Living or dying, I shall be in spirit with you and 

your cause. If I can do any thing, however little, for it, 
while I have life, it shall be done. 

Garrison was quite right, I think, to sit in the gallery at 
the Convention. I conclude you think so. It has done 
much, 1 am persuaded. You will live to see a great en- 
largement of our scope of usefulness, I trust, but what with 
the vices of some women and the fears of others, it will be 
hard work to assert our liberty. I will, however, till I die, 
and so will you ; and so make it easier for some few to fol- 
low. * * * ifr * * 

The information brought out at the Convention, will do 
good, I have no doubt. But the knowledge we have ob- 
tained of the obvious deficiencies of the members, in the very 
principles they came to advocate, will surely do more, 

I send £2, which I have got by my needle for your soci- 
ety—being fond of fancy work, and fit for it in this my inva 



35 

lid state. I feel in my soul the honor of the appointment of 
delegate. You know that I could not have discharged its 
duties, even if the others had been admitted. But I beg to 
assure my constituents, that there is in me no lack of wil- 
lingness to serve our cause in any capacity. 

Your faithful and affectionate 

H. MARTINEAU." 



8th MONTH 4, 1840. 

***** Indeed, I am surprised at the 
readiness of the bigoted to yield to the honest, unflinching 
assertions of truth ; it being, they allow, a question of meri's 
rather than of women's rights, — the placing at his side, in 
important scenes of life, his better and wiser half — the be- 
ing whose clearer anddiviner instincts would enlighten, enno- 
ble and sanctify his counsels, and hasten, with the help of 
Divine Providence, the renovation of our world. 

At the Freemason's Tavern, the clamor against the 
question grew less and less, and the advocacy louder ; there 
were many, I believe, ashamed of the part they took. I be- 
lieve they cannot deny the equality of talent as well as worth 
of their wives, sisters and daughters. These ideas, discus- 
sed often among us, are helping the cause. We tell our 
opponents, in the beginning, that they must take off their 
grandmother's night caps, and throw them to the " things 
that love night ;" they good naturedly comply, and enter- 
tain the subject with a smile. We tell them we are not the 
same beings as fifty years ago ; no longer " sit by the fire 
and spin," or distil rosemary and lavender for poor neighbors ; 
but appoint visiting committees for them, and sit in Mission 
and Bible Societies reporting to the men ; sitting in their 
public meetings, and uniting with them in association com- 
mittees. Then comes the great and mortal conflict. The 
dreadful monster slavery must be grappled with ; and who 
is sent out to do it 1 Not man — not the stronger vessel — 
with his nervous and brawny arm, his stentorian voice, the 
fierceness of his black beard and mustachios, and his " eye 
like Mars, to threaten and command." What ! not the 
*' sons of Thunder Boanergean" — not they ] Who, theni 
Some fierce dagon more horrible still 1 No ! guess again ! 
Ceberusl No ! weak, tender, untrained for the work — • 
modest woman ! And when she appeals to the men against 
such unheard of folly and atrocity to the weaker vessel, 



36 

James Cropper has said, " It is no use talking, Anne ; the 
men are gone to sleep, and it is impossible to rouse them ; 
you must go forth."' At another time and place, to the 
same appeal, Thomas Clarkson, our veteran hero, made 
the same reply. He did, indeed, my dear friends, and thus 
having been driven into the fore-front of the battle — having, 
in the°labor of collecting and going from house to house for 
signatures to petitions, had to fight with beasts at Ephesus, 
who can any longer, in this blaze of our superior experience, 
dazzling the twilight ken of their sheltering care, dare to 
omit our names in the muster-roll for the council board ] 
We have a far superior claim to the men, — the claim of our 
ensanguined battle-field, — the claim of our trophies, our 
captives ; and can they much longer dare to hold up the pu- 
ny cry of custom and dread of ridicule, in their confused jar- 
gon and strife of tongues — their darkening of counsel by 
words without knowledge — while the veterans sit without, 
in silent contempt of their rhodomontade 1 Surely, the fol- 
ly is hastening to an end ; it cannot withstand the light of 
truth. Tacitus relates that the Germans always called the 
women to their war-counsels, because they had something 
divine in them ; and do not your Indians have their confer- 
ences unitedly % The scientific Congresses of France are 
composed of men and women, — myself being a member, 
and having addressed them, a Leige aux Blois, on the sub- 
ject of slavery. Our own society invites its men and wo- 
men in mission and conference ; and if we may handle the 
holy things, is it for our sect, to raise its voice opposing our 
secular and moral engagements 1 Forbid it, common sense, 
and thou, my dear friend, cease not to cry aloud and lift up 
thy voice like a trumpet ; for surely, if Indian women, if 
German women, if the women of France may hold collo- 
quy with men, the women of England, not less Christian, 
and not less qualified than they, must, ere long, " what is 
dark illumine." May the emphatic question be sent across 
the Atlantic by some strong pen to our exclusives in Broad 
street — a most inappropriate name ; it ought to be the 
street which is called strait. I wish it were practicable 
that, continuing the subject now begun, the cause of hu- 
manity might be extended, so that by the time of a second 
Convention, it would be more deserving the name of a 
World's Convention. 

Thy very sincere friend, 

ANNE KNIGHT," 



TREASURER'S ACKNOWLEBGEMENT. 

The receipts of the Society since April last are $720, 
<$500 of which were to sustain the National Anti-Slavery 
Standard,) as follows : 

April — 1840. Mrs. Sarah Johnson, annual sub. 50e; 
Sarah Ann Ball 50c ; Anna Snowden 50c ; Mary A. John- 
son 50c ; Clarissa Lawrence 50c ; Ruth Copeland $1 50; 
Harriet Jackson 50c ; Sarah B. Brown 50c ; Catharine 
Sargent 50c; Henrietta Sargent 50c; Ruth Soley 50c; 
Frances Clapp 50c ; Caroline F Williams 50c ; Mrs. 
Henshaw 50c ; Sarah Ann Brewer 50c. 

May — Ann Reed 50 ; Mary H. Jackson 50 ; Sarah 
Johnson 50c ; Anna Cotton, life member, $5 ; Mrs. Sa- 
rah Carter, Northampton, L. M. $5 ; Lydia Dean, L. M. 
5 00 ; Mrs. Philbrick 10 00 ; Elizabeth Copeland 50c. 

June — Ruth Copeland 50c ; Catharine Nichols 1 00 ; 
Mary S. Himes L. M. 5 ; Anna Gardner, Nantucket L. 
M 5 00; Charlotte Austin do L. M. 5 00 ; Maria W. 
Chapman 13 25 ; Eliza Lee Follen 2 00 ; Harriet Bixby^ 
Wrentham 5 00 • Anna W. Weston 5 00 . H C. Fifield, 
Weymouth, L. M. 5 00 ; Eliza F. Meriam 5 00 ; Henri- 
etta' Sargent 5 00 ; Louisa Sewall 5 00 ; Mary Young 
5 00 ; Mary Stetson, Charlestown, L. M. 5 00 ; Catharine 
Stetson do. L. M. 5 00 ; Louisa Loring 15 00 ; Hannah 
Robie 5 00; Thankful Southwick 15 00; Mary G. Chap- 
man 10 00 ; Mrs. Oliver Johnson, L. M 5 00 ; Mrs. Fish- 
er 3 00 ; Miss Peterson 5 00 ; Miss Mcintosh 5 00 ; Mrs, 
H. Chapman 10 00 ; Anna Mann 1 00 ; Miss Allen 1 50 ; 
Mrs. Spear, Rosbury, 1 00 ; Polly I. Emerson 2 00 : Mrs, 
Lucy Bird 1 00 ; Miss Catharine Parcher 1 00 ; Sarah F, 
Stearns 1 00 ; Mrs. Amasa Walker 5 00 ; Mrs. F. M. Rob- 
bins 2 50 ; Mrs. Clarissa Jackson 1 00 ; Miss H. Sargent 
5 00 ; M. G. Chapman 1 00 ; Mrs. Scarlett 1 00 ; Miss 
Lang 1 00 ; Mary Hutchinson 1 00 ; Mrs. Jarvis 50c ; 
E. S. Gray 50c ; Mary Parker 50c ; Submit Stothill 1 00 ; 
Miss Wiley 50c ; a friend 1 00 ; Mrs, Johnson 25c ; Mrs. 
H. G Chapman 25 ; Henrietta Sargent 25 ; Miss Stetson 
25 ; Miss Carter 50 ; E. F. Meriam 25 ; Mrs. Folsom 25 ; 
Mrs. Tyler 50 ; Mrs. Hartford 25 ; Mrs. Morton 50 ; Ma- 
ry G. Chapman 25 ; Margaret Fields 50. 

ELIZA F. MERIAM, Treas. 

Boston^ Oct. 14, 1840. 



V 



