


s*\i 




uStmM 



» 



mfec^V^* 



w-'CXf*^.- ; : „:.%*? *.*£ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/scripturalresearOOharr 



SCRIPTURAL RESEARCHES 

ON THE LICITNESS 

OF THE 

SLAVE-TRADE, 

SHEWING ITS CONFORMITY 

WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF 

NATURAL and REVEALED RELIGION, 

DELINEATED IN THE 

SACRED WRITINGS of the WORD of GOD. 
By the Rev. R. HARRIS. 

SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES, FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE 
ETERNAL LIFE. JOHN. C. 5. V. 39. 



LIVERPOOL: 
PRINTED BY H. HODGSON, POOL-LANK, &(\//7C O C r ^ 
M.DCC.LXXXVIIt. 






T O 

The Worshipful the MAYOR, 

RECORDER., ALDERMEN, BAILIFFS, 

And other Members of the Common Council 

Of the ancient and loyal BOROUGH and 

CORPORATION of LIVERPOOL, 

The following Scriptural Researches 

On the licitnefs of the SLAVE-TRADE, 

Are mod refpeclfully infcribed 

BY 

Their moil obedient 

And moll humble Servant, 

RAYMUND HARRIS. 



PREFACE. 



UNWILLING to incur the difpleafure of every 
friend to juftice, religion, and humanity, I 
haften to inform the Reader, who has caft an eye on 
the Title-page, that, in attempting to eftablifh the 
licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, nothing is farther re- 
moved from my thoughts, than to fet up as an advo- 
cate for injuftice and oppreffion : I am as much at 
enmity wi:h both, as the molt fanguine advocate for 
African Liberty may be. I am well apprized, that 
a<5ts of violence and oppreffion, however authorized 
by numbers, however firmly eftablifned by long ufe, 
and a kind of traditional inattention to the fufferings 
of perfons in an abject condition of life, can never 
change the criminality of their nature. Whatever is 
efTentially incompatible with the facred and inalie- 
nable rights of juftice and humanity, can claim no 
place in the catalogue of virtues, even of the lowed; 
rank j it muft be for ever branded with every mark 
of infamy and guilt. 

Far then from attempting the leaft encroachment 
on the rights of Virtue, my fole drift in the prefent 
Tract is to examine with the utmoft impartiality, the 
intrinfic nature of the Slave-Trade : that is, whether 
the Trade itfelf, prefcinding from every other inci- 
dental circumftance, which may have rendered the 
practice of it hateful, or even criminal, be in its own 
nature licit or illicit. 

Now, it being evident in the firff. place, that the 
intrinfic morality or immorality, licitnefs or illicitnefs 
of all human purfuits is efTentially inherent to the 

purfuits 



vi. PREFACE. 

purfuits themfelves, and not at all depending on our 
habits or ideas of Right and Wrongs which are but too 
often influenced and darkened by prejudice, intereft, 
and other paffions ; and, it being equally evident on 
the other hand, that the declarations of the Written 
Word of God are fo many incontrovertible decifions, 
by which we are to judge of the intrinfic licitnefs or 
illicitnefs of fuch facts as are regiftered in the Sacred 
Volumes j it follows necefTarily, that, one of thoie 
facts being undoubtedly the Slave-Trade, no argu- 
ments can be fo forcible and conclufive, towards evin- 
cing the inherent lawfulnefs of it, as thofe Oracular 
decifions of the Word of God, which give a pofitive 
fanclion to the Trade itfelf. — It is then by enforcing 
thefe unerring deciiions only, the fureft guide to 
direct our judgements in forming a juft eftimate of 
the merits of the prefent Controverfy, that I mean to 
Vindicate the licitnefs of the Slave-Trade; not by 
pratronizing fuch crying enormities and abufes, as are 
faid to be perpetrated in this moft ancient commercial 
purfuit. 

Should the fanction of divine authority appear 
evident in favour of the Slave-Trade, from the 
teftimonies I mail produce in the feries of my 
Refearches, I mail confider myfelf perfectly difinga- 
ged from the moft diftant obligation of anfwering 
fuch objections, as are not grounded on the fame 
divine authority : an authority of that irrefiftible 
weight of conviction, that every perfon, who has 
any pretenfions to Religion, muft immediately af- 
fent to, however plaufible or ingenious the oppo- 
iite arguments may appear, when viewed through 
the fcanty light of mere human reafon and fenfe. 

The fcope of the following Refearches being evi- 
dently to try the merits of the prefent Controver- 
fy by the Sacred Canons of the Written Word of 

God, 



PREFACE. vii. 

God, I can expect conviction only from fuch per- 
sons, as are not fo far deftitute of every fentiment 
of religion and good fenfe, as to diibelieve the di- 
vine authenticity of thofe Sacred Writings, in which 
the Finger of God has left in indelible characters 
the vifible impreffion of his Wifdom. 

Now, as thefe Sacred Records contain tranfac- 
tions relative to the Slave-Trade, as practifed in all 
the three religious Difpenfations that have appear- 
ed in the World fince the formation of the firft of 
men to the prefent time, I mall, accordingly, di- 
vide my Scriptural Refearches on that Trade, into 
three feparate Parts : in which I (hall fu cceffi vely 
prove, that the Slave-Trade is perfectly confo- 
nant to the principles of the Law of Nature, the 
Mofaic Difpenfation, and the Chriftian Law, as de- 
lineated to us in the Sacred Writings of the Word 
of God. 

I have prefixed to the whole a few pofitions or 
Data, which, I truft, will be found unquestionably 
true, and exactly conformable to found reafon ; in 
order, that I may not be interrupted in the fequel with 
unneceffary repetitions of general principles, nor 
be in the leaff. constrained to enter into a formal con- 
futation of arguments, which do not immediately 
affect my fubject, and that the Reader may fee at 
one view the very fundamental principles of thofe 
inferences, which I draw in vindication of the Slave- 
Trade from the Scriptural paffages I have (elected in 
the courfe of my Refearches, out of a greater num- 
ber of the fame import I could eafily pioduce. 

The Scriptural paffages are literally tranfcribed 
from the Proteitant Vulgar Tranflation of the Bible ■, 
which, being the moil generally received in thefe 
Kingdoms, will, of courfe, have a greater weight of 
authority than any other with the major part of my 

Readers* 



Vlll. 



PREFACE. 



Readers. The Edition I ufe is that which was pu- 
blished in London by John Bill and Chriftopher Bar- 
ker in the year 1669. 

With refpecl to compofition, I can pretend to 
neither elegance nor ftyle : a Foreigner, unacquainted 
with the leaft element of the Englifh Language till 
the twenty leventh year of his age, can have no claim 
to either : if he can but arrange his periods with 
a tolerable degree of grammatical accuracy, and ex- 
prefs himfelf with fufficient clearnefs, method, and 
perfpicuity, he has reafon to expecl: every indulgence 
from the native candour of an Englilh Critic. 



A T A. 



DATA. 

I. 

THAT the Volume of the Sacred Writings, com- 
monly called the Holy Bible, comprehending both 
the Old and the New Teftaments, contains the uner- 
ring Decifions of the Word of God* 

II. 

That thefe Decifions are of equal authority in both 
the Teftaments, and that that authority is the efTen- 
tial veracity of God, who is Truth itfelf. 

in; 

That, as there can be no prefcsipnion againft the 
authority of God, whatever is declared in any part of 
the Scriptural Records to be intrinfically good or bad, 
licit or illicit^ muft be efferttially fo in its own na- 
ture, however contrary any fuch declaration may be 
to the received opinions of men for any length of 
time. 

IV. 

That, as the Supreme Legiflator of the World 
is infinitely juft and wife in all his decifions refpect- 
ing Right and Wrong) and is no ways accountable 
to his creatures for the reafons of his conduct in 
the government of the World ; fo it muft be a degree 
of prefumption highly criminal in any creature to re- 
fufe affent to thofe Decifions, only becaufe he can- 
not comprehend the hidden principles of that im- 
partial jufticej which characterizes every decifion of 
God. 

V. 

That no perfon can be fuppofed to acknowledge 
in faclj that the Holy Scriptures are the infallible 

B Word 



[ io ] 

Word of God, unlefs he acquiefces without referve 
in every fcriptural Decifion, however incomprehen- 
fible the reafons and motives of thofe Decifion s may 
be to him. 

VI. 

That every perfon, who profeffes to acknow- 
ledge the Holy Scriptures to be the unerring Word 
of God, muft confequentiy alTent to every Scriptu- 
ral Decifion without referve, only becaufe he believes 
them to be the declarations of God ; who, being 
Truth itfelf, can neither err himfelf, nor lead any 
one into error. 

VII. 

That, if one or more Decifions of the Written 
Word of God give a pofitive fanclion to the intrinnc 
licitnefs of any human purfuit (for inftance, the Slave- 
Trade), whoever profeffes to believe the incontro- 
vertible veracity of the Written Word of God, effen- 
tially incompatible with the leaft degre of injuftice, 
mull confequentiy believe the purfuit itfelf to be in- 
trinfically j u ft and lawful in the ftridteft fenfe of the 
word. 

VIII. 

That no advantages whatever attending the pro- 
fecution of an unlawful purfuit, nor any abufes what- 
ever committed in the profecution of a lawful one, can 
fo far affect, the purfuits themfelves, as to render the 
latter intrinfkally criminal, or the former effentially 
juft. 

IX. 

That, as no private or national advantages what- 
ever can alter the inherent turpitude of a purfuit effen- 
tially unlawful ; fo no arguments whatever, built folely 
on the ftrength of thofe advantages, will ever juftify 
the Slave Trade, till the fame be proved effentially 
juft and lawful in its nature. 

That s 



[ II ] 

X. 

That, as no abufes or malepractices whatever, com 
mitted in the profecution of a lawful purfuit, can ever 
alter the intrinfic licitnefs of it ; fo no arguments 
whatever, built folely on the ftrength of thofe abufes, 
will ever evince the intrinfic deformity of the Slave- 
Trad g, any more than that of any other lawful pur- 
fuit, where abufes are committed, unlefs the fame be 
proved effentially unjuft and illicit. 

XL 

That, if abufes and malepractices, committed in 
the profecution of a lawful purfuit, can be checked 
and prevented by Legal Authority, the private and 
national advantages arifing from that purfuit, and the 
inconveniencies attending the fuppreflion of it, joined 
to its intrinfic licitnefs, ought to have a very powerful 
influence towards not abolifhing the profecution of that 
purfuit. 

XII. 

That, if abufes and malepractices, though evident- 
ly fubjecl: to the control of .the Legiflature, are to be 
confidered as fufficient arguments to fupprefs the 
SlaVe-Trade, without any regard to its intrinfic 
licitnefs, every other branch of Trade, in which abufes 
are committed, ought, on the fame account, to fhare 
the fame fate. 



B 2 SECTION. 



[ 12 ] 

SECTION I. 

Scriptural Refe arches on the licitnejs of the Slave-Trade) 
Jhewing its conformity with the principles of the Law 
of Nature delineated in the Sacred V/r-itings. 

I. T | M3AT period of years, which elapfed from the 
day on which God created Man in his own 
image (a), to the day, on which He gave his Laws to 
the Children of Ifrael on Mount Sinai (£), is generally 
called the period of the Law of Nature. The exact 
duration of this period is a matter of controverfy 
among the Learned. Archbifhop Ufher, whofe chro- 
nological accuracy in the computation of fcriptural 
years is much admired, reckons 2513 years between 
the Creation of the World and the promulgation of 
the Mofaic Law. But be this as it may (for no dif- 
ference in computation can affect the fubject of my 
prefent Reiearches), it is evident from the tenour of 
the Sacred Records, that, between the creation of 
Adam and the promulgation of the Mofaic Law, the 
Difpenfation of the Law of Nature, commonly called 
Natural Religion, or the Religion of Nature, was the 
only true Religion in the World. 

II. SiMPLE as the principles of this Religion may 
appear, directed chiefly to worfhip One, Supreme, 
Eternal, Ecing, the Cieator and Governor of all things, 
and to chufc and act in exact conformity to the inward 
dictates of found and unbiaffed reafon in every trans- 
action of life, where Right and Wrong were left to 
choice of Man -, it would be exceedingly difficult, as 
well as perfectly extraneous to my prefent fubject, to 
digeft thofe principles into a regular Code of thofe 

particular 

(a) Genefis, c. 1. v, 27. (2>) Exodus, c. 29, &c. 



[ »3 ] 

particular laws and duties, which conftituted the whole 
fyftem of that Religion. — I have not engaged to dif- 
play the whole frame and ftructure of Natural Religion: 
I am to fhew no farther, than that the principles and 
laws of that Religion, as far as we find them delineated 
in the Sacred Writings, not only never forbade the 
Slave-Trad e, or hinted the moft diftant oppofition 
to the profecution of it ; but that, the fame beino- 
frequently exemplified in the conftantand uninterrupt- 
ed practice of fome of the moft faithful obfervers of 
the laws and principles of that Religion, under the 
vifible protection of God, whofe favourites they were, 
the laws and principles themfelves were in perfect 
harmony with the practice of the Slave-Trade.— - 
Two very fmgular inftances of this kind, verified in 
the conduct of two of the moft diftinguifhed Charac- 
ters within the above period of the Law of Nature, 
Abraham and Joseph, will, I flatter myfelf, be fuf- 
ficient, without mentioning others, to juftify my af- 
fertion, and fet the prefent Controverfy in the cleareft 
light of Scriptural conviction. 

ABRAHAM. 
III. In every place of Scripture, where mention 
is made of this Venerable Patriarch, he is uniformly 
reprefented as a perfect pattern of every virtue. The 
ftrongeft faith in God (c), the firmeft reliance on his 
promifes (d), and the readied and moft unreferved 
obedience to his commands (<?) ; the moft fympathiz- 
ing humanity to every fellow-creature f/J, the ftrict- 
eft juftice and integrity in all his dealings with men (g) 
and the utmoit difintereftednefs of heart (b) ; infine, 

the 



(c) Gen. 15. 6. Rom. 4. 3. Galat. 3. 6. James, 2. 23. (d) Ibid, 

(e) Gen. 22. v. 1 — 13. (f) Gen. 18. 23, &c. 

{g) Gen. 21, 22, &c. Gen. 23, 7, &c. {b) Gen. 14.. 22, 23. 



L i* 1 

the greateft love of peace and harmony (z), together 
with every other religious, domeftic, and focial vir- 
tue (£), are the diftinguifhing chara&eriftics of his 
perfon. 

IV. Owing, no doubt, to thefe exalted virtues, he 
is frequently reprefented in Scripture in familiar inter- 
courfe with God (I) ; who, in innumerable places of 
Holy Writ, ftyles himfelf emphatically The God of 
Abraham, as the moft acceptable perfon he had on 
earth : he calls him His Friend (w), and makes the 
moft exalted panegyric of his virtues, when, appear- 
ing to his fon Ifaac after the death of his Father, he 
ipeaks to him in the following remarkable and com- 
prehenfive words : In thy Jeed Jh all all the nations of the 
earth be blejfed -, becaufe that Abraham obeyed my voice , 
and kept my charge, my commandments, my. ftatutes, and 
my laws {n). 

V. Nor is his unimpeachable character, as a right- 
eous man, lefs confpicuous in the Writings of the 
New Teftament ; where, among many other teftimo- 
nies of his irreproachable life, the Son of God himfelf, 
who always fpeaks of him as one of the moft faithful 
fervants of his Eternal Father, rebukes the Jews for 
having fo far departed from the rectitude of Abraham's 
conduct, as not to be entitled to the appellation of his 
Children; for, If ye were Abraham's children, fays he, 
ye would do the works of Abraham (<?), 

VI. Now, it is very remarkable, that among the 
works of Abraham, the very faithful, obedient, hu- 
mane, juft, difinterefted, righteous, and virtuous Abra- 
ham, who conftantly obeyed the voice of God, kept 
his charge, his commandments, his ftatutes, and his 

laws 

(z) Gen. 21. 22, &c. Gen. 1 3. 7, &c. (&) Gen. 18. 19. 

(/) Gen. 12. 1, &c. Gen. 15. 1, &c. Gen. 17. 1, &c. Gen. 18. 1, &c* 

(m) Ifaiah, 41. 8. («) Gen. 26. 4, 5. (0) John, 8. 39, 



[ '5 ] 

laws, and found fuch acceptance with him, as to be 
admitted to the familiarity of his friendly intercourfe ; 
it is very remarkable, I fay, that there mould be 
found among his works the practice of dealing in hu- 
man fleili, the practice of purchafing with money 
thofe of his own fpecies, and making them Bond- 
Slaves (p), without the leaft intimation being ever 
given by any of the infpired Writers, that his con- 
duct in this particular, where the natural rights of 
juftice and humanity are faid to be fo erTentially inte- 
refted, was ever reproved, or even difcountenanced in 
the moil diftant manner by any private or public in- 
timation of God's difpleafure ! 

VII. And what can we reafonably conclude from 
this uniform filence of the infpired Writers ? but that 
the practice of purchafing (laves was never accounted 
in the fight of God a violation of any of the laws of 
the Religion of Nature. For, is it credible, or, ra- 
ther, is it poffible for any one to believe, confiftently 
with the ideas we ought to entertain of the infinite 
holinefs of God, in whom dwelleth erTentially the ful- 
nefs of juftice, that he would ftyle himfelf The God of 
Abraham, in preference to any other ; that he would 
vouchfafe to honour him with the appellation of His 
Friend - 3 that he would blefs in his feed all the nations 
of the earth (q) -, that he would declare he had obey- 
ed his voice, kept his charge, his commandments, his 
ftatutes, and his laws, without excepting any one ; or 
that Jefus Chrift would have ever commended his 
works without any reftriction whatever, if the Slave- 
Trade, fo publickly and fo conftantly practifed by 
Abraham, had been an iniquitous, unnatural purfuit, 
erTentially oppofite to the facred laws of Nature, to the 
natural rights of juftice and humanity ? 

VIII. The 

(/) Gen. 17. 23, 27. (^) Gen, 22, v. 18. 



[ *<s ] 

VIII. The force of this powerful inference, con- 
fidered even as a mere negative argument in favour of 
the intrinfic licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, carries 
fuch an irrefiftible weight of conviction, that it amounts,, 
in my opinion, to a pofitive approbation of it : it be- 
ing otherwife impoffible to reconcile the juftice of God 
with his own fcriptural decisions concerning the efTen- 
tial impartiality, and eternal unchangeablenefs of its 
nature. 

IX. That this pofitive approbation, this fanction 
of Divine Authority in favour of the Slave-Trade, 
fo vifible in the conduct of God, eye-witnefs to every 
tranfaction of Abraham's life, is not a bare conjecture, 
or a mere negative inference of a paffionate advocate 
for flavery, but the real intent and meaning of the 
Written Word of God, will appear evident to the 
moft zealous advocate for African Liberty, who, di- 
verting himfelf for a moment of every prejudice, that 
the love of humanity may have created in his mind, 
will difpafiionately examine with me the ftriking cir- 
cumftances of the following Cafe. It is that of a 
Bond Slave in the fervice of Abraham -, which, as re- 
lated in the Sacred Writings, contains fuch interefting 
particulars, that, I flatter myfelf, It will evince to de- 
monftration, that the Slave-Trade has the indifpu- 
table fanction of Divine Authority, even when attend- 
ed with circumftances not of the moil pleafmg com- 
plexion to the eyes of humanity. 

X. This very decifive fact is thus literally related 
in the xvi th Chapter of the Book of Genesis. 

i. Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: 
and (he had an hand-maid, an Egyptian, whofe 
name was Hagar, 

2. And Sarai faid unto Abram : behold now, the 
Lord hath reftrained me from bearing : I pray thee, 
go in unto my maid : it may be, that I may 

obtain 



[ -7 ] 

obtain children by her : and Abram hearkened to 
the voice of Sarai. 

3. And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid, 
the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in 
the land of Canaan, and gave her to her hufband 
Abram to be his wife. 

4. And he went in unto Hagar, and fhe conceived : 
and when me law that fhe had conceived, her mif- 
trefs was defpifed in her eyes. 

5. And Sarai laid unto Abram : my wrong be upon 
thee : I have given my maid into thy bofom ; and 
when fhe faw fhe had conceived, I was defpifed in 
her eyes : the Lord judge between me and thee. 

6. But Abram faid unto Sarai : behold, thy maid is 
in thy hand ; do to her as it pleafeth thee. And 
when Sarai dealt hardly with her, fhe fled from her 
face. 

7. And the Angel found her by a fountain of water in 
the wildernefs, by the fountain in the way to Shur. 

8. And he faid : Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence comeft 
thou ? and whither wilt thou go ? And fhe faid : 
I flee from the face of my miftrefs Sarai. 

9. And the Angel of the Lord faid unto her : return 
unto thy miftrefs, and fubmit thyfelf under her 
hands, 

10. And the Angel of the Lord faid unto her : I will 
multiply thy feed exceedingly, that it mall not be 
numbered for multitude. 

11. And the Angel of the Lord faid unto her: be- 
hold, thou art with child, and fhalt bear a fon, and 
(halt call his name Ifhmael ■> becaufe the Lord hath 
heard thy affliction. 

XI. Enough have we for the prefent to obferve on 

this portion of Hagar's hiftory, without proceeding 

to relate the treatment fhe received in her Matter's 

houfe feme time after her return.-— Here we have a 

C . Hand-maid, 



[ i» ] 

Hand-maid, called foon after a Bond-woman by God 
himfelf (r) j born in Africa, for fhe was an Egyptian 
by birth, and, confequently, an African Slave, labour- 
ing under every natural difadvantage attending the 
condition of a Bond-Have; bought by a ftranger, 
tranfported from her native Country into a diftant land, 
the Land of Canaan, where Abram dwelt ; that is, 
tranfported from Africa into Alia : feparated for ever 
from her deareft relations, friends, and acquaintance, 
and obliged to wait at hand, and work for the advan- 
tage of her Mafters. 

XII. The fterility of her Miftrefs feemed rather to 
flatter Hagar with the profpect of meliorating her 
condition, by becoming her Matter's wife at the 
iblicitation of her Miftrefs : but the event proved the 
contrary, and difappointed all her hopes ; for not only 
fhe did not obtain her freedom by becoming his wife, 
but rinding fhe was with child by her Mailer, and 
being, on this account, not quite fo refpectful to her 
Miftrefs, as the latter expected in (quality of Abram's 
principal wife, fhe was fo roughly handled by Sarai, 
with the permiffion of Abram, that, unable to bear 
her treatment, fhe fled from her houfe, left her fervice, 
and took refuge in the defert. What the correction 
was, that Sarai inrlidted on Hagar, is not particularly 
fpecified in the Sacred Hiftory : the Hebrew word ufed 
upon the occafion, and rendered by the Tranilators 
dealt hardly, has fuch an extent of fignification, as 
may eafily convey the idea of a very cruel and oppref- 
five treatment, which, in the a&ual flate of Hagar's 
pregnancy, mult have rendered her affliftion much 
more intolerable and opprefllve. 

XIII. Every circumftance attending the wretched 
fituation of this poor African Slave, who, though le- 
gally 

(r) Gen. c. 21. v, i%. 



t '9 1 

gaily married to her Mailer, is kept ftill in bondage, 
■and forced, as it were, out of his houfe and fervice in 
the condition fhe was in, through hard nfage and fe- 
verity, though charged with no other crime, but being 
not quite fo refpectful to her hufband's firft wife as fhe 
had been before her marriage, feems to excite compaf- 
fion, and juftify her efcape. — Were Hagar's cafe that of 
any African female Have now in the Weft-Indies, and 
were the fime to be tried before a jury compofed of 
ibme of the prefent advocates for African Liberty in 
this Ifland, one might decide almoft to a certainty in 
whofe favour the verdicl would be given : the Slave 
would moil probably be declared free, and both Mailer 
and Miftrefs feverely reprimanded, if not alfo condemn- 
ed in a heavy precuniary mulct : no other verdict would 
be coniiilent with the principles they fo publicity 
avow. 

XIV. But did Hagar obtain the fame favourable 

fentence at the impartial Tribunal of God, when fhe 

pleaded her Caufe before the Miniiler of hisjuftice, 

whom he deputed to reprefent his Perfon ? Did he 

approve of her conduct in leaving her Mafler's houfe, 

and quitting his fervice ? Did he hint the moil diftant 

reflection on the proceedings of Abram or her Miftrefs 

Sarai ? Did he fignify to her, that her quality of 

Abram's wife, or the feverity of Sarai's treatment, 

even in her actual ftate of pregnancy, emancipated her 

from her bondage, refcinded the original contract of 

her purchafe, or that that contract had been illicit and 

contrary to his laws, or that fhe might, on this account, 

confider herfelf as no part of Abram's lawful property, 

but at full liberty to difpofe of her perfon as fhe 

thought beft? — NO: — on the contrary, her conduct 

was condemned by the Reprefentative of God, who 

ordered her in his name to return to her Mifirefs, and 

fubmii herfelf under her hands, though at the fame 

C 2 time 



[ 20 ] 

time he allured her, that the Lord had heard her 
affliction. 

XV. Were all other fcriptural evidences wanted in 
favour of the Slave-Trade, this Decree alone of the 
higheit Court of Juitice poffible, this folemn Sentence 
of the Supreme Judge of Right and Wrong, Who is no 
ref peeler ofperjons, but, in every nation, he that fear eth 
him, and ivorketh righteoujnefs, is accepted with him (j), 
and who, in the .cafe before us, had an intuitive and 
comprehenfive knowledge of every particular circum- 
stance attending -the claims of both the Parties, 
muft convince every impartial Reader, that the licit- 
nefs of that Trade is evidently warranted by the 
Written Word of God ; who, by the very a& of de- 
puting an Angel, on purpofe to command the fugitive 
Slave to return to. her Matter's houfe, and fubmit her- 
ielf under the hands of her Miftrefs, declared her to be 
her Mailer's indifputable property, and the original 
bargain or contract, by which he had acquired that 
property, to be jufl and lawful in its nature: that is, 
that the Slave-Trade, even when attended with cir- 
cumltances not altogether conformable to the feelings 
of humanity, is effentially confident with the facred 
and inalienable rights of juftice, and has the pofitive 
fanctioh of God in its fupport ; however difpleafing 
thole circumftances may be to his fatherly Providence, 
as they appear to have been in the Cafe of Hagar; 
whOi in alleviation of her fufferings and affliction, 
was promifed the honour of being the Mother of a 
numerous progeny, branched out afterwards into 
twelve powerful kingdoms (/). 

JOSEPH. 

XVI. Whoever has the leait acquaintance with the 
principal human Characters exhibited in the Sacred 

Records, 

(j) Ads, c. io. v. 34, 35. (/) Gen. c. 25. v. 16, 



[ n ] 

Records, mult readily acknowledge, that the character 
of Joseph, great grand~fon to Patriarch Abraham, is 
one of the moft amiable, moft upright, and inflrudtive. 
He is there reprefented in every viciflitude of fortune, 
acquiring in every ftation by his wifdom and virtue 
favour with God and man (#). His virtue fuffers no 
diminution whaterer, but fnines with greater luftre, in 
patting from the condition of a Have to that of Gover- 
nor of all Egypt. His fidelity to God, and to his 
Mafter Potiphar, is affailed by ftrong temptations, 
which, in fpite of youth and intereft, he refills with 
the moft exemplary fortitude (w). Thrown into the 
horrors of a dungeon through the artifice of a falfe 
woman, whofe honour he preferves at the expence of 
his own, his integrity and prudence foon render him 
confpicuous even in that dark recefs (#). Favoured 
with the divine fpirit of prophecy, and called in his 
Prophetic Character into the prefence of Pharaoh, the 
wife and extenfive plan he forms to fave the Kingdom 
from the miferies of impending famine, raifes him to 
that height, where his abilities and virtues are eminent- 
ly difplayed in the public fervice, and anfwer the pur- 
pofesof the Providence of God in favour of his cho- 
fen People (y). Enabled by defpotic power to retain 
his unnatural brethren in that Egyptian bondage, to 
which they had once configned him, and gratify re- 
venge by every accumulation of difgrace, he not only 
generoufiy forgives them the outrageous treatment he 
had received, but he even effaces the very remem- 
brance of thole injuries which had produced his ad- 

verfity : 

(u) Gen. 39. 2 — 6. Ibid. 21 — 23. Ibid, c, 41. 37, &c. 

(iv) Gen. 39. 7 — 12. (x) Gen. 39. 21—23. Gen. 40. i,&c. 

(j) Gen. 40. 8 — 23. Ibid. c. 41. 1, &c. Ibid. c. 45, 4, &c. 

PC 105. 16 — 24. 



[ 22 ] 

veriity; and, without recriminating his adverfaries, 
without retaliating their injuries, he extenuates in 
fome rrieafure the guilt of a crime, which, by the in- 
terpolation of Providence, had proved fubfervient to a 
happy ifiue (z). 

XVII. Every feature of this mofb amiable Character 
is fo. perfectly finifhed, fo exactly conformable to the 
model of the ftricteit virtue, that the whole Piece is 
one of the completed portraits of righteoufnefs and 
humanity, that has ever been exhibited to the World 
in any ftage of Religion. Chriftianity itfelf can pro- 
duce but few exemplars, that will contend with him 
for fuperiority ; efpecially, when it is confidered, that 
Jofeph's innocence and virtue, from his youth to his 
decrepit old age, retained, in the very heart of infidelity 
itfelf, the fame uniform luftre and firmnefs, though 
befet at different periods by fuch ftrong temptations to 
infidelity and vice, as are the infeparabie attendants of 
extreme adverfity and profperity. In a word : every 
ftep of Jofeph's condu£t in every ftage of his life met 
the approbation of God, and was efpecially directed 
by his protecting hand ; for, in the language of the in- 
fpired Writer, The Lord was with him : and that which 
he did, the Lord made it to pro/per (a). 

XVIII. Now, if we examine the hiftory of this emi- 
nent Peribnage, as defcribed in the Sacred Records, 
we fhall foon find a fecond very remarkable inftance of 
the iicitnefs of the Slave-Trade, as practifed, not 
only without control, but under the vifible protec- 
tion of God, by one of the ftricteft profefTors of the 
Religion of Nature, the laws and principles of which 
were the invariable rule of his conduct : a man in high 
favour with the Almighty, the framer of thofe very 
principles and laws - 3 and who., in the infcrutable or- 

" der 

{z) Gen, c. 37. 23— -28. Ibil. 45. 1 — 1 1. («) Gen. 39. 23. 



[ n } 

der of his fatherly Providence, chofe him the inftru- 
ment and promoter of his glory (£), imparted him the 
divine fpirit of his wifdom (<:), led him, as it were, by 
the hand, in every ftep of his life(^/), and proipered 
whatever he undertook (<?). An inftance, attended 
with circumftances of that fingular nature and tenden- 
cy, as feems not only to fix the fubjeft of the prefent 
Controverfy in the beft point of view, but to afcer- 
tain, beyond the power of reply, the inherent lawful- 
nefs of the Slave-Trade. 

XIX. The fad, with all its attending circumftances, 
is thus defcribed in the XLVII th Chapter of the Book 
of Genesis. 

13. And there was no bread in all the land ; for the 
famine was very fore : fo that the land of Egypt, 
and the land of Canaan fainted by reafon of the 
famine. 

14. And Jofeph gathered up all the money that was 
found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Ca- 
naan, for the corn which they brought ; and Jofeph 
brought the money into Pharaoh's houfe. 

15. And when the money failed in the land of Egypt, 
and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came 
unto Jofeph, and faid : give us bread j for why 
fhould we die in thy prefence ? for the money faileth. 

16. And Jofeph faid: give your cattle - 3 and I will 
give you for your cattle, if money fail. 

17. And they brought their, cattle unto Jofeph : and 
Jofeph gave them bread in exchange for horfes, and 
for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for 
the afTes ; and he fed them with bread for all their 
cattle, for that year. 

18. When 



(6) Pf. 105. 16—24, ( c ) Gen « c 4°« 43« (<0 Gen, 39, 21—23, 
(<?) Gen. 39, 23. 



[ H ] 

1 8. When that year was ended, they came unto hirri 
the fecond year, and faid unto him : we will not 
hide it from my Lord, how that our money is fpent ; 
my Lord alio hath our herds of cattle ; there is not 
aught left in the fight of my Lord, but our bodies 
and our lands. 

19. Wherefore ihall we die before thine eyes, both we 
and our land ? Buy us and our land for bread, and 
we and our land will be fervants unto Pharaoh : 
and give us feed, that we may live and not die, that, 
the land be not delolate. 

20. And Jofeph bought all the- land of Egypt for 
Pharaoh : for the Egyptians fold every man his field ; 
becaufe the famine prevailed over them : fo the land 
became Pharaoh's. 

21. And as for the people, he removed them to cities, 
from one end of the borders of Egypt, even unto 
the other end thereof. 

22. Only the land of the Priefts bought he not ; for 
the Priefts had a portion affigned them of Pharaoh, 
and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them ; 
wherefore they fold not their lands. 

23. Then Jofeph faid unto the people : behold, I have 
bought you this day, and your land for Pharaoh : 
lo, here is feed for you, and ye fhall fow the land. 

24. And it fhall come topafs in the encreafe, that ye 
lhall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts 
fhall be your own, for feed of the field, and for 
your food, and for them of your houlholds, and for 
food for your little ones. 

25 And they faid 3 thou haft fayed our lives : let us 
find grace in the fight of my Lord, and we will be 
Pharaoh's fervants. 

26. And Jofeph made it a law over the land of Egypt 
unto this day, that Pharaoh ihould have the fifth 

part 5 



[ «J ] 

part ; except the land of the Pricfls only, which 

became not Pharaoh's. 

XX. The tranfactions related in this portion of Jo- 
feph's hiftory, afford us a confiderable number of very 
pertinent reflections on' the Slave-Trade : the fol- 
lowing appear to me very remarkable. 

i. Here is a whole Nation of free and independent 
Africans, one only defcription of men excepted, in- 
habiting the richeft, the moil populous, and the moft 
•civilized part of Africa, or, perhaps, of any other 
part of the Globe at that period, all made Slaves 
in one day by a moil explicit, deliberate, and for* 
mal contract. 

2. Allowing, the Kingdom of Egypt at that time 
to have extended no farther than it does at prefent; 
that is, 600 miles from North to South, and 250 from 
Eaft to Weft, it muft have contained, on the moft 
moderate computation, as many inhabitants, at leaft, 
as the Kingdom of Great Britain does at this prefent 
time ; Egypt was then the Emporium of the whole 
world, where all arts and fciences, commerce, agricul- 
ture, and polity flourished in a degree of perfection 
and refinement, fuperior, perhaps, to that of any part 
of Europe in our days. Accordingly, the number of 
Africans purchafed by Jofeph in one day, at the very 
moderate price of one year's maintenance per head, 
including their land, amounted, at leaft, to feveri or 
eight millions of perfons : a number not unequal, per- 
haps, to all the purchafes of the kind ever made by 
Englifh Merchants fince the commencement of the 
Guinea-Trade. 

3. The happy condition of thefe Africans, prior 
to Jofeph's purchafe, is a circumftance worth obfer- 
ving : it differed in every refpect from that of moft of 
their prefent countrymen purchafed by our European 
Merchants, The latter are generally Slaves, or Cap- 

D tives, 



[ %« ] 

tives, in their native land ; the former were all free and 
independent fubjedb : thofe, when purchafed by our 
African Merchants are in a ftate of abfolute indigence 
and poverty ; whereas the latter were all people of 
property, and, indeed, of landed property -, for it is 
very particularly fpecified in the icriptural account 
that thj Egyptians fold every man his field ; that is, his" 
landed eftatse. 

4. The circumftance of tranfporting Slaves from their 
native foil into a diftant Country, is alfo very obvious 
in the conduct of Jofeph, fubfequent to the purchafe 
he had made ; for, as for the people, fays the Scrip- 
ture, he removed them to cities , from cm end of the 
borders of Egypt, even unto the other end thereof : 
by which expedient . he deprived them of every 
profpe£t of ever re-enjoying their refpective pater- 
nal Eftates, and the places of their nativity. And 
is it not more than probable, that, in the execution 
of fo extenfive a plan, as removing fo many millions 
of inhabitants of every age, fex, condition, and rank, 
infants at the breaft, young children, old and decrepit 
people, infirm and delicate, from one end of the bor- 
ders of fo extenfive a Country as Egypt, even unto 
the other end thereof, many mult have inevitably 
perifhed in palling through the fcorching fands of a 
Country defolate with famine, and parched up, as it 
were, by an uninterrupted drought of fix confecutive 
years, whatever wife regulations we may naturally 
fuppofe were made by Jofeph to accommodate fuch 
an extraordinary number of Slaves ? 

5. This numerous multitude of free and indepen- 
dent Africans, become now by contract menial Slaves 
to Pharaoh, are immediately fent by Jofeph to cul- 
tivate their Mailer's Eftates throughout all Egypt, for 
the land became Pharaoh's : fo, that we may confider 
them with the utmoft propriety, as fo many Slaves, 

tranfported 



[ *7 ] 

tranfportcd from their native place, and Tent by their 
Mafter, or his Steward or Overfeer, to work in his 
different Plantations, merely for their keep ; for all 
the land was the property of Pharaoh, and the portion 
of the yearly produce of it, which they were allowed, 
is laid to have been given them only for feed of the 
field, for their food, thofe of their houpolds, and their 
little ones. 

6. The lad and moft interesting circumftance, in 
my opinion, attending this fingular tranfa£tion, is the 
manner in which Jofeph proceeded to effect his pur- 
chafe. For, in confequence of that prophetic fpirit, 
with which the Almighty had efpecially favoured him, 
and by which he forefaw the wonderful fertility of the 
land for feven years to come, and the extreme fteriiity 
of it for as many years after, he engroffed all the corn 
that grew in Egypt during the firft feven years of 
plenty, and laid it up againft the time of impending 
famine (f). When this began to rage in the Land, he 
opened his ftores, and made the Egyptians pay ready 
money for their corn : being entirely drained of cam, 
for Jofeph gathered up all the money, that was found in 
the land of Egypt, he refufed to fupply them with 
lb read., unlefs they gave all their cattle in exchange; 
which, accordingly, they did, for fuch proportion of 
corn as would keep them one year : being now re- 
duced to the laft extremity, and entirely deftitute of 
provifions, as well as of every means of procuring 
them, fave their lands and perfons, he availed him- 
felf of this favourable opportunity to effecT: a purchafe, 
for which he had gradually paved the way : a bargain 
was accordingly concluded between him and Pharaoh's 
fubjecls, by which he bought all their lands and 
perfons for as much corn, as would keep the latter 
D 2 the 

if) Gen, c. 41. v. 47, 49, 55, 56. 



[ «8 ] 

the fpace of one year ; which, from the circumttancc 
of giving them feed, wherewith to fow the land, ap- 
pears to have been the lail of that feptennial dearth. 
So, that, even taking advantage of the extreme indi- 
gence of his fellow-creatures, when able to relieve 
them, in order to reduce them to the condition of 
Slaves, was not deemed by this righteous, and infpired 
Man, with whom the Lord was, an infraction of thole 
facred laws of Nature, which were the invariable rule 
of his conduct. 

XXI. How far Jofeph's conduct in every ilage of 
this remarkable tranfaction, fo favourable to the Slave- 
Trade, may appear equitable or otherwife to the 
prefent humane advocates for African Liberty, through 
the feeble light of mere human reafon and fenfe, I 
know not : this however is moil certain, that there is 
not fo much as one Jot in the Sacred Writings of the 
Word of God, that feems to difapprove in the moil 
diftant manner any one part of his conduct, either in 
this or in any other tranfaction of his long and holy 
life' (g). On the contrary, in every place of Scrip- 
ture, where this eminent Perfonage is introduced, 
whether before or after this tranfaction, he is conf- 
tantly reprefented as one of the moil faithful and 
acceptable fervants of God, under whofe particular 
protection he lived and thrived (h) -, by whofe im- 
mediate direction he acted (z) ; and who did nothing 
whatever, but the Almighty made it to pro/per (£). 
The very tranfaction, we are fpeaking of, when 
rehearfed by one of the infpired Writers (/), a Man 
according to God's own heart (m), is fo far from 

being 



(g) Gen. 50. 26. {h) Gen. 39. 21, 23. 
(/) Gen.ibid,andcc. 40. 41. (k) Gen. 39.J23. (/)Pf. 105.V. 16 — 24. 
(m) 1. Kings, c. 15. 3. . 



[ *9 1 

being taxed with the lead intimation of guilt in any- 
one circumdance attending it, that the whole pro- 
eels, without any exceptions whatever, is there rep re- 
fented as the effect of that divine Wifdom, with which 
he was infpired from above. 

XXII. A further fcriptural evidence, that the 
conduct of Joieph in purchafing fo many millions of 
his fellow-creatures, and reducing them to the condi-* 
tion of Slaves, met the entire approbation of God, 
and was therefore perfectly confonant to the facred 
laws of Nature, is that remarkable declaration of the 
"Word of God, regidered in the Fird Book of Chro-t 
nicles, c. 5. v. 1 — 3, which ailigns the true reafon for 
transferring the right of Primogeniture, or Fird-born, 
from the Family of Reuben, elded fon of Jacob, to the 
Family of Jofephj which, as it is exprefsly mentioned 
in that place, was Reuben's inceduous converfation 
with Bilhah, his Father's concubine (n). — But is it 
credible, confidently with the effential juftice of God, 
that he fhould deprive Reuben's children of their Pri- 
mogeniture or birth-right, for having once tranfgreffed 
one of the Laws of Nature, and yet fhould at the fame 
time, even in preference to Judah the Median's pro- 
genitor, give it tothofe of Jofeph, who, by the very act 
of enflaving fo many millions of his fellow-creatures, 
and ufing them as he did, mud have neceflarily in- 
curred the horrid guilt of reiterated tranfgredions of 
feveral of thofe facred Laws, if, what is fo confidently 
afferted be true, that the Slave-Trade, or the pur^ 
chafing of Slaves, is an iniquitous unnatural purfuit, 
and a crime of the blacked die in direct opposition to 
every principle of Nature ? How could any one in 
fuch chimerical fuppofition reconcile the vidble par- 
tiality 

\n) Gen. 35. 22, 



[ 30 ] 

tiality of God's conduct with his own Scriptural decla- 
rations of the eternal and immutable re6titude of his 
juftice ? 

XXIII. One evidence more, drawn from the fame 
fcriptural fource of conviction, will, I hope, be fuffi- 
cient to evince the irreproachablenefs of Jofeph's con- 
duct in the tranfaction now before us. Every body 
knows, who knows any thing of Scripture, that the 
fpeeches made to their Children by the holy Patriarchs 
of old, prior to their deparcure from this world, called 
in the language of Scripture Blejmg the Children (<?), 
were fo many prophetic declarations of the Word of 
God, predicting to them the future events that fhould 
diftinguifh them and their families, and entailing upon 
them and their pofterity that portion of happinefs or 
mifery, to which their moral or immoral conduct en- 
titled them. This being an undoubted truth, let us 
now examine with an attentive eye fome of the molt 
material circumftances of that folemn Blefiing, which 
Jacob befrowed on Jofeph and his Brethren a little 
before his death (p). 

i. This Blefiing was beftowed on Jofeph and his 
Brethren about four or five years after Jofeph had 
endaved all the inhabitants of Egypt, excepting thofe 
of the Sacerdotal Order (q). 

i. Jacob in this Blefiing reproaches Reuben, his 
eldeft Ton, with the infamy of his inceftuous crime in 
the ftrongeft terms ; and declares, that, in pupifhment 
of it, he jloould not excel, but fhould be as unjtahle as 
water. 

3. Simeon and Levi are branded by the holy Pa- 
triarch with being lnftruments of cruelty ; he abhors 
their counfels - 3 calls their company difhonourable ; 

curfes 

(<?) Gen. 27. v. 4, 7, to, 12, 19, &c. (/) Gen. 49, v. 1, &c. 
(q) Gen. 47. 28. 



[ 3> ] 

curfes the fiercenefs of their anger, and the cruelty of 
their wrath, becaufe in their anger> fays he, they flew a 
man ; meaning Shechem the Hivite and his father 
Hamor, together with all his male fubjects, whom 
they flew with the /word (j) ; and, as a punifhment of 
their barbarous cruelty, he declares they mould be 
divided and fcattered in the land of Promife. 

4. When the Holy Patriarch comes to blefs his fon 
Jofeph, he expreffes himfelf in the following emphatic 
and divine (train. "• Jofeph is a fruitful bough ; even 
<c a fruitful bough by a well, whofe branches run 
cc over the wall. The archers have forely grieved him, 
" and fhot at him, and hated him : but his bow abode 
" in ftrength, and the arms of his hands were made 
<c ftrong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob : 
Cf from thence is the Shepherd, the ftone of Ifrael ; 
fC even by the God of thy father, who (hall help thee, 
cc and by the Almighty, who fhall blefs thee with blef- 
" fings of heaven above, bleffings of the deep that 
cc lieth under, bleffings of the bread, and of the womb. 
<c The bleffings of thy father have prevailed above 
fC the bleffings of my progenitors : unto the utmofl: 
cc bounds of the everiafting hills, they fhall be on the 
" head of Jofeph, and on the crown of the head of 
<( him, that was feparate from his brethren" (j). 

In thefe prophetic and beautiful expreflions, ex- 
hibiting in the mod: pleafing colours the perfonal 
character of Jofeph, and the bleffings entailed on his 
pofterity, literally fulfilled afterwards, we can perceive 
nothing but what neceffarily fuppofcs in Jofeph the 
greateft innocence of heart, the molt unimpeachable 
rectitude of conduct, and the moft gracious accept- 
ance with his Creator. No part of his conduct: is here 

branded 



(r) Gen. 34. v. 25, 26. (j) Gen. 49. v. zz—> 27. 



t 3* ] 

branded with difgrace, with the leaft appearance of 
the fmalleft guilt, or with the moft diftant intimation 
of reproof. 

But, were the Slave-Trade as criminal in its 
nature as it is pretended, were it a purfuit hateful in 
the fight of God, and an atrocious encroachment on 
the facred rights of juftice and humanity, would Jacob, 
or, rather, would God, who fpoke by his mouth, have 
overlooked the atrocity of a crime big with fuch an 
accumulation of guilt ? "Would he have engaged his 
word to be his help and protection, and to beftow fuch 
a plenitude of bleffings on the crown of his head, as 
foon almoft as he had concluded that Slave-contract 
we are fpeaking of, and at the very time he was keep- 
ing in bondage fo many millions of his fellow- creatures? 
Would God, I fay, or could God, without a moft 
glaring oppofition to the effential rights of his own 
juitice, have acted thus in the cafe of Jofeph, and at 
the fame time rebuke his brethren Reuben, Simeon, 
and Levi in the fevered terms, and inflict a lafting 
punifhment on them and their pofterity (though the 
former had only one accufation againft him, and the 
two latter pleaded in juftifkation of their violent pro- 
ceedings the revenge due to their lifter Dinah, and the 
honour of their Father's houfe (t) ), had not Jo- 
feph's recent conduct in reducing fo many millions of 
free Africans to the abject condition of Slaves, as well 
as every other tranfaction of his life, been perfectly 
•agreeable to the invariable tenour of thofe facred Laws, 
of which he alone was the Author and Judge ? 

To every one of thefe queftions there is but one 
direct anfwer ; which, as it muft necefTarily be in the 
Negative, muft of confequence evince to the meaneft 

capacity 

(>) Gen. 34. v. 7, 30, 31, 



[ 33 ] 

capacity, that the Slave-Trade has the indifputable 
fandtion of God in its fupport. 

XXIV. I will not conceal, or even difguife, in 
favour of the Caufe I have efpoufed, what, I appre- 
hend, will be objected to the argument I have juft 
enforced, from the Scriptural account of Jofeph's ex- 
tenfive purchafe of African Slaves. — It will be objected, 
I prefume, that Jofeph's purchafe was not a forcible 
purchafe; that the Egyptians, whom he bought, of- 
fered themfelves of their own accord, and defired he 
would buy them at a certain price (v) -, and that, of 
courfej the free and voluntary cefTion they made of 
their liberties and perfons juftified Jofeph's con- 
duct, and rendered his contract juft and valid, 
without injuring the natural rights of juflice and hu- 
manity ; which being far otherwife in the ufual prac- 
tice of the Slave-Trade, in which perfons are fold 
and bought without their confent, the inferences drawn 
in vindication of that Trade from the practice of Jo- 
feph, can have no weight of conviction in fupport of 
the Slave-Trade. — No one, I truft, will tax me with 
partiality to my Caufe from the ftatement of this ar- 
gument againft myfelf : I have given it, I think, all 
the weight it is able to carry : how much it will weigh 
in the fcale of found and unprejudiced reafon, will foon 
appear from the following confiderations. 

XXV. i. I can by no means allow, that Jofeph's 
purchafe of Pharaoh's fubjects was not a forcible pur- 
chafe in fact, and in fbrictnefs of language. It is true, 
the Egyptians themfelves, without any apparent expli- 
cit propofal on the part of Jofeph, defired him to buy 
them for bread : but did they ever think of making 
that offer, whilft they had any bread to eat, or any 

E means 

(<z;) Gen 47. v. 19. 



[ 34 ] 

rheans left for buying or procuring it ? Did not Jofeph 
himfeif, prior to that offer, pave, as it were, the way 
to it, by engroiling all the corn in the land of Egypt, 
and by felling it to them for money and cattle, till 
they had neither money nor cattle to give in exchange? 
— Let us hear how they addrefs themfelves to him ; 
their petition will beft explain, how far their offer may 
be called voluntary on their part. fC They came un- 
" to him the fecond year, Jays the /acred Writer, and 
" faid unto him : We will not hide it from my Lord, 
" how that our money is fpent j my Lord alio hath 
" our herds of cattle : there is not aught left in the 
" fight of my Lord, but our bodies and our lands. 
" Wherefore /hall we die before thine eyes, both we 
<c and our land ? Buy us and our land for bread, and 
" we and our land will be fervants unto Pharaoh ; and 
" give us feed, that we may live and not die, that the 
" land be not defolate." 

Is this the language of perfons, who freely, volun- 
tarily, of their own accord, and without any compul- 
fion whatever, offer themfelves to fale ? Is it not evi- 
dent from the very words of their own addrefs, that, 
finding themfelves reduced to the laft extremity of in- 
digence, and feeing nothing before their eyes but in- 
evitable death or flavery, they were forced, through 
dread of the former, to fubmit to the latter ? And 
can there be a more forcible contract, than that which 
is made only through fear of death, only to avoid in- 
evitable death ? — The ceffion then made by the 
Egyptians of their liberties and perfons, was neither 
in fact, nor in ftriftnefs of language, nor, indeed, in 
conformity with the Scriptural account of the circum- 
fcances attending it, a free and voluntary ceffion. Had 
not therefore Jofeph had better grounds in the princi- 
ples of his Natural Religion, of which he was a moft 

ftria 



[ 35 ] 

rtri<5t obferver, to affure himfelf of tfif juftice of his 
contract, the ceffion of the Egyptians, forcible in the . 
ftricteft propriety of the word, would never have ren- 
dered his Contract juft and valid in the fight of 
God. ' i , 

2. But even granting, for a moment, that the Egyp- 
tians did really make a free and voluntary ceffion of: 
their liberties and perfons j I do not fee, upon what 
principle of reafon their ceffion could juftify Jofeph's 
conduct and make his purchafe lawful, if, as it is fo 
confidently afTerted, the Slave-Trade be effentially 
unjuft and illicit in its own nature. For, if to pur- 
chafe thofe of our own fpecies be highly criminal in 
itfelf, be an unjuft invafion on the rights of juftice 
and humanity, and directly oppofite to the Sacred Laws 
of Nature, how is it poffible to conceive, that any 
ceffion whatever of the party to be purchafed fhould 
make that juft and lawful in the fight of God, which 
by his unalterable eternal laws is effentially the very 
reverfe ? Can human agreements difpenfe in the laws 
of God? Whatever is effentially unjuft and illicit to 
purchafe, muft be as effentially unjuft and illicit to 
fale. — The objection then grounded on the pretended 
voluntary ceffion of the Egyptians, however plauflble 
it may appear at firft, is utterly inconclufive and ill 
founded. 

XXVI. I could eafily produce a greater number of 
diftinguifhed Characters within this period of the Law 
of Nature, whofe uniform manner of acting, with 
reference to the prefent fubject, would afford me an 
additional number of arguments in vindication of the 
Slave-Trade. But as the Sacred Book, where thofe 
great Patterns of every religious and focial virtue are 
exhibited, is in every body's "hands, and, as I have 
fufficiently demonftrated, I think, from the Scriptural 

E 2 account 



[ 36 ] 

account of two of the mod eminent Chara£ters with- 
in the fame period, that the Slave-Trade has the in- 
difputable fanction of Divine Authority, and is in ex- 
act conformity with the principles of the Law of Na- 
ture, as delineated in the Sacred Writings of the Word 
of God, I fhall now proceed to demonftrate in the 
fubfequent Section, that it is equally conformable to 
the principles of the Mofaic Law. 



SECTION 



[ 37 ] 
SECTION II. 

Scriptural Researches on the Ucitnefs of the SlaverTrade,- 
/hewing its conformity with the principles of the Mo- 
faic Lazv delineated in the Sacred Writings. 

I. AT^ ^ ^ Mofaic Law, called alfo the Written 
JL Law, and the Mofaic Difpenfation, fucceed- 
ed the Difpenfation of the Law of Nature : not, as 
if, by the publication of the former (a), the latter had 
been totally abrogated, or fuffered the leaft relaxation 
in any of its laws, which are of perpetual obligation -, 
but becaufe the Almighty willing to eftablilri a Cove- 
nant with his Chofen People, the Children of Ifrael, 
added to the former obligations fuch other ftatutes, 
Laws, and ceremonies, as were to diftinguiih them 
from every other Nation in the World. This Law 
is very frequently called, even in Scripture, the Law 
of Mofes (£), and Mofes is faid to have been the Law- 
giver or the Legiflator of the Children of Ifrael j not 
becaufe it was framed by him, but becaufe the Al- 
mighty delivered it to them through his miniftry, and 
he committed it to writing. How long this Law was 
in force from the firfl: promulgation of it, has been the 
fubjedt of much inquiry among the Learned : but, 
without entering now into a critical difcuffion of this 
controverted point, we may fafely venture to fix that 
period, without either advantage or prejudice to the 
SubjecT: of our Refearches, to the time of the Apoflles 
Council held at Jerufalem, in which the Law of Cir- 
eumcifion and other Legal obfervances were, by an 

exprefs 

{a) Exod. c. 29, &c. 

(*) Jofh. c. 8. v. 31, 32. Ibid. 23. 6. I, Kings, 2. 3. 

II. Kings, 23, 25, 



C 33 ] 

exprefs Decree of that Council, declared unnecefTary 
to Salvation, and confequently of no further obliga- 
tion (c). This Council, according to the computa- 
tion of Archbifhop U flier, was held in the Year of the 
World 4055 ; and as the Law was promulged in the 
Year 2513, according to the chronological computa- 
tion of the fame Author ; it foliows, that the Lav/ of 
Mofes, or the Mofaic Difpenfation, continued in force 
1542 Years. 

II. Now, before I proceed to fhew, that the Laws 
and principles of this fecond Divine Difpenfation of 
Religion, not only never prohibited the Slave-Tr ade, 
but gave, on the contrary, a pofitive fanction to the 
profecution of it ; I judge neceffary to apprize the 
Reader, that the arguments I mean to enforce in vin- 
dication of the Slave-Trade, as confined to this 
fecond period of true Religion, fhall be entirely 
grounded on fuch written laws and principles of inter- 
nal moral rectitude, as conftituted the true morality of 
that Religion ; and not on fuch Legal obfervances and 
practices, as were peculiar to it, and conftituted only 
the ritual, typical, or ceremonial part of its frame. 
The following decifive initances of the former fort, 
will, without producing others, be fufficient, I hope, 
to eftablifh my affertion beyond the power of reply. 

EXODUS. 

III. It is fingular enough, that the very firft Law, 
or Judgement^ in the Scripture language, enacted by 
God himfelf immediately after he had delivered the 
Ten Commandments to his People, fhould be refpect- 
ing the Slave-Trade ; and that alfo with the addi- 
tional circumftance of not reftraining them from pur- 
chafing their own brethren, their own fielh and blood ! 

« Thefe 



(c) A&s, 15, i, &tc 



[ 39 3 

f< Thefe are the judgements, fays God to Mofes, which 
" thou {halt fet before them. If thou buy an Hebrew 
cc Servant, fix years he fhall ferve, and in the fcventh 
" he fliall go out free for nothing. If he came in by 
<c himfelf, he fhall go out by himfelf; if he were 
<c married, then his wife iriall go out with him. If 
(t his Mailer have given him a wife, and ihe have 
*\ borne him ions and daughters -, the wife and her 
« c children lliall be her Mailer's, and he (hall go out 
" by himfelf. (</)" 

IV. Hejie, it is evident in the firft place, that, how- 
ever limited the time was of the Slavery of an He- 
brew, he was yet in the ftridteft fenfe of the word a 
true and real Slave for the time j for he was his Maf- 
ter's property, bought for a certain price ; and his 
Mailer, on this account, had an undoubted right and 
power to fell him again to another perfon before the 
expiration of that time. But, were the Slave-Trade, 
or the purchafing of thofe of our own fpecies, and 
dealing in human flefh, a purfuit of that heinous and 
crying nature, as to be effentially unlawful, effentially 
incompatible with the principles of reafon, nature, ana 
true Religion, would God, juftice and Sanctity itfelf, 
.have authorized the practice of it with fo pofitive, fo 
.manifeil, fo explicit a fanclion, I do not fay for the 
fpace of fix years, but even for a fingle moment, at 
the very time he was making his Holy Covenant with 
his chofen People, and teaching them the very prin- 
ciples of true Religion ? 

Again : the Hebrew, thus bought by his Brother, 
and reduced to the condition of a Slave, under the 
exprefs fanction of God, was a Child of the Circum- 
cifion : "how, Circumcifion, under the Mofaic Difpen- 
fation, was a folemn, religious Rite anfwcring that of 

Baptifm 

(d) Exod, c. 21. v. i-~4» 



[ 40 ] 

Baptifm in the Chriftian Law : it was a token of the 
Covenant between God and his People (V), as efTen- 
tially requiiite in every male perfon, who hoped for 
acceptance with God (/), as is Baptifm in the Cove- 
nant of the New Law. If then, notwithstanding the 
prerogative of Circumcifion which made the profef- 
ibrs of the Mofaic Law true Children of God, true 
believers, and members of his Church, a free circum- 
cifed Ifraelite was ftill fubjecl: to the law of human 
bondage or flavery, and that even under the dominion 
of one of his own Communion and Church j from 
what maxim or principle of true Religion and juftice 
does it follow, that a Slave, once admitted into the 
Covenant of the New Law, acquires by his admiftion 
a right to his emancipation from human bondage ? that 
is, a right to deprive his Mafter of his property ? 

In fine ; it is manifeft from the very letter of the 
Law juft quoted, that, even in the Cafe of an Hebrew 
reduced to the condition of a Slave for a limited time, 
the Mailer's purchafe of that Slave was fo effentially 
juft and lawful in every part of it, that, though, by 
an efpecial ordinance of God peculiar to that People 
only, the Slave was to be releafed from bondage in 
the feventh year, or the year of the Jubilee ; yet the 
right of property, acquired by that purchafe, was de- 
clared by God to be fo vefted in the Mafter, that, if 
the Mafter had given a wife to his Slave, that is, if the 
Slave had married a wife during the time of his fervi- 
tude with the confent of his Mafter, both fhe and her 
children, if he had any by her, became the Matter's 
property for ever : in which Cafe, it is worth obfer- 
ving, that the Slave thus emancipated, though a mem- 
ber of the true Church, was ordered to go out by him* 
/elf, and leave his wife and children behind. — A fepa- 

ration 

{e) Geafe c. 17. v. 11. (f) Gen. 17. 14. 



f 41 ] 

ration this between hufoand and wife, father and chil- 
dren, well deferving the particular attention of every 
religious and humane advocate for African Liberty ! — 
And can any one after this entertain the moil diftant 
doubt on the licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, fo pofi- 
tively, fo unequivocally, fo ftrongly authorized by this 
written ordinance of the Word of God ? 
L E V I T I c u s. 

V. The farther I proceed in my Scriptural Re- 
fearches, the itronger the evidences appear to me in 
favour of the Slave-Trade. Indeed, I have every 
encouragement given me in this Sacred Book of Levi- 
ticus to advance a ilep farther, and maintain, that 
the Slave-Trade, has not only the fanclion of Divine 
Authority in its fupport, but was alfo pofitively en- 
couraged ( I had almoft faid, commanded) by that 
Authority, under the Difpenfation of the Mofaic Law. 
The following plain and explicit words of one of the 
laws reflecting that Trade, and regiftered in this 
Book, can admit of no other conftruction. 

<c Both thy bond-men and bond-maids, Jays the Su- 
it. p reme Law-giver, which thou flialt have, fhall be 
<c of the heathen that are round about you ; of them 
fC fhall ye buy bond-men and bond-maids. More- 
fC over, of the Children of the Strangers that do fo- 
tc journ among you; of them fhall ye buy; and of 
<c their families that are with you, which they begat 
<f in your land : and they fhall be your poffeffion. 
cc And ye mall take them as an inheritance for your 
{C children after you to inherit them for a poiTeflion ; 
<c they fhall be your bond-men for ever" (g), 

VI. If there be meaning in language, or fenfe in 
words, here is certainly a Law enacted by Divine Au- 
thority, which does not only give a mofi pofitive and 

F unexceptionable 

(g) Leviticus, c« 2.5.. v. 44—46, 



[ 41 ] 

unexceptionable fanction to the licitnefsof the Slave- 
• Trade, but feems farther to lay, as it were, an injunc- 
tion on the Children of Ifrael to profecute that Traf- 
fic under no other reftriction whatever, but that of 
confining their purchafes of perpetual Slaves to the 
heathen round about them, and the Strangers, that 
fojourned among j for the words of the Law-giver 
evidently imply more than a mere permifilon or leave : 
He does not fay, fpeaking of the Heathen and Sojour- 
ners, Of them May ye buy bond-men and bond-maids, 
but, of them Shall ye buy bond-men and bond-maids. 

Again : "the words of this Law, and they are the 
words of God, do exprefdy declare, that Slaves thus 
purchafed from the Heathen and Sojourners among 
them, fhall be the Pojfejfion, that is, the real and law- 
ful property, of the purchafers : a property fo ftricl:- 
ly their own, that they fhall bequeath it to their Chil- 
dren at their death, as a part of their juft and lawful 
inheritance, a part of their paternal eftate, an eftate 
forever, for they fhall be your bond-men for ever ; fays 
the Law : that is, an hereditary eftate with all the 
emoluments arifmg from it; and, confequently, with 
all the children born from them, agreeably to the te- 
nour of that Law of Exodus, which has been explain- 
ed in the IV th Number of this Section \ for other- 
wife the children of a Heathen Slave or a Stranger 
would have "enjoyed a privilege, which an Hebrew 
Slave was denied, though a Slave only for a limited 
time. 

VII. From this moft decifive, more explicit, and 
irrefragable authority of the Written Word of God 3 
vifibly encouraging the profecution of the Slave- 
Trade, and declaring in the molt categorical lan- 
guage that words can devife, that a Slave is the real, 
indifputable, and lawful property of the purchafer and 
his heirs for ever, it neceifarily follows by force of 

confequence, 



[ 43 ] 

confequence, that either the Slave-Trade muft be in 
its own intrinfic nature a j lift and an honeft Trade, and 
by no means deferving thofe harfh epithets and names 
with which it is fo frequently branded and degraded ; 
or, that, if it does ftill deferve thofe odious names and 
epithets in confequence of its intrinfic turpitude and 
immorality, the Almighty did fo far forget himfelf, 
when he made the above Law, as to patronize a mani- 
feft injuftice, encourage a moft criminal violation of 
his other laws, and give his facred fanclion to what 
humanity itfelf muft for ever abhor and deteft. — As 
there can be no medium betwixt thefe two unavoidable 
inferences, and the latter is one of the moft daring 
blafphemies that the human heart can conceive, I leave 
the religious Reader to judge for himfelf, which fide 
of the Queftion is the fafeft to embrace. 
JOSHUA. 

VIII. The prudent and well concerted ftratagem of 
the inhabitants of Gibeon, with all the circumftances 
attending its final ifTue, fo minutely defcribed in the 
IX th Chapter of this Sacred Book, will, when viewed 
in its proper light, add no fmali weight of authority to 
the juftice of the Slave-Trade. The Scriptural ac- 
count of this entertaining tranfadtion, long as it may 
appear to fome, cannot well be contracted, without 
injuring its beautiful texture : the following is a literal 
tranfcript of it. 
v. 3. And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what 

Jofhua had done unto Jericho, and to Ai, 

4. They did work wilily, and went and made as if 
they had been Ambaffadors, and took old facks up- 
on their affes, and wine-bottles, old, and rent and 
bound up : 

5. And old fhoes, and clouted upon their feet y and old 
garments upon them : and all the bread of their 
proyifion was dry and mouldy. 

F 2 6. And 



[ 44 ] 

6. And they went to Jofhua, unto the Camp of Gilgal, 
and faid unto him, and to the men of Ifrael : we 
be come from a far country; now therefore make ye 
a league with us. 

7. And the men of Ifrael faid unto the Hivites : per- 
adventure ye dwell among us, and how mall we 
make a league with you ? 

8. And they faid unto Joihua : we are thy fervants. 
And Joihua faid unto them : who are ye ? and from 
whence come ye ? 

9. And they faid unto him : from a very far country 
thy fervants are come, becaufe, of the name of the 
Lord thy God ; for we have heard of the fame of 
him, and all that he did in Egypt, 

10. And all that he did to the two Kings of the Amo- 
rites, that were beyond Jordan, to Sihon King of 
Hefhbon, and to Og King of Bafhan, which was at 
Afhtaroth. 

11. Wherefore our Elders and all the Inhabitants of 
our country fpake to us, faying : take victuals with 
you for the journey, and go to meet them, and fay 
unto them : we are your fervants : therefore now 
make ye a league with us. 

12. This our bread we took hot for our provifion out 
of our houfes, on the day we came forth to go unto 
you 5 but now behold, it is dry, and it is mouldy. : 

13. And thefe bottles of wine which were filled, were 
new; and behold, they be rent; and thefe our gar- 
ments and our fhoes are become old, by reafon of 
the very long journey. 

14. And the men took of their victual and afked not 
counfel at the mouth of the Lord. 

15. And Jofhua made peace with them, and made a 
league with them, to let them live : and the Princes 
of the Congregation fware unto them. 

16. And 



[ 45 ] 

1 6. And it came to pafs at the end of three days, after 
they had made a league with them, that they heard 
that they were neighbours, and that they dwelt among 
them. 

17. And the Children of Ifrael journeyed, and came 
into their Cities on the third day : now their Cities 
were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and 
Kiriath-jearim. 

18. And the Children of Ifrael fmote them not,becaufe 
the Princes of the Congregation had fwofn unto 
them by the Lord God of Ifrael: and all the Congre- 
gation murmured againft the Princes. 

19. But all the Princes faid unto all the Congregation: 
We have fworn unto them by the Lord God of 
Ifrael : now therefore we may not touch them. 

20. This we will do them -, we will even let them live, 
left wrath be upon us, becaufe of the oath which we 
fware unto them. 

21. And the Princes faid unto them : let them live 
(but let them be hewers of wood, and drawers of 
water unto all the Congregation), as the Princes had 
promifed them. 

22. And Jofhua called for them, and he fpake unto 
them, faying: wherefore have ye beguiled us, faying, 
We are very far from you ? when ye dwell among 
us. 

23. Now therefore ye are curfed, and there mail none 
of you be freed from being bond-men, and hewers 
of wood, and drawers of water for the houfe of my 
God. 

24. And they anfwered Jofhua, and faid : becaufe it 
was certainly told thy fervants, how that the Lord 
thy God commanded his fervant Mofes to give you 
all the land, and to deftroy all the inhabitants of the 
land from before you, therefore we were fore afraid 

of 



[ 46 ] 

of our lives, becaufe of you, and have done this 
thing. 

25. And now, behold, we are in thine hand : as it 
feemeth good and right unto thee to'do' unto us, do. 

26. And fo did he unto them, and delivered them out 
of the hand of the Children of Ifrael, and they flew 
them not. 

27. And Jofhua made them that day hewers of wood, 
and drawers of water for the Congregation, and for 
the Altar of the Lord, even unto this day, in the 
place which he fhould chufe. 

IX. The following obfervations feem to arife fpon- 
taneoufly from the circumftances related in this in- 
teresting portion of Scripture. 

1. The Gibeonites were in the number ofthofe in- 
habitants of the Land of Canaan, who, by the exprefs 
command of God, were to be utterly profcribed, and 
driven out of the Land, by the Children of Ifrael : 
Thou Jloalt make no covenant with them, nor with their 
Gods, faid the Almighty to his People j they Jh all not 
dwell in thy hand (h). 

2. To ward this impending doom, of which they 
were well apprized, as appears from their reply to 
Jofhua, they had recourfe to a flratagem, which, for 
want of Jofhua confulting the divine Oracle, fucceeded 
to the utmoft of their wifhes j for they made a league, 
and a treaty of peace and amity with Jofhua and his 
People j and by virtue of this National Treaty, which 
was confirmed to them with the folemn fanclion of an 
oath, and never annulled, but rather ratified in the 
fequel by God himfelf, they were exempted from the 
general doom, and became in every fenfe of the word 
free allies and friends to the Children of Ifrael. — In- 
deed, the fentiments of Religion and humility, fo 

vifible 

(£) Exod, c. 23. v. 31—33. 



[ 47 ] 

vifibleboth in their firftaddrefs and their reply to Jofhua's 
charge, and their not joining in the general league of 
the neighbouring Kings, who all combined with one 
accord to fight againft Ifracl (z), fpeak a fenfe of re- 
pentance, which might have induced the Almighty to 
reverie his fentence, and fuffer their ftratagem to 
fucceed. 

3. As foon as this was difcovered, we find, that 
the Gibeonites were all configned by Jofhua to per- 
petual Slavery, unto- this day ; that is, with all their 
poftenty ; notwithstanding the fentence of profcrip- 
tion, the only one that the Almighty had pronounced 
againft them, and was to be executed by Jofhua, had 
been entirely reverfed ; notwithstanding they had eve- 
ry claim, by virtue of the recent Treaty they had fo 
folemnly concluded with him and his People, to all 
the privileges and franchifes of free Allies. 

X. To fay, that the fentence of death pronounced 
againft the Gibeonites in fever al places of Scripture (&), 
was afterwards changed by the Almighty into that of 
perpetual and hereditary bondage or flavery, is to ad- 
vance what is never to be found in any part of the 
Sacred Records ; from the wole tenour of which it 
appears manifeft, that the perpetual bondage, to which 
they were configned with all their pofterity, was the 
fole act and deed of Jofhua, fuggefted apparently by 
the Princes of the Congregation of Ifrael, who, pri- 
or to Jofhua's curfe upon them, in order to filence the 
murmurs of the multitude, had declared their inten- 
tion of employing the Gibeonites in the fervile occu- 
pation of hewers of wood, and drawers of water unto 
all the Congregation. 

Now, had Jofhua's fentence of perpetual bondage 
been only a commutation of that of death, to which 

the 

(/) Jofh. c. 9, v. 1, 2. {k) Exod, 23. 31—33. Deut. 7. 2. &c. 



[ 43 J 

the Almighty had condemned the Gibeonites, had it 
not been lawful in itfelf, on other accounts, to reduce 
the innocent as well as the guilty to the condition of 
Slaves ; the fentence of perpetual bondage pronoun- 
ced by Jofhua, ought, one would imagine, to have 
extended no farther, than the perfons of the Gibeonites 
then living, any more than did the fentence of death, 
in lieu of which that of perpetual bondage is faid to 
have been fpbftituted. The flavery then of their in- 
nocent pofterity, at leaft, cannot be faid to have been 
in lieu of death, to which certainly they had never 
been condemned. 

It being therefore evident from the uniform tenour 
of the Sacred Writings, that neither the reduction of 
the Gibeonites then living, nor that of their guiltlefs 
defcendants, vet unborn, to perpetual Slavery, was 
ever condemned by any mark or intimation whatever 
of God's difpleafure, but manifeftly ratified in the fe- 
quel by feveral undoubted aiTurances of his divine 
approbation -, it is eafy to conclude, whether the re- 
ducing of the innocent as well as the guilty part of our 
fellow-creatures to the condition of Slaves, or even 
to hereditary bondage or Slavery, be in its own na- 
ture licit or illicit, criminal or unjuft. 

XI. As a mark of the Almighty's undoubted ap- 
probation of Jofhua' s conduct in the tranfaction juft 
before us, we find in the continuation of this hiftory 
(/), that He even fecured to his People the pofTeftion 
of thefe Slaves, and their pofterity, by a moil fignal 
victory, which he enabled them to obtain over five 
Kings of the Amorites ; who, in confequence of the 
Gibeonites having made a league and a treaty of peace 
with Jofhua and his People, joined all their forces 
againft them, and made a vigorous attempt to invade 

this 

(/) Joih. c. 10. 



[ 49 ] 

this new acquifition of the Children of Ifrael. The 
exertions of his divine power for fecuring to his Peo- 
ple this new acquired property of Slaves were fo won- 
derfully great, that he even fought in Per/on againft 
the invaders ; for ce The Lord, fays the Sacred Writer* 
" difcomfitted them before Ifrael, and flew them with 
Cf a great flaughter at Gibeon, and chafed them along 
" the way that goeth up to Bethhoron, and fmote them 
<c to Azekah, and unto Makkedah. And it came to 
cc pafs, as they fled from before Ifrael, and were in 
c< the going down to Bethhoron, that the Lord call 
Cf down great (tones from heaven upon them unto 
" Azekah, and they died : they were more which died 
<c with hailltones, than they whom the Children of 
" Ifrael flew with the fword." (m). 

And, in order to render the victory (till more com- 
plete, and the part he took in defending the rights of 
his People over the Gibeonites more vifible to the 
whole world, he even wrought a miracle of the moft 
Angular kind ; for, harkning, as the Sacred Page ex- 
prefles it, unto the voice of a Man, that is, of Jofh.ua, 
who, in the heat of action, ordered the Sun to ft and fill 
upon Gibeon, and the Moon in the valley of /ljalon, he 
itayed them both about a whole day, until the People 
had avenged themf elves upon their enemies (#), for at- 
tempting to deftroy the inhabitants of Gibeon their 
bond-flaves. 

XII. If thefe wonderful atchievements of the power 
of God in favour of his chofen People in the very cafe 
of protecting the perfons, whom they had fo lately re- 
duced to perpetual and hereditary bondage, are not 
to be confldered as fo many evident teftimonies of his 
divine approbation of the immediate object of the 
Slave-Trade, and a pofltive fanction to the licitnefs 

G of 

(m) Jofh, c, io. v. 19, ii, (») Jofh, c. i©, v. 12, 14. 



[ 5° ] 

of it, but are (till confident with any intrinfic moral 
turpitude inherent to the nature of that Trade ; the 
abettors of this opinion mu ft neceffarrly maintain, 
that the Supreme Ruler of the Univerfe, in direct, op- 
pofition to his own efiential attributes and perfections, 
in manifeft contradiction with his own moral laws and 
commandments, and in vindication of ill-gotten pro- 
perty, difplayed to the World the moft extraordinary 
exertions of his Omnipotence, and difturbed the very 
courfe of Nature to make it fubfervient to the vileft 
of purpofes, injuftice and oppreffion. — As the in- 
ference is as blafphemous as it is necefTary, the very 
mentioning of it will, I flatter myfelf, be fufficient 
to determine the judgement of any religious and 
candid Reader in favour of the inherent moral licit- 
nefs of the Slave-Trade. 

XIII. I have, I think, fufHciently proved from the 
Scriptural Paffages I have produced in the feries of 
this Second Part, that the Slave-Trade has the 
pofitive* fanction of Divine Authority in its fupport, 
and is perfectly confonant to the Principles of the 
Mofaic Difpenfation delineated in the Sacred Writings 
of the Word of God. 

I have, however, this one thing to obferve before 
I proceed to the Third Part, in order to preclude 
every avenue to groundlefs objections ; that there is 
not a Place in all the Writings of the Word of God, 
whether of the Old or of the New Testament, that 
does fo much as infinuate in the moft diftant manner, 
that the Slaves bought either within the period of the 
Law of Nature, that of the Mofaic Difpenfation, or that 
of the Chriftian Law, were to ferve during a certain 
number of years and no longer, except the Hebrew 
Slaves ; who, for reafons peculiar only to that People, 
and not applicable even to Chriftian Slaves, were to 

ferve 



[ 5? ] 

ferve no longer than fix years in the capacity of Bond- 
Slaves. In every other cafe, the words Bond-man, 
Bond-woman, Bond- maid, Bond-servant, Servant 
under the yoke, imply, in the Scripture-language, 
perpetual and unlimited bondage, bondage for life, 
both of the male and female reduced to that condition, 
and even of their posterity or children, if they had 
any. — Nor is there one inftance to be met with in 
the Sacred Volumes, of the manumiffion or eman- 
cipation of a Slave of either fex, except of the He- 
brew race, who ever obtained releafe from bondage, 
on account of having fervedany determinate number 
of years. 

The difmifilon of Hagar, bond- woman to Abra- 
ham, from her Mailer's houie, is fo far from being an 
inftance of this kind, that every circumftance atten- 
ding her difcharge feems to prove the very reverfe(o). 
She wasfent away by Abraham^ at the earneft felicita- 
tion of his wife Sarai, whofe counfel the Almighty 
ordered him to follow : but the reluctance he fhewed 
to turn her out of his houfe, when it was firft propofed 
to him by Sarai, for the thing was very grievous in his 
fight (or, according to the Original, 'The word was 
very bad in the eyes of Abraham), and the reafon of her 
difmiftion, evidently fhew that her difcharge was not 
in confequence of any contract, whatever, by which fhe 
was bound to ferve a determinate number of years 
and no longer, there being not the leaft intimation 
given in the Sacred Hiftory of any fuch contract, or 
agreement, but becaufe her fon's behaviour to Ifaac, 
the promifed and right Heir of the Family, was ex- 
ceedingly odious and very alarming to Sarai ; who, 
dreading the confequences of KhmaePs perfecution of 
young Ifaac, for fo the Apoflle ityles it ( p)> infifledon 
his being caji out together with his mother Hagar. 

G 2 XIV. The 

(<?) Gen. 21. v. 9—14. (p) Galat. c. 4. v. 29. 



C S* ] 

XIV. The Scriptural acceptation and extent of the 
word Bondage, and the relatives to it, being thus 
fixed and afcertained from the very letter and uniform 
tenour of Scripture itfelf, no arguments whatever, 
grounded on the true and real fenfe in which that word 
and its relatives are ufed in the Sacred Page, will ever 
evince, that a Slave, within the period of any of the 
Three Difpenfations of true Religion mentioned in the 
Sacred Annals of the Word of God, not born an He- 
brew, was ever bound by contract or otherwife to ferve 
only a limited number of years, at the expiration of 
which he obtained his freedom, and was left at liberty 
to chufe for himfelf. 



SECTION 



[ 53 ] 
SECTION III. 

Scriptural Refe arches on the Ucitnefs of the Slave-Trade, 
(hewing its conformity with the principles of the 
Chrijfian Difpenfation delineated in the Sacred Writ* 

. in g s - 

I. fTN H E Chriftian Difpenfation, called frequent- 
j^ iy the Chriftian Law, the Law of Chriit, the 
Chriltian Religion, the Law of Grace, the New Law, 
and the New Covenant or the New Teftament, is that 
moft fublime and perfect Syftem of Faith and mora- 
lity, which the Eternal Wifdom of the Father, Chrift 
Jefus our Lord, both preached in Perfon, and fealed 
with his precious blood. As this New Law and Gof- 
pel of falvation is to remain in full force until the 
confummation of all things, or till time ihall be no 
more, it is not in the power of any creature to afcer- 
tain the exact time of its duration and exiftence from 
the firft promulgation of it; for Of that day, and 
that hour knoweth no man, no not the Angels which are 
in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father (#) 

II. The principal tranfactions relative to this New 
Law are regiitered in the feveral infpired Writings, 
that compofe the Sacred Volume commonly ftyled 
The New Testament. The principles and moral 
duties of perpetual obligation reflecting Right and 
Wrong, Jujlice and Injujiice, regiftered in this Sacred 
Volume, being evidently dictated by the Holy Spirit 
of God, and God himfelf, cannot confidently with 
the effential infallibility of his eternal Wifdom, bear 
the leaft oppofition to the principles and moral duties 
of perpetual obligation refpecting, in like manner, 
Right and Wrong, Juflice and Injuftice> dictated by the 

fame 

(a) Mark, c. 13. v. 32. 



[ 54 ] 

fame infallible Spirit, and regiftered in the feveral 
in.fpired Writings, that compofe the Sacred Volume 
commonly ftyled The Old Testament, comprehend- 
ing fuch tranfactions, as relate to both the Natural 
and the Mofaic Laws. — Were it poffible to be other- 
wife, God would not be confiftent with himfelf, and 
the Religion of the New Teftament, inftead of be- 
ing the perfection and accomplishment, would be the 
reproach and condemnation of both the former Laws, 
Natural and Mofaic, on the truth of which its very 
exiftence depends. 

III. From this undeniable pofition it follows necef- 
farily, that, as the Writings of both the Teftaments 
have the fame weight of Authority/, effentially inca- 
pable of contradicting itfelf, in fupport of thole prin- 
ciples and decifions, enacted and regiftered in their 
refpective Records, concerning the intrinfic morality 
or immorality of human actions, whatever is declared 
in the One to be intrinficaily good or bad, juft or un- 
juft, licit or illicit, mull inevitably be fo according to 
the principles of the Other. — If therefore, the Slave- 
Trade appears, as, I truft, it does, from the preced- 
ing train of Scriptural arguments, in perfect harmony 
with the principles and decifions of the Word of God, 
regiftered in the Sacred Writings of the Old Tefta- 
ment, refpecting the intrinfic nature of that Trade, 
this, of courfe, can bear no oppofition to, but mult 
necefTarily be in equal perfect harmony with, the prin- 
ciples and decifions of the Word of God refpecting 
Right and Jujiice, regiftered in the Sacred Writings of 
the New. 

This general but forcible argument, were it even 
unfupported by any collateral evidences from the 
Writings of the New Teftament, would be fully fuffi- 
eient to verify my third and laft aifertion refpecting 

the 



[ 55 ] 

the Licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, as perfectly con- 
formable to the principles of the Chriflian Difpen- 
iation. 

IV. I have been the more particular in bringing 
this laft part of my Scriptural Refearches to this cen- 
tral point of view, as I have more than one reafon to 
apprehend, that feveral of my Readers will be apt to 
imagine, that, by the eftablifhment of the Chriflian 
Rrligion, the Law of Mofes was wholly aboliihed and 
annulled in every part of it, and to every intent and 
purpofe, both typical and moral, of its original inf- 
titution ; and that, of courfe, the arguments drawn 
in vindication cf the Slave-Trade from the Writ- 
ings of the Old Teftament, can have no weight of 
conviction or authority with perfons, who are fubjecc 
to no other Laws and Ordinances, but thofe of a Dif- 
penfation, by which that was entirely laid afide. 

V. True as this afTertion is with refpecl to the ritu- 
al, typical, and ceremonial part of the Mofai'c Law, 
which, in this (enfe, is now utterly abolifhed, and no 
longer obligatory to the ProfefTors of the Gofpel, it 
is not lefs erroneous and falfe with refpect to thofe 
fundamental principles of righteoufnefs enacted .in 
that Law, which relate to the intrinfic morality or 
immorality, licitnefs or illicitnefs of human actions ; 
which, from the invariable nature of Right and Wrongs 
Juftice and Injuftice, muft be of perpetual obligation, 
and as unchangeable as God himfelf -, who never did, 
nor ever could alter by any Diipenfation whatever 
thofe eternal principles and laws, which are the very 
bafis and foundation of true Religion, and confe- 
quently of the Religion of Chrift. 

We have no lefs an authority in confirmation cf this 
indifputable Doftrine, than the very words of the Son 
of God, who 3 in that divine Sermon on the Mount, 

in 



[ 56 ] 

in which he gave his Difciples a moft minute and cir- 
cumftantial account of the principles and tenets of his 
Gofpel, condemned the above erroneous opinion in the 
mod explicit terms, and forbade them even to think 
of it : Think not, faid he, that I am come to deflroy 
the Law or the Prophets ; J am not come to defiroy but 
to fulfil (b). 

It was on the principle of this Doctrine of the Son 
of God, and on purpofe to guard againft every excep- 
tion to arguments drawn from the Writings of the Old 
Teftament in favour of the Slave-Trade, which fome 
perfons would be apt to make in confequence of the 
above erroneous opinion, that I efpechlly apprized the 
Reader in the II d Number of the lait Section, that 
the arguments I meant to enforce in that Section in 
vindication of that Trade, would be entirely grounded, 
as they certainly are, on fuch written and explicit laws 
and principles of internal moral rectitude, as confti- 
tuted the true morality of the Molaic Difpenfarion, 
and not on fuch Legal obfervances and practices, as 
were peculiar to it, and conftituted only the ritual, 
typical, or ceremonial part of its frame. 

VI. The permanent and indefectible authority of 
the Old Teftament, and the necefiary conformity of 
the New with the principles and declarations of the 
former reflecting the intrinfic nature of Right and 
Wrongs Jufiice and Injuftice, being thus firmly efta- 
blifhed and afcertained ; I ftxall now proceed, for ar- 
gument's fake, to fubftantiate in a more particular 
manner the merits of the prefent Controverfy with re- 
ference to the principles and tenets of the New Tef- 
tament ; which, from the unanfwerable, though ge- 
neral, argument juft enforced, appears already to give 
a fanction to the licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, the 
intrinfic morality of which is fo evidently warranted 

{b) Matt. c. 5. v. 17. 



[ 57 3 

by thole invariable principles and decifions of the Oldj 
with I which, as proved before, it muft necefT rily 
agrees. 

VII. That there is nothing in the Writings of the 
New Teftament, that can be produced in justification 
of the Slave-Trade, has been confidently afferted by 
many j and from this fuppofed filence of the Infpired 
Writers, they have as confidently concluded, that the 
profeiTors of Christianity are not justifiable in profe- 
cuting a Trade, which, not having, in their opinion* 
the Sanction of the New Teftament, muft of courfe 
be eflentially oopolite to the principles of true Chrifti- 
anity, which forbids in the mod -explicit terms, and 
under the fevered punilhments, all acts of injustice, 
un natural nefs, and opprefHon. 

VIII. The Stronger this inference, founded indeed 
on a falfe fuppofition, appears to the Advocates for 
African Liberty againft the licitnefs of the Slave- 
Trade, the more powerful the following arguments 
muft appear to them ; which, from the fame negative 
principle, not of fuppofed, but real, filence reflecting 
the pretended illicitnefs of it, amounting in fact to a 
pofitive fanction in our Cafe, feem manifestly to evince, 
that the Slave-Trade bears no oppofition whatever to 
the principles of the Chriftian Law. 

i. If the Writings of the New Teftament mention 
nothing, as it is falfely fuppofed ', in vindication of the 
Slave-Trade, neither do they in reality and truth 
mention any thing in condemnation of it ; if then the 
fuppofed filence of the Infpired Writers refpefting the 
licitnefs of that Trade, that is, their not mentioning 
that Trade at all, as it is fuppofed, can be brought as 
an argument of its moral inconfiftency with the prin- 
ciples of true Chriftianity ; the real filence of the 
fame reflecting the pretended illicitnefs of it, that is, 
their not condemning the Trade at allj though pu- 

H blickly 



[ 5» ] 

blickly practifed in their time, and by the very pcrfons 
■whom thev v/ere deputed to teach the principles and 
duties of Chriftianity, muft be a ftronger argument 
by far of the inherent moral conformity of the Slave- 
Trade with the principles and tenets of the Religion 
of Chrift : for it Ihews in the ftrongeft light, that the 
firft Teachers of Chriftianity, who were alfo the In- 
fpired Writers of the New Teftament, never confidered 
the Slave-Trade, or had been taught by their M af- 
ter to confider it, as an infraction of any of the prin- 
ciples or moral precepts of his Gofpel. 

2 3 In effect; this conftant and uniform filence of the 
Sacred Writers of the New Teftament in a matter of 
fuch public notoriety; I mean their never difapproving 
the practice of aTrade, in which the rights of Chriftian 
juftice and humanity are faid to befo materially injured, 
ought to attract the particular attention of every impar- 
tial inquirer into the merits of the prefent Controverfy. 

It is an abfolute fact, attefted by all Hiftorians, both 
Sacred and Prophane, that at the very time that Chrif- 
tianity made its appearance in the World, as well as at 
the time that the Apoftles and Difciples of Chrift were 
employed in preaching and propagating throughout 
the World his holy Gofpel and Doctrine, both before 
and after the fame had been committed to writing, that 
is, before and after the New Teftament was written, 
that the practice of Slavery, or the Slave-Trade, was 
univerfally adopted by the very Nations to whom they 
brought the glad tidings of falvation, and who, through 
faith, repentance, and obedience to the maxims and doc- 
trine they preached, were received into the Covenant of 
reconciliation and grace; and yet it is not lefs certain from 
the conftant tenour of the Sacred Writings of the New 
Teftament, that defifting from the profecution of the 
Slave-Trade, or manumitting thofe who were in ac- 
tual bondage, was never declared by any of the Apof- 
tles 



[ 59 ] 

ties or firft Teachers of Chriitianity to be a neceffary 
term of Salvation or acceptance with God, or an in- 
difpenfable duty of a follower of Chrift. 

But were the Trade fo diametrically oppofite to the 
principles of Chriitianity, as it is alTerted, were it a 
mod unjuftifiable ufurpation of the facred rights of 
juftice and humanity, would the i^poftles have iuifer- 
ed thole facred rights to be thus invaded and trampled 
upon with impunity, without fo much as fignifying 
to thofe, whom they were commilTioned to teach the 
Gofpel of righteoufnefs and peace, of love and charity, 
that it was in open contradiction with the principles 
and precepts of that Gofpel ? 

3. Infine : this manner of reafoning to prove the 
moral conformity of the Slave-Trade with the princi- 
ples of the Chriftian Difpenfation, acquires a degree 
of irrefiftible force, when applied to the conduct of 
our Bleflfed Saviour in his public character of Founder 
and Teacher of the New Law ; for though he em- 
braced every opportunity of reproving in the fevered 
terms fuch irreligious abufes as were practifed by the 
Jews, and of rectifying fuch falfe gloffes, traditions, 
and comments, as had been added by them to the Law 
of Mofes ; yet he never once condemned, reproved, 
or even hinted the lead difapprobation of the practice 
of Slavery, fo generally adopted in his time : no, not 
even in his Divine Sermon on the Mount, in which he 
fpoke on fet purpofe of the rhoft exalted duties of his 
Religion, entered into a minute and moft circumftan- 
tial detail of many reciprocal offices and duties he re- 
quired of his followers, and rectified fome abufes, in- 
comparably lefs criminal than would be that of en- 
flaving our fellow creatures, were this practice fo very 
criminal and unjud as is reprefented by fome modern 
advocates for African Liberty (c). 

H 2 4- The 

(<■) Matt. cc. 5. 6. 7, 



t <5c ] 

4. The fact is : that, fince neither the Son of God, 
being himfelf God, nor his Di;^ Spies commiffioned to 
teach his doctrine, could ever aker theintrinfic nature 
of Right and V/rong\ once the practice of Slavery, or 
the Slave-Trade, had been exprefsly declared by the 
Father effentially j'uft and lawful in the Sacred Writ- 
ings of the Old Law, which the Son did not come to 
deftroy> but to fulfil (d), it was abfoiutely impoftible, 
that either He or his Difciples ihould declare it unlaw- 
ful and unjuft in the Writings of the New, the prin- 
ciples of both the Laws, reflecting the intrinfic nature 
of Right and fFrong, Juflice and Injujlice, being inva- 
riably the fame. 

It follows then, that the argument drawn in favour 
of the Slave- Trade from the conftant filence of the 
Infpired Writers of the New Teftament reflecting the 
pretended illicitnefs of that Trade, that is, from their 
never mentioning any thing againft the licitnefs of it, 
which, in the circumftances above related, would have 
been only a negative inference, though of confiderable 
weight in vindication of it, becomes now, from this 
iaft very material circumilance, a moil powerful pofi- 
tive argument, fhewing in the ftrongeft light, that the 
nature of the Slave-Trade is perfectly confonant to 
the principles and tenets of the Chrirlian Law. 

IX. Though the argument built on the fuppofed 
filence of the Infpired W ; riters of the New Teftament 
reflecting the licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, is very 
amply confuted by the preceding arguments drawn 
from the real filence of the fame Sacred Writers ref- 
-pecting the pretended illicitnefs of it, which are, in- 
deed, abundantly fufficient to eftablifh beyond the 
power of cavil or reply this laft part of my Scriptural 
Researches 5 yet, left any one ihould ftill perfift in 

maintaining 

(d) Matt, c, 5. v. 17. 



[ H ] 

maintaining the opinionfo generally received, that there 
is nothing pqfitive in the Writings of the New Tefta- 
menr, that can be produced in jufchication of the 
Slave-Trade, I think it expedient to felect one or two 
principal inft.ances out of thefe Sacred Books, which, 
I fl itcer myfelf, will not only gratjfy his curiofity, but 
ferve to convince him in the plaineft manner, that, 
however general his opinion may be, it is not fo evi- 
dent as he has been taught to believe. 

I. E P IS T L E to T I MOT H Y. 

X. Among the federal instructions given in this 
Epistle by St. Paul to his beloved Difciple Timothy 
for rhe Government of the Church of Ephefus, of 
which he was Biihop, there are fome concerning the 
general duties of that part of his Flock, who were 
under the yoke of bondage or Slavery, that feem to 
claim our particular attention. The inflrudtions, here 
alluded to, are in the VI th Chapter of this Epistle, 
and are the following : — 

v. i. Let as many fervants as are under the yoke, 
count their own Matters worthy of all honour, that 
the name of God, and his doctrine, be not blaf- 
phemed. 

2. And they that have believing Matters, let them 
not defpife them, becaufe they are brethren : but ra- 
ther do them fervice, becaufe they are faithful and 
beloved, partakers of the benefit. Thefe things teach 
and exhort. 

3. If any man teach otherwife, and confent not to 
wholefome words, even the words of our Lord Jefus 
Chrift, and to the doctrine which is according to god- 
line fs, 

4. He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting 
about queftions, and ftrifes of words, whereof Co- 
meth envy, ftrife, railings, evil furmifings, &c. 

XI. The 



[ 6 2 j 

XI. The Apoftle in thefe words defcribes two 
claries of Chriftian Slaves, or Servants under the yoke 
of bondage : Slaves fubject to unbelievers, and Slaves 
fubject to true believers or Chriftians ; and, according 
to their refpective fituations, he fpecifies the general 
duties belonging to each clafs. 

i . The former are exhorted to count their own Maf- 
ters, though Infidels, worthy of all honour : that is, 
they are exhorted to fliew their Matters, both in words 
and actions, fuch unfeigned marks of honour, fub- 
miflion, and refpect, as they have a right to claim, 
for they are worthy of all honour, from the fuperiority 
of their rank and ftation in life, and the authority 
they have acquired over them by the pofleffion of their 
perfons. The reafon for enforcing fuch dutiful de- 
portment is very powerful : you are to exhort them, 
fays the Apoftle to Timothy, to behave in this beco- 
ming manner, that the name of God, and his dotlrine, 
be not blafphemed : that is, left the unbelieving Maf- 
ters, feeing the contrary deportment in their Chriftian 
Slaves, attribute their infolent, difrefpectful, and dif- 
obedient conduct, to the principles and doctrine of 
their Religion, and thus bring reproach and infamy 
upon both. 

2. The latter Clafs of Chriftian Slaves, fubject to 
Chriftian Mafters, are earneftly exhorted, not only 
not to be lefs refpectful and obfequious to the latter 
for being their brethren in Chrift, and joint-members 
with them of the fame Communion and Church, as if 
they were their equals in every refpect, but to mow, 
on this very account, in their readinefs and zeal to 
ferve them, a fuperior degree of fubmiffion and obe- 
dience to their lawful authority; not confidering them- 
felves upon a footing of natural equality with thofe 
whofe Slaves they are, though entitled at the fame 

time 



[ 63 ] 

time to all the promifes and fpiritual franchifes of true 
Believers. 

XII. From the tenour of thefe Apoflolic instruc- 
tions, confirmed by many other fimilar declarations to 
the fame effect, frequently occurring in the Writings 
of the New Teftament, I am naturally led to deduce 
the following confequences in fupport of the licitnefs 
of the Slave-Trade. 

i. It is then evident from the Doctrine of St. Paul, 
that Chriftians, however entitled by Baptifm to the 
Spiritual freedom of Children of God, and Heirs of 
heaven, ought yet, when under the yoke of human 
bondage or flavery, confider themfelves under the 
ftricteft obligation of reverencing the authority of their 
Mailers, even of unbelieving Mailers, and counting 
them worthy of all honour. But were the Slave-Trade, 
or the keeping of our fellow- creatures in bondage, 
unnatural and unjuil, it could never be faid, that 
Slaves were under the leafl obligation in confcience to 
reverence and obey an unjuil, an unnatural authority; 
or that their Mailers, who, by reducing them to that 
abject condition, had trampled on the Sacred rights 
of juftice and humanity, were worthy of all honour, 
or, indeed, of any fhadow of honour, but, on the 
contrary, of all difhonour and reproach. 

2. It is likewife evident from the Apoflle's doo- 
trine, that the primitive Chriftians were not only not 
forbidden, but exprefsly allowed by the principles of 
our Religion the purchafmg of Slaves, and keeping 
their fellow-creatures, nay, even their fellow-Chriili- 
ans, under the yoke of bondage or Slavery ; and from 
the circumilance of their Slaves being fo particularly 
cautioned not to confider themfelves on the footing of 
natural equality with their Mailers, not to defpife 
them and their authority for being their equals in all 
fpiritual attainments and franchifes, but to {how, on 

this 



[ 64 ] 

this very account, a greater degree of readinefs and 
alacrity to render them due fervice, their Mailers are 
evidently declared to have had ajuft and indifnutable 
claim to that fervice, as their own lawful property. 

XIII. Neither can it be faid, that this doctrine, 
perhaps, novel to fome of my Readers, which Timo- 
thy is directed to teach and to exhort, was onlv the 
private opinion of St. Paul ; for he declares to him in 
exprefs words, that it is a dotlrine according to god- 
linefs, the very doctrine of Chrift himfelf, and not to 
be contradicted by any one, without incurring the ac- 
cumulated guilt of pride and folly with a criminal 
train of attendants: " If any man, fays he, teach Othef- 
{C wife, and content not to wholefome words, even the 
" words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doc- 
" trine, which is according to godlinefs, he is proud, 
" knowing nothing, but doting about queftions, and 
" ftrifes of words, whereof Cometh envy, ftrife, rail- 
" ings, evil furmifings, &c." 

XIV. So far then from beingtrue, thatthereisnothing 
in the Sacred Writings of the New Teftament, that 
can be produced in vindication of the Slave-Trade, 
the palpable evidence juft produced in juftification of 
that Trade from the authentic words of One of the 
very principal infpired Authors of thofe Sacred Writ- 
ings, muft convince every candid inquirer into the 
merits of theprefent Controverfy, that, if the Slave- 
Trade, as demonftrated in the two preceding Parts, 
appears fo vifibly warranted by the Writings of the Old 
Teftament, the fame is not lets evidently authorized,. 
but rather more explicitly vindicated from every fufpi- 
cion of guilt and immorality by the Writings of the 
New : for, they do not only declare in formal words, 
that the teaching of the licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, 
exemplified in the practice of the Primitive Chriftians, 
is a Dotlrine according to Ccdlinefs 3 and according to 

^ • wholefome 



[ 6S ] 

whole/owe words, even the words of our Lord Jesus 
Christ, but they even ftigmatize the Teachers of the 
contrary doctrine with epithets and appellations not of 
the moil pleafing founds. 

EPISTLE to PHILEMON. 

XV. Philemon, to whom St. Paul addreffes this 
affectionate Epiftle, was a rich Coloflian, and a Chris- 
tian of diftinguifhed merit. The character given of 
him in the firfc part of this Epiftle, reprefents him as 
one of the moil zealous and fervent Chriftians of his 
time. His afflduity in promoting the intereft of Chris- 
tianity in quality of Fellow-labourer with St. Paul (<?), 
his love and faith towards the Lord J ef us, and his ge- 
nerous unbounded charity towards all the faints, or his 
fellow-Chriftians (f), whom he relieved and comfort- 
ed on all occafions (g), gained him the confidence, 
efteem, and affection of the Apoftle and of the whole 
Church at large (h). 

XVI. This Primitive and exemplary Chriftian had 
in his fervice one Onesimus, a Slave, who, as it is 
very ftrongly intimated by St. Paul, having defrauded 
his Matter of fome part of his property, and knowing 
the influence the Apoftle had over him, eloped from 
his Matter's houfe, went to Rome, where St. Paul was 
then in prifon, was converted by him 5 and received 
into the Communion of the Chriftian Church (J); and 
having by his good fervices and chriftian conduct, 
gained the Apoftle's favour, he feems to have prevailed 
on him to write to his Mafter Philemon in his behalf. 

XVII. The Letter, of which Onesimus himfelf ap- 
pears to have been the Bearer, is a mafter-piece of 
eloquence, and one of the flneft Compofitions extant 
irrthe Epiftolary kind. Nothing can be more tender, 

I more 

{/) Ep. to Phil. v. i. (/) Ibid. v. 5. (g) Ibid. v. 7, 
{h) Ibid. v. 7, (?) Ibid, v. 1©. 



[ 66 ] 

more prefling, more animated and perfuafive : entrea- 
ties and authority, praifes and recommendations, re- 
ligious motives and motives of perfonal gratitude and 
integrity, are moft inimitably well tempered and al- 
layed together. In fhort •, almoft every word of this 
very concife Epiftle contains fome argument or reafon 
to effect a reconciliation between Philemon and One- 
iimus, and to obtain from the Mafter the readmiffion 
of his fugitive Slave into his houfe and fervice. 

XVIII. The following XIV Verfes of this elegant 
Epiftle, which feem to have a more immediate con- 
nexion than the reft with the fubject of our prefent in- 
quiry, will afford me fufficient matter for fuch reflec- 
tions, as will not only confirm the doctrine enforced 
in this Section reflecting the moral conformity of the 
Slave-Trade with the principles of the Chriftian Dif- 
penfation, but prevent me from proceeding any farther 
in my Scriptural Researches on this interefting 
fubjecl:. 

The following is a literal tranfcript of the Contents 
of the Apoftle's Letter to Philemon from the VIII th 
to the XXII d Verfe. 

8. Wherefore, though I might be much bold in 
Chrift to enjoin thee that which is convenient; 

9. Yet, for love's fake, I rather befeech thee, being 
fuch a one as Paul the aged, and now alfo a prifoner 
of Jefus Chrift. 

10. I befeech thee for my fon Onefimus, whom I 
have begotten in my bonds. 

11. Which in time paft was to thee unprofitable 5 
but now profitable to thee and to me : 

12. Whom I have fent again: thou ' therefore re- 
ceive him, that is mine own bowels. 

13. Whom I would have retained with me, that in 
thy ftead he might have miniftered unto me in the 
bond. 5 of the Gofpe'I. 

14. But 



[ «7 ] 

14. But without thy mind would I do nothing, that 
thy benefit fhould not be, as it were, of necefiky, but 

willingly. 

15. For perhaps he therefore departed for a feafon, 
that thou fhouldeit receive him for ever : 

16. Not now as a fervant, but above a fervant, a 
brother beloved, efpecially to me, but how much more 
unto thee, both in the ftefn and in the Lord ? 

17. If thou count me therefore a partner, receive 
him as myfelf. 

18. If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee aught, 
put that on mine account. 

19. I Paul have written it with my own hand, I 
will repay it: albeit I do not fay to thee, how thou 
©weft unto me even thine own felf befides : 

20. Yea, Brother, let me have joy of thee in the 
Lord; refrefh my bowels in the Lord. 

21. Having confidence in thy obedience, I wrote 
unto thee, knowing that thcu wilt alfo do more than I 
fay. 

XIX. The following obvious remarks, adapted to 
the fubject of our prefent inquiry refpecting the moral 
licitnefs of the Slave-Trade," feern naturally to arife 
from the tenour of this facred portion of Scripture. 

1. The Apoitle declare- in the fir ft place, that, were 
he to act in the plenitude of his Apoftoiie Commiflion 
and Authority, without any regard to the dictates of 
his love and friendfhip for Philemon, he would not ufe 
the ftyle of a fu; pliant, as he does, but would pe- 
remptorily enjoin him to receive his fugitive Slave in- 
to his houfe and ier'vice, which he is bound to do in 
decency and duty : the word Convenient in the Original 
has both thefe meanings. From which declaration it 
evidently follows, that the Apbifle was fo far from 
thinking, that Philemon had acted wrong or unjuftly 
in keeping Onefnruis in bondage, when yet an unbe- 

I 2 lieveij 



[ 68 ] 

liever, that he afiures him, on the contrary, he would 
aft in oppofition to his duty, or unjuftly, in not re- 
ceiving him *again, when baptized, into his houfe and 
fervice. 

2. This declaration acquires a fuperior degree of 
force from the circumftance he fubjoins to his requeft, 
as a powerful inducement for Philemon to receive him 
again into his fervice. This circumftance, alluding 
to the name of Onesimus, which in Greek is the fame 
as Profitable, is both beautiful and interefting. The 
Apoftle owns without difguife, that Onefimus in time 
paft had certainly been an unprofitable, or, in Scripture- 
language, a bad Servant (£) .* but, as he could now 
afTure Philemon, that he was quite reclaimed, and be- 
come -profitable to both, he earneftiy folicits his read- 
miiTion, in order that he may be enabled to make 
amends for his paft negligence and inattention to his 
fervice by his future diligence and afliduity. — It was 
then Onefimus's duty to have been ufeful and profitable 
to his Mafter Philemon, whilft under the yoke of 
fervitudej and it was an acr. of manifeft injuftice in 
him to have been unprofitable and of no fervice. Phi- 
lemon then had a jufl and undoubted right to the 
fervice of Onefimus, as his Slave; or elfe Onefimus 
could never have been taxed by the Apoftle with acting 
the part of an unprofitable or badjervant, or with any 
perfonal injuftice, for neglecting a fervice, which Phi- 
lemon had no right or title to demand. 

3. Again : to convince Philemon, how much One- 
fimus was changed for the better fince his elopement, 
and the great reformation that his converfion to Chrif- 
tianity had wrought in his morals and conduct, he tells 
him, how much he was inclined himfelf to keep him in 
his own fervice - 3 intimating to him in this delicate and 

gentle 

(<£) Matt. c. 25. v. 30 



[ 69 ] 

gentle manner, that he could have no objection to re- 
ceive again into his fervice a perfon fo well qualified, 
as Onefimus was then, to be an Apoftle's Servant: and 
he affures him further, that the only reafon that has 
prevented him from indulging his inclination to detain 
him, has been his not having had his leave and con- 
fent for fo doing ; without which, fays he, he would 
never attempt to deprive him of his Slave.— From this 
declaration it appears in the ftrongeft light, how very 
facred and inviolable the acquired rights of Matters 
over their Slaves, even of Chriftian Matters and Slaves, 
were held by St. Paul, who would not by any means 
deprive Philemon of Onefimus, however ufeful the 
latter was to him at that time, and whatever afcen- 
dency he had over his Mailer, without having firft 
obtained his exprefs approbation and confent : he 
would then, fays he, receive Onefimus, as a benefit 
perfectly gratuitous, as a free and voluntary gift made 
to him by Philemon of fo valuable a part of his 
property. 

4-. Till he obtains this confent, he fends Onefimus 
back to his lawful Mader, entreating him in the rnoft 
■preffing and affectionate manner, to ufe him with all 
poffible tendernefs and regard : to coniider him now 
as a member of the Communion of the true believers, 
and confequently not in the character of a common 
menial Slave, but as his own brother in Chriil, though. 
ftill his property according to the fie ft, which to him 
particularly ought to be dearer than ever, as being 
now confecrated to God. — And left Philemon mouid 
infill on Onefimus making due fatisfaction for having 
defrauded him of his time, or other property, and 
fhould, on that account, ufe him with feverity, the 
Apoftle engages to make him full reparation, and be- 
comes himfelf refponfible for the whole: which is a 

manifeft 



[ 7° 3 

manifeil acknowledgement of Philemon's right, as the 
lawful Mailer of Onefimus, to infiidl due puniihment 
on his Slave. 

XX. From thefe obfervations, fb naturally flowing 
from the Contents of the Apoiiie's letter to Philemon, 
thefe two neceffary confequences feem as naturally to 
follow. 

i. Mad St. Paul, who had been inftructed in the 
principles of the Chriilian Religion, not by men, but 
IIP mediately by Chrifl himfelf (/), wbqfe chojen vej/el 
he was to bear his name before the Gentiles, and Kings, 
and the Children of Ifrael (m), been taught by his 
Divine Mailer, that the Slave-Trad e, or the pur- 
qhafing ot Slaves, or keeping thofe already purchafed 
in fervitude or bondage, was an unnatural, iniquitous 
purfuit, contrary to the Spirit of his Religion, he 
would have certainly addreffed himfelf to Philemon in 
a very different ilyle from that of his prefent Letter ; 
and, inftead of acting the part of a Suppliant, the part 
of an interceffor and Mediator, as he does, in folicit- 
ing of him the re-admiffion of a fugitive Slave, he 
would have affirmed the ftyle and tone of a Mailer ; 
would have feverely condemned the unjuftifiable con- 
duct of Philemon in detaining him in criminal bond- 
age, contrary to the Laws of his holy Religion, would 
have commended the fpirited conduct of Oneiimus in 
fhaking off the heavy yoke of fervitude, would not 
have fuffered him to return to his unnatural Mafter 
Philemon, efpecially after he had converted him to 
Chriitianity, and entitled him by Baptifm to the glo- 
rious franchifes and liberty of the Children of God, 
and would not have ilood on complimentary ceremo- 
nies, finding him ufeful in his actual Hate of confine- 
ment, 

(I J Galat, c. I. v. i. (m) Ads, c. 9, v. 15. 



[ 7i ] 

ment, to retain him in his miniftry, without asking 
his pretended Matter's leave, or without his confent. 

This, I am confident, would have been the language 
and condu£t of the Apoftle, had he been taught by 
his Divine Mafter, that the principles and doctrine of 
the Gofpel, he was commiilioned to preach, were in 
direct oppofition to the practice of the Slave-Trade, 
to the practice of purchasing Slaves, or keeping thofe 
already purchafed in bondage or fiavery. 

2. But, fince the Apoitle, conformably to the ins- 
tructions he had received from his Lord and Mafter 
Jesus Christ, reflecting every part of a Chriftian's 
duty, expreffes himfelf in this Epiftle, as well as in 
every other, where he fpeaks on this much mifrepre- 
fented fubject, in terms and language diametrically 
oppofite to the fentiments juft mentioned ; we are 
forced to conclude, that, fince Philemon, as well as 
many other Primitive Chriftians, cotemporary with 
the Apoftles of Chrift and firft Teachers of Chrif- 
tianity, kept Slaves, even Chriftian Slaves, in their 
fervice, in the very face of the whole Church, and 
with the approbation and knowledge of the primitive 
Apoftles and Difciples of Chrift, as has been 'demonf- 
trated from fome of the clearer! teftimonies of the 
New Teftament, the nature of the Slave-Trade, be- 
ing fo viiibly authorized by the pofitive fanction of 
thofe Sacred Writings, muft be effentially juft and 
lawful in its principles, and perfectly conformant to thofe 
of the Chriftian Law. 

XXI. Evident as this conclufion appears from 
the Scriptural arguments enforced in the courfe of this 
Section, I cannot clofethe Subject of thefe Research- 
es without taking fome notice of what, I apprehend, 
will be objected againft it from the Words of ourBlef- 
fed Saviour in his divine Sermon on the Mount, which 
in the VIII th Number of this Section I declared with 

particular 



C 72 ] 

particular ftrefs to contain nothing againft the licitnefs 
of the Slave-Trade.— The Words, here alluded to, 
will, I przfume, be thus retorted againft it. 

All things whatfoever, fays our BlefTed Saviour, ye 
•would that men Jhould do to you, do ye even Jo to them j 
for this is the Law and the Prophets (n) : whatfoever 
things therefore we would not, that men fhould do to 
us, we are not even fo to do to them -, but no perlbn 
whatever would certainly wifh, that a fellow-creature 
fhould reduce him to the condition of a Slave ; there- 
fore no perfon whatever is to reduce a feHow-creature 
to that condition. 

XXII. Here again I mufb obferve, that no one can 
juftly tax me with any partiality to the Caufe I have 
efpoufed: I have, I think, worded the argument againft 
it in terms as forcible, as the moft zealous advocate 
for African Liberty, could ufe. But unanfwerable as 
the fame may appear to them, it is but a plaufible 
argument at the bed. 

It is an Axiom in Logic, that An argument that 
proves too much, proves nothing : the above is juftfuch 
a one : for, by the fame manner of reafoning, one 
might equally conclude, contrary to the Law and the 
Prophets, and the doctrine of the Chriftian Religion, 
that not only Slavery, but every other kind of fubor- 
dination of one man to another, ought not to be fuf- 
fered to continue in the World. — The argument, if 
conclufive in the former cafe, mull be equally fo in 
the latter : I enforce it thus : — 

All things whatfoever, fays our Rleffed Saviour, yezvou Id 
that men jhould do to you, do ye even fo to them -, for this 
is the Law and the Prophets : whatfoever things there- 
fore we would not that men fnould do to us, we are 
not even fo to do to them; but every perfon would na- 
turally 

(?z) Matt. c. 7. v. 12. 



[ 73 ] 

fn rally wifh not to be controlled by a fellow-creature* 
not to be under any fubjection to him, but to be abfo- 
lute mafter of his own actions ; no perfon therefore 
ought to keep a fellow-creature under any control or 
fubjection whatever. 

XXIII. Such is the confequence of wrefting the 
natural and obvious meaning of the maxims of Scrip- 
ture, and applying them to purpofes inconflftent with 
Scripture itfelf. The Golden Maxim of our Divine 
Mafter, comprehending in two words the whole per- 
fection of a Chriftian, was certainly intended by him 
for all ftations in life, for of fuch was his Church to 
confift to the end of time : from the Throne to the 
Cottage, in every walk of life, in bondage or at 
liberty, every Chriftian is taught and directed To do 

UNTO OTHERS, AS HE WOULD BE DONE UNTO; and, by 

a neceftary confequence Not to do unto others, As 
he would not be done unto: that is, every Chrif- 
tian is commanded to behave to his neighbour, in 
whatever fituation or circumftances in life Providence 
may have placed them both, juft as he would wifh his 
neighbour would behave to him in his fituation, were 
his neighbour's fituation and circumftances his own : 
fo that, to apply the Maxim to a particular Cafe (even 
the Cafe in queftion), no Chriftian Mafter can be 
faid to do- unto others as he would be done unto, unlefs 
he behaves to his Slave with the fame tendernefs, juf- 
tice, and humanitv, as he would wifh his Slave would 
behave to him, were the Slave his Mafter, and him- 
felf the Slave ; and, upon the fame principle, no 
Slave can be faid to do unto others as he would be done 
unto, unlefs he ferves his Mafter with the fame fidelity, 
fubmiffion, and refpect, which he would expect from his 
Mafter, were the latter his Slave, and himfelf the 
Mafter. 

K XXIV. The 



[, 74 ] 
XXIV. The Golden Maxim then, of Doing unto 

OTHERS, AS WE WOULD BE DONE UNTO, IS fo far from 

condemning in the moft diftant manner the profecution 
of the Slave-Trade, that, when applied to the Cafe 
of Chriftian Matters and their Slaves, it ferves, on the 
contrary, to enforce their reciprocal duties in their 
different fpheres of life. Neither could it be other- 
wife, feeing, that the fame Divine Authority, on which 
the truth of the above Maxim is founded, has fo 
frequently given his fanction in the Writings of both 
the Teftaments to the licitnefs of the Slave-Trade. 

XXV. I have now, I think, verified in its full ex- 
tent the AfTertion I engaged to prove in the Title- 
page ; that thefe Scriptural Researches on the 
licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, would fhew the moral 
conformity of that Trade with the Principles of Na- 
tural and Revealed Religion delineated in the Sacred 
Writings of the Word of God : and as I prefixed to 
the Whole certain Pofitions or Data, on the truth of 
which the undeniable religious certainty of that moral 
conformity is entirely founded, fo I fhall now annex 
to the whole a few Corollaries or Confequences, 
which, from their necefTary dependance on the former 
Data, mull convince every religious and candid 
Reader of the neceflity of acquiefcing in the Scrip- 
tural Doctrine enforced in thefe Researches. 



COROLLARIES. 



[ 75 ] 



COROLLARIES. 

I. 

SINCE the Sacred Writings of the Holy Bible 
contain the unerring Decifions of the Word of God, 
the Authority of which in both the Teftamcnts is 
founded on the effential veracity of God, who is Truth 
itfelf ; it follows necerfarily, that, as there can be no 
prefcription againft that Authority, which, in the 
feveral fcriptural paffages quoted in the feries- of the 
foregoing Researches, has pofitively declared, that 
the Slave-Trade is intrinfically good and licit, 
this, by a neceffary confequence, mnft be effentially 
ft) in its own nature, however contrary fuch declara- 
tion may be to the received opinion of fome men for 
any length of time. 

II. 
Since the Supreme Legii'lator of the World is in- 
finitely juft and wife in all his Decifions refpecting 
Right and Wrong, and is no ways accountable to his 
Creatures for the reafons of his conduct in the govern- 
ment of the World ; fo it muft be a degree of pre- 
fumption highly criminal in any creature to refufe af- 
fent to thofe particular Decifions, by which he has lb 
pofitively declared the intrinfic licitnefs of the Slave- 
Trade, only becaufe he cannot account for that im- 
partial juftice,which characterizes every Decifion- of 
God, from thofe hidden principles of Eternal Juftice, in- 
comprehenfible to him, which induced the Almighty to 
eftablifh in the World that fubordinate ftate of ablblute 
fubjection of fome of his rational Creatures to others. 

III. 
Since no perfon can be fuppofed to acknowledge 
in fact, that the Holy Scriptures are the unerring 

K i Word 



[ 76 ] 

Word of God, unlefs he acquiefces without referve ia 
every Scriptural Decifion, however incomprehenfible 
the reafons and motives of thofe Decifions may be to 
him, and that on no other account, but becaufe he be- 
lieves them to be the Declarations of God, who, be- 
ins: Truth itfelf, can neither err himfelf, nor lead 
any one into error ; it follows neceffarily, that who- 
ever does not acquiefce in thofe Scriptural Decifions, 
quoted in the feries of the foregoing Researches, de- 
claring in formal Words the licitnefs of the Slave- 
Trade, cannot be faid to acknowledge in fact, that 
the Holy Scriptures are the unerring Word of 
God. 

IV. 

Since not only one, but feveral Decifions of the 
Written Word of God, as appears from the foregoing 
Researches, give a pofitive fanction to the licitnefs 
of the Slave-Trade j it is. not from the principle of 
private or National advantages attending the profecu- 
tion of it, which can never affect the intrinfic nature 
of any human purfuit, that any one is to believe, that 
the Slave-Trade is intrinfically juft and lawful in the 
ilricteft fenfe of the word, but from the incontrovert- 
ible veracity of the Written Word of God, whofe 
Decifions they are, and who is eflentially incompatible 
with the leaft degree of injufbice. 

V. 

Since no abufes or malepractices whatever, com- 
mitted in the profecution of a lawful purfuit, can ever 
alter the intrinfic licitnefs of it -, there being no other 
arguments, that can be produced againfl the Slave- 
Trade, but fuch as are built on the ftrength of fuch 
abufes as are faid to be perpetrated in the profecution 
of it ; no arguments whatever will ever evince any in- 
trinfic moral turpitude in its Nature, fo explicitly de- 
clared 



[ 77 3 

clared juft and lawful in the Sacred Writings of the 
Word of God, notwithstanding the many abufes to 
which it was formerly fubje<5t, and were formerly prac- 
tifed, as well as now. 

VI. 
Since no abufes or malepractices whatever, though 
of the greateft magnitude, committed in former times 
in the profecution of the Slave-Trade (#), ever in- 
duced the Almighty to prohibit or abolifh that Trade, 
but only to check by wholefome and coercive Laws 
the violence of unnatural Mailers (£), and to punifht 
the tranfgreflbrs with the greateft feverity (c) ; there 
appears no reafon whatever, why the abufes and male- 
practices faid to be perpetrated in our days in the pro- 
fecution of the fame Trade, evidently fubjecl; to the 
control of the Legiflature, mould be deemed a pow- 
erful inducement to proceed to the abolition of it. 

(a) Gen. 35. 22. Exod. 21. 8, 16, 20, 26, 27. Levit. 19. 20. 

Jerem. 34. v. 8 — 18. (b) Exod. 21. v. 7, 12, 16, 20, 2i„ 

26, 27. Levit. 19. v. 20, 21, 22. Ibid. 25. v. 39 — 43. 

(c) Jeremiah, c. 34.. v. 17 — 22. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 

IT was the Author's design, when he first en- 
gaged to vindicate the lieitnefs of the Slave- 
trade from the Sacred Writings of the Word 
of God, to have concluded his Researches 
with another Section, containing foaic Scrip- 
tural Directions for the proper treatment of Slaves, 
together with fome Exemplary Punifhments and 
Comminations registered in the fame divine Re- 
pository of religious Knowledge, for deterring 
the Conductors and Proprietors of Slaves from 
ever infringing by any acts of violence and op- 
pression the facred bounds of that Authority, 
with which they are entrusted for a time, and 
which they can never trefpafs with abfolute im- 
punity : but the fhortnefs of the time, which his 
other avocations have allowed him for completing 
the Scriptural Vindication contained in the three 
Sections of his Researches, having made it 
abfolutely impossible for him to execute the whole 
of his Original Design, he is obliged to offer it 
to the Public in its prefent state. 



ERRATA* 

Page 21, line 7, whaterer, read whatever* 
Page 30, line 23, four or five, read ten. 
Page 35, line 23, fale, read fell. 
Page 42, line 7, among, read among them* 
Page 47, line 23, wole, read whole. 
Page 48 a line 24^ unjuftj read julh 



* t\ xr za z? n" t .<? p. ■ M W A7 T. 



imk "V 



M 




9- 





