res. 5577 ss no . a 



THE AFRICAN CAPTIVES. 



TRIAL 



OF 



THE PRISONERS OF THE AMISTAD 



WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS, 



BEFORE THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, FOR THE DISTRICT 
OF CONNECTICUT, AT HARTFORD ; 



JUDGES THOMPSON AND JUDSON. 



SEPTEMBER TEEM, 1839. 



NEW YORK: 
PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE AT 143 NASSAU STREET. 

1839. 






Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/trialofprisonersOOcinq 



INTRODUCTORY NARRATIVE. 



Early in the month of August, 1839, there i 
appeared in the newspapers a shocking story, 
that a schooner, going coastwise from Havana 
to Neuvitas, in the island of Cuba, early in Ju- 1 
ly, with about twenty white passengers, and a 
large number of slaves, had been seized by the 
slaves in the night time, and the passengers 
and crew all murdered, except two who made 
their escape to land in an open boat. About 
the 20th of the same month, a strange craft was 
seen repeatedly on our coast, which was be- 
lieved to be the captured Spanish coaster, in 
the possession of the negroes. She was spok- 
en by several pilot-boats and other vessels, and 
partially supplied with water, of which she was 
very much in want. It was also said that the 
blacks appeared to have a great deal of money. 
The custom-house department and the officers 
of the navy were instantly roused to go in pur- 
suit of the " pirates," as the unknown possess- 
ors of the schooner were spontaneously called. 
The U. S. steamer Fulton, and several revenue 
cutters were despatched, and notice given to 
the collectors at the various seaports. On the 

of August, the " mysterious schooner" was 

near the shore at Culloden Point, on the east 
end of Long Island, where a part of the crew 
came on shore for water and fresh provisions, 
for which they paid with undiscriminating pro- 
fuseness. Here they were met by Captain 
Green, and another gentleman, who state 
that they had in their possession a large box 
filled with gold. Shortly after, on the 26th, the 
vessel was espied by Captain Gedney, U. S. N, 
in command of the brig Washington, employed 
on the coast survey, who despatched an officer 
to board her. The officer found a large num- 
ber of negroes, and two Spaniards, Pedro Mon- 
tez and Joze Ruiz, one of whom immediately 
announced himself as the owner of the negroes, 
and claimed his protection. The schooner was 
thereupon taken possession of by Captain Ged- 
ney, and carried into the port of New London. 
The Judge of the U. S. District Court and the 
U, S. Marshal for the district of Connecticut, 



were sent for by express, and a hurried exami- 
nation was held on board the Washington, at 
which the two Spaniards and the cabin boy, 
Antonio, a Creole negro, were examined on 
oath as to the facts in the case. 

The schooner proved to be the "Amistad," 
Captain Ramon Ferrer, from Havana, bound 
to Principe, about one hundred leagues distant, 
with 54 negroes held as slaves, and two passen- 
gers, instead of twenty. The Spaniards said 
that, after being out four days, the negroes rose 
in the night, and killed the captain and a mu- 
latto cook, that the helmsman and another sail- 
or took to the boat and went on shore, that the 
only two Whites remaining were the said pas- 
sengers, Montez and Ruiz, who were confined 
below until morning, that Montez, the elder, 
who had been a sea captain, was required to 
steer the ship for Africa, that he steered east- 
wardly in the day time, because the negroes 
could tell his course by the sun, but put. the ves- 
sel about in the night. They boxed about some 
days in the Bahama channel, and were several 
times near the islands, but the negroes would 
not allow her to enter any port. Once they 
were near Long Island, but then put out to sea 
again, the Spaniards all the while hoping they 
might fall in with some ship of war that would 
rescue them from their awkward situation. 
One of the Spaniards testified that, when the 
rising took place, he was awoke by the noise, 
and that he heard the captain order the cabin 
boy to get some bread and throw to the negroes, 
in hope to pacify them. No person appeared 
on behalf of the Africans, nor was any commu- 
nication held with them by the Judge, but after 
this examination, the adults remaining, thirty- 
eight in number, were committed for trial, for 
murder on the high seas, at the Circuit Court, 
which was to be held at Hartford, on the 17th 
of September. The cabin boy, Antonio, and 
four little children, were committed as witness- 
es. The whole were then transferred to the 
jail at New Haven. 

Much interest was excited in the public mind 



IV 



Introductory Narrative. 



in regard to so unusual an occurrence. It was ! 
seen at once that somebody ought to act for 
these strangers, in order to secure the proper 
means for the protection of their legal rights. 
Accordingly, at a meeting of a few friends of 
freedom, in the city of New York, Messrs. 
Simeon S. Jocelyn, Joshua Leavitt and Lewis 
Tappan, were appointed a committee, to receive 
donations, employ counsel, and act in other re- 
spects as circumstances might require, for the 
protection and relief of the African Captives. 
This committee immediately announced their 
appointments and solicited funds. They also 
engaged the services of able and faithful coun- 
sel, Seth P. Staples and Theodore Sedgwick, 
Jr., Esqs., of New York, and Roger S. Bald- 
win, Esq., of New Haven. The next thing 
was, to open a communication with the Afri- 
cans, through an interpreter ; and after repeat- 
ed trials and much inquiry, they found a man 
in this city, named John Ferry, a native African, 
of the Kissi tribe, who was able to converse 
freely with one or two of them, and imperfectly 
with others. 

With these preparations, the trial came on at 
Hartford, the proceedings and results of which 
are given in the following pages. After the trial, 
and the return of the Africans to New Haven, 
Professor Gibbs, of Yale College,who had taken 
much interest in their condition, and who was 
also much engaged in linguistic pursuits, came to 
N. York, and visited the British armed brig Buz- 
zard, Capt. Fitzgerald, now lying in our waters 
in company with a number of vessels seized by 
heron the coast of Africa for being engaged in 
the slave trade. Here, by means of the numerals 
used by the captives, he succeeded in finding, 
among the Africans employed on board the brig, 
two men, named Chaales Pratt and John Covey, 
who he thought used the same language. In 
compliance with a request of the committee, 
Captain Fitzgerald very obligingly allowed 
these men to be taken to New Haven. To the 
unspeakable joy of the poor prisoners, as well as 
the great satisfaction of the committee and all 
the friends of humanity, the hopes of Professor 
Gibbs were fully realised, as the men were 
found to speak exactly the same language with 
that of the Africans in jail. Professor Gibbs, 
in a letter communicatingthis intelligence, says : 
" It would have done your heart good to witness 
the joy of the Africans on finding themselves 
able to converse with the men." And another 
gentleman writes : " We called with them (the 
interpreter) at the prison this morning, just as 
the African captives were at breakfast. The 
Marshal objected to the entrance of the inter, 
preters until the breakfast was over, but one of 
the captives coming to the door and finding a 
fellow-countryman who could talk in their own 
language, took hold of him, and literally drag- 
ged him in. Such a scene ensued as you may 
better conceive than 1 describe. Breakfast 
was forgotten ; all crowded round the two men, 
and all talking as fast as possible. The children 



hugged one another with transport." The cap- 
tives confirm all that had been previously learn- 
ed from John Ferry. The means of commu- 
nication were now as good as could be desired, 
as the interpreters were intelligent, and one of 
them. Covey, able both to speak and write 
English very well, having been brought up at 
Sierra Leone. 

On request of the committee at New York, 
the Rev. Leonard Bacon and Henry G. Ludlow, 
and Mr. Amos Townsend, Jr., of New Haven, 
consented to act as a committee to take mea- 
sures for giving intellectual and religious in- 
struction to these benighted pagans, during 
such time as they might remain accessible to 
the efforts of Christian benevolence. This 
committee were fortunate in engaging the ser- 
vices of Mr. George E. Day, a gentleman of 
liberal education, who has been a professor in 
the New York Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb, and is familiar with the language of 
signs, and the other peculiar methods of con- 
veying instruction employed in these institu- 
tions. An excellent matron is also engaged to 
teach the four little children. 

The first attention of all parties, on finding 
complete access to the captives, through their 
countrymen, was of course directed to the ob- 
taining of a full and separate statement of the 
facts connected with their present situation, 
and putting them into a form to be available for 
any legal purposes that might be required.* 
These affidavits satisfied the learned counsel 
employed, that great abuses had been endured 
by the Africans, at the hands of Messrs. Ruiz 
and Montez. The following condensed state- 
ment of some of them, was prepared by Mr. 
Day, and published in one of our journals. 

NARRATIVE OF THE AFRICANS. 

To the Editors of the Journal of Commerce. 

New Haven, Oct. 8, 1839. 
Gentlemen — The following short and plain 
narrative of one or two of the African captives, 
in whose history and prospeets such anxious in- 
terest is felt, has been taken at the earliest oppor- 
tunity possible, consistently with more important 
examinations. It maybe stated in general terms, 
as the result of the investigations thus far made, 
that the Africans all testify that they left Africa 
about six months since ; were landed under cover 
of the night at a small village or hamlet near 
Havana, and after ten or twelve days were taken 
through Havana by night, by the man who had 
bought them, named Pipi, who has since been 

* It appears that they are most of them from 
the Mandi or Mandy country, and not from Man- 
ding, as was supposed. Prof. Gibbs had already 
satisfied himself that their language was not that 
of the A'landingoes — and thus a mystery was 
thrown over the matter which is now explained. 
One of the new interpreters is a native Mandi, 
and was rescued from a Spanish slave-ship about 
seven years since. The other was brought up at 
Sierra Leone. 



Introductory Narrative. 



satisfactorily proved to be Ruiz ; were cruelly 
treated on the passage, being beaten and flogged, 
and in some instances having vinegar and gun- 
powder rubbed into their wounds ; and that they 
suffered intensely from hunger and thirst. The 
perfect coincidence in the testimony of the pri- 
soners, examined as they have been separately, 
is felt by all who are acquainted with the minu- 
tiae of the examination, to carry with it over- 
whelming evidence of the truth of their stoty. 
Your's, respectfully, 

GEORGE E. DAY. 

Monday, Oct. 7. 

This afternoon, almost the first time in which 
the two interpreters, Covey and Pratt, have not 
been engaged with special reference to the trial 
to take place in November, one of the captives 
named Grabaung was requested to give a narra- 
tive of himself since leaving Africa, for publica- 
tion in the papers. The interpreters, who are 
considerably exhausted by the examinations 
which have already taken place, only gave the 
substance of what he said, without going into de- 
tails, and it was not thought advisable to press 
the matter. Grabaung first gave an account of 
the passage from Africa to Havana. On board 
the vessel there was a large number of men, but 
the women and children were far the most nu- 
merous. They were fastened together in couples 
by the wrists and legs, and kept in that situation 
day and night. Here Grabaung and another of 
the Africans named Kimbo, lay down upon the 
floor to show the painful position in which they 
were obliged to sleep. By day it was no better. 
The space between decks was so small — accord- 
ing to their account not exceeding four feet — that 
they were obliged, if they attempted to stand, to 
keep a crouching posture. The decks, fore and 
aft, were crowded to overflowing. They suffered 
(Grabaung said) terribly. They had rice enough 
to eat, but had very little to drink. If they left 
any of the rice that was given to them uneaten, 
either from sickness or any other cause, they were 
whipped. It was a common thing for them to 
be forced to eat so much as to vomit. Many of 
the men, women, and children, died on the pas- 
sage. 

They were landed by night at a small village 
near Havana- Soon several white men came to 
buy them, and among them was the one claim- 
ing to be their master, whom the}' call Pipi, said 
to be a Spanish nick name for Jose. Pipi, or 
Ruiz, selected such as he liked, and made them 
stand in a row. He then felt of each of them in 
every part of the body ; made them open their 
mouths to see if their teeth were sound, and car- 
ried the examination to a degree of minuteness 
of which only a slave dealer would be guilty. 

When they were separated from their compa- 
nions who had come with them from Africa, 
there was weeping among the women and child 
ren, but Grabaung did not weep, " because he is 
a man." Kimbo, who sat by, said that he also 
shed no tears — but he thought of his home in 
Africa, and of friends left there whom he should 
never see again. 

The men bought by Ruiz were taken on foot, 
through Havana in the night, and put on board 
a vessel. During the night they were kept in 
irons, placed about the hands, feet, and neck. 



They were treated during the day in a somewhat 
milder manner, though all the irons were never 
taken off at once. Their allowance of food was 
very scant, and of water still more so. They 
were very hungry, and suffered much in the hot 
days and nights from thirst. In addition to this 
there was much whipping, and the cook told 
them that when they reached land they would all 
be eaten. This " made their hearts burn." To 
avoid being eaten, and to escape the bad treat- 
ment they experienced, they rose upon the crew 
with the design of returning to Africa. 

Such is the substance of Grabaung's story, 
confirmed by Kimbo, who was present most of 
the time. He says he likes the people of this 
country, because, to use his own expression, 
" they are good people — they believe in God, and 
there is no slavery here." 

The story of Grabaung was then read and in- 
terpreted to Cinquez, while a number of the other 
Africans were standing about, and confirmed by 
all of them in every particular. When the part 
relating to the crowded state of the vessel from 
Africa to Havana was read, Cinquez added, that 
there was scarcely room enough to sit or lie down. 
Another showed the marks of the irons on his 
wrists, which must at the time have been terribly 
lacerated. On their separation at Havana, Cin- 
quez remarked that almost all of them were in 
tears, and himself among the rest, "because they 
had come from the same country, and were now 
to be parted forever." To the question, how it 
was possible for the Africans, when chained in 
the manner he described, to rise upon the crew, 
he replied that the chain which connected the 
iron collars about their necks, was fastened at the 
end by a padlock, and that this was first broken 
and afterwards the other irons. Their object, he 
said, in the affray was to make themselves free. 
He then requested it to be added to the above, 
that "if he tells a lie, God sees him by day and 
by night." 

The captives are not now held in custody as 
prisoners, but are in the keeping of the U. S. 
Marshal as " merchandise" or chattels, under 
the claim of the Spaniards, Capt. Gedney, and 
others. They are provided with comfortable 
quarters at the County house, in New Haven, 
and are taken out every pleasant day, for a 
while, upon the green — to exercise their limbs 
— when Jingua, especially, performs astonish, 
ing feats of agility. There is something very 
prepossessing and pleasant in his countenance, 
and his authority over the others is absolute, 
but exercised with justice and mildness. 

The following brief statement of the case, as 
it now stands, may help some of our readers to 
a clearer understanding of th§ matter. The 
Africans were at first committed for trial on a 
charge of murder, but that process is at an end, 
because the Circuit Court has decided that it 
has no legal cognizance of the transaction on 
board a Spanish vessel. Next, Capt. Gedney, 
of the U. S. Navy, has filed a libel on the ves- 
sel and cargo, including the. prisoners, claiming 
salvage for " meritorious services" performed ; 
Montez has filed a claim for the four children 
as his property ; and the district attorney has 



Introductory Narrative. 



filed a mixed claim and libel, first on behalf of 
the U. S. at the instance of the Spanish minis- 
ter, for the restoration of the Africans to the 
Spaniards, and secondly, in behalf of the U. S. 
claiming that they are free persons, wrongfully 
brought into this country, and ought to be re- 
turned to their native land. These libels and 
claims will be tried at the adjourned District 
Court, on the third Tuesday in November, at 
Hartford. 

If it shall be found that the seizure by Capt. 
Gedney was made within one mile of the shore, 
and consequently within the District of New 
York, then the District Court in Connecticut 
will have no jurisdiction, and a question arises 
whether the vessel, cargo and prisoners can be 
transferred to this district. 

If the libels for salvage are sustained by the 
District Court, and the dead property is insuffi- 
cient to pay the amount decreed, (as it proba- 
bly will be, the presumption being that the va- 
lue of the vessel and cargo will be nearly or 
quite absorbed in expenses,) a curious question 
will arise — how are the salvors to be paid ■? 
Judge Judson has already decided that the live 
*« property" cannot be sold in his district. If, 
however, the Africans are property, consisten- 
cy, if not humanity, requires, it would seem, 
that they be sold to pay the salvors ; and if they 
are not property, and cannot be sold, then they 
are free. If dissatisfaction is felt at the decision 
the district judge may make, an appeal can be 
taken to the Circuit Court, which sits next 
March ; and if the decision of this court is not sa- 
tisfactory, an appeal can be taken to the Supreme 



Court of the U. S. which will sit in Jan., 1841. 
The friends of the prisoners, therefore, need 
entertain no apprehension that they will be out 
of the custody of the law for eighteen months 
at least, from the present time. If the Court 
in the last resort decide in favor of the prison- 
ers, they are free, of course ; but if they decide 
otherwise, our government can then deliver up 
the prisoners to the Spaniards under our treaty 
with Spain. But although they can do this, it 
is not to be presumed they will, for they may 
say to the Spanish government, this is wholly a 
question of property on your part, and we prefer 
to pay the estimated value of the slaves rather 
than outrage the feelings of the people of this 
country by surrendering them. 

If, however, the libels should be abandoned, 
and all proceedings be discontinued, another 
difficult question will arise — can the govern- 
ment of the United States, under such circum- 
stances, take hold of these Africans for the pur- 
pose of delivering them up to the Spaniards'? 
We think not, for it is expressly provided in 
the treaty that ships and merchandise are to be 
restored as soon as due and sufficient proof shall 
be made concerning the property, and this must 
be determined by the tribunals of justice. If 
then, no judicial adjudication should take place, 
the executive cannot, it would seem, restore 
these Africans to the Spaniards. 

New York, Oct. 15, 1339. 

N. B. This pamphlet will be followed by an- 
other, containing a full Report of the Trial at 
the next term. 



- 



CASE OF THE AFRICANS. 



CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES : DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT. 

Hon. SMITH THOMPSON, Circuit Judge. 
Hon. ANDREW T. JUDSON, District Judge. 



Wednesday, September 18, 1839. 

Seth P. Staples, Esq. on the affidavit 
of Theodore Sedgwick, Jr. Esq. moved for 
a writ of habeas corpus, directing the 
Marshal to bring before the Court three 
African girls, named Teme, alias Juanna, 
Ka-gue, alias Josepha, Margui, alias 
Francisca, now confined in the jail, in the 
city of Hartford, and to show cause, if any 
there be, why they should not be released. 

William Hungerford, Esq. said that 
these individuals were persons claimed by 
two Spanish gentlemen, as their slaves ; 
and that one of them was confined to his 
room, and would not be able to attend, so 
soon as it was proposed to have the writ 
returnable. He would also suggest, in 
addition, that there was a libel pending 
before the District Court, on these per- 
sons as part of the cargo of the Amistad, 
in behalf of Lieutenant Gedney, for sal- 
vage. 

Judge Thompson. I would suggest 
that all these matters will come up on the 
habeas corpus. The affidavit states that 
these persons are imprisoned without any 
cause. If any reason is shown why they 
should not be discharged, the Court will 
not discharge them. If the Marshal 
makes the return that they are here for 
any legal purpose, they will be detained, if 
not they will be discharged. If the gen- 
tleman who claims them as his property 
is unable to appear in court, he will doubt- 
less acquaint his counsel with the matter. 



Writ granted — returnable to morrow 
morning. 

Thursday Afternoon, September 19. 

The Court room was crowded with 
spectators, whose countenances evinced a 
deep interest in the expected proceedings. 
The Marshal brought into Court three in- 
teresting little African girls, in obedience 
to the writ of habeas corpus. They were 
evidently in great fear, all of them weep- 
ing, and clasping with a determined grasp, 
the hands of the jailor, who came into Court 
with them. He endeavored to pacify 
them, with the offer of some fruit ; but 
they refused it. 

Ralph I. Ingersoll, Esq. read the 
Marshal's return, as follows : 1. The 
writ of habeas corpus ; 2. A warrant in 
behalf of the United States, against certain 
persons therein named, for murder and 
piracy, alleged to have been committed on 
board the schooner Amistad ; on which 
these girls were ordered to recognise for 
their appearance as witnesses, in default 
of which they were committed ; 3. The 
libel of Lieutenant Gedney, for salvage, 
in which these girls were seized as part 
of the cargo of the Amistad, as appears by 
the return of the Marshal on the warrant 
issued by the District Court ; 4. The libel 
of Don Pedro Montez, a Spanish gentle- 
man, claiming these girls as his slaves, 
valued at $ 1300 — stating that these slaves 
were legally purchased in the Island of 



Case of the Africans. 



Cuba, where slavery is allowed ; and 
claiming that, according to the treaties ex- 
isting between the United States and Spain, 
they ought to be delivered up to him, 
without any loss ; 5. A libel of the Dis- 
trict Attorney of the United States, stating 
that the proper representative of the Queen 
of Spain had demanded of the proper de- 
partment the restoration of these persons, 
as the property of Spanish subjects ; and, 
as the Attorney on behalf of the United 
States, asking the Court, to try the issue 
on the claim of the Spanish minister, and 
if it should appear that they should be 
given up, to make an order accordingly ; 
but, if it should appear that they had been 
illegally imported into the United States, 
asking the Court to make an order to 
enable the President to send them back to 
Africa, in accordance with the provisions 
of the law relative to the disposition of re- 
captured Africans, which provides that 
Africans taken on board of American ves- 
sels, engaged in the slave trade, may be 
sent back to their native land by the direc- 
tion of the President. 

Mr. Staples said, the Counsel for the 
prisoners would require some time to con- 
sider the subject, in order to answer the 
Marshal's return, which request was 
granted by the Court. 

Friday Morning, September 20. 

Theodore Sedgwick, Jr. Esq. said, the 
three African girls, brought up on the 
writ of habeas corpus, answer and reply 
to the Marshal's return, by their proper 
guardian appointed by the Court, That 
they are not now and never were slaves, or 
the property of Don Pedro Montez, but 
native Africans, born at some place in the 
district of Senegambia, in Africa ; that, on 
the 20th of April last past, they were seized 
by the said Don Pedro Montez, or his 
agents, or some other person or persons, 
and illegally put on board a Portuguese or 
Spanish vessel, and carried to the Island 
of Cuba, in the dominions of the Queen of 
Spain, contrary to the laws of nations and 
the laws of nature, and contrary to the 
laws of Spain ; That when they arrived 
on the said Island of Cuba, they were 
secretly and privately landed and taken 
to a secret place, where they remained 
two ogj three weeks ; from whence they 
were taken in the night, by the said Don 
Pedro Montez, or his agents, and put on | 



board the Schooner Amistad ; and after 
being at sea for two or three months, they 
were brought into the port of New-London, 
where they were seized by the Marshal of 
the District of Connecticut and imprison- 
ed ; That the said importation from Africa 
was contrary to the laws of Spain, as ap- 
pears from the decree of the King of Spain, 
issued in December, 1817, prohibiting the 
African slave trade ; and the further ordi- 
nance of the Queen of Spain, issued on 
the second of November, 1838, directing 
the measures to be taken to carry into ef- 
fect said decree of 1817. And, as to the rest 
of the allegations contained in the Mar- 
shal's return, they answer that the same 
are insufficient in law to warfent their 
detention in custody of said Marshal. 

In testimony of the facts here alleged, 
Mr. Sedgwick presented the affidavits of 
Augustus William Hanson and John Ferry; 
stating that they were native Africans, and 
that they had seen and conversed with the 
African girls imprisoned in the jail in 
Hartford ; and that they were native 
Africans, the eldest about nine years old 
and the youngest about seven ; and that 
they can speak neither the Spanish nor 
Portuguese languages. 

Mr. Staples said the Marshal had in 
custody an African, who came in the same 
vessel with the girls, about 25 years of 
age ; and that Rev. Mr. Gallaudet had been 
conversing with him,by signs, and was of the 
opinion that he understood sufficiently the 
nature of an oath to justify its being ad- 
ministered ; and the Court ordered his 
deposition to be taken. 

Ralph I.^Ingersoll, Esq. If the Court 
please, I would make the suggestion 
whether your honors will go into this in- 
quiry, on the writ of habeas corpus, while 
the merits of the case are pending before 
another tribunal, the District Court. It 
appears, by the answer put in yesterday, 
that these persons are libelled in the Dis- 
trict Court as the property of Spanish 
subjects. They are also libelled on the 
part of the United States, on the ground 
that information has been transmitted by 
the minister of Spain, to the proper depart- 
ment, claiming that they are the property 
of Spanish subjects, and that, by existing 
treaties, it is the duty of the American 
government to restore them to their own- 
ers. The libel of the District Attorney 
also presents another aspect, that, if these 



Case of the Africans. 



persons had been introduced in violation 
of our laws, then our District Court should, 
according to the act of 1819, make such 
an order as would enable the executive 
authority of the United States to transfer 
them to the coast of Africa. 

I wish to suggest whether, on writ of 
habeas corpus, the Court will take cogni- 
zance of the matter. There is a cause 
now pending before another Court, in 
which these various important and intricate 
questions are to be settled. Will this hon- 
orable Court, on a writ of habeas corpus, 
take the whole case out of the hands of 
the District Court, and enable them to 
bring it here, in this summary manner, in- 
stead of taking the case by appeal, if they 
shall be dissatisfied with the decision of 
the District Court ? Manifest injustice 
might thus be done. Questions may 
arise, in the course of these trials, involv- 
ing the faith of treaties and the rights of 
individuals, wherein great and manifest in- 
justice might be done, if they are decided 
in this summary way as it would be im- 
possible to go into all these questions on 
this summary process. 

R. S. Baldwin, Esq. May it 
please the Court — The gentleman has 
gone forward and presented a preliminary 
question, upon which he asks this honor- 
able Court to dismiss the habeas corpus. 
The grounds on which this writ is brought 
are, that they are illegally held under the 
process of a Court of the United States, 
which had no jurisdiction over them ; and 
that they are held in custody not as per- 
sons, but as property — as mere chattels, 
to be kept in custody till other parties, 
litigating questions in which they have no 
interest, can come to a conclusion of 
their case ; which may be one year, or it 
may be five years ; and yet that gentle- 
man says, because it has pleased these 
parties to cause these persons to be libelled 
as property, therefore this matter is not to 
be inquired into. If the District Court 
had issued a warrant against these per- 
sons as property, the Marshal would have 
had no right to seize them ; but the war- 
rant of the District Court was only direct, 
ed against the cargo of the vessel ; yet 
under this warrant, the Marshal has seized 
these persons. 

Judge Thompson. There may be one 
branch of the return, that will steer clear 
of these specifications — these persons are | 

2 



held under a commitment to appear as wit- 
nesses in a criminal case. 

R. S. Baldwin. If the Court please, 
we propose to offer surety for their appear- 
ance. 

Judge Thompson. That is enough. 

Mr. Baldwin proceeded to state the 
ground on which the Consul for the prison, 
ers claimed that they ought to be discharg- 
ed. Prior to our application to this honor- 
able Court for their discharge, there was 
but one process pending in the District 
Court, and that was the libel of Lieutenant 
Gedney, upon which a warrant was issued 
to the Marshal, commanding him to take 
the schooner Amistad, and her property. 
Under that warrant, the Marshal took the 
schooner and her property ; he also 
went further, not in obedience to the order 
of the District Judge, and took these indi- 
viduals. 

[Here Mr. Baldwin was interrupted by 
the Grand Jury coming into Court.] 

Foreman. May it please the Court — 
I am directed to say that the Grand Jury 
have before them a number of bills of in- 
dictment, charging certain persons with 
murder and piracy ; and request of the 
Court a charge in relation to the law on 
that subject. 

Judge Thompson. It is utterly impossi- 
ble for the Court to give the Grand Jury 
any [information, unless there is a state- 
ment of the facts before you. If you find 
a state of facts, and present them to the 
Court, the Court will be able to charge you 
on the facts. You have jurisdiction, and 
the Court have jurisdiction of the offence 
of piracy, because it is against the law of 
nations. But, whether the complaint 
against the parties in this case will justify 
an indictment for piracy, the Court cannot 
undertake to say, unless they are furnish, 
ed with a statement of the facts before you. 
It would be very useless for the Court to 
enter into any general charge as to mur- 
der or piracy. 

Foreman. The object of the Grand 
Jury was merely to ask a charge as a 
guide, it having been intimated, by his 
honor, the District Judge, that such charge 
would probably be given on the arrival of 
your honor. 

Judge Thompson. The Court cannot 
charge you in the abstract. The question 
is, whether you can find a bill, on a given 
state of facts. I do not mean to intimate 



10 



Case of the Africans. 



that the Court will give an opinion as to 
the state of the facts ; but merely that they 
will thus be able to determine whether 
they have jurisdiction in the case or not. 
The District Judge probably wished not to 
give any definite opinion on this case, be- 
fore I arrived. It was not, however, un- 
derstood that I should give you any for- 
mal charge, as I should have done, if I 
had been here. If you make a statement 
of facts, the Court could give a charge as 
to the jurisdiction of the Court over the 
matter. 

The Grand Jury retired, and afterwards 
presented a statement of the facts, as 
follows : 

" That a Spanish vessel, built in Cuba, 
called the Amistad, duly and legally licens- 
ed to carry on the coasting trade, sailed 
from Havana on the 28th June, 1839, 
commanded by Ramon Ferrer, for the 
port of Guanaja, in the Island of Cuba, 
having on board a cargo of sundry articles 
of merchandise, two Spanish citizens as 
passengers, with 53 negroes purchased by 
them as Sadinoes (that is — not natives of 
Cuba) in the city of Havana, with regular 
permits for the Spaniards, negroes and 
merchandise. That about four days after 
sailing, when three or four leagues from 
the Cuba and forty from Havana, the ne- 
groes rose upon and killed the master and 
one of the crew of the vessel, and t ook the 
command and charge of the same, and 
wounded and injured the two Spanish 
passengers. That on the 26th of August 
last, the said schooner Amistad was found 
in the waters near the east end of Long 
Island, within one mile of the shore, in 
possession of the negroes aforesaid, from 
whom she was captured by the United 
States brig Washington, and brought into 
the port of New London, in the District of 
Connecticut, where the said negroes were 
apprehended by the Marshal of this Dis- 
trict, in whose custody they now are. 
That while said vessel was so in posses- 
sion of said negroes, the boxes and trunks 
of goods were broken open by them, and 
some of the goods they appropriated to 
their own use." 

Upon this finding, the Grand Jury asked 
instruction of the Court. 

By the Court. Is this the only business 
you have before you 1 

The Grand Jury, by their foreman. It is. 



By the Court. The Court will exarm 
ine the finding of the Grand Jury, and in- 
struct them in relation to it, at the coming 
in of the Court this afternoon. 

Mr. Baldwin proceeded, — I was stating, 
if the Court please, that the return of the 
Marshal on the process, in the salvage 
case, shows that, at the time this applica- 
tion was made, the only ground on which 
he detained these individuals, was, as a 
part of the cargo of the Amistad, on the 
process of the District Court, authorising 
him to seize the vessel and her cargo. 
After the Court had been applied to on 
this question of personal liberty, certain 
persons thought proper to institute a new 
process, thinking thereby to deprive these 
interesting, but friendless children of the 
benefit of this writ of habeas corpus. But 
it seems to us, all the objections we have 
stated apply equally to all the proceedings 
before the District Court ; and that this 
Court, upon the facts here presented, must 
see that there is no legal ground for the 
detention of these individuals as properly, 
under any warrant whatever. 

What is the first process ? Lieutenant 
Gedney, an officer of the United States 
Navy, files a libel in the District Court, 
that off Montauk Point, he discovered this 
schooner Amistad, manned by forty or 
fifty colored persons, whom he suspects 
or believes to be owned by certain Span- 
iards, or Spanish gentlemen, as he calls 
them, who claim these persons as their 
property. On this information, this Lieu- 
tenant Gedney thought proper to take 
these persons, a large part of whom were 
not on board the vessel at the time, but on 
shore, and bring them into the port of 
New London ; and now he presses in this 
Court, the claim that he had rendered a 
" meritorious service," not to these poor 
Africans, by saving their lives, but, by re- 
ducing to the condition of slavery, men 
who, when he found them, were free; and 
he asks the District Court to award him 
salvage on these human beings, lor the 
" meritorious service" he has performed, 
in reducing them to bondage. If the pro- 
perty contained in the cargo of the schoon- 
er Amistad was saved by Lieutenant 
Gedney from any peril, I have no objec- 
tion that he should have hh salvage there- 
on ; but all I ask is, that the District Court 
of the State of Connecticut will not under- 



Case of the Africans. 



11 



take to reduce men to slavery whom it 
finds in a state of freedom, for any purpose 
whatever. 

What are the facts? What are the 
probable grounds on which the claim of 
property in these individuals is set up? 
Here are ihree children, between the ages 
of seven and nine years, who are proved 
to be native Africans, who cannot speak 
our own language or the Spanish lan- 
guage, or any other but the language of 
their nativity. They were found in this 
condition on the coast of a neighboring 
state, and there claimed by certain per- 
sons as slaves. Does not this honorable 
Court see they cannot be slaves? — They 
were not born slaves, — they were born in 
Africa. How came they reduced to a 
state of slavery ? How is it that our Courts 
are called upon, on the mere suggpstion of 
Lieutenant Gedney, or of these "Spanish 
gentlemen," to treat them as slaves ? Do 
our own la*vs tolerate the African slave 
trade ? Have they not for years regarded 
and treated all engaged in itas pirates — en- 
emies to the human race? Do they not 
brand them with infamy ? And, upon the 
mere suggestion that these individuals are 
claimed as the slaves of certain Spanishgen- 
tlemen, are we to set aside our own laws, 
and those of every civilized nation, who 
have long held this trade to be piratical 
and infamous ? 

Again, this government not only has de- 
clared that this trade is illegal, — felonious, 
— piratical, but it has bound itself, since 
1814, to co-operate with Great Britain for 
putting an end to this traffic. But, we 
have not only our own laws, but the ordi- 
nance of the King of Spain himself, as 
early as 1817, two years before our pre- 
sent treaty with Spain, declaring this trade 
felony, subjecting to imprisonment or ban- 
ishment his own subjects who should be 
found engaged in it. What pretence then 
is there, for the assumption of jurisdiction 
of these persons as property, when, by the 
laws of the whole civilized world, they can- 
not be reduced to the condition of proper- 
ty, without the commission of a felony ? 
Upon the proof before the Court, these in- 
dividuals must have been brought away 
from Africa very recently. They have no 
knowledge of any other language than that 
spoken on the coast of Africa. They 
must be persons who have been reduced 
to slavery in violation of the laws and re- 
gulations of every nation in the civilized 



world. If this be so, cannot these indi- 
viduals speak in this higher Court, and ask 
this Court to inquire whether they are to 
be treated as property, or as persons vested 
with the rights which God has given them 
as human beings ? Suppose they were 
Englishmen or Spaniards, seized under a 
process claiming salvage for saving them 
from the wreck of an Algerine corsair — 
would any body contend they could be 
treated as property ; and because they 
were so treated by an officer acting under 
the authority of an inferior court, the Cir- 
cuit Court of the United States could not 
regard taeir request for an inquiry into the 
matter? And how shall this Court distin- 
guish between such a case, and that of 
these Africans, when it is proved that they 
were brought into this country in violation 
of the laws of Spain itself, (by whose citi- 
zens they are claimed,) and when they can- 
not be slaves consistently with that law ? 

These individuals are stated in the libel 
to be a part of the persons on board the 
schooner Amistad, a large part of whom 
the libel says were on shore, within the 
limits of the State of New- York, when 
they were taken by Lieut. Gedney. Sup- 
pose the} were property, could the District 
Court, could any Court of Admiralty have 
jurisdiction over that property? Is not the 
jurisdiction of the Court of Admiralty con- 
fined to property which, when the service 
was rendered, was on the high seas ? But 
the libel of Lieut.- Gedney states that they 
were on shore ; and, if they had not been, 
he would have had much more difficulty in 
reducing them to slavery, for the benefit of 
these Spanish gentlemen, of whom he claims 
salvage. But the Admiralty has no juris- 
diction on shore ; though, if goods have 
been taken on sea, they may be followed 
on shore, by the prize court. — (Kent's 
Com-mentaries.) The same doctrine is 
maintained in 1st Robinson's Admiralty 
Reports, p. 238. Where, then, were these 
persons, at the time of their seizure? 
Were they on the high seas, or on shore 
in the State of New- York ? Does the li- 
bel affirm ? Not at all. There the libel 
is defective. The Court of Admiralty is 
a court of limited jurisdiction. It cannot 
interfere with the province of the common 
law courts ; and it is incumbent on the li- 
bellant to show, and to set forth in his libel, 
that the property was taken under such cir- 
cumstances as to pertain to the jurisdiction 
of the court. 



12 



Case of the Africans. 



Again ; suppose that Lieut. Gedney was 
entitled to proceed against these persons 
as property, what court has jurisdiction of 
the matter ? Where did he find them ? 
He found them in the Southern District of 
New- York, part of them on shore, and part 
on board a vessel at anchor. Had he a 
right to choose his court ? Even if he was 
authorized to libel these persons as proper- 
ty, when the whole service was rendered 
in the District of New-York, and no part 
either on the high seas, or after he left 
New- York, — for the whole merit of his 
claim is, in restoring these persons to a 
state of captivity, — if he was authorized 
to libel them before a Court of Admiralty, 
where must it be done ? Was he at liberty 
to take them to Louisiana, where individ- 
uals are liable to be sold, under the laws 
of the state, on the presumption that they 
are slaves ? Can he transport them from 
one place to another ? or is he bound to 
prosecute his claim in the District where 
the service was rendered ? 

In the 1st of Paine's Reports, p. 40, the 
question of the jurisdiction of the Court of 
Admiralt3 r came before Judge Livingston, 
in the case of the seizure of the brig Little 
Ann, for the violation of the embargo laws ; 
the spirit of which applies entirely to the 
case now pending before the District Court. 
The whole service claimed to be rendered 
by Lieut. Gedney, was rendered within the 
jurisdiction of New-York, so far as there 
was any jurisdiction in the case. If a par- 
ty can, for the mere purpose of changing 
the jurisdiction, go to another state, he is 
equally at liberty to go where he thinks it 
may be most for his interest to have his 
libel tried. 

Again, admitting that the District Court 
of the District of Connecticut had jurisdic- 
tion in the case ; and that Lieut. Gedney 
had the right to bring the property, so far 
as it was property, into the State of Con- 
necticut, is the officer of the Court at liber- 
ty to treat these individuals as property, 
under a general writ from the Court, till 
they are judicially found as such? Lieut. 
Gedney says the schooner was manned by 
upwards of forty negroes, and two Spanish 
gentlemen, who claimed these negroes as 
their slaves, etc. Then he claims that 
these slaves, worth $25,000, were saved. 
The Spanish gentlemen, he says, begged 
for and claimed protection ; and the vessel 
was recaptured from the said negroes, 



Then he says, because he took her with so 
much difficulty, and but for the surprise 
upon said blacks, part of whom were on 
shore, she would have been lost ; now, in- 
asmuch as he had saved said cargo and 
said slaves, who would, in all probability, 
have been lost to their owners, he prays 
process against the vessel, and the mandate 
is, to all persons to show cause why a rea- 
sonable salvage shall not be allowed him. 
• What was the warrant under which these 
persons were committed ? Lieut. Gedney 
prayed process against the vessel, cargo, 
and slaves ; but did the Court recognise 
these persons as property ? Did the Court 
take for granted that they did form a part 
of the cargo, when they commanded the 
Marshal to take the schooner and the arti. 
cles of property on board of her ? Is 
there any warrant against these three in- 
dividuals? Is it enough, when an individ- 
ual apparently free, comes before the Court, 
and asks to be discharged from custody, 
that the Marshal shows a warrant to take 
a schooner and the articles of property on 
board ? No ; before the District Judge 
could issue his warrant to take these indi- 
viduals as a part of the cargo of the Amis- 
tad, it was incumbent on him to find judi- 
cially that they were in the condition of 
property. Every presumption is, that all 
beings, who have the form of our nature, 
are free. No judge would issue a war- 
rant, authorizing them to be seized as pro- 
perty, till he has instituted an inquiry into 
the facts. What an anomaly ! A gene- 
ral warrant issues against the personal 
property on board a certain vessel ; and 
the Marshal, by a most liberal construction, 
indeed, of the warrant, takes into custody 
these human beings ; not by any process 
against them, but on process issued in a case 
between other parties. Now, we ask this 
Court to liberate them, — to say that there 
is at present no ground for treating them 
as property ; and it is incumbent on those 
who would justify these proceedings, to 
show to this Court that these persons were 
in the condition of property. What is 
the presumption of the law, in the absence 
of proof? How were these persons, when 
they were found by Lieut. Gedney ? Were 
they held in the possession of any body ? 
or were they apparently free, and them- 
selves in the command and possession of 
property ? Undoubtedly the latter ; for 
Lieut. Gedney says he found these negroes 



Case of the Africans* 



13 



in the possession of the vessel. Then, 
when they were found, the presumption 
was that they were free ; for, the gentle- 
men will not find, in this state, the law of 
slavery, that every colored man is presum- 
ed to be a slave, until the contrary is 
shown. Here, thank God, the law pre- 
sumes that every man is free. 

Then, this Court finds upon this return, 
these persons, who, when first known to 
the individual who brings them before the 
District Court, were in a state of freedom 
— persons, who, by the law of nature are 
free — who, by the law of our land, could 
not be legally enslaved. It is incumbent 
on those who would sustain the jurisdic- 
tion of the District Court, in this case, first 
to prove that these persons were in the 
condition of property. Until that question 
is decided, by proof of the fact, the District 
Court has no jurisdiction of their persons. 
If they are human beings, and not proper- 
ty, then the District Court is ousted of its 
jurisdiction. It is certainly competent for 
this court, when called on by persons held 
in custody, to make all necessary inqui- 
ries to ascertain why they are so held. 
It won't compel the party so held to wait 
till the parties litigating bring to issue the 
question of property. But the parties so 
held — they who are not parties to the ori- 
ginal process, are interested in bringing 
the question as speedily as possible to 
issue. 

We say, then, in the first place, Lieu- 
tenant Gedney has not stated a case which 
would bring these persons within the ju- 
risdiction of the District Court. We have, 
by facts, established and shown that no 
such case could exist. But, if we have 
failed to establish any thing except that 
they are human beings, the burden of 
proof is on the part of those who claim 
the right to hold them in custody. 

But what color of claim to salvage had 
Lieutenant Gedney, upon these children 
— for the Court has a right to inquire : — 
What color of claim has an officer of the 
United States Navy, for reducing to the 
condition of slavery men and children, 
whom he found free in fact ? Is this a 
duty imposed by law on our Naval offi- 
cers? Are they to come into our Courts, 
and claim a reward for restoring to the 
condition of slavery, persons who have 
been reduced to that condition by foreign, 
ers, and escaped from it to a state of free- 



dom 1 And yet, this is what Lieutenant 
Gedney asks of this Court — to say that he 
has performed a " meritorious service," 
not in saving the lives of these persons, 
but in saving these slaves to these " Span- 
ish gentlemen." I say it is a claim that 
our Courts cannot regard. It would be a 
violation of good faith to our treaty with 
Great Britain, by which we have obligat- 
ed ourselves to use our best endeavors to 
suppress the African slave trade. (Gor- 
don's Appendix, p. 748, Treaty of Ghent, 
art. X.) That is the obligation imposed 
by that treaty upon this Government ; and 
is it so, that our Courts are called upon to 
consider it a meritorious service to aid 
foreign slave dealers in reducing again to 
slavery those whom they have kidnapped, 
but who escaped from their hands ? I 
think it is asking rather too much of a 
Court in a free Slate, for Lieutenant Ged- 
ney to ask them to declare such an act to 
be a meritorious service. What had 
these persons done ? They had done 
what every one of us would have done, if 
placed in similar circumstances. When 
in the hands of these men, the spirit with- 
in them aspired after liberty ; and they 
sought measures to obtain it. They came 
into a free country, where slavery is not 
tolerated; and where they had a right to 
an asylum. What then? An officer of 
the United States Navy seizes them, and 
reduces them again to slavery, and trans- 
ports them out of the State of New York, 
where they were when he found them, 
and brings them into the State of Connec- 
ticut, where it is impossible for slaves to 
be held by law ; and now claims a reward 
for having restored these kidnapped Afri = 
cans to these Spanish slave dealers, whom 
he chooses to denominate gentlemen ! A 
claim which is not to be tolerated — which 
should be scouted from a free country. 
If these Spaniards had got them into the 
Island of Cuba, we claim not to interfere ; 
but, if they have escaped to this free coun- 
try, I say there is no power en earth that 
has a right again to reduce them to sla- 
very. 

What has the Court of Admiralty in this 
State to do with these men ? Carry out 
the principle. Here is the cargo of a ves- 
sel in the hands of thirty or forty negroes, 
claiming to be free; They are brought 
into the State of Connecticut and libelled as 
property. What is the Judge to do ? Is 



14 



Case of the Africans. 



he to issue his warrant, directing the Mar- 
shal to sell those persons as property ? 
Let us carry out the warrant, and 1 think 
it will appear that the District Judge had 
no idea of including the persons as part of 
the cargo. He directed the schooner 
Amistad and her property to be taken. 
Suppose an application had been made for 
an order to sell the property as perishable 
— for some of these poor unfortunate Af- 
ricans have died, since they were taken. 
Suppose these Spanish gentlemen had 
thought proper to claim that, like other 
property, the persons should be sold — or 
suppose the libellant himself had applied 
to have the property sold — has the Judge 
of Admiralty any power to sell slaves in 
this State ? How is he to award salvage 
on property which cannot be divided nor 
sold ? It shows that the Judge of Admir- 
alty can do nothing in the case. His hon- 
or Judge Judson decided yesterday this 
very question, of his own motion, after he 
saw the return of the Marshal. He called 
upon the counsel of the libellant to be 
heard, if he wished to maintain that these 
individuals are to be sold as property. 
Judge Judson very properly remarked that 
there was no power in the District Court 
to sell men, women, and children. If they 
are property, and the District Court has 
jurisdiction, it may be followed out by all 
the incidents of property. 

Judge Thompson. — If that be so, they 
are not taken nor held at all under the 
process of that Court, for salvage ; and it is 
unnecessary to argue that question. 

Judge Judson. — Yesterday, the Court 
had very little time ; but I meant to inti- 
mate distinctly that the District Court had 
no power to sell these persons. 

Judge Thompson. — The simple ques- 
tion before this Court is, whether there are 
any legal questions pending, to justify the 
Court in holding them. It is a mere ques- 
tion as to the liberties of these persons. 

Judge Judson. — Perhaps I should say, 
that was the annunciation of my opinion 
— all the process in the District Court is 
the libel of the United States Government, 
claiming to hold them on the claim of the 
Spanish Minister, and of the United States 
law ; and the libel of Don Pedro Montez, 
claiming the restoration of these persons 
as his slaves. 

Mr. Baldwin. — Now, I claim that, by 
none of the acts that have taken place 



since the habeas corpus was issued, can 
these persons be held in custody under the 
process of the District Court. Where 
were these persons when arrested ? The 
first question is out of the way. They 
were within the limits of the State of Con- 
necticut, a free State, which accords to them 
the liberty of all other persons. They 
were bound over to the Circuit Court as 
witnesses; but that is not a process in 
which they are subject to further proceed- 
ings in the District Court. 

Then Don Pedro Montez comes in and 
files a libel in the Court of Admiralty, 
claiming that these persons vere made his 
slaves in the Island of Cuba ; and calling 
on the Court of Admiralty to take them 
from this District, where they are free, and 
reduce them" to the condition of slavery, 
from which they have escaped. I ask, 
has the Admiralty Court any such power ? 
Has it power to arrest human beings 
as property, within the limits of the State 
of Connecticut, and take upon itself the 
decision of this great question of property? 
I deny it. Its jurisdiction is confined to 
cases on the seas ; and when en the land, 
they are out of the reach of any process by 
the Court of Admiralty. But, suppose no 
such objection existed — I ask on what pre- 
tence this Don Pedro Montez can come 
into this court, and asks us to reduce these 
persons to slavery ? Where did he get pos- 
session of them ? Who brought them to 
him ? He don't inform this honorable 
Court that the foul traffic in human beings 
is sanctioned in Cuba. But these persons 
were brought from Africa. They have 
not been domiciled in Cuba. But if they 
had been brought there al any time since 
1817, they could not have been reduced to 
slavery. They must have been brought 
there, in violation of the laws of Spain and 
the laws of nature, by an act, which, by 
the laws of this country, is considered as 
piracy. And yet this Don Pedro Montez 
has the hardihood to come into this Court — 
a man who has been confederating with 
pirates ; for he must at least have pur- 
chased these persons of the pirates who 
kidnapped them. He knew they did not 
speak the Spanish language — he knew, 
from their tender age, that they must have 
been brought to the Island of Cuba in vio- 
lation of the laws of Spain. He knew all 
this, and yet he has the hardihood to say 
he had legally purchased them ? But of 



Case of the Africans. 



15 



whom did he purchase them ? Of the 
pirate — the man who, if he were to receive 
the punishment he deserves, according to 
the laws of Spain, would be banished to 
Mozambique ; and there, if he had his de- 
serts, be made a slave of himself. This 
is the title on which Don Pedro Mon- 
tez is asking this Court — and he is asking 
it in pursuance of the treaty with Spain, 
to deliver up these unfortunate children to 
be made slaves of for life ! What is there 
in our treaty with Spain on this subject ? 
It will be found in Gordon's Digest, p. 193, 
sec. 1211. By the eighth article of this 
treaty, each party become obligated to use 
all the means in their power to protect the 
vessels of each other, and to recover and 
restore to their rightful owners, the pro- 
perty of vessels taken by pirates, &c. 
That has been holden by the Supreme 
Court to apply to captures by nations with 
whom the United States are at war. In 
case the subjects of either party be forced, 
through stress of weather, or the pursuit of 
pirates or enemies in seeking shelter, to 
retrea*; into any of the rivers, habors, &c, 
of the other party, they shall be received 
and treated with all humanity, &c. ; and 
all their ships and merchandize, of what 
nature soever, rescued from pirates, which 
shall be brought into any District, to be 
restored to their rightful owners ; and 
when any vessel belonging to the subjects 
of either country, shall be wrecked on the 
coast of the other, shall receive the same 
assistance as if they were the inhabitants of 
the same country. 

What is there in these provisions requir- 
ing us to deliver up these persons ? They 
are such as we find in all our treaties. 
There is nothing peculiar in them. Another 
section gives them the same rights of access 
to the courts as are possessed by the inha- 
bitants of the same States. But does this 
sanction the claim which Don Pedro 
Montez is here making to these persons 
as his properly, to be enforced in our 
courts ? Can he ask one of our courts to 
take human beings into custodj' as property, 
and treat them as such? What is the 
meaning of the article in the treaty alluded 
to? Surely, that article must be understood 
in reference to what is considered and treat- 
ed as property by the two high contracting 
parties, Did they undertake to make a 
treaty after the slave trade was abolished 
by both the parties, which should recog- 



nise the lawfulness of the traffic in human 
beings ? Is it really to be presumed that it 
was the intention of that article, that pro- 
perty of that description should be given up 
to whomsoever claimed it to be their own, 
when we know that no valid title can be 
acquired to it, either by our own laws or 
those of Spain ? 

Apply the same principle to the treaty 
with Algiers, or any of the Barbary 
powers ; for these treaties contain similar 
regulations. Suppose that Don Pedro 
Montez, had been driven on to our coast 
in an Algerine Corsair, and the Algerine 
owner had libelled him as an article of 
property, and asked the Court to return 
him, because, by the laws of Algiers, 
Christian white men may be accounted 
and treated as property. Would any court 
in Christendom entertain such an applica- 
tion ? Are we to construe this treaty ac 
cording to our own laws; or are we bound 
to treat it according to the laws of Al- 
giers? (The Algerine, however, has bound 
himself to England to make no more white 
slaves.) No ; the claim would be scouted 
in our courts. It is only when men come 
here with a black skin, that we look upon 
them in a condition in which they may by 
any means be made slaves. But, when 
we find them here from the coast of Africa, 
the same rule must apply to the black as to 
the white man. 

Don Pedro Montez comes here himself 
as a man who is encouraging this foul traf- 
fic, by purchasing of the slaver. How 
much better is the man who purchases the 
stolen property than .ne man who steals it ? 
But here are stolen men, brought in by pi- 
rates, purchased by this man — how much 
better is he to be regarded in the Court, 
than if the original slaver had been thought 
here ? Would the Court allow the claim of 
the man who stole these human beings 
from Africa, if he should come here and ask 
the Court to restore these persons to him 
as his property ? I say this man has not 
more right of property in these men, than 
the original slaver. His claim is founded 
on gross injustice ; and he himself does not 
deny that he has abetted the enterprise by 
purchasing the property. 1 say then, in 
regard to his claim, from the place where 
they were when his libel was filed, and from 
the very character of his claim, it is utterly 
impossible it should be allowed in the Dis- 
trict Court of this State. 



16 



Case of the Africans, 



But the Attorney of the United States 
has thought proper to libel them ; and in 
what character has he done this ? He al- 
leges that a demand has been made upon 
the proper department, by the Spanish min- 
ister, claiming these persons as the slaves 
of certain persons resident in the Island of 
Cuba ; and the Attorney of the United 
States asks the Court to issue a process 
for the detention of these persons, that the 
Court, in conformity with the treaty be- 
tween the United States and Spain, may 
make such order as may best enable the 
United States to comply with their treaty 
stipulations. But, if it should be made to 
appear that these persons are natives of 
Africa, the Attorney claims that this hon- 
orable Court will make such further order, 
as will enable the President of the United 
States to send them to the coast of Africa. 

I ask, What right has the District Attor- 
ney of the United States to file a libel in 
the District Court of the State of Connec- 
ticut, and cause to be apprehended as 
slaves, or to be held subject to further pro- 
ceedings, these persons, simply because 
the Spanish minister has thought proper 
to make the demand for their restoration? 
Does that treaty impose an obligation on 
our Government, to be slave catchers for 
her majesty's subjects? These persons 
were not under any process prior to the 
filing of this libel. Who has imposed it 
upon our officers and courts to assume 
this office ? What law has imposed upon 
the executive of the United States the ob- 
ligation to hunt up the runaway slaves of 
Spanish subjects, and restore them ? If 
Spanish subjects have slaves escape into 
this country — and on the supposition that 
the treaty imposes the same obligation 
upon the Courts, and gives the same rights 
as our compact gives to the slave-holder 
of the Southern States, — is it thereby made 
the duty of the Governors of our free 
States, upon the demand of the minister of 
Spain, to issue a warrant and arrest the 
fugitive slave, and deliver him up ? I be- 
lieve this is a duty never deemed to be im- 
posed by our compact. If these Spaniards 
have rights in the case, they have a right 
to prosecute in the Courts having jurisdic- 
tion over these persons. Here is Don Pe- 
dro Montez, prosecuting his claim, and he 
shows what his title is ; and I believe we 
have shown that it is no title at all. And 
what right has our District Attorney, upon 



the mere suggestion of the Spanish minis- 
ter, to come to his aid? What right has 
he to require that our tribunals of justice 
should bear a part in enslaving these free 
persons? The obligation of the treaty 
requires no such thing. If one of the ves- 
sels of the United States should capture 
one of the vessels of Spain, having on 
board persons held as slaves according to 
the laws of Spain, and bring it into the 
United States, then process might be insti- 
tuted in the District Court, and it would 
become the duty of the Court, either by 
claim filed by counsel, or the Court them- 
selves, to institute inquiry. But, if a 
Spanish slave has escaped from his mas- 
ter — if he has come voluntarily — if he has 
come as a fugitive — is it the duty of any 
officer of the United States to pursue him ? 
Has the President of the United States 
come to this, that, whenever a slave comes 
from the Island of Cuba, he must forth- 
with set himself and the officers of the 
United States to pursue him? No ; it is 
only in cases of capture, that the Courts of 
the United States are ever called upon to 
inquire into the validity of claims to pro- 
perty of this description. Look at the 
case of the Antelope, in the 10th of Whea- 
ton. During the civil war between Spain 
and South America a vessel was fitted 
out at Baltimore, as a privateer, in the ser- 
vice of Colombia, for the purpose of cruis- 
ing against the Spanish Government. She 
went out in violation of our neutrality ; 
proceeded to the coast of Africa, and there 
captured an American slaver, under Por- 
tuguese colors. The Antelope was found, 
and brought in by an officer of the United 
States Navy, and libelled. The United 
States filed a claim, not in behalf of the 
Spanish slaver, but as guardian of the ne- 
groes. The Spanish and Portuguese con- 
suls filed their claims. The owner of the 
privateer filed his claim. That claim was 
dismissed, and the claim of the United 
States was dismissed, and the slaves order- 
ed to he delivered to the consuls. The 
United States prosecuted an appeal, which 
came up to the Supreme Court at Wash- 
ington. At the time of that capture, nei- 
ther Spain nor Portugal had prohibited the 
slave trade. It was, with these nations, a 
lawful trade, The question came up and 
was elaborately argued by Mr. Wirt, in 
behalf of the United States, and by Mr. 
Berrien, in behalf of the Spanish and Por- 



Case of the Africans, 



17 



tuguese consuls, whether it was the duty 
of the United States, having in view our 
treaty obligations, and the spirit of our own 
laws, and the decision made by most Eu- 
ropean nations as to the character of the 
trade, to give up these men as slaves. A 
question arose also, as to where the burden 
of proof lies, to show that the men are 
slaves, when so claimed. The Supreme 
Court of the United States were equally di- 
vided. The ground on which the claim 
to restore was argued, was that the slave 
trade, by the laws of Spain and Portugal, 
was then lawful — and that this vessel had 
been captured by a vessel wrongfully fitted 
out, and in violation of our neutrality. Up- 
on the strength of that, half the members of 
Court were of opinion that, upon proof of 
property, the slaves must be delivered up. 
The other half were of opinion that, the 
persons having come into the United 
States not in the actual condition of slaves, 
they ought not to be delivered up. But the 
Supreme Court being thus equally divid- 
ed, the decree of the Court below remain- 
ed in force and was carried into effect. 

There were two principal facts in that 
case, which can have no influence here — 
1. The property was wrongfully taken. 2. 
The trade was lawful by the laws of Spain 
and Portugal. At the time the capture 
was made, the negroes were in the actual 
condition of slaves. The decree of the 
Court restored them to just the condition 
in which they were taken. But how is 
the case here? The laws of Spain forbid 
the traffic — the laws of Portugal forbid it 
— the laws of the United States declare it 
piracy. What, then, is the pretence for 
the interference of the Spanish Govern- 
ment 1 Have they any right — can the 
queen of Spain, consistently with the or- 
dinance read, ask the Courts of the United 
States to deliver up these persons as slaves 
who would have been free, by the laws of 
Spain, if they had come to Havana? 
Again ; this vessel did not come here by 
any wrong which our Government is 
bound to repair? They sought an asy- 
lum — they came not as slaves, but free- 
men — as any citizens of that country from 
which they came would come. You are 
asked first to make slaves of them, and then 
to deliver them up. Suppose by the laws 
of Havana they might be made slaves of 
— is it by the laws of Havana that we are 
to judge? If anything is claimed to be 

3 



delivered up, it is as property ? How 
came these negroes to be slaves or pror 
perty ? Were they born owing allegi- 
ance to the Spanish Government ? Not 
at all. They are natives of Africa. How 
came they so far subject to the Spanish 
laws as to be judged by them ? How is 
it, when these persons come before our 
Courts, asserting their liberty, that they 
are to be judged by Spanish laws ? Have 
these children ever been domiciled in 
Spain ? They were torn from their pa- 
rents in Africa ; forcibly landed in the Isl- 
and of Cuba, late at night, and cruelly 
sold to these men. Are they to be judged 
by Spanish laws, or by our own laws, or 
the laws of nature 1 By this law, our 
own Supreme Court have decided that 
they are free. What compels your hon- 
or, because a Spanish minister has thought 
proper to introduce his claim, to issue a 
warrant and seize them in the State of 
Connecticut? The claim is absurd. This 
is a case that could never have been anti- 
cipated by that treaty ; for the slave trade 
was abolished before that treaty was made. 
It is preposterous for them to call upon us 
to aid in conferring property upon these 
men, who, if they were in Havana, would 
be subject to the penalty of transportation, 
and if they were citizens of the United 
States, to the penalty of death. They de- 
serve the penalty of death for piracy, which 
would be awarded to any citizen of the 
United States, who should be found en- 
gaged in the same manner. 

There is not the slightest pretence for this 
claim. I do not understand the Spanish 
minister to claim that any department of 
our government is bound to deliver them 
up as fugitives from justice. That has 
been decided, and no power exists in the 
President to deliver up a fugitive from 
justice, except by an express provision of 
treaty. They are not then to be delivered 
up either as property or as fugitives. 

But the District Attorney has filed 
another claim, that he wants this Court of 
Admiralty to hold them, till the Court can 
ascertain that they are entitled to freedom, 
and then deliver them to the President of 
the United States, to be transported to 
Africa. This is a strange process — im- 
prison them, in order to ascertain that they 
are free ! But what power has the Presi- 
dent of the United States over those per- 
sons ? There is a provision in the law of 



Case of the Africans. 



the United States that, when any persons 
shall he brought into the United States in 
an American vessel, as slaves, the Presi- 
dent of the United States shall be at liberty 
to send them to Africa. There is also 
another law, which says, the President 
shall be authorised to make such regula- 
tions and arrangements for the safe keep, 
ing and removal of all such persons as may 
be so taken, and appoint such agent as 
may be necessary, on the coast of Africa, 
to receive them. But these powers are 
confined to those cases where the slaves 
are brought in in American vessels ; but 
that is entirely inappropriate to this case. 

There is another law, which declares 
that, if any slaves are brought into the 
United States, neither the importer or any 
other person shall hold any title to them ; 
but the same shall be subject to any regula- 
tions which any of the states or territories 
may make for the disposing of them. 

There is another provision, directing 
that they may be delivered to the over- 
seers of the poor of any port or place 
where the vessel may be ; and that in- 
formation shall be immediately transmitted 
to the governor, &c. 

If these persons were really brought into 
the United States with the intent on the 
part of anybody to hold them as slaves, 
then they came in in violation oPthis Act, 
and they would have to be delivered to the 
overseers of the poor, and the persons 
who brought them in would be liable to be 
punished. 

There is then, no cause whatever for 
the interference of the District Attorney. 
Even if they were slaves, there is no law 
authorizing the District Court to issue a 
warrant for their seizure. They cannot 
be held as property, for they are not slaves ; 
and for the United States to interfere, and 
reduce them to the condition of property, 
would be a violation of good faith with 
Great Britain ; with whom we have enter- 
ed into treaty stipulations to use our en- 
deavors for the suppression of the slave 
trade. Our government know very well 
that Great Britain paid to Spain two mil- 
lions of dollars, to induce them to give up 
this traffic ; and the United States have 
agreed to co-operate with Great Britain in 
putting an end to it ; and yet we are called 
upon by an officer of the United States to 
become auxiliary to persons engaged in 
this foul traffic I say Great Britain 
would have good ground to complain of us 



as violating our treaty obligations. Our 
treaty with Great Britain was in existence 
when the Spanish treaty was made ; the 
latter, therefore, must have been made 
with reference to the former. And noth- 
ing can be deduced from the language of 
any one of these articles, by which officers 
of the United States are to become actors 
in any process for reducing men to slavery. 

They cannot be held here under a 
criminal process, for what took place on 
board the Amistad ; for a robbery or 
murder committed on board a Spanish ves- 
sel cannot be held as within the jurisdiction 
of the Courts of the United States. 

I think, then, upon every principle, these 
persons must be declared free — to be en- 
titled to their liberty ; and that they can- 
not send us back to the District Court, 
because they are no party there, and that 
Court has no jurisdiction over them. 

R. I. Ingersol, Esq. I had not anticipat- 
ed that, on this preliminary question, the 
gentleman would have gone into the merits 
of the question ; much less that he should 
have taken for granted facts of which there 
is no proof — that which we utterly deny — 
and much less, that the gentleman should 
have found it necessary again and again 
to have alluded to these foreigners in the 
manner he has, because they come from a 
country where slavery is tolerated. I 
know not why the gentleman should so 
often have treated these men as slave- 
dealers and pirates. Surely, he could 
not have supposed this would have any in- 
fluence upon grave judges, who are to de- 
cide on points of law. 

I did suggest to this honorable Court, 
whether they would go into the inquiry 
whether these persons are property, because 
I supposed this question belonged more 
properly to the Court where the process is 
pending. If there is any thing in the 
returns that is deficient, we are willing to 
go into the investigation. If there are 
defects in the process on which these per- 
sons are held, let them be set at liberty. I 
am not unwilling to meet it. But the 
question is whether they will go into these 
other topics. 

It has indeed been contended, that from the 
process issuing from the District Court, 
and from liability to be detained under the 
claim of Lieut. Gedney, these persons 
are discharged, and therefore no subse- 
quent proceedings could effect them. I did 
not so understand his honor, the District 



Case of the Africans. 



19 



Judge. He intimated that they could not be 
sold ; but does that show they are dis- 
charged ? He has not finally disposed 
of the question. How was it in this very 
case of the Antelope, to which allusion has 
been made ? They there decided that the 
Spanish slaves should be restored, not, as 
the gentleman says, but because they were 
property : but as to the others, the Portu- 
guese part of them, they were to be de- 
livered up to the President of the United 
States, because there was no evidence that 
they were property. 

Suppose, under this libel, which Lt. Ged- 
ney has filed, the District Judge has decided 
that these persons cannot be sold — would 
not the attachment hold as it did in the 
case of the Antelope, that they should be 
delivered up to the United States ? These 
persons having been libelled as property, if 
his honor is of opinion that they are not 
property to be sold, it is his duty to make 
an order that they should be disposed of 
according to the laws of Congress. They 
were in custody of the Court — the attach- 
ment was not destroyed — they were still in 
custody of the Court ; and it was the right 
of any other persons who had claims to file 
their libel. They were then lawfully in 
custody of the District Court. 

Again, we have been told that these 
persons cannot be considered as property, 
because this is a free country. We are 
before a Court acting for a peculiar kind of 
government. In a part of these States, 
slaves are recognized as property. It is 
idle for the gentleman to stand here and 
say they are persons and therefore not 
property. The very case cited, shows that 
there may be slave property belonging to 
foreigners as well as citizens of the slave 
states. 

The treaty provides that all ships and 
merchandize whatsoever that shall be ta- 
ken by pirates shall be restored. Now, I 
ask, when the Spanish government negoti- 
ated that treaty ? The gentleman has 
pressed an argument from the fact that in 
1819, the slave trade was not recognized as 
lawful, by the government of Spain. The 
gentleman ought to have told that the 
treaty was negotiated in 1795, under 
President Washington, who himself, recog- 
nised property of this description, and re- 
newed in 1819, in precisely the same lan- 
guage. Thist reaty was made when most 
of the States in this Union recognized this 



species of property, and the United States 
government up to this day, recognise it; 
and when vessels have been wrecked in 
Cuba, with slave property on board, they 
have claimed their restoration ; and even 
when one of our ships gets into possession 
of the British authorities with slaves on 
board, our government claims their restora- 
tion. We know further, that, after the late 
peace with Great Britain, there was a com- 
mission for the valuation of slaves carried 
off during the war. And are we now to 
hear an argument that there can be no 
such thing as property. 

But there is another article in the treaty 
with Spain, the sixth article, which pro- 
vides that each party shall endeavor, by 
all means in their power, to protect and de- 
fend all vessels and other effects of the ci- 
tizens of each, and to restore the same, 
&c. There is, then, an obligation resting 
on the Government of the United States, 
whenever the property of Spanish subjects 
comes within its jurisdiction, to restore the 
same. The ninth article has a peculiar 
phraseology — the property is not to be 
placed in the custody of judicial officers ; 
but it shall be delivered to the officers of 
the port : and it is made the duty of such 
officers to see it restored. Was" it not, 
then, the duty of the District Attorney to 
ask the Court to inquire into this matter ? 

But, says the gentleman, that means no 
more than that you may come into our 
Courts, on the same footing as our own cit- 
izens. Did we not mean more than if one 
of our vessels was taken by pirates, and 
recaptured and taken into Court by a 
Spanish vessel, we should have an oppor- 
tunity of going to Madrid, and waiting the 
slow process of a Spanish court, for the 
restoration of the property on board ? The 
twentieth article guarantees that each party 
may resort to the courts of the other. 
Why, then, did they allude to the subject in 
the ninth article, unless something more 
was intended ? 

Another idea advanced by the gentle- 
man was, that these Spanish subjects could 
not file their libel intheDistrict of Connec- 
ticut. Where then ? Was not the property 
brought here ? Could they get process in 
the District Court of New York, to operate 
upon property in the District of Connecti- 
cut ? So, as to the libel filed by the Dis- 
trict Attorney — the doctrine advanced by 
the gentleman would go so far as if the 



20 



Case of the Africans. 



capture is made in the waters of New 
York, and subsequently brought here, no 
process could be issued that would hold it. 
In the case of the Antelope, it was decided, 
that, when a foreign vessel engaged in the 
slave trade is captured, it must be restored : 
yet the gentleman says the moment they 
touch the United States, they become free. 
In the fourth volume of Wheaton's Re. 
ports, p. 6S0, these points are brought to- 
gether. The African slave trade, which has 
been authorized by all civilized nations, can- 
not be repugnant to the law of nations, except 
with those nations which have renounced 
it. A foreign vessel, captured in time of 
peace, engaged in the slave trade, will be 
restored, even if the nation to which the 
vessel belonged, had prohibited it. 

I think in this stage of the case I have 
cited enough from decisions of courts of 
the United States, to meet all that has been 
said. If this is a case appropriately within 
the jurisdiction of the District Court of 
Connecticut, then I suggest whether that is 
not the appropriate place to have it decided, 
and not upon the habeas corpus; and that, 
in hearing this case we conform ourselves 
to the process. 

These persons were libelled by the cap- 
turing officer — they were in the custody of 
the Court — two persons come into Court 
and file a libel that these persons are their 
property. The gentleman says these per- 
sons have been brought from Africa. 
There is no evidence of that. By the laws 
of Spain, whatever ordinances may have 
been issued against the slave trade, these 
persons are property in the Island of Cuba. 
The claim on this libel is, that they are pro- 
perty by the laws of Spain. That is the 
question to be determined by the District 
Court. There it may be necessary to send 
to Cuba to ascertain what the Spanish 
laws are. The gentleman says, " you 
shall not have time to show that they are 
property. We will bring you up on the 
habeas corpus, and on the principle that 
persons must be free, they are to be set at 
liberty." I ask, then, whether we shall go 
into this question of property, on this sum- 
mary process 1 

The suggestion that these claimants were 
ever engaged in the African slave trade, or 
that they knew any persons that are so en- 
gaged, or that they knew these persons to 
have been brought from Africa, is utterly 
unfounded and entirely gratuitous. They 



stand precisely as the inhabitants of nine 
of these States now stand. All they ask 
is, an opportunity to prove it. If there is 
any thing wrong, on this process, we are 
able to meet it. But on the other questions 
we wish to have the opportunity of going into 
the other court, and having time to authen- 
ticate our claims. But to undertake these 
questions on the writ of habeas corpus, the 
greatest injustice may be done. The At- 
torney of the United States has, with great 
propriety, filed his libel, that, if under the 
treaty with Spain, we are bound to restore, 
the public faith should be unimpaired; but 
if not, such an order should be made under 
the laws of the United States, as will en- 
able them to return to Africa. We think 
this Court will not, in this summary manner, 
take the case out of the District Court. 

S. P. Staples, Esq. I do not know pre- 
cisely what the gentleman intends by the pre- 
liminary question ; but, whatever may have 
been his intention, I shall proceed to argue 
the whole case. We are placed before this 
honorable Court in this singular position. 
Here are certain parties concerned in vin- 
dicating the right of property in third per- 
sons; and they wish to take these persons 
and confine them till this litigation is 
closed. Here are the claims of the Span- 
ish owners ; of others claiming liens on 
their property ; and others equally unfound- 
ed. And under all these cases the rights 
of these persons are left entirely out of 
the question, and they are left to be incar- 
cerated in prison, till these litigants settle 
their rights. In this situation, these child- 
ren come and ask the interference of this 
Court, so far as their personal rights are 
concerned. And they ask this on the appro- 
priate process — the process which renders 
all our guaranties of civil liberty available 
— the great palladium of civil liberty. This 
writ is not conversant with the lower and 
more vulgar objects of property. The aim 
is much higher. It reaches the higher ele- 
ments of society — the life, liberty, and 
safety of the citizen. No third persons 
can come in, and, under the plea of pro- 
perty, obstruct the progress of this great 
conservative writ. 

How are we situated here ? Certain 
persons belonging to the African Con- 
tinent — to a foreign government — citizens 
and subjects of exceedingly tender age, are, 
by means that I will not now name, brought 
before a Court of the United States, by 



Case of the Africans. 



21 



persons litigating the question whether they 
are property — whether they have any hu- 
man soul, or whether they are to be re- 
garded and treated as cattle, boxes, bales, 
merchandize. This is the question these 
persons choose to litigate. When a 
man introduces a bill of sale of a horse, 
the simple question is, as to his possessing 
the property. But, when a bill of sale is 
offered, of a human being, soul and body, 
very different questions arise. They may 
traffic as much as they please, they cannot 
affect the rights of persons originally free ; 
and these Spaniards, who say they bought 
these persons in the Island of Cuba, do not 
thereby set up a right to these persons. 
There may be certain indications, which 
might be recognized as evidence of persons 
being in the condition of property in the Is- 
land of Cuba; but I know that our laws 
look at this matter in another light. Yet, 
we are here called upon to divert our atten- 
tion from the main object of this writ — to 
turn our eye from this real transaction, and 
shift it off as a matter which concerns goods 
and chattels, because here are questions 
pending about property. Gentlemen, go on 
with your litigation, as to the Amistad and 
hercargo, to your hearts' content ; but take 
not these children and deprive them of the 
habeas corpus, under pretext of a question 
whether they are brutes or human beings. 
That won't do — that's assuming a doctrine 
we dont assent to. It is, therefore, impos- 
sible to look at the habeas corpus, in con- 
nection with such considerations — it spurns 
all the interests of property. We are en- 
tirely upon personal rights. If there is any 
thing in the District Court relating to pro- 
perty, we have no concern with it. 

It is said these persons are bound over as 
witnesses. If it were necessary and proper, 
after the disposition which has been made of 
this part of the case, I think it could be 
made to appear, not only from the tender 
age of these children, that they could not 
be held as witnesses ; but also, that the 
supposed crime, concerning which they are 
held to testify, and all the orders concerning 
it, are without the jurisdiction of the Unit- 
ed States. I take it the slave trade is not 
yet positively decided to be against the law 
of nations. So far as our courts have had 
it under consideration, they have not been 
disposed to recognize it as against the law 
of nations. They may be expected to 
walk slowly towards this point ; so long as 



so many of our States are so connected with 
this subject as they are at present, they 
must go on with great caution. Therefore, 
now, the slave trade is not considered as 
against the law of nations. If it was, the 
United States might have jurisdiction in 
this case. But the United States do not so 
consider it. They consider their jurisdic- 
tion in this matter, as extending no further 
than their own vessels, or their own citi- 
zens on the high seas. 

AFTERNOON. 

Judge Thompson, to the Grand Jury. — 
I do not deem it necessary, for the purpose 
of discharging the duty devolved on the 
Court, in consequence of the question pre- 
sented by the Grand Jury, to enter into any 
formal charge ; but simply to answer the 
inquiry, whether, under the circumstances 
stated, this Court has jurisdiction in the 
case. 

The general rule of the law is, that the 
Courts of the United Slates have jurisdic- 
tion only of offences against the laws of the 
United States. These laws grow out of 
the statutes of the United States. In addi- 
tion to this, there may be offences commit- 
ted against the law of nations, of which 
the courts of all nations have jurisdiction. 

The question arises, under our statutes, 
in two distinct branches ; because, under 
the laws of the United States, the jurisdic- 
tion of the Courts of the United States, is 
held and confirmed to certain districts. 

The first question is, whether the offence 
charged, according to these facts present- 
ed, is, whether this is the proper district in 
which this case is to be tried, if triable at 
all, before our courts. The law is, that all 
offences committed on the high seas, shall 
be tried in the District where they are ap- 
prehended, or, where first brought in. A 
question might arise as to the term appre- 
hended. If that means judicial process, 
then theje had none been issued. But my 
apprehension is, that the term has reference 
to any constraint in taking, for the purpose 
of having them brought to trial. In that 
sense, if that is the true meaning, there 
may be two cases, the one where appre- 
hended, and the other where brought in. If 
the party escapes into one of our States, and 
lands, there is no authority to take him to 
another district. The word apprehended 
means any lawful authority exercised in the 
taking of an offender. Under this view. 



22 



Case of the Africans. 



these persons were apprehended within the 
District of New York ; and, therefore, un- 
der no circumstances, even if the Courts of 
the United States have jurisdiction, could 
these persons be tried in the District of 
Connecticut. But I do not think it neces- 
sary to put it at all upon that question ; and 
these views are thrown out, rather to serve 
as a guide in future proceedings of this 
kind, than as being necessary in the de- 
cision of the present case. 

I lay that out of the question, because, 
according to my judgment upon the mer- 
its of the case, the Courts of the United 
States have no jurisdiction in the case. 
Admitting that this offence — if it was an 
offence — and on that question, I express no 
opinion — that offence was committed on 
board a Spanish vessel, bearing a national 
character, as a Spanish vessel, with a 
Spanish crew and commander, and Span- 
ish papers, as a mere coasting vessel, on 
the Island of Cuba. The question arises, 
whether this Court has jurisdiction of an 
offence committed on board a Spanish ves- 
sel of that character. It must be either an 
offence against the laws of the United 
States or the law of nations. The statute 
of the United States is broad. If any per- 
son commits an offence on board an Amer- 
ican vessel, our Courts take cognizance of 
it. This is not a new question. The Su- 
preme Court have decided the broad ques- 
tion, that this act does not apply to any of- 
fence committed on board a foreign vessel. 
The Courts of the United States have not 
jurisdiction of any offence whatever in 
these circumstances. This is founded up- 
on the most sound and solid principles of 
justice; because the courts of one country 
have nothing to do with the criminal laws 
of another. The vessel sailing under the 
colors of any country, is considered as a 
part of that country. This is just as if the 
offence was committed on land — on the 
Island of Cuba ; and our Courts have no 
more jurisdiction in the one case than the 
other. If we have not the right to try an 
offence committed on land, in a foreign 
country, we have not the right, when com- 
mitted on board a national vessel, or any 
vessel, under the papers of a foreign coun- 
try. 

The Court, however, in the case of the 
United States vs. Palmer, intimate, and it 
is not denied by this Court, that the courts 
of the United States have jurisdiction of of- 



fences committed against the law of na ■ 
tions. But, in reference to that, though 
there is nothing stated in the facts, even 
admitting that this vessel was a slaver, the 
Courts of the United States have decided 
over and over again, that the slave trade is 
not a trade against the law of nations. 
They have endeavored to get it so arrang- 
ed as to consider it piracy to be concerned 
in this trade ; but this has not become so 
universal as to be yet considered as the law 
of nations. Even, therefore, if this should 
turn out to be an importation from Africa, 
it could not follow that it would bring the 
case under the jurisdiction of the courts of 
the United States. I forbear to go further. 
I have no hesitation in telling you, that, un- 
der the state of facts presented, this court 
have no jurisdiction ; and that there is not 
enough by which you could found an in- 
dictment. 

Mr. Staples. — When the Court ad- 
journed ; I had made all the observations I 
had proposed to make showing the nature 
of the habeas corpus ; showing that it did 
not at all interfere or intermeddle in mere 
matters of property. And I was going on 
to speak of the order which held them to 
appear as witnesses ; but that question is 
now disposed of. 

Another ground on which they were 
held, has been disposed of by the decision 
of the District Judge, in the case of Ged 
ney's libel for salvage. 

The third ground of detention is founded 
upon the libel of Don Pedro Montez, claim- 
ing for himself that he is a Spanish subject, 
domiciled in Havana, in the Island of Cv 
ba, and the owner of these slaves, anu 
the right to them as his property — the right 
to come before the Admiralty Court of the 
United States, and demand the return of 
these Africans as his slaves. This is a 
novel proposition. I know, that, by the con- 
stitution and laws of the United States there 
is a provision growing out of our compact, 
when a person held to serve in one State 
escapes to another, he is to be delivered 
up. This is the whole extent of the pow- 
er that any holderof any person as a slave, 
can claim to be exercised in the United 
States. It is a power growing out of the 
Constitution of the United States, and is 
strictly conventional — it was what the 
convention agreed to — what every citizen, 
however painful, is bound barely to exe- 
cute ; but not an iota further. No good 



- 



Case, of the Africans. 



23 



man, who is not bound by the Constitution 
and laws to interfere, will interfere. The 
magistrate is bound to interfere, when call- 
ed upon by the owner of the slave. But, 
if the slave escapes from a foreign country 
to the United States, would this Court inter- 
fere to deliver up that slave ? Would they 
execute this law, insisted in, as a law of 
the United States 1 We find it decided 
that the Courts may interfere if a slave es- 
capes from one State to another; but if the 
master brings him, he is free. This has 
been decided in Pennsylvania, and in Lou- 
isiana. In Louisiana, it has been held 
that, if a person goes with a slave into a 
country, where slavery is not lawful, the 
the slave becomes free, and will be so held in 
Louisiana. I read this out of a number of 
cases, from a pamphlet containing the de- 
cision of the Supreme Court of the United 
States in 1796. Every state in the Union 
has decided the same thing ; and they hold 
the parties strictly to the proof, 1. That 
the person has escaped ; and, 2. That he 
is his slave. But there is no instance in 
which the laws have interfered to aid the 
foreigner in reducing his slave. The rea- 
son is this : all the laws of one country are 
not to be enforced in the tribunals of ano- 
ther. If a man in Turkey should marry 
two wives, and came with them to Connec- 
ticut, could he plead the Turkish law in jus- 
tification of his conduct? A great variety 
of cases are mentioned by Lord Mansfield, 
which show the law on this subject. The 
rule is, that the lex loci are to determine 
what part of the contract is to be enforced 
— if there is anything objectionable in the 
contract, anything that cannot be carried 
out without interfering with the laws of the 
country where it is attempted to be enforc- 
ed, the Courts will carry out the laws of 
the country where the contract was execut- 
ed, than is consistent with the statute where 
it is attempted to be enforced. And, is 
there any law more abhorrent to the feel- 
ings of a good man, than that one man 
may suject another to his arbitrary will for 
life? What! in a Christian country, that one 
man may subject another, in the like- 
ness of his Creator, sent here to prepare 
for a better state of existence, so as to de- 
prive him of his free agency, as an intelli- 
gent being ? This is no place to discuss 
the odious nature of slavery; but I ask, is 
the law of Cuba to be enforced here ? 
Are the Courts of the United States to be 



required to prefer this law to their own, for 
the purpose of reducing these children to 
slavery, for the gratification of the lusts of 
this man who claims them as his proper- 
ty ? When this Court finds itself in such 
a position, they will, in the language of 
Blackstone, either resign their seats, or de- 
clare there is no such law. What is re- 
quired here ? Here is a man — and it 
shows how far, by the course of things in 
society, a man's feelings may be blunted — 
how far the slaveholder may be brutalized 
— that this man has the matchless impu- 
dence to come into court here, and ask the 
aid of our laws, to enable him to secure for 
life, these children, who, at their tender age, 
have been torn from the arms of their pa- 
rents ! 

But further, as has been said, the king 
of Spain, after he had been made to drink 
the cup of bitterness in exile — after he got 
back to his throne, seems to have got 
some just glimpse of human liberty, and he 
joined with the other European powers, in 
an agreement for the suppression of the 
African slave trade. The gentleman has 
attempted, very faintly indeed, to make it 
appear that there is no such law in Cuba. 
We present him with the law of Spain, 
enacted in 1817, which has been copied 
and put into our reports. We have it here 
decreed by the king of Spain, that all 
Spanish subjects concerned in this trade, 
are to be considered as felons, and banish- 
ed. This shows, also, that, by the laws 
of Spain, no man can claim property ac- 
quired by felony. The same decree de- 
clares that every African, as soon as he 
arrives in the territory of Spain, is free, to 
all intents and purposes. I know very 
well that slavery is so awfully corrupting, 
that, in the Islands of Cuba, for a stipulat- 
ed price per head, slaves are permitted to be 
landed ; and the same person who brought 
them from Africa gets a permit to send 
them, perhaps in the same vessel in which 
they were brought, to another part. I know 
also that this practice tends to do away 
the law of the King of Spain, and to hard- 
en the breasts of his subjects ; but it does 
not show that the slave trade is legalized 
in the Island of Cuba. 

But the question here is, who are these 
children? Whence came they? On 
this subject, we have an African, a color- 
ed man, an interpreter, who has been with 
these children and examined them ; and 



24 



Case of the Africans. 



he says they are native Africans. He 
gives their ages ; and the reason for be- 
lieving them to be native Africans is, their 
whole language is a dialect of Mandingo. 
They have no knowledge of the Spanish 
language. This, at their tender age, is 
decisive — it is the best evidence we could 
have. 

Well, if these children were born in Af- 
rica, they are not old enough to have been 
brought into the Island of Cuba before the 
law abolishing the slave trade. If the 
African question is settled, they must have 
been brought to Cuba since the treaty of 
1827. There is also the testimony of 
another African interpreter. He gives 
the same facts. He says they are of the 
African race — they speak a language spo- 
ken no where else but in Mandingo. 
Their own story is also put on record, but 
it would be mockery to attempt to intro- 
duce it here. We have the highest possi- 
ble evidence, not direct, that these chil- 
dren were born and bred in Africa, where, 
and where only, they could have learned 
the dialect they now speak ; and that they 
were brought to Cuba after the treaty al- 
luded to ; so that, immediately after they 
reached the Island of Cuba, they were 
free; and no subsequent purchase could 
make them slaves. 

But what are the presumptions? That 
every person who is not proved to be a 
slave is free — every where, except in cer- 
tain quarters, where they find it convenient 
to presume that every man of a certain 
color is a slave. But that has never been 
resorted to by any judge out of that terri- 
tory. The presumption is entire and per- 
fect in favor of the liberty of the subject, 
till the contrary is proved. One of the 
very papers they take, to legalize the 
transaction, declares them not to be indi- 
genous — not natives of the Island of Cuba. 
If they are admitted not to be natives, the 
testimony is still more strong that they are 
free. 

But it is suggested, and I should judge 
from the form and manner of the claim 
put in, that these Spanish claimants have 
an idea that, if they purchase of another, 
that sale and purchase makes the person 
purchased a slave. The law on this sub- 
ject is perhaps better collected in Wood- 
son's Lectures, than any where else — 2 
Vol. p. 428, and on. It is also found in 1 
Kent's Com. p. 184, 2d edition. "No 



change of property is worked by captures 
by privateers, pirates, or thieves." It is 
also found in 4th Robinson's Admiralty, 
p. 3 ; and there are some very striking 
cases in the old books, Marsh, 110 ; Gob- 
alt, 193; Coke Elizabeth, 6S5; 2d Azooni, 
362. All agree in this, that no change in 
the possession of property, or the ele- 
ments of property, taken by pirates or 
thieves, can ever vest property in others. 
Nothing is better settled than that he who 
receives property taken feloniously, gains 
nothing, and is as guilty as the person who 
takes it. So any person who purchases a 
slave, taken in contravention of the laws, 
cannot hold him, nor can the purchaser 
under him. For this purpose, if we look 
at the laws of Spain, they are just as fatal 
to the claim here set up. The Spanish 
law forbids his having this kind of pro- 
perty, and makes him guilty of felony. 
And this rule is just as applicable to a ma. 
lum per se as malum in se ; for the law 
makes no difference. But this is against 
both, and the law is highly penal. But, 
if it is said that these Spanish subjects 
bought this property openly in market, 
without knowing it to have been feloni- 
ously acquired, there are two answers : 1 — 
He who purchases wares, verily believing 
them to belong to the person selling, if it 
turns out that they were stolen, gets no 
title. But, 2d, Don Pedro Montez has not 
even that excuse. He must have seen 
them children. He must have known 
that they were not rightfully in Havana. 
He was bound to know; for, if not, he had 
no right to purchase. Their language — 
their tender age — show this. I do not 
know that it is denied that he was an ac- 
tor in bringing them from Africa. But 
that makes no difference ; because, to take 
them from the slaver is a crime of equal 
magnitude. We then have a claimant who 
purchased these three children under such 
circumstances. I ask, then, what founda- 
tion this claimant has to these persons as 
his slaves ? What foundation to come into 
the Court of Admiralty and claim their 
restoration 1 Are the Courts of Admiral- 
ty in this country to do the duty for foreign- 
ers, imposed by our compact upon the judge 
or justice, in the case of the slaveholder 
from another State 1 How would this look 
upon the records of the Court of Admiral- 
ty 1 And what would be the judgment 
entered ? If I understand the nature of 



Case of the Africans. 



2o 



the proceedings there, there must be some 
note of judgment, but not of this kind ; 
the property is taken into the Admiralty 
for the purpose of being condemned and 
sold ; but who ever heard of a case in a 
Court of Admiralty to determine the right 
of a slaveholder to the possession of a 
person whom he claims as his property ; 
and that, sitting in a free country, and 
where slavery is forbidden by the common 
law, and abhorred by the people ? Because 
in Connecticut and the other free states, 
slavery is as much spurned as in Great 
Britain, or any where else. And where 
are those people who set up the claim that 
the people of the North have nothing to 
do with this matter 1 They are mistaken. 
It is a subject they will presume to think 
and talk about. It borrows no aid from 
the fact that it is practised in many of our 
states ; we are not in those states — we are 
in a free state, and the law and the atmos- 
phere is as free here as any where. And 
will our Courts of Admiralty consent to 
set up as slave catchers for foreigners ? 

There is no other thing — nothing else 
to be done with these persons. His honor 
the Judge of the District Court has thrown 
out that he can give no order for the sale 
of these persons. Why not, if he can treat 
them as property at all ? Is that any less 
odious than taking jurisdiction of this pro- 
perty, and delivering it over to these Span- 
ish claimants ? It seems to me there is an 
end to all inquiries of this sort the moment 
it is admitted that the property cannot be 
sold. Suppose the whole property had 
consisted of slaves, and Lieut. Gedney 
were claiming salvage for saving the lives 
of these slaves — suppose the forty-two 
slaves were the only property brought in 
— then the question would arise, whethei 
these slaves are subject to salvage at all. 
If the Court enter upon it, they must go 
through. Suppose the Court decide that 
the salvor is entitled to fifty per cent., and 
the owner is unwilling or unable to pay it. 
What will the District Judge do then? 
The slaveholder folds his arms and looks 
at the Court with perfect contempt, know- 
ing that they have determined that his pro- 
perty cannot be sold to pay salvage. Will 
the Court enter upon proceedings that will 
terminate thus ? The claimant would come 
into the Admiralty and claim his whole 
property. I put this case to show that 
4 



every step of this proceeding is fraugh t 
with absurdity, unless the decision be, that 
they cannot be treated as property at all. 

It seems, therefore, that this Pedro Mon- 
tez has no claim before the Court of Admi- 
ralty. If they were cast in here, it may 
be the fortune of Pedro Montez ; but it is 
the good fortune of these Africans. 

I know it may be said they come to the 
result in some sideway manner ; but that 
is not the way the Court proceeds. 

In the remarks which have been made 
respecting the seizure being made on land, 
I fully concur. 

Now, as to the claim of the District At- 
torney : — 

1. He acts here in some manner in aid 
of the movements of the minister of 
Spain. How, we know not. 

2. He acts for the Executive of the U. 
S., on the supposition that these Africans 
may, in some respects, fall into his hands. 
On that subject, the law is perfectly clear. 
If these slaves were not brought in here 
by American citizens, or in American ves- 
sels, the President of the United States has 
nothing to do with them. These laws all 
refer to the vessels of the United States, 
bringing in slaves in violation of the laws 
of the U. S. Then, under certain circum- 
stances, the President may make provision 
for returning them to Africa. But all 
these provisions are entirely aside from 
this case. These Africans were not 
brought here in an American vessel, nor 
in violation of our laws against the slave 
trade. It would not be fair to charge these 
Spaniards with introducing these slaves 
against the laws of the United States. If 
so, they would have business enough of 
another description to attend to. The 
Court will find these laws apply only to the 
cases specified. This is the case of a 
Spanish vessel, forced in by necessity. If 
they voluntarily come in, they violate our 
laws. 

The next inquiry is, has the Spanish 
minister any thing to do in the case ? I 
apprehend not. When the owner is pre- 
sent making his claim, no consul or minis- 
ter can interfere. The consul interferes 
and claims property, when he understands 
it belongs to subjects of his nation. He 
claims it for the nation to which he belongs. 
Precisely such is the claim of the Spanish 
minister. But who ever heard that the 



26 



Case of the Africans. 



consul puts in a claim, when the subject is 
present / This disposes of the claim of 
the consul and minister. 

But. it has been supposed, that the Pre- 
sident has something to do with these per- 
sons, in consequence of articles of treaty. 
So far from this, it is decidedly the other 
way. The negotiator, Mr. Pinckney, so 
far from wishing to incorporate this prin- 
ciple in in jaty, insisted on directly the 
contrary. The sixth article of the treaty 
provides for the mutual protection of each 
other's vessels, in each other's jurisdiction. 
Now, in what method is this to be done ? 
Through the courts of justice. They are 
to do this, certainly, in this country, where 
all judicial power is vested in them. If 
property comes in here* belonging to Span- 
ish subjects, and it is brought in by a nation 
at war with her, we are to see it restored. 
How restored ? By calling on the Execu- 
tive ? That might be, under certain cir- 
cumstances, where there were no claim- 
ants ; but where the claimants are present 
the President has nothing to do with it. 

The seventh article shows clearly what 
they mean. The subjects or citizens of 
each, are not to be made liable to any em- 
bargo or detention ; and in cases of seizure, 
within the jurisdiction of each other, the 
same shall be made and prosecuted accord- 
ing to regular process of law only ; and 
the citizens of both parties shall be allowed 
to employ such agents, counsellors, solici- 
tors, &c., as they may deem proper and 
necessary. Here is direct reference to 
the Courts of justice. It shows that, when 
any process is instituted, it is not to be 
disposed of by an order from Washington 
or Madrid. 

The eighth article relates to vessels 
forced in by stress of weather. 

I ask if there is any thing here that 
goes to show that any difficulties are to be 
removed by executive interference ? If 
any question arises, as to vessels forced 
in, I ask, where are they to be decided ? 
Suppose a vessel so situated is claimed for 
debt ; — suppose a citizen of this country 
has a claim against the owner of the ves- 
sel — may he not attach it ? Must the Ex- 
ecutive take it out of his hands ? They 
are to be permitted to repair their ships, to 
victual, &c. Suppose they fail to pay their 
bills, could not they be libelled ? Every 
question must be settled by the tribunals 
of the country where they arise. 



The ninth' article directs that any arti- 
cles rescued out of the hands of any pirates 
or robbers on the high seas, shall be deli- 
vered to the custody of the officer of the 
port, to be delivered .up to the owner, as 
soon as due proof shall be made. Some 
contend in relation to the term officer of 
the port, as if this property was to be de- 
livered to the master or naval officer of the 
port. I do not admit this construction at 
all. This is an expression used to denote 
the proper officer to which such business 
belongs, in the port where the property is 
brought in. To whom is this property to 
be delivered up ? Is it to those who come 
in and say they are the owners 1 The pro- 
perty is to be restored to the true proprie- 
tors. Suppose this vessel was claimed by 
one who says it was taken by his captain 
and run away with — could he not prove it? 
If so, who is to be the judge ? Is the Ex- 
ecutive ? Is the minister of Spain to make 
application at Washington ? If so, to what 
department shall he apply ? Shall he apply 
to the Patent Office, to get this property 
without suffering a Court of justice to ad- 
judicate the matter? It is to be delivered 
to the officer of the port, to be delivered 
to the true proprietor. Suppose another 
Spaniard claims it, could he not file his 
claim before the same court — could he not 
make application to prove that he was the 
real owner ? But where shall' he apply ? 
Certainly, not at Washington. 

And, if this article is to receive the con- 
struction attempted to be put upon it, then 
the property is to be restored entire, free 
from all salvage and all claim. But, the 
true meaning is, that the property is to be 
held, subject to the rights of all the parties 
concerned ; and the property to be deli- 
vered up, when proof of ownership is 
made. But the Executive has nothing to 
do with it ; he cannot have proof; he will 
make no inquiry. 

There was the case of Jona. Robbins, 
delivered up for having committed murder ; 
but, in this case, the Executive acted in 
conformity with an article in the treaty, 
making express provision for the delivery 
of fugitives from justice. The hearing 
was before Judge B., and it was referred 
to him to decide whether any murder had 
been committed. This was in the time of 
the elder Adams. After this was done, 
Edward Livingston moved a resolution in 
Congress, censuring Mr. Adams for deli- 



Case of the Africans. 



27 



vering up this man. The discussion was 
carried on by Livingston, Gallatin, and 
Marshall ; and it will be seen in Wheaton's 
Reports, that, afterwards, every principle 
here maintained by Marshall, is carried out 
by him afterwards as Judge. 

[Here Mr. Baldwin read a letter from 
Mr. Madison, in 3d Hall's Law Journal, 
showing that no such prerogative is vested 
in the Executive ; and that the claim for 
the delivery of fugitives can only result 
from special provisions of treaty.] 

Mr. Staples. — This argument of Mar- 
shall's is beautiful. He had keen, saga- 
cious enemies. Gallatin led the van. 
After yielding the point first set up, they 
settled down upon the censure of Mr. 
Adams, that he had interfered with the ju- 
dicial authority, and ordered Judge B. to 
deliver up. All agree that it would have 
been wrong for the President to interfere, 
except on the express provision of the 
treaty ; then, he contended it was very pro- 
per for him to assign the Judge to hear all 
the evidence. Mr. Gallatin, who then led 
the corps of opposition to the administra- 
tion, put this case : — suppose this man to 
be an American citizen, impressed into the 
British service, and that he had killed one 
of the press-gang, or one of the crew, in 
making his escape. Gallatin asked where 
that man should be tried. Marshall an- 
swered, just where the facts indicated — if 
the facts were as stated, he should be tried 
here, and not delivered up. 

[Here the affidavit of one of the prison- 
ers was introduced] 

AFFIDAVIT OF BAHOO. 

I, Bahoo, of Bandaboo, in Africa, being 
duly cautioned, depose and say, that 1 
knew Marngroo and Kenyee, two little 
girls, now in prison at Hartford ; they 
were born at Bandaboo, in Mandingo, and 
came over in the same vessel that I did to 
Havana, as did Penna and the little boy 
Carre ; that they were about two moons in 
coming from Africa to Havana, where 
they staid less than one moon. Good 
many in the vessel, and many died — were 
tight together, two and two chained to- 
gether by hands and feet, night and day, 
until near Havana, when the chains were 
taken off — were landed on the coast at a 
little place, near sun set — stayed until 
night, and walked into the city, put them 
in an old building, and fastened them in 
— after some time the people now in jail 



were put on board the same vessel they 
came here in, in the night, and s*uled 
away about the time the gun fired. J 
know that these children are the same that 
came over from Africa, and that Marngroo 
and Kenyee were born in the same place 
I was, which was Bandaboo, and further 
saith not. Bahoo, his -)- mark. 

State of Connecticut, Hartford, Septem- 
ber the 20th, 1839. 

Mr. Staples. — This is a very able dis- 
cussion, showing what are offences against 
the law of nations, and against any parti- 
cular sovereignty. None, however, pre- 
tended that the Executive had any right to 
deliver up, except by the 27th article of 
the treaty with Great Britain. 

Judge Thompson. — Has it never been 
.held to be in the discretion of the Court to 
deliver up ? 

Mr. Staples. — Never. Chancellor Kent 
decided that, by comity of nations, he could 
deliver up ; but Justice Tilghman decided 
the other way. Fie says those that have 
contended for the right, have maintained 
that, for political offences, they should be 
delivered up. This, he says, is the very 
case where they ought not to be given up. 
And, if they would refuse it in a political 
case, I presume they would where the in- 
tention is to enslave them. Suppose an 
armed force should land here and seize 
these persons and carry them off, would it 
be any offence against the United States ? 
No. It would be for the Executive of the 
State of Connecticut to move, and if he 
did not, the people would move him. In the 
case of the Bambers, who were taken up, 
and about to be carried out of the country, 
nobody thought of applying to the Presi- 
dent of the United States. It was a matter 
entirely between the Executive of the state 
and the parties. If a claim is made for 
delivering up these persons, it must be 
upon the Executive of the State of Con- 
necticut ; and I presume the present Ex- 
ecutive of the United States, with his cha- 
racteristic caution, will not move in this 
matter. I should like to see that author- 
ity, on which the District Attorney has filed 
his libel. 

District Attorney. — It came from the 
Department of State. 

Mr. Staples. — I should like to have it 
on record. 

Judge Thompson. — The libel of the 
District Attorney is presented under a, 
two -fold character, — 1. The application to 



25 



Case of the Africans. 



deliver up : 2. Under the laws of the United 
States. These laws certainly do authorize 
Vne President to issue orders for apprehend, 
ing all vessels illegally engaged in the slave 
trade. Then the law puts those recap- 
tured from slavers, into the hands of the 
President, for the purpose of sending them 
back to Africa. If there is an act of 
Congress that brings these persons within 
the spirit of it, it may be a question whether 
the Court is not bound to retain them for 
that purpose. The difficulty was, if these 
slaves were put into the power of the Ex- 
ecutive of the States, the state of things in 
some of the states might lead to their being 
sold into slavery ; and it was for the very 
purpose of guarding against this, that they 
were put under the authority of the Exec- 
utive of the United States, with the injunc- 
tion of sending them back to Africa. 

Mr. Staples. — So we understand it. 
And, if this were a case where these Span- 
iards had come in voluntarily, in violation 
of the laws of the United States, it would 
bring them under this act. 

Judge Thompson. — The great difficulty 
is, laying out of view all these questions of 
libels, they are now in the custody of the 
law, and what is to be done with them 1 I 
should be glad to have some answer to this 
question. 

Mr. Staples. — I suppose, if they have 
committed no offence against the laws of 
the United States, nothing can be done 
with them. These laws have no claim 
upon them. I consider that they did not 
come in at all in violation of the law. If 
they did, the President would have a right 
to interfere. But they have been brought 
into Court as property. 

Judge Thompson. — My object is really 
to get information. If they are dismissed 
what provision will be made for them ? 
They stand here without any criminal pro- 
cess against them. According to the laws 
of the State of Connecticut, is there any 
authorized provision for their support ? 

Mr. Staples. — They would be provided 
for as foreign paupers. The citizens of 
Connecticut would be very cautious about 
delivering them up to any pretended 
friends, who might possibly stop short of 
Africa. But the State of Connecticut is 
bound to take care of them. But, they 
are not to be holden by the laws, under 
these circumstances. 

[Here the affidavit of John Perry was 
introduced, to authenticate that of Bahoo, 



in the taking of which, Perry acted as 
interpreter. Mr. Ingersoll wished to ex- 
amine Perry ; which was acceededto. On 
this examination, Perry said it was about 
seventeen years since he left Africa — his 
age at that time was guessed to be 1 1 or 
12 — supposed himself to be about 30 now 
— was not a native of Gallina — staid there 
a good while — should think better than 
a year — learned the language during that 
time — came from Gallina to the West In- 
dies — had an opportunity of speaking the 
Gallinas language once or twice a-week, 
when he could get a chance of visit- 
ing a plantation, where there were natives 
Gallinas. Understood Bahoo to say he 
understood what he said — is sure he under- 
stood him well. Bahoo is Mandingo, but 
speaks Gallinas. — Explained to him the 
questions — told him what the justice told 
him to say — inquired whether he under- 
stood about God — made him understand 
he was sworn to tell the whole truth — told 
him he would be punished if he did not — 
he appeared to understand and believe it. 
Saw these persons in New Haven — had 
no difficulty in conversing with Bahoo, and 
he could converse with others. The Cap- 
tain of the vessel which brought him (Perry) 
from Africa, was a native of Baltimore — 
took him from Surinam — came to St. 
Thomas — staid there some time — went 
round with him — afterwards went to La- 
guyra — master bound him for five years. 
The law of General Bolivar freed him. 
Came to this country in 1830 — was in Bal- 
timore 18 months — went back to Laguyra, 
and afterwards came to New York, where 
he has remained ever since. Has kept up 
his knowledge of the Gallinas language, by 
opportunities of talking with persons who 
have come from Africa. When he first 
saw these men, and spoke to them, they 
manifested much joy.] 

Mr. Hungerford. I had supposed, 
when Mr. Ingersoll, made the preliminary 
objection, the court would not suffer the 
merits of the case to be gone into, till that 
preliminary question was decided. 

Judge Thompson. I cannot see how 
there can be any preliminary question, 
because, when a parly is brought up on 
the habeas corpus, we must go into these 
inquiries, in order to ascertain the true state 
of the case. If they are in the custody 
of any court, it is necessary to inquire into 
the process which holds them. 

District Attorney. In explanation 



Case of the Africans. 



29 



of the course taken in behalf of the gov- 
ernment, it may not be improper to say a 
few words. The claim put in, in behalf of 
the government, is two-fold. With refer- 
ence to the first, I will say nothing, but to 
correct an error that some have fallen into, 
in regard to the treaty with Spain. The 
only treaty with Spain, is that of '95. There 
was a convention in 1819 ; but in that con- 
vention the treaty of '95 was not spoken 
of. The only object of this convention 
was for erecting a tribunal to adjust certain 
claims. As to the second branch of the 
claim of the United States in the District 
Court, I believe it is properly filed, and 
will ultimately be maintained. That pro- 
ceeds upon the ground that there has been 
a violation of the laws of the United States, 
prohibiting the importation of slaves. How 
does this matter present itself? Here is a 
vessel freighted with Africans. They, at 
the time they were discovered, had control 
of the vessel. As to the national character 
of that vessel, I contend nothing is yet 
known. Nothing is more common than 
for a slave vessel to sail under false colors. 
We can, in the District Court, go into this 
question. For aught this tribunal knows, 
this will prove to be an American vessel. 
Then I say that this inquiry as to the true 
character of this vessel is the proper pro- 
vince of the District Court. I believe that, 
on examination of the libel, it will be found 
to bring the case within the province of that 
law, if the fact appear that the vessel is 
owned by American citizens. — (Here he 
read from the libel.) 

It has been suggested that they came 
not upon this coast in a manner indicating 
a violation of that law. This, I have to 
say, is not ascertained. These persons are 
African negroes — free persons — they are 
now within the jurisdiction of this court, in 
the custody of the Marshal of this District. 
Such was the case of the Antelope. These 
blacks were in the custody of the Marshal 
of the District at the time that decree was 
made. 

The affidavit of Perry is an additional 
reason why this matter should be investi- 
gated. This government knows not but 
these Spaniards were acting on board an 
American vessel. All these facts are pro- 
per to be investigated ; and I contend that, 
while the investigation is pending, these 
negroes should not be liberated. It has 
been suggested that the government acts 



somewhat in connection with the claimants 
of the property. I ought perhaps to repel 
this. The government acts only for the 
purpose of sustaining the law of 1819. 

Mr. Staples inquired if he claimed au- 
thority to imprison the slaves, under that 
law, without process against those who 
brought them in. 

District Attorney. That law, (Gor- 
don's Digest, p. 619, art. 3100,) pro- 
vides that, in the event Africans of this 
character are brought in, in violation of 
that law, it is the duty of the President to 
provide for them and to send them to the 
coast of Africa. 

[The counsel for the Spaniards, brought 
in Antonio, the slave of the Captain of the 
Amistad, to invalidate the affidavit of Ba- 
hoo. Antonio being able to speak only in 
Spanish, Lieutenant Meade, of the United 
States Navy, was introduced as interpre- 
ter. Lieut. Meade was first sworn ; after 
which he explained and interpreted the 
oath to Antonio ; and was then again sworn 
as interpreter. He was then directed what 
questions to ask, which he did, and inter- 
preted Antonio's answers. Antonio said 
he was the slave of Captain Ferrar, who 
was Captain of the Amistad. He was on 
board the Amistad when the three girls 
were brought on board. They came after 
the other negroes were on board. The 
first came about 8 o'clock in the evening. 
Could see clear. All the world could see 
them. They were not confined. The rest 
were not on board even a quarter of an 
hour before the girls came. They remain- 
ed in Havana one day. They walked 
about on deck, or went below, as they 
thought proper. They were never tied. 
Always treated them well — fed them well. 
There were ships of war in port — Spaniards 
and Yankees too. Great many English — 
Yankee men-of-war there — great many 
vessels, after sailors. Left port about four 
o'clock in the afternoon. Master, Captain 
Ferrar, has owned him since he was a 
very small boy. Always treated him well 
— not only his master, but mistress treated 
him well. Does not know Bahoo, the one 
that spoke to that man, (Perry.) Does not 
know him by that name. 

Cross-examined by Mr. Baldwin. Thinks 
these negroes remained about half a month 
in Havana. They came in a vessel from 
Africa, under the Portuguese flag. They 
could not speak Spanish. They remained 



30 



Case of the Africans. 



on board the Amistad one day — could not 
sail sooner because the Captain wanted 
papers. They lay off not a musket-shot 
from shore. Captain paid no attention to 
the British cruisers. An awning was 
spread on deck, to shield them from the 
sun. Don't know who was the Captain of 
the vessel who brought them in. The 
Amistad was never before employed in 
carrying slaves — always employed in car- 
rying sugar. 

By Mr. Ingersoll. Do you know that 
they came from Africa in any other way 
than that they told you so ? 

Antonio. — They told me so. 

The District Attorney resumed — 3d. 
Gordon's Digest, p. 460, sec. 1. says the 
President may, whenever he may deem it 
expedient, employ any armed vessel of the 
United States to cruize ; and when any 
vessel is found violating the provisions of 
this Act, the commander of said vessel 
shall safely keep and deliver into the hands 
of the Marshal of the District all persons 
on board, and shall transmit to the Presi- 
dent a list and description of the same, &c. 
And the President may make such arrange- 
ments for keeping and transmitting said 
negroes beyond the limits of the United 
States, as he may deem proper, and appoint 
such agent or agents as may be necessary 
for receiving them, on the coast of Africa. 
W. Hungerford, Esq. — I do not suppose 
it necessary to investigate the question 
whether, in point of morality, slavery is 
justifiable or not. There is very little 
doubt the more reflecting portion of society 
would like to see that system abolished. 
But it is quite too late to raise the question 
whether slavery is consistent with the laws 
of nations or not ; and if any nation 
thought proper to sanction the introduction 
of slaves, that nation had a right so to do ; 
and it is perfectly well understood that the 
trade has existed for a very long period of 
time ; and slavery has taken a very deep 
root here and in the West Indies. And if 
this be a case in which, either by principle, 
comity, or treaty, these Spanish citizens 
are entitled to hold these slaves, we are 
bound, in some way, to devise a mode by 
which they can obtain possession of them ; 
for, suppose a treaty binds to the surrender, 
and makes no provision for the manner the 
surrender is to be made, they are entitled to 
recover their property here, and this spe- 
cies of property comes within the meaning 
of the treaty. 



In this case, a variety of claims are set 
up as reasons why they should not be dis- 
charged. We see from the state of the 
facts, that there is pending before the Dis- 
trict Court, — (l)A libel for salvage, by 
the person concerned in seizing this vessel ; 
(2.) A libel in behalf of the individuals who 
claim these Africans as their property ; (3.) 
A libel filedin behalf of the general govern- 
ment, with a double aspect, claiming pos- 
session of this property, that it may be 
restored to its owners, if it should prove that 
these persons are slaves ; and if not, that 
they may be restored to their native land. 
Upon these libels, attachments have issued, 
and upon these, the property is attached. 
The question now is, whether these pro- 
cesses, or any of them, are sufficient to 
hold these persons in that court. 

It has been supposed that the first libel 
is disposed of by the decision of the District 
Judge. I do not understand that decision 
to go so far as that the slaves are to be 
dismissed ; but merely that they are not to 
be sold for salvage. Although this decides 
that they are not to be sold, it is altogether 
another question, whether they may or may 
not be holden for other purposes than being 
sold. This admits of very little doubt. 

On the part of the Spanish claimant, a 
libel has been filed, in the District Court, 
and process issued upon it. The gentle- 
men have thought proper to be very severe 
on the individual who comes forward and 
presents this claim. Now, I do not think 
remarks of this kind can aid their cause, 
nor that they are at all justifiable. Slavery, 
as a system, exists ; and I do not think it 
warrantable to apply every harsh epithet to 
those who, living where it exists, participate 
in it. It may be an evil ; but it is an evil 
introduced at first without their fault. What 
is the claim of this individual? That he 
has a property in these three persons ; and 
he alleges that he is an inhabitant of the 
Island of Cuba, where slavery is legalized — 
that he has become fairly their owner, by a 
legal purchase. The gentleman has been 
pleased to make the insinuation, without a 
shadow of proof, that these men were con- 
cerned in the importation of these men ; 
or that he had any reason to suppose that 
they intended to violate the law. 

Whether this man could or could not ac- 
quire property in these slaves, is the ques- 
tion. If slavery is allowed in Cuba, he 
could become the owner of them. Now, 
this is a question important for him to try 



Case of the Africans. 



31 



in a court where the whole subject may be 
brought before the court ; anywhere every 
person concerned may have their interests 
fairly adjusted, and a reasonable time given 
for procuring proof. But the gentleman 
tells us ihat here could be no property 
acquired in this case, because it is repug- 
nant to the laws of Spain, and therefore no 
such property could be acquired. We 
have not the statutary laws of Spain before 
us. I would submit whether the ordinance 
which has been read furnishes any evi- 
dence of the law of Spain ; or whether we 
can take cogtiizance of it. If it were a 
question of common law, he might bring 
forward evidence to show what the common 
law of Spain was. But here the gentleman 
is not relying on any branch of the common 
law, but on the written law of thai govern, 
ment. It is a matter of fact that slavery 
has existed there for two centuries ; and it 
has become a part of the common law that 
slavery should exist. Instead of that, he 
has introduced no evidence to show that the 
law of Spain prohibited the importation of 
slaves. Now, I apprehend, when it be- 
comes necessary to prove, the written law, 
it is necessary it should be authenticated in 
the highest manner. I say then, the 
gentlemen have introduced no evidence at 
all on this point. 

Now, if I am right, it seems to follow as 
a necessary consequence, that we stand on 
the common law of that country, which is, 
that slavery is recognized as legal and 
proper. There could be no difficulty, there- 
fore, in acquiring property in the persons 
of Africans brought into Cuba. With the 
treaty arrangements on the subject of the 
slave trade, we have nothing to do. Any 
one nation may carry on the slave trade ; 
and until that nation becomes a party to 
the general compact, it is at liberty to carry 
it on as it pleases. If there has been any 
arrangement made between the Spanish 
and British government, it is nothing to 
us. But the gentleman tells us there is a 
treaty between this government and Great 
Britain ; and by that, we are bound to use 
our best endeavors to put an end to the 
slave trade. What did that contract mean 
belween these two nations? — Not that We 
are to violate any treaty with other nations. 
If we are under obligation, by the treaty 
with Spain, to return these slaves to the 
Spanish claimants, that obligation must be 
discharged, and we cannot plead our treaty 
with Great Britain against it. 



But, in addition, we are told that these 
persons cannot come before this Court — 
that this Court has no jurisdiction, &c. 
Now, if I am capable of understanding the 
treaty between this government and Spain, 
it is obvious that we are bound to surrender 
all property to the Spanish claimant. This 
extends to every species of property that is 
or can be recognized as such. There 
never has, to my knowledge, been any 
question raised ; but if here two govern- 
ments recognize slavery as lawful, if a 
slave from one comes into the other, his 
owner claims him, we are bound to sur- 
render him ; and as slavery is recognized 
as lawful here, that party has a right here 
to pursue his slave. This is the rule es- 
tablished by Great Britain, and that on 
comity merely. But, where the right of 
slavery is not admitted, they have not 
held themselves bound to deliver up. So 
far as our own country is concerned, there 
is no question but it has recognized slavery 
to its full extent. If, therefore, the prin- 
ciples of comity merely, I submit whether 
it is not proper and right for this man to 
prosecute the title to his property here. 
But this is not very essential to establish 
before the Court, because it is a treaty 
duty to deliver it up. If we are bound by 
treaty duty, it is obvious we are bound in 
some measure to give over the possession 
of this property to the owner. 

But, says the gentleman, this is not the 
mode of pursuing his title. If the gentle- 
men admit that this is property, I would 
ask then what course they shall pursue to 
obtain possession of it, if not this 1 If this 
were a dead chattel, could it not be libelled 
here, by the subject of a foreign govern- 
ment ? and would it not be the bounden 
duty of the Court to recognize it? I am 
sure there is no question of this ; and if 
you recognize the right of property, I 
should be happy to know where is the dis- 
tinction. But we are not without author- 
ity. If recognized as property, I would 
thank the gentlemen to inform us how it is 
to be restored. Now, here is property ; 
and it is to be restored to its owner. How 
is it to be done 1 We are by no means 
without precedent. In the case of the 
Antelope, there was a libel filed for sal- 
vage ; there was, in addition, a libel filed 
in behalf of the United States ; also by the 
Spanish consul, and also by the Portuguese 
consul. What was done with it, in that 
situation ? It was said one portion of the 



32 



Case of the Africans. 



slaves was the property of Portuguese sub- 
jects, and the other, of Spanish subjects. 
A portion could not be identified. The 
claim of the Portuguese consul was dis- 
missed ; but that of the Spanish consul was 
sustained ; and the claim in favor of the 
United States was dismissed. The circum- 
stances were these : — That vessel was hov- 
ering about the coast of Florida, under 
suspicious circumstances. It was taken 
by a vessel of the United States and 
brought in ; and every individual having 
claims, put in their libels. The Spanish 
and Portuguese claimants stood precisely 
on the ground of those who now prosecute 
their claims. The power of the consuls 
went no further than that of the individuals, 
if they had been present. They filed 
their libel exactly like the libel here, except 
that they represented the interest of their 
government, and these are the individuals 
directly interested. If there is any mode 
of availing themselves of their property, 
this is the mode. 

But, says the gentleman, this does not 
come within the cognizance of the District 
Court ; because they were on shore. — They 
were on board the vessel. A few were 
on shore ; but they were not all detached 
from the vessel — they were passing back 
and forward. This was their situation. 
Now, I will suppose, instead of a cargo of 
slaves, it had been a cargo of other pro- 
perty ; and that, in an hour of distress, a 
small portion of the cargo had been landed, 
with the expectation of being retaken on 
board. If I am right, the Admiralty 
Courts would take jurisdiction, where they 
^et it, a portion on shore and a portion on 
board the vessel, if it had gone on shore 
with the expectation of being returned on 
board. Suppose a cargo of property taken 
on board and seized by pirates ; and a 
part was by them put on shore, and the 
rest retained on board.- — I ask whether the 
District Court would not have jurisdiction 
over the whole? There is a case in Dun- 
lap, p. 45, where it was decided that, in 
case of the seizure of a cargo, part landed 
and part on board, is to be tried by the 
Admiralty Court. 

But there is another point in this case. 
If we have any right to libel this property at 
all, what else could be done by the claim- 
ant ? It is very certain they cannot 
proceed against that property in the Dis- 
trict of New York, for the reason that it 



must be a proceeding against the property 
itself. The District Court of New York 
would have no right to issue process against 
this property. It is very obvious they 
would be acting without their jurisdiction. 
The claimants must come within the juris- 
diction where the property is. They must 
pursue the properly where it is. It has 
never been possible for them to prosecute 
it in any other Court. They have taken 
the only course they could have taken to 
recover their property. It seems to me 
this is a very satisfactory answer to the 
claims made by Mr. Baldwin. 

But, say the gentlemen, whenever these 
slaves come into this country, they imme- 
diately become free, and we have no power 
or control over them. I need spend no 
time on this point, for if there was property 
acquired in them, and it is within the pro- 
vince of our treaty, we are bound to deliver 
them up. Now, that they did not become 
free is very certain ; and then, they are to 
be restored. But, the gentlemen says 
that, according to the Spanish law, or 
rather, the provisions of the treaty, it could 
not have been contemplated that this should 
have been considered property. Why not ? 
If it was property by the provisions of the 
treaty, we are bound to use our best en- 
deavors to surrender it up. The treaty 
comprehends allproperty whatsoever. Then, 
if this is property, and recognized as such, 
we are no less bound to surrender this than 
any other property. But, the gentleman 
says, that is not the meaning of the treaty, 
because the treaty was made after a certain 
ordinance prohibiting the slave trade. 
Although that treaty may have been reviv- 
ed in 1819, yet it was the same treaty as 
that negotiated in 1795, continued in ex- 
actly the same phraseology. Now, in 
1795, how was that treaty understood? 
It remains confirmed, except Articles 2, 3, 
4, 2 1 , and the 2d. clause of 22. It is con- 
firmed by the 12th Article of the conven- 
tion of 1819. Now, if I am right, this 
treaty is to be construed in the same light 
as if this question had arisen in 1795 ; for 
it is impossible that exactly the same lan- 
guage should be used, and yet the construc- 
tion different. So far as the slaves are 
concerned, it was as necessary that Spain 
should have protection for her slaves as in 
1795, for slavery existed as much at the 
one time as the other, in the Spanish domin- 
ions. So that, neither the reason ceased. 






Case &f the Africans. 



3e> 



nor was the language changed. The con- 
sequence is, we are bound to deliver up the 
slaves. 

By the 6th Article of this treaty, we are 
bound to protest all vessels or other effects 
of the Spanish government or subjects, 
when, by stress of weather, or any other 
course, thrown within the jurisdiction of 
this government. 

The 8th Section provides that, in case 
of pirates, privateers, pursuit of enemies, 
stress of weather, or other cause, they are 
driven into each other's ports, they are to 
be received and treated with all humanity. 
Now, it seems, this makes provision for 
every case in which a vessel is driven into 
our jurisdiction ; and we are bound to 
restore it. 

The 9th Article provides that all ships 
or property rescued out of the hands of 
robbers or pirates, shall be delivered to the 
custody of the proper officers to be restor- 
ed to the true proprietors, as soon as proof 
is made. 

Art. 10 provides that vessels wrecked or 
foundered are to receive the same assist- 
ance as the inhabitants of the country. 

These provisions are all very broad — 
broad enough to cover even the claim we 
are making in this case ; and if we recog- 
nize this as property, we are bound to 
restore that property. 

But the gentleman says there is another 
defence : we are told that, as these slaves 
cannot be sold, no disposition whatever can 
be made of them as property — they must 
be set at liberty, and go where they please. 
The gentleman alluded to Judge Marshall's 
argument. But that argument was not 
intended to bear upon a case like the 
present. What were the facts ? Robbins 
was claimed by the British government as 
a criminal. But is there any such question 
arising here ? No ; they are not claimed 
on the grounds of crime. The opinion of 
the Court has already been given as to their 
conduct, that the Court has no jurisdiction. 
They are not holden here on that. The 
question is, whether they shall be sur- 
rendered to the claimants or not, on the 
ground of property. 

I think, the question has no bearing upon 
the case now before the Court. But this 
presents one of a totally different character. 

Then, is there no mode by which these 
persons can be restored to the Spanish 
claimants ? The gentlemen agrees, that, 

5 



under certain circumstances it would be the 
duty of this Court to hold them toberestor- 
ed. Now, I submit whether this does not 
come within those circumstances. Was it 
ever intended that slaves placed within 
the jurisdiction of this government should 
be thrown as a burden upon our popula- 
tion ? It was thought to be an act of hu- 
manity that they should be restored. Now, 
if this does not come within the letter of the 
Article of the treaty, it comes within its 
spirit. Yet, I trust they are not to be 
thrown as a burden upon us. But I sup- 
pose these claimants have a right to insist 
on the restoration of this property. If so, 
there must be some mode of doing it ; and 
I submit whether it is not competent for the 
executive to provide. But where is the 
difference ? If to be done by the Court, it 
must be by an order of Court. In either 
point of view, it is to be carried into effect 
by the President, or by an order of Court. 
I see no difference. 

In the great case in Great Britain, in the 
suit against Admiral Cockburne, the slaves 
escaped on board a British vessel. They 
were claimed by the owner in Florida. 
The British government held that they 
were not bound by the comity of nations to 
deliver them up ; but they were holden, 
that he should have them sent to Bermuda, 
in such manner that they should remain 
till the government should settle the matter. 

If they are to be restored to the claim- 
ants, it would seem proper that it should 
be by order from the executive department. 
But, if the Court decides that they are to 
be sent to Africa, still they must be held for 
an order from the general government. 

As to the facts — the gentlemen say they 
are very recently imported from Africa ; 
going on the ground that they have been 
introduced into Cuba in violation of the 
Spanish law. Now, I confess the evidence 
is exceedingly feeble. I must say it does 
not prove the fact that they have been 
recently imported. They have brought 
forward an affidavit that, in the opinion of 
a certain individual, they are not above a 
certain age. Another has been examined, 
who claims to be an African, and that 
individual has stated that, some time in 
April last, they were taken from the coast 
of Africa, and brought into Cuba. He 
goes on and makes a further statement, 
what course was pursued after he came to 
Cuba. They were put in a house, where 



Case of the Africans. 



they were kept some time, and then put on 
board the Amistad, in the dead of the 
night, and carried away. But we have the 
testimony of another black boy, who has 
given a very different account, one that 
conflicts very much with this — he states 
that these persons were brought on board 
at 8 o'clock in the evening. Now, at that 
time, this boy says it was light — that they 
were not confined to the hold, but entirely 
loose, free from chains. What then took 
place ? The affidavit represents them as 
having gone away that night — Antonio 
says they were brought on board at 8 
o'clock in the evening unconfined, and re- 
mained till four o'clock the next day, and 
sailed out amidst the British cruizers. The 
account of this black boy is entirely dif- 
ferent from the affidavit. Again, — that 
they were unable to speak the Spanish 
language, is not strange. They have a 
large number of slaves on a plantation — a 
small colony — they are put on a plantation 
and remain there for years, entirely igno- 
rant of all language except their own, 
which is continued by the mother to the 
children. This is the case with a great 
portion of the younger part of slaves in the 
Island of Cuba. Nor does it appear, from 
any evidence before the Court, that they 
were not imported from some other island. 

And the claimants themselves, under 
oath, state that they are the owners of this 
property. And, it is certainly a matter of 
very great personal interest to the one who 
appears here, because to a very great ex- 
tent his property is concerned in the issue. 
We are entitled, at least, to have them re- 
tained till government can make some dis- 
position of them. 

Mr. Staples. In what I have to say 
in reply, I shall be as brief as possible ; 
and endeavor not to repeat any thing that 
has been said. In the first place, I shall 
reply to the application and remarks of 
the District Attorney. He founds his ap- 
plication entirely upon the law he has read. 
A little attention to the provisions of that 
law, will show that it is inapplicable to this 
case. It provides that the President may, 
when he may deem it expedient, cause any 
armed vessel to cruize, where he may have 
cause to apprehend any attempt to carry on 
the slave trade, in contravention of the acts 
of Congress ; and to instruct and direct the 
commanders of all armed vessels of the 
United estates, to seize and take any of 



United States' vessels engaged in this trade. 
This law is not sufficient to authorize arm- 
ed vessels of the United States to cruize 
for slavers. They must be instructed, 
commissioned, authorized. Commodore 
Hull would be thought very much out of 
the way to be cruising for slavers, in the 
74 which he commands. There must 
be authority from the President ; and they 
have no right to touch one, unless so 
authorized. And there is no evidence 
that Lieutenant Gedney had any such 
authority. But the evidence is the other 
way. He was employed in surveying our 
coast. And, it now appears from the 
record of the Court they did not take it 
under this law ; but they took it as proper- 
ty in that situation, that they demand a 
reward for saving it from destruction. Can 
the District Attorney avail himself of their 
act, and say they took it under this law, 
when they say they did not ? He must 
show that this was an armed public vessel, 
commissioned to do this service. 

But let us examine some other sections 
of the law. The vessel is forfeited, and 
the authority of the President only can in- 
terfere, where vessels have violated the 
laws of the United States ; and this gives 
him authority. But, it is as far from the spirit 
as the letter of that law, to authorize any 
armed vessel of the United States, without 
the authority of the President, to interfere. 

But further — look at the requirements of 
that law — the commander of the vessel 
who takes a slaver is directed to deliver 
every person on board into the custody of 
the Marshal of the District. What has 
been done here ? The very foundation 
for interference fails. Lieutenant Gedney 
brought this vessel in, and prayed the libel. 
The Marshal takes possession of these 
negroes under the construction he gave to 
that warrant. This law requires him to 
place these in the hands of the Marshal, 
and to write a description of them, and 
forward to the President. Again, he is 
required to take all persons on board. 
Where's Pedro Monlez 1 Where's Ruiz ? 
If the District Attorney has the least reason 
to apprehend that this is an American ves- 
sel, he has something more to do in the 
matter. Have you done all this 1 Here 
you are, sleeping in the same city with 
Pedro Montez, and you suspect him of 
being guilty of piracy ; and yet, you suf- 
fer him to run at large. And this Lieuten- 



Case of the Africans. 



35 



ant Gedney, full of zeal for the suppres- 
sion of the slave trade, and not take Pedro 
Montez and Ruiz ! But he states that 
these persons claimed his protection, to 
save them from being drowned, that 
they might be hanged ! And yet it is 
brought forward by the District Attorney 
as a reason for detaining these persons in 
custody, that it may turn out that this is an 
American slaver ! 

What has come out here in evidence ? 
Why, that this is a Spanish vessel, with 
Spanish papers, employed in the Spanish 
coasting trade. Now, does the District 
Attorney really and seriously believe that 
it will some how or other turn out that 
this is an American vessel, engaged in 
importing slaves into the United States 
in violation of our laws againt the slave 
trade ? The idea is ridiculous. 

But further, this act provides that a 
bounty of twenty dollars a head shall be 
given for each negro so taken on board a 
slaver. Now, here is a much better boun- 
ty, if he is entitled to it, than he can get by 
libelling these negroes as property. But, 
Lieutenant Gedney would laugh at this. 

Now, to say that after all, these men 
are to be held here, because the District 
Attorney suspects this to be an American 
vessel, is supremely ridiculous. If men 
are to be deprived of liberty from such 
vague suspicions as these, then we have far 
less security than I had supposed. 

But the very draft of the libel shows 
that this was entirely an after thought, 
growing out of the exigency of the case : 
" But if it should appear that these persons 
have been brought here in violation of 
the laws of the United States," &c. 

But, it is said, " What is to become of 
these Africans ?" This Court is not the 
guardian of them. All this Court have to 
say is, " If you have any claims, we'll ad- 
just them." The Court need not be under 
any apprehension, on this point. The 
humanity and wisdom of this State has 
provided for them. The business of the 
Court is confined to much stricter duties 
than administering alms. 

With regard to the last testimony, as to 
the facts, I don't mean to repeat, what I 
have already said. We have introduced 
since that, a deposition, which the gentle- 
man have undertaken to controvert. What 
are the main facts ? That the children 
were born in Africa, and remained there, 



till a short time since, when they were 
seized and put on board a slaver and car- 
ried into Havana. Is that contradicted ? 
Does that boy contradict it ? No, Who 
is that boy ? A poor miserable slave that 
belonged to the master of the vessel which 
brought these persons here. Is that the 
source we are to look to for the truth ? If 
he is not to be regarded at all, that don't 
affect the matter ; but if he is to be regard- 
ed at all, he says they had just come from 
Africa — had been two or three weeks there. 
He says they knew no Spanish ; and he 
must have known, for he knows that lan- 
guage. So far, then, from contradicting 
our testimony, the boy supports it. But 
they say this boy contradicts the affidavit 
of Bahoo. But take the boy's testimony 
as translated by Lieutenant Meade. The 
boy says they embarked about 8 o'clock in 
the evening. What does the other say ? 
Why, that they went on board in the 
night. But why did they not go out ? 
They might have been under some appre- 
hension from the British cruisers. Then 
he says they went out about 4 o'clock, he 
does not say whether it was four in the 
morning or afternoon. Now, does this, 
in any important particular, contradict the 
affidavit of Bahoo ? But he says they did 
not attempt to avoid the cruisers. He 
told me the other day, that they were 
afraid of the British cruisers, and that was 
the reason they did not go out immediately. 
This is all there is to contradict, and it 
seems to me it goes to corroborate the 
affidavit of Bahoo. Add to this what was 
testified before and then add what the boy 
says, and it seems to me conclusive. 

My learned friend was very ingenious 
in his method of disposing of the argument 
from the language of these children. It 
may be that there are so many of these 
come there, and they are no separated from 
the population of the Islands, that they have 
a Colony of slaves — a Mandingo Colony ! 
I dare say that argument, before one of 
their Courts at Havana, would have great 
weight. But, with this honorable Court, it 
will go for what it is worth. It is against 
the facts and probabilities. Here is a boy, 
the first time he " found himself," very 
young, speaking Spanish. That shows that 
those that are born there, begin very early 
to speak the Spanish language. 

I have been a little surprised that Mons. 
Ruiz, who is capable of speaking the Eng- 



36 



Case of the Africans. 



lish language, has not appeared here as a 
witness. I believe he could tell us. He 
is here, and there has been no evidence 
from him. Now, that they did not know 
that these people had just been brought 
into Havana, they will not dare, under oath, 
to declare. They did not venture to do 
so, in their libel. Their very language 
betrays it. Here is the very description 
of evidence which is most decisive — the 
dialect which is spoken nowhere else but 
on the coast of Africa. And yet I am told 
that Ruiz will come here and swear that 
he did not know that they came from Afri- 
ca. I have a better opinion of him. Let 
him come here and encounter the perils of 
perjury, if he dare. They will not here 
impose on us. In Havana, they might 
easily find a court that would not see 
through the flimsy veil. 

On the case of the Antelope, I did not 
remark, when up before. It was the case 
of a vessel built at Baltimore, which went 
out, and under the pretence of cruising, 
went to taking slaves, for the purpose of 
bringing them in and selling them. They 
were taken and brought in for violating our 
law ; and proceedings were taken then, 
and the great question was settled, whether 
a person going out and taking a commis- 
sion from another government, would save 
him from our laws. Our cruisers saw the 
veil, and said they could strip it off, and 
they did ; and that was brought in and 
disposed of under our law. 

The great argument of my learned 
friend was this : that here, by the Spanish 
treaty, we are obliged to deliver up the 
property. Well, I admit, if property is 
identified and proved by its owners, we are 
to deliver it up. But are these Spanish 
subjects to come in here and claim every 
thing and any thing as Spanish property ? 
Put a case : Suppose this same vessel had 
come from the coast of Africa ; being a 
Spanish vessel, forced in by stress of 
weather— should we be bound to deliver 
up the vessel, and allow them to take away 
that cargo ? That brig, (La Facora) it 
is said, brought in about 500 Africans. 
But should we be obliged to deliver them 
up as property ? My learned friend's ar- 
gument proves just as much in that case 
as this ? If that is so, it goes very far 
towards disposing of this case. But in 
that case, we should not be bound to de- 
liver up. Why not ? Because they could 



not be slaves. Spain has entered into a 
treaty with Great Britain to put a stop to the 
slave trade. But, we should be just as much 
bound to deliver that up, as this coaster. 

But suppose another thing — for the safe- 
keeping of their slaves, they have put them 
on shore, and put them in prison ; and they 
say they are free-born ; and the Spaniards 
say it is true ; but they have the treaty of 
'95, requiring us to deliver up all property. 
The gentlemen are at fault in limine. 
What is property ? Can there be property 
of this description imported, after 1817? 

But, it is said these negroes are in fault, 
because not armed with an authenticated 
copy of this royal decree ? It is a happy 
circumstance that these girls are young — 
they may outlive it. This court knows 
with what success the courts of New York 
have attempted to get access to the archives 
of Spain. We are then to go to Madrid 
and get the decree, and prove that they 
are born free ! If this is the state of the 
law, it is a most awful and ridiculous state 
of the law — it is mockery. Those that set 
up the claim that these people are slaves, 
and their property, must prove it. That 
man may obtain properly in man is admit- 
ted, to the reproach of human nature. But 
my friend says it is the common law of 
Spain to hold slaves. I deny it. This 
decree declares that the common law was 
that all were free ; but, by certain edicts, 
slaves were admitted into certain places. 
Is this the claim put in here, that, by the 
laws of Havana he was entitled to these 
slaves? No; he says he bought them, and 
then declares that slavery is there tolerated. 

In reply to the authority quoted by the 
learned gentleman, I quote the case of the 
Eugene, 2d of Mason. .Judge Story re- 
marks, If a foreign claimant of a vessel 
seized for the slave trade, claims them as 
American property, he must give affirma- 
tive evidence. Property cannot be with- 
drawn from court, without proving the right 
of possession. The African slave trade is 
abolished, as against the law of nations ; 
and any claim under it must be repelled. 

It is therefore well affirmed that it is with 
the gentlemen to make the proof. It is to 
be presumed that every man is born free. 
What did Spain do at the Congress of Vi- 
enna? They agreed to acquiesce, and use 
their endeavors to suppress the slave trade. 
What have they done ? They have issued 
their decrees to carry it into effect. Now, 



Case of the Africans. 



37 



can it be claimed under the Spanish treaty 
that they can make us parties to this trade? 

The counsel says ;i We took this proper- 
ty, and brought it into the state of Connecti- 
cut ; and now, if this Court says they have 
no jurisdiction, what shall we do ? " Why, 
do as any other person would do in similar 
circumstances. The Courts of common 
law are open. The court looks no 
further than the case before them, It gives 
them no right to come here, if the proper- 
ty has been wrongfully brought here. 
Suppose Montez had said to Gedney, " { 
wish you not to take this vessel into a free 
port." Suppose Lt. Gedney had gone to 
Charleston ; and there the case is dismissed 
for want of jurisdiction ; and then Montez 
should say, " I had no hand in coming 
here." If Gedney has brought this pro- 
perty into a place where there is no juris- 
diction, and Montez has lost it, the com- 
mon law is open. There is no country 
where the real rights of man to property 
are better guarded than here. I have no 
doubt, if Pedro Montez wants to try it, he 
can have the opportunity. 

Suppose, as has been remarked, he had 
brought forty-two horses or mules, and 
landed them, and they had broke from 
their pen and escaped, and got into the 
county jail-yard — how would the learned 
counsel find a way to return them at all? 
I doubt very much whether he would come 
into the court of Admiralty with them. But, 
that this court of Admiralty should be con- 
verted into a court for seizing runaway 
slaves, and restoring them to foreign claim- 
ants, is more degrading to their dignity 
than to be employed in catching runaway 
horses and mules. 

Saturday, September 2ist, A. M. 

Immediately after the opening of the 
Circuit Circuit Court this morning, Judge 
Thompson said the Court were not prepar- 
ed, as yet, to dispose of the case under 
consideration finally, and that any intima- 
tions he might then throw out, ought not to 
be taken as the ultimate view of the Court. 
He said the case was one not free from 
great difficulties, and the Court were em- 
barrassed with the right disposition of it. 
The three girls, and all the prisoners, had 
been discharged altogether from any crim- 
inal accusation. It now becomes a serious 
question what disposition shall be made of 
them : — with the others, as well as the 



children who had been brought before the 
Court on the writ of habeas corpus : for the 
embarrassment felt by the Court extends to 
all the persons in custody. 

The first question for the court to deter- 
mine, is its power on this process ; for the 
merits of the whole case, in its extended 
view, cannot now be considered. Are 
these persons rightfully detained in the 
District Court ? That is the question for 
consideration. If they ai'e rightfully de- 
tained, we should take it forgrantedthat the 
Circuit Court have no right, by summary pro- 
cess, to take them out of the possession of a 
District Court, for that court can only inter- 
fere when the prisoners are detained by the 
District Court without any authority of 
law. Besides, great injustice might be 
done to the parties if the Court should de- 
cide, in a summary way, provided the Dis- 
trict Court can rightfully detain them. If 
the decision of the District Court should be 
unsatisfactory to either party, there is the 
right of appeal to the Circuit Court, and af- 
terwards to the Supreme Court of the Uni- 
ed States. In the judgment of the Court, 
therefore, the case is presented simply with 
regard to the jurisdiction of the District 
Court. However abhorrent it may be to 
keep these persons in prison, or to view 
them in the light of property, and however 
desirous the Court might be that they 
should all be set at liberty, they must not 
permit their private feelings to govern 
them in deciding upon the case before 
them. They must discharge the duty of 
a court of justice, however painful it might 
be. 

It has been argued by the counsel for 
the prisoners, that no court of justice can 
entertain the question of the right of pro- 
perty in human beings. But slavery, or - 
the right of controlling the freedom of a 
certain class of men, is not only sanctioned 
by foreign powers, with whom we have 
treaties, but is recognised by the Supreme 
Court of our own country. He referred 
to the case of the Antelope. In that case 
the Supreme Court did entertain the inqui- 
ry as to the right of property in human 
flesh. That was a question, in many res- 
pects precisely like the present one. If the 
Court then supposed that they could not go 
into that inquiry, the case would have been 
otherwise decided. The Court were equal- 
ly divided, and the decision therefore was, 
as in all cases of the kind, that the deci- 



38 



Case of the Africans. 



sion of the court below was affirmed. But 
the Court did go into the inquiry whether 
it was lawful to hold human beings in 
slavery, and the question was entertained 
upon whom the onus of proving the right 
of property devolved. The Court put the 
matter upon the ground that the right of 
property should be shown. However un- 
pleasant it may be, in a moral point of 
view, it will not do for the Court to say they 
will not hear the question discussed whe- 
ther there is a right of property in these 
prisoners or not. 

The Supreme Court of the United 
States, in the case referred to, said the Af- 
ricans were rightfully in the jurisdiction of 
the Court. This Court has the power of 
deciding who has the right to this species 
of property. He used, he said, merely 
the language of the law. The only inqui- 
ry then is, whether this property is right- 
fully in possession of the District Court. 
If it comes fairly within the admiralty juris- 
diction of that court, whatever my views 
may be as to the ultimate decision of the 
case, it must not be disposed of summarily. 
The question is not now open, whether 
these Spaniards can properly be here, 
when the laws of their own country are 
against the slave trade, and when Spain 
has made treaties, and passed edicts, for 
its suppression. That question must arise 
upon its merits. The only question now 
is, whether this property, to adopt the lan- 
guage of the law, is within the rightful con- 
trol of the District Court. We are of opi- 
nion that the prisoners cannot be taken 
out of the jurisdiction of the District Court 
on the writ of habeas corpus. The Court 
therefore request the counsel to furnish 
them with another argument as to the 
main question, whether the District Court 
has jurisdiction in the case. 

We propose, said Judge Thompson, 
that the cause be kept open until after- 
noon, then to be argued, should the coun- 
sel for both parties agree to do so. If they 
cannot be prepared so soon, the Court must 
wait until they have sufficient time. 

Some conversation then took place be- 
tween the counsel on each side, and with 
the Court. 

Mr. Ingersoll suggested that it might be 
best for the counsel on each side to furnish 
the Court with a brief, for the Court to give 
an opinion, at some future day, at an ad- 
journment of the Court. Mr. Staples said 



the counsel would confer together, and 
would be prepared, at the opening of the 
court in the afternoon, to say whether they 
could accede to the proposition, or proceed 
to argue the cause to-day. 

A writ of habeas corpus was taken out 
in the course of the forenoon, on the peti- 
tion of Erastus Smith, Esq., of this city, 
for all the other African prisoners, return- 
able before this Court. The court then 
took a recess till 2 o'clock. 

Saturday, September 2\st, P. M. 

After the court opened Judge Thomp- 
son asked the counsel on both sides if they 
had come to any agreement with respect 
to furnishing briefs, so that he could take 
them home with him, and write an opinion 
at his leisure. Mr. Ingersoll, of counsel for 
the libellants, said that they had not — that 
they differed in opinion — which he regret- 
ted, as he thought that justice to all parties 
required that sufficient time should be 
given to enable counsel to collect the best 
authorities. He said that so far as the 
counsel for the libellants had examined the 
subject they had come to the conclusion 
that they could not do justice to the case if 
pressed on to an argument this day. They 
wished that the judge should take the 
briefs and authorities, and at the adjourn- 
ment of the term decide. 

Mr. Baldwin, in reply, said he supposed 
that in a case of jurisdiction, where the 
personal rights of a party are concerned, 
those who maintain the jurisdiction should 
come prepared to argue the case. A 
question that affects so deeply the rights of 
the prisoners, and that may affect them still 
more, if other measures are adopted, de- 
mands prompt investigation. It is incon- 
venient to the counsel on the part of the 
prisoners to proceed now to argue the case, 
and equally so to prepare a brief, as other 
courts are soon to be held ; but they deem 
it their duty to press this question for im- 
mediate decision. 

Mr. Staples, for the respondents, said it 
would be a great personal convenience to 
him if he could leave the court, and leave 
it to the judge to decide during the vaca- 
tion. But, being here, and knowing that 
forty human beings are incarceratedj as 
he believed unjustly, he deemed it his du- 
ty to forego personal considerations, and do 
all he could for their relief. 

Judge Thompson remarked that if the 



Case of the Africans. 



39 



counsel for the prisoners insist he must 
proceed. He had hoped that more time 
would have been allowed him to ex- 
amine the case, as he could not think of 
deciding a case of this importance upon 
superficial investigation ; but as the coun- 
sel for the prisoners thought it their duty 
not to delay the matter, and as the ques- 
tion involves the liberty of persons now in 
confinement, we must go on, and take suffi- 
cient time at the present term. 

[The Court, at an early part of the dis- 
cussion, announced that a writ of habeas 
corpus had been granted in behalf of all the 
other prisoners — and therefore all of them 
were intended in the present argument.] 

Mr. Baldwin, at the commencement of 
his argument, said the only question was, in 
his apprehension, whether the District Court, 
under any of the proceedings in, the case, 
have jurisdiction of these persons who apply 
for relief under the Act of habeas corpus. 
The Judge observed that was the sim- 
ple question, and he hoped the counsel on 
both sides would bear it in mind. 

Mr. Baldwin said, these persons were 
brought into the District Court in the first 
place on the claim of Lieut. Gedney for 
salvage. They were taken near Cullo- 
den Point, at the east end of Long Island. 
He then stated the substance of the libel, 
and said, the first question then, as to the 
original right of jurisdiction, will depend 
upon the fact whether these prisoners 
were taken under such circumstances that 
the District Court had a right to hold them 
as property. The case of the Antelope, 
that had been alluded to, was a very differ, 
ent one from this. The persons there 
came in differently. The question of ju. 
risdiction there turned on a statement of 
facts that were inapplicable to the case 
now before the Court. In the case referred 
to, the persons were first found onboard a 
Spanish slaver — they were in the actual 
condition of slaves — were slaves de facto 
—they were captured from slave vessels — 
and were captured under such circum- 
stances that, in the judgment of the Su- 
preme Court of the United States, they 
could not be holden, but must be restored 
to the state in which they were when 
captured. They were seized under a 
belief that they intended to violate the 
laws of the United States with reference 
to the slave trade. This gave jurisdic- 
tion prima facie over the slaves. The 



question was whether it was a lawful 
capture. A majority of the court held that 
as the Spanish vessel sailed for Havana, 
carrying regular papers, and had the 
slaves on board as property, it was the 
duty of the Court to restore what was 
prima facie property. They were for re- 
storing things to the condition they were in 
when the first unlawful act took place. 
But what are the facts in this case 1 These 
prisoners were not in the condition of 
slaves. They were prima facie free when 
first found, and they must be treated as 
persons. They were in the possession of 
the rights that the God of nature gave 
them. Those who apply for them as pro- 
perty should be prepared to show that 
they are property. This is a preliminary 
fact. They must show that they are right- 
fully in the jurisdiction of the District 
Court, or this Court must order their libera- 
tion. Process was issued against the ves- 
sel and property, but not against the per- 
sons. They were apparently free, and the 
Court must have entertained this presump- 
tion when its warrant was issued. The 
persons were not included in it ; and it is 
only by a construction put upon it by the 
Marshal, that they were seized as property 
and are illegally held. Mr. B. here cited 
1 Dodson, p. 84, the case of the Amedie. 
The presumption also is that by the laws 
of every civilized country the slave-trade 
is a contraband trade. Judge Story made 
such a decision. 

The traffic is one we denounce as pira- 
cy. Comity to Spain requires us to sup- 
pose that a trade denounced by our laws 
as piracy cannot be lawful by her. What- 
ever may have been the practice of Spain 
in former times we are bound now to sup- 
pose that that nation looks upon the trade 
as infamous. No court then had prima 
facie evidence that they had jurisdiction 
over these Africans as property. Again : — 
they were on shore. A court of admiralty, 
sitting as an instance court, has no juris- 
diction of property found on shore, al- 
though as a prize court they might under 
some circumstances. Mr. B. here cited 
Hall's Admiralty, p. 8 — Kent, vol. I. p. 
336, first edition, part 2d, sec. 17. It did 
not appear that these persons were not on 
shore at the time of seizure. Gedney 
says in his libel they were, and that the 
capture was more easy on that account. 

With reference to the matter before the 



40 



Case of the Africans. 



Court, if any court of admiralty could have 
jurisdiction it was the District Court for the 
Southern District of New York. What- 
ever reasons Lieut. Gedney had for seiz- 
ing the vessel, if the seizure was made 
within the limits of the New York Dis- 
trict, all the proceedings, whether civil or 
criminal, must be had in that jurisdiction. 
He referred to Paine's U. S. Circuit Court 
Rep. vol. I. p. 40, and to Wheaton, vol. IX. 
p. 402. 

The seizure is, when the property first 
comes into the custody of the officer who 
takes possession, which is to be brought 
into that District where it is first found. 
Were it otherwise it would lead to mon- 
strous injustice. It was never intended 
that the party should select the District 
where he could proceed with the best 
chance of success. Mr. Baldwin then 
commented upon all the processes up to 
the date of the habeas corpus, and asked 
what else is there? Don Pedro Montez 
and Don Ruiz, these Spanish gentlemen, 
come into a Special District Court on the 
18th September, and file a libel against 
certain property of theirs, as they choose 
to call it, being on land, in the city of 
Hartford, for the purpose of proceeding 
against it before the admiralty judge. 
They bought these persons, they allege, 
as slaves, not on the high seas, but in Cu- 
ba, and pray that their property may be 
taken possession of. What unheard-of 
claim is this ! It is their duty to prose- 
cute their claim, not in the admiralty, but 
in the common law courts of the State of 
Connecticut, where there is the right of 
trial by jury. 

What other process is there? Why, 
apprehensive that the District Court could 
not hold these persons alleged to be Span- 
ish property, the United States Attorney 
files his libel. Where were the persons 
when the District Attorney filed his 
libel? Has the admiralty court any 
thing to do where property is found on 
land? He referred to Wheaton, vol. 8, p. 
391, the case of the Sarah. The proper 
course of proceeding, said Mr. B., when 
property is seized on land, is not by libel, 
but by information. It is not alleged, in 
this case, by the United States Attorney, 
that any offence has been committed. 
Neither does he claim that these Africans 
be tried, but only that they be given up on 
the claim of the Spanish minister. Are 



men to be picked up in this manner, he 
would ask, at the instance of a foreign 
minister? He was not aware that such 
power is vested, by our laws, in any man. 
The people of this country have not en- 
trusted such power to any individual, not 
even to any officers of the United States. 

But what further has the District Attor- 
ney to say ? The President of the United 
States has power, he alleges, to take these 
prisoners, and send them out of the coun- 
try. Where does he get the power to de- 
cide respecting the personal liberty of per- 
sons in the States ? Mr. B. here referred 
to the celebrated letter of Mr. Madison to 
Mr. Erskine, and went on to say, the Dis- 
trict Attorney, not feeling very sanguine in 
his first libel, suggests in the second, that 
if it should appear that these Africans have 
been illegally brought into the United 
States, the Court should keep them, in or- 
der that the President may send them back 
to Africa, These persons came into the 
State of Connecticut by wrong-doing, and 
they cannot be proceeded against by admi- 
ralty jurisdiction here. Suppose, said Mr. 
B. these Africans were horses, and some 
Spanish claimant should go to the judge of 
admiralty, and ask for process? Equally 
absurd is the present application of the 
District Attorney. With regard to the 
second proposition of the District Attor- 
ney, that " if it shall hereof 'ter appear that 
they have been brought here unlawfully," 
— when is this to be determined ? The 
proposition is not triable upon the face of 
it — it asks the detention of these persons 
for an indefinite period — and yet brings no 
charge against them, and indicates no pe- 
riod to their detention, and no form by 
which they are hereafter to beset at liber- 
ty. We claim, then, these subsequent 
proceedings — including the libels of Sig- 
nors Montez and Ruiz, as well as the libel 
of the District Attorney, to be of no effect ; 
that these persons have unlawfully been 
brought into the State of Connecticut — that 
they are entitled to its protection and can- 
not be taken out of its limits ; and being 
unlawfully held in custody, ought now to 
be set at liberty. They will then be taken 
care of by the authorities of the State of 
Connecticut. 

Mr. Hungerford, for the claimants, said 
that the question whether these persons are 
to be considered as property, is one for 
the District Court to decide. He cited 



Case of the Africans. 



41 



Ingersoll's Abridgment, -9th Section, I. 845 
to show that the District Court has juris- 
diction, and proceeded to show the various 
subjects over which that court can exercise 
jurisdiction. He then went into an ex- 
amination of the authorities cited by Mr. 
Baldwin, and endeavored to show their 
irrelevancy to the case under consideration. 
He said if either of the libels brought the 
case within the jurisdiction of the District 
Court, the writ of habeas corpus must be 
dismissed. In the matter of the landing 
of part of these persons, and their being 
found on land by Lieut. Gedney, Mr. H. 
read from Dunlap's Reports, p. 45. On 
the subject of Admiralty Jurisdiction, see 
Comy's Digest, vol. 1, p. 299—280, F. 6 
and 9. Here, said Mr. H, are the princi- 
ples recognised in this country on this sub- 
ject. See also 1 Kent, 1st edition, p. 353, 
in relation to the same subject. The plac 
ing of property on land, by persons pirati- 
cally in possession of it, cannot take it out 
of the jurisdiction of an Admiralty Court. 
Mr. H. also read 3 Saunders, Radley et. 
al. vs. Egglesfield et. al. The taking 
and robbing upon the sea is the original 
foundation of an Admiralty suit, and no 
subsequent act of the parties can remove 
it from that jurisdiction. Here are persons, 
as we say, who have wrongfully taken pos- 
session of this vessel, if not piratically, at 
least, they are great trespassers. Whether 
it be morally wrong, has nothing to do with 
the case. 

The wrong — high-handed, if not pirati- 
cal, in this case — was done upon the sea, 
and the subsequent landing of a part of 
these slaves on Long Island, or any where 
else, does not take the case out of the Ad- 
miralty Court. 

If these persons or this property have 
been brought into New London and land- 
ed, it must be libelled there, for it cannot 
be taken any where else ; and the gentle- 
men claim that the moment the vessel has 
struck land the case is out of the reach of 
the Admiralty, and must be tried and de- 
termined by the common law courts. 

The gentleman asks with an air of tri- 
umph, how long these persons are to be 
held under the libel of the District Attor- 
ney to await the decision of the President, 
— how long must they be kept to learn if 
they are Africans unlawfully brought into 
this country and liable to be sent back to 
their native land ? We can refer him in 
6 



this matter to the case of the Antelope, 
where the District Attorney did precisely 
as has been done in this case — and we an- 
swer as in that case, a reasonable time — 
till the several questions involved have 
been duly and carefully examined, and an 
equitable and just decision can be had. 
Mr. H. said he would not undertake to say 
what shall be done — whether the President 
of the U. S. can retain the prisoners for 
the purpose of being delivered to the Span- 
ish Government or sent back to Africa. 
The claimants think they ought to be de- 
livered to them. In Mr. H's. mind, how- 
ever, there was no difficulty in the way of 
the Court's holding the prisoners to await 
the order of the President. That was 
the decision in the case of the Antelope. 

Mr. Ingersoll, on the same side, said 
they were not now enbarrassed with the 
question, whether these persons were 
property or not. The Court has decided 
that under these libels, the question as to 
property may be made. The case stands 
then, as if it had been decided that the Af- 
ricans were property. But the gentlemen 
meet us, said he, on the ground of juris- 
diction. The cases cited by the counsel 
on the other side are not applicable to this 
case, for they refer to seizures for violating 
the laws of the U. S. and not for offences 
committed on the high seas, or a case 
where a vessel is libelled for a meritorious 
service for rescuing her and her cargo 
from peril, for which service and rescue 
Lieut. G. claims she shall be holden to 
pay salvage. That these persons are, or at 
least may be " property," I consider to be 
established by the opinion of the Court 
given this morning, and it is alco settled, 
as I conceive, that these persons may have 
been a part of the cargo of that vessel. 
Suppose that Lieut. G. had taken a differ- 
ent course and libelled the vessel for a 
breach of the laws of the U. S. relative to 
the slave trade, the cases cited by Mr. B. 
might then have a stronger application ; 
but here, the vessel, or her cargo at least, 
was in peril — she was brought into what 
the libellant might have supposed the near- 
est or at least the most convenient place of 
safety — and here he libels her to recover 
compensation for the services he has ren- 
dered. And the statute law of the United 
States must set this matter at rest. (In- 
gersoll's Abridgment, p. 84, 85.) The 
jurisdiction does not depend, as has „been 



42 



Case of the Africans. 



contended, upon the spot where the proper- 
ty may have been seized. The libel for 
meritorious services rendered in saving 
property. Mr. I. here cited the decision 
of the late learned District Judge, Bristol, 
of Connecticut, where property was taken 
on or near Fisher's Island belonging to the 
State of New York. That case is precise- 
ly like this in principle. The services 
were rendered in the waters of the State 
of New York, and the property was car- 
ried into another district. 

Mr. I. also referred to the case of the 
Antelope, and said it ran — so to speak — 
on all fours with the case under consider- 
ation. Lieut. Gedney describes these 
persons as property. Mr. I. said he was 
not going into the proof at present — " Suf- 
ficient unto the day is the evil thereof." 
In the case of the Antelope, my learned 
friend says the blacks found on board her, 
were prima facie slaves. How so 1 The 
owners weie in Spain or somewhere else, 
nobody knew where ; but my learned 
friend triumphantly says the case is not 
applicable to this, because these were 
prima facie slaves ; and more than this — 
he claims that the blacks found on board 
the Amistad, are prima facie freemen ! 
Yet here are men who claim that they own 
them — and the boy, Antonio, declares 
under his oath that they are slaves — 
the papers of the vessel show this conclu- 
sively — and yet Mr. B. contends the case 
of the Antelope is not applicable because 
these men are prima facie freemen ! But 
such a claim is not well founded — the case 
is applicable, and the opinions of the 
Court in that case make this so plain " that 
he who runs may read." 

[Mr. I. read and commented at some 
length on the report of that case — 4 
Peters's Condensed Reports, pp. 31, 43.] 

Again, in the matter of Gedney's libel 
— it is contended that the Marshal had no 
right to take these persons as property, 
even if they were property. Let us look 
at the libel. Here they are described as 
property — as having been found in danger 
of being totally " lost to the owners there- 
of " — this court has decided this morning 
that they may be property — and the war- 
rant of the court directs the Marshal to 
take the vessel and the " personal property 
found on board of her, as described in 
said libel," into his custody ; and as proper- 
ty they are now holden, and since libelled 
by the claimants thereof. 



Being property, as stated in this libel, 
and in the libels of Montez and Ruiz, they 
were forcibly taken out of the possession 
of the owners ; and this was confessedly 
done on the high seas. This is sufficient 
to give an Admirality Court jurisdiction in 
the premises ; and though they or it may 
have afterwards got on shore, it was by no 
act of the claimants, and the fact cannot 
take the consideration and adjustment of 
their claim out of the hands of such 
court. 

Mr. Hollabird, the U. S. Attorney, 
said he wished to present some views that 
had occurred to him since yesterday. The 
views he had presented have been sanc- 
tioned by the Supreme Court of the U. 
S. in the case of the Antelope, and in an- 
other case decided by the same tribunal. 
He said it had been stated that he had filed 
his claims imperfectly in point of form. 
Were this the case, he doubted not their 
honors would overlook the want of form, and 
assist him in carrying out the benevolent 
intentions of the enactment of 1819, re- 
lative to slaves unlawfully brought into the 
U. S. from Africa. I stand here, said 
Mr. H., to contend that these blacks are 
freemen — that they have been brought 
within the jurisdiction of the United States, 
and may be holden to abide the decision of 
the proper authority, and if found to be, as 
I suppose, native Africans, they may be 
sent to their native land. 

I will now turn the attention of the Court 
to a case found reported in 3 Peters's Re- 
ports, p. 58. Here the libel alleged that the 
negroes were brought into the U. S. unlaw- 
fully, and the case was tried by the District 
Court of Louisiana, and the vessel and 
effects condemned to the U. S. The case 
was carried by appeal to the U. S. Court, 
and the decision there, Mr. H. read and 
commented on at some length. 

Mr. Hollabird supposed the case of a 
vessel sailing from Havana under the same 
circumstances with the Amistad, and 
driven upon the coast by stress of weather, 
and shipwrecked ; and he contended that 
in such case the U. S. would take them in 
custody and hold them till they could be 
disposed of in due form of law. And this 
was all that was contemplated by the At- 
torney, in the libel he had filed in behalf 
of the United States. 

He referred to Story's U. S. Laws, vol. 
3, p. 1752, and said that, without doubt, 



Case of the Africans. 



these persons had been subject to the 
wicked traffic, (the slave trade,) and that he 
shall insist that they are free, and were 
wrongfully brought into this country. He 
then proceeded to cite cases in justification 
of his having filed a libel in behalf of the 
United States. 

Mr. Staples, counsel for he prisoners, 
said the argument of the District Attorney 
reminded him of the saying, " save me 
from my friends, and I will take care of 
my enemies." In his remarks about his 
claiming the prisoners on behalf of the 
United States as free persons, he could 
hardly believe him to be serious. The Disrict 
Judge said yesterday, and very properly 
too, that this " property" cannot be taken 
and sold for salvage. Suppose there were 
no other property, what then 1 The Judge 
has said these Africans cannot be sold as 
property, yet it is contended that they are 
property, and that the District Court has 
jurisdiction over them as such. If they 
are property why cannot they be sold as 
such ? Why cannot they have a slave 
market in the city of Hartford, and sell by 
auction these forty Africans ! Why ? 
because it is too revolting — because it 
would not be borne. The District Judge 
then, when he says they cannot be sold 
here as property, should, to be consistent, 
say he cannot touch this property. This 
Court does not say they are property. 
They only wish to know if the District 
Court has jurisdiction of the vessel and 
cargo. If they have not, all pretence that 
the District Court has jurisdiction falls to 
the ground. 

In the case of the Antelope, it was never 
urged that the Court would set up the 
claim for any foreign potentate to hold 
slaves. Mr. Staples said he would be for 
fulfilling the Constitution, and the laws, and 
the treaties with foreign governments, but 
it must be shown that there is a treaty re- 
quiring us to restore Africans to slave- 
holders at Cuba when they have been pur- 
chased contrary to the laws of Spain; Let 
such a claim be set up by the President, 
Senate, or Spanish Minister, and let the 
Government of this nation avow that they 
will surrender these victims of oppression, 
and I, said Mr. Staples, will abandon such 
a country, and seek my fortunes in some 
British island. Corruption, said he, is, I 
know, stalking abroad in this land ; doc- 
trines are set up that are contrary to the 



principles of our government ; and violence 
is threatened to those who contend for 
impartial liberty and the rights of man — 
but he did not believe that we were so far 
gone as to be slave-catchers for foreign 
claimants. When I shall see this Court, 
or the District Court, said Mr. S., solemn- 
ly decree that a person brought from Afri- 
ca to this country, is a slave, then he 
would consider, whether he should not 
retire from courts where such decisions 
were made, sooner than he had intended. 
It is said, exclaimed Mr. S., that we must 
not speak out plainly on this subject, but 
he thanked God that he lived in a country 
where he had the right to speak his honest 
convictions, and thac right he intended to 
maintain. 

Mr. S. then commented on the case of 
the Antelope. The court did not, and 
could not, get at the merits of that case. 
There is no principle involved there that 
binds this Court to declare that these Afri- 
cans are slaves. It has been said on the 
other side, that this Court has already de- 
cided, that it is within the cognizance of 
the District Court to declare them property. 
This Court has not so decided. 

Has the District Court jurisdiction ofthese 
various libels ? If they have not jurisdic- 
tion over the property first libelled, all the 
other libels, founded upon it, fall of course. 
If this case is within the jurisdiction of the 
Southern District of New York, it must go 
there. If the property is beyond the juris- 
diction of this Court, all the libels fall. 
The proctor here thinks he can file in sup- 
plemental libels, but he cannot. If the prin- 
cipal libel fails, the incidental ones fail also. 
If Gedney's libel cannot stand for want of 
jurisdiction, nothing can be done here. In 
that case the Court of Admiralty here 
would be powerless. The question is 
simply this, Is this within the jurisdiction of 
New York or Connecticut? The powers 
of the District Court, in this country, were, 
he well knew, immense ; they sweep the 
whole ground of admiralty. No other 
courts have such enormous power. But 
there is an appeal. That court has cer- 
tain powers in exchequer, but it has no 
instance jurisdiction. We are now upon 
the question of admiralty jurisdiction. 
Where the property is seized there is ju- 
risdiction. The term seizure has a broader 
meaning than the counsel on the other side 
contend. Whoever takes property, or 



44 



Case of the Africans, 



finds it, he must take it into the District 
where he finds it. Lieut. Gedney seized 
the property in the Southern District of 
New York. So clear is this fact establish- 
ed that the Amistad and cargo can never 
be condemned in this District. The place 
of seizure, or taking, was on Long Island. 
He then cited a case in the last edition of 
Gordon, pages 113 and 145. He also allud- 
ed to the libels for salvage down the Hook 
at New York and in Barnegat Bay. They 
are all proceeded against as contended for 
in this case. The gentleman, he said, had 
cited a decision of judge Bristol, the former 
District Judge of Connecticut ; but that 
learned jurist never could have decided 
that property could be taken in one Dis- 
trict and carried into another for adjudica- 
tion. He here cited the case of the Brig 
Ann in 9th Cranch. 

Where was the property seized ? Un- 
less this is settled there will be everlasting 
and iniquitous controversies about juris- 
diction. Mr. S. proceeded to show why 
the Court in the district where the property 
happened to be taken should have juris- 
diction. Suppose, said he, that Lieut. 
Gedney had been persuaded by these Span- 
ish slaveholders to have taken the vessel 
to Pensacola, presuming it would be easier 
there to succeed in their libel than at the 
North. Would it not have been an out- 
rage on all correct principles ? The law 
does not intend to leave it to the choice of 
the person who makes the seizure, but de- 
clares that where the property is actually 
taken the jurisdiction commences. So 
Judge Livingston decided. Mr. S. here 
cited several cases. Last edition of Gor- 
don, p. 145. Wheaton, 4th vol. p. 38, and 
Wheaton, 1st vol. p. 96. 

Mr. S. said he did not consider it very 
important how many of the prisoners were 
on shore, or whether any of them were 
on shore, at the time of the seizure. It is 
settled, in all cases, that where property is 
taken, except it be prize, there proceedings 
must be had. In prize the subject matter 
gives jurisdiction — otherwise the taking of 
property gives jurisdiction. In this case 
the party has commenced in a mistake, and 
every step he has taken has been bad. 
Gedney 's libel must fail as to property. 
Suppose, that instead of human beings 
these Africans had been mules, would the 
District Judge declare that although they 
were property they could not be sold as 



property ? He would, in that case, not 
have made such a contradiction. He 
would not have said, they are property, and 
yet are not property. If Montez has, in 
fact, property in these Africans, the Court 
are wrong in saying they could not order 
them sold. The new libels are useless. 
If, under the libels, these claimants do not 
come and claim the property in admiralty, 
they come in to take it from the jurisdiction 
of the common law, into admiralty. If, 
then, Gedney's libel cannot be sustained 
the property is to go where the Court has 
jurisdiction. And going there, what can 
Montez do ? With regard to the claim 
set up by the District Attorney for the 
United States, Mr. S. said he could not 
but be suspicious that the Spanish Minister 
had more influence with that officer in this 
matter, than the President of the United 
States himself. Mr. S. said that he had 
endeavored to confine himself as much as 
possible to the question of jurisdiction, and 
to the citation of authorities, more at large, 
than had been done previously. He con- 
cluded his argument at seven o'clock P. M. 
when, five hours having beer, consumed by 
the counsel on both sides, the court ad- 
journed to Monday morning at 8 o'clock. 

Monday, September 23. 

On the opening of the Circuit Court, 
Monday, September 23d, Judge Thomp- 
son gave his decision with respect to the 
application of the prisoners' counsel, to 
have the Africans discharged under the writ 
of habeas corpus— and denied the motion. 
He said the question before the Court 
was simply as to the jurisdiction of the 
District Court over this subject matter. 
He regretted that the case had not been 
held up for further consideration, and that 
he had so little opportunity to examine 
the various important questions that are 
involved in it, with that thoroughness and 
deliberation that was desirable. He re- 
gretted this the more, as the case is a 
very peculiar and complicated one. It 
was one also difficult to be understood by 
the public. He could not be insensible to 
the fact, that the feelings of the commu- 
nity were deeply involved in the question, 
and he feared there might be misappre- 
hensions of the real questions to be dis- 
posed of by the Court. It is possible, he 
said, that there may be some misrepresen- 
tation. He would therefore have pre- 



Case of the Africant. 



45 



ferred that time should have been allowed 
for him to give a written opinion. But 
the counsel having thought it advisable, 
he did not say it was not excusable, to 
call upon the Court to dispose of the case 
now, he was compelled, though much 
against his wishes, to dispose of it in the 
best way he could. 

The question to be decided now is not 
as to the ultimate rights of either party, 
— but it is whether the District Court 
can take cognizance of the subject matter 
that grows out of this case. In order to 
ascertain this, we must recur to the laws 
of the United States. The case has been 
placed before the Court on the abstract 
right of holding human beings in bondage, 
or on the general question of slavery. 
The Court is not called upon here to 
determine this abstract question. It is 
sufficient to say that the Constitution of 
the United States, although the term sla- 
very is not used, and the laws of the 
United States do recognize the right of 
one man to have the control of the labor 
of another man. The laws of the country 
are founded upon this principle. They 
recognize this kind of right. Whatever 
private motives the Court may have, or 
whatever may be their feelings, on this 
subject, they are not to be brought into 
view in deciding upon this question. They 
must give the same construction to the 
laws of the land, sitting in this State, as 
they would were they sitting in Virginia. 
It is the province and duty of the Court 
to determine what the laws are, and not 
what it might be desirable they should be. 
My feelings, said Judge Thompson, are 
personally as abhorrent to the system of 
slavery as those of any man here, but I 
must, on my oath, pronounce what the 
laws are on this subject. The true ques- 
tion then is as to the law, and not as to 
any of the questions involved in the case. 
The simple question to determine is as to 
the right of the District Court of Connec- 
ticut to take cognizance of the matter. 

Under the laws of the United States 
all seizures in a District are to be taken 
notice of in that District where the seizure 
is made. The important question is al- 
ways as to the place of seizure, and the 
question always turns upon that. If a 
seizure is made within the limits of a 
State, ihe jurisdiction of the District Court 
is local. If it is made on the high seas, 



any District Court may take cognizance 
of the matter. Where then, was the sei- 
zure made in this case ? It seems to be 
agreed by the counsel on both sides that 
the seizure was actually made in the 
District of New York. If that be the 
case, this District Court has no jurisdic- 
tion of it whatever. But if the seizure 
was in fact made on the high seas, this 
District Court has jurisdiction. Judge 
T. said, he had supposed, at first, that the 
seizure was in fact made in the District 
of New York, but when he came to ex- 
amine the matter, he found it was not so. 
Lieut. Gedney, in his libel, states no such 
thing. He says he was on a survey within 
the State of New York, but he does not 
say that he actually discovered the schoon- 
er Amistad within that District, and that 
he made the seizure within the District of 
New York. All the evidence before the 
Court, is what appears in the libel. The 
vessel, it seems, was taken off Montauk 
Point. The Grand Jury, in their state- 
ment, say it was a mile distant from the 
shore. If this be correct, it was a seizure 
upon the high seas, and therefore the 
matter is rightfully before the Court for 
this District. 

In the absence of absolute certainty on 
this point, the Court can endeavor to as- 
certain, from the best evidence in their 
reach, by examining maps and charts, the 
locality of the place ; and after making 
such an examination, they are of opinion 
that the actual place of seizure does not 
appear to be within the jurisdiction of the 
District Court of New York, but upon the 
high. seas. Long Island in that part of it 
has no inlets, bays, rivulets, or harbors. — 
It was on the broad ocean. 

The Admirality jurisdiction upon the 
the ocean extends to low water mark. 
Between high and low water mark, there 
is alternate jurisdiction between the admi. 
rality and common law courts. In decid- 
ing then that the seizure was made, in 
the judgment of the Court, upon the high 
seas, — if either party is dissatisfied, the 
Court can institute inquiry to ascertain 
the exact place, but the more regular 
course is, for the party dissatisfied to in- 
terpose a plea to the jurisdiction of the 
Court, and then the District Court must 
institute an inquiry to ascertain where the 
seizure was made. It is not competent 
then for this Court, at the present time, to 



46 



Case of the Africans. 



say the District'Court has no jurisdiction 
in the case. Consequently this Court 
cannot now pass upon the question as to 
the property — that matter belongs to the 
District Court. Should either party be 
dissatisfied with the decision of that Court, 
an appeal can be taken to the Circuit 
Court and afterwards to the Supreme 
Court of the United States. Meantime 
the parties must be put to their pleas in 
the District Court, in order that all the 
facts, &., may be put upon record. 

It has been said that this is a question 
of liberty, and therefore, that this Court 
ought to decide the case in a summary 
and prompt manner. But, in the judg- 
ment of the Court, this ought to have no 
influence in the decision. The situation 
of the prisoners is such that they must be 
taken care of by somebody. They did 
not come here voluntarily. It is not the 
case, therefore, of persons coming here of 
their own accord, and being taken up by 
other persons against their will. If the 
District Court has jurisdiction of the 
schooner, they have jurisdiction of the 
persons of these Africans and they are 
bound to provide necessaries for them. 
They can provide for them as well as any 
other persons. — The case seems to have 
been argued on the part of the prisoners as 
if they ought to be discharged if the Court 
has no jurisdiction. This is not so. If 
it should be decided that the District 
Court here has no jurisdiction, they can 
decide also that the cause be transferred 
to the District Court of New York. The 
Court would, in that case, send the vessel 
and cargo, and every thing appertaining, 
to that Court. The prisoners would not 
be discharged, but sent also to the District 
Court of New York. No benefit would 
arise to them in being removed from this 
to another District. It is, therefore, a 
matter of no consequence to the prisoners 
whether the question is tried here or in 
the District of New York. 

It has been said that the subsequent pro- 
ceedings in filing these libels and claims 
here, were without authority, and ought to 
disregarded. But if the case is within the 
jurisdiction of the District Court, other 
libels could be filed. It is true that if origi- 
nal libels have been filed in order to bring 
the matter within the jurisdiction of this 
Court, the proceedings may be irregular. 
All parties might have filed their claims in 



regard to a subject already within the juris- 
diction of the Court ; and if they have filed 
libels as for an originalseizure, it is only an 
irregularity which may be corrected by the 
District Court. They may allow the parties 
to file new libels or claims, if necessary. 
It is a subject already in possession of the 
law, and the Court is bound to receive 
and consider the claims and rights of all 
who may choose to present them. The 
rights are to be litigated there, not here, 
on the question of jurisdiction. If there 
is any irregularity it can be corrected by 
filing a new libel — the case being in the 
possession of the District Court, it is 
bound to receive claims of any body. 
This Court can not here say whether 
these Spaniards have any right to them or 
not, nor whether it is a case which comes 
within the act of Congress, authorizing 
the President to send back captured Afri- 
cans to the land of their nativity. These 
questions cannot properly come up on a 
question of jurisdiction. They must come 
after, and upon a question of jurisdiction 
the Court must dispose of them. They 
will be decided on the hearing, upon the 
merits. The Courts of the United States 
have taken cognizance of cases analogous 
to this. The question of jurisdiction is 
a preliminary question, and the Court 
should not decide questions of abstract 
right. The Courts of the United States 
have taken cognizance of cases where 
foreigners claimed the persons of slaves. 
But this is the first instance where a writ 
of habeas corpus has been applied for. 
It has never been made a question whether 
they were instantly free on being brought 
into the United States. The case of the 
Antelope is directly in point. The Span- 
ish and Portuguese consuls claimed these 
subjects as property — the Court said they 
must show their title. The burthen of 
proof rests on you. To this extent the 
Courts of the United States are bound 
to entertain jurisdiction. We do not de- 
cide, in disallowing the habeas corpus, 
that these parties are not entitled to their 
freedom, but only that it is in a regular 
way for decision, in another tribunal, from 
whose decision an appeal may be taken in 
this Court, and if desired, to the Supreme 
Court of the United States. 

There may be an impression here, that 
because slavery is not tolerated in Con- 
necticut, that the right of these Spaniards 



Case of the Africans, 



47 



should not be investigated- The Court 
however must be governed by the laws of 
the United States, and not by the laws of 
the State of Connecticut. Our form of 
Government recognized the right to im- 
port slaves up to the year 1808. It is 
true, the Constitution does not use that 
language ; but it recognizes the right to a 
certain period, and declares until then it 
was a lawful importation. The Constitu- 
tion also provides for the recovery of per- 
sons that may escape from one State into 
another where service is due. It goes 
even beyond this, and interdicts the States 
from passing laws that oppose claimants 
from taking fugitive persons in the free 
States. Should any State pass such laws, 
they would be absolutely void. We must 
look at things as they are. The Court 
feel bound therefore to say, that there is 
no ground upon which they can entertain 
the motion under the writ of habeas corpus. 

We fear that some misapprehension 
exists in the public mind as to the effect 
and ground on which the case has been 
disposed of by the Grand Jury, under the 
directions of the Court. The question 
now disposed of has not been affected by 
what previously took place. The only 
matter settled previously was, that there 
had been no criminal offence cognizable 
by the courts of the United States. If the 
offence of murder has been committed 
on board a foreign vessel, with a foreign 
crew and with foreign papers, this is not 
an offence against the laws of the United 
States. It is an offence against the laws 
of the country to which the vessel belong- 
ed. The courts of the United States 
have in such cases no jurisdiction ; but if 
the offence be against the laws of nations, 
this Court would have jurisdiction. A 
murder committed, as in the case of the 
captain of the Amistad, is not a crime 
against the laws of nations. Were the 
crime piracy even, it would not be a 
crime against the laws of nations, connect- 
ed as it is with the slave trade. 

The Court said, that as they perceived 



there were note-takers present, they hoped 
they would be careful to make a true re- 
presentation of the decision. The Court 
does not undertake to decide that these 
persons have no right to their freedom, 
but leave that matter in litigation in the 
District Court, subject to appeal. And 
for reasons assigned, deny this motion. 

One of the counsel for the prisoners 
then asked the Court if they meant to ex- 
press the opinion, that a foreigner coming 
here with a slave, can call upon the Unit- 
ed States' Courts to enforce the claim of the 
foreigner to the slave % Judge Thomp- 
son, in reply, said he did not wish to de- 
cide now upon the abstract question. As 
a Judge, he did not feel called upon to de- 
cide it. The Court was then adjourned 
sine die. 

The District Court was opened. The 
Judge said he should direct that the Unit- 
ed States' Attorney should repair to Mon- 
tauk Point, in the revenue cutter, with a 
gentleman on the other side, to investi- 
gate the facts, ascertain where the seizure 
was actually made, &cc. ; that the Court 
would be adjourned, to meet in this city 
on the third Tuesday in November next ; 
and that meantime it would be the duty of 
the Marshal to see that the prisoners were 
comfortably situated, provided with clothes 
suited to the season, that they had proper 
and sufficient food, medical attendance, &c. 

The Court would, it is presumed, al- 
low the prisoners to be discharged on 
giving bail ; but as it must be on an ap. 
praisement, their counsel would not con- 
sent to it. The prisoners are remanded 
to the jail in New Haven. 

It is perhaps well that the question has 
now assumed this form. That the claim 
of such property on such a basis, should 
be set forth distinct from all other consider- 
ations ; yet in circumstances where its 
hideous bearing can be seen, is calculated 
to open the eyes of the people in the free 
States to the extent of their entanglements 
in the guilt and dangers of slavery. 



